

GRAPE VINEGAR
No Finer Vinegar For Usage
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 63.—N0. 3244.
Wednesday, April 15, 1942.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
LINCOLN CATHEDRAL.
ENGLAND'S cathedrals are at once memorials to the zeal and piety of past generations. It has been claimed that the superb Norman cathedral at Lincom
in situation and design combined the most impressive ecclesiastical structure in the country. On the other hand, many advance that Durham Cathedral is
the only one that excels it in beauty of situation and equals it in architectural grandeur. In the days of the Roman occupation Lincoln, or Lindum Colonia,
from which the present city is descended, was an important centre. With the departure of the Romans it sank into obscurity, and little is heard of it until alter
the missionaries of Augustine began to preach the Gospel. The cathedral was not the first place of Christian worship here. It was, however, in the latter
half of the eleventh century that Remigius, a Norman monk, was consecrated to the See of Lincoln. At that time Dorchester, in Oxfordshire, was the site of
the bishop’s seat —then, as now, of little importance, and inconveniently situated for the management of so vast a diocese as Lincoln at this period comprised.
Remigius commenced the building of a cathedral at Lincoln, of which a part of the western front still remains incorporated in the noble facade of the present
cathedral. The severe simplicity of the early Norman fabric was relieved hy the more ornate work of a later bishop in the middle of the twelfth century, still
to be seen in the entrance doors of the western facade and the lower parts of the two western towers. By degrees the remainder of the church was rebuilt. Most of
the work from the eastern transept to the western facade dates from the end of the twelfth to the middle of the thirteenth century; commencing with that of Bishop
Hugh, afterwards St. Hugh, “the stern moralist” figuring in the story of the tomb of the Fair Rosamund, who died a penitent in the nunnery of Jodstow on
the Thames during the reign of Henry 11. His work from the eastern transept was completed under the illustrious English churchman, Robert Grostete. To
receive the relics of St. Hugh, the famous Angel Choir or Presbytery was built about 1280, the cloisters and upper part of the Central rower being added *.O
years later. The upper stages of the Western Towers are assigned to the middle of the fifteenth century. Thus this splendid house of worship presents examples
of architecture from the earliest Norman. The cathedral’s history is long and varied. It has been damaged by earthquake and the spoiler, its very stones speak
the labors of St. Hugh of Avalon; there is likewise the tragedy of little St. Hugh of Lincoln. Then there are the sieges it has endured and its more than
fortunate escape from destruction in the days of Cromwell. All who have visited Lincoln will recall the charm and solemnity associated with it, especially when
hearing “Great Tom of Lincoln,” the West Tower’s five-ton bell, boom out over city and plain.


Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’ ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 242 ...
The Red Page
ALAS ALAS ALAS!
“Alas unconscious of their doom the
little victims play,” said the poet Gray
watching some happy schoolkids at foot-
ball or hopscotch or something. Had he
lived to read H. E. Bates’s latest collec-
tion of short stories The Beauty of the
Dead (Cape; Moore’s Bookshop), the
poet would have seen his worst fore-
bodings so emphatically confirmed that
there’d have been nothing left to do but
to go and jump in the lake.
Alas (for instance) how sad it is to
think that some little victim, now
toddling about the house pulling the cat’s
tail and learning to say “Dad-dad” or
“beer” in his childish treble, may some
day grow up into a carpenter who
makes a coffin for his own missus. Alas
how sad it is to think that he (if he be
a girl) may grow up to hate his own
sister and fight with her for the favors
of every man who stays at the boarding-
house. Alas to think that he will become
unemployed and bitterly smell the
fuchsia flower. Alas how sad if he
should grow up into a batty old woman
watching the floodwaters creep into the
cellar and imagining that it is the second
Flood to punish the sins of the world.
Alas how sad if he should be the lover
of a dumb-bell with a beautiful smile and,
running along the railway track to clasp
her to his bosom, be run over by the
train. Alas indeed.
And then, even if he should —like Mo
—be a wake-up to trains, alas that he
should grow into an old man listening
in vague rage to the quarrelling of his
sons and daughters and finding a miser-
able pleasure in biting fancy patterns in
a bun to amuse his little granddaughter.
Alas to think that if he goes wander-
ing through the world with a banjo his
fellow-wanderer will be willing to murder
him for the sake of the few shillings to
be made by pawning the banjo; and
double alas that, instead of being mur-
dered himself, he will vaguely throttle his
cobber and, “shuffling heavily forward”
as he goes on his weary way, tread on
the blinking banjo and have his ears
assailed with “a little mournful and
ghastly twang of sound, like a dying
complaint, that recalled for him the
voice of his dead friend.”
Alas alas alas alas alas alas alas and
ichabod.
Alas (to continue) how sad to think
that if he is a scandalous woman in his
youth he will marry a baker and grow
middle-aged. Alas to think that the girl-
friend will fall sobbing into his arms
because he has a wooden leg. Alas to
think that if he is happy as a member
of a quartet and rolls his eye at the
soprano she will break down in tears and
say that she has to go home because her
husband is jealous.
Blast the luck and ichabod four times
to think that, having been on the point
of proposing to the widow for 20 years,
he will fall in love with her daughter,
thereby annoying everybody and having
to trudge off “heavily” again:
It was as if he had no longer anything
to which he could look forward. He
walked heavily, oblivious of the rain. The
winter was dead all about him, and back
in the Armitages’ house the snowdrops had
not yet come in the grass. “Oh, my God,”
he said to himself, “Oh, my God, my God.”
“Oh, my God, Oh, my God,” how sad
to think that if the poor cow is born half-
witted he will grow up so cunning that
he will be able to rob his parents of all
that they have in the world, their tumble-
down shack and their little bit of barren
soil, “the earth.” And alas (12 times
alas and then one more for luck) how
sad to think that even while he is a small
boy, a little victim who should still be
unconscious of his doom, the Vestry will
not accept the goat he brings to church
as a Christmas offering because the
notice had said “No gift too large. None
too small. This means you!”
Alas and alack (and a handkerchief,
please, for Miss Phipps) how sad that
when he calls on his old flame he will
find her in squalid domesticity with a
surly husband and 28 or 30 squalling
brats and only the ghost of her former
beauty to console her. (Take back one
alas; it’ll be needed for the next one,
anyhow.)
Alas and alas and alas and alas and
alas and woe is, you and welladay (and
a free trip to the morgue next Sunday
for all members of the Band of Hope)
how sad to think that when little Willie
becomes an old dying jeweller he will be
driven off his onion by his sister’s pinch-
ing his chrysanthemums and, kicking
the bucket in the asylum, will be heard
to mutter in his anguish:
“Take me away. Take me away, please.
O Lord! take me away.”
Take it away. Take it away, please.
O Lord, take it away!
Or, on second thoughts, seeing that
H. E. Bates wrote it, and Bates in Thirty
Tales and his other earlier works gave
the impression that he was the finest
living writer of short stories in England,
let it remain while the admission is made
that these doleful tales are all very well
made and beautifully written. On literary
grounds, the only complaint that could
be made is that, in a few instances, essen-
tially the same plot is used more than
once. “A Scandalous Woman,” “Mr.
Penfold” and “Time to Kill” are all,
essentially, “tragedies” of middle age. The
“plot” of a moment of poetry breaking
out in drab or commonplace lives is
used in “The Beauty of the Dead,”
“Fuschia” and in “The Little Jeweller.”
The characters, however, are sufficiently
varied to make the similarities of plot
unimportant.
In their essence, a number of these
stories are comedies. The mad old woman
waiting for the second Flood could
easily be made comic; or, presented as
the Sitwells would present her, she could
be neither comic nor pathetic, but purely
bizarre. The notion that a woman should
fall in love with a man not in spite of
but because of his wooden leg could be
farce; or, because (as Bates deals with
it) it’s psychologically accurate, it calls
for sympathetic humor. The small boy
taking his goat to church should surely
be funny. There could be a fine human
comedy made out of the story of the half-
wit who was too clever for his parents.
(Because they had it fixed in their minds
that he was simple-minded, they were
quite unable to understand his success
as a poultry farmer.) But Bates, though
he shows a flash of humor now and
then, always has a tear at the end.
What’s made him so melancholy? Too
much writing for the magazines? Or is
it that his early, beautifully mellow
stories of the countryside were attacked
as “escapist” and this present gloom is
his way of going “modern”? Or has he
merely collected all the gloomy stories
from his recent output? Whatever is
the explanation. The Beauty of the Dead
is a great disappointment. Alas.
The Prose They Write.
The island rivers flow fast to the sea. On
all the oceans are its vessels, and the car-
goes are coming in from the mighty arsenal
of America. Out of American factories
come the weapons of freedom. But the
seas between are a graveyard for sunken
ships: tough as clinkered firebars are the
sailors of the Merchant Navy. The men
without a uniform are loyal to their
mystery. They serve the sea, and the sea
is Britain’s highway. Salted in valor, they
will not be defeated.
That is Specimen No. 1 of an attempt
at fine writing in a new book. Specimen
No. 2, from another new book:
From above, from the lofty iron bridge
which in a gale shudders also a little, you
look down on a maze of tree-tops and
slate gables, the very color of rain, and a
perpetual cawing, mingled with the striking
of innumerable clocks and, very often, with
peals from bells of countless frosty, mock-
gothic churches, serves as an orchestration
for all the happenings there below, where,
in the centre, a long pool with an island
and, on it, a summer-house of thatched
and contorted woodwork, to which frag-
ments of the original sheath still adhere,
lend interest to a wilderness, of asphalt
paths, spotted with black and white after
the fashion of a Dalmatian dog.
Down these, steep and slippery, in the
long-eyed months when dawn and dusk
were almost one, droves of trippers used
always to stamp happily from the station
towards a day of freedom on the beach,
where the roar of the summer sea and the
summer crowds, the cries of hokey-pokey
men and of the sellers of bananas—an
exotic novelty—and of chocolates, nougat
and Newborough Rock, the clamor of
several packs of stray dogs manoeuvring over
the sand to the waves’ edge for a piece of
wood, about to be thrown for them by a
bark-lover, and the singing of rival pierrot-
shows, nigger minstrels and German bands,
blended into an unforgettable and intoler-
able whole.
It should be easy enough to guess who
wrote the second specimen: alone among
contemporary writers, Osbert Sitwell has
attempted to master the long sentence.
The “mock-gothic” churches are typical
Sitwell landscape—architectural criticism
mingled with the scenery; the “choco-
lates, nougat and Newborough Rock” are
typical Sitwell “atmosphere,” a little
childish or a little feminine, like the at-
mosphere of Before the Bombardment;
the pierrot-shows and nigger minstrels
are typical Sitwell decoration; the “un-
forgettable and intolerable whole” is typi-
cal of the fastidious irony which makes
Sitwell’s writing nearly always unforget-
table and often intolerable.
Sitwell is a poet, and poets, having—
like the lady in the nursery rhyme—
music wherever they go,” usually write
good prose. Eric Linklater, the author
of Specimen No. 1, has always wanted to
be a poet ( vide his autobiography,
recently reviewed here) and has always
wanted to write good prose. But how
bad, compared with Sitwell’s, his prose
is!
“The mighty arsenal of America the
weapons of freedom.... graveyard for
sunken ships.... ” —cliche after cliche.
“Tough as clinkered firebars salted
in valor....” —the over-writing of roman-
ticism. The inverted sentences —“poetic”
prose, prose-poetry; the orator swoon-
ing on the platform. As he confesses in
his autobiography, Linklater has never
recovered from an overdose of the Eliza-
bethans in his adolescence.
His trade is the making of humorous
novels and when, as in The Cornerstones,
from which the quotation is taken, he
sets up as prophet and reformer, his style
becomes inflated to bursting-point. The
Cornerstones and Sitwell’s A Place of
One’s Own* both very short books, are
published in identical format by Mac-
millan. Their matter is as strongly con-
trasted as their manner, Linklater offering
a programme for the salvation of the
world, and Sitwell a ghost story.
There’s surprisingly little freshness of
thought in Linklater’s politics; and,
what’s more surprising (when a humorist
has cornered Lincoln, Confucius and
Lenin in the Elysian Fields to talk about
the state of the world and the vanity of
angelic wishes) little humor. The three
ghostly gentlemen say no more than a
thousand sentimentally hopeful leader-
writers have said —that Britain, the
U.S.A., China and Russia are the corner-
stones of the new world ; and they don’t
say even that with any of the gusto one
would expect from Linklater.
If he wants to put heart into the demo-
cratic world, Linklater could do it far
more effectively by writing another
humorous novel; for political writings
merely assert that Western civilisation is
worth while; but creative literature pro-
duced by the West proves that its civilisa-
tion is valuable. From that viewpoint,
Sitwell’s odd, “escapist” ghost story is
actually a more valuable political docu-
ment than Linklater’s. Slight as it is, A
Place of One’s Own is a piece of litera-
ture, a creative gesture.
The story itself is good, as well as the
prose in which it is written. With A
Place of One’s Own following Edith Sit-
well’s memorable The English Eccentrics
and Sacheverell’s Poltergeists, the Sitwells
are rapidly establishing a corner in mon-
strosities. As poets, they had a touch of
the monstrous themselves; but they all
write masterly prose.
Though he begins his book with the
warning “The ghosts in this story are
purely fictitious, and any of them attempt-
ing to materialise outside it will be prose-
cuted for fraud,” Sitwell’s spooks have an
air of authenticity. There’s no need to
believe in them as ghosts, but it’s easy
to read the story as a genuine ghost story:
no elaborate melodrama, no vampires,
just a nice traditional ghost that
whistled maliciously down the speaking-
tubes in the old haunted house, broke
the crockery, scared the wits out of the
tenants and eventually persuaded the
maid to die of fright. A ghost with a
sense of humor, very much like one of
Sacheverell’s poltergeists.
Dismiss the ghost, and it remains a
good story, for Sitwell is too clever a
writer to offer a lot of spooky improba-
bilities without a character-study to give
the book some solidity. The real story
is not how Bellingham House was
haunted, but how Mr. and Mrs. Med-
hurst, those solidly respectable shop-
keepers from Leeds, reacted to the
apparently supernatural malevolence of
the mansion in which they proposed, in
all humility and in much gentility, to
spend their declining days. Their reac-
tions are comic enough to delight a Link-
later. But a Linklater’s “fine-writing”
could never delight a Sitwell.
Such Is Life: Not by Tom Collins, but
some more of Les Such’s joke-blocks
mainly reprinted from The Bulletin.
Mostly A.I.F. or R.A.A.F. laughs this
time, with females in uniform receiving a
fair share of loving attention. Les Robin-
son, Will Lawson and one “Oliver Filter”
—a pig-fancier—contribute stories.
The Statue of Liberty : Eric C, Fin-
lason (Quality Press). Rhymes about
Britain and the U.S. in reply to Alice
Duer Miller’s The White Cliffs. Harm-
less.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Announcements in the Sydney dailies
that Wirths had been forced to come to
town without their wild animals this year
might easily have created a false impres-
sion. After all, the three Continental
clowns are still with the show.
Three things make good Circus: ani-
mal acts; the grace, strength or agility
of the human body; and the humor of
the clowns. Wirths still have the lot
The animal side is weaker than usua’,
but there are still plenty of good hors
and equestrian turns, and there are som
ver Y noble billygoats, looking, when
they re perched together on their stools
exactly like a meeting of the Witenage
mot. The one daring young lady on the
flying trapeze couldn’t hope to compete
with troupes of the past, but in hersel ’
she is lively and graceful as a bird.
And the humorous side seems to
be better than ever before. Two in
genious gentlemen who can turn somer-
saults and play the violin at the same
time are first-class laugh-getters in the
early part of the show, and the Con-
tmentals, coming in at the end, are
brilliantly and uproariously funny.
“The Man Who Came to Dinner” is
now to be found at Melbourne Comedy
at which address, Melbourne Show-
man reports, Edwin Styles is still getting
laughs. “Claudia,” after a good run in
Melbourne, is at home at Sydney Royal.
When a play which appears to be a
comedy suddenly dives into tragedy or
even serious drama both the audience
and the players have to make some kind
of mental readjustment. That hurdle
crops up like a hiccup in the middle of
Claudia,” and only because Terry
Walker makes Claudia a whimsical
character rather than a straightout funny
one is it negotiated politely. It is further
to Miss Walker’s credit as an excellent
actress that, having been mainly respon-
sible for making the first half of the play
an amusing comedy, she keeps the slight
seriousness of the second half equally
entertaining.
There are advantages even about
brownouts. After the priest and assis-
tants had told the Soul of Gerontius to
go forth upon his tremendous journey
whereon he would meet angels, and
even the Godhead, a note on the pro-
gramme of the concert at Melbourne
Town Hall on Easter Friday requested
patrons to remain seated. Instead of
the customary rush into the foyers there
was a short awed hush, and not even
any clapping, and when Gerontius re-
sumed by remarking that he had been
to sleep and was now refreshed —“a
strange refreshment” —it somehow didn’t
come as an anti-climax. Consequently
Elgar’s magnificent vocal and instru-
mental portrait of a soul in torment got
a much more respectful hearing than on
the previous occasion.
Almost every artist’s pictures recall
some other artist’s pictures. Nan
Hortin’s pictures at her joint show with
C. Jaasund at Le Meilleur Cafe-studio,
Melbourne, recall every other artist’s pic-
tures. Her landscapes suggest Van
Gogh, her still life Cezanne, her decora-
tions Modigliani, a cartoon depicting
Mars looking like Sir John Falstaff the
morning after suggests the surrealists;
and there is an academic framework run-
ning through most of her drawings. Still,
she is a trier. Mr. Jaasund is content to
plough the same old academic furrow,
“F.S.”: In October Victorian Nat. Gal-
lery trustees will hold their second annual
exhibition of new works by Australian
artists, a prize of £5OO and two other
£2OO ones going to the best subject pic-
tures. The trustees themselves were dis-
appointed with the results of their pro-
ject last year, but not more so than the
public. It is a bit puzzling, therefore,
why they stick to the proviso that the
artists must paint subject pictures. Apart
from the logical objection that every
picture is a subject picture, inasmuch as
it must have something for its subject,
even if it is only a tomato, the disadvan-
tage is that too many bad painters try
to make poor pictures seem important
by depicting important subjects, such as
Paris giving the apple to Helen or Cap-
tain Cook landing at Botany Bay or
something of that sort; and, since the
judges are only human beings, they are
likely to be seduced into imagining that a
picture is significant because of its liter-
ary or historic content.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The indde to commercial ethics.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Personal Furniture . .
It's one of a woman's greatest pleasures
to sit at her dressing table and gaze at
her reflection in its polished mirror . . .
A dressing table is a woman s most im-
portant furniture piece, a receptacle for
her intimate personal possessions . . .
Similarly a lowboy reveals the per-
sonality of its male owner ... his in-
dividual characteristics ... and it is his
special furniture piece . . .
In the home, therefore, these two —the
Dressing Table and the Lowboy—are
essentials . . . they should be chosen
with care, for they will be household
friends . . . quality and value will give
satisfaction in every home . . .
mmm
m ;■
m
i
*
Ft
n
\
OAK DRESSING TABLE ... 3ft, wide, containing 4 drawers ... it is polished in a medium oak colour and
it has an adjustable mirror . . . this essential furniture piece is strongly constructed and re P r ® g s ® 2^|
excellent value. Price
OAE LOWBOY, sft. 4ins. high, 3ft. wide, 20ins.
deep, polished a medum oak colour, fitted with
3 sliding trays, 1 shelf, and trouser rail; with
ample hanging space, and mirror behind right-
hand door. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, £5/10/-
OAK LOWBOY ... the interior fitted with two shelves, three
sliding trays, three large and two small drawers . . . behind
the right-hand door is a mirror and tie rack • . . the balance
is hanging space . . . also fitted with trouser rails and
rails . . . Measurements: height, sft. Sins.; width, 3ft. 9in*,
depth, 20ins. Price
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


GEORGE'S CAR
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
CHARLIE sat reading in the local
newspaper the advertisement of
George’s sale. Set out there in
regular type, the whole thing looked
incredibly unreal. “G. Fisher, Esq.” to
begin with; when everybody, even his
own children’s playmates, called him
George. The list of the farm machines
looked singularly impersonal, as if
George’s McKay header, Bft., good
order, was just the same as anyone else’s
McKay header.
To Charlie the classification of the
horses —four draught mares, six years
old ; two draught geldings, four years old,
and so on —was positively inhuman, when
he knew each of them almost as well as
he did George’s kids. But he was not
stirred to speech until he saw: One
Chevrolet Car, 4 Cyl., 1925 Model.
“George is selling his car,” he said to
the family. “By Jove, I would like to buy
her.”
The children looked up, instantly
wildly excited. To have a car would be
the most wonderful thing imaginable.
They began to chatter animatedly to-
gether, pushing their homework aside.
But Mrs. Charlie said: “You couldn’t
buy a car ; and, if you did, you couldn’t
afford to run it. Dad says it costs at
least a pound a week to run a car.”
“Oh, I might be able to buy it,” said
Charlie, without very much -conviction,
“and George’s car doesn’t cost nearly
as much as your dad’s to run.”
There the discussion stopped. The chil-
dren weighed the chances and decided
that they wouldn’t get a car after all.
Mother was always right.
But next week when they went with
Charlie to the sale they had a resur-
gence of excitement. They felt that there
was still a hope, however faint. Their
mother, as usual, stayed at home to do
some work which she insisted was im-
perative.
THERE was a good crowd at George’s
sale, but nobody expected that he
would get much for his stuff. There were
too many hard-up farmers selling indiffer-
ent plants in order to go into the army or
city jobs. Most of the conversations were
about the fantastically low prices at a
sale the previous week. “The Red Cross
refreshment stall took more than the
sale,” was the usual summary.
George’s sale was much like that.
Charlie felt quite indignant about it, but
could do nothing. He nearly had several
things he didn’t want and couldn’t afford
to buy knocked down to him through
offering bids in the hope of forcing the
prices up a bit.
When they got to the car the bidding
was very slow. Charlie offered a few
bids to help it along, with a rebellious
hope that the car might go so cheap
that his wife couldn’t object if he had to
take it. He noticed his eldest girl had
secured a vantage point and waved franti-
cally to the others every time he bid.
George looked at Charlie, very pleased
to think that he might buy the car. They
had some great times together in that
old bus.
At £lO Charlie stopped bidding. He
knew that his wife was right. But when
he looked at the car he was desolated to
think that anyone else should have it.
By rights, he thought, if George had to
sell it, he should have it. It was only a
battered old wreck. But Charlie knew
the story behind every dent.
The bonnet had a peculiar dark look.
That was from the day they had the
famous race with the train. George had
picked him up on a Saturday morning
on the way to town. At the next farm
they picked up George’s brother Bill,
who was “feeder” on a chaff-cutting
gang, and a couple of hands.
They passed the train soon after they
struck the main road. The car was new
then. In those days it was a great feat
to pass a train, and they all waved wildly
to the engine crew. (The engine was
towing 24 trucks of wheat up a hill and
was probably doing only 25 m.p.h. at
the time.)
But they hadn’t got far ahead of the
train when they had a blowout. The
train passed them while they were chang-
ing the wheel. The engine crew made
derisive gestures at them. They soon
got going again and passed the train on
the next hill, shouting raucous insults at
the crew regardless of the fact that they
could not be heard.
A mile further on smoke began to
stream out of the louvres in the bonnet,
and then flames. George, cool-headed in
any emergency, pulled over towards a
house near the road. Charlie jumped
out, rushed to the house, grabbed a
bucket off the verandah, filled it at a
tank and rushed back without a word
of explanation to the lady who watched
his outrageous conduct from the ver-
andah. George threw open the bonnet,
Charlie dashed the water in, and by a
miracle of good luck put the fire out.
The train went past as they stood chatter-
ing excitedly round the steaming car.
The crew were obviously roaring with
laughter. Charlie returned the bucket
and apologised to the woman.
Off they went again, and again passed
the train. They had a neck-and-neck
race because there was no hill to slow
up the “goods.” When they got to the
level crossing, they were only about a
chain ahead. There was a wild yell of
protest when George swung the car to
cross before the train, but he took no
notice. He raced across so fast that he
burst the two back tyres on the iron rails.
Then they had a big repair job to do.
George’s brother was disgusted. He de-
cided to walk the remaining two miles.
He wanted to reach the town alive, he
said. He was very thirsty ; a great fellow
for “going the beer” was Bill.
But George had plenty of tubes under
the back seat, and with three handymen
to help they didn’t take long to get going
again. The train had reached the town
long before, but they passed Bill about a
mile from town and waved to him en-
couragingly. Bill swore at George ter-
ribly when he refused to stop, and ran
like mad after the car for a hundred
yards. They had a great laugh at Bill.
They had a lot of fun in those old days.
THEY hadn’t gone out for fun when
the right-side headlamp was knocked
out of alignment. That was years later
when Charlie’s wife was having her
second baby. It came on her suddenly
one evening. Charlie had rushed over to
George’s in a panic. George rushed them
into town in record time and everything
went off very well. They found a hotel
that kept late hours and “wet the baby’s
head.” There was quite a crowd in the
pub, although it was nearly midnight, be-
cause the news had gone round that a
rare and wonderful keg had been
broached. There was no doubt the beer
was marvellous ; they all drank as if they
knew they might never taste the like
again.
George started an argument by asserting
that he had tasted better beer in Quean-
beyan in 1912. Soon he was in a fight. In
the middle of it the police arrived. George
got such a fright that he tore out of the
hotel, into his car and drove off at top
speed, forgetting all about Charlie. Charlie
did the only thing possible—he hired a taxi
and set out in pursuit. George thought it
was the police after him and drove in a
style so reckless that the taxi-man was
blasphemous with wonder. He kept
swearing that George would “take off for
heaven any minute.”
But the taxi-man had the better car,
and when they had passed George and
got a good lead on him they pulled up.
Charlie stood out in the middle of the
road and signalled George to stop. But
George, still haunted by visions of arrest,
ran right over the top of him.
Charlie was in the hospital for a fort-
night, but he always prided himself on
the fact that it took the garage three
weeks to get George’s car going again.
THE dented rear mudguard and the
leaking radiator were the result of
another great experience. Charlie and
George had gone together to the horse
sale where Charlie bought his famous
Flashlight filly Jess. She was a tall,
clean-limbed, free-moving animal at three
years old, and they decided to lead her
home behind the car. The previous
owner told them she was used to being
led behind a car.
They got on well too, travelling in low
gear at six m.p.h., the filly trotting briskly
behind. They had the hood down and
Charlie sat in the back seat holding the
lead. But a passing car frightened the
filly. She reared up so high that her
front legs landed in the car beside
Charlie. George got so excited, looking
back at the mix-up, that he ran into a
sapling which effectively stopped the car
and upset the filly, who floundered round
wildly and eventually got on to her legs
with all four feet on the ground.
As soon as they had satisfied them-
selves that the filly was unhurt they
laughed until they were weak at the recol-
lection of how funny she looked with her
front legs having a ride in the car beside
Charlie and her back legs flat-out to
keep up with them. Ever since then the
car radiator had leaked, although George
had tried every known remedy from oat-
meal to sawdust and molasses. In the
later years they always carried a two-
gallon tin of water with them.
The bent bumper bar was a reminder
of the time George taught Charlie to
drive. He had got on very well in the
ordinary straightforward driving; then
George started to show him the finer
points.
To illustrate the need for finesse in
accelerating, George told him to push
down the accelerator and watch the re-
sponse on the speedometer. Charlie tried
it and forgot to watch the road. The car
drifted to the left and struck a big box
tree. Both of them were hurled through
the windshield. Bits of glass were still
lying round the tree; Charlie saw them
every time he went for his mail.
That tree would always remind him of
George and his car.
T'HE bidding stopped at £l7 10 s.
* George looked at Charlie hopefully
several times, then told the auctioneer
he wouldn’t sell it for that.
The sale was soon over. George was
very busy with buyers who wanted to
make arrangements for taking delivery
of their bargains. Charlie waited
patiently till he had finished. George
was leaving in the morning and he
wanted to say “Good-bye.”
He realised as he waited just how
badly he would miss George.
When they got together they didn’t
talk about their twenty-year friendship,
but about the sale and other trivial
matters. When they had run out of such
subjects and it seemed they would now
have to shake hands, George looked
rather awkward and said: “I don’t sup-
pose you could look after my old car if
I left it with you?”
“Of course I could,” said Charlie. “I’d
do a lot for you, George.”
“Well, I think I’ll do that. I didn’t
want to sell it to those bargain-hunters
for a song, and I’ll have no use for it
now. You can drive it as much as you
like to keep it in going order. And get it
registered in your name so that you can
get a petrol ration.”
“I might, be able to buy it off you
some day,” Charlie suggested, but George
wouldn’t have that,
“I might want it again after the war,”
he said, but Charlie knew that George
had given him the car in the most tactful
way possible, knowing he couldn’t afford
to buy it.
So Charlie arranged for a neighbor to
bring his sulky home while he and the
children drove home in the car in
triumph. Charlie grinned to himself all
the way, not only because he had got
George’s car, but because in the circum-
stances his wife couldn’t reproach him
with extravagance,
He also had a strange feeling in his
chest which made him very happy;
George must like him an awful lot to
give him his car.
The children sat round-eyed with
ecstasy or jumped about and waved
frantically to everyone on the roads. This
was better than Christmas or having six
birthdays in a week. They hadn’t thought
it possible to be so happy.
THE BUSH CHILD
By HEATHER GILLIGAN.
THE child regarded the heavily-
muffled figure with sombre eyes.
“Are you only staying the night?”
she asked.
“I hope so,” he said shortly. '
The child tried again.
“It’s very nice here,” she said softly.
He grunted and she sighed. Appar-
ently he was not going to make conver-
sation.
He walked the length of the wooden
verandah impatiently. He shivered and
thrust his hands deeper into his pockets.
“Can I put this inside?” he demanded,
jerking his head in the direction of the
violin he had set down.
“Do you—do you play it?”
“Yes.”
“You wouldn’t—l mean I couldn’t just
look at it, could I?”
The man hesitated, on the point of
refusing, then changed his mind. He
watched the child’s face as he removed
the silk handkerchief protecting the rich,
glossy wood. He was not disappointed ;
her eyes brightened and her smooth
brown cheeks flushed.
“It’s beautiful,” she said.
He snapped the locks shut; he had
not expected as much. The child
stretched out eager brown hands.
“Let me take it,” she offered shyly.
He gave it to her wordlessly, and threw
himself into one of the shabby cane
chairs. His fingers drummed nervously
on the arm as he looked moodily at the
half-lit paddocks. He heard the old-man,
sick cough of sheep in search of the
grass which had been eaten yesterday ;
he saw the ghostly silhouette of gaunt
trees with their dead arms flung to the
sky as though in supplication ; he saw
dim, sagging fences and heard the cry
of a calf for its mother.
There was a movement behind him,
and the child reappeared with a book
in her hands.
“Read much?” he jerked out.
“Yes. It’s company. Like having
real people to talk to.”
The man had the grace to feel ashamed.
“And when the supply runs out?” he
asked.
“Then Chuck and I make pretend the
doctor is coming.”
“The doctor?”
“Well, he’s the minister really. But
we call him the doctor because —because
he mends things just like proper doctors in
hospitals. Not legs ’n’ arms, but—things.”
“How does he get here?”
“He rides,” said the child. “By camel,
mostly. But,” she added, a trace wist-
fully, “he only gets here twice a year.
Last time was when he brought Chuck.”
“And who is Chuck?”
“Chuck’s my dog. The best for fifty
miles round,” she said proudly. “The
doctor said his father was a champion.”
The man did not answer.
“Chuck ’n’ I always watch the moon
rise,” said the child shyly. “Do you?”
“Sometimes.”
HE stirred restlessly in his chair. His
hands were still as he watched the
moon rise behind the willows. The gaunt
trees were softened; the smooth hills
became little dream-mountains, the sheep
like toys left there by a careless hand.
The man found himself thinking that
the paddocks were almost beautiful by
night. He stole a glance at the child,
and saw the book was lying open on
her knees. Her cheap cotton frock was
hidden by the shadows, and her smooth
bare feet were tucked under her. With
her pointed chin cupped in one brown
hand and the moon highlighting the
whiteness of her soft young throat, he
found her lovely.
The man felt that here he could play
something—write something to savor
of moonlight and a bush child’s changing
face.
He rose abruptly, breaking the spell.
“Where did you put my violin?” he
asked.
“I’ll get it,” said the child, and van-
ished on noiseless feet.
Somewhere a dog—perhaps Chuck —
howled. Then silence.
The muffler, the coat and the gloves
were tossed on the bare boards as he
took the violin from her.
He played—and a bush child listened.
For the first time in her short life she
heard music as it should be played—
from the heart, and she was conscious
only of the sweet, shrill song of a violin.
The shabby wooden house, the vast,
empty paddocks, the distant sheep ceased
to exist. This was the only world she
had ever known. This was for now and
for ever and for all time. Everything
else was forgotten. The beauty of it
caught at her throat, and something
glistened in her dark eyes. If only, she
thought, she could soar up, up with it
and never stop. Then the bow sighed
over the strings and was mute.
The bush child did not speak. The
man was glad of that. She merely
looked at him.
“That,” he said, “was for you.”
She did not answer. She could not
find words.
The Accused to His Nazi Judges.
Your hands that finger lightly
The papers lie like lead
On my unfallen head.
Your eyes not brightly
But as black pits accuse me,
For never did truth, love’s satellite,
Astonish their night.
Your faces crowd the horizon,
But cannot fence away
My fiery hope, nor impede
The new indignant day.
Your voices are about me like
Tides of midnight, but never
My ears lose the vehemence of the river,
Dashing your darker theme,
Songs that abet my dream.
Bones crack, flesh wilts,
The grave’s mouth thunders your success:
But still the essential man
Marches, your plan
Cannot prevent what man is and must be.
M.L.
J. R. HERVEY.


“Men who are not in the fighting
forces and who at the same time
will not work are as much the
enemies of this country as the
directly enlisted legions of the
enemy.”’“Mr. Curtin, January.
“Men or women who hold up pro-
I duction are just as much traitors
to Australia as deserters in the
face of the enemy.”
—Mr. Curtin, April.
“LET JUSTICE BE DONE....”
“Nine strikes in N.S.W. coalmines; about 2600 men involved; 130 Javanese seamen fined £10 each or 20 days’ imprisonment for refusing duly; 129 other remanded
in custody.”— From Sydney newspapers, April 9.
“You can’t get away with that kind of thing in this country. YOU'RE not New South Wales coalminers."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors*
H. K. Prior j E Webb
p. H. Prior David Adams
——
EAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
VirroDT* -A, 2521 B B: ’Phone 87971.
■ Ne stre a Jr r Melbo Se ’ 247 ~ 249 Collms
Queensland: 239 ' Adelaide’"street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
v Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
r „ , G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
BLIMPS AND FLYFLATS.
Australian reactions to the campaigns
in Greece and Crete were naturally re-
sentful, though the resentment found
little expression in newspapers, Par-
liaments or radio stations ; and when the
worst features of those campaigns were
repeated in Malaya and Singapore, with
results far more terrible, the feeling be-
came bitter.
The extraordinary thing is that it was
directed, not against the Churchill Gov-
ernment, the One-man Band, but against
Britain itself. It was exploited, for their
own purposes, by fools and knaves and
other ill-disposed persons, until Australia
woke up one morning and found an anti-
British agitation raging. Mr. Curtin, fair-
minded man that he is, has tried to arrest
it, and his earnest words, the striking
account of Britain’s war achievements
and sufferings given by Lord Halifax, and,
above all, the safe delivery in their native
land of so many Australian soldiers —
crown of the noble work begun by the
Royal Navy and the Merchant Navy
when the lads left Australia, and carried
on, with immense sacrifices, in the waters
of North Africa, Greece, Crete and Syria
—have produced some effect. But the
agitation is by no means extinct.
It is kept alive by papers like the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
On April 4 the “Daily Telegraph”
asserted on the authority of its New York
“editor” that Dr. Evatt was “concentrat-
ing” on getting “larger assignments of
supplies for Australia, including diver-
sion of some Munitions from countries
relatively inactive, such as Latin America,
Ireland, England.”
England “relatively inactive”! Eng-
land, with a million men in the Royal
Navy, the Merchant Navy and the Royal
Air Force, all in the active war zone!
England, providing not only for the
defence of some thousands of miles
of U.K. coastline but maintaining
forces (in no case small and in some
cases vast) in Gibraltar, Malta and
Cyprus, in North Africa, from Syria to
the borders of Russia and India and on
the Indian Ocean front, keeping all its
fighting men armed and supplied and
sending hundreds of shiploads of ’planes
and tanks to Russia! And that is only
part of the story.
Britain is buying the whole of Aus-
tralia’s main food and textile exports for
the period of the war, whether it receives
them or not. It is carrying burdens which
to any other country of equal population
and equally limited internal resources
would be unbearable. In spite of the
enemy bombers, U-boats and surface
craft, British merchant-tonnage produc-
tion in the last quarter of 1941 was
double, and naval production four times,
that of the last quarter before the out-
break of war with Germany.
In most industries in Britain the work-
ing week is from 60 to 65 hours for
men and 55 to 60 for women. Austra-
lians who have not seen a European
winter can scarcely imagine the sacri-
fice entailed in maintaining that sort
of working week between October
and February. It means that no day-
worker sees his home in daylight for
several months.
What is more, 9,000,000 men and
5.000. women are registered for
national service in Britain. These, with
the forces under arms, make up nearly
the whole adult population. The task
is added to tremendously because
5.000. have to be on duty for fire-
spotting every night. This duty is for the
most part performed by men and women
after the working day, bringing the hours
of many of those undertaking it to 70
to 80 per week. And the country’s ex-
penditure has reached 70 p.c. of the
national income.
England “relatively inactive”! If Aus-
tralia had gone in for conscription and
armaments when Britain did, even if it
had meant curbing the “Baily Tele-
graph’s” exploitation of sex and com-
mercialised sport, the editor of that paper
might not have been impelled to address
an agonised appeal to the Americans to
“Help us to save Australia.”
Four days before the “relatively in-
active” slander was published the “Daily
Telegraph” came out with a leader-page
cartoon in which Britain was represented
as Colonel Blimp, standing on the edge
of a springboard and about to be poled
into the water (“Second Front”) by a
Tommy and a Russian soldier (“British
and Russian Opinion”). Blimp was drawn
as a repulsive imbecile, mostly paunch
and walrus moustache, cased in a bathing
costume of the early-Victorian period,
his hat a topper, with what was presumed
to be an Old School Tie floating from
the brim.
Ip another part of the paper there was
a bit about St, Nazaire, but very little.
St. Nazaire cannot be treated expansively
as an argument for the “Daily
Telegraph’s” Second - Front -in - Europe
“policy.” Its Blimp is a perverted
copy of a character which has be-
come a symbol for everything that
Left-Wing writers and caricaturists detest.
Indeed, in Britain and other parts of the
Empire the habit of attributing every-
thing that annoys Left-Wingers to Blimp
and Blimpism has become a sort of dis-
ease. A. P. Herbert, a hater of humbug,
has written a shrewd study of it in one
of the imaginary dialogues he contributes
to “Punch,” putting his own sentiments
in the mouths of his characters.
In other days, Herbert notes, Blimp
“was always found in a Turkish bath or
doing vigorous exercises with an aston-
ished Low in attendance. All bis remarks
began with ‘Gad, Sir.’ I don’t suppose
those words have fallen from any human
lips since the year 1891 or thereabouts.
Indeed, I suspect that Low, who has all
the innocence of an academic Leftist, did
think there were colonels who still said
‘Gad, Sir.’ ” Nor did the “academic
Leftist” attack Blimp as “a swashbuck
ling Imperialist Victorian, always eager
for war.”
It was the other way about: Low, like so
many civilians, urging the Government to
warlike action abroad, and Blimp, the
common soldier, stupidly counselling
caution.
A colonel is introduced. “Why this down
on colonels?” he asks. “A colonel is a
man who has done long service in the
Army ; now he is in command of one of
his Majesty’s regiments. Well, that takes
some doing.”
I don’t see why he shouldn’t have a
little respect from fellers who never car-
ried a rifle in their lives, and couldn’t
fire it if they had one. Especially as they
are the chaps who are always complaining
that the Army doesn’t go somewhere or
other and fight somebody or other. First
they wanted us to fight in Spain. Then
they wanted us to fight in Czecho. They
simply weren’t happy without a war. And
now that there is a bit of a war on what
are they doing, I would like to know?
Fighting? No; still sitting about and
writing articles about Blimps.
A professor speaks:
What was clear was this, that Blimp was
a figure of fun, a vehicle, as they say, for
the expression of sentiments with which
Low disagreed. It is the privilege of the
cartoonist to create such figures and to
surround them, as Low did, with all the
prejudice that they can contrive. Blimp
was a colonel. When a man has risen to
that particular rank in the Army, it seems
that he becomes automatically an object
of derision.
Such characters as Blimp have a way
of taking charge of their own lives, with-
out reference to their creators; and this
one seems to be completely out of hand.
He is, I gather, a person in authority (but
no longer necessarily a soldier); he is
efficient, but overbearing and brutal; he is
inefficient, old-fashioned and slack; he
shows a callous disregard for the lives
of British soldiers, and he shows an almost
shameful reluctance to lead British soldiers
to the battle; he is a diehard, and he is a
cowardy custard.
Superb; and if the anti-Blimps in
Britain are like their congeners in other
parts, Herbert could have gone further.
Generally speaking, they are boys of the
non-starter breed. Those who were of
military age in the last war did not fight
then, and those who are of military age
in this war are not fighting now. And
along with their vicarious valiance go
an enthusiasm for the collecting and pre-
senting of cock-and-bull stories which
never flags and a cocksureness which sur-
vives all exposures of their idiotic asser-
tions and prophecies.
From 1935 onwards the anti-Blimps
have been responsible for mountains of
misinformation, threats and insults, from
which not even the Royal Navy (“H.M.S.
Unriskables” during the Spanish dogfight
and, to one notorious specimen, “show-
piece battleships” after Greece) has been
spared. From Abyssinia, which was
alleged to have mobilised 750,000 sol-
diers, organised in four armies, to Japan
(“bogged down in China ; short of essen-
tials, especially liquid fuel; top-heavy
warships ; lousy air force ; ‘pie’ for the
A.B.C.D. Powers”) they have been
wrong about every country to which they
have turned their disastrous attention.
They never discovered even portion of
the appalling truth about the three nations
called France though the truth was
known to responsible old-school jour-
nahsts like Sisley Huddleston long
before the war-and the attitude of the
Burmese and the Malays to their white
masters completely eluded them, though
the Australian soldiers in Malaya, re-
turned warriors have told us, were well
aware of the feeling of the natives there,
To Malaya went two persons from the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” office. One,
a lady, incensed the soldiers by dishing
up gushing reports of the “glamorous”
hle they were leading. The other, an
executive,” formed the impression that
their “urgent” needs ran to more
recreation (“canteens, talkies, books”)
and more recreation leave. Of the
tragedy that, for lack of equipment and
numbers, was moving towards the men
this gentleman an H a mmnaninn
fL“c»> ema ? an<l a 9° m F anlon - 01 ? 1
me oun who wrote that mountain air
and mobile picture units were their prin-
cipal requirements—had not a glimmer
of a coneentirm 6
.° ‘ .
oports nave a name tor the counter-
parts of anti-Blimps in the racing world
—“flyflats.” With the smallest fund of
knowledge, eked out by vanity and im-
pudence, some of these flyflats pose as
authorities on strategy, army organisa-
tion, the merits and demerits of generals
and the types of aircraft, tanks and
Tommy-guns that the fighting men
“must” have. In their various ways the
flyflats of journalism have done more
harm than a thousand Blimps could have
done if a thousand Blimps existed.
Eccentricities of Eddie.
Eddie is Mr. E. J. Ward, M.H.R. for
East Sydney and Mr. Curtin’s Minister
of Labor and National Service. He
entered Parliament in March, 1931, as a
supporter of Mr. Lang and the Lang
Plan, which, aimed at “the foreign bond-
holders,” smashed a Government Savings
Bank. Scullin Labor was then in office,
but Eddie disapproved of nearly all
its proceedings, save its relegation of the
citizen army to insignificance by the
“suspension,” as it was called, of com-
pulsory military training, and in
November, 1931, he supported the motion
that dished it. At the ensuing election,
he lost his seat, and so did Mr. Curtin,
who had voted for the Government.
February, 1932, saw Eddie back in
Parliament, his conqueror having died
before he could be sworn in, Eddie
remained Lang Labor till the factions
called a truce to fighting ; and when Mr.
Beasley, formerly Mr. Lang’s deputy at
Canberra, led another breakaway, “non-
Communist” this time, Eddie chose to
stay with Mr. Curtin. On one incident of
his career, as two of the subjoined ex-
tracts from his Parliamentary speeches
show, Eddie has contradicted himself,
but what’s a contradiction or two to
Eddie?
I was not old enough to go to the last
war [according to a Labor publication he
was born on March 21, 1899], but even if
I had been I should not have gone. That
conflict was the result of conflict on the
economic field among the various imperial-
ist Powers. They are not able to settle
their differences by negotiation or other
peaceful methods, consequently they arm
for the day when inevitably they will have
to resort to war... .1 say, frankly, no matter
what the nation may be with which Australia
comes into conflict, I shall not only not
support the project, but also advise our
unemployed not to participate, as they
would have nothing to gain by doing so.
Those returned soldiers who are out of
work today realise the error they made
when they went to the war. — H. of R.,
Oct. 26, 1932 ; “Hansard,” pages 1637-38.
I did not volunteer for service in the
last war, because I did not believe in it.
It was a war waged by imperialists for the
purpose of destroying a trade competitor
and extending territory and spheres of in-
fluence in the interests of capitalism.—
H. of R., Sept. 8, 1937; “Hansard,”
page 768.
As am anti-militarist with a passionate
belief in the class war, Eddie threw his
weight about whenever he could. A
proposal for the expenditure of a whole
£5,713,290 on the defence of Australia
moved him to this outbreak:
Panic-stricken, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, along with the Imperial Govern-
ment, is spending an enormous amount of
money on what it claims to be defence pro-
visions, and is using the same propaganda
as was used to usher in the Great War.
1 should not be prepared to take up
arms against the workers of any country,
whether they be German or of any other
nationality.... Because I am not prepared to
do that, I am not prepared to tell others to
do so yf. .The workers of Japan, Germany
and other overseas countries are fighting
for the identical things that the Australian
workers desire. The workers should there-
fore examine the position to find out who
are their real enemies; and when they make
this discovery they should avail themselves
of the earliest opportunity to destroy
them.— H. of R., Nov. 5, 1936 ; “Hansard,”
pages 1570-75.
Naturally, Eddie became the object of
flattering attention in Communist publi-
cations when Communist publications
were permitted. He reciprocated to the
extent of supporting the Communist cam-
paign against the national register (that
is, the “Tory” national register, pre-
cursor of the one that he was to sponsor,
with most embarrassing results), though
not to the extent of publicly burning his
form as Communists did; and from time
to time he favored Communist papers
with his views. Thus the “Tribune” of
Sept. 8, 1939, was privileged to publish
the statement, “made by Mr. E. J. Ward
just before the opening of the first war-
time session of Federal Parliament,” that
“by breaking up the Fascist axis and thus
bottling up Japan the Soviet’s Non-
Aggression Pact with Germany has done
a great service to Australia.”
In that “first war-time session” Eddie
was at the top of his form:
Eyidently there are many men in this
Parliament, as well as in Britain, who want
to defeat Hitler, not because of his policy,
but because Germany is a strong rival of
• Britain in the commercial field I be-
lieve that I am expressing the opinion
of the majority of the people when I say
that they are prepared to make the maxi-
mum effort to defend this country, but are
opposed to any man being called upon to
take up arms and leave this country for
foreign battlefields.— H. of R., Sept. 6,
1939; “Hansard,” pages 74 and 75.
Exactly a fortnight later the gentleman
explained what he meant by “foreign
battlefields.” Introducing a Defence Bill
of which Mr. Curtin had given notice, he
said (“Hansard,” pages 878-80) “The im-
portant matter of whether or not a man
shall leave this country to render military
service is one for the individual himself
to decide. It is a liberty which, in my
opinion, the people should never sur-
render to any Government, no matter
what political color it may have ; they
should never surrender the right to
decide whether or not they should go
overseas to render military service” ; and
he asked the House to pass Clause 3 of
his measure:
(1) No inhabitant of Australia who has
not voluntarily enlisted shall be required
to serve outside Australia.
(2) No inhabitants of any overseas terri-
tory who has not voluntarily enlisted
shall be required to serve outside the terri-
tory of which he is an inhabitant.
(3) “Overseas territory” means any terri-
tory of the Commonwealth which is not
within the limits of the continent of Aus-
tralia, and “Australia” does not include any
territory of the Commonwealth which is
not within the limits of the continent of
Australia.
Though all the Labor members sup-
ported this unspeakable example of pur-
blind provincialism, Clause 3 was defeated
on a party vote. But another clause,
designed to save the skins of conscientious
objectors on religious or other grounds
in “Australia” and “overseas terri-
tory,” as defined in Clause 3, was
accepted with unimportant verbal altera-
tions. There were only 14 objectors.
One of them was Mr. Archie Cameron,
then leader of the Country party, who
said indignantly that the division— 46 to
14—would “go down in the history of
this Parliament as one of the greatest
surrenders to threat and to minority dic-
tatorship that have ever been made”:
The noisy Communist element in the
trade-union section held a gun at the head
of the Government and the Government
capitulated.
Mr. Fadden virtuously “dissociated”
himself “from the remarks of Mr.
Cameron” and took “this opportunity to
declare, without the slightest degree of
reservation, that the honorable gentleman
is not my leader.” Eddie had said:
The present exemption does not go far
enough, for it provides exemption only from
combatant service. We are of opinion that
conscientious objectors should also be
exempt from non-combatant service. We con-
tend, too, that the only occasion on which
conscientious objectors should be required to
serve in any way whatsoever is when this
country has been actually invaded by a
foreign foe. Even if such an occasion
should arise, we submit that the service
required from conscientious objectors should
be limited to civilian service. Cpnscien-
tious objectors should not even in such
circumstances be required to render
non-combatant service... .They should not
be required to serve even as non-com-
batants behind the lines... .We also believe
that the definition covering conscientious
objectors should be extended and we
are of opinion that a conscientious objector
whose claims to be so regarded have been
rejected should have a right of appeal
not limited to questions of law.
And, except that prescription of civilian
service is not mandatory, so it was pro-
vided. The term “conscientious beliefs”
was defined as including “a// conscientious
beliefs, whether the ground thereof is or is
not of a religious character, or whether
the beliefs are or are not part of the doc-
trine of any religion.” And “persons
whose conscientious beliefs do not allow
them to perform any duty of a military
character, whether of a combatant or
non-combatant nature,” were given the
right to appeal from unsympathetic
magistrates, “on questions of fact as well
as questions of law,” to “the High Court
or the Supreme Court.”
The presence in Australia of stout sol-
diers from the great and friendly republic
which has had conscription in three wars,
and whose fighting men, as in 1917-18, are
proud to go wherever their Government
directs them to be sent, is a blistering
commentary on Clause 3 of the Ward
Defence Bill. A bloody commentary was


the fight in which 1399 Australian sol-
diers, most of them A.I.F. volunteeis,
with five (5) Wirraways, tried to hold
Rabaul against a Japanese landing force
of “17,000 to 20,000 men,” with “60
bombers, escorted by at least 20 fighters.
And Eddie’s exertions in favor of
conscientious objectors are beginning to
show results in Sydney courts established
for the hearing of appeals, in which
magistrates and counsel are hard put to
it to restrain their language when two-
legged rabbits squeal that if they saw
Japanese attacking their womenfolk they
would not interfere.
In this invasion-threatened continent,
which has only 7,000,000 inhabitants, of
all ages and both sexes, it is reckoned that
14,000 applications for exemption from
combatant and non-combatant service
have been received in Eddie’s State alone.
This when only three of the five classes
liable have been called up or nominally
called up (many young married men have
not yet been asked to present themselves
for medical examination); with all men
directly or indirectly engaged in the pro-
duction of weapons and munitions placed
in Priority 1 of the reserved-occupations
list; with 100,000 N.S.W. Government
employees in Priority 2 and with heaps
of specific exemptions in all three priori-
ties. The lists were issued by Eddie him-
self. For Eddie is the Man-power
Minister. How the gods must laugh!
Hear Eddie again, remembering his
definition of “Australia” (H. of R., April
22, 1940; “Hansard,” pages 295-97):
The men who advocate the sending of
troops from Australia in existing Circum-
stances are, either consciously or uncon-
sciously, guilty of a traitorous act to this
country ./f.\ have brought under the notice
of the Government cases of certain young
men who have enlisted against the wishes of
their parents while under the age of 20, but
in spite of my representations I have not
been able to secure the release of the young
men. When I have pressed for the dis-
charge of certain individuals the Minister
has adopted the attitude that they cannot
be discharged even though they be still in
Australia.
Eddie is also the Minister whose name
is most frequently in the mouths of strik-
ing coalminers. “All right, we’ll see
Ward” is the workstoppers’ formula
when “disputes” occur, and when work-
stoppers and union officials differ Ward
is named as a friendly court of appeal.
In granting the N.S.W. coalminers a
workless Easter Monday (the fourth con-
secutive idle day) when all other people
were commanded to work or take severe
consequences, the Government presum-
ably acted on Eddie’s advice. Eddie’s
inspectors (this country swarms with in-
spectors) were busy that Monday going
round factories, workshops and business
houses in search of material for action
against absentees. Like every other con-
cession granted to N.S.W. coalminers
since they started their private war against
the nation—notably the pensions for coal-
miners at 60 and the 40-hour week for
surface hands —the idle Monday led to a
renewed outbreak of stoppages, with an
estimated loss in production for the week
of 20,000 tons of coal. Scene of one of
the Tuesday stoppages was the N.S.W.
Government mine at Lithgow, the
“cause” being the Monday holiday, which
prevented the men from earning holiday
pay. But was Eddie dismayed? Not a
bit of it. On the contrary he came out
with a cheeky demand for the “nationali-
sation” of the mines, asserting that “if the
Government controlled the mines and
operated them a new relationship would
exist on the coalfields.” Then people
said “So that’s the foul object of these
foul strikes”!
Eddie speeded to Melbourne to press
his great idea on Mr. Curtin. That gentle-
man may possibly have been brooding on
some remarks of Mr. Hyland, the Vic-
torian Minister “controlling” the Gov-
ernment coalmine at Wonthaggi, delivered
during one of the 1939 Wonthaggi
strikes: “While the mine is working, our
department loses £3OOO a week; while it
is idle, the department loses only £IOOO
a week.” Anyway, the Prime Minister,
though not opposed to nationalisation in
principle, was unsympathetic. With a
few more remarks about “insurgent mal-
contents” and “traitors,” and with the
admission—it must have been very un-
palatable to Eddie—that “the trouble is
not the fault of the boss,” he decided to
point another bone at the strike brigade
—or rather another set of regulations; the
third in three months. But since he has
rejected Eddie’s maladroit advice, as
he did when Eddie inveighed against the
payment of interest on war loans while
the last war loan was on the market, he
should reject Eddie also. The summary
dismissal of Eddie would have salutary
consequences, and not in Australia alone.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Certain" Interned Persons.
On Friday it was announced by Mr.
Curtin very tardily that counsel s
opinion regarding the prosecution of
“certain” of the 20 members or alleged
members of the “Australia First” organi-
sation interned since March 10 had been
received, and that “legal proceedings
would be taken against “certain of the
persons concerned.”
In the House of Representatives on
March 26, Mr. Forde, Minister for the
Army, delivered a sensational utterance
in which he said that documents had
been seized which set out plans for assas-
sinating leading Australians, sabotaging
vulnerable points and welcoming the
Japanese Army as “friends and libera-
tors.” Next day Mr. Curtin told the
House that a “prima facie case” had
been “established by the military” pre-
sumably a prima facie case for the intern-
ments. “There will be no prejudicing ot
the trial,” the Prime Minister added, “and
each person will have the right to estab-
lish his own innocence.” But, because or
the way the matter has been handled,
there has been “prejudicing of the trial,
in publications and in Parliament itself
—though not, of course, by the leader of
the Government.
The Bulletin has been informed that
one of the persons interned is an Aus-
tralian soldier of 1914-18 who was twice
wounded and twice gassed, and who
holds the Military Medal and the Croix
de Guerre, avec palmes. He and his
alleged associates are entitled to equal
treatment with the Communists Ratliff
and Thomas, who were tried and found
guilty of what the tribunal afterwards set
up to review their case called “deliber-
ately hindering, by every means in their
power, the war effort of this country.
Ratliff and Thomas were released by the
present Government, having promised to
be good.
Australians are fighting this war to pre-
serve, among other things, the right of
accused persons to a fair trial by their
peers. Though already condemned by
irresponsibles and persons who should
know better, the “Australia First” people
are guilty of no crime until guilt is proved,
and under our laws the onus of proving
their guilt lies with the Crown. If the
Government does not intend to proceed
against all the persons interned, each of
the other persons should, in Mr. Curtin’s
words, be given “the right to establish
his own innocence,” and that without
delay.
A.R.P. and the States
When Japan came into the war those de-
voted individuals who had been training
as best they might for A.R.P. duties
hoped that the creation of a Common-
wealth Ministry for Home Security meant,
among other things, that men unfit for
army duty and not engaged in war work
would be obliged to do their share of
A.R.P. work.
The announced decision of the Com-
monwealth Minister for Home Security
to hand over to the State Governments
the control of compulsory A.R.P. service
for men between 18 and 60 was a severe
disappointment. It has long been evident
that State control of A.R.P. is chaotic,
extravagant and, what is worse, influenced
by the dreadful partyism of State
politics. ,
Only those familiar with the thing have
any idea of the mass of printed matter
poured out about A.R.P., of the issue ol
instructions and counter-instructions and
counter-counter-instructions, of the in-
consistencies and injustices perpetrated
under the blackout laws, of the general
Gilbertian aspect of the whole thing.
Sydney has just had another example
of it. Its Minister for N.E.S. issued what
he called a “code for buildings” under
which owners and/or occupiers were
ordered to do everything from removing
the entire structure to turning it upside
down, the orders accompanied by dire
threats of what would happen to de-
faulters. The “code” has, of course, had
to be “amended again.” Meantime, the
president of the Town-Planning Associa-
tion is in trouble for declaring that there
is a danger of “riff-raff” being let loose
as wardens in blacked-out suburbs. Fi ora
the defence viewpoint A.R.P. should rank
next to the fighting services. It can no
longer be left to State politicians.
Found Wanting.
Mr. Dunstan, the Agrarian Premier of
Victoria, was heard last week referring
to the “acute danger of a food shortage
in Australia,” and that his
Government would be “glad,” in co-
operation with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, to launch a campaign for in-
creased food production.
Nobody needs to be told of the short-
age of commodities, notably eggs,
potatoes and onions, all of which
can be and have been produced in the
country in surplus proportions. But
somebody ought to ask Mr. Dunstan and
his fellow-Premiers, who are so fond of
setting up commodity control boards,
how much responsibility for the shortage
is attributable to them and their boards.
It is more than coincidence that the
locally produced foodstuffs which are
short are all under the control of some
board or other, some of them the foot-
ball of several boards. A ton of onions
leaving Mr. Dunstan’s State for points
north of the Murray comes under an
onion board before it leaves home, must
bow to the will of two or possibly three
transport boards on the way, and then
has to negotiate one or two State mar-
keting boards. A crate of eggs from
Mr. McKell’s State must endure pretty
much the same harassment.
This sort of thing has been going on
for years. Its effect in war-time was
made obvious in the scandalous apple-
and-pear-control fiasco. There is plenty
of evidence to show that it has proved
a definite discouragement to production
and it has, in most cases, brought the
marketing of commodities into chaos. All
of these boards were set up ostensibly for
the main purposes of checking gluts,
obviating shortages and maintaining a
fair balance between producer and con-
sumer. They couldn’t do it in peace-
time. War has revealed their utter use-
lessness.
Mr. Curtin’s Government has shown
a tendency to curb the wasteful activi-
ties of State Governments. In the cer-
tain knowledge that the numerous boards
have failed lamentably in the mild food
crisis and that one Federal Commodities
Board should be ample for 7,000,000
people, Mr. Curtin might be wise in ask-
ing his Minister for Commerce to assume
what commodity control he can before a
serious crisis develops. Anyhow, it is
obvious that the herd of State com-
modity control boards aren’t worth a
damn, and that their big staffs must con-
tain many people who could serve their
country better in other capacities.
Preference to Politicians.
The Sydney Milk Board’s term expires
today. Premier McKell allowed the press
last week to state that a bill to replace
the board with a commission—which is
simply a board “with a fancy name
couldn’t possibly be passed before today
and therefore he might “use his powers
under the National Security Regulations
to extend the term of the present Milk
Board for a short period.”
Whether the framers of the N. S.
Regulations contemplated their being
used in this fashion may be doubted, but
the published intention to hand over the
chairmanship of the milk commission at
a salary of £2OOO a year to Mr. McGirr,
Mr. McKell’s Minister for Local Gov-
ernment, and to fix him in the job unti
he reaches the retiring age should in-
terest the returned service men ot this
war and the previous war.
Those who returned from the pre-
vious war found the preference-to-sol-
diers legislation frequently outed by
preference to politicians or to their
friends in the handing out of good jobs,
and though they as frequently protested
their protests went unheeded. Men are
already being repatriated from this war
as unfit for further military service, and
the time will come when a vast force of
them will need jobs. .
Australian volunteers who tougnt in
Libya, Greece, Crete, Syria and Malaya,
on the sea and in the air, included many
with the qualifications necessary for a
Milk Commissioner if Mr. McGirr s
qualifications are a criterion. Still more
with equal or superior qualifications are
now preparing to meet the new and closer
enemy. If the principle of political
appointments is to be cemented while
they are concentrating on more vital
things they are likely to encounter some
bitter experiences when trying to get back
into civil life.
There must inevitably be great changes
in Australian life after the war. There
will be a scamper from war work to
peace work. There will also be, in all
probability, a scamper by politicians
from abolished State Parliaments to collar
good jobs. The returned service men’s
organisation will need to watch these
matters very closely.
Stockholm the Suspect.
No place on the face of the earth, out-
side actual enemy countries, should be
more suspect as far as news is concerned
than Stockholm. It is the capital of a
country, Sweden, which is a neutral prac-
tically surrounded by Germany. Even
that part of the Baltic Sea on which
Stockholm stands can be regarded as
German territory. West is
occupied Norway; east is Finland, oe -
many’s ally against Russia ; so H,*r a . l
Germany and German-occupied Estonia,
Lithuania and Denmark; north is tne
Arctic
From Stockholm pours an astonishing
volume of alleged news. It appears in
Australian newspapers and in news
broadcasts every day, and is granted an
astounding aura of importance. Uom
mentaries and leading articles are re
quently based on it, and you will heai i
quoted by people everywhere.
One day you read that Russia s lan v
Strength Staggers Germans. Then you
may learn that the Russians are steadily
tightening the encirclement of Orel ; tha
Timoshenko is throwing heavier weignt
than ever into the offensive below Khar-
kov ; that there is no confirmation ot tne
Stockholm report that Kharkov has been
recaptured by the Russians, but a Stow.c-
holm correspondent states that fighting
is taking place in the suburbs, and t a
the fall of the town is imminent. And
so on. Also that Sweden is mobilising
and isn’t mobilising. And so forth.
And according to the Stockholm corre-
spondent of a New York paper fp e * ers „
have been “circulated in Stockholm,
one proposition being that Britain and
America give Germany a free hana in
Russia in exchange for immediate peace,
and another that there should be peace
all round among the whites, Germany
to join the rest against Japan, and to be
rewarded with some of the old colonies,
access to raw materials and economic
assistance. . ,
Sweden is in no position to onen
Germany. Stockholm correspondents
doubtless do their best, but it is certain
that the basis of their reports, particu-
larly of the fighting in Russia, is either
local gossip or skilfully-disguised Gei-
man propaganda. That, added to its
geographical and military position, shoul
make it obvious that anything from
Stockholm should be regarded with
deepest suspicion. __
There Is a Future.
Aside from the precious visions in the
minds of dreamers, Australia has no
apparent idea of what sort of political
shape it is to assume after the war. For
most of us there is no future except the
immediate one of putting every possible
effort into the job of winning the war.
All the same, it might not be a bad idea
for the Commonwealth Government to
spare a thought for the peace and to for-
mulate, if only for storage, some sort ot
a peace plan for the nation.
There are evils of which the war has
not yet rid the country, such as over-
government and the concentration ot
more than a third of the population in
two great cities. Mr. Curtin s Govern-
ment should not require further proof ot
the national desire for a single Parlia-
ment. Its attention should be drawn to
an ambitious scheme in decentralised
Britain, where a band of town-planners
and architects are working on a plan to
redistribute the population in new towns
of not more than 200,000 people.
In brief, the planners want a Ministry
of Works and Buildings to take full con-
trol of all building permits, to restrict big
cities to war-time population—contrary
to Australian experience London, Coven-
try, Plymouth, Birmingham lost about
half their population by evacuation and
transfer after war came and to replan
overpopulated places like Manchester,
Leeds and Glasgow. , . f
If there is a body of British thought
convinced that that sort of thing is neces-
sary for England, how much more neces-
sary should it be considered for Australia,
a continent with more than a third of its
people in two cities. How better a country
Australia would be with 20 cities of
100 000 each instead of having two whose
defence against air raids has become a
nightmare and which are bent on beat-
ing one another to the second million.
Strangely enough, in recent months
about the only sign of an awareness that
there is a future somewhere ahead comes
from the Arms, Explosives and
Munitions Workers’ Union. At a con-
ference in Melbourne, it suggested the
making of cars, tractors, aeroplanes and
other things when the machinery now used
for war production is thrown idle by peace.
That this should be done on the
union’s theory that the Government
should own the factories is a matter for
debate, but there is the essence of an
idea in it. Something close to chaos will
come with an end of a war period in
which so many are eithei fighting or
making arms. All legislation these days
is war legislation. The war may go on
for another five years. That doesn’t alter
the fact that peace must come and that
Australia must have some ideas in readi-
ness for it.


THE
‘BOULIA
BIG Dir STOCK SADDLE
mmm
■ ft
t. -’I
■g, i |
, wkl - i >if
. i£ •'
X.S. IF.
Freight
on
Fa Ml ex
Paid for
Clash u~ilh
Order,
£l5/15/“
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
clip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It lias tho
popular short
panel wit h
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree, the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Good Sulky Harness
from £Bll7 j 6.
WALTHER * STtVEHSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES
r JpiME works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the
experienced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in your
Will an experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity,
mental vigour and good judgment you can rely; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds, and an understanding of family financial
and business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a book
“Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the service in detail and tells what it costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS; T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.O.
E. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.'
H. V. Douglass. Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
KEEPS HER FIT
A clear skin and bright, sparkling eyes
are signs of radiant health. If YOU
suffer from constipation take one or two
NYAL FIGSEN TABLETS before
retiring; no nausea, no griping pain.
In the morning the action of Figsen is
'mild, gentle, sure. NYAL FIGSEN
helps to restore a normal bowel action
without forming a habit. Equally good
for young and old. Figsen is one of the
168 dependable NYAL FAMILY]
MEDICINES. Sold by chemists every-
where. l/3a a tin*
The next best thing to Nature , . .
NyaJFiffsen
THE GENTLE LUXHTIVE
POLITICAL POINTS
“Commonwealth May Usurp Whole
Tax Field” bellowed the new Melbourne
Aigus, returning to the old provincial-
ism. If the ‘usurpation” comes off, many
Victorians will pay a bit less than at
present, many about the same and some
a bit more. Even those who are to pay
a bit more will do so cheerfully, know-
ing that they will be freed from an annual
worry and from the burden of helping
to maintain a thousand or more unneces-
sary assessors and collectors.
Ward, blithering for Government
ownership of N.S.W. coalmines; “No
Government enjoys entering an industry
on the side of one party to a dispute.”
Obviously Ward doesn’t “enjoy” entering
the coalmining industry on the side of
the nation.
“First big job” to be undertaken by
Premier Forgan Smith on his return to
Brisbane will be the “preparation of
Queensland’s case for the vital Premiers’
Conference, at which the single-tax pro-
posal will be discussed.” Queensland, as
one of the highest-taxed States, has only
one case —that for a uniform tax.
On April 6 it was broadcast by a “high
Government authority” that Clause 49 of
the Defence Act barring the sending of
Australians called up for home defence
beyond continental and territorial limits
would not stop the Government from
sending such men abroad. Queensland
“Courier-Mail” wants to know why the
P.M. himself didn’t make the announce-
ment, and it objects to the use of any
“anonymous Government spokesman.”
Objection sustained.
Some of the States that have refused
to reduce car-registration fees, notably
Queensland and Tasmania, plead that the
refusal was meant to discourage the use
of petrol by private motorists. Since
all restrictions on petrol have come from
the Commonwealth Government, which
should know just how much of it can be
spared, the excuse won’t wash. Anyhow,
were there no petrol restrictions the regis-
tration fees would still be too high.
Mr. Cosgrove, Tasmania’s Premier,
“stressed the danger of the interests of
the smaller States being subordinated to
those of the bigger States under unifi-
cation.” Just like a State Premier;
but Cosgrove completely overlooks the
fact that under unification there would
be no States, big or little.
Premier Dunstan and Keith Murdoch’s
Melbourne “Herald” are agin the uni-
form-tax plan, their united complaint
being that since Victoria has lower
State taxes its citizens will suffer. Mr.
Murdoch’s sheet calls this a penalty for
“prudent” State Government. Mr. Dun-
stan came out with his stock phrase:
At present, when unity is essential, the
Commonwealth will surely not proceed
with such a highly-contentious matter.
It is because unity is essential that the
matter will be proceeded with. And Vic-
torians are sick of being told they are
Victorians first and Australians after-
wards.
On Sept. 20, 1939, Federal Labor tried
to get the sending of compulsory-service
men beyond the limits of the continent
and Tasmania prohibited by law. The
question as to what its policy is now has
been raised in some newspapers. What
its policy was on December 15 was stated
by Forde:
The Government has no intention of
sending members of the A.M.F. to any
points outside Australia, except to Com-
monwealth territories or territories under
the control of the Commonwealth. There
is no necessity to do so. A.I.F. men are
recruited for overseas service. Members of
the Militia Forces will be trained and used
exclusively for the defence of Australia and
its territories. They cannot be used for
any other purposes except by an amendment
of the Defence Act, which the Government
does not intend to make because there is
no necessity.
There followed the heroic attempt of
1399 soldiers and five Wirraway crews
to hold Rabaul against many times their
numbers, and the coming of General
MacArthur and his staff. In these matters
Governments like Forde’s don’t decide.
Circumstances and necessities make deci-
sions for them.
The wail in Sydney Ministerial circles
about the single-tax proposal is that if
power to tax is removed the States’ power
“We are proud to march with the Japanese soldiers.” — Mussolini.
MARCHING-FASCIST STYLE.
to govern will be lost. That’s exactly
what the best part of 7,000,000 people
hope will come about.
Across the Bass Strait stands Cosgrove,
Premier of Tasmania, his eye coldly on
Canberra and its single-tax proposal, his
hand firm on the “sovereign rights of the
States.” Across the Bass Strait stands
Cosgrove—but nobody takes any notice
of Cosgrove any more.
It should be easy to obtain a minority
report on the uniform-tax proposals—
from State Premiers.
When the Melbourne “Parliament”
resumes in June —yes, in June —it will
hold no night sittings and only measures
of a non-contentious nature will be intro-
duced. “The main object of Parliament,”
bleated Premier Dunstan, “will be to
further the war effort.” What war effort?
One of the two Lazzarinis, the one
who assists McKnell, told a conference
of N.S.W. public servants that McKnell’s
election promises to them would be ful-
filled “before the State Government goes
out of office.” He may have meant
“before State Governments are abol-
ished.”
With fine impartiality and scorn of con-
sequences, the Concord (Sydney) branch
of the A.L.P. demands the dismissal of
N.S.W, Health Minister Kelly, Theodore,
Stevens and Garden —who, having been
concerned in many strikes and never won
any, has been named an officer in the
arbitration - and - conciliation army by
Ward. The branch has also sent Ward
a letter slating him for his patronage of
Garden.
The managing director of “S. M.
Herald has joined a newspaper advisory
committee to assist the censorship. It
is to be hoped he will control his lan-
guage. A few weeks ago Granny used
an emphatic “damn.” On Friday she
quoted Australians in Papua as singing
“The Bludgers of Papua.” Talk about
a new order!
The U.S. Secretary of Commerce has
revealed that Britain had only 100,000
tons of raw rubber “or less” when
Singapore fell, and will have to be sup-
plied by the U.S.A. All things con-
sidered, Churchill’s “Malaya second”
policy was the worst of his many blun-
ders. Still, it is understandable that
Malaya’s importance as a source of
rubber supplies did not appeal to him.
Rubber is no subject for resounding
rhetoric, and nobody used it at Blenheim
or Waterloo.
Australian coalminers are not all like
the narks and hooligans who hold up
N.S.W. pits. While the N.S.W. coalies
knocked off for four days on Thursday,
April 2, the Collie (W.A.) miners, “realis-
ing the urgent need for full-time work in
essential industries,” toiled on Good
Friday, Saturday and Easter Monday.
They don’t belong to the Miners’ Federa-
tion. When a Saturday shift, regularly
worked at Collie, was suggested to that
crowd, the reply was that the Federation
would “fight” against it.
The latest and worst from the
“famous” John Gordon is that “Britain
should rush gangster weapons to Europe’s
guerrilla fighters”:
Bottles of poison and spring guns, tiny as
fountain-pens, that could put a dart in a
man’s neck in the dark; knives and
knuckle-dusters—all the paraphernalia of
the gangster and guerrilla.
It’s all grist for the Goebbels mill, like
the contributions of the “famous” “Cas-
sandra,” of the “Daily Mirror,” who
hopes to see Germany reduced to “a
bloody pulp,” surrounded by ashes and
debris. This pious aspiration probably
had something to do with the Govern-
ment’s threat to suppress the “Daily
Mirror” if it didn’t behave. Government
propaganda has, very properly, been
aimed at dividing the enemy by separat-
ing the nation from the Nazis.
There has been a scattering of Beaver-
brook men since the newspaper baron
lost his Cabinet job. The “Boss,” whose
last self-satisfied speech was to the effect
that Britain had sent nearly 10,000 ’planes
overseas in 1941—he didn’t mention how
many had gone to Malaya or Australia
—cast up in North America, where he
blithered that the defeat of Russia would
mean the loss of the war, though it didn't
in the last war or in the wars against
Napoleon. The “famous” Frank Owen,
who is 37, has been called up, perhaps
to give him a chance to hurl himself
into the opening of a Second Front, and
Bob Elliott is back in Australia. Bob’s
friends hope that he will give the public
a full and particular account of his
experiences in Russia.
A day before national register cards were
due in Ward’s department, that gentleman
threatened non-co-operators with heavy
penalties. There are 150,000, he now
admits, and “nearly 10 per cent.” (another
version is “over 12 per cent.”) of those
who sent in cards “forgot to include
essential information.” Opposing the
Menzies National Registration Bill before
the German war broke out, Ward barked
in these terms: —•
If a person does not fill in his forms
accurately in the first place, how is he to
be compelled to do it after? Is he to be
bullied into doing so?
As the responsible Minister he is not
going to “bully” his 10 p.c., all of whom
have votes. They are being “asked to
complete details before they receive their
identity cards,” and “defaulters” are to
have more “latitude” before “drastic
action” is taken.
No member of either House has seen
fit to question Forde on the message he
addressed to the army in Singapore 12
days before the capitulation:
I want you to accept it as a binding
promise of our utmost support We have
done everything in our power to ensure
that the greatest degree of help which may
be sent will reach you with all possible
speed. It will go, not as a few consign-
ments from a shrinking store, but as a
stream which will swell to a flood, and a
flood which will soon grow to an over-
whelming torrent. These movements are
under way. You will not be left alone or
with empty hands.
The omission is as extraordinary as the
message. Especially as members of both
British Houses, mindful of the Gallipoli
Commission, on which Australia was rep-
resented by Andrew Fisher, are pressing
for an inquiry as searching.
Always prodigal with the people’s
money, Canberra Labor added £150,000
this year to the “special” grant of
£1,000,000 bestowed on the Adelaide
Government in 1940-41 and sat down to
await results. Results to the end of
March, as complacently announced by
Playford, were “a surplus of £249,939,
with three months of the financial year
still to go.” In the March month excess
of revenue over expenditure was
£365,361. “Unemployment of physically-
fit workers has been eliminated,” Play-
ford says. The “special” grant in what
amounts to the third war year is actually
£150,000 more than it was in when S.A.
trade unions had 34 p.c. of members un-
employed.
“Oliver Filter”: Anyone interested in
the art of collecting bawbees should study
the cold persistence of the Customs.
Two examples: (1) A planter who left
what looked like being a hot spot in the
islands and reached Australia after a
rather eventful voyage brought with him
13 bales of rubber because he knew the
Allied forces urgently, needed the stuff;
Customs welcomed this contribution of
vital material and rewarded the deliverer
by charging him 2d. a pound duty on it.
(2) An engineer got out of the same place
and brought with him a £6OO turret lathe
because he reckoned it would be useful
in the munitions business. The lathe is
now waiting in bond for someone to pay
£3OO duty on it.


CONCHIES, TO YOUR BATTLE STATIONS!
“Sydney magisterial courts are choked with applications for exemption from combatant and non-combatant service. One conscientious objector said that.if a Japanese
attacked his wife he would 'sit down and pray'; another, that if he saw his mother attacked 'God would tell me what to do—my duly would be to pray.'"


"Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“A.R.P.”; The warden-instructor—too
right, and we’ve deputy-warden-instruc-
tors, too —in our suburb was putting to
aspiring wardens a series of questions
as to what they would do in an air-raid
alert. He came to the rather quiet chap
who, we understood, had been evacuated
from a teak station in the Burma hills.
This candidate got along pretty well with
answers in his tony English accent until
the instructor came to “And if you saw
a horse in a cart what would you do?”
“Call the syce,” was the prompt reply.
It took some time to unravel the in-
structor.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A commodity which I have
never been able to get enough of is jam.
In my youth I was the perfect embodi-
ment of the comic artist’s small boy who
raids his mother’s jam jars, and in man-
hood I’m little better. Consequently my
change in attitude towards the Russian
social system, which I had hitherto dis-
trusted, can be understood when I read,
on the word of a “roving reporter,” that
at Easter in Moscow “the priests then
retired into the cathedral, and the jam-
packed throng pressed, swaying, after
them.” I’ve had enough of this country
with its accursed taxes and shortages ; I
am for Moscow, Stalin and oodles of jam.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: The case of the 21-year-
old Bernard McDade showed the Law
in an exceptionally lenient mood. He
ran away from home at 15 and came first
to public notice as the killer of an accom-
plice in crime, one William McLean,
whose body he sank in Sydney Harbor
weighted with iron bars. The pair, with
a boy of 16 and a young woman, were
living on a yacht bought with the pro-
ceeds of robbery. On the vessel they
planned further crimes. Some sort of
trouble developed about the girl; there
was a fight and McLean’s body was con-
signed to the waters. Charged with
murder, the killer confessed to the killing.
He was acquitted, presumably because
of the unsavory character of his victim.
Convicted of robbery under arms, Mc-
Dade got seven years, and was then given
four years, one year and one year on
each of three other robbery charges, all
the sentences to be concurrent. Though the
Judge remarked “I regard you as a
dangerous criminal who has decided to
abandon himself to a life of crime,” by
the time he is 26 or 27 this human wolf
probably will be free to prey on the
community again.
* * * *
“H.L.D.”: Regarding Churchill’s
phrase-making (B. 1/4/’42), a member of
my staff, now a lieutenant on a corvette
in English waters, has, I think, improved
on the improvements quoted. He writes:
“We had one particular night of picking
up women survivors in a gale. Most of
them had come out in their underclothes
and we hauled them aboard. Never was
so little worn by so many.”
* *. * *
“Hamer”: “Every schoolboy knows,”
wrote Macaulay as a prelude to a cata-
logue of historic facts that every school-
boy certainly does not know. But there
are things that every schoolboy knows.
For instance, that by holding a dog up
by his tail you can tell his breeding—if
it’s a mong. it yelps. He knows also that
resin rubbed on the hands breaks a cane ;
that a hare’s foot carried in the pocket
turns the punches of an opponent astray ;
that a grass-seed head placed in
a boy’s sleeve will work its way up as
he moves and eventually tickle his back ;
that the skin of mushrooms can be
peeled and that of toadstools can’t; that
spittle applied to a bruise will cure it;
that sleeping in moonlight will make a
boy’s face crooked. The gamut of boy-
lore seems to be the same today as it
was in my boyhood 50 years ago. Prob-
ably it is much the same as it was in
Julius Caesar’s boyhood.
* * * *
“Arter”: One of the most depressing
results of Sydney’s (of course well justi-
fied) outbreak of glassophobia is the dis-
appearance from the outsides of the pubs
of those painted-on-glass beer ads. It is
the fashion to sneer at commercial art,
but these were the product of an excep-
tionally talented brush (or brushes, since
it seems unlikely one painter could
achieve such a vast output). Every phase
of Australian outdoor and recreational
life was depicted—football, cricket and
polo, surfing, beach and other picnic
scenes, the home verandah, the restaurant
—in lively, vigorous fashion. If the rest
of contemporary art were swept away in
a cataclysm and these survived they
would convey a wealth of information to
the archaeologist of some remote future
concerning Australian life in this century.
The passing of these signs is symbolic of
the coming of sterner, more strenuous
times. Let’s hope that when the clouds
roll by they and all the good life they
stood for will be restored intact.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, which takes its
blackout regulations very seriously, finds,
like most Australian States, that the rail-
ways offer the knottiest problem. Prose-
cutions in Christchurch illustrated some
of the difficulties. The district traffic
manager was up because a chink of light
“Sorry, Constable. Flat feet!”
railway'
bul the district engineer, was responsible
administrators occuptS* The sfff
auminisiraiors occupied. The signalman
his ground on railway discipline,
He had received written instructions that
Stoiffor m ?hP n d°V 66 extin , guished - Soli-
citors tor the defence, advancing these
fr°reSvanf 10 lT;h SU “ geSted th f, y were really
dhle - 6 ° CC t V pier was respon-
sible, the occupier in these cases was the
Crown. Which can do no wrong,” said
“Just obliging the lady—she Wants t' have a peek at the little hat in
the corner."
the magistrate, dismissing the charges,
He added, “Why, if there should be a
light showing from this court, I suppose
/ should be held responsible!” That he
should be perturbed is understandable.
The penalty runs up to £2OO, and in addi-
tion an “occupier” may have electric
supply cut off for a week or a month.
*.* * *
“Youanmi”: The people of the
Northern Territory are a plain-spoken lot
and a little impatient of wandering news-
paper correspondents who have written
so much guff about the N.T., so that these
fellows are liable to have their legs
stretched when they turn up in those
parts. So I’m wondering what those big,
quiet, capable fellows who run Territory
stations are thinking of one Knicker-
bocker, a special correspondent of the
Sydney “Sun,” which set him loose in the
N.T. Mr. Knickerbocker saw Darwin: —
This “island” on the end of a 2000-mile
causeway—this lonesome city named after
the great formulator of the doctrine of
evolution—has not only ceased to evolve
towards a higher and more heterogeneous
form of life, but has also ceased to live,
except on its periphery occupied by the
military men of Australia and the United
States.
And Mr. Knickerbocker stayed over-
niobt at Katbprinp-
mgni di jvcuiieune.
Meanwhile, scorpions, the size of small
chickens, and cockroaches, which made a
galloping sound, moved about the bedroom.
and the walls swarmed with every imagin-
able insect monster.
If the O’Shea still keeps the Katherine
nnh or if wherever he is he resids Mr
pup °r n, wnerever ne ts, nereaus vu,
Knickerbocker s efforts, I can just picture
him gently rubbing his chin and won-
dering wondering
, * * *
“'7oLp” • “PC” m &lAI ’491 k the
Zake . F.b. (K. 8/4/ 42) is tne
supreme optimist when he considers that
“the restrictions on the manufacture of
ttihv vpf hp the unwitting in -
cosmetics may yet oe me unwitting n
strument for fixing new and more natui al
standards of feminine beauty.” Forget
the soup-plate-lipped savages. The
“standards of feminine beauty” of our
white race are fixed, not by women them-
selves, but by manufacturers of cos-
metics; clever advertising does the rest.
Clothing restrictions will also inhibit the
peacock urge, but only so long as tne
restrictions last. Once they are lifted the
skirt will billow or shrink, be gay or
sober, just as those who control the
fashions dictate, and womankind will
follow blindly as of yore. And just as
soon as titanium oxide and cellulose can
«* «M-
Romance in Rio will ? be the “correct”
lipStick ’ rOUge or nail lacc * uer for even-
mg wear, and flannerdom will nidi the
chosen shade
* * * avidity.
“Dipper”: This argument about the
morn-dawn” rhyme (B l/4/’42) is aet-
ting nowhere because the controverslal-
ists are using English spelling which gives
one sound picture to one person and a
different sound picture to another. For
instance, “Oxmead” says (B. l/4/’42)
that, if the two words are to be presented
as rhyming, either “dawn” must be pro-
nounced “dorn” or “morn” “mawn.”
Well, all four words give exactly the same
sound picture to.me, a native-born Aus-
tralian, so evidently “Oxmead” has been
brought up to roll his “r’s,” and to him
“morn” and “dawn” give entirely dif-
ferent sound pictures. Dutchmen, who
roll their “r’s,” always spell my name
“Dippe” when they hear it. When they
see it written they pronounce it
“Dipper-r-r-r,” with a pleasant roll which
I tried years to imitate without succeed-
ing. Probably in the English county from
which “Oxmead” or his forebears came
“morn” was “mor-r-r-n” ; but the dyed-
in-the-wool, native-born Australian can’t
roll his “r’s,” generally speaking. So
when he reads the criticism in The Bul-
letin’s Answers to Correspondents he
thinks some pedant is splitting hairs.
OUR DEBT TO THE DUTCH.
“Admiral Glassford, of the U.S. Navy, speaking of
the resistance put up by the Dutch against over-
whelming odds in the battle for .Tava, said it was
an honor to have been associated with such a people.”
Hats off to the Dutch! In the centuries flown
Their spirit we’ve tested, their mettle we’ve
known.
They were always fair foes when, for various
ends,
We clashed, and more often our trustworthy
friends.
When the last of the Stuarts turned out a bad
hat,
They lent us a King—and a good one at that.
Though, in matters of commerce, some satirist
tart
Opined that they’d nothing to learn in the art
Of “giving too little and asking too much,”
We should always remember our debt to the
Dutch.
They had sea-dogs, as tough and tenacious a lot
As Hawkins and Frobisher, Drake and Cabot,
Who fearlessly broke into perilous seas
As silent, four centuries back, as were these.
They skirted our headlands as northward they
pressed
Ere Dampier ever set eyes on our west.
The flag that they bore to the ends of the earth
Attested their prowess and witnessed their
worth.
As our co-pioneers their achievements were such
As to give us a hearty respect for the Dutch.
Now, crushed for the nonce by the force and
the fraud
Of ruthless assailants, at home and abroad,
Still true to the record they gained in the past,
Whatever the odds they will fight to the last.
Staunch comrades, good neighbors, to have and
to hold,
We see them anew as we’ve known them of old,
And trust that we ever may keep them in touch
As closely and firmly. Here’s luck to the Dutch !
N.S W.
P IPARDS.
PRO BONO PUBLICO.
“The Commonwealth has asked the State Gov-
ernments to reduce hotel-trading hours to seven a
day.”
You jovial Bungs whose wares, distilled and
malted,
Exist to slake the Great Australian Thirst,
Deem not your honorable trade’s assaulted,
Much less that your utility’s aspersed.
A lot of normal doings must be halted
When winning of the war becomes our first
Objective. Even publicans, you know,
Must do their bit pro bono publico.
Gone are the days when six o’ mornings sounded
The signal for your business to begin,
When foaming pots and heart’ning nips
abounded
Till midnight (pretty near) was ushered m.
And now —so rigorous the changes grounded
Upon the needs of war-time discipline—
For moistening our clay the ruling powers
Will cut your ration down to seven hours.
A bit exemplary, there’s no denying,
But vain it were to grumble or to scold.
Far better, as the nimble hours are flying,
To turn for solace to that bard of old
Who doubted vintners had a chance of buying
Things half as precious as the goods they
sold.
(But would he still have doubted, there s the
rub,
Had Omar Khayyam ever kept a pub?)
You Premiers who dread lest terms ungentle
Should be applied and odium adhere
To you and yours for being instrumental
In robbing honest voters of their beer,
Take heart! It merely shows how incidental
Your role’s become. You’ve really naught to
We know,’ howe’er distasteful be the tasks,
You’ve got to tackle thern when Canberra asks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: Nobody seems to love 8.8. C.
Its gaucheries have more than once en-
raged our own Curtin, a man not easily
moved to anger, and its revelation of
the position of Sixth Division head-
quarters in North Africa drew a stinging
condemnation from General Mackay.
Even Hitler had a go at it in a speech
on the campaign in Norway, not pub-
lished in Australia at the time, but re-
printed in My New Order : —
After we had thrown the Norwegians
back beyond Hamar and Lillehammer, a
British brigade came marching along, inno-
cent and unsuspecting, towards Hamar.
They had no communications with their
rear—Stukas and fighting bombers had seen
to that —so they listened to 8.8. C. And
from 8.8. C. the brigadier learned that we
were still a long way from Lillehammer and
had been badly beaten. So the brigadier
marched into Lillehammer at the head of
the brigade and peacefully went to bed, a
box filled with documents labelled “strictly
secret” and “not to be abandoned to the
enemy” at his side. And here during the
night our troops captured him and his
precious treasure chest.
Clever, but cruel, like Hitler’s gibe at
Australians —“an Australian Prime Minis-
ter said ‘Australia’s frontier is on the
Rhine,’ so I am sending some Australian
prisoners of war to the Rhineland to
absorb the frontier atmosphere.” The
man is not without a sense of humor,
but it is of the sort that makes the victim
or victims writhe. In other words, it is
almost the lowest form that humor can
take.
* * * *
“Exdig”; For a time after the 1914-18
war I was kept busy in London precising
war diaries, an interesting work. With
each was associated all the official dis-
patches and orders covering the period
of the diary. An excerpt from a dis-
patch sent by a choleric brigade com-
mander who had a derry on the intelli-
gence staff I have always treasured. It
ran, “May I ask that greater care should
be taken with the wording of letters from
H.Qrs.? This morning I received a mes-
sage stating that an intelligent officer was
being sent to this brigade. I now find
that an intelligence officer has arrived —a
vastly different thing.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I have in my possession
a historic document which my landlady
slipped under my door on the Sunday of
Sydney’s great rain:
If you turn on your hot tap tonight you
might find that the good fairies have
brought you some nice warm rain-water.
And what (I demand as an infuriated
citizen) did the nabobs of the Water
Board mean by waiting until the follovy-
ing Wednesday before deciding that it
was legal for me and my landlady to have
a hot bath? To us, in our perspicacity,
it seemed obvious that it was raining
buckets, and that it had rained buckets,
and that a bath could be run without
injury to mankind. But the blinking
board, after its president had made a
guarded admission that a certain amount
of liquid, possibly rain, had fallen from
the sky, calmly waited until Wednesday
to hold its meeting about it, thereby wil-
fully, arrogantly and needlessly delaying
the lifting of its restrictions for three
whole days. Why didn’t the board, out
of courtesy to the public whose servant
it is, meet on the Monday? If this
occurs again, I warn them, I shall (1)
turn on all my taps and (2) write to the
“Herald.”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I like not these flapper-press
efforts to make “dynamiteros” and “guer-
rillas” and “scorched-earth” practitioners
of my countrymen. Australians, I am
sure, can safely leave the defence of Aus-
tralia to properly organised, equipped and
uniformed fighting men, native-born and
American. Should it become necessary
for civilians to lend a hand, with the
certainty of being shot if captured—well,
Australians are a resourceful people and
can invent their own methods, instead
of borrowing the much-advertised devices
of other countries. After all, the efforts
of “dynamiteros” and “guerrillas” have
to be tested by results. The side that
went in for them in Spain was licked,
and, notwithstanding a thousand rap-
turous newspaper paragraphs and reports,
it remains to be proved whether they
have succeeded in Russia or whether
indeed they haven’t done a great deal
more harm than good. It is admitted now
and then that the Germans shoot all
“guerrillas” who fall into their hands, and,
reading between the lines, the slaughter
of the poor, game people has been ter-
rible. As for “scorched earth,” if the
intention was to deny the invader the use
of the occupied territory it has failed
over a vast region, with consequences
to the inhabitants which it is horrible
even to imagine. Adoption of “scorched
earth” in Australia, a continent with a
coastal fringe of which parts are fertile
and well watered and other parts patchy,
and with an interior almost everywhere
arid, would be sheer lunacy.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A few months ago, fired
by Mr. Curtin’s clarion call to battle
stations, I went to mine. I took up
vegetable-growing. Results were so good
that I decided to have a cut at reduc-
ing the general shortage, but as I
could spend only an hour or so a
day and week-ends at the fascinating
occupation it was necessary to obtain
labor-saving equipment. 1 went the
round of the city shops and found that
practically everything I wanted was
either “frozen” or no longer being manu-
factured. By dint of great exertion I
can carry on indifferently well, but in
the absence of pest-fighting apparatus I
can see my rows of cabbages and caulies
reeling before the dive-bombing attacks
of the white butterflies and other in-
vaders. Seems a funny way of organis-
ing war effort.
« * * »
“Craiser”: The Rev. Robertson
McCue, general secretary of the Local
Option Alliance, says that Melbourne
streets testify that the beer cut has
accomplished much. So they do. I have
never seen so many drunks in them since
the day the Duke of Edinburgh or
some other prince of the blood royal
arrived late for the opening of the cham-
pagne fountain in the Domain and the
crowd turned on the taps.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: The call for economy has not
found the N.S.W. Railway Department
wanting. Awareness of this was borne
in upon me while homing from
my Sydney office. As the train
emerged—or just before it emerged
from the underground the lights were
switched off, and I calculate that for the
half-mmute during which the passengers
were left in Stygian blackness .01 of a
pennyworth of electricity was saved for
each carriage. This may seem trifling,
but multiplied by eight it becomes .08 of
a penny. As we left Central dusk was
rapidly descending, and those passengers
away from the windows were soon peer-
ing with screwed-up eyes at their broad-
sheets. As the train passed through cut-
tings and between station buildings and
under bridges only the biggest headlines
were visible, and some unpatriotic travel-
lers even glanced impatiently at the car-
riage roof, unmindful of the department’s
commendable plan to assist the war
effort. By the time the outer suburbs
were reached passengers were groping
“ Hasn't she got eyes like her mother's?”
their way up the aisles to get out, and
even the hardiest reader had given up the
struggle. Just before I got to my station
the lights came on. Tucking my unread
paper under my arm I left with the com-
forting thought that the 4.8 d. the depart-
ment had saved in half an hour might
mean the difference between defeat and
victory
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: Lew Ayres, now in
a conscientious objectors’ camp in
Oregon, appeared in a version of All Quiet
on the Western Front. Possibly he got his
pacifist ideas from Remarque’s opus and
he may even have thought that the public
would be with him. He wouldn’t have
if he had seen All Quiet screened in
“ Well. well — St. Oscar's; my old school !”
Melbourne. The picture was presented
as a revelation of the futility and false-
ness of nationalism and a plea for the
essential brotherhood of man, and the
audience followed it with awed atten-
tion. Towards the end, however, troops
were represented going over the top.
French helmets showed through the bar-
rage retreating. Then Pickelhaubes made
their appearance victoriously advancing.
Suddenly the Hun began to retreat, and
through the murk appeared British hel-
mets. The audience gave a convincing
demonstration that the author’s message
wasn’t proof against their patriotic feel-
ings by cheering madly.
» * * *
“Looby”: The training derived from
selling oddments to second-hand dealers
over a span of about ten years has had
its first bad effect. One soon becomes
conscious of the fact that, if Ikey says
“Three bob,” it’s only waste of breath
to keep arguing for three and six. But
somehow or other you always do, though
without spirit, knowing full well that
he’s got you by the nose. Yesterday I
was on the other end of the see-saw. I
wanted to buy some music. The dealer
put a heap of music in front of me and
said “Four bob the lot.” Without think-
ing, I said “Make it four and six and it’s
a deal.” Not until some hours later did
I realise why he agreed so promptly.
* * * *
“Si Anu”; Melbourne having become
in the last few weeks almost as cosmo-
politan as Shanghai (it used to be the
least cosmopolitan city in Australia), a
new problem —that of language —has
been set for local shopmen. Myers
hopped in first, and a sign which is
familiar to any tourist in Asia or Europe
is pasted to its blacked-out windows, stat-
ing that Dutch, French, Norwegian,
Polish and Malay are spoken within its
portals. The Malay is a bit
wonky but could be understood
by any Javanese soldier, even
though it isn’t in his particular
local patois.
* * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne flesh-
an’-blood entrepreneurs are hav-
ing the time of their lives. The
Minerva people did extraordi-
narily good business at the
Comedy with “Claudia” (“you’ll
love her”). At His Majesty’s the
Gilsullivan entourage has been
getting on well in an excursion
outside Gilsullivanism. The Tiv.
is booked out nightly. Legit, pro-
ducers are probably regretting the
panic they got into when the
talkies hit them and they handed
over so many of their theatres to
the enemy. As for the film shows,
they are packed as usual after-
noon and evening; and the
A.B.C. announces that, in spite
of the brownout, there will be four
choral concerts with orchestra at
night and five Saturday afternoon
“celebrity” concerts. The same
high standard as in the past is promised.
There may be austere souls who regard
Melbourne’s thirst for entertainment as
a sign of inability to rise to the crisis,
but the general view seems to be that
showgoing is better for morale than
cowering in air-raid shelters,
** , *
Spasebo : The analysis of the mci-
dence of suicide by a Sydney psychiatrist,
as reported by Galenus (B. 1/4/ 42),
doesn’t probe very deeply, E wouxi have
been muc h more interesting it he had in-
quired as to whether the suicides had
previously been pessimists or optimists,
Almost invariably self-destruction gets the
sanguine type of individual. The person
who is always grizzling and complaining
and declaring that he will bump himself
off is not likely to do it, even if you hand
him a revolver. It is the happier, more
sanguine types who have had few re-
verses who do it. When they get into
a major crisis and suffer an acute blow
to their self-esteem death momentarily
seems pleasanter than life and they blow
out their brains on the spur ot the
moment. The pessimistic type protects
his amour propre by blaming his condu
tions or his wife or the social system, an
he finds this kind of solace all-sufficing,
But the sanguine type has no such means
of solace when some unanticipated blow
comes.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Credible reports that
Dutch bands are still fighting in Sumatra
recall that Sumatra was the scene of a
struggle with the Achinese which lasted,
on and oj j 5 f or 40 years. It flagged dur-
ing tbe planting season, but after the
crop had been harvested the native grew
resdve f rom boredom and began to think
a b ou t going on the warpath. Dutch home
op j n i on was t h a t the war was kept going
. tbe army> as j t provided the only
means c f rap i d promotion, but frequent
c h an ges in the High Command failed to
t a f u n sto p to an argument, the origi-
nal hypothesis for which had been corn-
p|etejy forgotten. It was the discovery
od and opening up of the interior
ru bber that put an end to the conflict,
Sumatra, incidentally, is a holy island
be Malay race, second only to Mecca.
Malay legend places the cradle of the
race at Menangkarbau, where Allah first
sbowed t h e primitive ancestors of the
‘ . t Cldt ivate rice. Now it grows
tobacco
* * * *
A page is turned ove r in Fifth Avenue:
in N , York Cornelills Vanderbilt lll-
he . g really iy> but they don - t count an early
ond since he was only a Dutch laborer.
Cornelius I, the “Old Commodore,” began life
sailing a periauger ferryboat from Staten Island
to the Battery on Manhattan (“18 cents the
trip, a shilling return fare”) m May, I ° l Y>
went into steam and railways and died Uncle
Sam , s richest dtizen His son wdham Henry
t £18,000,000 sterling; the rest of the family
£3,000,000. The old boy’s motto had him:
“Hell, what’s the good of givin’ folks money.
Them as wants it can get it. Cornelius HI
did little except some vicarious soldiering, dur-
whjch he rose to be a brigadier. His son,
Cornelius IV, divorced two wives and startled
the natives by writing books and becoming a
pnajisb V* ““^ommodor^
j n j^ s 0 f t his age of committees and business
pa]aces He ran his 100,000,000-dollar con-
ccrn to the end in one room with the aid of a
jnan a boy and wrou= h,s cheques on odd
half-sheets of not p p .
**„ f f
Northbndge 77 : Each of our four
had been trying to a
ball for a decade or more, and when
caught up with the‘ThSTnSfect shot
found one of them had hit a perfect. s
to the green, only to have_ the baU
the flag-stick and rebound mt P
and steepest bunker on the course w
listened unmoved to the flow ot lan^ d §r
When it died down 1 rems V*® d ’ ’
I suppose every one of us has seen th
time when we d go crook uke mat over
things like that, but we’ve got over it
The swearer looked us over Yj.it, ne
said bitterly. The trouble with you
fellers is that your he J rts Jf?, 4
and people with broken hearts can t ieeL


ABORIGINALITIES
“Oid-timer”: History repeats itself in
many ways. During the last war our
isolated little community held a patriotic
sports meeting. A new settler to the
district brought his family. Most promi-
nent among them was Lavender, his 18-
year-old daughter, a lass of some 15
stone, with shoulders like a wheat-
lumper’s and a soft smile that melted all
comment. Lavender was anchor-man in
a tug-o’-war team ; it won. She piled up
points in a woodchop. She won the
ladies’ flag-race, riding a 12-hand pony,
and she ran second in the sheaf-toss
largely because her sheaf was too loose.
A few weeks ago that little community,
not so isolated now since it has the rail-
way, a movie theatre and a civil aero-
drome, held a patriotic sports meeting.
Lavender was there, with her husband
and family of six, most prominent of
whom was Lavender, her 18-year-old
daughter, a lass of seme 15 stone, with —
but you’ve guessed the rest.
* * * *
“H.1.C.”: I query the statement (B.
25/3/’42) that Jack Howe’s 321 sheep
were shorn in seven hours 40 minutes.
Eight hours 40 minutes was the working
day in all Queensland sheds: 8.40 for five
days and 4.40 on Saturday morning—that
made the 48-hour week. So far as I
remember, and I was pretty close to the
spot, Howe’s was a full day. The fellow
who did the short day was one of the
Power brothers —Jim, I think. He shore
317 at Barenya with about 20 minutes to
go and the shed cut out. He was so dis-
gusted that he broke his machine, vowed
he would never shear again, and enlisted
to fight in South Africa. There he met
his death.
“Murlonga”: An old identity of south-
west Queensland tells me that in the good
old days aboriginals would eat kite-hawk
with gusto and shun the crow. It’s just
the other way about in the far west. On
the Georgina old natives there eat the
crow and give the kite the miss. I have
sampled both, and give me the kite. Its
flesh is a bit stringy—what there is of it —
but it’s reasonably white and fairly juicy.
The crow’s flesh is nearly as black as his
own character ; and the smell!
? * * a
“Sur Cingle”: “Hot!” snorted old
Woolbale. “It was hot all right. Young
Jack brought them 500 ewes in from the
Six-mile an’ he lost four on the way —
jus’ dropped dead.” Although I didn’t
say so I wasn’t surprised ; I’d seen the
Woolbale hopeful bringing in the ewes
with a yapping kelpie on each wing.
Probably 70 p.c. of all working losses
with sheep are traceable to dogging
tactics. On the merino menage where I
served my apprenticeship dogs were used
only in the head station yards at shear-
ing, under the boss’s eye. And by what
I’ve seen since I’m convinced that sheep
can be more quickly and efficiently
handled by smart horsemen than by all
the prize poodles. On a station, that is ;
after a month or two on the road the
jumbuck becomes so tame that he needs
dogging.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Roaming the mulga well
north-east of Coolgardie we dropped on
to a recently-turned mound
shaped like the letter U. An
aboriginal grave, obviously;
and it was not without its
mourning tributes. Stuck up-
right, in what was evidently a
symbolical design, were about
a dozen slender peeled sticks,
or rather wands. And each
one had been subjected to an
ingenious scraping with either
a sharp stone or a piece of
glass so that delicate ribbons
of wood had been brought up
all around in such a manner
as to form a sort of artificial
flower, the nearest suggestion
of which was a chrysanthe-
mum. Some of the wands had
two and even three such frills
about five inches apart towards
their tops. The effect was certainly
artistic, and how Binghi obtained it with
such crude scrapers as he possessed
puzzled us, since we were unable to
imitate it even with a steel blade.
* * * *
“Nadu”: So “Cokey” (B. 1/4/’42)
wants to know how to put pep into his
hound! My New Guinea “boy” was
disgusted that my bitzer fawned even on
the “bucket-boy,” while the neighbor’s
hound took pieces out of every strange
coon and even took an occasional nip at
a white “master.” Here are three recipes
he recommended at various times, and
which he swore were responsible for
the neighbor’s dog’s ferocity: (1) A mix-
ture of mustard, milk, salt and sugar.
(2) Whisky mixed with curry powder. (3)
Dynamite ground up in beer. I never
tried any, but if “Cokey” cares to experi-
ment I’d like to know the results.
* 4; * *
“Aye-Aye”: In other days we didn’t
meataxe brumbies in Queensland. Many
a thousand have gone to their death in
this manner. Yarded, they’d be forced
through a crush. As each went by it
was stabbed with a shear-blade on a
stick, just behind the shoulder. The crush
was open at the other end, and they gal-
loped bush. Some might only go a hun-
"Follow him down, Freddie—he may be kidding !”
dred yards, others a mile or more, but
they’d all drop, the lung having been
pierced. The idea was to get rid of them
and scatter the remains at the same time,
Now, old maids of both sexes, don t up
and smite me! I didn t originate the
idea, though I’ve done a few. Brumbies
were there in thousands, useless, a pest,
and they had to be destroyed.
* „ * r , * * ,
Mungaroo . John Forrest, who
started his own career as an explorer by
a wild-goose chase after some mythical
“Leichhardt” bones, always held that the
weird doctor never on his third journey
got outside Queensland. This he argued
ogically. On his first journey Leichhardt
practically hugged the coastline, so much
so that Major Mitchell, his contemporary,
paid him the compliment of being “a
damned foreign coaster.” On his second
journey Leichhardt struck a little further
inland, but still well within the coastal
rain belt. Here, after blundering around
for seven months under conditions that
would have meant a gallop to such men
as Forrest and the Gregorys, he turned
back. On his third journey he, having
suffered so much from an excess of
water, evidently decided to strike well
inland to the dry country, well described
by Mitchell, but which Leichhardt had
“What with tanks, airyplanes an' all these noof angled ideers, they don't
know what War is nowerdays."
not yet seen. There, being the kind of
egotist he was, he probably dumped
himself and outfit right on the edge of a
waterhole, remaining so long that the
rightful owners of the water became en-
raged and wiped out the whole outfit.
After that anything the blacks didn’t
want they probably threw into the water-
hole—in W.A. they have been known half
a dozen times to throw the bones of
murdered whites into a waterhole. The
livestock they speared and ate—and that
was the end of the Leichhardt explora-
tions.
* * * *
“Louden”: Percy Lindsay’s hollow-log
air-raid shelter (B. 25/3/’42) recalls one
“Curly” Bell, who worked the country
shows and sports meetings in Victoria 30
years ago. Bell, a crack shot, was also
a good spruiker. After demonstrating his
skill with the .22 by shooting the ash off
a cigarette held in the lips of a volun-
teer assistant, and then cutting the fag in
half, he would invite his audience to
come forward and learn how to use a
rifle. ‘‘What will you do when the Japs
come?” he would ask the hesitating
countrymen, and then, with a twinkle,
“There’ll be no hollow logs to crawl into ;
the rabbit inspectors are ordering their
destruction.”
* * * *
“B 4”; Make no mistake, the genus
Felis introduced by Phillip has increas-
ingly become our worst carnivorous pest,
The almost total extinction of many
beautiful parrots, flock and squatter
pigeons in many regions where foxes are
unknown can be ascribed to bush felines
who have attained greater size, strength
and hunting skill than their absconding
progenitors possessed. Near Longreach
(Q.) I rode past a puss party, 11 of which
were having a snack off a dead foal,
These toms and tabbies are invariably
grey or black, and, as they do their court-
ing without the caterwauling and cursing
of their city cousins, casual observeis
might mistakenly assume that the bush
puss practises birth control.
* * * •
“B. A. Ker”: Hector has long been
recognised (if not envied) as a local para-
gon of virtue. A pillar of the Sunday
school, he has never been heard to swear,
gambled once only when he took a
chance in the matrimonial lottery—and
in his wildest moments only drinks dry
ginger ale. Responding to the military
call-up he stood at the head of the queue
answering the regulation questionnaire:
“Have you ever suffered from so-an-
so?” etc. All received a firm negative
until the final question, “Have you been
convicted in a civil court?” To the
astonishment of the waiting Queue
Hector hesitated. “Have you?” pressed
the inquisitor. “Y-yes ” came the
hollow confession. “Details ” demanded
Authority. “I was fined five’shillings for
riding a bicycle without a light in 1928,”
almost whispered the criminal exposed,
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Talkin’ about wind,”
asserted Old Bob, “youse blokes ain’t
seen nothin’. Take the time me an’
Tarry Tom’s cutting timber down
in the Baw Baws an’ the bush-
fires start. Me and Tarry, we’re
caught in a gully with the fire ’eadin’
straight for us. We ain’t got a chanst.
Tarry starts knockin’ at the knees, an’
I’m thinkin’ up all the good things I
done in me life, when all of a sudden
the wind begins to blow. Blow proper,
I mean. By the thunderin’ Jehu, it comes
blowin’ frum the north like a tornado
gorn mad, Y’ mightn’t believe it, but
that there north wind saves our lives,
Yair, it blew so hard it blew the blanky
bushfire clean out!”
* * * #
“Raorut”: When the stranger came
into the pub everybody stared at his huge
flabby face. At last some goat made
reference to his pendulous cheeks and
made a guess at the quantity of beer
needed to produce such facial protuber-
ances. “Beer, be blowed!” snorted the
newcomer. “Ever heard of the Simpson
Desert? Well, I’m the only bloke that's
bin known to cross it on foot. Used
to do it pretty often once. The reason
why other blokes have failed is they
couldn’t take enough water with them,
My method was a winner. I’d start by
swallowing as much as I could, then I’d
puff out me cheeks and fill ’em up with
water like a sorta auxiliary waterbag.
With practice I could stow away a couple
of gallons or so. But one day I got
overconfident and took in too much. Me
cheeks couldn’t stand a pressure of
1101 b. to the square inch and blew out,
and the sudden wrench broke me neck
clean in two. I recovered, but it settled
me as far as the Simpson Desert was
concerned.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Joe Connolly had been sold a
jibber. This sad fact was disclosed at
Sweeney’s, and as the beer flowed so
did the remedies for this maddening
equine habit. Presently a quiet little
stranger drinking on his own spoke up.
As is usual with the man who habitually
has little to say, his words carried weight,
He guaranteed there’d be no trouble if
they poured cold water over the horse’s
rump. They hoisted Joe aboard his sulky
and someone got a bucket and handed it
up to him. As the cold water hit the half-
dozing prad’s stern a pair of hooves
immediately transformed the bottom of
the sulky to matchwood, and their owner’s
effort to reach the horizon instanter was
frustrated only by the pepperina outside
the store. As they carried Joe into the
pub while one wheel was still rolling down
the street the little man stuck his thumbs
in his vest. “There! ” he said to the re-
cumbent form, “didn’t I say you’d have
no further trouble after that?”
IRONBARK.
Once upon a time it happened
On a starless night of storm,
Goodly greeting I was given
At a fireside wide and warm.
While without the wind raged, rending
Limb and leaf from tossing trees,
Seated nigh, my host, a bushman,
Talked to set me at my ease.
Though I trembled, sensing peril,
In my veins the ice of fear,
To the wild gale’s mounting fury
Scarce he lent a heeding ear.
As the storm-wrath, racing, shouting,
Surged around with shock and shock —
“Safe this house is,” said he calmly;
“Safe as though ’twere hewn in rock.”
Fireshine leaping round about him,
Chasing shadow-shapes that fled,
Mute he sat a musing moment,
Then, the moment passing, said:
“Hewing, shaping, hauling, delving.
Toiling on from dawn to dark,
Long ago my father’s father
Built this house of ironbark.
“Built it of the toughest timber
That the woodman’s axe may strike;
Elsewhere in the world’s tall forest
Vain it is to seek its like.
“Though all other wood may perish,
Worn and warped by sun and rain,
Sound it stands ’gainst worm and weather,
Firm of fibre, close of grain.”
Then he paused, while louder, fiercer.
Like a frenzied host engaged
On a vain assault, the tempest
Round his steadfast homestead raged.
Fearless, calm he sat beside me,
Though without stalked Terror stark.
In that house his father’s father
Built so well of ironbark.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Mat’s Mate”; The big fellow landed
a job with Micky Free, a man as big as
himself and with the same easy gait and
grin. They took to each other imme-
diately, and all the way home Mat gave
Mick a history of his life, the sheep he’d
shorn, the wheat he’d lumped, the blokes
he’d thumped, the swags he’d humped and
so on. It made Mick wistful. “By cripes,”
he said, “that’s the life’d suit me. Knock-
in’ about, workin’ a bit an’ loafin’ a bit,
takin’ y’ fun where y’ wanted it.” He
cocked his head and a far-away lock
came in his eyes. They were driving up
to a fine homestead set in trees, and Mat
said, “Aw, I dunno. A good farm
wouldn’t be bad. T’ think everythin’ y’
got is yours an’ the more y’ work the
more y’ get. An’ then” —he paused for
effect —“it must be great t’ be y’r own
boss.” Micky looked at him. “Yair,”
he said sardonically, “it must be.” Then
Mrs. Free came out to give her orders,
and Mat woke up.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: What was once the
mining town of Haddon (Vic.) gave a
half-dozen of us an interesting week or
two back in the nineteen-twenties. Sent
there to cart gravel from the old dumps
to the railway for shipment to suburban
streets, we arrived in the trucks one night
and pitched camp. Next dawn Bill, our
early-riser, came into the tent with an
awed look and said “Blime, it’s a flamin’
city without buildings!” We followed
him outside and, hidden under the grass,
found roads and footpaths neatly laid
out, the design persisting though the site
had long since reverted to grazing coun-
try. There were about a dozen inhabi-
tants living round the siding, and they
seriously considered sending into Ballarat
for the police when they observed us, of
an evening, strolling through the grass,
stopping on imaginary corners, leaning
against chimerical posts, pushing through
fancied swing doors, walking gravely at
angles. They considered it again the
Sunday we piled into one truck and drove
slowly round corners, up streets, down
lanes and across intersections that didn't
exist. Some of them gathered and asked
what was on. Bill eyed them gravely. “It’s
our day off,” he said, “and we’re just
drivin’ round havin’ a look at the town.’
He stared at the air a few yards ahead,
then pointed and asked “Who lives in
that big two-storeyed house with the
garden in front?” Then the local inhabi-
tants hurried home and bolted their
doors.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Our early explorers were
often puzzled by the lamentations with
which the wild blacks they encountered
witnessed the moving-on of the strange
white men. Even John Gilbert, experi-
enced as he was by much Australian
travel, had no inkling of the meaning of
such mourning. Actually the sym-
pathetic abos. thought that they had met,
and were again parting from, their own
dead people. Whites throughout the con-
tinent were all at first accepted on that
basis ; hence the freedom from attack ex-
perienced by most of the early settlers.
On the north coast, however, where
Malays were frequent visitors, no such
immunity obtained. In W.A. early ex-
plorers, breaking new country, often met
the welcome, “Are you the dead?”
Buckley, the Port Phillip wild white man,
owed his survival to the blacks taking
him as the resurrected form of a recently
departed chief.
* * * *
“Prop”: Man isn’t the only animal to
depend too much on one or two senses
(B. 4/3/’42). Reynard lives so much by
his nose that he regards the evidence of
his other senses as almost irrelevant. On
at least a dozen occasions, afoot or on
horse, I’ve had a hunting fox pass blindly,
nose to ground, within ten yards of me.
A sudden movement or the stamp of a
foot always produced the same effect—a
convulsive start, a rapid but hesitant
trotting-off, a halt at a hundred yards or
so, a shortsighted peering, another start
as recognition dawned, a quick half-
turn and a frenzied and, at first, ill-
directed gallop. The extreme narrow-
mindedness of the red cove and his ludi-
“I LOATHE V necks — don't you?"
crous expressions of surprise led us,
when lads, to wait in the evenings at
sheep troughs for the sole purpose of
scaring the daylights out of the lamb-
tasters.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Waxy Mick found a swarm
of bees in a dead box-tree which had
snapped about six feet from the ground
and lodged on the stump. The indications
for honey were decidedly good, so the
old bloke sharpened his axe, lit a couple
of fires, climbed on to the log and started
chopping. After denting the hard timber
for five minutes Michael had painful
evidence that the smoke from his fires
was too low down and was not doing its
stuff. Back at his camp for a drink of
tea, he had an idea. Tearing up a writing
pad he made three squibs of black gun-
powder, loosely rolled and tied with
string. Back at the scene of his defeat
he inserted a hunger in the log, lit the
improvised fuse and waited. There came
a fuffing noise and a cloud of blue smoke.
Satisfied, the old chap climbed up and
settled to the axe. He got three deep
scarfs into the wood in peace and then
descended for a spell. Returning, he
noticed that the bees were more active,
but he climbed up boldly, stuck another
squib into a hole, lit it, spat on his hands
and reached for the axe. Suddenly there
was a sharp report and a cloud of en-
raged bees were blown out of their front
door. Sighting Mick they settled to blitz
tactics. The swarm is still there. Mick
"I haven't heard the siren, so it's probably a false-alarm!"
has no faith in bees now: nor in squibs
which sometimes explode.
« * * *
“Wippegong”: Peat, is it? Our wide
valley was once a swamp, but drains
were cut, and by the time I was old
enough to help Dad with such work
there were miles of drying peat to be
fenced. Flaky and aromatic on top
but in wet weather still squelchy below
and studded with ti-tree stumps, we sank
thigh-deep in it to get anywhere. Posts
were dragged in by bullocks floundering
belly to the ground, and thus the fence
line was roughly levelled. Dad then
pointed the posts with the axe and I
held them up while he drove them in
with a sledgehammer ; the only postholes
ever dug there were for large strainers.
Once fenced, the paddocks were sown by
somebody staggering through the stumps
broadcasting rape seed, and when the
crop was well on the way sheep were
turned in. Feeding, they made little tracks
which mottled the paddock like a rock-
melon skin. Continuous traffic on the
soft going soon depressed these tracks
so far that sheep were hidden in them,
but there was always a straight deep pad
each side of the fence, leaving the posts
poised in a narrow, flimsy ridge. Once
this dried out it wasn’t long before a
strong cross wind blew the whole thing
over and we’d dismantle it, level the
boundary and up she’d go again. Then
for a few years great peat fires
smouldered. The only way to bar them
was to dig a trench right to the clay,
and they reduced their feet of fertile fuel
to a few inches of creamy pink ash,
which for the first season grew beauti-
ful potatoes, but after that was poor.
Years of pasture have brought these
areas up to the fertility of the black
soil into which the peat finally settled,
but revisiting the place and sinking a
posthole beside the old home I found
a thin layer of pure peat ash, color and
fragrance intact. Took some away ; such
historic relics are disappearing all too
fast.
« * *
“Me”: Maggie had been out with Joe
Haywire quite a few times but never once
had Joe showed signs of becoming an
ardent lover. Maggie’s hopes ran high
when Joe asked her to go to the district
show ; but nary a sign came from Joe as
he dragged her with maddening persis-
tence from one exhibit to another. Behind
the cattle pens and the big hall Maggie
saw couples she knew gazing into each
other’s eyes with that rapture which
looked like returning good dividends for
the clerics. Once Joe broke away to gaze
long and hard at the young steer they had
penned up for the weight-guessing com-
petition. Shortly after that Joe piloted
Maggie towards the back of the cattle
pens and her heart beat faster. There
Joe suddenly grabbed her under the arm-
pits and vigorously started lifting her up
and down until she was thoroughly
winded but madly happy. “Oh, Joe,”
she gushed, “you do make love in a
funny sort of way!” “Who’s making
love?” snorted Joe. “I was trying to
get some idea of the weight of that steer
before I do me bob on a guess!”
* * * *
“Narrin”: Old Sundercut’s six-year-old
daughter reported herself bitten by a
snake. A frantic search for the serpent
proved fruitless until her small brother,
going to pick up what he thought to be
a rubber jar-ring from the kitchen floor,
was almost nabbed. Sundercut yarded
the small reptile into a tobacco-tin and
headed the car for the township. The
doc. gave treatment, but reckoned the
young brown snake was too small to be
dangerous. I always believed a young
brownie to be worth leaving alone. At
just what stage do the reptile’s fangs
gain potency?
• # « *
“Billy See”: When “Gryllus” (B.
18/3 / ’42) ran through his category of
Australian ants he missed out a quite
important group—the solitary ants. For,
just as the bee family, although leading
in the main a highly communal life, have
solitary or humble bees, so also have the
ants. Ants that follow the lonely furrow
have definite sex, passing through the
winged stage to demonstrate it, the female
then laying eggs which, without attention,
hatch and pass through the cycle that
Nature has decreed to all of the ant kind.
None of these solitary ants is small as
ants go ; the smallest would range well
over the quarter-inch, the largest match-
ing in size the bulldog ant of Eastern
Australia. Oddly, and in contrast with
the shining armor of the communal ant,
they look quite rough, all carrying fine
black hair quite visible to the eye. Such
solitaries are presumed to be the primi-
tive types that ranged the world before
the ant folk generally learned the value
of co-operation and started to live in
communities. And somehow Nature still
finds a crevice in her scheme for these
individualists. So far seven kinds have
been counted in Westralia, and no doubt
the rest of the continent could add to
the list.
* * * *
“2L.X.”: Say a mob of horses,
brumbies for choice, is camping. They’re
all more or less asleep, hind legs eased,
lower lips pendulous, ear lopped, eyes
half-closed. Suddenly one of the mob
lifts its head an 1 sees something out of
the ordinary. It doesn’t move its legs,
stamp its hooves or make any noise at
all. But inside two switches of a tail
every member of that mob will be alert.
How is the message transmitted? Don’t
tell me they nudge each other in the
ribs or shorten the breath. I’ve watched
them too intently to have that sprung on ,
me. I believe, and I’ll take a devil of a
lot of disproving, that it’s thought-trans-
mission, which is called telepathy in our
language.
* * * *
“Naturala”: One of the oddest dis-
tinctions made by Nature is in the blood
of animals ; whereas the warm-blooded
bodies maintain an even temperature of
round about 100 degrees under all condi-
tions, the cold-blooded, such as the snake,
respond in temperature to their sur-
roundings. But odder still is the fact
that maternal love, held to be the finest
thing in Nature, didn’t develop until the
warm-blooded stage in evolution was
reached. One may range right through
the reptilian and fish world without find-
ing a trace of mother love. True, the
female saurian keeps guard over her nest
and will defend her eggs, but her interest
evaporates just as soon as the young
hatch out. Indeed, unless the young
’gators are slick in fading from the scene,
she is likely to make a meal of them.
The same with the shark ; she, with a few
exceptions, bears her young alive, and
it is only the fact that Nature
has not spared her a few birth-
pangs that prevents her turning and
making an easy meal right away. Yet
the bird, still chained to the egg-method
of reproduction but elevated to the zone
of the warm-blooded, in the great
majority of cases shows the keenest
maternal love. But why this should come
into play only when the blood maintains
a certain even warmth is one of the
puzzles that Nature has given to inquir-
ing man.
A.I.F. IN CAMP.
Tonight we sprawl beneath the stars, ablaze
With all the glories of these summer days—
The landscape’s swooning monotones; a tree
Bent dancerlike against the symphony
Of mountains and blue sky; the wind’s caress
Shaking the gums to golden loveliness;
River, flowers, birds, grass—we, giving
Ourselves to the hot sunlight, soldiers living
Life like a feast! Tonight we lie and dream
These things.
Yoked as we are to death’s dark team,
We shake the solemn heavens with our play.
Made one by joy and pride we go our way
Singing, though knowing not the path we tread,
The awful, sightless roadway of the dead.
Ours will always be this laughter, this fun,
Ours the beauty under the summer sun.
A.I.F.
ARNOLD GARDNER.


MTS
LYS
Is
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
*
J#
- -
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef Cattle Sales.
“Bulago”: It took three days to sell
the stud stock offered at Sydney after
the cattle show (B. 1/4/’42). Buyers
were few, all knew what they wanted
and there was little speculative bidding.
Animals from leading studs sold com-
paratively well, top price being SOOgns.
Queensland support was poor. Values
were lower and there were opportunities
to obtain stud bulls at herd-bull prices.
Shorthorn buyers showed preference
for Coonong. E. L. Killen (Antrim) paid
SOOgns. for Coonong Kiltie, junior and
reserve champion, and other Coonong
bulls sold at lOOgns. to 230gns. Short-
horn Polls sold comparatively well, mak-
ing from 70gns. to ISSgns. at auction.
There was a strong demand for Here-
fords from studs like Golf Hill (Vic.)
and Windsor, but the bidding generally
was better distributed. Windsor David,
1941 R.A.S. reserve champion, brought
top price of 400gns. Golf Hill sold to
250gns., with a good average ; and Fen-
wick Bros., Colly Creek, Bective and
Bexley cattle were well supported.
Only one Polled Hereford, a Merawah
bull, was sold at auction. There was
little demand for Red Polls. Buyers of
Devons got several good bargains.
Aberdeen-Angus sales were disappoint-
ing ; clearances amounted to only about
37 p.c. A bright spot was the competi-
tion for the champion Kahlua bull,
knocked down to Col. H. F. White, Bald
Blair, at 225gns. Kahlua and Narran-
gullen stock sold well, but several studs
refused to meet the market, and sales
generally resulted in buyers obtaining
studs at herd-bull prices.
Is Stripping Necessary?
“Strawb’s Valet”: The old, deeply-
rooted belief that unless a cow is stripped
after each milking she will dry off seems
to be due for a rude shock. Tests con-
ducted in Maoriland by the Dairy Board
and the Department of Agriculture,
though not absolutely conclusive, indi-
cate that the belief is erroneous. Twenty-
eight herds were examined on which
stripping had been abolished. There was
no material rise or fall in production,
nor was any increase in mastitis apparent.
The period since stripping was cut out
was five years in four herds, three years
in seven, two years in three, a year in
eight, and at the beginning of the new
milk in six. In 14 of them lactation
records were available for cows both
before qnd since the abandonment. Only
mature cows were studied.
There were 300 cows in the 28 herds.
Their average production in the season
before stripping was abandoned was
3151b. of butterfat in 274 days. In the
first season of non-stripping it was 3181b.
for 273 days. This doesn’t mean that
non-stripping -increased production, be-
cause exceptionally good seasonal condi-
tions favored the non-stripping period.
In seven herds the average production
after stripping was cut out was within
101b. of that in the season before aban-
donment. In three there was an increase
of more than 101b. ; in four a decrease
of more than 101b. It is probable that
local climatic and grazing conditions ac-
counted for the differences. A high pro-
ducer was a herd of 86 pedigreed cows
averaging between 3601b. and 3701b. of
fat. After stripping was abandoned there
was no significant fall in production.
None of the herds showed any significant
change, average for all being: Before
nor| -stripping, 2751 b. of fat, 4.9 test, 261
da y s > since non-stripping, 2691 b. of fat,
4 - 9 test > 261 days.
Most owners abandoned stripping
because new attachments to the machines
were designed to eliminate it. But three
“ad other reasons. The most outstanding
w . as *bat of a man who had not stripped
bis cows for 25 years—since he put in his
brst machine. In another the practice
was cut out because 14 grade Ayrshires,
bought as four-year-olds, had small teats.
Six °f them are still in the herd, are 16
Y ears °M and are producing well above
t b® herd average—two of them are doing
more than 4001 b. of fat.
Another man had a line of highly-
strung heifers. They played up so badly
when being stripped that it was decided
*° c 9* tt out. They were under test at
*be time, and, since no noticeable drop in
production followed, stripping was aban-
doned on that farm.
Some of the owners were convinced
that they had less trouble from mastitis
“Pop the billy on, Ma; I’ve asked these Doughboys in for a cup o’ tea.”
when they stopped stripping, but there
were no records to support the convic-
tion. Still, it was clear that mastitis had
not increased in non-stripped herds. It
was shown that stripping could be aban-
doned with any efficient milking machine,
but that when first abandoned care must
be taken to see that no cow retains
abnormal quantities of milk. At no time
should the ordinary care necessary with
machine milking be relaxed.
Strangles.
“Huxave”: Strangles is contagious
and usually affects young horses.
Animals once attacked are generally
immune. It may be simple strangles or
a form which leads to broncho-
pneumonia. Simple strangles usually
runs its course in three or four weeks.
Chief symptoms are swelling glands in
the throat which interfere with swal-
lowing and breathing, discharge from
nose and mouth, severe cough and abscess
formations in the lymph glands. There
may be high temperature, the eyes
redden and discharge.
Make the horse comfortable in an airy
shed. If no cover is available, rug him
and keep him isolated. Feed should be
given a little at a time in a box on the
ground and should include good green
stuff, bran mashes, etc. Water must be
available, to which is added an ounce
of nitrate of potash to every three
gallons. An electuary of green extract
of belladonna can be given. Painting
the swellings with a strong tincture of
iodine once a day for three days brings
them to a head. They can then be
opened surgically and kept well syringed
out. Medicated steam relieves conges-
tion. Discharges from eyes and nose
can be removed with cotton-wool soaked
in a weak solution of peroxide of
hydrogen, Condy’s or boracic.
To prevent the nostrils drying and
cracking moisten with olive oil. In very
bad cases the new sulphanilamide pre-
paration has proved valuable. Strangles
may also attack aged horses.
Losses of Young Pigs.
“Huxave”; One estimate is that 25
p.c. of the average litter is lost before
weaning. Commonest causes are suffo-
cation at birth, killed by the sow and
premature birth. Underfeeding of preg-
nant sows and improper preparations for
farrowing are other causes.
Pasture paddocks are the best for
pregnant sows, but they should be indi-
vidually penned for farrowing. Food
should be rigidly rationed on the last
day or two, when exercise is restricted.
A clean, dry, well-padded pen with good
farrowing guards, and quiet, help the
sow to settle down. After farrowing,
her diet should still be light for several
days. After the third day it can be
gradually increased, and by the time the
litter is two weeks old she should be
getting all she wants.
At two weeks the suckers should get
food in a low trough or a self-feeder in
a creep away from the sow. When dry
feed is given they’ll need either water or
milk. This supplementary feeding
throughout the sucking period increases
the growth rate.
Wean at eight weeks old. Here losses
are heavy when management is slack.
From the eighth to the twelfth week the
pigs are liable to anything. Change from
sow’s milk to other foods mostly gives
the pigs a shock, which can be reduced
by feeding them in pens apart from the
sow. One of the worst checks to growth
is caused by forcing them to feed and
battle with older pigs at the trough.
Overcrowding, filth, dampness, parasites
and lack of clean drinking water stunt
development and encourage disease.
War-time Fencing.
“Red Earth”: With wire unprocur-
able the pre-war type of fence must be
modified. When an old fence is past
being dummied” satisfactorily, put up a
new one, using the old wire. Place your
split posts about 25ft. apart, and bore
them tor a five-wire fence, which means
having the posts about 3ft. 6in. above
giound. If you can put in a top wire
or new material, all the better, but an
old wire will do the job.
Having strained your top wire, “key
on three battens to each panel, the
battens long enough to go about 4in.
below ground. Then strain up the other
four wires and you have a fence that
will last as well as the old type.
There is no need to use heavy posts
and battens a light fence lasts just as
well. Use about 20 posts to a strain,
and when staying the strainers use two
stays, about 12ft. long each, and place
them so that their butts are about 4in.
each side of the line. When staying a
corner post, always use only one stay on
the bias —or a centre stay, as it is usually
called. If two stays are used, one along
each line, your corner post will give.
When straining one line from a corner
post, it is necessary to place a temporary
stay along that line until the other strain
is made, when the temporary stay should
be removed. Such a fence saves labor
and expense and maintains the improve-
ments on the property.
Rotation and Erosion.
“Lombardy”; In districts like the
southern tablelands of N.S.W. crops in
rotation can be made to play a big part
in stopping erosion and also in restoring
lost fertility. It is loss of fertility in this
sort of country that mostly begins
erosion, the weakened
soil leading to sparse
growth and poor root
development, which
gives the eroding ele-
ments their chance to
open up the soil.
Rotation practised be-
fore erosion begins will
stop it beginning ; after
it has begun, perhaps
because of continuous
single cropping with a
cereal like oats or
through overstocking,
rotation will stop the
drift. If it can be
worked in conjunction
with contour banking,
all the better.
Where continuous
single - cropping has
been the cause, a good
rotation is to sow 31b.
or 41b. of subterranean
clover and lewt. of
superphosphate an acre
with the last oat crop,
using the oats as a cover. The
sub., topdressed in autumn of each
year with lewt. of super., will so
rejuvenate the paddock that in five
or six years another heavy oat crop can
be grown without danger. And sub. seeds
so freely that it will still be there even
after a couple of oat crops, ready to get
away again without resowing when the
paddock is thrown out.
A good rotation on land that has been
overgrazed rather than overcropped is
oats for a couple of years, followed by
sub. clover and topdressing for three or
four years. Around Robertson and
towards Bombala and Delegate 8-101b.
of Italian rye and 3-41b. of red clover
per acre, followed by potatoes or oats,
is proving itself, and so also is a rotation
of sub. clover (two to three years),
potatoes for one year and oats for a year.
Banana Soil.
“Mackay”: H. W. Eastwood, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, says green-
manure crops or banana stalks and trash
maintain humus and general soil fer-
tility on banana plantations. Main ad-
vantages of the green-manure crop are
the nitrogen it returns to the soil and


Before Bedtime
Start Driving Out
BRONCHITIS
Sleep Sound All Night.
Enjoy a coughless night—sleep sound
and awake refreshed —just be wise
enough to take 2 or 3 doses of
BUCKLEY’S CANADIOL Mixture
(triple acting) before you go to bed —
it’s safe for the kids, also.
For bronchial coughs—for tough, old,
persistent coughs, take a few doses of
Buckley’s—by far the largest-selling
cough medicine in all of blizzardly cold
Canada —and feel as good as ever again.
It “acts like a flash.” At all chemists
and stores.
Slutktufi
CANADIOL
M I X T II X E
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Ki3ney Tubes
•—Gel Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
hack well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
AH the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
tip. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache Is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager and Licensee.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
EGELABRA
Merinos
WILL RAISE THE WEIGHT
AND QUALITY OF YOUR CLIP.
EGEEAERA Rams inherit high yield of
wool of splendid spinning quality. They
pass this inheritance on to their progeny,
By using EGELABRA Rams for a few
years you can greatly improve your flock
and the income from it.
Rams have now been classed and are ready
for delivery.
PRICES: 5,6, 8, 10, 13, 13 guineas.
H. E. KATER & SON, f our times Winners
Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W. of Stonehaven Cup.
Tel.: Warren 10
<yr?*rt«?:Vrr
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPUY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can he traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2000 in use.
AVrite or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.h. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Peith.
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
r'v-
-10 for ll d - 20 for 110
3014
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
the manner in which it smothers weed
growth. But cover crops cannot be
grown successfully every season.
Banana stalks and trash provide
mineral and nitrogenous foods for the
soil and prevent erosion. A green-manure
crop rarely yields more than five tons to
the acre ; field peas, lupins or vetches
about half that amount. A banana plan-
tation produces, on the average, 11 tons
of spent stalks to,.the acre per year, trash
excluded. This tonnage more than
doubles the amount of organic matter
obtained from the cover crop.
Trench in stalks between the rows. If
not possible to bury all, leave the balance
scattered on the ground or in windrows
between the rows or crosswise on slopes.
Soil thrown on the stalks keeps them in
position.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: It is waste of time to
boil wheat before feeding it to cows.
Coarse grinding is sufficient. A good
ration where pasture is scarce is 101b.
of lucerne chaff, 11b. of linseed meal,
61b. of ground wheat. A cow giving
351b. of milk daily would need about
twice those quantities. Watch each cow s
yield and feed enough, in the proportions
given, to get highest yield for lowest cost.
“MuUengah”; When a horse’s hooves
are hard and brittle, causing trouble
when shoeing, dress them with equal parts
of lard, butter and fat, with sufficient
Stockholm tar to impart a brown color.
Repeat at frequent intervals until the
hoof softens.
“W.C.”: Don’t dump fresh horse
manure around vegetable plants. As the
stuff dries out it generates heat which
takes a lot of moisture out of the ground
and it may even burn off the plants. Use
only old manure which has stopped fer-
menting.
“R.H.P.”: If your fowls are troubled
with red mite, try this: Underneath the
end of each perch nail a short piece of
thin board the same width as the perch.
About once a week pull off the pieces
of board and soak them and the ends
of the perch in a tin of hot water for
a few minutes. Allow timber to dry
for an hour or so before replacing. You’ll
kill thousands every time.
“Graz”: Stuff the windmill packing-
box with a circlet of hempen ploughline
cut to fit accurately around the pump
rod. Soak the packing in sump oil but
do not unravel it. With a pump-head
of 100ft. our 10ft. mill lifts 40,000 gallons
a month, and 85,000 gallons before an-
other repacking is needed.
“Yeno Ham”: Small stacks and pits of
silage are wasteful because decay inevit-
ably penetrates top and sides. Best pit
is one of 30 tons capacity. Labor in-
curred is little more than for a stack, but
results are more economical and satis-
factory.
Outback Occasions.
No. 31.
FATHER'S BRAINWAVE.
On one occasion we had three calves
on the place and were feeding them from
the bucket. Our father’s orders were that
all three were likely to be valuable
heifers, seeing they’d come from good
mothers, and it would pay us to look
after them well. So our brother and I
had the job of feeding the things night
and morning. Mother gave them their
midday feed.
Feeding three calves shouldn’t be much
of a job, but somehow feeding those
three calves seemed to take up a lot of
time and cause a lot of trouble. They
were lively, hungry animals, and were
just as likely to bunt you otf your feet
as anything else. Sometimes one of them
would decide that the feed in another’s
bucket was better than her own and
she’d leave our brother or me, whichever
happened to be unlucky, and make for
the other bucket. Then we’d grab sticks
and beat the calves, and the dogs would
rush up and Father would rush out and
there’d be words and canine remarks and
calves racing round the yard with their
tails stuck straight out behind and bawl-
ing. The older cattle would hear the
bawling and come lumbering up to the
yard, and the horses, which were gener-
ally being fed at the same time, would
back out of the stable and snort and
prance around, blowing their nostrils out
and making a fuss.
After a bit we’d restore order, and
Father, after calling our brother and me
a pair of galoots, would go away and
we’d get the things fed and turned out.
Then we’d find that we’d lost an hour or
so, and all our day’s work would be
behind and we’d know that, come dark,
we’d still be trying to catch up.
One night Father said too much time
was being lost over the conblankety
calves, and he’d had a brainwave. He
said that, since horses were content to
feed out of a nosebag, he couldn’t see
why calves shouldn’t, only we’d have to
make the nosebags out of tins because
of the liquid.
Well, we spent a couple of hours trim-
ming down three kerosene-tins and fitting
them with a harness to fit over the calves’
heads. It was a pretty ingenious harness
which Father evolved, and we were
anxious to give the thing a go. For our
part, we’d come to hate calves.
Next morning we mixed the three
feeds, poured them into the tin nosebags
and slipped them over the calves’ heads.
The calves received this treatment with
a sort of stunned astonishment; then one
of them began to back away from the
tin. Our brother tried to stop it backing
and forced the tin up on its head to
show it that there was tucker in the tin,
but the calf let out a bawl and started
rushing round and round backwards.
The other two tried to shake the tins
off. One tossed its head so high that all
the feed ran out over its eyes and face,
and it went mad and tried to climb over
the rail and fell through the fence into
a lot of old netting and stuff that was
heaped up there. The third calf flew over
the fence like a bird and galloped off
up the paddock, bellowing and bucking,
its front legs striking the tin and making
a din that set all the old cattle career-
ing. Meantime the first calf had given
up bucking and was now dancing, swing-
ing its head from side to side.
“Get the tin off! Get the tin off!”
Father howled. Our brother ran to the
calf and got a crack from the swinging
tin in the ribs. He sat down, holding
his side and glaring at Father. He said
“Get it off yourself! It was your idea.”
Father made a sort of running dive at
the calf, but at that moment our dogs
arrived—why do dogs always arrive at
such moments?—and, having surveyed
the position and concluded the calf was
about to eat Father, they proceeded to
eat the calf. Then Mother and our sister
arrived, and somehow we beat the dogs
off and got Father up. He had a terrible
look on him and he pounced on that
calf, upended it and sat on it, yelling to
me to bring a rope.
I got a rope and Father tied the calf’s
legs" and we got the tin off its head,
Meantime our brother had gone to the
calf that was caught in the old netting,
and he and the calf and two of our dogs
had a great wrestle in there. Presently
one of the dogs ran ki-yiking up to the
house and the calf and the other dog
had a race down the paddock, while our
brother hopped round on one foot, hold-
ing the other and trying to make up his
mind whether to swear or weep,
he’d got the tin off. d
A great bawling and harKi g
neighing down the paaaoc ,
attracted our attention. Most of us
down there, and when we got n
centre of excitement we louna
cattle in a ring, all excited anc
dirt about and blowing frot"- 1f
middle of the ring the bucketed c
going round and round backwar s,
ting out breathless little bav^- .
horses kept galloping up to .J 3 ’
propping, snorting and then gauopmg
away again, holding their heads rug
turning from side to side and putting i
little bucks and letting out kicks a ®
dogs, which fairly evenly divided their
attention between the horses and cattle,
Nobody could ever charge our dogs witn
bias. . ,
Father rushed at the ring of cattle,
waved his arms and roared bhoo-oo
’way ourrovit, y’ cows! ” They gave be-
fore him and he threw his arms round,
the calf’s neck and yelled tor help, i
was nearest, so I rushed in and grabbed
the calf by the tail and hung on and
waited for the next move. Father glarea
at me. “Leggo o’ that tail, y’ galoot, he
said. So I did. The calf had been pulling
hard against me and promptly tell over
on its side when I let go, and Father-
went with it. He picked himself up and
picked up a couple of clods and let me
have ’em. I managed to catch one with
my left ear and neatly blocked the other
with my chest and, satisfied with these
achievements, retired,
The calf, knocked out, lay still, and
Father took the tin off its head and came
thoughtfully home. He decided to sacn-
fice the calves for what he could get,
because, he said, they mightn’t weather
the next drought and having
cows on a farm was a fool’s game.


W.::
B V,APPOINTMENT*
may. Q£t fjdtttdj—
hut only,
eon kmjfL tkmt.
☆
IS MASTERS VOICE
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R.13/42
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Aus-
tralasia, weekly: 12 months, £1 45.;
6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s. (Ex-
change must be added to Country and
inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas
(British Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 165.; 3 months, Bs. To
members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any Address Overseas
(Foreign): 12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6
months, £1 25.; 3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,
Fiji, New Hebrides and other places
within the British Empire, per copy.
United Kingdom, 2jd. per copy. To all
other places, 4jd.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street. MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
Our Service Department
Wants.
The words of the song “Little White Dove.”
—3284.
Information Sought.
How can I get a berth in the merchant ser-
vice? I am 20 and have had 16 months’ mili-
tary training, with experience in a.-a. gunnery.
I could get exemption from military service
if I could get a job at sea.
You would be well advised to stay where
you are. Hundreds of lads and men are seek-
ing sea employment, but jobs usually go to ex-
perienced men. Unless a transport is in port
few vacancies have to be filled; and when a
transport requires seamen the rush of men is
overwhelming. You cannot get to sea as steward,
cook or trimmer on the coast unless you join
one of the unions—a costly process. As
steward or trimmer your chances of work would
not be good; to be a cook you must be well
qualified. Furthermore, you cannot leave Aus-
tralia without first obtaining a taxation clear-
ance and a Customs Document of Identity,
and as you are under 21 you must have your
father’s written consent to your going to sea.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible for a boy of 15 to obtain em-
ployment in the merchant navy as an appren-
tice to be trained to be a ship’s officer? (2)
Where to apply? (3) What is the minimum
age? (4) What standard of education is re-
quired ?
(1) Yes. (2) Try B.H.P. or A.U.S.N.—both
Sydney—for Australian ships, and W. R. Car-
penter and Burns, Philp —both Sydney—for
oversea ships. Burns, Philp take cadets, but
they are not apprenticed. (3) Minimum age is
14, but the companies prefer lads a little older
than that. (4) The companies concerned will
provide that information and all particulars as
to premium and other conditions. An applicant
must have his father’s consent to his apprentice-
ship, and he must be passed by a medical in-
spector of seamen as physically fit for sea ser-
vice. He must also pass a color sight test. Tests
are conducted at the Mercantile Marine Offices
at principal Australian ports.
* # *
When and by whom was the first aerial
ambulance system established in Australia ?
In 1928. Queensland and N.T. Aerial Ser-
vices, Ltd. (now Qantas Empire Airways), and
the Australian Inland Mission entered into an
agreement whereby the company provided the
’plane and the mission the doctor. Cloncurry
was the base of operations, and flights were
made to outback centres in western and northern
Queensland.
* * * *
(1) In Test cricket between England and Aus-
tralia has any side won all five matches in a
season ? If not, what captains have the best
figures ? (2) How many runs has J. Hobbs (Eng-
landI) scored in first-class cricket?
(1) In 37 seasons there have been only 20
occasions when five matches were completed,
and no side was successful in all of them. Cap-
tains J. Douglas (1911-12), A. Chapman (1928-
29) and D. R. Jardine (1932-33)—all English
teams on tour in Australia —won four of five
completed matches. (2) Hobbs’s figures are:
1315 innings, 106 not outs, 61,221 runs, average
50.63.
What are the followings of different religions
in Australia ?
The last census was in 1933 ; the returns were:
Christian —Baptist 105,874, Brethren 10,043,
Catholic (Greek) 11,911, Catholic (Roman)
I, Catholic (undefined) 127,542, Church
of Christ 62,754, Church of England 2,565,118,
Congregational 65,202, Lutheran 60,803, Metho-
dist 684,022, Presbyterian 713,229, Protestant (un-
defined) 72,764, Salvation Army 31,210, Seventh
Day Adventist 13,965, other 41,846; non-
Christian —Buddhist 735, Chinese 305, Confucian
787, Hebrew 23,553, Mohammedan 1877, other
1213. There were 13,029 indefinite replies,
11, gave no religion and 848,948 failed to
reply.
* * * *
(1) What mandates were granted to Japan in
the Pacific? (2) What other small island pos-
sessions in the Pacific had she before December
last ?
(1) Mainly Ladrone Islands (except Guam),
pop. 44,205; Marshall Islands, pop. 10,439;
Caroline Islands, pop. 30,915. (2) Spratley
Islands, annexed March, 1939, pop. negligible.
* * * *
Do American ships ever hoist the Union
Jack ?
Yes. But what Americans call a Union Jack
is a small flag with 48 stars on a blue ground.
* * * *
Who have been Germany’s rulers since 1914?
To November 9, 1918, the Kaiser, Wil-
helm II; to February 28, 1925, Frederick Ebert,
President of the Republic; to August 2, 1934,
Paul von Hindenburg-Beneckendorff, President
of the Republic. Hitler became Leader-Chan-
cellor of the Third Reich, August 19, 1934.
* * * *
When was Prince Henry’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, built?
It originated at a meeting on October 13,
1869, when it was decided to establish a dis-
pensary for the treatment of sick and afflicted
persons. The dispensary was subsequently
opened in Collins-street. In 1876 the dispen-
sary was closed and roomier premises in Spring-
street, previously used as a hospital for sick
children, were opened as a hospital for both
in- and out-patients. That institution eventually
outgrew its accommodation, and the site on
which the present building stands was chosen
for a new hospital; the north wing and adminis-
trative quarters were built first, the foundation-
stone being laid in July, 1882. The operating
theatre and casualty-room were added in 1904;
the children’s ward and nurses’ home were built
and opened in 1910; the Edward Wilson
casualty ward, new out-patients’ and casualty
departments and the extension of No. 1 male
medical ward were opened in 1925. The visit
of Prince Henry to Melbourne in 1934 was
commemorated by changing the name of the
hospital from the Homoeopathic to Prince
Henry’s. The new central block of the hospital
was completed in 1939, and the Government
granted £130,000 for the immediate building
of a new nurses’ home and south wing.
* * * »
Did Beethoven ever visit England?
No. But the English Philharmonic Society
endeavored to engage him to conduct some of
his symphonies in London in the spring of
1818. There was a disagreement as to terms,
and before that could be overcome Beethoven’s
health declined to an extent that precluded
travel. He died nine years later.
* * * *
When were camels first introduced to Aus-
tralia ? Source of information ?
N. E. Phillipson, of Beltana, onetime manager
of Sir Thomas Elder’s northern stations,
reckoned that the first camel arrived in 1840
as the survivor of three animals bought at
Teneriffe. It landed at Port Adelaide. A second
importation was made in 1860, when 24 were
imported from Peshawar for the Burke and
Wills expedition. They were “landed in first-
class order.” In 1866 Elder imported 100
camels, of which a large proportion died from
a virulent form of mange; the rest were
acclimatised on his Beltana station and bred
freely. Information from the Australian Ency-
clopcedia.
* * * *
How can I distinguish edible mushrooms ?
Some people pick them by their’smell, but
there are other methods. Sprinkle a little salt
on the spongy parts or gills; if they turn yellow
they are poisonous, if black they are all right.
Gills of true mushrooms are pinky-red, chang-
ing to liver color. The flesh is white, the stem
white, solid and cylindrical. False mushrooms
have an astringent and disagreeable taste;
when cut they turn blue and are generally moist
on the surface and of a rose or orange color.
* * « •
(1) What and where is the “great Australian
artesian basin” ? (2) How many artesian bores
are there in Australia ? (3) What is the greatest
depth at which water has been struck in the
various States ?
(1) The area includes more than one-half of
Queensland, taking in practically all the State
west of the Great Dividing Range with the
exception of a small area in the n.-west; a con-
siderable strip of N. S. Wales along its northern
boundary and west of the G. D. Range; the
n.-eastern part of S.A. and the extreme s.-
eastern corner of the N.T. The basin is said
to be the largest yet discovered and covers
about 600,000 sq. miles, of which 376,000 sq.
miles are in Queensland, 118,000 in S.A., 80,000
in N. S. Wales and 25,000 in the N.T. The
area of the intake beds is estimated at 60,010
sq. miles, consisting of 50,000 sq. miles in
Queensland and 10,010 sq. miles in N. S. Wales.
(2) An approximate estimate in 1938-39 set the
figure at 8765. (3) N. S. Wales 4338 feet,
Victoria 3560, Queensland 6000, S.A. 4851,
Westralia 4006, N.T. 1760.
Brief Answers.
G.K.W.: Your best plan is to forward the
instrument to some reliable firm of repairers
and ask for their report on the work necessary
to place the instrument in good condition. You
might try A. E. Saaith, 9 Hunter-street, Syd-
ney....R.D.: The Timeless Land is obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 10s. 6d.
A.C.: (1) It is non-sectarian and non-politi-
cal. (2) Officers of a lodge are elected by vote of
the members.... K.W.; The present Australian
pound-notes incorporate a watermark portrait
of Captain Cook. At no time have Australian
notes borne a watermarked portrait of George
VI. They did for a time, however, bear a
watermarked portrait of Edward VIII, who was
Prince of Wales when the notes were issued.
Know of no optician who can supply con-
tact glasses. Write to Dr. Maude, 135 Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney G.N.Y. A maximum
depth of 7ft. 34in. is quoted by Weaver in
Root Development of Field Crops. .. .R.G.B.:
Let the shadow from a knife-blade fall on the
face of the watch so that it bisects it through
the figures 12 and 6, pointing the 12 to the
sun. Then halfway between the hour hand and
the 12 is due north in the Southern Hemisphere.
Worried: Best method to rid a house of
bugs is with cyanide fumigation, but that is a
job for experts. A contact spray, such as
Sprayzol, is the next best thing. With a con-
tact spray the vermin must be more or less
directly hit, so pay particular attention to
crevices in beds, skirting boards, etc. Spray-
zol should be obtainable from your local
chemist; if not, from Houghton and Byrne, 12
Page-street, Adelaide Stone: Set out the
words of the song correctly in MS. and
approach any of the leading music-houses in
Brisbane for further information; the question
of royalties is a matter for arrangement between
publisher and composer... .C.A.F. You cannot
make application to anyone for your husband
to be transferred, but he can apply to his C.O.
for transfer on compassionate grounds....
J.G. (Cairns) and J. M. (Mackay): Apply to
the National Service Officer, Department of
Labor and National Service, Creek-street, Bris-
bane A.W.W.: The behavior of the earth’s
magnetic field is not yet fully understood, and
variations of the compass from true north
cannot be predicted for future years. At present
the magnetic declination at Sydney is approxi-
mately 9-Jdeg. east and appears to be increas-
ing at the rate of about one minute of arc per
year J.M.: Over 50 metropolitan joinery
firms have offered their plants to the Depart-
ment of Supply and Development since January
1 this year, and, as there is no hope that all
these firms could be kept occupied with work
for the department, it is most unlikely that
your plant could be used. A copy of your
letter has been forwarded to the Department of
the Interior... .W.T.; The 1914-15 Star is
similar in shape and design to the 1914 Star,
the only difference being that the date 1914-15
appears on the centre scroll, while the small
scrolls carrying the words “Aug. and Nov.”
are omitted. The ribbon is identical with that
of the 1914 Star R.G.B.: Tasmania’s popu-
lation at December 31, 1940, was 243,057; area
is 26,215 sq. miles... .B.R.J.: Queen Mary’s
Hospital, Stratford, was the first London hos-
pital to be bombed; in October, 1940
B.T.P.: The Oxford-Cambridge boatrace in
1940 was an official race; it was rowed at
Henley on March 2....W.D.R.: Emlyn Wil-
liams was born at Mostyn, Flintshire, Wales,
on November 26, 1905... .D.R.F.; Chlorine
gas smells like chloride of lime, phosgene like
damp straw or mouldy hay, mustard gas smells
like table mustard, although the two substances
are not chemically related, and lewisite (blister
gas) smells like geraniums G.C.: Provided the
total amount raised by a borrower in any one
year does not exceed £1500, no approval is re-
quired to the raising of the loan, and there is
no restriction on such loans J.R.: He can
refuse. The police in such a case have no power
to arrest merely for the purpose of question-
ing R.F.: The Falklands are said to have
been sighted in 1592 by the English navigator
Davis and in 1594 by Sir Richard Hawkins,
who first described them in detail... .F.B.G.:
S Africa declared war on Germany on Septem-
ber 6, 1939.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The ,Muse aroused: —
G.E.T.: —
Now the Japs are on our doorstep
We must get them on the run;
Save your scrap for making cartons
For Australia’s Owen-gun.
D.B.: —
“The yellow lies,” he said;
“He lies all day;
While there’s one Australian, still not dead.
We’ll make the pay.
“WeTe coming from the towns,” he said,
“From burning sands and bush;
We’ll make the s run,” he said,
“We’ll sky their push!”
V.A.: “Pale and uncolored” J.S.: Jerky.
K.McA.: What on earth do you mean by
“Perished ghosts of plants entrances the
threatening darkness”? M.L.G.: Try a daily.
W.L.B.; Prosy H.G.: Can you find one
original thought in it, or one unhackneyed
phrase? J.W.; On a centenary, or some
other appalling occasion, the local paper should
find a corner for it P.F.R.: Prophetic, yes;
but patchy H.W.: One’s a sermon and the
other’s incomprehensible A.W.: You mean,
as soon as it rained all the ewes had twins?
C.W.W.: At least once a week that gallant
mare races through the stormy darkness to
bring the doctor to save poor Bill H.A.S.:
“Australia” is advancing... .F.S.: “They
Came” —we read it —it went A.H., M.E.P.,
W.M., J.H.: Missed... .N.S.; So your heart’s
a boomerang, is it? So is the pome
Arbeep: If you know it won’t be published
you also know why... .Z.V.W.: An incident,
not a story... .M.B.; Not this time, but try
again D.D.M.: Excellent of its kind, but
not for us A.J.P.: The end is telegraphed
on page one... .W.M.R.: It was all told long,
long ago in “The Arab’s Farewell to His
Steed” R.P.L.: Your match-seller is incred-
ible... .E.B.R.: Cautionary tales need more
sugarcoating than that... .E.M.E.: Nothing
new in your buried-treasure yarn W.A.M.;
A plodding narrative... .L.B.L.: Not for us.
E.M.J.; Still doesn’t make either a sketch
or a story D.E.; Not a convincing anti-
climax J.H.: Feeble-minded father returning,
together with prose poems... .D.L.R.: Glad
they got the cow out, but it isn’t very funny.
E.D.: Better leave feminine psychology to
the women... .H.S.R.: “The Farmer” trundles
sadly along, getting nowhere... .Z.V.W.: Like
the spirit of “Pioneer Stuff,” but the family
saga is not short-story material. Red Cross skit
not our meat C.A.B.: Isn’t there anything
cheerful to be said about life on the farm?....
H.D.W.: Senile decay is a dull subject J.B.:
Life on the “Corner Farm” very depressing
V.C.-S.: Too wordy A.C.: Too gruesome.
H.W.: Fades away at the finish Floreat;
Fair enough plot—but why use long words
when short ones will serve?... .L.J.C.: Original
idea, but you make a very bald yam of it
F.W.K.; We guessed the ending at page
two B.R.; Missed —but only by inches
R.M.K.; Too many good ploughs in that field
already... .T.H.C.: Too morbid.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.B.D.: For what reason are Churchill and
Tojo (or is it Chiang Kai-shek) in mortal combat
with a fireman’s hose equipped with fangs ?
R. ; Hairy deadbeat with swivelled neck
adds nothing to the gaiety of nations E.G.;
A slapstick interpretation of an elderly music-
hall gag C.G.S.; Your sketch of a nudist
camp came when a cold westerly was blowing;
we shuddered for two reasons J.L.K.: If
you still think you’re an unappreciated champ,
just have another glance at the brace of
wizened kids and their deformed mother....
S. : One can’t laugh at a couple of care-
fully-drawn fashion-plates H.S.L.: The beer-
bottle was drawn perfectly; the rest of the
drawing was in the kindergarten class....
R.W.F.: Did you pick the jest up at a
coroners’ smoke concert? V.T.: Egg-headed
infant telling off 9ft. angular female was
ushered quickly off the premises.... Bert C.:
Very shaky on perspective, Bert; watch your
shadows more closely... .K.M.D.: If true art
is to conceal art, you’ve made a job of it
with the blotches and heavy latticework
T. : Is it an overnourished stag or an
emaciated elephant with antlers ?... .C.L. : A
glimmer of merit in the wash drawings; keep
on Tom W.: “I spend the best part of my
evenings sketching”; for heaven’s sake switch
on the radio M.McD.: Don’t overcrowd.
R.T.M.: You should patent those railway
lines which look as far apart on the horizon as
they are in the foreground D.C.H.: The sailor
has two left hands and was apparently born neck-
less, and the admiral looks like a commissionaire.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
’... ‘I
1
ill
IP
niiiiii
iitiidr
ill
111 Miiifff;
m Mill ill
win
in
.....
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Sectors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 82) Gkmd Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
T.JONES £ CO
821
GLAND
TONIC
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
MEN!
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ESSIE WALKER late of 10 Ennis Road
Milson’s Point. —TAKE NOTICE that MRS.
MURIEL MINDIN SAYWELL has filed a
Petition No. 188 of 1942 in this Court praying
for a divorce from FRANK HORACE SAY-
WELL on the ground of his adultery with you
You may apply to the Court for leave to defend
the charge if you so desire A copy of the peti-
tion may be obtained without charge from
MANNING RIDDLE & CO. Solicitors 14
Martin Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM COOK formerly of Murrum-
burrah.—TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT
DOUGLAS IVES has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 1970 of 1940 on the ground of the adultery
of his wife ETHEL ROSE IVES with you
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance before the 15th May 1942 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. HAROLD J. PRICE & CO. Solicitors
of 39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES GORDON WINSTANLEY late
of Canterbury Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
DALLAS JEAN WINSTANLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2106 of 1941 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance before
the Thirtieth of June 1942 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from CLIFTON
R. PENNY Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH FRANCIS SPILLARD formerly
of Albury.—TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN
SPILLARD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1726 of 1941 on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse You may enter an appearance before
7th July 1942 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. C. PETRIE & SON
Solicitors 375 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO OLIVER NEIL NICOL formerly of Yanco.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife ADELAIDE
VICTORIA NICOL has filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales (No. 160
of 1942) praying for a divorce on the ground of
your desertion for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance on or before
the 7th July next and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. UTHER
& UTHER Solicitors 350 George Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Are you
watching t
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —,
start him now on
u
dsf
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with bis old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
SMOKE-OH!
“In most cases death comes as a surprise.”
—The Doctor Who Tells.
It takes our breath away.
'h •!• *1*
“A Minnesota woman had the misfortune to
be gored by a deer’s antlers in, of all places,
a tavern.”— “World’s News.”
That’s what she got for horning in at
a stag party.
•J* *
“Blowing into a friend’s ear is the greeting
used by Indians on the Gulf of Mexico.”
— “World’s News.”
The same thing is practised here, but
by strangers behind you at the movies
when they lean forward to laugh.
❖ 4*
“Presently he happened to rub his eye with
that hand, and the result was a singing sensa-
tion that became sheer agony.”— Serial.
We get the same sensation by touching
a radio dial.
“The estimate is that five per cent, of watch-
owners forget to wind their watches, and they
stop during the night.”—“ World’s News.”
The silent watches of the night.
'I* * -S*
“Petitioner said that when she asked her hus-
band to give her a position in his office he
punched her in the face.” — Divorce item.
Apparently that wasn’t the kind of jot
she wanted.
•I* *J*
Once a Sausage
“Sausages will look queer soon because they
will be dressed in a different skin... .Butchers
will have to prepare sausages in Australian
mutton cases. They will be longer and thinner.
But they will taste the same.”
—Perth “Daily News.”
The decision in the sausage world that
snorks will discard their light summer
frocks for warm winter garments will
mean almost a revolution in butchers’
shops. Instead of parading in fashion-
able drapings from the U.S.A. of Berk-
shire, Tamworth or Middle White design
the snags will display themselves in chic,
streamlined local ensembles of merino,
Leicester, Southdown or crossbred
variety. They will certainly retain their
appearance of hard cases, even though
their foundation garments tend to
squeeze out all avoirdupois and make
them tall and slender.
Undoubtedly, whatever fashion decrees,
the genuine sausage will still possess
its obnoxious habits of expectorating at
you from the pan and sliding off your
plate when poked in the ribs. Should
you still doubt the sausage’s pedigree the
old familiar Border Collie bark will be
irreproachable proof. Anyhow, you will
certainly still get sawdust between your
teeth.
Butcher-bird.
►j.
Shopkeepers nowadays don’t give a
wrap for their customers.
•h
Inversion.
“After he had received the letter from Helen
Fysh Hook called upon her, proposed, and was
accepted. ’ ’ — N ovel.
There’s quite a pretty kettle here
Of Fysh and Hook ; for by the book
A Miss Fysh simply dropped the line.
And on that line she got a Hook.
H.M.
A Welcome Ration.
They ration beer ; they ration tea. Ah,
life is tough, indeed it is. And good
tobacco’s scarce ; so soon you’ll find that
just a weed it is. They’ve rationed clothes
and other things ; a brand-new world
they’re fashioning. We only hope that
very soon they’ll start to ration Ration-
ing.
Yair.
•f 1 HE* *1* H"
“White elephants, which are considered
sacred, become royal property as soon as they
are born in India.” —Weekly paper.
Here they’re actually bred by our
Governments.
+ + 4 1 4*
“Lightning strikes twice in the same place at
Lilydale (Vic.).”
It has still a long way to go, though, if
it wants to beat the record of N.S.W.
coalminers.
"h ■!< H*
“Mussolini appeals to the historical past of
his people.”
But all he can give them is a hysteri-
cal present.
-I* 4<
“Radio actress weds producer.”
He now has a new director?
H* H* -r
“How millionaires spent their riches.”
— ‘‘World’s News/’
Each of them simply bought a mar-
riage license and his wife did the rest.
Hh H* H* H*
“Tigers reported on golf course.”— “Argus.”
Perhaps it was just some golfers in
home-knitted pullovers.
"We Won't be caught nappin' like
they Was at Singapore."
Winged Away.
“Mrs. Crow said that she orfered to pay all
her husband’s expenses if he would continue his
medical course. He said he did not care for
medicine. One day he packed some bags and
left.”— Divorce report.
A quack she wanted. Though he heard,
Her offer held no rosy hue.
Crow was not quite that sort of bird.
And so he flew.
P. P.
„ T , Hr H*
these modern pieces of music and songs
have little lilt to them. We may laugh at the
old-fashioned ragtime and ballads, but at least
most of them went with a swig.”
-—Woman’s paper.
Such as the “Drinking Song” and
“Simon the Cellarer.”
H* H* H- H*
“One man actually entered the jeweller’s to
buy a chain for a dog.”— Woman’s paper.
Well, it might have been for a watch-
dog.
He’cf Get the Hump.
• Arabia’s most highly-prized dishes
is boiled camel.”
Bill lives on beer till he can see
Gorillas painted pink.
And so he says he won’t agree
To eat boiled camel, for, says he,
For some weeks after such a tea
He wouldn’t want to drink.
N. E. Bottles.
«a , **•
A month ago 1 was a run-down wreck.
Now, thanks to you, I have completely re-
covered my appetite and am getting bitter every
day.” —From a testimonial.
Well, is there anything better than a
pint to sharpen up the fangs?
i( *f* *!♦
“It was obvious to Deirdre that the couple
at the next table were discussing her. Did
they suspect her? Eagerly, while pretending to
be interested in someone further along the
restaurant, she stained her ears.” — Serial.
Red, perhaps, so that they wouldn’t
notice them burning.
(t *i*
“What happens when a laborer marries a
millionairess?”— Story, women’s mag.
He likes to work. She likes to play.
This gives them both the blues.
He likes to pick and shovel, while
She likes to pick and choose.
E.
* * * *
“Bride Wore Mother’s Veil.”—' “D.T.”
Meanwhile, the intimates of the ’groom
were accepting 6-to-4 that within three
weeks she’d be wearing his pants and
putting a stop to bookmakers wearing his
shirts.
* * * 4*
Coming Events ....
“In a circular to schools, the Scottish Edu-
cation Department says the teaching of
arithmetic should lay the foundations for an
intelligent approach to income tax.”
—Cable item.
In view of the attitude of our
own seven Governments that we are
all taxpayers first and inhabitants after —
a very long way after—this
principle should not only be
adopted in Australia but
extended to cover the whole
of the school curricula. In
this way pupils could soak
themselves in the atmo-
sphere of their future life-
work as taxpayers, no
matter what the subject.
Dominies, instead of
graduating through the
Teachers’ College, would
qualify for a high school
headmastership only after
having spent several years
in the complaints division
of the Taxation Depart-
ment, the headmastership
being interchangeable for
seniority purposes with an
acting-assistant assessor
(grade A).
One of the advantages
flowing from this innova-
tion would be a simplifica-
tion of exams. A combined
paper dealing with the influence of the
various on the one subject
would necessarily replace the present
cumbersome method. A few samples of
questions for the “Leaving” follow:
(1) A man owns a farm on the border-
line between S.A. and N.S.W., but just
on the S.A. side. After he has been work-
ing it for 10 years a border-demarcation
dispute between the State Governments
results in a conference, after which four
acres of the farm (total, 176 acres 1
perch) lies on the N.S.W. side. With
commendable speed the N.S.W. Taxation
Department gets in with a demand for
income-tax returns for 10 years covering
that proportion of the land now in
N.S.W.; also for particulars that admit
of the assessment of wages tax, road tax,
orchard tax and pastures protection tax.
The farmer’s taxable income has aver-
aged £238 over the decade. Work out
what he will have to pay the N.S.W.
Commissioner, allowing for the half-hour
difference in time between the States.
Also state what he will have to meet
when the question of income derived
from another State farmer arises. Give
also (choosing your language carefully)
what you think the farmer’s reaction to
this situation would be.
(2) A barber and two assistants, all
working the 44-hour week, do on an
average a haircut (Is. 6d.) and a shave
(9d.) every minutes. The barber pays
£6 p.w. to each employee. One has a
widowed mother wholly dependent on
him ; the other supports three children,
one over and the others under 16, and
pays £2 7s. 6d. p.w. alimony to a divorced
wife. The barber’s hair is cut fortnightly
by one of the employees. Each of the
employees gets the other to shave him
daily and cut his hair weekly. In these
cases no cash passes. What must the
barber deduct each week from his em-
ployees’ pay envelopes as tax instalments,
and what will be the penalty if he fails
to include as either part of his income or
part of his expenses the cost of the shaves
and haircuts?
(3) A, a taxpayer in the £950-£1000
income group, has kept two sets of books
and falsified his return. His brother B,
in the £400-£450 group, afraid of being
caught, submits an honest return. Reduce
this to terms of geometrical figures, and
in the case of the trapezium figure give
the various degrees of angles.
(4) It is an axiom that the Binomial
Theorem can be applied to obtain the
expansion of a multinomial expression.
In pursuance of this, find the coefficient
of a 4 b2 c3 d5 in the expansion of (A +
B + C + D)14 where a equals natural
increase in livestock less ration allow-
ances ; b equals taxpayer’s eldest child,
who reached 16 years of age months
before the end of the year of income ;
c equals disallowed claim for 3 p.c. de-
preciation of plant and machinery, and
d equals rates and taxes claimed on non-
income producing property.
(5) John Morton (1420-1500), Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, was responsible for
the introduction of the ingenious method
of tax extortion known as “Morton’s
Fork.” Discuss in full the valuable work
of this prelate in the field of tax per-
suasion, trace the history of tax torture
generally up to the Perrin’s Prod in
operation in the fourth decade of the
twentieth century.
Bo.
Variations.
Bill’s views on the war situation
With Herbert’s have never agreed.
The numerous ways that they differ
Are- very amazing indeed.
But, if you would search out the reason.
Your thinkers you needn’t disturb —
Herb follows the war in the “Yellie,”
Bill follows the war in the “Blurb.”
T. W. N.


m
i
i m
m
■
■
-
m
M
m
M
%
Va
#
Correct belt tension, the all important factoi
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant,
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
# J|C qs
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, — : > Dividends N Nominal
12 Mths. Pref. Re-
to Oct., Profit. 64 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 p.c. = 650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ „ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 . . 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 . . 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
1939.. 915,951 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 1,200,708
Unexplained additions, £126,960 . . 1,327,668
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained additions, £ll2l . . 1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
* After deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
Last term demand for tobacco and
cigarettes, including requirements of the
fighting services, was heavy. But dollar
exchange and growing shipping difficul-
ties stood in the way of adequate sup-
plies of leaf from America, while local
growers were unable to produce any-
thing like enough of the right quality
stuff to fill the gap. So, to meet reduced
output of manufacturers for civil con-
sumption at home, rationing of supplies
to retailers had to be introduced, firstly
on a voluntary basis, but now compul-
sory. Also, selling prices were raised to
help cover lifts in excise and costs
generally.
The effect upon tobacco consumption
is seen in the following table, which
shows the weight of cigarettes and
tobacco levied for excise in Australia:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29' . . 6,357,779 14,116,648 20,474,427
1931-32 .. 4,084,046 13,557,325 17,641,371
1934- .. 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5,190,065 14,598.251 19,788,316
1936- .. 5,733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204.114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- .. 6,891.258 15,776,449 22,667,707
1939- .. 7,148,053 16,019,834 23,167,887
1940- .. 6,901,954 15,417,335 22,319,289
Last year’s figure for cigarettes, down
246,099 pounds, was still greater than
that for 1938--39. In pipe tobacco the
shrinkage was 602,499 pounds, making
total contraction in both classes com-
bined 848,598 pounds, or 3.6 p.c.
In June, 1940, B.T. bought the
800,000 f.-p. ss. ords. in Carreras, Ltd.
(paid capital £268,000, including 68,000
£1 10 p.c. cum. prefs.), for £1,463,335,
met by issue of 225,861 6£ p.c.
cum. prefs., 618,737 ords. and a like
number of B shares. That lifted B.T.’s
paid capital to £11,082,521 in 1,710,588
6i p.c. prefs., 8,753,196 ords. and 618,737
B shares. The last-named rank equally
with the ords. for divs., but are deferred
as to return of capital. The subsidiaries
include W. D. and H. O. Wills, British-
Australian Tobacco, the States Tobacco
Co., S. T. Leigh and Co. and Carreras;
a combination with a very firm hold on
the trade throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland.
After allowing for divs. to outsiders,
last year’s combined net earnings of B.T.
and its subsidiaries were £978,088 (down
£12,052, although the 1940 showing in-
cluded only four months’ earnings from
Carreras). That was after allowing an
extra £5480 for depreciation (£119,513).
The £978,088 was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 9.2 p.c. on the £9,371,933 of
ord. and B capital. Over the same period
Carreras netted £153,226 —£3178 less
than for the year to June 30, 1940 —of
which £146,426 belonged to B.T. In
relation to the B.T. scrip issued as pur-
chase consideration, the £146,426 was
enough to meet pref. requirements and
show 10.6 p.c. on ord. and B shares. So
the Carreras purchase has been no hin-
drance to the rest of the organisation.
B.T. chipped a point off its ord. div., re-
ducing it to 9 p.c.
Owing to the acute shortage of ship-
ping for anything but war goods and
heavy demands of the armed forces
tobacco rationing has become more
severe and compulsory, and advisory and
distribution committees, have been set
up in each State; costs and taxation
continue to climb. Concerning the Gov-
ernment’s proposed appropriation of
profits in excess of 4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds, the Joint Parliamentary
Committee set up to investigate the
matter says “objections to such a tax as
a deterrent to efficiency cannot be lightly
disregarded,” and “such legislation must
also lead to a reduction in total taxable
income.” The Government is thinking
it over.
Here are combined balance-sheet fig-
ures of the parent and its subsidiaries:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital . . £9,619,186 £11,082,521 £11,082,521
Outside shares. . 18,854 f 88,315 t 88,376 f
Deprec. reserve 1,985,489 2,168,266 2,268,884
Creditors* . . 621,631 1,358,867 1,656,325
Freeholds . . 1,138,241 1,208,322 1,221,923
Plant, etc. . . 1,470,620 1,583,880 1,622,855
Stock . . ... 6,625,660 5,947,437 4,958,969
Debtors . . 1,246,264 1,520,559 1,639,708
Investments . . 309,922 510,143 1,135,121
Cash . . . . 124,557 1,498,919 2,019,649
Goodwill, etc.. . 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,610
* Including tax provision, etc. f Including propor-
tion reserves.
Outstanding feature last year was the
sharp drop of £988,468 in stocks, which
reflects the supply position. There was
a contraction of £21,069 in the large
liquid surplus (£8,097,122).
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 3f p.c. selves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 16,542 9,000 7,500 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 19,792 9,000 10,000 792 89,934
71 p.c.
1936.. 28,925 9,000 15,000 4,925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 95,903
1938.. 32,961 9,000 20,000 3,961 99,864
1939.. 29,111 9,000 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
12J p.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
This Melbourne men’s and boys’ store
buys on a cash basis; its dealings with the
public are transacted on similar terms —
factors that still mean much in the altered
conditions of retailing brought about by
soaring war expenditures and the stric-
tures on many kinds of goods formerly
available. The 12 months to December
witnessed a buying scramble halfway
through the period, and for the full
year Sydney department stores averaged
sales 14.5 p.c. higher. That, being mone-
tary value, partly reflects higher prices ;
customers served didn’t increase in the
same proportion.
Sydney’s experience probably doesn’t
overstate the trend in Victoria, where
demands on productive capacity and labor
have become so great that the Common-
wealth’s most industrialised State has
started to “rationalise” portions of in-
dustry in order to release man-power and
materials for more urgent purposes. Most
of the increase in monetary circulation,
too, has been among those classes for
which London Stores particularly caters,
and its handy location on the Bourke-
and Elizabeth-street intersection opposite
the G.P.O. is anything but a handicap.
Stocks therefore didn’t get much
chance to gather dust on the shelves, and
turnover recorded “a very substantial
increase” —sufficient, indeed, to meet in-
flated trade and tax outgoings and
provide an additional £BOOO for the
latter purpose for good measure. Because
of the satisfactory state of finances and
accumulated earnings, profits were again
fully distributed in 9 p.c. to the prefs.
and p.c. to the ords., the rate of the
prosperous ’29-30 period.
Merchandise problems now appear to
be gaining in intensity, inventories being
£3966 shorter;
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 105,052 106,282 114,105 112,204
Property, etc. 412,253 414,888 415,838 415,838
Plant, etc. . . 7,036 6,360 6,660 5,886
Shares in other
cos... .. 5,804 5,804 5,804 5,804
Stocks .. 79,278 88,146 97,379 93,413
Book debts . . 5,492 6,127 4,576 4,735
Cash, etc. .. 16,091 10,348 14.240 24,918
Tax provision 5,000 5,000 5,000 13,000
The shares item represents scrip in the
cafeteria subsidiary (paid capital £13,860),
which assists custom by bringing people
to the store. In the year to August the
pup netted a nominal £37 before depreci-
ation but after paying rent to its parent.
Of the £112,204 coming to outsiders, all
but £13,204 is the fixed mortgage debt.
Because new-found wealth is burning
holes in many pockets, to ensure equit-
able distribution of the goods available
and compel economy rationing threatens
further interference with traders’ acti-
vities and consumers’ preferences; but
profits may be restricted to something
like 5.5 p.c. on the £300,000 of capital,
(one-third preference) after June, any-
way. On that basis the pound ords. at
245. 6d. would yield 4.4 p.c
Norco Co-op., Ltd.
Year To Re- To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1936.. 10,563 5 p.c. = 4927 5636 128,873
1937.. 8,421 5 „ „ 4867 3554 132,427
1938.. 7,890 5 „ „ 4820 3070 135.497
1939.. 10,539 5 „ „ 4750 5789 141,286
1940.. 9,634 5 ~ „ 4747 4887 146,173
1941.. 5,319 5 „ „ 4793 526 146,699
As with other primary producers,
British war-time contracts have been of
inestimable value to dairy-farmers. The
first (Sept., 1939, to June, 1940) pro-
vided for the sale of 75,500 tons of
butter and 13,000 tons of cheese ; the
second year’s contract enlarged these
quantities to 100,000 tons and 20,000
tons respectively. Because of the tight-
ness of shipping, butter for the current
year has been restricted to 57,000 tons in
quantity and to choicest and first-quality
in grade, but the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent has undertaken responsibility
f °L S i COn i and P astr Y grades—mainly
with the idea of discouraging these in-
terior lines, however. Britain has offered
to take 40,000 tons of cheese, though,
and more if available. The contract price
for butter remains unaltered at 1375. 2|d.
a cwt. f.0.b., something better than the
pre-war export equivalent, but this year
4s. 9d. a cwt. is being deducted to meet
special handling charges. The 765. 6|d.
a cwt. paid for cheese for the first two
war years has been increased to 83s. 9d.
for the third in order to encourage a
changeover from butter manufacture.
Britain has also been purchasing growing
quantities of bacon, a dairying sideline,
Australian exports of which have quad-
rupled since the outbreak of war, reach-
ing 6,676,9001 b. in 1940-41.
The co-operative Norco organisation,
on the fertile N.S.W. North Coast, has
only lately become interested in cheese
production, which is on a modest scale.
Output doubled last year, but butter
and bacon-curing activities were again
held back by drought (since broken),
especially in the second half of the year:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Butter, tons, .. 14,747 14,337 13,450
Cheese, lb. . . 198,292 338,048
Pigs killed .. 53,452 39,891 45,065
Altogether the year’s sales, etc., realised
£2,332,673, of which £1,816,400 (or 78
p.c.) found its way into suppliers’ bank
accounts and £133,461 was paid away in
equalisation and other levies, etc. After
striking off £20,000 for depreciation and
meeting other outgoings, £5319 (down
£4315) was called profit, which was £526
more than the usual 5 p.c. div. called
for.
The management keeps a watchful eye
on plant efficiency ; its original cost was
over a million:
December. 1930. 1935. 1940. 1941
Paid capital .. £108,916 £99,516 £95,188 £95,829
Sundry creditors 267,301 292,337 294,779 .290,053
Plant, etc. .. 204,298 222,938 241,951 227 943
Shares in other
cos. •• 46,466 35,286 37,396 37,396
Stocks .. 48,455 48,502 53,008 66,792
Debtors .. 211,811 180,239' 203,539 200,123
Cash, etc. .. 44,174 35,576 5,958 6,414
Shares are mainly scrip in the Pro-
ducers’ Distributing Society, Ltd., Sydney,
and the Co-op. Box Co. Excluding these,
the excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids declined from £32,274 to £16,724.
Since the close of accounts |d. a pound
has been added to the local wholesale
price of butter, which had stood at 158 s.
Bd. per cwt. since June, 1938, to help
cover farmers’ added costs. Provisional
man-power reservations should help on
the labor side, too.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
. Dividends N
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
6 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
4 p.c.
1939.. 21,338 10,000 Nil 10,099 51,572
10 p.c.
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,54(h 27,755
Pastoralists like this one, with large
holdings in the far west of Queensland
and over the border in the Territory,
provide glaring examples of the inequity
of the Government’s proposal to limit
dividends to 4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds.
Since the war of 1914-18 the story of
Queensland cattle-raisers has been one
of lost markets, falling prices, drought
and rising costs. In 1932 17s. 6d.
( = £525,000) was lopped off each Q.N.P.
ord. to wipe out accumulated losses. Six
years later the prefs. agreed to forgo
arrears of divs. (£192,500 = 15s. sd. per
share), and to reduce the rate from 7 p.c.
to 6 p.c. That left paid capital at
£325,000 in 2.50,000 £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 600,000 2s. 6d. ords. Since then
Nature has been kinder, which has meant
more grass on the runs and a larger turn-
off of better-conditioned animals, and
with the outbreak of war in 1939 came
British contracts for surplus export beef,
other meat and wool at good prices.
However, there is still £lO,OOO arrears of
divs. coming to the prefs. The ords. have
gone without since 1920, and £27,755


1
A Book that
will save your
family money
The new taxes , are probably giving you
grave concern. This book is about
the last taxes your Estate will have
to pay, and how to make provision for
paying them. Reading it should en-
able you to save your family money.
Send for a free copy.
USE THIS COUPON
To the A.M.P. Society.
You might send me a free copy of
"Money to Pay Your Death Duties.”
Name
Address
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
A.M.P.
Society
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
VVe buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z, (JSst. 56 Years.)
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTT
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become you’
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
m
r-.-.r: v t:
\SF
& m
-:4
Hi
SlCO^ii
27ie Symbol of
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
ciaxiicn
vnvjixsnv .10
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir
Robert C. Wilson.
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Hon Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman)
Graham Waddell, K.8.E,, M.LC.; James Kidd; A
Manager: .
; Colin A. Sinclair
. E. Heath, C.AI.G.;
J. G. 11. Shipway.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd.
Chairman Analyses Milk Distribution Costs
Under Present System
In moving' the adoption of
the Report and Accounts at
the Annual Meeting of the
Company at Sydney on 30th
March, 1942, Mr. R. V. Frazer
(who is acting as Chairman
during the absence on military
duty of Brigadier T. A. J. Play-
fair), had some pertinent com-
ments to make on costs under
the present system of milk dis-
tribution in the Sydney Metro-
politan Area. Reading from the
published Report, he said, inter
alia:
“The volume of business
transacted exceeded that of
previous years, but unfortun-
ately it has not been possible
to keep apace of constantly
rising costs. Profits have also
been affected by continuation
of drought, while wartime re-
strictions have necessitated
changes in distributing methods,
which are being re-organised
to meet national emergency
needs.
Notwithstanding the finding
of Mr. Justice de Baun in 1940
—after very exhaustive Inquiry
Governments have been re-
luctant to recognise that costs
cannot be reduced under the
existing system of distribution.
Bast year a further investi-
gation was made by officers of
the Public Service, who sub-
stantially confirmed the decision
of the 1940 Royal Commission.
At the present time yet another
inquiry is being carried out by
a Committee appointed by the
Government.
It seems incredible that milk
distribution should be subjected
to inquiry after inquiry, par-
ticularly when it is considered
that the Milk Board regularly
examines the accounts of the
Distributing Companies.
As the margins under which
we are working were, in 1940,
found to be only sufficient for
the maintenance of business, it
must be obvious that under
present-day conditions such
margins are inadequate. Costs
have increased enormously dur-
ing the intervening two years.
The Basic Wage rate is now
9/- higher than two years ago,
while the cost of essential com-
modities has Increased very
considerably. The imposition
of Pay-Roll Tax alone repre-
sents an additional burden to
your Company of £6,000 per
annum. It must be apparent,
therefore, that trading under
such conditions, the time had to
arrive when costs would over-
take Gross Profits.
While it is not, nor has it
ever been —the aim of the Com-
pany to pay high dividends, it
is unreasonable to expect such
an essential section of the in-
dustry to be carried on with
margins which are not suffic-
ient to yield a, fair return on
Shareholders’ capital.
It is proposed to introduce,
at an early date, a block system
of milk delivery, which should
reduce distribution costs. It is
to be hoped that when this
system is in force, the interests
of Shareholders will be pro-
tected under any revision of
prices which may follow.
In furtherance of this portion
of the published report, I wish
to emphasise the following
features:
Mr. Justice de Baun In the
Royal Commission of
ago reported that, under the
present method of distribution,
in the Metropolitan Area, no
reduction in price to the con-
sumer was possible the in-
creased rates paid to producers,
as well as higher wages and
rising costs, which have to be
borne by all milk distributors,
prevent it.
The report added that almost
all distributors are operating
on margins only sufficient for
the maintenance of their busi-
ness.
It Is really most unbeliev-
able that even now. Govern-
ments will not recognise the
fact that, under the present
system of distribution, delivery
costs cannot be reduced.
The Basic Wage has increas-
ed. Petrol, Horse Feed, Coal,
and every other commodity
used by the Company have ad-
vanced in price, while the Pay
Roll Tax impost represents
more than 2% on the Paid-Up
Capital of the Company. Having
regard to such ever increasing
Costs, it is self evident that no
organisation operating on a
margin of Gross Profit 'which
was only Just sufficient for the
maintenance of business in
1940 can make ends meet under
present day conditions.
The block system of Delivery
referred to in the Report ap-
pears to be the only solution
to the severe drain on the Com-
pany’s Man-Power due to the
War. The details of a system
of this nature are now being
considered, but until they are
complete, it is impossible to
gauge the extent of the reduc-
tion in delivery costs which
will result. Naturally a re-
vision of prices would follow,
and it seems only natural to
expect that some portion of the
saving should remain with the
Distributing Companies, in
order that they can meet the
increased Wages Rates and in-
creased prices of commodities —
such increases having become
payable since the present mar-
gins were fixed. This Company,
over the nine years to 31st
December, 1939, paid Dividends
which averaged less than 44%
per annum. During the last
two years the Company has
been unable to pay any Divi-
dend. Its own employees re-
ceive £5,000 per week in Wages
and Salaries.
With reference to the recent
increase of 4d. per gallon paid
to the producers, the Director-
of this Company fully realised
that record drought conditions,
increased costs, etc., placed the
producers in a most precarious
financial position and this in-
crease was necessary to save
many of them from bankruptcy.
Surely it is not unreasonable
to expect that the Government
should permit us a margin
sufficient to earn a profit equi-
valent to 4% per annum on
Shareholders’ Funds. The con-
tinued references to the Milk
Distributing Companies being
wealthy monopolies cannot be
supported by fact, and in no
way present the true position
to the public.”
nf their capital is unrepresented by tan-
•.t • t u e books.
21 last term seasons were favorable on
the co ! s western holdings, and more
calves (26 360) and lambs (18,603) were
marked and shearing was better. So,
desnite ’a dry spell on the coastal free-
holds for the last four months of the
vear and smaller realisations, particularly
of sheep gross earnings (£158,117) were
£2635 higher Costs and the tax-
gatherer together made off with an extra
£2O 055. So, after allowing for depre-
elation shown as written off in the table,
the net result (£28,211, down £17,395) was
no more than 8.6 p.c. on total capital.
At the moment the seasonal outlook
is favorable, and the year opened with
82 104 cattle, 80,496 sheep and 1886
horses on the’runs, against 76,449, 71,792
and 1824 respectively at the outset of
1941. But the future will be largely
governed by the course of the war with
Japan. t t .
Here are balance-sheet figures.
1935. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 231,130' 157,425 101,237 91,218
Freeholds 68,774 28,083 28,083 27,893
Leaseholds .. 154,857 139,050 137,968 132,312
plant etc. 60,569 62,823 61,030 62,022
Livestock .. 198,648 202,649 173,505 179,599
wool.. .. 10,338 10,542 ii.loo 540
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,904 1,864 8,686 11,097
A heartening feature is further reduction
of £10,019 in the outside debt, mainly
to the bank,
a* • i rs i rss n i
At & pinch, Cloncurry (N.Q.) can p
dues all the copper Australia wants on
prom teisTt present 1 oTproduc*
An d b w m H or Cortould a: ’esuZedXi
down to only 500 ft. there was a body
of 400,000 tons of medium-grade stuff
averaging about 5 p.c., besides the richer
secondary ores, which were pretty well
exhausted wheA the co. gave up. It is
still there because it is below railing grade
to Chillagoe, nearly 1000 miles away.
This is only one instance of the need for
a central smelter in the district. But
wouldn’t a central flotation plant for
Cloncurry sulphide ores be an alternative
if a smelter cannot be secured? It should
be able to produce a float carrying 10 p.c.
plus.
* * * *
The favorable combination of high
prices and quotas in the first two years
of war have left Asian tin-dredgers with
substantial undistributed liquid resources,
though properties and equipment have
gone. Some are conserving funds in the
hope of eventually being able to take up
more or less where they left off. For its
part, Austral Malay group says that in
some cases outlay on rehabilitation may
not be justified by anticipated profit from
remaining dredging reserves, and that
liquidation would then be more in the
interests of shareholders. As incorpora-
tion was effected in the F.M.S. it isn’t
now possible to approach any Court to
carry out such a proposal or reduction
of capital —a legal technicality that
should surely be surmountable in the cir-
cumstances. Distributions as dividends
would, of course, involve recipients in
heavy taxation on what would actually
be a capital return. So far as known,
here is a summary of the loan holdings,
etc., of the group:
Aus-
British. tralian. F.M.S. S.S'. Shares.
£A. £A. £A. £A. No.*
Austral Malay. . 27,875 7,292 4,375 41,250
K Kamunting. . 49,125 11,965 13,125 12,250 6,250
Thabawleik ..167,708 21,965 36,457 33,250 12,500
Pungah.. ..171,062 27,875 30,068 46,437 12,500
Austral Amalg... 141,334 26,945 26,979' 24,062 17,500
* Shares in Austral N.Z. Mining.
Being conservative and excluding ords.
in Austral N.Z. Mining, worth around
15s. apiece, and F.M.S. and Straits Settle-
ments Government loans, expected
“ultimately to be of full value, whether
supported by the British Government or
not” —an uncertain point-liquid assets
represent Bs. 9d. per share in the case of
Kampong Kamunting, 235. Bd. Thabaw-
leik, 9s. 3d. Pungah and 2s. 2d. Austral
Amalgamated, as against present share-
market valuations of ss. 6d., 13s. 6d.,
7s. 3d. and 2s. 3d. respectively. Austral
Malay’s own liquids represent ss. 7d. per
share, and its interests in those of its
associated cos. add another 235. to the
figure. Some credits are to come from
buffer pool balances. War-damage com-
pensation appears hardly likely.
* * » ♦
Tin stocks in the U.K. at the beginning
of 1941 are estimated at six months’
supply and in the United States sufficient
for 12 months, apart from Bolivian con-
centrates awaiting smelting at the new
Texas plant, expected to come into pro-
duction this year. Almost overnight loss
of resources accepted as being firmly
within control of the Allies has cut off
two-thirds of the world’s output, and
there is no compensating synthetic pro-
duction, as with rubber, to repair
America’s natural deficiency of the white
metal. Cadmium is a substitute particu-
larly where subject to hard wear, but is
double the price of tin and supply is
so limited as to be hardly significant.
DC * * *
The Mills report recommends that
goldmining, like other mineral industry,
be taxed on net instead of mainly gross
earnings, and that the gold tax be wiped.
It would mean a redistribution of the
incidence of taxation in which low-grade
producers particularly would stand to
benefit. Little cut in aggregate revenue
to be derived from the industry is con-
templated, however —assuming, of course,
there are any working mines left to tax.
* * * *
Because of their relatively small labor
requirements, man-power needs may not
interfere with gold-dredging as with lode-
mining. Harrietville (Tronoh), Ltd., at
Harrietville (Vic.), the Commonwealth’s
most ambitious alluvial project yet, hopes
to have its 4,000,000-c.y.-p.a. plant run-
ning about the mid-year. Almost entirely
of Australian manufacture and costing
around £388,000, the unit has 24 years’
work ahead in 96,000,000 c.y. of 1.92 gr.
wash. Shaft-testing to check boreholes
indicated higher values. Rejuvenation of
the Ovens Valley commenced after 11
years’ inactivity in 1933, since when
numerous small plants have met with
fair success. Some can see a new era
in the deep dredging of old workings if
the London-controlled Harrietville ven-
ture turns out as expected.
$ *
Enlistments and the drift to war occu-
pations have taken heavy toll of Vic-
torian goldmining. At the beginning of
1941 there were 34 companies operating
at Bendigo, for example. That number
had recently decreased to 21, when early
cessation of work by another dozen ap-
peared certain. To cap things, even well-
established producers may soon be com-
pelled to close down also. Victorian
Chamber of Mines says it has been made
“increasingly clear” by War Organisation
Minister Dedman that nothing short of
drastic curtailment of the industry in the
Commonwealth’s most industrialised
State will meet the Government’s require-
ments. The writing on the wall is further
evident in the requests to mineowners to
supply details concerning the minimum
number of men required for maintenance
of mines ; alternatively, the cost of keep-
ing mines in an unwatered condition and,
subsequently, of unwatering. Where pos-
sible, the need at least to keep that dam-
aging underground foe water in check
should be obvious.
« * * V
Next half-yearly roll-up of Freney Oil
(W.A.) will be held in Perth on April
22. Boring was continued down to
4271 ft. vertical, when it was considered
dangerous to go deeper until new equip-
ment had been obtained from America.
This was ordered through the Common-
wealth Government, but because of
Japanese invasion threats the Min-
ister for Supply and Development
has cancelled the order and directed that
no more boring be done until the war
clouds have rolled by. Both Common-
wealth and Westralian Governments are
stated to have “expressed sympathy with
the co.”
* * * *
Mining of Victorian bauxite, chief ore
of aluminium, doubled in 1940, and 1941
no doubt hoisted higher figures still-
Greatly increased activity on the occur-
rences in the Morwell River valley, on
the ranges east of Thorpdale, is looked
for, and an important new deposit has
been established near the present Boo-
larra mine. Processes for the extraction
of aeroplane metal from Australian
bauxite, which is generally low-grade,
have been successfully demonstrated.


THE BRITISH NAVY USES EXIDE
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines—-
places irtiplicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOINS WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
■
<■ -*' : i
w
PERSONAL ITEMS
London has never had an Australian
Lud Mayor, but with the election of
Leslie Boyce, M.P., as an alderman.of
the City of London it seems likely that
the omission will be rectified. Boyce,
who is chairman or director of a dozen
or so gas, transport, engineering, news-
paper and other companies, was born at
Taree (N.S.W.) 46 years ago, and went
from Sydney Grammar to Oxford. He
fought with the A.I.F. on Gallipoli and
on the Western Front, was badly knocked
at Pozieres in 1916 and invalided to S.A.
He was elected to the Commons for
Gloucester in 1929. He married a Mel-
bourne girl, and they have three sons.
Major-General Samuel Roy Burston,
whom the Japanese eruption has brought
back from the job of Director of A.I.F.
Medical Services in the Middle East to
succeed Major-General Maguire as
Director-General, is Melbourne-born, but
is better known in Adelaide than in his
native city. He graduated from Mel-
bourne University, served with the
A.A.M.C. on Gallipoli, in Egypt and
France in the 1914-18 war and then be-
came Deputy Director of Army Medical
Services in the City of Churches. He was
a brigadier when he was sent off to the
Middle East early last year. His father,
Major-General James Burston, com-
manded an infantry brigade at The
Landing.
A Scot with an accent to prove it and
the handy name of Bill Gill called in
the other day to shake the collective hand
of The Bulletin and to mention that
he’d just arrived from the plantation in
Papua from where he’s been sending
The Bulletin sketches of dusky belles
since 1924. Born at Macduff 42
years ago, Gill served in the 1914-18
war with the Argyle Highlanders,
after which he tried his hand at various
callings before deciding on plantation
life. He left Samarai after most of the
civilians had gone (the coons went bush,
one of them with a modern kerosene
refrigerator he had col-
lared) and sailed in a
ketch by way of Port
Moresby to Townsville.
Those on the ketch
were welcomed on their
first night in Moresby
by the first Jap raid on
the place. Next morn-
ing, seeking scraps of
bombs as souvenirs,
Gill met an acquaint-
ance busily raking over
some debris and asked
“Found any yet,
Tom?” “Any what?”
Tom demanded. “Sou-
venirs, of course.”
“Souvenirs, my eye,”
snorted Tom. ‘l’m
looking for my blasted
teeth! ”
The foxes, eagles and
hawks which fell to the
rifle of young Dick
Saunders when he was
working on a sheep
station in western N. S.
Wales died in a good
cause —the practice
they afforded the young
man stood him in very
good stead when he
was sniping at mines
from the deck of a
trawler in the North
Sea. Saunders was an
engineer apprentice at
Mort’s Dock, Sydney,
when war broke out;
he was called up as a naval re-
servist and went overseas as an act-
ing sub - lieutenant in the anti - sub-
marine branch. When the German war-
ships sneaked through the Channel
Saunders had command of a motor
torpedo-boat, and, defying furious attacks
from ’planes and destroyers, he contrived
to get within striking distance of the
Prince Eugen and let fly two torpedoes,
one of which went home. His courage
has been recognised with the D.S.C.
Colin Graham Scrimgeour (“Uncle
Scrim”) has taken out a membership
card in the Auckland Waterside Workers’
Union because of the possibility that his
days as Controller of Commercial Broad-
casting are numbered. Not yet 40, Scrim-
geour has had a colorful career. Son of a
Hawke’s Bay sheep-farmer, he was suc-
cessively a civil servant, bush worker and
freezing-works hand before, at 20, he
entered the Methodist ministry. He had
10 years of it before he became proprietor
and principal attraction of the Friendly
Road station (IZB Auckland). In
1936 Savage not only bought Scrim-
geour’s station but made its owner boss
of all commercial stations. War-time
economy and other considerations are
now operating to suggest the advisability
of putting all stations under the direct
control of Prof. James Shelley, Director
of Broadcasting.
Frith’s distinguished victim, Major-
General Victor Wentworth Odium, C. 8.,
C.M.G., D.S.O. and bar, is Canada’s
High Commissioner in Australia. He is
a citizen soldier with a fine record from
the last war, and was for two years in
command of a Canadian division in
Britain in this war. He is a tall, youthful
figure, kept in trim by well-disciplined
living, a zest for affairs and a catholic
sense of humor, derived impartially from
Irish, Scottish and English forebears.
Canberra is somewhat shocked by the
general and his habit of being abroad
with the kookaburras when all good civil
servants are safely between sheets. In
private life, Odium was one of Canada’s
leading newspaper publishers. In Van-
couver he is as familiar as the North
Pacific, the friend and confidant of
everybody ; in Ottawa he is something of
a power, without caring much to be a
politician, though he sat for one term
HIGH COMMISSIONER ODLUM.
(Modelled by Frith.)
as Vancouver’s member in the British
Columbia Legislature. He founded the
first broadcasting station in Canada, be-
coming later a member of the all-powerful
Broadcasting Commission which controls
both national and commercial broadcast-
ing. After two grim years in Britain he
believes that the British Empire will be
the main engine of victory —if it does not
allow itself to be divided,
To represent the Australian Army at
Washington goes a small but strong dele-
gation. It is headed by Lieut.-General
Edward Kenneth Smart, D. 5.0., M.C.,
whose amiable, rosy visage should please
the Americans. A man not easily ruffled,
Smart was known as the “Food King”
at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, where
as Quartermaster-General in the early
days of the war he had the supplying of
LIEUT.-GENERAL E. K. SMART.
everything to the A.1.F., from sheepskin
coats to tropical helmets. Later he rose
to G.O.C. Southern Command, which is
the job he relinquishes to cross the
Pacific. He had a distinguished career
in the 1914-18 war, was military liaison
officer in London just before this one,
and was in the Mediterranean when hell
broke out in Europe. Born in Melbourne
and 51 next month. With him will go
Lieut.-Colonel T. R. Blarney, son of the
G.O.C. and a solicitor by profession;
Lieut.-Colonel C. W. Hicks, onetime
S.A. Railways engineer; and Lieut.-
Colonel F. G. Sutton, who published
books in Melbourne and founded the
Tailwaggers’ Club.
Acting Flight-Lieutenant C. N. Wawn,
awarded the D.F.C. for “completing
many operational sorties with the
R.A.A.F. in Britain, and proving himself
a good leader and a sterling pilot,” is a
son of a Prahran (Vic.) doctor who saved
the life of Keith Truscott with an opera-
tion when Truscott was a baby. The son
continued the good work by shooting a
Nazi ’plane off the tail of Truscott’s
machine in a fight over the Channel.
Wawn was born in Melbourne in 1910
and educated at Wesley. He enlisted in
the R.A.A.F. in 1940.
Melbourne ornithologist A. H.
Chisholm has been asked to give permis-
sion for his Bird Wonders of Australia
to be translated into Spanish. The readers
will be mainly South Americans, the
request coming from Mr. and Mrs. James
Summers, a Ballarat pair now living in
Uruguay.
“C. 8.”: Errol Knox, appointed Direc-
tor-General of Public Relations in the
Army Department, is the man from
Sydney who in 1937 turned Mel-
bourne “Argus” inside out, intro-
duced puns into the headlines, con-
verted the staid literary page into a
special illustrated supplement, just like
the “Herald;” and even permitted leader-
writers to use words like Reds without
inverted commas. He saw a good
deal of service in the 1914-18 war, enlist-
ing in the A.I.F. as a private and rising
to the rank of major on the R.A.F. Air
Staff, to which he was lent by the A.F.C.,
and he has been a busy journalist and
compiler since. Sydney-born, he will be
53 in June.
“C.H.H.”: New president of the S.A.
School of Mines —in succession to the
late Frederick Chapman —is Kerr Grant,
Professor of Physics at Adelaide Univer-
sity since 1911. Born at Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.) 63 years ago, he accumulated his
early knowledge at South Melbourne
Grammar and at Melbourne University,
and was at Ballarat School of Mines and
at Melbourne University before he went
to the Adelaide institution. Grant’s
students give him an annual send-off
with fireworks, songs and the wailing of
bagpipes—to which the professor replies
with smiles and Kipling’s “If,”
Two valuable contributions to agricul-
tural science marked the work of G. R.
Darnell Smith, dead in Sydney at 74.
He it was who gave wheatgrowers the
dry-dusting method to control bunt—it
was quicker, cheaper and more efficient
than the old wet pickling of seed —there-
by adding, in the words of a British
scientist, “a quarter-bushel to the world’s
average acreage yield.” His vaccine for
anthrax in sheep, a sequel to the work
of the late veterinarian Gunn, was of
great benefit. An Englishman, Darnell
Smith was assistant-director of technical
education in Maoriland, became first
Government biologist in N.S.W., was
director of Sydney Botanic Gardens and
member of the C.S.I.R. and other
scientific bodies. He never married.
“S.T.S.”: J. M. Innes-Stuart, Prof, of
English at Adelaide Uni., is about the
kindest to us Australians of all visiting
novelists. The heroine in the latest novel by
Michael Innes (as the prof, calls himself
when writing thrillers for recreation)
is the only Australian in a shipload
of passengers, and is normal throughout.
She uses the word “bonzer” just once at
starting ; refers once each, in a long book,
to Don Bradman, the Yarra and the
Murray; and at the end pounces on a
bomb which the villain has tossed and
pitches it back, blowing him out of exist-
ence. She hates having killed him, but
it was only instinct to return the ball
straight to the wicket.
Into the silence:
At Geelong, at 77, Lieut.-Colonel J. K. Paul,
old soldier of many wars. He was with the
Royal Sussex Regiment in Egypt in 1884, at
Suakim in 1885, and on the M.-West Frontier;
he came through the Boer War with the Queen’s
Medal and three clasps, and the 1914-18 war
with the D.S.O. and five times mentioned. Back
in Australia he served in the R.A.G.A. at Syd-
ney, Geelong, Queenscliff and Thursday Island.
At Swan Hill (Vic.), at 65, Henry Pye, M.L.C.
for North-Western Province since 1932 and
Honorary Minister in the Dunstan Government
since 1935. He was president of the Swan Hill
shire and for 24 years chairman of its Water-
works Trust. He made no particular stir in ihe
placid waters of the State Parliament, but Dun-
stan held him in high esteem.
In Sydney, Major A. C. Barry, one of the
pillars of the Red Cross organisation in Sydney.
He served as a War Chest Commissioner in
1914-18 and was known as “Dad” Barry to
thousand of Old Diggers.
In the Coolgardie Hospital, at 80, Bill Faahan,
Coolgardie’s first publican and last mayor. He
looked like an actor, and had the actor’s capa-
city for rising above adversity. Coolgardie was
definitely slipping in 1897, and in 1900 it had
become the Twenty-four Mile Siding to superior
Kalgoorlians; but Faahan hung on, assuring
every visitor for upwards of 40 years that the
Old Camp would come again. It never did.
In Adelaide, at 80, Dr. R. S. Rogers, the
senior (1883) surviving graduate of the local
university, also D.Sc. there 50 years later
as reward for his work on orchids, on which
he was a leading Australian authority. He
was superintendent of various hospitals, in-
cluding the S.A. military one at Keswick, and
a president of the Royal Society and of the
Justices’ Association.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), in his ninetieth
year, W. W. Smith, leading authority on Maon-
land botany, and one of the best-read men in
the Dominion. Born in Scotland and trained
there as a gardener, he arrived in Fernland
towards the end of last century, and attracted
Seddon’s attention by converting a wilderness
in Ashburton into a fine garden. Smith was
made a Commissioner of the Scenery Depart-
ment, and did landscape gardening on a heroic
scale at many tourist resorts. As a held
naturalist he had few compeers in the Southern
Hemisphere.
At 63, Joe Parker, editor of Wellington
(M.L.) “Evening Post.” Born in Nelson, he got
editorial experience on Christchurch ‘ Press,
and was with the “Post” for 40 He
succeeded to the editorial chair when Oresley
Lukin died in 1916. Under his guidance the
“Post” maintained and strengthened a position
based on political independence. Walter Blun-
dell, one of the directors of the “Post’ arid a
son of Henry Blundell, the paper’s founder, died
a few days later, at 74.
Died suddenly at 59, in Melbourne, Kingsley
Anketell Henderson, chairman of directors ot
the “Argus” and “Australasian” and architect
of numerous banks, hospitals and modern sky-
scrapers in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane an
other cities in Australia and M.L. He fought
constant illness with tremendous energy ; he.ped
to elevate Joe Lyons to P.M through the All-
for-Australia League, of which he was the
founder; was a member for five years of
Malvern Council; was seven years president of
the Savage Club, where he argued ft; archi-
tecture and literature with all and sundry, and
in the last six months of his life shared m the
control of the £700,000 left, b y , hl f suggestion
to the University of Melbourne by haberdash r
D. E. Lewis.


The
M.LC.
For Your
Life Assurance
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886.
Assets Exceed £33,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £41,000,000
TH/\7'
the *
RESPITE FROM
A MAJOR WORRY
The imminence of danger to every member of the community render's it more
advisable than ever to assure that the execution of your will and administration
of your estate are not entrusted to any one individual or small group of individuals.
The organisation of Burns Philp Trust Company Limited is such that continuity
of service cannot be interrupted by the death or incapacitation of any officer or
officers of the organisation.
By placing your affairs in the hands of Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
(whether for administration after death or during lifetime) you secure not only
the advantage of collective and experienced judgment, but the assurance of
uninterrupted attention to your Estate.
Two special booklets dealing with this vital matter will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901, Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
One Income Tax
The Mills Committee, whose other
members were Messrs. Scullin and
Spooner, has recommended a single tax-
ing authority in the income realm for the
duration and one year. There appear
to be possibilities that the recommenda-
tions will be adopted. If so, one of the
vital financial factors in a streamlined
war effort will have been achieved, and,
once in force, it is doubtful whether the
people would ever tolerate again the
present barbarous and uneconomic
methods of raising tax revenue.
The committee thinks that one Com-
monwealth taxing authority in place of
the seven departments now operating
would release 1000 public servants for
more essential work, £250,000 a year
would be saved in wages and there would
be other big economies. It is possible
that Government savings would be
greater than this when one considers the
time now lost in the handling of one
income-tax return by two departments.
The more officials there are handling
files, the more there are likely to be
necessary. But the Government aspect is
only one side to the question. Though
the civil service generally and taxation
departments particularly have in peace-
time almost totally ignored the national
effects of their administration, even
consciences such as these should now be
awake to the danger of effort wasted
by industries and individuals through
taxation systems that are complicated
almost beyond endurance. Each year
since the depression industry has become
more and more the servant and junior
partner of the multitude of taxation de-
partments. What industry would be able
to save under single taxation in the way
of man-power and material is just as
important to the nation as the actual sav-
ing by the Governments concerned. It is
not too much to hope that industry’s
saving would be every bit as great as that
of the Government’s.
The committee recommends that the
Commonwealth take over as from July 1
next. It “is impressed with the urgency
of this reform, particularly under war
conditions. Income tax is the main source
of revenue from which the Common-
wealth finances war, and that source is
limited.” Anomalies and conflicting
principles throughout the States were
pointed out as detrimental to the war
effort and confusing to the taxpayer.
Taxation above 20s. in the £ was being
levied in some cases.
We also attach importance to the grow-
ing need for simplification of income taxa-
tion throughout the Commonwealth.
Despite past achievements in the direction
of uniformity, there is still overlapping and
insufficient co-ordination between the Com-
monwealth and States. A sole taxation
authority would open the way for more
simple and efficient machinery for the rais-
ing of revenue.
The committee suggests that after the
Commonwealth collects the tax it should
pass on to the States a sum based
on their 1939-40-41 income-tax revenue.
This would mean £l6 million for N S.
Wales, £6.7 million for Victoria, £2.4
million for South Aus., £6 million for
Queensland, £2.6 million for Westralia
and £823,000 for Tasmania. Collection
exes., etc., less savings in administration,
would be deducted. A “flexibility” clause
in case of special State requirements is
suggested, or when the Commonwealth
takes over a State responsibility.
With regard to companies, in order to
collect the present amount of tax, the
Commonwealth War-time (Company)
Tax, Super Tax and Undistributed-profits
Tax should be continued at present rates
and the ordinary Federal income tax
should be raised to 6s. in the £. Con-
cerning life assurance cos., the com-
mittee suggests that the present exemp-
tion of interest earnings up to 4 p.c. on
the life fund be abandoned, and that a
flat rate of Is. 6d. in the £ on “mutual”
income be levied instead, with the ordi-
nary company rate on “non-mutual”
concerns. Whether such largely (but not
wholly) mutual concerns as the Mutual
Life and Citizens’ are to be classed as
non-mutual is not clear, but from the
policy-holders’ point of view any dis-
tinction would be most unfair.
In the general scheme of taxation scales
it is recommended that there should be
a statutory exemption of £156 a year.
Rates and land taxes on non-income-pro-
ducing property to be allowed, together
with gifts and contributions, medical ex-
penses (up to £5O), funeral expenses
(£2O), life assurance and superannuation
(together £100). For dependants an
allowance of £lOO for spouse or female
relative is recommended, one child £75,
additional children £3O. Where the tax-
able income is between £2OO and £3OO
slightly greater allowance for wife or
female dependants is advised. The maxi-
mum amount of actual tax rebated should
not be more than £45 in the case of
spouse or female relative, one child £45,
additional children £5. The committee
recommends that concessional deductions
should take the form of rebates of tax
based on full taxable income instead of
deductions from taxable income.
Schedules of specimen taxes show that
Victoria, always regarded as a stumbling-
block to a single taxing authority, will
pay little more in taxation under a uni-
form scale except on the extremely high
incomes. A married taxpayer with no
children earning £5OO a year at present
pays £65.2 a year (Federal and State),
in Victoria. Under a combined scale
he would pay £67.9. On £lOOO a year
he now pays £226.8, against £230.4
proposed. On £5OOO a year he pays
£3280 ; the new figure is £3329. Spread
over the six States, the difference in taxa-
tion suggested is not sufficient to cause
any heartburning, considering the issue
at stake and the obvious advantages. In
this connection, seeing that companies
and company-shareholders are the most
doubly-taxed of all taxpayers (even under
the proposed single authority double
taxation of shareholders will continue),
this class of taxpayer should be given
special consideration.
Although there is “no likelihood that
the plan will be implemented under the
National Security Regulations,” the Com-
monwealth has ample powers to enforce
its ascendancy in the taxation field pro-
vided the Commonwealth Parliament
itself approves. The war is costing the
Commonwealth something like £3OO mil-
lion this year instead of £221.5 million,
and much of the deficit is being financed
by the discounting of Treasury bills with
the Commonwealth Bank. A uniform
policy throughout the Commonwealth
should enable the gathering of more taxa-
tion from certain income classes,
especially at the lower end of the scale.
As war costs increase ( we had better pre-
pare ourselves for further tax increases.
Taxation is the only sound way of financ-
ing a war, and what we don’t actually pay
in money taxes we pay in rationing, de-
preciated money and industrial disloca-
tion afterwards. A single taxing authority
has been a Bulletin recommendation
ever since income-tax became a major
feature of Australia’s economic life, and
at the present time it seems to be the
most necessary step towards raising effec-
tive taxation for war purposes. The
States have been definitely standing in
the way up till now. The Premier and
Treasurer of N. S. Wales (Mr. McKell)
has shown by his humbug and trickery
that he should not be entrusted with the
formulation of taxation policy at all.
Ward, Canberra’s maker of political
and industrial mischief while carrying the
portfolio of Labor and National Service,
has come forth with the suggestion now
that the coalmines should be nationalised.
He said he believed the only method by
which industrial disputes on coalfields
could be ended was by the Common-
wealth taking over the mines. He gave a
little self-revelation when he added :
“This view is not animated solely by
my political beliefs. It is a common-
sense view.” Mr. Ward’s ideas on what
constitutes commonsense are about as
crackpot as his “political beliefs.” “The
deep bitterness” which the Minister says
“has developed [“has been cultivated”
would be better] between the men and
the owners” is not the sole cause of the
trouble on the N. S. Wales coalfields.
Mine horses that walk too fast, horses
with smelly breath, miners who object to
being pensioned off before their time and
miners who generally quarrel amongst
themselves are all included among the
“reasons” for holdups of essential coal
production during the present war. The
State of N. S. Wales has never been a
successful colliery-owner—there was a
strike at the mine at Lithgow last week
because it was closed on Easter Monday
and the miners couldn’t work at double
rates —and the Commonwealth as a dock-
owner was a calamity. As a ship-
charterer in this war it is already going
badly. But it is perhaps a waste of time
to take seriously Mr. Ward’s protesta-
tions about “the hostility to the owners
that has become a real thing in the lives
of the miners.” There was no hostility
towards anyone in the banking industry,
yet Mr. Ward and his friends are all for
the nationalisation of it and have already
gone a good distance in that direction.
The war has been a heaven-sent oppor-
tunity to Labor to sock in the party plat-
form. And the party has never been
defence-minded.
* * * *
Under the 44-hour week the chief
engineer of a small freighter or collier
on the Australian coast north of Bunda-
berg or Fremantle now receives £B3 a
month and 81 days’ leave a year on full
pay. It works out at a few pounds under
a thousand a year. South of Bundaberg
or Fremantle the same engineer gets £74
a month and the same leave. On the
usual inter-State liner or large freighter
the chief engineer gets £ll6 a month and
81 days’ leave. With ordinary seamen
the 44-hour week works out as a racket
for getting overtime —double pay. It is
impossible to work the 44-hour week
economically at sea, and the Common-
wealth Government, as charterer of rqost
vessels on the Australian register, is pay-
ing the piper. It is one of the many
ways in which money freely given by
taxpayers is being wasted by Canberra.
And the present blessings being showered
on unionists at the nation’s expense
represent another obstruction to post-war
prosperity when industries have to stand
on their own feet without subsidies from
taxpayers. The misery indicated when
post-war depression follows Canberra’s
unhinged economic policy is not pleasant
to contemplate. Certainly it was an
Arbitration Court Judge who granted
seamen the 44-hour Week. But the em-
ployer concerned was a Labor Govern-
ment.
* # * *
In the two months to the end of Feb-
ruary the trading banks added £ll mil-
lion to their deposits. The Common-
wealth Bank took from them £21.2 mil-
lion in the same period, while advances
to industry dropped £l2 million. The
cash holding of the trading banks has
kept almost static, and so has the holding
of Government securities. The deposits
handed on to the Commonwealth Bank
really represent compulsory loans to the
Government; with other of the National
Security Regulations they also influence
banking policy. Probably never in the his-
tory of Australian banking have advances
to industry borne such a low ratio (66.6
p.c.) to deposits.
* * * *
Holeproof, the Victorian hosiery con-
cern, has declared an ord. div. at the
reduced rate of 8 p.c. The co. is busy
on defence work. Hosiery for civil
needs is becoming scarcer than ever. In
preceding years Holeproof paid 10 p.c.
( Continued on next page.)


Public Notices.
I, IVAN POSA, of Yugoslav nationality, born at
Korcula, Dalmatia, and resident years in
Australia, now residing at Prospect House,
Blacktown, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
I, ANDREW OSCAR CARLSON, of Swedish
nationality, born at Gothenburg, Sweden, and
resident 27 years in Australia, now residing at
367 Crown Street, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVAN THOMAS WILLIAMS formerly of
Broken Hill N. S. Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife CAROLINE MAY WILLIAMS has
filed a petition in this Court No. 237 of 1942
praying for a divorce on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards. Your
wife confesses adultery with one CORNELIUS
JAMES O’GRADY and asks that in exercise of
its discretion the Court will grant a divorce not-
withstanding such adultery. You may enter an
appearance on or befofe the 7th July next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. CECIL F. HURLEY & CO.
Solicitors 17 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Ant Gen. Manager,
fflAete&ev. Me fetetees O/tebate
S*>>4&,
m
•••v.v.
■
--
THERE IS AN
...h/L NAVY
,„ in ihe ARMY
,„ in iL AIR FORCE.
♦
PRODUCT
Tbe Olympic Tyre & Rubber Co. Ltd.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
“I feel that no man —no matter how educated, or what his age, or what
his profession—who seriously takes up the Course, can go through it without
improving himself.” —Lord Baden Powell.
m
The late
Xiord Baden Powell.
TRIBUTES
One of the finest tributes paid to Pelmanism in its 42 years of service to the public is the increasing number
of people in Great Britain who, strained in body, mind and spirit as they have been and still are, seek help
in the Pelman Course of Training. They believe that it will help them ; they find that it does help them and
they tell others.
The same tribute of increasing interest month by month in the Pelman Course is paid to the Melbourne
Branch by the people of Australia and New Zealand, with a corresponding increase in the number of
men and women who enrol for the Course.
This is not only the reward of excellence. It is a recognition
that the Pelinan Course contains within itself the constituents
of the rare and resolute thinking process of the peoples of
the British Empire.
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and
Personality. It substitutes good and faithful habits of
mind and memory for slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness and continuity of
effort.
Among the qualities and attributes it specifically develops
are Observation, Will-Power, Decision, Self-Confidence, Judg-
ment, Organisation, Concentration, Initiative, Social Ease and
a thoroughly dependable Memory for faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices, and useful data of every kind.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how to observe
instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of concentration and
Memory. Increase in Self-Confidence. Greater interest
in people and in my surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAFN: “I want to thank you for your attention,
and express the hope that 1 may keep in touch with the
Institute in the future as the occasion offers.”
SHEEPFARMER: “I have kept an account of the time spent
on tlie Course. It amounted to a shade under three
mouths, and the average time per day, 40 minutes.”
AIRCRAFTMAN: “My memory is improved, my concentra-
tion developed, and I am a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will-Power, Observation and
Memory.”
SOLDIER (Engineer); “Yesterday I learned that promotion,
and to a higher rank than that which I had expected, is
coming my way in the near future. I attribute my
promised advancement to Pelmanism.”
SOLDIER: “1 was one of three to be promoted out of a
class of thirty selected for special training.”
ENGINED RIVER: “It is with a wonderful sense of ability
and security that I face the future.”
We shall be glad to send readers a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your
inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
Gloucester House, 39(5 Flinders lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU 3355.
There are over half a million Pelman-
ists, of whom more than 44,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 8 Gloucester House,
896 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of “THE
EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
112
For the nine months to the end of
March war cost Australia £201.5 million.
That is at the rate of £268 million a year,
against a Budget estimate of £221.5
million. But in the month of March
alone the cost was £33.8 million, and
if that rate is continued for the final
quarter of the financial term war’s cost
for 1941-42 will have been over £3OO
million. It is possible that the war bill
will be particularly heavy during the next
few months in view of the nearness of
the conflict to Australia. Out of an ex-
penditure of £207.5 million up to a recent
date £157.2 million came from loan funds
and £50.3 million from consolidated
revenue. The Labor Government has
been relying heavily on borrowings for
its war finance, and frequent and hurried
visits have been made to the Common-
wealth Bank of late in order to chalk up
more of the borrowings and to discount
Treasury bills as security. On April 6
the Commonwealth Government owed
the central bank £106.8 million, the
greater proportion of which represented
short-term debt. The figure has risen £62
million in 12 months, and most of the rise
has been in the last six months. It is a
weak-kneed method of obtaining finance
that is dangerous and unrealistic, and
reflects the capacity and temper of the
Government now in office. Adverse re-
actions from this overexpansion of bank
credit can hardly be avoided. The time
to take war finance direct from the public
is now or never. The taking of it in-
directly brings instability and confusion
later. And two things civilised trade and
industry cannot stand up to are insta-
bility and confusion.
* # * *
On March 16 the public’s holding of
Commonwealth notes was £76.2 million,
up £1.7 million in a week and £6.7 mil-
lion in a month. The rise of recent
months has been phenomenal, and out of
all keeping with business activity. More
than twice the normal peace-time number
of notes are at present held by the
people; these notes are mostly being
hoarded for various reasons.
* * * *
Mr. McKell, N. S. Wales Premier, has
announced an intention of bringing in a
bill to reduce motor-car registration fees
by “at least 20 p.c.” That probably
means 20 p.c. Though not a concession
in proportion to the rationing of petrol
it is better than nothing. But it is at
least 12 months overdue. South Aus.
and Westralia have already cut fees by
25 p.c.
* * * »
Customs revenue for the nine months-
to March 31 is £2.8 million up on the
corresponding figure for 1940-41. It is
£5.7 million up on the Budget estimate,
and is growing. Surplus revenue in the
P.M.G.’s Department is up £408,000
over Budget estimates.
* * * *
The Taxpayers’ Association of N. S.
Wales last week condemned the National
Security (Economic Organisation) Regu-
lations on the grounds that they were
basically unsound and, by limiting earn-
ings to 4 p.c. on capital and reserves,
they would hinder the war effort for
the reason that they undermined eco-
nomic efficiency. The association was
in favor of one income-tax and payroll-
tax authority, and recommended the re-
moval of restrictions on the transfer of
property and securities.
* * He *
Anti-boss feeling generated by agita-
tors and politicians of the Ward variety
seems to be the cause. Though the
leather trades in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria have for many years been subject to
the same award, for almost as many years
Victorian footwear has outsold the N. S.
Wales product on the N. S. Wales market
at the rate of two or three to one. It
is only in N. S. Wales that synthetic hate
of “the bosses” has been a big factor in
slowing down production and increasing
costs.
* * ♦ sfc
The “Herald,” Melbourne, is maintain-
ing its interim ord. div. at the rate of
12 p.c. p.a. In its last term a bonus of
2 p.c. with the final made 14 p.c. for the
year. Until now newspapers have been
able to keep their earnings, prior to
taxation, on a fairly even keel. But
recent edicts ban the advertising of liquor,
and banks are forbidden to publicise
themselves. Patent medicines are to have
their advertising space cut down by half,
and the restriction on the manufacture
of cosmetics will mean less publicity in
this connection. On the whole, there is
less incentive for business houses to
advertise in any case, as stocks of most
things are short. The “Herald” and
other papers may not do so well for the
remainder of the financial year.
* * * *
It had better only be whispered, but
Australia is likely to have a surplus of
rice this season. The crop on the Mur-
rumbidgee area promises to be double
our normal requirements at about 46,000
tons. The estimated surplus is not likely
to be an embarrassment.
# * H° *
All exportable Australian dried vine
fruits are expected to be taken by the
Canadian and British Governments this
year. The harvest of other dried fruits
was affected by shortage of man-power
when the fruit was ripening.
* * *
The rubber position throughout the
Allied countries has become of great
importance since Malaya fell. Substitutes
and reclaimed rubber will figure more
prominently very soon. In Australia
further drastic measures are being taken
in the matter of rationing of tyres for
commercial use. More and more Ameri-
can vehicles are coming to the Common-
wealth, says Supply Minister Beasley, and
rubber stocks will have to be reserved for
the defence forces as far as possible. Thus
another motoring problem arises. The
petrol question, by all accounts, shows
no immediate sign of becoming worse.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at Rosehill on Sydney
Cup day was less than that of the pre-
vious Saturday, the total being approxi-
mately 25,000 and the tote turnover
£30,844. Results favored the layers,
every favorite being defeated, and win-
ners included one at twenties, two at
twelves and one at tens. Both ring and
tote betting again demonstrated that
there is now a lot of money for cash
betting.
• • • • t •
Beau Vite, generally regarded as “a
good thing to bet on,” finished third in
the Sydney Cup without ever looking a
winner. Munro rode him well, always
having him in a handy position, but, no
matter how good a horse may be, 9.11
is a load to carry successfully over two
miles in a handicap.
On figures Veiled Threat, who met
Beau Vite 181b. better than when beaten
by the latter in the Autumn Plate,
appeared to have such a good chance
that it surprised me when F. Williams
sold him after that race, the price re-
ported being £1000. Perhaps, like many
other people, he was a shade doubtful
as to whether his horse would get two
miles. However, though rather wide out,
Veiled Threat was always fairly placed,
and from the time he moved up smartly
into third place behind Angus and Trig-
german near the three furlongs he was
a winner. It was apparent he could go
to Angus and Triggerman as soon as
Parsons wished, and, joining them at the
turn, Veiled Threat had the race quite
safe at the leger.
Velocity ran on well to get second, but,
though it was suggested that, with the
race run at Randwick, there might have
been a different result, Veiled Threat won
too decisively for me to share that
opinion. The three members of the syn-
dicate who bought Veiled Threat de-
cided that, if Veiled Threat won, the £200
trophy should go to his ex-owner, who
unfortunately was not well enough to be
present on Saturday. It was J. M.
Mitchell’s first really big win as a trainer,
though, as Veiled Threat’s ex-owner’s
foreman, he was identified with several.
Triggerman and Angus, after doing the
pacemaking, hung on well to finish fourth
and fifth respectively, and the former
should shortly re-enter the winning list.
Some fancied horses were disappointing,
Pantler and Lambeth in particular. A
long way back passing the judge’s box
the first time, Pantler did not after raise
his backers’ hopes, and though his light
weight appeared to give Lambeth a good
chance he did not run as well as in the
St. Leger. It’s Funny, though meeting
him 201b. worse, again finished ahead of
him. In running It’s Funny received cuts
on the off hind leg.
Beaulivre, who died away after being
fifth at the home turn, injured his near
foreleg and was lame on pulling up.
He appeared right the next day.
Jymjon was prominent for nearly a mile
and a half, while those not sighted near
the front at any part included Dewar
and Dashing Cavalier. The first mile
was run in 1.45, and the concluding one
in 1.40L Veiled Threat, who is a four-
year-old gelding by Veilmond from Spear
Belle, by Spearhead (son of Spearmint)
from Mist Maid, was bred by E. N.
Larkin and sold as a yearling for 600gns.
Running at a distance that suited him,
Yaralla was not headed after taking
charge from Rimveil at the end of the
first furlong in the All-Aged Plate. He
started the back stretch well clear of
Evergreen, with High Caste and Katanga
bringing up the rear. McMenamin
allowed him to stride along without pres-
sure, and, though Evergreen looked like
troubling the chestnut near the three fur-
longs, the latter went away again as soon
as his rider asked him, and was a cer-
tain winner from the straight entrance.
High Caste, who again moved short,
was several lengths behind Yaralla at
the half-mile, and did well to run a fair
third. An offer of 4500gns. was refused
for High Caste at auction last Friday.
Mildura was never a possibility, and,
though a little while ago Rimveil was
believed to be “better than ever,” he did
not show to any greater advantage in
this than in the Doncaster.
• ••••«
Even allowing that he failed to jump
away smartly, it was difficult to recon-
cile Hall Stand’s indifferent form in the
Champagne Stakes with his decisive win
in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, and it demon-
strated how much a horse can deteriorate
in a week. Bangster quickly took charge,
with War Effort and Battle Dress nearest
him. When Hall Stand started to move
up after passing the half-mile nearly
everyone expected him to settle his oppo-
nents quickly. However, his effort was
shortlived, and, never actually better
than fourth, he merely plugged along in
the straight.
Bangster increased his lead in the run
home, and comfortably defeated Battle
. Dress and War Effort. Neither of the
last-mentioned two could get within
cooee of Hall Stand in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, and as he was meeting them
only 71b. worse on Saturday it will be
gathered that he must have been right off.
Winner of the Breeders’ Plate and Cham-
pagne Stakes, Bangster has proved a
profitable purchase at 70gns., and if his
win had taken place shortly before the
yearling sales it is probable his gelding
brother would have sold for more than
95gns. last week.
In the Vaucluse Handicap on the
opening day Astrid was too badly left at
barrier-rise ever to be a possibility.
Backers allowed her to start at a long
price for the C. W. Cropper Handicap,
and disposing of her fellow-pacemaker,
Guild Hall, at the turn she was not in
danger of defeat over the last furlong,
and got within a quarter-second of Rim-
veil’s course record. In second place
Panchio ran well, but finished only a
half-length ahead of Sir Andrea, who did
not jump away as smartly as usual and
also struck a little trouble in running.
Soho was also somewhat slow off the
mark, and though he worked up to fifth
or sixth at the turn could not improve
his position in the straight. Kama, third
at the turn, weakened, and Valve did not
get near the front at any stage. Milanja
was never further back than fourth.
Inside position at the barrier did not
benefit Main Topic, favorite for the first
division of the Fernhill. Never a smart
beginner he was squeezed back early in
the piece, and did not after get into a win-
ning position. Jungle King, who was well
placed from the start, and The Beaver
(a Queensland visitor) had a great set-to
over the last furlong, and it was only
in the last two strides that Jungle King
got his nose in front. Takarangi was a
good third, and of those behind the place-
getters Main Topic, Jonathan Jo and
April Tide did best, the last-named being
one of the leaders when she ran wide
at the home turn. Strood again failed to
act up to the promise he gave earlier in
the season.
Jungle King, who had not raced since
November, won at Rosehill in October,
and his record for four starts is two wins
and two thirds. By Harinero from
Causina, he is trained by R. H. Abbott
for W. J. and W. D. Wyatt.
Streamford, one of J. T. Jamieson’s
team, scored a narrow win in the second
division of the Fernhill Handicap and
may have been a trifle lucky to beat
Marwin, who, as well as Silver Crown,
was interfered with by Fervent, ridden by
Freedman. Ayarpee, The Image, Davinia
and Afloat led at the turn, but the last-
mentioned two settled their chances by
running wide. Unplaced runners in Sand-
man (Harinero-Corsage) and Great Scot
(Constant Son-Mistletoe) shaped promis-
ingly. Streamford, who was bought for
900gns., is by Midstream from Social, a
sister to Talking.
Bragger, though a winner at his two
previous starts, was not generally credited
with better than a 20-to-l chance in the
Coogee Handicap. He proved himself
much better than supposed by getting
to the front soon after the start,
then dropping in behind Duke Cullen
and Ron Rico to the turn and
finishing strongly to beat the latter, with
My Friend a good third. In running
fourth Prince did a little better than in
his recent races, and Bona Fide’s sixth
suggested it would not be long before
she struck winning form. In the straight
Bonny Loch looked a place possibility,
but was losing ground at the winning-
post. High Rank was fairly close to the
place-getters, but though Merrimba,
Gundagai and Patrician were in the bet-
ting they were beaten a long way from
home.
* * * *
Country-owned Watchguard, who was
sent to Melbourne after racing had ceased
in the western district, ran up to his
Alister Clark Stakes form in defeating
The Decoration and Mabson in the
Aylesford Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on
Saturday. There is not much of Watch-
guard, who is a six-year-old gelding by
The Night Patrol, but he proved during
a previous visit to Melbourne that he is
much better than he looks. On Satur-
day he gave his diminutive apprentice
rider, C. Sanderson, formerly of N.S.W.,
his first Melbourne success. Sanderson,
aged 15, weight 4st. 81b., is one of Aus-
tralia’s lightest riders.
Tranquil Star, with an apprentice
allowance reducing her weight to 8.11,
was a disappointing favorite for the
Aylesford Handicap. She attempted to
make it a one-act affair, but there is a
difference between leading throughout a
muddling-run w.f.a. race over U mile
and doing likewise in a handicap event
at 11 furlongs. Tranquil Star was beaten
about half a mile from home and fin-
ished fifth. She appears to have had
enough racing for the time being and
may now be spelled.
Law Student, one of the most im-
proved sprinters in training, completed
a winning hat-trick by defeating Leporis
and Sir Drake in a half-head and head
finish for the Wokingham Handicap. He
looked like winning easily when he
turned for home with a clear lead, but
stopped quickly nearing the post and
may have been beaten in another couple
of strides. Zonda, equal second favorite
with Sangallo, momentarily threatened
danger at the turn, but finished weakly.
She ran below the form that had enabled
her to run second to Law Student at
Flemington a week earlier, and the only
excuse possible for her was that she had
not raced previously on the tricky Ascot
track.
• ••••»
Shutone justified his solid backing for
the first Plymouth Welter by winning de-
cisively, if narrowly, from Sunixa and
Jamestown. Backers, however, were not
so fortunate in the other two divisions.
Great Peak, starting at 10 to 1, com-
pensated for several unlucky perform-
ances by winning the second division
rather easily from Melchett and Devon,
while Atlas, a 20-to-l chance, upset cal-
culations by beating his stablemate
Orcadian, equal favorite at 3 to 1, into
third place in a close finish for the third
division. S. Masters, trainer of the pair,
said after the race that he hadn’t put
a penny on Atlas.
Prince Ebon was hooted by a section
of the crowd after his 15-to-l suc-
cess in the fourth Murchison Trial Han-
dicap. Demonstrators could not recon-
cile his form with his even-money failure
at Ballarat a week earlier.
* * * *
Moonee Valley has decided that no
more than seven races shall be run at
its meeting on May 9, .and in six of the
seven the limit of acceptors is to be 20.
The method of elimination has not been
announced.
* * * *
The reduction of racing days at Rand-
wick will mean a substantial loss to the
N.S.W. Government in the way of
revenue from the A.J.C. In 1939-40 that
body’s contribution to the State was
£94,858, and £104,879 in 1940-41. Prior
to its recent autumn meeting the club
had given £52,000 to war funds. A good
effort for a little over two years.
* * * *
For a new sire—and an Australian-
bred one—Young Idea’s yearlings sold
well last week. They lacked nothing in
substance, and it will not be surprising
if some of his first lot give him a good
advertisement. The colt out of Dashing
realised 500gns., but his price was in a
measure probably due to his being a half-
brother to Dashing Cavalier.
* * * ♦
Owing to its own course, Ascot (Bris-
bane), not being available the Q.T.C.
will not hold its customary Brisbane Cup
meeting in May this year. There will be
a substitute meeting at Albion Park, with
prize-money totalling £2500, against
something over £ll,OOO at its last Cup
meeting,
* * * *
Canterbury Park has no cause to regret
not repeating its high prizes of last
autumn. Even with the highest prize
for ten races not exceeding £2O0 —and
the richest on either day £2so—entries
are sufficiently numerous for a pro-
gramme of 12 races on the first day, even
allowing scratchings may be numerous.
The club will not attempt that number,
of course. Many of the best horses now
in training are engaged, and as so many
people want racing, and have more
money than for some time past to spend
on it, there is bound to be a large attend-
ance each day. Owners and trainers may
not appreciate the position, but the club
should fare much better financially than
when it gave £1650 for its two principal
races last year. This time the amount
for 12 races is £2400, but divisions will
increase that sum.
* * * *
Of the 300 yearlings catalogued by
Inglis and Son for last week’s yearling
sales 232 were sold at an average of
144gns. Last year 430 of a catalogue
of 538 averaged 186igns, The fact
of prominent breeders reducing their con-
tributions to the catalogue by about half
suggested they expected an indifferent
market. The A.J.C.’s cut in prize-
money for its recent autumn meeting had
comparatively little bearing on the prices
of horses that will not race until next
season, and who may have opportunities
of competing for rich stakes at two and
three years. Income taxation and the war
position were responsible for buyers not
launching out to the same extent as in
previous years. Breeders could not
reasonably expect as good a return this
year as in the previous five.
* * * *
Four-figure yearlings were not a feature
of last week’s Randwick sales, the highest
price paid for anything being 800gns. for
the St. Aubins-bred colt by Hua from im-
ported Silver Pom (Pommern-Silverware).
Next was 700gns. for F. W. Hughes’s well-
proportioned colt by The Marne from
Bonny Margaret (Spelthorne - Ileen
Alwyne). St. Aubins and Hughes have
directly contributed so much to racing
in a short period that they deserve re-
ward as breeders. A half-sister by Beau
Pere to Flying Knight realised 625gn5.,
and the owner of Bangster gave 675gns.
for a colt by The Buzzard from Culfort.
The colt by Constant Son from Vivere
(Heroic-Troisieme) at 600gns. did best for
the Kia-Ora Stud. Beau Pere averaged
495gns. for four. The Buzzard 453gns.
for eight and Manitoba 41 Ugns. for
four. Midstream’s 22 averaged 186|gns.
» * ♦ •
High Caste’s two-year-old half-brother
Nizam was a runner for the North Island
Challenge Stakes won by Kindergarten
at Wellington (M.L.) last month. He
was backed, but could only get fifth in
a field of seven. The three-year-old roan
filly (Theio-Queen’s Salute), who won
the Thompson Handicap at the same
meeting, is owned by Mrs. H. D. Green-
wood. There was more money for bet-
ting at Wellington than last year. The
tote turnover for the two days was
£lBl,OlB, against £139,526.
At Leichhardt, Sydney, George Elliott
(10.6), after winning practically every
round, was knocked down twice in the
12th by Jimmy Dundee (10.0), and seemed
sure to be knocked out. But, still fighting
feebly at the final bell, Elliott was de-
clared the winner on points—very prop-
erly, though hoots came from all parts
of the house. Noted for his punching,
Dundee let fly with few shots, and Elliott
walked away with many rounds. He
fought and Dundee clinched. Obviously
realising he was a mile behind on points,
Dundee landed a left to the body and
right to the chin early in the last round,
and Elliott went down. Arising with his
mind elsewhere, Elliott kept going till the
bell saved him.
* * * *
As in 1928 and 1937, Sydney Church
of England Grammar (“Shore”) won all
three races at the G.P.S. regatta on the
Parramatta, In the eights the college
crew was pressed hard by St. Joseph’s,
but had a quarter-canvas to the good at
the finish.
♦ * * *
McNabb, Lithgow’s 20-stone pug, was
knocked out in six rounds at Newcastle
by Narvo, the Rugby League forward.
He came in 1011 b. heavier than Narvo.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Brush Hurdle Race: King’s
Cross, 1 ; Anpapejo, 2; Kenil
Gem, 3.
Flying Handicap: Irish Sea, 1 ;
Astrid, 2 ; Milanja or Martheus, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Sand-
man, 1 ; The Beaver, 2 ; Streamford
or Marwin, 3.
Canterbury Park Handicap:
Angus, 1 ; Metallise, 2 ; Stylish or
Triggerman, 3.
Trial Stakes Handicap: Qui Va
La, 1 ; Tyrannus, 2; Belle Doree, 3.
Ashbury Handicap : Mortine, 1 ;
Happy Lass, 2; Fearless Fox or
Alluring, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Boisdale Hurdle: Bluebeard, 1 ;
Indignity, 2 ; Securities, 3.
Avon Handicap; Audacity, 1 ;
Huntingdale, 2 ; Reply Paid, 3.
Stratford Handicap: Cloudy Bay,
1 ; Lugano, 2 ; Wheat Sheaf, 3.
Powerscourt Handicap: Saul, 1 ;
Sun Belle, 2 ; Damalis, 3.
Tinamba Stakes: Operatic, 1 ;
Reception, 2 ; All Veil, 3.
Mewburn Trial Stakes: Dream
Girl, 1 ; Martinez, 2 ; Woodgate, 3.


THE SERVICE MAN
Bataan Taken.
“ißk Dum”: The surrender of Manila
and Cavite on January 4 was followed by
the withdrawal of General MacArthur’s
forces behind the Bataan lines, a skilfully-
conceived and well-executed operation,
which placed the defenders in rough and
difficult country. The South China Sea
stretches out to the west, the broad ex-
panse of Manila Bay to the east. There
were no coastal footholds, exterior or
interior, which could not be well com-
manded by artillery, and the enemy’s best
harbor approach for military purposes
was under the very noses of the U.S. and
Filipino front-line gunners.
The enemy, however, had the posses-
sion of Clark field and other adjacent
aerodromes, or what remained of them
after Uncle Sam had finished with them.
His ’planes merely had to rise to be
over the defence lines within a few
seconds or minutes. The garrison in-
cluded one American regiment of in-
fantry and 5000 airmen, of whom 2000
turned themselves into infantry after their
machines had been reduced to a couple
of flights of fighters. There were also
two tank battalions, mobile artillery, blue-
jackets, a contingent of the übiquitous
“leathernecks,” and 10,500 Filipino
scouts, some of whom could boast only
a sketchy training. They were compelled
to share their ration with 20,000 Manila
refugees and 5000 laborers assisting in
the building of defences.
Evidently the Washington correspon-
dent of the A.A.P. (B. 4/3/’42) —who
mentioned also that two officers had re-
ceived the D.S.C. for bringing an access
of 20,000 Filipino troops into the de-
fence lines from southern Luzon —was
dreaming when he reckoned that General
MacArthur had 200,000 men at his dis-
posal, including 150,000 Philippine troops.
Large numbers of the devoted men
under siege, cut off from outside aid and
with no proper rear lines in which to
spend relief spells from the ceaseless
bombing which harassed them after the
enemy tore up their air umbrella, were
killed, wounded or otherwise casualties
before the final attacks, which, on land
and in the air, had gone on continuously
for six days and six nights.
The forces had been short of food
from the beginning and of ammunition
and weapons latterly. Under the super-
vision of General P. J. Hurley, the vigor-
ous Oklahoman who was President
Hoover’s Secretary of War and who now
is Uncle Sam’s Minister to Maoriland,
heroic attempts were made to bring sup-
plies from a base in Australia. They
were successful in part, but Mr. Stimson,
the U.S. Secretary of War, says that, for
every ship that arrived, two were lost.
It was impossible to move the large
remnant menaced by the swarming enemy
across the two-mile strait to Corregidor,
though at least 3500 marines and others
were known on April 12 to have crossed
the passage. Surrender of Bataan became
inevitable after the Japanese command
of the sea had enabled the enemy to pour
in men and armament without a break
for days together.
The headquarters staff, under General
Wainwright, retired to Corregidor. How
long Corregidor can hold out is a prob-
lem full of foreboding. Its resources
must now be limited. The Japanese have
positions on Bataan within two miles of
the island, which lies in the 15-mile-long
entrance to Manila Bay. Its approaches
on the southern side are guarded by
three forts on tiny islands —Forts Frank,
Drum and Hughes. The island itself is
about six miles long by two wide, and
without greater man-power it will be dif-
ficult to resist an attack from several
points by an enemy utterly regardless of
the lives of his own men. Naval facili-
ties such as the Dewey dry dock have
been destroyed, which looks ominous.
The island garrison can be depended
on to fight to the last gasp. And resist-
ance in North Luzon and at other points
in the islands will be continued to the
limit of human endurance by Lieut.-
General Wainwright, who superseded
General MacArthur in the full command
which the latter held until last week. The
local command has authority to act on
its own initiative.
There has been fierce fighting at half
a dozen beach heads on Cebu Island, to
which the main fighting now seems to
have been transferred. Enemy losses
there are heavy.
Australia, which had its Tobruk and
its Singapore, feels a deep sympathy with
the defenders of Bataan, with their rela-
tives and with their nation. It also shares
the sentiment of the chairman of the
U.S. House of Reps. Military Affairs
Committee: “It’s tough to lose the Philip-
pines. But, damn them, we’ll be back.”
It was reserved for General MacArthur
to strike the deepest note:
The Bataan force went out as it would
have wished, fighting to the end of its
flickering and forlorn hope. No army has
ever done so much with so little, and
nothing became it more than its last hour
of trial and agony. To the weeping mothers
of its dead I can only say that the sacri-
fice and halo of Jesus of Nazareth have
descended upon their sons.
"Bad News" from India.
“Ek Dum”; In Burma last week the
Japanese made further progress on the
Sittang front, where the Chinese retired
before the enemy tanks, after exacting
about 5000 casualties during the taking
of Toungoo. On the Irrawaddy, the
British were forced back 40 miles in four
days, despite improved air support. At
the week-end the enemy was only 25
miles from Yenang Yaung, one of the
three great oil-producing centres of the
Irrawaddy Basin. It will not be long
before the two enemy columns can make
a converging movement westward, if
their advance continues.
The main interest on the Indian front
lay in the air and at sea, where the story
of naval losses to which Pearl Harbor,
Prince of Wales and Repulse and the
battle for Java furnished melancholy
chapters was added to at the expense of
the Royal Navy.
Strong enemy units with one or more
aircraft-carriers and a background of
heavy bombers from Port Blair in the
Andamans had been gathering for weeks
in the Bay of Bengal. After the attack
on Colombo, which left 50 dead behind
—about one to every aeroplane destroyed
or probably destroyed—the enemy ranged
up the coast of India. He attacked
Coconada and Vizagapatam, British bases
on the Golconda coast, and respectively
about 600 and 500 miles below Calcutta,
but did only slight damage, and casualties
were small.
Madras had a raid to follow, but it
must have been more for purposes of re-
connaissance than for offence. Only five
machines were used. Madras presents a
difficult problem in defence. It lies on a
flat, coconut-fringed seashore. Most of
its public buildings and railway facilities
are within easy reach of shellfire from
far out to sea, and a landing party could
tumble into congested Blacktown almost
straight off the beach. Madras actually
was shelled by the Emden in the last war.
Meanwhile, the Japanese reported the
landing of a strong outflanking force at
Akyab, just south of the Assam border
and less than 300 miles from Calcutta.
If the report is true that brought the
teeming commercial capital within easy
air-raid distance. Communications be-
tween the Burmese fronts further to the
south-east and India could be directly
threatened from Akyab, as are the links
with Mandalay and China. A 300-mile
drive north-east would leave Chungking
isolated from supplies from the outside,
save by courtesy of the Soviet Union —
at least for the present.
On April 8 Tokyo reported that a
naval engagement had taken place in the
Bay of Bengal on April 6 and 7, and
that the British fleet had suffered “devas-
tating losses.” Tokyo declared that the
British were withdrawing hastily from the
Indian Ocean, with Japanese units in pur-
suit.
Next day the Admiralty admitted that
H.M.S. Dorsetshire, first of the Nor-
folk class of cruisers, and Cornwall,
which sank the German raider Atlantis
some months ago, and which was sister
to H.M.A.S. Australia and Canberra, had
gone down. With Dorsetshire —which
represented the Admiralty in Sydney dur-
ing the 150th anniversary celebrations —
was lost the gallant Captain A. W, S.
Agar, who won the V.C. in the Baltic
during the Russian phases of the last war.
From both warships there were 1100
survivors out of 1329.
On April 9 the loss of the aircraft-
carrier Hermes, only 10 miles off the
Ceylon coast, was reported. She was an
old ship of 10,850 tons, with only 25
knots in her, built for the craft of the
1919 era, but it should have been pos-
sible to defend her from the shore. Per-
haps she was not defended because the
Trincomalee air umbrella was too busy
defending the last western Indian
Ocean naval base from an onslaught by
a large air force, similar to that used
against Darwin on Feb. 19. Damage
was done in the harbor and dockyard,
where there were some casualties, but no
civilians were killed or injured. Six Jap
’planes were wrecked, six more “prob-
ably” and two damaged. Casualties on
Hermes were not known —her comple-
ment was 664.
All three tragedies were the work of
dive-bombers, not torpedo-bombers. In
machines and heavy guns alike, the
Japanese seem to be superior to the
British in the Indian Ocean area. Once
more there was a failure to make
adequate preparations to hold spring-
boards of attack.
The Admiralty was able to deny the
enemy claim to have destroyed a cruiser
of the Birmingham class (9100 tons), one
of the Emerald class (8000 tons) and a
destroyer. The enemy’s claims included
destruction of 46 aircraft in the air and
six on the ground, a patrol vessel and
six other ships, and damage to a cruiser
of the Leander class.
As Mr. Curtin said, “the news is bad.”
India faces some sort of a main attack
on its eastern frontier at the moment the
first shots are fired in the German drive
against the Russian lines towards the
Volga and the western Indian borders.
And command of the sea and air seem
in danger of being lost in the Indian
Ocean and on the supply routes to Aus-
tralian and other troops in the Middle
East. Soon, indeed, war may have en-
folded Australia on the west, as well as
touching it on the north and north-east.
All the same, the Japanese can scarcely
hope to conquer India with a drive which
cannot come to full blast till the end of
May. They probably are aiming mainly
for eastern coast and port control, with
perhaps a few footholds and possession
of the eastern railway systems, which,
like those of the Commonwealth, run
perilously near to the coast. They might
even aspire to Calcutta or Madras —a
key railway junction and a city whose
capture would have a profound effect on
all India.
They will have to hurry. The mon-
soon in Central India is due about June
12 ; and the Indian monsoon period at
its height is something which makes the
coldest part of the Middle European
winter seem as pleasant as spring in the
Tyrol. It is preceded by a month of
withering heat in which vitiating tempera-
tures of over 100 degrees are common,
and it is followed by a downpour which
would persuade even the Sydney Water
Board to loosen its restrictions.
Perhaps the Japanese are reckoning
these factors as advantages in a country
governed rigidly by the custom that at the
onset of summer all sahibs, white and
otherwise, retire to the hills. If so, they
are reckoning wrong. The Hill and
Mohammedan peoples would ignore a
summer in Hades in the interests of a
good fight. And the bleating of Con-
gress leaders that “what is most wanted
in India is enthusiastic response by the
people which cannot be evoked without
devolution upon them in the matter of
defence” is so much babu talk which
may go down in Delhi and Tokyo, but
which will be drowned in the war yells
of Sikhs, Rajputs, Pathans and Nepalese
when the first Jap sets foot on Indian
soil.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese have so far
attempted no major operations against
Australia, and there is little evidence,
save the concentrations in their own
“Mandated” islands and the Dutch East
Indies, that they intend any. Proximity
makes events in New Guinea seem far
larger than they really are. But there is
still plenty of time for them to become
larger in actuality.
By standards of major warfare, the
operations along the Australian coast
and in New Guinea, both on land and
in the air, are only patrol activities if
the first raid on Darwin is omitted. Esti-
mates of damage and casualties inflicted
in our own raids do not seem as re-
strained as they might be. Too-optimistic
accounts of the naval and air fighting in
the N.E.I. should be taken as a warning.
The battle of Macassar Strait was
called “the greatest victory since Jutland.”
It was said that the enemy had lost a
battleship, a cruiser, 13 to 15 transports
sunk, six transports and an aircraft-
carrier probably sunk, plus 15 transports,
five cruisers and a destroyer damaged
and 35,000 men lost.
Last week Vice-Admiral Glassford, the
United States Asiatic Fleet naval com-
mander, said:
In the Macassar Strait the Japanese were
taken by surprise. I think that we un-
doubtedly accounted for half a dozen of
their ships without any loss to ourselves.
Similarly, it has been constantly can-
vassed that Australian and U.S. air
efforts have dislocated all the Japanese
plans for invasion of Australia. The
Japanese would hold Australia very cheap
if they considered the effort so far made
in New Guinea and the Solomons
adequate as a preliminary to serious in-
vasion. It looks for the moment —what-
ever it may develop into —far more like
a security-occupation of harbors which
the Allies might use as bases to strike
at the Carolines and Marshalls and begin
a game of tipcat, with Japan itself as a
goal.
AH the Japanese attacks from Broome
to Kieta look as much defensive as the
return attacks of small but strong
R.A.A.F. and U.S.A.F. formations.
Operations on Australia’s fringes may
be summarised as follows:
April 6: Allied bombers score direct hits and
some “near misses”—which can almost always
be counted on to do some damage—on vessels
in Rabaul Harbor. Rabaul aerodrome attacked
and Gasmata (s. coast of New Britain) bombed
for the third time.
Japanese reported to have made new land-
ings in the Solomons, about 1400 miles from
Brisbane. They now occupy Kieta, Kessa,
Buka and Faisi.
Seven enemy bombers, with “O” fighters,
attack Moresby for the 23rd time. Allied fighters
score hits on some bombers. One R.A.A.F.
fighter forced down, but the pilot parachutes
into the sea and is rescued by native canoes.
April 7: U.S. Navy reports the sinking by a
submarine of two large enemy tankers in the
Carolines.
Allied air forces score direct hits on five
or six grounded aircraft at Lae, start a fire
among them, and, in another run, damage other
bombers. One O-type fighter attempting to
drive off the attack is shot down. Koepang
raided, in spite of three attempts by enemy
fighters to turn back the raiders as they approach
from Australia. The day’s operations cost
one Allied machine.
April 8; Occupation of Lorengau, district
station of the Admiralties and the nearest N.G.
settlement of importance to the Jap Mandated
islands.
The crew of an R.A.A.F. bomber forced
down into the sea are rescued by natives and
taken to Moresby by flying-boat. The bomber
had thrice got home on a large enemy transport.
April 9: Five bombers drop between 30 and
40 bombs on Tulagi (Solomons) from 5000 ft.
No casualties.
April 10: Buildings and aircraft are destroyed,
fires are started and wharfage facilities damaged
in a raid mainly directed against harbor in-
stallations at Rabaul. A second flight of
bombers wrecked, “probably not fewer than
eight heavy bombers and one fighter,” on
Vunakanau aerodrome. Buildings are set on
fire and ground staffs severely raked over by
departing tail-gunners. In both raids there was
heavy ground fire, and the bombers of Rabaul
suffered two attacks by six O-type fighters, one
of which went off limping, another trailing
heavy smoke.
The usual reprisal raid by seven bombers on
Moresby. They drop part of their load from
20,000 ft. close to one aerodrome without doing
much harm or causing casualties. The enemy
seems to have lost a bomber and a fighter.
Off North Australia an expedition bombs Koe-
pang aerodrome from 1500 ft.; a big blaze
sighted.
April 11: In an attack on shipping and
aerial facilities at Lae, Flying Fortresses find
fighters waiting for them. The R.A.A.F. escort
brings down two and damages four; then its
big sisters set fire to a building and blow some
large bits off grounded ’planes and shipping.
A second force left mementoes at Rabaul
during the morning. Bombs and m.-g. fire set
some of the town’s very inflammable buildings
ablaze; fires could be seen 50 miles out at
sea. An enemy O-type interceptor was hit.
Faisi, in the Solomons, had its first raid since
the Jap occupation. Damage not fully observed.
In a sobering statement the Air
Minister, Mr. Drakeford, said it could
be “deduced that Japanese air reinforce-
ments have been arriving steadily” in the
north and that these supplies are still
forthcoming. “Notwithstanding the spec-
tacular blows delivered last month by
R.A.A.F. and Allied aircraft, it would
be fatal to think we had brought the
Japanese to a halt.” There was “no
cause for undue optimism.”
From March 8 to April 8 66 enemy
’planes were destroyed, 20 probably
destroyed and 40 damaged between
Koepang and Rabaul. These figures, the
Minister declared, were conservative, but
there was nothing to show that there was
any shrinkage of enemy air power in
the Australian zone, and the turning point
was not yet near, though Allied successes
had brought it closer.
Time counts. The R.A.A.F. and the
U.S.A.F. in the Commonwealth are being
merged as quickly as possible into a
cohesive striking force. Lieut.-General
Brett reports that the two forces are
“pooling everything,” both ’planes and
men. The R.A.A.F. was short of air-
craft, and when it takes over its new
’planes will be handling equipment to
which its men are new. But it will be
about a generation ahead of the Wirra-
ways.
Australian war expenditure in March
was at the rate of £1,000,000 a day.
Malta and Libya.
“Ek Dum”: Malta continues to go
through its travail while Rommel’s
armies consolidate themselves and nose
along the British lines in the hope of
discovering weak spots.
The German Radio boasts that Malta
is now in a hopeless position ; that its
inhabitants have been “forced to take to
the mountains” and that the operations


of the port and the efforts of the R.N.
to keep up supplies have been “ended.”
For three days at the beginning of last
week the enemy maintained an inces-
sant assault with masses of Stukas and
their successors, the new Jußß’s. These
are formidable two-engined machines,
very flexible in handling compared with
the older version. They were covered
by fighter escorts.
On April 5 it was reported that in
the past 24 hours many buildings had
been shattered and entrances to three
Valetta theatres blocked with debris.
On April 6 flak guns bagged a couple
of raiders and two R.A.F. machines were
missing.
After that, attacks were intensified, and
an ominous feature was the apparent
cessation of effective air defence. It
sounded as if aerodromes might be out of
commission. On April 10 Rome Radio
reported jubilantly that 1000 bombs had
been dropped on Malta in 48 hours and
that the R.A.F. H.Q., the Admiralty and
St. Roche Barracks were in ruins.
At the end of the week the bomb blast
had been almost continuous for 18 days,
and hundreds of enemy machines appar-
ently were in use.
All the same, Malta must be a great
headache to the enemy. None of the
Axis Mediterranean possessions has any-
thing like the defence of the industrial
districts and naval ports of northern and
western Germany. And those respon-
sible for the protection of Italian and
Greek strategic positions and production
centres must lose a great deal of sleep
at the thought of what is likely to happen
when the R.A.F. is able to base Stirlings
and Halifaxes and Manchesters behind
Valetta. Tripoli is distant 225 miles,
Benghazi 362 miles, Catania 120, Brin-
disi and Naples each about 360, Athens
and Crete within 600.
The whole German rear in Africa,
together with Rommel’s communication
lines, is open to attack from Malta both
by bombers and twin-engined fighters.
And since the enemy also has to con-
sider attacks from the east, he is likely
to be in a bad air sandwich unless he can
free himself from the menace.
In Libya the Germans are concen-
trating in forward positions and consoli-
dating air support; and there was patrol
activity during the week. Two armored
patrol columns were involved in all-day
clash. The bombers ran their usual
routine deliveries to Tripoli, Benghazi,
Martuba and elsewhere.
It is difficult to believe in the possi-
bility of an offensive by either side at
this stage. On April 5 it was a year
to the day since the last German advance.
This time the German armies are not
facing stripped positions, and the height
of the heat is only a month away.
Still, all reports show that this year
the enemy is better fitted out for a
summer campaign than he was a few
months ago. His equipment now in-
cludes a bivouac tent for every man, with
floor and extra roof cover complete.
Packs captured contained individual spirit
stoves, mouthwash, eye lotion, torches,
vacuum flasks and special oddment cases,
and carried the materials for nourishing
stews, tinned-meat paste and the like.
In the camps fresh lemons, abundant
meat and potatoes and onions and fresh
meat and egg supplies for officers are
usually found, and bread rusk packets
and mineral water, which seems to be a
regular desert issue.
Alan Morehead, of the London “Ex-
press,” wrote recently:
They have abundance of everything.
Much of the stuff, like bandages, is ersatz.
but the surgical instruments are of the
highest quality. It is not unusual to come on
a dentist’s outfit complete with drills and
elaborate chairs. All these technical ser-
vices are the result of endless intelligent
planning and mass manufacture.
The workshops captured on the Cairo
side of Tobruk contained huge lathes,
tools and dies of every description and
cased guns already fitted with precision
instruments.
The artillery employed is pronounced
excellent. The enemy uses five types of
gun, the heaviest of which is the naval
gun so familiar to our Tobruk Rats.
These were able to shell the harbor from
well outside the perimeter. The Germans’
most versatile weapon is an 88mm. gun,
sometimes moving on its own carriage,
sometimes tank-mounted —it would cor-
respond to our 25-pounder. It is a forcible
tank-stopper. The two lighter tank guns
are the 50mm. (2in.) and 37mm.
Staff cars are tiny “people’s cars.”
Rommel had and has all sorts of trans-
port vehicles, from huge troop-carriers,
20-odd feet long, to the wagons on which
tanks are carried to the battlefields to
save the petrol of which caterpillars are
so thirsty. These carriers are equipped
with cranes, lie in the offing during en-
gagements and nose in to grab any dis-
abled vehicle, German or British, which
comes within their range.
Morehead remarks that “Rommel’s
cfaff never commits the error of under-
rating the British,” and “that talk about
once you get the Germans on the run
they are beaten is dangerous nonsense.”
Obviously we are still up against a
formidable enemy who can’t be beaten
—any more than the Japanese—by the
squalling of a half-hysterical Information
Department.
Supplies and Communica-
tions.
“Ek Dum”: Until the attack on Pearl
Harbor the United States suffered from
all the inconveniences of “non-belli-
gerency.” So Britain for a time must
remain the chief arsenal and foothold on
the Allied side till Uncle Sam gets into
his stride and he and John Bull can go
forward together.
Uncle Sam at the same time started
his war with advantages which Britain
did not have in 1939. He is ready with
plans for modern weapons, built on ex-
perience gained at the cost of British
and Dominion blood. Most were on the
production line, so that war output had
a flying start. He has vast factories
which need only conversion. He has
man-power and, for all practical pur-
poses, limitless food and raw materials
to his hand, without the necessity of
carrying them by sea, like Britain.
While this is so, neither he nor his
Allies have sufficient shipping as yet to
carry more than a tithe of America’s
potential war production and move and
feed and munition the Allied armies.
U.S. shipping in Sept., 1939, totalled
8.000. tons. There are now available
1200 ships in the deep-sea trade, includ-
ing those taken over from foreign coun-
tries, making about 4,400,000 tons. Build-
ing has been largely for replacement;
1,500,000 tons have been transferred to
the navy and army, and 2,000,000 tons
to nations resisting the Axis under “lease-
lend” agreements. But this year the
building plans are for 5,000,000 tons of
new craft.
The U.S. Navy is building 15 new
battleships, 18 aircraft-carriers, 34
cruisers, 193 destroyers and 73 sub-
marines. In 1941, 25 new fighting ships,
including two 35,000-ton battleships, went
into commission, and 245 fighting ships,
96 auxiliary vessels, 243 mine ships and
225 patrol boats were building. There
are 86 navy yards and 133 private yards.
In February 5,000,000 workers were
engaged already in defence production.
Whereas, when France fell, the U.S. was
spending on war effort only roughly at
the rate of £600,000,000 Australian p.a.,
on Dec. 1, 1941, its expenditure was at
the rate of £6,000,000,000 p.a. The
amount budgeted for in 1942 is roughly
£18,000,000,000.
In March, 1941, actual lease-lend ex-
penditure was about £5,000,000, while in
November it was £80,000,000. It has
expanded very considerably since then,
not taking into account the priceless
“lend” of the American fighting personnel
to the s.-w. Pacific and elsewhere. Huge
bases for the reception of American
goods and men have been built at
Karachi and in Northern Ireland, and
one is in construction in Eritrea.
Britons have grateful cause to remem-
ber the food sent across the Atlantic dur-
ing 1941 —dairy products of 2,500,000
tons of milk; meat and lard from
9.000. pigs ; 45,000,000 chickens and
the egg product of 40,000,000 hens.
Within this summer tanks, ’planes,
ships should begin to roll off the pro-
duction lines of America and Canada on
a scale never before known in history.
Uncle Sam’s output of artillery in
January had swollen to five times, of
ammunition to nine times the production
of March, 1941.
The Communications Headache
It is, however, one thing to produce
and another to ship, and those advocates
of the Second Front and diffusion of
effort should be made to consider quietly
the position of advantage in which the
Axis Powers stand.
In production they have a grip on vir-
tually all the relevant man-power and
resources of Europe, They have no man-
power problems since they can fix hours,
conditions of work and every other factor
independently of civil rights or public
opinion.
Having produced their war material,
they can haul even their heaviest material
mostly direct into the firing line or at
least to its fringes. They have only one
actually vital sea communication route
to consider—about 450 miles across the
Mediterranean to a comparatively unim-
portant front. In Europe scarcely any of
their routes are subject to constant attack,
as the Allied sea routes are.
Even in terms of actual ton mileage
their advantage in time and relative deli-
veries of any sea or land vehicle is stag-
gering.
Distances from Fronts.
Libya, Moscow,
Via Via North
Suez. Archangel. Australia.
From Miles. Miles. Miles.
London .. .. 14,500 2600 12,000
Detroit (U.S.) .. 13,300 6000 11,500
Central Germany 1,450 800
Japan .. .. 3,500
Thus, the basic supply lines of the Axis
on three crucial fronts total at worst
only 5750 miles roughly, while the Allied
supply lines total just on 60,000 miles,
nearly all coverable only by the slowest
kind of carriage—ships. These lines take
no account of Burma and the service of
Russia through Iran. And the figures
can be seen in just proportion only when
it is realised that the German routes are
served mainly by land transport, which
can do two or three trips over a given
distance while a ship would be making
one. Land transport is more easy to
maintain or replace than ships.
The Axis has at least a 20-to-l
advantage in communication lines oyer all
its enemies except the U.S.S.R., which, in
spite of its long start in preparation and
vast man-power and its leaders’ assur-
ances of their country’s materiel superi-
ority, must be nursed by the Anglo-Saxon
nations. For it cannot carry from the
overseas factories the war material pro-
duced for its uses, or even defend the
convoys which bring it.
The Long Road Home
The problem of Russian deliveries will
fall more and more heavily on British
and U.S. transport and escorts as time
goes on and the flow increases.
Those who talk about the war being
ended this year are airy optimists. Those
who feel gloomy about the ultimate out-
come must be devoid of imagination.
Those who demand second fronts, whose
words tend to sow dissension between
Britain and Uncle Sam and who try to
swing public opinion against the idea
that the war will ultimately be won only
by outbuilding Germany and its allies
and conserving weapons and materials
till they can be used in a crushing blow,
are like the meddlesome hysterics who
interfere with a fire brigade when it is
laying out the hoses.
Uncle Sam and John Bull apparently
agree that the first point in major strategy
is the defence of Britain and the British
Dominions, especially Australia and
Maoriland.
Britain bars the doors of the world
against the Axis, while Uncle Sam and
Canada are beginning to build the giant
offensive equipment which will squash
German, Japanese and Italian sea and
air effort and turn the scale.
Atrocity Stories.
“Ek Dum”: Atrocity stories should not
be published until the evidence has been
weighed and verified.
Many things need to be considered,
among them the effect on the womenfolk
of Australians held as prisoners of war.
The reactions of these anxious ladies,
and of fathers, sons and brothers, to the
accounts of the atrocities imputed to the
Japanese in New Guinea must have been
and must still be painful in the extreme.
The first report, characterised as
“almost incredible,” was contained in an
official statement issued in Moresby on
April 6.
The details were said to have been
given “by three Australian service men,
the sole survivors of a party of 10 officers
and 50 men who were trapped while
escaping through New Britain after the
fall of Rabaul.” This version said that
the party, captured at Tol, n.-e, of Gas-
mata, by a detachment from an enemy
destroyer, were lined up, their hands tied
behind them with fishing line. Their be-
longings were thrown into a heap. They
were then tied up in batches of ten, and
each party was taken into the bush under
a guard, which was ordered to fix
bayonets. Each prisoner was led away
by a Japanese. Screams were heard
and the Japanese soldier returned alone.
One man was shot at his own request.
The only witness quoted —“one of the
only three survivors” —said that several
men were bayoneted a few yards from
him without being taken into the bush.
Most of the Australians cursed: “You
yellow blanks ; you’ll pay for this when
our chaps catch you.” That has an
authentic touch. The survivor said that
“for some reason” all the Japanese left
except an officer, “who picked up a rifle,
motioned me to walk away and then
fired at me.”
The bullet went through my left shoulder
and I lay still. He fired two more shots
while I was on the ground. One went
through my left wrist, the other through
my right hand. I lay still for a while,
as the shot must have caught me in the
back, paralysing my legs for a while.
The soldier said that when no Japanese
came back he decided to take the risk
of escaping, and escaped. Three days
later he was picked up by other Aus-
tralians.
For some reason or other, except for
a non-committal line or two, nothing
more was published about the dreadful
business for a couple of days. Then
Sydney publications interviewed a soldier
from the 10th Field Ambulance, whose
story suggested that he had supplied part
of the information collected at Moresby.
He said that the Japanese at first ap-
peared quite friendly, and showed the
captives meticulous courtesy even when
about to butcher them.
But there were discrepancies between
the “official” report and that given in Syd-
ney. The former mentioned 60 Austra-
lian victims ; the interview 125. Accord-
ing to the official report ten Australian
officers were given revolvers and a bullet
each for self-destruction —revolvers, which
can be used formidably, by doomed men
prepared to sell their lives dearly,
without a bullet. The soldier does not
refer to this incident. Wounded in three
places, he “was seven days in the bush —
my wounds pained me dreadfully—before
I crawled down to a beach and found
some civilians. I had no food, and the
only water I drank was some I collected
from jungle leaves.”
The official report said the men had
been rescued after three days, and by
soldiers, not civilians.
There were atrocity stories in Gallipoli,
and some were published in Australian
papers. Army doctors failed to find con-
vincing evidence of even one case.
This is not to say that the outrages
attributed to the enemy in New Guinea
may not have a substantial and dreadful
basis of fact. But it would be well if the
Prime Minister, an old journalist with
a cool head, himself undertook the re-
sponsibility of making such announce-
ments when or if such announcements
have to be made.
“Ek D.”: There was no substantial
movement on the Russian front last week,
save in the Kharkov area, where German
tank drives on a scale comparable with
those in the autumn seem to be getting
into motion. Otherwise, actions are
mainly those of large patrols feeling out
positions and digging the enemy main
positions in the ribs to test their solidity.
The Germans admit that “major Russian
forces” have attacked in the Kerch Penin-
sula, but say they have been driven back.
According to Losovsky, “indications
point to our liquidation of the Germans
in 1942”; and, according to Kalinin,
the Germans lost between 200,000
and 300,000 men during the winter from
frostbite, and the Donetz Basin will be
producing coal for the Soviets again
sooner than the Germans think. All
Moscow reports speak of huge armies of
trained Russian troops ready to anticipate
Hitler’s spring offensive.
« * * *
R.A.F.’s raiding of the west and north
German industrial areas were continued
last week. Hamburg suffered a huge raid,
and in three nights more than 1000
bombs were dropped—bombs which are
now weighed in tons instead of the cwts.
of last year. There were also fighter
sweeps and more specialised attacks along
the French coast. About 40 British air-
craft were lost.
* * * *
While Italy chortled over a supposedly
“devastating” raid in which bombers flew
1000 miles to Gibraltar and then —quite
safely—another 100 miles home, a British
submarine, captained by Lieut.-Com-
mander Tomkinson, sank a 10,000-ton
Bin.-gun Italian cruiser, which broke up
in eight minutes after the torpedoes hit
her. Her destroyer escort escaped.
* * * »
“Hookum Hai”: Stafford Cripps’s
mission to present India with Dominion
status and the right of independent
action after the war failed after a lot
of patchwork compromise had been
offered to the Congress party. The
party gave as its main reason for rejec-
tion that to “take away defence” —which
Britain reserved for the period of the
war, subject to face-saving concessions
—“from the sphere of Indian respon-
sibility would be to reduce that respon-
sibility to a farce.” The Moslem League,
less windy, more friendly, rejected the
plan because it “embodied fundamentals
not open to any modification.”
* * * *
An exchange of Italian and British
wounded prisoners has been carried out
with the help of the Turks. About 130
British soldiers were taken to Smyrna
in the Italian liner Gradisca to be
handed over in exchange for 917 Italian
prisoners of war on the Llandovery
Castle. A few Australians are to share
in the exchange.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
A perfect April day and £1000 in hand
spelled success from the jump for the
“Carry On” fair at the Lady Cowrie
Convalescent Home at Gordon. From
Wynyard and every North Shore line
station waves of humans surged on to
the trains for Gordon. Cars, too, by the
million (or so it seemed) went whizzing
to the carnival. The Red Cross must
have netted a silver haul that would not
have been despised' by pirates in the
wholesale trade on the Spanish Main. A
most impressive guard of honor awaited
Lady Wakehurst, who opened the fair.
Soldiers of the A.I.F. (patients from the
Convalescent Home), the blue of the
V.As. and the khaki of the Red Cross
made a spirited avenue for the Gov-
ernor’s wife.
Striking items of a crowded after-
noon were fifty dozen real American
doughnuts, an announcement that the
Wahroonga home of the Sydney Snows
is to be handed to the Red Cross for use
as a convalescent home for the duration,
and a speech by Colonel Wells, of the
U.S.A. Forces. The stalls were many
and dizzy with useful and colorful wares.
There was a broadcast of the Sydney
Cup from Rosehill. The Consul-General
for America, Ely Palmer, and his wife
were notables.
Once again it is the open season for
symphonies. The A.B.C. dropped the
hankie last Saturday afternoon in a
crowded Town Hall. There was a Haydn
to start and a Brahms to finish, and in
between there was Chausson’s “Poeme”
for violin and orchestra, with George
White, in khaki, playing the solo part.
The audience applauded as though it
meant it, and not as though it were
being polite. The Brahms No. 1 in C
Minor whipped up the blood stream as
effectively as a frosty morning in the
Southland of Maoriland. The Alexander
Gordon lady, president, and Mrs. Hope
Gibson, a secretary, of the women’s com-
mittee, are pleased over the attendance.
The matinee concerts are an A.R.P.
measure. The Walter Swinsons were
there with her sister Bessie Griffiths.
Very attractive in her silk frock and
swirl of smoky beige Arctic fox was Mrs.
Hamilton Kirkland with daughter Ruth.
The Halse Rogers lady, Mrs. George
White, wife of the violinist, the Rupert
Scammells and Mrs. Walter Burfitt with
uniformed daughter Barbara were others.
The news that Sydney’s avowed femi-
nist Mrs. Linda Littlejohn had taken an-
other plunge into matrimony was unex-
pected, but not surprising. Mrs. Little-
john has that alert, lean look that the
Americans describe with their phrase
“smart as a whip.” She dresses well, and
even the listener not enthralled by her
speeches found her attractive to look
at. When she returned from lecturing
in America at the beginning of the
war, Mrs. Littlejohn became a W.A.N.
and for some time was officer in charge
of W.A.N.S. recruiting. Then she de-
parted once again to America, and by
now she is Mrs. Charles Tilden. Mr.
Tilden holds high office with the U.S.A.
Bureau of Public Roads. Mrs. Littlejohn’s
daughters are both married. Of her
sons one is a lieutenant with the A.I.F.
overseas ; the other has a job in Washing-
ton.
More men than women went to the
sale of pictures at the Macquarie Gal-
leries last week. The Rodney Dangars
had handed over some of their
treasures, and art collectors, their
noses pointed as quiveringly as re-
triever’s at a shoot, were on the
.doorstep long before half-past one,
at which time Max Lawson was timed to
start. Max, who had lunched before-
hand with Mrs. Rodney Dangar, Sydney
Ure Smith, Mrs. Gwen Spencer (who
had helped with the publicity) and
others, was in good form and excellent
voice. Still there was but languid in-
terest shown in the etchings.
But when the Hilder, the Heysen and
the Gruners were put up, Max collected
nods with increasing rapidity. Hilder
soared into the eighties; one Gruner
went to 40-odd guineas, the other swept
up to something like 145. A dear little
Tom Roberts was somebody’s week-end
bargain at 16 guineas. Man of law T. J.
McFadjden paid for his choice on the
nail. His friend, master accountant Hill,
secured a Gruner and a Percy Lindsay.
Ernest Watt was there, Howard Hinton
and Will Ashton. Throwing into relief
the silver - greys of Mrs. Rodney
Dangar’s suit was the black outfit worn
by sister Bea McDonald. Mrs. Tom
Bateman breezed in just as the hammer
fell on the last offering. The sale pro-
duced £6lB, and with one or two re-
serves, yet to find a bidder, the Red
Cross will probably garner £7OO.
Pamela Parsons, elder daughter of the
Charles Parsons couple, of Mosman, puts
up a record of consistent war service.
She is a V.A., she is president of the
C.U.S.A. Mobile Canteen Fund Com-
mittee, secretary of the C.U.S.A. Can-
teen, and a Red Cross transport driver.
But though Mars is in the driving seat
Romance has suffered no blackout.
Recently Pamela announced her engage-
ment to Dr. Paul Cahill, third son of the
Dr. Arthur Cahills, of Waverley. Paul
is in the R.A.A.F. reserve, and is at
present resident at Lewisham. The
medical profession lures the Cahills as
the candle the moth. Three of the sons
of the family are already practising medi-
cine—one, John, in the R.A.A.F., Lloyd
with the A.I.F. abroad. Photograph by
Dayne.
Knight Keith Smith and Violet Roche
received Sir Ronald Cross and the official
group last Thursday afternoon when the
Overseas Club staged a party for Sir
Ronald. The Overseas Club is one of
the brightest spots in London for the
Dominions visitor, and the members in
Sydney try to keep their end up by enter-
taining British kith and kin. Sir Ronald
painted a graphic picture of the waterways
that link the Empire and of the ships and
the men who travel them in spite of
torpedo and bomb, bringing the many
harvests to the storehouses eager for
them. With him was official secretary
Antrobus and private secretary Francis
Lloyd. Secretary of the Overseas Kathleen
Gaden thought it was one of the club’s
best parties.
The C. P. Johnsons, of Edgecliff, have
given another proof of their civic spirit
by establishing in the ground floor of
their lovely old home a fully-equipped
first-aid post. The drawing-room has be-
come an operating theatre, complete even
to washbasins. The ballroom is a ward
furnished with beds and cots; the kitchen
can be transformed to a canteen at the
shortest notice. Everything, even to a
fuel stove and water storage, has been
provided. Nor has the arrival of new
Australian citizens been overlooked. A
complete outfit of baby clothes has been
made by hand by the women workers at
the post, which is now the official Double
Bay First-aid Post. In short, like every-
thing the C. P. Johnsons give, it is the
best of its kind. They have given a
perfect day nursery to Redfern. Mrs.
Johnson is on the finance committee of
the Kindergarten Union. The Y.W.C.A.,
the Rachel Forster Hospital and the In-
fants’ Home at Ashfield are among her
favorite good causes.
If it were cheered up a little, the
Numismatic Society’s show could prove
a very exciting place. In the long cases
are old Greek coins which may have
been legal currency for Socrates or
Euclid before the Romans were bar-
tering and dicing with the coins
that bear the heads of the Caesars.
The pieces of eight beloved by pirates
in business around the Spanish Main
are here. Robert Louis Stevenson
would have delighted in the outsize silver
discs. The real, another coin of
romance, gleams dully from behind its
respectable glass prison. He who had
had a twopenny piece in the Regency
could have dreamed himself rich. The
copper coin is about the size of a dessert
plate. He who took up the church col-
lection in those days must have been
strong of arm. The door money (a coin
in the box) goes to help the Red Cross.
From Melbourne
Some of Melbourne’s air-raid shelters
are super. Consider the Women’s Hos-
pital, with its special places for the newly-
born and their mothers, the segregation
of older babies and their convalescent
mothers and the provision of a lift that
may work in a raid if emergency
demands it. Other shelters in Tooraic
Gardens have preserved the symmetry
of the landscape by having their roofs
painted a tender young green shade and
the vegetation arranged around so as to
create the idea that people only go there
to take the night or day air. The
Lathams, temporarily housed in Wash-
ington-street, have an architecturally har-
monious one in their front lawn, with
corrugated-iron roof matching the grass.
Fathers of families who previously got
their week-end exercise by mowing the
lawn now take it in deepening the trench
and attaching thereto all mod. oons. for
an hour or two’s session when the alert
goes.
A much overdue beautification of
country homes is proceeding apace.
Families which leave Melbourne for a
period to give the children a freer war-
time life are largely responsible. They
buy up places in lovely surroundings and
put their flair for exterior and interior
decoration to work. One of the latest to
move to the country is Jill Lambert, once
Jill Ryan, daughter of Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
personal representative of the Queensland
Government in Melbourne, and the late
T. J. Ryan. Jill is now wife of pianist
Raymond Lambert, and with her bonnie
babies is in residence at Woodend, where
she has a home which once was a well-
known landmark. La Motte by name.
Woodend and Macedon will now be
centres of activity for children, for many
of the crippled children are going there
to lovely homes in the mountains. What
joy for them to see the crocus break
through the frost-covered soil and gather
narcissi that grow with luxurious wild-
ness in the mountainside gardens.
Another naval engagement. This time
it is Barbara Jean, second daughter of
the H. W. Cooleys, of Te Whare, Wood-
end, and Surgeon-Lieut.-Commander
Neil W. G. Macintosh. Barbara lives in
Melbourne most of her time. Her fiance
is the only son of Mrs. Darcey E. Mac-
intosh, of Sydney, and of the late Gregory
Macintosh, and he was superintendent
of the Lewisham Hospital before he
entered the navy. After a medical course
at Sydney University he went on to Edin-
burgh for post-graduate work. Barbara
has a war job, and is an old girl of
Clyde, Woodend. Spencer Shier made
this picture of the attractive lass.
That somewhat frozen composure in
which the music-lovers who book out
the Melb. Town Hall for each symphony
orchestral concert hear the fare set
before them was agreeably absent when
the symphony orchestra, with Bernard
Heinze wielding the baton, took the stage
at the Exhibition Building last week for
a concert to the Air Force’s men and
women. The girls and lads in blue were
distinctly cheered when the double-bass
played a few bars from “Popeye the
Sailorman” and Prof. Heinze explained
how the deep notes added weight to the
combined sounds of the orchestra. They
were also hearty over Raymond Lam-
bert’s brilliant crescendos and diminu-
endos in Liszt’s E Flat Concerto, perhaps
through sheer love of music, perhaps feel-
ing a fellow-glow for the handsome dark
young man at the piano.
First-Lieut. Fellmeth, of the U.S.A.
Nursing Corps, is now in Melbourne at
the head of a U.S.A. nursing unit, after
a gruelling time in Manila and on Cor-
regidor. Dark-eyed and very youthful
in appearance in spite of six years in
army nursing, she speaks with tears in
her eyes of the courage of the nurses in
the Philippines. She says that they found
a natural leader in one of their number,
who, in the illness of the chief nurse,
had to take over at a time when bombing
was a new experience to them all. This
woman never once showed any sugges-
tion of worry or excitement, was always
there when someone wanted just that
“lift” to keep her from panic, and was
night and day on duty. Undressing was
almost impossible, sleep was snatched at
odd moments, and one bombing fol-
lowed another in exhausting succession.
So it is not surprising that Miss Fell-
meth’s reaction to inquiries as to how
she likes Melbourne is a brisk “Let’s
get on with the war.”
One of the U.S.A. Army nurses has
given a few tips to those who want to
be polite to them. “Don’t call us
‘sisters,’ ” she begs. “A ‘sister’ to an
American is a nun, never a nurse. If
you call us ‘sisters,’ we will*call your
chief nurse ‘Mytron,’ as you do,” she
said wickedly. Also, like most other
people, they do not like to discuss pay,
and think comparisons between their
allowances and those of nurses of other
nationalities are bad form. They are
officers, and they have an army tradition
as fine as ours, with memories of women
who stand to them as Florence Nightin-
gale does to Britishers.
Without striking any new . notes in
artistic entertainment “Diversion,” the
Tin Alley Players’ show at the week-end
at the University’s Union Theatre, man-
aged to give dozens of laughs. The ver-
satile Keith Macartney, with Ruby May's
co-operation, was responsible for lots of
the spadework, as well as sundry items.
The Noel Coward story in song, “The
Acrobat’s Wife,” with Macartney in varie-
gated circus attire, including white cotton
hose high up the thighs, was sung so
well that perhaps it was appreciation of
the finer points, and not only the big
adjective in the second-last line, that
brought the house down the first night.
The Tin Alley Players took the line of
admitting the audience free and on the
last night and afternoon taking up a col-
lection for the Red Cross and Union
funds. The first night was a night out
for men and women of the services. The
only drawback was the Stygian darkness
of the approaches to the Union Hall. It’s
quite a walk to either street for trams
back to the city, and torches have the
drawback of indicating to the loiterer
with an eye for handbags his likeliest
victims.
On Saturday Flora Fletcher, of this
city, took a few split seconds from mak-
ing munitions to turn herself into Mrs.
Graham Richardson with the aid of the
usual ecclesiastical sanctions at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Husband Graham
Richardson has been a'' fellow-student
at Melbourne University, where he
graduated in Agricultural Science, and
Flora did two years in metallurgy before
going out to Maribyrnong to pull her
weight in the war effort. To the Fletcher
family and its head, E. G. Fletcher, the
war in the East is something very real,
for Mr. Fletcher has spent years in
Malayan States as a mining expert, and
Flora lived as a child in Penang. The
young couple are flat-hunting, the major
recreation of a number of our citizens
and visitors. They will both keep their
war work going.
Announcing her engagement to Harold
Wiltshire, son of the Charles Wiltshires,
of Berea, Mount Eliza, Kathleen Givens
has found, leads to much congratulating-
Among those who offered their best
wishes were many who remembered her
late father, Senator Thomas Givens, who
sat in Parliament for 25 years, and was for
13 years President of the Senate. Kath-
leen went straight from Fintona into the
radio world, having been turned aside
from her first love, journalism, by the
awful warnings of Keith Murdoch. She
has written successful radio plays, with
preference in the last two years for his-
torical material. Fiance is an analytical
chemist. Marriage in the next six months
is the plan at present, war permitting.
Miss Florence Hutton, headmistress of
Macßobertson Girls’ High School, must
be awarded first-class honors for the fight
she has put up for her girls and the few
privileges that remain to a school which
has had to move out of its fine building
and settle down in a far-from-new State
school. Miss Hutton has obtained a
building for the Anzac celebration, which
is always done well by this school, and
looks like getting the use of a splendid
sportsground in near-by Elsternwick for
the winter sports of the school. She also
tackled the St. Kilda council for its
lovely Town Hall for an assembly once
a week, for there is no room big enough
at the Brighton-road school. It looks
as though the councillors’ first refusal
will be translated into “Yes” in the near
future. Miss Hutton has pioneered the
way, and other schoolmistresses in need
of a means of keeping the school cor-
porate spirit up to concert pitch can
fellow her example in asking for what
they want.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4*d. per line; all others 2jtd. per line.
The Same Breed
The other day I had the good fortune
to meet an old cobber who had been
invalided home from the other side. As
we stood yarning, a young naval ac-
quaintance of mine joined us. Being
unable, from his position, to read the
complete name on the sailor’s cap, the
Digger asked “Is that a British ship?
The young fellow looked a little hurt,
“I’m no Pommy,” he retorted. For a
few seconds the returned man eyed the
other. “After what I saw the Royal
Navy do in the Mediterranean I’d con-
sider it to your credit if you were,” he
said quietly.
“Aw, yes,” admitted the sailor, “there’s
nothing wrong with Britain’s navy, but
her land troops are a failure.”
“Son” (the veteran’s voice was very
earnest), “don’t let anybody tell you that.
I fought side by side with ’em in Libya.
They’re the same breed as us, and they
fight like it!”
In view of the attitude of some dailies
it is not surprising that many people
share the views of my young and inex-
perienced sailor friend, but with what
alacrity the same papers would feature
these little personal testimonies if they
were lauding Soviet Russians! —B. A.
Ker (N.S.W.).
The Labor Corps
Something should be done to speed up
the translation of Government decisions
into action. Take this Labor Corps.
It is more than two months since the for-
mation of the corps was announced, and
more than a month since the Govern-
ment acceded to the demand for award
wages.
Nevertheless personnel of my battery,
a training battery, are still busily engaged
making roads, building huts, painting
guns, digging pits, cleaning dishes and
scrubbing latrines, those duties engaging
a considerable portion of our working
hours.
Needless to say, as there is no Sol-
diers’ Union, we still draw only the regu-
lation pay of six bob a day. — Smilax
(Q -). __________
Army-pay Offices
If there’s one job which could be
much better run by people out of
military uniform, it is the pay offices in
the capital cities. Take a look into one
anywhere you like, and you’ll see dozens
of young fit men and a sprinkling of Old
Diggers—the last-named usually occupy-
ing the subordinate possies.
A few over-age accountants (male or
female), plus a good supply of adding
machines and shorthand-typists, with type-
writers to match, the whole to be outside
military control, would soon put some
efficiency where it is badly needed. And
in case anybody says it’s impracticable
to place it outside military control, tell
him that production of munitions is in
that category and is doing quite well,
thank you.
In fairness to many of the eligibles in
the Pay Corps, it should be stated that
they have tried to get out and couldn’t.
One young fellow 1 know wanted to go
where there was some action and
applied for a transfer to a combatant
unit. His C.O. transferred him to a dis-
tant military camp-on the pay staff.
—Jack Point (Q.).
All to Blame?
Fatuous to me is the idea that the
whole population of Australia is to
blame for the present-day situation,
inasmuch as for years it has had
Governments of its own choice and
a free press to publish its views if
it was interested enough in the country]s
welfare. This means that everybody is
responsible. If everybody is responsible
nobody is responsible, because a nation
can’t bring itself to book. Apply the
principle to murder and capital punish-
ment, then everybody ought to hang. As
everybody can’t hang everybody, the last
person to be hanged having nobody left
to hang him, nobody should be hanged ;
so to be logical a democracy oughtn’t
to hang the murderer. Theoretically, of
course, everybody is culpable; but it is
a safe bet that the place where this notion
will be most popular will be in Parlia-
ments. —L. L. (Vic.).
Wishful Thinking
The British have been accused of a
tendency to overindulge in wishful think-
ing. What about Germany?
Hitler is one of the most wishful
thinkers the Mad Continent has ever
spewed up. It has always been his wish
that he’d get what he wanted without
fighting. He never thought England
would fight, or France either, and even
if England did fight—and he made cer-
tain allowances for that possibility—well,
wouldn’t Canada, South Africa and Aus-
tralia take the opportunity to break with
England?
It was Goethe who wrote “There are
many echoes but few voices,” and no-
where is it truer than in the domain of
modern politics. We all listen to one
or two voices ; the Germans quote Hitler,
we quote Churchill, and as both those
gentlemen are dyed-in-the-wool “wishful
thinkers” —well, we’re all wishful thinkers
too.— Zend Avesta (Q.).
Rule of Force
Many “famous commentators” have
scoffed at the Nazi assertion that “tech-
nical means exist to achieve a world
empire held in subjection by force and
at the possibility of even Germany im-
plementing them. Germany not only
recognises the existence of these means ,
she has and uses them and will continue
so to do. Likewise Japan.
These technical means are the ’plane,
tank, armored car, wireless, bomb and
“You can't do this , young man!”
machine-gun. With them and a few
Quislings, a very few Nazis or Japs
can hold in subjection indefinitely a vast
number of militarily conquered people.
That is so obvious that one can only
marvel at famous fools who write rot
about passive resistance, non-co-opera-
tion and government only with consent
of the governed.
The question at issue is not one oi
government, it is one of rule. I have
long ago tossed reliance on passive or
any other kind of resistance by nations
conquered by Germany or Japan into the
discard, along with brotherhood of man
and leagues of nations. —X. N. O, (Q-)-
Bom Too Soon
Napoleon and other afflicted geniuses
made the mistake of having been born
before modern methods of treatment
evolved. Nowadays, Job’s impetigo
would be cleaned up in no time
at a skin-hospital. A course ot
606 or its successors would have made
a different man of Henry VIII, saved all
the trouble which brewed up during the
reign of his hereditarily-frail son, Edward
VI, and probably have enabled Elizabeth
to contribute a mob of gingery offspring
to help in England’s renaissance.
Competent urological attention would
have saved Philip of Spain the agony
from kidney stones which found expres-
sion in fierce measures. Timely correction
of his glasses for astigmatism would have
left Mr. Pepys at ocular ease to continue
his admirable diary through many more
diverting and informative volumes. Any
competent surgeon of today would have
straightened Byron’s clubfoot in infancy.
And Keats’s tubercular lungs could
have been helped to give him years more
of working-time if modern methods could
have been employed. — Galenus (Q.).
Lands Department’s War Effort
With our Commonwealth threatened
with invasion by a savage and ruthless
enemy, the N. S. Wales Government has
permitted its Minister of Lands, Mr.
Tully, by his edicts, to transform the
Western Division into a vast scene of
futile endeavor. Inspectors are touring
the division to find out how much money
lessees can be forced to waste on non-
essential war-time work. Land Courts
are sitting in the chief towns. Scores of
settlers are rushing thither in an effort
to save their leases from confiscation.
Minister Tully demands the prompt
expenditure of a vast amount of man-
power, material and money on improve-
ments that could well be left untouched
until our national safety is assured.
Failure to comply with such demands
carries with it the threat of confiscation.
What are we to do? Are we to obey
the dictates of our Prime Minister and
assist the national war effort to the best
of our ability of obey the edicts of Mr.
Tully?
The Australian public has risen above
the pettiness of party and looks and longs
for leaders who have but one object in
view—the preservation of our national
heritage.—!. A. Woods (N.S.W.).
Functional Representation
There is one glaring fallacy in “Lyle’s”
argument (B. 11/3/’42) for functional
representation as the ideal system of Par-
liamentary selection. It lies in his asser-
tion, oblivious of the implications of the
present World War, that “the issues of
primary moment today—and they are
certain to continue so in the future —are
social and economic.”
Surely there is only one issue of im-
portance to the people of every demo-
cratic country today—the winning of this
war. And surely even “Lyle” would agree
that the war must be won, not by social
organisation or economic planning,
though these play their part, but pri-
marily by military action.
Like many others, “Lyle” has fallen
into the error —common enough in the
twentieth century —of forgetting that the
primary object of political organisation
is the defence or protection of the com-
munity. When this primary aim is
neglected by the political leaders of the
nation, as happened in most of the
democracies after the 1914-18 war, the
community’s very existence may be
threatened, and yet its leaders’ pre-
occupation with social and economic
problems prevents them from recognising
the threat and taking proper measures
for defence.
In a Parliament such as the advocates
of functional representation envisage,
each politician would be merely the
spokesman of a particular group, whose
aims and views would naturally be fore-
most in his mind. There would be little
chance of the representative of a parti-
cular industry, cultural or social service
organisation, or local-government bodies
having the wide and independent outlook
of the statesman, with the courage to put
national defence first. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Another De Gaulle Movement
We count upon The Bulletin’s active
support in taking a petition to his Excel-
lency the Governor to dissolve the use-
less Parliament of New South Wales until
a year and a day after the end of the
war or until a majority of the people
sign a petition for a State election,
whichever is the longer period.
This will expedite the winning of the
war and have other advantages too
numerous to mention.
Your assistance will help us to get the
signatures of a majority of the people
of New South Wales all the sooner.—
J. H. dE Gaulle (Sydney).
Still on the Dole
The Queensland dole, one of the curses
today of the State and of the working
man himself, still goes on. It was an
electoral auction bid, and now we cannot
get rid of it, though there is, allegedly,
not enough man-power to go round.
Glaring examples come to hand every
day of labor shortage for rural work,
and yet many draw the dole every week
in Rockhampton. At Emerald ten
“travellers” applied for rations at the
local station while the labor agent there
had more jobs than men were available
for.
On the outskirts of every Queensland
town of size there is a small percentage
of dolers, living in insanitary conditions,
some of them in hovels of the worst
description. They have no living stand-
ards. They are morally and physically
wasting on their legs.
You can see them in the scrub areas
on the outskirts of Townsville, Mackay
and Rockhampton. Many of them are
under 60, but no man-power regulations
will rope them in. Many probably do
not know about registration, and those
that do don’t care very much. They
nibbled at,the dole, and numbers of them
could not retrace their steps in the direc-
tion of honest toil again.— Caprica (Q.).
Old-age Pensions
If Curtin’s Government is not trying
to destroy thrift among the masses some
of its actions threaten to achieve that
end.
Many who rely for a living on income
from shares or property are aged folk
who have put the modest savings of their
working years into one or other of these
forms of investment. Such as chose the
former medium have had their return
limited to 4 p.c. House-owners are for-
bidden to increase rent, no matter how
C.O.L. increases, and are subject to other
restrictions on the control of their prop-
erty. They haven’t even security, for the
4 p.c. dividend is not guaranteed and
houses and shops may remain unlet for
long periods.
While the thrifty have been harried,
old-age pensioners have been treated as
a privileged class —they have been given
two rises in the short period Curtin’s
Government has been in office, and have
been allowed reduced railway fares in
at least one State.
It takes many years of self-denial,
even for one earning well above the
basic wage, to amass sufficient capital to
assure an annuity equal to the present
old-age pension. Continued raising of
that pension combined with harsh treat-
ment of small investors and landlords
must inevitably discourage those in
modest circumstances from attempting
to provide for their old age. That would
have serious consequences.
A non-contributory old-age pension
system like Australia’s is dependent for
effective functioning on the recipients
constituting a decided minority of the
population, and drawing an amount that
will not make the scheme a financial
incubus. Today about 26 persons per
100 are of an age to receive the old-age
pension, but only about half of them
draw it. If present birth- and death-
rates are unchanged their ratio only 40
years hence will be 54 per 100.
Thus even if the pension is not raised
further and the proportion of drawers
to the total number of pensionable age
remains the same as today its cost will
be much greater. If most people in
modest circumstances decide that it is
not worth their while to make provision
for their old age, the scheme will by then
have become an intolerable burden on
the economically active. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
“Orders”
In a recent broadcast to the U.S.A.
Curtin referred to the present Australian
Government as one which “gave orders.”
When Guy (U.A.P.) subsequently sug-
gested, amid “Hear, hears” from both
sides of the House, that State Parlia-
ments should cease to function or be
abolished at least for the duration of
the war, Curtin smilingly said he would
convey the suggestion to the State Pre-
miers.
Does the P.M. seriously think for one
minute that any one of these six super-
fluous gentlemen would agree to a
suicide pact?—X, Y. Z. (Vic.),


Aianufac iurers of
Wireless Apparatus for
THE MVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
.
MERCHANT NAVY
AIRLINES
CIVIL AVIATION
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PCRLIC UTILITIES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AWA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANI SAT I O N
Buy War Savings Certificates
