

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3311
Wednesday, July 28, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office. Sydney N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE BOY WHO NEVER GREW UP.
‘ ‘DETER,” says Sir J. M. Barrie
r in “The Little White Bird.”
“has his home on the island in the
Serpentine,” and in Kensington
Gardens, near the north section of
that lake, the Long Water, stands
his bronze statue, one of the world’s
most famous examples of the art of
Sir George Frampton, R.A. Peter
Pan stands on a bronze tree stump
and blows into an elfin pipe while,
with a gesture of his right hand, he
invites all children to follow him into
strange adventures. In the base of
the trunk, bronze rabbits have their
burrows, and out of the bark fairies
appear. At the top of the trunk,
one of the fay folk leans forward
to kiss the boy who never grew up.
This statue to Peter Pan commemo-
rates the play of the same name, a
play by Barrie based on his laic
“The Little White Bird.” The
play, first produced at the Duke of
York’s Theatre, London, in 1904,
deals with the adventures among
fairies, pirates and Indians of some
children who follow Peter s leader-
ship. The part of Peter has been
played by many famous stage per-
sonalities. Nine Boucicault played
the title role in the original produc-
tion, while the part has also been
taken by Cissie Loftus, Pauline
Chase, Madge Titheradge and
Unity More.


Learn
Journalism
of HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised the Sydney "Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
WHERE ARE the NOVELISTS?
For the last two months practically
all books reviewed on the Red Page have
been written and published in Australia
or New Zealand. Despite all war-time
difficulties, publishing is booming; de-
spite all the wistful nonsense that has
been talked about “the impossibility of
writing at a time like this,” many writers
are writing.
Here are some of the Australian or
New Zealand books that have been re-
viewed since May: New Poems, by J. R.
Hervey; We of the A .I.F. (verse), by
Maurice Clough; This War Against
Japan (politics), by lan Morrison ; Sweet
Beulah Land (short stories), by Roderick
Finlayson ; In the Sun (short stories), by
Margaret Trist; The Forgotten People
(politics), by R. G. Menzies ; Selections
from Modern Japanese Writers, by Pro-
fessor A. L. Sadler; Coast to Coast
(short story anthology); A ustrolian Out-
line (politics), by Marjorie Barnard;
Outback Occupations and The Warrum-
bangle Mare (humorous yarns and bal-
lads), by Charles Shaw ; Art of the Aus-
tralian A boriginal, by Charles Barrett and
R. H. Croll; My Henry Lawson (bio-
graphy), by Bertha Lawson ; Addled Art
(criticism), by Lionel Lindsay; Signed
with Their Honour (novel), by James
Aldridge.
The publishers are doing good work;
the writers are doing good work. So,
too, are the magazines. Brisbane “Mean-
jin Papers” (Vol. 2, No. 1), having
turned itself into a quarterly, offers in its
latest issue something very close to a
first-class literary magazine..
In “Meanjin Papers,” in the more
firmly established “Southerly” and in
Flexmore Hudson’s still very slim
“Poetry” you can make or renew your
acquaintance with a score of poets—all
lively, all seriously trying to practise the
art and some—conspicuously Brian Vre-
pont and Norma Davis in “Poetry,” H.
Vintner and James McAuley in “Meanjin
Papers”—succeeding admirably.
“Southerly” reviews Adelaide’s “Angry
Penguins” and both it and “Meanjin
Papers” give considerable space to the
free verse of Harry Hooton, who obvi-
ously aims to be an Australian Walt
Whitman and who, if still too belligerent
for clarity, is pleasantly humorous and,
when he sees machines not as dead
mechanism but as the “flowers” of human
effort, interesting.
Like the latest issue of the “Australian
Quarterly” (which also contains a good
essay by J. K. Ewers on art and propa-
ganda and an article on Gerard Manley
Hopkins by a man who knew him —a bit
disappointing because Hopkins was ap-
parently a man one didn’t get to know
very well), “Southerly” is chiefly valu-
able for its reviews, which are at once
tolerant and authoritative.
“Meanjin” relies mainly on its poetry.
If its general articles are to improve, it
will have to avoid second-rate work by
first-rate critics. For example, H. M.
Green’s survey of contemporary Aus-
tralian poetry, a reprinted radio talk, is
inadequate for magazine publication.
Brian Vrepont and Kenneth Mackenzie,
to name only two of the writers ignored,
would surely be included in the more
comprehensive survey H. M. Green is
capable of writing. Articles by Nettie
Palmer and Henrietta Drake-Brockman
are no more than mildly interesting
“bits”: “Meanjin” needs the essay.
In the magazines, therefore, as in the
wider field of book publication, good
work is being done ; there is life ; but,
generally speaking, the work is too
scrappy, the life is small.
In the list of recent publications, there
is only one novel. Too strongly influ-
enced by Hemingway, Signed with Their
Honour added little to the Australian
tradition ; but it is greatly to Aldridge’s
credit that, in the midst of reporting a
war, he contrived to write a full-
length novel. There is not a single
full-length play. There are short poems,
but there is no long poem, philosophic,
narrative or dramatic. A good many of
‘.he contributors to the magazines may be
superior as “pure” poets to C. J. Dennis;
but not many of them have attempted
such a feat of construction as The Senti-
mental Bloke.
The absence of the novel is deplorable.
Perhaps some responsibility lies on the
publishers if—as may be —they are more
interested in pamphlets, political diatribes
and the other ephemera of war-time than
in creative writing. A publishing boom,
when anything sells, can have its disad-
vantages. But, since anything does sell
these days, the bulk of the responsibility
must lie on the writers themselves. If
good novels were being written, surely
they would be published. Presumably the
reprinting of English and American best-
sellers is forced on Australian publishers
by the absence of Australian fiction.
Is it that the older generation of writers
has grown tired, and the new generation is
away at the war? Whatever is the explana-
tion, it is difficult to regard the absence
of the novel as anything less than a tem-
porary failing of the creative spirit in
Australia.' The rush of minor activity
cannot compensate for the lack of major
activity. Minor experiments in poetry and
the short story have some value; but
Australian literature will never advance
until major works are attempted.
Anecdotes of Tobruk.
It’s rather a pity that John Devine’s
The Rats of Tobruk (Angus and Robert-
son) is the first book to have come out
with that ringing title. Tobruk has be-
come an Australian legend ; it may loom
as large in the national consciousness
as Gallipoli; a great book will probably
be written about it.
John Devine’s book isn’t, and doesn’t
pretend to be, in any way “great.”' It’s
authentic —the author was nine months
in Libya as a medical officer.
Accepting it for what it’s meant to be,
the author’s record of what interested
and amused him during the desert war,
it’s pleasantly readable stuff.
Highlights of the early chapters are fights
between Arabs and refugee Italian civilians
—“A deep dream of peace would be dis-
turbed by the rattle and zip of bullets and
the cries of the excited combatants. One
would go a short distance towards the
fray and then, with a complete lack of
discrimination, empty a clip or so of
ammunition in the general direction of
the fight, whereupon all combat would
cease” ; explosive fishing at Derna, where
everything up to Italian landmines was
used —“About a mile from where we
were wont to fish, an English commander
who was in charge of the port of Derna
had two Greek divers employed stroll-
ing round on the sea bottom inspecting
wrecks. Every time we put in a charge
to get fish, the explosion would blow
these Greeks flat on their faces in the
rnud. This not unnaturally annoyed them,
and finally the commander allowed fish-
ing only between certain hours”; ac-
counts of Arab patients, with the story
of a Libyan midwife who, engaged as a
nurse, was accompanied wherever she
went by her six children—“they formed
a neat semicircle round each patient no
matter what procedure was being per-
formed. No instructor demonstrating
the mechanism of a gun was ever watched
more closely than was this mother func-
tioning as a nurse. The rapt semicircle
at the end of the bed never seemed to
lose interest.”
The chapters dealing with the siege of
Tobruk are similarly anecdotal. There
are stories of the Bush Artillery; of the
successful camouflaging of the water dis-
tillery—black paint was used so as to
make it appear as if bombs had burst a
hole in the roof; of the supply ships that
“contained cargoes of heroes as well as
of stores” ; of the hospital patients who
had their lives saved by playing two-up
—they were all congregated for the game
at one end of the ward and a bomb fell
on the other end ; of a padre who drove
into the German lines . . . Nowhere great
literature, but nowhere uninteresting.
A New Australian Poet.
It is not strictly accurate to describe
Flexmore Hudson as a new Australian
poet. But his Indelible Voices (published
by the author at Lucindale, South Aus-
tralia) is so striking an advance on any-
thing he has previously written that it
does seem the work of a new man.
Two things link Indelible Voices to
Hudson’s earlier work: its simplicity and
its affirmation of the heroic. The follow-
ing stanzas, taken from different parts of
the single longish poem that makes the
book, will illustrate both the style and
the theme:
Young as wc arc, in love with the sun,
blue range, mirage and plain;
Young as wc are, in love with the moon
and stars and snow and rain;
Yet we have wished primeval night
would smother our sun and earth,
and the solar chaos engulf our festering
cities of shame and dearth.
Though Art could give our night the beauty
of desert afterglows,
though love and friendship warmed our hearts
while round us winter froze,
Still we have prayed some star would sweep
the ashes of our guilt
into the nebulous dark from which
clean worlds may yet be built.
There is no escape from the flame or the sea,
yet, though our hope is done,
life is sweet even now in the smoke
under a cyanosed sun.
And though 1 have roughed an old man’s share
of hunger and sickness and sorrow,
Glad am I to have lived, and sing
defiance to the morrow.
For I have loved my fellow-men
and earth and sky and sea;
even as a child, the waves, the clouds
and the hills confided in me.
Beauty has set my heart of a sudden
dancing again and again,
dancing, making of no effect
the despair of learned men.
What though we never make the landfall?
So we overhaul the log,
check the position, and the ship
storms on through dark and fog?
These verses are simple, they are clear,
and they sing. Considering the general
state of contemporary poetry, the pres-
sure of fashion towards complexity, ob-
scurity and harshness of tone, it’s no
mean achievement to have broken free.
Nor is Hudson’s simplicity the unthink-
ing, natural simplicity of such lucky
fellows as Shaw Neilson and W. H.
Davies, poets who “sing as the birds
sing.” It is the achieved simplicity of a
thinking man, a sincere and patient crafts-
man; achieved only after a long struggle
towards simplicity in the earlier poems.
Hudson has taken the best from the
contemporary masters and discarded the
worst. He has perceived that the goal
towards which Eliot, Auden and Day
Lewis labored so tortuously was merely
the goal of all true poets in all ages —to
say a thing simply, naturally and
strikingly.
One or two barbarities of rhyme
momentarily interrupt one’s pleasure
in his style. The rhyming of “galahs”
with “stars,” “waratahs” with “stars,”
“calm” with “alarm” and “borne” with
“dawn” is unsophisticated. These are
not the studied dissonances with which
Burns among the poets of past times and
Yeats among the moderns achieved their
pleasant softening of the clamor of ortho-
dox rhyme. They are lapses. No sensi-
tive eye or ear will permit them. They
are, however, only isolated faults, not
affecting the technical excellence of the
poem as a whole.
The simplicity of Indelible Voices is
not a retrogression from the moderns,
but an advance beyond them. So, too,
is the spirit. It has taken Eliot a long
time to come from the despair of The
Waste Land to the desperate acceptance
and affirmation of Little Gidding,
wherein, heartened by religious faith, he
is able to don without complaining hu-
manity’s “intolerable shirt of flame.”
Hudson, finding his faith in the heroic,
speaks with a clear and strong voice.
He doesn’t approve of war; he doesn’t
approve of poverty and the other ills of
our civilisation ; he hopes for a better
world. But he is prepared to accept the
world as it is now; and even if the “new
order” proves to be disconcertingly like
the immemorial disorder—as he admits is
probable—he is still “glad to have lived
and sung,”
What though we never make the landfall?
So we overhaul the log,
check the position, and the ship
storms on through dark and fog.
Through complexity to simplicity—
that’s what is happening to the technique
of poetry in our time ; through despair
to gaiety and courage—that’s what must
happen to the spirit of poetry unless we’re
to debunk ourselves off the face of the
earth. Since Indelible Voices is, on the
whole, simple, gay and courageous about
the world we have to live in, it may win
a wide audience. It deserves to.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Circus in town:
The only members of Wirth’s company who
appeared on the opening night in Sydney to
have suffered fatigue on the trek from Mel-
bourne were the largest of the lionesses, who
yawned amiably throughout her act, and an
elderly she-goat who, ordered to walk a plank
suspended in mid-air, stayed mutinously on the
middle of it for quarter of an hour, muttering
sleepily to herself with exactly the manner of
an energetic and obliging civil servant. Other-
wise, the show is amazingly lively. The three
Misses Wirth turn themselves into butterflies
and fly about the big top with the most charm-
ing color and grace; the elephants parade and
gyrate like benevolent mountains; a horse
dances; jugglers juggle, tumblers tumble, somer-
saults are turned on the tightwirc, and Willie
Mac swings on a slack wire like a peacock in
a gale: the entire small-boy population of Syd-
ney rushes yelling to the ring to be taught bare-
back riding; the Francois troupe —who are the
funniest clowns the present commentator has
ever seen —have varied their act and are, if pos-
sible, funnier than ever; and the Flying
Covettes, mixing some comedy with the drama
of their trapeze act, are what a good trapeze
troupe always is—magnificent. After the show,
il your taste runs to monsters, you can inspect
the only living two-headed cow in captivity.
Some two-headed cow of a surrealist will prob-
ably paint its portrait.
In presenting “Carmen” in English,
evening dress and the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, Bernard Heinze deserves the
Conductor’s Audacity Medal. The organ
pipes may have been a more or less ade-
quate substitute for the chimneys of the
factory “at which young girls are em-
ployed at cigarette making,” as the
libretto has it, but, after all, Bizet must
have had some reason for wanting to
have his music presented in a certain set-
ting ; and if some of it sounded extra-
ordinarily dull and arid that may have
been due in part to the absence of the
traditional fittings. Which, in turn, may
have affected Heather Kinnaird, who has
some fine notes but whose Carmen was
singularly lacking in abandon. With the
exception of William Laird as Escamillo
and Lionel Cecil as Don Jose, the other
soloists seemed to have graduated from
a conservatorium for Young Gentlemen
and Ladies rather than the smugglers’
camp and the Spanish bullring. From
the point of view of volume the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra, the Mel-
bourne Philharmonics and the choir of
St. Paul’s Cathedral did justice to the
sadistic roarings of the Spanish mob en-
joying death in the afternoon, the stab-
bings and the other passionate proceed-
ings that are supposed to find expression
in the music, but their performance
could hardly be described as of the same
order of artistic importance as their
annual “Messiahs” and “Elijahs.” By
comparison it sounded in places like an
attempt by a steam hammer to crush a
doughnut.
“F.S.”: A Red Page commentator
recently remarked that Mo defies classi-
fication. He lives up to the description
in his latest appearance at Melbourne
Tiv. by satirising a gentleman in a way
that only Mo could do it. When Noel
Coward satirises the gentry he conveys
the impression that he wouldn’t mind
being like them. The impossibility of the
stage Mo ever being able to be anything
but Mo removes any limitations on him
in that direction, so, when he takes an ash-
tray out of the pocket of a grotesque
dress suit, knocks a dilapidated cigarette
butt into it and then returns it to his
pocket, he creates a new kind of satire—
if you can call it satire ; or if you can call
anything Mo does anything whatever. The
rest of the bill is up to standard. George
Hurd juggles lamps, bottles, soup plates
and bits of paper, and ventriloquist Clif-
ford Guest gives an amazingly skilful imi-
tation of a warship being dive-bombed.
The Tivoli Swing Sisters deserve special
mention. They are three personable
young ladies with that strange husky way
of singing which is known as “swinging
it.” Whoever invented it ought to swing
for it.
At the talkies: —-
Just as the destroyer in “In Which We Serve ’
was in thin disguise the Kelly, sunk under Lord
Louis Mountbatten off Crete, so the German
battleship Dusseldorf in “Coastal Command
(Sydney Lyceum) is another name for the Bis-
marck. The film shows the Sunderlands and
Catalinas shadowing the battleship and guiding
to it the Beauforts from Iceland, whose tor-
pedoes, crippling the giant, left it an easy mark
for the R.N.’s battleships. For the production
B.E.F. dispensed with “stars.” The cast is
the entire crew of a Sunderland. They don t
need to “act” —they simply go about their jobs.
There is a fine tenseness built up in the Opera-
tions Room, in which Air Chief Marshal Jou-
bert, Chief of “Command,” is seen discussing
the tactics of the “show,” calmly and without
fuss or frills, with a famous naval expert. And
fact puts fiction to shame for excitement as the
attack gets under way. The quiet orders of
the Sunderland skipper to “Jemmy” and the
rest of the crew as he dives into a cloud pre-
paratory to coming out over the stricken raider
is typical of the best British war films —solid
realism, an inclination to understatement, a
passion for representing the services as they
are. As entertainment, as a war documentary
and as a tribute to the airmen the film is first-
class.
Principal feature of the Contemporary
Art Group’s show at Farmer’s, Sydney,
is a collection of pictures by foundation
members, headed by George Lambert,
whose portraits of Thea Proctor (which
might have been limned by Leighton)
make one wonder why George considered
himself a rebel against old lights. Some
early Proctor portraits invite a similar
reflection. Roland Wakelin, one of the
original bunch who did cut loose to some
effect, is represented by some recent work
—disappointing except “The Wind,
which recaptures the vigor and vision ol
Wakelin’s best period. Frank Medworth
pokes fun at the groundlings in “The
Smile”; Rupert Bunny, like a Derby
winner in a dray, indulges his latter-day
love for the artless utter; John D.
Moore, who can’t paint like Efiie aged
six even if he tries to, catches the Gallery
trustees’ eye with a sparkling little sea
piece ; Kenneth Macqueen sees geometry
in every phase of Nature, and Lloyd Rees
continues to tell the absolute truth about
the N. S. Wales, countryside.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS
119 Years of Service
a
iili
i i
mm
a m
mmi
ANTHONY HORDERNS' PHARMACY
YOU CAN RELY ON
OUR PHARMACY
Since its inception, our Pharmacy has
united with this entire organisation in
building up a reputation for the utmost in
value, service and dependability. This
highly prized standard of quality and
reliability, combined with care and super-
vision, is your safeguard when you buy
various medicines prepared by our fully
qualified chemists.
Bring Your
Prescriptions Along
Two fully qualified and registered
chemists dispense your prescriptions with
the utmost care. Only the best quality
goods are used and no substitute is made
without reference to the prescribing doctor.
w
■
CHESTIES. Antiseptic • throat pastilles which give
pro.mpt relief from Coughs,-Sore Throats, or Catarrh.
They flood the air passages with pleasant inhala-
tions that kill injurious germs. Prices ... 1/-, 1/6
"ORALAVE." For a sweet breath. The smoker's
nouth wash. A pleasant, efficient, scientific pre-
paration which removes all smoke and other unpleas-
ant odours from the breath and mouth. Price, 1/3
YEAST-VITE TONIC TABLETS. The lightning pick-
me-up. Safe, and wonderful treatment of pure yeast
vitamins. Gives free and healthy digestion, acts as
a tonic on the Pancreas, Kidneys and Liver.
Prires 2/11, 5/11, 8/11
m
a
m
%
ws
ViMALT. A combination oi Malt Extract, Halibut
Liver Oil, with Iron and other Mineral Salts.
Possessing a palatable fruity flavour. Vimalt is
relished by young and old. Price 3/9
\rrM
m
.-3£
Wm I
%
"FELLOWS SYRUP." A compound of hypophos-
phates. A tonic of outstanding quality. Formula;
Manganese Hypophosphate, Potash Hypophosphite,
Soda Hypophosphite, Iron, Lime, Strychnine .and
Quinine. Prices 4/S, 7/6
MACLEAN'S STOMACH POWDER. Affords relief to
Stomach Disorder sufferers by counteracting acidity
ond preventing the formation of gas. It soothes
and heals any inflammation of the delicate stomach
lining. Prices 1/9, 3/-
'vy
FAULDINGS' IRISH MOSS. This Irish Moss
or Carrageen, together with Oxymel of Squills
with Tolu, is an ideal and safe remedy for
Colds, Coughs, Influenza, Bronchitis, Whoop-
ing Cough, Croup, etc. Price 1/3
MILTON ANTISEPTIC. A unique combination
of Oxygen and Chlorine, two of the most
potent and hygienic forces in nature. Uses:
for, the Throat, Teeth, Nose, Eyes, Skin and
all bodily treatments. External or internal.
Pri C es° . 1/3. 2/6. 3/9. 6/3
m
ŵ
ANTHONY
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Famous
HORDERNS’
Loiv Prices


BOOTS AND SADDLE
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
(( \ . A HAT’S wrong with all the
\ X j young fellows these days?”
yy Charlie wanted to know.
“When I was young there’d
be half a dozen shouldering each other
out of the way to be the first to ride your
horse. Why, in my own family there
were three of us. We’d go miles to ride
a buck jumper, and as soon as one of
us hit the ground the next would have
his coat off.”
Maguire looked at him without much
cordiality, and his mouth twisted into
an amused smile. Charlie was practically
a stranger to him, and he did not approve
of his joining in what had been a private
conversation; moreover, it was his
opinion that Charlie had been in the
Royal too long, He said with slow
deliberation:
“All the likely young fellows are in
the fighting forces, and it doesn’t help me
much if there are a few old-timers about
who say they rode buckjumpers when
they were young.”
“What do you mean by ‘say’l”
Charlie began to bristle. “Why, people
used to travel twenty miles to see me ride
an outlaw; crowds of them, like the
second time I rode Rushen’s horse.
He’d thrown himself over backwards on
top of me the first time and laid me up
for months.”
Maguire smiled sceptically. “So you
say.”
Charlie began to get annoyed. “There
are people in this pub who were there,”
he declared.
“Show me them,” Maguire challenged.
Charlie had a good look around, and
slowly realised that things were changing
at the Royal. Most of the patrons were
from the R.A.A.F. school, and none of
the remainder were old horse-riding
followers. Maguire smiled triumphantly.
“Now don’t tell me,” he said drily,
“that if only you were twenty years
younger you’d prove it by riding my
horse.”
“I’m not so blasted old,” Charlie said
heatedly, “that I couldn’t ride your nag
—it probably can’t buck, anyhow—but
I’m hanged if I’m going to use my petrol
tickets and waste my time to go and ride
a horse for a man like you.”
“Don’t worry about time and petrol,”
said Maguire; “I could bring the horse
to your place.”
Charlie paused a minute and thought;
then, noticing the grey in Maguire’s hair,
decided to pay him back in his own
coin.
“You’d better be careful. It might
play up and knock you over. Old bones
are brittle, you know.”
Presently the proprietor thought it
necessary to come across to their side of
the bar and suggest that the discussion
be dropped ; but it had been definitely
settled by then that Maguire would bring
his horse over “the day after tomorrow.”
Charlie arrived home in a defiant mood
and told his family about the challenge.
He proceeded to tell his children such
exciting stories of his buckjumping feats
in the past that his four-year-old son
turned his rocking-horse completely over.
Mrs. Charlie listened in disapproving
silence.
THE next day, deciding to have some
practice, Charlie put a saddle on the
old sulky mare, which had never fauea io
respond to a flank-rope in the old days.
She obligingly bucked, but it was a piti-
ful imitation of the performances of her
youth. Nevertheless, Charlie was put to
some trouble to stay on. His increased
weight made it harder for him to regain
his balance. She kept it up for a long
time, and although Charlie claimed that
he jumped off in the end his children
were sure he had fallen.
When he got up the following morning
he felt as if he had been run over by a
lorry; he hoped fervently that Maguire
would not come. But Maguire did, and
the long-legged chestnut he led behind
his sulky was not the sort to inspire hope
of an easy victory. They tied the colt to
a hitching-post, and Charlie leaned on a
rail and studied him.
He flexed the leg he had fallen on and
exclaimed “Sore muscles. When I was
young I never had sore muscles, and by
gee I used to have some falls.”
Maguire took a saddle from his sulky
and handed it to Charlie. As soon as
the colt saw it he pulled at the hitching-
post so desperately that he dragged it
out of the ground. They caught him
after some trouble and tied him to an
ironbark-tree.
Charlie leaned on the rail and studied
him some more with an unhappy look
on his face.
“I was telling you,” he said, “about the
falls I used to get. I remember during
the 1914 drought when I was about ten
years old. The emus came in from the
west and started to eat the little bits of
wheat the dad managed to grow. He
used to get terribly wild with them and
go after them on his horse. He made
himself a sword out of an old crosscut
saw and used to slice off their heads in
fine style. It looked such great sport
that I tried to knock them with a waddy.
I had a lively little pony that was fast
enough, but every time I got close
enough to raise my arm for a swing
she’d suddenly shy and stop dead. I had
no saddle and I’d just spear over her
shoulder and crash on my head. If I
did that now it would kill me.”
Maguire smiled his crooked smile and
said “Go ahead. Put the saddle on him.”
Charlie continued to lean on the fence.
“You’d hardly believe,” he said, “that
when I was young the more they bucked
the more I liked it.”
“A demonstration,” said Maguire,
“would prove it.”
“I was only 14 when I rode my first
buckjumper,” Charlie continued obsti-
nately.
“You must tell me about it some day,”
Maguire interrupted.
“Let him pull at the tree a bit longer,”
said Charlie. “Then he won’t have so
much energy left for me.
“The dad was breaking in a nice young
roan for a neighbor and, to quieten him,
he put him in the plough team. I helped
him by socking the horse with a whip
every time he pulled back. We had a
lively afternoon and broke a lot of
harness. When we took him out of the
team the dad said for a joke ‘Would
you like to ride him?’
“I gave one leap on to his back, and
he into it. But I stuck there until the
dad spilt me off by pulling on the halter
rope when it caught under my leg. Then
I got on him again and rode him home.
He bucked all the way, and nearly un-
dressed me in a grand finale near the
house. All the dogs came barking round
me, and the hens ran for their lives in all
directions. My mother came out and
nearly collapsed when-she saw what was
happening to her first-born son.”
CHARLIE watched the colt with obvi-
ous uneasiness. It was alternately
biting at the rope and pawing the ground
as if it were determined to dig the tree
out by the roots.
“I don’t suppose you thought of break-
ing him into a sulky?” he suggested.
“A thoroughbred! ” Maguire exclaimed,
and looked at Charlie with derision.
“It’s good for any horse to be broken
in to a sulky,” Charlie maintained
stoutly. “It teaches them good habits.
And I’m not suggesting it because it’s
easier. It’s just as hard and just as
risky. I went as close to getting my neck
broken in a sulky smash as I’ve ever
been while riding.”
“You don’t say so?” Maguire said with
a lift of the eyebrow. Charlie went on
quickly :
“I was breaking-in a lively, nuggety
bay for Denyer and decided to drive him
to a clearing sale. My two young
brothers came with me.”
Maguire made an elaborate gesture of
resignation, and leaned on the fence too.
“I had a grey of my own that was
just about quiet in the shafts; and the
bay in a sort of outrig beside him. On
the way over we went well, but coming
home, after we’d loaded the sulky with
some scrap-iron I’d bought, the trouble
started.”
“Don’t leave anything out,” Maguire
interrupted. “Tell me, was that in the
days when they had free beer at clear-
ing sales?”
Charlie ignored him.
“The horses were cold and made the
pace; the faster they went the louder
the scrap-iron rattled, and that scared
them all the more. They were getting
into a pretty icckless mood and trying
to break into a gallop when the bay
caught sight of a freshly-painted mile-
post and shied. He tried to jump away
from it and fell over the shafts ; he broke
both off short, got the harness into a
terrible tangle and scrambled to his feet
again behind the grey. They both tore
off like mad.
“The sulky went along in bounds like
a kangaroo. Each time it tipped forward
the stubs of the broken shafts stuck into
the ground and it nearly turned turtle.
The first time we lost most of the scrap-
iron, the second time we lost Vic. He
flew clear over the wheel, but landed so
hard on his seat that he was paralysed
for a fortnight.”
“It took less than that to paralyse
you,” remarked Maguire. “The sight of
my colt was enough.”
Charlie passed over the interruption
with an effort.
“The next time Curly lost his grip and
fell between the wheel and the sulky. All
his clothes were torn off and I was sure
he was going to be killed before he got
clear ; but I couldn’t do a thing about it.
I was too busy trying to stop the horses.
“With all the load gone the sulky took
bigger and bigger bounds. I knew that
if.it turned right over I’d have my neck
broken for a cert; so after a last try to
get the horses under control I jumped
clear. And not a second too soon. While
I was still picking myself up the sulky
turned a somersault and smashed to
bits.”
“If you survive riding the colt,”
Maguire said, “I have no objection to
your putting him in a sulky. Your
sulky.”
/'""'HARLIE looked as if he would like
to strangle Maguire, but he grabbed
the saddle and strode to the colt. It
began to jerk on the rope as if it hoped
to break its neck. Charlie’s famous
“soothing touch” had no effect on it
whatever.
“I ought to give him a kick in the
ribs,” Charlie muttered. “He’s just like
Rushen’s horse. I suppose he’ll squeal
and roar, too, when I get on him.”
He threw the saddle across the colt,
sidestepped the flying legs and grabbed
the swinging girth with a dexterity which
even Maguire had to admire. As he
pulled the buckles tight the colt stretched
his front legs and went into a sort of
crouch.
“Caesar’s tripe!” Charlie exclaimed,
stepping back in consternation. “That’s
what Nixon’s horse did, and he gave me
the longest gruelling 1 ever had.”
He discarded his tobacco-tin, pocket-
knife and watch.
“He bucked everything out of my
pockets and even the buttons off my
trousers. He ran me into gates, walls,
fences and trees. He kept it up for two
and a half hours. I was crippled for a
fortnight and both my shins were skinned
from the knees down through losing the
stirrups.”
Maguire tried to conceal a smile.
“Come on, man,” he encouraged
Charlie ; “get on him and have it over.
I didn’t come here to listen to your
reminiscences.”
Charlie took the reins like a doomed
man and began to lead the horse out of
the yard. It plunged forward and
knocked him over. As soon as he
scrambled to his feet it pulled back and
upset him again.
It played similar dirty tricks all the
way out to the fallow paddock. Charlie
had a long look round his farm as if it
might be his last and turned to the
horse. He was halted by a loud female
shriek ; it came from Mrs. Charlie, but
it was not out of fear for him.
Out of the stable he saw a horse come
plunging, rearing and bucking, with a
small boy sticking securely and serenely
in the saddle. The old sulky mare was
excelling anything she had done in her
youth. Charlie’s ten-year-old boy took
her for a wide turn round the paddock
while she did her worst, then brought her
to an uneasy standstill beside him. He
had a grin of blissful excitement on his
face.
“She’s not bad,” he said, “but I had to
put a piece of barbed wire under the
saddle to get a decent go out of her.”
Charlie lifted the boy off and turned
to Maguire with a look of great pride
and relief on his face.
“That’s what I was like at his age!”
he said. “You can take your horse home
now. You don’t need any more proof
that I could ride.”
BLACKOUTS
By LES ROBINSON.
BECAUSE the moon took not the
slightest notice of N.E.S. regula-
tions framed for the purpose of
curtailing the amount of illumina-
tion permissible in the metropolis and its
environs, the first blackout in our
suburb was of little use to anybody. It
might, in fact, as the sky was cloudless
all the while, have been with much greater
accuracy termed a “whiteout.”
The second was, however, very satis-
factory indeed. Those who for a long
time had been * awaiting a favorable
opportunity to dump rubbish on vacant
allotments were able to do so unobserved.
Such notices as “No Parking,” “No
Admittance Except on Business,” “Keep
Off the Grass,” “Trespassers” and (in
particular) “Billposters Will Be Prose-
cuted” were most flagrantly violated.
Advice on whom to vote for at the next
elections, opinions of sundry politicians—
all unfavorable and some most impolite
—were chalked freely upon footpaths,
fences and walls, and advice also to the
High Command on the conduct of the
war such as “Bomb Tokyo!” “Bomb
Rome!” “Open Second Front Now!”
These, and warnings of impending
doom by astrologers and others, were
interspersed with announcements of the
arrival in our midst of a mysterious
foreigner named “Foo” and hints that
his activities were multifarious, ceaseless
and, it would seem, often sinister.
Several ornamental shrubs and trees
which had been planted in the local park
to replace some that vanished during an
eclipse of the moon also disappeared,
and a resident who raises ducks still re-
fuses to believe that six of them he was
unable to find next morning and has not
seen since were, as a neighbor suggested,
devoured by a fox.
Firewood accumulators, as the night
was chilly, had been very busy indeed.
Portion of a hoarding was found to have
been ruthlessly removed, and palings from
a number of old and dilapidated fences
that could, without much effort, be ac-
quired went into somebody’s stove or
woodshed, too.
Three horses that roamed the neigh-
borhood and were a nuisance in it
nightly, presumably because their owner,
if they had one, could no longer afford
to feed them, found that particular black-
out helpful. They had learnt how, noise-
lessly, to unfasten gates ; and, succeeding
after patient and sustained effort in enter-
ing the greengrocer’s vegetable garden,
settled down to the kind of banquet that
even expensive horses enjoy only in
dreams.
BECAUSE pedestrians had been ad-
vised to wear something white, the
local haberdasher sold out of starched
collars. In the window of a second-hand
shop there had been for years an assort-
ment of the old-fashioned high or ear-
rasping kind that were the vogue in the
Victorian era. These were eagerly bought
up, and so, too, were some of those anti-
quated stiff shirts that our forefathers—
more stoical than we are —were in the
habit of wearing on state occasions.
It was rather too cold for white suits,
except, of course, woollen ones, which
were unobtainable. A few cricket-
umpires’ coats and hats were, however,
to be seen, and several pairs of white
trousers gave their wearers, in the Stygian
darkness, an appearance of being merely
animated legs.
Fish, emboldened by the total absence
of illumination along the waterfront,
came in closer and bit more freely than
usual. Consequently, among those who
wish there was a blackout every calm
night must be numbered the fishing en-
thusiasts of the locality.
Such a good time was had, seemingly,
by so many that it was no wonder, when
the rumor spread that weeks and even
months might elapse without another
blackout, that gloom comparable to the
kind engendered by austerity, when com-
pulsory—except, of course, among those
inured to it —descended upon the suburb.
The only inhabitant not heard to com-
plain of this inconsiderate absence of
blackouts was an old chap who, because
the light in the apartment at the resi-
dential he occupies is bad, uses street,
park and waiting-room lamps for reading
purposes.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3311.
Wednesday, July 28, 1943.
“COME ON, AUSTRALIA!”
“Mr Curtin compared the war in the Pacific to a football match in which the United Nation, had kicked off after the interval and were going to carry the ball
into enemy territory for a smashing victory."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London : I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
THE URGENT NEED.
There have been times when Mr. Curtin
has spoken like a real national leader,
and even since the election spirit took
possession of him, prompting him in the
first place to declare that the Menzies-
Fadden home-defence plan, to which, as
member of the Advisory War Council,
he must have been a consenting party,
“was defeatist in outlook and prepara-
tion,” his generous instincts have asserted
themselves. For example, the disgrace-
ful threat of opposition to Gunner Slain,
M.H.R., moved him to “say” that “I find
it incredible that a man who is a prisoner
of war and who represents the Northern
Territory, where it can be said that at
present there is no effective civil popula-
tion, should be opposed by any decent
man.” Those were his last words in the
last Parliament, and they were worthy
of the John Curtin whom everyone likes
and admires.
Unfortunately there is no ground for
hoping that Mr. Curtin will rise to the
heights of national leadership in, or that
his better nature will be introduced into,
his election speeches. All the indications
are that he will exhibit once more the
narrow, bitter partisanship of the trade-
union secretary, allowing no merit to
his opponents and the great part of the
nation they represent, and claiming for
his Caucus and his section all the talents
and all the virtues. He began last week
with an attack on the previous war Gov-
ernments such as Mr. Ward might have
delivered in the Paddington Town Hall
or Mr. Ward’s liaison officer Garden in
the Sydney Domain. Quoting “a non-
Labor politician” (Mr. Coles!) as witness,
he alleged that “the U.A.P.-U.C.P. Minis-
tries deteriorated into theatres of dispu-
tation,” and that “the anti-Labor parties
failed when the country faced its darkest
hour,” whereas “the Labor Government
has succeeded.” All this by way of try-
ing to show that “a national or all-party
Government is impossible.”
With the same personal elements com-
bining with Ministers from the Labor party,
the Cabinet room would be a national
Stadium, not the meeting-place of a
national Government.
I fail to see that a so-called national
Government is an issue in this election
campaign... .1 question very much whether
the leading members of the non-Labor
parties could sincerely answer in the affirma-
tive if asked whether they wished a so-
called national Government to be formed.
The slogan of a national Government is
so artificial, so empty and so divorced
from reality that it merits instant dismissal
from the mind of any intelligent elector.
It has no place in the politics of any
Dominion in the British Commonwealth.
It is the catch-cry of Australian Tory
failure.
No mention of Britain, it will be per-
ceived ; but this is habitual. Mr. Curtin
and most of his colleagues never men-
tion Britain when to quote British
example would be embarrassing to their
selfish and bigoted provincialism. Dr.
Evatt has, however, been heard lately—
in Britain—on the results which have
flowed from the union of British “Tories,”
Laborites and Liberals in a national
Government as the expression and crown
of national unity. He testifies that they
are magnificent, and the whole world,
except his colleagues and party, is of the
same opinion. Yet before the emergency
which brought these British parties to-
gether the Conservatives and the Labor-
ites seemed to be sundered by divisions
as wide and deep as those which Mr.
Curtin professes to find unbridgeable
here.
Nor is it true that a national Govern-
ment “has no place in the politics of any
Dominion.” It is true only of Canada
and South Africa, and in each case
special circumstances exist.
In Canada at the election of 1940 the
Conservative Opposition was almost
wiped out. Of 245 Commoners elected
177 were Liberals, the rest being divided
into half a dozen heterogeneous groups.
It does not follow that Mr. Mackenzie
King was right in deciding against a
national Government, but it must be ad-
mitted that the position in Canada is very
different from what it has been in Aus-
tralia, with 36 Labor members, 36
U.A.P.-C.P. members and two Indepen-
dents in the House and an almost equally
divided Senate, in which for a time a dis-
tracted man who was eventually found
drowned had the odd vote.
In South Africa a national Govern-
ment is impossible because the main
Opposition groups are against the war.
Yet the Union had one before the war,
with the Labor leader in it as well as
General Hertzog, General Smuts and
their principal followers; and General
Smuts, his principles and traditions being
what they are, would assuredly form
another if no fatal barrier interposed.
In Labor Maoriland there has been a
War Cabinet “responsible for controlling
the Dominion’s war effort” ( N.Z. Official
Year-Book ) since July, 1940. It is com-
posed of the Prime Minister, the Minis-
ter of Defence, the Minister of Finance
and two Opposition leaders, each a
Minister without portfolio. And though
the U.S.A. has no Cabinet responsible to
Congress, the Democratic President has
for upwards of three years had a New
York Republican as Secretary of War
and an Illinois Republican as Secretary
of the Navy.
Australia needs a national Government
now as much as Britain did in 1940. It
has been painfully proved that neither
side in politics has a monopoly of ad-
ministrative ability, and that neither has
been able to command a full war effort
from rebellious elements. Daily the rule
of law is dangerously challenged, and the
challengers always get away with it. War
finance and inflation are increasing wor-
ries. In the time of the Parliament to be
elected next month peace may, and prob-
ably will, return ; but peace will add to
the problems which await solution. None
can be solved by a party Government en-
gaged in a continual party struggle. If
a sea of peace-time troubles is not to
follow a sea of war-time troubles, some of
them still unmastered, the nation must
cease to be politically divided at the seat
of government.
Very little has been heard lately about
the Atlantic Charter, but a great deal
will be heard about it when the peace
settlements come up for consideration.
It may not embody American policy then,
for the chances are that the peace Presi-
dent will be a Republican and that Re-
publicans will be in control of Congress,
but it embodies and will almost certainly
continue to embody British policy. As
such it virtually makes an end of the
Ottawa agreements, for it says that the
Prime Minister and the President
(4) Wilf endeavor, with due respect for
their existing obligations, to further the
enjoyment by all States, great or small,
victor or vanquished, of access on equal
terms to the trade and to the raw materials
of the world which are needed for their
economic prosperity.
(5) They desire to bring about the fullest
collaboration among all nations in the eco-
nomic field with the object of securing
for all improved labor standards, economic
advancement and social security
(6) A peace which will afford assurance
that all men in all lands may live out their
lives in freedom from fear and want.
What “existing obligations” amount to
we cannot be certain. It is conceivable
that an increased share of the British
market has been promised to countries
now in distress or others—at least an-
other —whose political support is re-
quired. In any case it stands to reason
that all the associated nations will make
the most of Clause 4 and push their
claims to the limit. So it will be neces-
sary for Australia to have a programme
designed not only to preserve its indus-
tries against stifling competition, but to
give them an opportunity of realising
their full possibilities of development,
and neither the shaping of such a pro-
gramme nor its presentation to a critical
audience is a job for any one party.
It would be madness to leave it to a
Labor politician—a Mr. Ward or a Mr.
Don Cameron —to put the case for, say,
the dried-fruits industry in the expectation
that he will dispose of the arguments of
clever Californians, Greeks and Turks.
An all-party economic policy, framed in
consultation with the best industrial
brains we possess and supported at the
conference table by the most persuasive
eloquence at our command, will be of
surpassing importance when the war
drums are stilled. To make a party
matter of the economic side of the peace
would be preposterous and might be
disastrous.
And we are going to hear a great deal
more about the White Australia doctrine.
It was challenged after the last war by
the Japanese. When the Covenant of the
League was being drafted, as Mr. Lloyd
George has recorded (The Truth about
the Peace Treaties), the Japanese Baron
Makino “endeavored to carry an amend-
ment which would establish complete
equality of status amongst all the races
which belong to nations who were
members of the League.”
It was aimed at the restrictions and dis-
abilities which were imposed by certain
States against Japanese immigration and
Japanese settlers already within their
borders.
Thanks mainly to President Wilson, the
Japanese proposal was rejected ; but it
is sure to be revived after this war. Not,
of course, by the Japanese, but by the
Chinese certainly, and by tke Indians
most probably ; and it will command sup-
port from at least one powerful quarter.
Nor will the President, whoever he may
be, be in a position to dismiss it as
serenely as Woodrow Wilson did. He
will have to consider the sacrifices made
by the Chinese and the pity they have
aroused among his own people, deepened
since the visit of Madame Chiang Kai-
shek, and the reactions of the 13,000,000
American negroes and the 17,000,000
Filipinos.
Pressure for the abolition of Pacific
laws against Chinese immigration isf*active
already. At Washington last month the
House Immigration Committee, after “a
stormy executive session,” rejected a pro-
posal for the repeal of the Chinese-
exclusion Acts, which date back to 1882,
but a new measure, “a substitute for bills
offered by Representative Magnuson
(Democrat, Washington) and Representa-
tive Kennedy (Democrat, New York),”
and with Representative Gossett (Demo-
crat, Texas), a member of the committee,
as sponsor, was immediately introduced.
It provides for repeal of the exclusion
Acts and the introduction of a small
annual quota.
A Republican member from Cali-
fornia objected that the thing was “right
in line with Utopian attempts to assist
the downtrodden races in foreign
countries by permitting them to come to
the United States,” and said that “the
American Legion and the American
Federation of Labor will oppose it.” He
was heavily rebuked by the New York
“Times.” That influential newspaper,
‘‘the greatest in the world,” insisted that
“we stop going out of our way to insult
the Chinese,” and refused to “believe
that prospective members of the Legion
who have flown over China or who know
the story of Chinese loyalty to our com-
mon cause in Malaya and the Philippines
would take any such position.” That is
the way the wind is blowing in the great
country which, on this subject, has had
a common policy with Australia and
New Zealand for two generations.
Until the Communists came along the
White Australia doctrine was subscribed
to by all parties without question. Labor
has never been sufficiently appreciative
of this fact, nor does it now realise the
dangers to which the White Australia
doctrine is exposed by the crazy inter-
nationalism of its self-proclaimed allies
(“Return Curtin and elect Communists! ”),
who have taken advantage of its weak-
ness to worm their way dangerously into
its political and industrial branches, and
by the course of events overseas. The
White Australia doctrine is in danger
and must be defended, nor can any one
party do the job thoroughly. Here again
the case for Australia —for full Australian
determination and control of Australian
immigration policies, whatever conces-
sions Australia may choose to make —
must be put to the peacemakers by the
ablest delegation we can muster.
Labor calls itself the “Australian”
Labor party. If its claim to the honor-
able title is sound, it will do what the
British Labor party and trade-union
movement have done, with no regrets,
and accept what Australia most obvi-
ously and most urgently needs—a
national Government. If it doesn’t it
should be, and no doubt will be, defeated.
In other days, before the exclusive spirit
prevailed, many Labor members believed
in elective Ministries. It is within the
power of the electors to bring about a
wholesome and wholesale conversion to
the principle. Then, it may be, the Prime
Minister will be elected by the House of
Representatives, with power to allot
offices to 13 Ministers elected by the
House and two elected by the Senate.
There is nothing in the Constitution to
prevent it.
Marriage Of Convenience.
There is an African fairy tale about
a respectable Congo native who decided
to hold his wedding festivities during the
dark of the moon, and who awoke next
morning to find himself indissolubly
linked in unholy ' matrimony with a
vociferous female gorilla which eventu-
ally talked him to death.
It is a tale which should bring tears
of sympathy to the eyes of the Prime
Minister and other leaders of his party,
whose political plight is almost worse
than that of the miserable African. He,
after all, was attached merely to one
gorilla. Political Labor has been cemented
in shotgun marriage to numerous organi-
sations headed by or packed with Com-
munists, who are becoming more numer-
ous than the whole gorilla population of
Africa, and whose methods of con-
troversy would be eschewed by any
respectable simian as unsportsmanlike.
The married life of Labor and Com-
munism began, of course, as a marriage
of convenience. Today the convenience
is all on one side —that of the Reds.
There is certainly no affinity between
the two movements. Labor is a natural
democratic growth of the British soil and
atmosphere ; Communism is parasitic and
foreign. Its characteristics were well
summed up in a British Labor mani-
festo (1938):
The Communist party claims to be a
voluntary organisation based on iron dis-
cipline demanding “unbounded loyalty to
the party” as a chief characteristic of its
membership. It takes not only its money
but also its orders from Moscow, and must
obey them slavishly. Mr. Harry Pollitt,
the leader, said at the unity campaign
meeting in London on April 3, 1938: “It is
said that I take my orders from Stalin.
I plead guilty.”
The toleration of Communism and its
antics by Official Labor and by the
Government which made it “respectable”
is frightening to those who know the
Communist party’s earlier war record
and who are not dazzled by dishonest
reporting of the Russian war, combined
all along with studied depreciation of the
magnificent British achievement.
It is true that since Russia came into
the war English-speaking Communist
parties have soft-pedalled their demands
for the destruction of “British imperial-
ism.” But so soon as they feel that
“British imperialism” has been success-
fully used to pulverise the enemies of
Communism in Europe, the demands will
again become urgent and immediate.
And the revolutionary aims have never
been put away in cottonwool.
At every stage of the tragedy of 1940
British Communists and their “Daily
Worker” played the enemy’s game in a
manner which would have resulted in the
shooting of their leaders in any country
but Britain. British Communists did not
condemn the invasion of Norway. On
the contrary, they declared, through the
“Daily Worker,” that it had come about
because the Chamberlain and Reynaud
Governments, “with cynical disregard of
international law, deliberately laid mine-
fields in Norwegian territorial waters in
order to extend the war”! They sug-
gested also that Britain and France were
preparing to invade the Low Countries.
When Mussolini was flashing his stiletto
they gave space to the indignation of
Italian journalists in London at the
“provocation of the British capitalist
press.” And, according to an erstwhile
friend, Mr. Victor Gollancz, in a book
recently published, it was gleefully
announced in the “Daily Worker” (May
3, 1940) that “in 0510... .up to the pres-
ent time only the Communists continue
to publish their paper”;
The Oslo Communists set themselves the
task of preserving the Labor [! ] movement,
recognising that it is necessary to use all
the possibilities of legal activity under the
conditions of the German military dictator-
ship.. ..The Communist party published a
manifesto to the Norwegian people on the
situation. German occupation of the
country was shown to have resulted from
the Anglo-French striving to extend the
imperialist war, and in particular the British
minelaying.
M. Blum said to a Bournemouth con-
ference in May, 1940, while his country
was going through a travail largely attri-
butable to his own policy of subservience
to the Red unionism of the Popular Front;
What would you do in England if you
had a party in public and official corre-
spondence with Berlin? It is said we im-
posed the death penalty for propaganda—
not for propaganda, for treason In
France, we do not distinguish between Nazis
and Communists. The Communists pass
on Hitler’s orders. Hitler’s aeroplanes
scatter Communist pamphlets on our soil.
There were many more witnesses.
After the terrible months of blitz the
British Labor party placed it on record
that “the sufferings of the British people
left the Communist party unmoved and
unaffected.”
No vestige of sympathy with the British
people or the cause for which Britain fights
has appeared in its declarations.
As for Communist intrigues in the
U.S.A., the “United Automobile Worker,”
official organ of the largest C. 1.0. union,
with a circulation of 950,000, reported
Mr. Adolph Berle, Assistant Secretary of
State, as saying that in 1941:
The State Department had evidence that
German espionage was turned over to
American Communists. Some were so
entangled with the Nazis that they did
not know whether their orders were coming
from Russian or German sources.
In Australia during that period Com-
munists were turning out anti-“imperialist
war” propaganda, fomenting strikes
against the war effort and forming cells
in military camps, with results which are
already showing out in the election cam-
paign. Two, agents for “the State Com-
munist Committee of N. S. Wales,” were
discovered to be engaged in recruiting
members of the party in war factories
“on the basis of Lenin’s slogan
‘Every mine, factory and workshop a
fortress of revolution! ’ ” and organising
the makings of “a guerrilla movement
growing in space and time to under-
mine the war effort propaganda until
preparation is made for something big.”
And in the “literature” which was seized
in their printing hideout there were refer-
ences to “influencing youth against war
and for the fight against conscription and
compulsory training.” Against the recom-
mendation of a Judge-headed tribunal
which went into their case, these fellows
were released from internment by Mr.
Forde —his first act as Army Minister.
It might seem incredible that trade-
unions with hundreds of thousands of


[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of 252 George-street. Sydney, take the
responsibility.]
members, the vast majority of them good
Australians, could come under the sway
of Communists ; but so it is, and some of
their union bosses brazenly proclaim
themselves office-bearers of Communism.
And Mr. Curtin and his A.L.P. organisa-
tion, so politically self-righteous that they
cannot bring themselves to associate in a
national Government with a loyal Oppo-
sition, are prepared to live in the same
house with, and even to seek the advice
and guidance of, such men. Even such
as “Balance Sheet” Thornton, of the
Ironworkers, who is on record in the
“S. M. Herald” (19/4/’4O) as saying,
while a gallant little British army
was fighting its way through Norway, “I
hope the ‘scabs’ of Downing-street will be
defeated in this war,” to which he added,
presumably after a pause for reflection or
something, “just as I hope Hitler will be
defeated.”
The “Ironworker” of July, 1942, re-
ported a conference in Melbourne at
which the Prime Minister gave the
assembled delegates, some of them Red
racketeers, a “comprehensive review of
the war situation.” This Thornton and his
gang found “useful,” and they noted that
Mr. Curtin and his Ministers showed an
“attitude very good and progressive” and
“towards the Left quite comradely.” It
ended in the Prime Minister proposing,
“in reply to criticism over failure of the
Government to consult the trade-unions,”
that a “panel of trade-union representa-
tives” should be “established for advice
and consultation.” That panel is now in
existence. On it are Thornton, Healy
(Watersiders), Wells (Coalminers) and
Thomson (Building Trades Federation).
To a trade-union conference stiff with
Communists, Mr. Forde, deputising for
Mr. Curtin, reported with his humble
duty just before the last session of the
last Parliament began, and with him was
a raft of other Labor Ministers, some of
whom looked abject in press photo-
graphs.
According to his own declaration,
Mr. Curtin does not politically approve
of Communists of the Thornton type.
Obviously he has no qualms about asso-
ciating with them and calling for their
advice. And in view of Labor associa-
tion with Communists, beginning with the
removal of the decree of outlawry from
their organisations and publications, the
electors are entitled to ask why the Com-
munist party is so eager in its advocacy
of the Curtin Government, and exactly
what it means when it says—as it did in
an account of its activities in recent
months—that it “had to fight strenuously
against groups of reformists in the major
industries who set themselves out to
sabotage our party and the Curtin
Government,”
It is idle for Mr. Curtin to protest
that he will stand no nonsense from his
Communists when he has shown by his
proceedings that he will stand almost
anything from them.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Rome and Mussolini.
On the enemies’ “rules of war” the
bombing of Rome was justified. They
have never hesitated to bomb cities as
part of their deliberate war plans. Con-
siderations of civilisation, of religion, of
cultural heritage have never restrained
them anywhere. They would laugh at
the idea of sparing an important military
centre on any such score.
The Germans, especially, set the pace.
On the wave of seeming victory they
bombed indiscriminately for openly
avowed terroristic purposes. They
brought in with them a new age of bar-
barism. City after city, with inhabitants
of all kinds and ages, they bombed to dust.
At one stage the bombing of Britain
reached such a pitch—with frightful
casualties among men, women and chil-
dren —that only the staunch British spirit
enabled the nation (the Empire and much
else with it) to survive. The British
stood, and Western civilisation stands. If
they had fallen, there would have been
an age of slavery and persecution and
darkness over Europe that would have
made the bombing of military objectives
in Rome seem a minor circumstance.
Because of all this, because the Italians
in their day have done their own share
of bombing, because their Government
was a party to the bombing of British
fanes and shrines, because, besides, this
is war, and war is necessarily ruthless,
the bombing of Rome could be justified,
on the enemies’ “rules,” even if it had
been carried out for terroristic reasons.
On the enemies’ “rules” it could be
justified as a reprisal. And it could be
justified, if, as Mr. Roosevelt and others
have stated, only military objectives were
attacked, and those only because attack-
ing them was an important military neces-
sity, directly linked with the fighting to
the south, and designed to save brave
men doing that fighting.
Despite all these possible justifications,
it is still very doubtful if the Allied side
would have resorted to the bombing for
any of these reasons, not even the last.
They had not held off the bombing of
Rome for so long for any lack of provo-
cation. They had waged the war grimly,
but with scruples, and this was one of
them. They had taken the stand all along
that they were fighting against barbarism.
In any case, there can be no question
of reprisal, since the bombing was done
by Americans, not by British. They had
strict orders, and in the preparations and
in the actual raid they went to all sorts
of trouble to confine the bombing to
military objectives. It would have been
well known to the Allied side that the
bombing of Rome would produce reper-
cussions.
The Anglo-Americans vainly urged
Mussolini to spare the Eternal City by
declaring it an open town. He did not
save the Romans who fell victims to the
bombing—few, considering the vast popu-
lation, which had been swollen by refu-
gees—nor has he saved himself. He has
fallen, and Badoglio has succeeded him,
with the old King taking the supreme
command. Was there more, then, to the
bombing than has been given out? Was
it known that the first of the dictators
to fall was near the brink, and that this
one act would send him over? Is it a
case of cause and effect?
It seems probable. And it would ex-
plain an act which would be mere normal
procedure to the Axis.
In the first Rome announcement of
Mussolini’s finish it was stated that the
war would go on. And so it may—with a
time limit. The will-to-fight oozed swiftly
out of the Sicilians, and it is nowhere
expected that the mainlanders will show
much resolution in a cause so clearly lost.
Not in war can they find the “way of
recovery” mentioned in the unhappy
King’s proclamation to them.
Election Birdlime.
Whatever records Mr. Curtin’s Govern-
ment may have put up during its term of
office, it must surely be in the running
for another. Since the election was an-
nounced on June 25 Curtin Ministers
have announced an increase in the supply
of some commodity, an easement of a
war-time restriction, a reduction in the
price of something or other or a “gift”
of some sort—-to be paid for, with in-
terest, by the recipients at an unspecified
date—almost every day.
The list (E. and 0.E.) runs; More
vegetables, particularly potatoes; more
smokes for civilians and service men ;
more cotton goods, rayon goods and
blankets for everyone ; more machinery
for farmers ; a bigger subsidy for dairy-
farmers ; a guaranteed price for barley-
growers ; longer lunch hours for wage-
earners ; removal of the ban on statutory
holidays ; lifting of the brownout; pro-
ficiency pay for private soldiers; re-
duced tea and potato prices; reduced
sales tax on clothing; reimbursement
of employers against cost-of-living wage
increases; and, again, more vegetables
and more clothing.
That lot must pretty well exhaust the
possibilities, and, since there are still 24
days to the election, Mr. Curtin and his
offsiders may be driven to repeat them-
selves. Perhaps they will think up a plan
for reducing taxation on middle incomes
or subsidising middle-income earners to
enable them to meet the taxes —the
middle-class vote is a worry—and another
for putting thousands of small shop-
keepers, who as a rule vote Labor —or
did —back into their sold-out shops, in
some cases to compete, rather hopelessly,
with aliens.
The Curtin crowd has become so ob-
sessed with its kindness-to-voters move-
ment that it would almost seem that it
has lost sight of the war. Nevertheless,
the war is still performing in our imme-
diate North and adjacent parts, and
likening it to a football game with the
Jap as the ball doesn’t quite get rid of it.
Meanwhile work stoppages and absen-
teeism are worse than ever. The crowd
in office has been afraid to produce
strike figures for this year, but Mr.
Fadden got some of them somehow and
mentioned them in his policy speech:
In the first quarter of this year there
were 2143 strikes, involving 856,000 people,
with a consequent loss of 268,299 working
days, compared with a loss of 378,195 in the
whole of 1942.
Figures for the second quarter of this
year are not likely to appear before the
election, but the only question‘is whether
they will be a little less or a little more
shameful than the figures for the first
quarter. In war industries dependent on
N.S.W. coal and in all railway depart-
ments, power plants and gasworks re-
serve stocks of fuel are steadily disappear-
ing, and managers have headaches when
they consider the immediate future. And
in one of the bleakest winters on record,
with its bad accompaniments of influ-
enza, pneumonia and common colds, the
householders, after being implored to cut
their use of electric-light, gas and coal to
the bone, have been notified of drastic
restriction measures, beginning with the
removal of coke from the domestic fuel
market.
Eighteen months have elapsed since Mr.
Curtin denounced workstoppers, refer-
ring particularly to the N.S.W. coalfields
variety, as traitors. In the course of the
18 months he has tried everything except
enforcement of his own measures. Now
he says he has “a new plan,” which is
to be “enforced absolutely”—by Crown
solicitors!
So Long, Soldier!
Westbrook Pegler (New York “World-
Telegram”) takes leave of a Doughboy:
Well, so long, sport! Take care of yourself.
It is tough to be leaving the little woman and
your good job. You will be in good company,
anyway, in the army, and when she goes to
work in the war factory she will find a lot of
other fine girls in the same fix —husbands away,
homes broken.
There are a couple of fine, upstanding, pat-
riotic Americans that y,ou probably won’t be
meeting in the army though. Not if they can
help it.
One is Joe Curran, president of the National
Maritime Union. That boy is American through
and through, like Earl Browder, and nobody
in this land is more eager to send you walking
up some beach along the Channel coast through
shells and machine-gun fire to open up a
Second Front against the aggressors.
But Joe can’t get away to join you. He will
be with you in spirit, you understand, but not
in the flesh, because he has to stay in New
York to run his union and help Harry Bridges
and his Communist fifth column capture the
East Coast while you are away.
Joe passed his physical, but the poor guy is
essential. It broke his heart to get deferred,
but he had to do it. When a patriotic unioneer
likc Curran wants deferment the union asks
for it. But he is the union. So Joe Curran,
the union, asks for deferment of Joe Curran,
the bloodthirsty Second-Fronter, and gets it.
Then Joe clenches his fists and shakes them
at Hitler and yells “You louse; I wish I could
get away and slaughter you on that Second
Front!” There is no more bloodthirsty anti-
Nazi on earth, at a distance of 3000 miles, than
Joe Curran.
This statement is disputed. Here in Aus-
tralia we have congeners of Mr. Curran
whose Second-Front fury is quite as
ferocious at a distance of 10,000 miles,
and if the distance were 20,000 miles
they would feel more comfortable. But
they resemble Comrade Curran in
another respect:
He didn’t always hate Hitler. They used to
be pals. His union used to say that this was an
imperialist war and picket the White House,
under the slogan “The Yanks aren’t coming."
This hatred for Hitler and aggressors came over
Joe’s union all of a sudden on June 22, 1941.
Yes, Joe has been deferred for six months.
He comes up again in September, but he will
still be Joe Curran of the one-man union, and
more indispensable than ever, even though
that Second Front that he has been yelling
for may be going to beat all hell.
Another who will be with you in spirit, but
otherwise absent from that Second Front, is the
president of the United Office and Professional
Workers —another of those “The Yanks aren’t
coming” outfits that turned against aggression
when Adolf took a sock at Uncle Joe.
They call him Lewis Merrill. He is another
fearless and furious Second-Fronter, too, but
by proxy. You are his proxy.
He was classified 1A back in February. When
his number was up his union paper said the
union had decided to appeal for deferment;
and he got deferred for another month on
April 30. It is just a little scraggly union, but
very important in the war effort because it is
so close to the Communist party.
In that February issue of his paper there was
a little item announcing that Merrill, as they
call him, was going to make a radio speech
entitled “Wake up, America!” He was bugling
reveille to get you up in time to kiss your
wife good-bye, sport, and shove off for that
Second Front that he is so crazy about.
So long, sport, and when you get to Boulogne
or Calais or climb up the cliff at Cape Griz Nez,
go to the picture-postcard shop and send greet-
ings to Joe and Lewis, as they call him.
American conscription law and prac-
tice must be different. In this country
Red bosses of trade-unions, who are very
numerous and vocal and nearly all of
military age, don’t have to apply for de-
ferment. They have all been deferred
for. the duration by Mr. Ward. This is
of powerful assistance to them in their
role as workstoppers, and to their plans
for capturing both branches of “the
movement,” but on other grounds it is
a mistaken policy. Not only does it de-
prive them of personal knowledge of the
fighting men’s existence, but the great
military talents paraded in their Second-
Front writings and speeches are wasted.
If they were required to place their in-
born mastery of strategy and tactics at
the service of the United Nations Mr.
Churc 11 might be able to get rid of.
dunces like Alexander and Montgomery.
THE DOG THAT WOULD HAVE SAT ON THE TUCKER-BOX IF HE COULD HAVE
FOUND ROOM.


Wf
ss
h
f
V ’W w v?
v ■■••.<*
C. S. B. HABDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PL
&
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
SYDNEY - - M E LBOURNr- ng . M BSsBA^ Vi ! iO ." X ADE LA.DE - - PERTH
-him P. 1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
sauce
* * * * V
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
POLITICAL POINTS
Fadden in his policy speech put for-
ward an astonishing proposal—a refund,
on a graduated scale, of one-third of net
Federal income tax for 1941-42 onwards.
He would be better occupied in trying to
make bloated State Governments refund
the excessive amounts they’re socking
away. Ordinary taxpayers have kissed
their money good-bye, but it maddens
them to hear the Coopers and McKells
joyfully announcing huge surpluses.
‘‘Nothing is changed—there is only
one Frenchman more.” So said the
restored Bourbon king creeping into
France in the wake of Wellington’s army.
Now on the world’s stage there is one
dictator less. But a great deal is changed
—or will be “before the leaves of autumn
fall.”
In a preface to a powerful prepared
speech as “a private back-bench mem-
ber.” Menzies said he had not been told
of Fadden’s plan for refunding income
taxes, and could not support it. That
was honest, and in line with his own
programme in 1940, when, as he puts it,
he “made no promises and offered no
cash rewards” ; but when apprised of it
Fadden lost his temper, saying it was “a
stab in the back.... another betrayal in
the series for which Mr. Menzies has be-
come notorious.” To which Menzies
replied that he had never imagined that
a leader, appointed “on my own recom-
mendation,” had “entertained these
amazing ideas about me,” and that it was
100 much to be “accused of treasonable
conduct because one discharges one’s
plain duty to one’s own electors.” It will
be necessary for Artie to get rid of the
notion that he is a perambulating Ark
of the Covenant.
“In the last session of Parliament,”
according to Senator McLeay, “the Prime
Minister disclosed a statement alleged to
have been made in secret session.” Now
he is accused of having shown Coles
secret cables from Churchill about the
A.I.F. ; anyway Coles, professing to
speak with authority and to refute “lying
statements,” declared at Sandringham
(Vic.) that “the A.I.F. came back as part
of the strategy of the High Command.”
That was in the “Argus” report; and he
made other “revelations” unpardonable in
even a chain-store politician. The em-
barrassed P.M. has been obliged to ask
him what he did say, and on whose
authority. An Earle Page comment was
pertinent: “Mr. Churchill would rub
his eyes if he knew that a private member
was seeing his confidential cables.”
“The fact that Australia has escaped
invasion is, in my opinion, due to J. T.
Lang.” —Writer of a letter to our de-
liverer’s paper, the “Century.”
Communists and Curtinites blamed
Lang for the Sydney waterfront strike
which led to service men doing the lump-
ing. Actually, Lang’s activities within
the “movement” have always centred in
A.L.P. branches rather than trade-unions,
though he has always had admirers among
the wharfies. Naturally he was delighted
beyond measure when, at the Sydney
branch elections, they bundled out their
Communist boss 3 neck and crop. The
only one spared was Healy, and it was
only because Healy didn’t have to go up
for re-election as Federal secretary. It’s
just as well for Beasley that Lang is
standing for Reid and not for West
Sydney.
Mr. Coles speaking:
I am in favor of one army for Australia.
1 am pledged to see that everyone has equal
opportunities to share the amenities of life,
and to see that loyal unionists are not called
out on strike by Trades Hall armchair
bosses until they have had a secret ballot.
1 am for government by Parliament and
tor the right of private enterprise to conduct
its own business, and I would give a hun-
dred per cent, preference to all soldiers
who have served in a war zone.
Therefore Mr, Coles supports a Govern-
ment which is against one army for Aus-
tralia and. against “a hundred per cent,
preference to all soldiers who have served
in a war zone,” which denies equal
opportunities to non-unionists (actually
penalising even those in the public service),
which refused to intervene in a lawless
strike aimed at the expulsion of war-
factory workers, and marked by savage
threats and insults, even though a Com-
monwealth Arbitration Judge reported to
the Prime Minister himself that it was a
lawless strike, which humbly sought per-
mission from its party organisation before
it introduced a bill providing for militia
service beyond Australian territory, and
then made it a limited-liability measure,
and whose Wards and Dedmans and
boards and doctrinaires have done their
darnedest to suffocate private enterprise
Bounding out of the U.A.P. party-room,
Mr. Coles put this Government in office
and has kept it in office for nearly two
years.
Mrs. Weber has resigned as the twice-
elected M.L.A. for Nunawading (salary,
£5OO p.a.) to contest Federal Henty
(salary, £lOOO p.a.) against Coles and
Harry Gullett’s soldier son. Brave, per-
haps, but very unwise, and it is doubt-
ful whether even Nunawading appre-
ciates it. A lady member in another State
was defeated because, her sex pointed
out acrimoniously, she was making too
much money, having two jobs. Lady
electors are like that.
Long lines of worried women queued
up outside bakers’ shops have become
features of the Sydney landscape, es-
pecially in Labor suburbs, since the
Bakers’ Union cultivated a bent for strik-
ing against night work, which soldiers,
seamen, airmen, railwaymen, tramway-
men, printers, fishermen and men in
other callings take as a matter of course.
The latest outrage was committed in
violation of industrial law as laid down
by a Court whose chairman was recently
appointed by a Labor Government. He
was a Labor candidate himself before
he concentrated on an industrial-court
practice, and he is a brother of the presi-
dent of the A.L.P. organisation whom
another Labor Government put on the
Commonwealth Bank Board. None of
these considerations or any other except
the lawless selfishness of the mob has
any weight with the Bakers’ Union.
In the second week of the Sydney
bakers’ strike, the second in three months,
members of the Sydney Labor Govern-
ment became really angry with the union.
Knight, the “responsible” Minister,
charged it with being guilty of “a form
of anarchy which no Government can
permit to continue.” McKell said his
Government stood for “industrial arbi-
tration, which means that awards.
whether they please or displease, must be
accepted.” On the same day there was
heard a voice from Queensland saying
“We will prohibit strikes, and accom-
pany that prohibition by giving to the
Court full powers to take vigorous action
against those who counsel or encourage
strikes, and against the funds and prop-
erty of any organisation participating in
them.” It was the voice of Fadden the
“Tory,” and no Labor Government can
do what any “Tory” prescribes.
A Labor man supported by the racing
interest has won a queer by-election in
Gouger (S.A.), previously represented by
an Independent. As a sequel Premier
Playford announced the lifting of his 18-
months ban on all forms of racing, but
Man-power Wurth, casting up in Adel-
aide, drily intimated that release of man-
power for the racing game could not be
taken for granted. He, too, is an Old
Digger for whom the war comes before
everything. Another sequel is a threat
that racing men everywhere will launch a
racing-as-usual agitation. Before they do
they should look up what happened to
the motoring-as-usual agitation at the
last election.
Hollins, the Independent member for
Hawthorn (so called because he is de-
pendent on the Dry vote) made Victorian
Parliamentary history by moving as an
amendment to the address-in-reply “that,
in the opinion of this House, the future
welfare and happiness of the people of
this State demand a greater application of
Christian principles to all matters of ad-
ministration and legislation.” Hodson,
the Labor member for Castlemaine,
where the Wild Colonial Boy “bounded
on his parients,” seconded it, and the
debate was solemnly adjourned for five
days to give other Christians time to pre-
pare their speeches,
Queensland dairymen’s organisation
has decided to protest against the Federal
award for dairying and also against any
Labor attempts to introduce collective
farming—a pet idea of Scully’s and
Slater’s. C. H. Jamieson told the
assembled dairymen that he’d seen the
collective-farm system working in Russia
and “it has driven the very soul from the
people.” He described the dairy sub-
sidy as a dole, and the organisation said
it hadn’t asked for it.
Replying to Spender, Scully claimed
that the Potato Controller made his order
releasing more potatoes on June 24,
“some time before the date of the elec-
tion was decided.” Yes, but only the
day before Scully’s leader announced the
dissolution of the Parliament. And most
of Scully’s “more potatoes-eggs-vege-
tables” promises have been made since.
The Sydney Premier offered to “settle”
the Sydney bread strike. How? By
promising a royal commission. A royal
commission, with bread queues chains
long!
As the “West Australian” puts it:
Railway workers in this State are to be given
war loadings which will cost £60,000 to £70,000
annually... .These loadings were refused by
the State Arbitration Court and the Railways
Classification Board... .The Federal Arbitration
Court declined to intervene Four months
later Mr. Ward blew into Perth, permitted him-
self to be convinced that the union’s claims
were such as “might lead to industrial unrest”
and, as a consequence of that easy mental pro-
cess, became entitled under the Industrial Peace
regulations to reopen the matter by referring
it to a Commonwealth Conciliation Commis-
sioner.
As has been remarked, “They’re very
funny fishes, eels. Very funny.”
Mussolini will go down to history as
an example of how one fatal mistake
can wreck a ruler and his country. In
June, 1940, convinced that Germany had
won the war and that John Bull, driven
off the Continent and with his back to
the wall, would sue for peace within a
few days, Musso put his country in on
Germany’s side in order to share in the
spoils; “Nice, Corsica, Tunisia” —and
Egypt, if he could get it. He wasn’t alone
in his misjudgment of the British. He is
the first to pay for his error on the grand
scale.
Questions about the fate of Britons
and Indians in Japanese hands are re-
peatedly asked in the House of Com-
mons. A recent one led to the follow-
ing Ministerial statement;
The names of 31,800 officers and other
ranks have been notified as prisoners in
Japanese hands.... All efforts to secure
Japanese agreement to the regular transport
of relief supplies to the Far East have been
unsuccessful. It has only been possible to
send supplies in Japanese ships returning
to Japan with exchanged subjects... .Defi-
nite information has been received that the
supplies shipped reached prisoners and in-
ternees.
Not much ; but far more than Australians
have got from their own Government
about their own men in Japanese hands.
Indignant note from Comrade J. J.
Brown, Victorian secretary of the Rail-
waymen’s Union, in that organisation’s
“Gazette”;
As you all know, I am an active member
of the Communist party, and have always
stood out for my rights as an individual
to have my own political views, just as I
have claimed that any other individual has
a perfect right to his own political views.
But seemingly this democracy is not to be
extended from both sides. On the confer-
ence agenda [A.R.U.j was a proposal that
all officials of the A.R.U. must be members
of the A.L.P. and that if anything is done
contrary to the principles of the A.L.P.
and such member is expelled from the
A.L.P. he automatically forfeits his position
in the A.R.U.
No doubt if the proposal had been for
a compulsory united front with the Com-
munist party, Comrade Brown would
have been able to stomach his objections,
even if A.L.P. supporters stuck out for
their individual rights.
According to Lloyd Ross, of the
A.R.U., who was at the British Labor
conference, Bevin “sat in the body of
the hall with the delegates.... and said
nothing—perhaps a very significant atti-
tude for the future.” If the same could
have been said of some Australian Min-
isters it could be described as “a very
beneficent augury for the future.” What
wouldn’t the country give for a Labor
Minister who kept mum!
“C.Q.”: Another committee, largely
composed of university professors, has
been appointed to go into post-war hous-
ing, and pre-fabricated houses are men-
tioned. In all these schemes it is taken
for granted that Government will provide
the money and officialdom do the job, as
has been done in Russia, the great
example. But if pre-fabricated houses are
designed by officialdom, why won’t they
be as ugly as the new officially-designed
police headquarters in Melbourne? And,
anyhow, there is nothing to rave about in
the modern architecture of Russia,
In the multitude of transport authori-
ties there is confusion. Passing the buck
being the rule in these matters, no con-
cern accepts responsibility for the dis-
graceful business of allowing thousands
of people to jam themselves on to a
limited number of public vehicles in order
to get to places of amusement or holiday
resorts jammed with thousands who got
there first. Canberra has a Minister for
Transport in the person of a Mr. Lawson.
Passengers whose humble ambition it is
to ride in safety and comfort rarely hear
of Mr. Lawson, but in dog-racing circles
he is held in high esteem.


( ytland»
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Although believed to be a prisoner of
war, nothing definite has been heard of
James Lee Street, Registrar of Titles and
Official Assignee for the Mandate, since
the Japs arrived in Rabaul in January,
1942. An old Sydney Grammar boy,
Street entered the Public Trustee’s office,
but left again to join the 3rd Batt., First
A.1.F., which found his knowledge of
French and German useful. After that
war he graduated in law at Sydney Uni-
versity, playing fullback occasionally in
the Uni. team, then hung out his shingle
at Hay (N.S.W.). He took the Rabaul
appointment in 1924, joined the N.G.
Rifles when Japan came in, and was in
the early fighting. His wife and two
children got away from Rabaul in time.
His father and brother, Ed, were both
in the first A.1.F., and Ed is again serv-
ing.
On the only Russian candidate:
Hubert Peter Lazzarini, Minister for Horae
Security, has attracted the opposition of Michel
Kartzoff, the one and only Russian candidate.
Michel is of the same breed as Shaposhnikipv,
Stalin’s Chief of the General Staff, born at Kiev
in the Ukraine, of an old military family. He
speaks half a dozen languages. He saw the
Germans occupy the Ukraine in the last war,
saw the civil war through, then emigrated to
what seemed the quieter realm of Italy, but had
KARTZOFF (v. Lazzarini).
barely matriculated in Naples University when
the Fascist revolution exploded. Wisely, he de-
cided to get as far from erupting Europe as
possible, and for 17 years or so he has been
farm-worker, builders’ assistant, goldminer,
Matilda-waltzer, journalist and exponent of
half a dozen other erudite trades, filling in his
time with voracious reading on foreign affairs
and social sciences. Four years before the war
he became an ardent volunteer member of the
Light Horse and, enlisting for overseas service
early in 1940, went off with a crack A.I.F.
machine-gun unit to Palestine, the Western
Desert and Syria. He was at Alamein with the
Eighth Army. His last journey was an 800-
mile hitch-hike from a northern battle station
to get at Comrade Lazzarini, who represents an
electorate which gave the Ninth Division a lot
of its hardiest members, including Sergeant
Kartzoff’s c.o.
Dead in Melbourne, at 79, Dave
O’Keefe, who in a diversified career as
Labor politician held a unique collection
of posts. He was an original (Tas.)
Senator (1901-06), Senator again (1910-
16), M.H.R. for Denison (1922-25) and
M.H.A. for Wilmot, winding up as
Speaker. Farm-worker, miner and journa-
list, he ran the Zeehan and Dundas
“Herald” for years. After he and Deni-
son parted company he spent some time
in Perth (W.A.) representing T. M.
Burke’s land interests.
C. P. Mountford, of Adelaide, is an
unusual public servant. Long ago he
became interested in abo. art and legend,
and every chance he gets he heads for
the wilds. One of his longest trips was
to the Mann and the Musgrave ranges,
where he lived with the Pitjendadjaras,
in his opinion the most primitive people
in existence. They are artistic, and for
centuries have allegorised every rock and
hill and carved their legendary history
on them, so that the surrounding country
has become a sort of book of literary
expression. Mountford has over 1000
native drawings made with chalks he
supplied. His show of pictures in Mel-
bourne recently drew the biggest crowds
Kodaks have ever had, and he showed a
color film at the anatomy school of the
University. He is honorary assistant
ethnologist at the S.A. Museum, and has
published many papers under the aegis
of the board of anthropological research
at Adelaide Uni.
The most-decorated w.a.g. in the
R.A.A.F. is Sergeant Norman Wil-
liams, C.G.M., D.F.M. and bar. A Lee-
ton (N.S.W.) boy, chunky and fair-
haired, Williams was timekeeper in
the water-distribution branch there.
Now a member of a Pathfinder squadron,
he has taken part in 40 operational
sorties over Germany and Italy, the only
Aussie in a bomber crew with three
Canadians and three Englishmen. Deco-
rating the young man, the King asked how
he had become so good at downing
fighter ’planes. “Shooting ducks on the
ricefields at Leeton,” the engaging youth
replied. “You ought to come out again
and try it yourself, sir.” “I might some
day,” the King said.
Three of the biggest guns on the
British Inky Way will shortly be the
guests of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. They are Sir Walter Layton, chair-
man of “News-Chronicle” and “Star,”
Samuel Storey, M.P. for Sunderland and
chairman of Portsmouth and Sunderland
Newspapers, and Sir Neville Pearson, son
of the founder of “Pearson’s Weekly”
and a multitude of other papers. Sir
Neville’s father, after he went blind him-
self, founded St. Dunstan’s.
Lieutenant-General H. E. Barrow-
dough, commanding the Maorilanders in
New Caledonia, has seen a lot of two
wars, and expects to see more of this
one in the Pacific. In World War No. 1
he led the 4th battalion of the Maori-
land Rifle Brigade ; this time he had a
brigade under Freyberg. For his work
at Sidi Rezegh a bar was added to his
1914-18 D. 5.0.; and in Greece a Greek
Military Cross (Class A) came his way.
Barrowclough’s brigade went on up to
Tobruk in November, 1941, and saw
some more tough fighting there. In
April, 1942, the general returned to
N.Z. to command a division. Between
wars he’s a barrister
George Smibert, who has retired after
half a century with the Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., was at one time chairman of
the Australian Steamship Owners’ Feder-
ation. His Melbourne co. service was
at the head office, then at Devonport
(Tas.), but mainly in Adelaide, where he
is succeeded by Chris Porter, who is
well known also in Perth.
As a sequel to Dr. Charles Kellaway’s
appointment as director-in-chief of the
Wellcome Laboratories in England and
America, Colonel Neil Hamilton
Fairley, 0.8. E., sometime of Ftarley-
street and now director of medicine at
Australian Army H.Q., has been offered
a directorship of tropical research in the
Wellcome Foundation, which works in
co-operation with the London School of
Tropical Medicine, the Tropical Diseases
Hospital and the Colonial Office. In the
last war Colonel Fairley studied bil-
harzia in Egypt, sprue in India arid black-
water and malaria in Macedonia, where
some of his most important work was
done. He has published many books on
his subject and figures in many of the
textbooks. If he wore all the medals and
decorations he has won for distinguished
service in the fight against bacteria he
would need a bigger chest than Goring.
He is 52, was born at Inglewood (Vic.)
and educated at Scotch College and Mel-
bourne University.
As successor to Brigadier-General
Hurley, Minister for the United States,
Maoriland is to have William Carter
Burdett, who has wide experience in
Uncle Sam’s Consular service and Army,
in which he was a captain. Before be-
coming U.S. Director of Foreign Affairs,
Officers’ Training School, in 1941, he was
Consul-General at Buenos Aires and Rio
de Janeiro. He’s 60.
De Gaulle, etc.:
According to one cabled account the arrival
of the French leader Giraud in America pro-
duced an “almost studied” campaign to de-
preciate General de Gaulle. There was such
depreciation long before Giraud ever thought
of going to America. When Churchill in his
Congress speech in May did not once mention
De Gaulle the omission was interpreted as a
victory of Roosevelt,” who had meetings with
De Gaulle at Casablanca. At the first meeting
De Gaulle protested emotionally: “Mr. Presi-
dent, to France I am the spirit of Joan of Arc.”
At the second meeting De Gaulle insisted;
“President Roosevelt, to France I am the re-
incarnation of the great Clemenceau of the first
World War.” To this Roosevelt is reported to
have replied: “My dear general, you had better
make up your mind whether you are the re-
incarnation of the sainted Maid of Orleans or
the modem version of the elderly gentleman
who led the forces of French anti-clericalism.
I don’t want to have one lobe of your brain
fighting against the other.” It was noted by the
American retailer of this story that, whereas
Roosevelt shows signs of the ravages of war
worry, Churchill seems to have thrived on the
war. Britain’s P.M. is further reported to have
been in his bath when the “United Nations”
title was invented. Neither he nor Roosevelt
liked the “Allied and Associated Powers” phrase
of the last war, and Roosevelt, in bed, thought
up the new name and shouted it through the
door to Churchill.
Sydney-native Lionel Lawson, A.B.C.’s
new symphony-orchestra conductor in
Melbourne, and a violinist with a beauti-
ful tone, started learning the fiddle in
Berlin when he was 12, got into broad-
casting when it was young, was leader
of the 8.8. C. Tango Band and was one
of the first artists to be put on the Aus-
tralian ether. He served through the last
war as a R.F.C. pilot, and then toured
Britain giving concerts. He did another
tour with Paul Robeson. Lawson was
first violin and leader of the N.S.W. Con.
Orchestra for. some years and then
A.B.C.’s Perth conductor.
If Adelaide City Council catches the
post-war world-planning disease that is
going about it will have a good diagnoser
on the premises—its new Lud Mayor
Reginald Walker, who, since 1927, has
seen most of the visible world, having
crossed the Equator 18 times in his travels
and covered half a million miles. Inside
Australia he’s shifted about a bit too.
He was born at Ararat (Vic.), where
his father was the first mayor. Next,
Lud Mayor of Adelaide.
Reginald Walker was in N.S.W., getting
an education at Shore and Sydney Tech.,
and after that taking a hand in pastoral
affairs. Then, 30 years back, he was in
S.A., as managing director of Campbell
Sheep Shearing, a job he still holds.
A farmer in Melbourne:
Norman Angus Martin, successor to long
Ned Hogan as Vic. Minister for Agriculture,
looks like a farmer, and so he ought to, for his
family has been rooted in Victorian soil since
his grandfather set foot at Portland with the
Henty brothers. He is a good farmer, and
versatile. After the family had farmed for
two generations in the south —his father was
manager of the Metropolitan Farm at Werribee
before irrigation—N. A. Martin started in with
the earliest irrigation settlement in the State’s
north, at Cohuna, and there is no side of farm-
ing in which he hasn’t a working interest. A
young son has taken a new slant on the family
tradition by studying agricultural science. As
a Minister without portfolio in the Dunstan
Government Martin was regarded by his party
as equally versatile in administration. He organ-
ised the spending of the quarter of a million
raised for the relief of settlers burnt out in the
NORMAN ANGUS MARTIN.
1939 bushfires, when scores were killed and
Warrandyte, the art colony close to Melbourne,
was reduced to smoking rubble. Since the war
began he has been busy disentangling the affairs
of the 999 patriotic funds the State is blessed
with. The State Emergency Medical Services
and the general welfare activities for service men
and women are his pigeon, and in his off
moments he and his wife run a Sunday enter-
tainment centre in Fawkner Park, where a ray
of light has been let in on Melbourne’s solemn
Sabbath for tens of thousands of members of
the forces. Born at Melbourne in 1893, and an
artilleryman in the last war, he entered State
politics as M.L.A. for Gunbower in 1934. He
has a son-in-law in Captain Alan Hutchison,
the man who took a patrol out from El Ala-
mein, was reported missing and presumed dead
and then turned up in an Italian prison camp,
where he was the first Australian to receive a
captaincy and a D.S.O. while p.o.w. Captain
Hutchison was subsequently exchanged and re-
turned to Melbourne.
Wing-Commander Camille E. Malfroy,
D.F.C., R.A.F., is now in command of
a Spitfire squadron in England. Formerly
at St. Patrick’s College, Silverstream
(M.L.), Malfroy got his wings at Cam-
bridge, joined the R.A.F. Reserve, and at
the outbreak of war went to a Hurricane
squadron in France. He earned his
D.F.C. in the Battle of Britain, and was
then posted to a training unit for instruc-
tional purposes. As a tennis player Mal-
froy won several M.L. titles, including
the singles in 1934, when he beat Cecil
Sproule in a five-set final. In England
he played for Trinity and got his blue,
and he was for years a figure at Wimble-
don.
Into the silence:
In Mebourne, at 75, Frederick W. Hagelthorn,
Minister of Public Works in Watt’s time, and
of Agriculture under Peacock. His best job was
to help form the Vic. Country Roads Board.
Victorian Danes proudly claimed him as a
member of their race.
In Brisbane, at 86, Tom Griffiths, a North
Queensland timber-industry pioneer. After a
display of his inlaid wood and veneers at
Wembley royalty and lesser folk all over the
world began buying Griffiths cases, trays, caskets
and walking sticks.
At Nhill (Vic.), B. H. Gray, a warrant officer
on H.M.S. Camperdown when she rammed
H.M.S. Victoria in 1892. The Mediterranean
Fleet, in two lines, headed by Camperdown
and Victoria, was about to heave to for the
night when Admiral Tryon ordered the two
lines to turn about inwards. Efforts to make
him countermand the order failed, and before
the eyes of the whole fleet Camperdown rammed
Victoria, which sank with huge loss of life.
In Melbourne, at 78, Joseph Thornton
Tweddle, who mixed art benefactions with
social welfare. When Dr. Truby King was
working in Maoriland for infant, welfare
Tweddle offered his bloodstock farm at Berwick
to two doctors who dreamed of an infant-nurses'
training school. The two went to Maoriland to
learn more. Tweddle sold his farm, but when
the doctors returned he stuck to his offer and the
Tweddle Baby Hospital and Mothercraft School
were started at Footscray. That was 25 years
ago, and the decline in the infant mortality
figures owes a good deal to the two institutions.
Tweddle was a big collector of pictures; his
widow and a daughter are both painters. He
was a trustee of the Vic. Nat. Gallery.
In Adelaide, at 76, Tom Litherland, a Welsh-
man who came to Adelaide 35 years ago to
manage the “Register’s’ jobbing office. He
became president of the Cambrian Society and
occasionally broadcast in Welsh.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: Now that the ballot-box looms
in the offing, the voice of the lady can-
vasser is loud in the land. One of the
breed lobbed into our street and tackled
Gupple, a man who has political views
of his own and doesn’t like them dis-
turbed. He heard the lady out, then
spake thus: “You have made a study of
politics?” “Of course I have!” she
answered. “Right,” he said. “I offer
a bargain. A vote for your man if you
answer correctly one question I ask.
You have heard of Single Tax, of course.
What does it mean?” The lady sniffed.
“Anybody knows that,” she snapped. “It
means taxing single men, and quite right,
too. Now 1 suppose 1 can put you down
for our side?”
"Spokeshave”; The candidate stepped
briskly into the bar and waved ex-
pansively to the four men in it.
"Set 'em up, boys,” he said. “The drinks
are on me today!” His audience grinned
and gratefully lifted their elbows. When
they had executed this manoeuvre four
or five times they looked at the clock
and said they had to be going. “Fine
intelligent fellows,” said the candidate to
the barman. “Who are they?” “Them?”
said the barman with a sniff; “reporters
trom town, come up to report Blank, our
member.”
*.* * *
“Arter”: In line with Melbourne and
other city galleries Sydney’s temple of
the graphic arts has restored to the walls
many of its pictures by English and Con-
tinental masters. This has annoyed the
art critic of “5.M.H.,” who says it is
understandable that such pictures “should
only gradually relinquish their place in
the gallery,” but it would be dangerous
to regard their return as an important
event. They are but “magnified book
illustrations” and evidence a “complete
" Right-oh, working party —time to knock off!"
misinterpretation of great traditions.”
Hear, hear! All art students will recall
the great tradition created by Rembrandt
when in his vast canvas “Subliminity of
a Cucumber” he portrayed his subcon-
scious reaction to cirrhosis of the liver;
the equally great tradition Raphael
fathered in his cubistical interpretation
of “Moses Striking the Rock,” and
that wonderful idea Velasquez had of de-
picting Court beauties with elephant’s
legs, three eyes and ears a yard long. And
the students will also be able to imagine
the indignation of a Titian or a Fra
Angelico if anyone accused them of get-
ting their subjects from a Book.
* * *
“K.”: During the ceremonial opening
of a new wing at Croydon (Sydney)
Government school some children
fainted. Eleven according to “S. M.
Herald,” the “D.T.” made it 50, and
there were other computations in other
papers. The causes assigned also varied.
McCall, M.H.R., thought it was because
the pieman hadn’t been round, munition
workers having a prior claim ; the bread
strike was mentioned; the headmaster
favored “psychological causes,” and some-
one blamed the heat of the midwinter
day. Tut, tut! The wing was opened
by N.S.W. Minister for Education Clive
(“Call me Daddy”) Evatt. I suggest that
the girls were listening to his speech when
they keeled over.
* * * *
Noumea in 1943:
War in the Pacific brought U.S. forces to
New Caledonia and tremendous problems of
organisation and co-operation to be straightened
out with the French authorities. And it brought
staggering changes to Noumea.
Jeeps and trucks fill the narrow roadways
with traffic such as Noumea had never known
nor ever could have dreamed of. Army and
navy huts fill almost every vacant space. The
pre-war inhabitants—French and native, Java-
nese and Tonkinese—are lost in the crowds of
soldiers, sailors and marines. Most of the
buildings have been taken over for adminis-
trative offices.
The jeeps and trucks roar past by day and
night. The dust they raise lies over everything.
But Noumea, clinging to the shores of a bright-
blue bay and ringed around with hills, is Still
a pretty town, and, to an Australian, strange
and foreign and attractive. The sun beats down
on it and its white-towered cathedral, but not
unkindly. The buildings are’ shuttered against
the heat and netted at windows and doorss All.
surprisingly, except the butchers’ shops; there
the meat hangs behind open iron grilles.
Shop signs and no-parking signs are in
French; but on the Rue Anatole France or on
the Boulevard Vauban the language of Noumea
now is American. It's heard everywhere except
from the bearded lips of such as the good
schoolmaster who, in grey trousers, black coat
and sun helmet, rides to and from the College
Laperouse on a pushbike. His pupils ride on
pushbikes also, and Americans and things
American fascinate them.
Noumea is settling down now, but it's still
suffering a little from the growing-pains inci-
dent to becoming a boom town.
$ -J- jj.
“Strict Veg.”: “Associations accumu-
lated through persistent usage” may be
necessary to the acceptance of a national
anthem (B. 14/7/’43), but I know of one
case where they didn’t produce a result
which earned official recognition for,
from the musical standpoint, a very
worthy example. In my South Australian
schooldays a State anthem was current
and began to be sung extensively in Gov-
ernment schools. Teachers were pleased
with the vim and enthusiasm with which
their pupils beefed out the stately phrases.
They didn’t know that some ribald person
had composed a parody on the words
which wasn’t quite as reverential as the
original version, and it was this “associa-
tion” the kids were enjoying.
* * $ *
“Airmaniac”: The increasing speeds of
aircraft should soon make it possible to
duplicate Joshua’s miracle, and see the
sun stand still. Something approaching
500 m.p.h. has already been recorded,
and 1000 m.p.h. has been prophesied by
’plane-building bigwigs for future strato-
spheric flying. Even if only 734 m.p.h.
is attained, that, at latitude 45deg., is
equal to the speed of the earth’s rotation.
A ’plane flying westward will then cancel
out the earth’s motion and so, relatively
to its occupants, make the sun remain
stationary. A slight increase in speed
would make Sol rise in the west and set
ni the east. The farther away from the
Equator, the easier the feat would be-
come. In fact it could be done now in
regions not far within the polar circles.
Mathematical blokes can work it out
easily. All one has to do is to multiply
the earth’s equatorial circumference by
the cosine of the latitude and divide by
24 to find the required sun-equalling
speed.
* sj * * *
S A.”; My last year or so at school
was in a class of children born while the
Boer War was on, and many of them
sported names derived therefrom (B.
-1/7/ 43). Not much notice was taken
of our Redyers, Baden, Mafeking,
Colenso, Pretoria or Kimberley until there
came a master with the embarrassing habit
of standing (say) Redvers Spinks up in
class and then delivering a homily on that
gieat personage Sir Redvers Buffer and
all he stood for, by gad. The lives those
poor kids led after that were a lesson to
me, a lesson further exemplified in 1914-
18 when I found innocent little new-
“Certainly not—the award says no night baking
comers getting such monikers as Dar-
danella, Anzac, Marne and Kitchener.
I took a solemn vow that should I ever
be blessed with offspring they’d be plain
Jacks, Toms and Janes, and so they are.
* * * «
“Wester”; “Hamer” has a lot of
towns to see if he doesn’t know of one
that doesn’t own a Commercial Hotel (B.
21/7/’43). Offhand I give him Mildura
and Renmark, both sizable places on
the -Murray, and there’s a mort of one-
and two-pub towns in N.S.W. that never
heard of a Commercial. As far as I can
recollect most of the Commercials were
titled before the C.T.A. got on to the job.
It doesn’t always follow that the Com-
mercial is the C.T.A. house—often the
C.T.A. sign is on a pub with some other
moniker, while the local Commercial is
signless.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Unusual sly groggeries, is it?
A medico with advanced ideas about the
treatment of dipsomaniacs, but very little
practical acquaintance with alcoholism,
established a private home for drunks
and lavished much time, thought and care
and the bulk Of the fees he earned from
an extensive practice on this benevolent
undertaking. On his visits he always
found the inmates cheerful, the nurses
satisfied with their progress and a general
atmosphere of happiness and hope about
the institution. No one ever had the
heart to tell him that the home was known
for miles as the surest place to get a drink
after hours.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: These “Quiz Kids” (B.
21/7/’43) have a way of breaking down
when asked some simple question ; it’s
the encyclopaedic ones at which they
shine. Recently I’ve heard ’em stopped
when asked what a spigot was, what the
“T.S.R.” sign means on country roads
and what was the vane of a windmill.
The more they guessed the worse they
got. There’s a war savings certificate
waiting for anyone who can bluff them ;
personally I’m thinking of chucking up
my job and making a good living out of
stmrrnmg these youngsters with simple
queries.
“0.T.”: Ned Kelly isn’t dead ; and I
have a newspaper cutting to prove it.
The people of Troon, Scotland, were in-
vited a couple of months ago by adver-
tisement to “Take the Family to a Good
Show: Ned Kelly’s Australian Super
Circus. With Amazing Talent and a
Thousand Thrills.” Among the Thousand
Thrills were “Lovely Ladies,” number un-
specified.
* * * *
“Zake”: The Fascist propagandists
who told the Italian people that if they
didn't stave off the Allied invasion they
would suffer as the French were now
suffering paid a queer sort of compli-
ment to their square-headed brothers-in-
arms. But it was Scorza, secretary-
general of the party, who got the fun-
niest bit off his chest. In a “pep” talk
he prophesied that, among other conse-
quences of an Allied victory, “our hotels
will again be full of British and American
tourists.” What could be better calcu-
lated to reconcile the Eyeties to defeat?
What little prosperity Italy enjoyed in
pre-war days was largely due to the gener-
ous spending of Anglo-American tourists,
After three years of war Europe’s poorest
land has accumulated a lot more ruins
and a lot more poverty, and that Scorza
should seek to frighten his people with
a threat of rich tourists is one of the few
jests of a grim year.
“Nakhoda”: Opening the fifth annual
exhibition of the Three A’s at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, Menzies related
how a great daily had criticised him
as Priminister for wasting his time
opening an art show in Sydney when
there was a war on. I remember an
earlier occasion when Menzies opened
an art show at the Athenaeum when there
was another war on —Australia v. Eng-
land at the M.C.C., with bodyline
occupying the public mind. After hold-
ing forth for ten minutes he looked at
his watch and made the comment that he
knew what was in the minds of nine-
tenths of his audience and would cut his
remarks short. Nor was he the last out
of the building!
AUTUMN LEAVES.
"Before the leaves of autumn fall’ -
Another deft Churchillian phrase.
The sort to ring through hut and hall,
• The line that stirs and sticks and stays;
In these momentous, fateful days
A heartening tip for one and all
Of what the year should bring our ways
Before the leaves of autumn fall.
“Before the leaves of autumn fall” —
That’s for our northern kith and kin.
For us, when springtime spells enthral
Or “sumer is icumen in.”
The war, we know, is still to win,
Scarce breached as yet the ’leaguered wall,
But who can tell what waits Berlin
Before the leaves of autumn fall.
“Before the leaves of autumn fall”
Will Mussolini bend and bow,
Throw up his hand and cringe and crawl
(Where is his mare nostrum now)
And penitently disavow
Those aims begot of greed and gall?
That should be settled anyhow
Before the leaves of autumn fall.
Will Adolf Hitler’s cake be dough,
His marble in beyond recall
Ere Forty-four the mark shall toe?
No need to guess. It’s odds we’ll know
Before the leaves of autumn fall.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
THE ROAD TO CANBERRA.
“Britain has had lady members since 1919, and it
is time one or two reached Canberra’’ (B. 21/7/’43).
The hand that gently rocks the cradle, so it
Shall keep the precious burden free from fret,
Quite definitely rules the world, although it
Apparently has failed to grasp it yet.
So ran the dictum of some bygone poet,
Whose name I momentarily forget.
But woman asks in these enlightened days
Something more solid than a lilting phrase.
She feels —or many do —there’s something
greater,
A step towards a more enduring fame,
Than lies in merely being wife and mater;
She. yearns to cut into the party game,
To be a right-down, reg’lar legislator
With magic letters tacked on to her name.
When one’s a voter, there’s a parallel
Claim clearly to be voted for as well.
Why not? Apart from all the varied cargo
Of knowledge from the distaff side she'd
bring.
Her very presence should be an embargo
On flouts and jeers and gibes that sear and
sting,
Vituperation couched in vulgar argot,
Unpleasant scenes and all that sort of thing—
Outbreaks our country’s rulers well might spare
And would be likelier to, were ladies there.
Who ever gave creation’s lords and masters
Monopoly of foresight, worth and sense?
What rationing debacles and disasters
Might have been saved by female influence!
Are no Claire Luces here, no Nancy Astors
Their sex’s wit and wisdom to dispense
Where tempers fray and challenges are bawled
And Ministries are made and marred and
mauled?
On to your goal, determinedly aggressive,
You dames who fain to Parliament would go!
The “she” some poet labelled “inexpressive”
Is very seldom literally so.
Nor should the task be any way excessive
On hustings your capacity to show
And add an M.H.R. to your address,
Or, better still, become a Senatress.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“X.S.”: The arrest in a country train
of a cardsharper carrying a marked pack
has moved the Victorian police to con-
gratulate themselves on the disappearance
of crown-and-anchor men, uncles from
Fiji and suchlike fauna. I am vexed with
doubts. A friend tells me that attempts to
sell Captain Cook’s cottage in the Fitzroy
Gardens to friendly individuals whom the
vicissitudes of war have brought to these
shores are almost daily occurrences. He
swears to having overheard one of the
fraternity expressing intense amazement
when a prospective purchaser of Russell
Grimwade’s gift to the city cavilled at
the price (£250) on the grounds that it
was an old house and not in very good
condition. “True,” admitted the sales-
man, “but the land alone is worth twice
the money.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: It is one of the ironies of
this war that, whereas most of the com-
mentators and “authorities” have been
wrong in their predictions, Nostradamus,
the .sixteenth-century seer, has always
been right. His most recently discovered
prophecy, to which the cables draw atten-
tion, related to the destruction of
“Naples, Palermo, all Sicily, Corsica and
Sardinia.” He is also credited with hav-
ing seen the invasion of Sicily as the be-
ginning of Hitler’s end and to have fore-
told Japan’s attack on the East Indies
and America’s entry into the war. The
explanation is simple. Modern prophets
particularise too much. Nostradamus
dealt in generalisations which could apply
at any time. Most of the cities he marked
down for destruction have been destroyed
or partially destroyed time and again,
and, since mankind has been at peace
only one day of every fourteen in its
recorded history, there is a wide scope
for vague prophetic utterances about
wars.
Hi % Jfc %
“Wodgil”: New York newspaper
writers made much of the Herbert Vere
Evatts on their second visit to the Empire
City. A certain Dorothy Dunbar Brom-
ley noted in the “Herald Tribune” that
Mrs. Evatt has “only American and
Canadian blood in her veins and was
taken by her parents to Australia when
she was a year old.”
Her accent sounds educated English,
but not too much so, and contrasts with
her distinguished husband’s, which sounds
to an untutored American ear very much
like Cockney.
As the context shows, the lady didn’t
mean to be unkind. In truth the doctor
has an Australian accent, and other
Americans have found our Sydney
speech Cockneyfied. But doesn’t it derive
more from Yorkshire than Cockaigne?
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Charles Kingston’s
claim to be a really great orator can be
supported by a recollection of the speech
in which he outlined this country’s first
Protective tariff. He spoke in Sydney
Town Hall, for Sydney was the citadel
of Freetrade and its public opinion
was swayed by York-street importers.
York-street intimated that “tea-money
will be paid to every employee who
wishes to stay in town to attend the meet-
ing,” the employees well knowing that it
was their job to howl down the man who
would take their employment from them.
But Kingston was not to be daunted by
opposition, and with eloquent references
to Australia’s future greatness coaxed the
meeting out of hostility into enthusiasm.
It was a notable feat, and Sydney has not
seen its like for 40 years.
He * * *
“Ear Punisher”: I see that sundry re-
ligious bodies in Melbourne are discuss-
ing means of rewarding the natives
of Papua (always referred to as “Fuzzy
Wuzzies”). It seems agreed that the best
plan is to give them “education in civili-
sation.” Why not, if there’s any fairness
in the world? All my life I have suf-
fered from restrictions on the drink I
shall consume and the times and places
for such indulgence, the plays and films
I shall see, the books I shall read, and
the kind of entertainment I may seek to
lighten my city’s dismal Sundays. Those
amiable savages have had a darned good
time for 10,000 years, and it is time they
had their share of troubles.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: I wonder how many hard-
ened smokers who inveigh against Aus-
tralian tobacco (B. 14/7/’43) could con-
fidently say what brand they were smok-
ing if a dozen unbranded cigarettes of a
dozen different makes were put before
them, except perhaps that they might
identify such pronounced types as Turk-
ish and Egyptian. Most whisky-drinkers
swear they could recognise their favorite
brand blindfolded, but when a test was
applied to half a dozen of them in times
when the tipple was obtainable in Mel-
bourne to their surprise most of them
failed to name the brand correctly. Re-
minds me of a poignant incident at
a Toorak party when a young man who
had been to Europe made impressive
claims to connoisseurship in wines and
liqueurs. His host’s daughter announced
that her father had a very old and very
rare liqueur of European vintage. She
went out to the kitchen and brought back
a voluptuous-looking fluid in a wineglass
and invited the connoisseur to taste it.
After going through the appropriate
gestures of smelling, sipping, throwing
the liquid round his palate and casting
his eyes up to the ceiling, he murmured
“Perfect, perfect,” and asked “What is
it?” “Raspberry vinegar,” replied the
young woman, “bought at the grocer’s
round the corner!”
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Bishop Burgmann said
something worth listening to the other
day when he complained that most of the
Australian people “have been inadequately
housed in dreary, featureless suburbs of
cities, whose cultural level descends in
proportion as the population grows.” He
added that children turned out of city
schools into such surroundings led lives
without any personal or social signifi-
cance ;
The vast gambling industry keeps them
excited and dogs rouse their unbounded
enthusiasm... .A win in the lottery means
fame Governments give this folly their
blessing and the churches are not game to
curse,
The bishop believes that, though there are
war factories in country towns now, Syd-
ney and Melbourne will see that they are
closed after the war. A little more of
this sort of talk and less Red tosh would
be appreciated.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The rumor, from enemy
sources, that the Allies intend to wake
up volcanoes by dropping bombs in their
craters is no doubt a furphy. Scientists
“Anythin' in the paper about the Mystery of a Missin Bus.”
say that, since momentarily quiescent vol-
canoes are probably sealed up with a
thickness of congealed lava which would
require vast subterranean forces to unseat
it, the biggest bomb that human ingenu-
ity could manufacture would have about
the same effect as tickling a giant’s throat
with a feather. In Java I have produced
minor solfataras by throwing stones into
the sulphur crust around a crater, and
these repeated the whole process of
volcano-forming, but it takes tens of
thousands of years to make a Vesuvius
or a Krakatoa. In a few seconds my
miniature volcano was red in the centre
and belching forth matter for several feet
around it; but the big fellows are a
different proposition. Probably a tidy
explosion of steam could be produced by
emptying a few hundred thousand tons
of water into the belly of an active vol-
cano but it would be difficult to do it.
Incidentally, the Reginald Purbrick, M.P.,
whom the Nazis credit with having made
the suggestion to the House of Commons
is a Melbourne-born businessman who
used to be an amateur boxing and walk-
ing champion, travelled widely and ended
up as Unionist member for Liverpool
(Eng.) in 1929.
5{C
“Taniwha”: In a changing world one
of the great national institutions of
Maoriland maintains its serenity and its
links with the past. This is the council
of the N.Z. Rugby Union. When an All-
Black team crossed the Tasman in 1922
its manager was S. S. Dean, Wellington
insurance man, president of the council.
He has been re-elected president for the
twenty-first year. At the annual meeting
the president reported in a pained tone of
voice that he had been told that the dis-
tribution of football bladders was now in
the hands of the Council of Sport—“the
hobbyhorse of the Minister of Internal
Affairs introduced from Europe.” Obvi-
ously he said the proper body to decide
that sort of thing was the Rugby Union,
The meeting agreed with the president,
and it was decided to inform the Govern-
ment that the intervention of the Council
of Sport was considered unnecessary,
This loftiness of tone is a reminder that
Ru‘*by football was governing itself in
Maoriland before there was a central
Government. 9
* * * *
“Slocum”: The tune of “Bless’Em All’
(B. 9/6/’43) is no youngster, and I doubt
whether it originated in England. I was in
New York in 1904, serving drinks at the
Cafe Montauk (otherwise A 1 Geering’s
Saloon), on the corner of William-street
and Maiden-lane, “down town,” and
there I first heard the tune of “Bless ’Em
All” to these words:
Take a car, take a car,
Wherever you are take a car.
It beats all your hansoms and automobiles;
I£ you’re out for travel then travel on wheels.
Take a car, take a car,
No matter how near or how far.
In daylight or twilight,
faSspkis? take a car.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Lud Mayor Nettlefold, of
Melbourne, has been importuning the
National Gallery to lend its pictures for
exhibition af the Town Hall. Why doesn't
the council start in as a collector itself?
Some of the town halls of Europe have
finer collections than the established gal-
leries, and the councils and guilds every
year commissioned some local painter to
paint their collective portraits in their
official robes. The “Night Watch” of
ẁ
and frequently lamented that a good Aus-
tralian air had not yet been produced to
serve as an Australian national anthem.
.Tommy played the cornet and played it
well at 82, at which age he passed out.
One of his characteristics when conduct-
ing the finishing movement of a contest-
ing band was a mighty leap toward the
welkin. When he landed on the boards
the band crashed the final chord. South-
street, Ballarat, called it “the Hopkins
leap.” I stood alongside an old sport at
the Oval once —he had his eye on some-
thing more attractive at the time —when I
heard him exclaim “Oh! Came all the
way from Bungaree to see it, and now
I’ve missed the Hopkins leap!”
* * * *
“C.R.”: There was a touch of the new
psychology in the moniker given to
a man arrested by the Victorian police
when they found eight bright, new hack-
saw blades hidden under his insoles. They
labelled him “Claustrophobia John.”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: If overindulgence in tat-
tooing is evidence of mental weakness
(B. 14/7/’43) the sanity of most young
white adults of Singapore before the war
would be in question. I don’t know who
started it, but a sudden craze for getting
themselves pricked with the electric
needle swept the male Caucasian popula-
tion. As with every fashion, each new-
comer tried to outdo his predecessors, and
soon there were individuals going round
who, when stripped, carried an amazing
collection of snakes, eagles, Venus de
Milos and crowns and anchors. When
the craze died out the tattooers had more
employment erasing their masterpieces, a
more painful operation than the appli-
cation. The “artists” were
Japs for the most part.
* :J: *
“Ken”; Lock has earned
14 days’ No. 11 (earlier-
than-usual rising; extra
work and no shore leave)
for a breach of the Navy’s
standing sartorial orders.
The most prominent figure
in his sketch (B. 23/6/’43),
the bloke holding the swizzle
stick, appears on deck in
“blues” when the rig of the
day, as worn by the rest of
the ship’s company, is
“whites.”
.❖ * *
“Spokeshave”: Some of
the romantic novelists of
today, doing their best to
keep the “mystery of
woman” swindle going (B.
14/7/’43), are mighty long-
winded about it. In a Mel-
bourne suburban railway
compartment an elderly
woman was watching the
girl opposite feverishly read-
ing a recent best-seller, a
tome about twice as heavy
as Tolstoy’s three-decker
War and Peace. A wave of
compassion came over her
and, tapping the girl’s knee, she said:
“Don’t worry—they’ll get married.”
“Cine Ma”: Victorian children don’t
worry as much about the censor’s classi-
fications as do their parents. Said a Mel-
bourne matron to me the other day:
“I’ve been to every cinema in the city
lately and I can’t find a love story with-
out sex in it.”
* * *
“Cauboy”; Ignaz Friedman is re-
ported to have said that if you put all
the five main orchestras in Australia to-
gether you wouldn’t get one good one
out of them. I would like to ask him
who “you” is. An orchestra cannot be
considered apart from its conductor any
more than a ship can be considered apart
from its captain, and some conductors
can get only mediocre performances out
of an orchestra which a few weeks later
gives extraordinarily good ones under a
different conductor. This was the experi-
ence in Australia of Beecham, Sargent
and other visiting conductors who had
no fault to find with the instrumentalists
they had to handle, and the same could
be said of Marshall Hall and Verbrug-
ghen. Now', there being no irnportees, I
hear Bernard Heinze’s conducting praised
on all sides, I think rightly. Yet there
is no reason to believe that there hasn t
always been much the same amount of
orchestral talent in the country. Referring
to a recent symphony concert, an orches-
trion told me that from the first tap of
the conductor’s baton the orchestra did
what it liked. I said: “But it seemed to
me a good performance.” “So it was,”
he said. “But, then, we knew the piece
from A to Z and had played it under
better conductors, so it didn’t worry us
if the conductor was half a beat or half
a dozen beats behind.” But how long
would an orchestra’s morale last under
such direction? About as long as an
army’s under an incompetent general.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Bush funerals (B.
21/7/ ’43)! Years ago one of those
seemingly - indestructible fellows bush
jockeys fell in a hurdle race at Minapre
(Vic.) and was brought in on a hurdle.
The doctor gave him a brief look, drew
the blanket over his face and returned
to the course, so we carted the corpse
to a spare room in the one pub and left
it there. Bodies won’t keep long in those
parts around New Year’s Day, so we
got a couple of blokes to dig a grave,
and then went back to the course, dragged
old Emil Schultz out of the booth, toted
him to his smithy-cnm-store-cwm-car-
pentry and warned him to have a coffin
ready by 5.30 p.m. or suffer the penalty.
Then a call down the line resulted in a
minister setting out to drive the 14 miles
to Minapre in his buggy, and all hands
at the course were advised that the
solemn rites would follow the last race.
Old Emil and the minister were both on
time, but what the latter thought of the
mixed crowd that followed the buggy
hearse isn’t known. However, he reduced
the maudlin to tears, the hilarious to
gravity and the sober to respect with his
simple sincerity, and the crowd did its
best to send him home drunk. About
11 that night it suddenly dawned on the
visiting cop that an inquest should
have been held, and it took the combined
efforts of the doctor and two book-
makers to stop him recruiting help to
disinter the corpse. About then a goods
train came through from Ouyen and I
left, because that jockey’s fall had sent
me broke and the publican was eyeing
me closely.
* - :-i
“Zake”: Confirming the soundness of
the old tag about not tempting Provi-
dence, I cite the case of Jim Purdy. Jim,
standing just astern of his bay colt one
day, idly struck a match to light his pipe.
A second after the lucifer scraped along
the box the colt’s hind hoofs shot out
and James suffered a clean break two
inches above the left knee. A month
iater, hobbling round on a stick, he was
demonstrating to his neighbor how it
happened. As he took up his possie and
scraped the match the colt’s hoofs again
shot out, but this time it didn’t get his
left leg; it caused a clean break two
inches above the right knee. He demon-
strates now using the slip-rail as the colt.
❖ ❖ $ H:
“Mat’s Mate”: We were holding well
the first time we hit a town owning a
dog track, and went along to have a
look at what, to us, was a new form of
excitement. At race meetings we always
pooled our bets and jointly suffered the
losses or shared the winnings. After I’d
got the hang of the dogs I wanted to
have a crack at ’em. “Not on your
blasted life,” said Mat, firmly leading me
to the gate. “We’ve done our cash on
horses, at fights, at Murrum an’ pin-pool
an' swi-up an’ in poker schools, but we
always got a bit o’ fun and a run f’r
our money. I’m blowed if I’m goin’
t’ sweat me heart out f’r cash t’ throw
away on flamin’ tripe-hounds that haven’t
the sense t’ know they’re chasin’ a dummy
run by an engine. Cum orn.”
* * *
“J. Rilston”; I’m pleased that my
recollections of old-time blacksmithing
appeared joyful to “Me 2” (B. 30/6/’43),
though my intention was merely to pay
a small tribute to what may be called the
birth-pangs of Australian heavy industry.
But swinging the sledge never troubled
me at all; being a well-fed young Aus-
tralian I delighted in it —it probably cost
me no more fatigue than the chasing of
a tennis ball does the modern city youth.
I don’t say that 1 wasn’t pleased when I
reached a forge where thj bellows were
displaced.by a mechanical blower and a
steam hammer undertook most of the
heavy thumping ; but I do contend that
such aids have destroyed the artistry of
the trade. In our shop was an old-timer
who could take a horseshoe nail and
with a little hammering and a little filing
produce in miniature the exact replica
of a farrier’s nailing-on hammer, which
was the first of hammers to carry a claw.
“Tongs”: The size of a forge used in
a blacksmith’s shop (about which the
Council has been disputing) boils down
to a question of space ; but how many
smithies can handle the leather-sided bel-
lows properly to keep the fire at its top?
Too much muscle will soon blow the
“life” out of the fire and burn coal to
clinkers; too little only maintains the
heat at useless strength. As for the
sledge-hammer, many a smitji has asked
a bystander to “give a tap,” but lived to
regret it. As with the bellows so with
the hammer; too much vigor spoils the
job ; too little is useless.
“Advance an' show your identity card!”
“Koonwarra”: One of the most com-
prehensive studies made of our “mouse-
trap” plants or bladderworts —botanists
muster them in a mob called Utricularia
—was the work of an American pro-
fessor, Francis E. Lloyd, who visited
Australia in 1936. He went on a pilgrim-
age to Albany, where the pitcher-plant is
at home; and paid his respects to Byblis,
another insect-eater of the West, whose
only relation grows in Arnhem Land.
The prof, made a remarkable movie of
plant “mouse-traps” in action —those
amazing little contraptions with which
the bladderworts capture water-fleas and
other midgets. The trap is a pear-shaped
hollow vessel with a closed door. Its
walls pump out the water from inside,
and the sides of the trap are compressed;
they act as springs; on the principle of
the mouse-trap after which they were
named. It is thought that qjiany carnivor-
ous plants unknown to science will yet
be found in the N.T.
¥ * * *
“Beefo”: Those bakers, barmaids and
barbers who get closest to the weight of
a dressed fat bullock at shows (B.
14/7/’43) make chance guesses and fluke
getting near the correct weight. That is
only a stunt. It’s an entirely different
proposition, though, to calculate the
dressed average weight per head of a
mob of 1000 fat bullocks when they are
on the hoof. I know dozens of cattle-
men who can get within 201 b. every time,
* * *
“Esk D.”: Joe kicked the mound off
a bull-ants’ nest and thrust his hand in
among the ants. He held it there for
nearly 20 seconds while the pugnacious
ants swarmed over it and tried in vain
to drive their stings home ; then he shook
them off. The trick was simple, Joe
explained. He just drew in breath
steadily while the ants were on him, thus
keeping the pores of his skin closed
against their delicate hypodermics. Man’s
skin is too tough for most stinging or
bloodsucking insects to pierce, so they
must do their probing through the pores
while they are open. When they close a
biting insect is trapped firmly by the
prodder until the next breath exhaled
opens the pore to release it.
“Nardoo”: Australia’s “ant man”
reckons that our “bulldogs” are about the
most primitive of all the world’s emmets.
And John Clark, entomologist at Mel-
bourne’s National Museum, should
know ; he’s been studying ants for nearly
30 years and has described new species
by the score. “Jumpers” are his special
favorites. There are 70 kinds, more or
less, of these aggressive little devils, which
belong to the “bulldog” clan and possess
powerful stings. They are described and
figured in a Clark monograph to be pub-
lished shortly. Jumpers don’t suffer
frohi nearsightedness ; their vision is so
keen that if you disturb a nest and retire
a couple of yards the ants, emerging in
a fiery rage, will come straight at you.
Game as Ned Kelly, they always take
the offensive and fight to the death.
Getting a grip with her jaws and bending
her abdomen between her legs, the bull-
ant drives her sting home, often five or
six times in quick succession. The sting
is not barbed like a bee’s, but is smooth
and polished—a tiny stiletto. The old
bush remedy for the sting of a jumper or
any other ant —the sliced root of the
bracken fern—is still the most effective.
“Koonwarra”: No doubt many
Diggers up north have sighted Australia’s
mystery marsupial—a striped native cat
the size of a dingo and as savage as a
tiger. I have twice been in its haunts
without meeting an animal whose exist-
ence is no longer doubted by naturalists,
though all our museums still lack speci-
mens. At a station homestead about 30
miles from Darwin I learned from some
of the blacks that a big “cheeky fellow”
animal, yellow-colored with dark stripes
on its body, lived out in the wild country
beyond Snake Billabong. A North
Queensland bushman whom I met at
Babinda described a striped cat big
enough to pull down a cassowary which
he had once seen on Mount Bellenden
Ker. It snarled at him, but stayed put,
lying along a low horizontal branch of
a jungle tree. His only weapon being a
cane-knife Joe wisely decided to call some
other day—with a gun.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Last year when down
for a holiday I stayed a night with Tom
Collins, who a few years ago swapped
salt-mutton and damper for an Adelaide
home and a brand-new missus. We did
the washing-up while Tom’s wife put the
nippers to bed, and I remember Tom
skiting that he hadn’t bought a saucepan
in the seven years he’d been married.
With my knuckles still stinging from
where they’d banged against copper
rivets and lumps of solder, I told his
missus she was lucky to have a careful
man like Tom. She looked at me pretty
hard ; then she said “Yes, Tom’s real
handy. He can mend anything.” Well,
I stayed with them again this year and
I was surprised to see all new pots in the
kitchen- “Thought you couldn’t get
saucepans,” I told Tom. He looked at
me with his jaw stuck out, and then he
grinned. “Well, we had hell’s own job
to get ’em,” he admitted, “but the missus
reckoned either the old ones went to the
kid that collects scrap round here or she
got a divorce. I reckoned new pots’d
be cheaper. Funny flamin’ things,
women.” I pass the warning on to other
artists of the soldering-iron.
* :|: * *
“T.V.”: While we're crossing salt Jakes
(B. 30/6/’43) it’s only fair to remember
the Bosworth expedition across Lake
Torrens, S.A., nearly 40 years ago. Stuck
for feed on what is now Yeltacowie, on
the west side of the lake, a sizable mob
of sheep was started over the dazzling
salt from a point near the old wells just
north of Carapateena Arm. The men
with the sheep went on foot —the
nearest distance by the map is about 25
miles and the route actually travelled
nearer ,40 —because the treacherous salt
crust would not bear the weight of
horses. They took turns in dragging
their water supply (casks fitted with
axles), and travelled on a light top crust
under which lay many feet of stinking
blue mud, stuff that doesn’t give up its
dead. And they must have known that
a sudden thunderstorm, by softening the
surface, would have annihilated the whole
party. But they got safely across to the
east side, where the old “JB con-
joined” is still stamped on horses and
cattle on Witchelina and Ediacra, now
Kidman country.
He * H?
“Chuck”; The shortage of fencing
materials had the old man properly
worried when the bunnies from Wilson’s
started coming in through a few panels
that weren’t netted. Decid-
ing that something must be
done about it he pulled the
netting cover from his hay-
stacks, joined the pieces,
and made a thorough job
of the division fence. Soon
hordes of cockatoos de-
scended on the stacks, and
in desperation the old bloke
uprooted the house fencing
and made another stack-
cover. Ma’s worries then
started. She coursed the
fowls round the garden till
there was nothing left to de-
fend ; then Dad, noting the
devastation, transferred the
netting from the sheep pad-
dock to the house fence.
There was peace after that
until he discovered the lambs
were boxed. Profanely he
sorted them up, restored
them to their rightful
quarters and gave Ma the
job of keeping an eye on
them. Three days of endless
trotting between the kitchen
stove and the sheep paddock
went by before Ma hit on a
brilliant idea. “Tell you
what we can do. Dad,” she announced
proudly at supper time. “We can use a
bit o’ that division fence between us an
Wilson’s to net the sheep paddock!”
“Bez”: An abo. when questioned
will tell you not what he really thinks
but what he thinks you expect to hear.
When I was chasing the ’weight on the
East Murchison (W.A.), a big buck abo.
came to my fire one evening, and from
his belt dangled a large dead tomcat. He
watched while I jointed a rabbit for the
stew —an improvement on tinned dog. 1
said “Jacky, you likeum rabbit? ”
“Nothing likeum, boss,” Jacky replied.
When I asked him why not Jacky
wriggled with embarrassment. Finally
pressed for a reason he said “Too much
like pussycat,” and strode away to roast
and eat the tom at his belt.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Splinter was the most
consistent fighter in the district. He
always lost; but no amount of hidings
could shake his belief that he was a
budding Darcy. Seldom a Monday fol-
lowed a football match without the youth
turning up at the store bearing evidence
of a rival barracker’s fistic prowess; and
his boss never failed to make a lot of
humorous remarks, generally concluding
with “Your style can’t be any good ; one
of these days I’ll teach you the best style
of fighting.” After one particularly bad
doing both physical and verbal
Splinter took up the offer of tuition.
That evening he was waiting “at the
clearing by the creek” when his employer
rode up in the moonlight, leaned the bike
against a tree and began briskly “Righto,
take your guernsey off.” Just as the
youth was pulling the garment over his
head a sharp dig in the solar-plexus
stopped him short. When he could see
and breathe again the boss was a vanish-
ing shadow down the road. Somewhat
indignant the lad trudged back to the
store and taxed the boss. “Hey! What’s
the idea?” “I told you I was going to
teach you the best style of fighting,” his
mentor said quietly. “Well, 1 have—get
your punch in first and get home first!”
THE CONVICT ROAD.
1 wonder if these purple berries grew
Along their way.
And if they looked across these hills and
thought of home.
And if the close-set, timbered bays brought back
again
Remembered tides some thousand miles away.
More like they turned
Their eyes from these strange aisles of dusky
green,
Sick with their longing for the emerald
Of England’s lanes, the meadows round their
homes.
I wonder if it helped them, as they passed, to
see
these flats in morning sunlight, curled with
fern;
If, as they cut and hewed and toiled and built
The road —the never-ending miles and miles of
road —
They glanced along the little basined creeks
They worked beside.
But think how much, how much they must
have longed
For some strange miracle to set them free
To plunge along such hidden tracks as these,
The purple berries swinging in their wake,
With nothing but the cobwebs in the grass, the
tumbling ferns.
Between them and the sea.
Tasmania.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


“C.E.”; We stood easy while the chap
from down country instructed the
nervous V.D.C. recruit in handling
the bigger-and-better bomb he’d brought
with him. “Good heavens, it won’t
bite you,” he snapped impatiently.
“Grab it firmly, remember your in-
structions, and don’t throw it till
I say ‘three.’ Now, are you ready? All
right then. Ope.” Dave fumbled for the
bomb and held it gingerly. “Two.”
Clenching his jaws he pulled out the pin,
flung back his arm, and stood tense.
“Drop it, you silly cow, drop it,” yelled
an excited voice in his ear, and there
followed an all-in scrimmage as everyone
tried to side-step the rolling bomb. Diving
into a forest of legs, the instructor
grabbed it up and just managed to get it
over the bank before it exploded. Next,
he turned and singled out Steve. “What
do you mean yelling like that?” he roared
furiously. Steve looked blank. “Me?
Blime, 1 had to,” he protested. Then,
'pointing to a crestfallen mong a few
yards off, “Me dog picked up a flamin'
rabbit’s head from somewhere, an’ f’r
all I know it might be a poison fox-bait.
Gripes, s’pose he’d swallered the damn’
thing!”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare and co. are
generous in their gifts to Maori soldiers
in the Middle East. In most of the
parcels is included a quantity of
“parengo” a seaweed which is very
plentiful on the east coast of northern
M.L. The Maoris consider it a delectable
article of diet, and in addition it has a
unique capacity for absorbing water.
Where water is short, the chewing of the
weed is a palliative for intense thirst and
has been appreciated in the Mediterranean
zone.
* * * *
“Old Priller”: I believe “Moyhu” (B.
21/7/’43). The house cow calved late
one night, and though she was confined
in a 100-acre paddock without cover not
a hair or hide of that calf could be seen
next morning. The stables jutted on to
one part of the paddock, and in an old
piano case, among decomposing rabbit-
skins, wire, broken tools and other rub-
bish, Daisy had planted her offspring.
The case had once been a chaff-bin and
a small part of it was open to the pad-
dock.
* * #
“Billy See”: That Queensland cane-
cutter who swallowed a small fish while
swimming (B. 30/6/’43) reminds me of
Big Brady at our hash house a few years
ago. Stewed ox-tail was the piece de
resistance, and Big B. was whacking in
in his usual gluttonous style when he got
one of the bones jammed against his
windpipe. In about a minute he was
black in the face, despite the well-inten-
tioned efforts of fellow-diners whacking
him on the back and trying to reach the
bone with their fingers. Just then the
missus rushed out of the kitchen with the
bread-knife, which had a nice round
handle. Grabbing the chokee around the
head she shoved that handle into his
throat, pushing the bone right down.
Brady had a sore throat for a few days,
but he survived. That’s the first-aid for
choking ; shove the obstruction down the
throat, even though it be a live fish.
* * H= *
“Bez”: Surveying in Westralia we
arrived one night at dusk to camp near
“I don't think Well need it any more, George."
a small sheep station. It was well beyond
the wheatbelt as then developed, and
most of the station work was done by
blacks. They had quite a big camp and
we selected a site about a quarter of a
mile from them. While our camp was
being pitched I walked over to locate a
soak from which we were told we could
get water. I found the spot below the
overhanging bank of a dry creek. The
water was whitish and good, and, best
of all, it would save a long haul from the
homestead. Returning to our camp I
noticed a small mia-mia close to the pad
I was following. It was neatly made, but
I wondered who could occupy such a
small camp. The ashes in front of it indi-
cated a regular tenant. I examined the
mia carefully, but couldn’t solve the prob-
lem. Just after sunset a gin ran across
from the native camp with a firestick and
lit a fire in front of the small mia. I
then guessed why it had been built.' Next
day I found that a black boy had been
killed while breaking in a horse. The mia
had been built well away to the east of
the blacks’ camp, and a little fire was lit
before it at sundown by the widow so
that the dead man’s spirit, travelling out
of the east each night to revisit his widow
and friends, would stop and warm him-
self at the welcome fire. The spirit would
thus be decoyed into spending the night
by the warm fire, and the blacks would
sleep soundly in their camps untroubled
by visitors from the spirit world. Next
morning when our cook visited the soak
for water he found that the creek bank
had been broken down, and the soak
covered by tons of soil. We didn’t dig
it out, but carted water from the home-
stead. Each night I watched the widow
run with her firestick and light the decoy
fire before the spirit’s mia-mia.
« * *
“C.P.”: Not only do the pink hides of
white bullocks chafe easily when work-
ing (B. 21/7/’43), but they’re also liable
to sunburn and other forms of derma-
titis, one reason why they can’t be grazed
on St. John’s wort country. The weed
contains an element that sets up a skin
irritation, and the beasts become a mass
ot sores ana plenty of tnem go mad with
the irritation.
“Gumsucker”: Birds weren’t the only
ones that found sustenance in the thistles
that grew so profusely in the Cabbage
Garden 50 years ago. Here’s how we
kids feasted. Take a thistle flower in full
bloom. Pluck il, at the expense possibly
of a few pricks. Then, starting at the
bottom, remove the many laminations of
thorns that surround and protect the
seedpod. With the last and upper circlet
stripped off, the flower rosette falls apart,
disclosing a sizable kernel, nutty in flavor
and decidedly nutritious. Adults might
curse that unknown Scot who introduced
his country’s botanical emblem, but we
kids found no fault in him; a few
dozen of those kernels filled odd corners
of our interiors during the long space
between mealtimes.
* * * *
“Sundowner”; The milk shortage in
the township was acute and a call was
sent to a near-by goatherd. Laden with
a kero.-tinful the vendor was undeterred
when confronted by a flooded creek
which gave access to the settlement.
Absently he removed his boots and, plac-
ing them in the tin, waded across the
stream.
“Wang”: “I blow into a country pub
one afternoon,” related Dan. “There’s
on’y one other customer there, a little
hairy-faced chap siltin’ on a form with
a half - emptied pot alongside him,
an’ talkin’ to himself, excited like.
Bung catches me lookin’ at him an’
grins. ‘That’s ole Bill Bangs ; lives be
himself down along the river,’ he ses.
‘When he gets half-shot he alius starts an
argyment with hisself. It’s fine lis’enin
to him at times. Jest take a dekko at
him now.’ The ole coot takes a gulp at
his beer, turns sideways on the form an’,
bangin’ a fist on his knee, ses ‘I tell y’
he’s one of the most mis’rable skunks
I’ve ever bumped against.’ ‘That’s the
other bloke he’s serposed t’ be argyin’
with,’ explains Bung, greatly amused.
‘Now, lis en, he’ll be hisself answerin’ him
back.’ In a quieter tone the ole coot
ses ‘Well, I dunno, y’ may be right. But
1’ 1 ’Course I’m right,’ he beefs oat
“Count me out, boys — l'm in the throes of stocktaking."
in a loud, aggressive sorta voice ; ‘d’ y’
think I don’t know what I’m talkin’
about? The mis’rable cow’d skin a louse
fer its hide.’ ‘Y’re a bit hard on him,
ain’t y’?’ ses the quieter tone. ‘Not a
bit!’ beefs out the opposin’ voice. ‘He’d
take himself down if he knew how ; that’s
what 1 think of him, the hungry cow.’
Bung’s laughin’ fit t’ kill himself ; then he
chips in with a wink at me. ‘Who’s the
bloke that’s gettin’ Larry Dooley handed
out t’ him, Bill?’ he asks. The ole bloke
scoffs off the rest of his beer an’ ses,
quiet like, ‘Well, he will talk, and I can’t
stop him. Y’ heard me tryin’ to, didn’t
y’? I think I’d better get him away
from here before he gets any worse,’ an’
he moves lords the door. The grin sud-
denly left Bung’s dial as the ole bloke
paused in the doorway. ‘lt’s you he's
goin’ crook about,’ he said.”
•t- "h V *}•
“Big Billy”: Apropos “Nepean” (B.
7/7/’43) on the ability of dingo pups as
sheep-dogs. I know a Pinnaroo (S.A.)
farmer who crossed a fox with a sheep-
dog in the expectation that the progeny
would be miracles of sagacity and use-
fulness. The pups proved utterly worth-
less as sheep-dogs or watchdogs, but were
the friendliest canines the sheepman bad
ever seen. They would gambol with
sheep, fawn over the children and lie
between horses’ legs until kicked out of
the way. Efforts to train them otherwise
were entirely unsuccessful.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Unusual visitors to
Hobson’s Bay a couple of weeks ago
were four large whales near the Break-
water Pier, Williamstown. In normal
times their presence would have brought
forth photographs and columns in the
press, but there wasn’t a line. About
80 feet in length, they had a single horn
on their backs, something like a rhino’s.
I hadn’t seen that particular breed before.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; It was in the days when
motor transport first invaded the tracks
of far north-western N.S.W. that old
“Suffolk” Joe, striking the crossing in a
rain, got a big idea. Over the creek the
road was a slippery clay bank with the
hill on the left and a five-foot drop into
the flooded creek on the other hand. Joe
decided to put a spoke in the pneumatic
wheels of the rival petrol wagons. With
a crack of the whip he sent the leaders
clawing across the road, brought them
back, gee’d them off and so on, plough-
ing two great trenches across the sodden
track. By the time he bellowed the last
“Gee orf, you flamin’ blankers!” the old
chap was as pleased as if he’d found a
keg of rum in his loading. He
straightened the team, the wagon lurched
and the hind wheels skidded; then, with
one long slither, over the bank into the
creek went the lot. And, the loading
being wanted urgently for shearing at a
station past Milparinka, it was a motor-
lorry that salvaged the stuff. They say it
broke old Joe’s heart and he took to
drinking ginger ale.
■l' ; ! ; -I' -I-
-“Billo”; One thing argued in favor of
the disgusting habit of tobacco-chewing
was that it helped to preserve the teeth.
It did; toothache and dental parlors
were a lot less frequent than today.
Reason; dental decay invariably arises
from an acid condition of the mouth.
Nicotine, being an alkaloid, favors
preservation. I remember any number
of septuagenarians who with shockingly
tobacco-stained molars could eat steak
with the best of the youngsters.
# * Hi
“Betcha”: Mick was digging out his
new block, and as he hadn’t a burrow-
dog I lent him Wally, a mong that had
lived long enough to learn a few things.
A few days later I dropped in to see how
things were going, and found Mick about
to start on a single-opening burrow by
the creek. The dog investigated the spot,
and after a bit began scratching on the
bank some distance from the burrow
mouth. “Find the dog handy?” I in-
quired. “Him!” scoffed Mick. “Gripes,
he’s so old he couldn’t catch a rabbit il
it was hobbled. Look at him now, will
y’? Scratchin’ away where there’s noth-
in’ ! ” He shook his head pityingly. “Aw.
let ’im dig there, the poor old cuss!"
Stripping off his coat he started work,
but I waited awhile to watch the dog,
who now had his hole down about six
inches. Evidently the burrow had turned
and come up near the surface, for it
wasn’t long before old Wal was pulling
out the nest of bunnies. One squeeze
apiece finished them, and, dropping the
collection together, he lay down to wait.
1 glanced at Mick. Several yards away,
head down, he was slogging through a
three-foot bank of yellow clay. Sweat,
glistened on his dial, and he grunted
wheezily with every stroke. I let him dig
there, the poor old cuss!
WATCH IN THE HILLS.
Above the winter-famished hills
The frozen dusk is steel and gold,
And every granite crystal thrills
—A gong sonorous with pure cold.
The world is fading with the light
Shrouded in fog-smoke, far below.
1 keep my watch alone, by night,
With formless things that none may know.
A lonely breeze as cold as fear
Breathes, from some monstrous man of
stone:
“It is not well to linger here
Beyond the limits of the known!
“We are the Elder Tilings, whose life
Your life discrowned ; our avatars
The conscious malice of the knife,
The arctic cruelty of stars!
“Nor will we cease our ancient wars,
Fang to bared fang, and bone to bone,
Till you or we be conquerors,
Man or the marching tribes of stone.”
I stoop and gather to my need
Leaves, perished that my soul might live;
And pile them, whispering “Take heed!
Challenge for challenge thus I give.
“This seed I plant in laughter’s name
Shall baulk you of your blind desire!
See! round your pillared darkness flame
Fierce tendrils of the vine of fire!”
Here on the barren, bitter hills,
No more alone I watch by night;
And through my heart like laughter thrills
The flame of winter burning bright.
s.a. .
JACK HOLLOWAY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
Tlio manufacturers desire to notify the public that, all Government orders bavins
been overtaken, immediate delivery of private orders can he given. Ample supplies
of Hygeia Dissolvent and paj»er are assured.
This self-contained sanitary system gives the comfort and safety of sewerage to
homes in unsewered areas, no water supply being required.
It is not just a modified closet pan. Closet pans and sanitary rates are eliminated,
as well as the unpleasant conditions inherent in closet pans.
INSTAL YOURS BEFORE THE HOT WEATHER.
Any Handy aian Can Instal It. Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE: Family Size, £l9/2/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating, 10/9.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
Bridge St., Sydney. 'Phone: 81052. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, S'carfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; ]{. P. Mclnerney and Co,, Ltd., Perth.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
<24:
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo-fly.
“Drover”: Buffalo-fly is threatening
eastern-coast parts because of the apathy
of authorities about 12 years ago, when
the fly showed itself in the Burketown
and Normanton areas (N.Q.). A buffer
area was established and a spraying
plant erected at Kajabbi, beyond Clon-
curry, but this did not prevent the fly
from getting east of Normanton;
apparently no efforts were made to widen
the buffer area and stop the fly’s progress
east and south.
Cattle and horses outside the then
neutral zone carried buffalo flies, but it
was believed that climatic conditions
further east and south would kill the flies,
and therefore nothing would be gained
by extending the buffer area. It seems
the fly can exist in mild as well as humid
climates.
If the spread of the fly is to be held,
dipping or spraying plants must be estab-
lished along all stock routes leading from
the affected areas and all cattle travelling
by rail must be treated both before truck-
ing and after reaching their destination.
I have seen buffalo-fly on cattle in trucks
after they’d been sprayed at Kajabbi ;
more than enough to lay eggs and breed
as opportunity offered.
In tick areas periodical dipping might
keep the pest in check, but once the fly
becomes established in tick-free country
it’s going to take' more than cold weather
to wipe it out. Horses and cattle are
potential carriers, and unless action is
taken quickly there’s nothing to prevent
the menace spreading. At least 12 valu-
able years have already been lost.
Cull for Beef.
“Beefo”: With the present heavy de-
mand for beef being maintained, if not
increased, breeders of store cattle may,
sacrifice quality in the effort to meet the
need for fatteners. Some young store
bullocks sent in for fattening lately aren’t
fit for zoo meat; they have neither make
nor shape. Inability to import stud bulls
shouldn’t be an excuse ; we’re breeding
fine types of bulls in Australia, but no
bull is any good unless breeders cull out
all nondescript cows.
Since speying died out, all types of
cows have been allowed to breed, and the
result is going to show up in a marked
degree when conditions become normal
again and Australian beef has to com-
pete on world markets. Introduction of
new male blood into a herd isn’t worth
a darn whilst nondescript cows remain.
Anything not up to a certain standard
should not be allowed to breed. The
best axiom for store breeders is “like
begets like.” It is never truer than when
applied to cattle.
“C.P.”: Good bulls and rigorous cull-
ing aren’t enough. There has to be good
feeding so that the stores go to the fat-
teners with a solid foundation of frame
and constitution. Good feeding means
continuous growth, and so long as cattle
have to go short in lean months plenty
of feed in lush months isn’t much good.
Not enough fodder, particularly grain,
is stored on Australian cattle runs, and
until it is the practice to hold conserved
fodder, either on the place or in easily-
accessible spots, the beef industry will
remain the hit-or-miss affair it is today.
Don’ts for Dehorners.
“C. Punch”: They’ve been compiled
by T. G. Hungerford, a N.S.W. depart-
mental vet., and they’re worth recording.
Don’t put dressing on the wound. It
hinders healing, especially if it’s an irri-
tant. Stockholm-tar and tar mixtures,
kerosene, turps and other home remedies
are likely to form pus and attract blow-
flies. A healthy blood-clot is best and
won’t attract flies.
Don’t plug the horn cavity. Plugs
stick to the mucous membrane, and when
“Let's all vote for Joe. Poor cow, ’e needs a rest.”
they have to be removed they cause far
more pain than does the dehorning.
Don’t dehorn in dusty yards nor in wet
weather. Rain washes the clots and other
matter into the frontal sinus and causes
festering. Don’t let the implement get
blunt; touch it up with a stone or file
after every 50 cows.
Don’t use cheap and flimsy dehorners
or those that are too small to let two men
on the handles. You have to get a quick,
clean cut, and only adequate tools can
do it.
Don’t turn dehorned animals loose with
horned. The poleys will be bullied by
the others and, if being hand-fed, won’t
get a fair go at the tucker. Disbudded
calves turned out with horned adult
animals get a bad time. Don’t dehorn
part of the herd and let the rest go.
It’ll cause trouble, and it’s best not to
dehorn any rather than a few.
P.I. in Victoria.
“Cohuna Charlie”: The Victorian P.I.
League’s tests (B, 7/7/’43) included a
search for best pasture types, it being
agreed that the best is a grass-clover
mixture without weeds. A sward with
no legumes in it suffers lack of nitrogen
and is weak, the weakness showing up
in winter when the plants become yellow.
An all-clover sward, on the other hand,
isn’t the best nutritionally, and is im-
proved by a mixture of grasses.
In his report, W. D. Andrew, the
State assistant agrostologist, says that the
plants that stood out as best for Vic-
torian pastures were the rye grasses, P.
tuberosa, cocksfoot, paspalum, sub.,
white, strawberry and red clover, lucerne.
Those useful for small areas under cer-
tain conditions are water paspalum,
meadow foxtail, Kikuyu, Poa aqmtica
and the birdsfoot trefoils.
All of them can be grown under irri-
gation or a 25in. or better rainfall, but
the main ones are perennial rye grass,
cocksfoot, sub. and white clover. Red
clover comes in handy for hay ; so does
lucerne. Where there is poor drainage,
Phalaris, paspalum, meadow foxtail,
water paspalum, Poa aquatica, Kikuyu,
strawberry and birdsfoot trefoils should
do well—strawberry clover stands up to
salt better than most of them.
Perennial rye grass, white clover and
cocksfoot don’t hold out well on less than
a 25in. rainfall, though Phalaris and
lucerne will stick it out, and an annual
like Wimmera rye grass is valuable. So
is sub. clover. Generally, the best sub.
clover strain is that which has developed
naturally in the particular district.
Getting a good pasture mixture is one
thing, holding it is another, and the
longevity and value of a stand depend
more on climate, soil-fertility and
management than anything else. It
seems that many Victorians overdo the
seeding rate when sowing pasture, and
would gain by cutting it down and spend-
ing the money thus saved on extra
fertiliser.
Rhodes Grass.
“Mackay”; Rhodes grass (B. 14/7/’43)
reached Queensland from Africa via
N.S.W. about 1905. It’s the main pasture
grass for areas too dry for paspalum.
Districts receiving 25 to 50 inches of
rainfall in the warmer months suit it best.
Though it’s fairly drought-resistant, it
can’t stand up to long periods of dry
weather and it doesn't stage quick come-
backs.
It romps along in sandy loams in forest
country, in red volcanic soils that carry
softwoods and in the clay loams of the
brigalow scrubs. Don’t plant it in light
sands or black soils. Broadcast 41b. to
51b. of seed per acre ; when germination's
doubtful, double the quantity. Sow in
spring or early summer when frosts let
up. If pastures are subdivided, each pad-
dock can be cropped when growtlVs
young and leafy. Avoid hard grazing on
light soils.
Renovation of old stands by harrow-
ing and topdressing is only temporary.
Sowing new pastures following soil im-
provement is better. Old Rhodes grass
land that has been ploughed and cropped
with lucerne for two or three seasons
produces good Rhodes pasture. In the
cotton districts a rotation with Rhodes
grass benefits both cotton and grass.
Good silage can be made of it. Pests
mostly side-step it.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Careless drenching
kills many cows. If a cow’s head is raised
very high and her mouth held open by
the drenching bottle, swallowing will be
extremely difficult. Some of the drench
may go the wrong way and cause the
cow to drop dead or develop pneumonia
and die within a few days. Never drench
a cow that is down with milk fever.
“Drover”: If cattle are touchy, look
out for moon-blind bullocks on camp at
night. During the day a moon-blind
beast’s sight is unaffected, but at night
its stumbling around will start the mob.
At first opportunity shoot a moon-blind
beast for beef. If more than one, drop
them from the mob.
“L.C.”: There’s a lack of bone-form-
ing minerals in the ration when teeth of
young horses wear down quickly. Feed
crushed oats and bran at least once daily,
plus a tablespoon of sterilised bone
flour.
“Ben S.”: When seed wheat is stacked
it should be enclosed with a good fence.
Wheat is dangerous for horses or cows.
Should they get a gorge on it, keep them
away from w'ater and give a drench to
remove the wheat as quickly as possible.
“Plane Creek”: Kikuyu isn’t particu-
lar, but it grows best in loose, fertile
soil, where the runners and underground
stems get a move on and root quickly.
Thus anchored, it can withstand heavy
grazing or rooting by pigs. Bracken-fern
and other weeds cannot compete with it,
particularly in good soil, where it grows
a couple of feet high. Propagation by
two-jointed cuttings is easy during damp
weather, or sow seed during autumn or
winter. Don’t turn stock into the patch
too soon. Experiments in the Belgian
Congo have shown that, rotationally
grazed, it will grow during the summer
when most herbage is dried up.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department
To “L. 0.”: The new award gives shed wool-
classers a weekly minimum of £7 15s. up to
nine stands, £8 ss. between 10 and 20 stands,
with keep, first-class fares and travelling ex-
penses at 12s. a day in both cases. Should the
classer do any other shed work, such as wool-
rolling, tallying, etc., he receives £2 10s. a week
extra. On a piecework basis the rate is £2 per 1000
sheep, plus 6s. a week cost of living allowance.
Don’t know the book Vanished Fleets; write to
“The Watchman,” c/o 3UZ, Melbourne.
/ (1) Best method of planting and harvesting
cow-peas ? (2) How to treat sweet-potatosuckers
to keep off grubs, etc.; can such pests be killed
in the soil after the crop is lifted; if second
growth is destroyed after harvesting, how long
should the ground be left before planting more
potatoes? (3) A good average return from
cucumbers, three in a bed in beds Aft. apart ?
(4) Best spray irrigation system ?
(1) Sow in rows 3ft. apart 101 b. of ordinary
seed an acre, 61b. of Poona. Cut with a mower,
let dry in cocks in the paddock, then thresh
either with a maize husker and sheller, a
stationary wheat header with appropriate ad-
justments, or heap them on a tarpaulin and
flail them, afterwards winnowing to get rid of
rubbish. (2) Sending you information by post.
(3) Generally, around eight to ten tons an acre,
according to soil, weather and variety. (4) Hard
to say. Get literature from manufacturers and
pick the one most likely to suit your conditions.
Both those you mention are popular and re-
liable.


Cocoa
and the war
mM.
Ik
:v
{ft-.'-V;
||^
yio %
In this war, as in the war of 1914-18, Cocoa has proved of
inestimable value as a stimulating food drink. Our own soldiers
and airmen drink Cocoa in quantities that run into many tons per
week , . . while our Navy drinks “Kai”, its own particular form of
cocoa, a rich soluble chocolate which is the very thing to warm the
cockles of a seaman’s heart. Cadbury’s are working night and day
to keep pace with these re-
quirements, which, today
absorb such a big proportion
of the output of your favourite
Bournville Cocoa.
zs
m
m
%
I
Jb:
m/
n
/s?
x
!y
w.
>i
ir
m
1
Made by CADBURY makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Bombing Flight to Tokyo.
(Condensed from a "Collier's" article by
American airman Capt. Ted W. Lawson.)
Doolittle gave us the right to choose
the city we wanted to bomb. Our bunch
wanted to take a look at Tokyo.
We were told we would drop three 500-
pound bombs where they would do the
most military damage. We went over
detailed maps of Tokyo.
Doolittle told us that we would carry
another bomb, a 500-pound incendiary.
“If you can start seven good fires in
Tokyo they’ll never put them out,” we
were promised.
Doolittle specifically said that there
would be no bombing of the palace. He
said that it wasn’t worth a ’plane factory
or a steel smelter or a tank farm.
The Navy fattened us up like con-
demned men. We even had chicken.
Our task force was in the command
of Admiral Halsey, aboard the carrier
Hornet. We got a good look at him.
He came out to pose for Navy newsreel
men, along with Doolittle and a row of
the bombs we were going to use. All of
us crowded around to watch the show.
It was very interesting. Naval officers
who had been decorated by the Japanese
during the peace years had turned in their
medals after Pearl Harbor. Someone, I
don’t know who, thought it would be a
good idea to tie the medals to the bombs
we were going to drop. So they were
brought along on the Hornet.
Halsey tied one on to one of the fat
500-pounders, for the benefit of the news-
reels, and then he turned that good, tough
face to us and said “Boys, return these
medals with interest. Good hunting.”
Doolittle read us some messages of
goodwill from Admiral King, General
Marshall and General Arnold.
The messages were fine. They con-
tained a little soft stuff that we all appre-
ciated. One of them said that our deed
would live forever—that the people would
be deeply grateful to us.
Gasoline was my main worry toward
the end. I would lie in my bunk with an
ear-splitting card game going on in the
same room until the small hours of the
morning, and the thought of getting
enough gas in my ship would never leave
my mind. Maybe I thought too much
about gas, down in our room. Before I
admitted defeat the Navy poker players
had pared the $7O I brought aboard to
$l4. You never saw such poker players!
Doolittle is easy to talk to if you have
something constructive to talk about. So
I went to him one day tow'ard the end
and told him that I had been figuring our
probable gas consumption and asked him
if I could carry 25 five-gallon cans in the
’plane instead of the 10 he had allotted
us. I told him I realised that the extra
gas would weigh six pounds a gallon,
but that I was sure my ship could take it.
“No,” he said. “Your tail might get
sluggish with that extra 450 pounds in
there. The first important thing you’ve
got to do is get off this deck. If you
can’t do that—well, we will have wasted
a helluva lot of time and money.”
We had our orders about discarding the
five-gallon cans. “I don’t want you to
throw them out as they’re used,” Doo-
little told us. “If you do it will leave a
perfect trail for the Japanese to follow
back to the carrier. The Navy has
been great to us. Let’s show our appreci-
ation in whatever way we can.”
I gave back the ashtray one of the
Navy boys had made for me with the
word “Hornet” on it. Incidentally, that
was the only spelling out of the name I
saw on the entire ship, except on the
dried-up hornets’ nest that hung in the
wardroom.
With the time drawing near, Doolittle
was as restless for action as any of us.
He told us for the hundredth time that
our navigation would have to be perfect.
He climbed up in our ship and im-
mediately noticed that somebody had
hooked an interphone headset near our
compass. He told us to keep headsets
and all other magnetic properties as far
away from the compass as possible. To
prove his point he held one of our
vacuum bottles over the compass and its
needle swerved 30 degrees.
We were one-man arsenals. Each of
us was given one .45, clips of ammuni-
tion, a hunting-knife, flashlight, emer-
gency rations, morphine, sterilised band-
ages, holsters and straps to hold these
things to us, a canteen, compass and life-
jacket. We were walking magnets, and
the thought of that sent us back to our
maps again. We had them down pretty
fine, but it was a little disturbing to have
the Navy boys tell us that the best avail-
able maps of the China coastline failed
to show correctly its numerous coves,
irregularities and the islands that skirt it.
Near the end, Doolittle called us to-
gether, gave us one last chance to back
out, but nobody did.
The tension mounted on the ship. We
plunged deeper and deeper into Japanese-
controlled waters. We were a little more
than 1000 miles off Japan now. We were
coming into the home-stretch, and every-
body knew it.
I tried to get that off my mind by mak-
ing myself think about something else.
Something trivial it was, too. Ever since
the Navy had clipped my bank roll to
$l4 I had been wondering how I’d get
hold of enough to buy something for
Ellen and my mother if all went well and
I got to Chungking. So that last day,
when I took time out for a quick dinner,
I decided that I’d recoup my poker losses
by becoming a cigarette-runner. I had
heard that cigarettes sold for $7.50 a
carton in Chungking and that there were
never enough to meet the demand. They
were a nickel a pack on the Hornet, so
1 stocked up. And when I went back to
the ’plane to work on the turret I packed
eight cartons and two boxes of chocolate-
bars in the rear of the ’plane.
April 18 unexpectedly turned out to be
the day of the raid. First there was a
muffled, vibrating roar, followed im-
mediately by the husky cry of battle
stations. We were three decks down,
Scrambling as fast as I could I found
other Army boys racing for the top.
Twice before 1 could get up on top the
Hornet vibrated and echoed with the
sound of heavy gunfire. One of the Navy
boys, hurrying past, said it was a Japanese
destroyer and that our gunnery had
accounted for it within three minutes.
“Damn it, let’s go!” somebody yelled
at me above the bellow of the cruiser’s
guns, the crashing sea, the sound of the
wind and the cries of excited, jubilant
men.
This was it, and before we wanted it.
We’d have to take off now. Not Monday
evening. Now, Saturday morning. We’d be
forced to assume that the Japanese ship
had had time to flash the warning about us.
We had based so much on our hope of
getting to China on the presumption that
the Navy could run us up to within about
400 miles of the Japanese coast. Even
then it was going to be a tight fit. Now
we were going to take off the deck about
800 miles off the coast. It took some
figuring—quick figuring. And the sums
I arrived at in my buzzing head gaye me
a sudden emptiness in the stomach.
The bombs now came up from below
and rolled along the deck on their low-
slung lorries to our ’planes.
The Navy had fuelled our ’planes
previously, but now they topped the
tanks. That was to take care of any
evaporation that might have set in. When
the gauges read full groups of the Navy
boys rocked our ’planes in the hope of
breaking whatever bubbles had formed in
the big wing tanks, for that might mean
that we could take a few more quarts,
The Hornet’s central tower was now be-
ginning to display large, square cards,
giving us compass readings and the wind,
I suddenly remembered that none of
my crew had had breakfast and that all
of us had lost sight of the fact that we
could have taken coffee and water and
sandwiches along. But Doolittle’s ship
was being pulled up to the starting line
and his and other props, were beginning
to turn. The Hornet’s deck wasn’t a safe
place. I found out later that one of the
Navy boys had an arm clipped off by
a propeller-blade that morning,
I never felt the take-off. One moment
the end of the Hornet’s flight-deck was
rushing at us alarmingly fast; the next
split second I glanced down hurriedly at
what had been a white line and it was
water. There was no drop nor any surge


*** TTf ***
m
m
■
S fef <>
CUTTING COSTS
Disston Experience in the manufacture
of QUALITY Saws, Disston Research in
metallurgy, Disston Engineering and
Disston Steel, give you the saws that
help you REDUCE COSTS.
Regardless of the kind of wood you cut
or how you cut it—Disston can provide
a better saw to help you REDUCE
COSTS, make a better product, make
more profits.
Disston Saws have been developed and
improved to meet modern needs.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws range
in diameters from 4 to 78 inches.
DlttTON
SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULARSAWS
For full information, see your dealer or write to-
HENRY DISSTON & SONS,
Pty. Ltd.
78 Vine St., Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
mmm
MM
h
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
KADI SPECIAL!? TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
S 0 6 6 9
into the air. I just went off at deck-level
and pulled out in front of the great ship
that had done its best to plant us in
Japan’s front yard.
There was no rendezvous planned,
except at the end of the mission. Those
who took off early could not hover over
the ship until a formation was formed
because that would have burned too much
gas in the first ’planes. This was to be a
single-file hit-and-run raid-each ’plane
for itself. And at levels which still are
hard to believe.
At 2 p.m., our time, we sighted the
coast of Japan.
It lay very low in the water in a slight
haze that made it blend lacily into the
horizon. I had an ingrained picture-post-
card concept of Japan. I expected to spot
some snow-topped mountain or volcano
first. But here was land that barely rose
above the surface of the water and, at
our 20ft. of height, was hardly distinguish-
able. I headed straight for the beach.
Many small boats were anchored off
the beach, and as we came in closer I
was surprised to see that they were
motor-boats and nice-looking fishing
launches instead of the junks I expected.
I had to keep low to avoid spotters as
much as possible and to keep out of
range of any detecting device which the
Japanese might have. So I braced myself
as we came close to the masts of the little
boats offshore, waiting for a burst of
machine-gun fire.
We thundered up to and just over
them. Instead of bullets I got a fleeting
frozen-action look at a dozen or so men
and women on the little boats. They
were waving at us. You see, the emblems
on our ’plane were the old style: blue
circle with white star and a red ball in
the middle of the white star. Maybe
that’s what confused them. I’m sure we
weren’t being hailed as liberators,
White beaches blended quickly into
soft, rolling green fields. It was the first
land I had seen in nearly three weeks,
It looked very pretty.
It was all so interesting that I believe
none of us thought much about our dan-
ger. What brought that to us, a few
minutes after we came over the land, was
the sudden sight and disappearance of a
large flat building which literally erupted
children as we came up to it. A lot of
them waved to us. 1 caught a fleeting
glimpse of a playground—and then a
sharp, quick look at a tall flagpole from
which fluttered the Japanese flag.
We skimmed along. We went over the
rooftops of a few small villages and I
began to worry. Twenty minutes was
what it was supposed to take to reach
Tokyo from the point where we came in.
Now we had been over land for nearly
30 minutes, and no sign of the city. I
saw one fairly large town off to the left,
however, and I said to myself that, if
the worse came to the worst and we
couldn’t find Tokyo, I’d come back there
and do at least some damage.
But just then we came up over a hill,
and there before us, as smooth as glass,
lay Tokyo Bay and Tokyo, and soon the
bombing began.
Dragnet Digest.
(<Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Hopkins, Hardman and Batt had flown to
Moscow to assure Russia of lend-lease support
and ascertain materials needed. One thing
Stalin requested was aluminium-steel, called
“piano wire,” used to reinforce ’plane wings
and struts, finely tempered aluminium and
steel, slow and difficult to manufacture. But
when the trio returned to the U.S. technical
experts discovered they had promised Stalin
four times as much as America’s entire product
for one year. If we had sent Russia one-fourth
of what she had asked and what was promised,
there would be nothing left for American
’planes. Hopkins, personal envoy of the
President, had given his word and the Russians
expected it would be kept. They kept remind-
ing us. So the President himself had to send
word to Stalin that we had made a mistake
and couldn’t deliver. Note: The amount
promised would have lasted Russia 20 years.
- —Drew Pearson; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
*!' '!> 'l*
North-east Airlines (U.S.A.) has filed with the
Civil Aeronautics Board an application for a
helicopter service to carry air mail and express
from the rooftops of more than 400 post offices
and railroad stations in the New England States
and New York. — N.Y. “Times.”
$ * * *
It’s hard to believe that with the sea teem-
ing with fish people adrift in lifeboats have had
to starve because nobody ever thought of
making fishing-tackle standard equipment for
lifeboats. Early in 1942 Gifford Pinchot,
former Governor of Pennsylvania, read about
three navy fliers who drifted for 34 days in
the Pacific on a rubber raft. They survived
principally because they caught two birds and
three fish. Pinchot went shopping for a fresh
salt-water fish, and squeezed the liquid from
its flesh. Pinchot carried his fish-juice to Cap-
tain (now Admiral) C. S. Stephenson, of me
Naval Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. This
old salt had never heard of drinking fish-juice.
But he was willing to be convinced. So was
Secretary of the Navy Knox. Experiments were
conducted, and the Navy Aeronautical Bureau
was first to co-operate. It ordered 50,000 sets
of fishing-tackle for the collapsible rubber boats
carried on ’planes. Next a special naval board
recommended that 33,000 more sets of fishing-
tackle be supplied for lifeboats and life rafts
on naval vessels. It is planned to have a set
in every lifeboat and raft under the jurisdic-
tion of the United States, and Pinchot has
brought his plan to the attention of all the
United Nations. — J. P. McEvoy; “Reader’s
Digest.”
V H*
Few American service men out here [in Aus-
tralia] think that defeating the Japanese will
be an easy task or a short one. It used to be
“home by Christmas,” but that is all finished.
“I will settle for Christmas, 1945,” is a
common remark now. “The Golden Gate in
’4B” is the slogan for some. — N.Y. “Times”
correspondent in Australia.
* * * *
In China ruinous inflation, with wealthy
Chinese speculators hoarding supplies in the
hope of still higher prices, is now a grave
menace to our Asiatic ally. According to
former Washington columnist Joseph W. Alsop,
you must now pay in China $l5O for an ordi-
nary American fountain pen; for a bottle of
whisky $lOO dollars. Wealthy Chinese are will-
ing to buy at these prices—possession of such
American luxuries enhances “face,” gives
prestige to the possessor.— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
=i= * =|: *
Hundreds of American and Australian airmen
owe their lives to friendly natives in the South
and South-west Pacific. The natives have time
and again fed and sheltered fliers who have
parachuted from damaged ’planes over jungle
islands and helped them find their way back to
their own people.— N.Y. “Times” war corre-
spondent Tillman Durdin.
* * =l=
The Japanese people believe today that the
exponents of violence are right—right in both
the moral and the material sense. It is this
rather simple fact that makes an old-fashioned
negotiated peace with Japan absolutely impos-
sible, as those who have had an intimate know-
ledge of the country and the people know only
too well. What has to be done is to root out
completely this faith in the violence-tradition,
to demonstrate beyond all equivocation that
the exponents of that tradition have been the
enemies of the nation and have in fact arrested
its natural development, so that it may be dis-
covered that the violence phase was not in fact
part of the Japanese tradition developing
“from ages eternal.” That discovery will be
made if we are ruthless enough. The discovery
once made, the social cohesion, the self-dis-
cipline and the genius for moral deportment
of the Japanese will enable them to make a
useful contribution to social ethics throughout
the world. For whereas so much in Japanese
social philosophy fits them to live together,
probably much better than most other people
live together, their apotheosis of violence makes
it most difficult for them to live together with
anybody else. — From a London “Times” article
by a correspondent lately in Japan.


Make Certain of
.YOUR ESTATE
in the Uncertain Years ahead!
1943
Your responsibility for the welfare of
your dependents in the years ahead was
never greater than at present.
Make your Will NOW—or bring it up to
date—choose a trustee and executor that
is experienced, independent and always
available —such as The Union Trustee!
Expert guidance of well-trained officers
helps you to interpret your wishes exactly,
and the Company’s reputation is a practi-
cal guarantee that your instructions will
be correctly carried out in administering
your estate* Write, phone or call now.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
The only Trustee Company having offices each until its own Board op Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell* K.8.E.,
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C.
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
w
. *• * v
, v y
- t V * * . * * * * « > » * „ « a s *
*■ ■ •; >S S 8& >x •■. , %s ...^
%&<*" -/»
■ni
s
ROADS
to insure Australia's future
The whole future of Australia depends upon good roads
. . . strategic roads, built in record time, for the transport
of troops and supplies across a vast continent. Roads are
vital, too, for the future prosperity of Australia . . . and to
bring our great hinterland closer to rail and dock . . . closer
to world markets.
These roads are being built at a vast saving of time, money
and manpower with Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment. The work of years
is being changed into the work of months. Hard slugging,
monotonous toil is being taken from the backs of workers
and placed upon big- brutish machines • • • where it belongs.
We thank our loyal users of Caterpillar Tractors and W augh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment, who have sacrificed
their own needs to give right of way to our Victory effort.
m
CT-6-33-42
CATERPILLAR V/esst
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH
MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.^g^
II Oam/J C# D a-f /arc Ci/f/nPV - P/)of)6*' LA 3j21
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney - ‘ Phon , e: . L $.P 2l
- . , . . . M R y h Zne tr t?'cfmbridt H Street ’ZZ''GrafZll°Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie-
Service Engineers: Mr. J . A. Rathbone, 57 Camor/age r '® er ' , . DUf ._. 7 op*. m 7 Melbourne Street
'Phone: Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid Stree , Phone. 086.102 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane—'Phone: J 1456; Rankin Street. Inmsfail— Phone. Inmsfail 415.
V.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy any numbers of American magazine
Rudder or English magazine Yachting and
Motor-boating. —3362.
Information Sought.
(1) Particulars and conditions governing the
entry of cadet midshipmen to the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College? (2) Conditions of
entry, pay and allowances, etc., for the Women’s
Royal Australian Naval Service?
(1) Applications close on June 15. Can-
didates must attain the age of 13 years during
the year in which they apply. Only candidates
born during the year 1931 will be accepted for
1944. (2) Application should be made to the
Naval Ofticer-in-Charge at the capital city of the
State in which the applicant resides, when the
information will be given.
(1) Did 150,000 dozen eggs bought by the
N.S.W. Egg Pool go bad? Do poultry-keepers
now have id. deducted from the price of every
dozen eggs they sell to the Egg Pool?
(1) Official statement is that it became evi-,
dent that insufficient eggs would be produced
in the winter to meet local demand. The
board therefore cold-stored approximately 77,000
cases, each of 30 dozen, in the spring. Cold
storage ot eggs is a common procedure in
every country of the world, and a loss of some-
where in the vicinity of 3 per cent, owing to
the deterioration in quality of eggs in store
is normal. Last season’s storage showed a
higher rate of deterioration owing to, firstly,
difficulty in obtaining trained staff for tne
grading of eggs prior to storage, and, secondly,
the fact that, because a greater quantity of eggs
was required, the period of storage was twice as
long as normally. (2) The normal pool deduc-
tion of per doz. was increased during the
months of June and July last year to 3d. per
doz. This, however, is no longer charged by
the N. S. Wales board, as Commonwealth
control of egg marketing has come into exist-
ence. The charge is now fixed at Hd. per doz.
(1) Largest number of stands in one woolshed
in Queensland ? (2) Greatest number of sheep
shorn in any shed in one season in any part of
Australia ?
(1) Largest number was at Thurulgoona,
where 78 stands of shearing machinery were
installed in 1891. Bowen Downs had 70 stands
installed in the same year. These were not the
largest in Australia, as two sheds in N.S.W.,
Burrawang and Mahonga, had 88 stands each
installed in 1890. (2) A number of properties
in Queensland and N.S.W. lay claim to the
record, but various factors atlect their claims.
Some properties shore in one shed while others
had two or three sheds on the property. On
the data available no particular claim could
be definitely accepted as the record.
A preparation to prevent falling hair and
stimulate growth, one of the ingredients being
castor oil?
A well-known prescription of the sort is
lactic acid one to five parts, castor oil two
to five parts, spirit 100 parts. This should be
applied daily, cautiously at first, but later more
vigorously as the scalp becomes able to
tolerate it.
How to obtain a glossy surface when starch-
ing men’s collars?
To starch collars stiffly with a gloss, mix 2oz.
starch with one pint water overnight. When
ready to iron collars pour off water without dis-
turbing starch, add i-pint fresh water, mix well
and strain through muslin. Put one teaspoon
powdered borax in £-cup water, bring to boil
and add while boiling to the starch; also add
10 drops pure turpentine. Put collars through
warm starch, squeeze out, spread on clean
cloth and rub otf surplus starch with a wad
of clean, damp rag. Roll up tightly 10 minutes,
then iron.
A recipe for cooking eggfruit ?
Wipe or wash eggfruit, put into fireproof dish
with a little water, cover with greased paper
and bake in moderate oven till tender, then cut
open and mash with butter, pepper and salt.
Or cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out seeds,
sprinkle salt in thickly and leave, cut side up,
one hour. Make a stuffing (as for duck or
turkey), fill fruit-halves, piling high, strew
crumbs over, dot with butter, and bake in
greased baking dish for one hour in moderate
oven. Fruit may also be curried. To fry, cut
into slices, peel and drop into boiling salted
water. Leave one hour, roll in egg and flour
or crumbs and fry in deep fat.
How many world boxing championships
have been fought in Australia ?
The only recognised world championship
fought in Australia was Bums v. Johnson,
for the heavyweight title, at Sydney Stadium
on December 26, 1908. Johnson won when
police called a halt in round 14. Billy Murphy
won the world’s featherweight championship by
knocking out Ike O’Neill Weir in 14 rounds at
San Francisco on January 13, 1890, and Murphy
still held this title when Griffo stopped him
in 16 rounds at Sydney Amateur Gymnastic
Club eight months later. This contest was
advertised ais for the world’s featherweight
championship, but overseas authority refused
to recognise it as such.
Method of dressing a new sanded floor, the
color to be as light as possible ?
Best dressing in such a case is raw linseed
oil. Wipe floor free of dust and apply oil with
fluffless rag, polishing with soft pad till dry.
Brief Answers.
D. 8.; An approved chromite containing not
less than 45 per cent. Cr2o3 is valued at approx.
£4 11s. per ton delivered in Sydney. If grade
falls to 40 per cent, the value is reduced to
about £3 19s. per ton. Value is also governed
by physical nature of the ore and whether it
can be utilised for metallurgical or refractory
purposes. Get in touch with Frank Hambridge,
Ltd., 22 Bridge-street, Sydney A.H.C.: The
following cement will stop pinholes and other
small orifices in iron tanks; Heat kero.-tin
f-full of tar till nearly boiling, then stir in
enough powdered air-slaked lime to make a
creamy mixture. When it froths it is ready to
apply, and gives a surface like black enamel.
Clean the iron of all rust, then apply the
cement with large brush, giving two coats
R.J.; Plummer and Reardons Principles of
Brick Engineering, Dobson’s Rudimentary
Treatise on the Manufacture of Bricks and
Tiles, Searle’s Glazer’s Book, Delougaz’s Plano-
convex Bricks and the Treatment of Clay
Tablets in the Field, and Everhart’s Dry Press
Method of Making Paving Bricks A.C.M.:
To waterproof calico tent, make two solutions.
(a) Dissolve £lb. white Castile soap in three
parts hot soft water and strain through clean
linen. ( b ) Dissolve ilb. alum in two quarts
hot soft water and strain (as before). Put
material in (a) solution, which should be warm,
and work well into seams and joins. Leave for
half-hour, wring it through three or four times
and transfer to ( b ). Treat as before; finally
rinse in clear water, wring again and dry in
the open air..,.N47: The Duke of Gloucester
travelled to Sydney in the cruiser Sussex.
Answers to Correspondents
Xante and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken, re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
L. :
An open-necked tunic
In which we’d look so smart
Would brighten up the A.I.F.
And make the men take heart.
M. :
When Xojo is diminished
And the honorable war
lias been honorably finished
And there’s racing as of yore.
There’ll be fighting then, by Hades!
There’ll be war, and to the knife.
For we’ve still to get the ladies
Hack once more to civil ife.
....A.St.G.: The moral's impeccable; but a
moral isn’t a story... . R.8.W.: The gags are
fossils... .M.M.H.: Your satire may sting, but
your rhymes are torture L.C.M.: Interest-
ing; though it’s not an unusual experience....
R.M.: Try a daily... .H.F.: Nice enough; but
it’s Tennyson and water... .G.G.L: Ever tried
descriptive prose?... J.R.P.; It’s been said a
thousand times L.V.; “After opening many
a promising show, each proves itself another
disheartening blow.” So, alas, will this....
P.H.8.; For a woman’s paper... .J.A.W.;
Sentimental N.R.H.: Bristling with “doths.”
A.C.S.: Conventional ruminations
D.G.: Pardonable if perpetrated in very early
youth H.M.K.: A good par. gone to the
doggerel J.O’C.; Nearly C.P.S.: It moves
from sarcasm to melodrama... .R.E.R.; Only
the beginning of a poem H.N.M.: Too
vague in both thought and technique... .R.K.:
Hilary is a horror.


I
a\ ha OQ
3 _JL
SECURITY
FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF TRUSTS
The appointment of The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Company
Limited as Executor of your Will, en-
sures ample security for the perform-
ance of the trusts;
Paid up Cap Hal £140,000
Uncalled Capital 660,000
Reserves - - - 148,600
£948,600
In addition the Company offers more than 65
years’ specialised experience, also continuity, im-
partiality, accessibility, secrecy, continuous audit,
moderate charges and sympathetic treatment o£
beneficiaries.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free explana-
tory Booklet detailing the advantages of the
Company’s services.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves £948,600.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.6.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sic Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart:
R. T. Hitder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR—
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'tolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
r Dividends »
Pvefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 4,225 152,726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ ~ 26,020 9,302 162,332
1936.. 66,686 13,152 5 ~ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30.759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 8* ~ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £SOOO .. . . 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000.. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6 „ „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,650
1941.. 55,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £SOOO .. 283.479
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5500 .. 295,373
War-risk fund created, £160,000 .. 455,323
1943.. 94,769 13,152 8$ p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7550 .. .. 485,156
To staff fund, £5000.. .. , .. 480,156
“The past year has been a very profit-
able one for the company,” says the
chairman, “but it is proper to note that
very much of the profit results from ex-
ceptional and temporary causes.” He
does not say what the causes were ; but,
among other things, merchandising
activities in Fiji have accelerated with
the tempo of affairs in the Pacific, and
copra stocks have become much more
valuable since Japan desolated vital areas
of the South Seas. Only portion of the
profit on the liquidation of heavy accu-
mulated copra stocks was taken into the
previous year’s accounts, A couple of
years before it was mentioned that “the
book value of property in districts
mainly dependent on the sugar and gold
industries now far exceeds that of assets
in districts dependent upon copra.”
Gross profit for the term to March 31
last was £47,938 higher at £274,295. The
increase would have been greater but for
the transfer of an unspecified sum to war-
risk reserve ; with something from inner
reserves (a frequent source of surprises)
the total allocated for war risk was
£160,000. To date no material war
damage has been suffered by the co.
“But the risk of such damage continues,”
in the opinion of the board. Income
from Australian investments was £lB7
higher at £3580 ; after allowing £22,691
more for trading exes., income tax,
doubtful debts and sundry losses (together
£147,207), sending £2955 to the staff
pension fund and writing off £46,966
(down £326) for depreciation, the net
profit claimed was £80,747 (up £25,798).
An addition of £14,022 to insurance
funds (£6821 previous year) made up
the £94,769 (£32,999 higher) profit shown
in the table equal to 15.7 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 9.3
and 8.1 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. A 2\ p.c. bonus was added to
the 6 p.c. ord. div., and, after donating
£7550 to patriotic funds and transferring
£SOOO to the staff fund (over £104,000),
there remained £24,833 for reserves, now
£480,156, including the new war-risk
fund.
The exceptionally good year experi-
enced by the co., as indicated by the in-
creased net profit and the easy creation
of a substantial war-risk fund, is further
reflected in balance-sheet figures. There
has been a huge addition to liquids not
accounted for by reductions in other
assets or additions to creditors:
1933. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £739,613 £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits . . 12,420 4,946 1,631 1,779
Creditors, etc. 18,228 18,999 36,285 61,599
Plantations .. 65,524 49,247 20,608 21,623
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. . . 331,762 303,195 278,070 233.905
Stocks, etc. . . 212,276 337,110 249,297 221.123
Investments &
cash .. 142,025 107,256 411,621 771.780
Capital value
branches, etc. 65,706 92,760 49,510 25,560
Book debts, etc. 132,596 133,950 116,113 120,466
The increase of £360,165 to investments
and cash is mostly in respect of Govern-
ment and municipal loans (now
£312,425); shares in subsidiaries (£87,072)
and industrial and miscellaneous invest-
ments (£85,782) are together dowp
£10,135. The cash holding (£286,507) is
up £57,875. From the small investment
income acknowledged during the year it
would appear that the holding in Govern-
ment stock was acquired towards the
close of the financial period.
The sudden accretion to liquids has
resulted in “considerable difficulty” being
found in “utilising the amount of money
the co. has available”:
It will be noted that as much as £312,425-
is invested in Government stocks. Of
course, the earning-power of these invest-
ments is small, and this fact is bound to
be reflected in the future p. and 1. accounts
of the co. The shares of the subsidiary cos.
in which we have invested are not ordi-
narily quoted, and it would be impossible
to say exactly what was their market value
on the day of account, but on that day the
market value of the other industrial and
Government stocks owned by the co. was
in excess of book value.
The co.’s primary interest is that of
trading in the Pacific Islands. From the
point of view of this interest it is clearly
unsatisfactory that so large a portion of
the co.’s total funds should be occupied in
investments which have no bearing on this
primary interest, and which, for the most
part, return a low rate on income. The
directors hope that after the war oppor-
tunities will appear in Fiji and other
Pacific Island groups which will justify the
return of this money, or much of it, to the
islands for profitable utilisation.
If opportunity for such profitable utilisa-
tion does not present itself the board will
consider a return of capital.
Apparently inner strength is not
yet exhausted. Plantations which cost
£120,000 have been written down to
£21,623, and station properties in Samoa,
Tonga and Rotuma have been written
down to a “purely nominal figure.” The
future value of trading stations, how-
ever, will depend a great deal upon the
extent to which Governments interfere
with copra dealings in the Pacific.
Although fortune almost embarrassed
the co. last term, the board was wise in
its cautious div. policy; the post-war
prospects of South Sea traders are by no
means guaranteed. What is clear is that
the co. has added greatly to its strength
to meet any forthcoming trade diffi-
culties.
Edwards Dunlop and Cos., Ltd.
f -Dividends
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£e£ & £
1932 39,3.93 4325 of p.c. - 34,743 325 269,834
1933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 tJ „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
1935 30,880 8 „ ~ 25,780 5,100 282,194
1936 31,295 Bg ~ ~ 27,795 3,500 285,694
Share premiums, £9751 .. .. 295,445
1937 33,005 9j p.c. = 29,406 3,599 299,044
Share premiums, £17,103 .. .. 316,147
1938 37,091 9f p.c. = 34,911 2,180 318,327
1939 39,681 lO ~ „ 37,596 2,085 320,412
Contingency reserve disclosed, £23,000.. 343,412
1940 42,020 lO p.c. - 37,596 4,424 347,836
1941 43,100 - 10 ~ ~ 37,596 5,504 353,340
1942 37,702 10 „ „ 37,596 106 353,446
1943 38,006 lO „ „ 37,596 410 353,856
Paper is one of those commodities,
imported or made in Australia, which
are in extremely short supply at a time
when there is a big demand. The Burnie
(Tas.) mills are months behind with their
orders, and paper from abroad, particu-
larly newsprint, has been given a remote
priority. Newsprint stocks have been
rationed, and most papers, all severely
reduced in size, have been existing on
pool supplies, which have been fed to
some extent by the output of Australian
Newsprint Mills, near Hobart. The trade
had unusual problems to cope with even
before Japan entered the war. The iso-
lation of Sweden affect:d the British
paper mills severely, and soon a ban on
the export of many types of British paper
was imposed. This brought a swing to
Canada and the United States for better
types of printing paper, and to Japan for
art, imitation art and super-calendered
kinds. After Pearl Harbor not only did
trade with Japan fold up but most of
that with North America also.
Edwards Dunlop is waiting for “con-
siderable supplies of lend-lease paper
which have been on order in America
for many months.” Because of shipping
difficulties only small quantities have so
far come to hand. It is probable that
lend-lease stuff will not carry quite the
margin of profit that open-market pur-
chases did. Financial arrangements are
also against the wholesaler. However,
the trade in ordinary circumstances
carried plenty of fat, one of the few
snags being the sometimes unhappy eco-
nomics of the printing trade. At the
present time there should be no difficulty
ẁ


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
RIiPTURt
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Darrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BABREEE acts
like the hand when placed
Hat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day ior
LIKE THE HARD h'KEE literature.
RETS
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2F). 343 ELIZABETH »T., SYDNEY.
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hamls. Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith, Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
smimßDVDtiuco
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY j
DOAN’S
OINTMENT
The well-known remedy for
Piles, Eczema, and Skin Irri-
tation.
If you suffer from any form of
Piles or Irritating Skin trouble
use
DOAN’S OINTMENT
Recommended the world over.
Sold by Chemists and
Storekeepers Everywhere.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
STATE EXPRESS
€*£umyspieade t
Wl
m
It’s your fight — your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
e. 7
WE’RE PAST THE
TEETHING STAGE
The problem of making Cold-Drawn
Precision Steel Tubes into toothed
ratchets for Bren Tripods was
long ago solved with characteristic
B.T.M. initiative. Much more com-
plicated problems are overcome
almost daily by men who 'grew up’
with the Steel Tube industry and who
realize its vast potentialities. Their
experience equipped B.T.M. to play
a vital part in Australia’s War Effort.
When Peace brings normal con-
ditions, the tasks which await B.T.M.
will need that experience to further
our social and industrial welfare.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
lAU ST.) P I Y. LTD.
ADELAIDE
*e
c/
4 U
R At M C.
T94SI
buy war savings certificates
to hinder the administration and realisa-
tion of estates actually in hand. The
pegging of share prices and the severe
restriction on real-estate dealings have
reduced the capital value of realisations
in some cases and slowed down the wind-
ing-up of other estates. In addition,
property incomes in most cases have
fallen, while taxation, both on behalf of
beneficiaries and the co. itself, has in-
creased tremendously. The co.’s adminis-
tration charges have remained unchanged,
except that a minimum of £2O a year
is now specified in the collection of
income.
Last year gross earnings (after provi-
sion for contingencies) stepped up quite
smartly:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 .. .. 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 . . . . 97,411 82,571 84.7
1938 . . . . 99,595 84,117 84.5
1939 .. .. 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 .. .. 107,743 92,031 85 4
1941 .. .. 110,191 94,661 85.9
1942 . . . . 112,087 98,015 87.4
1943 .. 116,564 102,428 87.9
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
The increase was £4467, but against that
there was a growth of £4413 in ordinary
exes. In addition, £5635 (compared with
£6OOO in the preceding year) was reserved
for taxation, and the account now stands
at £IO,OOO. After providing £1125 for
doubtful debts, net profit showed a de-
cline of £705 at £7367. In order to pay
6 p.c. (down 2 p.c. in two years) reserves
were drawn upon for £BB3. Expenditure
on A.R.P. last year ran into £2304, and
from the report (though not from the
accounts) this would appear to have been
a charge against p. and 1. Another non-
recurring cost was the photographing of
important records.
Consols are taken into the balance
sheet at face value instead of market
price, and the balance on investment
fluctuation account has been put into
general reserves (£76,609). The co. has
£60,770 with various Governments,
£140,217 in premises and £27,357 in cash,
etc. It owes not any man except the
taxgatherer and shareholders who haven't
collected their divs.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) again becomes
a dividend-payer. Amount is 2s. stg., less
9s. Id. in the £ U.K. income tax. Trans-
fer books closed on July 24, and payment
is on August 28. Two interims of Is.
each were paid for 1941, but no further
distribution has been made. For 1940,
shareholders received 4s. It was an-
nounced in April that the board had con-
sidered the declaration of a dividend, but
in view of the uncertain position in the
south-west Pacific and its possible effect
on operations at the mine had decided
not to do so. Apparently Curtin’s recent
broadcast that Australia was safe from
invasion induced the board to change its
mind.
s}t * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) had a
record poor return in June, 38,951 tons
yielding only 3276 fine oz., or an average
of just under Idwt. 18gr. a ton. Man-
agement is silent. Ore reserves on March
31, 1942 —the latest available—were put
at 835,000 tons of 3.3dwt. grade. About
half that quantity has been extracted and
treated since. What has been developed
has not been revealed.
£ * # i\i
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd. (W.A.),
broadcasts that, except for diamond-drill-
ing, operations have ceased on Lake
View South. Three years ago the man-
agement reported that development and
exploration indicated little probability
of any further considerable extension of
the pay-shoot and that ore in sight, which
six months previously was said to be
equal to nearly three years’ mill-feed,
was to be taken out. Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie holds all but 80,000 (issued to the
vendors) of the 240,000 ss. issued shares.
He $
Lake View Investment Trust, at the time
of its formation in 1920, kicked off with
assets and investments which included big
blocks of Australian mining shares ac-
quired from Lake View and Oroya Ex-
ploration. Later it unloaded most of its
Australian holdings and went into other
things, which now have an estimated
market value of over £5tg.2,000,000.
Accounts for year ended March, 1943,
show a sterling profit of £42,132 com-
pared with £42,757 for the previous 12
months. Unchanged dividends of 5 p.c.
on cumulative prefs. shares and 9 p.c. on
ords. (both less U.K. tax) take £37,010,
and the carry-forward is lifted from
£79,556 to £84,678. Latest valuation of
investments exceeds the amount at which
they stand in the balance sheet.
He ❖ H*
“Jo’burg”: Diamond-cutting was once
almost wholly a luxury job. Now, to assist
the war effort, cutting for industrial pur-
poses is being done on a large scale. The
gem is being used in the grinding of pre-
cision lenses and as a hard and durable
substance for impregnating the tools
which turn out urgently needed munitions.
Thousands of diamond dies are being
made through which wires are drawn to
the fraction of the fineness of human
hair. The Germans, knowing this, col-
lared stocks of industrial diamonds when
they invaded Holland and forced unwill-
ing workers to cut more. Current output
of South African diamond-cutting trade
is valued at about £l| million sterling—
a figure which is expected shortly to reach
£4 million. Anew diamond-cutters’
agreement ensuring the supply of indus-
trial diamonds to United Nations war
factories everywhere came into force at
the beginning of this year and will oper-
ate until the end of. the war. Jo’burg
and Kimberley are expected to be trans-
formed into centres of the diamond-
cutting world—formidable rivals of the
age-old exclusive Amsterdam trade.
* * *
From London:
Will the price of gold go above £lO sterling
per ounce? International currency talks have
given South African shares a lift. It is said
that the U.S. Treasury is seeking an extension
of another two years (from June 30 last) of the
President’s power further to devalue the dollar,
with a limit of half its pre-1934 par of 20.67
dollars per ounce. For the past nine years the
ratio has remained at 35 dollars, and, although
there is said to be no present prospect of the
U.S. gold price being raised by the President
to the provided maximum of 41.34, the fact
that the power to do so if future currency agree-
ments should make the step desirable would be
regarded as of major significance. Even were
the U.S.-U.K. exchange rate to be left un-
altered at the current 4.03 dollars to the £, an
American price of 41.34 per ounce of gold
would be equivalent to over £lO sterling, against
the existing fixed quotation of £8 Bs. City
opinion, says the “Financial Times, is that
dollar and sterling prices are unlikely to be
altered afresh during hostilities. But there is a
lively discussion of a possible £lO an ounce
after the war when currencies come to be stabil-
ised. ‘


FINISHED IN 4 YS
by unskilled labor!
mm
M
m
w
m
m
m
•-
s
m
m
f
jrass MskssMm
-
m
a; *
ft.
:
■ : i V :
iiliiiP
fc
.
ARMCO PRC-FABRICATED HUT
Here is a storage hut, 40ft. x 100 ft.,
which has been built by unskilled labor
in four days to serve the needs of the
army. All structural steel work is of
light gauge pressed metal, the covering
material is 24 gauge corrugated iron.
This hut was completely fabricated in
the Armco works at Sutherland, N.S.W,
Armco pre-fabricated huts are ideal for
storage purposes, when economy, ease
of erection, speed, and strength are of
vital consideration.
ABMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SVDNEV . MELBOURNE , BRISBANE .ADELAIDE
BRANDAIIERS
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
c. HH .MiiAona * 00, ut. bikmisoham. eng
Business, Rollery, etc.
Price Subsidies and Bank Credit
The first furtive acknowledgment by
the Curtin Government that the prices
ceiling has not yet stopped the inflation
of its own breeding came last week, when
an'increase of 2s. in the Sydney, Bris-
bane and Perth basic wage was an-
nounced, with a Is. rise in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Hobart. The “ceiling”
dates from April 12, and the rise in liv-
ing costs on which the increased weekly
wage is based has happened in spite of the
control of traders’ profits and extensive
payment of subsidies, including those to
the dairying industry. The basic wage
now rises to £5 in Sydney, as against
£4 Is. on September 1, 1939. It repre-
sents an increase of 23.5 p.c. since the
war began, which we may take also as
the corresponding rise in living costs in
most parts of the Commonwealth, as
estimated by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician, compared with something over
22 p.c. at the time of the last calcula-
tion. It is clear that, in spite of attempts
to take the inflationary dynamite out of
living costs and transfer it to the Budget,
the Government is unable entirely to dis-
guise the bitter fruits of its false and
weak economic policy even for a
moment. The truth insists on creeping
out, with a full emergence yet to come.
The day following the admission (in-
direct) of the sharp rise in living costs
came the most brazen example of vote-
buying in which this brazen Government
has ever indulged. By means of
subsidies from its already overloaded
and debt-burdened Budget it announced
a reduction of Is. 2d. a pound in tea, the
reduction of the price of potatoes to 51b.
lor 6d. in capitals, the reimbursement of
employers for the latest increase in the
basic wage, and the reduction of sales
tax on rationed clothing from p.c.
to 1\ p.c. At the same time it promised
“increased supplies of essential vegetables
and essential clothing.” The public
learned of these things just a month be-
fore the date set down for the election,
so that they should be assured for at
least 31 days; and it is doubtless hoped
that they will obliterate the memory of
the promise that taxation would not be
increased on assessments issued during
1942-43 —which the Treasurer “honored”
only by complicating already chaotic tax-
ation systems and specifying that the
added taxation collected from April 1
forward would be in respect of a
different period.
That promise is not forgotten, nor is
the hopeful forecast of Treasurer Chifley
when he presented his last Budget. He
spoke of raising £3OO million by war
loans and savings certificates. He
finished up by borrowing over £4OO mil-
lion, of which the public provided less
than £2OO million, “bank credit” looking
after most of the rest. The only thing
this Government knows anything about
is vote-chasing, and it has had so much
practice at it that it could march under
a snake’s belly in summertime without
disturbing the wriggler.
The simple truth of the present trying
situation in Australia is that we are a
country with a small population, repre-
senting the southern battlefront in the
war with Japan, which has been buffeted
severely following the collapse of Malaya,
Burma and the United States outposts
in the western Pacific. We were
left practically demilitarised by the
previous Labor Government. We have
so little mercantile marine and naval
strength of our own that we have had to
rely on what help in this regard is
allotted to us, and we have had to turn
our industries over to war production on
a vast scale. Because we represent the
principal southern base for offensive
action against Japan we have to service
large numbers of fighting men, and their
food and clothing requirements alone
are enormous. On all forms of transpor-
tation the services have priority, and the
disturbance to ways of living and stand-
ards of living has been very great, par-
ticularly in those parts of the Common-
wealth where home life is not as com-
fortable and well-established as it is in
older countries.
The cost of Australia’s participation in
the war has grown to a tremendous size.
Last year it ran to £562 million, and,
apart from the £79 million of that which
was spent overseas, our war effort repre-
sented that much production taken from
our customary living standards. Approxi-
mately half our usual civil production is
going into the fighting forces, and
domestic standards are that much poorer.
The finance arrangements behind this war
effort have been deplorable. War waste
is essentially a tax on the people, since
most war expenditure leaves you with
nothing else (if you are on the winning
side) than national security, which is
something above value in a financial
sense, and which, unfortunately, is quickly
lost sight of in peace-time.
Instead of treating the physical taxa-
tion of war largely as a financial tax, the
Curtin-Chifley Government has been pay-
ing less than 30 p.c. of war’s cost out of
taxation. Inevitably this has resulted, in
inflation, the amount of money remain-
ing with wage-earners being far above the
amount of goods and services available.
High rates of pay have been granted for
overtime even though the working of
overtime has been made necessary by the
enlistment or call-up of men for the fight-
ing forces, and these soldiers get 6s. 6d.
a day and upwards, as against over 9s.
an hour sometimes paid to wharfies. The
high cost of union labor has been a
potent factor in the high cost of living.
In Australia since the war broke out
living costs have risen by 23.5 p.c., in
Canada by 17 p.c. and in Maoriland by
14 p.c. These two countries have subsi-
dised prices of essential foodstuffs, but
neither has a Budget deficit to com-
pare with that in the Commonwealth.
Thus in this country we see both the
highest cost of living and the biggest
relative Budget deficit. In order to check
the persistent rise in living costs Can-
berra now proposes to increase the
Budget deficit. Prime Minister Curtin
has estimated that the cost of his pre-
election price, tax and wage concessions
will be between £7 million and £8 mil-
lion a year. The price-ceiling plan intro-
duced in April was estimated to cost be-
tween £lO and £l5 million a year. The
butter subsidy alone is costing at the rate
of £6.5 million a year.
The cut of Is. 2d. a pound in the price
of tea represents more than a third re- J
duction, and it brings the price back not
to where it stood when the price ceiling
was announced but to something like
pre-war. The Government is not even
buying this imported commodity at any-
thing like the figure to be charged, allow-
ing for duly ; some tea has cost 4s. to ss.
a pound to land, especially since the
Government took over the buying of it.
The cut fn potato prices amounts to
about 50 p.c. on the charges of the day be-
fore. The reductions altogether are spec-
tacular rather than judiciously applied.
Tea had to be rationed because of
shipping difficulties and the closing of the
Java market. In other days it was
selected as a food item on which
customs duty should be levied for
revenue purposes only, there being no
tea industry in the Commonwealth. So
far as potatoes are concerned, they are
not such an important article of diet in
a country that has abundant supplies of
wheat.
All statistics and indicators point to
the fact that, taken as a whole, Australia's
war effort on the production and eco-
nomic side has been badly managed.
There is widespread evidence of Minis-
terial incapacity and lack of foresight,
plus a notable amount of sophistical
window-dressing from nearly all Minis-
ters, the overrated Treasurer, Mr.
Chifley, not being unsullied in this re-
gard ; he it was who introduced the phony
social security legislation for which
taxation is being levied, the proceeds
being spent on war immediately. With
millions of money rolling into the sav-
ings-banks every month, the Treasurer-
pooh-poohed the idea of asking for any
of it as a direct contribution to a national
security fund. He has actually finished
up by having no fund at all, only an
embryo liability for future pension, etc.,
commitments.
The debt already left by this war on
Australia is over £742 million, nearly half
of it bank credit. Now we stand at the
vital stage of the war, with a full offensive
yet to come. How much more inflation-
ary credit is to be used this year in order
to finance a war programme probably
larger than last year? How many
hundreds of millions of this inflated
money will there be left in the hands
and to the credit of people “when
Johnny comes marching home again,”
and the repressed urge to lift the lid off
everything has to be faced up to by the
Government of the day?
The spirit of self-sacrifice, of tolera-
tion of restrictions and shortages will
ooze out of people when the war is over.
Against that day the present Govern-
ment has laid up great dangers, not
strength. It hajs missed the opportunity
of governing intelligently, fairly and
honestly when the spirit of the people
was such that necessary sacrifices, bluntly
presented, would have been borne most
readily. Confusion, anger and disorder
will be the dangers in a post-war
straightening-out of war-time mismanage-
ment. Confronted with this picture, the
Government nevertheless continues to in-
dulge in cheap political stunting at the
expense of finances that are already
showing unmistakable signs of becoming
slap-happy.


BLACK MA
OF COURSE - BUT I
CAN GET IT FOR
you/
mm
7S
w
/
/
m
/ A
//
'/i
u.
'S'S
KILL THAT T
SQUANDER BUG
Don’t let the Squander Bug
tempt you into the black
market or to use good money
on anything, unless you really
need it. Kill his traitorous mur-
murings. Save every shilling
you can get together and buy
War Savings Stamps or Cer-
tificates and National Savings
Bonds, or make an advance
subscription to the next War
Loan.
55.8.26
Have You Joined
Your Street's War
Savings Group?
If not, join if, and
start your regular
saving right away.
If your street has not
a Group, form one
yourself after getting
your Voluntary
Worker's Badge and
practical help from
the War Savings
Organiser, Common-
wealth Savings Bank,
14 Casflereaah St.,
Sydney.
m
IBIBHi
m
r'
, mssammam
JHHHH
■HH
i ■ -
I
9^
W
DmJD
aSSn
Mm
Off
31
£ll
Doing
Wi
m
m
m
1
is
: '■;
hMmw
m
That Australian in-
dustry, too, might
play its part in the
Nation’s war effort,
miracles have been
wrought in factories
large and small throughout the length and breadth
of the land.
Since 1939 there has been almost unbelievable
growth in the magnitude and the efficiency of our
manufacturing industry, until today we are at
last near attainment of an objective that many
thought impossible.
Tecnico Limited is proud to claim a full part in
this inspiring effort. Tecnico Products . . . sym-
bols of accuracy and precision, and worthy of
the Company’s hallmark — U A Tecnico Product’ .
TC.5.43
ecmco
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST., MARRICKVILLE
N.S.W. PHONE LI. 3211
Fadden Finance
Apart from the incredibly stupid pro-
posal to refund after the war a third of
the taxation levied in 1941-42 and subse-
quent years, the financial platform of
Opposition-leader Fadden is for the most
part a sensible one. He has undertaken
to abolish forthwith the “lag year” in
taxation, and he promises an “all-embrac-
ing programme of national insurance on
an equitable contributory basis, to cover
health, unemployment, medical care and
superannuation,” and in this connection
the Beveridge plan is to be investigated.
He promises a review of the National
Security Regulations and an overhaul of
the inflating civil services, at the same
time cutting down extravagant expendi-
ture. He says, truthfully, “without im-
pairing the war effort many millions of
pounds of public money can be saved.”
I?e observes correctly that “the Govern-
ment’s indiscriminate expansion of credit,
coupled with its octopus of control, are
compounded to create hidden inflation —
the greatest danger to internal safety.”
But, having stressed the danger of in-
flation, and having promised to put in-
come tax payments on a pay-as-we-owe
basis, Mr. Fadden produces his stagger-
ing proposal to credit to a pool a third
of the war-time taxation paid, and out
of this pool, ,after the war, to refund
from 5 p.c. to 75 p.c. of tax contributions,
ranging from the highest to the lowest
rates. As the plan is retroactive for two
years, Mr. Fadden’s proposal, if it be-
comes effective, will automatically add
something like £4O million (personal in-
comes only) to the war debt as it stood at
June 30. At that date we had already
incurred £742 million of debt from the
conduct of the present war. And, each
succeeding year, an additional £4O mil-
lion or so will be added by the way of
these refund liabilities, apart from public
loans and Treasury bills discounted.
It appears that Mr. Fadden has the idea
that post-war credits contain some subtle
virtue which in fact they do not possess.
All responsible economic authorities are
agreed that war expenditure in the main
represents a physical tax, and the correct
finance indicated is monetary taxation to
the greatest possible extent. The difficul-
ties in the way of full monetary taxation
to pay for war are largely political and
personal. The main idea behind post-
war credits is that of “sweetened taxa-
tion” for the coaxing of the last possible
pound of tax money—for the coaxing of
it in a year in which taxation goes up.
Their virtue does not really lie in their
post-war value to taxpayers. That is
merely a sweetening that carries with
it a national obligation like any other
debt. The manner in which savings-bank
deposits are mounting each month in
Australia indicates that there is little like-
lihood of a national lack of “credit” when
the war ends. If Mr. Fadden really
understands the inflation menace he will
realise that superabundant spending
power now is one of the clearest mani-
festations of the menace. This spending
power is being carried into the post-war
period because of existing spending re-
strictions and lack of things to spend it on.
Mr. Fadden promises no increase in
taxes in 1943-44. The entire reason for
any kind of post-war credits therefore
falls to the ground. A certain level of
taxation has been achieved ; it is high,
especially on the upper incomes, but the
resort that has been made by the present
Government to borrowing and bank
credit shows it to be the minimum. In
whatever attacks Mr. Fadden would make
upon waste, a great deal of saving will be
necessary to offset the cost of his
uncalled-for post-war credits. And these
credits, indeed, will be of no more value to
Australians than “the nebulous social
welfare scheme recently placed on the
Statute Book by the Labor Government.”
Both represent a spirit without a body.
The body will have to be produced afier
Ihe war either by more taxation, more
borrowing or more inflation.
In these days of lend-lease and other
such obligations to the older world, the
following remarks from the “B.H.P.
Review” may act as a restorative to the
spirits of some who are feeling a little
“down” in viewing the future of Aus-
tralia, especially as Canberra, clothed
with great powers, is not fully represen-
tative of the people of this country. The
Leslie Bradford mentioned in the
“Review,” though born in Delhi, was an
Australian from the age of 14:
In 1902 Mr. Bradford and the late G. D.
Delprat became associated in a series of
experiments to solve the problem of lead
and zinc sulphide recovery. This difficult
work related to the recovery of these
metals by flotation, and resulted in the
patenting of the Delprat process. When,
in 1903, the first big flotation plant was
erected, ’ all operations were supervised by
Mr. Bradford. Under his direction many
refinements were made in the flotation pro-
cess including a method of separating lead
and’zinc sulphides (1912). He found that
by using a solution of common salt, feebly
acidulated with sulphuric acid, the zinc
only would float, leaving the lead as resi-
due. In the following year, however, Brad-
ford made his major contribution to flota-
tion when he discovered that a small
amount of copper sulphate (soluble copper
salt) greatly increased the floatability of
zme blende. This was an epoch-making dis-
covery, the importance of which can be
gauged by the fact that throughout the
world every flotation mill now uses copper
sulphate for the recovery of zinc concen-
,acs ' .
When he died in June Bradford was
general manager of the 8.H.P., producer
of the world’s cheapest steel.
* * * *
From the “Times Trade and Engineer-
ing” on an important matter: —
The two greatest dangers to which Britain has
been exposed by the war are invasion and in-
flation. Invasion, against the possibility of
which the Home Guard is the new outward and
visible insurance, would mean great loss of life
and property. Inflation, against the possibility
of which the Government and particularly the
Chancellor of the Exchequer form the people’s
safeguard, would also mean great loss of life
and prosperity. The tragedy of the aged would
not be less, because inflation would result in
their slow starvation rather than in a violent
death by bomb, bullet or bayonet. Sir Kingsley
Wood is fully alive to the danger of inflation,
and so far he and the Treasury offfcialz advising
him have rightly done all that thev could to
prevent it. We are less happy about the ordinary
citizens. There is little evidence that the public
realises that inflation, if it got out of hand,
might utterly destroy the basis of its prosperity
and happiness, as it did in other countries some
20 years ago. Industrialists producing something
suffered less than the ordinary citizens, while
those possessed of real wealth were the most
fortunate, but the fortunes of the fixed-income
class were practically wiped out. If this country
is to avoid inflation all classes must co-operate
by accepting their share of the burden in-
flicted by war. It is useless for certain classes
to make sacrifices if others are going to insist
on making themselves as well off as before the
war.
All j us f ag a ppli ca ble to Australia, except
, K
that here the Government ts no people s
safeguard” against inflation — it has
always been a great one for “national
credit” — and our central bank seems to
, , , . ,
be almost as inettectual.
* * * *
“The public should be assured that
war neec } s anc j no t sheer waste are re-
sponsible for a considerable proportion
D f the rising expenditure of the Corn-
monwealth Government,” was the com-
ment of Spooner, M.P., on Treasurer
Chifley’s huge war-expenditure figures
for the year to June 30. Pointing
out the extent to which the original
Budget had underestimated the outgo,
Mr. Spooner said: “It would help to
allay the fears of many people if the
Treasurer would say what organisation
~ , i
he kas set up }° keep n touch eX ’
pendituie and to control war waste.
* * * *
The Queensland cotton crop this season
has not been up to expectations. Although
seed to plant 56,000 acres was distributed,
on jy about 35,000 acres are likely to be
hnrvpQtori tn Australian sninn^rs
harv f ted - hales to Australian spinners
will be at the record price ol Is. 6d. a
pound of raw cotton lint. The season
was a jl against a better yield of cotton,
* * * *
..„• . " ,
An orthodox economist is one who
believes that two and two make four.


Slow, Painful and Vicious.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: The slow progress of
events in the Pacific emphasises how
large, costly and trying to patience and
morale this war against Japan is going
to be.
There may be a Japanese division on
Munda, or there may even be as little as
half a division. The Allies have com-
mand of the sea. They have short, un-
interrupted communication lines. They
have air forces which bring enemy air-
craft crashing to earth or water in the
ratio of eight to one U.S. machine.
Our forces are able to blanket all the
aerodromes and harbors serving New
Georgia with smothering quantities of
bombs.
On New Georgia the military them-
selves are ashore in several places. They
are pushing against the defensive peri-
meter of this far-flung Japanese base on
two sides, in complete command of all
approaches.
They can pitch their heavy gunfire
from naval ships into the enemy’s com-
pounds. His positions should be within
effective field-gun fire—at least of such
guns as 25-pounders and lOSmms. —
from Rendova.
But for all this we have not so far
been abb to move him out of Munda ;
we have not even yet been able to take
Bairoko Harbor from him on the verge
of the Gulf of Kula, of whose waters the
Allies should be in control, and on the
shores of which he should be isolated
from any contact (except sneak contact)
with Vila across the Gulf and with
Munda across the land.
As at Buna-Gona, the tenacious enemy
fights on and on and on ; diving out of
foxholes to kill in the dark ; using the
English language like a foxcall to decoy
American soldiers to the slaughter. It is
no longer safe for men to identify them-
selves by night by using their own lan-
guage, since their own men are as likely
as not to shoot on sight anything mov-
ing in the dark.
On the New Guinea mainland the
Allies are blasting their way towards
Salamaua through the terrible hill, tor-
rent and jungle country. They are tak-
ing position by position, as they took
Observation Hill on July 7, treating the
advance as a quarrying job on which a
cloud of ’planes drop bombs in unison,
so that the whole face of the landscape
foxholes, Japs, artillery and what-have-
you goes up in one blinding flash and
tails back into a tangle of squdge,
splinters and terrestrial mincemeat.
It may be asked why this same process
is not being more successful at Munda.
Apparently, it can be decisive only with
constricted positions. The same quantities
of bombs dropped on Munda or on Kahili
and Buin do not have the same effect as
on Observation Hill triangle.
Mr. Curtin’s Optimism.
Said Colonel Knox in a broadcast from
the U.S. Naval Department on July 20:
“The cost of attrition in the Pacific fight-
ing is frightful.” He can’t be suffused
with the election spirit.
Mr. Curtin’s idea is that victory in the
Pacific “will hinge on naval and air
strength offensively employed, and sup-
ported by land forces for the occupation
of enemy bases and the seizure and de-
fence of those required for Allied opera-
tions. Great armies will not be required.”
It should be true; but it isn’t true so
far.
Where European Axis troops with 20
to 25 per cent, of casualties find them-
selves defeated they surrender in droves.
The Asiatic enemy has to be killed off.
And next year he should have any-
thing from 100 to 120 divisions to kill
off, armed from centralised resources.
But it is not necessary to look forward
to the time when his 100 divisions must
be tackled to see the fallacy—under
present conditions —of the Curtin view-
point.
A simple problem is: If after a year it
is not possible to get the enemy out of
Munda and Salamaua, where his forces
are comparatively small, without long
and deadly effort, how long is it going to
take to get him out of Rabaul, Madang,
New Ireland and Wewak, where his
forces must be measured in corps and
possibly as a full army comparable in
size to the Eighth Army, and how many
men are going to die of gunshot and
bomb and be crippled by fever in the
process?
Mr. Curtin and his War Cabinet may
have a heartening answer, and have
reason for the sudden jubilation which
came upon them when an election loomed
in the offing. If they have, they have not
confided it to a lot of people who should
know it.
Events in the Solomons
Among all the picturesque emanations
of correspondents (“Japanese Beaten in
New Georgia—lra Wolfert Says”), the
cold, hard facts of the week’s events at
the two ends of the South-west Pacific
offensive bow are as follows:
Concerning Munda, the communique
of July 20 reported a limited advance to
enlarge a beachhead ; 179 enemy dead
were left behind against light Allied
losses. Dive-bombers started fires on
Munda aerodrome, on one side of the
island, and 28 tons of bombs were
dropped on hostile positions on the other
side at Bairoko. Medium machines and
heavies again attacked Buin and Kahili,
and a ’plane was missing. Reconnais-
sance units bombed the Rekata Bay sea-
plane base.
Next day 18 tons of bombs were
dropped on the Lambetti plantation area
on the north-west of the island, and the
day’s communique stated that “the tight-
ening investment ring of Munda has now
rendered supply of reinforcements to the
enemy dangerous and difficult. A slow
but constant deterioration of the be-
leaguered garrison can be expected, unless
our blockading ring can be broken.”
Next day it was reported that the
enemy “launched a heavy counter-attack
and was repulsed with heavy losses.”
To illustrate the tightness with which
Allied air and naval forces held the island
group within their grip, it was recorded
that Buin and near-by aerodromes, the
sources of succor, were again torn to bits
with 42 tons of bombs (loss in the air
battles, one fighter on each side), and the
third enemy flotilla, under strong naval
guard, which has attempted to break into
the area was sent flying, like its prede-
cessors.
It was discovered between Vela,
Lavella and Kolombangara Islands —
three light cruisers, six destroyers and
two transports. The squadron split up,
three destroyers and the transports mak-
ing for Vila (Kolom.).
Aircraft attacked at dawn, sank a light
cruiser and a destroyer, probably sank
another destroyer and damaged a trans-
port and a third destroyer. The other
ships made off without reaching their ob-
jectives. It was a victory at bargain rates,
the Allied cost being “two medium and
two dive-bombers missing.”
Heaviest Air Attack
The communique of July 22 mentioned
numerous attacks on enemy positions
round Bairoko Harbor on the north of
New Georgia, “in support of ground
forces —133 tons of bombs dropped and
the area extensively strafed, the heaviest
air attack executed by Allied forces in the
South-west Pacific.”
It would have been considered heavy
in the Mediterranean, directed against
big ports like Spezia or Messina, till a
month ago. But it did not polish off
enough of the dispersed positions round
the little outpost port of Bairoko to
justify calling off future heavy bombing.
On July 23, references to operations in
the Solomons consisted of the following ;
Our fighters intercepted and dispersed a
superior force of enemy fighters and dive-
bombers, shooting down two. One of our
’planes is missing. There were a few
casualties and minor damage on the ground.
On July 24 H.Q. announced that- a
9000-ton aircraft tender of the Nisshin
type had been sunk and one of four
destroyers damaged off the Bougainville
coast by bombers; also that in escort
fights five “Os” and three Allied fighters
were destroyed. Dive-bombing in support
of ground troops north of Munda was
mentioned; also, attacks on Rekata Bay
installations and the wrecking of two out
of four barges in Vela Gulf, off Kolom-
bangara Island.
Over the week-end the slow, painful
attrition continued, but Munda and
Bairoko were still Japanese-held.
Enemy Claims
On July 22 Tokyo Radio, always ex-
cessive, claimed the destruction of 265
Allied aircraft and 23 ships—including
five cruisers—for 65 ’planes destroyed or
damaged between June 30 and July 20.
The U.S. Navy informed the Ameri-
can United Press that its losses were one
cruiser, two destroyers and an empty
transport—sunk on its way home to base
after the Rendova landing—and that
American ’plane losses were “about one
to eight enemy ’planes.”
A Marine anti-aircraft battery on Ren-
dova reported a kill of 13 ’planes—l2
bombers and a fighter—on July 4 with
88 rounds.
On the Komiatum Trail
The lack of important developments
on the Salamaua front was emphasised
by the persistence with which correspon-
dents sent descriptions of the landing at
Nassau Bay on June 30 —a small skir-
mishing operation which will be for-
gotten history to most of the tense and
weary lads who are braving the tea-kettle
atmosphere of the advance positions
along the Komiatum trail.
On July 20 an engagement was reported
in which 82 of the enemy were killed on
the slopes of Mt. Tambu, coastward of
Buigap Creek and nearly halfway between
Mubo and Salamaua. Next day enemy
bivouac areas were bombed and strafed,
but the air fighting was mainly far afield,
though a few medium bombers did some
damage to Logui village and dumps,
and started fires. Alexishafen —12 miles
from Madang and site of a big German
mission—and Madang itself were strafed,
large spreading fires being started. The
Japs sent nine bombers and 30 fighters
to Bena Bena, 110 miles n.-w. of Lae,
one of our deepest holding points in New
Guinea, but caused no casualties, though
they wrecked several native huts.
On June 22 there was heavy bombing
and strafing of Madang at low altitude,
with the destruction of 19 enemy fighters,
besides 11 probably destroyed, against
two Allied ’planes and one pilot lost.
This venture got first mention in the
communique, along with the description
of the strafing of the Gum, Gogor and
Gori River bridges, over the advance on
Komiatum, where, it was said, “sharp
fighting continues between advanced
elements. The enemy has sustained 282
casualties in killed alone in his counter-
attacks on Mt. Tambu.”
Australians hold these positions. The
fierce attacks of the enemy against them
were renewed right up to the week-end,
by which time there was specific evidence
of a concerted Allied move against
several miles of front, across the Komia-
tum trail, against the Salamaua peri-
meter.
West of the trail and Komiatum, and
on its landward side, there was skirmish-
ing round Namling. The eastern central
area was noisy with the fighting at
Mt. Tambu, while Americans moving up
the coast were in contact with the enemy
at Tambu Bay.
The air forces were “softening up”
both the several immediate frontal key
positions, Komiatum and between Komia-
tum and the twin Logui villages, on which
93 tons of bombs were dropped on July
22. This was followed by grim attention
to Jap rear areas by a strong force of
heavy machines, which took 61 tons of
varied bombs to Bogadjim, and made
many direct hits which started the usual
large fires.
The foe intercepted with about 60
“Os” and Melo9’s—new arrivals in the
New Guinea area —of which 13 were
definitely shot down, according to the
official statement, five were probably de-
stroyed, and still another five shot out
of combat and either wrecked or seri-
ously damaged. Two Allied fighters were
destroyed.
Java Raided
There was a good deal of activity west
of Torres Strait, but not much of it was
heavy. On July 20 raids on Macassar,
about 900 miles from Darwin, spread
over five hodrs, and the starting of fires,
which were seen 80 miles away, were re-
ported.
But July 22 was the week’s red-letter
day. Liberators made one of the longest
non-stop raiding trips on record, if not
the longest, when they flew 2400 miles—
round trip—to Sourabaya, on the eastern
end of Java, and took the lighted city by
surprise.
Raids at such long range unfortunately
mean light bomb-loads. The visitors
seeded the port area with 500-pounders
and incendiaries, pushing their way
through heavy a.-a. fire, looking back
afterwards to see oil installations, ware-
houses, railway buildings blazing merrily
in five large fires. There were no night
fighters in the air.
Raids of this sort are bad for enemy
morale and disrupt his port operations,
but they are unlikely to do capital
damage or to be practical on a large
and regular scale for the present.
Palermo and Mussolini.
“Ek Dum”: It was one of the greatest
weeks for the Allied cause in the war —
its real turning point.
The course of the campaign in Sicily
was much as here predicted (B. 21/7/’43).
The Canadians, in liaison with the Eighth
Army, broke into the centre of the de-
fence skull of the island round Emia,
meeting with fierce local resistance in
spots, but stamping it under foot quickly
and terribly.
The Americans made an easien sawcut
to the west of the Canadians. Crossing
the island to Palermo, and moving
rapidly westward, they engulfed the
capital, almost without meeting resistance.
Facing little or no resistance after the
fall of Agrigento, they spread along the
south coast past the health resort of
Sciacca. Past Castelvetrano, across the
Mazzara, on the sunburnt wine plain of
Woodhouse, Whitaker and Ingham, to
Marsala, headquarters of the wine
industry, where Garibaldi and his Thou-
sand landed. Up through the blinding
coastal strip where the Dutch windmills
turn among the palm-trees sucking in sea
water for the salt industry to Trapani, a
favorite port of call for crusading Eng-
lish kings.
Palermo capitulated while the flames
still licked the south-eastern suburbs of
Rome. It is easy to believe that the
Sicilian city went delirious —even that
the whole of western Sicily went
delirious. Once the main industry in
western Sicily was “going to America.”
Companies were formed, co-operative
and otherwise, to help the whole popu-
lation of western Sicily to go to America.
There is, down in the south, near Castel-
ventrano region, a village called Ameri-
can!, where the returned empties of this
traffic dwell.
United States troops began to enter
Palermo at 8 p.m. on July 22. Palermo
had reported tanks on the horizon hours
before. The principal journal—“La Ora”
—called lustily to Palermo to face what-
ever happened, and moaned that Sicily,
Rome’s oldest colony, the foundation of
its empire, had been “betrayed.”
The great force of tanks whose arrival
the papers predicted was actually dis-
covered at Monreale, six miles out. Any-
body who has tried to read the Palermo
press will realise that editors must have
nearly died with astonishment.
The tanks came corkscrewing down
the mountain road in the dull heat of
the usual Sicilian evening, and Palermo
in its Sunday best let itself go with one
concerted yell of “Viva America, Viva
Inghilterra.’’ Fruit rocketed into jeeps and
large-moustachioed Sicilians struggled to
kiss Doughboys.
As for Mussolini and Fascism —basta
cosi. All that was over, and the enthusi-
asm grew as the cavalcade of dusty
armor rocketed into the centre of the
city. Any American who spoke Italian
was immediately greeted with a thousand
voices, all of them—such is the peculi-
arity of the Sicilian language—substitut-
ing the letter “d” for the normal “1”
of Italian, and thus giving a stranger the
impression that all Sicily was afflicted
with a vast running common cold.
The applause when General Molinero
surrendered the city was deafening. And
when General Patton and his captive set
off together in a car, leaving all the
armored forces behind to be kissed, the
climax was reached.
The Eighth Army’s Task
By July 24 all the skull-defence of
Sicily was in Allied hands with two of
the defensive limbs and over 100,000
prisoners.
Only about a sixth of the island, the
only part which seems to have had any
defence at all and which covered the
approaches to the Messina Strait, was
in enemy hands.
This is a tough, mountainous defensive
sector, its bastions on the south formed
of Etna and its companion hills, with the
chain of the Nebrodici Range filling most
of the north. It is a place of command-
ing heights, winding valleys, narrow
gates and passes.
It could be defended for a long time
by a small, competent force well equipped
with guns, since the terrain is not con-
ducive to the free use of aircraft.
The enemy was hanging on to a south-
east apron of the Catanian plain, with
some of its aerodromes, though they could
be little use. Two German divisions were
known to be manning the defences of
Catania, with a front along a river to the
south and strong broken ground to hold,
and putting up a determined defence. In
the testing of these defences, the Eighth
Army encountered some of the fiercest
resistance in its career. Catania itself was
not worth much to the enemy, but loss
of it would mean capture of the Acireale
Pass along the coast leading up to Taor-
mina and Messina, and of the Randazzo-
road rail route round the western slope
of Etna, which would give the Allies
possession of the heart of Sicily’s last
stronghold, and set them pouring across
Messina Strait.
The Canadians over the week-end were
already working eastward from Enna to
grip the inner end of the western route
round Etna, while the Eighth Army con-
tinued to prepare the way for its assault


Divorce Notices.
TO EDWIN KEITH RUSSELL late of
Cardiff.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE MAY
RUSSELL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1410 of 1943 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 13th September 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN SIDNEY WARD.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN NORA WARD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1880 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court Sydney on or
before the 30th day of September 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from F. C. SINCLAIR Solicitor 2b Castlereagh
Street Sydney Solicitor for the Petitioner.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
(7)
am
on Catania. Montgomery’s method is
the same British method which Con-
tinentals long have had to fear —slow,
inexorable, perfect.
Catania’s defence was being pounded
to pieces by warships and by artillery.
There was, as usual, no unnecessary
sacrifice of life and no attempt to break
time records. All through the Italian
war the policy of Alexander and Mont-
gomery has been a model of conserva-
tion, even if it does not always appeal to
“experts” who like their fields bloody.
The British forces represent four-fifths
of those on the island.
Sicily by July 24 was doomed. So,
by the sound of Rome Radio, panicking
about the flood of refugees pouring north-
ward after the raid on Rome, was Italy.
Hitler’s Von Weiszacker, ambassador
to the Papal See, must have spent an
unhappy week-end in Vatican City, a
mile from the Palazzo Venezia.
Exit Mussolini
Late on Sunday night, Italian time, it
was suddenly announced that Mussolini
had resigned the Premiership, and that
the little, old king, who on July 29 will
have weathered for 43 years of upheavals
which have flung out kings by the bucket-
ful, leaving him to share the veteran’s
laurel with Gustav of Sweden, had sent
for Marshal Badoglio. The king, who
is smaller than Napoleon, becomes Com-
mander-in-Chief at 74 —he was born on
Nov. 11 (Armistice Day), 1869; Marshal
Badoglio, his Chief of Staff at 71. As
in France, it fell to the old soldierly guard
to pull the chestnuts out of the fire.
“Italy will fight on,” it was announced.
But Italy will not for long or with any
great will, though the Germans may, to
delay the Allied advance while they close
their southern passes. It looks as if the
king became C.-in-C. because it will be
the C.-in-C. who negotiates a military
surrender.
A sick man —his photographs show him
a grey shadow of himself —his favorite
son sacrificed on the altar of the Moloch
which he made, his empire crumbled to
dust, Mussolini seems to face a return to
the expedients of his turbulent police-
pursued youth—a hasty exit to Switzer-
land, if the Italians will let him or the
Allies don’t catch him first.
Rome Bombed.
“Ek D.”: The Americans did a care-
ful job in their 500-bomber, 1000-ton raid
on Rome’s railway environs, two miles
from the Vatican, across the centre of
the Eternal City. They ruled the heart
of Rome out of their itinerary with the
mile or so of tracks which run across
the east of the Esquiline, Viminal and
Quirinal Hills.
By crossing this railway approach to
the west and north less than 500 yards,
they could have bagged the Ministries of
War, Finance, Interior, Labor and Com-
merce and the Royal Secretariat. But they
did not attempt it because they almost in-
evitably would have wrecked also the
churches of St. Maria Maggiore and St.
Michael and the Angels, the National
Museum and the Barberini Palace, with
their priceless treasures, the ruins of the
Baths of Diocletian and the Quirinal.
The area east of the line which they
bombed contained a big slice of Musso.’s
remodelled Rome, a large drill ground
(now, I hear, an aerodrome), the Air
Ministry and the Caserma d’Artiglieria,
by the station, the New University, the
Polyclinico—one of the finest hospitals
in Europe—along with several traffic
arteries of war-time importance, and
some churches and a cemetery, as well as
the vast marshalling yards and industrial
targets.
The only objective of great historical
importance and religious veneration in
this area is the ancient church of St.
Lorenzo-without-the-Walls.
The bombers did such damage to the
marshalling yards that they were put
out of action. The two great roads, Via
Nomentana and Via Tiburtina, in the
vicinity were torn to pieces; the damage
to lighting facilities and to the Aqua
Marcia and Aqua Vercine deprived whole
quarters and suburbs of light and water.
Much rolling stock, the Tabonelli steel-
works and other industrial enterprises
were wrecked. Rome announced officially
on July 20 that 166 persons had been
killed and 1659 injured.
The only church injured was St.
Laurence-without-the-Walls, one of the
seven pilgrimage churches of Rome. But
the damage was not serious. The tomb
of Pius IX under the High Altar, in
Constantine’s Church below the modern
levels, was damaged and a porch de-
molished (according to Vatican Radio),
but the thirteenth-century Campanile of
Honorius—a great landmark against the
ilexes and cypresses of Rome’s biggest
cemetery and the Colleges of the
Vatican Fathers hard by were not injured.
Orel in Its Right Place.
“Ek Dum”: Characteristic of a very
odd, though very prevalent, kind of war
reporting—prevalent in print as well as
on the air—was A.B.C.’s performance on
the morning of July 24.
Ip “Here is the news,” problematical
details of an offensive against a Russian
town with a normal population of
100,000, in German hands since October,
1941, and an outpost spearhead of no
vital strategical importance, were given
pride of place.
The capture of Palermo, with a normal
population of 420,000, the capital of
Sicily, the greatest city taken by any
Allied force in either World War, and
the fall of which must have moral
repercussions throughout Europe, was
given a passing secondary mention,
as was also the Eighth Army’s battle
for Catania. The announcer then
hastened back to give a second helping
of Orel, and elsewhere along the Russian
line.
The Campaign Wakes Up
At the beginning of July the world was
told that the Russians were looped round
an eastward-pointing German claw
packed in close to Orel. Most maps
showed the Russian lines so close that the
city should have been continually under
Red Army gunfire—not more than 10
miles on the east, south-east and north-
east.
On July 5 the Germans began two
offensives, one apparently a feint in the
Orel region, south of the city, and a
much stronger one below the southern
claw of the Kursk salient, north of Byel-
gorod. This was supposed to have driven
a considerable wedge in the Russian posi-
tions. The Russians reported that the
Germans were suffering vast tank and
’plane losses —in tanks the equivalent of
provision for about six divisions in a
week, and 10 in a fortnight.
After a few days the Germans outdid
the Russian claims of tank destruction,
and it presently seemed that there was in
progress a vast, whirling series of battles
in which tanks and mobile artillery were
barging round like demented mastodons.
When the enemy had obviously made
ground and gained advantages in the
southern parts of the affray, it was an-
nounced from both Moscow and Berlin
that heavy rain was falling. The country
in the Byelgorod region is black earth,
and when it becomes wet is not helpful
terrain for mobile artillery and tanks.
Orel is off the black earth.
There were mutterings in London about
the distress felt by “commentators” at
the world’s tendency to turn its eyes from
the significance of Russian events and be
sidetracked by such “minor” events as
an invasion of Italy by the dull British
and Americans. A British United Press
correspondent annoupced (July 16) that
“large German forces” were “threatened
with encirclement near Orel,” where the
Russians had “dramatically taken the
offensive.” The dispatch—typical of
several—continued:
The offensive has aroused terrific enthusi-
asm in Russia. Red Army forces have got
within 15 miles of Orel....the offensive is
developing rapidly and Orel may become
another Stalingrad.
Berlin communiques admitted that the
Russians had made powerful thrusts along
the whole front from Kursk to Sukhinichi.
All newspaper maps (based on maps
issued in Moscow some months ago)
showed the Russian front about 75 miles
nearer Orel than Sukhinichi and about
70 miles nearer Berlin than Kursk.
Most correspondents on July 16 were
agreed with the B.U.P. man that the Rus-
sians were within 15 miles of Orel at one
point and only five miles from Sorokino,
26 miles north-west of Orel, on the
Bryansk railway; but they were also
agreed that Russian forces were attacking
from Sukhinichi (100 miles) and Byelev
(64 miles).
Five days later the Russian troops
were reported to be only 35 miles north-
east of Bryansk—where, according to
previous conceptions of the situation,
they should have been all the time ; and
further Russian successes were reported,
including the capture of the “fortress
railway town of Mtensk” —which sup-
posedly had been captured a month be-
fore, according to some versions.
These successes were declared to have
further increased the peril of German
forces, estimated at 250,000 men —no
Moscow correspondent can ever estimate
a German army at less than 250,000.
It was reported solemnly that the Rus-
sians took the Germans by surprise when
they burst into Mtensk, and that “the Ger-
mans had no time to blow up the bridge
over the Susha River, which curls round
the town....they suffered heavy casual-
ties as they tried to extricate themselves
from what had become a death trap.”
At the same time it was announced
that Gorodische had been captured and
that it was a town south of the Bryansk-
Orel railway, just to the s.-w. of Orel.
If this were true, not only must this
vital railway have been cut, but Orel
must have been surrounded for all prac-
tical purposes. It turned out to be
another yarn like the capture of Catania,
which was taken on July 15 by Sydney’s
afternoon press.
By this time every Moscow correspon-
dent had become so excited as almost to
confuse the effects of the possible capture
of Orel with those of the capture of Ber-
lin. It was represented as “a very great
prize” and that if it was lost “enormous
possibilities might open up.”
Orel’s Importance
It was difficult to see exactly what
those possibilities might be other than a
shortening of the German line and the
loss of an offensive claw. The opinion
was expressed here more than once last
February that the Germans might aban-
don Orel without losing much advantage.
It was more difficult to see why, if the
Russians had sufficient strength to break
into a fortress supposedly garrisoned by
250,000 determined Huns, they did not
make one bite of the cherry and, instead,
drive s.-w. from Sukhinichi, cutting the
Smolensk railway between Bryansk and
Roslavl —which could not be guarded by
main fortifications —thus threatening the
Gomel rearward defence system and also
getting a bag round all the Germans to
the rear and north of Kursk, including
those both in Orel and Bryansk.
Such an operation might be compared
to cutting off a man’s head, while, by
comparison, the Orel operations from
which such enormous consequences are
expected might be described as twisting
off an inch or so of his nose.
If Hitler has 250,000 men in Orel he
must have man-power to burn.
July 23 news:
(a) The Russians had driven down the
railway line from Mtensk towards Orel for
20 miles and, by reaching the railway
station at Optukha, had “struck a heavy
blow against one of the strongest German
defence positions.”
(b) Bolkhov, about 30 miles north of
Orel, had been captured.
(c) The Russians were fighting within
the main defences of Orel.
(d) The bottleneck through which Axis
forces could be evacuated had been
“pinched to a mere 25 to 30 miles” —later
reduced to 20 miles.
(e) “Stalingrad gloom” prevailed in
Berlin.
(f) The position of Orel had become
“almost hopeless.”
Plotting of correspondents’ mileages pro-
duced results on the map which recalled
an incident in recent Australian mining
history, when Charles Ulm, following on
a chart “Possum” Lasseter’s exposition of
his route to his last reef in Centralia, ex-
claimed: “Mr. Chairman, we already
have crossed the Antarctic Circle ; 1 can
see an iceberg!”
Some parts of the Red Army, in fact,
seem, according to the correspondents’
stories, to have either gone clean through
Orel and then looped the loop, or to be
pushing the town and its 250,000 Ger-
mans ahead of them.
The Russians placed the German
losses in materiel for 10 days at:
Destroyed. Captured.
Tanks 776 372
’Planes .. .. .. 900
Guns 882 720
Marshal Stalin reported that the Ger-
mans had lost all the ground they had
gained with 70,000 killed, 2900 tanks,
1039 guns, 1392 aircraft and 5000 lorries.
The Germans claim 50,000 prisoners and
the destruction of 3000 tanks.
While the boo-boo boys were sure that
on the north-west and east the enemy was
only five miles from Orel, a Russian
communique merely said that “our forces
today continued their offensive, advanc-
ing three to five miles and capturing
Bolkhov” —35 miles from Orel.
On July 25 the A.B.C. broadcast (7.45
a.m.) that the Russians had advanced
another 2\ to five miles and that the
position was best on the south, where
the attackers were 20 miles from Orel,
into which the Germans were still pour-
ing troops.
The Battle of Everyman’s Land
The truth of the position seems to be
that there is a defence zone in front of
the main German positions perhaps 30 to
50 miles in depth which becomes any-
body’s battleground so soon as either
side ventures into it in anything like
strength. Over this, backwards and for-
wards, advance and retreat, in tank
whirlwind and mobile-gun willy-willy, the
combatants have been rearing in a catch-
as-catch-can series of melees which have
slammed against the gates of Orel itself.
At the week-end it remained to be
seen whether the fight would crash
through the defence perimeter or lock
the city off from behind. The position
was hopeful for the Russians.
The capture of Orel would be a fine
achievement and a heartening evidence
of Russian offensive power. But with
Orel taken the Germans would still hold
500,000 square miles of Russia and
55,000,000 Russians in thrall, and it
would still be 700-odd miles to the nearest
point on the German border.
Berlin Stories
Berlin mentioned during the week
severe fighting in other sectors, including
Leningrad and the lower Donetz.
The Russian account (July 23):
In the Byeigorod area our forces, overcom-
ing counter-attacks, advanced three or four
miles. Farther south we continued to fight
battles of local importance in the Donetz
Basin south of Isyum and south-west of
Voroshilovgrad.
Berlin then asserted that the Russians
had on the previous day extended their
“large-scale offensive” to the Kuban and
were pressing from the Sea of Azov to
Byeigorod, while the fighting below
Leningrad continued. A German High
Command’s statement was that all Rus-
sian attempts, “regardless of losses,” had
failed and that the Red Army had been
forced to throw in rifle regiments in the
Orel area.
It was pompously announced that “the
German armies, contrary to all propa-
ganda, stand compact and unshakable.
In collaboration with the Luftwaffe, they
have inflicted enormous casualties.” Noth-
ing was said of losses, which must be
In brief:
The R.A.F. after a fortnight of bad weather
resumed its attacks on German objectives on the
night of July 24 with the biggest raid to date
on Hamburg, achieved with small loss. About
2300 tons of bombs were dropped and only
12 bombers failed to come home. In Italy,
raiding of rail and port centres was continued
—Rome, Bologna and Leghorn were the chief
victims. U.S. Fortresses made an 1800-mile
trip to bomb a submarine base at Trondhjem
and aluminium works at Stavanger (Norway).
A Fortress was lost and 17 enemy fighters shot
down, according to the official communique.
The Germans claimed on July 25 that 17 out
of 35 Allied machines (11 bombers) which
attacked a convoy in the north had been de-
stroyed.
# * * *
Crete was battered on a large scale by
R.A.F. and Greek aircraft. More than 100
machines took part in one raid, and in the
whole of the operations 17 Allied machines
were missing.
* * * *
Berlin —through several channels —reported
noisily on July 22 that “the U-boats have
begun work again”; but the news was accom-
panied by the warning that “the sea war is much
more difficult than it was.”
* * * *
U.S. Liberators and Venturas bombed Kiska
and Paramishura and adjacent shipping on July
17—the latter island is in the Kuriles off the
tip of Kamchatka. Japanese bombed American
installations on Canton Island in the mid-
Pacific, but did little damage.


BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
w
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS & SON
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
For Australia at War . . .
Qfe Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
ŵ
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was a very large attendance
at Randwick on Saturday, and the tote
turnover was £94,401, The books did a
tremendous business, and, though the first
two results favored them, backers scored
well in the last five.
As Goose Boy (Shean) had recently
run well at shorter distances, his success
in the mile Moore Park Handicap was an-
ticipated by many heavy bettors. Chat-
ham’s Choice, who was first into the
straight, was quickly settled by Prince,
but the latter had no chance against
Goose Boy over the last furlong. Pinero’s
fourth gives him prospects in a welter.
Arahura tired after looking a possible
place-getter halfway down the straight;
and Merrimba also weakened after run-
ning up fourth at the turn.
Shining Night never really flattered his
July Handicap backers, and, after War-
bird had made all the early running and
led round the turn from Artistic, Two’s
Company (third for home) won by a
length from Salivant in the good time of
2.30. Shining Night and Aralys were
nearest the place-getters, while Red Pete
again made a poor showing. Parsons
rode Two’s Company, and, as he was sub-
sequently suspended for two months for
cutting across Salivant too sharply in the
straight, it is reasonable to suppose that
if a protest had been entered on the
latter’s behalf it might have been up-
held.
Joygiver (Cook) led in the first furlong
of the Nursery Handicap, and was never
actually headed, though Enthuse, after
being second most of the way, was almost
level with him commencing the last fur-
long. Only a head separated them at the
finish. In the straight, Caladin, on the
outside, looked a place-getter, but
Humane outstayed him for third. Ex-
cuses were made for Caspian and Air
Lord on the score of being unlucky, but
nevertheless they ran indifferently, and
behind the first four Cremorne and Betza
did best. Joygiver is by Nuffield from
Caljoy, by Caledon from Tendresse, by
Somme Kiss.
Era (Swinton), who promised well early
in her two-year-old career, returned to
form in the Trial Handicap. In a handy
position from barrier-rise she was a little
too good for Timken at the finish, while
Neta Linette did well to run third after
being a long way from the leaders at the
top of the straight. Barrenjoey may
shortly have a winning turn in this class
of race.
In the Three-year-old Handicap Great
Scot was again costly to backers. Draw-
ing away from Silver Crown at the turn
he was first into the straight, but was
headed by Parthian inside the last fur-
long. Parthian (Cook) struggled on to
win by a head from the Solicitor-
General three-year-old Domineer, who
made a good run from the top of the
straight. Silver Crown and Pangold,
who were prominent throughout, were
nearest the place-getters, while Afloat
and Peter’s Pence were complete failures.
After following Fervent and All Love
into the straight Hauteur (Maxwell) had
a comfortable win in the first division
of the Maroubra Handicap, the minor
places being filled by St. Elmo and War
Spear. It was in the last couple of
strides that All Love was cut out of
third place by War Spear, who will be
better suited by a longer distance than
six furlongs. Kiaree and Valve did suf-
ficiently well to indicate their turn will
not be long in coming, while, consider-
ing the way he was backed, Walkalong
was disappointing.
The best finish of the afternoon was
that for the second division of the
Maroubra Handicap. Tahmoor was the
early leader from Cradle Song, Bruce
Wood and Irish Sea. Tahmoor and
Cradle Song were together in front enter-
ing the straight, but both missed a place.
There was nothing between Irish Sea,
Air Link and Great Spec near the win-
ning-post, and it was only in the last
stride that Irish Sea beat the other two.
Considering it was his first run for some
months Air Link made an excellent show-
ing. Bruce Wood dropped out at the
turn, and Valoroi was never in a for-
ward position. Each division of the
Maroubra Handicap was run in the same
time—l.l3.
In conditions that rendered the name
of the race particularly apt, the former
West Australian mare Hestia justified the
confident support for her by scoring an
easy win in the Ascot Winter Cup at
Mentone on Saturday. Probably because
she had been a good performer on heavy
tracks in W.A. Hestia started favorite
at 7 to 2. Scipio, who, although he had
shown nothing in public to warrant
strong backing, firmed from 15 to 1 to
8 to 1, was the only other runner to start
under double figures. Hestia was intelli-
gently ridden by J. Purtell, who had won
earlier on Malt Brew. Purtell kept Hestia
up near the leaders, and when he shot her
to the front five furlongs from the finish
she opened up a gap her opponents could
not bridge. She was not extended to
win by two lengths.
The Cup was Hestia’s second win in
Victoria and there was nearly 12 months
between her two successes. Hestia has
7.4 in the Caulfield Cup and 7.6 in the
Melbourne Cup. A better Cups propo-
sition may be Valour, who made up a
fair amount of ground to finish second.
Valour, who formerly raced as Togo, is
a good stayer, and if he stands a prepara-
tion he should win more races. Scipio
failed to run up to expectations.
By an attractive win in the Mallacoota
Handicap for two-year-olds, Action, a
smart gelding by the imported sire Actor,
made his record two wins from two starts.
Although drawn next to the outside in
a field of 17, he was much too good for
his opponents, and after running a little
wide at the home turn he finished on
nicely to defeat Star Valley by a length
and a half. Action’s two wins were so
impressive that it would not surprise if
he proved one of the best of his age.
He is trained by H. Wolters.
In winning the Lincolnshire Handicap
of six furlongs, Orteli staged a splendid
performance. Although she was bur-
dened with 9.1 and the track was sodden
Orteli gathered in the leaders with a
powerful run in the straight and won
comfortably from Aggressor, who also
finished well. Orteli is one of the best
sprinters at present racing in Melbourne.
TTie Melbourne Cup winner Colonus
showed up promisingly and fifty yards
from the post he was in the firing line.
He dropped out within a few yards of
the judge and finished fourth.
Considered averse to a heavy track.
Royal Peter, one of the biggest horses
racing in Melbourne, surprised his con-
nections by taking the Berkeley Handicap.
Royal Peter drifted from 7 to 1 to 10 to 1.
He raced to the front in the straight and
was able to stave off a challenge by the
fast-finishing Wanganui. The topweight,
Florin, made most of the pace with
Billie Burke and hung on well to run third.
* * * *
Miss D. Paget had a turn of luck be-
fore Straight Deal won the English
Derby. Her horse Golden Jack won the
Irish Grand National Steeplechase, beat-
ing the favorite. Prince Regent, last year’s
winner.
* * * «
Wiseland and The Image were most
fancied for the Doomben Cup, but neither
was placed, the winner turning up in
Qualeta, a four-year-old mare by Mara-
bou from Girl Guide, by March Along
from Footstool, a Prince Foote mare.
* * * *
Offered at auction in Melbourne last
week, the Caulfield Guineas and Victoria
Derby winner Great Britain was passed
in at 3600g5., the reserve being 5000 gs.
Notwithstanding he failed in the last Mel-
bourne Cup with 7.8, Great Britain is
still a first-class racing proposition. He
has good w.f.a. prospects, a pound less
than w.f.a. in each Cup, and has shown
that the mile and a half of the Caulfield
Cup is well within his compass.
* * * *
After winning the Preakness at Pim-
lico (Baltimore) America’s sensational
three-year-old Count Fleet put the
Withers Stakes and Belmont Stakes to
his credit at Belmont Park (New York).
Carrying 9st. in the Withers, he did 1.36
for the mile on a muddy track, and in the
Belmont Stakes, H mile (9.0), for which
there were only three starters, he cantered
home 25 lengths ahead of the second
horse in 2.284-. Such a tremendous mar-
gin is remarkable. The Australian record
for a mile and a half is held by a threc-
year-old, Palfresco, who did 2.371- when,
with 7.1, he won the 1935 Caulfield Cup.
Of the $50,090 (about £A15,225) for the
Belmont Stakes Count Fleet’s share was
$35,340, and made his total earnings
$250,300 (approximately £A76,130).
* * * *
Premier Playford has decided that,
with the observance of raceless Saturday
and a necessary slight amendment of the
National Security Regulations, racing
is to be resumed in South Aus-
tralia. The ban on betting-shops is to
remain, but bookmakers are to be licensed
for meetings. It is hardly necessary to
add that Adelaide backers have scarcely
suffered from a betting famine. If they
wished to speculate on Melbourne events
someone was always ready to accommo-
date them, and “under-the-lap” business
has flourished. Some Adelaide trainers
have done so well with their horses in
Melbourne that they may not be exactly
anxious to return home, even though their
patrons may wish it.
♦ * * *
It does not matter how badly a horse
may have run a week or two earlier the
substitution of Cook, McMenamin, Bartle
or Munro for some jockey of lesser note
assures it being at a price unwarranted
by form, and its backers generally
get a good run. Other jockeys do
win races, but the backer who argued
that a horse ridden by any of the jockeys
named should carry 31b. extra was not
quite unreasonable. Under rules of
racing that idea is impossible, but it is
not too much to say that, as compared
with other jockeys, horses ridden at the
present time by any of the four men-
tioned are as a rule advantaged to the
extent of at least 31b.
* ♦ * *
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
accepted the Legislative Council’s amend-
ments to the Sydney Turf Club Bill, and
now that body is sure to function. It is
to be hoped it comes up to the expecta-
tions of owners and trainers, though it
may take a little longer in doing so than
anticipated in respect of prize-money.
* * * *
Five-year-old horse Attention (by Equi-
poise) was sold at the end of May at Bel-
mont Park (New York) for $55,000
(approximately £A16,725), the highest
price ever paid at auction in America for
a racehorse in training.
* * * *
A representative of the Owners and
Trainers’ Association is evidently of
opinion that Sydney racing clubs should
submit their proposed programmes to
that body. Conflict of interests might
not tend to such procedure being a
success, though it would be a good idea
if some clubs consulted each other to a
greater extent in arranging programmes.
It might prevent overlapping, as well as
give variety in races.
Miscellaneous
V.F.L. competition games having
reached the mid-season break, a one-day
“patriotic premiership” for patriotic funds
was staged by the four leaders at Carlton.
It drew about 12,000 people. Fitzroy beat
Hawthorn, Essendon beat Richmond and
then beat Fitzroy, 4-5 to 3-3, in the final.
# 1= * *
In Saturday’s Rugby Union Drum-
moyne’s spoiling tactics bothered Manly
in the first half, but Manly’s pacy backs
then took charge and the Villagers won
19-9. West repeated its first-round victory
over Randwick (9-5) and is now threat-
ening University’s fourth position. Gor-
don played its fourth draw of the season
with St. George, 11-11. East trounced
University 17-5; and North beat Parra-
matta 12-8.
* * * *
Vaulting ambition overleaped itself
when Harry Boyce sought a fight with
Jim Fraser at Leichhardt, Sydney. Though
he seemed almost a stone heavier than
Fraser, a real lightweight, he was out-
classed. A series of lefts, the last to
the chin, knocked him out in the seventh.
Bob Fuller settled Ron Warner in the
third round of their third Sydney Stadium
match. He tricked Warner into letting
fly with “a suicide punch”—a right lead
—and planted a right counter on the chiit.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Randwick.)
( Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Encourage Handicap: Great
Scot, 1; Timken, 2; Neta Linette,
3.
Nursery Handicap; Tennessee,
1 ; Sir Francis, 2 ; Denton, 3.
Quality Handicap: Winnipeg, 1 ;
Triad, 2 ; Prince, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Kiaree,
1 ; Panbranch, 2 ; Parthian, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap: War-
bird, 1 ; Beau Timide, 2 ; Salivant,
3.
Juvenile Handicap (fillies): Annie
Laurie, 1 ; Scene, 2 ; Cosmetic, 3.
Welter Handicap: Pinero, 1 ;
Gauntlet, 2 ; Kimbell or Air Link, 3.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO LUCY GABRIELLE BUSSELL formerly
of Ventnor and Cowes Phillip Island Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown Married
Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that your husband
CARL BUSSELL has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the grounds of three
years’ desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
Thirty-first day of August 1943 the case may
proceed your absence notwithstanding.—W. H.
JONES & KENNEDY, 214 Nicholson Street,
Footscray, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Women’s Letters
From Sydney
While there is a Gladys Moncrieff to
sing Lehar’s music “The Merry Widow”
will remain a favorite with both box-
office and public. Gladys was in abso-
lutely super voice last Saturday night,
and the audience at the Royal handed
out a roaring surf of applause. She
looked lovely, too, and the famous smile
was as emotionally warm as ever. Out-
standing frock of the night was the white
crepe blazing with diamante, whose fires
she cooled with a feather fan to which a
whole crop of the best S’African
ostriches had contributed. Runner-up to
this was the dark, deep-green velvet of
tapering slimness in which, taking a cue
from “The Maid of the Mountains” gos-
pel that “Love Will Find a Way,” she
goes to Maxim’s and wins back her
prince. Admirers were pleased to see
from the smooth rhythm of her waltz
steps that Gladys had quite recovered
from her motor-car accident of two or
three years ago.
Carrie Moore, the original Australian
Merry Widow, was in the house, a
guest of the management, and was en-
thusiastic. Minnie Love, another stage
favorite, was there. There was no sign of
a flower famine in the bouquets, sheaves,
posies and suchlike that just about
carpeted the stage at the final curtain.
The meeting place of last week was
the exhibition of linen and jade in the
Town Hall. Everybody, or so it seemed,
dropped in to gaze at the exquisite em-
broideries displayed in the middle of the
hall; to buy, too. But only he or she
whom the tax collector hasn’t fleeced
could hope to possess a banquet-cloth at
125 guineas, or a Supper-cloth and
napkins at 50. At that, the treasures
were cheap at their prices. One man
bought about £4OO worth.
Around the walls were stalls doing
a brisk trade in more ordinary wares —
tablecloths, towels and linen tea-towels—
all eagerly snapped up by the housewife.
A group of attractive Chinese girls in
their national dress acted as guides or
sales-girls—each wearing as a sign of
office a small Chinese figure.
Mr. Lin was the generous giver of the
whole. The jades alone were worth a
small fortune —their fragile green loveli-
ness something to lose one’s heart to.
Lord Wakehurst opened the display.
Lady Wakehurst was an early buyer.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax and the Walder
lady were others. A small boy was a
dignified custodian of the rice bowl.
Into this a coin might be dropped—there
was no admission charge—and the money
went to help stricken Allies. Lady
Cowrie was an afternoon visitor. She
came on after the Lunch-time Music
Club’s concert for China, bringing with
her many of the committee. Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. Harold Bott and Margaret
Gillespie were among the interested.
Sales totalled over £5OOO.
Violet Roche, who was publicity officer
for the Australia Hotel and the Aus-
tralian Travel Association for some
years before the war shut the lid
on touring, is about to return to her
native Maoriland. She goes back as
organising secretary for the Barnard©
Homes in Enzed. Her headquarters will
be Wellington, but her work will take
her from the sunny north to the frozen
&mth. Violet’s experience gained in
editing the Hotel Australia magazine will
be a great help in the publicity work
entailed by her new job. Last Monday
between 80 and 90 friends farewelled her
at the Overseas Club rooms. The club com-
mittee gave her a special party, as Violet
has been a vice-president for some time.
Frank Medworth, art director of East
Sydney Tech., is the right man to open
an exhibition of painting. Like all people
who have a great deal to say and only one
short life to say it in, Frank is inclined
to speak with all his body. He sways,
he gestures, but he has ideas and ex-
presses them in original terms. His pro-
logue to the show of Carington Smith’s
Forks was stimulating and provocative,
and got the applause it deserved even
from listeners who had galloped up to
the Macquarie Galleries after swallow-
ing a hasty lunch.
J. Carington Smith, before winning the
N. S. Wales Travelling Scholarship, had
been a pupil of Sydney Tech., but he was
born in Tasmania, and like a loyal son he
has taken his talents to enrich his native
land. He is now head of the art depart-
ment of Hobart Tech. It could be said,
judging from the pictures on the walls,
that Tasmania is the love of his life.
There is a gentle quality about that
country’s loveliness that his brush por-
trays with affection. The Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Hobart Galleries contain
examples of his work.
Friends who were not able to be
present at the previous service in Cam-
den, and many who had said a prayer
there, too, gathered in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral last Friday noon to pay tribute
of affection to Rose Sibella Macarthur-
Onslow. In her lifetime she was the
“great lady” of Camden—not in terms
of estate, though as chatelaine of Cam-
den Park, and in later years of Gilbulla,
that was true enough—but in terms of
generosity and sincerity of purpose. For
many years she held a foremost place in
the city’s social life as well as in its
humanitarian movements. Hers was a
distinguished figure (she was tall and her
eye had a merry glint) at many a
Queen’s Club function —she was presi-
dent of the Queen’s for a long time. The
Victoria League, of which she was
deputy-president, the mission societies
and clouds of friends are the poorer by
her death. St. Andrew’s was crowded
for the memorial service, in which both
Archbishop Mowll and Australia’s Pri-
mate, Archbishop Le Fanu, participated.
Margory, one of Senator Foil’s popu-
lar daughters, is among the newly en-
gaged. Her young man is Trevor
Campbell Miller, A.1.F., returned from
the Middle East. Margory does her bit
towards victory. In addition to doing a
job marked “essential” she is superinten-
dent cf the Balgowlah Company of Red
Cross Aides. The Foil family are old
Brisbaneites, and father, of course, is one
of the northern State’s Senators. Swim-
ming and tennis are Margery’s sports.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Stage and radio performers have taken
to the idea of the Stage-Door Canteen
like a young elephant to mischief. Their
donations to the fund now amount to
about £6OO. Last Thursday night a pro-
gramme full of theatre and broadcasting
stars kept a packed-to-the-chandeliers
audience in the Town Hall in a whirl-
wind of applause. One of Sydney’s big
grocery firms paid all expenses, and the
result was, committee chairman Harald
Bowden disclosed, another £7OO towards
the canteen.
Programmes were sold for a shilling
each in the vestibule by radio starlets
twinkling in evening frocks of many
colors. Mrs. George Edwards’s white
organdie frock was gay with large wool
and silk embroidered flowers. Decora-
tions were a flag rhapsody. Around the
gallery hung the emblems of all the
Allies. Above the stage was a brave
sweep of Union Jack ; across the front,
an outsize in Stars and Stripes. The big
moment of the night was the arrival of
Gladys Moncrieff. Sydney’s favorite
singer rushed along from the Royal after
the first act in her “Maid of the Moun-
tains” costume —lobelia-blue frock, pale
lilac veil falling down the back of the
dark head to the waist. She sang “Love
Will Find a Way,” and then a duet with
Herbert Browne. Peter Dawson raised
his voice in song and speech. Lloyd
Lamble, Marie Burke, Rita Pauncefort,
Jack Davey and John Dunne were among
the night’s loudly-greeted.
The Institute of Journalists was spread-
ing lunch in the ballroom below the
State Theatre as this Letter was going
to press. The day’s principal guest was
D. McVey, secretary of the Department
of Aircraft Production, returned from
U.S.A.
A sign of the times is the basket
swinging on every woman’s arm as she
goes into town. As transport and
deliveries become more and more re-
stricted everything goes into the basket —
luckily the woven fibres are light in
themselves. But it was a bit of a
surprise lately to meet the up-to-the-
minute woman who, instead of the usual
cairots and peas and meat and bread,
was carrying her baby in a basket. It
was a roomy, strong affair, woven in
Malaya. The handles formed part of the
base of the receptacle, instead of being
fastened merely at each side. The baby
lay as if in a nest, wrapped in its woolly
white shawl. Mother claimed this to be
the safest way, and the lightest on the
arm, of carrying her offspring.
From Melbourne
The call to support patriotic funds
seems to have loosened up the purse-
strings generally. At the beginning of the
war workers for the ordinary peace-
time good causes were sadly agreeing
together that the job of squeezing pennies
from a never over-generous public was
going to be twice as tough now that
appeals for the needs of the services were
being made. The balance sheet of St.
Vincent’s Hospital Wellwishers’ League
tells a different story. Funds raised in
the last year by this active group totalled
very nearly as much as the amount col-
lected over the eight preceding years. It
seems that other charities have had a
similar happy experience.
Transport difficulties precluding the
usual inter-State conference of those inter-
ested in the welfare of what they call the
pre-school child, groups in each capital
are meeting to discuss their problems.
A general “news-letter” and copies of
papers and lectures which would have
been put before the combined meeting
are being circulated to the smaller con-
ferences in each capital by the organiser
and pioneer of pre-school child welfare
in Victoria, Mrs. Ada a’Beckett.
An atmosphere like that of the “Books
of Beauty” in which pictures of such
handsome women as Lily Langtry and
Mrs. Cornwallis West gratified the eyes
of an adoring public in the ’nineties per-
vades Shefik Bey’s portrait exhibition at
the Australia, A bevy of Melbourne’s
most attractive dames and demoiselles
appears, limned with not unflattering
hand. A portrait of that handsome
Hollander Madame Henry de Wolfe fills
the eye.
The shortages in hospital domestic
staffs were discussed at a meeting of
mayoresses called together by Mel-
bourne’s Lady Mayoress, always active
in such matters when occasion arises. The
problem is causing a lot of thought in
many quarters, and many hold the view
that the employment on part-time of
women whose home duties make full-
time work impossible is the solution to
the problem. It is pointed out that already
a large number of such women are doing
good work in hospitals in their own dis-
tricts. Employing authorities on the whole
seem to frown on the extension of the
part-time system in any type of work,
but it seems likely that compromises will
have to be made.
At the week-end Gwenda Carney,
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Philip
Carney, and one of the brightest and most
attractive of this city’s young damsels,
exchanged vows with Lieutenant Richard
Schanzi, who hails from Boston, U.S.A.,
at St. John’s, Toorak. The bride’s for-
mal frock was simply cut, with a tiny
Peter Pan collar.
An airing for very young talent was a
recent Uni. Con. concert. Particular atten-
tion was attracted by two teen-age lasses,
Joan Haslam and June Lindsay. Joan
is middle member of a family which has
shown remarkable musical gifts, younger
brother John playing the ’cello at this
same concert and an elder brother doing
well at the concerto festival last year.
She is a violinist, and is unusually lucky
in being able to take lessons from Jeanne
Gautier, who is interested in her pro-
gress. June, a 16-year-old, is something
of a rarity in being already a competent
flautist. She played an obbligato to Jean
Campbell’s singing.
Proving how rich Melbourne is in
small but active and enthusiastically-
supported music societies, the Music
Society of Victoria brought a very fair
gathering to the Assembly Hall for its
449th concert. The society is a pyramid
of smaller suburban groups which keep
up local interest in its doings, one of
which incidentally is supplying news and
material comforts to its members with
the services. Stalwart supporter Paulyne
Bindley, whose polished singing is usually
a feature of Music Society concerts, was
missing on Saturday night owing to severe
illness, but Leslie Jephcott took her place,
and the evening wound up with a Cesar
Franek quintet, with Reginald Bradley
first violin and Carl Bartling at the piano.
The ancient feminine crafts of spin-
ning and weaving have no lure for pres-
ent-day women, or so it appears from
the results of Man-power’s appeal for
women workers for textile factories. It
might be imagined that the average
woman would prefer working with cloth
to handling gun parts and shell cases,
but not so. A lot of the unpopularity of
textile factory work can probably be put
down to the feeling that it isn’t a real
“war job,” but that feeling isn’t well
based, and something effective should be
done to remove it.
People seem to be divided into those
who accept the absence of cream without
undue heartache (generally dyspeptic
subjects) and those who reach out for
substitutes. Shops are selling a “mock-
cream” not easily analysable, but
generally supposed to have some relation-
ship with maizena. Private efforts vary
from refrigerator-made ice cream to
thickening milk with cornflower or gela-
tine. Those who feel the lack of cream
most are the confirmed salad-eaters who
don’t like raw greenery undressed. But
there’s hope for them in the discovery
that condensed milk makes a very good
mayonnaise when wedded to lemon and
vinegar.
“Don’t alter things just for the sake
of altering them” is a good axiom for
these times. Magazines and daily papers
are flooded with advice on how to con-
vert husband’s evening suit into a lady’s
tailor-made, and on what can be done to
make an old wool frock look quite new
and different. This tends to arouse a
passion for getting to work on anything
that has possibilities of being altered.
Attics and scrap-boxes are being ran
sacked for “old bits” to be made into
slippers, blouses and bags that the delver
doesn’t really need. There are plenty ol
really useful things to be done these days.
The entire U.S.W.A.C. band gathered
at the Australia to say farewell to Mrs.
Erie Dickover, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, who is returning to the U.S.
with her husband. She has been presi-
dent of the Auxiliary Corps since its
foundation, and will be much missed by
the American community here. Keep-
sake present was a cigarette-case em-
blazoned with the attractive U.S.W.A.C.
motif. The success of the American ball
was a cheerful topic, and among those
who felt especially cheered about it was
Mrs. Earle Mynert, who mentioned that
she had met many service men at the
ball with very charming young partners
whom they had met at the U.S. Service
Men’s Club. She is the organiser of the
entertainment side of that useful organi-
sation.
The R.S.L. hopes to begin its “Tin
Hat Appeal” with a flourish of trumpets
and a clarion call to the whole com-
munity. The campaign is State-wide, and
organisers expect to see the entire popu-
lation wearing tin-hat badges between
September 10 and 17, when things will
be at their height. A golf tournament on
September 4 will be part of the campaign.
At Albert-street Con. Clive Carey and
Claude Monteath are now installed as
new co-directors. Both have taken a very-
active interest in the musical activities of
this city and they are deeply immersed
in musical culture. Outside official duties,
the Monteaths make a point of seeing
that students striking this town for the
first time find a friendly atmosphere
awaiting them and make contact with
groups of like interests so that their work
doesn’t go unencouraged.
Off to Adelaide to give a recital under
A.B.C. auspices is Joyce Greer, after a
successful appearance with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra as soloist in Beet-
hoven’s “Emperor” Concerto. Joyce, like
other musical lights, appreciates S.A.’s
interest in music, which results, so Adel-
aide claims, in many more recitals and
concerts being given there each year than
any other capital can boast. Response to
concerts in Melbourne shows that there
is room for plenty more, as patrons of
symphony concerts at the Town Hall dis-
cover when they find their knees rubbing
painfully along the seats in front owing
to the authorities’ desire to squeeze in as
many as possible.
Citizens who came on two goats tak-
ing their vitamin ration from a city street
plantation on several mornings last week
imagined that some flat-dweller had
taken rationing warnings to heart and
was keeping the milk supply on the hoof
in spite of the by-laws against goats in
the metropolitan area. Inquiries ad-
dressed to the goatherd brought forth
the information that the animals were
stage props of “White Horse Inn” which
had left theatre environs for a morning
nibble. Theatregoers had no difficulty
in recognising them —they must be quite
the most handsome billy and nanny in
the country. One is pure white and the
other a study in coffee and cream shades.


Missing Friends.
O'KEEFE, Mrs. Agnes Annie, formerly ol
Wangaratta.—Would anyone knowing her
whereabouts ask her to communicate within
a month from the publication of this notice
with McSWINEY & McSWINEY, of Wan-
garatta, Victoria, Solicitors, re Estate Edward
Payne, deceased? Should she fail to do so,
application may be made to the Supreme Court
to have her removed from the position ol
Trustee of the said Estate.
GEORGE SANDEARS, Seaman and Laborer,
formerly of Tasmania and of South Melbourne,
and his brothers and sisters (if any). Present
address (if alive), date and place of death (it
dead) required by THE PERPETUAL EX-
ECUTORS AND TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALIA LTD., of 100-104 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
1
m
Save all you can—and
use your
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
account as a stepping-
stone to investment in
Australia's war effort.
V 6
STiPS/AfTffE
H/CrHT
B/X£Cr/OM..
Your Savings Bank is a
massive money-box. One
that is safe, reliable, and
convenient.
And just as the little money-
box at home is an easy way
to save for some purpose,
so your account at the Sav-
ings Bank is an easy way
to muster the money for
War Purposes.
Tho Commonwealth Savings
Bank provides every facility and
service for the purchase of War
Savings Certificates, £lO National
Savings Bonds, and War Loan
Bonds.
It will keep them in safe custody
for you, free of charge, pay the
interest into your account, sel]
them for you, if need be, arrange
for advance subscriptions to the
next War Loan, and in every wa>
advise and assist you.
commonuieflLTH
SfIUHICS BflfISS
Of HUSTRana
FORD TRANSPORT CONSERVATION SERIES—No. 9
Don’t be an ‘Accelerator
*
'
Sr\
&
m
m
n
1
m-i
X
; y'
A restless foot may win a prize at boogie-woogie
and similar terpsichorean delights, but in a motor
driver it’s a thing of which the Liquid Fuel Board takes
a very poor view.
A foot-fidgetty driver will waste gallons of petrol
in a year—about a teaspoonful every time he “pats the
pedal. ’ ’ The practice is also bad for the engine, since
the effect is similar to that of excess choking; raw
petrol is spurted into the cylinders and washes the
lubricating oil away, allowing metal-to-metal friction.
By the same token , it a wise driver who accelerates
gradually and smoothly when moving olf. Racing-
through the gears may cut a few seconds olf the time
taken to reach cruising speed; but, as the Chinese
philosopher said to the track champion: what are you
going to do with those seconds you’ve saved?
w
Some drivers fit a sponge-rubber pad,
or a very old pliable tennis ball (as our
sketch), under the accelerator pedal.
They say it discourages “pedal patting.”
Others like a metal bracket fitted alongside the
accelerator to serve as a foot-rest. The pedal is
pressed by turning the foot.
Issued by Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve trucks, utilities
and cars—vital national assets.
ŵ
EVERY WAR BOND YOU BUY HASTENS VICTORY
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg- Ofllce: Geelong, Vic.
SMOKE-OH!
* i *
‘'No Action on Milk."—" S.M.Hheading.
And precious little cream, either!
-I- *l* *l* *F
“In spite of his reputation in the underworld
he was, in reality, nothing but a coward.”
—Crime story.
Not the lirst bad egg to be chicken-
hearted !
•I* *l* *l' v
"Starving islanders run cars on rum."
—“Sunday Sun.’'
If the mixture is too strong they simply
milk a cow into the petrol-tank.
V V "I* V
“Fish have been caught in the Sahara Desert."
—“ World’s News.”
“Gave up leave to sow peas.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Perhaps he thought wild oats were out
of season.
“What attracts husbands?" — Woman's paper.
Shall wc say the personal magnetism
of other women?
“A change came over Mary's feelings for
Will; gradually her love turned to indifference,
and then to dislike.” —Magazine story.
Oh, well! She would marry him!
“Edible paper in Japanese diet.”
—News item.
It’s the tripe in it that’s nourishing.
•i* *i* 4*
Co-operation is when somebody’s help
goes right. When it goes wrong that’s
interference.
A
“Man Charged with Stealing* Bayonet."
— “Sun.”
To a Politician.
By idling me your wordy plan
Your hopes are not increased :
My vote is going to the man
Who mags at me the least!
T. W. N.
“That’s nothing!’’ said the blonde. “My
catch
Was smarter, you’ll agree.
I’m married to a man 1 met
While on a cruise ; so, don’t forget,
I caught a goat —at sea!”
EVE.
Something to Chew Over.
“Simple ways of judging meat.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
If it’s a piece of fat tacked on to a
bone, it’s a chop.
If it’s a piece of bone tacked on to fat,
it’s porterhouse steak.
If it’s out of a tin, it’s Wednesday,
butchers’ half-holiday.
If it’s on the floor and better than
what’s on your plate, it’s the dog’s meat.
If it makes both a loud noise and a
headlong rush at you, it’s alive.
O'HELL.
Retribution.
Geoffrey Fernleigh (Operative P4X to
you) stood pinioned on a scaffold some-
where in Europe. Tall, fair, blue-eyed,
an expression of kindly contempt digni-
fied his beautifully chiselled features.
Oddly enough he was thinking of roast
lamb and mint sauce.
“Death will be swift,” lied the hang-
man ; “and perhaps your signet ring is
pure gold. Could I”
Two things prevented Geoffrey’s in-
tended nod. One was the noose and the
other a small cloud of dust approaching.
Could this be Diana with a faked
reprieve? Diana (Operative J6E, Lady
Remington-Underwood, Starkly Grange,
Bucks ; £40,000 p.a.)! Dear Diana!
The captain of the guard was raising
his hand for the signal when he descried
the motor-cycle. He gasped as the richly
uniformed and medalled field-marshal
dismounted.
“Excellency!” he exclaimed, saluting.
“Just in time, I see. Your luck is in,
captain. Well, go ahead.”
“Congratulations, captain,” his Excel-
lency beamed when it was over. “And
very neatly bungled, too. I have been
reading a translation of Dornford Yates,
and the way these blonde heroes always
escape with the girl makes me sick. I
just couldn’t resist seeing one of them
get it in the neck for a change. By the
way, what have you done with the girl?”
The captain had to cough.
“Quite right,” said his Excellency, and
sighed.
J. B. C.
Baa!
“Indications point to N.S.W. shearing a
larger clip this season than during the past
year.”—“ S. M. Herald.”
Anticipating to the full
This clip in prospect, it appears,
What time the sheep produce the wool ,
The books are sharpening their shears !
P. O. M. C.
His capture implies that he wasn't so deft
At purloining a thing from a joint;
But doubtless he’d rather be charged
with the theft
Of the sticker than charged with the
point.
BRIAN BUREAU.
The Scientific Approach.
"Government experts visiting Blayney
(N.S.W.) to help solve war-time problems ot :
farmers showed them a film of a 'plane spray-
ing crops.”— “D.T.”
“Now, Mr. Sheaftosser,” said the
Expert, “and how are your crops coming
along?”
“Don’t mention crops to me! ” growled
the cocky. “Talk about battlin’ with pests!
I’ve never had so much troub”
“Up-to-date methods, Mr. Sheaf-
tosser,” interposed the Expert smoothly,
“are available for the farmer who is will-
ing to scrap antediluvian ideas. For ex-
ample, one ’plane flying low over your
crops, Mr. Sheaftosser, would kill more
pests in 10 minutes than you and two
assistants would in three weeks by the
hand method.”
“But”
“Ah, I know what you are going to
say—where are you to get a ’plane?
Admittedly, not till the war is over.
Nevertheless, it is a valuable reminder
that methods considered adequate by
your grandfather should be eschewed.”
■‘But I”
“Yes, yes, we understand. Have you
ever considered the possibilities of the
new electro-magnet cell method of treat-
ing rust?” •
“I tell you I”
“Exactly, you hadn’t given it a thought.
Nor have you, I expect, ever stopped
to think that every fungus growth is
now completely at the mercy of the farmer
equipped with an atomic ray-gun. Or that
by installing a gravity-suction plant”
“Listen, mister,” broke in the exas-
perated cocky at last. “The blanky pests
I’m talkin’ about push pens in board
offices. As for the blasted crops, 1
haven’t dug the carrots because I can’t
buy a blasted fork, and I haven’t got any
crops in at all this season because I can’t
get replacement parts for me tractor
plough. Now you and your airyplane
sprays and all y’r other fancy gadgets
can hop to hell!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ad. per line; all others per line.
Continents and Deserts
I see more of our learned men have
been gazing at the Lake Eyre region and
gloomily telling us we can’t carry very
many more people and that two-thirds
of Australia are waste. Well, what of it?
Australia is a continent. Two-thirds of
Africa are sheer waste, and the other
third is pretty near worthless. Two-
thirds of Asia are desert or tundra, and
much the same applies to North America.
The facts are that we have an area as
large as France and Spain put together
potentially as fertile as those countries
and capable of a greater diversity of pro-
ducts. There are two rivers each as cap-
able of irrigating as large an area as the
Murray. Years ago a Chinese expert
declared that the coastal rivers of the
Territory could produce enough rice to
feed a large Chinese province.
Then we hear the tale about only 5 p.c.
of our forest being good timber. Per-
haps so. But the country carries scrub
and trees right into the interior, and the
only treeless areas are plains and patches
of crumbling downs. ’Planes crash
because they can’t find a clear spot to
land on. — J. R. Lewis (Q.).
The Oid Prejudice
“The unfriendly attitude of mind
adopted by many Australians, bush and
city, towards commodities produced by
their fellows” (B. 9/ 6 / ’43) could be
the text for an hour’s sermon. This
always has been the curse of our
country, and The Bulletin has been
fighting against it for 60 years. I can
remember it all best as regards drinks.
First, a real gentleman couldn’t give his
guests “colonial” wine. Then, when that
became absurd, it was beer. When at
last we produced splendid ale, too, it
shifted to whisky.
Quite lately I suggested trying our own
whisky in a small social club, and a com-
mitteeman, otherwise polite, snapped
back “And who would drink the stuff?”
War and soaring prices have helped
since. And now our tobacco in turn has
struck “abhorrence.” It will pass ; and
meanwhile the local product will be
steadily improving. Australia has within
my memory given up saying “colonial”
as the badge of inferiority. It must give
up saying “imported” as the one badge
of excellence. — S. Talbot Smith (S.A.).
Mr. Scully Fixes It
Harried Australian housewives should
take heart of grace. There is really no
need to worry any more about the short-
ages of some foodstuffs and the mount-
ing prices of others. Mr. Scully, one of
the seven Ministers of Agriculture, to-
gether with Mr. Bulcock, the Director-
General of Agriculture, has the matter in
hand.
In Sydney the other day Common-
wealth and State Ministers on the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council met and dis-
cussed “the co-ordination of Federal and
State activities” in a national food pro-
gramme. Mr. Scully said the States
would be asked to “undertake colossal
food production programmes.” Already
“State representatives” had “conferred
with Commonwealth officers under the
chairmanship of Mr. Bulcock on dairy-
ing problems. They will make recom-
mendations in regard to man-power,
machinery, fertilisers and factory staffs
to the A.A. Council.”
Mr. Scully didn’t say what would
happen to the recommendations after
that, but anybody familiar with the his-
tory of the A.A. Council should know.
They will vanish into that unknown place
into which all other recommendations
go, for, whatever else can be said of the
A.A. Council, it has never been guilty
of doing anything. This is perhaps why
it appeals so strongly to Mr. Scully, and
perhaps to Mr. Bulcock. Both belong
to the school that believes in “solving”
problems by referring them to confer-
ences, though, as every housewife knows,
no conference ever put an extra egg
on the breakfast plate.—C. Shaw, Cap-
tain Piper’s-road, Vaucluse (N.S.W.).
Women and the New Order
If we are to build a better world after
the war it is time women showed a more
determined interest in and understanding
of politics. The old, lethargic view that
politics are only for men must go. Since
women wish for their share in a better
world, it is up to them to take an active
part in building it.
A mere vote is not sufficient if it is
not backed by sound thought and reason-
ing. Women’s organisation, with definite
aims in view and adequately and sensibly
supported, can do much to transform
the dream of a new world order into an
actuality.—D. J. B. (Vic.).
Some Education “Reforms”
From the beginning of Mr. C. Evatt’s
career as N. S. Wales Minister for Edu-
cation he has adopted the attitude of a
reformer. His two latest reforms are the
substitution of psychologists’ reports for
examinations as a basis for selecting
pupils worthy of going on from primary
to secondary or High School education
and the adoption of the laissez faire
theory of teaching technique, which is
that of allowing pupils to set their own
pace ; the teacher standing by as a sort
of glorified foreman of studies, not inter-
fering unless requested by the pupils.
Neither of these reforms seems to bene-
fit anyone unduly—except the psycholo-
gist, by adding to his prestige, and the
schoolteacher, by enabling him to retire
still further from the responsibilities of
active teaching and adopt the long-
coveted right to ape the impersonality
which distinguishes the. university lec-
".. ..An' I'll release the old pint glasses and mugs without
the false bottoms!"
turer. * The doubtful privilege of using
the school as a recreation room will cer-
tainly not benefit school pupils ; nor will
the exchange of the arbitrary but im-
personal test of the examination for the
equally arbitrary but not always imper-
sonal test of a psychologist’s opinion.
Two reforms that really are needed
are the revision of the curriculum and
the laying-down of standards to be
obeyed by examiners in marking public
examinations and (where they are not
the same persons) those who set the
questions for public examinations.
Whether or not the present curriculum
is too heavy, it is too loosely correlated
with the demands that can be made upon
the student by the examiner. The “items”
of each course are laid down, but in such
vague form (especially in the primary
school curriculum) that there is no limit
to the disguises in which a straight-out
question can be wrapped by an examiner
who regards an examination as a test in
cleverness between himself and the
examinee. Part of the contempt into
which the public examination as a test
has fallen is due to the unreality of the
University examination questions in
recent years and the stodginess, inter-
spersed with obvious educational whim-
sies, that has been characteristic of
other public examinations.
If Mr. Evatt wants some useful work
to occupy the examiners he might get
them to lay down definitely, not only the
bare items of a curriculum, but (a) what
type of question will be set to test the
knowledge of examinees on each of those
items, ( b ) the types of answer that will
be accepted as evidence of the examinee’s
knowledge, and, most important of all,
from the point of view of teachers as well
as of pupils (and their parents), (c) the
list of “standards” which the examiners
will observe in marking the examinees’
answers in each subject of the curriculum.
—Sagi Higmfly (A.C.T.).
Those Area Schools
“Fodgie” (B. 7/ 7 / ’43) asserts that
high schools encourage the drift to the
city and white-collar jobs. He com-
mends the area school. Like others who
enthuse on these schools, he overlooks
several points.
The area school removes from small
communities the beneficial results of the
residence of an educated individual, and
removes what is, in many cases, the centre
of local social activity. It lessens by
reason of distance the co-operation be-
tween teacher, parent and pupil. It de-
prives, for the same reason, direct paren-
tal interest in the school as a whole and
lessens the initiative of the average pupil.
Whereas in ten schools of 20 pupils
ten boys would be leaders, in a school of
200 probably only two or three leaders
would emerge. The removal of co-
operation between parent and teacher
and the consequent lessening of strict
supervision give a theoretical trend to
greater juvenile delinquency.
So long as nothing is done to adjust
the rural economic system, just so long
will either high or area schools fail to
keep youth down on the farm. — Country
Parent (S.A.).
Irrigation for Vegetables
Irrigation is the mainstay of vegetables
grown for market. “Dry-farming,” where
the cultivator takes the place of the
sprinkler, doesn’t pay. On the rich allu-
vial flats of the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.),
where more vegetables are produced than
perhaps anywhere else in Australia,
growers have found the truth of this.
They are as capable as any in the land
at their game ; hut they need irrigation,
are prepared to pay for and install it,
and facilities are being denied them.
In the rich soil cauliflowers grow like
mushrooms; cabbages and peas in
winter, tomatoes in summer, are staple
products. A light dressing of fertilisers
with lime additions give these results,
but not without ample water. There is
water at hand. Piping and pumping
extras for more acreage and spare parts
for repairs to hundreds of yards of idle
piping and encouragement of irrigation
engineering are all that is needed. For
some unexplained reason their importance
goes unrecognised. With greater demands
likely on food —and particularly vege-
tables —to our own and Allied personnel,
the essentials to guaranteed production
are being denied.
At present many growers a.e not pre-
pared to sow and plant more than a third
of available acreage, even though man-
power to harvest it has been specifically
guaranteed. After a season of bountiful
rains to put the soil and subsoil in good
heart for spring and summer crops, big
planting schemes that may be expected
are in danger of being thwarted by the
fear of wilting crops in a possibly dry
summer. Requests for more irrigation
facilities should be considered in the light
of these facts— Pat Ater (N.S.W.).
Gold and Currency
“G.F.D.” (B. 30/6/’43) says “the price
of gold doubled without a correspond-
ing, depreciation of the Australian pound
in the Commonwealth.”
I am very glad that he added the quali-
fying words “in the Commonwealth,”
since it is from outside a country that
one gets a clear practical view of its cur-
rency. The ignorance of the Germans
of the constant depreciation of the old
mark, which everyone outside Germany
knew was falling, is a case in point.
But ,is “G.F.D.” aware of what is
known as hidden depreciation, or hidden
w


AUSTRALIA NEEDS
NATIONAL
VERHMENT
WWO'*if > -* A* Britain has P rov^ d ’
that combining the best brams
the strongest wartime United A w collaborate
from all parties. repeatedly | Mmis ter ’ offered t
Co „ ta *.«—*
along Ibese t office and serve
vacate tha » Curtin refuse • no
. to
Labor is domU fXus that *e Curtin Govern
control. U is ° bv, ° U As
ite own course. ___ uge * effectively onJoUntg
Your vote fe Rational Government, flaU interests.
Labor will ffier elyrepresent^
utlook ’
i. »l
UNITED AUSTRALIA PARTY UNITED COUNTRY PARTY
U.A.P, \M
Authorised by H. W, Horsfield, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
