

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.— N0. 3333
Wednesday, December 29, 1943,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner,
Seppelts
WOLVESEY PALACE.
WOJLVEiSBY PALACE is said by ancient writers to derive its
name from the tribute of wolves’ heads which Edgar imposed
on the Welsh, and which was paid on this spot. The first palace
was built by Kinegils. the first Christian King of the West Saxons.
After its destruction, Henry Blois, brother of King Stephen and
Bishop of Winchester, built a new palace in 1138. The ruins now
remaining are supposed to have belonged to the keep, which was
of great strength and magnitude, built of large flints, faced with a
coating of mortar. On the accession of Henry II the palace was
largely dismantled, and still more wrecked during the reign of
Henry 111, when there arose such a bitter opposition to the Papal
exactions ; but it continued to be the home of the Bishops of
Winchester.
When Mary came to the throne in 1553 she released Gardiner,
Bishop of Winchester, from the*Tower, and made him her Minister.
He was an enemy to the Protestant cause in England, had opposed
Cromwell in the reign of Henry VIII, and had been imprisoned
under Edward VI. Bishop Gardiner resolved on a reconciliation
with the Pope, and played .an important part in the arrangements
made with Philip of Spain for his union with Queen Mary ; it was
at Wolvesey that she received the King in 1554 before the marriage
was celebrated in the cathedral. After the surrender of Winchester
to Oliver Cromwell in 1645, the palace was demolished. In 1665
Bishop Morley erected a fine house on the site of ruined Wolvesey ;
but this was pulled down, with the exception of one of the wings,
by Bishop North in 1826, and the materials were sold to a builder
of the city. Besides the ruins of the great Norman keep, there
still remains the chapel erected by Bishop Langton at the close of
the fifteenth century.


sd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Mew Free
llookiel explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “liuUetin,”
My Fame
My Address
S.B. 143 AGE
The Red Page
OVER THE BRIDGE.
“Farewell, Mr. Gallagher, farewell,”
said Mr. Shean. “I have left my gold
tooth upon the mantelpiece for you. My
first edition of Ulysses is to go to Mr.
Harrison, the former Customs Minister.
I am bound for a better land.”
“If you mean Melbourne, you can’t
get a priority,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I beg your pardon,” said Mr. Shean,
“I am committing suicide.”
“By gas, razor, poison, gunfire or an
excessive reading of the works of Karl
Marx?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“The Bridge,” said Mr. Shean. “I shall
be picked up by the water police. Fare
you well.”
“Wait,” said Mr. Gallagher. “To-
morrow is another day. And there is
always beer.”
“Tomorrow it will still be ruined,” said
Mr. Shean. “It is ruined for ever.”
“What is?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“My copy of Dymphna Cusack’s
Morning Sacrifice,” said Mr. Shean. “On
the first page there is pasted a large label
saying Mulga Publications, Book Pub-
lishers, Review Copy, Box No. 4357,
G.P.0., Sydney, Australia.”
“They needn't have added Australia,”
said Mr. Gallagher.
“They needn’t have done it at all,”
said Mr. Shean. “Publishers who really
wish to win friends and influence re-
viewers merely insert a printed slip.
They do not paste labels. It offends me
that Mulga Publications should think 1
would insult my shelves with a defaced
book ; it cuts me to the soul that any-
body for any reason should deface any
book.”
“Granted, Mr. Shean,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “But why the Harbor Bridge?
Why not go along to Mulga Publications
and knock them on the head with a
mallee root? Or even write something
about them, dignified but severe?”
“That’s what I said to Sheila,” said
Mr. Shean.
“Can it be,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
somebody called Sheila commits suicide
in Morning Sacrifice! ”
“It can,” said Mr. Shean. “The Har-
bor Bridge.”
“I think I disapprove,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Suicide is rarely plausible
and still more rarely dramatic. A charac-
ter who hits somebody on the head is
dramatic; a character who goes away
and quietly dies is inclined to fizzle. And
‘he play, more often than not, fizzles
with her. Who is Sheila and why does
she do such a silly thing?”
“Sheila,” Mr. Shean replied, “is the
youngest and prettiest of the mistresses
at the girls’ school about which Dymphna
Cusack is writing. In its essence the play
is a protest against repression. Sheila
adores and reveres the deputy head-
mistress, Miss Portia Kingsbury, seeing
her as the personification of all the vir-
tues. A girl pupil has been caught kissing
a boy and the struggle of the play is
whether or not she shall be expelled.
Miss Kingsbury is all for expulsion ;
Sheila, who is closely friendly with the
girl, is forced into opposition. Miss
Kingsbury—who has also contrived to
break up a love affair between Sheila and
her fiance —accuses Sheila of corrupting
the girl pupil by her bad example.
Whereupon Sheila realises that Miss
Kingsbury’s motives are those of spinster
passion and spinster jealousy—both
Sheila and the pupil, until they became
friendly, had had a “crush” on the lady
—and, appalled at the wreck of her pri-
vate life and the evil of the world, Sheila
throws herself from the Bridge: a pro-
test, a morning sacrifice.”
“Tell me,” said Mr. Gallagher, “do
you honestly think she’d have done it?”
“She’s convincingly portrayed as a ner-
vous, weak, somewhat neurotic type,”
said Mr. Shean. “But I really don’t see
why she couldn’t have made one last
attempt to get in touch with her boy
friend ; when, as he still loves her, eveiy-
thing would have been all right.”
“Let us, for the sake of argument, grant
that the suicide is in character,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Is it dramatic? Does one
live, move, break and plunge with Sheila
from the height? Does one see her
plunge or feel her plunge?”
“One does not,” said Mr. Shean.
“Then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “let us
hear no more about suicide. It is in-
sufficiently entertaining.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean, “but Dymphna
Cusack knows a thing or two about stage-
craft. Miss Kingsbury, on hearing of
Sheila’s suicide, falls to the ground in a
dead faint —and that, from Miss Kings-
bury, is an intensely dramatic gesture.
If Sheila’s suicide is not brought on to
the stage and into the mind, all the horror
of Miss Kingsbury’s soul is manifested in
that moment of the faint.”
“I maintain,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
protest by suicide is not drama. Sheila
behaves like an idiot. It would have been
much more fun for everybody if she had
murdered Miss Kingsbury; or (that, un-
fortunately, being improbable) had had
a blazing row with her. Nevertheless,
what you tell me of Miss Kingsbury’s
faint intrigues me. This sounds like a
good play.”
“Good, indeed,” said Mr. Shean.
“Much the best Dymphna Cusack has yet
published. I should have liked to have seen
something of the girl who was kissed ;
there is a good deal of more or less static
talk ; yet there is true wit, and the char-
acterisation is excellent, clear but not
cold, satirical yet neither bitter nor doc-
trinaire. I liked and admired the human
touches: Miss Kingsbury’s trick of
sweetly unloading her work on to the
other teachers ; the fact that Miss Dora
Pearl is a regular reader of ‘Woman and
Beauty’; the fact that Miss Bates —the
tale-telling villain of the piece—brings a
cake to school for the other teachers every
Monday. It reads amusingly, and it
should play amusingly. If it were not
for that defacing label 1 could keep it on
my shelf and reread it with pleasure at
any time.”
“What happens to Miss Kingsbury?"
asked Mr. Gallagher. “I presume she
does not spend the rest of her life in a
dead faint?”
“She recovers,” said Mr. Shean.
“Wrecks another teacher’s career and
triumphantly soars from deputy-head-
mistress to headmistress.”
“Well, then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “even
if Mulga Publications do drop down in
a dead faint when you go over the
Bridge, they will probably go on pasting
labels in review-books. You might as
well stay alive.”
“I don’t suppose Mr. Harrison would
really have enjoyed Ulysses anyhow,”
said Mr. Shean thoughtfully.
Ladies in the Gobi.
During the Moslem revolt in the Gobi
desert in 1930, Mildred Cable and Fran-
cesca French were summoned to call upon
the Baby General, Ma Chung-ying. The
Baby was some baby:
He was a fierce fighter, and terrified
north-west Kansu by the violence of his
methods of warfare. The only alternative
to unconditional surrender was death by
the sword, and in one resisting town every
male over 14 years was slaughtered, boys
under 14 were taken over by the army to
be trained as little orderlies, and the young
women were left to the pleasure of the
soldiers. At Chen-fan, at Yung-chang, at
Hung-shui and in other oases he wiped out
the male population. In Chen-fan alone
he left three thousand corpses lying in the
streets. At last no city dared to answer
that terrible challenge His strategy was
based on the assumption of the paralysing
effect of frightfulness in action.
The ladies were called on to heal wounds
the Baby had received during the revolt.
They “witnessed many strange scenes,
watching the callous, flippant youth who
enjoyed his exercise of power, and was
more lenient or more fierce according to
the mood of the hour.” Nevertheless:
He always treated us with civility and
appeared interested in our party, probably
owing to the fact that we were the only
people who never flattered him and were
obviously not afraid of him.
Maybe the Baby had no quarrel with
missionaries; maybe he was wise enough
not to offend his doctors ; yet it does
seem the simple truth that the ladies were
not afraid of him.
That —the picture of the missionaries
unafraid in the wilds of the Gobi—gives
an additional charm to Mildred Cable
and Francesca French's The Gobi Desert
(Hodder and Stoughton ; Angus and
Robertson), the chief attraction of which
is, of course, the description of the desert
and its peoples. Partly it was religious
faith that kept the ladies so sure of them-
selves ; but it was also the English char-
acter that sustained them: that madness
or inspiration, arrogance or certitude born
of inner integrity which makes it seem
perfectly natural for an Englishwoman
not to be afraid of a ferocious war lord
of the Gobi, perfectly natural for Eng-
lishwomen to wander about the desert
reforming opium-smokers, converting
pious Buddhists, leaving Bibles and tracts
on shrines where travellers placed their
offerings to improbable deities, reproving
Madames who were travelling with
painted ladies to comfort lonely soldiers
—perfectly natural to do a thousand
things which it is inconceivable that a
woman of the Gobi should attempt to do
in England.
Liu, the miller, beat his wife, and she
killed herself by eating a whole box of
matches. Li, the blacksmith’s son, was
so profligate that his father took a sledge-
hammer and crushed his head as he lay
asleep. Vast expanses of barren sand,
areas of stones and pebbles, acres buried
under salty clay or breaking out into
saline swamp, scarcity of water, extremes
of heat and cold, sandstorm and blizzard
“combine to make Gobi and Lob the
most desolate wilderness the earth can
show.” Mirages shimmer by day. Mag-
netic lights flash mysteriously in the night.
LI ills of sand thunder and boom and sing.
Travellers hear voices calling piteously
for help, or hear camel bells and the
sounds of a caravan when the wide desert
is empty. In the region of Barkul one
traveller recorded that he passed only one
Mongol encampment in 28 marches. The
regulation punishment for a deserter from
the Chinese frontier garrisons was the
cutting off of one ear; if he ran away
twice he would be flogged to death. So
corrupt were the postal officials that the
only way to ensure the safe arrival of a
pair of shoes was to order them one at
a time—they would open the parcel, but
they wouldn’t bother to steal one shoe.
The ticks grow to two inches long. In
the underground rooms to which the in-
habitants of Turfan retreat from the heat
of summer
there are large and virulent scorpions
which creep under sleeping mats, drop on
to the unconscious sleeper from the beams
or hide themselves in his shoes. One
jumping spider with long legs and a hairy
body as large as a pigeon’s egg leaps on
its prey and makes a crunching noise with
its jaws. Another burrows holes in the
ground, and its bite is as painful as that
of a scorpion. Turfan cockroaches arc over
fwo inches in length, with long feelers and
red eyes which make them a repulsive
sight. Apart from these virulent monsters,
the inns provide every variety of smaller
vermin, such as lice, bugs and fleas, and
each is of an order well able to withstand
all the patent nostrums guaranteed to de-
stroy them. Constant watering of the
ground results in swarms of mosquitoes....
And among all this the ladies were able
to say, quite simply and sincerely, that
they were “obviously not afraid.”
As travel literature—covering much the
same ground as did Aurel Stein —the book
is in the highest class. It is well illus-
trated and well written.
The very names of the Gobi oases are
poetry : Inexhaustible Spring Halt, Spring
of Wine, Ravine of Baboons or Starry
Gorge, Moslem Tomb Halt, Flowery
Pond, Barrier of the Pleasant Valley,
Ancient Town, Bitter Well Halt, Iris Weil,
Eyelash Oasis, Horseshoe Temple, Mud-
pit Hollow, City of Sands, Seven Horned
Well, Barrier of the Sun.
There is pastoral poetry in the descrip-
tions of farming in the desert, the miracles
of irrigation, the patient husbandry that
makes use of every drop of water and
every green thing. In the life of the
Gobi peoples, described in vivid and inti-
mate detail, there is every shading of
drama, from farce to classic tragedy. The
historical survey ranges from an account
of the Macedonian conquest, which
brought the armies of Alexander the
Great into Central Asia and spread the
culture of the Greeks up the caravan
route to the Teinshan Range, to an infor-
mative paragraph on the invention of
trousers: first made for greater comfort
in riding by the Tartar tribesmen and
given by them to the world.
Possibly the most charming anecdote
in the whole book describes a visit to
one Mr. Hu, a postmaster at one of the
Gobi oases. During times of turmoil
mails were severely censored, often con-
fiscated ; and Mr. Hu, who seems to have
been a sensitive man, had a notice pinned
over his desk: “It is forbidden to enter-
tain any feeling of animosity toward the
censor of mails.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Instead of feeling harrowed, disgusted
or socially indignant at “Tobacco Road,”
the Sydney Minerva audience laughed
lightheartedly all the way through it.
That was partly because there are patches
of genuine comedy in the play ; partly
because Doris Fitton's Independents
played for comedy ; and partly because
the piece is period melodrama (of the
Depression), and it’s already impossible
to take it seriously. Discounting its aber-
rations of sordidness or sentimentality, it
has pretty well the atmosphere of On Our
Selection or Joliffe’s sketches of Andy.
Ivor Bromley-Smith and Florence Dugan
stood out among a good cast. It’s a pity
the Independents weren’t provided with
better settings.
“Kiss and Tell,” by Hugh Herbert,
having its first-in-Australia run at Ade-
laide Royal, begins on the back porch
of an American home. The girl (Gwenda
Wilson) is 15, but flirtatious. Her
soldier brother (Keith Eden), home on
leave, marries a neighbor of 17 (Eliza-
beth Gardner), but secretly because of a
family feud ; and the kid sister is sworn
to secrecy. Shortly the kid is seen when
attending her sister-in-law to a “ladies’
doctor” rooms, and so convicted, without
trial,, of being herself a prospective
mother. The rest is just the riotous fun
of her father (Claude Flemming) trying
to fix the paternity on anybody in sight,
including the kid next door; who is at
length honorably acquitted—to his great
disgust—as being “incapable of such an
action.” The comedy is assisted by Alec
Pratt, Zoli and especially Sydney
Wheeler and Madge Aubrey.
Sydney talkie houses offer nothing outstand-
ing, but a fair crop of lightweights for the
holidays. “Best Foot Forward” (St. James)
is Hollywood laughing at itself in a military
academy peopled by bright lads in peacock uni-
forms; a new soubrette with a good clowning
sense steals the show from Lucille Ball. Fred
Astaire in “The Sky’s the Limit” (Century)
trips through a plot as light as his feet. “It
Ain’t Hay” (State), produced by Damon Run-
yon, has Runyon characters and dialogue, but
surprisingly feeble situations. “Crash Dive”
(Plaza) faithfully follows the tradition that no
U.S. sub. may go on a dangerous mission un-
less the commander and his chief officer are in
love with the same girl. “The Desperadoes”
(Lyceum) offers shootin’, etc., with some
glamorous views of the Utah badlands and an
unforgettable horse muster.
“F.S.”: Among Christmas art shows in
Melbourne Amalie Colquhoun’s show of
oils at the Athenaeum may be singled out
for its conscientious craftsmanship and
competent, though literal, viewpoint. A
joint show at the Park Galleries in Collins-
street comprises William MacGuffie's
paintings and Wallace Anderson’s sculp-
ture. Anderson offers conventional por-
trait bronzes of S. M. Bruce and R. G.
Menzies, destined for the Prime Minis-
ters’ Avenue, Ballarat. Mr. MacGuffie’s
oil paintings are remote from current
fashions. There is a freshness about the
landscapes of Margret Frishman at Koz-
rainsky’s which, for some reason or other,
doesn’t get into her sculpture. 0
At the Australian Art Society’s pleas-
ing “cabinet” show at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney, Jerrold Nathan’s flower
paintings, W. M. Whitney’s water-colors,
some very sound work in the same
medium by Will A. Cathcart, sea pieces
by G. V. F. Mann and landscapes by
Jack Salvana form the backbone. Or
Garrett Kingsley’s five small paintings
only one, “The Bather,” is worthy ot
him. Valerie Lazarus shows a cleverly-
painted portrait ; there is strength in Wil-
fred Peisely’s two oils ; Walter Payment
pays a pretty tribute to Sydney’s old
Commissariat Stores (now - demolished),
and Ted Mulvihill puts life into a char-
coal drawing, “A City Fire.” Clif P eir
shows” a good still-life; Sergt. Wallace
Cocks clicks with an effort in the same
line, and H. V. Justelius presents a very
stylishly-painted “Grey Day.” |
“F.S.”: The only nudes on the walls
at a Charles Wheeler exhibition at the
Sedon Galleries, Melbourne, are aC £ es i
series. They look as if they ha
slipped out of a refrigerator to gm
warm-up in the sunshine and, if so, (hey
are doomed to disappointment, the
shine being as cold as their flesh. Atu ■ ,
length portrait has caught some of 1
characteristics of the late M. V. Ma
Nally. He looks like a figure out or
Dickens.
The fierce light that beats upon th®
Mac Donnell Ranges, the crude, m Ol
primary colors of the Centre and
gums which seem to have been evo
by some ghostly caricaturist have
once more up for inspection at John •
Gardner’s exhibition at the Athens ’
Melbourne. Gaunt-looking pictures
their subjects. Gardner was one of .
first of the regiment of Melbourne ar -
who pushed their palettes into the mi
of the continent. Now he is farming
Victoria, and his subject matter
become more homely. His treatmen
seems to have become more imp
sionistic.
The Borovansky Australian Ballet jj a *
acquired a backstage observer w
done the same service for it that
Lindsay did for Colonel de Basils cur
of dancers. Bernard Lawson, . n>
must depicters of Terpsichore m ct
doesn’t try to say too much. 1 a
sometimes he says so fifing
premier danseur resolves into j s
looking like a willy-willy, 1,111 . m 0S t
more life in his impressions than
ballet sketches.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
ST
sa
a
pp
A
m
D
m
/
■
m
■r
vs
3
a
>W
©o
v
C 6
'Y-
%
0 y
w.
v
&
Ay /
\n
Over a period of many years our Fine Art Gallery has
built up for itself a considerable reputation. It has sold
antiques, paintings, etchings, framed pictures, colour
prints, old china, old glass, old silver, Sheffield plate and
many other delightful objets d’art et de vertu.
Its activities include the purchase and sale of more
MODERN GOODS, if of high class, and in good order
and condition, such as the following: —
CHINA AND GLASSWARE
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS AND
OTHER TIMEPIECES
ELECTROPLATE AND CUTLERY
PICTURES
BRIC-A-BRAC
STANDARD AND TABLE LAMPS
ORIENTAL AND VALUABLE CARPETS,
RUGS AND OTHER ARTICLES
\ ' •
■ 1
Anthony Horderns’ invite the public to take advantage of
the service given by their Fine Art Gallery. Its traditional
0
high standard is their guarantee of satisfaction.
• FINE ART GALLERY—FOURTH FLOOR.
V
AMTHOMY HOROSRWS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


FATHER CLEARS OUT
By JAMES HACKSTON.
EVERY now and then Father used
to go on the warpath about some-
thing or other, but mostly about
Mother’s mismanagement. These
storms always ended with Father clear-
ing out again—not that he ever went,
for he contrived to pack up with such
slow care, to be so long preparing to
depart, that it was always too late for
him to get away on that day, and so,
in the circumstances, he had to put off
“leaving” us until next day, and by that
time the squall had passed over.
If he did not manage it this way he
used to fall back on putting so much
heavy stuff in his trunk that he couldn’t
carry it—which meant waiting for a cart
to call for it. In this case, of course,
the cart never called.
We always knew when Father’s next
squall was approaching ; the symptoms
were the same. He’d be restless and begin
to forage among things—household ac-
counts for preference.
Of course, Mother gave him any
amount of material to feed on. Where
money and accounts were concerned she
was the greatest messer living. Her
affairs were always in a muddle, but
maybe the fact that she received money
in odd amounts and at odd times helped
her to get in a muddle and remain in a
muddle. And another thing, too, she
never bothered about getting proper re-
ceipts, and when she did get them man-
aged to lose them more often than not,
which, one way or another, led to trouble.
But she had been through so many
upsets, weathered so many of Father’s
violent temperamental scenes that they
were to her now like water on a duck’s
back ; and when a disturbance was raging
she used to whistle through it; a quiet,
gentle, subtle whistling. Hers was
a steady, monotonous whistle without
passion or movement; a cool whistle ;
an indifferent whistle that refused to be
routed or stopped.
This particular tornado blew up in
quite a simple manner. Father was
mooching about the place and, for some-
thing better to do, began to smooth out
the ruffles in the heavy red cloth that
covered the table, and, rubbing his big
flat palm over the cloth, he felt some-
thing beneath it —Mother’s store ac-
counts, and all in a frightful mess, too.
Naturally, he lifted the cloth.
And so it happened in due course —or
in a short while —and according to
schedule, or precedent all our own, our
little kipsy breathed a heavy stillness like
that leaden hush that hangs over tree and
earth before a storm breaks ; a pressing
stillness ; a sense of waiting as the earth
lies hushed and expectant before the first
rumble of thunder claims the sky. And
then there was a rustling as of leaves
swirling about; a crinkling and crackling
—Father excitedly fingering the accounts
and pages of figures he had written down.
T"* HEN the first clap of Father’s thunder
* claimed us and the storm was on.
“One hundred and seventy-six pounds
fourteen shillings and threepence half-
penny!” he thundered.
“One hundred and seventy-six fiddle-
sticks!” Mother flashed.
“But here it is in black and white!”
“Fiddlesticks in black and white!”
Mother clapped.
Father’s voice rumbled. “If you paid
these amounts where are the receipts?
Here are the figures, and figures do not
lie-e-e-e.”
And then Mother began her whistling.
“Yes, you can whistle, my fine lady ;
but that won’t get you out of it. No!
By God, it won’t! We are going to
thrash this thing out to a finish this time.”
He waved the accounts in the air.
“What a millstone to hang round a man’s
neck! What an incubus! What a load
for a man to carry! The injustice of it!
The wickedness of it! The deceit of it
all! The iniquity of it! The cruelty
of it! One hundred and seventy-six
pounds fourteen shillings and”
“Threepence halfpenny,” said Mother,
breaking in on her whistling.
He threw the accounts on to the table
and banged it with his hard fist, and all
the accounts and columns of figures flew
up off the table like birds suddenly
scared from a cherry orchard; and, as
birds do, fluttered back again.
He gave the table another mighty
wallop, and the papers again took flight.
“One hundred and seventy-six pounds
fourteen shillings and threepence
half”
“Penny,” said Mother in between notes.
He now beat a furious fusillade of
blows on the jumping table, with Mother
accompanying him with her old defensive
non-stop rendering of the sweet strains
of her favorite, “Annie Laurie.”
l—J E began to walk round and round
* * the table and his feet beat a shuffling
tattoo as he padded, his braces loose and
flying behind him, his hair on end, his
face red, while Mother’s pursed-up lips
still gave out the same sweet refrain of
the everlasting “Annie Laurie” as she
dusted things on the mantelpiece, moved
them unnecessarily, put them back again
where they had first been, dusted them a
second time and then a third time, and
moved them again with slow, quiet move-
ments, her tread light and soft, her face
a mask, her marathon whistling perform-
ance still unbroken.
The storekeeper! He’d see to him!
v Yes, he’d see that things were righted,
upon his Sam he would; he’d see that
justice be .done ; that his affairs were
properly adjusted and a full receipt re-
ceived for all the money he had given
her to pay him —if she had paid the
money to him. And if the bills had not
been paid, as the accounts showed —well,
he’d want to know where the money had
gone, where it was hidden.
Yes, that was so; hidden! Hah! a
private, secret hoard! My word, a nice
little stocking tucked away, eh? A little
fortune stacked away somewhere?
He began to tip out drawers, dig into
jars, ransack shelves and corners, look
behind pictures, first one room and then
the other, throwing things about the
house, and getting redder and madder-
looking while the sweet strains of the
same perpetual “Annie Laurie” still
floated through the stormy air.
Not finding the hidden hoard he picked
up the accounts and lists of figures in
handfuls and threw them at the rafters,
fed them to space, and they came floating
down like autumn leaves, gracefully, per-
forming gentle spirals; floating down
softly, quietly, soothingly, putting to
shame the turbulent atmosphere of our
home.
Having performed this operation, he
adjourned to the backyard and informed
the sky of the great and lasting wrong
that had been done him, his hands held
high as if in supplication, calling out his
plaint, the echoes speeding far over the
ranges, and away, and into the infinite.
AND now the stormy first part of the
performance was over, the heavy
drama ended, the comedy to come.
Father now, according to specifications,
was about to “clear out” ; his usual well-
studied packing-up act was on.
Mother and I generally watched this
part of the show from the kitchen
window, and Father knew it, but always
pretended not to be aware of it.
Wo were now to see a change come over
him, and see the fire and the tempest gone,
the threats gone, the ranting and the anger
gone ; see a hurt, silent, suffering gentle-
man, superior, aloof, distant, patronising,
haughty and yet well-mannered, quiet and
yet not weak, cross but not vulgar or
commonly angry; see him pass us by
coldly but courteously, speak to us only
when it was absolutely necessary, and
then for no longer than he could possibly
suffer us ; watch him walk with steps
now staid and dignified—no shuffling—
even strides that denoted breeding and
not the quick, mad rush of the com-
moner ; and his braces properly adjusted ;
eyebrows raised, modulated voice—every
syllable attended to ; chin high, but not
stuck out like an offensive-looking
person; poise, aplomb, deportment,
blood, breeding, every inch of him, lock,
stock and barrel —Father “clearing out”
from his impossible family.
Entering the house, and oblivious, of
course, to our horrid presence, he dragged
his old yellow tin trunk out from beneath
the bed and carried it past us with a lofty
air.
He now placed the trunk plumb in
the centre of our big bare backyard so
that it, too, would not come in contact
with us any more than was absolutely
necessary.
Having placed it in its solitary
position he grudgingly entered our odious
house again and collected his two big
books on metallurgy and placed them
with rare care in the left-hand side of
the trunk, on top of each other.
Then he brought the book on sheep-
raising he had bought to become a squat-
ter and placed it, also with consummate
care, on top of the metallurgy books.
This done, he stared at the three books
as if in deep thought, and then took the
three books out again, read their title
pages and put them back again; but this
time on the right side of the trunk with
the sheep book not on top of the metal-
lurgy books but beneath them.
NEXT, walking into the house of the
enemy as if it hurt him, he collected
his old railway timetable (years out of
and stood pretending to read the
time some train he was not going to catch
went.
Then he adjourned to the backyard
with it, reading the windmill advertise-
ment on the inside back cover as he went.
Finished with the windmill, he put the
book in his hip pocket for further refer-
ence, and Mother, watching him from
the kitchen window, said that she was
pleased he was going to a place where
there would be water.
Now he collected his chemistry books
and, retiring to his aloof position by the
old trunk, became suddenly interested in
chemistry all over again, and took some
time off from his packing to put in a bit
of study, and Mother made the remark
that it was foolish of him to read them ;
that he should keep them to break the
monotony of the long journey that was
ahead of him.
Returning once more to his former
domicile, he took down his favorite Pick-
wick and, returning to his base, could
not resist the temptation to read a couple
of pages, chuckling openly but sedately
as he did so. This was to show Mother
watching him, that “leaving” her was not
putting him out one jot; and she said
that it was wonderful how he could stop
to enjoy Pickwick with a debt like a mill-
stone hanging round his neck and while
in the very act of leaving home for ever.
Father collected all the rest of his
stuff that was in the house in one lot, not
forgetting the photograph of himself that
he had signed for Mother “With love
from Walter,” and left never to darken
our door again. These he packed, all
except the photograph ; this he pitched
away to prove how much he hated the
words that were written on it —but threw
it away with a cleverness (born of much
practice) that would land it face up with
the picture not soiled.
As Mother said: “Been thrown away
dozens of times —and always guaranteed
to land face up.”
After this clever bit of work he brought
all his chemicals and valuable inventions
together and stacked them in one heap—
a man always “called” for these every
time he “left” home. And he put aside
the sticks of dynamite as usual —the dyna-
mite I always “threw down” a deep shaft
each time he “cleared out” —for me to
throw down a deep shaft.
Next there was the carpenter’s kitbag
with a pocket in it for each tool. He
never “left” until every tool was in its
right place ; and now a bit was missing,
and the big auger, too, and they had to
be found —he couldn’t possibly leave
without the big auger.. Mother said it
was a pity the spokeshave and the brace-
and-bit were not also missing ; he might
then be able to hang on until it was too
late to leave.
BUT although he took an extra-long
time to find these things, it was still
too light for it to be |po dark for him
to “depart,” so he packed heavy stuff into
the trunk-Tie was going to fall back on
his old dodge—“l cannot leave until to-
morrow, unfortunately ; my trunk is too
heavy, and I must wait till I can get a
cart.” Of course, this meant staying the
night with us, and after that —well?
Having decided on this course, and
having much time to fill in until teatime,
he gave a superb exhibition of knot-tying.
Putting a rope round the trunk, he tied
a careful knot, and then, with a most
dexterous and scientific jerk, undid it-
Then he tied a more complicated one —
one of those technically superb knots that
once belonged solely to seamen. He also
untied this one like a master —it slithered
loose with the speed of lightning.
Next he tied the masterpiece: the great,
final, most defiant of all hard knots to
undo, and to prove this he tried to sur-
prise it by coming at it from different
angles and with sly, crafty pulls, but it
stood up to the attack.
The trunk was now ready for the final
act, with Father looking into the far dis-
tance, holding his head up as if scenting
some distant haven of rest where there
would be no wives and certAinly no store-
keepers. It was the hour when he should
make some show of “departing.”
Of course, being a gentleman, he could
not leave us as if we were absolute stran-
gers—had to leave us in a well-bred
manner, even though he did feel above
us. He strode majestically, yet not too
overbearingly, to our back door and
knocked firmly but not rudely.
Mother said that he should have come
to the front door and not to the back
door—tradesmen’s entrance.
In answer to his well-bred knock
Mother appeared, and he informed her
that he wished to see his eldest son, and
so I went with him and joined the trunk
too.
Here, I was informed, as man to man,
that I would never clap eyes on him again,
that he knew I was in league with my
mother, but that he did not blame me
because the mother always pits the son
against the father, and that one day, when
I had a wife of my own and a son, I
would find that out for myself, unfortu-
nately.
He then wished me well in after life,
and hoped that I would prosper. Then
he shook my hand and dismissed me.
/""'ALLING my Mother next, he in-
formed her courteously but firmly
that, seeing that they had shared the same
roof for so many years, he would like
to say before going out of her life for
ever that he wished her no ill-will or
harm and, before parting, had to inform
her that he would, through his solicitor,
make her a set quarterly allowance; but
as far as he was concerned personally
never would she have word of him or see
sign of him.
He then said grandiloquently that if at
any time she wished to be free and insti-
tuted proceedings against him for divorce
he would not contest the suit but give her
her freedom.
“And, in the event of my divorcing you
and remarrying,” Mother asked, “would
the allowance cease?”
Father raised his eyebrows in a pained
manner, shrugged his shoulders, bowed
stiffly but gracefully, and said “I have
no time for such flippant remarks,
Madam. Good-bye! ” It was the end.
He went back to headquarters ancf laid
rough hands on his trunk. The climax
had come—he couldn’t lift the trunk.
He struggled manfully, valiantly, despe-
rately ; tried sudden, quick, professional
hoists, slow, strong lifts, but failed to get
it up on to his shoulder —or appeared to
fail.
“We will be having a visitor to tea,”
said Mother, “and he will be staying the
night.”
And so, after another mock display—
this time showing by morosely and de-
jectedly pacing the yard how perturbed
and disappointed he was at being so
detained —he accepted the hospitality of
our table and our roof.
This having been arranged amicably
and without harm to his prestige, he,
while Mother was getting the tea ready,
went for a “final” stroll round what was
once his happy home.
At table that evening Father was most
polite—like a real stranger—and handed
Mother the pepper and the salt before
she even knew she wanted them, and even
passed the bread to me,without my ask-
ing for it. He accepted two helpings of
the same old Irish stew we never failed
to have, and ate it as if it were a new
item on the menu.
Conversation was not brisk, but there
was a little of the weather, with now and
then a faint giggle from one of the
children —they were too young to control
themselves, unfortunately. *
When the meal was over Father startled
us all by asking us to excuse him, then
rose and left the table —knife and fork in
correct position—and, as he had a long
“journey” before him, retired early.
I now did what it was always my j°h
to do in the circumstances — cut the
rope that bound the trunk, unpack an
the things in it and put them back where
they had been before.
NEXT morning—it was Sunday, th®
Lord’s Day—-Father, although still
aloof with us, ate a hearty breakfast-
As for Mother, she was so busy she
couldn’t find time to talk to any of u s >
not even to Father, who was sitting look'
ing at his photograph in the star posi-
tion on the mantelpiece. ,
Then Mother, in a clean, white, freshly'
ironed apron and her arms white wit
flour, said as she bustled past Father-
“Oh, Walter, we’re going to have a
extra-nice dinner today; roast rnutto
with red currant jelly, baked pumpkin an
potatoes and a suet and golden syrup
pudding; and I want some good shoi
wood.” j,
“Red currant jelly! ” the family echos-
“Will you get me some, pl £aS ’
Walter?” Mother asked ,
“Yes, yes, certainly—er —Mother, sa
Father suddenly and all of a fluster,
if he had just awakened ; and all m
second Father was his old self again. A
while Mother rushed about and I P ee _ ,
the spuds Father was out at the w °.
heap chopping Mother’s wood for n »
chopping willingly and industi 101
and whistling like a schoolboy his old
favorite, “Home, Sweet Home.”


The Bulletin
Vol, 64—No. 3333.
Wednesday, December 29, 1943.
RECEPTION COMMITTEE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 7Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
DIGGERS RECOMMEND.
Meeting in Hobart for their latest
Federal Congress, R.S.L. Diggers resolved
that “it be a recommendation to the
Commonwealth Government that uni-
versal training be reintroduced as soon
as possible, and that the age of com-
mencement be 16 years.” At the preced-
ing year’s Congress, held in Sydney, the
Digger delegates, representing all States,
adopted an “Australian Charter,” one
clause of which provided for “a per-
manent standing army of 100,000 for the
future defence of Australia,” to be estab-
lished, as a beginning, with men now in
the services.
Taking one or two signs at their face
value, these suggestions might seem to
have been heeded in the right quarter.
Since the standing-army proposal was
made Dr. Evatt has declared that Aus-
tralia,' if it is to take its place and play
its part as a leading Pacific Power, must
continue to maintain after the war a
strong army, navy and air force. What
could be taken no other way than as an
equally positive assurance was given by
Mr. Forde, addressing the December
graduates at Duntroon:
We must maintain adequate defence
forces to honor all our commitments as a
Pacific Power of considerable importance.
The lessons of this war must never be for-
gotten by future generations. We must not
allow any future wave of pacifism or isola-
tion to lull us into a sense of false security
by which we might be tempted to scrap
institutions which form the very basis of
our defence scheme. Pacifism after the last
war led the democracies, including Aus-
tralia, to the very brink of disaster.
Both these defence planners are respon-
sible Ministers, and if Ministerial respon-
sibility any longer meant anything R.S.L.
Diggers and all who think like them
could rest well satisfied. But Ministerial
responsibility has become such a byword
that half the punters in Australia would
be killed in the rush if a book were
opened on the prospects of an Australian
Minister resigning on a point of principle,
such as subsequent flouting of assurances
that he had, as Minister, given to the
nation.
Allowing that both Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Forde are exceptions, a still stronger
reservation has to be considered before
taking it for granted that what they both
appear to have positively promised will
be carried through. Mr, Forde’s whole
statement could be taken as (1) a
close digest of momentarily fashionable
cliches ; (2) a platitudinous expression of
party conscience. If the party, as it
might seem from both Ministerial state-
ments, really feels the conscience it should
feel on the defence issue, that is at least
something to the good. Also, it repre-
sents a miraculous change inside a year
or two. In 1939, with the war well on,
Mr. Curtin, as then leader of the Opposi-
tion and head mouthpiece for the party,
told the House:
Yet this is the Government [the Menzies
Government] which affronts the patriotism
of the Australian people by the imposition
of compulsory training. There is no justi-
fication for compulsory training.
How wrong Mr. Curtin and all he
represented then were, and how right was
the maligned Menzies Government,
events have proved. Today Mr. Curtin,
Mr. Forde and the rest, owing all they
have beep able to accomplish to the be-
ginnings made, against their strenuous
opposition, by the war-time Menzies
Government, are so proud of the size of
Australia’s armed forces that they take
every opportunity to talk about it. They
are especially proud of the proportion of
those forces that have volunteered for
service anywhere. They do not, of
course, indicate what proportion of these
has joined the fight-anywhere ranks
after call-up—that “insult to the patriot-
ism of the Australian people.” The truth
is that, if it had not been for the com-
pulsory training which Mr. Curtin and
all his Parliamentary following so mis-
takenly opposed, the vital reservoir that
has been so strongly feeding the A.I.F,
would not be there.
The Diggers, being solid and practical,
are unlikely to feel overconfident that
there has been any real change on this
point. They have recommended the re-
introduction of compulsory training—“as
soon as possible” answering the probable
and reasonable excuse that the Govern-
ment is now too busy with the war to
tackle anything else—but the Diggers can
feel little confidence that this Govern-
ment is at all likely to act on their uni-
versal-training ’ suggestion. Even if its
individual members might seem just now
to be feeling the party’s very guilty con-
science and be determined, individually,
on change, they still are members of a
party bossed from the outside ot Parlia-
ment’s walls. The outside bosses lately
met together, and Australia was treated
to the spectacle of its Prime Minister
having to find time from the great pres-
sure of his war job to attend their meet-
ing as a mere delegate. The Diggers will
not find much to pin hope on in another
statement made by Mr. Curtin after the
present war had started:
The trade-unions of Australia object to
conscription; they say that the law has
provided for conscription for the defence of
Australia only in the event of invasion.
Perhaps the “trade-unions,” too, have
changed on this point; but it would seem
significant that —unlike the last two
R.S.L. Digger Congresses and sundry
others befote —the latest conference of
the Government’s outside bosses showed
no known concern whatever for the
aspect of Australia’s future which greatly
worries the Diggers. It is from the Con-
ference of Bosses and not from the Con-
gress of Diggers that the Government
takes directives, and, as far as has been
made public, there were no directives
covering Australia’s lasting defence. Nor,
apart from Mr. Forde’s platitudes and
Dr. Evatt’s proposals—which might or
might not be representative of the
Government —has there been any specific
Government assurance. There have been
Government proposals and plans for the
Beautiful Place Australia is to become,
but there has been nothing concrete
regarding any means of ensuring its
security.
If no real assurance on this can be
given now, when the war and the fright
that the war has given Australia make it
certain to be popular, what prospect is
there of it when, after another year or
so of war, peace comes again and every-
body once more feels nice and safe for
the time being? The prospect, as the
Diggers no doubt appreciate, looks pretty
slim, unless, of course, it can be taken
that not only conscience-stricken indi-
viduals but the whole people have now
learnt that the old order of the world has
changed in all respects. Hitherto Aus-
tralia, with the rest of the democracies,
permitted itself the luxury of standing
defenceless in peace and trusting to luck
and the altar-sacrifice of its bravest to
hold the enemy off in war while leeway
was made up. This is precisely what the
Diggers, in their wholly non-political and
wisely national recommendations, now
seek to correct.
What weight will these recommenda-
tions eventually have at Canberra? Aus-
tralia has now seen the ghastly waste,
the frightful bungling, inseparable from
waiting complacently for war and then
having to do in haste and at crippling
cost what should have been planned and
carried on over years. Apart from the
risk, which came as close as could be to
being fatal to Australia, there is an ele-
ment of needless cruelty in this which
only members of the fighting forces
know. Only partly-trained and not
armed as they should be, they are called
on to face hard-trained and well-equipped
forces. Australia has had a bitter enough
lesson of what this can lead to ; but, then,
long-ago Gallipoli should have been a
sufficient lesson.
A truth that has to be faced is that
feelings now prevailing on defence are
likely, as good as certain, to change
overnight once the danger is past. Then,
as a commander of the American
counterpart of the R.S.L. pithily put it,
will be the season for freak isms,
Utopian crackpots, social politicians,
long-haired reformers, prophets and
demagogues. People, too, will be fed-up
with war and more in a mood, to be
swayed by the cranks and crackpots than
they are now. Sensibly, the Diggers are
trying to induce the Government of the
country to get in ahead of these almost-
certain changes. They agree with the
British Minister of Labor and National
Service, Mr. Bevin, on “the price we
have paid in human life owing to our
lack of preparedness in the arts of de-
fence in the last 25 years,” and on the
necessity for training the country’s man-
hood from adolescence “in the elementary
arts of defence on a purely citizen basis,”
knowing, with Mr. Bevin, that thus
might be produced “a race capable of
making an amazing contribution to in-
ternational security.” They know that a
weak Australia in the Pacific always was,
and would be, the very opposite to such
a contribution. What they would like
to have would be something more definite
than the mere say-so of one or two
Ministers who may or may not have
spoken for the Government and who, like
the Government they belong to, are
eventually subject to the orders of an
outside sectional group of bosses with
no great interest in this particular issue
that anybody has so far been able to
detect.
E. Bevin and C. Evatt.
“The problem of man-power has to be
approached with the view in our minds
that the war is not yet over and that the
real battles for final victory have not yet
begun. For the titanic struggle which
will be facing us in 1944, every provision
has to be made. We would not be doing
our duty if we failed to take every pre-
caution, whatever class of citizen may be
affected.”
So said Mr. Bevin, the British Minister
of Labor and National Service (Labor),
in the Commons on September 23, and
he outlined what his Government had
dope and proposed to do. He said it had
“registered every man from 18 to 51 and
every woman from 18 to 47,” and would
register women up to 50, while recalling
women up to 55 to the cotton industry.
As for males, the number between 14
and 64 was reckoned at “nearly
16,000,000,” and “over 15,000,000 are in
the services, in munitions or other paid
employment.” But the total was not
sufficient, and “I shall have to direct boys
of 16 and 17 to the aircraft industry,”
which has first priority. He would want
girls, too ; “and there will be no discrimi-
nation.” He is also trying to get boys of
16 for the coalmines, and in the present
month has registered 50,000 young men,
18 and upwards, for “a ballot to decide
whether they shall be conscripted for the
mines or the fighting forces.”
Such is the position in heroic Britain.
It is humiliating to reflect that in favored
N. S. Wales squeal after squeal has come
from the State Labor quarter because
it has not been accepted that “many”
young persons of both sexes, older than
the British boys who are being drafted
into the aircraft industry, “without dis-
crimination,” have a right to spend the
rest of the war on the University front.
With the concurrence of the University
authorities in all the States the Man-
power Directorate has set quotas for
students in prescribed faculties, and to
students financial assistance * is granted,
with a means test. Whether there should
be any means test is matter for argu-
ment ; but considering the stringency of
the times the quotas are very liberal.
Indeed, a first statement concerning the
position at Sydney University was that
“in 1943 more students were en-
rolled in reserved faculties than in
1942, and there will be a further
increase in 1944.” And that does
not include young people discharged
from the services, who should certainly
get special consideration during the war
and after. Judging by the present temper
of Mr. Dedman and Mr. Wurth, the
Director-General of Man-power, and the
University authorities, they will get it.
A vigorous assertion of the claims of
these young people in the services would
be in order. But the subjects of the
squealing have been adolescents not in-
cluded in the quotas, and the two prin-
cipal squealers have been that passionate
Second-Fronter Mr, Abram Landa,
M.L.A. for Bondi, and Mr. C. Evatt, the
Minister of Education. “Arguing” in the
Assembly on April 29 that matriculation
should be a passport to the University,
Mr. Landa, now a member of the Senate
by Government nomination, denounced
the Sydney University, “subsidised by
the people of the State to the extent of
£lOO,OOO or more,” for allying itself
“with those who seek to prevent young
Australians from entering its portals.”
By “those” he meant the Government
charged with the duty of preserving the
nation and exacting equality of obliga-
tion. He accused the University of “low,
despicable conduct, a lie”:
The University should open its doors to
students, but instead of doing so it has
made a more vicious defence of the legality
of the regulation tha* the Commonwealth
Government. All these young boys and
girls who can afford it, in order to obtain
admission to the University, should institute
legal proceedings. The boys and girls who
cannot afford to take up a test case should
be helped to do so.
And the indignant Abram bespoke assist-
ance from his Government (“I urge the
Government to help these people to gain
entrance to the University”) and from
“other hon. members,” saying “there
must be many boys and girls in their
electorates who have qualified for admis-
sion to the University but have been
prevented from entering it.”
Man-power stretched a point by an-
nouncing that students under 18 who
failed to get in the quota would be at
liberty to return to school and try again
next year, or to enter non-technical facul-
ties, with exemption from call-up till
completion of the academic year in which
they turn 18. This should have satisfied
any reasonable man, but there was an
amazing exhibition of arrogance on the
part of Mr. C. Evatt. Through his Direc-
tor of Education, Mr. Evatt informed the
University that, being opposed to the
quota system, he would require an assur-
ance that leaving-certificate examination
mark-sheets, on the strength of which,
plus marks obtained at matriculation
examinations, the merits and selection of
students applying for reservation are or
may be determined, would not be placed
at the disposal of the Man-power Direc-
torate, The letter alleged that the
attempt to control admissions to 'the
University had been declared illegal by
the High Court.
Just when observers were wondering
whether Dr. H. V. Evatt wouldn’t have
to issue a National Security regulation
restraining Mr, C. Evatt, Mr. Wurth
intervened most effectually,
A dry Old Digger, Mr. Wurth said
“The High Court has at no stage declared
illegal the Commonwealth policy of re-
serving only those students who will be
required to meet national needs.” In all
other States the authorities were co-operat-
ing wholeheartedly with the Man-power
Directorate and the Universities Com-
mission in implementing a policy dictated
wholly by those “needs,” and condi-
tioned by the fact that “on leaving school
all students become eligible for national
service.” He scouted the notion that “any
member of the community, merely by
virtue of passing the leaving-certificate
examination, should be immune from the
operation of regulations to which all other
members of the community are subject
in war-time, and free to follow their own
inclinations.” Naturally, the Sydney Uni-
versity, through the Universities Commis-
sion, had been asked to recommend the
applicants most deserving of reservation,
and leaving-certificate examination results
were considered the best criterion of
merit. If these results were not made
available, there would be nothing for it
but another examination, which would
mean that applicants would have to re-
sume their studies before sitting again—
for “matric.”
This settled the question and Mr. C.
Evatt. Mr. C. Evatt found himself in
an untenable position, abandoned by
everybody, Mr. Landa excepted. Even
the Teachers’ Federation turned on him—
the Teachers’ Federation, which, hearken-
ing to the cry of Mr. that
“certain members of the ’ University
Senate” had “adopted the Nazi and
Fascist tactics of trying to get rid of a
very learned and able man because he
happens to be a Jew,” had dutifully sup-
ported two unnecessary appointments to
the University Law School at a time when
there was a greater case for closing the
Law School —as the one at Perth was
closed—than for creating two life jobs,
and whose Left-Wing element, in the
paltriest spirit of Left-Wing intolerance,
tried to commit it to a boycott of the
University’s W.E.A. “The Minister is
following an individual whim rather than
a course of policy,” said one delegate to
the Teachers’ Federation with asperity.
“He has responsibility not to act irrespon-
sibly, and he is acting irresponsibly.”
Reduced to a show of making a virtue
of a very unpalatable necessity, always
vexatious to his type of politician, Mr. C.
Evatt declared the controversy closed.
Professor Mills, chairman of the Uni-
versities Commission, reopened it by mak-
ing a general statement of the position
on the Sydney University front as it will
be during the year of decision in Europe.
“In the faculties of medicine, dentistry,
science, veterinary science, agricultural
science and engineering,” he said, “595
first-year students may be reserved at
Sydney University”; and “unselected
students who may press for enrolment in
these faculties must be made available for
national service.” However, matricu-
lated students not liable for military set-
vice could enrol in the faculties of arts,
law and economics, and “a limited num-
ber may be reserved in these faculties,
thereby becoming eligible for financial
assistance ; others, if fit males, would be
made available for military service at the
end of the year in which they turned Ip-
The Sydney rush for m
reserved faculties he attributed to ‘ the
financial-assistance scheme,” and ga ve
figures:
In 1942 practically all the qualified
applicants —535—were enrolled. This year
1184 applied and 585 were enrolled; 3uz
are receiving financial assistance. An even
larger number of applications is anticipated
in 1944.
On behalf of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, the Universities Commission i
arranging for additional facilities to
with the training of discharged service per-
sonnel, and these additional facilities wi
afford permanent increases in the U.nive -
sity accommodation.
In justice to students, and others, the
statement should be amplified, and
statistics for the other Australian u
versities should be published. As
stands, the only part of the quoted P a A
graph which will be read without n
and perhaps unwarranted outbursts
places like New Guinea is the second p


PLAIN ENGLISH
We f re a Bad Lot.
Every now and then some visitor or
temporary inhabitant, finding himself at
a loose end on these more or less hos-
pitable shores, rounds up the nearest
reporter and turns loose on the Austra-
lians and their incomprehensible ways.
A recent exponent of this sort of thing
was a Mr, Mikhaev, of the Tass Agency.
“I have been in Sydney, Melbourne and
Canberra,” remarked Mr. Mikhaev in
pained tones to a Brisbane reporter, “and
I’ve seen people drinking in hotel lounges.
That sort of thing would be a crime in
Russia, where everything goes to the
army.” To which it may be replied that
if Mr. Mikhaev prefers to see us drink-
ing in some other place we’ll do our best
to oblige, if only he’ll name the place —
and will put us on to somebody who
knows somebody who can provide the
doings.
We had scarcely assimilated Mr. Mik-
haev’s strictures when a Mr. Harry Watt,
an English film producer, announcing
that he was about to arrive to make a
film here, confessed to some trepidation
about the Australian “accent” and—above
all things—the Australian “gait.” Both
seem to be accepted wherever there’s
dirty work to be done within reach of the
A.1.F., the R.A.A.F. or the R.A.N.; still,
the Army Education Service may do
something about it, if Mr. Watt insists.
It’s a bit harder to deal with Mr. Jan
van Apeldoorn, a Dutch gentleman who,
in a book called Departure Delayed,
slates us for not getting ready to stoush
the Japs before they launched the first
punch:—
Although it was commonly accepted from
about 1920 onwards [the chronology is
slightly awry] that Australia would one day
have to fight the Japanese, no attempt, so
far as I could discover, had been made to
prepare for such a conflict.
We’ll plead guilty, but we can’t help
asking what the Dutch, who had held
the Netherlands East Indies for 300 years,
did. It’s a rude question, perhaps, and
the only excuse we can make is that
we’re dashed annoyed. However, so that
Russian, Englishman and Dutchman
might sleep easier in future, let us make
a New Year resolution not to be so con-
foundedly and persistently ourselves in
the future.
The Victorian Bushfires.
“Nakhoda” : The bushfire season in Vic-
toria opened badly before Christmas. At
Tarrawingee, near Wangaratta, nine per-
sons were burnt to death, and nine others
were taken to hospital; of these, five
were on the danger list at the beginning
of the week.
It is a lush season —in a 200-mile trip
through West Gippsland the writer saw
farmers everywhere building magnificent
haystacks, grass rank along roadsides and
railway lines and the bush dense with
undergrowth.
Conditions in the danger area were
better than in previous years, when half
a dozen overlapping authorities operated.
The Government has its fighting services
in order, there are watchtowers, ’planes
to spot fires and men ready to
help fight a major outbreak. But when
the temperature stands at 115 degrees
and a 60-mile-an-hour wind gets to work,
unhappy accidents are apt to occur; and
so it was in this case.
Australia can learn from Canada,
which used to have the most destructive
fires in the world. In Canada the
forests were divided into handy sec-
tions ; real breaks were cut through them
and roads were built along the breaks so
the patrols could keep tab of the tiniest
blaze over hundreds of square miles of
forests and rush equipment to them.
"Sheepskins for Russia."
Over a very long period people in Sydney
and other places have been regaled with
the views of a Mrs. Jessie Street. One
of this lady’s aversions was Mr, Cham-
berlain, who, with a craven regard for
historic British policy and for reactions
in America, from Montreal to Valparaiso,
declined to send other women’s sons to
die in Spain for the politics of Mrs. Jessie
Street and other non-combatants, and
who rounded off his career of crime by
refusing to buy a war with the Arab and
Moslem world, incidentally repudiating
the terms of the mandate, by handing
over Palestine to Jews.
Attack has hitherto been Mrs, Jessie
Street’s role, and it has always been easy,
since hardly anybody has bothered to
reply. In an unfortunate moment she
was placed on the defence, and she made
heavy weather of it.
Mrs. Jessie Street is “chairman” of the
concern which runs the “Sheepskins for
Russia” “art unions.” Butts of tickets in
one of these lotteries were found on
vacant land after the thing had been
drawn, and then there was a fearful rum-
pus. The party who had received the
tickets from the Sheepskins for Russia
concern was tracked down by the police.
She proved to be a woman with “a
record going back to 1917,” and, being
charged with theft and having no
defence other than tearful pleas (“the
tickets were posted to me”), she was
sentenced to six months’ imprisonment.
Mrs. Jessie Street was out of the Stale,
presumably shedding enlightenment wher-
ever she went, when the dishonest ticket-
seller got her issue. During her absence,
progress reports of a police investigation
were published in the papers. One item
ran: “Police were told that an inside stall;
of eigtvX and three outside agents, all
salaried, are employed by the organisa-
tion.” There were others, and astonished
lottery punters looked for a categorical
reply from the “chairman,” but here Mrs.
Jessie Street was found wanting.
Mrs. Jessie Street “declared” to “S. M,
Herald” that there were “still many
people who resented Russia’s success and
its consequent popularity,” and “tried to
throw suspicion on everything connected
with Russia,” which was very feminine
or feminist but irrelevant. She “de-
clared” also that “there was nothing what-
ever wrong with the conduct of the last
‘art union,’ ” and referred to “harmful
and untrue statements” without specify-
ing them, likewise defending the auditors,
who were not attacked. Her only re-
marks approaching relevance are ap-
pended :
A certain percentage of tickets that are
circulated are neither paid for nor returned.
No “art union” or charitable function that
circulates books and tickets gets paid for
all of them, and I ask the public not to
believe any suggestion that anything dis-
honest or unusual has taken place.
This when a dishonest ticket-seller is serv-
ing a sentence!
In every “art union” we have conducted
our expenses have been below the amount
{Continued on page 8.)
AS THE OLD YEAR CLOSES.
“Der Allies advance, Berlin iss in flames, Churchill iss better, ’Appy New Year, Mein Fuehrer, heil Hitler!"
Those Twain.
Hope, long deferred, let loose a joyful yell
And Freedom whooped when Mussolini fell;
With none to help, and few his fate to moan,
The sawdust Ccesar toppled from his throne.
What warning lesson should his end convey
Unto that other god with feet of clay,
The ersatz joss of the misguided Hun,
The putty Xerxes or Napoleon!
Benito’s end might well supply a guide
To Adolf’s thoughts this blessed Christmastide.
They met on Brenner Pass, with flags unfurled,
And reckoned they bestrode this petty world
Like twin Colossi, not so long ago —
It almost seems but yesterday, you know.
What attitudes they struck, what poses made,
Monarchs, they deemed, of all that they sur-
veyed,
And more! What powers they reckoned they’d
become,
These Great Omnipotents of gangsterdom!
Now will their names for future ages be
The synonyms of aught but infamy?
Lo! one, his grandiose dreams forever fled,
Hides in obscurity his wretched head.
The other sees around him slowly close
The toils wherein he sought to snare his foes,
The doom for others he would fain decree
Impending for himself relentlessly,
Intensified by the reflection grim
No Doom or St. Helena waits >for him.
This year’s events for Hitler must provide
Some doleful thoughts this blessed Christmas-
tide.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
„x.,
m
K
~rj V!<S>
H
' •'
C. S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PLi
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division), 0
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
allowed by the regulations, and we wel-
come any inquiry which the department
may care to ma ke.
Yhe inquiry was instituted before the
welcome was extended. While it was
in progress the Chief Secretary announced
that all “ art un i on s” other than those
already launched would be banned until
he had reviewed the Lotteries Act and
regulations, and that in respect of the cur-
rent “Sheepskins for Russia lottery ana
others exempt from the ban “the strictest
precautions” would be taken under his
direction. This is perhaps as far as Mr.
Badly could be exp F ec ted to go, but, con-
sidering only the case of the dishonest
ticket-seller and all that the case implies,
it j s no t enough. There should be no
more “Sheepskins for Russia” lotteries;
and the public is entitled to a long rest
from the opinions and impertinences ot
Mrs. Jessie Street.
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra prophecy, only whispered
thus far —Earle Page will be leader of the
Country party and leader of the Opposi-
tion next year.
Churchill, in September;—-
I have tried for the last two years to
get a meeting of Empire Prime Mirysters-.
I hope we shall succeed in having such a
meeting early next year.
And now that the one P.M. who has
never left his country has overcome his
reluctance, after a mortal struggle, it is
improbable (more’s the pity!) that Win-
ston will be there. '
Luck continues to pursue the mild and
dutiful Casey. It began in January, 1940,
when he resigned from Corio to go to
Washington—had he hung on till Sep-
tember he would have been unseated by
Dedman. A chance meeting with
which would have been impos-
sible in any previous war led to Casey
being transferred to the Middle East as
British Minister of State, with a seat in
the War Cabinet. Now he goes to Bengal
as Governor, a position once held by Sir
John Anderson, a possible successor to
Churchill.
First-fruits of the Moscow declaration
against war criminals (obviously of
Russian authorship, though subscribed
to by Eden and Cordell Hull) were the
public trial, condemnation and hanging
of four wretches at Kharkov, three Ger-
mans and a Russian. One curious feature
is that the Germans —a “secret-service”
captain, a field policeman and a Gestapo
assistant commander: the Russian was a
chauffeur —confessed in the dock, after
the manner of Radek, Zinoviev, Buk-
harin and other characters in the purge
trials, testifying to the most fiendish
atrocities. Berlin threatens ferocious re-
prisals on Anglo-American airmen in
its power.
On December 21 it was announced
from Canberra that “at least 28 ships
have been held up at three Australian
ports,” and “a Minister’s” bitter comment
was published:
A marvellous Christmas present these
seamen have given Australia! While offen-
sives are raging up north these men,
who have been given everything they asked
for, including 50 per cent’, war-risk bonuses
and a 44-hour week, are holding up the war
effort.
In deference to the Minister his name
was not given. What a Minister, and
what a comment on the “policy” of giv-
ing members of the Communist-controlled
union “everything they asked for”! In
a direction addressed to Elliott, the Com-
munist secretary, to Bird, the Melbourne
branch secretary, and members of the
union on strike, the P.M. ordered a
general return to the idle ships, and on
Monday the ever-faithful “S. M.
“Herald’s” star writer was on hand with
congratulations—“the quick collapse of
the shipping strike was due solely” to
War Cabinet’s “firm action.” A Mel-
bourne telegram on the same page car-
ried the headline “Many Ships Still Held
Up.”
“We have a great mission in life,” bel-
lowed McGuinness, president of the N. S.
Wales Teachers’ Federation, at the annual
conference. “We belong to the' working
class, and we have a contribution to
make.” Whereupon the conference, which
is no more representative of the general
body of teachers than McGuinness is, re-
jected a protest against “affiliation” with
the near-Communist Sydney Labor
Council, which believes neither in free
thought nor free speech—as it proved by
its attempt, McGuinness cheering it on,
to boycott the Workers’ Educational
Association because a W.E.A. lecturer
gave his honest opinions about the
Russian Revolution.
The Sydney U.A.P. crowd must be
kicking itself. Having surrendered meekly
to White’s Liberal Democrats, it saw the
Lib. Dems. whirl themselves away and
itself reduced to calling itself the Demo-
cratic party. It had scarcely recovered
when “Young Bill” Wentworth, chair-
man of the Lib.-Dem. training group,
and Dyneley Fell, of the council, re-
signed, “Young Bill” having by request
criticised the leader or the inner group
KEANE VISION.
“I’ve got my eye on you racketeers.”
something. Young Bill, ’ once a rising
"°pe of the U.A.P., now protests that
Lib. Dems. are neither liberal nor
democratic.
Scully joyfully announced that three
(3) sub-committees with 21 members had
been appointed to assist the N.S.W. Meat
Advisory Committee. If this sort of
thing goes on in the other States, as pre-
sumably it will, the difficulty will be to
get enough meat for the sub-committees.
let alone the rest of the people. When
will Scully wake up to the fact that he
can’t solve food problems by appointing
committees?
Senator Foil (U.A.P.) is urging Menzies
to withdraw Opposition members from
the Advisory War Council in view of
certain resolutions of the A.L.P. con-
ference. After what they took from
Ward and Curtin about the “Brisbane
Line” mere A.L.P. resolutions shouldn’t
worry them.
The Queensland People’s party, led by
Lud Mayor Chandler, M.L.A., has
acquired its first recruit from the legisla-
tive halls —W. L. Dart, C.-N.O. member
for Wynnum. Queensland Labor, trying
to live down its abolition of preferential
voting, doesn’t show any special pleasure.
The sober “Christian Science Monitor”
on the last U.S. coal strike, which was
settled on terms —another $1.50 a day—
which inspired the railwaymen to threaten
their strike;
Kentucky has gone Republican, a startling
event in the political world; and the Ken-
tucky coalminers apparently helped to turn
the trick. Appeasement seldom works.
Still, it “turned the trick” politically in
this country. Certainly other issues, par-
ticularly safety-for-Alfie, came into the
argument.
A Sydney paper has a London corre-
spondent whom it calls Captain Dugdale,
M.P. Captain he may be, but to the
“Times” he is plain Mr. J. Dugdale ;
and the “Times” reports one of his
contributions to the debates at West-
minster •
Mr. J. Dugdale said we were only saved
from Darlan by a very brave man who had
suffered an ignominious death. Such a
™ rise in Italy to deal with the
hardly likely. y an 3 ° B l0 ’ U 1 W3S
An interjector •
Is the hon member justifying the doctrine
of political assassination?
Mr. Dugdale replied that it was much
better to kill the men who started war than
e T in il oce " t vic * ]ms-
J. Dugdale is a member of the Labor
party. He is a blot on its name.
Three leading Sydney poultry firms
report that since price-fixing was applied
to the poultry business—and prices seem
to be fixed every two or three days—a
huge “black market” has arisen. All
complain that “too many birds are being
sold on farms” to persons who misuse
petrol and transport regulations in going
to get them. So far, no complaint has
been heard from the poultry-farmer.
“When Britain appeared defeated, at
least in everything but spirit, two and a
half years ago it seemed a miracle
happened to throw the Russian and
British people into an alliance.” That’s
how Dr. Burgmann, the Bishop of Goul-
burn, put it recently in an address at
Perth. But if Britain “appeared defeated
two and a half years ago,” having
emerged from Dunkirk and the blitz and
with the defeat of Italy well advanced,
it could only have so “appeared” to the
wandering bishop and his Communist
friends, and they were all going about
perfectly safe.
The term Big Four, beloved of news-
papers, is considered invidious by at least
one excluded party, and it certainly has
an unfortunate last-war significance. Two
of the original Big Four died rejected by
their countries, and one suffered the
cruellest of fates, his health blasted. Of
the two survivors, one has not been em-
ployed in this war and came into fleeting
notice only by marrying his secretary.
The other, forgotten for many years,
emerged from his retirement when the
Allies were in control of Sicily to im-
plore the Sicilians not to consider their
separation from Italy as final. “It cannot
be said,” one of the New Journalists
wrote, “that Orlando’s appeal was
stimulating.” Nes Journalists are like
that.
The three months assigned by the
great Max Werner for the smashing of
Hitler’s Germany are up. It shows what
may happen when a Left-Wing seer
allows himself to be overcome by the
idolatry of Left-Wing scribes throughout
the world. “Collier’s,” which published
the prediction that went west, asserted
that an Australian general studied a
Werner tome in Malaya as part of his
preparations for stonkering the jungle-
trained Jap. Considering that, by his own
admission, Werner grew up on the steppes
and has never been a soldier nor ever
seen a battle, the general might have
been better occupied.
On the eve of starting their nine days’
holiday on full pay, granted them by the
Curtin Government on their promise to
be “good boys,” N.S.W. coalminers
broke into another rash of strikes, and
their Federation, which has repeatedly
asserted that it and it alone should be
given the job of disciplining them, could
no more stop them than fly.


(ytlaxido^
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
The oldest Anglican clergyman in
harness in Melbourne is Rev. J. Tyssen,
of St. George’s Church of England, Mal-
vern. He was born in Flinders-lane when
that busy thoroughfare was a track along
the Yarra. His father was one of Mel-
bourne’s first bankers and his mother was
the daughter of James Boyd, civil
commandant at Port Arthur in the con-
vict days of Tasmania. Rev. Tyssen
gained his M.A. at Trinity College, which
he entered in 1887. His present church
was the favorite one of State Governors
when the gubernatorial seat was at Ston-
nington, Malvern. The other day the
veteran celebrated the golden jubilee of
his ordination.
Adelaide Uni.’s newly-created chair of
French Language and Literature goes to
James Gladstone Cornell, lecturer in
French since ’3B. A Victorian, the new
prof, was educated at Scotch College and
Melbourne Uni., where he collected his
M. and a two-years’ travelling scholar-
ship which took him to Paris Uni. to
gain his Licence e$ Lettres with first-class
honors. Returning, he became lecturer in
French at Melbourne Uni. before going
to Adelaide, where he is also Dean of
the Faculty of Arts. He’s 39.
Two more Maoriland prisoners of war
in Germany have had conferred on them
N. University degrees. J. H. Hall,
M.A., LL.B., Victoria Uni., Wellington,
was a journalist attached to N.Z.E.F. and
latQr public relations officer with the
forces. He took his two final subjects
while p.o.w. The other degree-winner is
L. D. Lee, Auckland Uni. He had com-
pleted the bulk of his work before leav-
ing M.L., but was granted a war conces-
sion pass in his final subject.
Professor Harold Addison Woodruff,
professor of bacteriology at Melbourne
University, had his scientific soul shaken
when Tasmanian Treasurer, Dwyer Gray
announced that serology was a supersti-
tion and the germ theory of disease a
sheer absurdity and offered to back his
fancy by swallowing any quantity of
germs of diphtheria, cholera or typhoid.
It was useless, the professor retorted, for
Mr. Gray to ask any medical man to put
him to death, but he could, if he wished,
have the experiment made on some jum-
bucks—at his own expense. Unlike the
bumble of a Melbourne bayside council
who offered to drink a glass of the
effluent from Melbourne’s sewage system
if the engineer did likewise, but reneged
at the last moment after the engineer had
drained his glass with every symptom of
enjoyment, the dispute hasn’t as yet been
brought to the test. Professor Woodruff
was born in Sheffield (Eng.) in 1877, be-
came a veterinarian, then took up the
study of human medicine at University
College Hospital, London, and in 1913
became professor of Veterinary Pathology
at Melbourne University and director of
its Bacteriology Department in 1928. He
was a veterinary major in the A.I.F. in
the last war, and has published a standard
work on feeding horses.
At 45 Walter Lindrum is in the middle
of the biggest break of his existence. It
is now in its fifth year, with the score
at 3000. That is the number of exhibi-
tions in aid of comforts for the fighting
services the world champion billiard
player has given in Melbourne since
Hitler slopped over Europe. The last
sum handed over brought the total to
£50,000.
H. G. Dick, Department of Informa-
tion photographer, killed in an air acci-
dent in Queensland, was a Westralian
who joined the department a year ago
from Sydney “Daily Telegraph.” In his
last assignment he covered the landing at
Arawe, and on the day he was killed his
fine pictures of that attack were being
featured in Australian newspapers. He
was 26. Already those killed in this way
in the course of the present war include
a prince, the Duke of Kent; a Premier,
General Sikorski, leader of the Polish
Government-in-exile ; one of the finest
of film actors, Leslie Howard ; the film
actress Carole Lombard, wife of Clark
Gable ; and one of the most promising
of the present war’s novelists, Eric
Knight.
Bells have made quite a noise in
Melbourne. H. H. Bell, jun., has
been appointed Melbourne Tramways
engineer for permanent way. H. H.
Bell, senior, is chairman of the
Tramways Board. David Bell was
chairman of the Metropolitan Board of
Works. A. F. Bell belonged to the Com-
monwealth Bank Board and was manag-
ing-director of the Robert Harper firm.
Then there are E. A. Bell, a president of
the Chamber of Automotive Industries ;
George Bell, the well-known artiste E.
Bell, the maker of ship models; “Ding-
dong” Bell, stipendiary steward, V.R.C. ;
Miss Jane Bell, for years matron of the
Melbourne Hospital, and Col. G. J. Bell,
ex-M.H.R., a figure in Melbourne when
the House sat there, though he was from
Tasmania. James Bell was for many years
in the Legislative Council. N. G. Bell was
chief engineer of the Commonwealth
Railways. Another George Bell was for
many years publisher of the “Argus,”
while his son, L. L. Bell, went to be a
high official in Papua.
Back in the days when Willandra, out
from Hillston (N.S.W.), ran into some-
thing like a million acres, Arthur A.
Laird arrived to run the outfit. Willandra
was then trying to produce fine wool, but
Laird, against criticism, introduced
medium and strong wools, and proved
that they could do well in that country —
how well is shown by the Murray Downs
records at shows with sheep of the same
lines. A Croweater of Scotch descent,
Laird put in 14 years on Willandra and
then went to Pericoota, whose oranges
are as famous as its sheep, had a term
with the late Sam McCaughey, and be-
came manager of Murray Downs in 1915.
When he retired in 1935 the Swan Hill
(Vic.) district regretted it. By that time
Laird was a noted sheep-dog trainer and
exhibitor, a leader of the local Caledonians
and, in the words of Ottie Falkiner, had
the “best sheep brains in Australia.” A
practical Presbyterian, he was a keen
though not expert bowler, and among
his other trophies prized the cup they
gave him when he retired, inscribed “For
the best mug bowler.” He has passed on,
at 79, at Geelong (Vic.).
Honors lately piled thick upon South
Australia’s Charles Lempriere Abbott:
he was appointed K.C., president of the
S.A. Law Society and acting dean of the
faculty of law at Adelaide University.
Already 8.A., LL.B. and member (since
1933) of the S.A. Assembly, he was born
PRESIDENT, S.A. LAW SOCIETY.
54 years ago at Wagga (N.S.W.), the son
of a doctor; had some of his education
at San Francisco, including a free course
of practical experience in the big earth-
quake ; and gathered his degrees at Adel-
aide Uni., 1914 and 1918. A barrister,
practising on his own, since 1919, Abbott
continues his early active interest in
lacrosse as president of the S.A. Lacrosse
Association. An elder son is articled in
the Crown Solicitor’s office, while the
other is in the Air Training Corps getting
ready for the R.A.A.F.
In the Censorship v. Newspaper scrap
some pretty fair ammo, has been heaved
over from the press side by Eric
Kennedy, whose sun-tanned phiz is here
outlined by Frith. Kennedy, who has
been putting over his barrages as acting
president of the Australian Newspaper
Proprietors’ Association and chief execu-
tive of Associated Newspapers, served
an apprenticeship in the barrage line
with the Fifth F.A.8., A.1.F., which he
joined in 1915, seeing service in France,
with a “mention.” Hailing originally
ERIC KENNEDY.
from the N.S.W,-Victorian border town
Albury, he started in the newspaper-
game in the year he also enlisted ; an
old “Sunday Times” cadet. Discharged
from the A.I.F. in 1919, he rejoined his
old paper, and subsequently enlarged his
experience op the former “Evening
News” and with Melbourne “Herald,”
becoming advertising manager for Asso-
ciated Newspapers (Sydney) in 1937.
He’s filling the place of Captain R. E.
Denison, for the time being otherwise
engaged on military duties.
Appointed a Sydney “Sun” war corre-
spondent covering the fighting in Italy,
Bill Barr, son of John Barr, one of the
best-liked of all the old brigade of Sydney
journalists. John filled The Bulletin’s
editorial chair when former editor S. H.
Prior went to England in 1918 as a Press
Conference delegate.
Melbourne short-story writer Alan
Marshall is making a mildly profitable
habit of bagging literary prizes. His win-
ning of the Queensland Authors and
Artists’ short-story competition brought
his tally up to 10 firsts. Marshall’s quali-
ties include a rare, elfish kind of humor.
There was a typical specimen of it in the
first Coast to Coast volume, a sunny
brevity with the extensive title “Tell Us
About the Turkey, Joe.”
Aubrey Roy Liddon Wiltshire, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., M.C., V.D., who has succeeded
George Healy as superintendent of the
Bank of Australasia, was one of the
youngest lieutenant-colonels in the last
war, being 27 when he was given tem-
porary command of the Sixth Infantry
Brigade at the Armistice. Before that he
had seen service in Egypt, on Gallipoli,
about Suez and in Belgium, had been
mentioned four times in dispatches and
had gained the M.C. In addition to run-
ning the affairs of ’Asia, he has been
chairman of the Associated Banks on
several occasions, including the critical
period of the Premiers’ Plan, and was
four consecutive years president of the
Victorian Chamber of Commerce —a
record. He managed the bank’s Sydney
branch for five years, visited the Far East
and England and the U.S.A. on bank
business, and during this war was granted
six months’ leave of absence to act as
Inspector-General of Administration in
the Defence Department.
James Barrett, ex-chancellor of Mel-
bourne University and holder of the
local record for sitting on committees,
has had another lot of letters added to
his name, this time an honorary doctorate
of laws for his services to his Alma
Mater. At 81, the veteran physician is
still president of a dozen bodies and chair-
man of another 15, still attends the sym-
phony concerts he helped to promote
and drives a vigorous pen in the press in
support of all sorts of causes, from bush
nursing to pure milk for babies.
Due for retirement, Ernest Roland Pitt,
Chief Librarian and Secretary of the
Public Library, Museum and Nat. Gal-
lery in Melbourne since 1931. Born at
Strathloddon (Vic.) in 1877, he was edu-
cated at St. Patrick’s College and Mel-
bourne University. His encyclopaedic
booklore drew high praise from the Car-
negie Corporation when he was joint
investigator with their representative in
the 1934 survey of Australian libraries,
out of which investigation came a sheaf
of endowments.
Retired from Stott’s College, Mel-
bourne, T. A. Conlon, who for 36 years
taught bookkeeping and commercial sub-
jects to tens of thousands of Victorian
boys and girls now scattered about the
world from Rio de Janiero to Baghdad,
many of them in the A.I.F. or otherwise
lending a hand in the war effort.
Into the silence;
At 72, Herman F. Lohr, whose “Little Grey
Home in the West,” published in 1904, was one
of the popular songs of 1914-18. His songs
(another was “Where My Caravan Has Rested”)
gave him a steady income to the end.
At 46, in Melbourne, James Foran, known
as “the Irish tenor.” A protege of Peter
Dawson, he visited England at Dawson’s insti-
gation and sang there for two years. Foran
was a Light Horseman in the last war.
At Cheltenham (Vic.), at 81, George Thomas
Allnutt, a pioneer market gardener, almost
a sacred occupation these days. Father of
A. G. Allnutt, M.L.A. for Mildura, G. T.
Allnutt was known all over the Mornington
Peninsula, from where most of Melbourne’s
vegetables used to come. He also became a
pioneer of mechanisation by inventing a potato
planter, a cutter for butter factories and many
other labor-saving devices.
In action in Italy, Major Kevin O’Connor,
of a well-known W.A. family. Bom in Perth
in 1912 and educated at Downside and Cam-
bridge, he was in London when the war started
and at once joined the British Army. In the
retreat to Dunkirk his former school mate Lord
Gormanston was killed while both were swim-
ming across a canal. Major O’Connor saw
subsequent service in Tunisia and Sicily before
going on to Italy.
Of illness on active service, Lieut.-Col. Geof-
frey Hutton Brock, of Melbourne. One of the
first to enlist from Victoria, he left with the
Sixth" Division, served as brigade-major to
Savige in the Middle East and was later second
in command of the Second-Seventh. Brock
fought in Libya and Greece, returned with the
D. 5.0., and commanded a battalion in New
Guinea. In private life he was with Liver-
pool, London and Globe Insurance.
At Wahroonga (N.S.W.), Peter W. E. Wilkin-
son, who held a managing interest in Lisdillon
station, Tasmania, and before that managed
Canally in the Riverina.
In Sydney, at 34, Russell Kelly, one of the
best of Rugby Union lock forwards, who rep-
resented N.S.W. against Queensland, Maori-
land, Victoria and South Africa. With the
A.I.F. in the North African fighting, he was
wounded and taken prisoner, but was repatri-
ated. He looked in splendid condition, but
appearances were deceptive, and the fine fellow
recently had to undergo a major operation.
Rear-Admiral G. C. Muirhead-Gould,
D. took time off to preside at a
meeting in Sydney that should lead to a
lively day in Martin-place and a well-
earned good turn being done to men of
the merchant navy. The meeting gave
E. C. Jackson (as chairman) and that
indefatigable worker for Digger and
suchlike causes Miss Madeline Withall
(as hon. organising sec.) the job of
gathering in from all over the State dona-
tions of “fruit, garden produce, jams,
cakes, sweets, groceries, fancy goods—
in fact, anything that can be transported,
including white elephants.” Lud Mayor
Bartley has given the committee January
21 as Sailors’ Day, seamen’s institutes and
the like to share in the proceeds of but-
ton sales, similarly with the harvest
gathered from the country, to be sold at
a fair in Martin-place. The sec.’s address
is 10 Loftus-street, Sydney.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“El V.”; President Roosevelt, voting
in a county election booth at the N.
York State elections, made an unexpected
confession. “I am a tree-grower,” he
said when asked his calling ; and it turned
out that he was producing (shudders from
Dedman!) “Christmas-trees on a large
scale”!
V * * *
“Tovarisch”: News from Russia
promises a few shocks for Mr. Maloney.
Instead of arriving in a toil-worn, thread-
bare working comrade’s menage he
arrived in the most gorgeous diplomatic
setting in the world. Signs of reversion to
the old Tsarist glitter have been revealing
themselves for a long time. Officers had
their epaulettes restored. Guards regi-
ments adopted the ceremonies pertaining
to the days when Guards were Imperial
Guards. Then Stalin shed the dove-
colored tunic with pink pants in which
he was familiar, and appeared in full
marshal’s rig, gold epaulettes, scarlet
trouser stripes and all; and the same kind
of chilly silence descended on the Krem-
lin feast as smote Belshazzar’s gathering
when Churchill arrived there in a one-
“Come on, Percy—hand over your pay!”
piece siren suit—a “boiler suit,” the Rus-
sians called it scornfully. But the climax
was reached at the festivities celebrating
the Moscow conference early in Novem-
ber, when it is recorded “for the first time
Soviet officials mingled freely on social
terms with their guests,” and the whole
Soviet Diplomatic Corps, including Molo-
tov, turned out in full diplomatic uni-
form—black tailed coat, breeches, gold
epaulettes and luxurious gold facings in
the case of a Foreign Minister. The
British, Americans and the rest were left
in the shade, since most of them had no
uniforms. A full diplomatic uniform, in
an England where all the servants at
Buckingham Palace have been in battle-
dress for three years, has not been seen
since long before “the blitz.”
* * * *
“Plankton”: That drawing (B.
15/12/’43) of two Diggers turning-in
during a bombardment is not so fan-
tastic. In 1916 our mob, after 10 days
in the line, were unexpectedly relieved
only 15 minutes before zero. Orders were
to get the men out toute suite, and the
stunt started as we travelled. We halted
among the ruins of Warlehcourt while
Fritz made his counter-attack. The mob,
dog-tired, dropped in their tracks and fell
asleep. Meanwhile German ironmongery
swished and crashed on The Butte be-
yond us, while a concentration of our
light batteries, accompanied by the crack-
ing staccato chorus of every m.-g. in the
area, opened up. When things slackened
off and we got the order to carry on I
shook up the boys, but my brain was so
dazed .that I’m blessed if I could remem-
ber the name of anyone in the platoon.
* * * *
“Bo”: Our suburb is having a grin. At
an end-of-the-year church show one of
the sketches depicted some by-play be-
tween a domineering wife and a submis-
sive husband. It was quite well done,
the lady having been a talented amateur
before she married. Next issue of the
local rag covered it liberally, the reviewer
mentioning, inter alia, that “Miss
took the part as to the manner born. It
didn’t seem like acting at all, but as if she
were living the part, it was so true to
life.” Yes, “Miss ” was her maidcr
name, which the lady had used for pro-
gramme purposes, and the gent, who
played opposite her was her real-life
husband.
* « * *
“Pip”: It having been decided at a
northern station to organise sport within
the unit, each man was instructed to in-
form orderly room of the games he’d
prefer. Most of them plumped for foot-
ball (temperature no objection), cricket
and swimming. One optimist gave quoits,
several preferred cards and the camp in-
tellectual was emphatic for chess. There
were three votes for racing, horse or dog ;
others liked rowing. One put his name
down for “anything.” The two champion
answers were from “Snowy,” who wanted
>ce hockey, and “Butch,” all out for polo.
“Toreador”: On leave in Jerusalem,
Murphy, from the cow country, had con-
sumed a quantity of Carmel Alicante and
the Alicante was just beginning to con-
sume Murphy. He disappeared. We re-
traced our steps down the narrow,
cobbled street, back to where the black-
out was broken by the dim, yellow glow
from a wog souvenir shop. In the centre
of the shop was a wood-mosaic card
table. On one side, leaning across it pos-
sessively, was a furtive-eyed wog, and
towering above him, dominating the
scene, was Murphy. He was waving a
pound note under the wog’s rather large
nose and his voice carried out to us.
“You rotten !” he was shouting, “ten
quid for a lousy little table? A bloke
oughter clock y’! ” He grabbed a three-
legged stool from the floor and raised it
above his head threateningly. I dashed
in with a “Take it easy, Spud!” but
Murph didn’t hear me. He was staring
at the stool in his hand, fascinated. Sud-
denly he thrust it close to the wog’s
frightened face. “All right, George,” he
bellowed, “I’ll give y’ a tenner for the
milkin’ stool.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: That was a good par. about
Churchill’s note on an Eden speech,
“Tony, you’ve used every cliche in the
language except ‘Please adjust your dress
before leaving’ ” ; but it leaves the impres-
sion that the Foreign Secretary is humor-
less. Another impression, fostered by
newspaper reports of the “Million Ger-
“ It's the surge—should We make ’im medicine and duty, or a casualty?”
mans Trapped in the Dnieper Bend”
order and editorials in the same vein, is
that he is subservient to Moscow. Actu-
ally, he has been reproached by Leftists
with not being the complete crawler, and
in the Commons on September 22 (Lon-
don “Times” report) he made a spirited
reply, saying, among other things, “We
do not feel we have anything to reproach
ourselves with in our efforts to give effect
to the treaty,” and “we have made more
than our share of efforts to meet our
ally.” 'Then he quoted a priceless thing
from “War and the Working Class,” copi-
ous extracts from which (but not that )
have been cabled to Australia: —
T ,
In 1939 and 1940, before the character
of the war was definitely established, wide
masses of English workmen maintained a
more or less critical waiting attitude towards
the war and defended in the factories only
their immediate interests. After Hitler ex-
tended his aggression to the U.S.S.R. and
the Anglo-Soviet Treaty had been con-
cluded the English workmen began to sup-
nnrf thp Fnalkh war pffnrt
port the English war effort.
“When I read that,” Anthony said,
“there came to my mind a story of the
£ x-x t 11 • . 0 , j .
Duke of Wellington. Somebody said to
him ‘Mr. Smith, I think.’ The Duke
replied ‘Sir, if you believe that, you will
FpUpvo nnvthino ’ THacp wpip rnv cpnti
believe anything, those were my senti-
ments on reading that article. It does
not represent the spirit there was in this
country in the Battle of Britain and in
if
1940, though it is true of that small sec-
tion represented by the Communist
party.” Churchill himself could scarcely
hn V p rlnnp hottpr
* * * *
“Obelist” : “Jachris” (B. 15 / 12 / ’43)
was wrong m attributing “The Price of the
rieaa to oaKl ftl. ±l. Munro). me
story appeared in a collection, Where
the Pavement Ends, by John Russell, the
English edition of which was published
by Thornton Butterworth. A good yarn,
undoubtedly, and seven impressions of
Where the Pavement Ends were published
• jq., *
m l9Zi.
* * * *
“Yair” : He was walking up Pitt-
street from the Ouav carrvinir an
street irom me u»uay carrying an
onental poppy the size of a dinner plate,
Each big petal was bright gold with a
huge black spot towards the centre, a
t,ioMr v,/-.rv,ver
soit ot gollywog black pompom. We
were admiring the flower when the girl
friend broke in: “Oh, is that the opium
poppy? Gosh!”—she touched the thick
* j ij . ,
stem, then fingered a gold petal which
end of it do they smoke?”
“Oxmead”: I wonder if “P.0.M.C.”
(B. 22/12/”43), who notes that the West-
ralian burr, or triple-spiked thorn, is
called a “double-gee,” in contrast to other
terms employed in the Eastern States,
knows how the term originated. I used
to puzzle over it vainly till an old settler
mentioned that the pest was imported
from South Africa in some bales of
forage in the early days of the colony.
Then the solution dawned on me. The
burr to the Boers was the “debbilje”
(little devil), an apt enough designation,
distorted to “double-gee” in its new home.
* * * *
“Frunter”: Beat this, you Sydney tram
punters! Dad, buying tickets for him-
self and son, looked at his own, sighted
55666 and said “Bet you my poker hand
beats yours.” “You’re on,” replied the
offspring, joyfully waving his own ticket.
It was a “full hand,” sixes and fives, in
the order 65665.
“Petermac”: Is it possible in two-up to
toss heads or tails at will? Most of the
hardheaded “sports” aver it’s impossible.
which still leaves me puzzled as to why
the bloke next door, a gambling addict,
spends an hour each evening practising
with the “kip.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “And aren’t you glad now,”
said the father, “that you prayed for a
baby brother?” “Yes,” replied the son
after another look at the twins; “and
aren’t you glad that I stopped when I
did?” It has won a children’s competi-
tion prize in S.A., and was sent in by
a kindergarten cynic aged nine.
* * * *
“El V.” on the curative revolution:
The world has not yet come to realise the
changes wrought in the chances of death through
wounds by the new sulfa drugs and blood
plasma. The wounded man no longer needs to
wait for medical attention if he can reach his
packet of sulfa. He pours the crystals into
the wound. If some mates come by they can
give him blood plasma, which comes to the
front line as crystals and is put into solution.
Any layman can administer it with slight in-
struction. Beyond the sulfa poured into the
wound, and plasma for shock, no precautions
need to be taken with streptococci infections till
the patient is in hospital; then he gets more
sulfa. Wounds are no longer stitched unless
they gape badly. Compound fractures at the
end of the last century caused heavy mortality.
The cure for most was amputation. In the
last war the bulk of the compound-fracture
casualties who survived—a large proportion
didn’t —limped for life. Those with “sucking”
chest wounds through which air was drawn
into the lungs and those with abdominal wounds
had about Buckley’s chance or a little better.
Today the percentage of deaths is small. The
other day Rear-Admiral Macintire, Chief Medi-
cal Officer of Uncle Sam’s Navy, said that less
than .9 p.c. of the total U.S.N. casualties of
this war had had to be invalided out of the
service. And a few days afterwards Professor
Alex. Fleming said that if penicillin, which will
cure infections that nothing else will touch,
had come into its own when he accidentally dis-
covered it in 1928, the sulfa drugs which are
responsible for so many miraculous cures would
never have had any vogue. Penicillin, first of
the “mould” specifics, is the nearest approach
to a cure-all yet discovered, and, in its greatest
concentrations, while it slays the germs of the
most complicated and resistant diseases —
among them, it seems, probably the venereals —
it has no deleterious effect on animal cells.
While Fleming accidentally discovered it, the
credit for bringing about its concentration and
practical use belongs to Howard Waller Florey,
whose name Fleming links with his own as the
co-developer of the drug. Florey, who may
prove to be one of the world’s greatest bene-
factors, is Professor of Pathology at Oxford.
He is an Australian, born 45 years ago, was
educated at St. Peter’s, Adelaide, Adelaide Uni-
versity and Oxford, and was S.A. Rhodes
scholar for 1921. Neither of the co-fathers of
penicillin believes that it represents the ultimate
in curatives. Fleming remarks that it would be
strange indeed if the first of the “mould”
products tried, of which next to nothing is
known, proved to be the best of the thousands
which must exist.
DEDMAN'S DISCOUNTING.
“Questioned about the food shortage in Townsville,
Mr. Dedman said: ‘Anything I see in the press 1
generally discount 100 per cent.’ ” — “S. M. Herald.”
If 100 per cent, you deduct or subtract
From any conceivable statement' or sum.
It’s surely an incontrovertible fact
There’s neither remainder nor re-sid-u-um,
Or aught that by terms such as these you could
call;
In short, that the answer is—nothing at all.
Could you pick out the items purveyed by the
press,
The paragraphs bristling with prickles and
stings,
Which Dedman peruses, consumed by distress
That papers should print such preposterous
things?
I fancy I’d cheerfully wager a jim
They’re simply the ones that reflect upon him.
It’s ever a pleasant delusion in sootlfi
When to Cabinet rating and ruling you rise,
That ev’rything writ in your favor is truth
And anything else is a tissue of lies.
If you hammer it in by all methods you know.
You may end by convincing yourself that it’s so.
If the stuff you encounter is flattery or praise,
You take it as gospel, emphatic and plain;
Per contra, supposing it censure conveys.
You’ll toss it aside with a snort' of disdain
And a passing remark, less in anger than grief,
Such flagrant mendacity passes belief.
Still, sauce for the gander is sauce for the goose.
And when Curtin next rises to eulogise you
For wisdom and worth, there’ll be ample excuse,
O Deddy, for others discounting to do,
And to cut down the guff to a certain extent —
Say, anything up to a hundred per cent.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“F.S.”: The Felton Bequest reaches its
40th year shortly. With the latest distri-
bution, Felton’s benefactions to charity
and art have amounted to £1,300,000, with
the capital, a perpetual trust, showing no
signs of decreasing. This prince of phar-
macists died in 1904. He never married,
but lived in two rooms packed with an-
tiques, pictures and objects of art of all
descriptions in a hotel in St. Kilda. If
it hadn’t have been for his magnificent
art dedication he would have gone to his
grave one of those bachelors noted for
their quaint habits. A trip on the Bay
in the old Ozone was his only recreation ;
he regularly ate whiting for breakfast
and chicken for dinner, and when in-
vited to dine out he would go to the back
door and ask the chef what was a-cook-
ing. If it wasn’t chicken he would quietly
return to his bachelor apartments. A
thin, tall bearded figure in a hard-hitter
which he never doffed even when he was
eating, he always carried a huge umbrella.
It is a curious fact that the man who left
half a million for the purchase of art
treasures for the nation stated his philo-
sophy in this way: “Spend your money
yourself, for I have rarely seen an estate
administered as its owner would have
wished.”
* * * *
“Friday Island”: Newspaper reports
that a visiting surgeon has performed an
unusual operation—tying off near the
heart a blood vessel which normally
ceases to function after birth —have
raised the hopes of many parents that he
may operate on their afflicted children in
Sydney. Unfortunately there are two
types of congenital heart trouble, and the
commoner is that in which an opening
between the auricle chambers of the heart
fails to close —not the condition that
needs the reported operation. In any
case there is no need to go to any non-
Australian surgeon. The operation in
question was performed by a Sydney sur-
geon three times recently—twice at Royal
North Shore and once at Royal Prince
Alfred. I recall that a few years ago a
child was sent from Australia to America
as the guest of a shipping co. to have a
foreign body taken from his lungs by a.
bronchoscope. Thirty doctors in Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Sydney could have
done the job—in fact, one Sydney man
had at that time just perfected an im-
provement on Chevalier Jackson’s instru-
ment used in America on the child.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Sir Malcolm Campbell is
in trouble in England over a matter of
setting spring guns in his grounds. As a
boy I remember two or three rusted and
broken spring guns screwed into trees
around my Suffolk home. Their overall
measurements were only about 15 inches,
and they looked more like gate-hinges
than guns. The man who set them must
have been a gentle soul. More spirited
landowners loaded their guns with shot,
and, as there was only four inches of
barrel, the charge spread. The mechan-
ism was simple. A pin held up a
spring which acted as a hammer. A
wire attached to the pin was stretched
about waist-high through the area to be
protected. A touch on the wire detached
the pin, and a long train of events started
which sometimes finished at Norfolk
Island or Port Arthur, though, the gun
being impartial, a forgetful gamekeeper
or wandering beadle sometimes appeared
on the receiving end.
* * $ «
“J.H.W.”; Rationing of eggs to
civilians reminds me of an incident on
Gallipoli about Jul}'', ’l5. Word got
round that there was to be an issue of
fresh eggs, and that they were on the
way from Egypt. We were so accustomed
to furphies of all sorts that little notice
was taken, but sure enough the eggs
arrived. The only issue to our par*, of
the front line on Walker’s Ridge panned
out at one egg to four men ! “Hard luck.
Dig., broken in transit,” we were told.
They were broken in transit —into the
frying pans and dixies of some A.S.C.
wallahs and others in dugouts along the
beach. They had eggs and bacon for
days and there was the devil to pay when
they were found out.
* * * *
“Looby”: That par about notices on
mess-walls (B. 15/12/’43) reminded me
of my pet pawnshop’s sob department.
It has been whitewashed twice during
my ten years’ patronage, but each time*
within a few weeks, the old notices were
back, supplemented by new ones. Racing
is a favorite theme. Exhibit A was the
melancholy line “I was never here in
Phar Lap’s day.” Foo has taken up a
lot of pledge-wall space lately, but still
discernible are efforts such as “What ife
home without a pawnticket?” and an old
favorite, “Abandon hope all ye who enter
here.” In wilder days I sank to the
temptation myself, and once, when Unc
was away writing out the ticket, I
scrawled “Uncle must be popular: at
least he tries to get your interest.” I
sold the gag to a paper and went back
to the pawnshop to rub the thing off for
fear someone might see it and allege I’d
pinched the gag, I needn’t have worried ;
my gag was crossed off and underneath
another client had written “He might get
your interest—he only gets my goat.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The danger of a hasty
generalisation has never been shown more
clearly than by the reckless statement of
“Billjim” (B. 24/11/’43) that “a South
Australian” —evidently meaning the aver-
age one —“says ‘Where is it to?’ when
asking where a place is located.” Well,
S.A. has quite a number of Cornishmen,
especially at the old-time copper town
Moonta, and it’s considered funny out-
side that district to tell yarns at their
expense and in their supposed dialect.
“Billjim” must have been listening to
these and/or reading the talk under
Oswald Pryor’s comic pictures of Moonta.
No South Australian otherwise is more
likely to say “Where is it to?” than would
be “Billjim” himself.
ifc # Jfc *
“Cauboy”: In a long career of theatre-
going I’ve struck some strange stage oddi-
ties, but it was at a recent amateur pro-
duction in Melbourne that the strangest
happened. It was one of those domestic-
drama plays in which it takes an audience
half the first act to get the characters
sorted out according to their stage names
“Coupla packets of the best , Baby!”
on the programme. The audience had
just mastered this difficult operation and
was settling down when two of the
players suddenly started calling each
other by their real names. The con-
fusion caused on both sides of the foot-
lights was amazing.
* * * *
“Ausfursf’f Idly running through the
long lists of aliens seeking naturalisation
—Sydney papers have been full of them
lately, it being just on five years since
the first wave of refugees arrived from
Europe —I was struck by the fact that
very few of them gave addresses other
than Sydney suburbs, most of them the
best suburbs. In a rapid survey, the only
exception I found were a Greek at Barel-
lan, in the Riverina, and a Norwegian at
Murwillumbah, on the Tweed River.
We’ve been told repeatedly that Australia
benefits from the acquisition of these
people, and I like to believe it, but I’d
feel more certain about it if a fair pro-
portion of them went to live in the coum
try towns. There isn’t much difference,
normally, between life in a European city
and a big Australian wen, and, knowing
what Australia can do to people who go
and live in its rural places, I’m certain
the refugees and their children, especially
their children, would benefit enormously
if some way could be found to prevent
them herding in already overcrowded
places.
* * * *
“Docand”: Not precisely a howler, but
worth adding to the long list of unwit-
tingly funny answers received to school
exam, questions at this time of year:
“What are the chief products of the polar
regions?” “Polar bears.”
“C.Q.”: Complaints of disappointed
parents concerning the difficulty of ques-
tions in leaving-pass examinations were
bitter this year in Mfetbourne, and the
University examiners were asked for an
explanation, duly supplied by a professor.
One parent retorted that if the prof, had
answered the questions he had set as
vaguely as he had the objections to them
he would have failed to get a pass.
« * * *
“Ek Dum”: My paragraph about
Nicholas de Miklouho - Maklay (or
Maclay), the Russian explorer of New
Guinea’s Maclay Coast (B. l/12/’43),
brought to light a son in business within
a hundred yards of The Bulletin office.
Maklay married the youngest daughter
of one of the doughtiest Premiers of
N. S', Wales, John Robertson, had two
sons, took his family to the Crimea,
crossed Russia with them and died of
a recurring tropical fever in St. Peters-
burg. The sons must surely have been
the first Australians to cross Russia. On
the way they visited the family estate of
their ancestors, 50-odd miles west of Kiev,
and its nearest rural centre. Last week,
therefore, the active land war might be
said to have been bounded by the scope
of Miklouho-Maklay’s travels. For at
one end of the world A.I.F. troops were
plodding on from Wareo to the Maclay
Coast a few miles away. At the other
f
end, Maklay’s family estate, Malin, and
their home town, Radomysl, were the
centres of the great German tank offen-
sive north of Korosten.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: A centenary that
passed unnoticed was that of the visit
(October, 1943) of Sir John Franklin to
the Bass Strait islands to select sites for
the first lighthouses there. The seaman-
explorer, then Lieutenant-Governor of
Tasmania, chose Swan, Goose and Deal
islands as the best locations, since, in
crossing the eastern extremity of the reef-
strewn strait, one light is not dipped
before the next is picked up. Towers and
quarters were built by convict masons.
Deal, the largest of the Kent Group, 44
miles south-east of Wilson’s Promontory,
is a high granite plateau which rises sheer
from the sea for hundreds of feet, and
a zigzag road had to be hewn out of the
cliff face to enable bullocks to transport
gear from the anchorage to the grassy,
she-oak-fringed plateau above. The
tower is 997 feet above sea level, the
highest lighthouse in the world. It’s
flash has been seen 76 miles away, but
it is often obscured by clouds.
* * * *
“F.C.J.”: We were a half-dozen Aus-
tralian airmen, stationed with Americans
on a northern island where nights are long
and drear and you need a jeep and a
month’s petrol, ration to go to the pic-
tures. The Yanks were fine hosts and
did all they could to entertain us. One
naval W.O. invited us to visit his tent and
have a shower (a rare luxury) any time.
We turned up one night and were shown
a 44-gallon drum arranged to collect rain-
water at one end and spray it out at will
through a rose at the other. After revel-
ling in the first shower we’d had for a
week we bowled into the tent, where a
“squeeze-box” merchant was busy enter-
taining the boys. He was ordered to play
“Waltzing Matilda” in our honor, but
didn’t know it and substituted “China
Boy.” Sweets, cigars, cigarettes and light
chatter were passed round, and the party
was going well. The boss whispered to
a grimy individual, who stole out quietly,
to reappear shortly with a smug look on
his face. Twenty seconds later there was
a terrific explosion just outside and the
tent and we were nearly knocked flat.
Roaring with laughter, while his buddies
scrambled under beds or dashed out to
foxholes, our host explained that he
thought the party ‘was getting dull and
had told his dynamite man to liven things
up. We went back to washing in a jam-
tin.
*** • *
“F.S.”: Victoria’s National Gallery, at
Keith Murdoch’s suggestion, is consider-
ing the publication of a monthly journal
to describe the treasures of art that lie
in the vaults or hang on the walls. A
good idea, but it is proposed also to
print the guide lectures. A painting can
only be described in terms of paint.
Words won’t do it. Not a single example
of ancient Greek painting has survived,
but contemporary descriptions of them
have. And although we know what sort
of thinkers, sculptors and architects the
Greeks were we know nothing of what
they were like as painters.
* * * *
“T.M.C.”: Despite what foreigners
might think of him, I’d always thought
the Australian was a rather dignified sort
of person, who’d resent fiercely any at-
tempts at regimentation or being forced
to humble himself to obtain things he
always considered his by right of the
ability to buy. Yet, in the cities anyhow,
there is a deplorable tendency to stand
humbly in queues for such amenities as
wine and cigarettes, an equal tendency
to fawn on anyone who knows anyone
who can get something, and a shocking
readiness to paddle through bar-room
floors inches deep in slops and struggle
with a sweating, panting crowd to get a
beer from an unwashed glass plonked
on a swimming counter. It horrifies me.
Where is our vaunted independence, our
pride—gosh. I’ll have to postpone finish-
ing this; a friend has just rung to say
there’s a queue forming up over the road,
and I’d better hurry if I want to be in it.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Not being a painter, a con-
cert performer, a teacher of singing or an
amateur actor or actress, my withers are
never wrung when “S. M. Herald” critics
flay these people, and I urge them to
restrain their tendency to leap with rage.
I put it to them that the wounding judg-
ments may not be final. On reconsidera-
tion or when livers are in good working
order, they may be altered. For example,
here is Neville Cardus, who still writes
for the Manchester “Guardian” as well
as “S. M. Herald,” on Shostakovich’s
“Leningrad” Symphony:
“S. M. Herald,”
August 25.
Score much too
long, and diffuse at
times to the verge of
the amateurish. The
symphony would profit
by drastic cuts
Shostakovich becomes
almost imprisoned in
his chain-gang of re-
iteration.
The slow movement
—. or Largo —is an
elegy for the fallen,
and here the music
achieved eloquence, if
not poignancy. But
it is also too long,
and the composer’s
uncertain sense of
form is emphasised
when he goes over
much the same emo-
tional ground. Shos-
takovich lacks the art
of transition; he often
composes cinema
music.
Shostakovich should
study compression
Shostakovich should
also trust his art and
be prepared to live
for it entirely. His sym-
phony is addressed
to too many direc-
tions ; it flatters, by
recognising them, the
musically raw or un-
rip e. At other
moments it takes
wings of true poetry.
Shostakovich is prob-
ably the representative
tragedy of the modern
musical world.
“Guardian,”
October 9.
As the symphony, I
gather, received a bad
press in England, I
was surprised to dis-
cover much fine and
original music in the
score. To object to
the length of it and
to the unevenness of
the quality of the
material is beside the
real point. The epic
nature of the theme
called for a long sym-
phony.
The diction, the
general “Stimmung,”
is of a new and im-
pressive musical aes-
thetic, a grimly imper-
sonal one. The slow
movement does not
mourn for the dead
with a personal sense
of grief. This music
seems to dehumanise
sorrow; its very objec-
tivity is tragic.
English reactions to
the work have been
rather academic. They
have done less than
justice to the resource-
fulness of the com-
poser while he is
working on a big can-
vas. Another inter-
esting point in the in-
genuity of Shostako-
vich’s orchestration
during the more
obviously popular
appeal of his thematic
material. It is as
though while address-
ing the masses he is
not forgetful of real
musicians.
On one point, however, the critic is con-
sistent. He praises Bernard Heinze’s con-
ducting in both papers, and predicts in
the “Guardian” that Heinze’s name “will
before long be known beyond Australia.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Curyo Charlie,” his
buggy loaded with sundry implements
devised to separate the trustful country
folk from their spare cash, camped on
the last day of the year by the council
tank and prepared for the morrow, when
he would open for custom at the New
Year’s Day sports. To him that night
came the local John with the old warning:
“If y’ set up y’r joint here I’ll run y’ in.
I bin tipped off be the sports committee.”
He departed, leaving Curyo somewhat
dashed. Presently three figures came
from the town and said “Look, we’re
runnin’ these sports f’r the hospital.
We’ve seen the John an’ we’re willin’
t’ let y’ run y’r sweat wheel on condition
y’ hand over 80 p.c. of the takin’s. You
on?” After brief thought Curyo signi-
fied that he was on. They gave him a
sign—“ Help Your Hospital”—and with
this over his wheel he did good business
at the sports. Just as the day was closing
a committeeman drew Curyo aside and
said “Listen. We bin told that every time
the wheel wins you put some money in
one pocket an’ some in another. What’s
the game?” Curyo looked at him in
astonishment. “Strike me roan! ” he
snorted; “the flamin’ hospital’s got t’
get somethin’, hasn’t it?”
5P
“B. A. Ker”: Driving in to totvn I
noticed old Jacob in his paddock carefully
measuring with a tape. When I returned
he was busy with pick and shovel. Next
day his hat was barely visible above an
ovate-shaped hole soma three paces long
by one wide. But when two channels
about six- inches by a yard sprouted out
of one side the stickybeak in me pre-
vailed. “What’s this, a dam?” I asked.
Jacob eyed me coldly. “A damn’ nui-
sance ! ” he corrected bitterly ; “and all
for doing a feller a good turn. A drover
joker goin’ through about a fortnight ago
persuaded me to let him leave a sick
moke in my paddock—‘only for two
days.’ He didn’t come back. Yesterday
the prad died —like he knew it was goin’
to —and now Muggins has got to bury it.”
“But what’s the idea of the sidq
channels?” I asked. “Fer his legs to go
in, er course,” the gravedigger replied
testily; “d’you think I’m goin’ to dig out
about four more tons of dirt just because
a nag dies with his legs stuck out?”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: A lot of noise was
coming from the roadside pub as we
headed towards it, and we weren’t very
astonished to see a nuggety bloke fly out
the door, skid on his left ear and come
to a stop. He got up, gave us a wild look
and rushed back into that bar. More
noise. Presently the nugget shot out
again, but was up at once and straight
back. He returned as suddenly, and this
time took a few minutes’ rest on his back.
Mat sat down on the verandah edge.
“You goin’ back?” he asked mildly.
“ ’Course I’m goin’ back! ” roared the
battered one. “What’s the matter with
you, anyhow?” “Aw, nothin’,” said Mat,
“only me an’ me mate here are a bit dry.
We was thinkin’ of sinkin’ a couple, but
we don’t want t’ stop y’r caper, if y’re
enjoyin’ it. If y’re not enjoyin’ it I might
give y’ a hand.” Nugget got up, grunted
“I’m doin’ all right,” and dived into the
bar. He wasn’t long, and this time a
large female followed him and said “If
you come back I’ll really take to you.”
Mat looked at me. “Hey,” he said,
“didya get that? She’s only bin prac-
tisin’, so far.” Then x he said to the lady
“Missus, how far’s the next pub from
yours?” She pointed down the road,
“About three miles. Why?” He moved
off. “I just wanted t’ be sure we wouldn’t
have too far t’ go,” he said.
♦
“Hist”: “M.B” (B. 15/12/’43) has for-
gotten that the rabbit’s tail was invented
before man came into the picture. Man
kills from a distance with weapons, and
the cottontail is admittedly a good bull’s-
eye. But Bunny’s natural enemies have
to kill at close quarters, either by surprise,
against which Bunny’s protection is
camouflage, or by catching it on the run
after a stern chase. What happens then?
The dog or fox is flat out to run its quarry
down. Its eye focuses naturally on that
blob of white. It grabs and gets a mouth-
ful of air. The tail, in fact, is a rear-
guard with the job of distracting attention
from the main body. It is the same prin-
ciple which gives some colored animals
a white tail-tip or white animals a black
tip—to draw the eye away from the form
of the animal itself.
« * * * *
“Dennis Dugan”: Ask “Avant” (B.
10 /11 / ’43) to drink a pint of sea water
and I’ll guarantee all medical expenses.
If, however, he refrains from drinking
anything until his tongue is turning black
and then tries sea water he’ll go batty
unless he can follow it with a gallon or
so of fresh water. The airmen in my
story which he quoted did pot lack water
during their walk back to base. They
couldn’t have lived two days without
water in Arnhem Land They drank the
“ Er—shall I send my bill to your executors?”
sea water not because they were thnsty
but because they had lost a lot of salt in
perspiration. Many people in the tropics
find a teaspoon of salt in a glass of water
before each meal the best protection
against heat rashes, prickly heat and
similar irritations. To go without salt
for a couple of days in a hot, humid
climate where the perspiration pours off
one is to realise what an important fac-
tor salt is in the human diet,
* * „
Jemalong Jim • „ th rf
blew into Forbes (NS.W) at the end of
the big wheat harvest, dropped his
na 8 e m Flannery s pub and said t
all the wheat I want t see f r ye .
Struth! Miles an miles of it. Ive eaten
it an dreamt about it. It was there every
mornin’ an’ still there when I went t’
bunk. I bin marooned in a sea of wheat,
an’ now I’ve escaped I never want t’ see
it again.” Whereupon he headed for the
bar. Late that night, pretty well awash
and wandering, “Warroo” found a com-
fortable bunk in somebody’s shed and
fell ‘asleep. Next morning he awoke,
gave one horrified look at the stack of
wheat bags on which he reposed hard
by the town’s flourmill, and rushed over
to the'railway station. “Gimme a ticket
f’r Kiandra,” he said. The clerk looked
surprised. “The train doesn’t go till
t’night,” he said. “Never mind,” said
“Warroo,” heading for the waiting-room ;
“you wake me when she’s due out. I’m
takin’ no more chances.”
**„ * *
“Ardlethan Arry : A bloke drives up
to me in a big motor-car and says Look,
I want to get to Ardlethan. Is this the
right road?” I’m standing on the pub
verandah, and I straighten up and say
“Too right. You’re dead on it, cobber ;
this is” Before I can say any more
he shoves in his clutch and vanishes down
the main street towards Barellan. About
a half-hour later he comes back and
roars the tripe out of me. “Gripes,” I
says, “I was trying to tell you this is it
when you dashed off.” He looks at me,
then he says “You blokes out in these
dead-and-alive holes have too much time
to spare.”' Just because I happened to
be waiting there till Sunday to meet me
brother he seemed to think I had nothing
else to do.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: It was a beautiful summer
morning on. the river at Echuca (Vic.) as
the blue dog and the kelpie trotted gaily
on to the wharf ,* carefully inspected a
couple of old boxes, peered with cocked
ears at the noise of the water against the
piles and then sighted an old barrel off
the end of the wharf. The kelpie got
there first, and poked an inquisitive nose
inside, whereupon the red hornets left
their paper nest and registered on that
nose. With a howl the kelpie fell oyer
backwards, made a couple of passes with
his front paws, then sprang up and
plunged into the river, swimming madly
for New South Wales. The blue dog
eyed this remarkable behavior thought-
fully, and was about to give it up when
the last of those hornets, madly seeking
some target, hit him behind the left ear.
The blue dog shrieked, rubbed his head
frantically in the mud, then took to his
scrapers, heading south. As far as is
known, neither hound has met the other
since.
* * * *
“Stanus”: Rats had been making off
with seedling beans, but, although strych-
nine baits were set apd readily taken,
never a dead rodent could be located.
Coincidentally it was noticed that a patch
of parsley suddenly became a favorite
food for some nocturnal visitor. Then
a very wobbly rat was seen gorging on
this plant. A post-mortem showed where
at least one of the baits had gone to. We
put a fine wire fence around the parsley
patch, and after that we frequently re-
trieved the corpse of a rat. Did the ver-
min hit on an antidote?
* «:* * *
“Sailor Bill”: The grass-tree may be
Nature’s notion of an incendiary bomb
(B. 8/12/’43), but for the worst spreader
of fire in heavy grass country the paper-
bark or ti-tree is on its own. Always
found along creeks and gullies, in sum-
mer its grey bark becomes dry and brittle
and tends to break away and fly before
a gust of wind. Touch a good-sized ti-
tree with a match on a warm day and
run for your life before the entire vege-
table becomes smothered with roaring
fire and a downpour of flaming bark
descends upon the surroundings. The
heat is fearful and the smoke as dark as
ink and almost unbearable. When a
good-sized belt of ti-tree becomes fiery
on a windy day burning bark floats over
roads, streams and prepared firebreaks,
while the impenetrable smoke-screen
makes fire-fighting practically impossible.
* * *
“Plane Creek”: Waterholes and creeks
along the C.Q. coast don’t get hot during
the summer months (B. 1 /12/’43), but
the nags go into the water at midday,
drink and then begin walloping the water
with their front feet, as “8.4” described.
We all believe that they’re feeling out
submerged rocks, because as they bash
the water they go in deeper. In some
rocky holes no horses will bathe, but in
others they’ll roll and splash for hours.
We don’t mind ’em having, a bath pro-
vided they refrain from bathing when
they’ve got harness on. What we don’t
like is old nags dying in waterholes in
steep-banked gullies whence we can
neither drag ’em away nor burn ’em 50
yards to windward of our bush dwellings.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Young Bill had done odd
bits of shearing round the place, so
Sandy booked him a season’s run of
sheds up country. Bill left the train at
the terminus, helped push a decrepit
truck through miles of gluey mud, and
some time after midnight arrived at his
first shed. Teamed with a fast man who
invariably left him the cobbler, the kid
plugged through the first day with
secret vows of vengeance, and dragged
through the second and third with the
consolation that the supply of merino
rams couldn’t last for ever. The fourth
day brought ewes ; wrinkled brutes with
hard, yellow wool that defied the cutters
and had to be pushed off. With a burring
machine Bill slaved, sweated, suffered,
agonies of backache, and tallied 55.
Smoke-oh usually found him stretched
on the board willing to sell his soul for
the sleep he never seemed to get. Dossing
with 27 other shearers didn’t worry him
any more than the rain of chaff from the
blokes up aloft, but mooching outside to
dodge the fleas and inside again to get
rid of the mosquitoes he’d collected a
cold that kept him either too hot or too
cold to sleep. By the end of the week
his body rocked with exhaustion and
his mind was numb. “Makin’ out
awright, kid?” inquired Sandy, pausing
to watch the other as he poked mechani-
cally at the last leg some minutes after
the bell. Bill raised glazed and blood-
shot eyes and nodded stupidly. “That’s
it,” congratulated the old hand ; “nuthin’
like pickin’ up a bit o’ easy money, is
there?”
* * * *
“H.H.”: No doubt about Mud Island
(Vic.) being misnamed (B. 17/11/’43).
Some of the best flounder in the State
come from there, for the sole (no pun)
reason that they come off a sand bottom.
Incidentally, the lonely, atoll-like island
was one of the first fishing-grounds in
Port Phillip; in the ’sixties fishermen
travelled there in 19ft. open boats to hook
and net. In 1871 one of these men, D.
Fitzsimmons-, took his family to the island
to reside in a grass-thatched-roof hut
with paling walls and stone floors, and
soon upwards of a dozen fishermen were
living at Woody Point. Flathead, cod and
net fish were the main hauls, and for
ten years these were transported to the
mainland by a duty boat each day. Vege-
table-growing, guano-raining and sheep-
and goat-grazing were quondam activi-
ties which have been allowed to lapse.
Some old-timers swear that the island has
shrunk in size over the last 60 years.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Here’s my entry for the
most ingenious method of fishing used
in Australia. Take a piece of flat wood
12in. by 6in. and not less than fin. thick-
On the underside nail sufficient sheet lead
to sink wood to the bottom. On the top
side nail a couple of dozen fair-sized
hooks, the points of each alternate row
facing the opposite way. Bore a small hole
at top end to take a stout line. The idea
is to bait about half the hooks with
scraps of meat or fish, then toss well out
from the reef, breakwater or any other
favorite habitat of the cray. Having a
lead keel the board sinks with the baited
side on top. Along come the cray in
search of a meal. In browsing over the
board the crustacean, having many vul-
nerable joints in its armor, is almost cer-
tain to get tangled with a hook. And
once one barb enters its struggles to get
away invariably end in its getting hooke
by half a dozen. After which it is simply
a matter of hauling the line in. Usually
the cray gets well hooked in the under-
belly ; its method of feeding bring B 1
right down flat on the hooks.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; An old Murray lover
records his discoveries on a recent trip:
At Murray Bridge (S.A.) was the Murrun h
tied up, her engines and wheel gone, now
tine residence for Captain Murray Ranuai,
son of the W.R. who put the first steamer o*
the river. He had a copy of W.R.’s diaiy.
noting the various stages in the building OI
historic Mary Ann, her launching and her nr
trials. Also tied up was the hulk of the
Trafalgar, sister ship to the Rodney, burnt j
shearers in the ’nineties. Morgan (S.A.) wa
port of silent ships—old hookers tied uffig
with nothing to do; among them the Wild
Davies, Success, Pevensey, Oscar W., Rel l®f
Gem and Marion; some still in commissi
others waiting for death. At Mildura i (V.
were the Rothbury, the finest towing ey ,
Murray knew, the Avoca (Captain Dan T .
who runs pleasure trips), Hero (now h w 0
firewood at Echuca), Ruby and ‘’* c h eard ° f
others. The Murrumbidgee was last nea is
running wool in the Bid gee; the Invi noW
logging at Koondrook; the Austrahen i
above Yarrawonga weir and w 1 ne [ogs
down again; the Adelaide is stdl running
to Echuca, where she was built m be
Korowa lies rotting at Morgan, she useo
the Lady Darling. . rnia «t
That ought to stir some dormau
memories.
THE OLD AND NEW.
As, keeping their tally of time, tall clocks
The hour of midnight tell.
Out of the house the Old Year goes
With few to bid him farewell.
While lonesome and late he passes out,
A figure bowed and grey,
No happy groups at the doorway stand
To hearten him on his way.
Cold-eyed are they that watch him go,
Keen-cold as winter frost.
For care and grief had been their lot
Since he its threshold crossed.
For little, indeed,Jiad those housefolk
known
Of bright, unshadowed light
Since he came there to bide with them
A year ago tonight.
His coming then with a lifted glass
And words of cheer they’d hailed.
For much had they placed faith in him
To heal a world that ailed.
Thus, watching him go, they stand a while,
A muted while, and then,
Just as the midnight hour chimes out,
Take heart and smile again.
For lo! as the Old Year, having done
His twelvemonth’s tenancy,
Steps out, a bright New Year steps in
With a song of Peace to be.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Its no use gettin' impatient—We ain't goin' till I finish Muriel's hair!"
“Flock Ram”: The ram sales were on
and all our s.-w. Q. districts were repre-
sented. Joe Hurst’s draft comprised
three fine stud rams and 50 selected
flock rams rising two years. His stud
has been bred to one Peppin line, and
the sheep are the big-framed type with
even front folds and an absence of body
or breech wrinkles, the wool being a
shafty 60/64’s, a joy to touch. To every-
one’s surprise old Tom, the pub yardman,
bought one of the stud rams and several
flock rams. To my inquiry about his
plans he said in a voice wheezing excite-
ment: “I’ve spent my last bob, but it’ll
do me. They’re for my son Ron.
He’s in New Guinea and I’m getting a
bit of a place together for him. Ain’t
every boy will come home to a ready-
made stud. I had to sell needles and
cottons when / was discharged in ’nine-
teen.” Our district feels proud of old
Tom.
ap j|{ *
“Bo”: “Silent” Peters, who ran 150
acres of mixed stuff on the river flats,
was a bachelor with a conscience. He
could have boasted that he had never
broken his word, but “Silent nevex
boasted, and anyway it would have en-
tailed speaking more than four consecu-
tive words. He had borrowed a set of
harrows from his neighbor Connolly,
promising to return them by five o clock
on Friday. On Thursday, after tor-
rential rain, the river came down a
banker. It kept rising, and by midday
Friday every place along the flats was
under one of the biggest floods the dis-
trict had ever experienced. At half-past
five the Connollys, sitting on the roof
and clinging to the chimney, beheld a
figure battling towards them on a raft.
As it drew near they recognised “Silent,”
and on the raft were the harrows. The
humor of it struck Connolly, and with
difficulty he turned a stern face to his
neighbor. “Y’re a bit late, aren’t y’,
‘Silent?’ ” he said in mock-serious tone.
“I expected you’d have them harrers back
at five o’clock, like y’ said. It’s twenty-
five to six.” “I’d have had ’em here
before,” said “Silent” in the longest
speech of his life, “on’y it took me half an
hour of divin’ before I could locate ’em!”
* * * *
“Anthropo”; Although south-west
W.A. is one of the best-watered regions
of the continent, it is a curious fact that
none of the tribes thereabouts, mostly be-
longing to the Bibbulmun people, knew
anything of the art of swimming. Nor
did they have the remotest idea of a boat
or a canoe. To cross any of the numer-
ous and often deep streams they looked
for a ford, often marching a score of
miles when a swim of about 100 yards
or less would have taken them across.
Yet they were daring waders, often walk-
ing into swamps and lagoons chin-deep
to retrieve wild- duck brought down by
kylie or throwing-stick. Sometimes in
such wading they wodld get beyond their
depth, in which event the one in danger
would make a floundering' stroke or two
.sufficient to enable him or her to regain
a footing. But not even to save their lives
could one of them have swum 20 yards
across a stream. Yet farther north in the
Gascoyne region, where rivers even a cen-
tury ago seldom flowed, almost every
native for quite a distance inland was a
swimmer. It was from the Gascoyne
and Shark Bay tribes that divers were
recruited for the early exploitation of the
pearlshell beds of King Sound, Exmouth
Gulf and other nor’-west inlets. Put
overboard from dinghies attached to the
pearling luggers, these dusky fellows, men
and women both, went down to bottom
at six fathoms and more with ease.
* * * *
“Naturala”; After reading “Pat Ater’s”
account of the scare that clutches bird
life in the Blue Mountain region where
he lives (B. 10/11/’43) I went out and
had another look at my chooks. Four ,
twin-engined ’planes were at the moment
playing daisy-chain flying in n 15-mile cir-
cuit, so low that often I could see the
features of the observer in the astral
dome, and with a roar that kept the chap
next door on night shift from getting a
wink of sleep. But the fowls weren’t in
the least concerned. Once, it is true, they
used to throw somersaults at the sound
of ’planes and their eggs were often full
of bloodspots. Now, even when I intro-
duce'some new stock from country farms
where ’planes are rare, the newcomers
seem to learn right in the first day that
the huge bird rushing down overhead is
just a big noisy bluffer with no punch at
all. But let a hawk fly overhead and a
chorus of alarmed protest will rise.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; The point I liked about
“Lower TopsTs” account of those abos.
fishing in Shark Bay (B. 10/11/’43) was
that, having taken a* fair toll of the
school, they let the rest go. Reminds
me of being in the same locality and
listening to a bloke from S. Queens-
land telling of a glorious shoot of
brush turkey, and also emphasising
that bird’s curious habit of remaining
on its perch once it is settled for the
night, even though death may be raining
Ground. Coming on a perch of turkey
in the moonlight these sportsmen opened
fire with shotguns, only desisting when
ammunition ran out. “We filled the
springcart, we had that many. Taking a
couple for ourselves we tried to sell the
rest; then we tried to give them away,
and even then we had nearly half a cart-
load going bad on us, so we dumped
them in the bush just outside the town.
And, blime, we’d hardly gone a mile
when the John comes after us, makes us
go back and burn ’em. That was a shoot
all right. . And, do y’ know, I was
through that district not so long ago and
there wasn’t a turkey to be seen!”
* * * *
“Greybox”: I don’t think, as “Ox-
mead” asserts (B. 8/12/’43), that it is the
qualifying adjective “bright” that acquits
Adam Lindsay Gordon of the charge of
libel against our flowers and birds in the
couplet referred to ; it is the absence of
the word “all” that does so. Had Gordon
written
Where all blossom is scentless
And songless all birds
libel there certainly would be; but we
must admit that we have blossom both
bright and drab that is scentless, and
birds in each class that are certainly not
songsters. Must a poet never speak the
truth? Taking exception to the couplet
referred to is as stupid as the attitude of
those Canadians who howled at Kipling
for dubbing Canada “Our Lady of the
Snows.”
« * * ■*
“Arev”: Bill Jupp scowled as the dirty-
looking swagman came slouching up the
drive, lazily swishing flies from his face
with a leafy twig. “I don’t know how
these blokes dodge Man-power,” he
growled. “Any man that can work but
won’t ought to be let starve.” Ignoring
Bill’s baleful eye the sundowner mooched
up to the verandah. “Any chance of a
feed, boss?” he said. “Yes, but what
d’y’ propose t’ give in return. Bill said,
glancing significantly at the woodheap.
The swaggie turned to look at the heap,
and turned away with a P a i ne “ I® o *'
Then from his pocket he pulled a match-
box. ‘ This is what HI give in return,
boss, ’he said, leering, this box of seed.
Bill scratched his head. What is it.
Somethmg valuable. The swaggie
opened the box and peered lovingly at
the contents. Well, 1 wouldn t say that,
boss, but I think you d rather have it
than see me
over a crop paddock, you know. It s
worth something to me, seeing I’ve carried
it 20 miles or more. They call it Patter-
son’s curse. You can have it in return
fer a good square feed.” 'Bill stared hard,
He knew that the man could easily carry
out his threat, and that seed could do a
lot of damage. “All right,” said Bill,
“give me the seed and you can have your
fill of a feed.” The man grinned and
handed over the seed. Bill went inside,
put the matchbox carefully into the blaz-
ing stove, then took a heavy bucket to
the verandah. “I’ve burnt the seed,” he
said. “Here’s y’r tucker. Eat up.” The
swagman scowled. “Whatcher mean?
That’s the pig bucket.” Bill nodded,
“That’s right. But the pigs won’t mind.”
* * * *
“Fancar”: To those who doubt that
the bird which returned to the Ark with
a green twig in its mouth was a dove,
let me suggest it was a currawong. Doves
regurgitate the food for their young and
are not seen carrying even nesting
material, When other birds carry nest-
ing material it is always dead and dry,
but the cheeky currawong in a pepperina
will pull off whole twigs laden with
berries and take them a considerable
distance.
**, * *
“Bogaduck”: I have been over_ this
contment a lot lately, and ff
live If I had the job I’d start by plant-
ing thousands of tree-ferns in sou’-west
W A In exchange, I’d shift a lot of the
West’s glorious wildflowers to spots with
a similar climate in the eastern States,
and I’d see that the jarrah—king of Aus-
tralian hardwoods—was also planted ex-
tensively in the east. To the creeks of
WA I’d take the Victorian blackfish,
most toothsome of native fresh-water fish,
and in return I’d take to the streams of
the east the marron, biggest and
tastiest of our yabbies, and at present
found only in a few rivers in W.A. Up
in North Westralia you have what
those familiar with the*big-game fishing-
of the world declare to be the
finest grounds of all, but one thing spoils
the picture: it hasn’t the true “tropic
shore” atmosphere because of the absence
of the coconut palm. That coastline
could be improved and beautified if it
were lined with groves of palms. Then
there are those vast areas of the Inland
where overstocking, erosion and rabbits
“Boy—did we make that bottle of whisky look silly!”
are fast creating a sterile waste ; how that
country would stage a comeback if strips
of it were fenced against vermin in a
good season to allow the natural bush
to regenerate! An idle dream? No! I’m
a practical bloke. There are hundreds of
enthusiasts like me who’d jump at tne
chance to do work of that kind under the
direction of a body such as the C.S.I.R.
when the Army doesn’t want our services
any longer, and as for the cost—well,
what we now spend on the war every
day would pay for a year of that kind
of thing. 1
“Anthropo”: In his concern for the
luckless Lake Tyers abos. suffering from
t.b. “Si Anu” (B. 17/11 /’43) suggests
that nobody knows what to do about it.
Hubert Murray would have been able to
gj ve a jj t q e enlightenment. He it was
w j lo introduced that shocking Papuan
| aw ma king it a punishable offence for
any native, male or female, to wear
c f o thing above the waistline. Pulmonary
com pi a i n ts, brought on mainly by swath-
j n „ a body with thousands of years of
nude ancestry behind it in wool and cot-
kave done m ore to reduce the abo.
p o p U i a tj on than all the other causes put
together, not excluding bullets,
# * * *
- B . 4 ”: Consider these attributes o£
.., . T
b ush animals, silence and vigilance. In
the wild sound and motion postulate
extinction for the casual. Most forms
of life are inimical to some other form,
and alertness, with its corollary, ability
to freeze, is specifically acute. Keen ears
detect unwonted sounds. Watchful eyes
immediately note any sudden transition
from shadow to sunshine on the part of
those whose protective coloration con-
forms to their environment. An infallible
intuition informs- the watching animal
0 f its own recognition by an enemy, and
it then either melts imperceptibly into its
surroundings, to vanish discreetly, or flees
in terror. By some mysterious process
of telepathy this fear is communicated
instantaneously to contiguous life, which
reacts to instinct. As silence is the chief
protection of the hunted, so it is the best
weapon of the hunter. The still hunter,
blending into his surroundings, will
achieve greater success with camera or
rifle than the questing tyro revealing his
presence to the watchful eye and listening
ear.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: “Pat Ater” (B.
8/12/’43) is quite obviously unaware of
what a “steer” means in the Australian
cattleman’s acceptance of the term (I know
thg Condse Oxford defines it as “young
Qf QX kind especiaUy cas trated bul-
lock,raised for bee ?„ o ?£S^
mtely means a young bullock. If Pat Ater
was employed by the owner of a fattening
property to buy steers would he feeljusti-
fled in purchasing a line of young bulls /
What I endeavored to point out to him
was that when the Knife is used the brand
is applied. Thus the cleanskm ceases to
be, and the steer (or if it is a grown
beast, the “stag’) evolves. I am not at
all impressed by the “superb riders whose
bushcraft was learnt withm 100 miles of
Sydney and who, with 3000-odd feet
sheer cliffs and precipices to assist them
(a good fence or a cliff is better than two
men), made such a poor job ot tneu
periodical mustering that many young
bulls and heifers escaped the roun " U P-
The Queensland run from which I am
writing is 32,000 acres—heavy scrub and
forest for the most part. The presence
of an 18-months-old bull or heifer clean-
skin on the place after the spring muster
would give the boss a fit. In my oy-
hood the holdings in this locality were all
hundreds of square miles in area, an
except in vine-scrub patches or on aban-
doned blocks the cleanskms were kept
down. We did not make our mustering
“while tucker and time permitted
Tucker and time were made to fit the job.
The same is the practice today. Cattle
are too valuable to be left running un-
branded in the bush, and the riders I am
famiharwithare too
there, though God knows not one of
them would attempt to yard (beg pardon !
corral) a charging cleanskm by himself
when he was with a mob that could
finite easil y have been yarded with him.
THE TWO BIRDS.
Thin, pale, and unsubstantial as a cloud
The young moon floats above the hills a
feather ,
Flung from the white cockatoo or morning,
which flew ~ , ,
Over grass burnt brown and gold by the summer
weather;
Over a gum-tree frieze, a black lace mantle
Drawn by the hills about their naked shoulders.
Clean-cut against a flawless sky; hills rounded
And featureless as smooth sea-polished boulders.
Over the valleys, the vines, the wheatfields tum-
To their bronze age of harvest; oyer these plains
The morning sped on white wings. But the
parrot sunset , ,
Shall fly this way tonight, he, the flame-breasted
Bird of evening; and the sky shall be dyed with
his passing.
Rich color gleam from waters where he has
rested.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Australia at War . . .
QYe _Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
o
5:
Q
O
73
o
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE AND DAIRY STOCK
'7 li-Gxt-O^
qJS\JL
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
Ct.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
0.P.0. Box 712 F, Adelaide.
O.P.C). Box 758 K, Brisbane.
0.P.0. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Trucking Sheep.
“Sheepo”: Losses in trucks can be re-
duced to a minimum if graziers will re-
member that deaths are due to two main
causes, overloading and lack of attention
en route. If sheep affc hustled and poked
along they’ll jam up in a truck and give
the impression there’s room for a few
more, but once they settle down it will
invariably be found that the extra few
put in have brought about overcrowding.
Give them plenty of room, especially
woollies, and if there are a few left over
it’s better to take them home or sell to
the local butcher than overcrowd.
The train drover must be a reliable
man. If the sheep are travelling at night
it is essential that he inspect the trucks
closely at every stop the train makes.
Merely giving the sheep a once-over
every now and then isn’t enough. When
sheep are loaded without overcrowding
the train drover’s work is lessened.
The drover needs a light long pole or
cane with a hook to assist in getting cast
sheep to their feet. All the poking in the
world won’t get badly-cast sheep up, and
only causes bruising. When a number
get down the drover should persuade the
guard to delay the train until the sheep
are straightened out. If this can’t be
done he should remain in the truck until
the next stop ; it might be uncomfortable
travelling, but it will probably mean sav-
ing a few sheep.
A grazier who trucks sheep away is
looking for losses unless he sends a
drover along, but it’s remarkable the
number who think the guard should do
the job.
Spinifex Country.
“N.E.L.”; In North Queensland it has
been under pastoral occupation for
almost a century. Being drought-resis-
tant, spinifex remains more or less green
over long, dry periods, and with it grow
plenty of edible shrubs—currant-bush,
dead finish, silky oak, vine tree, leopard
wood, whitewood and others.
Only soft spinifex has feeding value,
and the types vary considerably in pala-
tability to sheep. They are hard to iden-
tify, and the safer and simpler way is to
note the soil. On sandy soils spinifex will
be good—a certain amount of gravel in
soil may not adversely affect nutritive
value—but on stony and rocky ground
there is no feeding value. Have seen
starving sheep walk a mile over young,
green (recently burnt) spinifex on rocky
ground, almost , without putting their
heads down.
Generally speaking, spinifex country
is best used for relief purposes. If spelled
during good seasons the edible shrubs
multiply and produce much fodder, and
on this, in conjunction with spinifex,
large numbers of sheep may be carried
and will do well. Continually stocked,
edible shrubs become exhausted and the
sheep on spinifex alone lead a hard life.
The wool tends to fineness in staple, is
clean and likely to reach top prices in
the grease. The cut is somewhat light
and the spinifex sheepman is easily
beaten in “return per head” by the man
on the richer Mitchell grass country.
Spinifex seeds heavily after a wet
season, and the seed is excellent horse
feed —horses on it are almost equal to
corn-fed. I’ve always regarded germina-
tion of the seed as doubtful. The princi-
pal method of spreading is by sending out
runners (not unlike the strawberry plant),
which take root all round the parent
tussock. When burnt off the runners are
consumed and the small rootlet plants
spring up with every appearance of seed-
lings.
Burning in moderation is very neces-
sary. It makes a fierce fire with intense
heat, and will destroy rootlets if the
“Mum ses t' drop what y’re doin' an' come an' ’ave a feed !”
ground be dry. Burn 24 to 48 hours after
the first summer storms, as the damp
ground protects the roots and they will
shoot up again, even without further
rain. Burn a portion only each year, as
spinifex takes three years to grow suffi-
cient body to carry a fire, and you want
a proportion of new growth each year.
Rearing Calves.
“Kiwi”; If the calf’s doing well, sepa-
rate it from its mother within 12 hours.
Left longer, it’s harder to teach it to
drink, and the cow gets upset when it’s
taken away. Take three or four pints
of warm milk fresh from the mother and
use the fingers to start it drinking.
Watch for scours. At first signs, miss
a feed and put the calf on to half the
usual quantity of milk diluted with an
equal amount of warm water. In simple
cases add one dessertspoon castor oil
to the milk. When the bucket-fed calf
drinks too rapidly the milk forms into
a hard curd on the stomach. Limewater
will soften the curds. Place a piece of
unslaked lime about the size of an egg
in the bottom of a bucket, add a little
water and stir into a paste. Pour in two
gallons of water, stir and allow to settle.
Use a tablespoon of clear solution to a
pint per feed, according to age of calf.
During the first 10 days don’t feed
calves more than 11b. milk per 101 b. live-
weight. Jerseys, Guernseys, Ayrshires
and Shorthorns of 50, 60, 70 and 80
pounds liveweight need 51b., 61b., 71b. and
81b. respectively. Divide the quantity
into two or more equal feeds per day.
Increase by a pint per day each week
till the calf’s getting 1£ gallons at six to
eight weeks ; vigorous animals will need
two gallons a day.
To rear calves on whole milk and skim,
feed as follows: First few days, colos-
trum, 31b. to 51b. or 2\ pints to four
pints per day; three to ten days, whole
milk, 51b. to 81b. or four pints to 6| pints,
depending on size; 10 to 20 days,
whole milk, increase 11b, per day each
week; 20' to 30 days, whole and
skim, substitute skim at rate of lib. per
day; 30 to 120 days, skim-milk, in-
crease by lib. per day each week to a
maximum of 181 b. to 201 b. (two gallons
per day); 120 days, skim, weaning may
commence; 120 to 180 days, skim, if
milk plentiful keep feeding until calf is
weaned at six months.
Carrot-growing.
“Curlew”: Very heavy crops are
gathered ip the Colac district (Vic.); 30
tons per acre have been harvested. The
soil, volcanic, is some of the best in the
world and sells at about £45 per acre.
Weeds, however, must ’be given no
quarter, as in the earlier stages of growth
the young carrot plants are easily
checked. Even with fallowing and weed
destruction before sowing it is almost an
impossibility to escape hand weeding.
Victorian Department of Agriculture has
been experimenting with methods used
in America, and has found spraying with
power kerosene to be most satisfactory.
Used neat it destroys all kinds of
grasses and weeds and causes little or no
damage to carrot seedlings. But they
will not stand the spray until two true or
“fdm” leaves have developed, and the
spray must not be used for three months
before harvesting or they will retain a
kerosene flavor.
Not every sample of power kerosene is
safe ; it must be tried on a few feet of
row before it is used on the crop. A fine,
misty spray is best. With the weed
trouble overcome carrots can be grown
in almost any good soil with reasonable
management.
In New Zealand large quantities are
grown for stock feed, Cannel Bros., of
Rangitaiki Plains, Bay of Plenty, farm
180 acres, which carries over 100 cows
and several horses. Yearly they grow
(for stock feed) two acres of red carrots,
seven of white carrots and one or two
of mangels. For the carrots they prepare
the land well, and mould it into ridges
27in. apart. Fertiliser is topdressed at
the rate of seven bags to the acre—four
bags of super., one of blood and bone,
one of bonedust and one 30 p.c. potash.
After this the land is gone over with the
ridging plough, which splits the ridges,
re-forming fresh ridges over what had
been the furrow and burying the broad-
cast fertiliser.
A machine specially imported is used
to sow the seed. One horse draws it,
sowing two rows at a time, 27in. apart.
A concave roller firms the seed drill and
deposits the seed, and a level roller firms
and levels the soil. Under such condi-
tions rapid growth is made, while weed
growth on the ridges is minimised. As
the rows are 27in. apart horse culture is
possible. Red carrots go 30 tons per
acre, white carrots 50 tons. The extra-
ordinary heavy manuring is a special
feature, and makes the plot capable of
growing very heavy crops for a long
time.
Timber Killing.
“Plane Creek”; I prefer to stick to my
winter poisoning of trees (B. 3/11 /*43),
and I know plenty of blokes with the
same idea. Nobody around here (Sarina,
N.Q.) would think of poisoning trees dur-
ing summer, when the sap is up. Ring-
barking is usually done in summer, how-
ever, but even then there is always
marked suckering, which explodes the
notion that the stump must perish when
all the tree’s stored starch is trapped
above the ring.
I’ve known 50 p.c. of summer ring-
barked bloodwoods (big saplings) to
sucker ; in smaller bloodwoods percentage
was higher; stringybarks felled * for
timber almost all suckered. Our summer
rainfall (50in. or more) has much to do
with this suckering. We poison when
the sap is going down (May to July).
The weather is then very dry, and the
trees die cleanly—messmate, bluegurn,
poplar gum, stringybark and bloodwood.
We chop down very small trees and pour
the poison into the stumps. There’s no
suckering after a fire either.
Hints for the Farm.
“Burra Bill”: The statement (B.
20/10/’43) that tree poisoning should be
done when the sap is up is a common
fallacy. The sap is not down at one
season and up in another, and the more
rapid movement of the sap in the grow-
ing season affects the outside sapwood
only.
Walls exposed to west and
south-west are more likely to be affected
by driving rains than the others. Where
inside walls show dampness and appear-
ances on the outside are of no conse-
quence a mixture of equal quantities of
pitch and tar, well heated and well
brushed into the wall when thoroughly
dry, will do. The job should be done in
summer, and all loose mortar or cement
removed to permit the dressings to pene-
trate. A second application the follow-
ing year may be necessary on walls of
porous stone. As pitch and tar are in-
flammable, great care is needed in heating
the mixture over an open fire.
“H.C.”: Celery seedlings from Decem-
ber-January sowing can be planted out
from February to early March. Make
trenches 12in. deep, with a good layer
of farm manure at the bottom ; cover
with soil to a depth of 3in., and place
the seedlings in 9in. apart. If the soil
that’s removed is neatly placed by the
side of the trench, lettuces or radishes
grown on the ridge will mature before
the celery. When growing celery in beds,
work in a mixture of four parts blood
and bone, two parts super, and one part
potash at |lb. per square yard. Add a
heavy dressing of farm manure before
planting and set seedlings 12in. apart.
“Hux”: Leeks do well in all soils
except light sands. Put blood and bone
on at 11b. to 20ft. of the row and work
well into the soil. Make a trench about
4in. deep, allow 12in. to 15in. between
rows and space plants sin. to 6in apart.
As the plants grow, cultivate and fill I* l
the trench to blanch the stems, gradually
piling the earth up higher. Near
maturity occasionally dose with liqu 1(1
manure. Leeks need lots of water.
“Plane Creek”: Large rocks embedded
in the earth are a curse in hillside culti-
vation. Dig some of the soil from around
’em and make a log fire on top about
noon and keep it burning well until sun-
down. Allow the fire to die down in the
evening. When the cool night air strikes
the heat-expanded rocks they’ll contract
and split.


,M* k\& MAP *
“
J /WINNIPEG t
\ j;
'pCy'' A V' S CHICAGO /T.
VANCOUVER A. '^ ANCI S C 6
m
£SV..OARwIN
weuington
■'•‘V 690
r/
c-
CAIRO*-- \\
VALPARAISO
»*ia
puenos
RIO DE JANEIRO'/
6 ’oo
Plotted by W. H. Maze
- fffillt#. A
f %S£STo^\\# v
Waters of
Copyright
QANTAS, pioneers in Australian aviation, offer a new
concept of global geography from the Australian
view point.
With the advent of peace the Air Age will begin, and
the geography of the future has been reshaped by
Air Transport.
The new map shows great circle courses (shortest
distances by air) as lines radiating through Sydney.
The concentrics give equal distances from Sydney in<
statute miles.
Qan ,
EMPIRE AIRWAYS'. 1
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now . Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
19580-11.4*
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Strategy in the Pacific.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Walter Lippmann.)
The action in the Gilberts places the
old controversy about strategy in an
entirely new light. For it discloses the
fact that our real strategy in the Pacific is
dictated by the Navy, and that it follows
the classical pattern of American naval
strategy in the Pacific.
What Admiral Nimitz is undertaking
now is in essence what the Navy always
intended to do in a war with Japan—
namely, to gain command of the western
Pacific and make the Japanese island
empire subject to American sea-power.
The Navy never intended to fight the
main action against Japan from Aus-
tralia ; we have had to fight from Aus-
tralia only because our unpreparedness in
1941 compelled us to retreat to Aus-
tralia. The Navy has never agreed to
the idea that the main attack, upon Japan
could be launched from the distant and
inconvenient places upon which disasters
and defeats compelled us to fall back.
For this reason the whole controversy
about the size of the forces assigned to
General Mac Arthur has been fictitious.
For while this Controversy has been aired
in Congress and in the press, the actual
concentration of American power for the
main challenge to Japan has been going
on secretly in another theatre —in the
theatre where the Navy has always meant
to make its main effort.
U.S.A. and the Empire.
(From a Baltimore “Sun” editorial .)
When the British drew near the end of
their resources we [U.S.A.] established
Lend-Lease not to aid the British Empire
as such, but to aid the British Empire as
a people by whose victory we would
remain secure and by whose defeat we
would be put in peril. As the days passed
we seized opportunity after opportunity
to aid, as in the instance in which we
turned over 50 destroyers, glossing the
transaction as a trade for naval stations.
By the time the Japanese attacked and
forced us into war we had flouted the
rules of neutrality and were in fact non-
belligerent allies of the British, and our
flouting moved in very close ratio to the
fright given us by Hitler’s victories and
Britain’s dangers.
It will not be different in the world of
tomorrow. We shall need the British
Empire if we are to live in security with-
out maintaining ourselves as an armed
camp. True, we do not live in such bitter
need of the British fleet, for we are now
far stronger in our navy, but we are safer
while the Empire’s flag is on the seas.
And a new and dire necessity has
appeared in the terrifyingly swift expan-
sion of aerial warfare.
We have learned that it is not nearly
enough to worry about the disposition of
Bermuda and Jamaica. Should the
Empire collapse we must worry about
British Dominions and islands and bases
all over the world. We dare not allow
them to pass into other hands. If the
Empire collapsed we should have to fight*
if necessary, for most of them, and some
we might not win.
It is in our [American] self-interest,
then, to stand up to life as it is. We
cannot risk the destruction or disintegra-
tion of the Empire, and we must pay the
price of giving it security. The debate
ought to be on the manner and form of
that security, not on the question of
giving it.
Russian Army Changes.
(From an article in “Look” by Mark Gayn. )
The Red Army is no longer Red ; it is
Russian. After a year of blood and
suffering and defeats the Kremlin realised
that men fight better for their homes and
native soil than they do for a world revo-
lution.
No longer do commissars lead their
men into attack with the ringing cry:
Za Mirovuyu Revolutsiyu (For World
Revolution). The commissars themselves
are gone, and the battle-cry now is Za
Rodinu (For Motherland).
Three years ago no Russian hero was
a hero unless he carried in his pocket a
party membership card. Today Marx,
Engels and Lenin are jostled by older,
purely Russian saints —Prince Alexander
Nevsky, who defeated the Teutonic
Knights seven centuries ago; Prince
Kutuzov, who defeated Napoleon, and
two czars, Ivan the Terrible and Peter
the Great. «
The signs of this change are on fevery
side. The newspaper “Pravda,” Koran
of Communists, speaks more often of
fatherland and patriotism than it does o
Bolshevism. And the Red Army s daily,
“Red Star, has banished from i s mas
head the revolutionary slogan. Prole-
tanans of All Countries, Unite.
m oT C Le n n g S
atheist, would turn in his grave it he
could see today’s appeals to Red soldiers
to avenge the desecration of Russia’s
churches I have even read a vehement
article attacking the Germans for defiling
ikons.
These phenomena, and more, are ex-
pressions of a new nationalism—ironi-
cally the same nationalism which only
Me ca e nSr a ”'
nationalism.
A Tough War Job.
(Condensed from a “This Week” article by
Frederic Sondern.)
In the private room of a little inn on
the coast of France ra Gcmaj officers
were sitting round a.table, drinking and
talking. They were the cream of.Go g
Luftwaffe. As heavy bombardment
squadron leaders during the blitz, the
six had learned so much about England’s
targets and defences and about R.A.F.
tactics that they were assigned to train
and brief other commanders. They were
very good at it.
This was their weekly celebration. The
table was loaded with bottles, and they
were so noisy that not one of them
noticed the silently opened door or the
British officer with the tommy-gun until
he stood before them. One of the six
just had time to rip out an oath before
the gun began spitting. An instant later
a second Englishman stepped forward
and deftly ran through the pockets of
each dead Nazi, Twenty seconds after
the door had first opened it was closed
again just as silently.
The major considers this raid one of
his neatest jobs. He uses it as an example
in his classes for his British commandos.
All his pupils have already passed the
normal commando course. As he lec-
tures there is a table at his side on which
lies every imaginable type of lethal in-
strument, from a tommy-gun to a deli-
cately balanced throwing-knife.
The major is a friendly, red-faced,
roly-poly little man with a quick smile
and an irresistible laugh. Horn-rimmed
glasses perch precariously on a somewhat
battered nose, and his voice cracks under
the strain of enthusiasm. But the appear-
ance is deceptive.
“This is a school for murder,” the
major tells his class.
The raid was prepared with the
meticulous attention to detail that the
major always insists on. British Intelli-
gence had spotted these men as particu-
larly dangerous to England. Operatives
carefully studied the Nazis’ habits,
learned all about the weekly carousal,
even sent London a sketch of the private
room. The commandos, landed from
a submarine, knew exactly where they
were going, and they didn’t have to stop
once until they got to the door.
“When opening a door,” the major
tells his men, “never kick it open the
way they*do in the movies. Noise brings
people to their feet, startled and alert.
Ease it open, as a waiter would. Then
you’ll have that indispensable moment,
which means life or death to you, to look
around and decide what to do next.
Don’t waste it on dramatics. Never
be tempted to say ‘Good evening, gentle-
men,’ or anything stupid like that. It
may look wonderful in print, and may
be very British, but it will only get you
an obituary. Any word from you breaks
the shock of surprise.
“What you do next is governed by
certain rules. The British officer who
did the shooting had them down pat.
There were the six Nazis, as expected.
The British officer used only two shots for


Si
m
>- A /
The shape of things to come is being
formed to-day! In the sky ... on sea and land .. .
and in the quickening beat of war production, the
tempo of Victory is already ringing in Axis ears.
But, without money, the war effort must come to a
stop machines cannot work; nor ships sail; nor
planes fly. Lend your money and lend it now!
Invest in National Savings Bonds and War Savings
Certificates. JSnlist your money in Active Service .
Inserted by the Proprietors of
' BREKS TROUSERS
of
TOP DOG MEN’S WEAR
SOVEREIGN HATS
w:- •
life
V/-'
2^
pv
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5065 O
each man —l2 rounds in exactly six
seconds.”
After the major’s theories are firmly
fixed in his pupils’minds, they go to work
in the “execution shed.” In this building
are rooms, halls and stairways of
various shapes and sizes. Plywood
dummies—attached to wires manipulated
from a central control board—sit be-
hind tables, lie on beds, crouch in door-
ways. They can be made to jump up,
walk, run or mill around.
The pupil enters, tommy-gun in hand,
with the major right behind him. A
shadowy figure suddenly runs toward him
in a darkened hallway ; another pops up
at the head of stairs ; another jumps
out of a doorway. In every room —
some dark, some dim, some brightly lit
—the dummies act differently. The
student must learn to shoot from under
tables, from behind beds, up a staircase
and down, from every angle and every
position—most of them uncomfortable,
The first few tours through the eerie
realism of the “shed” are almost as
nerve-shattering as a real raid. But little
by little the pupil learns to deal with
every situation in a split second with a
minimum of ammunition. In the final
test, the pupil—alone—has to go through
a series of the toughest situations the
major can devise, in a certain number
of minutes, and put at least one bullet,
but no more than two, into the vital
region of every dummy he sees.
British and Americans make the best
pupils. Continental Europeans whose
families have been brutally .murdered
have plenty of hatred for the enemy,
But hate, says the major, doesn’t make a
good gunman. “It’s the man with cold
precision that I want—like the American
gangster ”
° The major long ago won an inter-
national reputation as a specialist in small
arms. He taught the officers of the
Special Branch of Scotland Yard the
technique of the fast draw and shooting
£r °” ;h „ e h'P-
anything, he says, until he went to the
United States. J. Edgar Hoover was
organising his epic war against gangdom
and sent for the major as the best small-
arms technician he could find. The major
spent nine years with the F. 8.1. and the
police of New York, Chicago and San
Francisco, and he decided that from the
purely military point of view the gangster
had something worth learning. Accord-
ingly he consulted Johnny Torrio on the
merits of the sawed-off shotgun. He
conferred with Dion O’Bannion about the
tactics of his bodyguards. From the
Touhy gang he learned kidnapping
methods. In addition, he investigated the
techniques of the big, well-planned bank,
warehouse, truck and railroad robberies.
The more he learned the more convinced
he was that gangster methods would be
of value in war-time.
After Dunkirk, when the commandos
were born, the major’s ideas came into
their own. Lord Mountbatten and his
men quickly discovered that their losses
were far smaller if they followed the
major’s rules, which cover everything
from a ban on uncovered luminous wrist
watches to the best method of climbing
creaky stairs. (Put your feet down as
close to the wall end as you can and a
stair will seldom squeak.)
Most of all the major insists on what
he calls “gunmanship.” Most English-
men, good with a* rifle, dislike and dis-
trust the revolver. But after a few weeks
of training the major’s average pupil can
draw like a flash, shoot with either hand
or both, and put six shots into a playing
card at 20 feet.
On the subject of the tommy-gun the
major becomes almost lyrical. “You
don’t fire this gun,” he says. “You play
on it. That’s why it’s called the Chicago
piano. You have to have rhythm ” And
he demonstrates by drilling six targets,
irregularly spaced on the range, with
exactly two bullets each in a single
sweeping burst of fire.
The major has tried out most of his
techniques himself on expeditions into
enemy territory by submarine and para-
chute. Wherever he has paid a visit, the
Nazis have lost strategic personnel. He
himself has never even been scratched.
He is proud of that, and considers it a
proof of his theories.
The military gangster of the major’s
imagination has become the super-com-
mando. From now on the great of
Hitler’s Empire will not sleep peacefully
in even the most carefully-guarded beds.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
In Poland Roosevelt-Churchill support the
conservative Government-in-exile, the land-
owning group. Stalin is backing the peasant-
led “partisan” movement. There are elements
of civil war in this developing situation.”
—“United States News.”
* * * *
If Japan is beaten by the summer of 1945
or even by 1946, the most remarkable feat in
the history of naval warfare —fighting success-
fully an enemy 7000 to 10,000 miles away—•
will have been achieved by the United States.
—Washington syndicate writer David Lawrence.
* * *. *
Air Marshal Sir Richard Peck, speaking at
Southampton, said that on a big R.A.F. raid
every man who took part delivered half a ton
of explosives, and in the whole operation
100,000 to 120,000 were engaged. Against that
there would be engaged perhaps nearly
1,000,000 Germans who would otherwise be
taking part in some other direction in the war
effort’. Bomber losses were now under five per
cent. —London “Times.”
* * * *
A trank and widely advertised understanding
that the United States and the British Empire
would act together for mutual defence would be
a guarantee of mutual safety. We would both
be safe from Russia, for instance, which no
doubt will want to expand after this war; and
conversely Russia, as the world’s biggest land
Power, would be safe from us. The setup
would make the notion of a war between Russia
and the English-speaking nations even more
futile and useless than it inherently is. By
sticking together after this war, the British
and ourselves can probably hope for a century
of peace—which in this contentious and brutal
world is reasonably long.— N.Y. “Daily News:


Public Notices.
I, N 224854 L/cpl. JOSEPH CINOOTTA, serving with
the A.M.F., of Italian nationality, born at Lipan,
Italy, and resident five years and 10 months in Aus-
tralia, now residing at military camp, Mascot, N.fvW-,
intend to apply for Natu.ralisa.tion under the xs a.tlon*
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, N224969' Pte. ANDREW HERMANN, serving with
the A.M.F., of Rumanian nationality, born at Oarei
Mare, Rumania, resident four years and 11 months
in Australia, now residing at military camp, Mascot,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, Pte. WOLF SIMON MATSDORF (formerly Wolfgang
Siegbert Matzdorff), of former German nationality, born
at Berlin, Germany, and resident five years and six
months in Australia, now residing at 39 Canberra
Avenue, WollStonecraft, N.S'.W., member of the
A..M.F., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, OTTO BISLER, of Austrian nationality, born at
Vienna, and resident five years in Australia, now re-
siding at 46 Kellett Street, King’s Cross, Sydney,_ in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
[ ERNST NORBERT KAUFMANN, of German
nationality, born at Aachen, Germany, and resident
5i years in Australia, now residing at 35 Dar-
linghurst Road, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, LUDWIG HERMANN, of German nationality, born
at Aachen, Germany, and resident 5j years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at No. 3 Flat, Kaloola, St. Neot
Avenue, Potts Point, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of KiStiey Tubel
►—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and adds get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
have'been giving millions for many years. If back-
iche is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
FAMOUS SAUCES BY
f
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Into the land
thatistohe....
' o' I
• v •• - A •$
' i 7
■
ii
iiii
iiiiil
•ill
* J*.
mi
mm
mrnm
mm
mm
m
m
&
m
mv
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6«L, POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
One day peace will come again to ,
Australia and with it new purpose and
new obligations. If we are to take our place amongst the nations
of the earth ... if we are to deserve a leading part in world
prosperity, then we must modernise our methods.
We must take water to the fruitful earth through large-scale water
conservation and irrigation schemes. Our soil must be conserved
and cultivated. Roads must be formed in record time to transfer
the products of the land to our cities and to docks for export.
Airports must be built.
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Equipment will be ready to do their part in peace as they have in
war, at a record saving of time and record low cost.
CATERPILLAR DtSSCL
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS WAUSH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EOU.PMENT
Distributers for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
* Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. ' Phone — 2886. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CT4-33-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Jesus of Nazareth, illustrated by Wm.
Hole, R.S.A., R.A.—3413.
To buy J. C. Powys’s Autobiography, Duc-
dame, Wood and Stone. —3414.
Information Sought.
Names of those elected to the Senate in
recent election, with first-preference votes polled
S. K. Amcftir (765,221), J. I. Arm-
strong (24,880) and D. Grant (23,426); Vic.,
D. Cameron (558,706), R. V Keane (15,094)
and J. M. Sheehan (11,574) ; Q land G Brown
f 299 815) J S Codings (15,202) and B. Courtice
7891 V S A., S. W. O’Flaherty (189,087), T. M.
Nicholls (8969) and A. Finlay (11,121); WA.,
J M Fraser (112,530), R. E. Clothier (8882),
R H Nash (4243) and Dorothy M. Tangney
(13 553); Tas., W. E. Aylett (32,491), C. A.
Lamp (7028) and N. E. McKenna (18,245).
(1) Which holds record for one day’s shearing,
machine or blades, (2) who holds record, (3)
where was it made, (4) record shorn by blades
and machines in one day ? (5) Four largest
ships afloat in order of tonnage?
(1) The value of records varies according to
official length of a day. Australian record for
one day (321 sheep) belongs to the blades;
time, 7hr. 40min. In N.Z., a record of 372
crossbreds is claimed in Bhr. 40min.; also 378
crossbreds in Bhr. 54min. (2) and (3) Jack Howe,
at Alice Downs, Blackall (Q.), on October 10,
1892. New Zealand record by W. Higgins (372),
J. Hape (378). (4) Jack Howe, 321 sheep m
7hr. 40min. with blades. Jimmy Power, 315
merinos at Barenya (Q.) in 7hr. 20mm. with
machines in 1893. Dan Cooper, 316 merinos in
Bhr. at Bundooran (Q.) in 1909 with machines.
(5) Queen Elizabeth, Normandie (U.S.S. La-
fayette), Queen Mary, Bremen.
How to make flypaper? Birdlime?
Mix together ilb. resin, ilb. Venice turpentine
and lib. treacle and melt over heat (avoid open
flame as vapor is inflammable). Coat brown
paper or thin card with the mixture while
still warm. It is illegal to make or use bird-
lime.
Brief Answers.
RW.C.: The “Letters from Home” Pen-
friend Society cannot accept members who live
outside Sydney metropolitan area L.J.L.:
Information unobtainable at present... •
M.O’T.: Mica cannot be sold to private indi-
viduals; samples should be sent to Minerals
Production Directorate, 409 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. All sales must be made to Department
of Supply and Shipping, same address....
8.J.G.: Poem is not sold separately, but with
Wide Brown Land, available at Angus and
Robertson, G.P.O. Box 1516 DD, Sydney, for
35., post. 4d C.McG.: My Life in the Open
is now out of print L.C.K.: Process is a
trade secret Hadleigh; (1) Use Igal. raw
oil to 281 b. white zinc. (2) Use same quantities
for white lead. (3) The two are different sub-
stances; some paints contain one or both mixed
in various proportions. Zinc is good for sea-
side J.H.: “Colorings” would probably be
correct', but it would depend on structure of sen-
tence R.P.: Apply to S.A. Department of
Agriculture (Fruit Branch) for information....
M.F.D.: The Story of My Life, by Helen
Keller, is available at Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, for 4s. 6d., post. 3d Maorilander:
(1) Comes from gold digger-—hence trench
digger. (2) Marie Cowan. (3) Ships were
launched by men until the Prince Regent of
England changed the custom about‘lBl2.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and sio MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
E. 8.5.: The year’s dullest fish story
W.H.C.: What’s it all about?... .J.M.W.: Not
this time, but try again... .N.X.: Too techni-
cal R.H.P.: Melodrama J.R.G.: Not
much of a climax after all that build-up....
A.M.D.: Well written, but not for us
D.R.A.: Off our beat H.C.; Try a woman’s
paper R.J.V.: Very trite mining yarn
H.S.: Interesting story; unconvincing denoue-
ment. .. .A.Z.J.: Six shovelfuls of pathos and
gloom.. . .A.H.G.: Nice, easy, simple style
applied to an incident hardly worth telling
J.G.C.: Too slight G.E.: War pictures are
best left to those who are seeing them
H.C.8.: Misfortunes of the inoffensive are
seldom funny.... M.W.: Too pessimistic....
T.G.: A hoary chestnut garnished with synthetic
dialect N.R.H.: Feebly mechanical plot and
unconvincing dialogue T.W.H.: We all feel
like that, but it doesn’t make a story
J.S.: Must you mix politics with all your fic-
tion? A.W.: Tom Tussock talks twaddle
and is headed for home... .J.M.W.: Try else-
where, with a more original title W.F.H.;
“The Favorite” also ran H.A.8.: The boys
don’t come to life P.F.8.: An airy nothing.
... .C.D.: Not interested in earls, gamekeepers,
etc.; try some Australian theme P.G.:
Magazinish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.S.F.: It could be an Einstein theory illus-
trated by a well-shot tar-worker D.H.P.:
Your angular, elongated mermaid and the four-
toed, pear-shaped sailor with his beard on
skewwhiff are continuing their conversation at
the bottom of the basket.


HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
ss
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claud*
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raw*, C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
aESU;
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors, and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards Nominal
Sept., Profit 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 68,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £376.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. •. 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 338,870
To staff fund, £5OOO .. '.. .. 333,870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 .. 150,949
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1940.. 202,334 89,536 64,280 48,518 199,467
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .- 194,467
5.4 p.c. 6.4 p.c.
1941.. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund. £5OOO 231,347
3 p.e.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To- staff fund, £2290 231,585
1943.. 186,941 80,956 58,120 47,865 279,450
To staff fund, £7331 272,119
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931.
There were continued rises in circula-
tions last year, and “demand for every
one of the co.’s publications has been in-
satiable,” according to chairman Butlers.
Like almost everything else, newspapers
are in short supply these days, newsprint
being severely rationed in Australia.
Quotas have recently been increased b>
5 p.c., all of the extra to be devoted
to more, not larger, papers. About half
the newsprint used in the Commonwealth
last year came from the Australian News-
print Mills, Tasmania, Associated News
using 75 p.c. Australian paper. Circu-
lations of its publications moved as fol-
lows :
1941. 1942. 1943.
Daily “Sun” .. .. 175,000 195,020 215,524
“Sunday Sun” .. .. 300,000 322,391 335,934
“Woman” . . . . 160,000 220.494 268,828
“Pix” 180,000 219,488 216,104
“World’s News” . . 57,000 68,771 78,059
“Pocket Book”.. .. 22,100 24,905 25,931
“Radio and Hobbies” .. 14,900 17,270 18,934
The cost of newsprint used was £23,500
greater than in the previous year. Im-
ported Canadian has been rising steadily.
Last term Associated collected p.c.
on its ord. holding in Australian News-
print Mills (pref. div. was 4 p.c.), while
“increased dividends” are reported from
Consolidated Press (to which Associated
sold the “Telegraph”) and Radio 2UE.
Gross profit on trading, plus dividends,
rose by £82,725 to' £436,068. 'Though
administration exes. (£70,479) were cut
£18,130, there was an increase of £40,403
in the taxation allowance (£129,669); de-
preciation provision was £2867 lower at
£48,978. The net profit available
(£186,941) was £71,317 higher than in the
previous year, which bore a charge of
£Bll4 for 1940-41 taxation.
The ord. div., cut to 3 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term, was restored to 5.4 p.c. (the
minimum pref. rate), £7331 was carried
to the staff fund and £40,534 towards
reserves. Nominally, these stand at
£272,119, but are subject to £1,500,157 of
goodwill, establishment and patent rights
—this item being a comparatively small
reminder of the goodwill, etc., paid for
in the “Sun,” “Evening News,” “Daily
Guardian,” etc., purchases which later on
turned out to be partly hot air. (In 1932
£1,052,121 of ord. capital was written
off.)
Reserves are also subject to an undecided
claim by the Taxation Commissioner for
£76,926 war-time (company) tax in
respect of 1940-41. There are contingent
liabilities for 1942 and 1943. The co. is
contesting the issue, and the sharemarket
has been influenced by disclosure of the
facts.
Cable costs rose £9OOO last term. The
board complains of delays in transmis-
sion, though since then the P.M.G. has
announced the opening of a special radio-
telegraph channel with Great Britain for
the speedier transmission of press news.
The co.’s chairman says that censorship,
instituted as a security measure, has
spread far beyond that role.
Associated has had a comparatively bad
time among Australian newspaper pro-
prietaries during this war. It is not able
to parallel its pre-war results notwith-
standing the appetite for news, the short-
age of reading matter generally and the
big demand for the restricted advertising
space available. Earlier in the war it had
to meet hard competition from the Sun-
day “Telegraph” and the new evening
paper, the “Daily Mirror.” Newspaper
competition in the Sydney daily and Sun-
day field has always been prone to
develop periods of extreme severity.
Whether things are going to be different
in the “new order” remains to be seen.
Here is the financial setup of the
organisation: *
1938. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £2,563,601 £2,563,601 £2,563,601
Overdraft . . .. 72,908 324,240- 138,826
Other liabilities*.. 156,855 228,850- 256,797
Provident fund .. 6,976 7,710 7,669
D-epree. reserve .. 364,376 508,105 549,075
Freeholds .. .. 653,144 752,175 752,644
Plant, etc 643,388 794.631 775,408
Shares . . .. 188,700 419,970 418,970
Stocks .. .. 163,864 288,762 329,741
Debtors, cash, etc. 192,050 186,475 193,484
* Including tax provision.
Intangible assets, less reserves, are still
more than the ord. capital (£1,071,326) at
£1,228,038. The depreciation reserve
(£549,075) has to be taken into account
in looking at the book value of plant.
The fall of £19,223 in plant last term
was due to sales and Government im-
pressments. Although £48,978 was written
off for depreciation last year, the reserve
therefor moved up by no more than
£40,970, Shareholdings remain almost
unchanged. Their nature has already
been indicated.
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 528,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 65,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12J p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,081
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277. . 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940. . 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ ~ 75,095 8,730 376,230
Obviously the one-for-one gift-giving of
1940 hasn’t milked the shareholders’
cow dry. And there may be more
cream on things than floats on the
surface, because at the time of the
beneficence mentioned the main sec-
tion of the business was passed
to a subsidiary, Peters Ice Cream
Pty. (paid capital, £1,000,000). Though
public opinion is all for frankness these
days, N.S.W. company law doesn’t re-
quire the co. to disclose, and the board
doesn’t of its own volition reveal,
the exact results of this pup and its
other wholly-owned offshoot, Taree
Creameries Pty. (paid capital, £100,000).
If the published results of a brood of
inter-State affiliates, in which a paid-up
interest of £84,000 is held, can be
accepted as a guide, however, the cashier
responsible for the group’s bank deposits
wore out more shoe leather than the
net profit figure alone indicates.
The creamery, originally acquired for
the purpose of ensuring raw-material
supplies for the ice-cream side of things
but now mainly engaged in the manufac-
ture of processed milkstuffs, recorded
especial progress. Further suppliers were
signed up, additions were made to build-
ings and plant, and turnover reached the
neighborhood of half a million. The ice-
cream pup also admits to “considerable
increase” in sales, despite the fact that
civilian trading is now confined practi-
cally to bulk and “bucket” lines; this in
order that maximum output might be de-
veloped for the needs of Australian and
Allied services, where the confection
figures in the q.m.’s ration partly as a
substitute for fresh milk. Rationalisation
has also spread to distribution and trans-
port, a problem which the board tackled
by developing its own shale-fuel sup-
plies in partnership with Consolidated
Press. Apart from helping to provision
the trpops, participation in the national
effort has extended to the provision of
refrigeration and bulk-storage facilities,
and workshops have also been active on
work of essential character.
The switchover to bulk ice-cream sales
in the last term was accompanied by a
price-cut to shopkeepers; but Savings
resulting from the simplification fully re-
imbursed the co. In the final wash-up,
profits revealed by the parent ran out
£13,188 higher at 10 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 8.4, 9.2 and 10.5 p.c. back to
the transition in strategic status from
operating to principally holding co. The
previous term’s div. cut was restored and
a fraction more added, making the rate
9 p.c. Earnings of the pups were taken
credit for “to the extent of divs. received
and receivable.” CBmbined, parent and
offshoots, it is disclosed, put aside £85,400
for taxation, while group provision for
the wear and tear inseparable from
present-day conditions shot up from
£44,207 to £70,788. The discerning
shareholder will also look beyond these
figures at the potential goodwill being
built up among members of the forces
whose palates have been tickled.
Of the depreciation allowance, £45,262
was written off in the parent’s own
books ; it was largely responsible for the
debt-reduction apparent in the limited
view of the financial setup now pro-
vided by the published figures:
1939. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £397,446 £834,306 £834,383 £884,383
Sundry creditors* 9'5,355 57,736 75,124 64,141
Overdraft .. - 71,163 3,343
Freeholds, etc. 285,845
Plant, etc. . . 687,281 117,831 94,699 50,491
Shares subsidiaries 783,046 1,100,000 1,100,000
Other shares,
etc. . . 212,051 158,311 131,437 122,337
Stock .. 39,897
Book debts .. 23,238 165,701 55,407 46,986
Cash .. . . 108,115 65,207
* Includes provision for taxation.
Shareholders, however, appear to have no
cause for unhappiness at the paucity of
information imparted, though criticism
was heard at the annual meeting about
other aspects of administration, includ-
ing the growth in directors’ fees from
£lOOO to £2375 over the past four years.
In a contest for the directorate, retiring
directors B. W. Perkin and J. V. Rat-
cliffe (who filled the vacancy on the board
ocasioned by the resignation of former
m.d. Carr) were returned.
Since Dec. 1 ice-cream trading with the
public has been stabilised at the figure for
1942, and civilian supplies of condensed
and powdered milk have also been cut.
These restrictions, however, which re-
flect the press of service demands, prob-
ably involve a change in the direction of
sales rather than a fall in volume.
Emperor and Loloma
Emperor and Loloma (Fiji) have failed
to infijtrate the barriers inherent in their
proposal to merge identities, but “at a
more favorable opportunity in the future
the directors hope further to consider the
matter.” Meantime, a combined milling
plant is proposed, ore from both mines
to be treated at the Emperor mill, to
which the Loloma roaster and other
equipment are to be transferred. Total
cost of the conversion, including pur-
chase of a second roaster, is put at
£A51,750. The expediency of the pro-
posal is pretty obvious for Emperor,
faced with the early conversion of its mill
to an all-sulphide unit anyway ; for high-
cost Loloma, confronted with a falling
grade of ore, the attraction is held out
of a slash in treatment exes., under
normal conditions, to 12s. to 14s. a ton,
compared with 30s. pre-war and 50s. at
the present time. To some extent, there-
fore, both mines are at the crossroads of
their existence.
Release of production statistics blacked
out since Japan struck in the Pacific
throws additional light on the 70 p.c.
contraction in Emperor’s earning power
during the past two years. Chief blow,
evident in production, has come from the
shift of native labor to more remunera-
tive copra and defence work:
Operat-
Gold ing Net r~ Dividends—*
Year, Treated, Yield, Costs, Profit, Share. Amt.
June, Tons. Dwt. Tons.* £ £
1941.. 147,058 7.2 33/6 220,919 1/6 142,500
1942.. 123,181 7.4 38/11 140,536 -/6 47,500
1943.. 125,214 6.6 40/10 66,272 - _ .
* Including development but not depreciation.
Notwithstanding halving of the labor
supply in that period, no diminution in


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
♦ ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, O.X. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents am* Trade Marks. — Advt,
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of p\ widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
BRANDALERS
m
t*'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a IXAXDAQU a 00. LWU IXaiaxaHAK, ENO
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
VT7HBN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
satisfy yohrself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,’’ which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W, Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A, Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
COMPANY MEETIN6
PRODUCTION OF METALS
TO MEET WAR DEMANDS
Electrolytic Zinc's Meeting
“At present all our energies are still being directed to maintaining the
production of metals and other products necessary to meet Australia’s
war demands and essential civil requirements, and also to help meet the
heavy demands for refined zinc by Britain and her Allies,” said Sir Colin
Fraser, chairman of Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd., at the
annual meeting held in Melbourne on December 2.
The metal with which we are primarily inter-
ested is, of course, zinc, and next in order come
lead, silver, copper and cadmium. It must be
remembered that we are a mining as well as a
treatment company. The utilisation to the
maximum extent of the sulphur content of the
zinc concentrate is also a matter of major
importance.
So far as the current year is concerned, and,
I believe, for the remaining period of the war,
all our metals and products will find a market
on terms which should yield in the aggregate
revenue comparable with that earned by the
company during the year under review. We
anticipate, too, that with the improving war
outlook the Government here will relax its
restrictions on the local use of zinc, and, in par-
ticular, will permit the galvanising of more
of the material so urgently required by primary
producers, viz., wire, wire netting, and iron
and steel sheets, piping, etc. It is unfortunate
that owing to war conditions so large a pro-
portion of these essential requirements have had
to be put into service by the farming and
general community without the advantage of
the excellent protective qualities provided by
zinc coating. However, it should now be pos-
sible to remedy this disability.
DEMAND FOR LEAD AND ZINC.
Taking the longer view and quoting from the
statement I made at the annual meeting of
Broken Hill South last week, I have no doubt
as to the world demand that will develop for
lead and zinc in common with other metals and
raw materials after the war. The earlier stage
of the transition from war to peace-time con-
ditions will inevitably present problems con-
nected with the disposal of heavy stock-piles of
all kinds of materials, mainly in Government
hands, including ores, metals and semi-fabricated
and fabricated metal products, also scrap and
salvage metals.
There will quickly follow, however, a great
and unsatisfied demand for a long period of
all constructional materials, including metals,
in order to meet the needs of post-war recon-
struction and development. These materials
will be necessary to carry out on a world-wide
scale the replacement of war damage on land
and sea, the great house-building programmes
projected in all countries, the five or six years
arrears in repairs and maintenance on all types
of buildings, structures, furnishings and equip-
ment, public and private, also to meet the
diverse deferred demands of growing popula-
tions, and to give the world the full benefit of
the recent great technical advances in all direc-
tions, and none more spectacular than those
connected with airplane transport.
Australia is fortunate that today her domestic
prices for lead and zinc are, like those of iron
and steel, the lowest in the world.
EXTENSION OF PLANT.
With the above prospect in view, our first
objective must be to complete the extension to
our electrolytic zinc plant at Risdon in order
to increase its capacity, and this we are doing
to the extent that our limited man-power re-
sources permit. The plant still ranks as the
third largest in the world.
The centralising of more of our roasting
capacity at Risdon is an essential part of this
scheme for increasing zinc production, and con-
structional work in this aonnection is proceed-
ing. The roasting of zinc concentrate affords
the roasted or calcined material from which
zinc is recovered; it also results in the pro-
duction of sulphurous gas, from which sul-
phuric acid is made. Sulphuric acid, in turn,
is essential, inter alia, for the manufacture of
superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia.
The company is equipped to produce super-
phosphate to meet the full requirements of
Tasmania.
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
The position in regard to sulphate of am-
monia is very different. Special facilities are
called for in connection with its efficient manu-
facture other than as a by-product, as I shall
explain later, and, being a much higher-priced
product than superphosphate, transportation
costs are not such an important factor.
We therefore consider there is ample justifi-
cation for planning to utilise the large quantity
of sulphur (which would otherwise be wasted)
in establishing the production of of
ammonia as soon as conditions favorable for
plant construction warrant and suitable ar-
rangements for power supply, etc., can be
made. Shareholders may ask why its manu-
facture was never undertaken before at Risdon,
as such manufacture is in ordinary course
carried on as complementary to the production
of zinc in U.S.A. and Canada.
The answer is that the economic production
of sulphate of ammonia, involving the fixation
of nitrogen from the atmosphere, calls tor
large-scale operations. The proposal we are
exploring involves the production of 50,000
tons of ammonium sulphate per annum, and
would call for the utilisation of nearly 30,000
horse-power. The quantity mentioned (50,000
t’ons), however, is about double Australia s
average pre-war importations, principally from
Canada and England. By-product sulphate of
ammonia locally produced from coke-oven gas
at the several steelworks and at town gasworks
approximated 26,000 tons per annum immedi-
ately pre-war. These figures indicate that total
pre-war consumption was in the region of
50,000 tons per annum. Nearly all of this was
for use as fertiliser.
COST OF PLANT CONSTRUCTION.
Assuming the cost of plant construction is
reasonable, Risdon (Tasmania) should prove
particularly well placed for the production ot
sulphate of ammonia, because it is made by
mixing approximately three parts of sulphuric
acid with one part of ammonia. With sulphur
as dioxide in the gas emanating from the fur-
naces roasting with zinc concentrate, low cost
sulphuric acid should be available, and with
power from the major extensions now being
made to the Tasmanian Government’s hydro-
electric scheme, the terms for supply of the
block required should be such as to permit ot
the manufacture of ammonia on a competitive
basis. „ .
These factors should make for efficient pro-
duction, and enable us to sell sulphate of am-
monia at prices which would not only allow us
to enter upon an export trade, but give our
own primary producers valuable fertilisers at
reasonably low cost, entirely produced from
local materials.
The amount of constructional work which
would be involved in providing the substantial
block of power required, and in erecting the
large plant at Risdon, should help considerably
the Tasmanian Government and the company
respectively to provide employment in the post-
war period.
TAXATION.
Touching upon taxation generally, and having
regard particularly to our investments in several
manufacturing companies, we must all recognise
that there is at the present time no escape
from taxation both on companies and indi-
viduals at abnormally high rates, to raise
revenue necessary to help meet the Govern-
ment’s huge war expenditure. 'We have got to
accept the position.
Business and industry in this connection is,
however, mainly concerned with the inability
of many companies to build up sufficient re-
serves to preserve their stability and carry
them over the period of difficult but - unpre-
dictable conditions which threaten to follow
for a period the termination of the war. It is
not generally recognised that companies could
reduce dividend distributions in order to build
up much-needed reserves if their boards con-
sidered only the interests of shareholders who
come within the higher income tax brackets, as
it is really a matter of little moment to these
shareholders whether they receive dividends or
not as they pay away to the Treasury up to
92.5 per cent, of them as tax. The prime con-
sideration, however, must be the small investor,
who constitutes the great majority of company
shareholders, both as to number and total in-
vested capital, as they depend upon their divi-
dends, in these hard times for their livelihood.
In this connection it is clear that the with-
drawal of the rebate of tax already paid by the
companies on the income from which dividends
are paid was ill-advised and unfair. From
what I have said it will be gathered that a
proportion of company profits which should
rightly be placed to reserve at the present
juncture is being paid away in dividends.
The several associations representing Aus-
tralian manufacturers are rightly making strong
representations to the Treasurer that taxation
allowance should be granted for the mainten-
ance of plant and equipment which can be
shown to be deferred or in arrears on account
of shortage of man-power and/or materials.
Other allowances which should be liberally
dealt with by the department concern the de-
preciation of plant operating two or three shifts
a day, and, in many cases, tended in part by
inexperienced labor; also depreciation of the
value of plant erected during war-time at ab-
normally high cost to meet the pressing needs
of defence or essential civil industry, which
may or may not be fully covered by the
recently amended legislation.
ZINC.
While there is a good prospect that our zinc
production will find a market during the current
year, the marketing position has changed con-
siderably. -
The proportion of our" output used locally
showed a steady and substantial increase prior
to the war and up to the end of the financial
year ended June, 1943. All contracts with the
Commonwealth Government for the supply of
zinc and zinc base die casting alloy have, how-
ever, now been fulfilled, and, with the use <pf
zinc for civil requirements still under rigid
restriction, it seems' likely that the current
year’s domestic sales will be smaller than during
last year. . . „ .
Fortunately, from a national point of view,
the reserve stocks in the United Kingdom and
India are also satisfactory. His Majesty’s Gov-
ernment has, however, renewed for another
year, i.e., to the end of August, 1944, the
contract for purchase entered into at the out-
break of war, and this contract, which gives
us the right to sell some export zinc in specified
permissible markets, together with certain firm
purchases made by the United States of
America, already ensures disposal of almost
our full output for the current financial year.
Having regard to world prices generally, I
doubt if there is a cheaper metal today than
Risdon electrolytic zinc as sold for consump-
tion in Australia.
proved and probable ore since 1941 is
apparent, the latest estimate being 920,000
tons (mostly sulphide) of 7.sdwt. grade.
Yields for the first quarter of the current
term, however, have been down to
3.Bdwt., the co. being forced on to 3dwt.
to sdwt. oxidised stuff in the opencut
pending conversion of the mill to sul-
phide treatment some six months hence.
While recoveries can then be expected to
revive, mining costs will also rise once
underground workings are called upon
to supply the bulk of mill tonnage. In
June, Australian parent and operating
subsidiary were holding cash or its
equivalent of £A370,100, and after being
on the outer for two years shareholders
in January are to receive Is. 6d. a share
(£142,500) as return of capital.
Like Emperor, Loloma also hasn’t
made a distribution since 1941. It now
boasts cash, etc., of £A343,750 ; the idea
is to hang on to the lot for the time being.
The severe fall in profits here reflects the
combination of falling recoveries, halv-
ing of throughput and associated aggra-
vation of unit costs. Here is a conden-
sation of what has happened:
Operat-
Gold ing Net , —Dividend^-*,
Year, Treated, Yield, Costs, Profit, Share. Amt.
July, Tons. Dwt. Tons.* £ £
1941.. 33,308 26.1 87/7 237,874 4/- 165,000
1942.. 28,962 24.5 93/9 161,138 1/- 41,250
1943.. 17,748 20.5 119/8 51,015
* Including development but not depreciation.
The mine lived on proved ore last term,
when restricted development added
nothing to reserves, down by the year’s
extraction to 114,900 tons, grade 21.3dwt,
Yields of 22.8dwt. have shown up since
the close of accounts, but values aren’t
being repeated in depth, and “in the near
future treatment of ore of a grade con-
siderably lower than at present will have
to be considered.” Loloma obviously has
passed its heyday, unless, of course, ex-
pansion in post-war tonnages is able to
make up for the impending drop in head
values. Meantime, a lot for both cos.
will depend on costs and the efficiency of
Emperor’s reconstructed mill, the switch
to which for Loloma will entail a two
months’ interruption to treatment opera-
tions.
From London:
Chairman W. H. Geikie, a mining engineer
of some credit and renown, reminded share-
holders at the Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment meeting that the Westralian operating
concern, Moonlight Wiluna, had a 25 p.c. inter-
est in the option held by Wiluna Gold Mines
on the Mount Charlotte group at Kalgoorlie.
This two-years option, he said, commenced only
a few days before Japan’s entry into the war,
and it soon became obvious with the increasing
call on man-power that further work would
have to cease. A supplementary agreement was
therefore made with Mt. Charlotte, Ltd., which
permitted suspension of all work Until con-
ditions allowed resumption. Another effect of
war had been that, in order to co-ordinate
underground operations at Moonlight with
those of next-door Wiluna, both with re-
gard to labor and daily tonnage treated, an
agreement had been made with Wiluna to super-
vise mining operations at Moonlight. With
regard t'o other interests, Geikie mentioned that
work at Mount Ida mines, bought in 1941, had
been increasingly curtailed by the shortage of
labor. Working profit for the year from this
show amounted to £A9353. No dividend had
been received from Yellowdine Gold Develop-
ment. In other directions a limited, unsuccess-
ful effort was made searching for strategic
minerals. Local opinion is that the co.’s
Moonlight mine hasn’t much longer to live.
* * * *
Accounts of Gold Fields Australian
Development Co., London, which holds
the entire issued capital of Moonlight
Wiluna Gold Mines, Westralia, show a
debit of £9541 stg. for last year. There was
£4B brought in and a surplus taxation
reserve of £14,462, making a total credit
of £14,510. After deducting the year’s
debit there is a carry-forward of £4969.
A refund of overpaid excess-profits tax
is anticipated. Accounts of Moonlight
Wiluna in Australian currency show a
net profit of £17,260, to which is added
£13,370 excess provision for taxation and
£4241 brought forward, making £34,871
to be carried forward. Ore reserves some
time ago were estimated at 115,000 tons
averaging 4.9dwt., compared with a pre-
vious estimate of 150,800 tons averaging
s.3ldwt.
* * * *
Two cos. backing Westralian goldmin-
ing have just held their annual meetings
in London. One, Gold Exploration and
Finance, styled in the market “Gold Ex.,”
has extinguished its notes indebtedness
and has liquid resources in the shape of
Government securities and cash amount-
ing to £273,000 stg. Debit balance on p.
and 1. account has been reduced to
£66,000, and is expected to be wiped out
by the profits of the current year. Among
the co.’s interests are Western Mining
Corporation and Central Norseman.
The other co.. Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, is one in which Gold Explora-
tion holds an interest. Restriction of
labor caused a falling-off in development
and production and a small cut in the
dividend to 5 p.c. Given lighter taxation
and normal operating conditions, chair-
man P. E. Marmion saw no reason why
the co. should not give shareholders a
satisfactory yield for some time to come.
* * * *
“Pilbara”: A year ago or thereabouts
thirsty Marble Bar (W.A.) celebrated in
the local pub the financial assistance
given by the Federal Government to Blue
Spec Mines, N.L., to mine antimony as
well as gold. About £52,000 is stated to
have been laid out to date. Now comes
what is described as the authentic report
that no more antimony is wanted. If
that is so, the Government can write off
the loan as a bad debt; Blue Spec will
hardly be able to pay it out of gold won.


WE ADD BODY
TO STRENGTH ..
Into our protecting body of Cold-Drawn Precision
Seamless Steel Tube goes the barrel and mechanism of
Australia’s deadly, efficient Owen Gun. Without the
knowledge and experience of B.T.M. business manage-
ment and skilled craftsmenship, Australia’s production
of this weapon, as well as aircraft and many other
munitions, would have been heavily handicapped.
When Victory restores normal business conditions,
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
CAUST.) PTY. LTD.
ADELAIDE
T. 1143
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Today. ..
Scientific lubrication is brought
to the point of immediate need
ALEMITE
PORTABLE
SERVICE
STATIONS
They are complete mobile lubrication departments carry*
ing high and low pressure Alemite Barrel Pumps, Alemite
Motor Oil Dispenser, hose reels, air compressor and motor
—ready to service the lubrication needs of every machine
anywhere. Heavy greases are handled direct from original
drums. Alemite Portable Service Station Equipment may
be arranged in combinations to meet all requirements.
The needs of the armed forces of the United Nations
and their supply lines must be served first, but those
interested in the most modern phase of pressure lubrica*
tion should plan now for future needs.
ALEMITE
_ R*a-U.S. Pal. Off.
LUBRICATION
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Carp.
1828 Diverse/ Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
&
iti
m
?s
TH
Id
ZOJJNO
Business, Rollery, etc.
Post-war Government Controls
The necessity for Government control
in certain branches of finance, industry
and science has rarely been questioned in
modern times. Minting of money, the
issue of currency notes, the establishment
of postal, telephone and water services,
etc., and the control of schools have
been Government matters in this and
some other countries for many years.
In Australia, unlike Britain and the
U.S.A., railways, too, have always been
State enterprises. It was out of the State
ownership of railways that control over
all motor transport in certain States arose
during the last depression and the years
which followed. The railways couldn’t
compete with unfettered motor transport,
therefore various States* decided that
motor transport had to be fettered. And
so arose, in N. S. Wales, for example,
a Department of Road Transport, with
a major bureaucrat named Maddocks in
charge. He was one of the phenomena
of the period.
This control of motor transport was a
thing of expediency, not of economic
planning. The fact was that modern
motor transport was so suitable and cheap
for certain types of work that the rail-
ways were not in the race. Many railway
lines had been a matter of politics rather
than economics when they were first put
down, and this inevitably told its own
tale in the long run. Also, being a Gov-
ernment department, pressure was
brought upon the railways for conces-
sions, such as in the case of starving
stock and struggling industries.
At the present time this country is
subject to widespread controls under the
National Security Regulations. There
is a Government control over man-power
which in peace-time would be utterly
loathsome to the majority of Australians.
As it is, it is put up with by those will-
ing to be governed, and flouted by highly-
unionised bodies such as the N. S. Wales
coalminers. There are many more con-
trols, restricting all manufacturing, trad-
ing, farming or financial enterprise. The
reason for these controls is the state of
emergency arising out of the war ; all the
national resources were required to be
concentrated firstly upon defence, then on
offence, and therefore the Commonwealth
Government was given the right to direct
nearly every proprietor and employee in
industry what to do, to control all essen-
tial services, and to “rationalise” indus-
tries and trades according to their im-
portance and the scarcity or otherwise of
the materials and man-power used by
them.
Theoretically, there are few reasons
why the mobilisation of our resources in
the waging of a total war should not
have had the result of putting those re-
sources to the most effective possible use,
with equality of sacrifice something like
achieved and the disturbance of civilian
living reduced to a minimum. In actual
practice our wat-time mobilisation has
been only partly effective, with political
opportunism, waste and mismanagement
evident on a very large scale. In addition,
the manner and the ethics relating to
the control of man-power, including the
distribution of the responsibility of the
actual fighting, have in some cases been
of a demoralising and generally unsatis-
factory order.
The Prime Minister and many of
his followers have exhibited more
skill in their political manoeuvring
than they have in their administration.
There has been an almost startling
absence of a forthright stand to see fair
play done in the major clashes of sec-
tional interests that have occurred from
time to time, and in certain minor cases,
where the rights or liberty of individuals
have been concerned, elementary prin-
ciples of British justice have been ignored
as a matter of political expedience. The
Government, in short, has failed to show
itself big enough or fair enough. That
is why there is now such a clamor for
the removal of the yoke of the National
Security Act from the people even before
the war has been won.
Another factor is also causing discon-
tent and friction. It is that of finance.
The distribution of war’s cost has been
arranged on a political rather than a prac-
tical basis, with the principal result that
we have far more inflation in our money
and prices than was really necessary. Our
record in this respect is the worst in the
Empire. It arises from the fact that a
partisan Government has tried to finance
a total war on lines adjusted to party
politics and sectionalism rather than
those indicated by hard facts and com-
monsense. There has been too much
“just-us” and not enough justice. The
result has been not merely unfairness ;
our entire finances have been gravely
strained through an improper distribu-
tion of spending and investing power.
This Government has now set up a
Department of Post-war Reconstruction.
The Minister is Treasurer J. B. Chifley,
the director Dr. H. C. Coombs. It is
quite right that attention should now be
given to the very complex problems that
will have to be faced when the end of
the war brings with it the necessity for
finding jobs for thousands of demobilised
service men, for re-equipping war-strained
industries and for ascertaining the most
economically satisfactory avenues of dis-
persing our war-time concentration of
man-power and materials.
But it is one thing to have an active
and sympathetic Government doing all
in its power to restore free enterprise to
its greatest employment-giving and pro-
ductive capacity and another to have a
Government aiming at socialisation, par-
tial or complete. We have to make up
our minds as to what we want. A Gov-
ernment which exercises the powers of
government fairly and as fully as the oc-
casion demands, standing in a strictly
judicial and administrative position in
relation to industry and the people gener-
ally, is a different thing from a Govern-
ment which aims to pull down the demo-
cratic system of free enterprise in indus-
try and set up in its stead a Government-
controlled system of non-competitive in-
dustry, Under such a system the liberty
of the subject to choose his own voca-
tion might be as restricted in peace-time
as it is of necessity during this war, or
even more so. Where European coun-
tries have gone completely socialistic
there has been invariably persecution of
minorities, accompanied by violence and
bloodshed. There has invariably been
a Gestapo or the equivalent. The liberty
of the subject has been placed in the
hands of a bureaucracy organised on
totalitarian lines, and the judiciary has
become a political puppet.
It has been necessary for Australia to
meet total war with totalitarian economic
methods. “All - in” means “total.”
Although the methods have not been as
“all-in” as they should have been, the
legal machinery exists for the liquefac-
tion and direction of all wealth and man-
power for the duration of the war and a
period thereafter. But even if the material
wealth and the man-power now diverted
to the war effort were available for civil
life, life under the National Security
Act would not be satisfactory to a British
people in peace-time. “Mobilisation” is
regarded as a most necessary war
measure, but, like martial law, it is no
substitute for democratic peace-time civil
living.
It would be an odd thing if, after the
marshalling and standardisation of our
economic forces on an unprecedented
scale, we did not learn something from
our war-time methods of economic and
political control. Badly as we have man-
aged in the matter of credit control it
will be incredible if Australian economists
and bankers have not really learned a
good deal more about credit than they
previously knew. But while it may be
indicated that Governments should accept
more responsibility in economic matters
when the war is over, exercising, through
the Commonwealth Bank and certain de-
partments, necessary administrative con-
trols, the participation of the Govern-
ment in actual industry and finance
should be reduced to a minimum. Gov-
ernment departments have shown them-
selves repeatedly to be less co-operative
and tractable than most free enterprises.
For many years now Government
finance, because of extravagant vote-
catching “enterprises,” departmental self-
ishness and unrealistic ideas about the
“powers” of money, has been a major
factor in Australian economic instability
and unemployment. The meaning of
“Government responsibility” has never
been properly understood.
It should be a Government obligation
to encourage and direct free enterprise
along the most nationally co-operative
lines, and to avoid setting up high-cost
Government services which eventually
become a source of national costs infla-
tion. The national credit, which is so
much dependent upon the national
Budget, should be managed with a regard
primarily to industry, not to politics. No
special powers should be given to a Gov-
ernment unless that Government’s sense
of responsibility is evident.
The growth in the national debt, the
widespread employment of women, the
high wages paid to many, though not all,
munition workers and C.C.C. men, the
abuse of privileges by trade unions, the
overuse of Treasury-bill finance and its
consequent potential inflation, and the
war-time growth in the civil service are
all factors which are going to add diffi-
culty to the transition from a war-time
econorny to smooth peace-time industrial
running. They are all factors which will
give rise to claims from some politicians
and bureaucrats that war-time controls
should continue in the post-war period.
The greater our difficulties, the greater


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
or
Quality I
■ k
m
r
HURINS 30 years,
the Akubra Mills
was developed to a ,
point of the highest ||
efficiency. This per-
mitted an immediate
and complete response to
the huge demands of the
War Department
There has been great
restriction of civilian
supplies, but always ask
for Akubra your hatter
may have what you want.
LOOK YOU R BEST IN AN AK U BRA
i
II
mm.
\n
mm
MoMloil
Rubber from OIL? Fantastic! Neverthe-
less, 850,000 tons annually is the aim of
the American Petroleum Industry.
Rubber from Oil was an established fact
many years ago, but, until the loss of the
natural product from Malayan planta-
tions the need for a synthetic product
was very small.
Today, the Allies' paramount need is
synthetic rubber, and the petroleum
industry is working 24 hours a day, 7
days a week producing it. Butadiene,
the chief constituent of synthetic rubber,
is a petroleum product. Vacuum Labora-
tories and Refineries have been, and
are, responsible for many advances in
the application of petroleum to war and
industry.
The Houdry Process was first developed
by the makers of Mobiloi! for the manu-
facture of 100 octane aviation gasolines.
Other developments, by the Petroleum
Industry, contributing to total war are-
Toluol, essential for T.N.T.; Plastics for
shatterproof glass; anaesthetics; cor-
rosion preventives; quenching oils for
tougher armour-plate; solvents for
lacquers, paints, varnishes, etc.
Serving the Nation on Land\ Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
Vl-«
(Incorporated in Australia)
the clamor of the socialists. A diminish-
ing amount of Government control will
certainly be necessary for a period, prob-
ably considerable, after the war. But the
right of Government interference with
post-war civilian and commercial life
should be allowed sparingly. Few mem-
bers of the Government have shown
themselves intelligent custodians of the
public welfare. Politics is too much of
a game in this country to allow the reali-
ties of our economy to occupy their
proper place in Canberra administrative
circles.
Not much is heard about Queensland
Forests, Ltd., these days. Formed in
1927, it was one of those Moulton flota-
tions that were going to do wonders for
“investors” —bondholders were promised
£lOO for every £5 bond taken up. Dur-
ing the first year bonds to the face value
of £302,766 were sold, and, altogether,
very substantial sums of, public money
were handled by the co., not to mention
its associates. It is clear, after 16 years
of waiting, that the swaggering asser-
tions made about prospective profits in
the early days were unjustified. Expen-
diture during the year to June 30 last
exceeded revenue, sums owing to out-
siders totalled £141,859, there was £24,511
due to subsidiary companies, and uncom-
pleted contracts account figured at
£30,714. Paid capital is £315,115, repre-
senting an amalgamation of the original
shareholders (who were paid dividends
for some years out of bond-money irr-
come) and some of the bondholders.
Apparently a number of bondholders,
however, have never converted into shares
—not that they can be blamed, in the cir-
cumstances. Land, buildings, plant, etc.,
figure at £83,211, “timber and other in-
vestments” at £284,641, shares in sub-
sidiaries £69,033, trust fund deposits
£40,721, and debtors of various kinds
£17,278. The forests are mostly standing
cabinet timbers, about which bondholders
have long and oft been told stories of
lucrative profits, but so far there has been
little for “investors” that could be
jingled in the pocket. The co.’s auditor
makes an unusual report: “In my opinion
certain investments, shares and debts due
to the company are worth less than cost
or book values, although timber invest-
ments should prove very profitable.”
Auditors do not often make forecasts
about prospective profits from growing
timber, even if they have private thoughts
along those lines.
* * * ♦
Many people expected that the average
weekly earnings of men employed in the
C.C.C. would be more than £8 os. Bd.
That was the figure given in the
latest report of the Allied Works Coun-
cil. Expenditure by the A.W.C. during
1942-43 was £56 million, of which £2O
million was spent on behalf of the United
States Army and £ll million for the
Australian military authorities. The
wages bill was £22.4 million, the
number of men engaged being 53,518.
First steps were taken ,4 o form the Allied
Works Council on February 15, 1942.
Works include a dock estimated to
cost £6.7 million (original estimate
£3 million), a transhipment port for
U.S. forces costing £3.5 million, a £6.5
million explosives factory and magazine
in South Aus., the 954-mile Alice Springs-
Darwin road, and the 403-mile Mt. Isa-
Tennant Creek road.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits had reached
£404 million on November 30. The in-
crease was only £5.5 million during the
month, compared with an average
monthly increase of £8.2 million for a
year. A drop in increments during October
and November was due to the presence of
the Fourth Liberty Loan on the market;
this falling-off, however, was not great
enough to suggest that the loan received
strong public support. No doubt a
lot of savings-bank money did find its
way into the loan, but not directly from
depositors ; the s.-bs. themselves re-lent
to the Government large sums that had
been deposited with them. Since the war
began £l6O million has been put into
savings banks £9B million of it during
®con
™ J^Sd’coS MaUon
P * * * * *
“Our rubber position would have been
considerably worse today had it not been
f or quick thinking and quick action in the
interval between the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor and their occupation of
Malaya and the Netherlands Indies,” said
Mr. Beasley, Minister for Supply, last
week. “In that interval Australia was
able to acquire some thousands of tons
of rubber.” Whatever the “quick thmk-
ing” by the Australian Government after
Japan entered the war, very little thinking
seems to have been done before in the
matter of rubber. Some of the tyre
companies had put up plans in which
finance and storage space were asked
of the Government in order to
make Australia independent of overseas
supplies for some years. But until actual
danger arose it was difficult to convince
Canberra that rubber in store in Australia
was a different commodity entirely from
rubber quoted f.o.b. Port Swettenham.
* * * *
Last financial.year the Commonwealth
Government was obliged to hand to the
S‘ ales t £2 ? mllhon “ compensation for
losa of “? ome - and . entertainment-tax
, Th' B , was . equivalent to 17*. p.c.
ot otal ‘ axadon > direct “<* dlrect ’
ava, able to the Commonwealth Govern-
“fit for financing war expenditure. The
full a ™ ount tax m°ney the Common-
*ealth was able . ? devot ?„ t ° *l™™!
last was £ Sna? n ’ u m
money figuring at £402 8 milhon The £2B
million of revenue taken by the States
15 deari k excessive. Unemployment
amon 8 tmie-unions throughout the Corn-
monwealth is now officially computed at
Pf-what there is owing
to strikes—and there should be no charge
whatsoever on State authorites for
“relief,” although a great proportion
of State taxation was originally levied in
the name of the unemployed, and that is
the essential position today, even though
all income tax is first of all raised by the
Commonwealth. Queensland’s surplus
for 1942-43 was almost staggering in size,
though most of it has been earmarked
for post-war use. Railway revenue.
which comes largely out of the Common-
wealth’s pocket, has a lot to do with the
affluence,
* * * ♦
Revenue of the five mainland State
railways increased from an average of
£3,580,000 a month in 1938-39 to an aver-
age of £6,615,000 in ,1942-43. In some
recent months takings have approached
£7,000,000.


THE SERVICE MAN
In Retreat?
‘‘Ek Dum”: All along the line in the
south-west Pacific as the year drew to
Its close it looked as if the Jap was in
retreat. It seemed that the aggressiveness
exhibited there had gone out of him since
the establishment of Admiral Nimitz’s
force in the Gilberts. He appeared, in-
deed, to be drawing in his horns, making
sure that no large forces would remain
at extreme points, but getting ready to
fight in the area that best suits himself.
Colonel Knox is one of those who be-
lieved that the enemy might be doing
this. The enemy, he said, seemed to be
fleeing from his positions in southern
Bougainville and concentrating further
north. Japanese air opposition had be-
come negligible ; on some missions Allied
machines did not encounter a single
opposition aeroplane. Yet operations
had been developed on a large scale. In
the week to December 20 Allied airmen
in the southern Pacific had flown on 61
missions, using 1400 machines. The
biggest attack was made with 122
machines.
As in the air, so on the land the enemy
was falling back. At the extreme point of
penetration in the Ramu sector, ground
from which the Australians had retired
in the Kesawai skirmishes had been re-
occupied. The Jap seemed to have faded
into heavily-wooded country. There
were only brief sharp contacts with him,
but the visit of the G.O.C. Land Opera-
tions, General Blarney, bred the hope
among the chafing infantry that they
might be given a chance to follow the
Jap and to take part in bigger operations
before long.
On from Finschhafen
In the east Huon sector, with ’planes
and artillery probing or stabbing at the
country ahead, the Australian forces
advanced. Their advance was rapid after
the Masaweng River was crossed, and
after the bitter little affray south of the
river mouth on the edges of the coral
cliff of Cape Sibidia, in which over 40 of
the enemy were known to have died,
resistance faded away.
Even that fierce encounter, which left
scarcely a Nipponese alive, would not
have lasted long had it not been for the
steep-sided gullies which impeded the
tanks. The chief of these ditches, whose
30-foot sides proved too much for the
Matildas, had a large piece pared out of
its banks by a bulldozer operating under
sniper’s fire. One Matilda crossed and
pulled others after it.
When Queenslanders arrived, what with
the results of concentrated artillery fire,
bombing and the cleaning-up done by
the Matildas, the scene was something
like a madhouse garden. Bomb-happy
Japs screamed in foxholes among the
coral or walked about dazed. Others,
limp and dead, festooned the face of
Sibidia cliff. And the coral at the foot of
the cape was strewn with the bodies of
those who had made suicidal leaps in a
futile attempt to escape.
In the Kunai Country
After the Masaweng was passed the
troops reached a new type of country,
something like that of the Upper Ramu.
At first glimpse it looked easier than the
jungles of Sattelberg. In some ways it
was. Viewed from a distance the tall
kunai, brushed by the wind as it strains
up the heights from the seaboard coral
cliffs, has the sleek look of a sealskin
with dark seams in it. But the kunai —
the blady grass of mainland Australia
grown feet high—closes round the mov-
ing infantry like a mustard plaster. Its
surface reflects the heat into their faces
like a sheet of galvanised iron. The soil
underneath can be like glue in the in-
cessant rain. And the dark seams running
down from the sharp ridges and spurs
up above turn out to be deep, sharp-
sided ravines hollowed out by wind and
water and filled with timber, jupgle and
snipers and ambushes.
In spite of these tank traps and of the
fact that the inland patrols towards the
ranges had some of the most difficult
country to negotiate which has yet been
encountered, coastal progress was swift.
The infantry patrols felt out the
country ahead. “Bluey” Shinnick, who is
as familiar as the C.-in-C. in the Finsch-
hafen army, rolled forward on his bull-
dozer, automatic handy, to pare down
the banks of the ravines for the tanks.
Often he was the first Australian the
enemy saw, sometimes the last. Then
the Matildas and their escorts waddled
in behind the gunfire and the strafers,
Hibuka village fell; the prominent nose of
Fortification Point (Kitumala) was passed.
The coast turned from steering north
to a north-western lead.
Before the week-end the coastal spear-
head had captured Wandokai, 20'
miles by crowfly from Finschhafen.
This is a well-known enemy bivouac area.
Here there is a beach with some shelter.
It is only about 70 miles from Cape
Gloucester area and 30 miles from Sio.
Cape Gloucester’s Ordeal
Meanwhile, the bulk of the activity in
the New Guinea area was at the western
end of New Britain. Cape Gloucester,
facing on to the peaceful interior Bis-
mark Sea, its adjacent bays and its abun-
dant aircraft accommodation and depots
to feed the Japanese troops in the Huon
Peninsula with arms and materials, was
being treated to such a blasting as even
Rabaul and Bougainville main bases have
not experienced. Meanwhile, the U.S.
troops in the Arawe bridgehead fanned
out eastward towards the Pulie River
and inland to engulf the grass-grown
landing strip, pushing the watching
Japanese patrols into the bush.
New Britain has seen the most devas-
tating air actions and the heaviest bomb-
loads used out of Europe. Few great
German cities have been as thoroughly
bombed and strafed as the Cape Glouces-
ter area.
The record of bombs left at Cape
Gloucester:
Tons. Tons.
Dec. 18 .. .. 190 Dec. 22 .. ..153
„ 19 .... 414 „ 23 .. .. 300
„ 20 .... 189 „ 24 .. .. 360
„ 21 .. .. 205
Within a month 3200 tons had been
dropped around the Cape. The glow of
its fires must have been visible in the
dark to Australian troops across the
Dampier and Vitiaz Straits on clear
nights.
On Sunday night, December 27, Tokyo
Radio excitedly announced that U.S.
troops had landed at Cape Gloucester at
dawn on Friday—the day on which 360
tons of bombs were reported dropped in
the area. It was said that Japanese
bombers had successfully attacked the
U.S, beachhead. There was no Allied
confirmation.
Other operations included the bombing
of the Hoskins area on December 18 with
130 tons of bombs, and the first sweep
by Solomons-based fighters over Rabaul
the same day in an attack in which six
enemy machines were shot down for a
loss of two Allied machines ; also, at the
beginning of the week, the bombing of
Mandua, in the Vitu group, and Madang.
On December 20 R.A.A.F. Beau-
fighters made a merry sweep over Rabaul,
and Liberators in daylight sank a cargo
ship, set fire to two others and shot down
four enemy ’planes. North of Rabaul
a 6000-ton ship was believed sunk. A
8000-tonner and a 6000-tonner were left
burning fiercely and another 6000-tonner
was damaged in a convoy escorted by
two warships.
That day the Japanese swooped on a
convoy of empty Allied ships off the New
Guinea coast, but sank only one small
vessel of 200 tons. Terrific ack-ack fire
from the ships destroyed 14 raiding air-
craft and probably another six. Tokyo
next day claimed an attack on an “Allied
convoy, heavily laden with troops, off
Cape Merkus (New Britain), sinking two
cruisers, nine transports, two m.t.bs. and 30
large vessels and damaging several others.”
Spitfires Arrive
December 21 saw the first reported
appearance of R.A.A.F. Spitfires over
New Britain —they brought down a Japa-
nese fighter from 23,000 ft. at Gasmata.
Next day Wewak shipping and bases were
heavily bombed and direct hits made on
each of two 6000-ton transports and on a
3000-ton freighter. About 30 enemy
fighters appeared, but 14 were shot down,
with two more probably destroyed, in
return for two Allied fighters shot down
for certain, one missing and several others
damaged, Alexishafen was raided.
Operations on Christmas Eve included
the first attack on Rabaul in which
Liberators were escorted by navally-based
Hellcat and Corsair fighters. The enemy
was incautious enough to take these too
lightly. The Americans claimed 41 enemy
machines for the loss of seven. Tokyo s
version was typical: “When 135 Allied
’planes raided Rabaul on Friday morn-
ing 53 were shot down and five probably ;
we lost six aircraft.”
A Jap destroyer and two large enemy
ships were sunk and a destroyer and
several smaller vessels and eight patrol
’planes damaged off Kavieftg. The Allies
lost 11 machines.
Attacks on the Marshall Islands and
Nauru were repeated. The Japanese made
some sorties against the Gilberts, and
used about 100 bombers escorted by
fighters—the largest force seen for a long
time —in an attempt to blast out the Cape
Merkus landing area in New Britain.
Official South-west Pacific communiques,
however, say that the attempt resulted in
little damage, and cost the raiders 12 dive-
bombers and four fighters.
On Christmas Eve Tokyo had told of
a mysterious raid on the New Britain
area on the morning of December 23, in
which “75 Allied machines were inter-
cepted and 24 of them shot down for a
loss of six Japanese machines.”
In the Ramu area the R.A.A.F.
Boomerangs and Kitty fighter-bombers
(“Tojo’s Comforts Fund”) did a good
week’s work around the hills of Kesawai
and the, headwaters of the Solu and Haile
rivers, where most of the Japs opposed
to the far-flung Australians edging
towards Madang are dug in.
General Marshall's Visit.
On the eve of the U.S. landing at
Arawe, General Marshall, Chief of the
American General Staff, with Major-
General T. T. Handy (Chief of Opera-
tions, U.S. Army), Rear-Admiral C. M.
Cooke (Deputy-C.O.S. U.S. Navy),
Brigadier - General Haywood Hansell
(Chief of the War Plans Division) and
other officers, paid a visit to New Guinea
via Australia on his return journey from
Tehran to Washington.
The general camped for a night at an
Australian military post and appeared
like an apparition amid the preparations
for the Arawe affair. He saw Generals
MacArthur and Blarney, visited some of
the troops, spoke for 10 minutes to war
correspondents and flew away as quickly
as he had come, no doubt with an added
respect for the soldier who fights in New
Guinea conditions, and with a full appre-
ciation of the need of a generous flow of
war supplies to the South Pacific area.
At Hawaii he said: “We have got the
Japs beaten, but we have to keep pushing.”
General Marshall was in Washington
before Christmas.
Fighting in Europe.
Grim fighting continued on the Italian
front. The British Empire and Ameri-
can forces, however, had the better of it.
British and Maorilanders and Indians
were fiercely winkling the Germans out
of the terrible area in which the town of
Ortona dribbles down along its funicular
railway to Ortona-sul-Mare. The Ger-
mans had landed parachute troops in the
area, and these, with others, turned the
township into a fortress. Inland, where
the Canadians, 15 miles from the coast,
were driving against the forces holding
the Orsogna road, the battle was equally
vigorous and bloody. The whole Ger-
man salient on the east coast was show-
ing signs of giving way on Boxing Day,
and the Germans were reported to be
blowing up the Ortona quays, most, per-
haps all, of the town proper being in
Allied hands.
Meanwhile, Americans of the Fifth
Army spent their Christmas Day from
dawn onwards occupying one more peak
on the tedious road into the Liri-Sacco
Valley and the Via Gasilina.
General Montgomery issued a charac-
teristic message to the Eighth Army, part
of which read:
Once again the Eighth Army spends
Christmas in the field. This time last year
we were in Tripolitania, having just broken
through the famous El Agheila position.
You have every right to be very proud of
what you have achieved during the past
year.
Every citizen of the British Empire and
of the United Nations in general has good
cause to echo that sentiment.
Bombing, North and South
The bombers of the Mediterranean at-
tended incessantly to German communi-
cations as far afield as the approaches to
the Brenner —particularly Innsbruck and
Bolzano —leading Berlin to shriek with
rage at the terrible destruction of Italian
art, buildings and citizens.
Paradoxically, its diatribes expressed
no regret at the destruction of German
military works of art and of German
soldiery, implying that not even a near
miss had been scored against these. Sofia,
in Bulgaria, was bombed by U.S. forces,
which lost 11 machines and shot down
28 Axis aircraft.
In the north, Frankfurt was hit by
2000 tons of bombs in an R.A.F. night
raid, while a secondary raid was carried
out on Mannheim-Ludwigshafen further
south. Four heavy squadrons which
shared in the raid constituted the biggest
Australian force to take part in such an
operation.
There was not much of Frankfurt left
after the raid was over. Bombs were
fired upon the city at the greatest rate
in history—over 70 tons a minute. Several
hundred 4000-pounders, 8OO 1 half-fonners
and forests of incendiaries were dropped.
The whole thing took only half an hour
—from 7.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. —and after
the main forces had left Mosquitoes
arrived to disorganise the limited fire-
fighting. In this and widespread attacks
over the whole north Channel and North
Sea coastal area 42 aircraft were reported
missing.
North Germany suffered a heavy day-
light raid on Bremen in which 21
enemy fighters were destroyed by U.S.
bombers and 19 by escorting fighters. U.S.
forces lost 25 bombers and eight fighters.
The week’s attacks culminated with a
1000-ton raid on Berlin and other opera-
tions in central and western Germany.
With this attack, Berlin has absorbed
3500 tons of bombs during the month
and 10,000 tons altogether.
The ground defence was not as strong
as usual. Though fighters were claimed
by Berlin Radio to have destroyed “a
considerable number of four-engined
bombers,” resistance was comparatively
light, and the R.A.F. machine casualties
for the whole of the raiding over Ger-
many that day totalled 17.
Since May 23 100,000 tons of explo-
sive and incendiary material has been
dropped on Germany, and the attacks
are still being stepped up. There are now
enough aircraft and enough aerodromes
ringing Central Europe to keep German
fighter formations constantly on the run,
never knowing the direction from which
the raiders will come. Berlin can no
longer calculate that there will be only
one attack on one day.
The Eighth U.S.A.F. on Friday de-
livered the culminating blows in a sweep
over the Pas de Calais province of
France, whose sea borders begin halfway
between Montreuil and the Somme on
the south, include Boulogne and Calais
and end at Gravelines, a few miles from
Dunkirk, on the north. Hazebrouck,
Armentieres, Lille, Douai, Cambrai,
Combles, Thiepval, Albert and Crecy
stand round outside its borders as sen-
tinels. Over this land of Artois 1300
bombers and fighters raged. The coun-
tryside includes all the communication
and strategic points of the routes to and
from Boulogne and Calais. The object
of the attacks nobody knows except the
Command. One theory is that the raiders
were out to smash new rocket guns, re-
puted to be able to fire a 50-, 500- or
5000-ton shell clean into London. Some
of the points attacked were 140 miles
from London.
The area includes the points from
which the enemy might control the
eastern entry to the Channel with heavy
artillery and fighters and bombers, and
from which he could best attack great
southern assembly ports along the eastern
half of the Channel.
There was reconnaissance bombing of
parts of southern England by German
’planes but no serious attack.
Scharnhorst Sunk.
On December 27 the Admiralty an-
nounced that the Home Fleet, under
Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, while cover-
ing a convoy, had sunk the German
battleship Scharnhorst.
There were no details save that the
action occurred 300 miles from North
Cape in Norway, where the marauding
German fleet would have least expected
to find a battle squadron at this time of
year. For months the Home Fleet has
been trying to tempt the Germans to
fight.
The Scharnhorst was a 26,000-ton ship,
completed in 1939, armed with nine llin.,
12 5.9 in. and 12 4.1 in a.-a. guns. Her
speed was 27 knots.
In 1940 the Scharnhorst was bombed in
dry dock in Kiel. Then she sneaked into
the Atlantic with her sister ship Gneise-
nau and sank 22 ships, scuttling into
Brest until May, 1942, along with the
Gneisenau and Prinze Eugen (10,000
tons). The three ships escaped on a foggy
day, and bad visibility and huge fighter
cover saved them, though the Scharn-
horst and the Eugen were hit several
times by bombs and torpedoes.
They were bombed again in dock at
Kiel and at Danzig, and it was some
months before they were fit to join the
35,000-ton Tirpitz, sister to the Bismarck,
on the Arctic patrol
Vitebsk-Nevel-Kirovograd.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian offensive in
the Vitebsk-Nevel area has pride of place
in the news from Russia. The Germans
stiffened their resistance in parts of the
south, but Moscow reported on Decem-
ber 26 that Marshal Vatutin had opened
a new offensive in the Kiev bulge,
advanced 25 miles in three days and re-
taken 155 places, among them Radomysl
and Brussilov, killing 1500 Germans in the
process of routing six enemy divisions.
Since the enemy retired from the
Mariupol region and Perekop the Crimean
gateway and the 150 miles or so of the
lower Dnieper from Nikopol to the Black
Sea have been held, and the attack


Public Notices.
I MICHAEL DUNCAN, of Rumanian nationality,
born at Bucharest, Rumania, and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 5 Longworth Avenue,
Point Piper, N.S.W., intend to apply nsrturalaa-
tion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936. ,
I, LANCE CORPORAL KARL PISK member of
A.M.F. of Austrian nationality, born at Goetzendorf,
Austria’, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at Mascot, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I ERIC ROSENBERG, of former German nationality,
bom at Paderborn and resident five years and over
in Australia now in the A.M.F., and residing at 189
Olovelly Road, Clovelly, N.S.W., intend l
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 19-0 10-. _•
I GOTTFRIED FREDERICK WOLFF, of Gerbian
nationality, born at Cologne, Germany, and resident
six years in Australia, now residing at 5o Oswald
Street Randwick, N.S.W., at present a member of the
A.M.f'., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friend.
WOTTI’D anv person knowing the addiess of MR.
BENJAMIN HIGGINS, who originally resided in
Dunedin New Zealand, and who came to Australia
in the year 1901, please communicate with the under-
signed ? y Mr. Higgins was a Bootmaker by trade arid
ANDERSON, Solicitors! 319 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CD
am
on the eastern Crimea has been warded
off Recapture of the Crimea would be
a great tiling for the Allies, affecting the
whole position in the Balkans.
As at Krivoi Rog, to which the Rus-
sians came down from Kremenchug in a
headlong drive, and at Zhitomir, which
they reached after another headlong
drive of 60 miles or so in four days after
the fall of Kiev, so at Smyela and Kirovo-
grad and Jlobin the Red Army has come
up against effective defence.
On Moscow’s authority fighting in
the Kirovograd area cost the Ger-
mans 148 tanks on December 21. South-
west of Jlobin an attack was mentioned
in which the enemy used two infantry
divisions and 100 tanks and lost 1800
in dead and 45 of the tanks. Reuter’s
Moscow correspondent says the enemy is
using 2000 tanks in the Kirovograd area
and the Kiev salient.
The position in the Vitebsk-Nevel area
was obscure. There the Germans have
reported constant attacks by large-scale
Red Army forces for over a month. But
Moscow accounts are to the effect that
a sweeping and sudden offensive within
a week broke through the enemy lines
with powerful and specially-equipped
forces, which were launched in bad
weather so as to minimise the effective-
ness of German artillery usage. Some
correspondents saw terrified inhabitants
of East Prussia, 300 miles from the front,
in full flight. A sober interpretation is
that the Vitebsk-Nevel battle has begun
to run the natural course of all these
offensives.
The Russians claimed early in the week
to have smashed heavily-fortified defence
lines carefully built by the Germans with
several months of labor. The country
on to which the enemy has been forced
to retreat is presumably weaker in pre-
pared defence. Yet after the break-
through Moscow reported that in the
rearward area south of Nevel “the Ger-
mans counter-attacked 16 times in quick
succession with tank-supported infantry.”
All attacks were repelled, and on the
heels of the retreating enemy the Rus-
sians occupied several more places.
On December 22 the tope of Berlin
changed, and the German High Com-
mand alleged that Russian break-through
attempts north and south of Vitebsk had
failed, but four days later the Russians
claimed to be within six miles of Vitebsk.
The conditions of the front are now
changing substantially. The belated
winter has arrived in earnest. Marshes,
lakes, swamps are frozen or freezing.
Moscow suggests, that when the freeze
is complete there will be a grand offen-
sive, and seems to believe that con-
temporaneously the British-U.S. armies
will launch a great blow in the west.
It is, however, difficult to believe that
the Allies will attempt a hazardous
winter campaign across the fog-bound
Channel with all the terrible vagaries to
which sea and air are subject at this time
of year. If they do so it will be merely
to establish a bridgehead.
The Allied Command.
“Ek Dum”: Announcement of the
names of the commanders of the land
forces assigned to invade western Europe
is important, though it does not mean
that the Allies will be attacking the
borders of Germany next Tuesday or
Wednesday. It was made in Washington
by the President.
Commander-in-Chief of Invasion Forces
based in Britain : General Eisenhower.
His position in regard to the Allies will
be largely parallel to that of the Chief of
the Imperial General Staff within the British
Army. He will be the central planning
and command authority, subject to the
Combined Staffs Committee and Messrs.
Churchill and Roosevelt, above the opera-
tional commander.
Commander-in-Chief of the Group oj
British , Canadian , American and other
Allied forces to operate from Britain :
General Montgomery.
Supreme Allied Commander in the
Mediterranean, replacing General Eisen-
hower : General Henry Maitland-Wilson.
His position bears the same relation to
operational commanders in the Mediter-
ranean as General Eisenhower bears to them
in Britain. He has been, till now, C.-in-C.
in the Middle East commanding the Ninth
and Tenth Armies. It was under him that
the A.I.F. first saw battle in General
Wavell’s advance on Libya in December,
1940. ' ...
Commander-in-Chief of Allied Armies in
Italy : General Sir Harold Alexander.
The only air appointment mentioned is
that of Lieut.-General Carl Spaatz
(U.S.), who will command the U.S.
Strategic Bombing Force . operating
against Germany in conjunction with the
U.S. landing forces.
Naval and air commands otherwise
will presumably remain, as at present, in
British hands, save for the U.S. bombing
force now operating from Britain under
General Baker.
It seems unlikely that a major move
will be made until there is some guaran-
tee of continuously reasonable weather
and until full support can be given the
landing forces with the new heavy
bombers and long-distance fighters which
are rolling off the production lines. The
new bombers are said to dwarf the
Fortresses and Liberators and even the
Lancasters, and huge special aerodromes
already have been equipped for them in
Britain.
Supplementing their work against rear-
ward supply areas and armament cities
will be the new types of fast, light
bomber-fighters and strafers, Mosquitoes,
Typhoons, Thunderbolts, Bostons, Mus-
tangs and others, and the new heavily-
armed Mitchells, some of which carry
a 75mm. gun firing an eight-pound shell
for use against ground objectives. It
must be a devastating weapon when used
at low level.
General Montgomery’s Record
General Montgomery was the logical
choice for the invasion command. On
him will devolve most of the responsi-
bility as the fighting commander. Against
him he will probably have his old
opponent Rommel, now a field-marshal,
who is said to have succeeded Marshal
von Rundstedt as German C.-in-C. in
northern and western Europe. Nobody
knows Rommel’s tricks and manners
better than Montgomery, who also has
the inestimable moral advantage of hav-
ing beaten him every time they have met.
General Montgomery’s, too, is an
inspiring name with the Allied public
everywhere, and he knows his France as
no American and few British comman-
ders are likely to know it.
In the B.E.F. on the Maulde-Escaut
line in 1939 Montgomery’s Third Division
of the Second Corps was one of the first
to fall into position. On May 16, after
the fall of the Netherlands, his division
at Louvain was the furthest-flung of ail
the Allied forces. His was the open flank
when the Belgians caved in ; his the last
stubborn nose poked out at the enemy at
Fumes. His men, retiring “steadily and
in good order,” were almost the last to
embark at Dunkirk, save for Alexander’s
“last 20,000,” after 18 days of incessant
fighting.
Montgomery has good reason to know
the main roads to Germany by the Bel-
gian route. And he will have good reason
to need to know them, for no general
since the critical campaign of Waterloo
will have carried so great a military re-
sponsibility in Western Europe.
This dour, stern North of Ireland man
will literally have the fate of the world
on his shoulders, besides the fate of hun-
dreds of thousands of men in the largest
cross-sea military operations ever carried
out in history —in terms of transport, the
largest on land or by sea by a long chalk,
despite the greater numbers of men in-
volved in the front line in the west in the
last war and on the Russian front in the
present one.
“Second Front” at Last
Attack in western Europe by land was
inevitable; but it is to the credit of
British and American Governments that
they have deferred it till they were able
by their naval and air operations to set
the enemy rocking on his pins, and until
the gigantic adventure could be attempted
with the backing of the fullest possible
weight of equipment and armament in
the hands of armies adequate in numbers
and trained to the minute.
Even with all the newly-developed ad-
vantages victory will be paid for dearly
in the west. The campaign and its diffi-
culties will show up as the callous and
uninformed idiots they are the squealing
parlor pinks who in 1941, when battered
Britain stood alone, fending off the Ü-
boat campaign and the threat of invasion
with less than 40 meagrely equipped divi-
sions and a tired Navy and an unde-
veloped air force, were shrieking that
Timoshenko had Germany licked and
that the opening of a “second front in
1941” would send Hitler racing for his
white flag.
All About Yugoslavia.
“Ek Dum”: Yugoslavia is quickly be-
coming, if not a cockpit of major waf,
a cockpit of major politics. It is a large
country as countries go in Europe —about
95,000 square miles, and it has a popula-
tion of 13,934,000 or thereabouts. From
the writer’s first-hand observation not
one of the 13,934,000 ever agrees with
any other one about anything except the
need for a shot of slivovitza and a good
fight. No modest man who has been to
Yugoslavia ever pretends to know any-
thing about its politics.
The writer was there last on what ne
wrongly believed would be the marge or
spring—late February. He entered Yugo-
slavia from Hungary at the point near
the Danube where “the war was won on
Mohacs field.” He was deeply impressed
by the unity of outlook among the cus-
toms and other officials who admitted him
and his companions with considerable
ceremony. They were unanimous m
their objective, which was to divest the
party of every copper it possessed m
Yugoslav money. Duly divested, the
party then left for Belgrade through the
territory which had been detached from
the old Austrian empire and “liberated
under the Yugoslav flag.
This country seemed to consist ot long,
bleak stretches over which a wind swept
at 80 miles an hour. The villages were
all primitive —so primitive that most ot
them did not have printed shop signs,
only picture emblems after the fashion ot
fourteenth-century England. Their in-
habitants, all hungry and many starving,
seemed to be dying off like flies, and they
complained that the Serbs, in process ot
liberating them, had also relieved them
of most of their possessions. They pre-
ferred to speak German, but they
appeared to hate everybody.
The only livestock which they seemed
to possess were a few horses and traction
cattle and herds of pigs, which, by way
of tribute to the climate, grew wool on
their backs like a Riverina ram. The
roads were black mud which had been
frozen into solid ice and,
although there were rivers galore, it was
almost impossible to get a drink of water
because the ice was several feet thick on
them.
Nothing much happened to us m our
first week, all of which we spent within
100 miles of the capital, except things
which may be numbered for convenience.
(1) We made a hurried flit from a vil-
lage area on a hint that we were in tow
with bandits ; (2) I had dinner with a
lady who had been a Russian officer s
wife and who was now playing a balalaika
because her husband had had his hands
cut off by Red Guards; (3) I waited
three days for a bath in Semlin because
there was an influenza epidemic and they
had turned the bathroom into the hotel
morgue; (4) we were again stripped of
our money by the octroi guard of Bel-
grade—afterwards we were told officially
that the octroi guard did not exist; (5)
I was arrested in front of the palace foi
having my hands in my pockets when the
king was due to go driving; (6) forty-
odd hospitable Yugoslavs took us to see
the spot where the naked and mutilated
body of Queen Draga had been thrown
out a palace window in the previous
generation ; (7) a member of the party
who incautiously stepped off a roadside
in the dark had to be fished out of 20
feet of snow like an earring out of a
pond; (8) at every village we were
warned that the inhabitants of the next
were brigands; (9) we slept in places
where we heard wolves howling.
Through most of Yugoslavia influenza
was raging. In some villages of the south-
east every third house had a black flag
out. These black flags, when done with
for mourning* were not wasted. In one
pub we stayed at they had been turned
into window blinds for the billiard-room
—not an indigenous amenity but a relic
of Allied occupation; the billiard-table
had one leg and was piled in the corner.
Housewives also found these banners
useful for aprons. But brighter days were
obviously in sight, because the stocks of
coffins on the village footpaths were being
marked down in price to bargain rates
spring was near. .
When we left Yugoslavia we crossed
the border, which was obliterated by a
mantle of snow before the Yugoslavs
knew we were out. When they discovered
our departure they served a demand on
the Bulgarians for our return, so that they
might shake the small change, out of us
again. The Bulgarians held us by the
arm with one hand and clutched their
rifles with the other. They spat fre-
quently. So did the Yugoslavs. A few
days afterwards a Bulgarian guard was
mysteriously shot. Nobody could agree
who shot him. ... .....
In a country like this it is little
wonder that after a debacle and an in-
vasion the situation is confused.
seabees.
John Brennan’s tribute:
The story of the American campaign in the
South Pacific has been in a very large measure
the story of the Seabees of the U.S. Navy Con-
struction Battalions.
Nowhere has it been possible to deal with the
job on a large scale in the one place, nor to
follow quickly from one success to a new attack.
Plant and decontamination gear have needed
reconditioning before moving to a new pad-
dock. Fighting quality and determination and
careful handling of small resources in men and
material have played their parts, but it’s not
too much to claim that the work of the Seabees
has made it all possible.
Only by carving bases out of the jungle has
the next move forward become possible. The
C Bs. have tackled the problems of building
roads and airfields with enthusiasm and confi-
dence. They’ve been ready to have a shot at
almost anything—to put a landing strip down
in the middle of a swamp or take a 30ft. high-
way over a mountain. They’ve rarely been be-
hind schedule.
They’re older men mostly—many of them in
the fifties and many with a record of army ser-
vice during the last war—and they are men of
long experience with all forms of constructional
work and construction machinery. Their equip-
ment is astonishing in its quantity and variety.
They’ve bulldozers, ditch-diggers, scrapers,
graders, rollers, diesel shovels and scoops,
dredges, tractors, trucks. Their handling ot
them is a pleasure to watch.
At Munda they had the shell-torn and bomb-
blasted airfield ready for operation eight days
after the last Jap was routed from his hole on
Kokengola Hill. Long before the remnants of
the enemy’s New Georgia forces escaped across
the Kula Gulf to join their already doomed
brothers on Kolombangara, the Seabees had
wide coral-packed, all-weather roads running
back’ into the hills where the Japanese in their
12 months’ occupation could manage nothing
better than narrow goat trails.
On Vella Lavella the Seabees built an air-
strip in three weeks. They pushed the jungle
back and tore the side out of a mountain;
they pushed tree-trunks, rocks and coral out
into the ocean, piled earth on top of it, rolled
and levelled it, and for half a mile they added
50 yards to the size of the island.
There was no coral for roadbuilding when the
Seabees landed with the invasion force at
Empress Augusta Bay—only sand and swamp.
They changed their tactics, built the roads
three or four feet higher than the surrounding
countryside, ditched the sides and drained the
swamps. They’re building an airstrip on a
sandy bottom—an airstrip that not two weeks
after they began work on it was already suit-
able for ’planes to land on in an emergency.
They worked for five days digging a moat
around it so that' the entire field will be an
“island” safe in any weather.
And they fight, too, when it’s necessary, these
Seabees. Their motto is We defend what we
build.” More than once the complaint has
been made that they work all day, then want to
fight all night. They’re popular with every-
body. If anything goes wrong it s Take it to
the C.Bs.” There you’ll find a watchmaker or
a jeweller, somebody to mend teeth or build a
camp oven or service a ’plane.
A roll of more than 200 Australians
decorated or mentioned in dispatches, mainly
for gallantry and good work in the Owen
Stanlevs-Milne Bay-Buna-Gona campaigns a
year ago was published on Dec. 24 It seems
a pity that a year had to elapse before such
deeds are recognised.
* * * *
Australian squadrons flew over Europe on
138 nights to attack 46 separate targets in tire
year to Nov. 30. They flew 4000 sorties, cover-
ing over 4,000,000 miles. Three of the squad-
rons are equipped with Lancasters, and in thre
of the four great November attacks on Ger-
many they sent out oyer 300 men.
Of 58 Jap aircraft which raided a U-S. base in
China only 13 escaped undamaged. Fifteen were
shot down. The Americans lost two machines
and a third was damaged. An R.A.E.-U.b.A.r.
combined force blasted wharves in the ai serial
area at Bangkok on Dec. 18. Only one machine
was lost , * *
Official pictures of Tarawa after the landing
dispose of the fetish that modern artillery makes
any fortification untenable in this war. Even
remote Bello, Jap fortified dugogS w. h-
stood direct hits by 16m. naval shells, which
weigh nearly H ton. # *
Sinkings of enemy vessels during the week
ranged f rom an old 2300-ton Yugoslav cruiser in
German hands, wrecked by British naval units
in the Adriatic, to a large enemy U-boat sunk
by U.S. aircraft off the Colombian coast m
S America. It had previously
Colombian and Panama ships to the bottom.
A U.S. merchantman was sunk in th - Gu b
“gS £? SASS. c G rayfe (&> loniS
must be presumed lost. _


sag
- »
TO ENHANCE LIVING:
NOT TO DESTROY LIFE
In the Shape of things to come this organisation perceives even greater scope for
service than in these years of war and worry. In a world purged of aggression,
electrical science can be employed to uplift, not to destroy; to enhance living,
not to destroy life. To that ideal Philips Electrical Industries are pledged, just
as they are now pledged to tire cause of Victory.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment •
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
Eighteenth New Zealand National Thoroughbred Sales.
Trentham, Wellington, N.Z., January 14th and 21st, 1944.
247 THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS 247
148 Colts 99 Fillies
Representing 51 leading English- and Colonial-bred sires.
The catalogue is a record one both on the score of numbers and of relationship to high-
class winners. The yearlings include the progeny of all the Dominion’s noted proven sires
and the progeny of several English Classic winners, Coronach, Battle Song, etc. To date
(representing 14 seasons) no less than 55 Classic winning three-year-olds have been bought at
these sales, while the percentage of high-class winners is undoubtedly the highest in the world.
Also a choice catalogue of Brood Mares, Racehorses, English- and Colonial-bred Sires and
Untried Stock. . . , ,
COMMISSIONS: As customary, the Auctioneers will accept commissions on behalf of
absentee buyers. Arrangements can also be made to leave yearlings in New Zealand and
have them broken in and given preliminary training.
CATALOGUES OBTAINABLE FROM:
Wright Stephenson & Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Mackinnon & Cox Pty., Ltd., 482 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Inglis & Son Pty., Ltd., 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS: Wright, Stephenson & Co., Ltd., Wellington, N.Z.
Pyne, Gould, Guinness, Ltd., Christchurch, N.Z.
Cable address: “Wright Stephenson,” Wellington, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Three wins in as many starts having
earned Bravo the burden of 9.13 in the
Summer Nursery (won by Silver Flare)
at the A.J.C. meeting on Monday, the
engagement was declined, in favor of the
December Stakes, in which Bravo (8.5)
had a slb. advantage over Majesty.
A walk-in start favored the latter, who
had a two-lengths’ lead early, three
lengths turning into the straight, and
lasted long enough to just beat the filly
Tea Rose. Bravo, third, three lengths
away, though hard ridden by Cook, could
not head Tea Rose while they trailed
Majesty in the first furlongs.
Strongly fancied since her Red Cross
Cup win, Cream Puff had a two-lengths’
lead turning for home in the Summer
Cup, and lasted to hold off a strong finish-
ing run by Grand Fils, with Moondarewa
third. Though one of the last away, the
winner was taken along early by Knox,
went up to Lambeth with six to go, and
was the leader four furlongs from home.
* * * *
Writing before Boxing Day racing it
was difficult to make a definite selection
for the Carrington Stakes or Tattersall’s
Cup. A win on Monday means a 71b.
penalty for either race. Nobleman
escapes it, and an additional 71b. in the
Carrington would have left him a pound
below his Chisholm Handicap weight.
Reports differ slightly concerning
Yaralla’s work, but Flying Knight is
doing well. Tahmoor is sure of support,
and as Panchio has a weight he can
handle he must be conceded a chance,
though an extra furlong would be in his
favor. Hesione will be suited by the
distance, and Hydra is reported to be
improving.
Since she resumed work Flight has
demonstrated that her holiday did not
affect her pace, but an absence of over
two months from racing may tell against
her in a really hard finish. Martheus is
brilliant, is well, and recently won at
Randwick with 7.9. , Haddon Hall is
another good galloper, as is Fermanagh,
and the race is decidedly open. Noble-
man, Panchio, Grand Prodige and Flying
Knight may provide a couple of place-
getters.
Last year Soho (8.8) was beaten a head
by John Halifax (7.4) in the Chisholm
Handicap, but with only a pound less
won the Carrington Stakes from Panchio
(7.8) and Hydra (7.3), with John Halifax,
again carrying 7.4, in fourth position.
Summer Cup form has a distinct bear-
ing on Tattersall’s Cup possibilities.
Since Cream Puff won the former her
weight will go up to Bst., and she will
find it difficult to beat Grand Fils, whose
Summer Cup showing was good. Al-
though the belief that Lord Neith had
not done a sufficiently strong prepara-
tion for the Summer Cup caused his
withdrawal, there is no doubt as to
his being really well. He did not show
up in the Metropolitan, but at one stage
was well in the betting for that race.
Recent form suggests he should now be
able to get a mile and a half. Lambeth
is a possibility, and Moondarewa should
be all the better for his Summer Cup run.
On Summer Cup running Grand Fils
or Cream Puff may win, while others that
should run well are Lord Neith, Lam-
beth and Moondarewa.
* * * *
Skipton, winner of a Melbourne and
Caulfield Cup, was weighted at 14.10 for
a mile race at a picnic meeting held at
Warrnambool (Vic.) on Boxing Day. He
was a complimentary entry as a gesture
of goodwill by his owner for the club
concerned. Skipton has been spelling
since the spring, and soon will begin
a preparation for autumn races. Amana,
star w.f.a. performer of the spring, and
Precept, winner of the Victoria Derby,
have resumed work. Connections of
Amana and the Melbourne Cup winner
Dark Felt, would like to race their horses
in Sydney next autumn, but existing trans-
port regulations constitute an effective
bar.
Autumn opportunities for Dark Felt
in Melbourne will be restricted. He will
receive heavy weights in handicaps, and
the w.f.a. range is limited. In the ordi-
nary course of events he will contest what
w.f.a. races there are. In his spring form
he would be up to w.f.a. standard, but
Amana is the younger horse, and prob-
ably more susceptible to improvement.
Clarification of the V.R.C. decision to
delay acceptances until 45 minutes before
each race has cleared several misunder-
standings. Lists of probable runners —
horses left in at' 1 p.m. Wednesday—divi-
sions, if necessary, and horses balloted
out will be available to the public through
ordinary press channels. Racebooks will
not be any larger than usual. The measure
is aimed primarily at “black market”
rather than at ordinary s.p. betting. Under
the new system an owner whose horse
has been heavily backed in the pre-post
market will be able to scratch without in-
curring acceptance fee. Several such
scratchings might dampen the enthusiasm
of “hijackers.” Black-market book-
makers will attempt to overcome the
obstacle by guaranteeing a start, but
odds will be less attractive. Loopholes
still exist for chicanery, but V.R.C.
stewards will police that angle. If its
scheme is unsuccessful, V.R.C. com-
mittee will adopt more drastic measures.
* * * *
The books have experienced a couple
of heavy losing days at Randwick, but,
as a whole, it is improbable they have
fault to find. There were days on which
backers suffered severely. October 9 was
one, five of the six winners starting at
10 to 1 or over. On October 30 and
December 18 the winners included four
short-priced favorites. However, the fol-
lowing winners up to December 18 gave
the Ring bright spots this season:
Price. Price.
Active Service .. 50 Royal Result .. 12
Kiaree 40 Feltpal 12
Victory Lad .. 20 Hesione 10
Spear Patrol.. .. 20 Rylstone .. ..10
Beau Rasade .. 15 Merrimba .. .. 10
Betza 14 Marcondis .. .. 10
Chinook .. ..12 Flight 10
Cream Puff .. .. 12 Lord Neith .. .. 10
* * * *
Many people in other parts of the
world have peculiar ideas regarding Aus-
tralia, but this effort by the racing con-
tributor to the New York “Daily Mirror”
takes a lot of beating;
Racehorses are so cheap in Australia just
now that American soldiers in the chips
after cashing a winning ticket buy them for
four or five pounds. ,
Evidently his leg has been well and truly
pulled by some American who is now
with us. But it is amazing that a man
who is rated good enough to write for a
New York daily should know so little
outside his own backyard or flat.
* * * *
This year’s New Zealand Derby at
Riccarton (Christchurch) was won by
Tara King (son of Beau Pere) in 2.32 f.
The unplaced runners included John
o’ London, whose form this season has
fallen short of expectations.
* * * *
Three-year-olds did not play a promi-
nent part in weight-for-age races run in
Sydney last autumn, but this season there
may be a different tale. Moorland, May-
fowl, Flight and Tribal make up a
strong team at various distances, and
among those lower in the list Castle Fron-
tenac. Warlock, Chinook, Haddon Hall,
Falcon Knight, MacArthur, War Eagle
(despite being a spring disappointment),
All Scot, Highgate, Royal Peer, Sincerity,
Cordale and Goya will swell the ranks of
three-year-olds that should help towards
interesting racing.
=l= * * *
When a horse changes stables and wins
a race or two shortly after, it is not un-
usual to hear it inferred that improve-
ment is due to getting into the hands of
a more capable trainer. That, however,
is not necessarily correct. Most trainers
have their particular methods, and as
they rarely vary them to any extent there
is always a chance of one man’s methods
suiting a horse better than those of an-
other ; and that without proving him a
superior trainer.
* * * *
Trainer Max Hirsch claims that in
Depth Charge, two-year-old half-brother
to Count Fleet, he has the fastest horse
not only in America but the world, and
is prepared to back his opinion to the
extent of $lO,OOO. From a standing
start Depth Charge runs well inside 11
seconds for his first furlong.
» * * *
If the S.T.C. committee’s idea of send-
ing experts abroad to gain ideas from
America, England and India of the
best methods to be adopted for its own
course is eventually carried into effect
it would, according to American
opinion, be wise for them first of all
to visit Mexico to see Mexico City’s
recently-constructed course, which, ac-
cording to some American papers, is
the last thing in race-track appoint-
ments. That is saying a lot. Its con-
struction cost £A600,000, and spectators
have a perfect view from stands nearly
100 ft. high with four levels they
accommodate 17,000 —and sloping con-
crete terraces in front of the stands. The
track itself is only a little over six and
a half furlongs in circumference, with
chutes for longer races. The tote is the
sole betting medium. If the trip is
made it is not improbable that some of
the club’s representatives who go abroad
will return to Australia convinced that,
except in a few details—principally asso-
ciated with the tote —Flemington and
Randwick hold their own against most
courses,
* * * *
Among the Chicago races advertised
for 1944 are the following:—Arlington
Park: Arlington Classic (three-year-olds)
$50,000, gross value in 1943 (inclusive
of forfeits and sweepstakes) $72,000 ;
Arlington Futurity (two - year - olds)
$25,000, gross value in 1943 $50,050;
Arlington Lassie Stakes (two-year-old
fillies) $15,000, gross value in 1943
$35,580. Washington Park: American
Derby (three-year-olds) $50,000, gross
value in 1943 $74,700 ; Washington Park
Futurity (two-year-olds) $25,000, gross
value in 1943 $55,025.
* * * *
J. Joyner, one of America’s oldest and,
in his day, most prominent trainers, died
at the end of August at the age of 82.
He trained many good horses for noted
owners and had over 2000 winners, these
including some in England, to which
country be took a team for W. C. Whit-
ney. Joyner was the son of a clergyman,
and his relations wanted him to become
a doctor, but he preferred horses.
* * * *
Notwithstanding there was much less
racing in England this year than two years
ago, and consequent reduction of teams,
lack of stable labor gave trainers
plenty of cause for worry. Some trainers
went to the expense and trouble of get-
ting boys from Ireland, but many of these
left when there were more lucrative jobs
in sight. Now trainers arrange to have
boys properly apprenticed before coming
to England, and the Ministry of Labor
sees to it that any lad breaking his inden-
tures is sent back to Ireland.
* * * *
It is amusing to hear the tributes occa-
sionally paid to the honesty of owners,
trainers and jockeys of the long past. The
other day, when possibilities were being
discussed, I heard the remark “You now
have to contend with the human element
as well as the horses.” When was it
otherwise? Prior to days of stipendiary
stewards some men did what those of
the present day would scarcely dare con-
template. Not because of a higher sense
of racing morality, but because the risk
is so much greater now that racing is
supervised by stipendiary stewards. In
the days of honorary stewards a staunch
friend or two on a committee enabled
some men to go to surprising lengths.
♦ * * *
Yearling sales in America in August
and September gave breeders every cause
for satisfaction. At Lexington 314 young-
sters averaged $2989 (slightly over
£A9OB), and 130 at Westbury (Long
Island) averaged $3028 (about £A9IB).
Greek oilman W. Helis was the sen-
sational buyer, paying $213,000 (approxi-
mately £64,787) for 17 youngsters. His
principal purchase was the Blenheim 11-
Risk colt at £A20,075. He made some
private purchases, and altogether paid
$300,000 (£A91,250) this year. Helis cer-
tainly deserves to win a full share of im-
portant two- and three-year-old races. He
has contributed $2,000,000 to Greek relief
funds. Buyers were so keen that a Lex-
ington writer says a wooden rocking-
horse would have been productive of an
opening bid of $5OO.
Miscellaneous
Already voted a comer by Brisbane
judges, Billy Fletcher became a threat
to Patrick when he knocked out Joe
Grant at Leichhardt. A genuine light-
weight with an attractive style and a
powerful punch, Fletcher carried the fight
to Grant after that young fellow had
scored with snappy straight lefts in the
first two rounds, and after that Grant was
never in it. A left and right to the chin
sent him to his corner groggy, and he
had not recovered from these blows
when they came up for the fourth. A
perfect right to the chin floored Joe for
“nine.” Fletcher calmly measured him
for another right that knocked him out.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Christmas bush was pale this year,
as though it were a reflection of the
somewhat pallid material joys that sur-
rounded this great festival. Truth to tell,
most of the joys Sydney hugged were
ghosts of the joys of former years.
But spiritually the city was rich—rich in
the knowledge of brave sons fighting for
her amid the discomforts of the iropic
North—rich in that she hoped that 1944,
just around the corner, might bring peace
in its train and happy reunions with far-
distant ones.
The Christmas bells on sturdy stalks
were handsome and vivid, as though they
feared no foe. The children, through
the loving labors of voluntary workers,
were supplied with brightly-hued felt
toys: emerald green and pink elephants,
whole Noah’s Ark complement and even
dolls —papier-mache made, some of them.
Most housekeepers, by persistence,
brought home in triumphs half pound of
bacon and of ham. There were beer and
sherry for the patient queuer. In short,
Christmas, 1943, refused to be downed,
and shouted across the rim of every
raised glass ‘‘Here’s hoping! ”
To introduce daughter Mary K.’s be-
trothed, Cliff Gearin, to family friends,
Mrs. John Woods cooeed 60 or more
to her home in North Sydney midway
through last week. The house was flower-
fragrant, gardenias gleaming in their soft
whiteness from many corners. They were
scattered around the large Christmas cake
which Mary K. herself had iced. Bom-
bardier Cliff Gearin was the only soldier
at the party, and with his fiancee was
showered with a verbal confetti of con-
gratulation. Against his khaki her white
crepes were very soft. In her dark hair
a gardenia was looped.
Mrs, Woods also was in white, while
most of the women guests introduced
floral prints or silks to the afternoon’s
design. Slim Mrs. Bill Bye (Dr. Dora
McMahon) wore hyacinth pinks that
melted in with her mother’s lobelia-blue
frock. Mrs. Walter Burfitt and Mrs. Tom
Hogan were there. Sheila Kearns, still
telling of her meeting with Gary Cooper,
arrived with mother and father. Justice
McTiernan looked in, and his niece Mary,
a pretty girl in blue, helped serve the
savories. Dr. McCristal, the popular Dr.
Conrick couple, the medical O’Brien pair
from Strathfield and Mrs. Tom Murray
were others. The wedding, which was
to have been in March, has been put for-
ward to the beginning of February. St.
Mary’s, Ridge-street, North Sydney, will
seal the partnership.
The women’s committee of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron ended the year
in a burst of glory. In addition to the
hundreds of garments they have knitted
for the men of the Navy and the Mer-
chant Service, they handed over a cheque
for £4OO. True, when president Mrs.
Marriott signed the flimsy the bank
balance was just a toehold on the right
side of the ledger, but it represented
achievement. Then one and all set about
enjoying the end-of-the-year bridge party.
Those who didn’t play cards played
snakes-and-ladders or something equally
reckless in the library. Crowning touch
of the afternoon was the Christmas cake,
entirely surrounded by XOS pansies.
Since the annual meeting a few weeks
ago Mrs. Don Taylor is the president of
the Squadron’s Associates’ Committee.
Joan Sterling-Levis will marry her
Sergeant John Leslie Ferres, A.1.F., in
St. James’s Church at half-past five on
January 5. There will be a reception
later at the Forum Club. Joan’s parents
are the Dr. Sterling-Levis couple, and
mother has written many stories, plays
and verse. Some of the last have been
set to music by Roger Quilter and Aus-
tralia’s own Horace Keats.
Mrs. Horace Buck and Mrs. Gladys
Lister, both members of the Society of
Women Writers, have added to the delight
of the reading child by attractive books.
The first has published a book of verse
called Dorothy Perkins. In a foreword
Professor Tasman Lovell points out that
the illustrations have been drawn by
childien, most of whom are no more
than 10 or 12. Mrs. Lister; who annually
gives the young of this country something
worth while, has called her latest book
Dawn Mother.
The Australian-American movement
and the Y.W. have extended the cup of
cordiality to Harriet Root and the assist-
ants who will be with her in the U.S. in-
formation library so soon to open its
doors at 350 George-street. Miss Root
comes from Washington, where she was
director dff U.S. Government Information
Service. ! When the women’s committee
of the A.A. invited these three clever
American women to morning coffee
recently, Miss Root was full of praise for
our Mitchell and Public libraries. She
thought she had never seen a finer build-
ing in her travels than that in Macquarie-
street which houses the two collections.
The little bit of America in George-street
will contain about 1000 reference books,
as well as innumerable pamphlets and
documents. There will be a poet’s brows-
ing corner, too, for all the best antholo-
gies will be on the shelves. At the Y.W.
party the John Butters lady and library
committee director Stella James received
the guests.
Just engaged, Lieut. Lawrence (“Lofty”)
Lee. The bright-faced, brown-haired
girl in the case is Kathleen Milbourne-
Marsh, of Lismore. Kathleen has just
finished her training at Sydney Hospital,
and is now waiting her call up as an
army nursing sister. Laurie, whose
mother is Mrs. Jessica Lee, of Darling
Point, and whose father was W. T. Lee,
of Tenterfield, got his commission after
going through El Alamein as a machine-
gunner with the immortal Ninth. His
shopping list when he was on leave a
few weeks ago included the diamond-and-
sapphire ring now glinting on “Kay’s”
finger.
There was great excitement among
troops in the North when singer Gladys
Moncrieff was expected to arrive. For
days before there was a feverish spit-and-
polish campaign; and the lads slicked
and brushed their hair until every sepa-
rate strand shone. Of course Gladys,
with her rich, sweet voice and warm
personality, was a success from the word
go. She sang in hospitals, and some-
times with the jungle for her background.
The boys’ tribute was a basket woven
by themselves filled with frangipanni
gathered in the jungle.
Personal appearance of Gary Cooper
and his entertainment party at the
Royal, following their tour of the
northern battle areas, netted £7OO. This
will help to oil the hinges of the portals
of the Stage Door Canteen. This amount,
added to the direct contributions of stage,
screen and radio artists in Sydney, plus
£5OO gleaned from the recent after-the-
show party in the Minerva, brings the
fund to about the £3OOO mark. The
S.D.C. is to be in Barrack-street, and will
begin its cheery and kindly work early
in the New Year.
Re-elected president of the National
Defence League, Kay McDowell has a
vision of the service the army of N.D.L.
workers can render to humanity in re-
habilitation plans. She also tells of
former president Mrs. W. Keighley’s two
meetings with the Queen. With only ten
days between Mrs. Keighley, who is
representing N.D.L. overseas, had two
long chats with her Majesty. The first
occasion was a parade at Windsor in
which hundreds of service women took
part. The Queen noticed that Mrs.
Keighley’s uniform was different from
any other and asked the Anglo-Australian
what it represented. The Queen was
interested to hear of the war work this
band of women in her far-off Dominion
was doing. Ten days later Mrs. Keighley
was helping a war collection in London
and the Queen stopped at her particular
group. She remembered the uniform and
the wearer and again had a talk about
things Australian. Even the policemen
in the Strand are curious, and one or
two of them have rather diffidently asked
what the badge stood for.
Frank Hutchens’s sensative composi-
tion “Christmas Bells” has had two per-
formances in Sydney. It was first played
by the composer at the Killara Music
Club, and was indeed composed by the
pianist for the club’s end-of-the-year
musicale. It was next played at the
Admiralty House afternoon concert for
Y.W. It has the atmosphere of the cold,
clear starlight of that first Christmas Eve,
and it opens with a. tremble of bells
as though their sound came from a
far distance either of space or time.
Then the bells peal and clash and ring
out part of the old carol “Hark, the
Herald Angels Sing!”
From Melbourne
The sounds of next-door child’s tin
whistle and the rousing strains of a Sal-
vationist hymn heralded Christmas morn-
ing in the same old way, so that one
might straightway have thought oneself
back into peace and plenty. It was a
different Christmas morning, however, in
that one’s second thought was of the
numbers of people who’d been working
all night over charts, lathes and tele-
printers in this same city and the realisa-
tion that far away the war went on in
front lines and bomber stations. Neigh-
borly greetings were of the “Let’s hope
for a brighter and happier one next year”
order.
As usual there was a cold snap just
before the holiday week, and the more-
elderly said “the weather’s not the same,”
etc., and described how their childhood
summers stretched for weeks on end of
blistering heat. It’s said that some very
competent meteorologists who’ve dealt
with the city’s climate for many years
agree that a slight change has actually
taken place in that February rather than
December is now the hottest month, and
even March can be expected to show a
lot of lOOdeg. days.
“How are you making almond icing?”
was the question most women were ask-
ing one another concerning both the
Christmas and New Year feasts. It’s
generally agreed that the festive poultry
and even the “sinker” pudding coW go
by the board without any tears, espe-
cially as in most families there’s the
knowledge that brothers and husbands
are probably trying to look merry over
much more modest fare, Christmas cake
is another matter, though, because it
comes in very handy to cheer callers
who’ve arrived with “the best for 1944,”
so the recipes for making icing substi-
tutes (almond having joined the fairies
temporarily) are swapped merrily.
Pictured here by Athol Shmith is Pat
Brain, who became Mrs. Howard Taylor
last week. Daughter of the Hugh
Brains, she did a physiotherapy course
at Melbourne Uni., and is now attached
to Prince Henry’s Hospital. Job will con-
tinue, as it’s a very essential one. Bride-
groom Lieutenant Howard Taylor,
A.1.F., returned, is the elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. Percival Taylor, of Caulfield.
Bride wore attractive chenille patterned
tulle veil topping a formal white frock.
The curtain goes up on the pantomime
again this year, and the usual troops of
the very young can be seen making their
way thither under the, steerage of mothers
or aunts. “Aladdin” at His Majesty sis
purely an afternoon show, and is meant
almost entirely for the children, unlike
some pantos, of other years which bristled
with very blue jokes. Joy Youlden is
playing Aladdin, and such is the effect
of rationing on stage properties that she
will take the boards at one stage in a
furnishing-fabric suit. It’s a bit hard that
for this particular pantomime that buxom
personality the fairy queen must be
absent.
The upper air about these parts must
have been thick with the echoes of carol-
ling after the week-end. W.A.A.A.F.
choir did its bit earlier in the week,
and the open-air Nativity play at Ben
Ledi, finishing school for officers of all
women’s services, gave other service
women a chance to lift their voices in
carolling song. A.W.A.S. was responsible
for the piny itself, which had all the deli-
cacy of the true “mystery” drama. Small
boys from church choirs and youth
organisations sang at public hospitals,
carols being followed, they said, by
“super” suppers provided by hospital
authorities.
Annual party for English evacuee
children brought back memories. Those
who chanced to see the first children’s
ship come in to port saw something
unique in the annals of migration —
children travelling alone and being so
brave about it. Thousands of miles away
from their parents and home, they be-
haved like veteran travellers and went
down the gangway to meet “new fathers
and mothers,” as most of them called their
Australian guardians with quite incred-
ible aplomb. Saddest to see them go
were the Polish crew of the ship which
brought them they’d made terrific
friends of the children, and, of course,
hadn’t heard a word for months from
their own families in Poland. Stoutest
heart was the tiny Scots lad who sweltered
grimly in his native garb—he’d been told
to land in his kilt, and by St. Andrew
he was landing in it, 99 in the shade or
no’!
The parties are always very bright
affairs and prove the way children adapt
themselves to a new country, as there’s
none of the “isolated” feeling that adult
evacuees so often feel. The urge to get
home, though, is shown in the preference
the boys display, according to welfare
organisers, for service with the merchant
navy. Apart from these, quite a number
of the lads are joining Australian ser-
vices, particularly the R.A.A.F. They are
given a choice of English or Australian
enlistment at 18.
News of a granddaughter comes to the
Masson lady, not, however, a newly-
arrived one, the lass in question being
Josefa Malinowska, who had recently
joined the staff of the famous American
magazine “Fortune.” A daughter of
Elsie Masson, known to her generation
for the brilliance of her wit and her
splendid copper locks, Josefa has an
ancestry strong on the scholastic side.
Grandfather Professor Sir David Orme
Masson was a son of a Scottish professor
himself, and the Masson lady is likewise
a daughter of a distinguished scholar.
The lass’s father, Professor Bronislaw
Malinowski (in Polish masculine sur-
names have the “i” ending and feminine
ones the “a”) held the chair of economics
in both London and Yale universities.
Josefa has announced her engagement
to John Walker Stuart, of Albany, N.Y.,
a medical student and Harvard graduate.
One newly-born news-sheet that’s not a
waste of paper (which is more than can
be said for all) is the “Women’s Land
Army Gazette,” which has just made its
debut. It’s agreed that the greatest prob-
lem of women’s land work is the feeling
of isolation and the lack of com-
panionship in out-of-the-way spots. The
little paper helps to span this difficulty
by telling every Land Army girl what other
girls in the same service are doing in
other places. Thus the girl in an isolated
district can really feel that she is part of
a great service. Letters and exchange of
ideas by correspondents help this, too.
The return of the apron is apparent,
and it’s likely that a prettied-up version
like the one grandma wore with her best
frock in her girlhood will soon be making
fashion news, too. At fairs and sales
aprons, especially the handmade and
rather becoming ones, are rushed by
eager buyers, and apron stalls are among
the first to declare “all stock sold.” The
point is, of course, that everyone is doing
her own housework, and many because
of war jobs and voluntary work are forced
to make for the kitchen in their best
Sunday-go-to-meeting duds. Party-givers
are up against the same need, so it’s
aprons to the fore.
Sunbathing isn’t the lighthearted thing
it used to be. Browning-up has now be-
come part of the feminine ritual for keep-
ing down the coupons and the need for
cosmetics. Whereas in other years it’s
been only the beach belle and the sun-
worshipper who’ve striven hard to tan,
this year one sees the thing being done
in grim earnest by every woman who can
get a few spare hours on the beach or the
back lawn. Legs are the point chiefly
concentrated on, stockings being such a
problem; but unfortunately they’re the
hardest bit to brown.
New job of linking chaplain-general’s
department with service women is one
that Major Kathleen Deasey, A.W.A.S.
second in command, will find congenial,
as she did quite a spot of theology while
at Cambridge, where she took an M.A.
degree. She is also a graduate in Arts
and Education of Melbourne University.
Idea behind new job is that chaplains
don’t have the same facilities for getting
in touch with* service women as they do
with the men, as most service women are
not in barracks and therefore not easily
accessible in their off-duty moments.
Service welfare organisations have found
that the chaplain is regarded by the ser-
vice man as a great straightener-out of
problems, particularly domestic ones.


Missing Friends.
WILL* RICHARD ALBERT DEAN, formerly of Kal-
goorlie. Western Australia, who is believed to have
gone to one of the eastern States of Australia some
three or four years ago, and who is aged between
23 and 24 years, or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with the under-
signed, who have information to his advantage?—
PARKER & PARKER, Solicitors, 21 Howard Street,
Perth, Western Australia.
PERCY VICTOR MARTIN (brother of Ernest Thomas
Martin, deceased), last heard of at Charlton (Vic-
toria) and Deniliquin (N.S.W.) about 1936, will
hear something to his advantage if he communi-
cates with the undersigned. Reward for informa-
tion as to his whereabouts. —CRAWCOUR & HOLLY -
HOKE, Solicitors, Geelong, Victoria.
PAIN
this
easy way
r m
In cases which do
not quickly respond
to Jodex treatment
- see your Doctor .
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
IN CASES OF
STiFFand SWOLLEN
JOINTS, SPRAINS,
RHEUMATIC TWINGES
AND STRAINED MUSCLES
lODEX gives
Quick Relief.
The value of lodex has been proved in
thousands of cases. Owing its potency
to its great penetrating power, lodex,
gently massaged into the affected part,
goes right to the seat of the trouble,
reducing inflammation, congestion, and
quickly easing pain.
NO-STAIN lODINE
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITABY SYSTEM
IT IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN, IT ELIMINATES THEM
AND THE SANITARY MAN.
It runs continuously without emptying or other unpleasant jobs.
THE BISK TO HEALTH, SMELLS, FLIES, GERMS, INSECTS, AND DISCOMFORT
OF CLOSET PANS ARE ELIMINATED.
Its 14 year’s history proves that it is not in the same category as the many other
chemical systems which have come and gone in the past leaving a stigma behind them.
ITS EFFICIENCY AND LONGEVITY ARE FULLY GUARANTEED BY AN OLD
ESTABLISHED REPUTABLE FIRM TRADING SINCE 1927.
PRICE, £l9/2/6 (including sales tax), plus 10/9 crating if required.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd., Telephone: B 1052. ’ EY ‘
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian Producers
Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., Perth.
’ IMMEDIATE DELIVERY CAN BE GIVEN.
u
Cm
a /
r jpO-DAY the first call upon our
manufacturing resources is for
records for the entertainment of the
fighting Services. In addition, other
essential services absorb large quantities
of records each month.
We regret, therefore, it is quite impos-
sible under existing conditions to meet
the greatly increased demand for records
for private use, but we hope the time
is not far distant when we can resume
normal trading and be in a position
to satisfy all requirements.
sd
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (inc. in England). HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
H.2/43
WAR
SERIES
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
WM
ONE of the vital necessities of armies at war is a con-
tinuous supply of filtered (germ-free) water for drinking
purposes.
Pictured above is a Water Filtration Plant which is being
supplied to our Forces in quantities.
Providing the necessary power, and chosen for its reliability,-
is one of our 2 h.p. “Ronaldson-Tippett” (hopper-cooled)
Petrol Engines.
We are proud to contribute a dependable engine for a unit
so important to the well-being of the fighting forces.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria,
veir niatrihnWc! Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., .Ltd.,
Q'land Distributors: Bonaldson xippett
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
f
SMOKE-OH!
“Marriage is a sublime institution.”
—“Love Tales.”
But while a superabundance of money
is floating round what “camp follower”
wishes to enter an institution?
•b *b *b *b
“Low-down Suite.” — “S.M.H.” For Sale ad.
Also some vulgar wardrobes and a few
crook armchairs.
•b *1* *b *b
“Baby, as new, hand-made, three-piece
Woollen Set, pink, cream, no coupons.”
—“SM.H.” ad.
Clothes given free to purchaser of
infant.
“Australia is one-and-a-half hours behind
New Zealand.” —Magazine item.
Mr. Nash swears it’s years behind.
Friend in Need.
“Man saw his car stolen.” — "Truth:”
And he just stood there and laughed
like a kookaburra on a bender.
“Go after him,” yelled a bystander.
“Not on your life! ” he chortled. “My
typist lost three bobby-pins in the car to-
night. We couldn’t find them and I was
scared about taking the car home. Well,
that bloke got me out of it! ”
O’Hell.
•F *F *F >F
“British Minister of Information undergoes
operation.”— Melbourne "Herald.”
Trying to get something out of him,
eh?
•F -F q. -?*
“Call me a ranter if you will, but I affirm
that illegal betting will not be abolished until
all the churches speak with one voice.”
—Melbourne Methodist parson.
Could he have meant S. P. Ranto?
•F *F *F *F
“The wedding went off without a hitch.”
—“Home Journal.”
Must have been one of those compas-
sionate marriages we have heard of.
Advice.
Money will not bring happiness, my
friend.
’Tis time that ancient fallacy should end.
If you desire true happiness, you should
Renounce all wealth and contemplate the
Good,
The Wise, the Beautiful until you find
Simplicity and peace enrich your mind.
So give yourself to True Philosophy,
And give your worldly goods, dear friend,
to me !
T. W. NATHAN.
Phenomenon.
“Surprise for Bookmakers.” — “S. M. Herald."
So mighty was their surprise.
Their shocked wits spun.
They couldn’t believe their eyes —
A hotoot won!
PERCY.
Prospect.
For me a very bright New Year
My destiny has been designing.
In coupon trouble most severe,
I think this fact is very clear,
In view of how my pants are shining.
NAT.
“The right lipstick will put a sparkle in
your eyes.”— "Woman.”
Any inferior variety will merely color
the lips.
•F *F *F "iF
“During the time of Shakspeare, English
women were advised to wrap men’s trousers
around their heads as a cure for headaches.”
—“ World's News.”
They’ve kept wearing them since and
left men with the headaches.
*l* *l*
“You can’t hide your hands on your wedding
day!”— “Women’s Weekly. I'’ 1 '’
You’ve simply got to hold your man.
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1944.
J\N. —German chemists will evolve an ersatz
steak from glue, fir cones, bakelite and coal
dust, and Goebbels will claim that it is much
superior in taste and nutriment to porterhouse or
fillet. There will be a revolution in Pauca-
mala, with the deposition of the notoriously
pro-Nazi General Skidonna Banana. All pro-
Democratic newspapers will be suppressed and
the new President will announce that the change
will make no difference to the country’s pro-
Allied policy.
Feb. —The Underpants for Russia Committee
will hold an “art union,” and after all ex-
penses are paid there will be enough over to
send four pairs of underpants to the U.S.S.R.
Tokyo Radio will announce a smashing new
naval victory, and this will bring the number
of U.S. battleships sunk in three months to
115. An A.B.C. announcer will mention General
Bagramyan’s drive on the Poluyanovo-Yezer-
ishche-Borkovichi line while only coming up
twice for breath. v
Mar. —As a sequel to a 1500-ton raid on
Berlin, Hitler will promise the German
people that a terrible vengeance will be
exacted on the barbarous perpetrators when the
Luftwaffe is not engaged elsewhere. Ankara
Radio will quote a message from Stockholm
that Field-Marshal von Runstedt, whom Hitler
sacked, sent a carpet as a gift to the Fiihrer.
This subtle insult, if is expected, will widen
the already deep gulf between the Prussian
junker generals and the Nazi party.
Apl.—Mr. Scully will announce that under
new Reorganisation and stabilisation plans vege-
table gluts and dumpings will be impossible, and
price levels will remain steady. A German
general captured on the Eastern Front will dis-
close that the Western Wall is garrisoned only
by two battalions of neurasthenics and paralytics.
Oranges in the capital cities will retail at 6d.
May. —After a 3000-ton raid on Berlin
Goebbels will claim that the only places hit
were 26 kindergartens, seven poorhouses, 18
convents, 13 museums, 22 art galleries and 16
old-men’s homes. A Sydney market gardener
will tell the “Sun” that, to save cartage to
market', he has had to plough in 7000 unwanted
cabbages and lettuces. Citrus-growers will peti-
tion the Government for a subsidy as the only
alternative to walking off their orchards.
June. —After a 3500-ton raid on Berlin
Hitler will promise the German people that a
terrible vengeance will be exacted for the out-
rage, not by the German Navy, Air Force or
Army, but by other means which England will
learn to her cost in the future. An alien refugee
who escaped in 1938 from Vienna “with only
the clothes he stood up in” will refuse £95,000
for his King’s Cross block of flats. In the
Sydney vegetable markets buyers will queue up
for cabbages at up to 6s. each.
July. —The Food Controller will announce
that the potato position is now so satisfactory
that the spectre of shortages for the rest of
the year has vanished utterly. A Sydney hit-run
motorist, fined £lO for killing two people while
driving “under the influence,” will appeal.
Aug. —A £l5OO-a-year Government billet will
go to a man who is not an ex-union organiser.
A Sydney paper will publish long interviews
with Tilly Devine and Kate Leigh on their rival
claims to be favorite pin-up girls. The Stock-
holm “Magbladet” will report that Von Run-
stedt has gone to Paris as Supreme Commander
for Western Europe. A Brisbane potato queue
will set a new Commonwealth record of one
mile two chains.
Sept.—As a protest against an unauthorised
strike of southern N.S.W. coalminers, northern
N-S.W. coalies will go on strike. The Stock-
holm “Nyhyter” will quote a German business-
man as saying that so desperate is the fuel
position in Germany that wooden barges on the
Dortmund-Ems Canal have had to burn in the
furnaces all superstructure above the waterline
and will have to use the underwater planks.
Oct. —The Seamen’s Union will threaten a
big holdup unless bath salts, dusting powder
and a manicure service are provided in fo’c’sle
bathrboms. After the loss of the Marshalls and
Carolines, Tokyo Radio will call on all U.S.,
British and Australian forces in the Southern
Hemisphere to surrender or be annihilated.
Hirohito will write a poem on the theme that
clouds drift across a mountaintop because they
must go somewhere.
Nov. —A Melbourne paper will draw atten-
tion to the unusual name of a clothing manu-
facturer, Horatio Lord Nelson, who was fined
for paying employees below award wages, and
subsequently it will be disclosed that he is a
Rumanian refugee who changed his name from
Herate Bord Nessonu. A Hollywood star will,
after divorcing her eighth husband, wait for
four days before marrying her ninth.
Dec.—A Brisbane centenarian, in a press
interview, will attribute the ill-health he has
suffered the past six months to the newfangled
vitamins his family has insisted on his having.
A Sydney taxi-driver will stop and pick up a
civilian despite a hailing Allied soldier, and
will have to take his passenger straight to
hospital to be treated for shock.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Votes at Eighteen
So the A.L.P. wants to give the vote
to 18-year-olds! The theory is that
whoever is old enough to fight for Aus-
tralia is old enough for the responsibility
of choosing its rulers. Plausible, but
feeble.
Admittedly, the boy of 18 often makes
a fine soldier—but only after he has been
trained for the job. The necessary con-
dition of military training is complete
withdrawal from civilian affairs and in-
fluences. Snatched away from a normal
environment just at the age when an in-
terest in civic affairs should begin to
grow, the youth is translated into an
existence which denies him the experi-
ence necessary to develop political judg-
ment.
For a very similar reason it is recog-
nised that the problem of rehabilitation
will be specially acute in the case of the
younger men. Nobody expects them to
be capable after the war of earning their
living without again being trained for the
job. Moreover, many young soldiers will
have to be weaned from the habit of de-
pendence for their food, clothing and
amusements on a vast paternal organisa-
tion.
The significance of the A.L.P. move
is obvious. The soldier lad has had little
if any break between the paternalism of
the home and that of the army. What
type of social organisation will he under-
stand best—he who is used to a life of
queues, rations, issues, sick parades and
supervision of the minutest details of
living? This is the devil he knows—-and
it remarkably resembles the socialist-
planned state which is Labor’s goal.—
Col (N.S.W.).
Diggers and Tommies
Significant is the attitude of responsible
returned men who have fought and drunk
with the British soldier. Never have I
heard the derisive word “Pommy” pass
their lips. To them the British soldier is
“Tommy” and the British Army the
“Tommy Army.” They have nothing but
praise for the discipline, courage and
fighting quality of the British fighting
man ; “none better,” one told me. — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Parcels for Soldiers
When it was announced that calico for
wrapping soldiers’ parcels could be ob-
tained coupon-free, wives and mothers
of men at the fighting front were pleased.
They should have known that in these
matters something bitter always arises.
As it was they found this unbleached
calico cut into lengths of one yard, for
which they were charged 3s. 9d. The
last I bought, about a year ago, was
Is. 6d. a yard ; pre-war price was 6d.
Tins in which to bake cakes for the
boys or to pack foodstuffs cost Is. 4d.
to 2s. each. For both cake tins and
calico, forms, stating name of sender and
name and number of recipient, must be
completed, which is even more farcical
than the average bureaucratic edict. An
army of inspectors would be needed to
check up and see that no woman bought
more than one tin, and hundreds more
would be required to prove that the cake
was actually sent. And if through short-
age of dried fruits or any other cause no
cake was sent, what then? The form I
signed blew under the counter while the
assistant’s back was turned, and while I
was there it was not picked up.
To the cost of tins and calico must
be added Is. 9d. for postage, a total of
7s. 6d. before one article can be bought
to put in the parcel. These charges are
far too high for the average soldier’s
wife, who must pay for all gifts to her
man out of her small allowance. —
Lucinda (Q-).
Enlistments
Mr. Curtin’s statement (December 7)
giving Australian enlistment figures can
hardly be said to be frank when com-
pared with (1) the particularised person-
nel statistics published by Canada and
(2) the figures issued by New Zealand
and South Africa.
Canada discloses the strength of the
three services, number of men abroad,
number of air squadrons at home and
overseas, names of a dozen naval vessels,
strength of women auxiliaries and so on
down to Veteran Guards, Reserve Army
and cadets. N.Z. and South African
figures are not quite so fully given, but
they furnish a clear picture of the
Dominions’ war efforts. To suggest that
particulars of Australia’s armed forces,
if published, would give positive and use-
ful information to an enemy who had
many nationals in Australia for many
years prior to December 7, 1941, is not
a good excuse for withholding the Com-
monwealth’s war statistics.
When asked recently if gross enlist-
ments, 858,860, included the women s
auxiliary and nursing services, or whether
the 191,000 women now in direct war
work included 47,900 given as the strength
of the women’s auxiliary and nursing ser-
vices, I turned up Mr. Curtin’s statement
—and found myself unable to answer
Indaba (N.S.W.).
Improving the Arts
“R.G.0.P.” (B. 1/12/’43) writes that
“today both art and music are decadent.”
Plans have been made for scholars in other
fields to achieve education more readily,
but there has been no mention of facili-
ties for artists or musicians. It takes
many more years’ study to become either
of these than it does to obtain a univer-
sity degree, especially when it has to be
done in spare time, after all of the best
energy has been sapped out of one in
order to provide food, shelter ancfc cloth-
ing.
If “R.G.0.P.” thinks that Art is so de-
cadent perhaps he will trv to organise a
"Sorry, Mum —on'y one peanut fer each customer .”
system whereby artists and musicians may
give their full time to their training
Then, maybe, there will be some real
artists and fewer frustrated ones. —E. C.
(Q-).
Australian Grand Opera
Before it can become an established in-
stitution a deep-rooted prejudice will have
to be surmounted. Generally speaking,
Australians have a great respect for in-
strumental music and for solo singers,
but if opera is mentioned they are in-
clined to snigger.
This is a Gilbert-and-Sullivan legacy.
Those two worthies poured ridicule on
the traditional Italian opera. Gilbert,
as librettist and “producer,” as they say
nowadays, parodied the stories, the senti-
ment, the scenery and the methods of
singing and Sullivan parodied the music.
He was such a fine musician that he
couldn’t help making some of his parodies
quite as good music as the originals
(better in some cases), but the result of
the collaboration is that opera is indelibly
associated in most people’s minds with
the ludicrous —and not without some
reason.
Has anybody ever seen the swan
in “Lohengrin” make a successful pas-
sage? Sometimes it has got across by fits
and starts like a jibbing carthorse, some-
times it has stuck halfway and stayed
there and sometimes it has had to be
pulled ignominiously backwards by a
prop man in shirt-sleeves. —C. Ma (Vic.).
Radio and Music
To me radios are just a collection of
disturbances placed in boxes and the most
conspicuous corners of best rooms. But
they have their uses, and I don’t think
it fair to blame radio for the slump in
music-learning. Learning music of any
kind usually calls for a grounding in
piano-bumping, and so flat life should
stand equally accused.
Of the thousands of families living to-
day in flats, at least one in four has no
room for a piano (and practice-at-
teacher’s-place is no real substitute for
home practice). And at least a thousand
of the remaining flatites are too con-
siderate of their neighbors’ ears to allow
student-musicians to run riot at such close
quarters. The “silencer” button on some
pianos (which makes practice heard only
in the same room) is of real use only to
advanced students who have learned to
gauge touch a good deal by experience,
but it can be a definite danger to the be-
ginner, who usually learns evenness of
touch and volume of sound principally
by ear.
We have grand pianos and cottage
pianos, but the flat piano is a problem
which will be solved only by the aboli-
tion of flats. And if the student starts
off with any other instrument (on which
he has to make his own notes) the neigh-
bors would kick up an even greater fuss.
Perfect intonation from students is as im-
possible as perfect patience from neigh-
bors.—E. (N.S.W.).
One Class
Tell “Ellen Mary” (B. l/12/’43) that
the Tas. Labor Government, professing
objections to classes on State railways,
abolished all distinctions. The result is
that all now pay the equivalent of the
former first-class fare and receive third-
class accommodation. Politicians seldom
use’the trains. —E. and O.E. (Tas.).
The Soil
An almost metaphysical rather than
a political idea which has found
expression from various sources in
Maoriland in recent years has been re-
stated by the director of Canterbury Agri-
cultural College, Prof. E. R. Hudson, in
a plea for of “national re-
sponsibility* for a sacred trusteeship of
the soil.”
The soil [he went on to say] can be de-
scribed as an extremely fragile and delicate
thing. It represents a seventy-millionth
part of the earth’s diameter. The tissue
paper wrapped round an orange is thick
compared with the- sensitive, thin covering
of soil on the earth’s surface. Yet this is
the basis of all our life and civilisation.
We must have a rural population sensitive
of its responsibility in this direction, and
as a national policy the preservation of the
soil has to be made a first responsibility.
Better education of land workers, a sense
of duty to posterity, a checking of the
drift to the cities (as connoting economic
advancement but social retrogression)
and a jettisoning of the idea that a free-
hold title gives the right to ruin land
were other points in the prof.’s address.
The sentiments expressed seem to strike
a strong responsive chord in Maori-
landers’ breasts, and support comes from
people who never expected to find them-
selves in agreement on any subject under
heaven. — Tiki (M.L.).
An A.T.C. Injustice
The lads of the Air Training Corps, as
part of the R.A.A.F., should be entitled
to a summer uniform issue. They get an
issue of “blues” certainly, but “blues”
are unsuitable for summer wear in States
,; t° Onpensland. If these lads prefer
the rest they are
their personal
coupons (say, 30 out of 56) and meet the
cost out of their own pockets.
The boys give up two nights a week
and every second Saturday afternoon for
studies and parades, all by way of train-
ing for a grand service. If the authorities,
shy at giving them tropical outfits, they
should at least let them buy them free
of coupons. — Cadet (Q.).
No Badge
“Pierrot’s” plea for a badge for dis-
charged personnel (B. 22/12/’43) is justi-
fied. A.I.F. men who volunteered for
service anywhere and were discharged be-
fore serving in a recognised operational
area receive no badge. An absurd posi-
tion, especially as A.T.C., N.E.S. and
other part-time war organisations get
visible recognition of their service.—
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Education
In 1910-13 the N.S.W. education system
was revolutionised by the abolition of
ancient forms of teaching. This resulted
in a higher and better form of education
for children of all classes. Why not
let 1944 be the year to see the final
touches of modern teaching obtained;
that is, the abolishing of examinations?
Examinations, lacking the virtue of
testing one’s knowledge, have long been
a loose thread in the progress of Austra-
lian pupils. An example of this is a
chemistry paper recently set in a public-
school examination. Important work
dealing with a number of metals, several
non-metals, a considerable amount of
organic chemistry, all set down in the
syllabus, was absent from the exam,
paper.
It is impossible to test ability and
knowledge of a subject which has taken
two or three years to learn in three hours.
In the new system a pupil should be
estimated on his teachers’ reports and his
books, compiled throughout the year.—
Ex-Student (N.S.W.).
We Australians
The general attitude of Austral
is expressed in a few words
“T.McN.,” “I, for one, won’t ch:
for anybody” (B. 15 /12/’43).
most of us “walk as if we owned
earth” is no guarantee that the
couldn’t be modified with bend,
results. Probably no film director is 1
to change our accent or gait to n
Australians weak imitations of any other
nationality, but a director who can make
Australians more acceptable to audiences
should be encouraged, not scorned.
“English audiences don’t find the Ameri-
can accent a problem,” but I’ll bet they'd
find it an annoyance if all leading players
spoke like some of the lesser ones. A
strong accent lends authenticity to a film,
but it’s only enjoyable when it’s the em-
broidery, not the general weave. — Yair
(N.S.W.).
Jews in the Kimberleys
Why shouldn’t Australians know the
true position? How far has the Gov-
ernment gone in this matter? The Kim-
berleys are practically untouched, and no
one really knows their value. There is no
reason why they should be handed over
blindly in a solid block to alien people.
We are all in sympathy with Jewry, but
our soldiers are fighting and dying to
keep this land, and no doubt many of
them would be glad of an opportunity to
settle in the north, which must be
opened up after the war.—AussiE and
then Some (W.A.).
Meat and Veges
Says the National Health and Medical
Research Council’s Nutrition Committee:
“There are no physiological reasons why
workers in heavy industries require addi-
tional rations of meat over and above that
provided by a general ration of 2|lb. per
head per week.” Adds R. D. Wright, Pro-
fessor of Physiology at Melbourne Uni. :
“The idea that we have to eat large quan-
tities of meat when doing hard work is
essentially old-fashioned.” Possibly so, but
can the Nutrition Committee and the pro-
fessor effectively counter such beliefs?
It is the belief, not the vitamins, that
matters.
Some people both feel and believe
that meat or beer or wine or spinach
does them good; some believe it but
can’t feel it; others feel it but can’t
believe it. At 87 G. B: Shaw is intellec-
tually and physically more vigorous on
a diet of greens than lots of young men
whose diet is based on beef. Put a man
who believes that meat is essential to his
health on vegetables and he will prob-
ably show all the manifestations of mal-
nutrition— Pawang (Vic.).


,r :<si ' ' . ■
m m«w§
ymm
mm
,'Sl*
# Si
fe« r, Wj
•tt
. ■ s
■ I
■ •••. < •> «••>'
*% '
m
m
m
11 n
r-'
t.
■ I
M M
I :V
/'* Ml . j
- r-"' "
Necessities and urgencies of war demand that peacetime
industry be tuned up to meet the requirements of the Navy,
the Army, and the Air Force.
Industries, therefore; that were producing almost exclusively
for the civilian population have turned their factories and mills
into production plants for wartime necessities for the Armed
Forces.
One of the outstanding examples of this wartime change-over is
YARRA FALLS LTD.,
which has produced for the Fighting Forces millions of
pounds’ weight of yams and millions of yards of cloth, and
will continue to do so till victory is achieved.
YARRA FALLS:
Manufacturers of Textiles and Fabrics
ABBOTSFORD. VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
