

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3314
Wednesday, August 18, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as > Newspaper.
Jeppelts
DUNNOTTAR CASTLE.
KTOT far from Stonehaven in Scotland is the town of Dunnottar,
IN in whose churchyard Sir Walter Scott met Robert Paterson, the
stonemason original of “Old Mortality.” Near this place, on
a mighty rock overlooking the grey North Sea, Dunnottar Castle
has stood since the seventh century. Erected by, and in the early
days occupied by, the Keiths, earls marischal, Dunnottar is famed
in Scottish history as the hiding place of the Regalia of Scotland.
But now the ghosts of its storied past are all that remain. Its
fighting men and staunch heroic women are
All fled for ever, leaving nought
Save lonely walls in min green,
Which dimly led my wandering thought
To moments that have been.
During the wars of the Commonwealth, Cromwell laid siege to
Dunnottar, but the castle held out for several months until “the
Honours of Scotland” were secretly removed to Kinneff Church
near by. The saving of the Regalia is commemorated m an jnscnp-
tion over the fireplace in one of the castle rooms, w ic we
grandly restored by the late Lord Cowdray. Well might the Scot-
tish poet Thomas Bridson have written of Dunnottar as well a.
of Dunolly:
Yet proudly ’rnid the tide of years
Thou lift’st on high thine airy form,
Scene of primeval hopes and fears
Slow yielding to the storm.
The walls of this stout old stronghold give credit to those who
strove so courageously to preserve the symbols of Scottish indepen-
dence—-crown, sceptre and sword—which now rest serenely in
the Jewell Room at Edinburgh Castle.


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 2i3
.AGE
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE .
There will be NO AWARD in the
S H. Prior Memorial Prize competition
for 1943. The prize money (£100) will
be added to next year’s award, making
the total offered for the 1944 competition
£2OO.
The Prize in the 1943 competition was
offered for “the book by an Australian
writer which the Trustees consider the
most valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia between
June 6, 1942, and June 6, 1943.”
During the period of the competition
there was considerable minor activity in
Australian and New Zealand writing;
some good work was done in the short
story field; Eric Ramsden’s Busby of
Waitangi was a sound piece of historical
biography: but the Trustees were unable
to find that any of the year’s work
amounted to the major creative achieve-
ment to which the Prize should go.
The absence of novels of high quality
has been commented on in recent Red
Page articles. A partial explanation for
this may be that English and American
reprints are taking precedence in Aus-
tralian publishing lists over Australian
creative writing. It is also possible that
novels or collections of short stories are
being held up in the cumbersome
machinery of the Commonwealth Fund.
There is a great need for some Australian
publisher to adopt the simple principle
“We will give preference and precedence
to creative Australian writing.”
The conditions for the 1944 Prior
Prize will be the same as for 1943. The
Prize (totalling £200) will be awarded to
the author or authors of the book by an
Australian writer which the Trustees con-
sider the most valuable contribution to
Australian literature published in Aus-
tralia between June 6, 1943, and June 6,
1944. “Australia” and “Australian” for
the purposes of the award include New
Zealand. No work that has already won
a monetary prize will be eligible.
The Trustees wish to state that, under
the condition “No work that has already
won a monetary prize will be eligible,”
the play Ned Kelly, by Douglas Stewart,
which otherwise would have been
awarded the 1943 prize, was held
ineligible.
Literature in New Zealand .
In spite of the centennial Letters and
Art in New Zealand, M. H. Holcroft’s
The Deepening Stream and Holcroft’s
latest long philosophical essay The Wait-
ing Hills (Progressive Publishing Society,
Wellington) there is still a great need for
a generous, inclusive rather than exclu-
sive study of the Dominion’s literature.
Until that is written, both an overseas
audience and New Zealanders themselves
will tend to underrate what is by no
means an inconsiderable achievement.
New Zealand fetters can fairly claim
Erewhon. There is Katherine Mansfield.
And in the broader view of its literary
achievements which the future will take.
New Zealand will be granted a much
larger share in Henry Lawson than
is generally allowed today either in Aus-
tralia or the Dominion. Some of Law-
son’s best work was written at Manga-
manunu. “A Daughter of Maoriland”
(how old-fashioned that title has become
in a few years!) is a realistic comedy of
the Maoris possibly unrivalled until
Roderick Finlayson wrote “The Totara
Tree” and A. P. Gaskell “The Picture
in the Paper.”
Lawson was an Australian; but he
lived some time in New Zealand, and
wrote about it like a native-born. Eve
Langley’s Pea Pickers embodies the
author’s recollections of Australia ; but
it was written in New Zealand. One
does not find the English culture ignor-
ing or rejecting Eliot because he was born
an American, Yeats because he was Irish
or Roy Campbell because he was born
in South Africa. If New Zealand can
claim Katherine Mansfield, Butler and
a good share in Lawson and Eve Lang-
ley, Holcroft’s assertion “There are no
great books in New Zealand literature”
needs considerable qualification.
Surely New Zealand now is not going
to start on a wild-goose chase for “the
great New Zealand novel”?
New Zealand ait, incidentally, which
also is inclined to excessive modesty,
usually forgets that Gruner was born at
Gisborne and that, though he came to
Australia in childhood, some of his finest
work was done when he revisited his
native land.
Although he is by no means so rigidly
exclusive as was the author of the cen-
tennial survey, Holcroft presents only a
limited view of New Zealand literature
in The Waiting Hills. Within the frame-
work of his essay, that may be legitimate.
He wishes to draw attention to the poems
of Allen Curnow, R. A. K. Mason,
Charles Brasch and Ursula Bethel and
to the excellent work that has been done
by the Caxton Press. And that is well
worth doing.
But, when he is specifically interested
in writing that gives “an increasing sense
of familiarity in the midst of that
primeval strangeness which surrounds
New Zealand,” he imposes a curiously
wilful limitation on himself by confining
his explorations to the work of this one
group.
Surely nobody has done more to
familiarise New Zealanders with their
native landscape than Eileen Duggan.
Did not the poems of Robin Hyde—the
later ones especially “reach towards
that primal force which lives like a pulse
in the old themes of earth and sky and
human mutability”? Does not every
line of Arnold Wall’s—and there is more
of the distinctive flavor of New Zealand
in his verses than Holcroft appears to sus-
pect —“enlarge the spiritual boundary of
the new land”? Does not J. R. Hervey,
though he may write more about men
than about the hills, also help to “accli-
matise the Muse”? And how astonish-
ing it is not to find among the list of
significant prose works any reference to
the writings of James Cowan.
Only passing mention is made of Frank
Sargeson’s short stories, and the general
renascence of the short story led by
Sargeson and Finlayson is excluded alto-
gether from consideration. Holcroft
says rightly that New Zealanders already
take a personal pride in the great voyages
of the Maoris. A less limited essay would
have seen Finlayson’s stories in particu-
lar as a symptom of the absorption of the
splendid Maori tradition into the mind
of the nation.
Despite its omissions. The Waiting
Hills is an interesting and thoughtful
piece of work, particularly valuable in
its refusal to overvalue technical experi-
ment, social protest and Freudian self-
explorations as against the poetry of the
native earth. But Holcroft might well
have reduced his exhaustive analysis of
the New Zealanders’ passion for horse-
racing to make room for a more generous
survey of literary achievements and
trends.
The passion of gambling is, in any
case, universal. And the philosopher—
as distinct from the moralist—must recog-
nise that, to some extent, it’s a symptom
of adventurousness. Maybe, as Holcroft
suggests, New Zealanders go to the races
only in the hope of making money; if
they do, they sin in a vast company ; but
isn’t it more accurate to say that they
go to make money adventurously ? If
that is admitted, they should be pictured
not as the slaves of materialism —as Hol-
croft pictures them —but as rebels against
materialism.
The Waiting Hills contains one entirely
inadmissible assertion: “New Zealand
poets cannot hope to be innovators or
powerful influences in the English-speak-
ing world.” Probably they were saying
that sort of thing in America at the very
time when the powerful and original
personality of Walt Whitman was proving
them wrong.
Spain Today .
The most interesting chapters of Robert
Henrey’s A Journey to Gibraltar (Dent)
are those on Spain, picturing a Madrid
still scarred from the civil war, great
wealth rubbing shoulders with terrible
poverty, the gaols still crammed with
political prisoners, opinion everywhere
divided, a general impression of confu-
sion and bitterness.
“The war has been over only three
years.” But was it over? One million two
hundred thousand Spaniards, of whom eight
hundred thousand were intellectuals, lan-
guished in gaol, together with six hundred
thousand women. As one vendetta leads
to another, these one million eight hundred
thousand Republicans were, from behind
prison bars, busy sowing the seeds of an-
other revolution which they believed would
prove even bloodier than the first.
Henrey tells of a prisoner who, sum-
moned from the death cells and thinking
that he was to go to the firing squad, asked
the guards, “Then it is my last day?” ;
when they said yes, he asked if he could
say what he liked ; the guards said yes
again, and he shouted “Down with
Franco! Long live the Republic.” The
guards killed him at once.
Some hours later the murdered man’s
companions learned that what the prison
guards had called his last day was sup-
posed to be his last day in gaol before his
release —not his last day of life.
Maybe as revealing as anything else
about the state of the country is the
simple statement that cigarettes were
generally unobtainable but a waiter
black-marketed him a packet of Camels
for eleven shillings. “The black market
in Spain looms like an evil thing, spread-
ing itself over the entire national life,
and it has grown to such immense pro-
portions that its roots are too thick and
too widespread to cut.”
Touring the Madrid battlefields, the
shell-ridden buildings not yet repaired or
replaced, wounds and devastation every-
where, Henrey felt as if he were “visiting
the ruins of an ancient Roman city.”
Photographs of the University City
bear witness to the truth of his survey.
Talking of the art gallery of the Prado,
which survived the war, he reports, “The
Louvre had just sent to the Prado a
number of Spanish masters, because the
Spanish Government claimed that they
had been stolen by the French in
Napoleonic times.”
From La Linea is the anecdote:
A number of Italian aeroplanes, raiding
Gibraltar, appeared right above the fair
ground at two o’clock in the morning. The
roundabouts were crowded at this hour,
and people were merrily riding round and
round on ostriches and pigs and horses
and camels to the sound of strident music.
The fair attendants, hearing the sirens, ran
for cover, forgetting to turn off the
machinery of the roundabouts, so that the
merrymakers were left dizzily turning round
and round for nearly an hour.
On Gibraltar itself, Henrey’s book is
disappointing. Admitting this, he blames
censorship, but he seems to have been
excessively cautious. A fault throughout
the book (as far as an Australian
audience is concerned) is the space given
to the description of luxuries still obtain-
able in Portugal, Spain and Gibraltar;
and another flaw is the prolonged de-
cription in the opening chapter of
the author’s uneventful air journey to
Lisbon.
Charles Barrett Again .
If Charles Barrett’s Around Australia
(Cassell) is intended as a guidebook for
Australian tourists or for overseas visi-
tors (including U.S. soldiers) it fulfils its
purpose admirably. It covers every State
in the Commonwealth from Tasmania to
the Territory, describes the principal
tourist attractions, gives the historical
background, and is nicely illustrated.
As a further contribution from Charles
Barrett to the documenting of Australia
the book is, however, disappointing.
Books about Australia tend to be too
wide in their range, both in space and in
time. Recent examples were Marjorie
Barnard’s Australian Outline and Arnold
Haskell’s The Australians, both of which
tried to describe the whole continent and
summarise its entire history within the
gamut of about 40,000 words. It can’t
be done.
The national mind, certainly, should
be aware of the whole sweep of the con-
tinent. But maybe the best way to im-
press the whole on our minds is for each
writer to describe some part of the whole
so vividly that we can never forget it.
Especially as M. Barnard Eldershaw de-
scribed the whole so well in My Aus-
tralia that it hardly needs doing again,
unless superbly. Charles Barrett, who
has written some excellent regional books
in the past, is too valuable as a naturalist
and nature-lover for one to feel very
pleased when he hops from the Bridge
to Fitzroy Gardens. And the next man
who quotes Batman on “This will be the
place for a village” should be invited to
deliver talks for the A.B.C.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Listening Insect”: I would be a more
ardent supporter of the Atlantic Charter
if a fifth freedom had included freedom
from radio professors who analyse the
.drama. I listened-in to a Shakspeare broad-
cast, magnificently done by a company
of actors some of whom may have
stormed the boards in the lamented days
of Allan Wilkie. The characters seemed
to live even in the absence of a physical
presence. You got all the excitement and
drama of the situations, and the Bard's
meaning was immediate. Nothing more
was needed. But then some professor
started analysing the play, and I mourned
for the great days of flesh-and-blood«
when nobody ever dropped upon your
exaltation the wet blanket of unnecessary
exposition.
How much the young ladies of Sydney
Tiv. who sing vaguely operatic numbers
through a microphone inadequately con-
cealed in a bouquet of roses, who sing
“swing” or who make the noises peculiar
to American negresses could learn from
an evening at Sydney Royal listening to
Gladys Moncrieff! But, on the other
hand, the Royal could learn a deuce of
a lot from the Tiv. in the matters of
speed and smartness of production and
the value of topicalities. From the
moment a bloke walks across the stage
armed with a couple of rifles and three
axes and says he’s off to Surry Hills for
a quiet game of cards, the “1943 Crazy
Show” goes with a zip and a bang. The
Yanks, rationing, beer and tobacco
shortages—the Tiv. has all the topicalities
that could so easily have been worked in
to pep up the antiquated comedy of “The
Merry Widow.” The whole bill’s pre-
sented in the most delightful spirit of
irresponsibility, most notably exemplified
in the moments when Mo (as Rationing
Commissioner) has an irreverent conver-
sation on the telephone with Mr.
Menzies, and when somebody marches
across the stage with a large placard,
“You’d be Happier in a Hoyt’s Suburban
Theatre.” Juggling and acrobatic items
are particularly good.
“C. 8.”: In “Black Vanities” at Mel-
bourne Tiv. George Wallace is at his best
in a demented parody of “White Cargo”
in which an English official who solaces
himself with quinine and a beachcomber
who solaces himself with whisky are
visited on a tropical island by a modern
version of Tondeleyo. The lady’s demon-
stration of the superfluousness of clothing
drives them more assiduously to their
anaesthetics ; they never lose their rever-
ence for the Empire, and every time the
word “Englishman” comes up in the
dialogue stagger to their feet and salute
a miniature Union Jack. The rest of the
bill is somewhat overburdened with young
ladies whose chief charm is not in their
singing. The best gymnastics are pro-
vided by the Bridge trio, who play Liszt
on a xylophone, a piano and a fiddle.
Ormond Douglas, Lyn Golding, the
Donald sisters and the Tiv. lovelies pro-
vide a captivating ballet connected with
street lighting.
At the talkies:
John Brophy’s study of a corporal who,
drawing inspiration from the memory of his
dead sergeant, throws off an inferiority complex
and rises to heights of heroism transfers with
conviction to the screen; and “The Immortal
Sergeant” (Sydney Plaza) gives Henry Fonda
his most exacting yet satisfying role. “They
Died with Their Boots On” (New Tatler) sub-
mits Errol Flynn in an American Civil War
uniform as General Custer. He makes his Last
Stand against the Injuns very nicely. “The
Arabian Nights” (State) offers the engaging
tale of Haroun-al-Raschid and Scheherezade:
a pleasant couple of hours of Bagdad beauties
and Bronx chit-chat. Like the stage version
seen recently at the Minerva “My Sister Eileen”
(Mayfair) is an amiable lightweight—farce about
the troubles of country girls alone in the big
city.
“Dhas”: The fact that Hollywood
didn’t show the face of any of Gauguin’s
canvases in “The Moon and Sixpence”
(B. 4/8/’43) could mean that Hollywood
and its public are 50 years out of date.
Both stage and ballet in Australia—wit-
ness William Constable’s decorations for
Whitehall productions, his “mural” of a
split skull at Sydney Minerva (as odd a
contribution to gaiety as I have ever
seen) and the decor for Kirsova’s recent
ballet season at the Con. —are more in-
clined to overdo modernism than to
shirk it. But before Hollywood is con-
victed of undue timorousness, the fact
should be stated that Gauguin’s family
objected to the reproduction of any of
his paintings in the film. The showing
of imitation Gauguins throughout —as
was done once at the end—might have
made a more convincing and more
courageous film of it; might even have
made the audience depart in dudgeon;
but it wouldn’t conclusively have proved
that talkie audiences won’t face genuine
Gauguins or that Hollywood is afraid to
test their reactions to genuine Gauguins.
“F.S.”: Those who like to be told what
they know already will like John Rowell’s
exhibition at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
the fruits of three years’ painting, inter-
spersed with war-work and teaching.
Rowell’s work is easy to understand be-
cause he sees Nature much as a layman
sees it, though he has a technical facility
the layman hasn’t. This prevents him
getting drunk on modern fashions, but it
also prevents him seeing very much
deeper than the photographer who presses
a button. His portrait of Murray Griffin,
the war artist captured in Malaya, is
more a collection of facts than a
souvenir of the sitter. His “Bernard
Cronin” is a recognisable likeness of that
rugged-looking writer. In “The Agitator,”
a large picture of a workman haranguing
his mates, there is a complete absence of
‘feeling.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120 th Year of Service
BOOKS At AIRCRAFT TRAINEES MECHANICS
i
(/
J
( '
is
r-
O"
mar
i n’U-i. ~
Yrr/’Y
: :
kJI V
PIN POINT THE BOMBER. By Francis Chichester. THIS GREAT AIR GAME BOOK is in the . form of a
game and a large* rtrap of the territory from Kent to the Rhineland is provided. The player is given the
necessary clues to his position and must tax his skill and ingenuity to deduce from them exactly where he is,
in other words to "pinpoint" his bomber on the map. The book makes a perfect present for anyone connected
with the R.A.A.F. cr A.T.C., whether air crew cr student, and is likely to prove cne of the most popular
parlour games for all. Price 12/0
Postage, 4jd.
■V
v8 v
vO &
c.o'*'
W 04 *
w
S* A ?v
V >A
THE AEROPLANE SIMPLY
EXPLAINED.
EXPLAINED.
FLYING SIMPLY
GLIDING AND SOARING
SIMPLY EXPLAINED.
ALL BY MALCOLM LOGAN.
Price lOd. each
Postage, U/^d.
■
iil
ofl c
AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS. By Orion Edward Patton.
A book designed to present a brief, yet overall study
of Aircraft’lnstruments, their, theory, function and use.
Many diagrams. Price 337-
Postage, 7i/ 2 d.
m m
lON
THE OBSERVER'S BOOK ON ASTRO-
NAVIGATION. By Francis Chichester.
Parts I-111. Price, each Volume .... 4/3
Postage, 21/2(1. each
Part IV. Price 7/6
Postage, 2i/2cl-
THE OBSERVER'S BOOK ON AIRCRAFT INSTRU-
MENTS. By W. J. D. Allan. Price 4/3
Postage, 2'/2d.
THE PILOT'S BOOK ON ELEMENTARY AERO-
ENGINES. By H. C. Russell. Price 4/3
Postage, ZV^d.
THE AIR CADETS' HANDBOOK ON ENGINE
MECHANICS. By W. D. Arnot. Price .... 3/4
Postage, 21/ad.
THE AIR CADETS' HANDBOOK ON HOW AN
AEROPLANE FLIES. By C. G. Grey. Price, 3/4
Postage, 2Y2d.
THE AIR CADETS' HANDBOOK ON HOW TO
PILOT AN AEROPLANE. By Cant. Norman Mac-
millan. Price 4/3
Postage, 3Vzd.
THE AIR CREW'S BOOK OF PRACTICAL
MATHEMATICS. By P. H. Robinson. Price, 5/9
Postage, 2i/2d.
THE GROUND ENGINEER'S MANUAL. By A.
C. Robinson. Written in the form of question
and answer, and illustrated with helpful dia-
grams, this book has been specially designed
to assist the student and practical man in the
study of aircraft engineering. Price 4/6
Postage, 3V£d.
AIR TRAINING MATHEMATICS. By I. R.
Vesselo. Price 10d.
Postage, IVzd.
if
t
m
c m
St>
YOURSELF
ON. By "Kas
An introductory book
subject of Air Navic
from which studen
other interested person
learn the funda:
other
the
Price
Po;
mm
Ml
mm
ll^jl
books
mmmmm
/t, '"
ASSEK
By
■^Oj?Dojv<
mm
' fa g* • m
Your
Win Gs
m
book
Sta.
Hying
lift:
r nd
on
ov@r,
Price
the
tvc
Po
22
> s tctg e
iliili
W*
jr OS i
cSr 00 ??
the
ovei
Th
■
yr&ath
o{
instr u _
e r
an;
'rnent
rice
Hyi
i ng
Po.
22/ G
'stage
SAFETY
at
plight
Jllal . '
bee©
* s sary
Se quel
'■ove
tvvo
'-met
books.
the
Po
22/6
'stage
J/OJ
o BOOK DEPARTMENT-
SECOND FLOOR
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


THE SCANDAL OF COOKABUNDY BRIDGE
By BRIAN JAMES.
NOWADAYS you’d hardly know
Summerlea —“a humming hive of
industry,” as the “Argus” puts it.
There are a big military camp
to the north of the town and a very busy
aerodrome and assembly plant. In the
town itself are munition works and an-
nexes. And the bridge carries its constant
stream of military trucks, petrol wagons,
jeeps, ambulances, gun-carriers, tanks and
all the rest. Many soldiers of two nations
pass over the bridge.
In the quiet old days many people
visited the bridge for the lovely views.
Poets got inspiration there ; lovers used
to gaze from the footway in the moon-
light and sigh their souls towards the
lucerne paddocks; and nearly always
some swaggies used to camp under it.
Yes, indeed, things have changed.
Perhaps no one feels this change more
than old Pat Casey. Pat was born with
a strong political instinct.
When Pat gazes on the Cookabundy
Bridge the years drop away, and there
comes a memory of a glorious—and
“dur-rty”—fight. And Pat gloats over
the memory.
That was away back in—well, the year
hardly matters any more. It was, of
course, the Judd-Rowland election.
RICHMOND JUDD—good old Rich-
mond Judd, “Honest Dick”; or
“That blasted old fossil”—had repre-
sented Summerlea for many years. The
“Argus” described him as “four-squaie
for Country, King and Empire,” and
hinted, too, that the interests of Provi-
dence could best be served by Judd’s
remaining member for Summerlea. The
“Argus” threw itself into the Judd-Row-
land fight, and its rival, the “Advocate,”
not to be outdone, hurled itself into it.
Mr. Richmond Judd was a contractor
in a rather large way. Before entering
Parliament he had often secured big Gov-
ernment contracts.
“You can’t tell me,” many a one said,
“that he dropped all them contracts when
he became M.L.A.”
A whispering campaign set in against
Mr. Judd. Not that it was always carried
on in whispers. They said “That Red-
wood is just a dummy for Judd.” Then
they’d wink knowingly/ “D’you think
Redwood could take on a contract as
big as the Cookabundy Bridge? Not on
y’r life he couldn’t! ”
The reply was stereotyped almost —
“Yairs, that’s what I always said. Ought
to be a royal commission to sit on the
pair of them.”
There was a comfortable feeling that
Judd and Redwood would never feel their
old selves after a royal commission had
sat on them.
It was only human that the Rowland
crowd should exploit to the utmost this
popular belief in corrupt practices. The
“Advocate” said that Rowland stood for
“clean government, and “Was there ever
greater need for honest administration
than at the present moment?” That in
itself implied the darkest of doings against
Judd and his party.
Then the “Advocate’’ opened up whole
centuries of evil ways, and pointed to
Home Rule for Ireland as a piece of
retributive justice that might be secured
by the “unseating of the present disas-
trous member for Summerlea.” In fact,
international relations generally might be
placed on a far healthier footing by this
process.
The “Argus” sharpened its weapons
and replenished its venom. It deplored
the “sectarian issue” and threw out a
dark hint that a “foreign ecclesiastical
prince” (everyone knew who that was)
was “up to his old machinations through
his local agents.”
These “issues” represented something
deep, radical and inexplicable perhaps.
But they were something that counted
for much in the elections of the day.
More understandable were the imme-
diate and tangible questions, such as a
bridge contract and the interests a man
served. Over four pints or so —if they
can be got at all —Casey will rake out a
sheaf of greasy and crumpled clippings
from the “Advocate” to prove it.
JUDD opened his campaign in the
Town Hall on a Wednesday night—
or was it a Thursday? The “Argus” said
he “delivered his policy speech.”
It was a great meeting, and so tactically
arranged that Mr. Judd would have little
to say. Mr. Trist —“Our ever-popular
Mayor”—presided. He was never more
like himself —kindly, tolerant, propitia-
tory. Not that he didn’t hit hard, but
he used the velvet glove. He saddened
at the thought that his best friends were
in the opposite camp. In his heart of
hearts he knew they were honestly mis-
taken.
Then he placed ajiand on the shoulder
of “straight old Richmond Judd,” and
declared him the best member this or
any district could have. He closed on
the grand note of “Country, King and
Empire.” That Town Hall had never
heard such cheering—it drowned the
gibes and jeers at the back and disturbed
the sparrows and starlings in the roof.
At long last Mr. Judd rose. His plain
big face and rugged speech did not seem
to manifest the statesmanship attributed
to him by the “Argus,” nor did they fit
the veritable Machiavelli presented by
the “Advocate.” In truth, he looked a
very decent and stolid citizen of sixty.
His powers of 'oratory were limited, and
prone to slips of syntax and excursions
into profanity.
There was “prolonged cheering” when
he rose. Mr. Judd waited for this to sub-
side. He then announced that he wasn't
much of a talker.
“Too bloody right, you’re not!” came
a cheerful yell from the rear.
A constable moved over towards Jack
Ryan, but Jack was looking very inno-
cent, if not mildly shocked at this un-
seemly interruption.
Mr. Judd puffed and glared at the
back seats and repeated that he wasn t
much of a talker. This time there was
no interjection beyond unidentifiable
chuckles. He then said it was a great
district, a prosperous district, a progres-
sive district (“and the more so for your
representing it,” from the front rows).
They might say this and they might
say that (cheers), but “I never have
wobbled and I never will wobble.”
(Cheers.) If right-thinking people—he
glared at the back seats—wanted plain
honest representation he could —and
would—give it. He declared again very
emphatically that he didn’t talk much
and that he wouldn’t wobble.
Then he finished his policy speech with
a mixture of homely sentiment and high
poetry—“l was born in Summerlea, I
have lived all my life in Summerlea, and
when I shovel off this mortal soil I hope
to do it here in Summerlea.” (Prolonged
cheering.)
Then came questions. These had
mostly been prepared in advance, and
the answers revealed a statesman —“great
in his rugged strength” (“Argus”) or
“ungrammatically platitudinous” (“Advo-
cate”).
A young and advanced political
student, however, wanted to know what
were Mr. Judd’s feelings about the
“Braddon Blot.” Mr. Judd said those
feelings were but as nothing “alongside
those about the Summerlea Blot.” He
glared hard at the young man, who sat
down in much confusion.
It was a piece of wit that surprised
even Mr. Judd’s closest friends, for they
were convinced that it was quite unre-
hearsed.
And then it came, as it was bound to
come.
“About that there Cookabundy Bridge,
Mr. Judd....”
Mr. Judd snorted and shouted that it
was a damned lie.
“What’s a lie?” The question was
polite and simple.
“What you said about that contract.”
“But I didn’t say anything about the
contract! ”
“There you are now! Give a man
enough rope and he’ll hang himself!”
retorted Mr. Judd.
This also was considered a victory.
WHEN Mr. Rowland a few nights
later opened his campaign in that
same hall the crowd was, of course,
different.
Mr. Ernest Rowland was young,
sleekish and confident. He could make
a speech on any occasion (and mostly
did). He was bland, sincere and reassur-
ing. He wouldn’t sling mud, and he
pitied his opponents (and forgave them).
He knew when to laugh, and, better still,
when to weep. He always burst into
tears when strongly moved ; and when
the audience was big enough to warrant
it. And when Mr. Rowland wept, most
of the audience wept too. It was very
touching.
On this occasion he announced his de-
termination to say nothing about the
Cookabundy Bridge. He hated these
loose charges and broad hints. In any
case, nothing had been proved—yet. He
just wanted clean government and a
broad national vision. The roof rang
again and again.
Here was the man to shift “that blasted
old fossil.” Certainly there were some
who complained that he wasn’t socking
it in as he should. But some electors
always expect too much.
In the country the meetings were more
marked by local animosities and neigh-
borly hatreds. At Tipperary, for
example, Mr. Judd got a poor hearing,
for Tipperary concentrated on Home
Rule and the Cookabundy Bridge (in
that order). They painted his collie dog
with green paint as some sort of gentle in-
timation to Mr. Judd. If Mr. Judd hadn’t
taken a policeman with him it is possible
they’d have painted him too. In all he
got a poor hearing, and his determina-
tion not to wobble awoke only derision.
He didn’t think it worth while to “shovel
off the mortal soil.” But at Kilmarnoch
he fared grandly, and to his only inter-
jector he gave “enough rope” to hang
him.
Mr. Rowland did much better at
Tipperary, which took him to its heart.
He had a fair suspicion of a brogue here,
and promised Home Rule at the earliest
possible moment. He didn’t worry
Tipperary overmuch about the idealism
of clean government. Even at Kilmar-
noch he won his audience by denounc-
ing “support to denominational interests.”
He nearly wept, too, but refrained —out
of consideration for a Scottish audience.
At the Coal Seam end of the electorate
he was an advanced socialist, and at
Myall Creek his sympathies were all with
the “man on the land.”
It looked like a close finish. Then a
serious complication arose. At the very
last minute a third candidate was
nominated —Mr. Denis Day. Mr. Day
was an old “war horse.” That is, he had
sat in Parliament for a number of years
—for an adjoining constituency—and had
even been a Minister for a short term.
He had lost his seat over a land
scandal. There were always land
scandals. The inquiry had proved
nothing against him certainly, but every-
one said it was the end of his career-
And here he was staging a “come-
back.” Or was he? Wasn’t it more
likely that he was “put up” by the Judd
crowd to split the vote. “A dur-rty bit
o’ work, that was!” Casey often used to
say.
But the old war-horse snuffed rather
mildly, and seemed very tired. He had
no policy, except that of “going very
cautiously.” He used big words to small
audiences. In his passion for fairness
Casey said, “Day, in himself, I’ll say that
much for him, was a decent enough fel-
low. He’d do anything for you—if you
paid him well.” Perhaps that was a good
summing-up.
ON election day the town reminded the
old hands of Mafeking—only it was
more exciting. What rushing to and
fro; what noise; what bitterness and
insincere friendliness; what recrimina-
tions, arguments, fights and insobriety!
There was feverish handing out of
dodgers and how-to-vote slips ; there was
scandalous recollection of ancestry and
antecedents; there was much gibing
query as to the honesty of opponents ;
there was much reference, by innuendo,
to the contract for the Cookabundy
Bridge. Since a writ had been served on
the “Advocate” over an article on the
bridge, broad hints, accompanied by
knowing and nasty laughs, were deemed
just as effective (and much safer).
It was a record poll. Four of the
recently-departed returned and cast their
votes —one actually doing it twice. Some
of the living electors also doubled their
votes, and subsequently took much time
and trouble in explaining the matter;
two of them not oversatisfactorily.
When counting started, progress results
were shouted from the balcony of the
“Advocate” building to the crowd below.
It was see-saw all the time between Judd
and Rowland, and most exciting. Day
scored poorly, often a duck. He got just
one vote at Tipperary, and Casey
reckoned everyone knew whose vote that
was, and “He wasn’t allowed to forget
it at all, he wasn’t! ”
It was well after midnight when the
final score was given out —Rowland 32
in the lead. There must have been at
least that number of fights to mark the
occasion.
The winning crowd brought a four-
horse bus from the Royal and drove
Rowland around the town. It was a
triumph. Then Rowland thanked his
noble supporters (and heaven, inci-
dentally) for securing this victory for
good, clean government and for the
broadening of the national vision. He
wept too, so deeply was he moved.
Mr. Judd was at last constrained upon
to speak, but hoots and cries rather
spoiled his oration. It was generally
gathered, however, that he wouldn’t
wobble and was still determined to
shovel off the mortal soil in Summerlea.
Mr. Day did not thank his twenty-
nine supporters It was thought that they
didn’t expect him to.
SO ended the political career of Rich-
mond Judd, and began the brilliant
ineptitude of Ernest Rowland.
If there was any truth at all in the talk
of contract scandals it never came out.
The case against the “Advocate” was
dropped after the election. History fails
to record that there was any noticeable
increase in good, clean government or
that the national vision was appreciably
broadened.
Mr. Judd resumed Public Works con-
tracts —with Redwood as a sort of
partner. He never tried for Parliament
again. Mr. Rowland was eventually un-
seated —and that was an interesting story,
too. But Casey wasn’t so pleased to refer
to it.
Cookabundy Bridge ceased at last to
be a scandal and became just a fine
bridge. If you go to Summerlea don’t
fail "to visit the bridge, and look up
Casey, too, either at the Contingent or
the Royal—whichever serves schooners
first.
THE BISHOP.
Robed and mitred the bishop stands and hard
by his ear a pigeon
Preens in the sun on top of his head and tells
him about religion.
Oh, Time has struck the bishop stiff with its
eye as cold as a gorgon’s,
His body is bronze and his heart is too (if
a statue contains such organs);
Yet who can tell if the bishop’s soul like a
white frost-bitten petal
Fell dead that day or flurried away or now in
this shell of metal
Glimmers behind those benignant eyes, in the
hollow breast still lingers
And wavers and burns like rays of the sun
from the outstretched hand and fingers?
On some improbable raft no doubt the bishop
through life went skimming
(The waters are dark and the waves are high
and we all grow tired of swimming).
But now he stands on a rock indeed, his coat
will turn all weather,
He and the earth and the stars themselves will
stand or fall together.
A man alive is a narrow man however he tries
to hide it,
He sets up a wall to keep him safe and the
heathen rage outside it;
And a saint alive is a narrow saint, soaring
alone like a steeple.
But here is a man as broad as the sun, shining
on all the people.
No one has heard his mouth of bronze open for
groan or sigh
As an ambulance rushed a child to be born, or
a corpse in a hearse went by:
No one has heard him stamp on his plinth with
a harsh metallic foot
As Sarah staggers to William-street before the
wine-bars shut;
No one has heard him shudder and clank when
free at last from the ship
Bill goes rolling to Palmer-street with a bottle
parked on his hip.
Alike to him are the roaring bus with wharfies
up from the ’Loo
And the plump old girl the chauffeur drives to
the home with the harbor view;
Smith of the suburbs reading his paper, escaping
by tram from the boss,
The trim little bits with their scarlet nails homing
to flats at the Cross;
The rich and the poor, the strong and the weak,
the priest and sinner and sot,
Whether they like it or whether they don’t the
bishop blesses the lot.
The crowds on Sundays may pass him by with
never a glance or nod
(The orators rave in the Dom. today, and one
of them might be God)
But high on his perch the bishop stands, serving
whoever needs:
He and the lowly peanut man are above the
battle of creeds.
I mightn’t have liked the bishop alive but I cer-
tainly like him dead,
The good old man in his suit of bronze with the
pigeon on top of his head.
Solid in space, secure in time, defiant he takes
his stand,
The whole of life goes blessed on its way be-
neath the sun,of his hand.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3314.
Wednesday, August 18, 1943.
HEADIN’ FOR THE LAST ROUND-UP.
(But Not Quite Home on the Range.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.). Wellington.
London : I Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
• London. E.C.4.
UP FOR JUDGMENT.
On Saturday the electors will deliver their
verdict on the party which has controlled
their affairs on Labor “principles” and in
the Labor-union fashion since October 7,
1941. They did not contemplate its tak-
ing control, having, in fact, refused it a
majority in each Chamber ; but its acces-
sion to office was made possible by the
fractiousness of disappointed U.A.P. can-
didates for places and made certain by the
manoeuvres of two alleged Independents.
One of the alleged Independents
quitted the U.A.P. ranks, to which he
had been admitted at his own request, to
vote against a Budget with which he
could find no material fault. The other,
a Victorian Country-party man, was influ-
enced partly by considerations of State
politics, his group being then in alliance-
with State Labor, and by the hope of
securing concessions, which were duly
delivered. Assured of these votes, a
Labor Government arrived, and it car-
ried on with exceeding self-satisfaction
until Mr. Ward broke out with his Bris-
bane Line lie, to which his leader, after
publishing a reluctant and disingenuous
disclaimer, added a deadly insult on his
own account: “The other Governments’
home-defence plan was defeatist in out-
look and preparation.” The consequences
were so embarrassing that he decided to
go to the country months sooner than he
had intended.
In the Senate when the plums were dis-
tributed —and the distribution was so
lavish that only two eligible Labor mem-
bers were left out —Labor-unionism was
in a minority of two. For a time the
Government received a distracted sort of
support from a Westralian Country-party
Senator, who was apparently hoping to
be delivered somehow from a sea of
financial troubles which finally engulfed
him. When the unhappy man was suc-
ceeded by another W.A. Country-party
Senator, the position was restored, and,
taking its stand on the equality of the
Senate with the House “in respect of all
proposed laws,” except those “appropriat-
ing” revenue or moneys or “imposing
taxation,” the majority asserted itself
vigorously. One of the useful things it did
was to force the withdrawal of a Labor-
union provision for holding overpay-
ments of income tax against future assess-
ments. It also imposed checks on Mr.
Ward’s plans for wrecking industrial arbi-
tration, and brought to light various
excesses of Labor-unionism, such as pref-
erence to unionists in Commonwealth
Government employ in the matter of pay
and allowances. For the first time for
many years the people in office, had to
treat the Senate with respect.
Having themselves fallen into the habit
of treating the Second Chamber with
contempt the newspapers are giving little
space to the election of Senators. Never-
theless, with the Senate showing the spirit
it had in its youthful prime the election
of Senators will have an important bear-
ing on future events at Canberra. Thir-
teen of the 19 men who checked the
Government in its complacent career are
Senators of the 1940 vintage, which
means that, if fate spares them, they will
be members till July 1, 1947. Of .their
17 opponents in divisions, only three
have not to face their constituents this
year; another, the last President, who
would have had to go up for re-election,
is dead, and another is running against
the party ticket. To gain a majority it
will be necessary for Labor-unionism to
win 16 seats, and that means electing
every Senator in N. S. Wales, Victoria,
Queensland, South Australia and Tas-
mania and one in Westralia, or four
Senators in Westralia (there are four
vacancies there) and three each in four
other States or three each in three other
States and three moref in the fifth and
sixth combined.
It is a task too great for a party which
has offended so many people as the
Labor-union party has done. Though it
is possible for the Labor-union party to
get more than half the seats in the House
all the indications are that it will fail of a
majority in the Senate. It hasn’t had one
s nee 1917, and it may not have one in 1947.
How Mr. Curtin proposes to clear the
hurdles that a hostile Senate will set up
he has not explained. He prefers to en-
large on more congenial themes, asking
the electors to believe that all the political
virtues and all the administrative talents
are concentrated under the hats of himself
and his followers. His ruling idea since
he sat at the feet of Tom Mann, after
1917 a raving Moscowmaniac,' is that
“Labor” has been robbed of its inheri-
tance by “the capitalists,” and that it is
“Labor’s” mission to regain the inheri-
tance by political action. He and all
other members of his party have pledged
themselves “to actively support and advo-
cate at all times the party’s objective, the
socialisation of industry, production, dis-
tribution and exchange.” This is the
Communist programme also ; and, though
Mr. Curtin rejects the methods of violence
which Communists have .preached for
many years (in this he is sincere) and tries
to show that his party has no truck with
Communists, a Labor Government with
a majority in the House will have to
take fumbling steps towards “the social-
isation of industry, production, distribu-
tion and exchange” if it persists in play-
ing the party game. The Communists
will see to that.
In an evil hour for Labor-unionism
the Curtin Government removed the ban
on Communist organisations and publi-
cations which the Menzies Government
had been forced to impose by reason of
rank Communist disloyalty to Australia
and Britain, expressed in a dangerous
campaign against “the imperialist war,”
with strikes in coalmines and war fac-
tories among the features. The Govern-
ment’s first step was to release two Syd-
ney Communists who had been caught in
a bush hideout from which there issued
a stream of printed poison designed to
sabotage the war effort and beat up
recruits for “the Revolution.” Before
long it caused 16 alleged members of
the Australia First organisation to be
arrested and held for many months with-
out trial. This, Communists boasted in
papers which appeared surreptitiously
before the ban was lifted, was done at
Communist instigation. Whether it was
or not, it was an outrageous abuse of
power. Some of the victims were ruined
in pocket as well as reputation. Among
them were returned soldiers, and two
were not even members of the Australia
First concern.
The Government’s patronage of Com-
munists has had evil results all
round. Helped by romantic reporting
of the Russian war and persistent de-
preciation of the magnificent British
achievement, Communists have made
strides which have astonished Mr. Men-
zies himself, as he said when a band
of the Communist hooligans organised
for purposes of hooliganism from
Toowoomba round to Fremantle tried to
break up one of his meetings. Commu-
nist control of trade-unions, to which the
Labor party looks for funds, has become
vast and menacing. Coalminers, iron-
workers, munition workers, seamen,
wharfies and railwaymen have Commu-
nist bosses. The Sydney Labor Council
passed a resolution for a “united front”
with the Communists which representa-
tives of white-collar unions, even that of
the journalists, supported. And Com-
munist influence in the A.C.T.U. is such
that the head office of this “Central Labor
Organisation, created to function on
behalf of the Trade-unions of Australia”
(Commonwealth Year-Book ), is being
shifted to Sydney, where Communists
have their G.H.Q. and where, reckoning
the neighboring coalmining districts as
outer suburbs, 90 per cent, of the strikes
that plague Australia originate.
The Government’s main excuse for
whitewashing the Communists was that
they had promised to throw their influ-
ence against strikes. Since the promise
was given there has never been a strike-
less week; in the first quarter of this
year there were 2143 strikes, in which
856,000 people were concerned, the loss
of working days being 268,299. And
though a litter of anti-strike regulations
has been gazetted, only a handful of
offenders has been brought to book. In
one case men employed in a war fac-
tory were fined by their Communist-
controlled tmion for having worked on
Good Friday in response to the Prime
Minister’s own request; in another, it
was reported to the Prime Minister by
an Arbitration Judge that unions—at
least one of them Communist-controlled
—had worked up an illegal strike in a
munitions annexe to crush a few honest
workers, most of them women, who had
refused to become union members with-
out an express guarantee against strikes.
In each instance the Prime Minister
crawled into a hole, taking his anti-
strike regulations with him.
Mr. Curtin looks to New South Wales
to give him the House majority of which
he dreams by providing half the
number of Labor members. In that
State the party organisation has in-
structed his supporters to bestow
their second votes on representatives
of the so-called State Labor party
and put U.A.P. and Country-party mem-
bers last. Where there are no State
Labor candidates Communists are to be
preferred to Opposition members and
nominees of other groups; for example,
the Communist Sharkey is placed second
in Dailey (three candidates), the Commu-
nist McLeod third in Hume (four candi-
dates) and the Communist Miles fifth in
North Sydney (seven candidates), Mr. W.
M. Hughes being seventh. •
Curtin supporters with approved Leftist
view have no Communist opponents, and
the same applies to the bunch of State
Labor candidates, their “party” and Com-
munism having “a united front.” In
point of fact, they have been closely
associated for years, having been in
control of the official organisation,
“the New South Wales branch of
the Australian Labor party,” on March
24, 1940, when the subjoined resolution
was carried at a party conference by 195
votes to 88:
The Labor party has always been opposed
to imperialist wars, and today we demand
that every energy should be utilised to bring
about the establishment of peace at the
earliest opportunity. We declare that the
Australian people have nothing to gain
from the continuance of the war. The
management of this war in the hands of
the anti-Labor Menzies Government, in
association with the anti-Labor Chamber-
lain Government, means that the war is
being pursued in the interests of big
finance and monopolies. Conference is
opposed to Australian participation in
overseas conflicts. The Labor party un-
hesitatingly demands that no Australian
troops be permitted to leave Australia.
With State and Commonwealth elec-
tions coming on, this tying of Mr. Cur-
tin’s party and Mr. McKell’s to what was
then Moscow policy was too much.
There followed a hasty purge of Commu-
nists and fellow-travellers, and the fellow-
travellers formed the State Labor party.
By the look of things, they and the
acknowledged Communists will be back
in control of the official organisation some
day, and it may be soon.
But in deference to Mr. Curtin the
electors are to dismiss these facts and
chances from their minds. They are to
forget all about the Communists and the
strikes, the Wards and Dedmans, the big
and little bureaucrats, the wilderness of
regulations (so many of which have been
jumped on by fudges, sometimes with the
suggestion that they were mad as well
as bad), the chaos on the food front,
the plight of the small shopkeeper who
didn’t happen to be born an alien, the
incomprehensible features of rationing,
the declining purchasing power of the
pound Australian and the idiosyncrasies
of Man-power, with its unintentional
warnings of what “socialisation” would
mean to this easygoing, nomadic people
(“I could send you to Bourke if I liked,”
the Sydney official said to a non-striker).
All these things and more we are to
consign to an unremembered heap, and
consider only that “Labor saved the
country.” We are to be persuaded that
a parcel of civilians with the sorriest his-
tory of opposition to defence measures,
from the time its leader opposed
conscription in 1916-17, and in 1918
wanted to put recruiting for the
weary A.I.F. in its desperate need
of reinforcements to a leisurely vote
of trade-unions and A.L.P. branches,
to the time he objected to the young
A.I.F. being formed at all, by some al-
chemy became masters of every branch
of military science ; and, so persuaded,
we are to vote the ticket in blind grati-
tude to Jack Curtin, the Hammer of the
Huns and the Japs. If the matter and
the time were not so serious it would be
good clean fun.
Representing, as it does, an important
section which at times gets sufficient sup-
port from other sections for the making
and unmaking of Ministries, Mr. Cur-
tin’s party has a place in the scheme of
things, and in the hard school of war it
has shed some of its illusions. But it
clings to others, the main one being that
in this country there are two nations—
the good and the bad, the poor and the
rich, workers and exploiters—and con-
nected with this is the belief that there
should be two armies, one to go
forward and fight the enemy wher-
ever he can be reached, taking all
the risk of being wiped out by
shot, shell and pestilence, and the other
to stay in Australia and hang round, wait-
ing for an invader who refuses to come,
though if this Labor “principle” is sound
there should be two navies and two air
forces. It clings also to the related
beliefs that even when the life and
honor of Australia are in question
Parliament should be an instrument
for registering the decrees of A.L.P.-
executive majorities, that union bosses
and union mobs are above industrial
laws and laws for-the protection of the
individual and the community, and that
ruffianism and even sedition are tolerable
if they take the name of revolution,
revolution having the form and color of
romance. And under the influence of
the election spirit it began talking as if
the war were as good as won. For poli-
tical as well as military reasons, the war
in Europe may be over next year, but
the war in the Pacific will go on, a bitter,
bloody and exhausting affair, which in its
closing scenes will outdo the horrors of
the siege of' Carthage.
In the high and permanent interests
of the Commonwealth it is necessary that
the electors should give a mandate, un-
mistakable and irresistible, for one army
with no geographical limits or sacrificial
division, and for a Government such as
they have had in Britain for upwards of
three years, with results which have been
felt throughout the world. A Govern-
ment which will plan and act for the
nation, and not for a mere part of it, and
which will apply to the tremendous prob-
lems that the war has brought, and those
others that the peace will bring, not the
limited supply of brains contained in a
party-room but the best that Parliament
can assemble.
A Communist Spy.
In London last month a certain Douglas
Frank Springhall, employed by the Com-
munist party as “national organiser,” was
placed in the dock at the Old Bailey on
a charge of having obtained information
from a girl clerk at the Air Ministry “for
a purpose prejudicial to the safety of the
State.” The trial was held in camera
and Communism’s national organiser was
found guilty. Justice Oliver, passing sen-
tence, said to the ruffian “You have not
chosen to give evidence or any sort of
excuse, so I am dealing with you as a
man who has infringed one of the most
important laws for the protection of this
country.” The sentence was seven years’
penal servitude.
A week later Home Secretary Morri-
son, who may be the next Labor Prime
Minister, was asked whether he proposed
to satisfy himself that the organisation
employing the convicted spy was “not
used for purposes contrary to the national
interest.” He replied that, although the
convicted spy had been arrested at the
Communist party’s London headquarters,
he did not think a special investigation
necessary; but “in view of the Communist
party’s record a close watch will be kept.”
Mr. Emanuel Shinwell: Are you suggest-
ing that the Communist party was officially
responsible for acts of espionage?
Mr. Morrison : The facts speak for them-
selves.
The case of this Communist spy has
received little publicity in Australia. AH
the dailies get a great deal more war
news than they publish, and this par-
ticular item was in most instances
crowded out. And although nights are
made hideous in Australia by Red ranters
who seem to have unlimited funds for
radio propaganda —in N. S. Wales they
speak from a dozen stations —nothing
detrimental to Communists is ever heard
over the national network, though Red
and Pink blah can be heard often. Nor,
of course, has the crime of the national
organiser been referred to in Communist
publications, even as a text for the sullen
denunciation of Britain and British policy
which such publications feature.
One of the few papers which gave an
account of the justice meted out to the
Communist spy was “S. M. Herald.” In
the ensuing issue of the Communist
“Tribune,” resuscitated, with ample sup-
plies of newsprint (got somehow), by
favor of the Curtin Government, there
was an especially venomous attack on the
country in which the Communist spy got
what was coming to him. Britain was
represented as “a storehouse bulging with
weapons,” and ' as a vast camp crowded
with idle Anglo-American soldiers.
No more than 150,000 troops out of a
possible four to five million were engaged
in Sicily, according to Berlin Radio
Australia therefore is interested in seeing
that “Hitler’s greatest prisoner-of-war
camp”—as Britain, with her 3,000,000
immobile soldiers has been ironically
termed —gets into action.
At the last census Britain’s male
population of all ages and conditions,
from the baby in arms to the bedridden
centenarian, was 21,525,419; and in-
cluded in the number were 44,099 in the
Channel Islands, under enemy occupa-
tion since June, 1940. British battle losses
for three years exceeded 275,000, and
casualties among bombed civilians, air-
men, naval and merchant seamen would
carry the total to half a million at least.
In the R.A.F. and in the naval and mer-
chant services which keep the Axis busy
everywhere, and which have carried such
immense supplies of war materials to
Russia at such cruel cost, there must be
quite 2,000,000 Britons. There are
1,500,000 more in the Home Guard,
counterpart of our V.D.C., and other mil-
lions in the armies in Sicily, Africa, Pales-
tine, Syria, Iraq, Iran, India, Ceylon, in
the great armament works and shipyards,
in the port and transport services, in the
fields where agriculture has been trans-
formed, in the food and clothing factories
and in all the miscellaneous employments
of a nation .which has to wage a wond
war and maintain a vigorous civil life-
So it is mathematically impossible for
John Bull to have an expeditionary force
of 3,000,000 in his small island or even
half the number. But it suits Communists
to lie about it, lying being part of their
stock-in-trade, and the worst specimens,
those of military age who take all sorts
of care to keep their own skins safe, won t
be happy till they smell the blood of a
million British men.


ẁ
PLAIN ENGLISH
Fairbairn's Work.
“Ek D.”: In his speech at Hurstville
(4/8 /’43) Dr. Evatt paid a tribute to the
development of Australia’s aerial defence
by James Valentine Fairbairn, founder
in Australia of the Empire Air Train-
ing Scheme. It was time this faithful
servant of Australia and the British
Commonwealth received some public
recognition'.
When Mr. Fairbairn’s proposals were
first announced six months before war
broke out (he was not then Minister of
Air, being Vice-President of the Executive
Council, Minister for Civil Aviation and
Minister assisting the Minister for De-
fence), The Bulletin was about his
only enthusiastic supporter outside the
R.A.A.F. It was here written in “Real
Action at Last” (B. 7/6/’39):
It is surprising how quickly a few men
who know their jobs and have a reasonably
free hand can change the aspect of a
policy or a department Mr. Fairbairn
is_ the first Minister in control of affairs
with real knowledge of his j0b....1t is
a blessed relief for the R.A.A.F. and the
nation to have a Minister who knows what
is wanted and how to get it done
[His] concerted and logical plan is being
put into operation....
This is the aerial defence Australia
needs....lf the same energy is applied to
the development of the C.M.F. and the
Navy Australia will have good cause to
be satisfied.
Fairbairn, alas! died before he could
see his work come to fruition.
In 1939 a squadron of Short Sunder-
lands was bought in Britain to initiate
his policy, “in keeping with the dictum
accepted in Europe and America that
there shall be outlying defended bases far
removed from industrial and settlement
points and as near as can be to likely
routes by which enemies might reach the
country.”
The Short Sunderlands and their crews
were detained in Britain by the outbreak
of war. They were to become one of
the most glorious units of the R.A.F.—
the first Australians to participate in
warfare on a battle front.
Had Fairbairn been two years earlier
in the field how different might have been
the reception of the Japanese at Rabaul
and in the Solomons! Unfortunately he
did not become a Minister till 1939, and
was not named Air Minister till Novem-
ber 14.
His plan envisioned the provision of
everything which has been proved neces-
sary by the actual circumstances of war.
A Young Digger Speaks.
Young Diggers among the service-men
candidates have obviously been giving
close attention to the boast that “Labor
saved Australia,” among other things, by
bringing back the Sixth and Seventh
A.I.F. divisions, and, later, by taking the
Ninth Division from the Eighth British
Army when its companions of the Seventh
British Armored Division, the 50th
(Northumbrians), the 51st (Highlanders)
and “Tiny” Freyberg’s New Zealanders
were about to go forward in the
grand Mediterranean-freeing offensive
which ended in Tunisia. It is plain that
these Young Diggers have read and
digested the speeches of Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Beasley, and remarked how
these particular saviors of Australia have
contradicted each other.
The young fighting men may not be
old enough to remember how Mr. Beas-
ley tried to get Parliament to register “its
profound horror at the prospect of a
Second World War developing out of the
conflict of Imperial trading interests” in
A byssinia, and how Mr. Curtin and party
supported him in demanding that
H.M.A.S. Australia should be recalled
from the Mediterranean, and that Aus-
tralia should be no party to any measures
against Mussolini.
But they must have heard about it, and
heard, too, that, four years later, the
Curtin-Beasley party to a man supported
Mr. Ward when that savior of Aus-
tralia tried to get the Defence Act
“amended” by making it unlawful to send
militiamen to Norfolk Island, Timor,
Papua, Morobe, Madang, the Bismarcks,
the Admiralties, New Britain, New Ireland,
Bougainville, Baku and the other Solo-
mon Islands held under Australian man-
date. And they must have read what Mr,
Beasley, out of his great battle experi-
ence as a champion of the 1917 strike and
anti-conscription campaign, said in Par-
liament on June 23 about the divisions
recalled from the Middle East:
The experience they gained in North
Africa and in desert fighting was not suit-
able for the kind of fight they were re-
quired to wage in the islands of New
Guinea and elsewhere. The member for
Bendigo, General Rankin, must agree with
that statement. [General Rankin; It is
absolute rot.] I did not expect the hon,
member, with his military experience, to
challenge such a statement. The fact is that
the chiefs of the military machine in this
country have sent these particular divisions
into places in Australia where they can
train for jungle warfare, because the train-
ing they received in North Africa was un-
suitable for the kind of warfare in which
they will have to engage in the islands to
the north of Australia.
So much for Mr. Beasley. Now for
Mr. Curtin, Elaborating previous claims
that the recall of the A.I.F. divisions and
the sending of a sufficient number of
veterans into the fight for the preserva-
tion of vital points in Papua was one of
the masterly strokes of strategy by which
“Labor saved Australia,” the P.M. de-
clared last week in a prepared statement:
If the leaders of the Opposition had had
their way the Seventh A.I.F. Division and
one brigade of the Sixth Division would
not have returned to Australia when they
did. As it was, the A.I.F. arrived only in
the nick of time to save the situation in
New Guinea and to prevent the enemy
establishing himself at Port Moresby, with
disastrous results to the east coast of Aus-
tralia and our sea communications with
Darwin.
Previous Curtin remarks in this vein
had drawn stinging comments from
Young Digger Gullett, Mr. Coles’s U.A.P.
opponent in Henty, on the working of
the Labor “principle” that “permits brave
men to be wounded two or three times
and worn down by disease and nervous
tension, whilst others have never seen a
shot fired.” Captain Gullett has fought
in the Middle East and Papua with “the
exhausted and depleted battalions” of the
Sixth and Seventh Divisions, so he should
know. And last week another voice was
heard, that of Trooper Denis Warner,
U.A.P. candidate for Franklin. It came
over the air from Tasmania, which Mr.
Curtin has chosen not to visit, and was
addressed to the P.M. as one Australian
to another; —
John Curtin, we have not forgotten the
policy speech that you delivered in Can-
berra. This is what you said, John Curtin:
“The Army will be maintained at the
strength necessary for providing for one
Army Corps for offensive operations in
accordance with the plans of the Comman-
der-in-Chief South-west Pacific Area, and
adequate forces for the defence of Aus-
tralia and New Guinea, and for the relief
of units outside the mainland.”
One Army Corps! An Army Corps to-
day consists of three divisions. So does
this corps you have spoken of, John Curtin.
It is known as the Second Australian Corps,
and it is your offensive army. It consists
of the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Divisions.
I know, John Curtin, for I have come from
that corps to contest this election.
You have no thought for equality of
sacrifice, John Curtin. You have three
divisions of original volunteers and you are
going to work them till you have none left.
You talk airily about your mighty Austra-
lian Army and yet you publicly state and
declare that these 60,000, Australians who
fought in Libya, in Greece and Crete, in
Tobruk and Syria, at El Alamein and in the
jungles of New Guinea, are the men who
are going to do all the offensive fighting
for you and your Government.
These then are your men, John Curtin.
You brought the Sixth and Seventh Divi-
sions back from the Middle East as you
probably should have done when Aus-
tralia’s hour was blackest. You threw
them into battle in New Guinea before
many of them had a chance even to see
their wives and families. And again you,
were probably right.
Then, when the situation, in your own
words, had improved beyond measure, you
withdrew the Ninth Division from the
desert and brought them home. And,
maybe, according to your isolationist policy,
you were right again. You have no inter-
est in the global war, John Curtin. You
are a narrow, parochial man. You have
never been outside Australia.
You did not care that shipping was
desperately short and that every vessel was
needed to transport across the Atlantic the
troops and material that today have almost
driven Italy from the war. You did not
care that the Eighth Army had Rommel
beaten, and that if the Ninth Division had
not been withdrawn the Afrikakorps would
never have reached Tripoli. No, John
Curtin, you wanted votes at this election,
so you brought the Ninth Division home.
You’re a cunning man, John Curtin.
You thought you would get away with the
vague statement about an army corps. But
it did not escape the attention of the men
most vitally concerned. You have a willing
horse. You are going to work it till it
drops, and can work no more.
Mr. Curtin had to say something in
reply, but what he said was feeble. It
was merely to the effect that “the army”
would be “used strictly in accordance with
the plans of the Commander-in-Chief,”
and not in “accordance with the theories
of members or of aspirants to Parlia-
ment.” In the contest between Experi-
ence and Cant, Cant is always feeble.
Brightening the Campaign.
To the somewhat expansive “saving”
claims he has made, Mr. Curtin can
fairly add another —that he saved Aus-
tralia from what might otherwise have
been its dullest hour. In his policy speech
he quoted Mr. Hughes on Mr. Menzies:
He is the great self-seeker, the man
behind the scenes in every intrigue, the
fountain-head of every whispering cam-
paign, the destroyer of unity.
This titbit of romance, quoted from
a recognised master of the art, very con-
siderably brightened both the P.M. s
policy speech and the general outlook. It
could be hoped that Mr. Menzies would
respond. He did, having a shot at two
birds with one barrel: “I have nothing
but contempt for a man who shelters be-
hind the slanders of others.”
Mr. Menzies was next heard describing
Mr. Curtin’s speech as “a spirited work
of fiction.” In a brief broadcast which
has had sundry repeat performances, Mr.
Menzies has further advanced what Mr.
Curtin so sensibly started.
Touching on the P.M., Mr. Menzies
speaks of “Pitt, an almost equally great
statesman.” But for Mr. Curtin’s
“masterly handling of the New Guinea,
campaign and his firm treatment of
strikers, who knows what might have
happened to us?”
And then, says Mr. Menzies, there is
“the ineffable Mr. Forde,”
the master of military organisation —who
runs more danger of inflation than even
the currency. How would General
Blarney get along but for Mr. Forde,
busy from dawn to dusk, calling for re-
ports, looking into things, smiling affably
at colonels and addressing them as
“General,” wondering what it’s all about
and hoping his publicity officer will know.
Mr. Forde, says Mr. Menzies —speak-
ing with the cheerful bite of a bulldog
who has had his teeth and toenails sharp-
ened—“asks for nothing better than to
be judged on his achievements.”
If ever historians get to work on Mr.
Forde, which, he will be happy to know,
is doubtful, they will have to engage re-
search workers to find out what his achieve-
ments were.
Like the P.M. himself, Mr. Forde, too,
had “saved Australia.” Still, says Mi-
Menzies generously, “Mr. Forde cannot
have ail the residuary credit.” There is
Mr. Makin:
He arrived at the Ministry of Munitions
and shook hands, with punctilious
• courtesy, with the serried ranks of the
capitalists—the leading men in 8.H.P.,
Electrolytic Zinc, 1.C.1., General Motors-
Holdens, McPhersons. What a moment in
Mr. Makin’s life! What an opportunity
for a purge! Out with the Lewises and
the Frasers and the Hartnetts and in with
the Thorntons and the Jock Gardens!
But, Mr. Menzies airily surmises,
somebody must have told Mr. Makin
about all the guns and so forth “just
warming up nicely in a string of great
new factories all over Australia,” and
that “if he could only keep out of the
way for a few months he would be able
to boast of the wonders he had wrought.”
So Mr. Makin kept quiet, and kept the
capitalists. And they were so grateful to
him for leaving them in their unpaid posi-
tions that they....made him one of the
saviours of the country!
And yet another not to be overlooked
—Senator Cameron, “the man who,
singlehanded, established and controlled
and brought to fruition Australia’s air-
craft industry,”
darting about the aircraft factories, explain-
ing, instructing, exhorting, organising;
here tossing an acute technical observa-
tion to a designer (“That leading edge
wants a little more taper”); there solving
a hold-up in carburettor production; some-
where else checking up on the account-
ancy.
“While he was yet a private Senator,”
says Mr. Menzies, “his scorn of the
Lewises was complete. They must go.
Firm action was called for and firm action
he produced.”
When he became Minister of Aircraft
Production, without a moment’s hesitation
he made the head of B.H.P. Director-
General of Aircraft Production! And the
head of B.H.P. was so grateful that he
worked hard, and John Storey worked
hard, and all the rest worked hard, and
so Senator Cameron saved the country.
His only regret is that he has had no time
to find out how it is that these aeroplanes
can leave the ground when they are
heavier than air. It is all so confusing!
Having started all this, Mr. Curtin now
perhaps wishes he hadn’t. But thousands
of people are grateful to him.
COLOR-BLIND!
“Halt, who goes there?”
“Communist.”
“Pass, friend; but don’t tell anyone I said so.”


To-day’s World makes
YOUR WILL
AND YOUR EXECUTORS
even more vital matters!
V/
IMPORTANT at all times, the making of your
Will and the choice of your Executor are now
more serious responsibilities than ever before.
War inevitably brings increased risk of personal
attack, property destruction and the death of
private executors.
Place your affairs in safe, independent hands by
appointing The Union Trustee Co. your trustee
and executor. Then you can be certain that your
wishes will be carried out exactly, always.
Sound advice provided now by unbiased experts
may save your dependents needless difficulties in
later years.
Write, ’phone or call NOW for full particulars.
rhe Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE!
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.,
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath. C.M.G.; Robert C.
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
... SICU»
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
mJ' sauce
k ★ ¥ y. *
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
Points
On the long list of candidates for both
Houses are the names of many service
men, and some of them have been in
both World Wars. Men who have sealed
their devotion to their country by offering
it their lives, and who must have had it
in their thoughts in rigorous hours as
well as hours of reflection, have a right
to expect that the electors will weigh their
claims carefully, which does not mean
that any of them is entitled to a blank
cheque. They are to be found in the
three old parties, in practically all the
new groups and among the Independents.
Nineteen seats in the Senate are being
contested. At the beginning of July 14
of them were held by Labor men, but
since then Cunningham (W.A.) has died
and Arthur (N.S.W.) has been ruled off
the party ticket —he is running as an
Independent. Of the 17 Senators elected
for six years in 1940 only three are
Laborites. So to get a Senate majority
Curtin’s party will have to win 16 seats,
and that means capturing the lot in at
least four States and making up the bal-
ance elsewhere. It could have been done
in the party’s great days, but it isn’t even
remotely probable in 1943.
Doubtful seats in the Reps., Minis-
terial, Opposition and Independent:
N.S.W. —Watson (Min.), Riverina (Min.),
Calare (Min.), Hume (Opp.), Robertson
(Opp.) and Reid (Min. —likely to go to
Lang).
Vic,—Henty (Ind.), Wannon (Min.),
Wimmera (Ind.), Ballarat (Min.), Corio
(Min.) and Fawkner (Opp.—Brig. Cremor
is making things sultry for Holt).
Queensland. —Brisbane (Min.), Capri-
cornia (Min.), Griffith (Min.), Maranoa
(Min.) and Wide Bay (Opp.).
South Australia.—Adelaide (Opp.), Grey
(Opp.) and Wakefield (Opp.).
West Australia. —Fremantle (Min.), Kal-
goorlie (Min.) and Swan (Opp.).
Tasmania. —Bass (Min.), Darwin (Opp.),
Denison (Opp.) and Franklin (Min.).
Most of these electorates must always be
listed as doubtful, though this time, as
in Fremantle, the odds favor the sitting
members. Surprise results may be re-
served for S.A. and Queensland. In
S.A. Labor may fare better than it ex-
pects to do, in Queensland worse than it
fears.
Two years ago Fadden was “S. M.
Herald’s” white-haired boy. Curtin now
occupies that favored position, and
Granny’s glorification of him is appear-
ing in Labor election advertisements
everywhere. Last week she turned
savagely on Fadden, accusing him of
“the distortion of certain passages in Dr.
Evatt’s speech at Hurstville”:
There was no need to strain what he did
say and thereby to provoke bickering.
Platform tactics of this kind not only con-
fuse issues before the electors but do a
positive disservice to the cause of those who
use them. Why should the Leader of the
Opposition try to stir up such objection?
Artie may console himself with the reflec-
tion that the Old Girl can scarcely twist
to Menzies after all the things she has
said about Bob.
In the shadow of impending defeat,
Senator Keane lost his temper at a
Yarra-bank rally on Saturday and issued
dark threats to newspapers. He said
that, though no one had been kinder to
them than he had been, they had
“reciprocated in a most brutal way.”
I make no secret of the fact that I will
not tolerate the freedom of the press as it
is expressed today. If Labor is returned
to power 1 will be inclined to start a
Government daily paper.
With, presumably, staff jobs restricted to
members of the newspapermen’s union,
two of whom are Curtin candidates in
N. S. Wales ; and Communists not ob-
jected to.
As an election factor the Brisbane Line
has been dropped, except by Ward, and,
acting under orders, Eddie has not strayed
beyond the boundaries of his electorate,
where his meetings have been rather
poor. Away from East Sydney the
mantle of Political Humbug No. 1 has
fallen on Beasley. That gentleman poses
as a master of battle training, tactics and
strategy, and as a thwarted Scharnhorst
and Carnot who would have had every-
thing ready for a swift defeat of the Japs
if his plans hadn’t been dished by the
“Tories.” His record: Non-starter in
the last war (and proud of it) ; member
of the Ministry which wrecked compul-
sory training and the old citizen army ;
opponent of sanctions against Italy on
the ground that sanctions agaipst Italy
would mean another “imperialist war”;
supporter of the Ward motion restricting
militia service to the continent and Tas-
mania ; objector to an expeditionary
force, even to the point of carping at
service of Australians with New Zea-
landers on the Mediterranean front. Be-
tween wars, if Beasley ever lifted a voice
for an increased defence vote it must
have been in his sleep.
From the “Argus” report of a debate
in Canterbury (Vic.): theme, “the possi-
bilities if Communist policy should be in-
troduced in Australia” ; parties, Lieut.
E. A. Laurie, Communist candidate for
Kooyong, and F. L. Edmunds, Indepen-
dent candidate for Nunawading:
Lieut. Laurie opened the discussion. Mr.
Edmunds asked him if he would endorse
the action of the Menzies Government in
declaring war on Germany on September 3,
1939.
Lieut. Laurie: No, I would not.
Mr. Edmunds: Why did the Communist
party oppose the war until the middle of
1941?—Because in the early stages it was
not an anti-Fascist war. Many people sus-
pected that it was a phony war until that
stage, but we knew why it was phony.
It shows how sinister the Communist
conspiracy has become when such state-
ments can be made at a public meeting—
and it was crowded, for the most part
evidently with Corns. —by a young man
who wears the King’s uniform.
From an “appreciation” of Sydney
Max Falstein, 8.A., J.P., R.A.A.F. Pilot,
Barrister, Member for Watson (with por-
trait) “issued by Hon. J. B. Chifley, M.P.,
and Hon. J. A. Beasley, M.P., Campaign
Directors”:
The keynotes of Max Falstein’s character
are sincerity, progressiveness and steadfast-
ness of purpose Flis outstanding brilliance,
ability and integrity his intense loyalty
to his constituents, his personal courage and
his ability to grasp and analyse the most
complex problems have marked him out
for a future Ministry Never in the his-
tory of Watson has there been such an
outstanding member at the age of 26 the
youngest member ever elected to the House
of Representatives.
The panegyrist (name withheld) is
wrong there. In 1903 Charles Edward
Frazer became M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie at
23. And Corboy, M.H.R. for Swan (1918-
19), was only a kid.
Dick Keane’s attack on the newspapers
must have amazed Curtin. Old journal-
ist and old campaigner as he is, he knows
that Labor has never had a better “press.”
Even where there may be opposition
on the editorial page (as often as not it
is mild), reports and comments show a
Labor bias sticking out a mile; and that
never happened in the days of Watson,
Fisher and the pre-1916 Hughes.
On a small poll, Labor won the East
Perth Assembly by-election. One of the
Sydney morning papers hailed it as a
“Big Labor Win in W.A.” ; the other,
echoed by A.8.C., alleged that the major-
ity, a trifle pver two to one, was “a record
absolute majority in Westralian politics,”
which is childish nonsense ; it has been
exceeded scores of times. As for East
Perth, as long ago as 1904 Walter James,
who was brought up in the electorate and
as its member became Premier, gave it
up because it had become a certainty for
Labor, and only in exceptional circum-
stances has it been anything else since.
T. J. Hughes, now standing for Federal
Perth, was Labor M.L.A. for East Perth
in the first place, and if he hadn’t been
held to have retained his Labor sympathies
as well as to possess the characteristics of
a watchdog, he couldn’t have regained the
seat as an Independent —he unseated
Kenneally, the Labor Minister of Works.
Dr. Evatt to “S. M. Herald,” which
nowadays admires him as much as it
used to admire Fadden:
I entirely repudiate Mr. Fadden’s asser-
tion that in my Hurstville speech I advo-
cated a national Government. There is
no possible room for misunderstanding on
this point.
There was room for misunderstanding ;
but it was a case of Artie plucking the
pear before it was ripe.
Five days after Hitler invaded Poland
Menzies introduced his National Security
Bill. Blackburn was ready with an
amendment “prohibiting compulsory
naval, military or air force training for
home defence.” It failed, but every
Labor M.H.R. voted against the bill, and
the Labor Senators tried to get its opera-
tion restricted to one year. Wilson, of
Wimmera, just back from an all-
expenses-paid trip to Britain, brimming
over with compliments for the British
nation, voted for the second reading and
against the third reading. Since the
seventeenth century the British nation
has had a word for the Wilson type of
politician—“trimmer.”
As it appeared in the Communist
“Tribune”:
Three candidates, representing the three
political sections of the Labor movement,
addressed Chullora workers at an election
meeting last week—C. Morgan, M.H.R.
(Reid), J. R. Hughes (Reid) and Adam
Ogston (Lang). This unity platform was
among the first established by the three
parties since the election campaign began.
Morgan is Curtin Labor, Hughes “State”
Labor and Ogston Communist. This
Com. par. will help Lang almost as
much as “S. M. Herald’s” attack on him.
With the city industrial vote giving it
a good push-off and no waste such as
there is in House electorates like West
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne Ports and
Hindmarsh, where most of the party
majorities are useless, Labor should fare
better in the Senate than in the House ;
and so it did at early Commonwealth
elections. In 1914, when Cook had both
Houses dissolved, it won 31 of the 36
seats, and would have won 32 if
McGregor, its leader in South Australia,
hadn’t died after the writs were issued ;
as it was, five S.A. Laborites and a
Liberal, Shannon, to whom the party
gave the vote that McGregor would have
got, were elected, Shannon topping the
poll. But Labor hasn’t had a Senate
majority since 1917. For a time after
the last war it was reduced to one mem-
ber, and the 1922 and 1937 elections,
which gave it respectively 10 seats out
of 18 and 16 out of 19, have been its
only successes since.
Menzies told a Hobart crowd that he
would not criticise Labor if, still in power,
it went in for socialism after the war.
If I won this election as a Labor man I
would take it as a mandate to carry out
my beliefs. I have never been able to
understand why we criticise some Labor
Ministers because they are socialistic. We
must give up the idea that there is some-
thing wrong about a Labor Government
carrying out Labor policy.
Thoughtful, true and likely to impress elec-
tors much more than torrents of abuse.
Some of the candidates might have
taken old Abe Lincoln’s tip in their elec-
tion speeches. It was published on a lot
of desk calendars for 12/8/’43: “A drop
of honey catches more flies than a gallon
of gall.”
According to J. R. Hughes, “leader”
of the N.S.W. “State Labor” (plus
Commo.) “party” :
A Labor Government, strengthened by
genuine socialists, as represented by the
candidates of the United Front, will be
a guarantee that our socialistic goal will
be more speedily attained.
It came out when Curtin was denying
that his Government would implement
socialism if returned. Honest John has
some peculiar mates.
Corio has been told that “We [i.e., Aus-
tralians in October, 1941] were receiving
no help from abroad, though we were
giving much.” The author or authors
should tell that personally to British
naval and merchant seamen. They
should tell it to surviving British and
Indian troops and airmen who were on
hand ready to fight in the north directly
in Australia’s defence, and who subse-
quently did fight, and many of whom are
now prisoners. Many, many more of
them cannot be told, having given their
lives helping the country that was “receiv-
ing no help.”
Good old Billy McKell, the Sydney
Premier, comes out in support of the
Federal Labor cause: —
The Menzies-Fadden Administrations
were in office for two years of war. It may
be true, as they claim, that they took
certain initial steps in the days before John
Curtin took over. But the fact remains
that after two years this country was utterly
defenceless when the Jap began bis drive
south, man-power bad not been mobilised,
supplies had not been organised, we had no
fighting ’planes, no guns, inadequate ship-
ping and no army with which the invader
could be repelled.
But don’t think that Billy McKell was
lying down on the job. It was during that
time that Billy went to the Premiers’ Con-
ference and fought “tigerishly”—for
bigger loans for provincial “projects”
described as “equal in importance to the
war.” And he fought “tigerishly” against
uniform income taxation until his masters
of the State Labor conference tamed him.
He is now fighting “tigerishly” for Gov-
ernment subsidies to horseracing, and
can’t understand why the Leg. Council-
lors object.
Sydney “D.T.” sent one of its bright
young men to Playford’s State to look
over the election prospects, and the
bright young man reported that “South
Australia two years ago was a hillbilly
State ; but intense industrialisation as a
result of the war has changed the outlook
of the people.” 8.H.P., the Newcastle
Steelworks and Whyalla are among the
works of men cradled in the “hillbilly
State,” and one of the “hillbillies” shared
a Nobel Prize with his father. But it is
the privilege of flapper-paper reporters
deficient in knowledge and manners to
“sling off.”
That the R.S.S.I.L.A. motto—“ The
Price of Liberty is Eternal Vigilance" —
has instilled itself into Aussie minds is
evidenced by a Gallup poll. Eighty-six
per cent, of Australians asked plumped
for continuation of compulsory military
training after the war.


LOOK Through These Glosses
at Everything You Buy!
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
BATTERIES
EXB3s42
ẃ
ẅ
PESONAL ITEMS
Electioneering having filled the air with
a strange medley, a Sydney sheet rounded
up a panel of judges (an actor, a voice-
production teacher and a radio announ-
cer) to declare which of the top-line can-
didates had the best speaking voice.
Announcer and voice-production voted
Menzies ; actor voted Evatt. Other
starters were Curtin, Beasley, Hughes and
Fadden. Asked for his views on these
findings a listening-in addict was em-
phatically for Menzies: “Miles ahead of
any of them.” He placed Curtin (for
the way the P.M. delivered his policy
speech) next to Menzies, but added that
there was “a lot of daylight between
them.” When the other starters were
mentioned the addict made the surpris-
ing statement “To hell with radio!”
J, H. Julin, having a shot as an Inde-
pendent for Lilley,. ex-Lud Mayor Jolly’s
stronghold, was one of Glasgow’s young
men. With the 52nd at Villers Bret.,
Julin was awarded M.C. and bar in one
week, Rawlinson saying of him: “It is
no wonder that Brig.-General Glasgow
was able to sit quiet and was not per-
turbed while the whole of the Army and
G.H.Q. were on pins and needles for
the lack of information coming through.
General Glasgow knew the subalterns in
charge of his front line. You are just
one more of those gallant subalterns
whom General Birdwood seems to dig up
from nowhere in every crisis.” Once
Julin was a p.o.w. for five hours. Every-
thing except his clothes and water-bottle
having been taken from him, he induced
his escort to take a swig of rum from the
bottle, then overpowered the Fritz,
seized his helmet and rifle and sneaked
back a mile to his own battalion lines.
When approaching an outpost, two bombs
were thrown at him, but neither ex-
ploded. A voice that could be heard all
round the village shouted “What stupid
is throwing bombs before pulling
the pin out?” Identity was unmistak-
able. “It’s all right this time, Corp.,”
Julin added, “but don’t let your coves
do it again! ”
If Norman Whitfield licks Maxie Fal-
stein in Watson, they will certainly know
he’s about the place up at Canberra. A
forceful chap and hard hitter, he’s astute
with it. In real estate and suchlike be-
tween wars, he has a splendid record as
a soldier. Last war he enlisted at 17,
Versus FALSTEIN.
saw service in New Guinea, Egypt, on
Gallip. and in France, was wounded three
times and gassed, and won an M.C. and
bar. He started his soldiering in the
first month of the 1914-18 scrap, and
went in again in the first month of the
present fray, this time going off to
Malaya. Back in Australia, he was made
Director of Recruiting, and did a first-
rate job.
A week or so ago Captain H. B. Gul-
lett, M.C., was fighting the Japs at Wau,
New Guinea. Now he’s warring against
Coles for Henty. He was educated at
Geelong Grammar, took a course in Eng-
lish literature at Melbourne University,
had a year at the Sorbonne in Paris and
three years at Oxford, and then returned
to join the Melbourne “Herald,” his
father’s old paper. Enlisting in the A.I.F.
in 1939, Captain Gullett fought in Libya
and Greece, was wounded, transferred to
Ceylon, returned to Australia, then on
to New Guinea. He got his M.C. for
taking detachments behind the Jap lines
in the bitter fighting round Wau. He
was reading Plutarch’s Lives in the jungle
when the thought struck him that the
troops needed more soldiers to represent
them. He is a bachelor of 28, with the
calm appearance of a student.
G. C. Irish, Christian Independent
candidate for Ballarat, is probably the
only aspirant not to have a committee
room, one reason being that he hasn’t a
committee. When he wants munition
for political warfare he prays for it, and,
according to him, it pours in on all sides.
If he wins the Ballarat seat, a kind friend
informed him, it will be a miracle. His
retort was: “My answer to that is that
God still performs miracles.” He is 36, *
works in the Ballarat railway workshops,
rises at 5.30 and girds up his loins for
the electioneering fray' by an hour’s
prayer and study of the Bible.
As well as the decorations exclusively
theirs for their splendid deeds in the air,
airmen have won army decorations for
deeds performed in ground fighting areas,
and now one of them —Flight-Lieut. H.
Tamblyn—has been honored for saving
the life of a cobber —Flight-Lieut. A.
Wearne —attacked by a shark in eight feet
of water. Tamblyn fought off the shark,
got Wearne ashore and applied first aid
which pulled him through, though Wearne
lost a foot and part of his leg when the
shark attacked. The Royal Humane
Society handed Tamblyn its highest
award, the Clarke Silver Medal. Now
with an R.A.A.F. Catalina squadron,
Tamblyn returned to Australia after ser-
vice with Coastal Command. His folk
live at Fivedock, Sydney.
“A queer bird’ ? :
From America, news of James Francis
Dwyer, Australian author at large; chased
from his home in France when Hitler barged
in; now “wandering with a portable type-
writer and a capacity to make friends, and
picking up some of the story-gold that is lying
around in Western North Carolina.” Listed
in the American Who’s Who, author of more
than a thousand stories published in Ameri-
can magazines, Dwyer was lately interviewed
by a North Carolina paper which, among
other things, said of him: “A strange bird is
Dwyer. He was born in the Australian bush.
He spent his early years chasing kangaroos,
wallabies, bandicoots, duck-billed platypuses
and all the other queer animals that American
soldiers now Down Under are writing home
about. He urges us to believe all the tall
stories they tell us in their letters, as he per-
sonally has experiences by the thousand to sup-
port the tales we hear from the Antipodes.”
In the interview Dwyer gave “support to the
tales” by weighing in with one about a
boomerang which, thrown by a disgruntled
abo., went in the front door of a pub,
knocked 11 bottles of Scotch whisky from a
shelf, smashed the glass on a framed picture of
Queen Victoria, blackened the eye of the publi-
can, came out a side window and was last
seen chasing a kangaroo across country.
“Yes,” Dwyer added, “you can believe what
the boys write. Australia is a marvellous
country.” “This fellow Dwyer,” _ the inter-
viewer finally decided, “is a queer bird.” Long
ago Dwyer used to write for The Bulletin as
“Burglar Bill.”
After 40 years of political life, during
which he has held every portfolio in the
Ministry, including Acting-Premier three
times, knight George Ritchie of S.A. is
calling it a day. Born at Goolwa (S.A.)
78 years ago, he spent many years trad-
ing on the Murray before going to the
S.A. House for Alexandra in 1902. Since
1924 he has represented the Legislative
Council Northern District.
New head of the R.N.Z.A.F., Air Vice-
Marshal L. M. Isitt, is a son of Leonard
Isitt, M.L.C., a vehement advocate of
No License when the question was a live
one. The air vice-marshal is a native
of Christchurch, b. 1891. He was edu-
cated there and in England, and at 24
sailed in 1915 with the N.Z.E.F. as ser-
geant; served with the Rifle Brigade in
Egypt and France ; was wounded at the
Somme; changed over to the Flying
Corps, saw service aloft and became a
flight-lieutenant. Making flying his pro-
fession, he has had considerable experi-
ence in Britain and round his native
heath. In the present war he has repre-
sented M.L. in the Empire scheme in
Canada, and has been Air Attache in
Washington.
Clarence J. Spiker, new American
Consul-General in Australia, has seen a
lot of China and a lot of Japan in China.
Except for three years in Switzerland
when Hitler was beginning to swell over
U.S. Consul-General.
Europe, Spiker has spent his whole time
in Uncle Sam’s foreign service since 1914
in the Flowery Kingdom. Hence he saw
the stormy foundations of the Republic,
the prancing of the war lords up and
down the country, the sacking of
Nanking, the eclipse of Sun, the rise of
his pupil Chiang, the Japanese invasion
which produced the opposite effect to
what the Japanese wanted in the unifying
of China, the exodus from the coast when
factories were carried piecemeal into the
interior on the backs of coolies, and the
gradual withdrawal of the Government
inland. He was Consul-General at
Hankow when Pearl Harbor blew up and
was put in “protective custody” by the
Japs by being confined to his home and
subsequently removed to Shanghai, where
he had surprising liberty of movement,
along with the rest of the foreign popu-
lation, until he got complete freedom in
the exchange of U.S. and Jap diplomatic
persons. A student of the Chinese lan-
guage and an ardent admirer of the
ancient arts of the country, Spiker was
born in Washington, D.C., and educated
at George Washington University.
First Australian flight:
R. C. Duigan: “J.H.M.A.” (B. 4/8f43) is
astray. A pioneer of Australian aviation W.
E. Hart most certainly was, but he was not,
nor did he himself claim to be, the builder of
the first Australian aeroplane to fly. It is on
official record that this honor belongs to the
machine designed, built and flown by J. R.
Duigan at Spring Plains station (Vic.). Com-
menced in 1909, it was by 1910 capable of
sustained, controlled flight, and in addition to
experimental and practice flights on its home
ground the machine was flown on the Ben-
digo racecourse. I helped with the ’plane, and
made solo flights in it. R. W. E. Wilmot, ot
the “Argus,” was one who made the trip from
Melbourne to Bendigo with a staff photo-
grapher. The “Argus” subsequently had a
full page of his report and photographs. Other
visitors were Major Hedges, of the Defence
Dept., and W. Forrest Marshall, of the Aero-
nautical League. The old machine, minus
only its wing-covering (balloon cloth fabric), is
still in the Melbourne Museum. Like Hart,
J R. Duigan served through the 1914-18 war.
A pilot with the R.F.C., he rose to flight-com-
mander, and won the M.C. He had many
bullet holes in him after a hectic flight to-
wards the end. These days he inspects air-
craft components, of a quality and complexity
not visualised a few years ago. Two nephews
(my sons) carry on the good work. With
ranks of wing-commander, R.A.F., and
flight-lieutenant, R.A.A.F., they hold between
them two D.F.Cs., a bar and D. 5.0., in addi-
tion to “mentions.” Incidentally, they are
grandsons of Harry H. Peck, whose passing
was recorded in the same Bulletin, same
column.
The Australian Sunderland flying-boat
which fought off seven Junkers 88’s over
Biscay Bay early this month was cap-
tained by Flying-Officer .Basil A. Wil-
liams, of Largs Bay (S.A.). On the edi-
torial staff of Adelaide “Advertiser” for
about 12 years, he was keen on flying
before the war, got his A license at Para-
field and was a member of the Whyalla
Flying Club. He went to Canada under
the Empire scheme, was commissioned
as pilot-officer, helped fly a Catalina to
Australia and joined the Sunderland
squadron in England in July last year.
His crew over Biscay was made up of
Australians from three States. When
they came out of the 7-to-l fight, which
lasted an hour, one had been killed and
four wounded and the boat itself had
been badly knocked about.
F. K. Nieass has been re-elected
general secretary of the Government
Workers’ Association of S.A. It makes
his 30th year in succession, advanced as
an Australian record.
Gordon Bennett, retired from the
editorship of the “Farmer and Settler”
(B. 11 /8 / ’43), was a fighter for the coun-
tryman in N.S.W. In that role he did a
lot for the State, in association with the
R.A.S., in closer settlement, new ways of
making the land do its best and teaching
the young idea how to farm. Son of a
country pressman —the family owned the
Dungog “Chronicle” for many years—
Bennett owned and edited the Condobolin
“Lachlander” in the fiery days of country
journalism. All through, he wielded a
prolific pen, turned out innumerable
stories and verses, and was a Bulletin
contributor for years. If illness hadn’t
downed him at the time, he might some
time back have got into politics succeed-
ing his father as Gloucester’s rep.
Into the silence:
At sea, Les Adamson, a Kalgoorlie man
who left the mines for the*sea just before the
outbreak of war and was subsequently a
prisoner on the Graf Spee and Altmark. After
the Altmark, Adamson made a personal-appear-
ance tour of London cinemas and appeared
in the Altmark film “For Freedom.”
In Adelaide, Mrs. E. W. Nicholls, a J.P.
when such office was a surprising thing, a
keen worker for voting reform, 26 years on
the Hospital Board and Australian delegate to
conferences in London, Paris and Geneva. But
her main lifework was for temperance, some
30 years as president of the W.C.T.U. in S.A.,
and nine years as Australian president. Her
family are scattered in Melbourne, Perth and
China.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 74, C. Stanley Smith,
for 31 years on the board of the Press Asso-
ciation and three times chairman. He was
M.L. delegate at the World Press Conference
at Honolulu in 1921.
At Dubbo (N.S.W.fi at 60, pastorahst
William Thomas Freeman Stalley, founder of
the Berawinnia Pastoral co., which has huge
station holdings, including two bought from
Kidman.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Agnes Nicholls, who for
45 years was dresser at His Majesty’s Theatre.
Melba, Carrie Moore, Nellie Stewart, Ada
Reeve and Gladys Moncrieff were among the
stars she prepared to face the footlights.
In Sydney, Kenneth Norman Carruthers, one
of the State’s best-known wheat salesmen up
to a couple of years back, when ill-health made
him retire. He was a partner in the Lindley
Walker co., and had been with that concern
for 33 years. A son is in the A.I.F.
In Sydney, at 80, noted journalist of the old
school William J. O’Neill. His father before
him was in ink, owning a paper at Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.), and WJ. grew up on ink and was
with it till only a week or two before he passed
on. Moving to a job on the old Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” he was in turn a good sporting
writer (cricket and football), a good music and
stage critic, and a good news-editor and sub.
Latterly he had done religious news for the
“S. M. Herald” for many years.
Flying-Officer Edmund F. Kirwan, of the
R.A.F., killed in an air action. Born in Perth
in 1915, a son of knight John Kirwan, first
editor of the Kalgoorlie “Miner,” first M.H.R.
for Kalgoorlie and President of the W.A. Legis-
lative Council, Flying-Officer Kirwan topped off
his education at Cambridge, graduating as B.A.
and later taking his M.A. degree. When the war
came he was in his last year of medicine at
Guy’s Hospital, but gave it all up to get into
the R.A.F. Before the end he had been 50 times
over enemy territory on bombing and other-
raids and been in many air battles. His elder-
brother is Wing-Commander Kirwan, D.F.C.
In Melbourne, at 68, comedian Frank Cross-
ley, formerly with George Rignold, Bilanderson
and J.C.W. He soldiered in 1914-18, and was
a member of the ATrzac Coves. His wife was
the actress Iza Millet, and singer Isa Crossley
and violinist Mrs. L. T. Lonergan are daughters.
At 62, in Adelaide, Austin Milroy, while
appearing in the Firm’s production of “The
Man Who Stayed to Dinner.” Melbourne-born,
he trained for the stage in England, and re-
turned to appear with Nellie Bramley. On her
retirement he became one of the pioneers of
radio-play broadcasting.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“F.G.U.”: It came from the Deputy-
Director of Rationing in N.S.W.;
The coupon value of a bedspread consist-
ing of a centre panel with two side panels
is assessed by adding the coupon value of
the centre panel, /.<?., length in yards, multi-
plied by coupon rating appropriate to the
width, to the coupon value reached by
multiplying the length of the bedspread in
yards by the coupon value appropriate to
materials equal in width to the sum of the
width of the two side panels.
The covering letter explained that it was
“an attempt to clear up confusion.”
Jfc % sfc
“Clooter”: A couple of enterprising
young fellows, seized with the notion that
a pie-stall alongside a military camp
should pay, pinched a stove and house-
hold utensils to set up the plant. They
also pinched a shotgun, though whether
this was to provide the meat, keep the
pies in order or deal with defaulting cus-
tomers wasn’t stated. The effort cost
them a fiver each in fines.
* * * *
“Alex”: A verdict for £4OO against
an Auckland (M.L.) newspaper in favor
of a singer who considered herself
damaged by the paper’s criticism of her
performance is an illustration of the pit-
falls that beset the press in the present
condition of the law of libel. The main
matter at issue in libel cases of this sort
is not whether the criticism was justified
in fact, but whether damage was done to
“Tell the cook not to Worry about my tea, mate; I'm going on leave!”
plaintiffs professional reputation. The jury
seems to go into the box with two pre-
conceived obsessions: (a) that newspapers
are extraordinarily wealthy ; (b) that they
are habitually and criminally careless in
the performance of their functions.
Counsel for the plaintiff who plays on
those two strings can usually be sure of a
verdict.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A man who had managed
natives on plantations in New Guinea,
and who, when the Japs came, led a
party through the jungle and on a month’s
voyage in an open boat back to safety,
was called up for special administrative
duties that will arise when lost territori-
ties are recaptured. He says that in his
psychology test he was asked to put the
parts of a jigsaw puzzle together and to
answer this sort of question; “If you had
20 potatoes and you gave a friend five
and another friend came along and gave
you ten, how many potatoes would you
have?” Mental arithmetic has unfortu-
nate associations for him, probably be-
cause he had an elder brother who was
better at it and an unsympathetic parent
or teacher, and he fumbled the question.
He fears he has been marked down as
lacking ability to come to quick deci-
sions.
“XXXX”: A British lady politician
got a laugh she didn’t angle for when
indulging in her hatred of the Demon
Rum. Addressing a meeting in the ’twen-
ties she declaimed passionately “.. . . gin,
whisky, rum, these are devilish things ;
but as for the drinking of cocktails! I
would sooner —would sooner —I woulu
sooner commit adultery!” “Who
wouldn’t?” shouted a bored and slightly
blithered reporter.
• ❖ * ❖ *
“Spasebo”: Probably 50 p.c. of the
vocabulary of the average person, even
in normal times, is composed of emotion-
colored words, but during an election
99 p.c. is nearer the proportion, and even
proper names become infused with feel-
ing. A comic example was the woman
who had to vote in a Melbourne muni-
cipal by-election and found “Albert
Ward” among the names on the ballot
paper. “I’m not going to vote for any
man with a name like that,” declared the
elector. The classic example, however,
was the use to which a Great Daily put
the Russian word “tovarisch” during the
early days of the Russian revolution. For
months the venerable sheet solemnly re-
ported that bands of tovarisches were
roaming the country looting, burning,
murdering and nationalising women.
Then somebody must have whispered to
it that “tovarisch” is the Russian equiva-
lent of “cobber,” and the word suddenly
vanished from its columns.
From London: You lucky Australians
will perhaps realise your luck from a
serious news par. in the “Queen”: “Visi-
tors to the Red Cross Exhibition in Glas-
gow stopped in astonishment before a
table on which was a plate of bananas
and two lemons. These were just two of
the many generous gifts auctioned for
the fund.”
* * * *
“Jachris,” from New Georgia;
There’s a small open space in the jungle,
sheltered in part—and most inadequately—by
the jutting roots of two huge banyan trees.
Somewhere a little to the right of the “clear-
ing” there’s a Jap sniper, cunningly concealed
high in the branches of one of the large trees
that rise a hundred feet or so above the floor
of the jungle. Every now and again he sends
a stream of bullets spitting across the open
space.
For two hours men have been crouched in
the angles formed by the roots of the banyans,
their eyes searching unceasingly for any move-
ment in that green roof of leaves which might
indicate his position. Down over the ridge
in that direction there’s a Jap machine-gun nest,
and though the bullets can’t rake the “clearing”
they whine disconcertingly overhead.
Walking wounded come stumbling back along
the trail and look wearily about them for a
place to sit and rest —somewhere on the jagged,
broken coral or among the tangle of root and
vine. The litter cases lie uncomfortably on
the ground where the corpmen have put them
down. From the “line” about 60 yards ahead
there comes a continuous rising-and-falling
roar of sound: the rattle and burst of machine-
gun fire, the ground-shaking blast of the mortars
and, punctuating their dominant outburst, the
high-pitched snap and crack of the rifles.
A corpman drops heavily to the ground,
where he has deposited an end of the roughly-
hacked sapling which serves as a little pole. His
eyes are dull and red with fatigue. He lies there,
arms asprawl, shoulders drooped mouth hanging
open. He reaches into his pocket for a cigar-
ette, and is then too weary to take one from the
packet. Gradually he comes back to hearing
the low conversation a few yards away.
A wounded man, propped in a sitting posi-
tion among the roots of the banyan, is yarning
to a correspondent. The corpman raises him-
self on an elbow and leans forward. “Are you
from Sydney, Australia?” he asks with a sudden
eagerness. “We may get a liberty there soon.
Have they got a symphony orchestra there?
They have, and the knowledge brings a gleam
of interest far removed from battle into the
tired eyes. “I’m from Philadelphia,” he says,
You ve heard of the orchestra there!”
Aiter a few minutes he gets up, adjusts his
helmet, and, running stooped over to dodge
the sniper, makes back towards the line. ~
“Put your hat on properly, Frank—you look like one of those
V.D.C. gents.”
“8.P.”: A trustful Spanish paper,
“Arriba,” reckons it has got the dinkum
oil about a new German secret weapon
which “should be in mass production
by November. It is certain to cause
annihilation ; it will dislodge the British
and Americans and roll up the Russians.
It is something quite inconceivable to
the human mind and the enemy will not
have any defence.” Personally, I’m not
worrying. Every secret weapon the
enemy has produced, from the magnetic
mine to the explosive incendiary, has been
swiftly countered by our side, and we
still have my own invention of the flying
submarine, for use in wet weather against
tank traps.
“Melbn”: Victoria is concerned
over the worst snow tragedy in its
history, two young fellows and a
girl having perished on the Stair-
case Spur, Mount Bogong. City
people—one young man was from
Sydney—they set out from a hut
halfway up the ascent under con-
ditions which experienced moun-
taineers would regard as hazard-
ous. The bodies of the lads were
found frozen in ice on top of the
snow by five other members of
their party, the curious thing about
it beings that they had apparently
lain down in the snow without even
trying to use the shelter of their
sleeping bags. The climb was only
three miles, and they were within
biscuit-throw of a hut they were
making for, which was buried
under snow. Later the body of the
girl was found. The spot is swept
by perpetual gales, and there are
1500 ft. precipices adjacent.
C. Shaw, Vaucluse (N.S.W.): My
morning paper informs me that the 300
inmates of an old men’s home have not
yet heard either of the two candidates
who seek their votes, but that a special
day would be set apart. I hope some kind
friend will have me poisoned before let-
ting me go to one of these institutions.
Any ordinary citizen is free to listen or
not, as he chooses, to politicians. Imagine
being lined up and forced to listen!
3jS *
“Bohemian”: An appeal for mercy
that made a M.L. Exemption Tribunal
sit up came from a lad who said he was
the son of a professional cockroach-
killer. Dad was getting too old for Hie
work, and the son felt he must step into
tb u i j i m aUno th*. «,nrld
the breacft and lepp on making the world
unsafe lor beetles. The chairman re-
marked stiffly that cockroaches were,
\ n effect, No. 4 priority and would have
f bth • tlirn
10 Wdll jnen torn,
t4O . . * '
Strict Veg. : Listened-m to one ot
these university dietitians the other even-
ing> she told an indifferent world that
o t,„ A
. neve an d justified het
choice by pointing out that the largest
and strongest animals didn’t either. Nor
do elephants and Clydesdales drink wine
, - u , u iiu
anc Peer, but who wants to be like the
lower beasts? Ihe tact is that men have
intellects and animals haven’t. Having
no intellects, animals are so completely
~,•• , K , .v
dependent on then environment that li
the character of the food supply changes
they simply perish, like the dinosaurs,
which, when the herbage dwindled dur-
T a . 1 & .1
mg m e * ce Age, ate themselves oft the
earth. Having intellects, men have been
able to adapt themselves to an -almost
infinite variety of food, and can live to
87 and write plays on a diet of greens,
like Bernard Shaw, or live on meat and
persist to a ripe old age and die drunk,
like Rabelais.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A convincing, plea was
advanced at General Sessions in Mel-
bourne when Judge Moore told a
juror who claimed exemption on the
ground of deafness that there didn't
seem to be anything wrong with the
applicant’s hearing apparatus. “Your
Honor,” said the supplicant earnestly,
“the last time I sat on a jury I found
the prisoner ‘not guilty’ simply because
I hadn't heard the whole of the evidence. ’
’Sonah hastily excused the conscientious
one.
NOT YET.
“The statement that thousands of pairs of nylon
stockings, imported from the U.S., would shortly
be on sale in Australia is officially and flatly con-
tradicted.”
Another anodyne for spirits sinking
From war-time's grim restrictions counted
out,
Another premature announcement shrinking
To nothingness, receding up the spout;
In short, another bit of wishful thinking
Battered incontinently on the snout!
Some day perhaps—but no one really knows
When—we’ll have nylon hose.
Coal-tar they're fashioned from, but nothing
trimmer
Is spun by silkworms, if they tell us true,
So full of featheriness, sheen and shimmer,
So soft to touch, so piquant to the view.
Strange, is it not, we never had a glimmer
Til! times like these what chemistry could do?
Now frocks constructed out of glass there are,
And stockings made from tar.
But when the choice lies between bombs and
butter,
Guns and sartorial amenities.
What patriot wouldn’t maledictions mutter
Against comparisons in things like these.
In chic attire alluring limbs may flutter
Again that now are bared to sun and breeze,
Denied the duds on which such store was set.
But not, 1 think, just yet.
When Huns are on the run, and Japs are
mizzling
Home from the onslaughts of a tireless fee,
When many a Nazi criminal and Quisling
Is wanly wondering where on earth to go,
When Adolf Hitler’s goose is fairly frizzling
And Tojo’s cake is definitely dough,
Then, not before, will it be time to close
A deal for nylon hose.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
A FRANK ADMISSION.
“It isn’t mien who are against women being? re-
turned to Parliament, but women themselves.”
—Bitter plaint of a woman, candidate.
How few, though quite a number of them try,
To Parliament’ry rank have ever “riz,”
And if you’re still inclined fo wonder why
They generally fail to qualify,
Packed neatly in a nutshell, here it is.
They may convince the other sex they’re equal
To anything in male achievements known
At making laws. But here’s the tragic sequel:
They can't convince their own!
Men wouldn't in the slightest, I suppose.
Object to them as aids to party wins;
Would even welcome them, despite their clothes,
As comrades in the strife of Ayes and Noes,
The immemorial game of Outs and Ins.
It’s not the Jacks who queer the Jills’ ambitions
And sort of relegate them to the shelves
On polling days. No, by their own admissions,
It’s just the Jills themselves.
In theory, when it comes to chasing votes,
There should be more persuasiveness, one
grants,
Borne in the silkily seductive notes
That one associates with petticoats
Than in the rhetoric reserved for pants.
But women, be they maids or wives or mothers,
Are less susceptible, one seems to sense,.
Than are their sires or consorts, sons or
brothers,
To female eloquence.
Well, well. It’s human nature, one might say.
They must be broken down by slow degrees,
These stiff conventions of a bygone day
When he was born to rule, she to obey,
These inhibitions of the centuries.
But ere in council legislators skirted
Shall play as big a part as coves and blokes,
It isn’t men who'll need to be converted
To the new order, it may be asserted,
As much as womenfolks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Merino”; The letter was a long one.
“A very short time will show wnether
this ruffian is any longer to disturb all
the nations of the earth,” it read. “For
my part,” continued the writer, “I
cherish most sanguine hopes that he can
never escape out of Russia.” He ended
on a note of high optimism. “The great
disturber of the world has received a
check which has given birth to hopes long
since extinct in the breasts of the best-
informed persons.” The author? John
Macarthur, in London, writing to his
wife Elizabeth, Parramatta, N. S. Wales ;
date, 18/11/1812.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The other day a woman
stepped into her bath at Frankston, Vic.,
and was instantly electrocuted. Cause,
faulty household wiring. Premier Dun-
stan talks about more stringent legisla-
tion to prevent unauthorised alterations
to electrical fittings, but how is he going
to police it? Every other suburban house
has a small boy with an obsession for
wireless amplifiers, loudspeakers and
whatnot, and if he hasn’t his elders dabble
with electrical pick-ups and tweeters.
They have got a little dangerous know-
ledge out of hobby books and news-
papers, and take risks that would turn a
trained electrician’s hair white. In this
electrical age the elementary safety-first
rules should be taught in schools, even
if it meant leaving out some of the use-
less fancy subjects that bore teachers
and pupils in equal proportions,
H= * *
“Old-timer”: On the train I cobbered
up with a young bloke called Fred.
“Coin’ down t’ the city fr a bit of a
holiday,” he confided. “First time 1 even
bin away from home. It’s t’ celebrate me
turnin’ 21.” We talked idly about this
and that till the train pulled up for re-
freshments. Fred called for pie and tea.
Then he carefully undid the top button
of his pants, fished up a piece of cord,
undid a couple of knots and pulled. Then
winding the cord around a button he
drew from his pocket a little leather bag
fastened with a small padlock. By this
time half the passengers had gathered
round. They watched him go into
another pocket, draw the entire pocket
out, unclasp a couple of safety pins, and
produce a key. With this he duly undid
the padlock, then opened the bag and
produced a 2s. piece. Holding this in his
teeth he laboriously replaced the whole
outfit, did up his pants and handed the
two bob over to the goggling waitress
She gave him Is. 3d. change. He put it
on the counter under his eye, gobbled
the pie and tea, and returned to the train.
In the compartment he went through the
same performance in order to get the
Is. 3d. into the padlocked bag. “Gripes,”
1 said, eyeing the bag, “any bloke that
tries t’ take you down f’r your roll will
have his work cut out.” “Aw,” he said,
rebuttoning himself, “I’ve only got five
bob in the bag. I sent the rest ahead be
registered mail to the G.P.O. That’s
better than takin’ risks. Y’ never know
who y’ meet on these trains.” I agreed
with him.
* # * *
“Pitt St.”: In Sydney’s George-street
the other morning an elderly gentleman
appeared wearing the pointed, button-up
boots of pre-1914. Whether or not
present leather shortage was the cause,
what a tribute to the quality of the stuff
made 30 years ago!
* * * *
“Logistic”: I had my first trip on a
Bren carrier the other day and came up
against a teaser put to trainee-drivers: If
a carrier is doing 40 m.p.h., what speed
is the lower half of the track doing?
Answer (according to the book) nil. It
isn’t moving. But it seems puzzling that
if that is so the lower half of the track
should still be with the carrier at the
end of 40 miles covered in one hour.
Explanation, of course, is that the
mechanism picks the track up, lays it
ahead of the carrier, which runs over it,
then whips it up behind and throws it
over in front again.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: Sydney, with its chain-
wide streets, tall buildings excluding sun
and concentrating wind, poverty-stricken
surface soil and solid rock subsoil, can
never hope to produce avenues of trees
comparable with European or American
displays. If you don’t believe have a look
at the Martin-place poplars, the silver
birches in Macquarie-street, and, above
all, the Queen’s - square jacarandas.
The only trees that are trees and
passably attractive are the Oriental
planes planted over 30 years ago round
Central station. But these are some
distance from the water front, and con-
ditions are totally different from those
north of the Town Hall. Let the
Council give up wasting any more money
on street tree-planting and devote the
money saved to its parklands, where
there is a chance of securing a reasonably
good showing of trees.
“Niloc”: One of the machines to be
found in the penny arcades now thick as
rabbits in Sydney will (it is claimed)
endow those who resort to it with a tonic
effect ranging from mere “Strength” to
outright “Dynamosity.” This by jolting
the nerves with a dose of electric cur-
rent. Overseas psychological experi-
mentalists have at last profited by the
long-unheeded knowledge of these arcade-
owners ; anyway they declare that electric
shock can be used to minister to a mind
distraught. “The treatment (a shock com-
ing from current applied to the region of
the temples), usually causes convulsions,
followed by deep unconsciousness, and
causes a person to forget his worries—
especially recent ones,” says a newspaper
article on the subject. It doesn’t say
whether or not the unconsciousness, to-
gether with the forgetfulness of worries,
is permanent.
“F.S.”: Quiz kids who break down
over some simple questions but glibly
trot out correct answers to encyclopaedic
ones (B. 28/7/’43) are the natural pro-
ducts of an educational system which
rewards the latter kind with prizes,
passes and scholarships. A premium is
put on memorising and none on obser-
vation. Very strong views on the im-
portance of training observation powers
were held by Wood Jones, onetime prof,
of anatomy at Melbourne University.
“Even if we HAD the money, Mrs. Bingle, what could we buy with it?
Conducting a viva voce examination he
astonished a student by asking him what
route he took from his home to the
“shop.” The student said he came
in by train and walked up Swanston
street daily. “Tell me the names of the
shops on the way,” said Wood Jones.
“1 can’t remember any,” said the aston-
ished student. “Then you’ll never make
a surgeon,” was Wood Jones’s comment.
* * * *
“L.L.”: I see that the head of a reli-
gious sect in M.L. has been charged with
publicly flogging his six-year-old daughter
for three minutes while the congregation
prayed in order to “drive the devils out
of her,” and that he claims he actually
saw the devils departing. A horrible
case, but no worse in its probable effects
than the way many parents who would
be horrified at this story treat their
children. Some quite intelligent parents
feel indulgent to their children but think
they shouldn’t be indulgent, and others
believe they should be indulgent but don t
feel indulgent. The latter belong largely
to the class of “modern” parents. They
have read in books that you should nevei
repress a child but let it do what it likes.
Unfortunately, when it does what it likes
they are just as horrified as the old-
fashioned parent but think they aren t.
The result is there is a conflict between
the parent’s beliefs and feelings which
muddles the infant and may make it com-
pletely reactionary to society m general.
* * * * *
“Avon”: That well-mounted and in-
spiring film “Sergeant York, embalming
a deed of great heroism by an American
in the 1914-18 war, has been circulating
round Australasia for a year or two. I
wonder if it came within the purview
of young Private Tepene Heka, of the
Maori Battalion attached to Freyberg s
command in Tunisia, lor he seems to
have taken the lesson in military tactics
demonstrated by Gary Cooper very much
to heart. Heka was one of a company
sent to capture a position. The operation
was held up by devastating fire from a
German anti-tank post. The company,
very sensibly, took cover; all save Heka.
He, with a yell, flew straight at the little
fort, jumped inside, killed the commander
of the post and accepted the surrender
of the other occupants. His fighting
blood then being properly up (from here
I quote the prosaic citation that accom-
panied his D.C.M.), “he ran to three
separate machine-gun posts and put all
three out of action, capturing fourteen
prisoners.” If the Maoris still celebrate
tribal achievements in chanted paeans
they’ll have to raise a brown-skinned
Homer to do justice to the Maori Bat-
talion’s saga.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The mounting toll of fatali-
ties on Vic. level-crossings has reminded
a Melbourne citizen of his experience of
bus-driving in Ontario Province, Canada.
There the driver stopped at crossings,
got out, looked up and down the line
and when he saw all was clear started
again. Compulsory under provincial law,
this precaution is said to have feduced
accidents considerably.
* * * *
“Clooter”: One of those hardy souls
who refused to be stampeded into the in-
terior when a Jap invasion seemed pos-
sible was persuaded by a less hardy
neighbor to rent the neighbor’s house.
The evacuee had taken his wife and
family into the tall timber to be well
away from danger, and his plea was that
he’d like to have my hardy friend as a
tenant, because he knew him to be a
careful person who would protect the
property. “And you being a warden,”
he added, “will make me feel safer about
the house.” My hardy friend moved in,
handing his own little nest back to its
landlord. Time passed, and with it the
menace of invasion, so the evacuees
moved back just when a lot of newly-
rich munitioneers were grabbing all
vacant houses. Right now you couldn’t
rent a house in our street for love or
money and the owner of my friend’s
house is back demanding that friend get
out or he’ll have the law on him. The
tenant, mildest of men, is doing his best
to find another place. Personally, I’d
have told the coldfooted bloke to stay
in the bush.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: In the old East Perth
cemetery, marked out as a burial ground
in 1829, lie the bones of many early
W.A. settlers and those of a Governor,
Clarke. There are numerous pent-
house graves, reminiscent of Grey’s Stoke
Poges, which inspired him to write his
“Elegy.” Most of these penthouses are of
brick, somewhat weathered, but still
sound and with the inscriptions in most
cases still readable. Beneath is a deep
vault, also of brick and with a system
of arched shelves on which the coffins
rest. Interment was carried out without
disturbing the penthouse ; a long, deep
excavation was made in front of the
vault, the coffin was then lowered and
slid into its shelf of sepulchre. And
there is a massive cast-iron tomb, sent
from England as a token of appreciation
on the part of the Home Government.
It enshrines the bones of men —Panter,
Harding and Goldwyr—who perished at
the hands of the blacks in the opening
up of the north-west, and those of Mait-
land Brown, who led the small party that
solved the mystery of their fate and
brought their remains back to civilisation.
Long afterwards, when John Forrest
stood up to a sportive mob at Kalgoorlie,
Brown sent him a still-remembered wire:
“My God, I am proud of you!”
He * * ♦
“Craiser”: What an old-fashioned lot
these politicians are! If one new idea
has come out of this election I would
like to know it. Notions which have
served a million times in the past have
been trotted out again with the same air
of earnest conviction. It is the custom
for concert programme commentators to
find all sorts of profound political and
philosophic ideas expressed in music. If
the reverse process was applied and musi-
cal ideas were sought for in political
speeches they would be on the level of
“Boogie Woogie.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: That he married A in
Victoria and B bigamously in S.A. and
on the second occasion falsely declared
himself a bachelor Were the charges
against a much respected “peace officer”
in S.A.; but the Court told him to go
away “without a stigma on his char-
acter.” The defence was simple. A
proved to have a husband already when
she married him, so the ceremony with
her didn’t count; and when he married
B nine years later as a “bachelor” he Was
neither bigamist nor perjurer.
j}j sfc % H;
C. Shaw, Vaucluse (N.S.W.): I wasn't
worrying much about these lady can-
didates until I happened to read
down the list of candidates’ occu-
pations. “Home duties” Was all right,
so was “housewife,” but “chairman”
looked a bit odd, and so did “No
occupation.” However, crushing down
masculine doubts, I read on, finding an
“estate agent” and a “survey officer.” But
1 was hardly prepared for the next. “Re-
former!” It sat me up. Then came
“physical cultUrist.” It was too much.
Appalled by the spectacle of a reformer
and a physical culturist debating my
future in the House with all the logic
and emotion of which the sex is capable,
I made for the nearest rum dispensary
and drowned my fears.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The return of the Old Masters
to the National Gallery in Melbourne
recalls the experience of a businessman
who, shortly after Corot’s “Bent Tree”
had been acquired for the national
collection, went to London. Walking into
one of the leading galleries he saw to his
amazement a Corot “Bent Tree,” appar-
ently as like the Melbourne example as
one pea is like another. Then he‘went to
Paris and, visiting the Louvre, saw an-
other. Alarmed at the thought that the
Melbourne authorities had been diddled,
he wrote to the Louvre director and
asked for an interview, which was
granted. The director took the visitor
along and showed him yet another Corot
“Bent Tree” and told him there were
probably a dozen in existence. When
Corot liked a subject he would return to
it again and again, and the only differ-
ence between one picture and another
would be that there was minor alteration
in the composition or some subtle atmo-
spheric change observable only to the eye
of the painter.
* * * *
“Melbn”; The most consistently savage
winter in local memory culminated in
falls of snow in the suburbs around Mel-
bourne and a gale that threatened to lift
the roofs off. However, there is no
evidence to show that the climate is
changing or that air blitzes in Europe
are responsible for the local weather. In
1899 there was a heavy fall much nearer
the G.P.0., and boys at Scotch College,
which was then located in Spring-street,
opposite Parliament House, had snow-
ball fights. Venerable inhabitants
ascribed the phenomenon to the Boer
War.
“F.S.”: A Melbourne trustee co. reports
the discovery of its most conscientious
tenant. At the height of a gale which
reached 70 m.p.h. and at two o’clock in
the morning the manager got a ring at his
home from a lady who rents one of the
firm’s houses in the outer suburbs. “There
is a terrible storm here,” screamed the
lady. This was perfectly obvious to the
manager, as his own roof was lifting and
sheets of tin were flying past from houses
adjacent. “I thought I ought to report
it,” went on the client. “Why?” asked
the manager. “Has there been any
damage?” “Yes; a rose bush has been
blown over.”


ABORIGINALITIES
VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
Over the sleeping town the birds of the sea go
flying,
Over the silent land from roaring sea to sea,
And as they voyage, lost souls, they are crying,
crying;
Far and faint, the acrid notes float down to
me.
Below them glow and gleam the ordered lights
of the streets,
And the growl of the rumbling trams and the
newsboys noisily calling
Are lost, for them, in the powerful, thudding
beats
Of the strong wings, winnowing the air, rising
and falling.
Whither are they bound, we wonder, waifs and
strays of the ocean?
What are the paths they follow, by strong
compulsion drawn?
Hour by lonely hour with their calm and stately
motion.
From dawn to dusk ever flying and crying,
from dusk to dawn.
Farewell and a long farewell to you, O restless
reamers!
You pass, and I hear your querulous voices,
voices in the sky,
Speaking of waste waters, the spume, and the
giant combers;
Now shall I sleep again, and dream in the
key of your eerie cry.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * t-
“Wang”: “Ole Sam Biggs was one
of the easiest-goin’ sorta blokes I ever
knew,” related Dan. “Where most other
chaps would rant an’ roar when things
went wrong, Sam would on’y grin an’
say it might’ve been worse. I ’membet
once when his hut got burnt down while
he was away workin’—he was a bachelor
an’ lived be himself —he on’y shrugged
his shoulders and said things wasn’t as
bad as they might’ve been —he might’ve
been asleep in it an’ got burnt up, too.
That’s when he tole me he was a philo-
sopher. But everybody ain’t built alike,
an’ when he got shovin’ this ’ere philo-
sophy at other blokes it got a bit tire-
some at times. One Sunday morning I
strolled across to Sam’s humpy just as
he was gettin’ his breakfast ready. ‘Did
y’ hear about Bill Baker?’ I asked him.
‘No,’ he ses. ‘What about him?’ ‘Well,’
I ses, ‘ole Hawkins what runs the poultry
farm near here caught Bill pinchin’ eggs
outa the pens ’bout eleven last night
when he come home from a concert in
the township, an’ got to him with a lump
of wood an’ nearly killed the pore cow.’
‘Gripes!’ ses ole Sam in a voice full of
feelin’, ‘that’s bad ; but it might’ve been
worse.’ ‘Well, yes,’ I admits, T s’pose
it could have ; he might’ve killed him.’
‘Yes,’ ses Sam, ‘but it might’ve been
worse still.’ ‘Oh, damn this ’ere philo-
sophy of yours,’ I flared up, savage;
‘how the hell could it have been worse?’
‘Well,’ ses Sam, crackin’ a coupla eggs
inter the pan, ‘if ole Hawkins had come
home an hour earlier he’d have caught
me there! ’ ”
H* 'S S H*
“LXXX”: Tell “B. A. Ker” that Henry
Lawson’s poem on the stringybark (B.
4/8/’43) was printed. He will find it in
the files of the Victorian School Paper of
about 20 years ago, reprinted no doubt.
A couplet remains in my memory;
And the hut that long sheltered my brother
and me
Was made from the bark of the stringybark-
tree.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Grunter farmed a few acres
by the river, and no one met him without
hearing the country needed rain.
“ ’Day, Grunter,” was Ben’s greeting—-
“nice rain.” “What there is of it,” was
the reply. “We need more, though; a lot
more.” The showers continued through
the night and the next day, when Ben
again struck old Grunter, “Rain doing
a lot of good, Grunter?” he queried.
‘S’pose it’ll help,” came the grudging
concession, “but the ground ain’t half
soaked yet.” After that it teemed night
and day, and by the end of the following
week the river overflowed in the biggest
flood the district had known for years.
Learning that Grunter hadn’t been seen
for days, Ben rode off to investigate, and
found a shirt-clad figure sharing the gable
with an ancient rooster and a cat, The
man’s body was blue and rocking
groggily, and the eyes under the dripping
hair were stupid from lack of sleep. Ben
stared at the water under the eaves, sur-
veyed the brown sea swirling over the
small farm, then, riding as close as he
dared, hailed the apparition on the roof.
“Well, Grunter,” he called heartily, “I
bet you’re happy at last!”
'fc 'fc %
“Pat Afcr”: In this N.S.W. mountain
fastness there are no neutrals in the avian
war which rages around the kookaburra.
He is a mark for wagtails, peewees
and magpies, who attack him on sight,
especially around nesting time, for the
laugher and his fellow - roisterer the
butcher-bird are inveterate nest-robbers.
But Jack takes some shifting out of his
habitat, and “Gwan’s” picture of him
(B. 4/8/’43) is a true one. Day by day
I’ve seen him nonchalantly warding off
with consummate ease attacks by his
tormentors. His is the defence of the
swordsman and boxer; clever footwork,
body moves—“but don’t give any
ground”—and thrust lightning-like with
beak in passing. Jack’s crime of nest-
robbing is common to most meat-eaters,
anyway. Last year we were watching the
antics of a fledgling sparrow being taught
to fly when a big currawong swooped
and grabbed it right under the noses of
its surprised parents.
* * * *
“Zake”: The big, dark fellow who
looked as if his scowl was a permanent
feature paced up to the farmhouse on
the bite. When the cocky’s Irish terrier
came round the corner and started the
usual nasal inventory of curiosity
around his legs the visitor crankily kicked
out, whereupon the dog drew back a
magnificent set of teeth in an ugly snarl
and started to bark like mad. As the
agriculturist showed up the cranky one,
still kicking at the dog, burst out: “If
that blasted dog bites me ’e’ll die quick,
"Cut it out, Alf —I've already put the flavor in!”
see?” The cocky puckered up quizzical
eyes. “Well, he’s survived two baits so
far ; an’ I don’t like to tempt Providence.
But if y’ aren’t out the gate in twenty
seconds I’ll let Murph. have a go at y’
an’ treat him with salt right away. It
saved him before.”
« * « *
“B. 4”: Match rationing induced me to
try the old flint-and-steel gadget. For
tinder I soaked old. calico in dilute salt-
petre, and then singed in the stove. This
readily ignited from the flying spark, and
easily blew into flame. Rubbing pieces
of rock sometimes produced an incan-
descent glow, but no heat. This can be
induced by sawing a hard piece of wood
across a softer one split and pegged and
primed with tinder, kangaroo dust and
shredded grass. In the bush once the sun-
glass wouldn’t work. Gathering a heap
of twigs and grass I broke out the bullet
from a .32 cartridge and, firing the charge
at the heap, blew the lot to but not
into blazes. Pinning the pile down with
stones, and pouring half the powder on,
I backed away and fired the rest at the
incendiary offering with results. By re-
sorting to the sunglass and keeping a
night log going, with occasional use of
gunpowder, we kept our campfire burn-
ing till we had a load of skins and visions
of filling our own.
* * * *
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: We tried
everything we knew to get rid'of the
meat-ants near our house —boiling water,
burning bushes, ashes and sheep-dip in
the nest. Then one morning Dad killed
a four-foot green snake of a species rarely
seen on the W.A. wheatbelt. The wriggler
bit himself four times when his back was
broken. The dead greenback was tossed
on the ants’ nest, and a couple of days
later all that was left of Joe was his
cleanly-picked skeleton. And the ants
were gone. We reckon the snake’s self-
poisoned flesh settled the feasters.
“Chimney Plains”: We dossed for the
night under a bridge near Blayney
(N.S.W.), and it was then I discovered
for the first time that, although your
frontispiece facing the fire may be hit-
ting Mr. Fahrenheit for a double century,
the old hammer-and-tack can be well
below zero. As we were shivering Mick
said miserably: “A dentist around these
parts ought to make a packet.” I was
the mug. “How’s that?” I asked. “Pullin’
the stumps out fer blokes that have worn
their tombstones down to the gums
chatterin’ with the cold,” said Mick.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; If “Chevroford” (B.
14/7/’43) wants a low-hung vehicle for
the returned gee-gee to tow, I take him
back 30 years to Perth’s crank-axle carts.
In these we had the body of a spring
dray, but without springs, riding on an
axle cranked so that the hubs of the
wheels were about level with the top of
the side boards. The shafts thus came
out along the top of the side boards in-
stead of below. Advantages claimed
were: Easy loading, since the floor was
little more than a foot from the ground ;
non-liability to turn over on sandy
country which in general had the sem-
blance of a ploughed field ; and, since
the load was low down, easier pulling for
the horse.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: I didn’t ask “A.R.P.”
(B. 14/7/’43) what he would do if he
gashed his left hand ; my desire was in-
formation regarding possible accidents
to his right. Most people could bandage
the left by means of the right and their
teeth, but when it comes to putting on
a bandage with the left they are ston-
kered.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Australia prior to the
white man’s advent was so far from
being a land teeming with game that in
at least one part the natives periodically
were reduced to eating earth ; and that
in a region today" renowned for forest,
river and swamp. Australia boasts but
few edible roots; some of the yam family
are passable, but in south-west W.A. quite
a few, though eatable, are either very
tart to the taste or of a scalding acrid
flavor. But periodic famine forced the
gins to eat them, the greedy bucks claim-
ing such flesh food as could be had. The
result of such a diet was that the women’s
tongues became violently excoriated,
swollen and blue-black. And the only
remedy they knew of was clay gathered
from the river bank. This also relieved
the excoriation that gradually extended
down the gullet to the stomach. So a
meal of acrid bulbs from the forest glades
was invariably followed by a visit to the
clay hole on the river bank. It was this
kind of thing that led early observers to
the belief that in some ways the abo-
riginal was even lower than the animals.
“Narrin”; Ever noticed that it’s only
when we go to live in houses and to work
indoors that we become fresh-air fiends
at night? I can’t stand a stuffy room nowa-
days, but time was when, after riding all
day in a blue south gale, we came back
to the hut, shut the door and window,
got a roaring fire going, and had tea and
yarned and read in an atmosphere highly
reminiscent of that in an Eskimo igloo.
Then we went to bed without opening
the place up and slept like healthy kids.
If there was no hut to sleep in we
snoozed with our heads well tucked in
beneath the camp-sheet. Does a man get
so saturated with oxygen in the daytime
that he can stew in his own juice all
night with little fresh air, or what?
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: These chaps with fancy
ways of hobbling a horse (B. 2J/7/’43)
want to be careful: we ruined a good
horse here a few years ago like that.
Queensland Jack was camped at Yadla-
kina, and his saddle-hack, old Jasper, a
big bay as hard as a belar post and as
quiet as a mustering camp when the par-
son drops in, was a confirmed walker.
So Jack had a brainwave and hobbled
Jasper’s hind legs. The old horse didn’t
wake up to it for a while, but when he
did he slung his head and went billy-
goat-pigjumping across the flat. “Y’ll
get tired o’ that, blast y’,” Jack told him,
and went on cooking tea. Next morning
he tracked Jasper ten miles, and found
him on the home-paddock fence. Foot-
sore, spitting cotton and vitriol, Jack got
the bridle on the old nag and jumped
up. Next second he was reposing on his
wishbone eight yards away. No, he
had taken the hobbles off ; but Jasper had
had so much practice that night that no
man ever rode him afterwards.
* * * *
“T.V.”: There’s a waterhole under a
steep cliff on Mt. Nor’-West, S.A., that
when low is so sharply inclined that the
water has to be pumped up into tanks.
When young Lance was sent to camp at
the hole we told him about Jim Grieg.
Riding down to the water, Jim saw his
two dogs break away after a big buck
euro, which, turning on them, threw one
into the hole. Unable to get a shot from
the flat, Jim climbed out along the ledge
as the second mong hit the water. He
shot the euro ; it grabbed him, and man
and beast went over the side together.
Since when the hole has been haunted by
Jim and the euro. Lance camped there
alone for three weeks without incident.
Then one night just at dark he was caught
a mile from the hole by an old-man dust-
storm. Battling along, head down, lead-
ing his horse, choked and blinded, he
suddenly heard above the gale a great
thump-thumping coming towards him.
Lance’s heart joined in with it, and he
swears it wasn’t the wind that lifted his
hat off. Suddenly the thumping stopped.
There was a savage noise, a snarling,
shrieking growl, like the noise a big
euro makes when shot through the lungs.
The horse was mad with fear. Watching
his chance Lance got into the saddle and
sank the spurs in. We went out with him
next day and showed him the old 2000-
gallon tank which had been blowing
about, catching on mulga and rocks and
blowing on again. But the boss had to
put a new man on at that camp.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Knew an old settler who
when he wanted to put down a well first
took a big, flat stone and buried it about
a foot beneath the ground in a spot
where he reckoned he might strike water.
He’d leave it for a day and then pull it
up. His theory was that after a hot, dry
day any subterranean moisture drawn to
the surface during the night would
accumulate under a solid object. When
he found the right spot he would put a
well down, and would generally strike
good water at 20 feet.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Yair,” said “Cunnamulla”
Claude, “y’ll hear these drovers maggin’
about the big overlandin’ they’ve done
with long, dry stages an’ only losin’ three
or four head o’ cattle out o’ the lot. 1
reckon me and Bill Hegarty hold as good
a record as any of ’em. We had to take
some fats from Tiewird to the railway at
Warrigal, where we got to truck ’em. I
won’t say the goin’ was crook —there was
fair pickin’ most o’ the way an’
plenty o’ water. Me an’ Bill didn't
profess to be expert drovers, but we
handled them bullocks so well that we
on’y lost one. It might seem tall to youse
blokes, but it’s dinkum. The records are
there on the station books now if any of
y’ like to check up on it.” “That’s all
right,” interposed Long Ned, “but for a
record it all depends on how many were
in the mob.” “Aw, y’ wouldn’t exactly
call it a mob, I suppose,” said “Cunna-
mulla.” “It was just a couple that the
owner had sold to a bloke down the
line! ”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Don’t see that it is any more
surprising for country folk to wait a
mere couple of hours for an appoint-
ment (B. 14/7/’43) than it is for, say, a
trained pug to box. An outbacker waits
w r eeks for his goods and material, months
for any showing from his work, years
for payable returns, and a lifetime for
those elusive home-improvements. And
the women! Why, I know one who was
asked to wait while her bloke went down
to the city. Don’t know how far he had
to go exactly, but it’s 11 years ago, and
she is still waiting.


“Bo”: He was the whiskeriest old
bloke we had ever seen. He dumped his
drum, helped himself to the billy and the
scran with the easy familiarity of long
practice, selected the place at the fire
with his back against the only available
stump and pulled out a mouth organ. He
played tunes we didn’t know —favorites,
perhaps, in the ’nineties —and others we
did know, going from “The Wild
Colonial Boy” and “Gundagai” to
saccharine ballads; and then, to the
wonder of his audience, started on
the early jazz period. When we
commented on the extent of his reper-
toire Whiskers threw up his chin. “Yair,”
he declared, “y’ can’t name a chune I
can’t play!” Someone mentioned a
hymn, and he hopped straight into it,
following it up with a requested Gilsulli-
van air. Then Ted asked him for “Blues
in the Night.” Whiskers (confidently
started on “Little Boy Blue,” but Ted
told him that wasn’t it. The old bloke
looked in a puzzled way at his mouth
organ ; then, picking up a bit of stick, he
started cleaning out the holes. “Thought
there was somethin’ wrong why I was
out in that chune,” he declared. It s
that thick stoo we ’ad fer tea that done
it!”
* * * *
“A.D.T.”: When butchers and bar-
maids have stopped estimating the weight
of the fat bullock in a pen put this little
trick against it. A man from the works
at Townsville (N.Q.) inspects mixed
herds on open areas on the Barkly
during March. He makes his estimate
on what bullocks he sees, calculates what
they’ll improve till July, what theydl
lose on the roads and on the trucks in
a 600-mile rail journey, and says what
they’ll kill in Townsville during August.
If those fellows are more than 101 b. a
head out in a 1200-mob they find another
job or go on the track.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Bad Australian” (B.
23/6/’43) needs to go further back than
the span of any present man’s life to find
the period I referred to when “the
blacks kept all wild life at a low ebb.
Even 60 years ago the abo. was a rare
bird in most parts of Victoria and New
South Wales. And even 40 years before
that he had practically abandoned the
chase for the easier way of living around
the white’s sheep and cattle stations. So
there was ample time for the wild game
to replenish itself abundantly before
“B A.” arrived on the scene. Actually,
I obtained my data from the journals of
early explorers: Leichhardt, who tramped
from Moreton Bay to Port Essington in
the early ’forties ; Lieut. Gray, who ex-
plored the west coast of this continent in
1837-38 and Captain Bannister, who
overlanded from Perth to King George’s
Sound in 1834. Leichhardt and his men
reached their goal practically starving.
Grey Sciw little g&me ift the lowei Kim-
berleys. On his tramp from Shark Bay
to Perth one of his party died of starva-
tion. Bannister missed his way, reached
the coast 90 miles west of Albany, and
was obliged to subsist on shellfish. Even
in the ’fifties goldseekers overlanding
from S.A. to Ballarat found game so
scarce that they had to shoot ciows to
survive—hence the term “Croweaters.
* * * *
“Jummy Nurse”: I’ll keep my ‘tough
merinos” in the endurance stakes (B.
11/8/ ’43). That walking hatrack of
“Prop’s” may be a wonder, but tales ol
horses showing endurance on sheep work
leave me cold, especially in such queer
localities as one which has late lambs
in January, big hills of loose drift sane.
“Keep this to y’rself, mister, but I’m goin' to vote for that
Menzies bloke!”
and hillsides so steep that horses have
to slide down ’em and get raw and bleed-
ing heels from the stones. Anyhow, the
point is that, no matter what sort of a
day “Prop’s” boneshaker put in, there
was always a man to look after him,
attend to his gory heels, water and feed
him and provide shelter for the night.
The plains merino only sees man when
man wants to commit some form of
assault on him, nobody worries much
what he does about tucker, and he takes
his shelter where he finds it. Yet on
he goes, by the thousand, still living, still
suffering and still carrying the country
on his back.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Within an hour of their
arrival at the little one-man farm old
Jacob’s grandkids had broken down a
prejudice of 20 years’ standing. We
watched the old sprmgcart jolt town wards
with its load of kids, and wondered what
Jacob would think of his first talkie.
Next day he told us: “There was a dawg
in it —one of them clever ones that blind
men have. That mong fetched and car-
ried for his boss, opened doors with his
jaws, took revolvers off crooks, and hid
“Just tell Lord Nelson I'[m from the W.R.A.N.S."
under beds to dodge gangsters. His
master only whispered ‘Go and get help,’
and he climbed out of a top-storey
window, ran about 10 miles, crashed
through a shut window because the door
was locked, then undid the ropes that
tied up the bloke he was looking for.
After that the tripehound led the rescue
party —just arriving in time to pounce on
a fellow who was murdering his boss.”
Jacob sighed. “And to think I’ve been
nearly 10 years trying to teach old Bluey
not to sleep on the back steps, and the
first thing I did when we arrived home
was fall over him, nearly braining myself
on the doorknob!”
* * *
“Narrin” : Every Monday night in the
season for nearly four years I watched
from our after-deck the Gem or the
Marion sweep past and round our
Murray bend. First we heard, lai-on,
the whistle at the lock; then an
hour or so later we saw the search-
light on our reach, the boat still
being out of sight round the downstream
bend. That light is something to write
rhapsodies on. It threw the cliffs into a
weird fairyland of bright, strong high-
light and deepest shadow up through
which struggled an occasional gum,
gnarled and twisted, rooted in rock. By
then we were hearing strongly the unfor-
gettable chuffing and thudding that be-
long to a paddle-steamer. The birds in
the lagoon upstream heard it, too, and
remarked on it with a medley of sounds
that was just the appropriate background
for the goblin cliffs. Then came the
steamer, usually the Marion with her list
to starboard, and a blaze of light that
snaked across the oily water and, yellow
with one thread of green, wove a fairy
tapestry. Before the high bows a few
ducks, belated and bedazzled, skimmed
the surface, gaining, stopping, flapping on
again. And then the torchlight procession
was past, the birds settled down and we
were left with the crash of the swell on
the cliffs and the river smell of disturbed
weed and mud.
* * * *
“Mit”: “Little Bill’s” disclaimer (B.
21/7/*43) about the weight of sledges on
a heavy job such as described by me
brought confirmation of “Tongs’s”
assertion (B. 28/7/’43) that it is speed,
not weight, that tells; then I checked
up. Advantage must be taken of the
heat, and three strikers must keep their
times, striking with speed and precision.
My backstop, one of the old-timers, said
141 b. sledges would be the only ones h
would have used on such a ]oh. R
size of the beam-peccavi! It was about
bin. x 2in. to within an cigbto o f an
inch. A couple of years ago the firm
mentioned had one of these frames sent
to them for a replacement, and there wa.
not a smith who could make one.
* * * ,
“Botano”: Trees s e em to *} aV ' e s
sort of intelligence, though where their
brains are located is difficult to conceive,
Along the south-west coast of W.A. the
terrain for considerable distances inland
is of limestone thinly covered with a
fairly rich sand. Many parts are com-
pletely barren of trees, though in others
veritable giants raise their heads, some
on less than a foot of soil. Being unable
to put down a taproot because of the
flinty capstone beneath, they spread a
multitude of thin roots which by search-
ing around somehow manage to find
cracks and small potholes that enable
them to get down to water perhaps 20
feet below. Exploring small caves in the
same locality I have found cable-like
roots that came from the living trees on
the rocky surface quite 50 feet overhead ;
clever enough in their way to find
the only crevice that led down to the
cave and water. There was a tree near
our camp which in every gale swayed its
50-foot top through an arc like a wind-
jammer’s topmast in a heavy sea, at
the same time emitting groans from
its base like a soul in pain. One day the
usual idiot got busy with the axe, lopping
all the widespread anchor-roots. Once
down, that tree showed a perfect ball-
bearing. The seedling had grown in a
small basin in the stone, developing until
its trunk filled the-entire hollow. But by
then its roots had found secure anchor-
age. Both the tree’s base and the basin
in the rock were worn smooth with the
friction of years.
* * * *
“Niloc”: An army outpost in the
Aleutians has been amazed at the antics
of ravens which frequent those parts.
Though weighed down by their winter
helping of feathers, the birds have studied
modern aerobatics, and copied the for-
mations, spins, banks and loops of the
airmen. Footslogging soldiers in the
region have to stand the intense cold on
p.t. and lightweight shelters built of two
quilt-like layers, insulated with glass-
fibre. The outside is done over with
waterproof fabric and a coating of flame-
proof muslin to discourage Jap firebugs.
The shelters can be carted by air, and,
thanks to their insulation, can be kept
warm in any sort of weather.
* -H * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m huntin’ a job
grape-snatchin’ in Mildura,” said Mat,
“an’ pull into one place early one
mornin’. Just as I get through the gate
I hear a voice like three bulls roarin’ in
a shed an’ two dogs an’ a young bloke
fly out o’ that shed an’ head up the block.
A giant of a bloke with a big black
moustache comes t’ the shed door, looks
after ’em an’ roars ‘Flamin’ lot o
loafers, ain’t worth their tucker!’ Then
he spots me an’ thunders ‘Whatinell you
lookin’ f’r?’ I tell him I’m after a job.
He glares at me, then opens his face an
booms ‘All right, go up t’ the house an
see the boss.’ I’d thought he was the
boss, but don’t say anythin’. When 1
knock at the house, out comes a little
bloke about four foot nothin’ an’ also
with a big black moustache an’ looks at
me. I tell him what I’m there for. He
opens his face an’ I step back, expectin
a roar, but only a disgusted sort o’
squeak comes out, say in’ ‘Y’re too late ;
it’s gorn half-past ten.’ Then he shuts
the door. I’m still wonderin’ when over
comes the giant. He goes in the house
and the little bloke comes out. ‘Whatinell
you doin’?’ he squeaks. ‘Still lookm
f’r a job,’ I says. ‘See the boss,’ says
he. Then the door opens and the big
bloke roars ‘Right, y’ can start now.
Yair, they was brothers that d bin left
the place, an’, t’ stop arguments, had
agreed that each should take his turn at
bein’ boss every 24 hours.” “What was
they like t’ work for?” I asked. “I dun-
no,” said Mat. “After I thought it over
I could see that a change of bosses every
24 hours would only finish up with me
fightin’ somebody. So I hopped on me
bike an’ left.”
* * * *
“Tinopai”: “Bohemian” (B. 9/6/’43),
in his references to the lack of evidence
concerning a pre-Maori race in M.L. is
correct enough, but there was a pre-
Maori race in the Chatham Islands, off
the coast of South Island, which abound
in remains of the Moriori. Vast numbers
of stone axes and chisels exist there, dif-
ferent from anything the Maon ever had.
When Broughton discovered the Chat-
rams on November 29, 1791 (called after
his boat), he found a large population of
Moriori. By 1830 they numbered only
1500 In 1835 the Ngatitama and Ngati-
mutunga tribes, driven b y fe a f of Te
Rauparaha, migrated from Port Nichol-
son (Wellington) to the Chathams, 1 Dic-
ing the skipper of the ship Rodney to
transport them. The emigrants found the
Moriori tasty and killed and ate most of
them A very few survived till recent
years No trace of this peaceful and
industrious people has been found on the
mainland, and it seems likely they
migrated direct to the Chathams Horn
Polynesia.
MALLOW AY OF THE YESTERDAY.
Old Malloway named the Yesterday when he
and his run were young,
A wild, wide valley that clove the range where
the tall cliffs overhung;
And Sergeant Scott to Malloway’s run rode
up on a foam-streaked bay
As Malloway moved with his branding camp
to muster the Yesterday.
“Your outlaw’s broken from gaol,” he said.
“Bill Yundar’s got clean away.
And I know as sure as the sun will set he 11
head for the Yesterday.
He hates as only a nigger can, and he’s stolen
a ‘thirty-two,’
So keep away from the Yesterday till I get the
trackers through.”
But Malloway went to the Yesterday with his
band of mustering men —
Why should he fear an outlaw’s gun who would
beard a lion in its den?
He sipped his tea at the midday camp and the
quart-pot flew from his hand,
And Malloway shrank from the sudden shock
as the bullet sprayed the sand.
Then Malloway roared like a bull in rage and
leapt for the mountain’s base,
And hand on hand as a bear might climb he
went up the hill’s steep face.
The black man pumped with his trigger hand
but never a shot went true
As Malloway dodged the rocks between and
darted the thorn-scrub through.
He flung a stone past the outlaw’s back, who
swivelled to face the sound,
Then Malloway sprang at the crouching form
and they rolled on the rocky ground.
The rifle skidded across the ledge, grating on
pebble and stone.
And the black and the white man fought for
life on that rocky crag alone.
A furious fight that will never fade from the
tales of the cattlelands;
The black man fought with his teeth and nails
and the white with his sun-tanned hands.
Then a brown fist shot to the black man’s head;
he reeled away from the blow
And backwards staggered across the ledge and
fell to the depths below.
So Yundar went to the hunting-grounds where
his fathers had gone before.
And Malloway mustered the Yesterday with his
body stiff and sore.
And now when the mobs of the Yesterday to
the drifting camps are brought
The stockmen point to the dizzy ledge as they
tell how Malloway fought.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


...... but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
BADIOTBOM
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CYanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
ẁ
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Branding of Wool Bales.
“Murrawong”; For years efforts have
been made to improve or standardise
branding so as to show the quality of
the contents. Brokers in different States
advocate different methods. In South
Australia, for instance, top lines may be
branded A, the next line AA and the
lowest AAA, whereas most of the wool
marketed in the Commonwealth uses
AAA for tops and A for the lowest.
The present, with all wool under
Commonwealth control, offers a great
chance for standardisation of wool brand-
ing. It could be done by the Central
Wool Committee and the Australian
Wool Board in co-operation with
brokers, and it should not be hard to
find a branding scheme that would
simplify matters for all concerned. If a
standardised brand was used to mark
various qualities it would mean greater
confidence in and a better advertisement
for Australian wool.
The Table of Limits sets out types on
which the clip is valued, and could give
a good foundation for a branding
scheme, which would have to be simple,
broad in outline and framed by people
aware of present faults. Some of these
are the extravagant use of the “super”
brand and wrong application of such
brands as “comb,” “fleece,” “clothing,”
etc. Branding of crossbred wools leads
to even greater errors. Standard of
classing would have to be improved.
Some suggestions:
Use of “super” should be restricted to super-
fine wools grown in places like parts of
Mudgee, New England and Yass (N.S.W.),
Western District of Victoria and Tasmania.
Such wools would have to conform to require-
ments of the C.W.C., having superfine quality
and style in addition to freedom from all fault
such as burr, seed, etc.
Medium to fine wools to be branded with
A’s, beginning with AAA for the top line,
which should be a warp. Fleeces uneven in
length or slightly below warp length should be
branded AA, and the A reserved for short
fleeces of half warp type. These brands would
cover wool (with the exception of the “super”
types) ranging from 64’s upwards, but excluding
very heavy conditioned or stained wools.
Strong wools, 60's and lower, to be branded
888 for best warp lines, shorter wools 88,
and so on. Conditioned or discolored (64-
70’s) wools to be branded CCC for the
shaftiest fleeces, CC for the next grade and C
for either discolored 60-58’s or short lower
yielding merino fleeces. Classification of odd-
ments such as broken, bellies, pieces, stains
and locks is fairly simple and needs little re-
vision, except that the actual brands should
be standardised to avoid confusion. For
instance, B’ might stand for a fleece line or
bellies or broken, while L might mean locks
or lambs. Crutchings should be branded
CRS.
Crossbred classing would need a different
basis, and AAAXB is offered for best fine 56’s,
AAXB for best 50’s, AXB for inferior 50-
56’s, BXB for strong XB, and XB for inferior
cotted fleeces of this type.
Comeback could be worked on similar lines
to merino, with special restrictions on the use
of “super” brand; AAACBK for finest shafty
fleeces, the other two A brands to denote
stronger qualifies and shorter wools. However,
in a large clip the use of B and C brands
might be necessary.
Tender fleeces, whether merino, comeback or
crossbred, could be designated by the addition of
FLC to the other brand. The usual system
of marketing merino wool apart from crossbred,
and keeping black or colored wool apart from
the rest of the clip, would have to be observed.
Housing Pigs.
“Farmer Bill”: When planning a pig-
gery provide a run and house for each
sow. Litters can then be left there till
they’re ready to kill. Accommodation
for dry sows, boars and one or two spare
pens are necessary. A central feeding
house, drafting yards, weighing crate and
loading race that prevents bruising of the
pigs should be part of the layout. If the
site isn't warm and sheltered, put up a
weaner or fattening house.
Pigs need warm, dry, draught-proof
quarters. Closely-boarded sleeping plat-
“Tails We beat ’Itler first; 'eads the Japs.”
forms should be built over the concrete.
Allow eight square feet of floor space
to each baconer, Wooden troughs, wide
and shallow and easily moved for clean-
ing, are better than V-shaped or deep
ones of iron or concrete. Cross bars to
keep the pigs out of them and trapdoors
or chutes in front for filling are handy.
Use pig netting fof fencing. For an
open-air piggery paddocks should be from
a tenth to a quarter of an acre in size.
In the centralised system cow paddocks
can be used for stores and fattening pigs
and the smaller paddocks for sows and
litters.
Every piggery needs water laid on.
Small troughs placed away from fence
lines are best. On level ground only one
ball cock will control the water in several
troughs. A high-pressure supply saves
time and labor in cleaning. Right slopes
to floors and right sizes and locations of
channels and sumps are important. Add
a bail for handling pigs and a dip to
control lice and mange.
Washing of Eggs.
“Molecule”: If an egg is dirty out-
side washing it in a modern egg-washing
machine will make it clean outside and
dirty inside and seriously impair its keep-
ing qualities. Leave it dirty and it will
keep much better than a clean egg that
has been put over an egg-washer. This
was found by the C.S.I.R. in trials over
the last five years, and that body says
that present methods and machines will
have to go.
Rotting of eggs is caused by bacteria.
Jn the process of washing eggs in a bac-
teria-laden machine, ideal conditions are
set up for the bacteria not only to trans-
fer to comparatively clean eggs, but to
penetrate into or through the shells to
protected situations. Spoilage of such
eggs is then a certainty and merely takes
time. A machine may appear clean and
yet harbor enormous numbers of bac-
teria ; use of disinfectants to destroy
them isn’t a success, though it may
be possible to design a cleaner that could
be kept bacterially as well as visually
clean.
Hand-cleaning with a damp cloth
causes little wastage, but eggs must not
be soaked for long periods. The greatest
mistake is to put all eggs over the
machine, whether dirty or clean.
Poultry-farmers should aim at getting
clean eggs that require no washing or
cleaning. To do this ample clean nesting
material must be provided and hens
which cdnsistently dirty the nest culled
out. Many of us, spoilt by electrically-
driven washers that clean the eggs so
easily, have let these things slide of late
years.
The C.S.I.R. findings may be regarded
as final, not only because of the long
period of investigation, but because many
other things which may contribute to
deterioration of eggs in storage were
examined. These included rations, farm
hygiene, frequency of gathering eggs and
all possible points concerning washing,
drying and handling on farms and receiv-
ing floors.
Peas for the Forces.
Production goal for green
peas for the 1943-44 season is 80,000
acres —an increase of 46,000-odd acres
on the previous allotment. Peas can be
grown in some part of the country every
month of the year, the cooler portions in
summer, the warmer in autumn and
spring. In frost-free districts on the coast
peas can be harvested in midwinter.
Free loams and medium to gravelly
soils produce good crops when there’s
sufficient rainfall to keep them growing
through the summer ; medium to heavy
well-drained soils are satisfactory when
rainfall’s not too heavy. Superphosphate
increases yield in all districts —2cwt. an
acre is the usual rate. A mixture of four
parts super, and one part sulphate of
ammonia gives good result on coast and
tablelands.
Sow from February to August in
coastal areas minus frost threats and
from September to early January on
tablelands. October sowings catch the
Christmas market. Two bushels of seed
an acre are enough. Use two-row seed
drills or open up shallow drills, drop the
seed by hand and cover to a depth of
two inches with harrow, light cultivator
or hand hoe. Distance between rows
ranges from 21in. to 30in. according to
soil and variety. Plant dwarf types close ;
in rich soils allow for greater growth.
Best variety for canning is Canner’s
Perfection; Green Feast comes second
(it’s popular for field culture); Massey,
sometimes known as Gem or Kelvedon
Wonder, suits all districts for late or
early sowings. Average yields range
from 60 to 80 bushels green pods per
acre. Peas make a good rotation with
wheat.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jake”: When a horse keeps rubbing
against posts, loses its hair in patches
and shows the skin watery beneath, it
has digestive trouble. Feed a bran mash
two nights in succession, then drench with
loz. Barbados aloes in two pints hot
water. For the sores, make a mixture of
Boz. flowers of sulphur, 4oz. rectified oil
of tar, a pint of linseed oil and a pint
of Hmewater, and apply every third day.
“Drover”: In strangles, if the abscess
breaks of its own accord, it should be
opened sufficiently to permit of good
draining and syringed with a weak anti-
septic lotion. A horse suffering from
strangles should not be given a drench,
but Epsom salts might be added to the
drinking water. To bring backward
abscesses to a head, the swollen glands
should be rubbed with prepared mustard
or a poultice applied. Don’t lance until
it has come to a head. Abscesses in
lungs or brain are jobs for a vet. Isolate
strangles cases as soon as they are de-
tected.
“Agro”: When a plague of caterpillars
invades the farm try trenching to halt
them. Plough one deep furrow around
the paddock, then take a hoe and rake
out the furrow as deeply as possible so
that it resembles a narrow gutter widen-
ing at the top. If the caterpillars are too
numerous rake them out before they fill
the furrow.
“B.”; Don’t force the dog’s teeth apart
when giving him medicine. Draw out his
cheek on one side with the fingers till it
forms a funnel-shaped pouch, and pour
the liquid slowly into that in small quan-
tities. Give him time to swallow or he
may gulp it on to a lung, causing pneu-
monia.


Ruwolt
i
m
"' *
.a - tiru r
0 m mm
.■•■ X wP2w •:_!
tv*. :-:K
mm
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
LOOK BEHIND
THE CURTIN
Curtin disclaims Communist influence in
the Labour Party.
The Communists have a united front with
the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which
represents 700,000 out of the 900,000 trade
unionists in Australia. The unions control the
Labour Party.
So you see behind the Curtin
Communist-riddled
Trade Unions
Authorised by
A. de R. Barclay. Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The basic aim of the Sane Democracy League is to expose the fallacies of
revolutionary doctrines, it needs members and funds to help it do its job.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Old England, My Eye!
[Arthur Kudner, the writer of the “Atlantic
Monthly” article from which this extract is
taken, is an American Middle Westerner (born,
Michigan) who recently visited England as a
member of the Hardman Mission.]
It had been nearly ten years since I
was last in England. I carried with me,
besides the 551 b. of baggage allowed on
the Clipper, some notions of Britain that
probably would have checked pretty
closely with your own. You know: the
old lion at bay, game, gallant, but creak-
ing in every imperial joint, head “bloody
but unbowed,” and all that.
Three or four days after landing, was
my imagination red!
The first sight to dispel any such
notion is the look on the faces of the
people. That pulls your gaze from the
blitz-scarred background in a hurry.
It’s no spent, martyred or dogged look,
let alone a desperate one, It’s a young,
confident, eagerly cheerful look. These
people are more cheerful than we are.
This is no mere facial mask. It runs
through their pulses and right down to
their heels. Your ears verify it. You
hear it in the brisker cadence of their
step. If they strolled or strode at an
average 75 or so to the minute in the old
days, they must be clicking off an easy
100 or better now. They’re going some-
where on business. They have things to
do, every one. They know what those
things are, and how to do them.
This is not to say that the people of
Britain have brushed off the memory of
the blitz with a gay “so what.” No
people could do that. No people of
spirit could want to.
What seems to have happened is that
recollection of the agonies and anxieties
they have borne —before Dunkirk and
after, through the bombings and fires,
during the long aching time they stood
alone comes filtered to them now
through recollection also of “their finest
hour,” They took all there was to take.
Braced to the crisis, they withstood it.
They struck bottom. There was nowhere
to go but up. They enjoy going up, and are
delighted at having company on the way.
There are other things than memory
to remind them. There are the battered,
scorched, pitted fapades of the buildings,
mile after drab mile of them. There are
the windowless walls and the emptinesses
where buildings once stood. There are
the tidied-up wastes of rubble, the blast
walls, shorings, sandbags, the “static
water” stored in cellars open to the sky.
There is the great bleak area where St.
Paul’s stands vast in lonely splendor ; a
setting now nothing but gritty ruin, ham-
mered level to ruddy dust. There are the
maimed and the dead.
But the people stand out from all this
like a bright penny in a grimy hand. In
uniform or out, in village, city or country-
side, they and their purposeful activities
feature and dominate the scene. They
have had more than their faces lifted in
recent months. They have had their
hearts lifted. Perhaps being 30 miles from
the enemy instead of three thousand,
and getting steadily closer, has had some-
thing to do with that. Whatever it is,
these British folks are putting their backs
into the war with a single-mindedness
and competence not even dimly compre-
hended by most of us.
A Long and Hard Way.
[With this heading, this letter by H. F. Lyall
Grant appeared in London “Times.”]
A “Times” leading article, discussing
the outlook for the reconquest of Burma,
states “the essential condition of success
in an operation of such magnitude is our
preponderance in that combination of sea
and air power by which the Japanese and
the Allies have in turn triumphed in the
Far Eastern theatre.” The article
reaffirms “sea-air superiority alone gives
clear promise of victory.”
May I point out that this opinion,
taken as it stands, may be too literally
interpreted by some and so give rise to
expectations unduly optimistic? The time
is approaching when we shall have sea-
air superiority in the Indian Ocean area,
but this will not ensure victory on land,
although it is an essential preliminary
condition to undertaking major opera-
tions. Anyone who has flown over tropi-
cal jungle will appreciate the limitations
of air co-operation with land forces.
Anyone who has taken part in tropical
land operations against a determined,
trained enemy will know that superior
armaments and superior numbers give no
guarantee of victory.
Tropical warfare, like desert and other
special forms of war, has its own intri-
cate set of problems. Success in a large-
scale tropical offensive, where long land
communications are involved, depends
mainly on the thoroughness with which
certain preparations have been carried out
prior to the opening of the campaign.
The chief object of these measures is to
maintain momentum throughout the
devil’s race against time which charac-
terises each operational season. Some
of them take years rather than months
to complete, and there has certainly been
insufficient time since Pearl Harbor to
finish them all. Provision has to be made
against more than 20 main “sticking-
points,” besides lesser ones. Even two
or three of these snags can cause enough
drag to waste a season. Errors of judg-
ment in detail or in scale can delay and
frustrate action in a surprising way.
There are many pitfalls, even for the
experienced.
The tropics neither forgive nor change.
In fairness to the services the public
should know that there is no royal road
to success. As in North Africa, the way
must be hard and long. There is, how-
ever, one sure road to failure, and that is
to initiate major operations prematurely
or with preparations on an inadequate
scale. This may sound a platitude, but
tropical operations seem to have a pecu-
liar power of inducing self-deception in
high places.
Ruhr Raids.
( Condensed from an article by N.Y. “Times”
London correspondent.)
The Ruhr region, which the Royal Air
Force has attacked with relentless in-
tensity, is only about 40 miles long and
40 miles wide.
Yet in a very real sense it is the heart
of the Nazis’ war industry and its com-
munication system, its veins and arteries.
Small as the Ruhr region is, it has
produced three-fourths of Germany’s
coal and four-fifths of her coke ; and,
while estimates vary somewhat, some-
thing in the neighborhood of two-thirds
of Germany’s raw iron and steel comes
from the valley through which runs the
river that gives the region its name.
The huge Krupp works, employing at
least 75,000 persons, at Essen is of vital
importance to German armament out-
put. The importance Nazi leaders
attach to the Ruhr region is indicated by
the fact that, according to R.A.F. pilots
who have visited other key centres in
Germany, it is the most heavily defended
area in the world.
British reconnaissance photographs
have provided indisputable evidence of
the extent of the damage done, and glean-
ings from enemy newspapers and testi-
mony from hostile witnesses bear out the
fact that the bombs have been dropped
where they hurt.
It is not the purpose of this article to
exaggerate the effects of the bombing
of the Ruhr, important as they are as
one phase of the campaign by the R.A.F.
and the United States Eighth Air Force
to cripple the Nazi Army by blotting
out 50-odd key centres that feed it the
tools of war. Only a handful of these
centres are situated in the Ruhr, import-
ant as it is as a source of raw materials.
The Ruhr contains less than a fifth of
Germany’s total industrial capacity. Key
industries of the Nazi war machine lie
further eastward. Among them are the
big new steelworks at Salzgitter, a tank
production centre at Fallersleben, which
was ostensibly built for the production
of the German people’s car, chemical
works at Leuna, Halle and Leipzig, the
synthetic oil industry of the Sudetenland
and the war-born industries of Upper
Silesia and southern Poland.
The relative importance of the Rhine
and the Ruhr region to the Reich has
declined for two main reasons. The first
is that, even before the war began, Ger-
many was transplanting industries to the
central part of the country. The second
is that, as the Reich has absorbed other
parts of Europe into its new order, it
has added to its own productive capacity.
Even with these reservations in mind,
it is not easy to give anything like ar


Post-war Credits
oi the taxes back!
FADDEN’S POST-WAR CREDITS PLAN IS A GREAT
CONTRIBUTION TO POST-WAR RECONSTRUCTION
One-third of the net income tax collected from
individuals, commencing from Ist July, 1941, and
for each subsequent year of the war, will be placed
to a post-war credit fund.
The total fund so created will be refunded in cash.
Taxpayers on the lowest range of taxable income
will have three-quarters of the tax they have paid
refunded. This will taper down to 5 per cent, on
the highest incomes.
By this means Fadden will make a substantial
contribution towards your personal readjustment
as well as general post-war reconstruction.
United Australia Party
United Country Party
and ensure
Post- war credits and
Pay-as-you-earn taxation
For the Senate, vote |T] ARKINS, [2] DEIN, [|] NOCK
and number every square or your vote will be informal.
1
VOTE
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
accurate estimate of the effect of the
recent air raids on Germany’s essential
war-making power. But Germany has
been badly hurt in a vital spot. How
badly only the Germans know and only
time will tell.
Fourth Term for Roosevelt?
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by the
leading American political writer Stanley High.)
Unlike the U.S. at large, which takes
its politics in calendar gulps, the city of
Washington lives by what the politicians
brew. What they are currently brewing
is the 1944 election. If they are thus
unseasonably ahead of themselves, that is
because —what with the war, the fourth
term and the New Deal —they have never
before had in their hands such a potent
combination of ingredients.
By every portent in the Washington
sky, Mr. Roosevelt aims to be elected
President again. He wants to be elected
again because of his appraisal of the
times, on the one hand, and of himself,
on the other. In fact, to anyone at all
familiar with the political history of the
past decade and of the current state of
the world, Mr. Roosevelt seeking a
fourth term is Mr. Roosevelt in character.
To forswear it would be, to say the least,
a magnificent gesture of self-abnegation.
But it would violently depart from the
Roosevelt norm.
This is not to say what his congenital
haters would allege—namely, that Mr.
Roosevelt had such a protracted tenure in
mind when he took office. What he had
in mind, among other things, was an
acute sense of his own destiny. This —as
it has grown with the years and succeed-
ing crises is something considerably
more than the fe’eling that he knows the
ropes or that to change horses while
crossing a stream is risky business. In
a more evangelical era, the President’s
feeling about himself would have been
described as a sense of mission—a single-
minded belief, devoid of meekness, that
he had “come to the kingdom for such
a time as this.”
In any other Presidential period, at
least since Jefferson’s, “such a lime,”
after eight years, would have run out.
But not in Mr. Roosevelt’s. His times
have continued to keep pace with his
destiny. The emergency has now become
global. Mr. Roosevelt aims to be elected
for a fourth term because the job to
which he now feels called, on the global
level, is as far from finished as his job
was, on the national level, at the end of
the first term.
That job is to win the war and to
ensure the peace. Winning the war will
undoubtedly get major campaign atten-
tion. In fact, Don’t Change Commanders
has already been proposed as a campaign
slogan. But the President is supremely
confident we shall win the war. In regard
to the peace, he is much less certain.
And it is on that issue that the question
of indispensability really begins to figure.
There is increasing testimony to this
effect from the President’s callers. To
one of them he recently outlined, at some
length, the mistakes which followed the
last war ; the danger that those mistakes
will be repeated after this one ; and his
own ambition to prevent them and thus
forestall World War 111. There was no
mistaking his conviction —so this caller
reported —that the peace required his
leadership.
To another recent visitor who asked
him point-blank whether he planned to
run for a fourth term, the President said
virtually the same things. As far as the
Presidency was concerned, he had already
borne the burden of it too long. He had
no desire to run again. But who else is
there? The President, said this caller,
is weary. But his mind is made up.
It is notable that these are precisely the
impressions which visitors took away
from the Presidential presence on the eve
of the third-term decision.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The British raid in force across Northern
Burma played havoc with Japanese communica-
tions and at one time might well have succeeded
in cutting off enough territory to reopen a
land route to China. But, in spite of the terrific
pounding which our air forces have given the
Japanese in Burma, the problem has been too
difficult to solve. The Japanese have at least
80,000 men in Burma, and they can be dislodged
only by a major operation, including the use
of considerable sea power.— “ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
The Admiralty has for some time past bedn
actively engaged in seeking a type of aircraft
capable of being carried in a merchant vessel
and also of hovering over a diving U-boat
to drop depth charges before returning to its
parent ship. There is no type of autogiro which
appears completely equal to this task. But the
Vought-Sikorsky helicopter is reported to pro-
vide the answer to the problem. If all that is
reported of this remarkable machine is true, it
can fly in really rough weather, and if the
parent ship to which it must return is pitching
and rolling too much for an ordinary deck land-
ing to be effected in safety there is nothing to
prevent the helicopter from being hauled down
by means of a rope, just like a barrage balloon.
—Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
“There are those who say that the United
Nations are held together in an alliance that is
only temporary and fortuitous, that when the
war is won the alliance will fall apart, and
that each nation will have to look only to itself
for security. They declare that ‘either we will
be dominant in the air—or we will be dominated
in the post-war world.’ They urge that we
seize and hold every island in the Pacific, no
matter what friendly Power owns it now. They
even propose that, in return for lend-lease aid,
the United States demand the right to be the
‘only nation in the world permitted to manu-
facture civil and military aircraft’ and to con-
trol all the big petroleum fields of the world.
Incredible as these proposals may seem, they
actually have been made within the last few
months by our new American imperialists.” —
Vice-President of the United States Henry A.
Wallace.
* * * *
China, which still has fears about the inten-
tions of the Soviet Union, cannot help looking
askance at the flirtation between London and
Moscow', and turns, therefore, all the more
urgently to the United States as her closest
friend and supporter. But China has the same
difficulty with us as does Britain: how can
she tell what will be our attitude at the peace
table? —“ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
It is conceivable that the war could be won
in the west of Europe, now that the enemy is
being so fearfully mauled in the east. But it
might be won only through long-drawn attrition
and at so fearful a cost that it would leave the
Allies hardly less exhausted than the Germans.
It is not enough to win the war —the margin
of strength between victors and vanquished must
be a wide one, for great strength, even armed
strength, will be needed to make peace after the
victory.— London ‘‘Nineteenth Century.”
* * * *
Germany recently admitted that a quarter of
the 40,000,000 workers in German production
are foreign workers and prisoners of war.
Embittered French workers and their fellow-
victims in the heart of German industry may
yet take a potent share in the overthrow of Nazi
tyranny. The Trojan horse is already within
the gates; and it is the Germans themselves
who have so strenuously carried it in.— Special
correspondent in London “Times.”
si: * * *
The Canadian Government has placed be-
fore Parliament a national health measure which
should have a profound influence on our think-
ing. Insured medical care is to be available
to all, the cost to be shared by the benefi-
ciaries, by employers and by the Provincial and
National Governments. The whole field of
preventive and curative medicine is covered, as
well as hospital and dental care and the pro-
vision of medicines and appliances.— N.Y.
“Times;”
¥
“Social consciousness” is tuxedo English for
Socialistic consciousness, which, in turn, is
pussyfoot English for Communism. Its oppo-
site is individual consciousness, which means
that the individual —you and me, not an abstract
mass —is of primary value. Individual con-
sciousness, individual rights, not social rights,
which may mean anything or nothing, but
which, generally, mean State tyranny of some
kind. — Benjamin DeCasseres; N.Y. “Journal-
American.”
v * * *
Labor union leaders are still under the
illusion that their political strength plus that
of the party in power gives them a majority.
What they do not realise is that a new majority
is being developed which is rapidly turning
against labor unions. Certainly there is every
indication that, if the 10,000,000 persons who
are in the armed services are permitted to vote,
a substantial majority will cast their ballots
against anybody who by legislative or official
inaction seems to permit strikes or work stop-
pages.—Washington syndicate writer David Law-
rence.
* * * *
The British-American Conference on Refu-
gees at Bermuda was convened in response to
appeals, especially from Jewish groups, primarily
the Zionist Jews. Bermuda was chosen to in-
sulate the conferees from the published adver-
tisements, petitions, pageants and mass meetings
which would have attended a conference in Lon-
don, Washington, Ottawa. Among the hard
facts, as they were seen in official Washington,
were these; American public opinion will not
accept modification of the immigration laws
to admit more refugees. This was demon-
strated as recently as January by a unanimous
vote of the House Ways and Means Committee.
British public opinion holds similarly that the
United Kingdom .has absorbed its share of
refugees.— Ernest K. Lindley; “Free World,
U.S.A.
;J: v %
Air transportation can become a political
football within the United States and it can
become a diplomatic football among the nations.
In this latter phase the potentialities are ex-
plosive, particularly if, as Mr. Juan T. Tnppe>
president of Pan-American Airways, has pointed
out, the United States seeks to exploit the posi-
tion which her share in the joint warplane con-
struction programme of the United Nations
has secured to her. Mr. Trippe instanced the
case of Great Britain, which has been construct-
ing fighters and other military types, while the
United States has been building transports m
addition to combat aircraft. This programme
was instituted for the common good pf botn
nations, but, as Mr. Trippe said, Great Britain
has thereby “suffered a post-war handicap.
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
On Guadalcanal alone 2000 gallons of oil are
used weekly in the fight against malaria mos-
quitoes, and more would be used if men were
available to put it out. The oil commonly used
is No. 2 Diesel, which is standard for Navy
boats. Jeeps have been equipped with special
tanks holding 50 gallons of the oil, which they
spray into pools and puddles wherever louno
around the countryside. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” war correspondent.
* * * *
Even if Japan is defeated and wholly ex-
cluded'from her Asiatic conquests the aspi a-
tions of Russia in the Far East will be met witn
at the post-war conferences, and they may b
hostile to China’s recovery ot her anciem
empire. In fact, certain Americans, m close
touch with Soviet Russia’s policies, like M •
Walter Duranty, say that Russia will not oc
satisfied except by being put m possession o
Mongolia, Manchuria and Korea, and that
may furthermore demand a position ot specw
influence over the five northern provinces
China, which include the Shantung Peninsula
and the city of Peiping.—. Maj.-Gen _D. r-
Barrows (former president of California U
versiiy), in N.Y. “Journal-American.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS BOWCOCK for-
merly of Cessnock Bricklayer.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY BOWCOCK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1757 of 1943 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend the suit you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fourth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. WOODGATE & CLEAVES
of 97 Vincent Street Cessnock Solicitors. —
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PHILIP ROLAND MURPHY late of Logan
Street Cowra.—TAKE NOTICE that ADA
MARY MURPHY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2228 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance by the 30th September 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors, 39-49
Martin Place, Sydney.
TO ROBERT JOSEPH MALCOLM formerly
of Baxter in the State of Victoria Mechanic. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAISIE EDNA
MALCOLM has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Eighth day of
September 1943 the case may proceed in your
absence.—JOSEPH LYNCH, of 299 Bridge
Road, Richmond, in the said State, Solicitor
for the Petitioner, Maisie Edna Malcolm.
■•"••-a *
4
i
v; f?
Where there’s
a child
there should be
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Bournville Cocoa is a grand
food for growing children.
Milk in itself is a valuable
food, but when Bournville
Cocoa and a little sugar are
added, you obtain forty-five
per cent, more nutriment than
from milk alone. Moreover,
. .. '■
in Bournville Cocoa you pro-
vide a drink that is welcomed
by children who often refuse
milk. The rich, choco’aty fla-
vour of Bournville Cocoa is
the secret. There’s no other
cocoa like Cadbury’s Bourn-
ville Cocoa.
Made by CADBURY makers of Dairv Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
LS3S
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
mwiH’
all you've gol into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
SO 6 5 e
Answers to Correspondents
Same and address must appear _ on the MS. No
Hubility is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned, unless
stamps accompany. MS; should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.H.W.: “The Bike Thief” gets a puncture
in the last stanza.. . .A.C.C.: You should
have some more “youthful conscience qualms
about that rhyme with “charms”....IS.: While
he can write “You wrong are” his verses always
cronk will be .... W.S.C.; “Sick at heart, he
returned to the lonely road.” Meditating, no
doubt, on the iniquity of sentimental poems
about moons and tunes... .C.L.M.: Adds little
to the original.... L.C.B.; Inexpressibly i na 9.9‘
quate E.T.H.: It is possible that the devils
greatest torment is reading the poems that are
written about him... .C.J.C.: There’s a good
poem in it, but it doesn’t emerge,.. .M.H.A.:
You could probably express your sentiments
about politicians more effectively by voting
informal MJ.N.: Try elsewhere EAV.:
“Rural Whispers” is just that... .T.B.B.: Don t
know where you could publish them... . M.M.:
Not a bad yarn, but built on a too-famihar
pattern... .M.L.A.; Too slight, too chirpy
H.G.R.: Might make an Abo. par S.K.:
Magazinish A.S.W.; Australian settings,
preferably... .S.H.: Just a bubble... .G.L.:
It preaches... .R.T.: Sentimental.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Penguin Political Dictionary.
To buy gramophone records of musical
comedy excerpts by the Light Opera Co., such
as “The Student Prince.”
Information Sought.
(1) When and by whom were the Motion
Picture Academy awards introduced 7 (2) Who
selects the winners of these awards 7
(1) The awards were instituted in the U.S.A.
on the 1927-28 productions by the Motion
Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences. (2)
An annual poll is conducted by governors of
the Academy from representatives of all sec-
tions of the business. Those elected each year
act as judges.
* * * *
(1) How many copies of a book should
accompany an application for copyright 7 (2)
Where are forms obtainable, and what charge
is made ? (3) What steps should be taken to
obtain copyright in U.S.A. 7
(1) One. (2) Forms of application have been
posted. Fee on lodging application is 5s.
(3) Register the work at the office of the Regis-
ter of Copyrights, Library of Congress, Wash-
ington, D.C., from whom forms of applica-
tion and information as to fees and procedure
may be obtained.
* $ * *
(1) Whose portrait is now seen as a water-
mark in Australian paper currency 7 (2) When
did such notes first appear, and whose portrait
was formerly used 7
(1) The portrait is that of Captain Cook.
(2) Notes bearing that marking were first issued
in September, 1938; the portrait previously
incorporated was that of the Prince of Wales,
later Edward VIII.
Brief Answers.
G.R.: The P.M. Churchill is a grandson of
the seventh Duke of Marlborough. The present
duke (tenth) is John Albert Edward William
Spencer-Churchill; two sons. Impossible for
Winston Churchill to succeed to the title....
J.M.W.: My Henry Lawson, published by Frank
Johnson, obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney K.H.P.: The use of catapults for
sending ’planes up from merchant ships has
been reported, but it is not known at what date
the practice commenced. Spitfires would not be
suitable; Hurricanes probably would be used.
L.M.W.: A flight-sergeant is inferior in rank
to a pilot-officer. Next above flight-sergeant is
warrant-officer T.R.: Jimmy Kelso won the
Australian lightweight championship from
Bobby Delaney (15 rounds’ points decision) at
Sydney Stadium on April 3, 1933. He lost
the title to Herb Bishop at the same stadium
in the following year... .M.K.: The “h” in
Anthony is silent W.K.D.: When Bradman
made his record Test score of 334 at Leeds
he was caught Duckworth, bowled Tate....
S.R.P.: (1) Yes or No, according to h.q. assess-
ment of the application after investigation. (2)
Yes. But the C.O. may refuse a transfer if he
thinks it to be in the interests of the service
J.R.McG.: (1) Fresh meat should be placed in
rapidly boiling water (with no salt), and cooked
rapidly five or ten minutes, according to size,
then the heat reduced to simmering-point.
Allow i-hour for each pound and 4-hour oyer.
(2) Baking is better for beef and pork; boiling
for mutton and all salt meat... .G.McG.:
Twentieth Century Authors, by Kunitz and Hay-
craft, contains detailed information on D. B.
Wyndham Lewis, a humorous essayist, not to
be confused with Percy Wyndham Lewis, author
of Apes of God, etc. The book is on view at
the Public Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
E.K.: Flushes do come into cribbage. (2)
Members of the R.A.A.F. are allowed one ser-
vice stripe on the commencement of operational
service, and one additional stripe for each addi-
tional year in an operational area.


w
FOOTES f*
SECOND
FRONT.
Rootes' Group civilian front is closed
for the duration—their efforts and
vast production facilities have long
been concentrated upon a second
front.
The skill and experience with which
they made their civilian cars and
trucks are being applied wholly and
eagerly toward turning out the war
machines that will bring Victory.
The day will come, though, when you
can once more buy a Rootes' vehicle
and enjoy your motoring to the full.
Resident Representative :
C. H. HORDERN. 472 Bourke Street. Melbourne
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber ♦ Sunbeam-Talbot
Hillman
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer * Harrier
QSSQQ3-
Ssar
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
Lend — don’t spend I
BUY WAR
SA VINCS
CERTIFICATES!
BEHIND the phrase, “our anti-aircraft defences accounted
for three enemy raiders,” is a story of precision
workmanship in the building of anti-aircraft guns which
will always redound to the credit of Australian craftsmen.
Pictured here is a Sin. A-A Gun Cradle built in the
Ronaldson-Tippett works. This is the main casting into
which the barrel of the gun fits. Its manufacture calls
for the finest mathematical precision, and we are singularly
well equipped in machine tools and men to put this precision
into effect.
RONAUDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
K.S.W. Distributors: Bonaldson Bros. & JLtd “
Frazer House, 42 Bridge (street, SYDNEY.
QTand Distributors: Konalclson Tippett L,td -’
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE. ,
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Loss.* 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 16,9()7 Nil Nil 64,9-90
Profit.
3933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
11.6 p.c.
1935.. 84,387 87,1881 Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87.1881 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
5.8 p.c.
1937. .109,416 43,598 44 „ „ 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. .113,026 43,593 5 „„ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. 43,593 5 „ „ 62,500 1,602 93,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 4,856 88,448
1941 . .111,732 43,594 5 ~,, 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. .110,353 43,694 5 ~,,62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
t Subject to, goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
The accounts cover nine months of
clothes rationing and 101 months of
prices pegged to a fixed money rate of
profit instead of a percentage rate of
mark-up. The conditions which produced
rationing, however, have bred other con-
ditions not so unfavorable to the retail
trade; nearly all stock has become good
stock, and this has meant that mark-up
of prices is more fully represented in
p. and 1. figures at the end of the year.
Bad debts have become lighter, too,
partly because the abundance of money
now available has made payment of old
accounts easier and partly because there
is a tendency to pay cash for new goods.
In the first two months covered by
Anthony Horderns’ latest accounts there
was a 25 p.c. increase in the cash value
of sales by Sydney retailers compared
with the preceding year. In only one
other month of the term, however, were
retail sales generally as high as in 1941.
Averaging monthly averages, sales were
down by about 8 p.c. in the Sydney
trade as a whole ; on a more correct
mathematical basis the fall was probably
more. At the same time there was a con-
siderable reduction in staffs, and some
p. and 1. compensation was derived from
this.
In Horderns’ particular case, the board
reports that “the ever-increasing Govern-
ment restrictions throughout this year
have added additional difficulties and
costs to the conduct of the business.”
Many of the restrictions and regulations,
says chairman Mark Sheldon, are diffi-
cult to understand, and appear to be of
no use. Returns that serve little apparent
purpose have to be made up for several
Government departments. As the co.’s
year progressed the stock position became
more difficult, and towards the close of
the ration year it was probably stock as
much as rationing that affected sales.
After setting aside £54,246 (up £603)
for depreciation and adding £33,590 net
to taxation reserve (£191,801), the profit
disclosed was £1096 lower at £109,257.
After handing the prefs. their 5.8 p.c.
and the ords. the 5 p.c. to which they
have been accustomed since 1938, there
was £3163 left for reserves, which now
stand at £101,508, and are subject to
goodwill, appearing in the books at
£273,153.
Over the past seven years £378,000 has
been written off for depreciation. Thus,
in spite of continued modernisation of the
store, fixed assets register a steady de-
cline, and the liquid position shows a
corresponding improvement:
1937. 1942. 1943.
Ord. capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,060 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,00-0 750,0-00 75-0,000
Debentures .. 660,000-
Mortgage .. ~ 410,000 350,000
Creditors, etc. . . 84,-633 370,286 144,270
Tax reserves .. 43,582 168,211 191,801
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 1,281,236 1,177,890 1,153,228
Plant, etc. . . 256,951 119,258 87,409
Stocks .. .. 757,221 1,091,645 923,265
Book debts . . 224,469 379,244 240,207
Cash, etc... .. 63,289 48,69'S 163,365
The sale of portion of the Camperdown
property and residues of former suburban
depot lands helped the position in the
1942 term, but last year, without any
announced realisations, there was a net
reduction of £24,662 in the book value
of freeholds, while plant was down
£31,849. In connection with the latter,
“large requisitions of transport plant”
are reported; prior to the war the co.’s
delivery service was one of the biggest
things of its kind in the Commonwealth.
The co. has “at various times made
available a large amount of space for
operations and storage for the Australian
and Allied forces, the total area running
into over 300,000 sq. feet. This has
resulted in considerable concentration in
the main store.”
A further £60,000 has been wiped off
the mortgage, and sundry creditors have
come down £226,016. This has been
made possible, apart from the reduction
in fixed assets, by a drop of £168,380 in
stocks and £139,037 in book debts. The
holding of cash, war loans, etc., improved
£114,667 at the same time. Most of the
debtors that remain on the books
represent Government departments.
Anthony Horderns’ has its own pecu-
liar problems in trading ; the universal
nature of the business and the extensive
premises mean the employment of a large
capital. Accompanying these problems
is seen some of the keenest financing in
Sydney, evidence of which is the stable
earning power exhibited over the past
seven years. A solid goodwill that
extends out into remote rural areas is
also of great assistance.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends Re- Re-
Aipril, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 3,230 3 p.c. Nil 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12 „ Nil 12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15 „ Nil 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 6 „ 4 p.c. 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 6 „ 4 „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 4,398 111,540
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1939.. 14,292 6 p.c. 2* p.c. 11,000 3,292 93,704
1940.. 22,147 6 ~ 5 „ 16,000 6,147 99,851
1941.. 22,137 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,137 105,988
1942.. 24,548 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 8,548 114,536
Net loss sale of assets, £9415 .. 105,121
1943.. 42,571 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 26,571 131,692
No, there’s no misprint there, nor in the
£95,732 —an advance of £56,447! ear-
marked for the taxgatherer’s rake-off
before striking the result shown. “The
year was remarkable for the volume of
production achieved,” the board quietly
comments on the record level of earnings.
Service contracts, expanded by Allied
needs, were chiefly responsible, and re-
serve capacity as the result of pre-war
modernisation of plant well fitted the co.
to meet the heavy demands from that
quarter. At the same time, reorganisation
of manufacturing and trading activities
enabled the maintenance of “an appre-
ciable volume” of normal trade in a
restricted variety of lines, some of which
used to be on grocers’ shelves all over
the Commonwealth and enjoyed export
connections as well. Keeping in step
with the parent’s plum-pudding, biscuit-
and cake-making activities are the sub-
sidiary ice-cream and dehydrated fruit
and vegetable interests. Altogether, the
pups contributed £6012 net to the group
trading result last year, reducing their
accumulated depression losses to £3274.
Major portion of the £6012 came from
the ice-cream venture. Government mar-
gins leaving little in it for the dehydra-
tion offshoot after tax had come off.
For their part, parental activities netted
£36,560, giving the combined result of
£42,571 shown. That leaves out of the
reckoning a capital loss of £9415 net on
disposal of the former city freehold, etc..
a sale the accounts are all the better for.
The £42,571 lifted earning power to 14.2
p.c. on pref. and ord. capital combined,
compared with 8.1, 7.3, 7.3 and 4.7 p.c.
for the four years before. Both classes
of shares, however, were kept down to
the rates of the past three years. That
left £26,571 for reserves and, with other
things, indicates that the management
hasn’t lost sight of what might happen
when the old trade rivalry crops up again.
What this long-term policy may eventu-
ally mean for the prefs., which share
with the ords. above 6 p.c., remains to be
seen.
Meantime, witness the transformation
in finances taking place:
Consolidated Figures.
1989. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capita].. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft . . 35,575 29,840-
Creditors . . 30,731 54,629 53,308 60,475
Tax reserve .. 7,953 10,307 39,432 100,217
Freeholds .. 200,373 201,941 198,236 167,19.1
Plant, etc. . . 155,450 146,728 139,607 109,382
Stocks . . 91,532 85,819 77,970 91,482
Debtors . . 60.482 65,232 73,342 80,942
Cash, etc. .. 3,625 .15,023 26,120 151,434
The robustness of the cash holding is
partly synthetic, in so far as a whopping
tax assessment has still to be met. Still,
recognising the importance of operating
efficiency on competitive power, Swallow’s
management is making solid provision
for such maintenance and renewals as
it is unable to make good under
present conditions. Including £35,480
(up £13,358) in the last term, the total
of war-time depreciation amounts to
£104,180, or about two-thirds book
values of plant in April, 1939.
With Australia now quartermaster to
most s.-w. Pacific forces, service contracts
ensure continued high-pressure working.
Earning-power will partly depend on the
extent to which these further impinge on
the co.’s civilian market and on the extent
it is called upon to co-operate in anti-
inflation measures by absorbing further
increases in costs.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Be- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 9,904 8 p.c. = 3,331 6,573 19,942
1937.. 8,194 8 „ „ 3,331 4,863 24,805
Surplus sale electrical undertaking, £7500 32,305
1938.. 12,330 11.1 p.c. = 4,6 2 6 7,70 4 4 0,009
1939.. 9,044 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,418 44,427
1940.. 9,597 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 65,614
1942.. 13,875 16.7 ~ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
1943.. 11,037 13.9 „ ~ 7,710 3,327 63,563
Expansion in earning power since the
outbreak of war, despite unprecedented
taxation, underlines some of the idle
potential normally existent in the woollen
textile trade. Established by rural in-
vestors, this Maryborough co. was an
experiment in industrial decentralisation
which got stuck in the mud, and in 1931,
less than a decade after setting up, capi-
tal was pruned by £52,000, or 1 Is. a share,
both pref. and ord. In the subsequent
reorganisation a new management went
over the business from attic to cellar, and
for many years more was put by than was
distributed to shareholders. The position
now with regard to reserves is so good
that the “Wild Cat” will be surprised if


SOME COMMON SENSE
M**'
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Is Your Rest
Disturbed?
Correct the cause of sleepless nights;
days of misery, discomfort, and incon-
venience by taking a course of
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don’t delay—neglect is dangerous.
Doan’s Pills will soon put you right.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Colling
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
Wanted to Purchase.
WANTED to Purchase, ARCHITECT’S
DRAWING OFFICE PLANT, in part or whole,
for cash. —No. 310, Box 252188, G.P.0., Syd-
ney.
Legal Notice.
TO ARCHIBALD LIVINGSTONE LINDSAY
formerly of Perth in the State of Western
tralia Fitter present address unknown. tAKb
NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the 26th
day of July 1943 has been issued out ot the
Divorce Registry of the Supreme Court ot
Western Australia citing you to appear and
answer the petition of BLANCHE MAR-
CARET LINDSAY of 183 Fitzgerald Street
Perth in the State of Western Australia pray-
ing for the dissolution of her marriage with
you In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court- and the
Court will proceed to hear and determine the
petition proved and pronounce sentence m re-
spect thereto AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that for the purposes aforesaid you are within
60 days from the date of the appearance of
this advertisement to attend in person or by
your solicitor at the Divorce Registry of the
Supreme Court at Perth and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that pur-
pose DATED the fifth day of August 1943.
—< L .s.) G. T. BAYLSON, Registrar.
UNMACK & UNMACK, Withnell Chambers,
Howard-street, Perth, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
msm
<■ v?v
■ez
Cutting down
Our Apple
TREES
WHEN a man plants an apple tree he does it to
bring food and profit, not only to himself, but
to those who come after him. An apple tree is pro-
ductive wealth that a man can enjoy and, by caring
for it, pass on to his children.
Life Assurance is much like an apple tree. If an
A.M.P. policy be cared for, and properly fed, it will
bring comfort and security to him who owns it, and
succour to those who come after him.
There are people to-day who would confiscate or
"regiment” all wealth, foolishly thinking that that
would save them the labour of creating wealth for
themselves. They would cut down all the apple trees
to save themselves the trouble of caring for them
and harvesting the yearly crop.
The members of the A.M.P. Society (one family in
every three in the Commonwealth) wouid oe wise to
think on these new notions. X heir society has served
them for nearly 100 years. They have £141,000,000
worth of wealth conserved for their own future
use. Let them guard carefully these savings.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Prb>«upal Hoard;
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.J5.A., Chairman.
rw.il H Hoekins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith. Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A W Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Marlin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head OHlce: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ECONOMY IS IN
THE WIND ..
A significant part of every Cold-Drawn Precision Seamless
Steel Tube is the hole down the middle...for that hole has
saved thousands of tons of high-grade steel for Australia’s
War Effort. Because of their economy, Cold-Drawn Steel
Tubes now replace solid members and bored tubes in
hundreds of munitions... and the
list is constantly extending.
B.T.M's. splendid contribution to
munitions production is made
possible by men trained under
progressive free enterprise...
men who will know how to
organize for a prosperous peace.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A U S t.) PT V. LTD.
ADELAIDE
ft * MC.
ẅ
buy war
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
some restoration of jettisoned capital isn’t
contemplated when the board gets a more
settled view of the future.
Speaking generally, yarn supplies con-
stituted the chief bottleneck to produc-
tion when the Pacific war added to the
strain on the textile trade ; now, because
of absenteeism and uncontrolled drifts in
and out of the industry, the trouble is
labor. For Maryborough Knitting and a
new-born hosiery associate at Clunes,
however, the chief threat to earnings with
order-books chock-full of low-profit de-
fence contracts appears to come from
inflating costs. Consider these figures:
1940'. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Gross earnings .. £31,017 £58,207 £56,953 £38,487
Exes 21,420 42,738 43,078 27,450
Combined effect of changed demand and
cost structures last year was to bite into
manufacturing margins to the tune of
£18,466 ; fortunately, after providing
£3445 for depreciation and the usual
£lOOO for staff benefits, savings in exes,
offset £15,628 of the decline. There are
obviously limits to the co.’s absorptive
capacity in this respect, and early relief
from the pressure of costs depends on
how far down the queue the co. is when
Government subsidies to cover inescap-
able increments come to be handed out.
The £2838 profit dip dragged earning
power down from 25 p.c. to 19.9 p.c. on
capital, and the div. was reduced to
13.9 p.c., the prefs. participating. It’s a
prosperous-looking state of affairs, but
old shareholders, don’t forget, are receiv-
ing no more than 7.6 p.c. on their origi-
nal investment.
Finances wear a very different com-
plexion from those of a half-score years
ago:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capitol . . . . £41,636 £55,512 £55,515 £55,515
Liabilities* .. 34,091 29,998 37,034 35,595
Freeholds . . . . 13,815 13,815 13,265 13,241
Plant, etc-. ... 21,696 21,201 21,598 18,300
Debtors . . .. ' 25,353 26,023 22,825 19,656
Stock . . . . 66,329' 74,555 97,833 104,256
Shares . . . . 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000
Cash, etc 558 13,783 6,517 7,931
* Including tax provision.
The improvement is partly obscured by
the temporary locking up of retained
earnings and £13,876 of war-raised capi-
tal in stocks, valued with “due considera-
tion to every material existing circum-
stance,” shareholders were assured a year
ago. These inventories are self-reducing,
so, assuming no mishaps in their liquida-
tion, there should be no scarcity of the
wherewithal with which to rejuvenate
war-flogged plant when the time to do so
arrives. An efficient manufacturing unit
will be the co.’s best defence in the com-
petition likely to develop once arrears of
civilian clothing purchases are taken up.
Victorian goldmining employees have
fallen to 377, as against 1735 in Sept.,
1941, and 457 with which it was proposed
to leave the industry. At Newstead, Vic-
toria Dredging continues to scrape to-
gether labor for one-shift working. Im-
proved recoveries helped cushion the first
impact of restricted operations on costs
and profits, from which these attractive
diVs. have been paid since the beginning
in 1938:
Year. Treated, Gr., Costs, Net f ——Divs.- ——,
Mar., O.y. C.y. Pence. Profit. Share. Amt.
1939*.. 1,217,750 4.27 4.08 £73,410 4/- £50,000
1940 . . 2,286,297 4.34 3.68 157,591 11/- 137,500
1941 . . 2,570,082 3.70 3.28 150,808 11/- 137,500
1942 .. 2,670,038 2.81 3.30 107,201 7/6 93,750
1943 . . 2,061,281 3.16 4.27 88,468 6/- 75,000
* 8i months.
Turnover looks like falling another half-
million c.y. in the term now one-third
through, and gold returns have declined,
too. But that is rather to be expected
with half the co.’s known life and the
richest portion of its dredging reserves
now behind it. Yardage to date has
panned out 102.3 p.c. of expectations, and
recoveries (3.57 gr.) 84.6 p.c. of bore
values ; these indicated an average gold
content of 3-jgr. or so for the property as
a whole. Including stores, surplus more
or less liquids of 4s. 2d. a share are on
hand.
* * * *
Whereas over a quarter-million of debt
not long ago blotted the co.’s copybook.
Central Norseman Gold Corp. (W.A.)
now exhibits cash or equivalent assets
of £87,282, with another £66,640 tucked
away in (these days) precious stores. And
that after paying a maiden div. of Is. a
share in the year to March, worth £65,000
and £15,000 respectively to Western Min-
ing Corp. and Central Gold, sole bene-
ficiaries. Last term’s relatively high level
of earnings, notwithstanding 30 p.c. con-
traction in output and 4s. 6d. a ton lift
in costs, reflects extension of high-grade
stopes beyond expected ore-reserve limits
and a charge for development £22,548
lighter at £52,717;
Working
Year Treated, r —Yields, Ton— \ Costs,
March, Tons. Gold. Silver. Ton. Profit.
1942.. 115,398 B.7dwt. s.9dwt. 32/3 £222,274
1943.. 82,150. 9.4 „ 6.0„ 36/9 169,506
The profit stated takes no credit, on the
one hand, for £16,441 not required under
uniform taxation written back from tax
account and on the other disregards
£31,500 sent to depreciation account.
With the 288,500 (down 26,000) tons of
proved and probable ore in the Mararoa
reef bulking only 7dwt., continuance of
recent recoveries is obviously not to be
relied upon. Reserves in the Lady Miller
are unchanged at 21,000 tons of 7.2dwt.
grade. Central Norseman’s 1,600,000
issued shares are fully paid to 55.;
2.000. unissued are under option at
par to Gold Exploration and Finance till
March, 1946, in return for early develop-
ment finance. Blue Bird and Groundlark
were among areas added during the year.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Quartz crystals —piezo-
electric quartz in radio usage- —of good
size have come to be highly valuable and
are needed urgently for our own and
Allied war requirements. Former world
supplies came principally from Brazil
and Madagascar, but attention is now
directed to Australia, where experts con-
sider favorable areas exist. Victorian
Mines Department states that quartz
crystals must be perfectly clear and free
from cloudiness or flaws, not less than
in diameter and 4in. to sin. long,
and must have crystal faces with con-
tinuous horizontal strial. Color may be
clear, yellow, amethyst or black ; value is
from 15s. to 40s. per pound, although
newspaper references list the price as
high as £3 per pound. Prospectors and
others are urged to investigate any likely
sources of supply.
* * * *
Directors of Tindals Gold Mines, Ltd.
(the London holding co.), after consult-
ing “some of the largest shareholders,”
and with their approval, didn’t repay, on
June 30, the due date, the £5tg.25,000
worth of five-year 10 -per cent, notes
issued in 1938. Present position is that,
owing to labor restrictions, the operating
subsidiary (Consolidated Gold Mines of
Coolgardie, Ltd.), which has a recently-
extended plant capable of treating
10,000 tons a month, is marking time by
treating less than 3000 tons. This has for
several months resulted in operating
losses, but “recently-effected radical
changes in the mine management have
already shown some improvement in
results.” The board records with pleas-
ure that the Westralian Government has
again come to the assistance of the sub-
sidiary with the loan of an additional
£ A 3000.


“For cutting Australian wood,
you’ll save by using
DISSTON
Solid Tooth Circular Saws”
~ "v’T'c —farr'
K
i
; - ,«>■... ..
Sr'
2S*-
DISSTON SOLID TOOTH CIRCULAR SAWS
make accurate cuts, saw faster, stay sharp longer, are made of tough, uniform
Disston Steel, are correctly hardened and tempered and are easy to refit when
necessary. Turn out better lumber, increase your production on any kind of
wood —hard or soft.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made in a wide variety of styles of teeth
and range in diameter from 4in, to 78in.
For full particulars, see your dealer or write to:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON. SYDNEY BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
Business, Rellery, Etc.
Curtin Goes Credit-happy
The Prime Minister seems to be taking
the attitude that lack of concrete, work-
able plans for post-war rehabilitation and
expansion can be made good by getting
a Frankenstein robot called “Credit” to
do the job. This is well enough in keep-
ing with the behavior of a Government
which has shown chronic reluctance
to govern fully and fairly itself. During
22 months of office Mr. Curtin’s party
has not shown enough strength, com-
monsense, skill or impartiality to carry
out any nation-sized task without grave
complications and waste. Hence the
robot.
There is much mischievous windbag-
ging on financial matters by politicians
who occupy high positions in the Gov-
eminent of Australia—a thing that finds
no parallel in Britain or Canada. There is
altogether too much talk along the lines
that a country which can find more than
a thousand millions for war should also
be able to find a similar sum to finance
post-war reconstruction and provide jobs
for all time thereafter. The patent fault
with that kind of talking is that the re-
sponsibility of the people in all such
matters is not stressed : that the thousand
million spent on war was only done at
the expense of the personal living stand-
ards of the people, and that such expen-
diture can only be provided for in the
future by similar burdens being imposed
on the population, even though the expen-
diture in peace-time may result in the
development of national assets, instead of
the almost sheer waste that results from
war-time spending.
There is so much talk about what is to
be done by means of “credit” that :he
real problems of national development
are overlooked—a very dangerous thing.
We have so far in this war been unable
*o use credit in place of Australian brains,
muscle, courage and comradeship on the
battlefield to fight the Japanese, and
credit has similar limitations on the home
front.
Whatever kind of national effort we
may choose to make, the cost comes back
to the people, and, though the personal
monetary cost of this war to every Aus-
tralian citizen has been disguised to a
considerable extent by the use of bank
credit, the use of that bank credit will
eventually reveal itself in the inequitable
taxation of the population through the
effect of inflation. We have already
created for ourselves a No. 1 problem
through excessive use of bank credit and
through relying too much on the investor
class for loan money instead of on the
spending class.
It showed the extreme shortsighted-
ness of Mr. Curtin when, after an
altogether too cheerful review of his
Government’s overindulgence in bank
credit, he remarked that “,‘the great-
est problem arising from reliance on the
central bank has been price control.”
The greatest immediate administrative
problem the Government had to contend
with as a result of its own financial
methods probably was price control ; but
price inflation is only one manifestation
of the deep-rooted disease. There are in-
herent dangers in the excessive use of
bank credit to finance war waste that
cannot be permanently overcome by mere
“controls.” In other words, you cannot
pay for a war without paying for it.
The need for price control is plain evi-
dence of inflation. And when Mr. Curtin
compares the rise in British prices with
those of Australia he is clearly a simple-
ton in economic matters or a humbug.
In Britain’s case, to the cost of every ship-
load of food or clothing that gets
through has to be added the cost of the
shipload that didn’t. And, whereas
Britain is dependent on overseas for a
great part of its food and clothing raw
materials, Australia is almost independent
of overseas sources for these things.
The lift in Australia’s living costs
largely arises through faulty economics.
In Britain the rise is in a great measure
due to the physical difficulties of war.
Mr. Curtin’s Government is at present
subsidising prices in order to cover up the
effects of his inflationary bank credit.
How is he going to pay for these subsi-
dies? By more inflationary bank credit?
That would seem to be the logical—but
shattering—answer in the case of a
Prime Minister who implies that bank
credit will be used wholesale to solve
post-war economic problems.
With the burden of war removed from
our shoulders it should be compara-
tively simple to provide any finance neces-
sary by way of taxation and borrowing
from the public. Getting things organ-
ised will be the main problem; good
organisation will find its own finance. It
still stands to the credit of Percy Spender
that, when he was Menzies’s Treasurer,
he refused to spend money aimlessly on
war in the early stages of the conflict,
conserving Government spending power
until the foundations of a munitions in-
dustry had been established. After that
had been done he was justified in spend-
ing enough money to get the industry
working at its fullest productive capacity,
and as much more on new productive
plant that was available as was indicated
by necessity.
The only sound way in which bank
or any other kind of credit can be used
is in circumstances where it can be seen
that the credit will be redeemed by the
industry to which it is being advanced
or recouped by direct taxation of the
people. That is why the present use of
bank credit to finance war waste is so
unsound; there is no increase in real
assets to correspond with the growth in
Treasury-bill indebtedness. Bank credit
used in this way, especially as there has
been no expressed intention of liquidating
the Treasury-bill debt out of taxation in
the post-war years, ceases to be “credit”
at all, and simply becomes inflationary
finance. After all, “credit” in its legi-
timate sense means nothing more than
“time to pay,” and that is so in all mat-
ters of credit expansion or contraction.
Although there have been occasions in
the past when a similar statement might
have done more good, the protest against
Mr. Curtin’s happy-go-lucky financial
outlook by knight Claude Reading, chair- ■
man of the Commonwealth Bank board,
was better late than never. As it was,
Reading had to dissociate his confreres
on the bank board from his remarks, and
in the circumstances his breaking of a
long silence is all the more meritorious.
He has with him on the board and in
the high offices of the bank some asso-
ciates who have “unorthodox” views on
finance, when they have any views on
finance at all.
The bank board chairman said:
A large volume of credit has been found
necessary for war purposes and has been
issued. Further large issues for war pur-
poses may be necessary in the future.
For this reason, in my opinion, there
must be a strict limit placed upon the use
of bank credit in the post-war period for
any purpose. Its improper use in peace-
time, in spite of controls, can destroy
the purchasing power of our currency and
wreck our standard of living and our eco-
nomy generally.
“Work for all who can work” is a
laudable objective to which all can sub-
scribe. Bank credit in certain circumstances
can help to achieve it, but if used without
full justification can defeat it and do in-
calculable harm.
Instead of work for all, there could
easily be work for none.
The Prime Minister’s “reply” included
a remark that the national income
had grown from £BOO million to
£ll5O million since war began (ignoring
the fact that inflation of 25 p.c. brings
£BOO million pre-war up to £lOOO million
now anyway) and a plausible story about
past muddling, present efficiency and
future Labor “planning,” plus a promise
that “in peace-time our whole aim will
be to increase the goods and services
available for the people’s consumption.”
In this promise alone the Prime Minister-
showed himself to be deficient in ordinary
foresight, let alone “planning.” Anyone
with half an eye can see that the years
immediately after the war will make big
demands on labor and materials for
restoration of assets, and that if a policy
of national development is to be pursued
it will call for peace-time inroads into
the supply of goods and services avail-
able for civil consumption.
Not that the long-term objective of
national development may not be an im-
proved living standard ; but the day after
the P.M.’s utterance about Labor’s
“whole aim” in peace-time he said: “1
do not regard it as an improper use of
bank credit to provide the means of
doubling or trebling Australia’s popula-
tion, nor do I see any better way of in-
creasing the national income, national
wealth and security, which is the best
guarantee of ensuring the solvency of the
national structure.” If Australia is to
provide the means of doubling or trebling
its population it will not do so by
bank credit; more vital will be such
things as water supply, housing facilities,
industrial development and a national
fiscal policy encouraging to migrants and
Australians themselves. Those things,
planned and worked for on sound lines,
should be the real motive force, not a
willy-nilly rush of credit.
And while credit, whether of a
bank variety or otherwise, raised on
the security of national assets is
a much more solid thing than that
which we now see rising like a fun-
gus on the waste and decay of war, it is
far better that finance for such develop-
ment be found in a straightforward way,
through the voluntary enlistment of
the savings of the people, rather than
through the furtive, inequitable taxation
of the people by inflation. For, while it
may be advisable in a time of depression
to extend bank credit in order to revive
stagnant industry and encourage nervous
investors, such extension should be cor-
rected in boom times by conversion into
a public loan. Credit, let it be repeated,
has an inevitable relation with time. If
credit doesn’t keep the date there is open
or disguised default.
The Prime Minister in his stand on
“bank credit” cuts a figure of soapbox
irresponsibility. It is plain from what he
has said and the way he has said it that
he knows little or nothing of what he is
talking about. The financial policy of his
Government has been a degenerate one
from the time it took office, and what
Mr. Curtin has said is all in keeping with
that policy.


TiM r
m e
THE TASK THAT
FEW MEN WANT
If you are an Executor, this book will interest you
No one welcomes the obligations imposed by executorship, especially in
these days when exceptional conditions make financial and business matters
particularly complicated. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited has produced
for the guidance of executors and administrators a special brochure entitled
" The Task that few Men Want/' dealing with the Company's special service
in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration of Estates.
This is available to you on application. Write or call for your copy.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COAVPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Bex 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 36-43
unless
I can
w
COULD have promised you rebates of
rationing, more petrol, extended leave for your
soldier son. I could have promised you ‘business
/ could have promised you all that
Mr. Fadden has promised, but /
HAVE NOT DONE SO.
I have not* done so because it would be
quite impossible for ANY Govern-
ment to fulfil such promises with-
out retarding Australia’s war
effort: without betraying our trust
to Britain, the United Nations
and ourselves.
It would be to lose an
election them to lose the war ;
better to lose offic than to lose
faith.
Knowing this, the people of Australia will see to
it that Labor WINS this election. In achieving
that victory —as in achieving victory over our
enemies I am confident that every man and
woman will play a determined part.”
taxation, fewer regulations, reduced food
as usual,’ Utopia for the farmer, fortunes for the
manufacturer and trader.
Authorised by J. Stewart, M.L.C., Parliament House, Sydney.
The month of June was a boomer so far
as deposits paid into savings banks are
concerned. Although increased taxation
deductions began on April 1, and though
the £lOO million loan was afloat during
April, during June the record addition of
£13.2 million was made to Australian
savings bank deposits, which compares
with £7.6 million in May. During the
financial year to the end of June deposits
grew by £83.8 million, an average of £7
million a month, compared with a total
growth of £22.1 million in 1941-42 (aver-
age £l.B million), £15.2 million in
1940-41 (average £1.3 million), and a de-
cline of £8.6 million during 1939-40. In
the last financial year a record increase
of £402.8 million in the national debt
accompanied the phenomenal growth in
savings-bank deposits, and living costs
showed the biggest increase of any year
of the war.
* 4= * *
There are now 820,000 men in the Aus-
tralian fighting services, according to the
P.M. There are 40,000 women. There
are 144,000 men in the munitions, aircraft
and similar factories. Altogether there
are 1,172,000 persons in the fighting
forces or in war production. Capital
expenditure on the Australian munitions
industry, excluding aircraft construction,
has increased from £59 million to £l4l
million during Labor’s term of office.
“Today only 200,000 workers and only
28 p.c. of manufacturing capacity are
engaged in purely civilian production.
Something over 700,000 men and women
are engaged each day in war production.”
Statisticians’ figures show that employ-
ment of wage- and salary-earners (exclud-
ing rural workers and domestics) reached
their lowest recent level in September,
1942, rose fairly steadily until March,
and took a downward trend in April.
There are the figures, for whatever story
they tell. The Prime Minister used most
of them as part of his big window-
dressing effort that represented his
“policy speech.”
* * * *
For some time past Mr. Dedman,
Minister for War Organisation of In-
dustry, has been remarkably quiet. Yet
for a long period in Labor’s 22 months
of office the Government seemed to be
all Ward and Dedman. Mr. Dedman had
much to do with the closing of bank
branches, and he did it with gusto —until
the public started to resent it, after which
he began to talk about the voluntary
action of the banks in closing down un-
necessary branches, and went so far as
to say the closing down was similar to
what had been done in Britain. Austerity
' clothing and “standard cloth” were Ded-
man productions, and they for the most
part were plain stupid, particularly the
single-warp cloth, which lost more than
it saved, because the little smaller quan-
tity of yarn, etc., used meant a great deal
poorer quality and shorter life in the
cloth. Dedman fell on nearly every in-
dustry in turn, making most precise
stipulations as to the composition and/or
dimensions of clothes, cakes, patent
medicines, horseshoes and a hundred
other items. “War organisation of in-
dustry” became a riot of experimental-
ism in red-tape. It took on the aspect of
a thing of measurements, numbers and
shapes, all worked out on a basis that
overlooked the human element and the
left-overs which Red-tape said could not
be made use of in the job from which
they were cut.
* * * *
Mr. Curtin, at Horsham (Vic.):
This Australia is too important a place
in the British Empire for it to be assumed
that it can discharge a role of importance
with a population of 7,000,000, or even
10,000,000. We will have to double or
treble our population, and we need the
best type of citizens/ We do not need a
regimented population, but a free popula-
tion whose economic standards would be
assured, and to whom would be available
the highest standard of happiness under the
Australian way of life, without any en-
couragement to sloth.
And the way to these highest standards?
By the old formula of borrow and bust
—borrow by means of bank credit and
bust by inflation.
« * * #
Tecnico, Ltd., manufacturers of air-
craft-engine and -fuselage accessories,
precision electrical equipment, electric
motors and radio component parts, is on
the market for another £30,000 of ord.
capital, which will raise paid capital to
£lOO,OOO in 40,000 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 60,000 ords. The ords. at present
issued are not listed, but application is
to be made ; the prefs. are sought after
at 225., with sellers scarce. Of greatest
interest among the co.’s activities is manu-
facturing of Bendix aircraft accessories
and parts, including starter motors.
Although the co. is wrapped up in war
work at present, it is stated that it “is
following definite plans for post-war
manufacture, these plans having been de-
veloped to utilise to the best advantage
all branches of the co.’s organisation.”
There has been built up what is claimed
to be an engineering staff capable of
handling almost any kind of job that has
to do with electrical equipment for in-
ternal-combustion engines, whether for
aircraft, motor-cars, stationary engines
or agricultural machinery. The manag-
ing director, Arthur C. Millingen, has
just returned from the U.S.A. The new
capital is sought to remove the present
overdependence on external finance result-
ing from extensions of buildings and
equipment. During the 1941 and 1942
financial years profits prior to taxation
averaged about £10,500 a year. Profits
in excess of this are likely for the term
recently ended. The present ord. div.
rate is 1\ p.c. p.a. Intangible assets
figure in the accounts at £4647, plus
£2977 spent on neon signs capitalised.
Reserves and p. and 1. carry-forward were
in excess of this. The present issue repre-
sents an opportunity to buy into an in-
teresting business at par. Internally, the
future depends a great deal upon the man-
agement, and, externally, upon opposi-
tion encountered. At present the co. is
establishing a foundation under favor-
able circumstances.
* * * *
Prices that may be charged for either
new or used tyres for motor vehicles have
been fixed by the Prices Commissioner.
For new four-ply balloon tyres the price
range is from £2 4s. 6d. to £5 16s. 6d.,
according to size, and for six-ply the
range is from £3 11s. to £7 6s. 6d. In
the case of second-hand tyres, the high-
est percentage of “new” prices allowed
is 80 p.c. and the lowest 6 p.c. Maxi-
mum prices for recapping tyres vary be-
tween £1 2s. 6d. and £3 7s.
* * H=
The output of Whakatane Paper Mills
(M.L.) in its last 12 months’ operations
was 14,656 tons, compared with 11,408
tons in 1941-42. The labor position re-
mains satisfactory.
* * * *
A new (third) edition of Australian
Mercantile Law, by Yorston and For-
tescue, has just been published, price 15s.
Its prime purpose is to meet with the
requirements of university and accoun-
tancy students, but it should prove of
value also to others as a reference as
well as an instructor. A generous volume,
put out by the Law Book Co.


THE SERVICE MAN
The War in the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The Australian-American
forces in the Salamaua area are facing one
of the wickedest pieces of terrain which
they have encountered. Approaching the
Francisco River and Salamaua itself, they
find themselves dealing with strong enemy
posts on saw-tooth ridges divided by a
valley and closing off the line of advance
on the east right down to the sea.
Bombing of such positions is a chancy
and necessarily wasteful business. Only
direct hits on stronger positions do lethal
damage, and, although the Allies have
guns, apparently up to 105 mm., they must
be limited in number. And enemy posi-
tions are dispersed and often well hidden.
The problem is not to deal with the
foe when hands are once laid on him ;
but to pave the way to lay hands on him.
One would have imagined that Sala-
maua and its area would be blown off the
face of the earth by the punishment it
has absorbed from the air, but the results
all too well illustrate the difference be-
tween the effects of bombing closely-
packed industrial and military objectives
and comparatively minor objectives in
open country where unlimited dispersal
is possible and camouflage, cover and a
large proportion of “fortification” are
provided by Nature.
On August 9 142 tons of bombs and
on August 10 85 tons were dropped on
the defences. During the next two days
bad weather limited the attacks ; but on
August 14 the communique described
how 177 tons fell on the town and isthmus
in three-quarters of an hour, followed by
172 tons on the following day.
The enemy was still resisting after this
terrible doing over, which was supple-
mented by artillery fire. And some of
the worst part of the approaches has to
be fought for.
At the week-end Australian and Ameri-
can forces were slowly and painfully
moving towards these objectives. The
Roosevelt Ridge, which seals off the for-
ward route* at the coast, was attacked,
and many of its pillboxes wiped out.
In the Solomons
On New Georgia the last pockets of
resistance are being gradually cleaned up
at the northern part of the western end
of the island. The junction of U.S. forces
from Munda with those from Rice
Harbor on the northern side of New
Georgia placed the main remaining
enemy detachment at Bairoko on Kula
Gulf in a state of siege.
The Japanese bases as far as the north
Solomons are being continually attacked
to prevent relief of the southern enemy
forces in process of being mopped up.
The Buin area has been incessantly under
bomb attack. On August 14 the daylight
raid damaged 32 out of 42 ’planes on
the ground at Kahili, and 11 out of 30
intercepting fighters were destroyed for a
loss of two Allied machines. On August
10 a force of 50 mixed enemy machines
was dispersed over Rendova and two
“O” fighters were shot down for a loss of
one Allied machine.
Heavy Bombing
The week’s bombing in the Solomons-
Timor sectors was the heaviest and most
widespread to date. Its ambit was along
the sides of an arrowhead of which the
point was at Balik Papan, the great oil
centre of eastern Borneo, and the barbs at
Vila and Timor.
The expedition to Balik Papan was
about the longest in Pacific history. It
involved a flight of 2500 miles. Two re-
finery groups were set on fire and seven
011 reservoirs were reported to have ex-
ploded. These long-distance raids, how-
ever, mean comparatively light bomb
loads, and capital damage to large objec-
tives becomes a matte'r of luck.
The week’s programme, apart from
Borneo and bombing tied to land opera-
tions —dates are those of communi-
ques :
August 11: Two enemy floatplanes destroyed
off Miiingimbi (Arnhem Land). Vitu and Cape
Gloucester attacked.
August 12: Lantern (Timor) waterfront fired;
an enemy reconnaissance machine turned
back from Fog Bay, near Darwin. A 1500-
ton merchant ship sunk and other vessels
damaged off Kavieng; transports damaged off
Cape St. George. Lae, the Huon Peninsula,
Santa Ysabel (Solomons) objectives attacked.
Fifteen enemy machines caused no damage or
casualties in a night raid on Woodlark Island.
August 13: Ceram, Kaimana and Timoeka
(N.E.1.) bombed and strafed with the Tanim-
bars, the enemy’s nearest foothold to Australia.
More bombing of the Madang coast land
routes and Huon Peninsula.
August 14: Eighteen enemy aircraft made the
first after-dark raid on Darwin for months —
no damage or casualties. The wharf area at
Madang bombed and three barges destroyed
and a small cargo vessel damaged in Hansa
Bay. Kieta (Buka Passage) and Vella Lavella
attacked and 36 tons of bombs dropped on
harbor objectives at Vila (Kolombangara), where
the aerodrome also was bombed. Three enemy
bombers caused no damage or casualties in the
Trobriands in an attack on Kiriwana.
August 15: Koepang aerodromes badly
knocked about in night attack by Australian
medium bombers. Vila and its surroundings
subjected to day and night attack. A single
enemy bomber did a little damage and caused
casualties at Kiriwana in the Trobriands.
The U.S. Navy reported on August 15
that Uncle Sam’s submarines had sunk
seven enemy vessels and damaged five
others in Far Eastern waters.
In the cold far north U.S. Air Forces
from the Aleutians on August 11 bombed
the Japanese naval base at Kataoka Bay,
in the Kuriles, and an army base on
Paramishuru, just off the Kamchatka
Peninsula. Five intercepting fighters were
shot down, and two Liberators did not
return —one may have landed in the
U.S.S.R.
Far from Beaten.
“Ek Dum”: An air of false optimism
hangs over the war in the Pacific. The
idea seems to be that sufficient ’planes
have been sent to start an offensive, and
that it began instanter, even beating Dr.
Evatt’s return to Australia.
The grim fact needs to be brought
home to Australians that Japan still has
80 to 90 untouched divisions of trained
soldiers —say 2,000,000 men, well
equipped and armed —and abundant re-
serves, together with an air force of
several thousand machines, and a navy
equal or nearly equal to that of the
Allies in the Pacific. And to offset the
enemy’s weakness in merchant shipping
Japan is almost self-contained in food,
thanks in no small degree to the fisheries
agreement with the U.S.S.R.
This enemy never needed to invade
Australia and New Zealand. His best
strategy is not to come in fighting against
the Allies on the fringes of his conquests,
but to make the Allies come to him so
that his ’planes and ships will operate from
home bases, and so, that the attackers’
lines of communications will be terribly
long and his own as as can be.
His great military forces would be con-
centrated in a small area behind intense
defences, backed by closely-packed artil-
lery under an equally closely-packed
aerial defence.
Nobody seems to be putting these pos-
sibilities to the Australian or American
peoples. They are being left to the com-
fortable conclusion that when Stalin has
defeated the Axis for them in Europe all
will be over in the Pacific bar the shout-
ing.
Unless the Axis collapses under the
terrible pounding of the R.A.F., backed
by British and U.S. operations aimed
usually at its heart, there can be no end
to the European war before next summer.
The Long-term View
It is those who look three years ahead
that win world wars. In three years, if the
Japanese have not been thrown out of
the East Indies, Borneo and Malaya,
their military and naval and air forces
will have abundant oil, tin, rubber, food
and probably freight ships and barges.
They cannot win in the end because of
Allied resources, but they might give the
Allies, particularly Australia, an awful
mauling.
And at the present rate it will take
three years to get them out of the
southern Indies and New Guinea. The
offensive against them in their farthest-
flung outposts on Guadalcanal began on
August 7 last year. A year afterwards
they were still fighting desperately 150
miles from Guadalcanal in a position
slightly nearer to the Australian coast.
Eighteen months after they landed at
Rabaul, 13 months after their first detach-
ments stepped ashore at Buna-Gona, there
are still tens of thousands of them in the
New Guinea area. They are having to
be blasted, by charges of 170 tons of
explosives at a time, out of a compara-
tively tiny base (measured in terms of
modern major war) only 150 miles from
Buna-Gona, the capture of which from
a few thousand of them who were iso-
lated from naval and air help caused us
most grievous casualties. Some of the
A.I.F, battalions which went into the
battle emerged sorely stricken —when
abroad Dr. Evatt mentioned one which
lost all but 21 out of 800-odd grand
officers and men.
The task ahead is as grim as any which
warring nations have faced, unless Japan
is a shadow of what intelligence officers,
who are realists, believe it to be —a mon-
strous growth which will have to be
carved out inch by inch, and which may
become harder to lop and more destruc-
tive as its core is reached.
It is wicked that peoples of the Pacific
should be allowed to continue to live in
their fool’s paradise.
There is no need for dejection or even
pessimism if the job is tackled as the
British people tackled their task. But
complacency is the seed of self-destruc-
tion.
The U-boat Fails.
‘‘Ek D.”: Messrs. Churchill and
Roosevelt in a joint statement issued in
North America said that during May, June
and July 90 U-boats had been sunk and
that July was “probably the Allies’ most
successful month in the war on sub-
marines” :
During July U-boats obtained very poor
results from their widespread effort against
Allied shipping. The steady flow of trans-
atlantic supplies on the greatest scale con-
tinued unmolested, and such sinkings as
have taken place in distant areas have had
an insignificant effect on the conduct of the
war Imports in July were high, ship-
ping losses moderate, U-boat sinkings heavy.
Before the attack on Sicily, the state-
ment proceeded, a huge armada crossed
the Atlantic and the Mediterranean with
scarcely any interference. Large rein-
forcements also were landed in Sicily,
and, with more than 2500 vessels involved,
sinkings were not 80,000 tons —a tithe of
the losses in the Greek campaign. On
the other hand, U-boats which tried to
interfere suffered heavily.
In the first six months of 1943 ships
sunk by U-boats were in numbers only
half of those sunk in the last six months
of 1942, and only a quarter of those for
the first six months of 1942, the worst
period on record.
In 1943 to the end of July new
shipping exceeded all sinkings by more
than 3,000,000 tons.
But there was a warning at the end of
the statement that Germany still has large
U-boat reserves and that it is necessary
to prepare for an intensification of the
battle.
Berlin, needing some antidote, told,
somewhat haltingly and in three differing
versions, how on August 13 U-boats
“caught a large Allied convoy” entering
the Mediterranean east of Gibraltar,
sank “two destroyers, three fully-laden
merchantmen and a tanker,” and set
eight other ships on fire and left them
listing. “Reconnaissance confirms that
we destroyed at least 170,000 tons of
shipping,”
On paper, at least.
In Battered Europe.
“Ek Bum”: The war is in the indeter-
minate stage in which it is difficult to
assess real values. Newspapers excited
by operations in distant regions which
can have only a minor effect on the out-
come of the struggle in which these
Dominions are engaged give little atten-
tion to the British bombing which is de-
moralising large sections of industrial
Germany, less to the U-boat victories
which have blasted Hitler’s hopes, and
not much more to the immediate offensive
in Sicily and the immense preparations
for other operations which are going on
there.
It is hot realised, apparently, how im-
portant is the fact that there has been no
naval resistance to the Allied landing in
Sicily, a fact which might imply that
Italian naval power was dead or that it
had been stolen by the Germans.
Neither does it seem to be appreciated
that the reduction of Sicily, with its
powerful German force and easy access
to the Italian mainland, points to the cer-
tain early fate of the Italian Dodecanese ;
and that if the Dodecanese can be taken
the reconquest of Crete will become im-
minent, and with it Allied control of the
AEgean and the power to make the posi-
tion of the Germans in southern Greece
untenable before very long.
Control of Crete and the Dodecanese is
only one step from complete control of
the lonian Islands and western Grecian
ports.
The conquest of Sicily, almost com-
plete, presents the Anglo-American allies,
who have worked in such perfect har-
mony, with a dazzling set of Mediter-
ranean alternatives —Italy itself, the
south of France, Greece.
Whatever is done, they are in a posi-
tion to munch continually away at the
sandwich into which the R.A.F., with the
help of a U.S. Air Force steadily grow-
ing in size and experience, has turned
Axis Europe.
There is now no city or town, from
Narvik to Reggio di Calabria, that can-
not be brought within the ambit of a
thunderstorm of bombs; no citizen of
Germany or Italy proper who can go to
bed with the secure feeling that he will
be there in the morning.
The events of Sicily last week were not
of any order of greatness. Early the won-
derful British Eighth Army and the
Americans joined forces along the Ran-
dazzo approaches on the north side of
Etna. There was no question thereafter
of the enemy trying to retain any of
Sicily.
His task was to hold up the British-
American advance while he sneaked
across the narrow Messina Strait to the
high toe of Calabria. He had everything
in his favor for a delaying action —moun-
tains that ran with his retreat, deep
gorges, timber, difficult roads which
would have to be reconstructed after they
were blown up at certain points, and a
terrain which was easy to seed with
booby traps and minefields, and which
was very difficult to bomb.
The Germans’ technique was skilful
and their resistance tough. In the pres-
ence of British troops which have licked
them often they seem to suffer none of the
panic which is reported to afflict them
when they see Russians approaching. In
Sicily they have proved themselves
enemies not to be despised.
Their forces attempting to cross the
strait in their rear soon were suffering a
terrible time. Command of the air was
in the hands of the Allies, though the
strait was covered by powerful anti-air-
craft defences.
By the week-end the lower part of the
coast round Messina was sullenly lighted
by burning dumps, and confusion was
reported on the beaches on both sides.
Reaching the sea, the resisting Axis
forces became a disordered collection of
fugitives, whose mien and methods com-
pared ill with those of the British in
Greece, where evacuation was an infi-
nitely more difficult task.
By August 14 the Americans along the
north coast, travelling by the easiest
route, were within 16 miles of Messina,
while the Eighth Army and the Canadians
and the southern flank force of Ameri-
cans were pushing forward under far
more difficult conditions, wedged up
against the walls of Etna on one side and
faced with the necessity of doubling the
width of their front of operations so
soon as-they passed the northern central
zone of the volcano. The last words of
the Axis tragedy in Sicily were being
written in blood and fire. On August 15
the whole perimeter of Etna was under
British control from sea to sea. The
spearhead of Montgomery’s men was
three miles from Taormina.
Bombing Across Europe
Meanwhile there was the terrible,
double-fisted bombing, which no longer
had merely sectional effects. Of its
nature it sent a tremor through the
whole structure of western Axis defence
every time it happened, forcing the Luft-
waffe—the Regia Aeronautica seems to
have packed up—to diffuse its defence
over thousands of square miles, prevent-
ing it from concentration on the Sicilian
or the Channel front or throwing its full
aerial weight against Russia.
The full vastness of the organisation
behind the R.A.F.’s great raids is not
widely appreciated. The large attacks on
Hamburg, counting all those involved on
the ground, were each the work of, per-
haps, 100,000 pairs of hands.
On August 9-10 the adjoining cities of
Mannheim-Ludwigshafen, which form
the second inland port in Europe, at the
confluence of the Rhine and the Neckar,
were attacked by the R.A.F., which had
an especially fine target in Mannheim,
almost all militarily industrialised and
virtually on an island in the fork of the
rivers.
Mosquitoes raided the Ruhr, and
Fighter Command blasted objectives in
occupied countries. Nine bombers were
lost and two enemy bombers brought
down. In the Mannheim raid R.A V A-F
Lancaster squadrons took" part.
On August 10-11 the R.A.F. tried a
new set of methods on the environs of
ancient Nuremberg. Attacked from
Britain, Nuremberg is 450 miles from
Kent, but only 250 miles from the head
of the Adriatic.
The damage done b t y the 1500 tons or
bombs was terrible. ' The defence was
much weaker than at Mannheim, but the
perils of the 900-mile journey there and
back over a forest of flak were consider-
able. Sixteen bombers were lost.
On August 11-12 Mosquitoes blasted
towns in the Ruhr and Rhineland, and
American Fortresses made a daylight
attack on the industrial parts of the
ancient university city of Bonn, 15 miles
or so south of Cologne, which has been
much developed industrially of late, and
which has a population of about 100,000.
Heavies bombed Terni, a railway mar-
shalling centre 68 miles north-east ot
Rome. The Italians admitted that some
damage had been done, and that 72 per-
sons had been killed and 493 injured.
Italy’s Bad Day
Next day was horrible, day and mgnt,
for the Axis. A strong force of heavy


Divorce Notices.'
TO KENNETH ST. ALBANS HODGSON
whose last known address m New Zealand
was Whangarei Electrician then of Sydney New
South Wales now of parts unknowm—TAKE
JK I ‘cSSreiJS Ktt
sssra. 55. s fr “4'KuS-
the ground that you and the said Rheta Louisa
Hodgson are parties to a written agreement to
separation which has been in full force for thr
years and upwards and . citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding youi
absence Now therefore take notice hat for the
purpose aforesaid you are within forty (40) days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Wellington New Zealand ana
there to enter an appearance without which you
will not be allowed to address the Court at
any stage of the proceedings A copy of the
said citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington -New' Zea-
land DATED this 9th day of August 1943.--
P D. LEAHY, Deputy-Registrar. Friends of
the Respondent are particularly requested to
forward to him the foregoing^advertisement.
THOMAS AMBROSE TARRANT is Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for semce |s
at the offices ot the said T. A. TARRANI,
Featherston Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERIC RICHARD JONES-HUMPHREY S
late of Newcastle Ne w South Wales. FAK
NOTICE that EDYTH IRENE fONES-
HUMPHREYS has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 2104 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend the suit you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supre
Court King Street Sydney on or before the
Twenty-ninth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty-three and a copy of
the petition may be had without charge 1 ro ” 1
J K DIXON Solicitor 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD FORT late of Cess-
NOTICE that LILLIAN MAY
FORT has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1/48
of 1943 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 18th October 1943 and obtain a
conv of the said petition without charge from
MESSRS H. T. MACREADY & ERIC JONES
Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES EDWARD GAUDRY late of
tit tig Roma. Street Brisbane Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that MARY ELMA GAUDRY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2003 ot
1943 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years or upwards 11
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Thirteenth day of Septem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-three
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HAROLD R. BUSHBY Sohcitor
of 10 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TO HERBERT EDWARD MITCHELL late
of No 1 Mount Street Redfern—TAKE
NOTICE that LAURA MAUD MITCHELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2148 of
1943 on the ground of desertion without reason-
able cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney before 3rd November 1943 and obtain a
cony of the petition without charge from CLIVE
DAVIES & SHARPE Solicitors 14 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
CD
am
bombers again raided the marshalling
vards in the San Lorenzo region of Rome.
The raid was made in daylight— Rome
Radio said it began at 11 a.m. and lasted
90 minutes. As in the raid of July 19
about 500 aircraft were used. No esti-
mate of losses of bombers was published,
but it was recorded that the bombers flew
at great height. Rome Radio said 218
persons were killed and 560 injured.
R.A.F. Bomber Command reported
heavy attacks on industries and communi-
cations at Milan, North Italy s largest
city, which is about the size of Sydney,
and Turin. These cities with their great
aircraft and motor-car factories were
paralysed. .
Mosquitoes gave the Berliners a tngnt.
British fighters and fighter bombers tore
up road and railway junctions in the Low-
lands, destroyed an E-boat, a mine-
sweeper and one enemy aircraft and a
number of railway engines. In all these
operations the Air Ministry reported 11
bombers lost.
And U.S. 9th Army Air Force Libera-
tors, from North Africa, made a 2500-
mile round trip to Neustadt, 27 miles
from Vienna, and did heavy damage to
about 400 machines on the tarmac.
Londoners shared in the day s events
on August 12. It was the day on which
grouse shooting usually opens in Scot-
land ; when London is hot and dusty
and the West End half-empty.
But there were bigger birds than grouse
abroad. Just above the balloon barrage
over the darkening city, Londoners
watched for a full hour the greatest stream
of bombers they had ever seen slipping
down to the Channel to pour over France
and the Alps into trembling Piedmont.
There was more Axis air opposition
in Italy that day, especially in the south,
but it could not be called heavy, and in-
terceptors were reported to have had a
bad time —nine out of one formation of
15 to 20 were reported by the African
H.Q. to have been shot down.
Rome an Open City
The results of these raids was soon
seen on Italian morale. Rome was
hastily declared an open city.
The news brought thousands of cheer-
ing people into the streets- to demonstrate
on the right bank of the Tiber before St.
Peter’s and the Vatican. To make the
declaration effective will involve the corn-
plete disuse of the railway marshalling
centres of Rome, and this will hamstring
transport to and from much of south-
western Italy.
The effect on the defence of western
Italy would be much the same as if an
Australian Government offered to make
no use of Sydney railway facilities and
of the harbor in the course of defending
the N. S. Wales coastline.
Naples Bombarded
At the week-end it looked as if Italy
was about finished militarily. Allied naval
forces appeared able to pick their prey
along the Italian coast. On the night
of August 9 two R.N. cruisers, with a
destroyer escort, had sidled right up to
the southern fringes of the Grand Harbor
of Naples, and for a quarter of an hour
lobbed shells into the naval base of
Castellamare, seven or eight miles away
across a mountainous peninsula. Aeri-
ally the doomed country was wide open.
If the weather continues fine Axis
Europe has a dreadful month ahead as
the nights lengthen and the period of the
full moon assists. The German land-
scape will be full of burnt-out cities, the
roads full of white-faced refugees.
From Kharkov to Quebec.
“Ek Dum”: Political developments in
which Moscow is concerned are begin-
ning to puzzle correspondents and com-
mentators, but military developments find
them as confiding and as cocksure as
ever.
For example, the capture of Mtensk
was announced without exciting any re-
mark, though on newspaper maps the
town had been shown inside the Russian
lines.
Isyum was supposed to be a pillar ot
the Russian defence system west of the
Donetz. A point was made of the failure
of the Germans to take it in February.
It was shown regularly in recent maps as
Russian territory. But when the Russian
occupation of Isyum was reported last
week the only newspaper reaction was an
excitement comparable with what might
be expected if Cologne were suddenly
taken by a British column.
Chuguev was supposed to be a corner-
stone of the defences of the Russian
bastion of the Kharkov section of the
Donetz, against which in the early spring
the enemy was declared to have leant his
weight fruitlessly. But its capture last
week by its presumed holders did not
even produce one astonished remark from
daily newspapers.
The Case for Voronezh
The Germans claimed to have grabbed
Voronezh on July 8, 1942. Moscow
denied it. The Germans repeated their
claim.
A few sensible people who believed
that even a carpet-biter would not be so
blind to the elementary principles of
strategy as to scour down the Don with
the huge depot of Voronezh sitting on his
tail were laughed at. Even the staid
“British Army Quarterly” (February
number) was taken in:
The German strategy, banking on swift
tactical victories, has indeed crashed to the
ground, as it deserved to do ever since
the failure to capture Voronezh in July.
The assault was Hitler’s greatest gamble
of this whole war. Had it succeeded
Moscow might have been attacked in
August—with results unforeseeable, but
which must, at the lowest estimate, have*
left the Red Army hopelessly split.
In that same February week Moscow
announced that the Red Army had recap-
tured Voronezh after a bloody battle
which had cost the enemy 86,000 in killed
and prisoners.
No independent correspondent is
allowed near the front by either Russians
or Germans. None of Russia’s allies is
allowed to send military attaches to view
the actual fighting. Much of the supposed
knowledge about the location of the front
in the past few months has been proved
inaccurate by stories of the recent fight-
ing—inaccurate in point of topography
by anything from 20 to 50 miles.
And the interpretations placed on
recent operations are as ridiculous as
one would expect from past perform-
ances.
We are told again and again that there
is large-scale and desperate fighting,
mainly carried on by heavy arms, in the
Kharkov and Bryansk belts, with the
Russians making progress of up to 15
miles in a day. Not only the Russians
but the Germans subscribe to the asser-
tion that the fighting is violent and heavy.
But such fighting connotes slow progress.
The method by which the Russians are
advancing is explained thus. They mass
heavy artillery and pin down the enemy.
Then Russian tanks sneak round the Ger-
mans’ rear and devastate it. In effect,
Montgomery’s Mareth-Line tactics. But
what was possible along a fortress line
in the rough hill and desert country of
Tunisia, where the enemy had an open
flank which could be by-passed, is
scarcely possible on a continuous front
in the open plain country of the Kharkov
region. .
The failure of such tactics has been
claimed by the Germans. They alleged
two months ago that Russians tried to
tear a front to pieces with heavy artil-
lery on the Kuban prior to an ad-
vance ; that they themselves retired from
the bombarded zone, having carefully
ranged it; that they allowed the Rus-
sians to move into it and then blew them
to bits. Maybe a lie ; but on that occa-
sion the Russians did not succeed.
Back to February
The position at present is much the
same as in the transition period between
winter and spring when the Russians
made their last advances in the winter
offensive. They are moving forward on
the Kharkov front in the same directions
and with the same speed as in the opera-
tions which previously heralded the tali
of Kharkov. The Germans are reported,
as then, to be desperately struggling to
extricate large forces through a narrow
escape corridor with all railways cut and
to be in a state of panic-stricken rout.
The salient facts are:
There is no evidence of any cardinal,
first-class resistance by the enemy. The
method and regions of his withdrawal
are consistent with a strategic shortening
of his lines, already prepared for.
' His swiftness of retreat suggests that
there are only mobile troops in his foi-
ward areas of withdrawal. The time-
table is inconsistent with correspondents
pictures of the enemy being driven back
and trapped by a series of massed bar-
rages and rearward tank surprises, cul-
minating in tremendous battles. The
time involved in various movements
would not allow for this.
The enemy seems to be ready to aban-
don Kharkov and its surroundings as
easily as he abandoned them early in the
year Unfortunately no impression is
being made on his front on the lower
Donetz or in the Rostov region.
There a Russian break-through would
spell disaster to the invaders. After an
attempt to make one in the Kuibyshev
region the Red Army abandoned it.
There is no sign that the enemy has taken
any step towards the evacuation of lower
Donetz cities, of the Crimea or even
the Kuban bridgehead.
If the Russian victories in the Khar-
kov area are producing the routs which
they are claimed to be producing —a
smashing of powerful German forces by
irresistible artillery and tank thrusts—
then there should be signs of retreat in
the south ; because the movement round
Kharkov has been so swift that, if the
Russians are in control, the whole
southern structure of the enemy’s front
is doomed and his getaway from the
Crimea and the rear of his allegedly
huge lower Donetz defences are immi-
nently threatened.
North of Kharkov and west of Orel
there has been some Russian movement
towards Bryansk, of which the Red Army
claims to be within 25 miles.
The Test at Smolensk
A curiously long time before confirma-
tion came from Moscow the enemy re-
ferred to a heavy Russian offensive
towards Smolensk in the Vyazma region.
Here the Russians seem to have retired
quietly during the thaw from some of the
ground claimed to have been won in the
-late winter, and to be fighting to regain it
now the summer heat has dried it out.
Results in this region should be a test
of what can be done to the enemy. A
break-through between Smolensk and
Bryansk on a large scale could mean only
one thing —the collapse of the whole Ger-
man front as it now exists.
This sector and the Donetz beyond the
Isyum Bend are the two crucial areas,
with the Kuban bridgehead as a good
pointer to future events.
When there is palpable progress between
Brvansk and Smolensk and between the
Isyum Bend and Taganrog, and when
Hitler’s Kuban troops begin to paddle
across the Kerch Strait, it will be time
enough to say that the Germans have
lost control of their movements and their
destiny.
In the meantime, it is good news that
they are on the defensive and that they
are being driven to shorter lines, what-
ever the causes.
Some of the causes for their present
conditions have developed, not in Russia,
but in the Mediterranean, in the sea-lanes
where the U-boats have been defeated,
and in the mangled cities of the Ruhr
and Germany’s North Sea littoral.
Moscow and' Quebec
The atmosphere of Moscow propa-
ganda is disquieting. There is much
criticism of the Allies and there was a
queer note in Moscow’s explanation of
why Russia is not represented at the
Churchill-Roosevelt conferences which
began in Quebec. This note is echoed
by Berlin as well as by correspondents
who take their cue from anybody rather
than their own Governments.
It will be time enough to talk about
an open door to inter-Allied conferences
for the Russians when the Russians are
at war with Japan, or at least when they
cease to trade with the Japs—a matter on
which Hanson Baldwin and even “S. M.
Herald” have commented. In other words,
when the Russians reciprocate the open
and generous attitude of the Allies, which
have supplied them with armaments to the
limit, although the Russians would not
allow Allied attaches with their armies
(as Russian attaches and correspondents
have been allowed with British armies
in Africa), or permit American truck-
drivers to drive trucks for Russian use
on to Russian soil or even to allow
American airmen to establish Russian
bases from which the Rumanian oil-wells
may be bombed.
It will be time enough to talk of such
things when there are U.S. bomber bases
in the U.S.S.R.—on the west as well as
the east —and when Lancasters, under
British command, are able to fly against
German eastern cities from Russian soil,
in the same way as U.S. Fortresses fly
against western Germany from British
soil.
In brief:
R.A.F. and U.S. bombers are keeping up
a stream of attacks over Burma. Akyab is the
favorite current target for bombers, and the
Beaufighters take a pride in almost daily strip-
ping a few miles of the Irrawaddy of its sam-
pans.
* * * *
Two English towns—one on the south coast
and one in the south-west —had sharp raids,
in each case by 20 enemy 'planes, on the nigh
of August 11. These were the heaviest enemy
forces used against Britain for months. OH
bombs were among the horrors dropped.
Some raiders flew over the south-western town
machine-gunning it, and there 12 P e °P le
killed, .the Germans reported that the towns
were Plymouth and Bournemouth. One raider
was shot down.
* * * *
A bright young Australian went missing alter
the great R.A.F. raid on July 12—Flight-Lieut.
lan Milne Wood, who was serving with the
Lancasters under Nettleton, V.C., of Augsburg
fame, missing also after the Turin attack.
Ft.-Lt. Wood, a Sydney Scots College boy,
who has a brother in the A.1.F., went overseas
two years ago, specialised in gunnery and began
operations with the Lancasters m the first
thousand-bomber attack on Cologne in the
spring of 1942 and thereafter took part in many
big raids on Germany and Italy.
* * * *
There appears to be considerable trouble in
China between Chiang Kai-shek’s Government
and the Communists. The Chinese Governmen
has found it necessary to deny rumors that
civil war is imminent in China because of th
dissolution of Communist armies and units.
these armies and units, Chungking declares,
have dissolved themselves to achieve national
unity.” Chungking also denied rumors of a
possible Sino-Japanese peace.


m
iWWWW
mt*
f-my.
m
SSSSS
mS
wr—
-y-yy ■ yy-'yy-y
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO STEWART HENRY DEVLIN formerly of
Portland in the State of Victoria now of parts
unknown Labourer.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife MABEL FLORENCE DEVLIN of Gorea
West Portland aforesaid has instituted proceed-
ings against you for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Law Courts William
Street Melbourne on or before the Second day
of September 1943 the case may proceed m
your absence and a decree for dissolution of
marriage may be granted and you may be
ordered to pay costs If you intend to de-
fend the said suit you must cause an answer
to be filed in the said office on or before the
Thirteenth day of September 1943 —C. L
BARBOUR, of 89 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO THOMAS ANDREW GAY formerly of
Canterbury Road Moonee Ponds and 8 Hume
Street Armadale in the State of Victoria Muni-
tion Worker but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DULCIE
ALBERTA GAY of 4 Burchett Street East
Brunswick in the said State Married Woman
has instituted proceedings against you lor
divorce on the ground of desertion Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the
said State on or before the 9th day of Sep-
tember 1943 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a decree for dissolution of mar-
riage may be granted and you may be ordered
to pay costs If you intend to defend this suit
you must also file an answer in the said office
on or before the 20th day of September 1943.
DATED this 11th day of August 1943.
CLEARY, ROSS & DOHERTY, of 40 Queen
Street, Melbourne, in the said State, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
For Australia at War . . .
OYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
★
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
ŵ
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Backers had a day out at the Moore-
field meeting at Rosehill, four winners
being absolute favorites, and the other
three well backed. As usual in these
days of austerity there was a very large
attendance, and the tote turnover was
about £42,000. To their sorrow, the
books also did big business.
In the Trial Stakes Valiant Garde
(Bartle) justified the support accorded
him. From the time he took charge
nearing the turn he was always a winner,
Gay Challenge beating Gryphon by a
neck for second after a sharp tussle.
Halfway down the straight the slow-
beginning Domineer looked a possible
place-getter, but then tired, finishing
fourth. Barrenjoey, who was next, was
nearer the front at the end than at any
other part, while Pangold, who was the
leader for nearly seven furlongs, dropped
out in the run home.
Tribal (Shean) had the Three-year-old
Handicap won from the first furlong, and
is even better than previously supposed.
He is a good advertisement for the
French-bred stallion Genetout, whose
fee this season is 75gns. The minor-
place getters were Tarmac (by Beau
Pere) and Kurranulla, the latter run-
ning on well to cut the good-looking
West Point —who will be better next time
—out of third money. Peerless Lad (by
Pentheus) did best of the remainder.
Winnipeg was seen at his best in the
Flying Handicap. Freckles, who com-
menced very smartly, and Industry were
together entering the straight, Cradle
Song, who was with them for three fur-
longs, having dropped out. The leaders
were the same halfway down the straight,
but Winnipeg (Davidson), finishing bril-
liantly, won by a neck from Industry,
with whom Freckles was almost on terms.
Bruce Wood’s fourth makes him an early
possibility. All Love, though fifth, was
never dangerous, and Martheus again
stopped at the post.
Gauntlet (J. Thompson), improving
upon his previous form as a stayer, led
for the last seven furlongs of the Moore-
field Handicap. He was well clear of
Colonel Post, Salivant and Aralys turn-
ing for home, and, though Salivant ran
into second place, he never looked like
troubling Gauntlet. Brumaire and Hari-
pur came from a long way back at the
turn to finish fourth and fifth respectively,
and Colonel Post’s showing for nine fur-
longs suggested that he would not be
long in returning to form.
Tahmoor (Munro) and High Flight
practically had the first division of the
Highweight Handicap to themselves over
the last half-mile. Halfway down the
straight Tahmoor drew away and, ridden
right out, defeated High Flight a length.
At the turn Silverelda looked a place-
getter, but in the run home was passed
by Walkalong and Orderly, the last-
mentioned two making up leeway over
the final couple of furlongs. There was
support for D.S.O. and War Spear, but
they did nothing of account.
Chataroi’s (Coutts) win in the second
division of the Highweight Handicap was
a lucky one. Always well placed, he
scored by a head from Fort Leon, with
Brueghelier a similar distance further off.
Getting away badly Brueghelier was ahead
of only two or three in a field of 23 after
going a furlong, and it was genuinely a
case of “a good thing beaten.” Fervent
led into the straight, but, tiring in the
last furlong, she finished with Panbranch
close behind the place-getters.
In the Brighton Handicap Munro, on
Tel Asur, demonstrated that his rest since
early in May had not impaired his vigor.
Dick Whittington looked a winner when
he led round the turn from Overjoyed
and Slam, but, getting a run on the rails
and ridden out right to the winning-post,
Tel Asur scored by a head from Dick
Whittington. Kimbell, though fourth,
fell considerably short of expectations,
but Streamford’s third pointed to likeli-
hood of an early return to the form
that enabled him to win at Randwick in
the autumn.
* * * *
Conceding Gay Invader 25 lengths
halfway through the race, Isambard out-
stayed that gelding in the Australian
Hurdle at Flemington last Saturday. He
carried 11.9, and, with nothing to take
him to the pacemaker, was forced to do
his own “bullocking.” As the betting
indicated, it was a two-horse race, with
Gay Invader, favorite, making a spectacu-
lar attempt to lead throughout. Timber,
third, was 12 lengths behind the second
horse. Isambard did not win a big race
out of his turn. Previously he had filled
places in the G.N. Hurdle (twice) and
Australian Hurdle. He is a Flemington
specialist, however, his 10 races over
hurdles on this course having yielded
seven firsts, two seconds, one third and
£4235 in stakes. A seven-year-old by
Harinero from Joan of Arc, he cost
500gns. as a yearling, and is trained by
R. Sinclair for A. Mair and E. A. Under-
wood.
Trainer D. McCormick will remember
the 1943 jumping season as probably his
unluckiest. With Gay Invader he has
finished second in the G.N. and Aus-
tralian Hurdles, and with Highland
March second in the G.N. Steeple.
Timber also is a member of his team.
Marcius’s success in the Balaclava
Stakes hardly enhanced the Cup prospects
of horses which finished behind him.
Marcius was not thought good enough to
be nominated for those races. Temple
Chief showed up well in second place,
however, and this Perth Cup winner
apparently is about to reproduce his best
W.A. form. Colonus weakened into
seventh position after attempting to lead
all the way, but the race should improve
him. Whether he will improve suffi-
ciently to win the Melbourne Cup again
is another matter. Londoner recorded his
third win from his last five starts when,
starting favorite, he defeated Twovals
and Trustee in the first Mornington
Welter. His rider, F. de Valle, was having
his first mount for more than a year.
Portfolio, backed from 5 to 1 to 5 to 2,
led from the start and outstayed Register
in a close finish for the second division.
Charming Lady again showed her liking
for the straight-six by beating Naval
Revue and Warworn in the Moondah
Plate.
* * * *
Everyone associated with racing would
welcome meetings on all .Saturdays and
public holidays and the lifting of the
transport ban on racehorses. However,
the Prime Minister’s reply to the N.S.W.
Owners and Trainers’ Association dis-
poses of any cause for optimism. He
said that the question of raceless Satur-
days would be reviewed when warranted
by circumstances, and relative to the
transport of horses to race meetings his
answer was a decided “No.” In view of
his past attitude towards racing, a com-
plete change of front on his part could
scarcely be expected. Still, backers have
something for which to thank the Prime
Minister. He gave them a straight tip
to avoid Sydney horses in attempting to
picK the “two Cups” double. Many are
entered, but it seems as if few, if any,
will reach Melbourne, unless a change
of Government alters the racing position.
* * 4= *
* According to training-track reports
Yaralla was never galloping better than
at present, and if that is so he should
make as good a beginning as last season,
when his first three runs gave him the
Warwick Stakes (11 to 8 on), Canterbury
Stakes (3 to 1 on) and Hill Stakes (3 to
1 on). Winnipeg, by running second,
proved Yaralla’s most dangerous oppo-
nent in the Warwick Stakes, and it looks
as if it will be the same again on Satur-
day next. Five firsts, two seconds and
two thirds resulted from Yaralla’s 12
starts last season. His five wins carried
£3463 ; so if E. McMenamin received
the 10 per cent, generally paid —the rules
provide for only 5 per cent. —the chest-
nut was profitable for him.
* 4= * *
During the past year there was not
much profit in training in Sydney for
even the most successful men holding
licenses. Only 20 turned out winners of
over £2OOO, and, with expenses heavier
than usual, that did not mean a big mar-
gin in their favor, even if they received
10 per cent, of winnings in addition to
between £3 and £4 for each horse in their
stables. For the current season the A.J.C.
has issued 45 No. 1 licenses, 105 No. 2
licenses and, apart from owners also
granted that privilege, 56 permits to train.
The list of trainers with No. 2 licenses
and permits is small compared with four
years ago, and evidently many men with
two or three horses arrived at the con-
clusion that there were more payable
occupations. As it is, some combine war
work with training, and it would be sale
to bet that the former gives them the
better return.
H= * * *
If correctly reported, Chief Secretary
Baddeley is seemingly looking forward
to the time when a Government-backed
Sydney Turf Club will supplant the
A.J.C. as N.S.W.’s ruling racing body,
and possibly take over Randwick race-
course. He talks of the new racing body
having a meeting bigger than the Mel-
bourne Cup. Well, Randwick is the only
Sydney course capable of accommo-
dating the crowd the Chief Secretary anti-
cipates, and therefore it is reasonable to
suppose he and the S.T.C. already have
eyes on that track, though the A.J.C. s
present lease has several years to run.
So far as the contemplated personnel of
the S.T.C. is concerned, it is not known
at the time of writing, but it is to be
hoped it equals that of the A.J.C., whose
successive committees have built up N. S.
Wales racing to its present standard.
Miscellaneous
Nearly half the 47,000 who turned out
to watch the five V.F.L. games on Satur-
day were at Essendon, where Carlton,
after hanging grimly on for two quarters,
snatched a three-point lead in the third
quarter and kept it, to down the ’Dons,
10.10-9.13. At Richmond the locals suf-
fered . much the same, Hawthorn going
to a narrow lead and holding it firmly,
11.7-9.14. Fitzroy shattered Melbourne’s
hopes of making “the four,” 15.14 to 7.12,
Footscray beat North Melbourne, 9.10-
7.11, and “Sowth” joyfully downed Col-
iingwood, 12.18 to 11.7. Essendon leads,
Fitzroy next, then Carlton, Hawthorn and
Richmond together.
* * * *
Randwick v. East, Sydney Rugby
Union’s “match of the day,” was an even
game throughout. Winger Frost inter-
cepted and raced 80 yards to register the
only points scored ; Randwick 3, East nil.
East is still second to Manly, with Rand-
wick third, and then West. University
just scraped home against Gordon, 14-11.
Other games:
Manly 31, St. George 3; West 11, Parramatta
3; North 14, Drummoyne 6.
t- * * *
For the fifth time this year Hockey
Bennell and Tommy Colteaux boxed at
Leichhardt. Colteaux attacked most of
the time, and in the fourteenth he had
the lighter man down ; in the fifteenth
Bennell’s left eyebrow was gashed. Ben-
nell got a hotly-disputed decision.
Boxing with masterly skill and punch-
ing more powerfully than ever, Vic
Patrick took only four rounds to settle
Jimmy Dundee at Sydney Stadium. In
the concluding round Patrick worked
Dundee, a gory object, into position for
a left that knocked him under the ropes,
and he couldn’t get up in time.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Three-year-old Handicap: Cre-
morne, 1 ; Scene, 2 ; Sidelight or
Yarras, 3.
Hobartville Stakes: Flight, 1 ;
Tribal, 2 ; Mayfowl, 3.
Warwick Stakes: Yaralla, 1;
Winnipeg, 2 ; Soho, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap: Bruce
Wood, 1 ; Industry, 2; Prince, 3.
Warwick Spring Handicap: Beau
Timide, 1 ; Cream Puff, 2 ; Eureka,
3.
Glenlee Handicap: Pinero, 1 ;
Kiaree, 2; Dick Whittington or
Valiant Garde, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The austerity-minded are discovering
that wide dirndl skirts are as economi-
cal as, if not more so than, the pencil line.
As usual first thoughts on the subject
have come from London, but the peasant-
girl silhouette is becoming just as popu-
lar here. It is “peasant-girl” only in
general outlines, of course, being actually
a much more sophisticated style of attire,
especially in flannel or wool to match fit-
ting buttoned jackets. The point on the
economy side is that practically the same
amount of material is used as with
straight-cut skirts and frocks, but instead
of being cut to a shape, wasting a lot of
material in small scrap pieces, it is draped
in unpressed pleats or gathers which have
the advantage of standing a lot of “sitting-
on” without showing signs of sagging or
stretching.
The newly-wed who are starting house-
keeping straightway are in a very tough
spot so far as the wherewithals to eat
and drink with and from—cutlery and
crockery, in fact—are concerned. It
looks as if most brides , will have to be
content with buying plates and cups in
ones, as stores with any china at all left
are doling it out on the basis of one
person one plate. Of course, the time-
honored scheme of sending each member
of the family in separately can be brought
into play, but the difficulty these days is
to collect the whole clan for a shopping
expedition on the same day. Perhaps a
fashion for odd chinaware may grow out
of this war-time necessity.
Topic of the week is the odd “fluey”
cold that almost everyone has or is get-
ting. Its most notable symptom is a
churchyard cough and a complete dis-
appearance of the voice at intervals, to
reappear as a hoarse, grating whisper.
While this doesn’t hurt the afflicted one
at all, the sound is excruciating to others.
Lord Woolton, who tells British diners
and housewives just what they can’t have
and how to make the best of it, must have
been present in spirit at the Y.W.C.A.
Market Fair. Canny thoughts on war-
time cooking and planning were presented
in a remarkable array on the Austerity
Stall. Fair shoppers who felt like a little
sustenance were provided with piping
hot soup of fine flavor which closer in-
quiries revealed to have been made of
potato peelings. A recipe was handed
out there and then for trial at home.
Marmalade made with merely the peel of
the oranges was another item, and prizes
were presented for winners of competi-
tions for eggless and butterless cakes. A
specially bright thought was the “entire-
dinner” pie, made with meat and vege-
tables and sold for 25., with the promise
that it would feed four persons.
Among the wizards who produced this
array of “thrifty food ideas” were Matron
Alice Booth, of the Leave Hostel, Meii-
den, and dietitian Moira Masters. The
latter makes a specialty of salads, and
made and sold them at the fair. The pro-
verbial hot cakes just weren’t in it when
compared with the rush on these, as this
city is becoming increasingly salad-
minded. Moira links to the scientific
knowledge of the dietitian very sound
ideas on the most attractive ways to pre-
pare food, and the subject of salad dress-
ings and which raw things go best with
which is her particular interest.
A ceiling of blue with silver stars
dotted across it should be a soothing eye-
catcher for the baby who can’t sleep if
the infant in question happens to be lucky
enough to be in the new nursery at the
“Queen Vic.” hospital. The nursery
is the gift of the hospital auxiliary of the
Australasian Women’s Association, femi-
nine counterpart of the A.N.A., and was
opened on Saturday by Mrs. B. D.
Goyne, president of the auxiliary. Cost
was £493. Contrasting gently with the
blue ceiling, the walls are a soft “dusty”
pink. Equipment is naturally the latest
in baby furniture, including very cute
little cots with bassinets fitted inside them
so that “baby and all” can be lifted out
with ease. Sterilising apparatus and a
refrigerator are part of the scheme.
Just now the Velasquez Galleries are
redolent with the smell of books and
leather arising from an exhibition of
binding and bookplates. With the swell-
ing of Red Cross funds in view, the
work of both local and overseas book-
binders and plate-etchers is shown. Chief
among local exhibitors are Miss Edith
Drew and Dr. a’Beckett Travers. Miss
Drew counts music-making and -teaching
as her profession, but has been experi-
menting with bookbinding for a number
of years, starting with the discovery that
it was more satisfactory to bind her own
music library. The bindings on show are
of the most luscious order, with consider-
ation given to the contents of the books.
Fairy tales are "treated to pale-blue
covers and painted on the inside leaves
with appropriate scenes. Beige and
cream books catch the eye, too. Book-
plates of overseas artists, among them
the American Timothy Cole, are also
shown.
With the object of giving families of
A LE. men a seaside holiday at nominal
cost the A.I.F. Women’s Association
Holiday House at Seaford will shortly
open its doors under the Lady Mayoress s
hand. Seaford is about two miles from
Frankston, and the house faces the beach.
As the place was previously run as a
guest-house it is just the thing for the
purpose, with hot and cold water in the
bedrooms. No limit is put on the number
of children who may be brought on holi-
day with their mother, provided, of
course, that they can be fitted in.
Families of deceased A.I.F. men or
prisoners of war are given special prefer-
ence.
Treading the boards for the first time,
at least in a public performance, Meg
Smith, here pictured by Dickinson-
Monteath, is taking the far-from-easy
role of Meriamne in the Queen’s College
production of the play “Winterset.” Her
only previous acting experience has been
in school plays of M.G.G.S., but rumor
has it that her portrayal of the 16-years-
old but prematurely careworn heroine of
the play (which is set in the slums of
New York) is making the producer en-
thusiastic. Science is Meg’s out-of-the-
theatre interest, and she is in the second
year of a B.Sc. course. “Winterset” be-
gins on August 20 at the Union Theatre.
It’s to be hoped that the hospitable im-
pulse of Emily Macpherson College stu-
dents to serve a hearty supper at the in-
terval of their stage show will catch on
around these parts. How often has the
theatregoer who just didn’t have time to
fit in a square meal between rushing
homeward and rushing back longed for
something a little less saccharine than
chocolates or nut sundaes before facing
the rest of the evening! The college, as
a home of good fare might be expected
to take any sort of feeding problem seri-
ously, and, of course, the bright young
things who put on the show liked a
chance to demonstrate just how versa-
tile they are.
The hoped-for £5OOO for the Centaur
Nurses’ Memorial Fund, for which Lord
Mayor Nettlefold has set on foot an
appeal, shouldn’t take long to find, as
public feeling for the nursing profession
is very warm and the object in view is
such a good one. It is proposed that the
memorial should take the form of a
scholarship to enable a girl not otherwise
able to do so to complete her training for
nursing diploma. This is very much to
the point, as the initial expenses of a train-
ing course are high and often out of
reach of country lasses, who seem to make
some of the best nurses.
Lots of hard work on the part of
organiser Marjorie Gordon went to mak-
ing a success of the Theatrical Cabaret
at the Embassy on Sunday night. P.O.W.
funds will benefit by the proceeds of the
show. The night was planned by an
U.S.W.A.C. Committee, headed by Mrs.
Sophie Graves, and performers in His
Majesty’s and Comedy Theatre shows
gave their services. A flower stall of
dripping lushness was the result of gifts
from hothouses and gardens all over the
State.
News of Georgine Gadsden’s death
was a great sadness to her many friends.
She was an expert skier and well known
to the skiing fraternity. All forms of
sport came easily to her, and she was an
enthusiast for exploring the countryside
on foot and bicycle, roughing it in gipsy
fashion. She travelled much in Europe,
finished her education in Switzerland and
spoke many languages. She was a grand-
daughter of Mrs. Thomas Smith, of
Grong-Grong, Toorak.
From Sydney
Maybe it was relief from war strain,
maybe it was admiration, but even greater
crowds of beholders turned up to the
opening of the Society of Artists’ show
than to the private view. This had been
on Friday, the 13th, and nothing unto-
ward occurred, in spite of the calendar.
The president, Sydney Ure Smith, mem-
bers of the council and Consul-General
for the U.S.A. Ely Palmer, dressed in
seasonable lines of spring suitings, did
the opening. The Ely Palmers have
lived in many colorful corners of the
world, and everywhere have made friends
of the artists and writers. Everybody
liked his picture of the Corpus Christi
procession in one of the cathedrals of
Madrid, where many of the worshippers
who had no flowers to take brought with
them canaries that kept bursting into
carollings and piercingly sweet trills.
On the stage, also, was a very import-
ant person indeed —General Macarthur
Onslow. He was in bronze, looking as
resolute as Australia has always known
him. A flame-of color on one side of
the stage, burned Arnold Shore’s “Gladi-
oli.” Apostolic Delegate Panico, painted
by Dattilo-Rubbo, lent the rich colors of
his robes to the other side.
Dear little Whimsy seemed to be flitting
about the show. Of her it can be said
that those who like her in literature will
like her in art. The most-talked-of pic-
ture was Joshua Smith’s portrait group.
This very human picture of an elderly
man and woman has been bought by the
Marshall Trust for presentation to
Sydney’s National Gallery. All the
galleries seemed to be in buying mood ;
so did the individual collector. Others
were busy telling their friends why they
would or would not buy certain paint-
ings if they could.
There wasn’t one trembling sign of
spring on the opening day—all women
went suited, felt-hatted and befurred.
Mrs. C. L. Jones, whose husband shows
two sensitive and colorful garden scenes,
was in misty greys. With them were
Phyllis Hughes, Toni Robin, of the
American Red Cross, and a colonel in the
Allied forces. Stephanie Edye, straight
from her Spanish class, joined mother.
Her (Stephanie’s) hat showed the Mexi-
can influence. Darya Collin, Mrs. Frank
Medworth, the Judge Nicholas couple,
Mrs. Lempriere-Westbrook, Mrs. Eva
Wunderlich and pretty Mrs. Fielding
Jones were among the many. Peter Lub-
bock was at the private view with Ivie
Price. Daryl Lindsay, J. R. McGregor,
Mis. Will Owen, Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son and Mrs. Darling were others enjoy-
ing a snack of art.
When the boys come home they’ll have
quite a lot of stories to tell about the
hospitality with which the Victoria League
surrounded them in London. Head-
quarters are just one whirl of entertain-
ment, and there’s a touch of home about
it all for the lads from the Dominions.
The League held its 26th annual meeting
last Thursday afternoon in History House,
quite a bright gathering answering the roll-
call. Mrs. Lord, so long associated with
the "Salvation Army in Malaya, and Mrs.
McWatter were among the speakers.
Anne Hill and Lois Graham, of the
young contingent, read their reports. Miss
Mary Fairfax was elected deputy presi-
dent in succession to Miss Sibella Mac-
arthur Onslow, whose recent death causes
a severe loss to the League in Australia.
Members are reminded of the “Bring
and Buy” tea on September 3. All
moneys raised will go to the V.L. clubs
in London, which arrange happy Christ-
mas parties for overseas service men.
The twenty-first annual meeting of the
Rachel Forster Hospital will be held at
the establishment on the afternoon of
August 27. The arrival of the invitation
reminded of the splendid and consistent
work done by the medical and profes-
sional women of this city for Rachel
Forster. In particular the practical sym-
pathy of the Women’s Hockey Associa-
tion stands out. Not only have the mem-
bers (nearly all business girls) furnished
the Pathological Laboratory as a
memorial to their secretary for so long,
Mrs. F. J. Davy, but they have pledged
themselves to provide £5O a year towards
its upkeep. They give another £5O to
maintaining a bed ; and they do it all
within their own border. Lady Wake-
hurst has promised to be at the meeting.
There’s music in the air this month —
modern and classic; it blows like
zephyr, sweeps like tornado down the city
ways. The American Armed Services
Band is adding to the joyous vibrations.
Its 80 players will give four concerts in
the Town Hall. Three will be in the even-
ing, on August 23, 25 and 26, and on
August 25 there will be one matinee.
Many members of the band were with
bands and dance orchestras in the U.S.A.
Some had studied music in college and
conservatorium. With still others music
was just a hobby in piping times of
peace. The concerts will benefit the
N.S.W. division of the Australian Com-
forts Fund.
The Australian-American Movement
lived up to its name last Thursday night,
and swung into the dance. The polished
little State ballroom was packed to
capacity—indeed, 400 tickets had been
sold as against the usual 350. Would-
be dancers were still clamoring for ad-
mission on the afternoon of the junket-
ing. Flags formed the decorative scheme,
and tables were patriotically beribboned
in red, white and blue. Captain White
and Mrs, White brought a cheery party.
Secretary of the women’s committee Mrs.
Ted Scorfield was active and attractive.
Mrs. Florence Taylor was one of the
night’s hostesses.
The Stoi'k Ball brought fun and games
to the Killara Hall last Saturday night
and more than £6O to the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital. Starting off to a weak
beat owing to the drumsticks being left
behind, the dancers were kept revolving
to the strains of the piano till enthusiasm
had roared out and back with the sticks.
Then the services band that was supply-
ing the music really got into action. The
guests were mostly “teen-olds” and “just-
twenties,” the supper was donated—-
enough for two armies—and the whole
night was a success. Mrs. Harold Taplin
was the president, Mrs. Norman McLeod
the secretary. Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs.
A. McCartney and Mrs. Frank McDowell
were active committee members.
Last Thursday night Vera Bradford
made her first public appearance in Syd-
ney as a concert pianist. Vera is a Mel-
bourne musician, and at a very early age
won a three years’ scholarship at the
Melbourne University Conservatorium,
where Frank Homewood was her teacher.
From Melbourne she went to the U.S.A.,
where she studied for six more years.
While in New York she won scholar-
ships which entitled her to tuition from
Percy Grainger, Rudolph Ganz and Alex-
ander Raab, and gave recitals and
appeared with orchestra. Since Vera’s
return she has toured the Commonwealth
twice with the A.B.C. Last Thursday’s
programme featured works by Haydn,
Chopin and Ravel. Photograph is by
Andre, of Melbourne.
Friends of newspaper woman Helen
Bennett, who died suddenly last year, are
planning a memorial to her blithe and
kindly spirit. As Helen was a great
student of history and a lover of litera-
ture, the memorial is to take the form of
a prize for students of these subjects. It
will probably be established at Sydney
University, where Helen was a graduate in
arts. The first meeting was held last week,
and women journalists are supporting the
idea keenly. The amount needed to
found the prize, £5O, is being quickly sub-
scribed, for Helen, with her great zest
for life, her quick sympathy with the
underdog, made friends wherever she
went.
Toscanini led the first performance in
New York of Russian composer Dmitri
Shostakovich’s “Leningrad” symphony.
Bernard Heinze will conduct the first Aus-
tralian performance of this work in the
Town Hall next Tuesday night. Fellow-
conspirators will be the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, augmented to 94
players. The concert will benefit the
Russian Medical Aid and Comforts
Fund. The score, in micro-film, of
course, arrived in Australia four months
ago. Written during the bombardment
of Leningrad, the film was flown to
Teheran, rushed by car from Teheran to
Cairo and from there by ’plane to New
York to be in time for the season.


Prepare n
HOMC,
to build I
N .\A>
Ni
o
*
o
&
V s*
n n < °
v>
N
■A
o
d
%
mm
*5S*%
4^
r*v
Set Savings Mit/t.
FOR YOUR POST-WAR HOME
Of course you can’t build it now . . . nor can
you do any extensive remodelling . . . even if
you could get all the Cane-ite you’d need for
the work you’re planning to do. And there’s
no reason why you shouldn’t plan, and pre-
pare, and save, for the home you’re going to
have when peace has followed victory. Then,
there’ll he plenty of Cane-ite, the ideal insulat -
ing hoard for lining walls and ceilings.
C E
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING.
CANE-ITE :: MASONITE :: C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL :: PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
Invest your savings in war bonds
CA26-43
JOHN LYSMCHT
(aVSTBHUaJ PTY. M.TD.
SOMOKE-OH!
Speaking in Melbourne Town Hall Mr.
Curtin referred to “the third prong of
the Axis.” A three-pronged Axis is a
menace, but wait till the v P.M. strikes a
quadrilateral triangle!
•I* *l* 4*
“Can Smoke Anywhere.”— “Sun” heading.
Suburban railway patrons have realised
this for months past.
-T. ,T.
“We are in the midst of a revolution in hair-
dressing at the present moment.”
—Womans mag.
Like the other, the wave of revolt
won’t be permanent.
“Saddle, bridal and breastplate for 14-hands
pony, in good order.”
— Advt. in “Great Northern” (Sydney).
To run in the matrimony stakes?
“The castle is alleged to be haunted by a
ghost which opens doors no matter how heavily
they are padlocked.”- Travel article.
No doubt it has a skeleton key.
•% *2* *l*
If only this political hot air would
warm up the weather!
r* V *i*
“Film in camera leads to arrest.” — “Argus.”
The negative had positive results.
*r* 4* •v
His Shout.
“A brick is capable of absorbing about one
pint of water.”- — “World’s News.”
The rain had soaked the brickyard, and
the boss was pretty wild. He picked a
rain-soaked brick up and, with language
far from mild, he heaved the brick at
Sam ; then said, as he was dragged to
clink, “I only shouted for him. I just said
‘Here, have a drink!’”
Looby.
Horror Film.
Whose clutching fingers locked the door
before the ghastly crime ?
Who cut the lawyer’s throat ? Who
stabbed the man who went for aid?
And if Detective Benson knew the killer
all the time
Why didn’t he arrest him ere he slew
the wretched maid ?
Whose blood was on the stairway in the
ghostly candlelight ?
And, when he raised the coffin up, why
didn’t Harry miss
The stolen corpse ? And why on earth
did Rosie stay the night!
And what a blasted fool I am to see a
show like this!
T. W. NATHAN.
In Reverse.
“ ‘There arc worse husbands than the drunken
ones,’ said the woman in black. Several of
the other women agreed.”— Woman’s paper.
The conversation had begun when the
woman tried to console Mrs. Youngbride,
who, in tears, had come to seek her
friends’ consolation.
“Tom came home sober last night,”
she sobbed. “This is the third night this
week. It looks as if he is becoming an
inveterate non-drinker.”
“You poor, poor dear!” said Mrs.
Bingey consolingly. “But you mustn’t
look on the black side. He may merely
be having a holiday, and next week he’ll
be probably home molo every night.”
“I’m afraid sobriety has taken a hold
upon him,” wept Mrs. Youngbride.
“Tut, tut,” protested Mrs. Easy. “You
must remember, darling, that men have to
work very hard these days. Perhaps he
felt so tired after his day’s work that he
thought that beer was too hard to get.”
“We women have to bear with man’s
little foibles,” said Mrs. Plugger. “Still,
we must admit that a man is perfectly
entitled to keep sober now and then.”
“I don’t agree,” put in Mrs. Curry
hotly. “An innocent girl marries a man
never thinking he is a non-drinker, and
he’s hardly promised to love and protect
her before he starts coming home sober
every night. If any man did that to me
I’d sober him!”
“And don’t you see what it means to
me?” cried Mrs. Youngbride wildly. "1
must have a new hat for Saturday. If he
came home shot and hung a shanty on
my eye it would be worm a 39-and-ll
one at least ; when he’s sober 1 can’t even
‘fan’ his pockets —he’d miss anything 1
took. It’s dreadful! ”
“The callous brute!” cried the women
in chorus.
H. M.
Italian Note.
Da gallant-a Marshal Badoglio,
Who peench-a from Muss, de portfoglio,
He get off da bike
And say ; ‘‘By da crike,
Dees mess we are in ees unhoglio
K.
Intelligence Test for Political
Candidates.
[This perennial question has again been re-
vived on the hustings, so we may as well get
the thing off our chest once and for all. Can-
didates getting 20 p.c. answers correct could
consider themselves of sufficient mental poverty
to justify their appointment to Parliamentary
committees. Those getting only 10 p.c. should
be brilliant successes as Whips, “Garn !” inter-
jectors and cross-bench snipers and deputation
introducers. The five-percenters would auto-
matically qualify for Cabinet rank without
port folio. Those too boneheaded to get any
correct would, if successful at the polls, be
assured of being snapped up immediately as
party spokesmen.]
1. A voter in an outlying part of your
constituency rings up your campaign
room for a car to bring him in to vote.
You pick him up personally, and when
he gets out at the booth and you make
to shepherd him across to your table he
walks straight past it and gets his how-
to-vote ticket and number from the table
of your opponent, whose own car has
broken down. When he emerges from
the booth he comes back to your
car and demands to be driven home.
Would you politely usher him in?
2. As leader of the successful party at
the polls you are selecting your Cabinet
team, and the question of the Army port-
folio crops up. Give at least eight cogent
reasons why the new Minister should (a)
have never attended a war ; ( b ) not know
the difference between a heliograph and
a breech-block ; (c) have been immedi-
ately prior to his appointment a taster to
a lolly manufacturer, a bookbinder, a
meter-reader or a greyhound-trainer.
3. During your campaign you strike a
hostile audience. You have hot exchanges
with a' 15-stone wharfie. In reply to
a personal threat you raise a laugh by
saying you’ve often stamped on better
looking things in the kitchen-garden,
that you frankly opine he wouldn’t have
the nous to pour water out of his boots
if the directions were printed in large
type on the sole. There is no cop
present, and as the meeting breaks up in
an uproar you can see the wharfie wait-
ing outside the main door with his sleeves
rolled up. There is a back door through
which it would be possible to slip into a
deserted side street. By which door
would you make your exit?
4. The two chief parties in the House
are at even strength, and as the only In-
dependent you keep one of the parties in
office. The Government feels that it
should be represented at an Empire Cub
Jamboree to be held in Canada. You
are selected. The trip will take three
months, and fortunately the House will
be in receSs during the entire period.
Four conflicting opinions regarding your
selection come under your notice. They
are, seriatim, id) political bribery, (h) your
personal sterling qualities, (c) you had
been a Cub yourself once, id) you would
greatly help to strengthen the bonds of
Empire. Which one would yog reject?
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
Science and Education
“D.F.R.” (B. 21/7/’43) cannot have
fully considered what neglect of the
study of science in favor of ethics and
civics would mean.
There is not a single great industry
in the world today that does not look
to the scientist to reduce costs, improve
quality and increase efficiency in manu-
facture, and in almost all of them the
demand for trained men is greater than
the supply.
Apart from the need of trained chem-
ists, physicists, metallurgists, bacterio-
logists and electricians in everyday life
there is the work of research, which
offers untold possibilities for the better-
ment of the human race.
To take one branch of science alone,
organic chemistry, how many valuable
lives have been saved and how much
suffering averted by the discovery of in-
sulin and of sulphanilamide!
It is quite possible that similar research
by psychologists in vitamins and hor-
mones may lead to the control or cure
of cancer.
It is wrong that the study of science,
which, above everything, inculcates a
regard for truth in statements and
accuracy in observation, should be
blamed because others have misused the
results of such teaching.
Instead of science receiving an undue
share of attention in our elementary
schools today, the reverse is still the Case,
though not to such an extent as formerly.
Germany nearly overcame us in
1914-18 because of chemists and scien-
tists, but fortunately for us, though ours
were inferior in numbers, they were not
in ability, so we won through.
By all means, teach sane civics a,nd
ethics in our schools, but in a scientific
way—by logical reasoning from care-
fully collected facts. — lan Joinerson
(Vic.).
Area Schools
There is something in what “Country
Parent” says (B. 28/7/’43) regarding the
loss of an educated “individual” to the
small school centre, but it does not
amount to much. Small schools in S.A.
are usually under a young man or girl,
and their education has less impact on
the community than their youth. To be
sure, it removes a likely husband or wife
for some farm girl or boy, but distance
matters little to youth, and petrol restric-
tions won’t last for ever.
Has “Country Parent” had personal
experience of area schools? I have not,
but the glowing accounts from my
friends and the absence of complaints
in newspaper correspondence columns
convince me that they are part, at least,
of the answer to our years-long moan of
disabilities in country schools.
Do small schools really supply initia-
tive in children? Sometimes it is the
wrong kind, and there is more chance of
a bad leader being knocked into shape
in a bigger school than a small one. As
for the “theoretical trend” to greater
juvenile delinquency, that is nonsense.
The “rural economic system” is likely
to be helped by the area school, as chil-
dren are encouraged to diversify their
farm activities. Whether it will keep
youth on the farm can be proved only by
experience, but I must repeat it is the
most significant and hopeful trend in
education today.
One extremely good feature of the
S.A. area schools is that they co-opt local
tradesmen and craftswomen to teach the
different trades and crafts. At one —
Karoonda the Methodist minister
taught blacksmithing.— Fodgie (S.A.).
Psychology and Education
The substitution of psychologists’ re-
ports for examinations as a basis for
selecting pupils worthy of going on from
primary to secondary education (B.
28/7/’43) is a doubtful blessing. The
examination method is a perfect one for
selecting pupils who are good at examina-
tions. The reason why it is in such sad
repute is that pupils who are best at
passing examinations seldom become dis-
tinguished in the very subjects they are
supposed to be good at.
Stuffing facts in children’s heads and
then drawing them out by examinations
only produces people who are good at
remembering , it doesn’t produce thinkers.
The honors and degrees and the profes-
sorial chairs generally go to the good re-
memberers* but the result is that new
thought seldom comes from the academic
institutions.
Mr. Evatt’s reform might work if the
psychologists he appointed were Freuds.
But what evidence is there for believing
that he would be able to recognise the
new psychologist any better than the uni-
versities? If he got some university
psychologist to select pupils he would
have just as much difficulty in differen-
tiating between the future Einsteins and
the good little rememberers as they have.
—Pawang (Vic.).
Army Bushmen
Among schools and courses for the
Army no one has thought of a course in
“How to Make Yourself Comfortable in
the Bush.” Recently camped in the mulga
I was often exasperated by the in-
eptness of Army “bushmen” and the
happy-go-lucky way they tackled bush
life. I was told on good authority that it
isn’t “done” to build anything over and
above strictly regulation tent, fly and (if
lucky) floorboards. Very little in the way
of rough-hewn washstands, soap-holders,
places to have a comfortable shave, etc.,
was in evidence.
At night, with the temperature hover-
ing around freezing, officers huddled in
“If you MUST sing, for Pete's sake go up on deck!”
overcoats or went to bed. Some of the
men’s tents had fires outside, but a fire
was apparently among the things that
“aren’t done” in commissioned circles.
It would be fruitless to list all the trifling
shortcomings, but they all added up to
an extremely irritating picture of need-
less discomfort. Yet in a big way the
camp was excellent; sanitary conditions
first-class, well-built mess huts and so
on ; everything kept spotlessly neat, with
little paths cleared and notices up to indi-
cate various sections. It would have been
perfect with just a little attention to com-
fort, easily attained anywhere in the bush.
—Geordie (W.A.).
Post-war Housing
There is an idea for post-war planners
in the gigantic services barracks near-
ing completion in Victoria. The barracks,
which will cost about £250,000 and cover
20 acres, are being built so that public
schools and other institutions may be
returned to civilian uses.
The area has been made available only
for the duration, but there will be a
housing problem after the war, so why
couldn’t this and similar military erec-
tions be retained and converted into com-
munal dwellings as a temporary measure?
I don’t like the idea of vast workers’
flats on the Russian model, but it would
be a temporary solution of the problem
and better than the aesthetic slums of
standardised, pre-fabricated homes the
post-war planners contemplate erecting,
which would be there for keeps.
The temporary relief would enable
Governments to go about making up the
housing leeway in a more leisurely
fashion. The building of new houses
should be left to the individual and not
become the business of Government de-
partments, which invariably make gim-
crack miseries of them. The opportuni-
ties presented might produce a few indi-
vidual architects capable of designing
something pleasing and of using the
materials that occur in different localities,
like pise and stone, instead of the depress-
ing uniformity of bricks.
I am ready to assert that a beautiful
domestic architecture which would create
craftsmen and artists would do more to
avert new wars than all the provisions of
the Atlantic Charter.— Hackshaw (Vic.).
Australia and Aviation
Our fliers are amongst the world’s best.
The history of aviation is dotted with
Australian names. Hargraves was only
a fraction behind the Wright brothers
and Lilienthal during the actual incep-
tion of the flying machine in the late
nineteenth century. The first successful
east-west Atlantic crossing was by Kings-
ford Smith ; the Pacific was first crossed
both ways by Australians, Kingsford
Smith, Ulm and P. G. Taylor sharing the
honors.
The first and only Indian Ocean survey
was planned and headed by P. G. Taylor.
Kingsford Smith and Ulm made the first
two-way crossing of the Tasman. The
first Arctic flight was organised and
directed by an Australian —Wilkins. The
pioneer flights on the England-Australia
airway were made by Australians.
In the 1914-18 war and this the deeds
of our lighter pilots have become a guid-
ing light. The work of No. 10 Sunder-
land Squadron is a source of inspiration.
In the Ferry Command there are many
Australians. All this tradition will count
for nothing if we lack initiative in the
future. We still have only a small air-
craft industry. In the past many of our
best designers and fliers have not found
scope for their talents here, and have
been forced overseas.
We occupy a commanding position re-
garding East Asian trade. Let us there-
fore take heed and plan for the future
commercial air war. —E. J. T. (Q-).
New States
I agree with “Jayef” (B. 21/7/’43).
By all means let’s divide Queensland and
N. S. Wales into six States. But don’t
stop there.
Western Victoria, with Portland as
capital, and Northern Tasmania, with
Launceston as capital, would make four
more. Mt. Gambler and Port Lincoln
are so isolated from Adelaide that they
might as well be capitals of separate
States.
Then to be fair to Westralia we should
have to divide her into at least three.
With the much larger Federal Parlia-
ment this would necessitate a Parlia-
ment in each State, including one at Dar-
win and Alice Springs. We could all be
members of Parliament or Government
employees, and would not have to worry
about prices or quotas in industry, in-
dustrial disturbances, soil erosion or any-
thing els©,- — Sba-ef (S.A4.
Spuds and C.O.L.
The distribution of food and its cost
have me worried. In view of the fact that
I and/or ray wife and/or the children
have been expected to queue up on the
off-chance of receiving a few potatoes,
you can imagine what was in my mind
when I read recently in a copy of the
“Railway Gazette” (London):
Hot baked potatoes with a pat of mar-
garine or a slice of cheese have been placed
on sale at 2d. each at Paddington Station.
The Great Western Railway is making the
experiment to support Lord Woolton’s eat-
more-potatoes campaign. If the potato
snacks prove popular with passengers, they
will be on sale in all G.W.R. stations in
London and the provinces. On the first
morning the hot potatoes were bought as
fast as they could be baked. Passengers
could either eat them in the refreshment
room or take them away to the train.
I once thought Hitler’s U-boats had
England by the throat, but England can
run an “Eat-more-potatoes” campaign
while here in Australia, well
Then the Law says as the cost of living
rises I must be compensated by increased
wages. Thus I am shortly supposed to
receive 4s. per fortnight basic wage in-
crease. The Income Tax Commissioner
steps in and tells my employer that as
that means an increase in my income I
must pay an increased tax. So I finish
up receiving 2s. instead of 45., and am
getting further behind in my chase of the
bare necessities. If things boom and the
basic wage rises to about £lO a week, 1
will be living on fresh-water sandwiches.
I don’t want any “New Order,” but
will anyone tell me how to go about
getting on the dole? — Minus Proviteins
(N.S.W.).
Who Said Rabbits?
Since 1940 Commonwealth civil ser-
vants have increased from 30,000 to
100,000, and there have shot up 200 boards
and commissions which administer 820
statutory rules embracing more than 2350
regulations, which occupy six volumes of
more than 2550 pages, requiring thou-
sands of lawyers all over the country to
interpret them to the public.
It is, no doubt, in accordance with the
law of the survival of the fittest that
nowadays you can’t get a baked rabbit
in Melbourne for love or money. —
M. G. Skipper, 247 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.
Riding Breeches
In completely banning the manufacture
of jodhpur trousers the Department of
Supply has shown little consideration for
men working in the outback. It appears
to be quite possible to provide all kinds
of special overalls for city workers, but
nothing for the stockman.
Those responsible for this restriction
no doubt think that riding breeches are
worn for effect only. Such is far from
being the case, and anyone who has had
any experience at all at riding is familiar
with the discomfort caused by the ten-
dency of ordinary trousers to creep up a
rider’s leg. In addition, the constant
rubbing of bare skin on leather produces
an irritation which is most unpleasant.
Men employed in pastoral work have
few comforts, and are entitled to some
consideration, particularly now, when
the shortage of petrol is making the use
of the horse more and more imperative.
—Stockman (Q.).
Refutation and Appreciation
Our association, comprising about 1500
evacuees from the Far East, challenges
the statement by “100% Britisher” (B.
21/7 /’43) that “all Australians know that
British refugees received a far from
friendly welcome” here.
While I personally received so cordial
a welcome in Australia that I was very
surprised to read that statement, it would
be idle to deny that many of our less
fortunate evacuees did have to listen, as
“100% Britisher” says, “to most unjust
criticism of Britain and everything
British” when their frayed nerves needed
sympathy and comfort. Nevertheless, I
am confident that the great majority of
our Far Eastern communities now in Aus-
tralia will always remember with infinite
gratitude the kindly help and considera-
tion shown them at the time of their
arrival and still being shown them by
such organisations as the Far Eastern
Welfare Auxiliary, the Victoria League,
the Victorian Auxiliary for Evacuees in
Melbourne, the British Settlers League in
Brisbane and the travel departments ot
the Bank of New South Wales in Sydney
and other big cities, all of which have
proved veritable friends in need.
My committee feels —and 1 am suie
that the great majority of our members
will agree —that to allow so sweeping a
statement to go unchallenged would be
to show a deplorable lack of apprecia-
tion of the fine work being done for so
many of us, for which we will ever be
most grateful. Stanley H. Dodwell,
chairman of the East Asian Residents
Association (N-S.W.).


There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
TNOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency ... National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
* $
gf
~ < *. . . •
ilk"-■ AS
« VP**
I
, I ;.»■ -»•■:* -■ «»•*• . \ “«•. Mm*
:, W**<
®§SS
!;iV>
Trl hr 1
"■. , - •
i. ,i '*’... -jr —.-;• «- . „_. .■-»■■•? Li-Xm
HB| <■ *■, % sv 4 "'^ Jy^
>#H». ■ f^ wr »- S. r
‘■V & $ t '• *
Arnoffs Factor/ '
at Homebush. New South Wales
FAMOUS
BISCUITS
It is better to plan victories than have
post-mortems on defeat buy War Savings
Certificates and National Savings Bonds.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTTS "THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER"
