

c
l
■w
The Bulletin
the Bulletin,” Vol. 64. —No. 3303
Wednesday, June 2, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. ANDREW UNDERSHAFT.
THE BURIAL PLACE OF A FAMOUS ANTIQUARY.
name is one of the smallest in the city,
i■. i . .
and it owe9;iwinusual name to its size.
The story goes that the shaft of the may-
pole which was erected outside over-
topped the church, and for this reason
it became known as St. Andrew Under-
shaft. The church is on the corner of
Leadenhall-street and St. Mary Axe,
and was built in the sixteenth century. In
the north aisle is an alabaster monument
to John Stow, the famous antiquary.
Stow, who is not as well known as he
deserves to be, was born in London about
1525. His father was a tailor, and for
some years Stow followed the same trade.
Then, as he tells us, “He left his own
peculiar gains in middle life and conse-
crated himself to the search of our famous
antiquities.” His time was mainly spent
in the collection of books and legal and
literary documents, and he spent as much
as £2OO per annum on his library—a
large sum in those days.
Amongst his works are included many
notable summaries of old English
Chronicles, but he is chiefly remembered
for his valuable Survey of London, which
was edited and enlarged in 1618, 1633,
1 720 and 1 754.
To Stow’s self-sacrificing researches much
of our knowledge of ancient London is
due. Like many another literary man
of the period he did not find his work very
remunerative, and was forced to accept
a pension in order to subsist.
Stow also suffered at the hands of his
contemporaries, and Richard Grafton
sneered at “the monument of superstition,
foundacious fables and lyes foolishly
Stowed together.” In his reply Stow
deplored “the thundering voice of empty
tonnes and unfruitful Grafte of IVlomus
offspring” by which his work was
menaced. He died on April 8. 1605, and
was buried in St. Andrew Undershaft.


I Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ~
My Address
S.B. 243
ACrK
The Red Page
TALKS BY MENZIES.
“Recently,” said Mr. Shean, “a great
deal of discussion has been occurring
both in Parliament and press in Mel-
bourne, and perhaps elsewhere, in rela-
tion to the undoubted abuses of intoxi-
cants which are taking place in the large
centres of population.”
“Suddenly,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
have begun to talk like a leading article
in the Sydney ‘Morning Herald.’ If you
mean that the wowsers have been roaring
about my grog again, why not say so?”
“You have committed an unpardon-
able error,” said Mr. Shean. “I am not
talking like a ‘S. M. Herald’ leader, but
am quoting Mr. Robert Gordon Men-
zies.”
“I understand,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“that Mr. Menzies’s private conversation
has wit, charm, force and color. I believe
that he is a man of culture and there-
fore should write good English. And yet
if he came to my house and spoke as
you have been speaking about ‘the un-
doubted abuses of intoxicants which are
occurring in the large centres of popula-
tion,’ I should poison his whisky ; and
if he said it in an essay I should commit
him to the flames.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean. “But if he said
it on the radio you would never notice
it.”
“You are right,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I should not be listening.”
“You have discovered, as I have discov-
ered,” asked Mr. Shean, “that all radio
talks, which should be models of com-
pression, are intolerably vague and
diffuse? That there is some malignant
censorship, self-imposed I have no doubt,
that makes all radio talks, especially
those about the New Order, solemn,
boring and meaningless? Without guts ;
without bite?”
“I don’t listen to the radio,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “because I dislike being pro-
paganded at. I don’t like voices in my
ears. The last freedom left to a good
Australian democrat is the freedom to
switch off some windy bore who believes
he is a better Australian democrat.”
“I trust,” said Mr. Shean, “these dis-
respectful words are not meant for Mr.
Menzies?”
“It all depends what he says,” replied
Mr. Gallagher. “Does he demand a New
Order? Does he believe that everything
and everybody is going to be wonderful
after the war, and is he preparing to be
disgruntled if everything and everybody
is not wonderful? Does he regard it as
wicked of me that once I attended a
moderately good school; that I have
made enough money to buy books and
pictures and even to invest in the war
loans? Does he believe that the British
have let us down? Does he oppose com-
pulsory savings for the war effort? Does
he believe that conscripted British,
Americans and New Zealanders should
march to Tokyo but conscripted Aus-
tralians only to the Equator?”
“You are getting short of breath,” said
Mr, Shean.
“I he floodgates of my eloquence are
burst,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I sweep all
before me. Is he unaware of the perils
of inflation? Does he believe that in
some miraculous manner we shall evade
paying for the war? Does he believe that
the free spirit of the individual would
flourish best when every man is a slave
of the State? Is it his credo that man-
kind will have reached the ultimate snows
of its glory when everybody is a civil
servant? Does he secretly favor the
Communist party? Does he attack Mr.
Menzies for exporting scrap-iron to
Japan?”
“Mr. Menzies points out with some
asperity,” said Mr. Shean, “that during
the time when, representing the people of
Australia (who were then buying Japanese
crockery), his Government exported wool
and scrap-iron to Japan, we received in
exchange Japanese lathes, grinding
machines and all sorts of tools badly
needed for our own munitions pro-
gramme. Also that the U.S. in one year
exported to Japan twenty times as much
scrap-iron as we did in two years. Also
that it wasn’t the place of 7,000,000 A_us-
tralians to start a gigantic and terrible
war which even the mighty United States
was not fben ready to face,
s Then I take it,” said Mr. Gallagher,
. to all my other questions
1S a 50 no '
szid Mr Shean. “The name
of the book in which Mr. Menziess
speeches have been printed is The For-
p , e (A and Rob ertson).
Yo u are the Forgotten People. You are
thc m iddle-classes. You have energy,
ambition, spirit and true patriotism ; you
are fiercely independent; you are
threatened from above and below ; you
must watch the bureaucracy ; Parliament
is your creation and your safeguard ;
you must restore its dignity. You are
ack i ) l one ?/ tke . nat * on ’
~ r " Gallagher, I
lecl wonderful.
Eliot and Sherlock Holmes .
The ethics of literary borrowing appear
to be that a great man may pinch what
he likes from a lesser, but that a lesser
man may not take anything at all from
a greater. We don’t care how much
Shakspeare stole from his contempor-
aries ; but we would consign to the flames
anyone who stole from Shakspeare.
Unscrupulous as the principle may
appear, I’m inclined to support it. It is
hard on the lesser man ; but it’s the great
work that’s important to the world.
Consequently 1 didn’t feel shocked
when someone with a better knowledge
than I have of the deplorable byways of
literature told me that a page of T. S.
Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral is lifted
straight from Conan Doyle. In The
Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes there’s a
story called “The Musgrave Ritual” in
which it’s related that each succeeding
heir of the Musgraves, on reaching the
age of 21, has to recite a queer mumbo-
jumbo, the meaning and purpose of
which has been forgotten; and (if you
must know what happened) a wicked
butler discovers that the “ritual” is a
due to the hiding-place of the crown of
Charles the First, which he tries to steal.
Here is tlje ritual:
Whose was it?
His who is gone.
Who shall have it?
He who will come.
What was the month?
The sixth from the first.
Where was the sun?
Over the oak.
Where was the shadow?
Under the elm.
How was it stepped?
North by ten and by ten, east by five
and by five, south by two and by two, west
by one and by one, and so under.
And here is the dialogue between Arch-
bishop Thomas Becket and the Second
Tempter on page 28 of my copy of
Murder in the Cathedral :
Thomas: Whose was it?
Tempter : His who is gone.
Thomas: Who shall have it?
Tempter: He who will come.
Thomas: What shall be the month?
Tempter; The last from the first.
The borrowing stops there, Eliot con-
tinues : —-
Thomas: What shall we give for it?
Tempter: Pretence of priestly power.
Thomas: Why should we give it?
Tempter; For the power and the glory.
Eliot was perfectly frank about his
prodigious borrowings in “The Waste
Land,” so I presume this one is uninten-
tional. But there’s no doubt it is a
borrowing. I see no reason to disapprove
of it. But it amuses me to know that
Eliot’s reading has been more humanly
plebeian than we thought; and also that
a page from a humble detective story can
fit so naturally into a great poetic drama.
MACH.
A Commonwealth Fund
Novel.
The great fault in Phyllis Somerville’s
Not Only in Stone (Angus and Robert-
son ; by arrangement with the Common-
wealth Fund) is that the author hasn’t
the faculty of selection, doesn’t know
what to leave out. There is, for instance,
an extraordinarily puzzling rooster;
She ran to the chopping block, but Gray’s ,
rooster from next door was there before her
and. reaching up his neck and cocking his
glossy black head on one side, pecked
up the top of Bob’s finger just as Polly
bent to retrieve it. Polly, her hand poised
over the block, saw the bulge in the
rooster’s throat descend into his feather-
covered crop, and she sent up a wailing
cry. She turned to Richard, leaning
weakly against the shed. “Thees‘ll answer
to God for this, me son,” she said tensely.
“Make no mistake about it. Thees’ll an-,
swer to God!”
Who can say why the bird appears in
that incident? Bob and Richard are two
small boys; Bob, taunting Richard, tells
him he couldn’t cut his finger off ; he puts
his finger on the block and Richard, very
naturally and sensibly, cuts off the top
of it. The purpose of the incident as a
whole is clear enough—-to show the
natures of the boys and to illustrate the
difficulties under which Polly, the mother,
rears her young. But why on earth does
the rooster then chip in and swallow
Bob’s finger?
Lawson and Steele Rudd might have
introduced a rooster at that point, with
the clear intention of making macabre
comedy. A modern writer, trying to be
a ruthless realist, might bring in the bird
to show what relentlessly bloodthirsty
fellows are post-Hemingway writers and
roosters. But Miss Somerville, as far
as one can make out, is neither trying to
be funny nor trying to be ruthless.
It may be that one is expected to take
seriously Polly’s theory that she could
clap the top of the finger on again ; in
which case the rooster is a symbol of the
grimness of Fate. But it would obviously
have been better to have omitted so ludi-
crous a symbol.
It seems rather more likely that Miss
Somerville is telling here some true story ;
there really was a rooster once that swal-
lowed the top of a child’s finger—the
characters are fictional, but the rooster
is historic. And because the bird is his-
toric he is introduced into the fictional
re-creation of his past crime. But it
doesn’t matter that he may have swal-
lowed fingers by the score in real life:
he should have been omitted. Real life
is very poor art.
The bird is given a perch in this review
not because his presence or absence in
that isolated incident is of any vast im-
portance, but because he’s symptomatic
of a general lack of selectiveness that
mars the whole novel. One can pardon
the intrusion of an occasional rooster ;
but —unless it is much more cunningly
disguised—there is no room in a novel
for a plan to remould the city of Adel-
aide so that “every city in the Common-
wealth will envy Adelaide her North Ter-
race” ; or for intricate and detailed his-
tories of the expansion of the copper-
mining companies ; or for slabs of parish
history of only local interest:
The Reverend Mr. James Maughan was
the first minister of this section of Metho-
dism in the province of South Australia,
and Peter Tilbrook was one of its first
members, he having worshipped with them
in 1862, in a room in Hindley-street. Land
being secured later in Franklin-street, a
cathedral-like church was erected which,
with the land, cost £4750, and was opened
for worship on 12 December, 1864.
That quotation will also serve for an
illustration of the book’s second great
weakness —its stiff, pedestrian style.
The novel is not without its virtues.
A story of the Cornish immigrants of the
’sixties, set partly in Adelaide and partly
at the Wallaroo coppermines, it presents
its period with a painstaking exactness
that gives it some value as history. The
principal character, Polly Thomas, is
clearly drawn, and the events of her life
-—from her arrival in Australia as a
young woman until her death at the age
of 89 —are plausibly constructed and con-
vincingly told. If strong, voluble men
who bet on horses would not be attracted
by the feminine, domestic world in which
the novel moves, there is no legitimate
ground for complaint here, except that
the world is limited ; and if a thoroughly
good woman’s prolonged struggle against
fate is somehow not as interesting as the
novel’s one momentary glimpse of a thor-
oughly “bad” woman, Polly’s story has
undoubtedly a touch of the heroic, and
the book as a whole is given unity, the
shape of a novel, by the heroic concept
underlying the rambling events.
Perhaps it was the consideration of
these virtues, together with the historical
interest, that moved the Commonwealth
Fund to support the publication of this
novel. But in spite of its merits—and
how limited they are the Fund could have
judged by comparing Not Only in Stone
with Conrad’s Typhoon, which, essen-
tially, is based on the same concept of
human steadfastness against the blows
of fate —the book, at most, is a “worthy
effort” by an unpractised writer. It will
make its greatest appeal to elderly ladies
in Adelaide. The Commonwealth Fund
was supposed to have been established to
assist the publication of works of national
importance, and its imprint on any book
—“Recommended by the Advisory Board
of the Commonwealth Fund” —should
surely be a guarantee of literary merit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On a Saroyan play:
Saroyan's “The Time of Your Life,” which
was singled out on the Red Page recently
as the liveliest and most playable of this ex-
perimenter’s volume of “surrealist plays” and
which was staged in Sydney some time ago by
May Hollinworth and the S.U.D.S. group, is
being tried out by Doris Fitton's Independents
at their North Sydney theatre. Set in a San
Francisco “honky-tonk” and purporting to give
a living picture of American life, its New York
production won a Critics’ Circle award and
a Pulitzer Prize. Oddly, when it is so strongly
“contemporary” in theme and style, it is already
dated; a period piece. American life today is
not quite the same thing as it was before the
U.S. entered the war. Written in 1939, “The
Time of Your Life” has an air of pointlessness
and disillusion resembling the atmosphere of
Noel Coward’s pictures of the ’twenties in
England. On the whole, it does not succeed as
a stage play; but it has the interest of all
experiments.
The experimentalist cither in art or in litera-
ture has the one great advantage that he
compels attention; successful or not, his work
must be noticed, for in it may he the hand
of a Messiah. And “The Time of Your Life”
is an honest and sincere experiment. But, be-
cause of its very nature, it’s doubtful if it
could ever succeed. If it has a purpose, then
that purpose is to show how purposeless is
life (or rather was in America in October, 1939)
—poor material for art: a statement of futility
might sustain sufficient interest in a one-act
play; it’s merely repetitive over three and
a half hours. If it is without purpose, offered
merely as a picture of a section of life—
and that, though never likely to be art, is
probably worth trying as an experiment—then
it fails again because, though it is real life,
and interesting life, and its characters are real
people and interesting people, they arc viewed
through the veil of Saroyan’s sentimentality and
so distorted thereby as to be seen always out
of focus, too large or too small.
The honky-tonk on the San Francisco water-
front is a real honky-tonk. Its keeper, Nick,
is real in his pride in his “joint” and in his
feeling for the people who circulate there.
But Kitty Duval, the “two-dollar whore,” Harry,
the “natural-born hoofer,” and the old
Indian-fighter, Carson, are sentimentalised be-
yond reality. Joe, the drunken dens ex machine
who solves everybody's problems, has no exist-
ence other than in the realm of the fairytale,
his solution of their problems no validity out-
side that realm.
The demands the play makes for a cast are
exacting. Joe and Kitty and Tom call for
genius in their portrayal. Harry must be “a
natural-born hoofer”; if he is anything less the
illusion is lost. Doris Fitton’s Independents
find the dimensions of their North Sydney
stage a limitation. The limitations imposed by
a partly-amateur cast they tackle with mixed
success. Vaughan Tracey is Nick, less forceful
than he needs to be, but a person full and
rounded. Gwen Plumb is Kitty, Ivor Bromley-
Smith Tom and Leonard Bullen Joe; they all
give careful performances, lacking only in the
quality of enthusiasm needed to bring the parts
really to life. In less important roles Don
McN.iven (McCarthy)—he gets the only real
laughs—and Elizabeth Hurst (Mary L.) have
just that polish of enthusiasm and sureness that
is needed throughout the play.
Good work is shown at the Australian
Art Society’s exhibition at Farmer’s gal-
leries, Sydney, by G. V. F. Mann, Jerrold
Nathan, J. Salvana, W. M. Whitney, Tom
Garrett, Albert Clarke, H. A. Hanke,
Garrett Kingsley, Elaine Coghlan, Clif
Peir and Lesbia Thorpe. Whitney, usually
wedded to water-color, shows some clever
impressions in oil; Garrett Kingsley’s
nudes are excellent. Hanke shows a
woman’s head done in the beautifully
polished style that endeared Leighton to
the mid-Victorians. Les Campbell reveals
a very pretty command of water-color;
and H. Weaver Hawkins, who paints with
breath-taking emphasis, also deserves
notice. Lesbia Thorpe’s portrait “Marie
Rosenfeld” has the snappy, sparkling
effect always aimed at by the use of
impasto, but not often realised. Daysi
Brookes’s “Joan” is a clinking good
portrait.
The works of Jean Bellette, at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, comprise figure
compositions, landscapes, still-lifes, nude
studies, drawings and statuettes. Miss
Bellette is more interested in abstract har-
monies and patterns than in the depiction
of reality, and some of her figures are
faceless. The landscape “Trees by Muddy
Lake” gives a strong impression of mud
and desolation. The nudes appear to
have been pickled in tannin.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne Athenaeum, which
since it broke all records with Shaw's “Pygma-
lion” has a name for long-run talkies, lately
struck a snag in "The Magnificent. Amber-
sons,” though it is one of the best films seen
in Melbourne for a long time. Strangely
enough, the photography was voted stagy,
unusual and arty-crafty, whereas really it is the
traditional Hollywood photography that is
stagy and artificial, and all that Orson Welles
has done is to go back to simple and logical
illumination. Instead of having half a dozen
arc lights surrounding his subjects with a halo
and, by shining from several different angle.',,
completely destroying the mystery of shadow,
he seems to have been content to let nature
play the artist, and, if a window or the sun is
the natural source of illumination, to let it do
the business. The result looks strange only m
relation to what the traditional producer has
accustomed us to. Actually, the effect is tne
same as in the news reels, which are often reaiiy
dramatic, whereas the studio magicians notions
of the dramatic are stylised. Moreover,
W'clles’s characters don’t seem to have had
their teeth removed and false ones substitute
and their eyebrows plucked by the misgui
geniuses of make-up.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
»
THE SENIOR STORE
H
✓
m.
liiiii
■f
,
m
Vr>
m
mm
m
11
* - rlM^
imm
wm'r
Simms
mm
; i
. 'T
| "*
§mSM
CM
w &k xpezcHts
«iacmuVs;“r....y
■I. A <
«s
~A*' ■';■ -.. Y •^:.-
<* '
• >■ %.s>*
.»'<
yC^"
ii
E £«*«* ' o^fr
Y,vS:
*3*#
&**2S2
4mm
■
m
ft
h.
m
mm
;o£
*3**
Sies&i
■i
si
m
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
AUSTRALIAN OUTLINE My Mar|©ri© Barnard
The story of Australia in brief, with illustrations by Douglas Annand.
Price * 67-
Postage 3£d.
THE UNRELENTING STRUGGLE
The War Speeches by the Right' Honourable Winston S. Churchill.
Price 13/6
Postage 6£d.
MAN THE UNKNOWN By Hr. Alexis Carrel
This famous and inspiring book, by one of the foremost living
scientists, has been a best seller since it was first published In 1935.
We are offering the 1942 Australian edition, of which many
thousands have already been sold. Price 107-
Postage 4^d.
VILLAGE IN AUGUST By Tien Chun
China's greatest war novel. Price 8/6
Postage 4^d.
PORTRAIT OF A SAVAGE
By G. Mnnro Turnbull
A BRILLIANT NEW NOVEL OF NEW GUINEA
"There is truth and knowledge in every line of it. Tolerance and
understanding are its keynote. It satisfies the prime requisite of all
fiction in being a first-class story.''—"Sydney Morning Herald,"
15/5/43. Priced at 12/6
Postage ,5Ld.
RETREAT IJV THE EAST Ry O. D. Gallagher
The facts behind the disasters in Malaya and Burma: a tale of
governmental incompetence and civilian self-interest; a story of the
bravery of our soldiers, sailors, and airmen. Price 10/6
Postage s^d.
LIFE IN THE BUSH By F. J. Meyrick
1840 to 1847. A skilful picture of the home-life and adventures of
a pioneer squatter in the neighbourhood of Port Phillip. Price . . 9/6
Postage 7Ld.
THE niOUBLED MIND By Dr. Harry Roberts
A general account of the human mind and its disorders and its
remedies. First cheap edition. Price 3/4
Postage 4id.
MOON MAGIC
Written and Illustrated by Helen Noakes
Coloured plates and a black and white drawings. A delightful story
by a talented young Australian for children from 6 to 10 years.
Price 47-
Postage 4-2-d.
UNILLUSTRATED
EMBROIDERY STITCHES
By June Scott Stevenson Diploma, Edinburgh College Of Art
These stitches can be easily followed, as each step is clearly
indicated, with the needle drawn in the appropriate position. They
are invaluable to those engaged in occupational therapy. Printed
on separate sheets in convenient portfolio. Price 7/6
e * Postage 3-jd.


OUT OF THE
PAST
THE LADIES.
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
SYDNEY has always loved to exer-
cise the social amenities, and the
very beginnings of civilisation along
the Tank Stream were distinguished
by an entertainment that was truly re-
markable, both in its setting and environ-
ment, for the way the ladies of Sydney
Cove threw themselves, wholeheartedly
and with enthusiasm, into the revels.
The feminine society of the period has
never been paralleled anywhere else, and
never since those days of its beginnings
has Sydney itself contained anything
quite like it. For four years—mostly
years of famine and distress and grave
anxiety—it continued more or less as it
had begun. Only about the end of
Arthur Phillip’s period of governance
did Sydney Cove commence the slow
process of evolution that changed its
social aspect, through the course of
several decades, into something re-
sembling that of other countries where
life was less strenuous and sordid and the
conditions of existence more tolerable.
There were about 1000 passengers in
the First Fleet—civil and military
officers ; non-commissioned officers of the
Royal Marines, some of whom had their
families with them ; the rank and file
of the three companies of sea-soldiers
who were to garrison the settlement; and
about 750 male and female convicts.
Of the allegedly gentler sex—though
these specimens of it were not noticeably
gentle—there were nearly 200. The
transport Prince of Wales carried 50, the
Charlotte 20 and the Friendship about
the same number. The largest number
of women brought out in any ship was
the 109, of all ages, on board the Lady
Penrhyn. These we are able to know
more intimately than any of the others,
for the reason that the gentleman in
whose charge they were placed during
the long voyage—Surgeon Arthur Bowes,
R.N.—gives a very full, true and parti-
cular account of them in the daily jour-
nal which, yellow with age, but still elo-
quent and descriptive, may today be con-
sulted in the Mitchell Library at Sydney.
Dr. Bowes had plenty of time in which
to study his charges, and stfidy of them
does not seem to have augmented his
esteem for the ladies of the Lady
Penrhyn. He was an enthusiastic young
man, full of generous and kindly opti-
misms, and at the beginning of the
voyage he entertained cheerful hopes that
he might be able to land his charges very
much better women than they had been
when they came aboard. It was to be a
sort of purgatory for them, during which
their original and acquired sinfulness
would be blown away by the ozone of
the ocean breezes and contemplation of
the coming Land of Promise, so that they
would become sufficiently purified to act
a worthy part as the wives and mothers
of a new nation. A new country, a new
life, a new start in both —only the hap-
piest results were to be anticipated. That
was Dr. Bowes’s opinion when he took
up his job at the beginning of 1787.
By the end of the year he had come,
sadly but inevitably, to quite another
conclusion. Shortly before Christmas he
made the following entries in his diary:
“Spoke the Sirius about ten o’clock
a.m. Since Commodore Phillip left us
the remainder of the ships of the fleet
have kept much better together, as Capn.
Hunter does not carry such a press of
sail as the Commodore used to do. This
day I had the box of Necessaries got up
out of the Gunroom, where, from the
rolling of the ship, it had burst an end
and some of the sugar had fallen out,
and stowed the Contents in the Lockers
of my Cabin. I believe few Marines or
Soldiers going out on a foreign Service
under Government were better or so
well provided for as these convicts are.
“I wish I could, with truth, add that
the behavior of the [female] Convicts
merited such extream indulgence—but
believe I may venture to say there was
never a more abandoned set of wretches
collected in one place at any period than
are now to be met with in this Ship in
particular, and I am informed
the comparison holds with respect to all
the Convicts in the fleet. The greater
part of them are so totally abandoned
and callous’d to all sense of shame and
even common decency that it frequently
becomes indispensably necessary to in-
flict Corporal punishment upon them,
and sorry am I to say that even this
rigid mode of proceeding has not the
desired effect, since every day furnishes
proofs of their being more harden’d in
their Wickedness. The Oaths and impre-
cations they daily make use of in their
common conversation and little disputes
with each other by far exceeds anything
of the kind to be met with among the
most profligate wretches in London.”
IT was on the evening of the day when
1 the women were landed from the trans-
ports and installed in their encampment
ashore—some of the tents were pitched
close to where Essex-street runs into
George-street today—that the first social
function ever held in Australia took place.
It was not, of course, attended by all
the females in the settlement. Already
differences in caste had become observ-
able. Thirty or forty women —the wives
of the non-commissioned officers of the
garrison—immediately constituted them-
selves an upper stratum of society that
looked with haughty aloofness and some
amount of contempt upon those who were
not fortunate enough to be free and
“honest.” Mrs. Marine would have
nothing whatever to do with Mrs. Con-
vict.
That night must surely have been the
most terrible in Australian history, and
to the very few women amongst the con-
victs who retained any elements of
decency a fearsome experience. Soldiers
and sailors, and with them some of the
male convicts who had been lapded for
the preliminary work on shore, invaded
the lines of the women’s encampment.
It was a fearful debauch of extreme
drunkenness and unrestrained sensuality,
and it was carried on, in the earlier part
of the night, through a drenching thun-
derstorm which had little effect in quench-
ing or cooling the fiery high spirits
animating Sydney’s first social gathering.
IN later years female prisoners arriving
a in Sydney were given tickets-of-leave —
if their husbands were in the colony or
they had other means of supporting them-
selves or their children —or they were
assigned as domestic servants to officials
and settlers or sent up to the Factory at
Parramatta.
Before .1819 the condition of the Fac-
tory was about as hopeless as it could
be. There was accommodation for less
than a third of the women sent to the
town, and the rest were compelled to find
private lodging—obtained for the most
part by cohabitation with male convicts
or the lower class of settlers. It was not
until the end of the eighteen-thirties that
any reform took place in tfce institution
—a Select Committee of the House of
Cpmmons inquiring into transportation in
1837-38 pointed out that it had more of
the character of a lying-in hospital than
of a prison or a reformatory—though
after the arrival of Sir George Gipps as
Governor there was an improvement.
For fifty years the lot of the woman
convict coming to Australia was vile and
demoralising beyond belief. The scum of
the settlement awaited them during their
walk to Sydney Gaol in George-street,
where they were to pass their first night
ashore. On the following day they were
taken to Parramatta in boats, rowed up by
convict constables, who were about as
bad a lot as any then existing in colonial
society. Sometimes they were eight or
ten hours making the voyage of 15 miles,
and anything at all was liable to happen
to them.
As to what happened when they did
arrive at their destination, Dr. Reed, a sur-
geon-superintendent of one of the trans-
ports, may be quoted. “On their arrival
the preceding evening,” he writes, “they
had not got within the Factory before they
were surrounded by hordes of idle fel-
lows, convicts, who were provided with
botties of spirits, and others with pro-
visions, for the purpose of forming a
banquet, according to custom, which they
assured themselves of enjoying without
interruption, as a prelude to excesses
which decency forbids to mention. One
of the women,” he goes on, “whose dis-
position had been particularly improved
bn the voyage, and who retained a strong
sense of propriety, exclaimed with tears
of anguish ‘Oh, God! sir, we are all sent
here to be destroyed! ’ ”
Mr. Commissioner Bigge, inquiring
into the condition of New South Wales,
had this to say of the Factory in 1819:
“The state in which the place itself .was
kept, and the state of disgusting filth in
which I found it —the disordered, unruly
and licentious appearance of the women,
manifested the little degree of control in
which the female convicts were kept.”
NEVERTHELESS, it was these un-
fortunates who often became the
mothers and grandmothers of amazingly
good Australians.
A picture of the Factory as a marriage
market given in evidence before the afore-
said Select Committee of the House of
Commons is an extraoTdinary com-
ment on the social usages of New
South Wales in the early nine-
teenth century. “If,” the witness testi-
fied, “a master has a convict that he
is anxious to keep, and whom he believes
to be well-behaved, it is considered a
great indulgence if he gives him permis-
sion to get a wife from the Factory, but
the master must enter into an engagement
with the Government to feed and sup-
port the woman, and, in fact, the off-
spring, to prevent it being a burden upon
the Government. This being done the
man goes and he gets an order to the
matron of the Factory for a wife.
“The women are turned out, and they
all stand up as you would place so many
soldiers or so many cattle at a fair. The
cbnvict goes up and looks at the women,
and if he sees a‘ lady who takes his fancy
he makes a motion to her, and she steps
on one side. Some of them will not, but
stand still, and have no wish to be mar-
ried ; but this is very rare. Then they
have, of course, some conversation to-
gether, and if the lady is not agreeable, or
if the convict does not fancy her from her
conversation, she steps back, and the
same ceremony goes on with two or three
more. I have known an instance of
convicts going and having the pick of
one or two hundred without find-
ing one to please them ; the lowest fel-
lows you can fancy have said it wouldn’t
do ; they could not get one to suit. But
if he finds one to please him they get
married.”
"T' HERE was an evening very much
* later on in Australia’s story than
that evening shortly after the arrival of
the First Fleet when two gentlemen dined
together in an old house situated almost
at the extremity of the projection of land
into Port Jackson that was in those days
spoken of as “Mrs. Darling’s Point.”
They were both aged men who were
wealthy, wise and just in their regard of
the years they had lived in and the men
they had lived with.
“Well, Henry,” said one of the pair
who might have been slightly the elder,
“we have much in common, you and I.
We’re both real Australians, with nothing
of the Johnny-come-lately about us. We’ve
both seen this country grow from very
near its first beginnings, and we’re much
alike in our origins. My father was a
sergeant in the Rum Corps, and yours
was a boatswain in the Navy. And both
our mothers were lags. So there you are.
We’re both, as it were, products of the
soil and of the common people—and 1
don’t feel that we’ve anything to be
ashamed of because of that. We’ve seen
the railway opened to Parramatta today,
and we’re getting on towards the ends
of our lives. We’ve both done well for
ourselves, and maybe a little for the coun-
try. I’ve nothing to grumble at. Have
you?”
“Nothing, John—-nothing. We’ve been
as good colonists a§ any who’ve ever
come here, and so were our parents before
us. But ’twas they who had the hard
times. ’Twas they who made this coun-
try fit to live in. Theirs was the first
breaking of the ground ; theirs the sweat
that christened this country. We owe
everything to them. They gave us sound
bodies, and more or less sound minds.
There’s nothing more they could have
done for us. Let’s drink their healths
tonight, as we take our ease and look
back over the past.”
“Indeed, yes, Henry. We’ll drink to
the memory of our parents. But I’d like
to make a special toast of it —to make it
refer rather to our mothers than our
fathers. Our fathers were free men, but
our mothers —the best of women, both
of them—were sent here as slaves. And
they survived —God! what didn’t they
survive! ”
He held up his glass and smiled at his
friend.
“To our mothers, Henry. To our
mothers! To. the women of the First
Fleet!”
“The ladies !” said John.
Various Verse
The Fly.
Here am I,
Crawling upside down on earth like a fly,
And around me the sky.
Yet, who has seen the stars far out in space
And the clouds’ grace?
Who has seen Death;
And the wind’s breath
Moving in trees?
I, said the fly, with my little eye;
I have seen these.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
Stroking the Cat.
MAORILAND.
When I stoop to pat
My acquiescent cat,
On her hindpaws she’ll rise
To meet my hand halfway.
With lovelight in her eyes
Anticipating
The fingers in her fur,
And seem to say,
“Go oh, I’m waiting!
You stroke. I’ll purr.”
How easy it would be —
Worshipping, adoring,
Sending the soul a-soaring—
If some divinity
Would stoop to us like that,
As I do to my cat!
ARNOLD WALL.
Thrush and Magpie.
Those yellow spots on his sleek coat
A cause of great contentment are
To that fat thrush. And who can say
They shine more vainly than a star;
And—this is his own comparison—
He less than great Napoleon?
The magpie Singing his delight
An unskilled artisan may be.
In dinner-suit of black and white
He only gets the sun for fee.
Yet sweetly still his notes will come
When all our instruments are dumb.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
On Tropical Service.
I’m restless with the tawny sun
That must too long delay
The dusky night, so kind to one
Aweary of the day.
When stars prick out, then I put by
The yearning and unrest.
Dreaming of you, I run, and I
Am gathered to your breast.
A.I.F
H. E. WESLEY SMITH.
The Hurricane Lantern.
She might have been the bush pub’s slattern,
But in the darkness men and women,
Being alone, each had in common
A leaning towards the hurricane lantern.
On nights she danced with lambent flame,
In a shawl of lace, her flying-ant mantle:
Then no man lived could tame and handle
This bush pub slattern, the hurricane dame.
Those times she shone §nd vied with carbide,
Or flimsy-mantled mistress gas-light;
Or, bravely, when newfangled flash-lights
Of some car failed, she took a car ride.
Game cigarette lighter, she too smoked
In her blackest moods. With her pungent smut
She filled the room till, putting her out,
The barman swore and the customers choked.
Undoubtedly she was the gamest,
Roughest, toughest flame of all.
In milking sheds I knew her well,
A trifle dull, but stout and honest.
She cast her constant light on men;
And I think that most of them had a slant on,
Were admirers of, the hurricane lantern,
And they cherish those hours she lit them then.
QUEENSLAND.
JACK BLIGHT.
A Toast.
Here’s to women whose obdurate
Mediocrity of mind—
Admitted they less hesitate,
Say subtler things, talk more, find
Sharper meanings, better tend
Machines, than I, obtuse, e’er can —
Perplexes my more soaring trend.
They’ll guard as one custodian
Each feature of their social map,
Perceiving with their very bones
The thing I never see—that gap
’Twixt Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones.
Here’s to, in spite of solidarity.
Their keener sense of nice gradation,
Refusal to reduce to parity
In pothouse, school or for the nation,
Their finer thrill of self-security
Which will make this world-to-be,
However great its strength, its purity,
Never quite safe for democracy,
.s.w.
O.N.B.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3303.
Wednesday, June 2, 1943.
QUO VADIS?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane ,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
LANDS IN LUCK'S WAY.
An outsider reading Australian news-
papers—especially Sydney newspapers,
and particularly one of the afternoon
variety—might be led to believe that the
unfortunate denizens of this continent
were suffering food and other shortages
comparable to -those of Europe.
The truth —as anyone who cares to
look into the matter realises—is that Aus-
tralians are not within long-distance
coo-ee of anything like privation.
From time to time there have
been shortages of essentials, includ-
ing bread and milk. A bread short-
age was the result of a strike —•
like the bulk of the strikes that
have occurred in the past year, staged in
contempt of Government, in disregard
for the community and in despite of the
country’s being at war. It lasted about
a week, but there was plenty of flour and
all households managed to rub along.
The milk shortage—like the bread
shortage, a local affair, touching only a
section of the total community—could
have happened in peace-time; that is,
again like the bread shortage, it was not
a direct result of the war. It was partly the
result of a board’s policy and methods of
distribution and partly the result of flood
rains. In its worst phase it lasted only
a matter of days, and even then there
could have been few homes that did not
get a certain amount of milk. In any
case, the flood rains which appeared to be
partly responsible ended another local
shortage, which, in the first year or two
of the war, had threatened to become
deadly serious. This was Sydney’s water
shortage —a result, not of war, but of
years of drought, together with failure
by a board to plan for the city’s popula-
tion increase and (especially) industrial
expansion while building a palace for
itself and staff.
With other commodities, such as fish,
there have been shortages that are under-
standable enough. Even so, there has
been a fair amount of fish of sorts avail-
able, at a price. In most other commo-
dities, too, it has been more a matter of
increased price than of reduced supply,
though the one would account in part for
the other. In the case of apples and
pears there has been “control” of so
fatuous a description that glut and
scarcity have led to the same result —
dear fruit.
But, take it all round, the Australian
position so far has been that, apart from
temporary shortages (often localised) in
certain commodities and the disappear-
ance (mostly understandable) of tinned
lines, nobody has suffered any serious
deprivation. Rationed lines, like tea and
sugar, have met requirements even better
than some unrationed lines. In the main
it boils down to certain minor shortages
in the midst of abundance. As for any
comparison with what people really in.
the grip of war are going through, a tour
around Australian commodity shops of
all kinds —fruit, vegetable, meat, grocery
and so on —might be calculated to send
a present Continental Greek, Belgian,
Dutchman, Frenchman, Pole, or even
Briton or Russian temporarily dotty.
For a country at war and —overlook-
ing coal and wharf enemy-co-operators
and suchlike blots on the landscape—put-
ting up a pretty fair national effort, this
general state of things is not at all bad.
Certainly it provides no warrant for
any press shortage-sensationmongering.
As for the cost of living, according
to the March Bulletin of Statistics
issued by the League of Nations, in
Australia and New Zealand wholesale
prices and cost of living had risen about
40 p.c. and 20 p.c. respectively up to the
end of 1942. In the United Kingdom
wholesale prices had gone up some 65
p.c. and cost of living about 30 p.c. Other
cost-of-living figures; India, about 65
p.c.; China, 500; Yugoslavia, 230;
Turkey, 100 ; Finland, 80 ; Spain, 70. In
these and other countries in Europe and
elsewhere wholesale prices show corre-
sponding increases, except in Germany,
where the increase under both heads is
put at less than 10 p.c. above average,
a robber’s reward.
Thus', compared with many other coun-
tries involved in the war, both Australia
and New Zealand are well off, excluding
from the comparison altogether the actual
starvation in some of those other coun-
tries, the near-starvation in more, and
also the terrible realities of war itself
Which some of them are suffering only
too dreadfully. In any such comparisons,
Australia and New Zealand are, as they
hitherto have been, extremely lucky lands.
All that might be said —though without
grumbling about it —is that these two
countries, placed as they are in relation
to the war, could be expected to be en-
joying the same measure of luck.
Differences between them range from
Government management of war effort
to the war tone of the press and aspects
of commodity positions which the press
reveals. As to the respective war efforts,
it can be said that the N.Z. effort has been
steady and unflurried. There was a
period of voluntary enlistment; it ceased
on July 30, 1940, when “service was made
compulsory, all men enlisted as the result
of being called up by ballot” being “re-
quired to serve for the duration of the
war and twelve months thereafter,” and
no geographical limit. Hence in the selec-
tion of men for the services and their sub-
sequent training and use there has been
none of the sort of accompaniment to
recruiting that Australia has had to endure
from one responsible Minister and another
There have been no hysterical outbursts
calculated to induce men to enlist and no
associated wrangling and controversy
about methods. The one-purpose
machinery adopted—the only sane one
for any country getting into a war —a
N.Z. Labor Government has worked it
in a manner which makes the Australian
Government performance—from the
undercover establishment of the new
A.I.F. and reintroduction of militia ser-
vice (with quaint limits) onwards —look
shabby.
Comparisons in the war tone of the
press must relate mainly to Sydney
newspapers. Sections of the Sydney press
have made themselves notorious by their
general war screeching and by their
home-front stunting, such as that which
lately had comfortable citizens almost
imagining that they were starving, and
thus fighting their part in the war mag-
nificently with their bellies, by default.
The press difference in tone can be dis-
missed as one of comparative level-
headedness on the one side and lack of
it on the other.
In the commodity field, differences,
thought not of any vital importance,
have points of interest (keeping in mind
that the comparison is only between two
countries both living well). Taking it
this way the front-page advertisements of
the “Dominion” (Wellington) are some-
times incredible. On any day in the week
the ads. refer to such things as “apples,
Granny Smiths, best quality, 7s. 6d.
bushel-case, railed”; “apples, choice
quality, fully guaranteed, eating or cook-
ing varieties, 7s. 6d. bushel-case, railage
paid,” and so forth. This part of the
comparing needs to be set against the
results achieved by the board mishand-
ling apples and pears in Australia.
Also, it would seem to be worth noting
by those who explain the suspension of
rail delivery of case lots by blaming other
calls on transport. The same people
might also note the regular offers (in
N.Z.) of “beautiful floury” potatoes,
“fully guaranteed,” at “18s. 6d. per 1401 b.
sack, railage paid every railway, delivery
to Wellington homes Is. extra.” Also,
“railage paid every railway station, 501 b.
bag of fresh assorted vegetables” for
95., “city residents requiring delivery to
homes, add 6d. extra.” These and other
similar figures and rates paraded in regu-
lar N.Z. advertisements are likely to turn
Australians green as cabbages with envy.
Even more remarkable is another
regular line of advertisement in the
“Dominion.” In Australia, with a
couple of million gallons excess of wine
for export (the great bulk of which isn’t
being exported), wine queues are among
the stranger sights of cities. At one
Sydney address a queue—when wine is
available —has been counted as 340-odd
men and women, every one of them
an ordinary suburban dweller. In the
“Dominion” can be read daily: “Sold
by the case. Wine and sherry” ; “Sold
by the case. Wine, sherry, muscatel.
Weddings and parties catered for.”
These items from the “Dominion” be-
come extraordinary when it is noted that
New Zealand is not a wine-producing
country. Australia is, and, moreover,
because of the loss of export markets, the
industry in Australia is suffering great
disabilities. If the transport explanation,
sometimes given, is the right one, it
amounts, in the comparison, to a crush-
ing criticism of Australia’s past trans-
port bungling, probably not all of it past.
Another explanation could be a bid in
Australia for wowser votes at the expense
of both the great bulk of Australians and
an industry which, with other primary
industries, will be very helpful to have
about the place when it comes to paying
for the war —that is, if Government
bungling doesn’t succeed in ruining the
whole lot in the meantime.
The sum of the matter would appear
to be that, compared with countries
really in the fell grip of war, both Aus-
tralia and New Zealand are marvellously
favored ; that between Australia and New
Zealand there are differences, not vital,
but needless ; and that these differences
can be pretty well all sheeted home to
difference in national outlook on and
approach to the war (reflected in the
press) .and difference in Governmental
management.
A Dedman "Dodger."
Already one Minister’s “campaign coun-
cil” has an election “dodger” in circula-
tion, the Minister being Mr. Dedman. If
the nature of this “dodger” is a fair pointer
to the line of appeal that will be made
generally to electors, Federal-election
campaigning will see politics descend to
a new low level.
The Dedman election “dodger” carries
on its first page, along with a reproduced
photograph of Mr. Curtin, drawn figures
representing the Australian Army, the
R.A.A.F. and the R.A.N. While the elec-
tion is being “fought” the men thus rep-
resented in effigy will be actually fighting.
At the very moment when this politician
and that will be claiming special virtue
in their name on safe platforms, they will
be performing heroic deeds, bleeding
from grievous wounds or giving out their
lives in some battle area.
The Dedman “dodger” is addressed to
“You, the People,” and its main tenor
runs on the theme that the present Gov-
ernment is responsible for the trend, the
character and the degree of Australia’s
war effort.
When Mr. Curtin’s Government came
into office in October, 1941, two months
before the Japanese knocked out America’s
mighty naval base at Pearl Harbor, three-
and-a-half months before our outpost fell
at Rabaul, four-and-a-half months before
Australian soil was attacked and Australian
soldiers and workers were bombed to death
at Darwin, Australia was almost without air
protection; Australia’s Navy was scattered
round the Seven Seas, far from home; four
divisions of the A.I.F. were abroad; we
had almost no trained troops or R.A.A.F.
personnel at home, and little for them to
tight with if they had been here; we were
receiving no help from abroad, though we
were giving much. The Labor Government
brought home the two A.I.F. divisions (the
Bth Division, A.1.F., was lost with Singa-
pore) ; called up fit young men for service
with the C.M.F. and trained many thou-
sands of them to the pitch of first-class
troops; negotiated successfully for valuable
American help—men, ships, ’planes, armored
fighting vehicles, guns, supplies of many
kinds under lend-lease; doubled R.A.A.Fi
personnel, went close to trebling A.M.F.
personnel, enrolled tens of thousands of
women in the auxiliary services
And then, it is asserted, Mr. Curtin’s
Government turned to the home, front
and —particularly through the agency of
Mr. Dedman and Mr. Ward—worked
wonders.
The color of the Dedman “dodger” is
blue. It is a wonder that it did not blush
itself red under the foregoing string of
specious claims. That some of those
claims should be put forward in the name
of the Labor party —of all parties! —is a
joke of a grimness in keeping with the
times.
To get the full measure of what a joke
it is, the pages of “Hansard” need to be
turned back to those chronicling the
doings of this party of all the virtues in
September, 1939. It will be there found
that this party, then in Opposition,
opposed the formation of the A.I.F. it is
now so proud to own.
Brought to it by questions asked in the
House, Mr. Menzies almost admitted that
his Government was raising an initial
force of 20,000 which might be used for
service at home or overseas. At once the
Labor party was, as the mock saying
goes, “up in arms,” “fighting” the bare
idea tongue and mouth. Said Mr. Curtin
(September 6, 1939);
Our platform declares that nothing shall
be left undone to ensure the greatest
effectiveness among our people to hold this
country for, the citizens of the Common-
wealth. In giving effect to that policy,
as I see it, there ought not to be, but there
may be, two major points of difference
between the Government and ourselves.
One is conscription, to which we are
opposed. The other does not arise, in view
of last night’s pronouncement by the Gov-
ernment thqt it does not contemplate ex-
peditionary forces. Those two issues are,
as the Government knows and as the
country knows, issues upon which the
Opposition is pledged, and we are deter-
mined to maintain the views and the prin-
ciples for which we have stood and fought
while we have been a party.
Mr. Menzies had not stated that the
Government did not “contemplate expedi-
tionary forces.” The reference was a bit
of fishing to bring the issue into the open,
where Mr. Curtin’s party would be able
to throw its whole weight into opposing.
As for the “principles for which we have
stood and fought,” they are one with
Yorick today, if ever they were principles.
Today, as the Government, this party has
not only continued the conscription the
unmentioned thought of which horrified
it, but has extended its application. The
expeditionary forces against which it was
“pledged” and which, because the whole
war set-up had changed, it brought back
from the Middle East, it would now, if
necessary, make no quibble at all about
sending to the Equator and a thousand
miles beyond.
Mr. Blackburn, in that same debate,
said there was “great objection to the
organisation of an expeditionary force.”
Mr. Blackburn opposed even “voluntary
recruiting as being the first step towards
compulsion.”
There followed a vain attempt to pre-
vent the use of militia forces anywhere
outside the Commonwealth. It was em-
bodied in a bill of which Mr. Curtin
himself gave notice, though he left the
piloting of it to Mr. Ward. On behalf
of Mr. Curtin and party, Mr. Ward laid
it down that compulsion, in the original
Defence Act “only intended to apply
to those territories which were adminis-
tered by the Commonwealth at the time
the Act was passed.... applies only to
those territories under the direct control
of the Commonwealth but within the
confines of the continent.
The Opposition, Mr. Ward declared,
took “very strong exception” to the
Government (now the Opposition) “arro-
gating to itself the power to compel Aus-
tralian troops to go out of this country
to defend territories” beyond “the con-
fines.” That is to say, Mr. Ward, who
has been bawling that a non-Labor Gov-
ernment had prepared to abandon the
northern part of Australia in the event
of a Jap invasion—the fact is that no
such plan was proposed to the non-Labor
Government, though one was submitted
to the present Labor Government—
was himself prepared, along with his
party, to abandon Papua as well as New
Guinea if it meant defending it with
militia troops. Had this infamous measure
been carried and adhered to not one
militiaman would have been eligible for
defending Papua; and had the,- party's
earlier opposition to the formation of the
Second A.I.F. been successful, there
would have been no A.I.F. for that de-
fending either. Just as certainly there
would have been no Americans.
Before the debate was over Mr. Curtin
interposed to the effect that his party
recognised the “obligation of Australia
to defend these territories, but we say
that they should be defended by forces
voluntarily enlisted.” Mr. Curtin, how-
ever, was there, with Mr. Ward and the
rest, to vote for the bill. There was one
present who could not vote —Mr. Blain,
member for the Northern Territory, now
a prisoner of war in Japanese hands.
With his customary incisiveness he
described as directly affected by the bill
“a group of people whom the Opposition
would treat as foreigners and whose
country, New Guinea, it would treat as
foreign soil.”
And the uniform which Mr. Blain
subsequently wore is today flaunted on
an election “dodger” by way of claiming
special virtue for the Labor party on the
strength of its war performance! The
bare truth is that —apart from the chap-
ters of its defence record here slightly
touched on, and apart from a pre-war
defence record a thousand times worse —
apart from these blotches altogether, no
special virtue whatever can be held to
belong to the party now in office.
Because brave men won the time and
because a previous Government laid
down certain foundations —for a new
A.1.F.. a re-created C.M.F., and the
beginnings of munition production —
the party now in office has been able to
do some building. A good deal of this
building—including the extension of
militia-service boundaries, involving the
deep sinking of so-called “principles” —
has most palpably been enforced by the
inexorable pressure of events. On the
other hand, the control of finance has
fallen into feeble hands, and weakness
in dealing with workstoppers has led to a
dangerous and disgraceful situation in
respect of coal.
To pretend that what has been done,
is a result only of Australia having been
lucky enough to get (without voting for
it) this party of all the virtues to act as
a Government; that previous Govern-
ments were correspondingly negligent
and would never have done any building
at all; that the present virtuous lot, and
Australia with them, had been left by
that alleged neglect to start from scratch
—all this is nonsense decked out to make
a deplorable election dodger. To go
further and deck it out under cover of
the uniforms of men fighting and dying
for the country, and to put forth the
disgraceful assertion that “we [Austra-
lians in 1941] were receiving no help
from abroad, though we were giving
much”—this is getting down fathoms
lower than even electioneering polities
ever descended till now.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The "Brisbane Line."
Ix transpires that a letter too many got
into the last word.
Hard pressed to it by the Opposition
executive, Mr. Curtin gave out a be-
lated statement of “the facts” in the form
of a letter to the justly indignant Mr.
Fadden. The letter was a grudging admis-
sion, constructed with a maximum of cun-
ning and a minimum of fairness, that
Mr. Ward had, as usual, been talking
pernicious nonsense.
Mr. Ward had, in fact, been talking
far wide of the truth. No “Brisbane-
line” proposal had been considered by
either of the non-Labor war Govern-
ments. A proposal of the kind had been
made to the Government to which Mr.
Ward and Mr. Curtin belong.
Mr. Curtin must have known this all
the time that Mr. Ward was making
his reckless and wildly untrue accusa-
tions. Did Mr. Curtin at any time
seek to check the false representations of
his responsible Minister? Not that any-
one would notice. Only when he was
directly driven to it by the Opposition
did Mr. Curtin issue any statement at
all, and then it was one which would
have surprised nobody had it come from
Mr. Ward, but which was something
more than surprising coming from the
Prime Minister.
Mr. Curtin himself evidently regretted
it as soon as it appeared in print. In it
he had named Lieut.-Gen. Iven Mackay
as the C.-in-C. Home Forces, “ap-
pointed by the Menzies Government,”
who had submitted to Army Minister
Forde proposals involving “holding what
is known as the ‘Brisbane line.’ ” Since
this was the first time General Mackay’s
name had been mentioned, the blame for
mentioning it could rest only on Mr.
Curtin himself. No wonder he came out
within 24 hours with a statement that he
“refused to allow Lieut.-General Mackay
to be the scapegoat of any controversy.”
Mr. Curtin should have thought of that
earlier. He should never have mentioned
the general by name. The name he
shoilld have mentioned is that of Mr.
Ward, and that in order to repudiate the
wildcat Minister and his reckless and
utterly unfounded accusations. Where
Mr. Ward is concerned, the Prime
Minister, it seems, is incapable of rising
to such a height.
Bang Goes Dunstan.
Premier Dunstan went off at Eagle-
hawk with a policy announcement of an
impressive programme, including de-
centralisation, the new education (what-
ever that is), housing, public hygiene,
preference for soldiers, post-war land
settlement in co-operation with the
British Government, with compulsory
acquisition of suitable sites (sites selected
after the last war were also “suitable”),
development of brown-coal deposits,
sewerage, transport, etc. Then he
thoughtfully added' that intended “re-
forms” would be implemented only as
prior war needs dictated.
This was putting it rather mildly.
Federal Government centralisation in
Melbourne has caused the biggest boom
in recent history, and, incidentally, pro-
vided Mr, Dunstan with his first hand-
some surplus. If the same Government
decides to put up a million-pound muni-
tions factory in Melbourne or comman-
deer a skyscraper for a new department
Mr. Dunstan can’t stop it. So bang
goes decentralisation.
If Mr. Dunstan wants to erect schools,
increase his teaching staff or take other
measures, he is up against the Federal
Director of Materials and Supplies and
Man-power. So bang goes the new edu-
cation.
If Mr. Dunstan wants to give houses
to the congealed mass of workers in the
bloated capital, he is up against the same
august dictators. If he wants to
pasteurise milk he has to bite the ear of
the Federal Controller of Machinery, the
Department of War Organisation of
Industry and the Department of Labor
and National Service. So bang go hous-
ing and pasteurisation.
If Mr - . Dunstan wants to give free
transport to the technical, high and
primary schools that he won’t be allowed
to erect in “suitable country centres,” he
will be up against the Ministry of Trans-
port. If he wants to develop the State’s
brown-coal deposits he can do so, but
only by grace of the C.C.C., the A.W.C.
and a few more plenipotentiary Federal
bodies. As for post-war settlement for
soldiers, the Commonwealth Government
is as likely to hand that over to him as
to name Mr. Dunstan C.-1.-C.
So bang goes Mr. Dunstan’s pro-
gramme. The only item that he could
have put into his policy speech under the
present dispensation, without any fear
that there would be a mass objection to
it, would have been an offer to vote
himself and the superfluous institution he
belongs to out of existence.
Intolerance Triumphs.
The (Red) devil among the teachers:
It looks as if “Balance Sheet” Thornton,
the Communist boss of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association or Red Racket, adds to
performances for which he is more notorious
the giving a lead to the council of the N-S.W.
Teachers’ Federation.
The teaching body was silly enough to be-
come associated with the Sydney Labor
Council, which is always infested with Com-
munists and during this century has often been
under their control. Hus position has arisen
again, fo 1- in the course of a month the Labor
Council has carried a “unity” motion of the
sort which the Australian and British Labor
parties have consistently and contemptuously
rejected and cast out the Sydney University’s
Workers’ Educational Association, on the
ground that W.E.A. lecturer Partridge had
committed the unpardonable crime of review-
ing the Russian revolution without the required
mixture of grease and grovel.
This Mr. Partridge did in one of four lectures
presented as “a discussion course.” There
was not a word in it about the war. Evidently
the production of an evolutionary socialist, it
might have been uttered, every sentence and
word, by the evolutionary socialist Mr. Curtin
in the Fremantle Trades Hall.
In his monthly class-war and Second-Front-
in-Europe organ, Thornton boasted that “the
Ironworkers’ Sydney branch sponsored the
motion for disaffiliation from the W.E.A.” In
a tirade of abuse of the W.E.A., unsupported
by evidence, he alleged that “some of its tutors,
obviously with the complete support of the
controlling body,” had been “peddling the
vilest anti-Soviet, anti-Labor attacks on the
Soviet Union” and that “charges of this kind
can only undermine the anti-Fascist nations.”
Attacking Mr. Partridge as “mainly responsible,
by his open anti-Soviet activity, in provoking
the resolution to disaffiliate,” he asserted that
“Mr. Partridge’s ‘doctrine’ was based on the
writings of Souvarine, Krivitsky, Eugene Lyons
and similar White Guards, impostors, and
Fascist tools.” There was a lot more, all in the
spirit of push-larrikin intolerance expressed in
ugly Communist jargon.
It came out in the “Daily Mirror” that the
eleven Teachers’ Federation delegates to the
Labor Council had voted for the boycott reso-
lution, and that their report had been adopted
by their council. The “Mirror” account pro-
ceeded :
The deputy president of the federation
(Mr. Lewis) said that the W.E.A. was put-
ting out lying statements concerning the
Soviet and that such statements were dis-
ruptive of the war effort.
Mr. Mackinnon, opposing the adoption
of the report, said “there should be free-
dom of speech irrespective of what side it
comes from. Some people object to free-
dom of speech when it is against what
they stand for.”
The president of the federation (Mr.
McGuinness) said “Freedom of speech is a
silly excuse to give when you are charged
with making disruptive statements. The
W.E.A takes the onus of responsibility for
statements its representatives make, and to
put forward the plea of freedom of speech
is an evasion of responsibility.”
In his few sentences Mr. Mackinnon ex-
pressed the right attitude for a teaching body
worthy of tire name. The Lewis-McGuinness
stuff was Thornton over again translated from
the argot of the Communist push.
Enter Mr. W. M. Hughes in his most vigor-
ous style. Pointing out that the State Govern-
ment wais intimately concerned, the Teachers’
Federation being mostly “State servants,” and
the University and its W.E.A. subsidised by the
State Government, he asked that Government
and its Minister of Education what they were
going to do about it....1f, instead of in-
dulging in mild criticism of Russia, Mr.
Partridge had denounced Britain and the
Empire, his utterances would have been
received by the Labor Council with tumul-
tuous enthusiasm, in which the Teachers’
Federation would no doubt have joined.
Russia? Yes, we are very proud to be
associated with Russia in this great war.
But Communism? No!
There followed an eruption of whines and
yelps expressed in a telegram addressed to Mr.
Curtin. The author or instrument was Mr. W.
J. Hendiy, general secretary of the Teachers’
Federation, and it began with the words
“we direct your attention to Mr. Hughes’s
insulting, irresponsible attack on the Teachers’
Federation and the use of the Communist red-
herring.” The claim was made that the concern
which consorts with Communists and has
become infected with Communist intolerance
is strong for the celebration of Anzac Day
and Empire Day and for the war effort. Then
there was another “direct-your-attention” in
the Thornton-Lewis-McGuinness spirit:
We direct your attention to Mr. Hughes’s
apparent support for W.E.A. lectures which
favor “social d'sunity,” strikes, and other
forms of disruption of the war effort. We
resent Mr. Hughes’s provocative Fascist
attitude in calling for Government action
against the Teachers’ Federation.
Billy a Fascist! Meant to be insulting, the
idiotic term, applicable only to the weakest
and most despised of our enemies, was never
more idiotically misapplied. It brought the
downy old bird into action again with beak
and claws going their hardest.
I note that Mr. Hendry resents my state-
ment but makes no attempt to justify his
federation’s actions. I was under the im-
pression that free speech is one of the
precious rights for which we are fighting.
Evidently Mr. Hendry’s idea of free speech
is that while he and his friends can say all
they please the rest of us can say only what
they permit.
Mr, Hendry does not deny that his fed-
eration has associated itself more or less
intimately with the Labor Council, which
he must know is very definitely Commu-
nistic. If this does not mean that the
federation supports the council in expulsion
of Mr. Partridge because he criticised Russia
what other explanation can he give us?
Mr. Hendry’s attempt to cloud the issue
with a recital of all the good work that the
federation has done is no reply to the
charge that I made. If a man being charged
with larceny pleads that he subscribes to
the war-loan and goes to church on Sun-
day he is not likely to impress the Court.
What the loyal people of Australia are
entitled to know is whether the teachers
to whom they entrust their children are
tarred with the Communist brush; and, if
they are not, why the federation supports
a notoriously Communistic organisation.
Now fairly cornered, Billy’s clumsy antago-
nist whined that “refusal to affiliate with the
W.E.A.” had “nothing to do with Commu-
nism, freedom of speech or who controls the
Labor Council,” and yelped:
“Why should we gwe moral and financial
support to the spread of ideas disruptive of
the combined efforts of the United Nations, the
national war effort and the trade-union move-
ment?” Which might be called slander by in-
sinuation, untruthful and disgraceful.
In New York last year it was found neces-
sary to dismiss Communist teachers from State
schools. This drastic action was taken after
a committee set the Democratic Adminis-
tration, and headed by State Senator Coudert,
had gone into charges that Communist teachers
were trying to make young Communists of many
pupils, and found them proved. At the No-
vember elections a great effort was made by
Communists and fellow-travellers to unseat
Senator Coudert, but he was, re-elected by a
substantial majority.
It is to be hoped that no counterpart of the
Coudert campaign' will be necessary in N. S.
Wales.
Barnes, of Bundaberg.
As an expression of dissatisfaction with
the continuous Government and, in a
measure, with State politics, and in the
hope of getting a watchdog—a useful
animal in any Parliament —Bundaberg
(Q.) elected as its Assembly member a
publican, J. F. Barnes, who called him-
self an Andrew Fisher Laborite. A by-
election brought into the House a
brother, L. J. Barnes, also an Andrew
Fisher Laborite, as M.L.A. for Cairns.
The only material difference between
them seems to be that the second Barnes
has more control over his tongue.
Though he often fell foul of the
Speaker and fellow-members, the Bunda-
berg Barnes steered fairly clear of
trouble until, in a misguided moment, he
“took up” the case of Marjorie Norval,
an unfortunate young woman, employed
in the Premier’s Department, who
disappeared from Brisbane in November,
1938, without leaving a trace. Under
cover of privilege the Bundaberg Barnes
asked questions loaded with innuendo.
Information he professed to have about
the missing girl was solicited by the Com-
missioner of Police. To that official he
wrote an abusive and boastful letter,
saying, among other things, “I know the
police will get a royal commission if I
have to take over the Government to give
them one; then the Marjorie Norval
mystery will cease to be a mystery, and
naturally lots of other things will be
solved, too.”
This letter Barnes read in Parliament,
following with a characteristic out-
burst :
The Secretary for Health and Home
Affairs has referred to the reward of £5OO
for information leading to the finding of
Marjorie Norval. It would cost nothing
under a couple of thousand pounds to
find her, because she went to California
in the first place, and now she is in Eng-
land. If they think I will leave Australia
to go anJ find this girl, they are making a
big mistake, because I have a ten-thousand-
times more important job to do here.
They can send someone to find her.
Marjorie Norval was shanghaied to Cali-
fornia.
Thereby he delivered himself into the
hands of his political enemies, now
thoroughly incensed. They put through
a Coroner’s Act Amendmfent Bill author-
ising inquests in cases like that of Miss
Norval —“under the present law,” the
Attorney-General explained, “it is im-
possible to hold an inquest unless a body
is found.” The member at whom it was
aimed professed to “welcome this bill
very much.”
The main witness may die before the
Marjorie Norval inquest is brought on;
therefore it is as well that the inquiry
should be brought on quickly. You can
believe me.... that I shall be very pleased
to give the evidence.... and that I shall
astound the people. *
And perhaps he did “astound the people,”
but not with “the evidence.” Summoned
as a witness, he had to admit that he had
no evidence to give. His “information
about the case,” he alleged, had come
from a detective whom he would not
name. Persisting in this refusal the
fellow was fined £lO, in default a month.
Moral for electorates which think they
want a watchdog: Be sure you get a
real one and not iust a yapper.
“BEHOLD, A SOWER WENT FORTH TO SOW.”
“Mr. Curtin has issued another lot of anti-strike regulations.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
I ransacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and! liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman. F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87861. /tranches in All States: 12!) Pitt Street, Sydney.
You Can Stop
That Backache
But you must help your kidneys to
flush out acid poisons by taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don’t delay—go to your chemist or
store and ask for Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. T'se them regularly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors.
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ward in Perth on May 2—-at the Unity
Theatre, of all places:
Until the Curtin Government came into
power the defence plan of Australia pro-
vided for all of Australia north of a line
north of Brisbane, and following a diagonal
course to a point north of Adelaide, to
be abandoned to the enemy. Labor’s prede-
cessors in office were defeatist in outlook.
“I hope when the next Federal elections
come you will not allow the people I have
mentioned to go back with a majority—
the people who wanted to abandon most
of Australia.
That, reported in the “West Australian’
and not denied, and uttered on a day
when the P.M. himself was in the West
gave form and pressure to the Brisbane-
line lie. Not until May 26, though re-
peatedly prodded in the meantime, did
Curtin give “the facts.” “The facts’
showed that Ward had lied, but Curtin
did not repudiate or even scold the liar.
Curtin, in a new and most unpleasant
revelation of his political character:
Sir lyen Mackay was appointed Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Home Forces by
the Menzies Government.
On Japan coming into the war the
C.-in-C. Home Forces submitted to the
Minister of the Army proposals relating to
the defence of Australia, the essence of
which was concentration on the defence of
the vital parts of Australia. This involved
holding what is known as the Brisbane
line. This Government rejected the sub-
mission and took steps to defend the whole
of the continent.
Which, considering that it could be
taken to mean that the appointment
of a distinguished general, leader of the
immortal Sixth, was a job, and that he
was overborne by the strategical genius
of Forde, was worthy of Ward at his
worst. It reduced the P.M. to the neces-
sity of falling over himself to explain
that, he insinuated nothing against “a
gallant and able leader.”
Ward, referring to Curtin, at Perth:
We never doubted each other’s sincerity
, and our friendship has never been impaired.
Curtin’s belated reply to Fadden on the
Brisbane-line lie suggests that he treasured
and treasures the compliment.
The last scene in the chequered history
of the Commonwealth Powers Bill was
witnessed at Hobart. Brought on again
in the Leg. Council, the bill was strangled
by virtue of a motion, Joe Darling’s,
that it be read “six months hence.” Joe,
as captain of the Australian Eleven, was
one of Dr. Evatt’s boyhood idols, and
when passing sentence the veteran said
indignantly that the Attorney-General
had recalled this to him in a letter asking
him to vote for the bill, which invitation
he regarded as an insult. On the cricket
field, as on the legislative floor, Joe was
always one of those stern and unbending
characters,
“I am not preparing for any election,”
said Curtin last week—“not making any
plans at all”:
If elections happen before they are neces-
sary it will be because of a situation not
of my making. The expiry date of the life
of Parliament is November 19, 1943.
It was elected on September 21, 1940, and
if it runs to November 19 it will have lasted
longer than any other Commonwealth
Parliament, except one. Previous election
dates were: March 29-30, ’Ol ; Dec. 16,
’O3 ; Dec. 12, ’O6 ; April 13, TO ; May 31,
’l3 ; Sep. 5, T 4 ; May 5, T 7 ; Dec. 13,
T 9 ; Dec. 16, ’22 ; Nov. 14, ’25 ; Nov. 17,
’2B; Oct. 12, ’29 (there was no Senate
election that year); Dec. 19, ’3l ; Sept. 15,
’34, and Oct. 23, ’37. So there have been
five December elections, and there may be
six.
>
Said ex-Premier and ex-Senator Harry
Lawson as chairman of Colonial Mutual
Life: “Land tax absorbs 45 p.c. of the
net income derived from properties
owned by this society.” N.S.W. Leg
Councillors not bound to vote with “the
mob” can judge from this what the com-
bination of land tax and “settlement pro-
motion” tax would mean to N.S.W. pas-
toralists. No section is more strongly
represented in the fighting services than
the one at which the gun is pointed, no
group more poorly represented than the
one pointing it.
Fifteen months after the fall of Singa-
pore the Japs vouchsafed the information
that Colonel Anderson, V.C., M.C., is one
of thfeir prisoners of war. English-born
and with South African experience be-
fore he came to Australia, Colonel Ander-
son went off to his second war from a
sheep station in the Crowther (N.S.W.)
district. His wife, mother of three young
Australians, has been bravely carrying
it on with the aid of one old man. Should
fortune spare the brave. Colonel Ander-
son will return to it if Sydney Labor poli-
ticians have not in the meantime taxed
the family off it and distributed bits of
it amongst persons aspiring to grow
wheat that the world doesn’t want.
Queensland Labor has had its tit-for-
tat with the Bundaberg Barnes. Stung
into action at last by his repeated insinu-
ations and claims to knowledge about the
mystery of Marjorie Norval, it passed a
Coroners Act Amendment Bill to admit
of an inquest, and Barnes had the
impudence to “welcome” it and to
promise that it would enable him to
“astound the people.” Subpoenaed as a
witness, he had to confess, in effect, that
his pretence of personal knowledge was
all bluff, and for refusing to name his
alleged authority he was fined under a
clause of the measure he had “welcomed.”
He left the court bowled out and
poorer by a week’s salary.
One of the .two S.A. Senators
McLachlan, A.J., the ex-Minister, has
lost his L.C.P. (Liberal-Country party)
nomination to E. W. Mattner, who has
served in two the last he
returned with the M.M., the D.C.M. and
the M.C. Mattner will have Mcßride and
Keith Wilson for running mates, Wilson,
on whom there is the brand of the coming
man, has a stout record of Middle East
service.
A. J. McLachlan hag, been in the
Senate since February, 1926. He was
elected in the previous November for a
term to begin on June 30, 1926, but, a
Senator having been forced to retire (he
had fallen on very evil days), McLachlan
took his place as the State Parliament’s
nominee. It seems rough on McLachlan
to be turned down by his party, but he
has never been quite forgiven for having,
while a Minister, been a director of a
company interested in Government con-
tracts. In any case there is nothing to
prevent his standing again without
“endorsement,” and with the Senate
returning to something like its old form
he may have a chance of emulating
Josiah Symon and Trenwith.
Victorian Labor-leader Cain pointed
out in his policy speech that his was “the
only party with sufficient candidates offer-
ing to form a Government.” Then he
weakly intimated that his party would be
satisfied with “a readjustment of electoral
boundaries on an equitable basis to re-
move the existing shameful irregulari-
ties.” This is mere paltering with the
principle of equal electorates. It is be-
cause Labor has weakly compromised
on that principle that its influence in
provincial affairs has been small —piti-
ably small in proportion to its electoral
vote, which has always dwarfed that of
Dunstan’s party.
Still under the impression that it can
control workstoppers the N.S.W. Miners’
Federation has been delivered of another
code. It is the second of the breed ;
and Canberra has had four issues of regu-
lations. We ask for coal and they give
us regulations and codes!
There have been strange reactions to
what is called “Moscow’s decision to
abolish the Comintern.” Washington and
Downing-street are reported to be “de-
lighted.” The London “Times” came
out with an enthusiastic leader which
would seem excessive if it appeared in
one of the Beaverbrook papers. On the
other hand, the American Federation of
Labor was frigid, though not more so
than British Labor leaders, who have
knocked the Communists back every time
they sought affiliation. These British
Corns, have renewed their overtures with
the whine that there is no any
reason for keeping them out in the cold,
unaffiliated world. Straightway, the rail-
way clerks gave the delegates to the
Labor-party conference a 6-to-l instruc-
tion to turn the Corns, down.
Australian papers gave little attention
to what Sir John Anderson, “speaking
on behalf of the War Cabinet,” said on
Poland’s national day, but Maoriland
papers reported his remarks, together
with the Polish celebrations in their
Dominion. Said the Lord. President of
the Council:
Friends who are marching abreast must
not fall out while the enemy is ravening
near by. The United Nations do not need
to be reminded that in unity lies their
strength, and that strength is the surest
guarantee that Poland’s greatness and pros-
perity shall be restored. That day is not far
distant, and then the Poles will again cele-
brate their national day in a free Poland.
Then came a compliment for Sikorski —
“a brave soldier, a wise leader and a
trusted friend.” And all when Com-
munists throughout the world were rail-
ing at Sikorski because he refused to
abandon his country’s claim, to the part
of Poland occupied by the Red Army
in September, 1939.
After an eleventh-hour disagreement,
pay-as-you-go, with “withholding” or
post-war credits tacked on, has been
recommended to Congress by a joint
committee in a form which should
quicken Chifley’s very faint interest in
the thing. Liability to tax for the pre-
vious twelvemonth has been wiped out
in cases (reckoned at two million) where
the demand was for $5O or less and abated
75 p.c. in all other cases, the 25 p.c.
being payable in two annual instalments.
The “withholding” tax is to be 20 p.c.
on taxable portions of wages and salaries.
During the long controversy it came out
that Federal income tax, introduced in
1913, was never intended to be retro-
active, income for the previous year
being calculated as a convenient measure
of ability to pay. So it was with the
original (1915) Commonwealth income
tax, though Chifley has chosen to forget it.
Back in London from French North
Africa, a British United Press man re-
ports that four-fifths of the people there
support neither De Gaulle nor Giraud,
being indifferent to or resentful of the
faction fight. At the other end of North
Africa there is still a French squadron (a
battleship, four cruisers, three destroyers
and a sub.), which has at last been handed
over to the Allies. Little has been heard
of it since it was demilitarised.
A five-year plan placed before the
British Council of Agriculture by the
Minister, Hudson, contains several shocks
for Australian and Maoriland farmers.
It is designed to lift home production to
80 p.c. of requirements, including “most
of the fruit, much of the dairy produce
and, ultimately, all eggs.” Imports are
to be limited to “some meat, wheat and
other cereals which Britain cannot pro-
duce in sufficient quantities.” Inevitable,
no doubt, since neglect of agriculture has
placed Britain in peril of being starved
out in two wars, but awkward for land
men in these parts and for politicians
with land-settlement schemes based on
an airy expectation of sure export
markets. Both these Dominions will be
obliged to realise that the best of all
markets is the home market, with Maori-
land getting a fair share of the Australian
market and no dashed nonsense on either
side of the Tasman about embargoes on
oranges and potatoes.
After the U.S. Civil War South Caro-
lina had a frightful taste of negro rule,
and other parts of the South were run by
adventurers from the North, using freed
slaves as their instruments. These
experiences left memories which rankle
yet. Seven States levy poll taxes to pre-
vent negroes and “poor whites” voting,
and Southerners persist in maintaining
that this is not only good State law but
within the Federal Constitution. But in
a bill steered through the House by a
certain Marcantonio it has been declared
unlawful in its application to Federal and
Presidential elections. Marcantonio, a
rabid Left Winger, was the one Congress-
man who voted against defence measures
and aid to Britain till Russia was
attacked. The South is the most pro-
British part of the Union. It is probably
strong enough in the Senate to kill the bill.
The Communists, who support Labor
candidates in Queensland and are willing
to unite with McKell Labor and Curtin
Labor, are running an Assembly-election
ticket in Victoria. White-anting of
unions, exploitation of the feeling for the
Russian soldier (always claimed as a
Com., though only a small fraction of him
is a party member) and the pretence that
dissolution of the Comintern will mak
them a real Australian party give them
chances they never had before. Th
U.A.P. should forget old quarrels anc
ask its supporters to put the Com. last
President Roosevelt to 52,000 rubbe
workers on strike at Akron (Ohio):
If the strike is not ended by noon on
May 27 the Government will take steps to
protect the nation’s interests, the legal rights
and properties of the companies concerned
and the rights of patriotic workers who
desire to work.
It was effective. How anremic, by com
parison, is Curtin’s so-called anti-strike
code!
Declaring itself satisfied that there were
“plural voting” and “faked tickets” in
pre-selection ballots, the Sydney A.L.P
has cancelled the Senate ballot and with
drawn the charters of eleven branches
As a logical consequence it should sup
port Brand’s proposal for compulsory
production of identity cards in Common-
wealth polling booths. But no doubt i
agrees with Joseph Silver Collings tha
this would cause “grave displeasure” anc
might affect the result in close contests.
Announcing a new call-up of 7500 men
from “unprotected industries” in N.S.W.
Man-power boss Bellemore said he woulc
“waste no more time appealing for
volunteers.” Some volunteers who went
to war work in a factory refused to join
the union (Ironworkers’, Red), whereupon
“loyal” unionists struck. You can’t be
a volunteer in Red unions—you have to
join ’em whether you like it or not anc
whether the country wants your services
or not.
London “Times” reports a “remark-
able, example” of red-tape:
When a 16,000-ton steamer, loaded with
shells and bombs, caught fire the navy
maintained that it was the army’s job to
sink the ship because her cargo belonged
to the land forces. The army retorted that
it was the navy’s job The civil author-
ities disclaimed all responsibility.... [The
national capital] was asked for a ruling and
said the [harbor city] was competent to
decide the matter The A.R.P. declined
to sound an alarm and evacuate the port
area.... The ship finally blew up and there
were many casualties.
You’ve guessed wrong. It was in Italy.
Sydney W.Ws. have a programme for
“industrial peace”:
Accommodation for union officials,
appointment of an industrial officer, aboli-
tion of afternoon pick-up, rotation of men
in hatches, limited number of bags and
cases in slings and hand-trucks, minimum
number of men in holds, increased number
of men in gangs.
All the W.Ws. need is a paid staff to do
all the work.
Secretary of Queensland branch of the
Communist party told a party conference
in Brisbane that at the previous con-
ference there had been 900 Communist
members in Queensland. There were,
now 3500. That’s what Queensland gets
iur allowing a relaxation of the dipping
regulations on the southern border.
Dedmanism, Wardism, National
Security regs. and union rules are all
mixed up in the case of a North Sydney
baker, an Old Digger. Along with other
suburban bakers he was commanded by
W. 0.1. to stop selling bread over the
counter at threeha’pence or so less than
the price delivered and reduce output —
in his case to 20 loaves a day. For
resisting the order his license was can-
celled, and for encouraging him W. M.
Hughes was threatened with a prosecu-
tion by Ward, the Workstoppers’ Friend.
Other objectors were advised by Dedman
to “make up their losses by baking pastry
and pies.” Gloriously suggestive of
Marie Antoinette; “What, the people have
no bread? Why don’t they eat cake?”


I
l.
\
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
The astonishing veterans of the N.S.W.
South African Soldiers’ Association,
many with First World War badges and
some still in uniform, had their annual
reunion and memorial service in Sydney
at the week-end. Their numbers still
run to four figures, but the “Last Post”
sounded for 52 last year. Guest of honor
at the reunion was Major-General
L’Estrange Eames, who recalled that he
was a prisoner of war for a night in July,
1900, and was introduced then to Botha
and Smuts, to whom he prophesied that
they would one day be as proud to fight
for the Empire as they were then proud
to fight against it. The major-general
was one of the original Boer War medi-
cal officers from N. S. Wales. Another
was Colonel Fiaschi, who served in 1914-
18 as well. Present with a first World
War decoration was his son, Lieut.-
Colonel Fiaschi, the association’s honor-
ary M.O.
The lineaments here depicted have
caused a lot of enthusiasm in school
playgrounds, at picnics and other gastro-
nomic gatherings. They belong to
Spencer M. Cottee, founder of the Cottee
peanut butter and fruit luncheon spreads,
products better known than the man
himself. Cottee’s mission is to provide
people with more milk, increase the pro-
duction and bank credit of dairy
farmers and prevent cities like Sydney
facing periodic milk famines. He knows
SPENCER M. COTTEE.
the milk business inside out. Arriving
on the N.S.W. North Coast over 70
years ago, he was a prime mover in most
of the cow-country advances in scientific
farming and marketing. Up around Lis-
more he’s been shire and municipal
councillor and pastures-protection-board
director. More will be heard of his
scheme to increase the .State’s milk
supply—though verging on 80, he is
vigorously working on it. As a sample
of his energy it can be mentioned that he
won the Epping Bowling Club’s singles
championship last year. His worst habit
is confounding experts with inescapable
logic based on sound figures,
Lately blew into »the Historical
Museum at Ballarat, London “Times”
war correspondent lan Morrison. He
wanted to find out something of the
doings in Ballarat of his father, Dr.
Ernest (“Chinese”) Morrison. In 1893
Dr. Morrison was resident medico
at Ballarat Hospital. Disgusted by
the casual conduct of the institution’s
affairs he had a word with the editor of
Ballarat “Courier,” who came out with a
blistering article. Taxed with being the
informant, Dr. Morrison admitted the
fact. He was immediately sacked, but
refused to go. He’d been engaged for a
certain period, and until the time expired
he stayed on in control. Then he told
the committee exactly what he thought
of the way things were being mismanged
and went off to China to make history.
Won up north:
General Blarney now wears the Knight Grand
Cross of the Order of the British Empire along
with previous span of decorations won for
great service to Australia in the last war and
this. Odd to think that if one or two news-
paper knowalls had been listened to one of the
most outstanding staff officers of the 1914-18
scrap and one of the finest leaders in the
present show might have been sacked. His
latest decoration comes for his personal direction
of the New Guinea land fighting. Lieut.-Gen.
Herring has been knighted for his stirring
leadership in the same campaign. Major-Gen.
Vasey has been made a C. 8.; Maj.-Gen.
Clowes, of Milne Bay, has had the C.B.E.
added to his D. 5.0., M.C.; and the C.B.E.
has also gone to Brig. Wootten, D.S.O. and
bar (also for the Milne Bay fight), and to
Brig. Broadbent, who did a grand job as
Quartermaster-General in New Guinea. Very
brave leadership in the Timor guerrilla scrap-
ping brought Major Laidlaw the D.S.O. The
list of decorations for fighting in New Guinea
and thereabouts also included the D.S.O. to
Brig. John Field, Lieut.-Col. Miles and Lieut.-
Col. Fleay.
That Australia is now producing
supplies of some of the most important
drugs which were cut off by the German
and Japanese eruptions is largely due to
the prescience of one man. A few days
after the declaration of war in September,
1939, chemist Russell Grimwade, of Mel-
bourne, got busy and cabled to England
for seeds of poppies, digitalis,
mus, colchicum and belladonna. The
seeds had arrived by Christmas and were
sown on Russell Grimwade’s own farm.
Within a year the precious pound of
poppy seed had increased to ninety, and
is now multiplying itself in localities from
one end of the country to another. A
factory was erected in Melbourne for
extracting morphine from the straw of
the poppy plant by an entirely new
method. Russell Grimwade is chairman
of the Victorian committee of the
C.5.1.R., and a director of Felton, Grim-
wade and Duerdins. The original Felton
was the man who created the Felton
Bequest, now worth close on a million,
and one of the world’s biggest art bene-
factions.
Visiting Melbourne, Harold Rabling,
Chairman of the Anzac Division of the
British War Relief Society of the U.S.A.
In three years the branch has risen from
a membership oj: 10 to 1000 Australians,
Canadians, Maorilanders, Americans and
Britons. Conducted through the Red
Cross, it has raised huge sums to provide
ambulances, medical equipment, p.o.w.
parcels and comforts for Anzac service
men wherever they are stationed. Ex-
penditure to date has been close on
£lOO,OOO. Rabling is director of Vacuum
Oil in New York.
Recent awards to Maorilanders in-
cluded a D.S.O. to Padre Henry Gordon
Taylor, who took his B.A. at Auckland
(M.L.) Uni., was ordained in 1932 and
subsequently worked mainly in the far
north of M.L., apart from a short spell
in London. Enlisting early in the war
as padre he has been through the Greece,
Crete and desert campaigns, always up
with the front-line troops.
Philip Page, London “Sphere’s” dra-
matic critic, on Robert Helpman, of
Adelaide: “The most versatile figure in
the English theatre ; a brilliant dancer,
a choreographer, a mimic, a revue
comedian, and a sound Shakspearean
actor —hardly more could be possible.”
Fell, of Shell:
If Douglas Fell will lend himself to the ex-
periment there’s fair odds offering that a
tapping' of one of bis veins would i produce a
strong flow of good oil, in either the dictionary
or the colloquial meaning of the phrase. He
could certainly give the good oil on anything
to do with petrol, and his kin have been so
long in. the industry, in Scotland and Australia,
that some of the product must have seeped
into the family bloodstream by now. N.S.W.
manager, for Shell, he’s a grandson of John
Fell, who, before coming to Australia in 1852,
was closely associated with Sir James Young
in developing Scotland’s shale industry. In
N.S.W. John Fell opened up shale deposits
at Hartley Vale, Joarja and Mount Kembla,
and at Botany started the State’s first oil re-
finery. Then John’s son John carried on in
shale at Newnes, and at Clyde put up the re-
finery«that Shell subsequently took over. Son
of the second John, Douglas Fell was with his
father at Newnes, was responsible for the con-
structional W'ork at Clyde, and here managed
first for John Fell and Co. and then for Shell.
A further soaking in oil came Douglas Fell’s
way at Colorado Uni. (U.S.A.), to which he
went from Sydney Grammar; at the Uni. he
gathered the degree of Bachelor of Petroleum
Engineering. Owner of a very sound business
top-piece, there’s still an impulsive streak in his
make-up that helps along the popularity he
enjoys with those who work with him or who
tackle him at his favorite spare-time occupa-
tions, tennis and golf. No doubt it was that
same touch which took him into the old A.I.F.
DOUGLAS FELL .
Among other jobs, he’s present chairman of the
State Advisory and Consultative Committee
of the Petroleum Industry, an Employers’
Federation vice-president and executive council
member of the National Service League.
John Michael Mullens, M.L.A., who,
in Footscray, has been stirring up the
only emotion so far manifested in the
Vie. election campaign by his forthright
attacks on Corns., is holder of a remark-
able testimonial, beautifully printed
and illuminated, bearing the signa-
tures of four inmates of Pentridge,
three of them “lifers,” when Mullens was
official teacher and psychologist there.
It records grateful thanks for his efforts
to bring the signers to an appreciation
of literature and the fine arts. One of
the “lifers” had his sentence remitted
and is now doing well; some of-
his drawings decorate the Mullens
sitting-room at Seddon. Mullens was
bom at Ballarat in 1896, and was
educated at St. Patrick’s College and
Melbourne University. Thereafter he
followed many callings, was a friend
of poet John Shaw Neilson in the Mallee,
and finally became a teacher. Mayor of
Footscray in 1928, Mullens has repre-
JOHN MICHAEL MULLENS, M.L.A.
sented that salubrious district for six
years in the State House, is Government
nominee on the Charities Board and sat
for some time on the Indeterminate Sen-
tences Board. A scholarly man with a
gift for humorous repartee, he’s a brilliant
■speaker.
A notable Victorian:
Alfred Stephen Kenyon (lately passed on at
76 in Melbourne) possessed not only an ency-
clopaedic knowledge of Victorian origins and
antiquities but a vivid imagination which could
turn cold facts into a fascinating picture. To
listen to him discourse from a barren hillock
a few miles out of Melbourne or in a cave
in the interior on how trade delegations of
Binghis came from distant parts of South Aus-
tralia to exchange their rare pigments for flints
or other objects in the possession of local
tribesmen, and how they clinched the deal
with a banquet of Port Phillip oysters or Yarra
sheifish, was one of the joys of the Field
Naturalists’ Club when he was president of it.
Trained as an engineer, he devoted half of an
extraordinarily active life to promoting agricul-
ture —as State Engineer of Agriculture he was
responsible for the opening up of of the Middle
Mallee, and he had a lot to do with the
building of the Murray levees. He turned to
numismatics after his retirement in 1935, and
when the department of antiquities was created
at the Public Library he was the only man for
it. There was scarcely a creek or a waterhole
in Victoria about which A.S.K. couldn’t tell
something of historic interest. He wrote a dozen
books on his subject and had an overseas repu-
tation as an authority on the abo.
John Gough, whose “Pacific Image”
has been hailed as “the most outstanding
musical composition born from the war,”
was born in Launceston and reared there.
Winning scholarships, he passed through
Melbourne Uni. and Conservatorium,
subsequently heading for Paris, Now, at
40, he’s a bearded supervisor of 8.8. C.
Empire broadcasts.
Bernard Manning (a Mikado of 1563
appearances, and an old Savoyard) writes
to correct a contributor who named Rut-
land Barrington as the original Mikado
in the Savoy opera. Mr. Manning says
Barrington was the original Pooh-Bah.
It was Richard Temple who first played
the Mikado.
Into the silence;
At Geelong, at 88, Edward Bechervaise, one
of the town’s pioneer manufacturers. Arriving
in Australia in 1887 as representative of an
English firm, he revived the Geelong Chamber
of Commerce and secretaried for it most of his
lifetime. He was Commissioner of the Harbor
Trust for 25 years.
In Hobart, at 79, William Leitch, who had
been with the Jones jam people for 70 years,
a director for 17 years. The G.O.M. of Tas-
manian football, he played in the first North
v. South match in Hobart back in 1884.
In Adelaide, W. H. Foglia, well known all
over Australia and in M.L. and other countries.
He assisted, and then succeeded, his father as
a dealer in rare animals and (especially) birds,
and became an authority on their homes and
habits. The eventual Commonwealth ban on
their exportation hit that trade hard.
At 65, in his M.L. Parliament office, Joseph
Gordon Coates, Prime Minister of Maoriland
1925-28 and a member of the War Cabinet
since 1940. He was a farmer, prominent in
local affairs and with a strong flair for soldier-
ing when he became Liberal M.P. for Kaipara
in 1911, penultimate year of the long Liberal
regime. With the access to power of the Re-
formers, under Massey, Coates enlisted under
that banner and got his first important port-
folio, Public Works, in 1920. He was Minister
of Finance in the Forbes Coalition, 1933-35.
In the 1914-18 war he won the M.C. and bar
and wound up as major. An incisive and at
times a very bitter debater in his heyday, he
mellowed with the years, and the value oi his
services to the Dominion during this war have
had nation-wide recognition.
In Adelaide, at 60, suddenly—he had been
playing golf two days before —Harold Kirk-
wood, manager of a branch of the Bank of
Adelaide. Early in the century he had an
assured place for some years as an all-round
cricketer for S.A., and in its football teams,
too.
Missing after air operations in Europe, Ken
Ridings, opening bat for S.A. till the war in-
terruption came.
At 86, Jacob Benjamin Meyer, who had a
shop on the Corso when Manly (Sydney) really
was The Village. “Old Jack” helped to found,
and was for many years president of, the Manly
Fishermen’s Club, which has always given a
cheerful hand to a multitude of good causes.
In Sydney, at 70, Baptist Union president
John M. Crawford. As well as his church
activity, he was a leading Postal Department
officer, for some 12 years Commonwealth chief
engineer, while holding which post he repre-
sented Australia at international communica-
tions conferences in Paris and Madrid.
In Sydney, at 85, journalist Thomas Richard
Roydhouse, who set the Boy Scout movement
going in Australia and also the organisation
which eventually became the Girl Guides.
Books from his pen include The Land and the
People and The Colored Conquest. A Welsh-
man, he worked on newspapers in Maoriland
and Victoria before settling in Sydney, where
he edited the “Sunday Times” and was manag-
ing editor of the “Referee” and the “Arrow.”
At sea, while travelling from America to
Australia, David Henry Dureau, chairman of
directors of Australian Cement. He had been
directing an American branch of the Australian
War Supply Procurement Department. Born
at Bendigo, he was 70 at the finish.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; Public sympathy is always with
the witness when he or she scores off a
cross-examiner. In a Sydney divorce
court the brief - waver had in the
box a surgeon, part of whose evidence
was that he had helped to sew marking
lags on his daughter’s clothes wnen she
was going to boarding school. “You’re
a pretty good hand with the needle,
I suppose?” counsel purred. Blandly
came the medico’s reply: “Certainly;
I have to be. I make my living
by it.” Which raised a grin, but
not the one that was fished for. The
bane of the cross-examiner is the cool
witness —known in the trade as “experi-
enced.” It’s a comfort to the Bar to know
that there are very few in circulation.
=f= * * *
“Murray Cod”: Reports in Melbourne
dailies about a raid on a two-up school
and the very futile attempts at escape
made by the students remind me of an
older and more golden age. My friend
Slick was heading ’em outside a big oil
co. depot. When the cops intruded Slick
used his nut, doubled in at the oil co.’s
gate, tore his coat off and busied himself
rolling drums into neat rows. The police,
following through the gate, took him at
face-value and didn’t even question him.
Slick’s tremendous activity attracted the
notice of the yard foreman, who rang the
depot superintendent. “Did you put that
new man on?” “Can’t remember it, but
is he any good?” “My oath, yes!”
“Well, keep him on.” So they told Slick
he was doing fine, and he stayed in the
yard for ten years. He’s now in the
A.1.F., and the job is waiting for him
when he returns.
* * * *
“8.P.”; That a prophet hath no honor
in his own country seems to have been
proved in Maoriland, where four people
who foretold the end of the war and the
Second Coming of Christ were dubbed
“impudent prophets” by the Baptist
Union. They launched a libel action, the
statement of claim setting out that the
four were
duly appointed servants of the Heavenly
Father, commanded to give unto the people
the everlasting Gospel and the good news
that the Lord Jesus Christ is coming to
take up his Kingdom on July 17, 1944.
Though plaintiffs produced a plan of the
Great Pyramid to prove their case, and
one of them claimed to be a sort of re-
incarnation of Elijah, the Court seemed
to be more deeply impressed by the evi-
dence of Archbishop Averill (ex-Primate)
that the time of the Coming was known
only to God the Father. It found for
defendant. One prophet claimed that
before receiving Divine messages he got
an audible buzz. This, of course, could
have emanated from the bee in his
bonnet.
“Taniwha”: Maorilanders, like Aus-
tralians, live in such a jungle of war-
time laws and regulations that they find
it difficult to realise that the network may
not cover every possible contingency. But
a Wellington magistrate recently had to
cope with a case the legislators hadn’t
thought about —the case of the female
conscientious objector. Defendant, aged
22, belonged to Jehovah’s Witnesses, and
swore she was dedicated to the service
of God, being therefore unable to under-
take secular duties. She was charged with
refusing a clerical job in the P, and T.
Department to which she had been
assigned by the Man-power authorities.
The Beak, after saying that the hiatus in
the law ought to be filled by Parliament
or Governor-in-Council or somebody,
entered a conviction and ordered pay-
ment of costs, 13s. If the defendant came
before him again, he said, he would have
to inflict a fine.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A legend is not often
squashed so firmly as one that appeared
from St. Kilda (Vic.) after the recent
30-ounce birth in New York. It was
definite enough, specifying a girl born in
Adelaide in 1906 at 12 ounces (now mar-
ried) and a boy of 20 ounces in 1910
(now list. 51b., and in the R.A.A.F.);
and “Dr. Henry Newland”—he brought
them both into the world. Newland, who
is now president of the B.M.A. in Aus-
tralia, at' once authorised a categorical
reply. (1) He had not attended any
maternity case since about 1902. (2)
Living children are not born at 12 ounces,
* * * *
“Norther”: Dropping into some parts
of this continent by parachute is a risky
business, as 10 members of the crew
of an Allied bomber found when forced
to bale out over the Gulf country last
December. One of them, Grady Gaston,
of Alabama, has been found after
five months’ wandering, and he had an
almost incredible story to tell in the slow,
drawling speech of his State which Aus-
tralians find very attractive. When he
landed from the ’plane he found three
other members of the crew in the bush,
and they set out to reach the Gulf. But
streams, jungle, swamp, hunger and fever
combined against them. Grimes, weak-
ened by hunger and sickness, died
attempting to cross a river, the others
being too weak to help him. Dyer died
early in February and Speltz a fortnight
later. Gaston wandered alone until
picked up by a bushman and a party of
abos. on April 21. He had lived on
crabs, roots, wild fruit arid carrion, had
frequently gone thirsty and had suffered
fever during his five months of struggling
to reach a settlement. He had lost five
stone in weight when found, but his
stout spirit had never deserted him. It
raises the question of how many other
fliers reported missing may have reached
the ground safe, only to be lost in the
bush, and suggests that fighting men in
the north should be given a working
knowledge of the geography of the area.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Recent passing of the
122nd anniversary of Napoleon’s death
suggests a comparison between his career
and that of Hitler. The Austrian has
not married, divorced and remarried,
nor made his chief supporters kings
nor himself Emperor. Neither has
he been captured by the Allies and im-
prisoned on an island. He has also not
acquired gout or cirrhosis of the liver,
and has not yet been tempted to occupy
his declining years by writing a treatise
examining his mistakes and laying the
blame for them on wicked enemies or
traitorous friends. But he has had his
Egyptian expedition ; has had the dream
of an Oriental empire frustrated, and has
suffered disaster in Russia, though he
didn’t penetrate to the Kremlin. He has
seen most of the world rise against him,
and in addition has succeeded in stirring
up the U.S.A. Napoleon was 24 when he
let loose his “whiff of grapeshot” in
Paris ; Hitler was ten years older when
he led his abortive Bavarian rising. Both
were corporals—Nap. by the legend that
gave him a pet name, Hitler by actual
non-com. service. Nap. rampaged over
Europe longer than Hitler has done;
but there are enough similarities to
suggest a certain amount of imitation,
* * * *
“Loc”: After taking part in a raid
over Germany an R.A.F. pilot lost his
bearings and was forced down over a
land which could have been Nor-
way or Sweden. The natives ap-
peared friendly, so he drew a map
of the Scandinavian parts with a
question mark on both Norway and
Sweden. The locals pointed to Sweden.
Pleased with progress, he then drew a
ship, to show them that he would like to
go back to England. With a grin, one of
the inhabitants picked up the pencil and,
drawing a rough likeness to barbed-wire
around the map of Sweden, made it
clear to the flier that he wouldn’t see
Mother England for quite a while. How-
ever, the airman eventually made it.
“Avon”: The fuzzy-wuzzies of the
Pacific are showing up well under tae
stress of war. Papuans, by their brave,
loyal service, have justified Hubert
Murray’s paternal care. Now come
excellent reports of Fijians, mixed into
Maoriland detachments of jungle fighters
on Guadalcanal. These brown brothers
(fuzzy no longer, for they have to fit
their coiffure into tin helmets) have been
showing inborn gifts as scouts. They have
an instinctive sense of direction—never
get bushed—and have proved a hundred
times that they can sense danger when
it cannot be seen, heard or smelt,
Their senior officer, Capt. D. E. Williams,
is lyrical about his Fijians. As a patriotic
Maorilander it hurts me to say this, but
when Lieut.-Col. Jimmy Roosevelt (U.S.
Marine Corps) said “I think the New
Zealanders are the best infantrymen in
the world,” he was probably thinking
about that mixed patrol on Guadalcanal.
“Zake”: Alas for the good old days
when men were men and beer was beer,
and the former had plenty of wide-open
space for the latter! I’ve been reading
the evidence of a Sydney boilermarker
who denied his wife’s allegation in court
that he had bet a pound he could drink
ten pints in an hour. No wonder the
prize was one single, solitary flag. In my
parching youth the standard test of beer-
sinking proficiency was to lower 12 pots
while the town clock chimed midday.
These days the scanty periods for which
pubs open put a premium on ability to
swamp five pints in ten minutes. But one
pint every six minutes! That’s simply
paltering with an enterprise of such great
pith and moment.
* * * *
“Melbn”: When this war is .over and
the brownout comes to be abolished, I
hope the Melbourne civic fathers will
have used their eyes and noticed that the
dramatically-shadowed city has regained
a beauty it lost when electricity was in-
vented. For one thing, the shadows
shroud the architecture, which, generally
speaking, is a blessing ; but the buildings
can be seen in bulk and silhouette. The
silhouette has come about by accident,’
and such accidents usually are more
charming than deliberate town-planning.
The only other'time when Melbourne
can be contemplated with some aesthetic
pleasure is on foggy winter mornings,
which produce much the same effects as
the artificial brownout.
THE LUCKY NUMBER.
The seventh son of a seventh son,
An old tradition used to run,
Was foreordained to be lucky, which
Was better than being born to be rich;
The sort of chap who would land some day
The biggest divvy a tote could pay,
Or come unscathed with a careless grace
Through dangers few of us care to face.
By such near-miracles might be wrought,
At least so our rude forefathers thought.
There was little, they reckoned, couldn’t be
done
By the seventh son of a seventh son.
There were occult powers for that favored lad,
Iranscending all that , his fellows had.
Old Moore, the prophet, as some suspect,
Was one of that envied sept or sect;
And Mother Shipton may’ve been (or oughter)
The seventh girl of a seventh daughter.
But few are the parents who fed the pull
These times of keeping their cradles full.
Ever the birthrate sags and slopes,
Along of Malthus and Marie Scopes.
And rarer he who his life begun
As the seventh son of a seventh son.
Sometime or other, we’ve most of us,
1 hazard, met with a Septimus,
Whose label marked him for where he stood
In own particular brotherhood.
But it’s there that the process seems to stop,
There’s seldom a second Septimus crop.
Iso infant comes whom the Fates decree—
Or should—for a lucky destiny.
Ev’n if he does—well, quite a lot
Of these age-old sayings are clean forgot,
And it’s held of little account or none
To be seventh .son of a seventh son.
Yet I can’t but wish there were one or two
Among all the folk I’ve known or do
Who could offer a valid guarantee
Of this quaint distinction, if such it be.
i could follow their tips among race-crowds
dense
With a feeling of quiet confidence;
They could put me wise, without fuss or buzz,
To what will happen before it does.
Yet the birds by birth with such magic linkt
I d say must be pretty well extinct.
Till now I’ve never encountered one
Who told, among all the yarns he spun,
He was seventh son of a seventh son.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
PARKES’S CIDER JUG.
“At a Red Cross auction in Sydney a cider jug
that belonged to Henry Parkes fetched 6i guineas.”
What memories should linger round
That mildly Bacchanalian bowl
Wherefrom a statesman, once renowned,
Refreshed his body, mind and soul,
After some triumph at the poll
That queered the gitch of envious narks
And. teit him nearer to his goal,
The cider jug of Henry Parkes!
Was it in this the rugged Dad ,
Of Federation plunged his mug,
Reflecting on the schemes he had
In mind, the pits for foes he'd dug;
Or dipped his beak, in comfort snug,
To hammer out poetic sparks?
Who knows? But here’s the cider jug
That once belonged to Henry Parkes.
Some day an aura p’r’aps will hang,
O’er later curios as well.
A tankard once possessed by Lang,
A teapot used by Bill McKell,
To help us win the war may sell
Amid inspiriting remarks.
the same as this receptacle
That brimmed with apple-juice for Parkes.
It takes me back across the skein
Of dear, dead years. My mind embarks
On memories of Ragged Jane,
Stirred by’ the cider jug of Parkes.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Ike Hollar”: Tipping has never
gained the hold on Australia it has in Eng-
land, where (as was mentioned during a
debate in the Lords) a cloak-room attend-
ant at a big London hotel could rake in
£l4O a week. Still, there was a legend
that the major-domo of one swanky Syd-
ney hostelry made more money out of it
than the management. He backed slow
horses, however, and was poor a couple
of years after his job petered out. When
tipping does occur in Australia it is on
a lavish scale ; the tuppence* regarded as
good enough in Britain would be resented
as an insult by Australian servitors. The
Australian in Britain finds tipping a pain
in the neck —he knows tips are expected,
but is always uncertain as to how much
he should give. A fair rule, I found out,
is ten per cent, on the bill. The waitress
who served sixpenn’orth of tea and
crumpet wouldn’t turn up her nose at
an ’a’penny.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: “Eve,” the statue which
Brighton (Vic.) Council declined to
accept from the National Gallery
trustees, has been bought at auction for
£5O by *a Flinders-lane merchant. He
intends to display it in his showrooms.
If it has the same publicity-value as
“Chloe,” at Young and Jackson’s pub,
there ought to be brisk business in the
Melbourne softgoods trade.
“F.S.”: By grace of the Felton Be-
quest’s pocket, Victorian Nat. Gallery has
acquired its first Sir Thomas Lawrence.
It is a portrait of the Iron Duke looking
slightly amused at something. Lawrence
was the Mozart of British painting. Born
in 1769 he painted in inns at seven, had
a studio of his own at 12, was an R.A.
student at 18 and an R.A. at 25. He
died a P.R.A. at 61. In between he
painted a shoal of portraits of eminent
people. The Wellington portrait was the
property of Edgar Anderson, of Mel-
bourne. Anderson’s great-uncle was a
staff officer under Napoleon’s bugbear,
who presented him with the picture. It
cost the Felton 150 guineas—cheap when
it is considered that in the U.S.A. Law-
rences have fetched a million dollars.
* * * *
“Loc”: Hoping to satisfy a hunger
for fish that H.C.F. forbids many
Sydneysiders are trying for the first
time to land their own. Results,
to. a veteran Walton like myself, are
amusing, but in some cases instructive,
too. The sight of a man hunting flathead
from a rowing-boat with a rod and, of
all things, meat for bait is a little over-
powering. But this gent., with reel
whining in the approved Zaire Grey
manner, found himself on the right end
of a really nice flathead —just the size
when the species is at its sweetest. Calmly
he placed the fish beside a tape and then,
shaking his head and with downcast eyes,
returned it to the deep. “Half an inch
under size,” he muttered.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: Sydney has had an-
other strike, this time parents of children
who had had to sit in a windy
shelter shed because N.E.S. had taken
over part of the school for a first-aid post.
The strikers claimed that they’d been try-
ing for six months to get N.E.S. out
before they picketed the school ‘and
stopped the children from attending.
Hurried messages flew back and forth,
and within an hour or two N.E.S.
was out and the children in. A great
many suburban schools suffered this in-
vasion by N.E.S., with consequent con-
gestion and confusion, though there were
plenty of other suitable places.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Ecclesiastical records? The
Rev. H. Doudney celebrated his 1000th
marriage and within the hour christened
his 1000th baby at Holy Trinity Church,
Balaclava (Melb.). He is 70, and took
21 years to pile up his tally.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Touching James Ruse’s
last resting-place at Campbelltown
(N.S.W.), I’ve got to admit being in error
in planting him in St. Peter’s (C. of E.)
churchyard, but a letter on the subject
from Oswald Pryor, Delineator-in-Chief
of Cousin Jack in Australia, compensates
a bit for the necessity of such an admis-
sion. “While in Falmouth (Cornwall) at
the end of 1937,” he says, “I met a nur-
seryman called Ruse, who had a florist’s
shop in the main business street. He
asked if I had ever heard of his great-
grandfather Ruse,’ who grew the first
grain crop in Australia. Said his ancestor
did ‘something silly’ and was sent to Aus-
tralia, but his family had very little in-
formation about him Three genera-
tions of the Ruse family have successfully
carried on the nursery at Falmouth, which
shows that growing things is in the
blood.” About 35 years ago the writer
spent a couple of months in Falmouth
but hadn’t the luck even to hear of the
existence of Ruse’s descendants.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The A.R.P. movement
may have melted the frigidity of life in
Sydney suburbs (B. 19/5/’43) but it cer-
tainly hasn’t done that in Melbourne.
The only melter of suburban frigidity in
Melbourne is, as it has always been, the
pub. No other institution can approach
it for performing this service. Look at
the faces of people in a church and look
at similar faces in a pub. The contrast
is striking, and if Mr. Dedman took
notice of it he would entirely revise his
notions about improving national morale.
I wonder those concerned with education
under the New Order don’t agitate for
the erection of more pubs and the exten-
sion of hours of trading. All the great
artists got some of their education in
pubs, and Franz Hals, one of the greatest,
kept one. Shakspeare learnt more about
human nature in pubs than from books,
and he knew more about it than all the
professors put together.
“Strict Veg.”: A volume which ought to
make many mouths water these days
is Ballarat Hotels, Past and Present, by
John Hargreaves, illustrated with draw-
ings of the pubs by Nathan Spielvogel,
president of the Ballarat Historical
Society and author of a mort of
Bulletin and “Lone Hand” stories. It
is a book packed with curious lore. Some
of the names of vanished hostelries,
whose number was 477 in the city’s gold-
mining heyday, rival their English proto-
types in quaintness of nomenclature.
There were the Help Me Through the
World, the Dunmow Flitch of Bacon,
the Under the Verandah and, queerest
of all, the Critic. Licenses in those days
"....And he was his own architect!”
could be had for the asking, beer was
threepence a pint and a meal could be
bought for sixpence. Altogether Ballarat
has seen 1853 pubs rise and fall —Albert-
street once had 50. Hargreaves’s book
took 13 years to compile. Its author is
a lifelong teetotaller.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The first action launched in
Melbourne based on the sumptuary
decrees of Mr. Dedman, and possibly the
first in which a witness in such a case
anywhere wore exhibit A, was tried at
the City Court recently. A tailoring firm
was charged with making a lady s cos-
tume which had three pockets, two but-
tons on each sleeve and a skirt with a
hem. The lady witness made things
easy for the Bench by stepping into the
box wearing the subject of the charge.
When a case comes up concerning
Deddy’s ukases about bathing costumes
the court should be crowded.
* * * *
“Auld Licht”: Sydney Richardson, the
new Moderator of the Kirk in N. S.
Wales, spoke considerable sooth when
he said there has been a sad falling-off
in the standard of preaching. He could
have taken in a lot more territory than
the pulpits of his denomination and his
State, and still have stood on unassail-
able ground. Rev. Richardson partly ex-
cuses the ministers on the score of all
sorts of new duties:
Now it is virtually demanded of a minis-
ter that he shall not only be a good
preacher but also a good organiser, first
class in the handling of youth, responsible
for the health or sickness of the congrega-
tion’s finances, and such things.
But there’s nothing new in those re-
quirements. The real trouble with many
preachers nowadays is that they feel
called upon to demonstrate how broad-
minded they are and too often give a
general impression that they are trying
to apologise for such convictions as
they have managed to retain. More
earnest congregations would work a
reformation. The auld Scots wife, lenny
Geddes, who flung a stool at the Dean
of Edinburgh’s head because she dis-
liked his doctrine may have been a
narrow-minded bigot and no lady, but a
congregation of her ilk would be a fine
corrective of weak-kneed, spineless exhor-
tation.
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: Out our way the milkman
calls every second Wednesday to collect
his money. He didn’t turn up until
Thursday last week, “Aw,” he said, “I
started out on Wednesday as usual, but
by the time I’d got halfway round I was
so fed up with women goin’ Crook about
the Milk Board an’ the rationin’ an’
everythin’ that I turned it in an’ went
home. Them Milk Board fellers ought
t’ try bein’ a milkman before they start
their little games.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Bendigo (Vic.) palmist
told a client the other day that her hand
revealed that she was to have a trip to
America, the love of an airman, marriage
and twins, and a return to Australia with
a steady income from U.S.A. for the rest
of her existence. Unfortunately, the
recipient of these prognostications was a
policewoman, and the affair ended in the
police court. I don’t suppose police-
women or even more credulous people
are harmed by being promised good for-
tune. But palmists, astrologists and other
professional seers become more dangerous
than drink when they prophesy disaster.
Sometimes the result is to paralyse
what little resolution and fortitude the
silly client possesses. “How can I be ex-
pected to do anything when I have this
dreadful thing hanging over my head?”
is his or her attitude. A young woman of
my acquaintance, after visiting one of the
gentry, became completely ridden by the
belief that there would be a crisis in her
health at 25. There was, and she nearly
died. The astrologer would take this as
confirmation of his prophetic powers, but
it was fear of a crisis that produced the
crisis just as fear of running into a lamp-
post makes a tyro cyclist run into it.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Rice is reported to have
increased 45 times in price in China,
threatening the collapse of the whole
economic structure. Famine there is
always somewhere or other in China, but
there are unusual factors in this case,
inasmuch as it is the workers in the cities
who have been hit by H.C.L. The
peasant can always get enough food
off his plot to keep body and soul to-
gether except when the crops completely
fail, in which case he dies in millions like
dumb cattle, the lack of railways making
it impossible to transport relief from the
provinces with a surplus. In former times
a horrifying but not rare spectacle was
an army of refugees fleeing from a
stricken province and dying as they fled,
while the shops in the cities were stuffed
with food and the streets were full of
well-fed people. For example, Shang-
hailanders woke up one morning to find
the business quarter of the foreign pale
literally carpeted with bodies lying on
the pavements and sleeping the sleep of
exhaustion on the marble steps of ornate
buildings. After the sun had been up a
few hours this human frost had evapor-
ated, to continue its march, goodness
knows where.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Melbourne hasn't yet de-
veloped flat life on the Kipg’s Cross
scale, but it is getting that way. The
other evening a flattite staged a party
which steadily became more and more
eventful. When beer began to trickle
down the stairway the other denizens of
the flat rushed out in their pyjamas and
held an agitated conference on a land-
ing. It was finally decided to ring up the
police, but while the patrol was speed-
ing to the scene ancient grudges revived
amongst the group bfought together by
a common indignation, and by the time
the patrol arrived they were absorbed in
a furious altercation. The liquor having
been exhausted, the original party in the
meantime had settled down to a word-
guessing competition. They were engaged
in this peaceful occupation when the door
opened and a policeman put his head in.
“Are those people who are having a party
annoying you, sir?” he asked politely.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: One of the ideas which
started Hitler on his career of world
domination was culled from Buckle —the
notion that geography and climate mould
national character. A dull German pro-
fessor named Ratzel followed that furrow
and discovered that States became great
by grabbing the territory of their neigh-
bors. Geopolitik, he called his theory.
The idea was elaborated by other pro-
fessors, English and German, notably by a
Dr. Haushofer, one of whose pupils was
Hess. Hess introduced the Herr Doktor to
Hitler, then languishing in prison. Hitler
put the theory into Mein Kampf, with
some original additions. When Hitler
became ruler of Germany the “science”
of geopolitics became a State institution
and gave birth to geo-jurisprudence, geo-
medicine and even geo-psychology. A
thousand experts were sent out to obtain
the data for the new world-dispensation.
Thus Nazism was given an alleged philo-
sophy and a direction by an English his-
torian, whose theory has never had much
support from the facts,
* * H= *
“Crow” hands a medal to a great pro-
consul :
It is just about 100 years since George Grey
did as much for S.A. as he was destined later
on to do for Maoriland. When Dqwning-
street sent him to Adelaide as Governor in 1841
the young province was knee-deep in a mire
of muddle and misfortune out of which nobody
seemed capable of dragging it until Grey
turned up. He took the bull by the horns
immediately, cutting down relief works in the
capital so as to provide labor in the country,
and reducing general administrative expenses
by 60 per cent. An improvement took place
at once. Hitherto settlement had been blocked
because colonists who were well off clung to
the town, and the less affluent couldn’t afford to
pay 20s. an acre for Crown lands; but now
private owners had to sell cheap and working-
class people had a chance of taking up hold-
ings. At the same time, N.S.W. squatters
who had “overlanded” sheep and cattle to sell
in almost starving Adelaide established new
stations between the coastal range and the
Murray. When Grey arrived four-sevenths of
the population was in Adelaide —in 1843 only
a third was left there. Before long S.A. was
growing more foodstuffs than it could consume,
and was exporting grain and dairy produce to
the other colonies. When Grey left for Maori-
land in 1845 the province’s prosperity was
beyond all doubt.
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: As one fairly familiar with
the great names of world literature, art,
science, politics, pugilism, war, medicine,
flying, tennis, cricket, the Melbourne Cup,
Hollywood and billiards, I was com-
pletely baffled when I saw a huge film
poster urging me to see “Pride of the
Yankees.” A closer look revealed an
explanatory line, “The Life of Lou
Gehrig.” Who, what or which was L.
Gehrig? Nobody on our tram seemed
to know. Yet the poster, stuck up in an
Australian city for Australian eyes, coldly
suggested that we ought to know. My
newsboy supplied the answer. “Aw, he’s
one o’ them Yank baseball players. You
know, it’s a sort of rounders, like the
girls play at school.” I’m afraid the
screen drama of Lou’s life will have to
pass without my scrutiny.
* * * *
“Artrill”: Facio-maxillary treatment,
known to soldiers as “miracle healing,”
is playing an important part in repairing
the physical ravages of this war. Tech-
nically known as reconstructive plastic
surgery, and applicable to any part of
the body, it includes building up tissue,
grafting skin and the replacement of
bones, tendons and cartilages. The
methods employed were developed and
applied in the Middle East. In the
last six months many wounded men from
New Guinea have received the treatment
in an Australian hospital, and will go
out as happy, normal men instead of
disfigured wrecks.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nipper”: The last ganger I met on a
road-construction job was known as
“The Green Light,” because you
stepped on it when he became visible.
I’ve heard the cove who works
with his coat on referred to previ-
ously as “The Goose-necked Spur,’
“The Right Bower,” “The Gun,” “The
Top Coot,” “The Nark,” “The Creeper.”
“Roaring Jim,” “The Porcupine” (he d
spike any loafer) and “The Gimlet,” who
bored everyone in the gang with his end-
less talk. And the “banjo” pushers
tossed in their jobs in those grand days
when they were not forbidden to do so
to a carelessly flung “I’m coppin’ me
time,” “Tally me up,” “Pull us a page,”
“I’m scratched for tomorrow’s engage-
ment,” “Toss us the rent” and “Start cal-
culating”—but those were the polite ones.
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: The new bank officer
let it be known that he wanted to learn to
ride, so they sent him out to McGinty.
McGinty had a wild chestnut and
accommodated the learner. The bank
man got aboard and found himself the
centre of a hurricane which set off along
the road at full belt, depositing him in a
clump of saffron thistle on the way. He
picked himself up and staggered back to
McGinty to complain “You made a
mistake. I didn't say I wanted to be a
buck]amp rider.” “Why, that’s the best
way to learn,” said McGinty. “You’ve
got to wear ’em down.” The learner ran
exploratory fingers over several abraded
parts and plucked out a few saffron
spikes. “Wear ’em down,” he muttered.
“Hell, I’ve been eroded!”
He - * He
“Zake”: Some little time back a con-
tributor was jumped on by a whole pack
of Aboliars when he contended that the
term “cocky” dated back to the time
when the early pioneers surrounded their
selections with “cockatoo” fences, made
of logs on the upright branches of which
the cockatoos used to perch. Many
other versions were trotted forth, none
quite so convincing as the one which
started it. Sequel to the symposium was
a recent quiz session over 3DB broad-
casting station in which the brain trust
was “gonged” on the question of the
term’s derivation. The quizmaster’s
decision was questioned, and the argu-
ment was just beginning when the
Bulletin was quoted % on the subject of
“cockatoo” fences. Its authority was
accepted instantly.
* » * *
“A.R.P.”: All these bushwhackers
rushing in with ways to stop bleeding
overlook the best, surest and most sani-
tary method of all, the simple pad and
tight bandage. You can make it from a
handkerchief and bit of string or wire.
and, properly applied, it will stop bleed-
ing far more efficiently than cobwebs,
ash, nutmegs or uncooked pancakes.
When N.E.S. broke loose in our suburb
there came a spate of lectures on how to
stop arterial and venous bleeding with
digital pressure, rubber tourniquets and
other strictures—one lecturer brought
along a bunch of bracken fern and
lawyer vine to show what you could do
if only you had the sense to cart bracken
and vine about with you. Then a doctor
arrived, gave a derisive snort and con-
demned the whole doings. “Do what
your mother did,” he said. “Stick a pad
on the wound itself and tie it tightly.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Labor was scarce, so when
he leant his swag against the kitchen
doorstep I just shoved the tools at him
and introduced him to the line of posts
where I wanted the new fence. “If your
job’s as good as this here,” I said, squint-
ing along the post-tops of a straight span
crossing the flat, “she’ll do all right.”
He nodded, and I left him to it. A com-
bination of mishaps kept me out of the
way for quite a bit after that, but eventu-
ally he reported the work finished and I
rode out to inspect. “Guess I’ve kept her
pretty even on top,” he boasted as we
reached the line. He had. The fence was
2ft. high on the ridges and over
sft. in the dips; the posts were
“'No baby , no milk,' the milkman says. We'd better ring Man-power
about it."
planted at depths ranging from several
inches to close on 4ft., and in places
where the sinking was bad a foot or so
had been sawn off and discarded.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In his prime Darcy was
a fitting bearer of the name, with speed
and slashing style inherited from his
cattle-dog father, combined with the
tenacity and courage of a bulldog mother.
But that was nearly 15 years ago. Now
Darcy is stiff-legged, dim-eyed and very
deaf; only his spirit remains young. I
was yarning to the boss when an Aire-
dale strayed in and began sniffing about
the fowlhouse. Like a crippled tank old
Darcy lumbered into action. It was the
briefest of engagements. “Lucky the
Airedale bolted,” I remarked. “Not on
your life,” said the boss; “the old fellow
may have only two teeth, and those ain’t
opposites, but he can still manage a pretty
vicious suck! ”
*-* * *
“Young George”: For a long time I’ve
tried to find a title that would fit the
initials of “The 0.D.,” that Aboliar who
simply refuses to believe there are more
things in heaven and earth and the bush
than are dreamt of in his philosophy. I
think I’ve got it. “The Old Doubter.”
Right? ,
* * * *
“Canungra”: Several aged bull-
throated frogs afflicted with bron-
chitis had ensconced their frames in
sundry cracks and crannies between the
lining and weatherboards. From this
fancied security they shouted and roared
a deafening clamor of discord. Prodding
at them with hot wire merely produced
long-drawn squawks and croaks; then a
sft. whip snake slid into the torture
room and looked at me inquiringly. In-
spiration stabbed me. “Go to it, Joe,” I
yelled. “Sool ’em, boy!” I vow that
serpent winked before he slithered into
the foxhole, grabbed Bull Crosby by the
gullet and swallowed that crook croaker.
Having disposed of the raucous rascals,
Joe has taken to following me about, but
last night bit a dog which nosed him. The
tyke became delirious, and ndw spends
his time crooning and catching frogs to
propitiate the serpent. His owner intends
to sue me for being an accessory to the
alienation of his dog’s affections. What
can I do?
* * * *
“Lauclare”: The Indian doves, polite
fellows, drank their fill from the dish of
water in the garden, then cooed their
gratitude from the leafy recesses of the
cherry-guava. Bill Wagtail splashed
about, preened his black-and-white suit,
trilled a word of thanks and was gone,
Mr. and Mrs. Peewit slaked their thirst,
and the insect hunt was on again. Then
the sparrows, noisy, quarrelling riffraff,
took possession, had a whale of a time
and later, true to spag tradition, sneaked
off and stripped the lettuces.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Me an’ the town John is
standin’ yarnin’ on a street corner one
night,” related Dan, “when from a house
alongside us comes shrieks an’ bumps
an’ a shrill female voice givin’ it gippo.
The place is in absolute darkness. The
John gives a chuckle. ‘Bill Trimble get-
tin’ his weekly ration from his missus,’
he ses; ‘she’s a tiger all right. No, I
never interfere. If he ain’t got guts
ernough to stick up fer himself let him
take what she’s givin’ him! ’ A door sud-
denly opens an’ out shoots Bill, and
scoots fer his life inter the darkness. A
split second later somethin’ whizzes over
me shoulder an’ catches the John on the
side of his head. He staggers about fer
a second or two, rubbin’ his nut, then
dashes into the house. The next thing I
hear is sounds like a carpet
an’ a female voice pleadin’ fer mercy.
Presently the John comes hurryin’ out
an’ grabs me arm. ‘Let’s get, quick, an’
see if we can find Trimble,’ he ses. We
locate Bill round the corner, shiverin’.
The John grabs him. ‘lnside now, quick,’
he ses, ‘it’s the chance of a lifetime. I’ve
just given y’r missus such a larrupin’ she
won’t be able to sit down fer a week.
She didn’t know it wus me ; thought it
wus you turned on her at last. She’ll eat
out of y’r hand after this! ’ From what I
gathered later that’s how it turned out.”
*
“Walkabout”; I’ve never seen goats
caught by their fetlocks in the forks of
trees (B. 5/5/’43), but they can fall to
another trap. Years ago a pastoral com-
pany with a large area in north-west
N.S.W. established a flock of Angoras
with the idea that they would prosper
during prolonged drought periods when
sheep died in thousands. Came the mus-
tering after the first big drought broke and
the majority of the Angoras were found
as carcasses hanging from mulga trees.
In their efforts to get the foliage growing
higher up the goats had their horns
caught in the forks, and there they
remained.
HI H* ♦ *
“Bo”: It’s practically unpredictable
how different individuals will react to the
stress of some imminent disaster. The
time Joe Tant’s general store at Blowfly
Fiat caught fire Tom Crowther, the stock
agent, stood rooted in the roadway agape,
and a full minute later was still only able
to point, popeyed and inarticulate, when
Joe himself came galloping down the
street. Joe then did the scalded-cat act,
tearing here and there aimlessly and yell-
ing for a bucket brigade, though every
tank in the township rang hollow above
the third rung, and the creek was half
a mile away. By this time the fire was
beginning to get a hold, and just as Billy
Edwards, the bullocky, came by with his
team someone, in the last throes of panic,
suggested that the eight kegs of beer
which had arrived at Rogan’s pub that
morning might serve a useful purpcV,e.
When the full import of this suggested
sacrilege was borne in upon the oxen
chauffeur, with magnificent clarity of
brain he took charge of things —a born
leader in an emergency. If water couldn’t
be brought to the fire, then he’d take the
fire to the water. In a matter of minutes
he had unhooked the team from the
jinker, had the hooks in the store and his
20 bullocks were skull-dragging it down
the paddock to the creek. Thirsty Blowfly
Flatites still speak with respect, even
reverence, of the hero who averted what
might have been a major tragedy.
* * * *
“Drover”: Snowy, the big white bul-
lock, had been a milker’s poddy, and
from its calf days a pet of the piccanin-
nies about the homestead. There never
had been a quieter bullock. Then came
the day when he was missing and nobody
had the heart to tell the youngsters that
Snowy had gone away with the mob of
station fats. To please them the stock-
men said they’d ride out to look for him.
Four days later shrieks of joyous laughter
brought the manager to the door, to find
the kids half-crazy with delight, dancing
around their pet. Snowy had walked off
camp the third night from home. It was
the last time he joined a mob for the
south.
* * Hi *
“Pisces”: That aniseed lure on a bait
(B. 12/5/’43) is good, but there’s a better.
Soak the bait overnight in whisky and
you’ll take the fish from their mothers.
* * * *
“J.D.P.”: The ringbarker had a good
fire going, and perched over it, precari-
ously balanced on a couple of rifle-
barrels, a trio of Jack Sheas boiled and
bubbled. On these billies sat a frying-
pan with a wampy handle, which re-
ceived occasional licks from the thrusting
flames; and dangling from a wire above
its mates the tea-billy was beginning to
get a move on. As the little fellow orated
and debated the wrongs of the strikers,
he grabbed in fury at the pan handle,
then danced in agony as it bit him. In
falling the pan knocked over the beef
billy, which poked the spud billy in the
ribs. The handle then got a headlock on
the rice billy and dragged it down, too,
the lot tumbling and spilling their con-
tents into the fire. The steam and ashes
rose in a smothering cloud. When it
subsided the sight of the tea billy still
hard at it was too much for the ardent
unionist. “Take that, you cow, for
scabbing on your mates!” he yelled as
he aimed a kick at it.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: They’re going to speed
up the spud now, experimentalists at
Canberra having simplified the American
method of “breaking the dormancy” of
the seed potato. The seed is dipped in
a solution of calcium carbide with water
for four of five hours, and is then ready
for planting. It’s said to guarantee a
quicker and bigger crop, and that may
be a good thing in war-time. But these
hurry-up methods generally have their
drawbacks, and in this case it may be at
the expense of food value and flavor.
It’s probably a good thing that scientists
haven’t yet found a way of dipping
babies to make them mature at seven
years old or so.
* * * *
“Pine Creek”: Fury and froth parted
Cowbanger’s whiskers as he berated the
family for allowing fowls to scratch in
the veg. patch. On Sunday he sent a
note to Bullocky Jones, stating that he had
shot Jones’s fence-hopping rooster and
to come for the corpse. After much pon-
dering, Bullocky mustered his hornies
and yoked up the score. Arriving oppo-
site Cowbanger’s farm, he noticed him
busy selling veges and eggs. Loath to
disturb him, Bullocky undid the wire
fence at the strainer and, with several
snigging hooks, resembling young anchors,
attached to spreaders, and the frame of an
old bullock-dray to hold the body, drove
in. Searching for the slain he drove his
team up and down and round about,
cutting and ripping up cabbages and
cauliflowers by the dozen, the while he
adjured his gentlemen to pull their blanky
best. When the maddened Cowbanger
rushed up yelling, Bullocky swiped with
his whip, somehow missed the bovines
and cut the cocky’s crupper as he bolted
back. Finally locating the body, Bul-
locky reverently placed it in the hearse
and, eyes bedimmed with tears, drove
solemnly about in his mist of misery
searching for the opening in the fence.
Then the big hook caught in the wire,
and as the team swung round several
posts were pulled out before Bullocky
could steady the leaders. By this time
Cowbanger had fainted, but Bullocky was
too busy wiping his eyes to notice it.
CLEANSKIN VALLEY.
High hope in the heart at sunrise, and light
on the silver spurs.
And a wind so low from the dawning that
scarcely a treetop stirs
As the clouds grow grey and saffron and lift
from the east away,
And the wild bulls call on the hillsides to
herald the birth of day.
All ribbed with broken ridges, the rough terrain
is scored
By endless cliffs and chasms where cataracts
have poured;
And he must dare to carry his life within his
hands
Who rides in Cleanskin Valley to yard her
freeborn bands.
From out the scrub-bound gullies, from rock
springs dim and deep.
The rutted tracks lead upward, each spiralling
and steep,
Up to the highland pastures the wild hill cattle
love.
The plateau-crested ridges twelve hundred feet
above.
O stockman, climb that .stairway that seems
to reach the sky,
And make the greenhide thunder and watch
the mobs go by
With lifted heads, dissembling, to split to twos
and threes.
Like arrows down the ranges toward the
sheltering trees.
A royal reward lies waiting beyond the river
heads,
A wealth of mountain cattle, big droves of
roans and reds,
For him with dauntless courage and wizard
bridle hand
Who’ll muster Cleanskin Valley and win them
for his brand.
Dry blood on the spurs at sunset and blood on
the thorn-gashed brows,
But never a prize of yearlings or of rangy
mountain cows ...
The ridge-tops turn to amber and deepen as
daylight dies,
And the wild bulls trumpet their freedom under
the darkening skies.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Old-timer”: Curly was dozing on one
end of a heavy cord line with about half
a pound of rabbit meat on the other end.
Suddenly he sat up and grabbed as the
line started to run out. He gave a tug
and got in some line, but the next jerk
almost pulled him out of the boat.
“Gripes,” he yelled, “it’s the daddy of ’em
all!” He started to play his fish, but
had all he could do to hold it. “Listen,
let the rope go an’ let ’im pull the boat,”
he said, so I undid the painter and we
began to move downstream, convinced
we had a 100-pounder.. Then we noticed
that the line still entered the water at
about the same spot, though it continued
to give and tug. “Snag,” I said. “Snag
nothin’,” snapped Curl. “Did you ever
hear of a snag eatin’ line?” True enough,
every time Curl slackened off inches of
the line were gobbled up. As the pram
got nearer I got ready with a waddy, but
it wasn’t necessary. Curl’s line was
hooked in a forked snag, bobbing in the
current, and every time it bobbed it
looped up more line. Curl’s language
as he peeled off and hopped in to try
and untangle as much as he could shocked
the pelicans out of that bend for a month.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”; Dad was reading the market
reports. “What would fifty bushels of
maize at Is; 6d, a bushel be, Dad?”
asked the ten-year-old. “Full of weevils,”
answered the old man without even look-
ing up.
¥ * * *
“Anthropo”: The abos. were of one
race, using similar weapons, having
similar marriage customs and totemism,
similar initiation practices, and with a
language which, although diversified into
hundreds of dialects, nevertheless, can be
traced back to the same root words.
Only in disposal of the dead was there
diversity. In the north exposure to the
elements was practised, strongly reminis-
cent of the Parsee. In the Kimberleys a
rough platform about six feet high,
supported by forked poles, was erected,
and on this the cadaver was laid, to re-
main until reduced to a semi-mummified
condition or bare bones. Then mummy
or bones were wrapped in bark and laid
away in a cave or under piles of rock.
The bones of a child were often carried
by the bereaved mother for years. In
the south earth burial was universal.
* * * *
“Flight”: A dry thunderstorm was
raging out on the ironstone ridges west
of the Thompson River (Q.), and as we
were riding along we noticed two corellas
going for the lick of their white lives
about 100 ft. up. A sizzling streak of light
darted down a couple of hundred yards
from us, and on its heels was the tearing
roar of the thunder. It passed in
a couple of seconds, but in that time
those two corellas dissolved into nothing,
with a mist of feathers floating where
they had been flying.
* * * *
“H.S.G.”: Inborn sense of direction
(B. 12/5/’43)! When I arrived in the
Queensland Gulf country not long out
from Scotland, I worked with an old
hand on the scrubby plains about five
miles from the homestead. We walked
in for Sunday dinner once, and my mate
left early in the evening to make camp
before dark. He looked at me curiously
when I said I’d stay for a sing-song with
the boys. But I turned up about 10 p.m.
in the starlight, having made a beeline
across country that was trackless but
for wandering sheep-pads. On a station
in the scrub belt in S.Q. another bloke
and I were taken to separate camps to
cut scrub for starving sheep. Our camps
lay at the end of each fork of a Y. The
boss dropped my mate off first and turned
the car back to the junction to take me
out on the other track. But at the week-
ends I used to walk straight across to
the other camp through three or four
miles of scrub and return, without back-
tracking, so close to my original route
that I’d pass the same isolated sheep
skeletons, skulls and other recognisable
objects. When I asked my mate, a bush-
bred youth, why he didn’t come across
sometimes he confessed that he wasn’t
game to tackle the trip in case he got lost.
“4ML”: These sense-directioneers
haven’t started to find their way about
till they mix with the sleeper-getters of
the Burdekin Tableland (N.Q.). Imagine
an area of about 100 square miles, with
every acre of it as like the next acre as
the proverbial peas in a pod, and the
grass 4ft. high, so that a log on the
ground is hidden. That’s the country
they work. They fall their trees and saw
their logs and, weeks later, they go out
and get them. I’ve ridden that country
for years after cattle, and never yet
found any lost sleepers hidden in the
grass,
* * * *
“Eureka”: Cowbails reckons digging
postholes a waste of labor. When he
wants a new fence he just goes along
with a hoe and a pocketful of turnip
“Wait till ’e comes closer, 'Erb, before you let 'im 'ave it!"
“ Don’t get up — I'm just checkin' the range."
seeds. Where he wants a posthole he
plants a turnip seed and waits until the
turnips are fully grown. It is rich soil
and those turnips grow well. Then he
pulls them out and drops the fence posts
in, ramming them well; the turnips go
as feed for the cows. He is going to
pass the idea on to the Man-power
authorities.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When, by chance or
design (theirs). Mat found himself in the
presence of the young female of the
species, he didn’t, as you might expect,
fall over his feet and drop things. His
speech became correct, and he had a ten-
dency to come down hard on any smart
cove who tried to put over a rough yarn
or let loose a mild swear word. I was
pondering this aloud after a bit of a
party we’d got caught at and I put it to
him straight. “Aw, I dunno,” he said.
“I reckon these here wimmen is always
tryin’ to make out they’re a man’s equal.
They kid themselves they can talk about
things and sort of share a man’s interests
an’ all that. Well, if y’ talk rough to
’em that sorta makes ’em y’r equal, don't
it? But if y’ treat ’em like they was
angels without wings they gotta take it
and they gotta act like angels, an’ that
stops ’em from makin’ up to you. See?”
Ir. was a new sort of psychology to me,
and it seemed to have its dangers.
“Listen,” I said ; “if y’ treat ’em like
that ain’t it possible f’r y’ to get wrapped
up in one of ’em? You know, when a
bloke leads a rough life like us he’s apt
to fall for anythin’ sorta soft an’ gentle.”
Mat thought it over. “Yair,” he admitted,
“but it cuts both ways. If y’ make ’em
act like angels y’ cover y’rself. I dunno
about you, but I’d never fall f’r no angel.”
* * * *
‘'Chuck”: Mike was camped alongside
young Robbie, and the youngster’s twist-
ings and turnings kept him awake.
“Look here, kid,” he complained at last,
“can’t you keep y’r blasted head still
instead of rustlin’ that bag of straw in a
man’s ear all night?” “It ain’t me,” was
the weary rejoinder. “The mice’ve got
into it. I’ll clean ’em out tomorrow.”
Next morning Mike watched with interest
as the kid upended the bag and tipped
out a pile of straw and a 3ft. tiger snake.
Robbie always uses his coat as a pillow
now.
* * * *
“Boxer”: I was reduced to polishing
up grandfather’s muzzle-loader for use
against the ’roos. I rammed in half a
pound of powder and loaded it with
pieces of trace chains, split links and
hooks, then waited at their watering place
one night and gave them a charge as
they came in. When I recovered from
the concussion I found I had six ’roos
chained to the trees.
* * * *
“Uckle”: Actually, D. H. Souter’s
nursery rhyme quoted by “Newman” (B.
19/5/’43) was one of two winning entries
in that Bulletin competition. The other
was “Old Bob’s Canter,” by W. E.
Perroux. A nicely-lilting effort, it ran:
Three ha’pence for tuppence.
Three ha’pence for tuppence,
That’s what the hoofbeats do say.
Daddy rode off to the township
To buy me a dolly today.
Soon I will hear him returning,
Bob’s canter will tell me so true.
Three ha’pence for tuppence,
Three ha’pence for tuppence.
Oh, Daddy, I do so love you.
There were several others commended by
the judges, all dinkum Aussie and smack-
ing of the bush.
* * * 4t
My first job in the bush was as
cook to a fencing camp. Using half a tin
of Aunt Mary to half a kero.-tin of flour,
with some cream of tartar and soda
chucked in for luck, I built a damper of
noble proportions which scorned mere
ashes and charcoal to hold it down. The
summit rose and bulged as I strove
desperately to crown it with more ashes
and coals. Grabbing a fence post I
placed this on the thing, which then flat-
tened out and fled downhill, while I
worked all around with the shovel and
coals. In time a hollow note from a
crowbar thump announced that baking
was completed ; bearing the singed object
out, 1 stood it against the table to cool.
After supper the mob lay belching gas
and clasping aching innards, while others
buckled girths and surcingles round ex-
panding tummies. I left that job next
morning, and the boss culled the cost of
the flour from my wages.
* - * * *
“Old Priller”: One of the surest ways
to pick the novice on the track is to
examine his swag. If he’s a newchum
he’s a cert to carry the thing upside down.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: So “old Rod” ran a
wire “about three feet high” round some
mallee saplings (saplings!) a “few years
ago” and then had to climb up and cut
’em (B. 26/5/’43). Rod ought to start
selling cuttings or seed. A lot of blokes
would like to plant mallee for break-
winds to stop sand-drift, but the kinds
they have take about 100 years to grow
a couple of feet.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Reported that the
recent employment of girls as wool-
rollers and piece-pickers was the first
time that women had worked on the
board of an Australian shearing shed.
The claim is about 40 years- late. In
north-west N.S.W. I helped out at two
shearings where gins did the work. They
were fast workers and accurate, and at
week-ends they came in handy for doing
the greasies’ washing.
* * * *
“Aragun”; I don’t know about over-
straining a gun, but I did know a bloke
on the Clarence River some 30 years ago
who used to knock over wallabies with
a .38 Winchester the barrel of which had
been so worn that he used a .44 slug in
it. He sold his share of skins, too.
* * * *
“Thevenard”: It isn’t only the regular
trappers who are making a good thing
out of the present high prices for rabbit-
skins. An A.I.F. transport unit in the
outback supplements its meat ration with
bunnies, while the skins provide “card”
money.
* * * *
“L. P. Gun”: Lily the Land Girl,
arrived at Me Ayrshire’s, said “You
needn’t pay me for three months.” Lily
was almost hopeless among cows, but
for some reason Mac put up with her.
After three months she suggested a
cheque. “You’ll get yY first pay next
week,” McAyrshire replied ; “and it’ll be
two quid.” “But,” protested Lily, “Fve
been here three months.” “So you have,
me girl, so you have. But if you hadn’t
agreed to work the first three months for
nothing I’d have sacked y’ long ago.”
Lily is in munitions now, convinced that
the bushranging days aren’t over.
THE ROSELLA.
I walked along a city street
And heard the traffic roar and rage,
And the hard beat of human feet;
And then outside a shop I saw
A red rosella in a cage.
In a wire cage he sat and drooped;
His blue and scarlet feather-fires
Were dimmed and quenched with dust, i
stooped
And whispered to him through the wires:
“1 know the hills where you belong
And whence that brilliant color comes;
Where all day long the thrush’s song
Sounds, and the golden air is quick
With scent of fragrant lemon-gums.
“I too have felt the rolling hills
And find the barren city strange—
But still, I know, each sunrise spills
Cascades of gold across the range;
“And still the warm white mists enfold
Valley and hill, this autumn weather;
Each night, unrolled in red and gold
From ridge to ridge, the clouds reflect
Sunsets bright as parrot’s feather.
“And there all day the cricket sings
Among dry grass and gum-trees tall
And white as women; these are things
That only you and I recall;
“And red rosellas swoop in flight,
Go flashing through the trees like flame”
His eye was bright; I saw it light
With memories of those far hills:
And then, I know not how it came,
It seemed amid the traffic’s sound
—Two exiles whom a memory grieves—
That he and I were compassed round
With a green gloom of scented leaves.
s.a.
NANCY CATO.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
nli.CbJi'Q*
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin — 3 s. 6d. post free.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1803)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE QN GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dairying in the Doldrums.
“Pat Ater”: Something more than a
subsidy is needed. It was long accepted
as the prerogative of a dairyman to have
his own family to help him —milking,
separating, washing-up and ploughing.
That was the only way it paid him. Now,
when higher—very much higher—wages
are demanded by a few crocks, old men
and Land Army girls, it’s become down-
right impossible to run a dairy at a profit.
Call-ups, enlistments and desertions to
munitions have left dairymen short of
labor. Irreplaceable herds have been
sold or sacrificed and “fats” run on pre-
viously good dairying land.
The basic need has been for Govern-
ment assistance to the small man. The
provision of tractors and other machinery
on a community or lease basis is one
solution. This machinery is essential to
get fodder crops and make possible en-
silage and baled hay. Milking machines
are almost indispensable. Pastures need
rebuilding.
Too many are content to rely solely
on paspalum, which romps ahead in
good seasons, lets men down in bad and
disappears in winter. Better grasses are
wanted on every farm Sudan, Italian,
and Wimmera ryes, Phalaris tuberosq,
red and white clover, sub. clover and
perennial rye in suitable climates—and
lucerne patches.
These are made possible by recent
N.S.W. Government grants, but the
farmer also needs stabilised and guaran-
teed prices for his goods. We have the
right country, the right stock and capable
dairymen. With the necessary assistance
(small enough) and —after the war—irri-
gation projects, they will always deliver
the goods.
' "S
Tender Wools. ||
“Sheepo”: They must be kept apart.
Some fleeces may be sound in parts and
tender in others; test in three or four
different parts.
Seasonal conditions cause a break in
the staple. Keep fleeces of this type in
a class of their own, as usually the wool
above and below the break is sound,
whereas wool wholly tender is invariably
rotten for the full length of the staple.
In aged sheep that have undergone a
hard time the back wool only may be
tender.
Where quantity permits class tender
wool into three sorts, according to staple
length: (1) Partly tender, (2) fleeces show-
ing distinct break, and (3) wholly tender.
In small clips (1) and (3) might be placed
in the same lot, but in all cases (2) should
be kept separate. Where staple lengths
vary sorts must be made according to
length. Take burrs and seeds into con-
sideration.
A common mistake of small growers
is to place tender fleeces in with the
sound but shorter types. Soundness is
an essential property of clothing wools,
and the presence of any longer-stapled
tender fleeces reduces the value con-
siderably.
Care of Weaners.
“Jumbuck”: Weaning must be depen-
dent on weather conditions, but gener-
ally shearing time is best.
The first week they are off the ewes
the weaners need plenty of attention, and
the fences must be ridden daily—they’ll
hang about there seeking their mothers.
If possible redraft after taking them off
the ewes and separate the sexes and the
culls of each sex. Put a few dry ewes ;
in each mob to steady them and facili- s
tate yarding and general working.
Inspect the weaners regularly for blow-
fly troubles and don’t neglect drenching
for worms. It pays to yard them periodi-
cally, not necessarily for an overhaul,
but to avoid trouble later on. If allowed
to run in a large paddock for any length
of time they become wild and hard to
handle.
Crutch properly and wig ; wool blind-
ness causes weaners to lose condition
quickly. Pizzle-ring the wethers. Keep
them growing on good feed. Weaners
stunted early are fit only for station
killers ; never breed from stunted ewes.
Wimmera Rye.
“Bundalinga”: A free-seeder, it is
valuable in dry districts, increases carry-
ing capacity, makes tiptop temporary
"It useter be the worst piece o' road in the district till the shire engineer
moved out this Way.”
pastures, provides excellent hay and
silage and gives green feed for the cold
months.
Sow from March to June. Sown in
autumn W. rye can be grazed well
during its first winter until spring, when
it must be allowed to mature a good
proportion of seed. After that first
season it is necessary to control spring
grazing only every third or fourth season
to allow it to mature seed. Under
reasonably good conditions Wimmera
rye establishes itself from sowings of
41b. to 101 b. per acre.
Autumn harrowing will aid growth and
persistency. Spring mowing for silage
and hay helps, provided the mowing
is not left too late. To maintain a pas-
ture indefinitely cultivate at least every
second year.
Flax Growing.
“B.”: Climate should be mild and
humid with 22-24-inch rainfall. Normal
sowing time is mid-June, On rich, well-
drained land, late June and early July
sowings forestall lanky growth and lodg-
ing. Late July and August sowing is
best for rich volcanic soils in late dis-
tricts.
Sheltered paddocks, sloping gently and
well drained, suit flax best. On shingly
fiats good crops follow' a wet season.
Don’t use flats with bad drainage. The
crop shouldn’t follow grain on moder-
ately fertile land.
Lay land produces the best fibre.
Plough in June. Set the digger deep
enough to turn the furrow well over and
give the soil the benefit of frosts and
pulverising by the weather. Then work
thoroughly. Make full use of the
grubber, discs and clod-crusher. Roll
to ensure a firm seed bed and even drill-
ing, which should be shallow. Cover
with chains or tine harrows.
Flax does well after turnips, kale or
rape. Land of this type should be disced
before a light ploughing and well but not
too finely worked. Stubble land must
be firm to minimise risk of lodging.
The Tin. drill—sowing through every
pipe—makes for regular seeding. Broad-
casting gives an even distribution over
any given area. Don’t attempt it on land
that isn’t strong and well worked. Cross
drilling is no good. On light land allow
701 b. seed to the acre, on medium land
841 b. to 901 b. and on heavy soil 1201 b.;
fertiliser about Ucwt. super, or its equiva-
lent.
“Indore” Compost Manure.
“Pat Ater”: The system of manuring
evolved by Sir Albert Howard —now
known as the Indore system—does not
break new ground in stressing the value
of humus, but it goes further in advo-
cating the use of all vegetable matter
and breaking it down with animal refuse,
or even sewage, in a compost heap and
adding the necessary fertilisers before
fermentation begins.
Briefly, the process is a method of mak-
ing compost for manuring, with a mix-
ture of any animal refuse—cowyard,
poultry, stable, pig and sheep manures —
and vegetable matter —outer leaves of
cabbages, cauliflowers, pea-pods and
other items from the kitchen table; soft
weeds, old plants, even cane or corn
trash and foliage. It is “pitted” or built
up in mounds above ground, layer by
layer—manure and leaf matter alter-
nately—boarded or soil covered, sides
and top. Lime, sulphate of ammonia
(or dried blood) and super, are added by
generous sprinkling over each double
layer, lightly forked in.
The heap is kept moist, but not flooded
or soaked, and the soil covering excludes
surplus air and assists fermentation. In
warm climates, during summer, the com-
post should be ready for use in three to
four months. Colder qnd drier districts
may take longer. Work it in to the vege-
table beds when ready as ordinary
manures, but about l|in. to 2in. thick.
Dig into upper soil layers and mix well.
No other manure or fertiliser is required
for any crops, from cabbages, spinach
and lettuces to peas, beans and beetroot.
Sewage and night soil can be used —
and should be in country places—as rich
and natural plant food.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”; When they take to bone
and carcass chewing feed cattle to 11b.
of meatmeal per head daily, and give a
lick of sterilised sweet ground bone flour
(or finely-ground meal) 40 parts, salt 60
parts. To dry and young stock give as a
lick, but for milking cows mix 2oz. to
4oz. daily into the feed ; heavier milkers
should get 4oz. Don’t leave old bones
or mouldy carcasses about. As a further
precaution inoculate with botulinus
toxoid —one subcutaneous injection of
10 c.c. Vaccinate before outbreaks of
botulism usually occur in the district.
“Jindi”: With the crop in and the
winter ploughing done don’t run the im-
plements into a corner to be forgotten
until next year. Clean them up, grease
and paint, replace missing nuts and bolts
and tighten loose parts ; them
in the shed out of the weather. Treat
the harness the same way. Clean it and
rub in dubbin or grease and hang it up.
“Canbelego”: Cut maize for silage
when the grain is well dented, the lower
leaves on the stalk yellowing but the
stalk itself full of sap. At this stage it
contains maximum food value and
sufficient moisture to pack well in the
silo. Cut sorghum when the heads are
reaching maturity and the seeds so hard
that they are crushed between the finger
and thumb with difficulty; wheat, oats
and barley just after the ears are well
out.
“Jindivick”: When pruning have an
incinerator in tow. An old oil drum
mounted on a sledge will serve, and the
little extra time taken to dump the
prunings direct into the fire instead of
chucking them on the ground will much
more than balance the time taken to rake
up and burn them afterwards.
“M,”: With separated milk short, meat-
meal is good pigfeed. Give |lb. per pig
daily from weaner to baconer stage, with
grain and either pasture, green feed or
lucerne chaff. Feed dry sows Jib. with
the supplements named, and to sows suck-
ling litters up to lib. a day. When not
on milk, give pigs a lick of three parts
ground limestone and one part salt. The
amount of grain to feed will depend on
appetite and condition.
“L.C.”; Citrus orchards can do with
plenty of humus. It keeps moisture in
the soil, makes heavy soil more porous
' and sandy clays more cohesive. When
the humus is low, sandy soils lose water
quickly, heavy ones become hard and
baked after rain, trees make poor growth
and fruit may be small and subject to
splitting. If there’s not sufficient stable
manure grow green manure crops be-
tween the trees and turn in about June.
“Sheepo”: Argentina reports keen
competition for stud rams from Maori-
land. One Corriedale ram made £A7OO,
the dozen in the consignment averaging
£A3OO. Romney Marsh and Lincolns
sold up to £A42O and £ASOO respectively,
a consignment of Lincolns averaging over
£A2OO.
“Longo”: Stockowners who use
“Sarina’s” formula for anti-tick dip (B.
12/5/’43) would find the animals’ skins
cracked and tick reinfestation prompt in
the absence of any fat or oil from the dip
mixture. Twenty-odd years ago a cobber
and I hit on a caustic soda-arsenic-soft
soap formula which was such a success
in a co-operative dip that we tried (in
vain) to compiercialise the mixture. It
still does its work effectively and shows
a profit at a charge of one penny per
head, while other “dippers” charge up
to sixpence.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departmenti)
Information on sorghum poisoning of cattle?
Any preventive ?
There have been frequent cases of death re-
sulting from cattle feeding on sorghum,
attributed to the hydrocyanic acid content of
the plant at certain stages of its growth. This
acid is concentrated in the stalk of the plant
during the first few weeks of its life. It
rapidly disappears from the stalks but persists
in the leaves of the plant in decreasing per-
centages until maturity. As the poisonous
content gradually disappears as the plant be-
comes older, and is entirely absent by the time
the seeds are formed, stock should not be
allowed to eat the young plants, especially if
these are wilted through dry, hot weather.
Stunted sorghum may also cause death, and
immatured sorghum which has been frosted is
dangerous. The mature plant is harmless and
may be fed with perfect safety.


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer
Never touch the
edges...
..hold Blade
at the end..
• Wash your face first and lather twice as long
as usual.
• Wipe away all moisture from the blade to prevent
rust forming. Reasonable care will double the
life of your blades.
take care of your
GILLETTE
BLADES
Saving mains sat.ty, wait, m.ans dlsa.l.r—Buy Saving. Bands nr C.rtHlc.tna
T-tf:
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for June or July, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITONS
British Foreign Policy.
(From an article by “Christian Science
Monitor" London correspondent Mallory
Browne.)
It is true that Britain definitely intends
to adhere fully to both the letter and the
spirit of the Anglo-Soviet 20-year treaty
of alliance.
But it is also a fact that the British
Government is equally clear on two other
fundamental points.
The first is that the fullest and closest
peace co-operation with the United
States is a matter of equal importance
with Anglo-Soviet co-operation.
For this reason British opinion is
following with the greatest interest efforts
to obtain agreement of the American
Congress, especially the Senate, to a cer-
tain minimum of international co-opera-
tion after the war.
The second point is that British
emphasis on co-operation with Russia
doesn’t mean that the British Foreign
Office intends to ignore the importance
of building up France, Poland and other
smaller continental countries.
The British view may be said to be that
during the interim period bound to en-
sue after any armistice it is the four big
Powers who must take a strong lead;
but that, once order is established, the
smaller countries should have full repre-
sentation in any political organisation of
Europe or the world.
France Under Vichy.
(From a London “Fortnightly" article by a
British subject lately in France.)
The Vichy Government born of the
armistice of 1940 has now virtually
disappeared. It was often referred to as
a Quisling one. It was not so regarded
by Frenchmen themselves, even among
those who despised it yet could not be
aware of the subtle and unexpected
resistance to the Germans which came
from official sources.
This was so, both in the occupied and
the unoccupied zones, and it was known
that in a number of cases the Germans
had taken reprisals against prominent
collaborators whom they had found to
be, in fact, working against them. It is
well to remember that too much weight
should not be given to public statements
by prominent Frenchmen who remain in
France, as they are often intended for
enemy consumption.
Up to the time of the total occupation
France had sent fewer workers to Ger-
many than either Holland or Belgium,
notwithstanding the greater inducement
to do so.
The presence of a French Government
in unoccupied France did much to pre-
vent Germany from exploiting her victory
in the way she was able to do in occu-
pied countries with refugee Govern-
ments. The attenuate policy of the
Vichy Government, whatever may have
been the motives, paved the way for the
Allied mastery of the Mediterranean.
With the acquiescence, if not the active
assistance, of their Government the
French resisted collaboration more than
might be supposed, but they are a logical
race, and they knew that refusal to
collaborate must mean complete German
control and requisition of production. It
seemed to them to be the obvious thing
to collaborate,- if by doing so, the Ger-
mans received less than would be the case
by useless resistance.
Malta’s Great Fight.
(Condensed from a “Life” article by Jack
Belden, former Professor of English at Peking
University.)
A year ago the Luftwaffe was setting
out to reduce Malta by the most concen-
trated air blit? of the war. For three
months the little island was pounded
steadily until most of the Maltese were
driven underground and 75 p.c. of the
buildings in the capital were demolished.
There were 4000 bomber sorties against
the island in one month. Week by week
the attack was stepped up until Malta
was being pounded by an average of 175
bombers a day.
After April 1, except for three days of
bad weather, Malta lived constantly
underground. Normally there were heavy
raids for breakfast, lunch and tea.
The Maltese learned to keep on work-
ing during ordinary alerts. Dockyard
workers, ignoring the warning sirens,
posted their children at advantageous
spots to watch for the red flag that an-
nounced the actual approach of bombers.
Just before the bombers roared in, child-
ish voices could be heard yelling “Danger,
danger!” and everyone ran to shelters.
For a while, the Germans had almost
complete control of the air over Malta.
The defenders fell back on Army ack-ack
..gunners. In one 72-hour period the
Maltese and British gunners stood behind
their guns for 68 hours. The sky was so
thick with ’planes that they could not
feed guns fast enough with ammunition.
The wives of the Maltese dockyard
workers formed lines and passed shells
up to the gunners. These were used up
so fast and reserves were running so low
that each gun had to be restricted to
firing a certain number of rounds a day.
April was the worst month. On May 9
a new consignment of Spitfires flew into
Malta, and the next day the most decisive
battle up to that time was fought over
the island and the near-by sea. A con-
voy bringing Bofors ammunition for ack-
ack guns had arrived in the harbor and
60 German bombers flew in to attack it.
The Army laid down a smokescreen, and
the officers lifted the restrictions on the
use of ammunition to save the convoy.
The Axis ’planes that survived what has
been called the most concentrated ack-ack
fire ever known were slaughtered by the
newly-arrived Spits. Nearly 50 enemy
’planes were brought down into the sea
or on the island, while 5000 Maltese lined
the shores and howled at the downed
enemy airmen.
Counting up the damage, the Maltese
found that, despite the material wreck-
age, casualties were almost unbelievably
low. Throughout the two and a half
years of bombing, the Axis has lost as
many air-crew men over Malta as there
have been total casualties killed and
wounded on the island.
After the blitz ended in May, the Mal-
tese rejoiced. But the British officers
knew that Malta’s peril was greater than
ever. Rommel had captured Tobruk and
was driving on Egypt. The Germans
next tried to lay siege to Malta and starve
the island out.
The hills of Malta are rocky and in-
fertile. Malta is almost entirely depen-
dent on the outside world for food.
One day late in June two ships stag-
gered into Malta. The Army, Navy and
civilians rushed to the docks and worked
co-operatively to unload the ships. The
wives carried food to dockyard workers,
who paused only momentarily to bite
off a chunk of bread before turning back
to unload more food from the ships.
Just how low the food was at the time
few people on the island knew. One who
did know was the Governor, Lord Gort.
Arriving in May, he immediately tackled
the supply situation. Realising that
undernourished people must conserve
their energy, Gort attempted to ease up
on the life of enlisted men. Physical
training drills were abolished. Everyone
was told to husband his strength.
Gort hadn’t been long on the island
before the people began calling him
“Malta’s luck.” He made no bones of
the fact that Malta couldn’t endure for-
ever. He told the people that he was
rationing food and aiming at a “target
date.” Beyond that target date there
would be no bread, and the island pre-
sumably would have to surrender.
In August that target date was drawing
nearer. There was no fuel for the power
station, little kerosene or paraffin for
cooking. Children were tearing doors
and windows from bombed houses and
gathering firewood for their mothers’
cooking. Gasoline was almost gone. This
meant that soon pilots might not fly, but
worst of all it meant that soon people
could not cook their food.
London was fully aware of the situa-
tion. A convoy of 14 ships left England
loaded with food, fuel and ammunition.
As it rounded Gibraltar and steamed into
the Mediterranean a large escort of
destroyers threw a screen around it, and
an aircraft carrier kept a protective cover
of ’planes in the air. At this juicy piece
of meat the Axis licked its chops and
came in to gobble it up. The Italians sent
subs, and boats after it. As the convoy
came near Sicily the Luftwaffe took to
the air, and one of the biggest convoy
battles ever seen in the Mediterranean
began.
In the narrow Sicilian channel the
merchantmen and their escort were merci-
lessly hammered. Food ships were
scattered and sunk. Gasoline ships
exploded and covered the sea with burn-
ing oil. A few badly scarred ships
managed to make port at Malta.
Between June and August, when fodder
could not be found to feed the cattle,
one-third of the goats had been killed.
Now almost all the goats and pigs were
slaughtered. With the killing of the
goats the milk supply was shut off at the
source. Babies had to be fed from the
diminishing stocks of powdered milk.
Rations were issued every fortnight:
a can of bully beef and a can of smoked
herring for two people every two weeks.
Heads of families took charge of the
rations and doled them out day by day.
Some people were so hungry that they
finished their rations in a few days. They
starved one week and ate the next.
The people in the autumn of 1942 were
not starving, but they were growing
weaker. Anything that was weak was
being pushed slowly toward the wall.
As September and October passed
without any ships entering Malta a
dogged gloom set over the people. There
seemed to be no hope anywhere. At the
height of the depression in October the
Luftwaffe suddenly returned to the island.
The ration-fed R.A.F. pilots had been
striking once more against Rommel s
supply route from Italy to Libya, and,
stalled before El Alamein, he was evi-
dently feeling the pinch. But this time
the Maltese did not have to suffer the
horrors of the blitz on top of the semi-
starvation. Practising interception tac-
tics perfected by Air Vice-Marshal Park,
Spitfires went out over the sea to meet
the Axis raiders coming in from Sicily.
Few ’planes ever reached the island. In
an eight-day battle in the middle of the
month the R.A.F rmpartrally massacred
the fighters and bombers One hundred
certain planes were shot down into me
sea, and that nearly finished the Luft-
waffe. It has never come back. Shortly
after the October air battle came news
that: thriUed thes whole‘
as it probably thn led no other place! m
the world. Montgomery had cracKea
Rommel at El Alaraein and
had landed m Nort b A f nc .
first time m many months the Maltese
said There is hope , hile
Xs
had" teen lifted. The next day thousands
The Nazi Terror.
(From an Inter-Allied Information Committee
statement issued in London.)
In Poland up to the end of last year
about 2,500,000, including 1,000,000 Jews,
had been executed or had died in con-
centration camps. In one camp alone
57,800 died in 31 months out of a toal
of 85,840.
Yugoslavs executed during the same
period totalled 744,000 of whom 27 000
were shot m Belgrade alone during 194-..
No fewer than 145,000 men, 150,00
women and 255,000 children have been
driven from their homes,
In Belgium executions numbered 152,
and 42 hostages were butchered.
Excluding the victims of Lidice and
Lezaky, the two villages razed to the
ground last July, the total number of
Czechoslovaks known to have been exe-
cuted in Prague and Brno from Septem-
ber 28, 1941, to the end of last year was
2,463. _ ' . .
In France the Germans executed
24,000 Frenchmen up to August 3, 1942,
after which they ceased publishing
figures, as these intensified hatred tor
the occupation troops. In unoccupied


Keep on buying War Savings Certificates
m
SKmihh
I B
m
i ., i
MW
* $ *, -
■' ■-Wm i
'ccfatfc/ci
SECOND FRONT*3OIDIEH
HE'S never photographed by the
press—he's never mentioned in
despatches—he’s never on parade,
but—those are HIS guns which blast
enemy positions to destruction-HIS planes
which keep the invader at bay —HIS tanks
which roll forever onward—HlS shells which whistle
terror into the hearts of his enemies and yours.
. 11 is ihe "Mars" organisations good fortune that the job
assigned to us in Australia's victory programme is a job for which
"Mars" is uniquely fitted by experience and tradition. For, through
all the years of peace, we had but one
guiding objective—" Craftsmanship a
Creed—Accuracy a Law."
Manufacturers of
LATHES—CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
—SHAPING & PLANING MACHINES—
BORING MILLS—MILLING MACHINES
—MACHINE CUT GEARS (for the Trade)
—MUNITIONS AND IMPLEMENTS OF
WAR
Established 1920
NABS MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
bfe
mm*
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
IT
#4^
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5064 a
wS^° e f nd ?°- rth A fnca 14 00 People
PnS ° nS and CampS m
It is estimated that 1 nm v
massacred Tn Thra. 15 5°S G f reeks Nyr w ere
Ztfa Tm to tl d an f d , E f tem M l C f-
to tde end i ast y ear » while
3000 were executed in Crete and 2000 on
the rest of the Greek mainland.
The names of 29 Luxemburgers exe-
f re . k n^ wn in London, and the
•[Netherlands Government has the names
of 200 Netherlander executed. By the
end of last year 8000 Netherlander had
? n t 0 c °ncentration camps.
n N rway executions totalled 140.
inis information can only partially
«nd Ca th the full t° U . taken .°f human life
and the amount of suffering inflicted, as
(he Axis has not always deemed it advis-
able to announce death sentences or exe-
cutions. Deaths at the hands of Gestapo
torture, experts, too, are never revealed,
and accurate information is difficult to
come by. ‘
Colonies Problem.
( Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune ”
article by Walter Lippmann .)
Freedom is a hollow mockery for weak
peoples unless the abolition of the colo-
nial system is accompanied by the estab-
lishment of some dependable system of
collective security.
This is the real problem of empire
today. For the abolition of the colonial
system would be certain and relatively
easy if the Philippines, Malaya, Burma,
rj„„+ j- Air . t a- „ a
~ r a A ladies and ,^ e West Indies, and
Central Africa could enjoy the blessings
of freedom once the British, the Dutch,
the French and the Americans withdraw,
,< • j ■ • , , ~ • ’
aking away their administrators, their
sojdiers, sailors and airmen.
What impressed me in England was the
uncertainty as to whether the mass of
the British can, when the war is over,
be induced to pay the taxes in money and
in blood which will be needed to sun-
port a system of collective security ?„
such regions. The concentration of the
British people on the defence of their
own freedom in Europe, and upon the
social reconstruction of Britain, is so
absorbing that it is a question whether
tiiey win undertake the burden of pre-,
serving military security in distant lands,
The crux of the colonial question today
fc ■ J
is not now to persuade the empires to
relinquish their political power. It is
how to induce the ascendant democracies
in the strong States to bear the respon-
sibilities of a collective „ 7 ftu;„
SSfvt 1 , tlVe se ? drit 7 Wltbm
weak peoples can safely learn the
difficult art of governing themselves. And
SO, until we in the United States know
what wo are n rpnar P H tr. An
tb« LY® • prepared to do to preserve
the peace in the regions where empire is
being liquidated, we are making empty
though self-satisfying sounds on the sub-
ject of freedom for all peoples, and we
aro nlaHnrr ~7 ; +i, r 9 vv
playing with fire.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Japan has the fields and the ground crews
and the repair facilities to handle a big air
force. More than that, the Jap has a regular
series of stepping-stones right down from Japan.
He can fly fighters as well as bombers. Which
means that any time when he has the ’planes
available and the will to use them in the South
Pacific he can transfer them there in a matter
of just two or three days. The Allied Com-
manders are in no such enviable position.
Their bombers can be flown out there in a
short time. Two days.from Pearl Harbor to
New Guinea is easy for a Flying Fortress or
a Liberator. But fighter ’planes must come the
slow, hard way by ship. Thus the enemy is
always able, at least in theory, to gain air
superiority at any given moment he wants
it- —Joseph C. Harsch; “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
The “split-shift” scheme for helping to solve
the man-power shortage in U.S. war industries
is rapidly spreading. While the U.S. Employ-
ment Service in Hartford, Conn., was develop-
ing this plan to use white-collar workers in
industry on a part-time basis, officers of the
Warner and Swasey Company, Cleveland
makers of turret lathes, independently adopted
a similar system, which has been followed by
other plants throughout the Middle West. In
Warner and Swasey’s shops at four o’clock
every afternoon 125 of Cleveland’s business
and professional men change into overalls to
start a four-hour shift;, at eight they are re-
lieved by 125 others who stay on the job till
midnight. To most of them the pay is less
important than the feeling they’re no longer
sitting on the sidelines, watching the war.
Their rate of absenteeism is less than half of
one per cent. ; and their enthusiasm is so con-
tagious that even the occasional factory-hand
who used to “soldier” on the job is now speed-
ing up.— “ Reader’s Digest.”
* * * *
Mr. Oliver Lyttelton, Minister of Production:
“At least 33i per cent, of the weapons Britain
is making in 1943 are new weapons, and this
proportion will be increased as the year goes
on. I think we have nearly finished with desert
warfare, and we must look forward to war in
close country. This requires new types of
weapons.”— London “Times.”
* * * *
Mobilised as the Civil Air Patrol by the U.S
Office of Civilian Defence little more than a
year ago, volunteers—without benefit of lime-
light—are performing spectacular services over
land and sea. There are nearly 70,000 men
and women pilots, student pilots, mechanics,
radio operators, flying photographers organised
in “CAP” wings in each of the 48 States, and
“squadrons” and “flights” at more than 1000
airports. In the course of their work the
patrols have sometimes flown a total of 500,000
miles in a single week. Operating in “flivver”
’planes built for sport, not for combat, the
“Flying Minute Men” play an important part
in the protection of shipping on the Atlantic and
Gulf coasts. They are credited with the sink-
ing of U-boats, although whether by the civilian
pilots themselves or by Army bombers sum-
moned by radio is still a military secret. —
“Christian Science Monitor” article.
More than 2,250,000 persons, representing
members of the services and civilian passengers,
were carried last year in merchant ships on sea
transport service or otherwise controlled by the
British Ministry of War Transport. The magni-
tude of the services performed in war conditions
may be judged from the fact that the number
of passengers carried in ordinary passenger
ships between the United Kingdom and non
European countries in the course of a year be
fore the war was barely a quarter of that tota .
—London “Times.”
* * * *
In the effort to boost production and stav
off a food crisis now sweeping across th
world 10,000,000 more acres are to be plante
in the United States this year than last.
“Christian Science Monitor” article.
* * * *
The dive-bomber seems to be dead as ar
implement of aerial warfare. Carefully-preparec
statistics show that the average Stuka doe
comparatively slight damage, and that a
average raid of 15 dive-bombers results i
nearly one-third of them becoming casualties
If troops are bothered by Stukas it shows
they are inexperienced troops. — N.Y. “Heral
Tribune” Tunisia correspondent.
* * * *
A great convoy forging up the Englis i
Channel is an odd sight. From the stern of eac i
freighter an ungainly balloon cavorts at th
end of a steel cable. The seagoing balloon
have done for Britain’s merchant vessels whan
the stationary barrage balloons have done fo
her cities. They have caused many enera
’planes to crash into the sea, but their primar
purpose is to keep the bombers high. Also, th
cable streaming back in the wind bars th
bombers’ favorite approach, from aft. — Georg
Mawson, in “Britain.”
* * * ac
The Bth Air Force Bomber Command ha
destroyed 356 German fighters for a loss of 9C
four-engined American bombers, a ratio on
3.2 German fighters for every American bombei
The ratio is not too good. In addition to th
highly-trained gunners and radio men, at leas
three expert artisans —the pilot, bombardie
and navigator—must be written off with the los
of every Fortress or Liberator. The German
lose only one trained fighter pilot with every
fighter ’plane shot down, and often will not lose
the pilot himself, even though his "plane is sho
to pieces. In the air war of attrition it is stn
not clear [March 26] who is ahead. — N.Y
“Herald Tribune.”
« * * »
“If other nations insist upon cutthroat com
petition [in post-war civil aviation] we are
quite ready to enter the fray against them
We have produced the best war ’planes and we
are convinced we can produce the best for civi
flying. Cutthroat competition is inevitably
expensive and wasteful. We would prefer in-
ternational collaboration, and such collabor
ation we are ready to discuss with the other
nations concerned.’’— Lord Cranborne, in the
House of Lords, mentioning also a “secre
report” drawn up by a special committee to
safeguard Britain’s civil aviation interests after
the war.
* * * *
Details of a new German “power glider”—
a paradoxical aircraft that has six 700- to 800-
horsepower engines, used primarily to lift the
’plane to operational height, where they are cut
down, allowing it to glide silently—have been
made public by the British Air Ministry. The
craft is said to carry 130 fully equipped sol-
diers. To facilitate landing on tough terrain,
the ’plane has ten tractor-like paired wheels.
A high-winged monoplane, it is known as the
Messerschmitt 323 and is believed to be con-
structed largely of “odds and ends.”— London
correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * # #
The Save the Children Fund asks for relief
for all Europe because “in no country under
enemy occupation is food sufficient to main-
tain children in health.” Obviously what these
charitable organisations want is the lifting of
the blockade, and they should frankly say so.
Why this cannot be done is explained by Lord
Noel-Buxton. “Even in countries normally self-
sufficient in basic foodstuffs, such as Holland
and Norway, the requisitioning of the country’s
produce by means either overt or covert has
resulted in a debasement of the standard of
living which threatens the life of the young.”
If the British Government now abandoned the
weapon which was effective against Napoleon
and decisive against Wilhelm, it would betray
not only those many sailors and airmen who
have during three years suffered and died to
enforce the blockade, but also the cause of the
enslaved nations of Europe.— Hugh Molson,
M.P., in London “Times.”
* * * *
Two of every three men in the U.S. Army
are high school or college men. Half of the
soldiers go to church. Two of every five listen
to the radio when off duty. Half read books
or magazines. Figures are: 14 per cent, went
to college; 25 per cent, are high school gradu-
ates; 28 per cent, went to high school. Only
33 per cent, fall into the grade school class.
Eighty per cent, of the men in the World War
Army had only a grade school education;' 11
per cent, had had less than a full high school
course. Only 4 per cent, were high school
graduates and just 5 per cent, were college
men. — “United States News.”


Missing Friends.
McELLIGOTT.—WiII CATHARINE McELLI-
GOTT, formerly McGoff, born Kissane, who
left Cape Town, South Africa, about 12 years
ago, or anvone knowing her whereabouts,
communicate' with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED), Box 4172 X, G.P.0.,
Sydney, regarding the estate of her late husband,
Roger McElligott?
Legal Notice.
RE ESTATE of LEON MACINTOSH ELLIS
late of Spencer Street Melbourne in the State
of Victoria Consulting Forest Engineer de-
ceased intestate. LETTERS OF ADMINISTRA-
TION granted by the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria on the First day of September 1942 and
RESEALED by the Supreme Court of New
South Wales on the Tenth day of May 1943
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and Adminis-
tration Act 1898-1940 the Testators Family
Maintenance Act and Guardianship of Infants
Act 1916-1938 and Trustee Act 1925-1940 THE
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED the Administrator of the
Estate of the said Leon Macintosh Ellis who
died on the Twenty-fifth day of November 1941
HEREBY GIVES NOTICE that Creditors and
others having any claims against or to the
Estate of the said deceased are required to send
particulars of their claims to the said Adminis-
trator at 401 Collins Street Melbourne on or
before the Fourth day of August 1943 at the
expiration of which time the said Administrator
will distribute the assets of the said deceased
to the persons entitled having regard only to the
claims of which it then has notice. DATED
this Fourteenth day of May 1943. —BOWMAN
AND MACKENZIE, Proctors for the Adminis-
trator, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR FRANCIS ALLAN late of
Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that MONA ALLAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1362 of
1943 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the First day of August One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from LEWIS CHARLES ABIGAIL Solicitor
of 56 Hunter Street Sydney. DATED this
Twentieth day of May 1943. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar,
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
4S
8 J k
I
i lii
5?
IS
SS33KS|SSsS
fc
"Without air support, naval strength is virtually impotent, whilst
Military operations, unsupported by an adequate Air Force, are
greatly prejudiced and frustrated."
THE PRIME MINISTER, THE HON. JOHN CURTIN.
fHEN the full story of Australia’s war effort is told,
one of the greatest contributions towards eventual victory
will prove to have been that of hundreds of Caterpillar
Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Machines ... in building airports, arsenals, naval bases
and strategic roads in record time.
Only with the support of air, naval and military bases
can planes, ships and tanks make full use of their might.
The stamina, brawn and big work - capacity. of these
famous tractors and earth-moving machines are provid-
ing these bases at a record low cost to the taxpayer and
are relieving hundreds of men for other essential war
jobs. Our armed forces have first call on our output.
Meantime we thank our customers who have given clear
right-of-way to our Victory effort.
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland;
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney 'Phone: LA 3321
Marquis Street, Gunnedah ‘Phone: Gunnedah 326
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton; Mr. R.
Tweedle, Port Macquarie — 'Phone: Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96
Kincaid St,, Wagga — 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St,, South Brisbane—
'Phone: J 1456; Rankins St., Innisfail — 'Phone: innisfai! 475
CT 1-33-42
caterjpill ar v/£sec
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.”
—3347.
To buy Classing the C1ip. —3348.
Information Sought.
(1) Do National Security Regulations prohibit
a person employed in a protected undertaking
from seeking part-time work in his usual trade
or calling outside his Yegular hours? (2) May
he seek such work by newspaper advertisement
without the consent of the Man-power author-
ities ?
(1) and (2) The regulations do not prohibit a
person employed in a protected undertaking
from seeking, either by advertisement or other-
wise, part-time work in his usual trade or
calling outside his regular hours. It would be
necessary for his prospective employer to obtain
permission from a National Service Office to
employ him.
(1) What is the lowest taxable amount (not
concerning awards ) that can be paid to a girl
under 21 for whom board and residence are pro-
vided? (2) In assessing income, what amount
is allowed as board for (a) a girl under 21,
(b) over 21 ? (3) Is the amount allowed for
board in the girl’s income tax returns the same
amount as is allowed in the employer’s income
tax returns? (4) Is the employer responsible
for collecting the income tax of the employee?
(1) Income tax is now payable on incomes in
excess of £2 per week (£lO4 per annum), irre-
spective of the age of taxpayers. (2) For the
purpose of calculating income tax instalment
deductions an amount of £1 per week, repre-
senting 15s. board and ss. residence, should be
added to the wages paid to an employee where
the employee is provided with free board and
residence. The employee should include in his
return of income wages received, plus the actual
value to him of the board and residence pro-
vided. (3) The employer may claim as a deduc-
tion in his income tax return wages paid
and the value of board and residence allowed
to employees where such expenditure is in-
curred by him in the production of his income.
(4) Instalment tax stamps should be purchased
by the employer for the amount of deduction
made, and handed to the employee.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: Multiply focal length in inches by 2.54
and divide the answer into 100....V.M.:
Best Australian whale with commercial pros-
pects is the humpback D.D.: Strychnine,
as a rabbit-bait, is generally used with black
thistle-root, but apples, cabbage-stalks, turnips
and other firm vegetable matter may be used
in place of the root A.J.L.: Prior Memorial
winners are Tiburon, by Kylie Tennant; All
That Swagger, by Miles Franklin; Who Was
Joseph Furphy? by Miles Franklin (not yet
published as a book); Lachlan Macquarie, by
M. H. Ellis (not yet published); The Battlers,
by Kylie Tennant... .H.M.: The dusts are
usually lead arsenate or calcium arsenate, mixed
with a “carrier” sfich as kaolin or hydrated
lime... .F.M.: “The Brown Men of Buna” is a
song recently published by Allan and Co., Mel-
bourne... .E.M.: The process of tuning makes
the receiving circuit oscillate at the same rate
as the wireless waves P.Mc.: In Rugby
Union, if the ball goes out of touch even
within 6in. of the try-line, the players must
form a line-out or scrum, as the defending
side wills... .R.M.: Polmaise Quartermaster
(imported) was a dark-roan bull of the thick-
fleshed, early maturity type, and was a great
prize-winner in Scotland S.M.: Preference
shares are shares entitled to their fixed divi-
dend before any division of profits can be
made amongst the holders of ordinary stock
R.C.; The Commonwealth Arbitration Court
was established under the Commonwealth Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act in 1904
W.J.N.: There are 640 acres in one square
mile, and the same number in one mile square.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
N.H.: — '
My lathers came from the Homeland, but I am
Australian-born,
And 1 love to watch from a hilltop the breaking
of the dawn.
H. 8.:
Forms and reports! Oh, what a flaming mess!
We nave to fill in forms to go to work.
And, being there, we find that, more or less,
At every turn a new report will lurk.
We wonder when the futile thing will end,
When some poor mug will institute reform.
And whether he’ll get sacked, or if they’ll send
Him to compose a combination form
To keep him out of mischief while they take
Steps to prepare a full, detailed report
On his temerity, his asinine mistake.
Is this the sort of thing for which we fought ?
R.T.S.; You don’t say what happened
L. : Too long, too many “dids” and too
many inversions E.D.G.: Sounds young
R.D.: You wouldn’t use “fain” in conversa-
tion, a letter or a story. Why use it in a
poem?... .H.F.: Try a woman’s paper
M. : Slight 1.M.H.: Close; the end misses.
....A.C.: Rambling....N.O’K.; Make it
funnier, and more intelligible to the uninitiated.
. ...V.G.W.: “The Ideal Warden” should be
totally blacked-0ut.... Acwo: Confused....
R.1.K.: Try another M.L.L.: “Whom
sorrow has divested of repose.” Couldn’t you
put it more dramatically? J.McK.: Why
not put the girl in the sideshow?


i= What qualifications =
|e= should your trustee |
possess?
! He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
J sound business experience and have know-
. ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
• be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 64 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MEI BOURNE
Capital ( paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Oolman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
—\ NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—J Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
_ W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
-J N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French. ~
= Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes ~
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.) Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit on sale of securities, £7557.. 1
To staff fund, £13,027 .. .. J- 923,726
3936. . 2,649,319 ,1,446,134 273,988 J
To staff fund, £12,730 .. •• 1 nrr qbt
1937.. 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 )
To staff fund, £13,021 .. .. ]
Profit on sale of securities, £3488.. j 1,136,390
1938.. 2,951,504 1,512,566 293,015 J
To staff fund, £12,285 . . .. ]
1939. . 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 f
To tax reserve, £lOl,OOO .. ..f y ' 4 ’ 4lb
To general reserve, £124,000» ..J
To staff fund, £14,952 .. .. 1 , 97n Q - 7
1940.. 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,725 ) ’ ’
To staff fund, £14,668 .. ..]
Profit on sale of securities, £6267.. 1 , Iqn , 1S
1941.. 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 f ’ ’
To tax reserve, £113,000 .. .. J
To staff fund, £14.831 . . .. 1
1942.. 3,429,797 1,651,406 275,866 52,105 ) 1,335,589
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO .. J
* Includes dividends to shareholders,
t After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dee., Income.) Claims. Dividends.) Off. Funds,
To staff fund, £5677.. . . \ . r *
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 ) rfoU ’' ‘ 2
To staff fund, £5869. . . . . . )
1937. .1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 ) ot>0 ’ uyo
To staff fund, £6387.. .. .. | „, 9
1938. . 1,248,539 405,902 401,264 4643 )
Funds capitalised, £300,000.
To staff fund, £6217.. ..
1939. . 1,352,118 507,610 419,406 5733 [ o dS <550
To tax reserve, £32,000 . .. f ’
To general reserve, £32,500.. ..J
To staff fund, £7838 1
1940. 530,257 417,756 2820 Uan
To tax reserve, £13,000 . . .. f *
To general reserve, £100,000.. ..J
To Staff fund, £8250 ]
1941. . 1,570,713 581,294 436,364 1263 ,
To tax reserve, £31,500 .. ’
To general reserve, £160,000., ..J
To staff fund, £8426.. .. .. ) q ,-q
1942. . 1,678,500 489,131 437,242 1742 ) ’ y °
) After deducting taxes.
There are £35 million of funds in the
hands of the M.L.C., an Australian life
office in which 85 p.c. to 90 p.c. of the
Ordinary profits belong to policy-holders,
and 80 p.c. of the Industrial. Taken in
conjunction with the millions which rolled
in last year and every year, the figures
seem too dazzling for analysis, and that
is exactly the difficulty institutions of this
kind are up against from a political point
of view. But, actually, the really big
thing about the M.L.C. is the number of
Australians who have policies in it and
the amount they have collectively con-
tributed to the war effort and the finan-
cial requirements of Governments gener-
ally. There are 789,550 policies issued by
the office, averaging £llB each, for which
the average payment is £4 16s. 9d. a year.
Of the millions of money held in trust
to meet these policies when they become
claims, well over two-thirds is invested
in Government stock. Up to the end of
1942 over £7,500,000 had been put into
war loans, and another £1,500,000 went
into the April loan. As the chairman
pointed out at the annual meeting, sav-
ings of this nature help to prevent the
inflation caused by uncontrolled spending.
In return it is a pity the Australian Gov-
ernment, by its budgeting, is not doing
something to protect policy-holders from
that inflation which is evident in the in-
creasing cost of living and the diminishing
value of Commonwealth currency.
Those are aspects of the economics
surrounding life assurance. Within life
assurance itself, the primary concerns
are mortality, expense rates and interest
earnings. War and war-finance might
have been expected to affect every one
of these factors. In the M.L.C.’s case,
apart from discreet internal preparation
for contingencies (which has affected
bonuses), the only weighty blow yet taken
has been in respect of interest earnings
and taxation thereon. Death claims have
certainly shown some increase, but are
still below the experience of the last war,
and expenses other than taxation have
shown a highly creditable reduction. War
claims last year were £284,760 in total
payments to policy-holders of £2,107,824,
and exes., exclusive of taxes and alloca-
tions to shareholders (13.8 p.c. on capital,
against 15 p.c.), ran off with 11.2 p.c. of
the O.D. net premiums (compared with
11.6 p.c.) and 27.7 p.c. of the I.D. (28.8
p.c.). Net interest yield was £3 19s. Bd.
per cent, in the O.D. (£4 3s. Id. and
£4 ss. 9d. in the two preceding terms)
and £4 Is. 3d. p.c. in the I.D. (£4 ss. Bd,
and £4 9s. 2d.). Before war taxes and
investment and interest control operated,
the average yield was about £4 15s, per
cent.
Though fewer policies were issued last
year (17,016 —down 1323 —in the 0.D.,
and 75,719 —down 5920 —in the 1.D.),
the total business put on the books was
only £10,288 lower at £10,349,988 —
O.D. £6,113,505, I.D. £4,236,483. With
bonuses total assurances are now £lO4
million. Deducting taxes (£205,906, up
£39,673), combined figures for all depart-
ments showed revenue £261,146 higher
at £5,308,326, of which £3,999,214 came
from premiums and £1,309,112 from net
interest, etc. Charging claims and exes.,
handing £138,000 to shareholders, send-
ing £23,257 to staff funds and £lOO,OOO
to general reserve, there remained
£2,077,548 in the life sections to add to
the assurance funds (£32,028,474).
Though this financial surplus was
£475,088 greater than in the preceding
year, the actuary, apparently with great
caution, figured the available surplus at
£137,386 lower:
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Ordinary . . £849,680 £666,212 £681,471 £563,782
Industrial . . 115,459 134,415 138,760 119,063
Total . . £965,139 £800,627 £820,231 £682,840
A sum of £682,024, doWn £136,255, is
being split up in reduced bonuses and
dividends. Lower bonuses in life assur-
ance are at present the rule. Shareholders’
actual div. dropped to 15 p.c., against
15.8 p.c.
The co. has the strongest basis of valu-
ation in the Commonwealth. It antici-
pates a 2\ p.c. net interest return in both
departments. It would appear also that
last year some other strengthening of the
actuarial reserves took place; the in-
crease in policy liabilities (£31,351,488)
was shown at £2,213,866 (7.6 p.c.)
against £1,583,195 (5.7 p.c.) in the pre-
ceding year. Possibly a war-time mor-
tality precaution, but all to the good of
future prospects.
In addition to the life fund the office
has £1,000,000 in general reserves,
£497,300 in income tax reserve and
£1,000,000 of share capital. There is also
£74,818 set aside to look after the general
insurance branch. Funds are invested as
follows:
1941. p.c. 1942. p.c.
Public securities. £22,495,703 65.8 £25,273,638 69.3
Mortgages .. 7,882,775 23.1 7,714,283 21.1
Loans on policies 1,850,663 5.4 1,767,992 4.8
Cash, book debts,
etc. .. 739.987 2.2 641,365 1.7
Property.. .. 649,762 1.9 603,355 1.6
Debentures, shares,
etc 553,038 1.6 1.5
£34,171,928 £36,554,400
Liabilities* .. 1,655,780 1,783,428
Ret assets ..£32,516,148 £34,770,972
* Other than under policies.
A fine lot. Last year £50,000 was written
off freeholds, and securities are tidied-up
every year.
Holeproof, Ltd, (Vic.) , .
, Dividends Nominal
t —Pref. To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ 41 £ £ £ £
34J. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35.-15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
'36. . 22,626 2214 3000 10 ~ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37.. 25,150 2214 306010 „ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’38.. 25,626 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,075 8,336 51,455
’39.- 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ „ 12,827 9,845 61,300
’40.. 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ „ 12,828 5,096 66,396
Contingencies reserve, £20,000 ..46,396
Underprovided taxation charged to
specific reserves, £9OOO.
’41.. 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,596 50,992
To contingencies, £5933 .. . . 45,’059
’42. . 18,469 2214 3000 8 p.c. <= 10,262 2.993
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934 at
Dec. 31). t Includes arrears. % Six months.
This is one of the largest and most
progressive hosiery manufacturers in the
Commonwealth. Its technical associa-
tion with the Holeproof people of U.S.A.
and the board’s policy of keeping abreast
of modern developments in plant
meant much so far as costs and goodwill
were concerned before the war. Hence
the importance of allowances for depre-
ciation to enable obsolete plant to be
replaced by modern equipment on cessa-
tion of hostilities, when production costs
will become a much more vital factor in
the health of trade and industry than
they are today.
That the board is alive to this aspect
of its problems is plain from the fact
that £20,000 (down £5400) was allowed
for depreciation last term. The drop was
mainly on account of reduced working
time of the plant. The £20,000 was 38.9
p.c of the book value of plant and fittings
at 'the end of 1941. It exceeded last
year’s expenditure on these items by
£6091, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Ord. capital £128,270 £128,270 £128,270 £128,270
Pref. capital 77,685 77,685 • 7/,68j 77,680
Liabilities ~ 51,303* 116,888 148,354 165,686
Tax. prov. .. 30,500 35,000) 48,000 f
Freeholds, etc. 81,297 85,176 86,053 82,352
Plant and
fittings . . 64,308 64,190 51,408 45,317
Stocks . . 158,647 228,129 262,982 301,049
Debtors .. 6,017 33,355 23,607 26,557
Cash, etc. . . 2,659 3,258 2,121 4,221
* Includes tax provision. f Includes contingencies.
Plant, etc., now appears at £23,369 be-
low the 1938 figure. Meanwhile two
additional mills have been taken over
and a lot of money spent on them —the
Great Eastern, Camberwell (Vic.), where
production of men’s woollen hose is now
concentrated, and the Berkley, Sydney,
bought early in 1940 to sidestep shipping
problems connected with the co.’s N. S.
Wales and Queensland trade. The main
mill is at Brunswick (Vic.). Another fea-
ture which catches the eye is the con-
tinued growth in stocks, up £38,067 last
term. This is a precaution against cessa-
tion of overseas supplies and rising
prices. The danger lies in the possibility
of the co. being caught with large stocks
unsuitable for post-war demand. Slow
demobilisation of the fighting forces
would, however, be a protection against
this. Including provision for taxation
and contingencies (nearly two years’ tax
bill has yet to be paid) the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£118,141) was £14,785.
Earning power has been checked by
increasing costs and taxation and by
rationing, standardisation, price control
and the narrow margins on defence con-
tracts. And measured by the cost-of-
living index, the pounds in which, earn-
ings are expressed are worth little more
than three-quarters of what they used to
be.
The ration card, which virtually re-
places money in determining demand for
rationed articles, has affected turnover
in civilian trade, while standardisation
and price control have cut out some of
the co.’s most profitable lines and
narrowed the margin on others. Also,
there has been a big shift in demand,
owing to the heavy cafl for standardised
hosiery, etc., for both men and women
in the services. Exchange, shipping and
other difficulties have added to the com-
plications, especially in the rayon section
of the business.
The slip in the year’s gross earnings
(£100,183) was £35,748. But exes.
(£81,714, including £16,067 set aside for
the taxgatherer) were pulled back
£34,437. Net earnings (down £l6O3 —a
small capital profit was included in the
1941 figure) were sufficient to pay the
prefs. their full contract rates and show
10.3 p.c. on the £128,270 of ord. capital
as against 11.5, 13.7 and 17.7 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 261 Nil 261 6,541
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 , r „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 f ....
Staff bonus, £1720 .. ) 2455 11 > 130
!957.. 8,859 12 p.c. = 6,300 j 1000 12^30
Staff bonus, £1559 - . f
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 ) 30 76 15,206
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. |
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 )
Staff bonus, £lO2l . . ) 10 ’ 6DJ
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c. = 7350 t umR
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. ]
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .. 15,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. = 2625 12,993
The loss is only the second thing of its
kind in the present century; 1931 was
the first occasion. Here is What has hap-
pened to Sydney property sales:
City. Suburbs. City. Suburbs.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
1926.. £7,000 £3,750 1937.. £BB7 £4,368
1928.. 2,750 4,816 1938.. 1,185 5,083
1931.. 364 484 1939.. 575 4,925
1933.. 786 794 1940.. 326 6,176
1935.. 1,238 2,339 1 1941.. 1,739 6,509
1936.. 1,174 2,994 ( 1942.. 187 1,933
Rigid economic controls aimed at stran-
gling speculation and canalising available
funds into war-loan channels have pro-
duced the sharp contraction there. Regu-
lations froze real-estate dealings in Feb.,


IKVENTQRS.—Have you an idea -worth patenting?
Griffith, Kassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & GOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
BRAN DAL ER’A
w*
m
Qt*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BiANDACBE A CO- lid- BIRMINGHAM, ENG
7*o^
mm
ss
w
V-;,.
<^V;
YOUR ASSETS
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hands . Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith. Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
smßovKiuco
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
SEND YOUR
# ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Australia needs a
Government that is
not afraid to
govern!
You do what you are told
Miners and Wharf Labourers
do what they like!
A Federal Election is imminent. This is
your only opportunity ,to depose a
Government subservient to Trades Hall
control.
Wardism and Dedmanism must go. You
can elect a Government with the courage
to deal with industrial anarchy; to see
that the fighting forces get full support
from every section of the community
and an assurance of security on their
return.
NOMINATIONS
The United Australia Party
invites nominations from those
willing to contest seats in the
House of Representatives and
the Senate.
Communicate with the General Secretary of the
U'AP
30 ASH STREET, SYDNEY
INVEST IN WAR BONDS
m
SSB9
Wing assembly
in Richards
Aircraft Section
Talking PLANE Language!
It is a tribute to Australian skill and enterprise,
sharpened by the free competitive system of pre-war
days, that a specialist engineering organisation like
Richards was able to swing smoothly and efficiently
into the highly technical roie of aircraft construction.
The business management and the craftsmen who
handle Richards precision Machines form a mutually
understanding team which will adapt itself readily
to the requirements of the nation, when peace has
once again restored freedom of progress.
HICHAMS
INDUSTRIES 111 LIMITED
gjjCHARDSJ
PLANNING FOR PEACE WHILE GEARED FOR WAR!
1942 ; they were amended in March and
again’ in October. Broadly, the position
now' is that all deals must pass through
the Treasury, prices must be close to
valuation figures and the buyer must have
all the money necessary unless he has no
home of his own, in which case he may
borrow at 5 p.c. or under, provided im-
mediate vacant possession is offered.
Purchase of investment property is taboo
unless the vendor has been in possession
12 months and the purchaser can finance
the deal without recourse to borrowing,
although an existing mortagage may be
taken over. Creaking Treasury adminis-
trative machinery which has further
complicated transfers has lately had a bit
of oil put on the bearings.
As for letting, cessation of new private
building and the rural efflux to city jobs
have precipitated a housing shortage, with
the result that residences and flats are
Imost unobtainable ; rents have also been
limited, and obstreperous landlord-tenant
regulations introduced. On the commer-
cial side, economic changes have put
many traders out of business, and opera-
tions have been mainly directed to meet-
ing - requirements of Government and
essential undertakings.
Reversal of £9lOO in R. and W.’s show-
ing as the result of all these things didn’t
deter the board from paying a 5 p.c. div. ;
but continuance of that liberality isn’t
to be relied upon. The effect of the
distribution on reserves was minimised
by writing £1675 back from tax provi-
sions. Sales for the year were £466,880 ;
the ’4l figure of £2,039,000 had benefited
by windfall city deals aggregating
£1,419,200.
Finances show this comfortable state
of affairs:
1937. 1989. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,600 £52,500
Liabilities.. .. 25,956 10,720 27,911 16,396
Advances .. .. 34,227 27,361 24,130 23,444
Shares in other cos. 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc. .. _ . . 56,304 49,221 69,268 53,748
Commission
suspense, etc; . . 3,770 2,869 9,660 3,369
Sundry debtors . . 4,266 4,338 4,242 4,15.6
Consols represent £32,967 of the cash
holding. Obviously the co. is well placed
to benefit from the building programme
to be a feature of the peace, however
much present earning-power is circum-
scribed.
Wattle Gully (Vie.), Chewton’s star
performer, is still shelling out, though its
sixpenny distributions have lost their
former monthly frequency—June’s pay-
out, which will lift total divs. to £306,000j
will be the first since March. Of present-
day gold-seekers, only North Deborah,
one of Bendigo’s four remaining opera-
tors, can claim a higher aggregate. Thanks
to past vigorous development, W.G. on
one-shift working has managed to stabi-
lise current mill treatment around 900
tons per four-weekly clean-up, and
7dwt. returns continue to be obtained
over the plates. Labor, however, re-
mains a problem ; further deterioration
might easily impose a blackout on div.
payments.
3: * * *
Conflicting parties, Claude de Bernales
and his supporters and those opposed
to them, have agreed on a new Gt.
Boulder board of five. Names are not
mentioned but are tipped to include
Messrs. Sims and Heath, two London
businessmen and co. directors. W.
Grundt, a former tributor and promi-
nent among those who have been heaving
rocks at De Bernales, is also mentioned.
All the old directors with one exception
have resigned. Who the exception is has
not been disclosed.
* * * *
To satisfy ordinary debts contracted
last year and the one before, Consolidated
Gold Areas, N.L. (W.A.), is offering
shareholders 100 £5O 6 per cent, deben-
tures repayable, it is hoped, on June 1,
1946. Holders will have the right to
purchase from the co. 500 shares in Blue
Spec Gold Mines, in which it holds
150,000, at a price'equal to the then paid-
up value of such shares. Some months
ago consulting engineer McKeown de-
clared that the appearance of Consoli-
dated’s White Hope mine at Hampton
Plains was better than at any period of
its history, and that there was a marked
improvement both as regards widths and
grade below No. 4 level. He estimated
ore reserves at 41,600 tons of 7.3dwt.
average.
1 * * *
In a report dated May 13, directors
of Coolgaidie Brilliant (W.A.) announce
that the co. has squared up all liabilities
and, besides having a small cash balance,
has £5OO invested in war bonds. Closure
of the Wiluna East mine in April, 1942,
is recalled, and determination to resume
operations as soon as sufficient skilled
labor is available is reiterated. L. C.
Horley, managing director, says the future
policy of the co. should be to go on
sinking and open up the lode in deeper
ground. If this were done a very large
tonnage of payable ore could, in his
opinion, be exposed. Co. seems to have
done well out of its purchase of the
Linden mine, plant and pile of untreated
tailings for £3500. It has since re-
treated 12,000 tons of sands of a gross
value of £6600, sold some plant for
£l4OO and reckons that the remainder is
worth more than represented in the
purchase price,
* * * *
Westralian Minister for Industrial De-
velopment Hawke, a big booster of local
industries, announces that a grinding
alunite plant, which will produce a large
part of Australia’s potash requirements,
will kick off very soon at Lake Campion,
and that a few weeks later potash will be
on the market. Because of the war it has
been impossible to import any of this
fertiliser during the last two years,
Hawke says.
* H= * *
De Bernales group broadcasts that it
has added to its blue asbestos holdings
in the Hamersley Ranges (W.A.) 1847
acres containing some of the best grade.
Additional plant and production at the
earliest possible date is talked of ; also
that a very substantial home and over-
seas market is expected to be opened up.


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the DIRECTORS 5 REPORT presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
Held Wednesday, May 26, 1943,
at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
C 1 ' ' *
New Policies issued during the year ' 10,771
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies and Accident and Sickness
Benefits) >•. : £6,937,822
Total Income for 1942 . £5,583,358
Interest Income . . . . . £1,328,387
Total Payments to Policyholders during 1942 £2,326,480
Total Surpluses » . £1’209i542
Special Reserves for Contingencies £1 722 235
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1942. £31,791,386
CONTINUED ECONOMY. The percentage of Renewal Premium Income of the Ordinary Department absorbed
in Expenses (excluding Taxation and Self-charged Rent) was only 8.339 per cent.
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all Surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policyholders only.
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION £37,288,549
INTEREST EARNED ON ALL FUNDS (INCLUDING CONTINGENCY RESERVE FUNDS, GUARANTEE FUNDS
AND PROVISION FOR ACCRUED TAXATION) FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS, £4/8/3 PER CENT.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to Render Exceptional Service to the Assuring Public.
PURELY MUTUAL
NO SHAREHOLDERS PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
The Hon. SIR HARRY LAW'SON, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
General SIR HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.
ALEX. GOOCH, J.P.
GEORGE D. HEALY.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, C.8.E., E.C.I S.
Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.P.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D..
F.R.A.C.P.
liOCALi BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS;
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SIDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. C.E.; Hon. Sir GRAHAM
WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.C. Medical Director: A. HOLMES
a COURT, M.D., F.R.C.P.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON.
Consulting Medical Officer; A. MAITLAND GLEDDBN,
M.D. (Brux.), P.R.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P.
(Lond.).
QUEENSLAND: 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Director: JOHN E. TRUDE. Medical Director: S.
McDonald, m.d., f.r.c.p., f.r.a.c.p.
Acting Manager: W. TRAVERS, F.C.C.A.
F.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Director: Brlg.-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., Y.D.
Medical Director; Sir TRENT CHAMPION-DE CRES-
PIGNY, D. 5.0., E.R.C.P.
Manager: A. J. CROSS. •
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 53 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H-B JACKSON, K.C., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND Medical Director: D. M. McWHAE, M.D.,
F.R.C.P. Manager: J. A. EDWARDS.
TASMANIA: 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Director: Hon. Sir JOHN'McPHEE, K.C.M.G., MHA
Manager: A. DE JONGH.
BRANCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA AND GREAT BRITAIN.
■iCSr
P ÜBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor*
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Gold, Inflation and Industry
The value of gold as a store of value
and a sheet anchor for other money
values has been pointed out here by a
Sydney actuary, and he stresses the need
for stable money if our life-assurance
systems are to prevail. Unless money
remains stable in buying-power, the per-
son taking out a life policy is likely to
find, over a long period of years, that
inflation of prices has reduced the value
of the assurance policy—that the £ s. d.
paid in by way of premiums had more
value than the £ s. d. payable'\ipon matu-
rity of the policy, subject to the value
added by way of bonus accretions.
A ready illustration of this is the 22
P.c. cost-of-living inflation that has oc-
curred in this country since the outbreak
of war. Money paid into a life office
duiing 1938-39 would have approximately
22 p.c. more buying-power than a similar
sum paid out by a life office now. It may
be that times are abnormal now, and that
after the war our money will regain its
buying power. But, on the other hand,
there aie chances that the position may
become even more exaggerated. Inflation
has been kept down to its present level
only by reason of elaborate and bewilder-
ing controls over prices, spending and in-
vestment.
Let it be pointed out immediately that
life assurance has a value other than that
of mere investment. Its prime purpose is
indemnity against death, and only ex-
treme inflation can rob it of that value.
Also, any kind of “money” investment,
such as Government securities, bank de-
posits, mortgages and other debts, loses
value perhaps even more readily under
inflation than do life policies; a mutual
life office is capable of earning and dis-
tributing profits, and it has some lati-
tude m the manner of investing the funds
under its own control. It can own assets
other than money assets, and it usually
does have extensive premises in its name.
But it cannot buy gold in present circum-
stances. Gold-buying is a Government
monopoly.
This inflation in prices which we see
periodically, usually during and follow-
ing a war, though also in what are known
as “boom” times, nearly always repre-
sents the depreciation in the value of
paper money and its bank-credit equiva-
lent. It can arise from costly or inefficient
production, from expenditure on a large
scale in excess of value received (as in
wage rates and land values), from un-
sound Government finance and from un-
fair distribution of the income from
national production. Occasionally there
has been such a thing as gold inflation
a rise in prices following spectacular pro-
duction of this metallic currency base.
Inflation makes profitable production
difficult. The profit incentive is in most
people, and, when not abused, it is the
most effective spur to production. When
profits disappear through rising costs, not
only does the production incentive
diminish ; even if an employer is quite will-
ing to carry on a losing business in the
interest of his employees it may be finan-
cially impossible for him to do so. And
if inflation is a disaster to industries that
sell mostly to their own country, it is
infinitely more devastating to the export
trades. Inflated costs within a country
are frequently accompanied by inflated
prices, and for a time one kind of infla-
tion may compensate the other so far
as industry is concerned; but in the
world’s markets different conditions may
a PPly> and usually do. Export surpluses
are frequently jobbed out comparatively
cheaply, and these lower prices soon dis-
cover the weak chink in the costs struc-
ture of a country depending considerably
upon its exports,
When a country finds itself afflicted
with an employment-destroying inflation,
what can it do in the matter? The de-
flation that follows inflation usually does
so only in a most disorganising way—
in fact, there would rarely be deflation
but for the disorganisation caused by the
prior inflation. In cases where inflation
has been almost wilful and reckless,
created by weak administration in the
Treasury and political opportunism in
giving way readily to trade-union de-
mands, however unjustified, a nation must
be awakened to its folly by hardship.
Much inflation in Australia has been the
result of weakness and folly. It is obvi-
ous that if we are ever to wake up to
ourselves we must pay for our errors.
The modern way of living carries with
it increased political responsibilities, par-
ticularly of an economic nature, and re-
sponsibility cannot be disregarded with-
out appropriate consequences.
In the last depression—and depression
is the sort of thing that follows inflation
—we saw trade-union unemployment rise
to over 30 p.c. in the Commonwealth. We
saw one of the largest savings banks in
the world close its doors, and we saw
our exchange rate at one stage depreciate
by over 30 p.c. compared with sterling
(and sterling itself was depreciating in
terms of gold). Public borrowing by the
Commonwealth became almost impos-
sible, and Government securities col-
lapsed to figures far below par.
Australia found itself almost suddenly
in this desperate plight, though it had
been warned by bankers and others for
years that just such a thing was likely to
happen. The problem was how to get
out of the mess. What was the proper
course to adopt? Was it to purge our-
selves of inflation to the extent of bring-
ing our pound back to the basis of £4 ss.
for an ounce of gold, thereby causing
falls in wages, prices and property values,
but leaving debts and interest charges at
their old level? Obviously such a plan
was unworkable. Many of the debts had
been incurred when inflation was on its
way, and with inflation purged from prop-
erty values in many cases debts would
have exceeded those values. Industry,
already in a bad way, would have suf-
fered even more under a programme of
deflation in prices and values which left
debts and debt charges at a fixed figure.
Budgets would have been even more diffi-
cult to manage.
Britain, before the depression, had
thrown its economics out of balance by
the return to the gold standard in 1925.
It persevered with the pre-war gold stand-
ard until 1931 without bringing other
economic forces on to a pre-1914 basis.
After 1931 it never attempted a return
to the currency basis of four pound notes
and five shillings to the ounce of gold.
World trade and financial developments,
as well as politics and other factors at
home, were too strongly opposed to such
a course.
In Australia a compromise was made.
Our pound was eventually left at £5
Australian to £4 sterling, but internally
a frontal attack was also made on costs.
Most wages and interest rates were cut
22\ p.c. By 1933, in terms of Australian
pounds which were now far off the gold
standard, the cost of living was within
16 p.c. of what it was in 1914. In 1928,
when gold was, on the surface, worth
£4 ss. an ounce in Australia, the cost of
living was 47 p.c. above the 1914 figure
Undoubtedly in 1928 our pound was
overvalued in terms of gold, but it is a
fact that cheaper methods of production
have to some extent increased the buy-
ing power of gold. Its apparent stability
is accompanied by instability in its rela-
tionships with other things. This in itself
represents a problem to industry, but it is
nothing to compare with the influence of
politics on non-metallic currencies.
From time to time countries will be
confronted with economic and currency
problems that arise from inflation. Each
time the cost of deflation in terms of
industrial disorganisation and human
suffering will be considered, as well as,
on the other hand, the injustice that in-
flated currency inflicts on people with
savings, Government securities and life
policies.
This conflict between the interest o
living industry and savings is ineradi
cable in a world in which there is no such
thing as stability or security. And when
the conflict arises political considerations
are all for concessions to industry, while
tradition, usage and the written and un-
written words of contracts favor the
creditor and those who have savings. The
paramount consideration is a return to
industrial health and activity; without
those things savings—even of gold—are
of little value. Thus it is inevitable that
concessions shall be made to industry in
the future, as in the past, following
periods of inflation, especially where
such inflation arises out of war wastage.
But it is quite wrong to take the view
that savings should always bear the brunt
of the results of past economic misman-
agement. Most people work hard dur-
ing their working lives, partly in order to
provide for their old age. If savings are
always to be assailed to remedy the mis-
takes of a later generation there, will
cease to be any incentive to save.
Nevertheless, enough has been said to
reject any idea of a permanently fixed
money value for gold in the world as it
is. Even if one country arranged its
affairs with sufficient equilibrium to stay
on a fixed gold standard, world trade
might eventually pull equilibrium away
from it. Politics and economics have
become tightly entangled.
When the war finishes Australia will
find itself with tens of thousands of
highly-trained men in the shape of
the R.A.A.F. Not all of them will be
pilots, other flying men or aircraftmen,
but the majority will be. The air-
craftmen in particular will be valu-
able in industry if their ability is
properly appreciated and used, and other
airmen will obviously be highly skilled
pilots for peace-time aerial transport pur-
poses. In making plans for post-war
reconstruction the potentialities of the
R.A.A.F. should not be overlooked. Each
flying or technical man has had an
intensive and expensive education in his
work, and his knowledge and skill could
be capitalised instead of wasted if we
make an opportunity out of post-war
necessities.


4
B J
m
r'jM
d
m
'll
yes:.Tk;
had everything
while he lived
. . . . but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO UP.
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St,, Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
K. V. PEKIiINS, General Manager
Commonwealth
of Australia
RATIONING COMMISSION
NEW RATION
BOOK ISSUE
JUNE 5 and 6
WHERE? The issuing centres will be the same
as last year, wherever practicable.
The exact location of the centres will
be advertised in your local newspaper
in the first week in June—in daily
newspapers on the Wednesday or
Thursday of that week.
WHEN? Between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. continuously
on Saturday, sth June, and Sunday, 6th June.
3 THINGS TO REMEMBER
To obtain a Ration Book at any Issuing Centre each
British Subject Civilian, 14 years of age or over, or Alien
Civilian, 16 years of age or over, must produce either in
person or by an agent each of these 3 things^
(1) Civilian Identity Card or Alien Registra-
tion Certificate; and
(2) Card C.R.7 duly completed (Card C.R.7
is obtainable at post offices); and
(3) Old Ration Book. (See below if unable to
produce old book).
Application for a new Ration Book for
a British Subject Child under 14 years
of age or for an Alien child under 16 years of age must
be made by a parent or guardian, who must produce either
in person or by an Agent:
(a) The Civilian Identity Card (or Alien Registration
Certificate) of parent or guardian;
(b) The Child’s Old Ration Book (and, in the case of
an Alien Child of 14 years of age or over, a form
C.R.7 duly completed in respect of such child).
No parent’s or guardian’s declaration form is necessary.
"Wherever practicable, Ration Books of children under
14 years of age should be collected by their parents or
guardians.
Where this is impracticable (e.g., children in institutions,
etc.) the new Ration Book may be obtained by the head
of the institution, etc., upon production of the child’s old
Ration Book.
In the case of a young child for whom an
ordinary 1942 Ration Book has not been
obtained or in respect of whom a special red covered
Ration Book with sugar coupons has been issued, the
parent or guardian should apply on Form Rg. 1 (obtain-
able at post offices) to the Deputy Director of Rationing
for the new Ration Book.
Where it is in-
_ convenient to
attend personally at a Ration Book Issuing Centre, a
Ration Book may be collected by agent. An agent must
produce on behalf of the person for whom he or she is
acting:
(1) Civilian Identity Card (or Alien Regis-
tration Certificate);
(2) Form C.R.7 duly completed;
(3) Old Ration Book.
No form of authority for agent is necessary.
The Civilian Identity Card and the new Ration Book
must be handed by the agent to the owner as early as
possible.
If on account of
being an invalid,
seriously ill, or approaching maternity, or living more than
5 miles from the nearest Issuing Centre, you are unable to
personally attend an Issuing Centre and are unable to
arrange for collection of your Ration Book by agent, you
may apply by post to your Divisional Returning Officer for
your Ration Book. .
Application must be made on Form Rg.6, which is ob-
tainable at post offices, and the application must be accom-
panied by:
(1) Your Civilian Identity Card;
(2) Form C.R.7 duly completed; and
(3) Your old Ration Book.
IF YOU CANNOT PRODUCE YOUR
OLD RATION BOOK
If you cannot produce your old Ration Book, you must
complete a Form Rg. 5 (obtainable at Issuing Centre) and
present this form completed to the Ration Book Issuing
Officer when applying for your Ration Book.
IF NO IDENTITY CARD:
If you have no Identity Card or have lost it, you must
apply immediately for same to your Divisional Returning
Officer. If you are an Alien and have no Alien Regis-
tration Certificate, or have lost same you must apply
immediately to your nearest Police Station.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
If you have changed your address other than temporarily,
and have not completed a Form C.R.4 in relation thereto,
you should immediately obtain a Form CR.4 from any
Post Office and complete same. An Alien Civilian should
inform the nearest Police Station as to change of address.
REMEMBER
Before a new Ration Book can be obtained,you must produce your:
(1) Civilian Identity Card, if over 14 years of age (or Alien
Registration Certificate, for Aliens over 16 years); and
(2) Completed Form C.R.7 if over 14 years of age; and
(3) Old Ration Book, or Application Form Rg.s.
This advertise-
ment concerns
you. Cut it out
for reference.
CHILDREN
BABIES
COLLECTION (By agent):
COLLECTION (By post)
MaorilancPs Effort
“Taipo”: The extent of Maoriland’s
fighting effort was recently touched upon
by Defence Minister Jones. In 1936 the
N.Z.A.F. had a personnel of 100 ; today
it has 10,000 serving overseas and 25,000
in training at home. In 1938 the
N.Z.R.N. had recruited 700 men ; now
there are 5000 men in the service, and
another 2000 Maorilanders are in the
R.N. The total enrolment in the fighting
forces is 160,000, said Jones, and
he added “We have 20,000 troops in
various Pacific bases ; though
not yet taken part in the fighting.”
The extent of the effort thus disclosed
is about the same, in ratio to population,
as was made in 1914-18. Conditions,
as Jones mentioned, are different
now, since M.L. has to guard against
invasion. But it is felt (it may be
gathered from other sources) that, as in
Australia, the limit of expansion of
armed forces has been reached. Indeed,
now that the Empire’s Allies are looking
to M.L. increasingly for food supplies,
a policy of releasing Grade 2 and over-
age men from the army has been insti-
tuted.
Man-power Director Beckett recently
reported that hundreds of men had been
sent back to civil employment, “but the
total will run into thousands,”
L. W. Offord, president of the Actu-
arial Society, remarking that money, like
labor, is worthy of its hire, expresses the
view that “the rate of interest allowable
at present on Government loans is not
sufficiently attractive to encourage the
public freely to lend capital on a volun-
tary basis.” To make lending more at-
tractive he mentions premium bonds, with
prizes, but says a method more in keep-
ing with sound finance would be to offer
interest at a graduated, increasing rate
as the bonds grew older, thus providing
for the higher rates of interest that may
be expected when the artificial controls
of war are removed. He suggests 3i p.c.
for the first five years, 3y p.c. for the
next four, 3| p.c. for the next three and
4 p.c. thereafter, “The small extra interest
cost which would in consequence have
to be borne by the nation should be re-
garded as being in the nature of a nomi-
nal insurance premium required to be
paid to avoid the much heavier cost which
would result from inflation.” He submits
that after the war “there is no reason
to believe that trade or financial agree-
ments or understandings between nations
.... will be maintained after it suits the
convenience of one of the parties to take
unilateral action to secure an advantage
over another party.” Therefore he sees
interest rates ruled by supply of capital
and the demand for it, subject to some
years of diminishing Government control.
* ¥ * *
So far there have been few comments,
except here (B. 19/5/’43), on the
“special” nature of the Commonwealth
Bank’s interim report. The mixture of
whitewash with statistics almost sug-
gests that knight Claude Reading
had his attention distracted else-
where when he signed the report. Though
the special report was published, it said,
because of “rapidly changing economic
and financial conditions,” it avoided all
reference to (a) bank-credit finance ; ( b)
industrial absenteeism, strikes, high pay-
ment for overtime and job-control; ( c )
pay-as-you-go taxation, the “lag year”
and the obvious drawbacks of the present
system ; ( d) the fact that the proposed
extraordinary “national welfare fund,” if
financed as proposed, will be a liability
without a fund ; (e) the bungling of food
production and distribution ; and (/) any
of those astonishing anomalies we have
seen arise through rationalisation. The
swelling note issue is mentioned, but
without any comment or comparison with
other countries. League of Nations
figures show war-time growth in the Com-
monwealth note issue to be greater than
in the United Kingdom, New Zealand or
South Africa, though about the same as
in the U.S.A. and Germany and less than
in Canada. Though in a smaller ratio
than in Australia, the growth in the
British note issue has brought criticism
from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
All in all, Australia’s financial and in-
dustrial mechanism is subject to a great
political strain as well as the war strain,
and it would have been a pleasure to
hear Robert Gibson’s opinion on it —if
that were possible—in place of the stuff
issued by the present Commonwealth
Bank board, which sounds almost like
Government propaganda. Perhaps Percy
Spender had something when he said that
the Government’s economic advisers had
to play the dual game of finance and
politics, and experts were fast becoming
politicians.
* * # *
Prices Commissioner Copland, who
has been on tour in the rural areas, told
a meeting of Grafton (N.S.W.) dairy-
farmers that he calculated the average
price for butter under the subsidy plan
at between Is. sd. and Is. 6d. at the fac-
tory. This included exported butter. The
final figure Would depend upon the de-
cision of the Arbitration Court in tfie
basic-wage case. To prevent speculation
in land as a result of the increased price
of butter the Government was going to
insist on control of land sales through
the Treasury. “Persons wanting to buy
a dairy farm will have to be as com-
petent as the person selling out.”
* * * *
What is described in the cables as the
“annual income of Canadians” is esti-
mated at $7600 million for 1943, com-
pared with $6BOO million in 1942 and
$4lOO million in 1941. At $3.55 to the £
the 1943 income estimate is equal to
£2140 million Australian —twice the Aus-
tralian figure for less than twice the popu-
lation.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits during April
increased by only £1,013,000, compared
with £8.6 million in March and £9.8
million in February. The reason Was be-
cause of the presence on the market of
the Third Liberty Loan, and it appears
that in the final stages of this flotation
more genuine public support was forth-
coming than at any time since the loan
of May, 1941, when savings-bank de-
posits actually recorded a recession.
However, total diversion from savings-
bank deposits doesn’t seem to have been
more than £lO million, and that is very
poor when the war-time net increase of
£92 million in deposits is taken into
consideration. It would be a healthier
sign to see savings-bank deposits declin-
ing and war loans increasing at a greater
rate ; as it is, banks are being compelled
to lend deposits to the Government for
war purposes, even though the customer
is entitled to ask for the return of the
deposits at any time. It is only the
present tightly controlled nature of the
economic system that allows this sort of
finance to go on without drastic reac-
tions in the way of cracking noises in
overstretched credit. In order to get
adequate support for future Australian
loans it may be necessary to put life-
assurance salesmen, etc., on the job of can-
vassing support for the period of the loan.
* * * *
An underhand mode of distributing
socialistic propaganda in Australia can
be traced directly to the Government and
its bureaucracy, which Robert Garran
insists is directly responsible to Ministers,
who are responsible to Parliament.
Ministers Ward and Dedman are open
advocates of socialism, and Dr. Coombs,
rationing man and director of the Com-
monwealth Bank, is reputed to have
stated in the United States that “Aus-
tralians generally have no preference be-
tween private enterprise and Government
activity.” Reports are now coming in
from battle areas that some “educational”
stuff is loaded with Left-wing propa-
ganda. Yet Prime Minister Curtin
is outwardly quite unperturbed about the
whole thing. He stalls when asked direct
questions concerning the activities of his
socialistic Ministers, and apparently is
not at all enthusiastic about elucidating
the how, when, where and why of this
un-Australian and unsettling propaganda,
* * * *
The overcoming of shortages of certain
essential goods, says W. 0.1. Minister Ded-
man, has usually been achieved not by
any regulation or order but by negotia-
tion and the ready acquiescence of manu-
facturers, distributors and trade-unions.
With this discovery in front of the W. 0.1.,
is it on the cards that we shall see the
end of French cuffs on the legs of strictly
20-inch trousers?


THE SERVICE MAN
Attu to Lae.
“Ek Dum”: Having regard to the
extent of the forces now massed in the
Pacific, last week in the Australasian
zone was about as quiet as any previous
week since Rabaul was occupied.
But there was movement in the
northern Pacific. At the week-end Tokyo
Radio announced that, as there had been
no response to calls to the detachments
on Attu, it must be taken that they had
been annihilated. It asserted that they
had been 2000 strong, and had fought
“20,000 Americans, heavily armed, and
with naval and air support which the
Japanese did not possess.”
In effect, the Japs, whatever their
strength, repeated the methods they used
in the Solomons and Papua and held out
to the last man in the gloomy fastnesses
of a bleak island, exacting casualties the
full extent of which is not clear. Mr.
Stimson said on May 28 that 127 killed,
399 wounded and 113 missing had so far
been reported.
Lae Raided
Bad weather during most of the week
made serious activity on the New Guinea
front difficult and sometimes impossible,
but there was one heavy raid on Lae.
It is suspected that the weather admitted
of the reinforcement of Lae and Sala-
maua and the sending of sorely needed
supplies to the garrisons.
The raid on Lae was described as the
heaviest which the place had suffered ;
but the word “heavy” is only relative
and does not mean the same as when
applied in Europe. In terms of ammuni-
tion, it meant 28 tons of bombs against
the 2000 tons which Dortmund collected
a few days previously, along with 12,000
rounds from the Beaus.
Later in the week a convoy of three
ships, with naval escort, was attacked
halfway between Wewak and Madang,
but the results were not obvious. Madang
was also heavily strafed. In the week-
end raids were widespread over 15 centres
and some enemy ships suffered.
In the north-western sector Allied
’planes made the widest reconnaissance
sweep yet recorded —all round Dutch
New Guinea’s s.-w. coast and then a
swoop westward to Bali, pausing on the
way to drop a casual bomb on a ship or
other objective.
Attack on Milingimbi
That the enemy is still close to the
Australian coast was brought home by
the attack on Milingimbi airstrip in the
Crocodile Islands off Arnhem Land on
May 28, when Spitfires drove off eight
medium bombers and destroyed three.
Two Spitfires were lost, but one pilot
baled out. Incidentally, the pilot of one
of the Spitfires forced down in the Dar-
win area on May 2 has been found, re-
ducing the number of Spitfire pilots who
did not return to two.
It is a pity most Australians have not
seen Milingimbi on its island in the
Crocodile group. The presence of war
there would bring home to them the
nearness of its ghastly shadow.
That there could be bloodshed in that
little Methodist Eden might have seemed
to those who knew it before the war
something btfyond the possibilities of
nature.
It had no air strip or Spitfires then ;
only a square mission house, with a sing-
song class taught by a Fijian teacher
under the tamarinds beside the gate;
little boys, naked as Adam, splashing in
and out of their dugout canoes on a
white beach ; little girls on the swings
and slippery slides, the only sort of
mechanisms which civilisation had intro-
duced to disturb the aboriginal calm.
On adjacent islands men sang as they
hauled in teak logs. At night, against the
accompaniment of sighing tropic vegeta-
tion, there was always the sleepy moan of
the didgeridoo and the clatter of the
boomerang castanets under a moist and
limpid moon.
More Subs. Coming
Although no shipping losses were re-
ported by Allied H.Q. during the week,
correspondents at Admiral Halsey’s H.Q.
reported that there was reason to believe
that the largest submarine fleet so far
sent south by the enemy was on its way.
Tokyo Radio claimed that between May
1 and 24 Jap subs, in the South Pacific
sank two tankers aggregating 30,000
tons, six freighters totalling 65,000 tons
and a transport of 15,000 tons.
Aircraft were said to have sunk four
transports of 9400 tons, and the destruc-
tion of 16 Allied submarines was alleged.
Allied comment consisted of a large wink
accompanied by the words “Fishing
expedition! ”
A spokesman at Admiral Halsey’s
H.Q. said the tale of the sinking of five
transports was “an absolute lie,” and that
the rest of the story was “tremendously
exaggerated.”
New Campaign in China
The Chinese, locked off from Anglo-
American assistance by the loss of the
Burma Road, face a strong offensive in
the Yangtze Valley towards Chungking.
It is described in some quarters as the
strongest effort to break down Chinese
resistance made for six years. News of
the fighting is vague, but it was reported
before the week-end that 100,000
Japanese were massed along the Hupeh-
Hunan border, and that reinforcements
were pouring in to them from Shanghai
and Nanking.
There is no mistake about the fact that
the food areas of a large part of fighting
China are threatened; but Chinese
terrain and distances and weather are
playing a part as great as, or perhaps
greater than, the depleted and ill-supplied
Chinese armies.
China’s position is becoming a matter
of urgency, but nothing much can be
done about it. The rainy season makes
a diversionary attack on the enemy from
the Burma side out of the question.
Despite a sort of hint from Mr. Churchill,
Russia seems determined not to quarrel
with Japan or run risks parallel to the
risks which Britain ran, when still in
danger of invasion, to help Russia in its
dire need. And the help which is being
sent by air over the perilous route along
the Tibetan fringes has very drastic
limits.
The Fleay Force Moves.
“Ek D.”: The land fighting in the
terrible jungle and gorges on the Sala-
maua approaches has followed its usual
sporadic course of sorties on a dacoity
plan and scale.
The belated stories which now are
being allowed officially to leak out show
the daring and intrepidity of the Aus-
tralian troops who are conducting this
terrible campaign.
As in Timor, a goodly proportion of
the commando detachments were Wes-
tralians, like their officer commanding,
Lieut.-Colonel Fleay, 25 years old, who
has been awarded a D.S.O.
Before the midnight swoop last June,
reported at the time without intimate
details, Fleay and four of his officers
“sneaked into Salamaua and counted the
enemy.” Magnificent, for Salamaua lies
on an open peninsula approached from
the land by a narrow, sandy, natural
causeway which could be controlled by
a couple of alert sentries.
Afterwards the officers, with 70 picked
Bren- and tommy-gunners, went back to
the town about eight o’clock one evening,
and hid under the houses listening to
the enemy tramping over the flimsy New
Guinea floors above their heads. The
leader records that the enemy incon-
siderately kept his men awake while they
“tried to get a bit of sleep in prepara-
tion for the job in hand.”
At 1 a.m. a Very light went up. Every
Jap sentry was shot in an instant. Every
open doOr became a passageway for
grenades and every Jap who rushed out
a target for tommy-gun fire. Doors
which would not yield were decorated
with slabs of T.N.T. fastened on with
sticky bombs. And the invaders added
to the din With mortar fire from an
enemy weapon which they souvenired.
The party killed 100 of the enemy with-
out loss, besides gathering a valuable
haul of documents. At first it was
thought that a man was missing, but he
turned up in casual Australian fashion
a day or two later, explaining that he
had missed the withdrawal signal because
he w r as collecting souvenirs. When the
enemy chased him he hid in a swamp
for eight hours —it is quite easy to find
a swamp coming out of Salamaua even
in the dark ; just follow your nose!
Said Coloney Fleay: “My men did
not hesitate to take grave personal risks
to secure information.”
A sergeant, a corporal and six privates
arrayed themselves before a Japanese post
at Mubo and, suddenly throwing down
a line of missiles into the kunai, let out
an unearthly yell. The sentry called
out a guard of 60, which barged straight
into the vestibule of hell, the missiles
which had been left behind consisting of
a chain of grenades with fuses set to go
off simultaneously.
A Digger, to demonstrate his contempt
for grave risks, walked into Mubo with
a box camera, photographed Japs lined
up for mess parade and walked out.
A tommy-gunner ran past 15 of the
enemy, rescued a wounded man and then
came back and killed the Japs.
And 25 Australians holding Mubo
“killed all but 30 of 200 Japs.” The
enemy returned with 900 men, but was
beaten off. The colonel estimates that
his men killed 500 of the enemy for a
loss of 12 in the hide-and-seek raiding
of the Mubo-Salamaua area, and in the
process had many hairbreadth escapes.
The whole course of the fighting in
the Pacific shows that the enemy, as
General Herring remarked (B. 26/5/’43),
is “a strong, stupid little beast with no
imagination who does exactly what he is
told.”
He has so far shown a lack of imagi-
nation in jungle fighting ; but in fortified
positions he fights like a dying bulldog-
ant.
Bombing North and South.
“Ek Dum”: About the only real facts
which have come out of the closely-
guarded conference on strategy at Wash-
ington is that the strategists were unani-
mous in their decisions and that Mr.
Churchill and Dr. Evatt have begun to
call each other Bert and Winston —be-
lievable since the Christian-name habit
is universal in British Imperial Cabinet
circles.
The “mays” and the “mights” of the
conference are not so easily believable,
nor is there anything to warrant the con-
fidence of armchair experts that the
legions of Britain and U.S.A. will begin
at once to pour into continental Europe.
There are several elements which are
worth studying:
(1) The Admiralty, though guarded as ever,
appears to acquiesce in the suggestion that May
has been the best month for Allied shipping
and the worst month for U-boats since the
early days of the war. German claims as to
sinkings have fallen off remarkably. This
being so, provided Russia can be kept going
delay in the European theatre is on our side,
and every week should see a further shift’ in
the weight of supplies and armament in the
Allies’ favor. German piecemeal claims for
U-boat sinkings were only 154,000 tons for the
first 26 days of May. In 10 days Short Sun-
derland®, including Australian-manned machines,
destroyed five U-boats between Iceland and
Biscay.
(2) While these supplies are mounting up
and Britain is strengthening shipping and food
reserves against the inevitable losses of an
attack on Europe and unforeseen emergencies,
the U.S. Army will be getting much needed
training and hardening which the British armies
already have had. U.S. strength in Europe
is relatively small beside that of Britain (in
Britain itself there are probably more Canadians),
and the experience of the Second Corps in
Tunisia showed that even the small force there
needs a good deal more training before its
splendid and courageous material can be turned
into a first-class fighting force comparable with
the veteran Eighth and First Armies, many of
whose regiments have had at least three years
in uniform.
(3) Action in the Mediterranean can scarcely
come in a single stage, despite the widespread
notion that the Allies are about to step ashore
in Italy and turf Mussolini out of his lair
in the Venezia in Rome. To secure the flanks
of the attack it will be necessary to have a firm
hold on Sicily, Sardinia and the islands of the
Sicilian Straits. Prudent generals will no doubt
feel that it would be wise to have Corsica and
Crete as well if they can manage it and, by
the use of dominating sea and air power, to
feint with a view to forcing the Axis leaders
to take precautions over as long a front as
possible. The consolidation of these islands
and reconstruction of facilities and advanced
bases upon them will scarcely be done in 24
hours or 24 days unless collapse of Italy makes
caution less necessary.
The reporting of the air offensive over
Sicily and adjacent parts of Italy has an
unbalanced and exaggerated air, calcu-
lated to leave an impression which the
cool official facts and figures certainly
do not support.
The raiding is heavy by Pacific stand-
ards, but in weight of bombs dropped and
concentration it is only at late-1941 or
early-1942 standards by northern-Europe
criterions. The heaviest machines being
used are the high-ceiling Flying For-
tresses, which carry not much more than
half the weight of bombs carried by Lan-
casters and Halifaxes and Stirlings, and
medium Mitchells and Wellingtons,
which carry even less. About the heavi-
est load dropped on a single objective
so far in the continuous attacks by three
air forces, two of which operate from
Africa and the other from Malta, was
round 150 tons to 200 tons. Though this
amount can do a lot of damage, it is
unlikely to produce capital results, even
when frequently administered.
Still there is a remarkable liveliness
over Sicily and adjacent parts. While
it is claimed that American bombers are
bringing down large numbers of enemy
fighters —British bombers rarely report
shooting down fighters—with little loss
to themselves, the score inversely shows
that the enemy is still able to put large
numbers of machines into the air.
Unofficial Algiers Radio placed the
number of Axis machines destroyed in
the Sicilian area at 600-odd in nine days.
The greatest daily number of Allied
’planes up was round 400, and the great-
est loss admitted was 11 on one day.
The Italians acknowledge repeated
attacks on key southern cities, among
them Messina, where they said serious
damage was done, particularly near the
centre of the city. It was claimed that
44 raiders were shot down.
At the week-end 100 Fortresses, mak-
ing a 1200-mile round trip unescorted,
were reported to have turned the huge
oil refineries of Leghorn, 90 miles south
of Genoa, into an inferno.
Italy undoubtedly hates being bombed
and reacts badly to it.
Italian Fighting Quality
It remains to be seen whether Italians
fighting for their own soil may not be
very different from Italians fighting for
Libyan deserts.
As Lloyd George insisted in his
memoirs, many Italian regiments fought
well in the last war ; in this war a few
units have proved as resistant as the Ger-
mans. And as a race they are good mili-
tary engineers. They are as fond of their
native land as any race on earth.
So it is not safe to assume any walk-
over in Italy, even if the Germans do not
join in its defence. It will be surprising
indeed if the Allied command is
approaching its task in the Mediter-
ranean with the same cocksureness as
some of the boo-boo boys.
Dusseldorf Gets it Again
Allied bombing irt northern Europe is
still almost entirely R.A.F. bombing, and
in weight of individual raids it is ten
times as heavy as anything so far seen
in the south. The proportion of heavy
bombers used is increasing at a rate
deadly for the enemy. In last week’s
two big raids three-fourths of the
attackers were in the four-engined seven-
ton-load carrying class.
Dortmund, which a day or two previ-
ously had still been knee-deep in water
from the bursting of the Mohne Dam,
had, early in the week, the greatest
attack ever made on any city—2ooo tons
were dropped on the Ruhr’s second-
largest city. Thirty-eight British bombers
were lost. It was reported that hundreds
of acres were left a flaming ruin, the
whole place out of action and devoting
its attention to rescue work.
Then Dusseldorf, which holds the un-
wanted distinction of having been the
first town bombed by the R.F.C. in the
last war, had a visitation nearly, if not
quite, as terrible. Dusseldorf is not in
the Ruhr proper, but it is the second-
biggest port for the Ruhr. It was already
badly damaged in raids of which the last
was in January, and 380 acres of it had
been wiped out.
Part of the punishment administered
in the latest attack was by 500 two-ton
bombs and a large number of four-
tonners, which are better described as
land mines, and which look like a not-
so-modest ship’s boiler. The place was
also sown with thousands of incendiaries.
Twenty-seven bombers did not return.
What Dusseldorf must be like can be
left to the imagination. The results of
previous raids alone would be paralleled
if Sydney were wrecked from Martin-
place to Circular Quay and from Mac-
quarie-street to Darling Harbor.
German official reaction is curious.
Berlin obviously has not the courage to
tell the general public the extent of the
damage. It is continually hinted that the
bulk of Ruhr industry has been moved
eastward.
Trying to effect a diversion, Goebbels
said on May 27; “Last week was more
frightening to Londoners than the terrible
autumn of 1940. Their chance of sleep
was utterly destroyed.” He spread the
legend of great German liquid-air bombs,
alleged to collapse everything within 700
or 800 yards when they explode on con-
tact with the ground. The R.A.F. says
the 1.-a. bombs are a myth. A mysterious
loud explosion was caused by a 1000-
pounder hitting the Thames. The Berlin
correspondent of a Swedish paper has
another story: the Germans are using
“an exceptionally light bomb which has
caused extensive damage.”
What raids have been made on Eng-
land during the past few days have been
minor nuisance raids. But Rome Radio
alleges that “recently invented German
infernal machines, the effect pf.which will
be frightful,” are about to be used.
In spite of bad weather R.A.F. opera-
tions go on day and night, and towards
the week-end the wonderful little Mos-
quitoes pushed as far afield as Jena, a
1000-mile round trip, to smash up as
much as possible of the great Zeiss
camera and scientific and precision instru-
ment works. Essen had a further heavy
raid of nearly an hour —its 56th —by ten
waves of bombers. The R.A.F. lost 24
bombers.
Finally, very heavy forces attacked
Wuppertal, which consists of the two
long, narrow cities of Elberfeld-Barmen,
a great textile and dye-product centre.
Berlin admitted great destruction of


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELEANOR AUDREY HAIDLE and J.
BUCKLEY late of 35 Fitzroy Street, Milson’s
Point.—TAKE NOTICE that BURT ALEX-
ANDER HAIDLE has filed a petition for
Divorce No. 787 of 1942 on the grounds of
adultery If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the First day of
September 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from VINCENT J.
BRADY Solicitor 60 Hunter Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY CALLAWAY (also
known as William Ronald Watson) late of
Sydney .—TAKE NOTICE that FREDA MECCA
THERESA CALLAWAY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1001 of 1943 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce-
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
12th July 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from R. F. DUDLEY
Solicitor 9 Martin Place Sydney— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDNA MAY MARGARET!S late of Cairns
in the State of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN LOUCAS MARGARITIS has filed
a Petition for Divorce Number 1436 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Thirtieth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG Solicitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
fflot/al ffiujil c/hm
buildings. Thirty-three British bombers
were lost.
Counting the Cost
In the triumph over the success of the
big raids the price is too often forgotten.
During April 287 British and 28 Ameu-
can bombers were lost over northern
Europe. From January 1 to April 30 the
toll was 699 machines. Each toui-
engined machine gone meads seven gal-
lant youngsters lost, with, in many cases,
little hope of escape in view of the low
level at which R.A.F. bombers strike.
The number of four-engined machines
lost is naturally increasing as the number
involved increases.
Though the personal tragedies are
cruel, the sacrifice is not uneconomic.
Pilots are now relatively plentiful.
Machines are in surplus supply by a long
margin, and it is no longer needful to
measure losses carefully as to percentage
with a sinking feeling that attrition can
overtake construction or man-power
supply.
When those 699 lost machines are put
beside the thousands lost by the Germans
in the first four or five months of the
Battle of Britain, the contrast is striking.
The R.A.F.’s April-May campaign is
the first series of air attacks which could
be compared in efficacy to a sizable in-
vasion. And the limit of offensive power
is a long way off. Britain and the U.S.A.
t both have bigger and better bombers and
bigger and better bombs on the way, and
more of them. If increased aerodrome
accommodation for long-distance heavies
can be provided, as it can now that North
Africa has become a base, the possibili-
ties are staggering.
Of 57 cities in Germany proper with
populations of over 100,000, 50 are within
working range of the Lancasters and their
kind.
The measure of what is being done can
be gauged from the fact that 1500
bombs, of an average well under 10001 b.,
plus incendiaries, damaged 65,000 out of
70,000 houses in Portsmouth.
Dortmund in its last raid collected 500
tons to the square mile at the rate of 35
tons a minute.
Russian Review.
“Ek Dum”: May has gone without
more than the beginnings of major
actions in Soviet Russia. There is no
more information than usual about pro-
spective strategy in that mysterious land.
It may be that Hitler’s declaration in
November that he was now on the defen-
sive was a genuine statement of policy
and that he intends to fight on the short-
est possible lines, leaving the Russians to
do the attacking from positions 1500
miles from their bases in the Urals, and
most disadvantageously placed in rela-
tion to the delivery of supplies from
Britain and America.
The concentrations in Orel sectors and
In the Donetz achieve the most favor-
able balance for the Germans in respect
lof supply.
! Several correspondents have left Russia
Recently. Their pictures of the country
are so different from those which
passed the severe censorship that it is
'difficult to believe that they were written
?by the same men.
.The Source of Supplies
None of the writers, out of Russia,
seems to believe the stories propagated
last year of factories being rooted out
bodily, transferred 1500 miles or so
behind the lines and there producing
the materials for the last winter offensive,
irrespective of mechanical laws and the
time factors affecting the provision of
such necessities for large-scale armament
manufacture as millions of tons of water
and millions of tons of treated material
and fuel. They emphasise that the ma-
terials used in the winter campaign were
accumulations of long standing which
the Russians felt able to use because of
Allied help.
Thus Sydney “Telegraph’s” Mr. Blun-
den, previously an indiscriminate pane-
gyrist and Second-Fronter:
Unquestionably one of the major factors
in the swift recovery of the Red Army has
been the aid rendered by the Allies. The
steady stream of supplies being poured into
Russia over a period of 18 months has
meant that the Russians were able to throw
into battle all their reserve equipment. An
entirely unofficial estimate of the amount
of aid given to Russia is that it amounts
to 20 completely equipped armored and
motorised divisions and an entirely new
air force of 10,000 ’planes.
And the oft-repeated story that the Luft-
waffe was a washout in Russia and the
Red Air Force the best and most abun-
dant in the world is heard no longer.
It now appears that “it was in the field
of aviation that Russia suffered most from
shortage of equipment.” “On the first
day of the war Russia lost 1200 planes
on the ground” ; “enemy dive-bombers
have had their own way on many fronts,
including Stalingrad. More than once
they have been the decisive factor in
battle.”
However, it is said that on the ground
the Russians probably now have per-
fected a barrage system which relies for
its effect upon a pattern of detonation
with a stunning and nerve-shattering
effect upon personnel.
The method to which correspondents
now refer was introduced in Russia by
the enemy, and was one of the factors
which resulted in the Russians, game as
they were, being driven back to the
Volga. The enemy described it at the
time. The British gave him a taste of
their version in Tunisia. It awed Rus-
sian correspondents who saw it, as it
did the Axis troops at the receiving end.
Reserves
However, the Red Armies today are
described as being better armies than
those which fought in 1941-42 under
Timoshenko and numerous others, and
there is good reason to believe the de-
scription valid.
Thanks tq the Allies, they are certainly
better equipped and better supported
from the air and in armor and artillery.
But about this and about numbers
“Allied military attaches, none of whom
yet have been taken into the Russians
confidence,” can only make assumptions.
One is that the Red Army is larger than
the German Army. That is encouraging,
but the prime factor in this year’s cam-
paign will certainly lie in the relation-
ship of numbers to the amplitude of com-
munications and supplies.
Moreover, it seems to be agreed that
the present Red Army is the final pos-
sible Russian mobilisation, and that be-
yond it there are few reserves to draw
on. One correspondent declares that
Russia has lost 40,000,000 men and
women through death in battle and in
occupation areas, through starvation and
through impressment into slavery in Ger-
many or capture as war prisoners. This
represents one-third of the total popula-
tion of European Russia ; over 20 per
cent, of the population of the U.S.S.R.
of all ages. Only a country great m
man-power and in fortitude could stand
such a strain.
Fight Against Hunger
One fact which calls for solemn con-
sideration and which shows how crucial
this year may be is the food situation.
Mr. Averill Harriman said after his
return from Moscow last year that only
the arrival of a large consignment of U.S.
lard had saved big sections of the Mos-
cow population from starvation, and that
the U.S. and Britain would have to feed
Russia through last winter.
The astronomical figures given by Mr.
Stettinius recently show what a heroic
effort was made by the mercantile
marine and the Allied navies to do this
effectively; but the food and fuel situa-
tions are bad. President Roosevelt said
last week that 1,000,000 tons of food had
been sent by the U.S. to Russia and that,
in future, food would have priority to
keep up the rations of the Red Army.
Walter Graebner, the chief correspon-
dent of “Life” and “Time” in Moscow
during the past few months, gives some
figures in his book Round Trip to Russia
which should set Australian workers
thinking, both as to the superiority of
their own comfort and the appalling
conditions under which the brave
Russians are holding out.
The splendid undamaged fa?ades of
Moscow’s newest peace-built houses, he
says, “often hide jerry-built structures,”
and “total war placed on the occupants
of these draughty buildings a burden
staggering to an American.” Floor-space
was limited to a maximum of ten square
yards per individual —that is, a 10ft. by
9ft. room. No civilian might travel by
air or rail, own a car or rent a hotel
room. Newspapers formed the sole
cigarette- and toilet-paper and every-
where eked out the blankets. All Mos-
cow’s restaurants were closed, and a large
proportion of shops, and 95 per cent, of
the food was rationed —“even Government
officials cannot control themselves at the
sight of food.” “Annual civilian con-
sumption in Russia is less than average
civilian waste in U.S.A. By comparison,
even Germany—as late as 1939 —was a
land of luxury.” . , „ .
The only really well-fed Russians,
according to accounts by other corre-
spondents, are commissars and corre-
spondents. Even privileged Russians
last winter usually dined on hash
or plain black bread spread with red
caviar. Black bread is the main staple—
about a pound a day for dependants
and \\ pound for heavy workers. High
officials have no ration cards, but are
limited ip their expenditure per month.
This is in the best part of Russia. In
Leningrad last winter the ration was 100
grammes—about one-fifth of a pound,
an ordinary thick slice.
In Leningrad 1,800,000 perished from
starvation and cold in 1941 and 1942
ghastly, but an official figure.
The strain of war even in the best
areas is heightened by high prices. The
average weekly wage of the Russian
worker is about 450 to 600 rubles
a month. Milk is offered in Moscow for
60 rubles a quart, potatoes cost about 50
rubles a pound, and butter (one corre-
spondent reports) has been sold up to
2000 rubles a pound.
Red Army pay in the ranks ranges
from 10j rubles per month —five shillings
or thereabouts Australian, with exchange
at its very best —in non-combat zones to
21 rubles in the front-line for the ordinary
private and 42 or so for the guardsman.
Even the non-com. gets less than the
average worker. There is no allowance
to wives—for each child there is 60 rubles
a month. Captains are paid 170 times
as much as a private and colonels 240
times. There is no leave; nothing but
the right to fight. And the Russian —
more power to his elbow! —fights with
a will, with a growing emphasis on his
love of his country.
Unsurpassed Resistance
The picture which is beginning to come
out of Russia is not of a race of super-
men who fight better than others because
they have been “politically educated”
and are determined to preserve Com-
munism at any cost. It is a more human
one, which excites the pity and admira-
tion of the world—a picture of a race
which, after suffering the most terrible
attrition and privations which have
fallen upon a European people in combat
since the Thirty Years’ War, is still
fighting doggedly and relentlessly for its
existence.
The Russian Army has never had the
kind of equipment considered indispen-
sable by the British armies in Africa.
Fortunately neither had the enemy on the
scale on which he needed it in 1941. Both
sides have depended largely on horse
transport immediately behind the lines —
the. same sort of cart carriage which
amazed foreign attaches in the last war.
In Russia “the civil war general,” who
still thrills Communists in Australia, has
become a stock joke. Instead there are
now young, experienced generals moulded
and proved during the war.
Nor can the food position be as bad
as it was last winter. With the expan-
sion of Allied control over the Medi-
terranean and the obvious improvement
in the U-boat situation and increase of
tonnage, supplies, both military and civi-
lian, will pour into Russia on an ever-
growing scale.
The Red Army’s task this year is to
hold out and hoard its man-power for
the final phases of the war, in which all
the Allies will be involved—unless, of
course, it feels that it can without risk
carry on offensive war on a grand scale.
So far the only real fighting initiative
in the present campaign has come from
the Russians in their fierce attacks on the
Velikiye Luki and the Toman Peninsula
sectors in the Kuban. Moscow has said
little of these, but Berlin has spoken of
temporary breaks in the lines and retire-
ments in a tone of voice which hints at
an eagerness to drag the Russians into
major operations in both northern and
southern zones. Dispositions suggest that
the strategic initiative for the moment,
as it affects the whole front, is in the
enemy’s hands, but that he has not used it.
The Kuban Offensive
German accounts of the Kuban offen-
sive, given while Moscow was silent,
save to mention German attacks which
have been driven back, are that, with a
view to persisting in the previously un-
successful attempt to gain control of
Kerch Straits, the Russians assembled 10
new rifle divisions and 170 tanks (some
52-tonners) in the Krimskaya area of the
Kuban. Knowing that the Red Army
intended to use a massed artillery attack
followed by massed infantry, the Ger-
mans (Berlin asserts) retired unobserved
from their forward sector, which the Rus-
sians then pounded to pieces with their
shells. When the Soviet troops advanced
they were met with a devastating fire
“from automatic weapons which caused
dreadful slaughter” and wiped out 48
tanks in a day, forcing a disorderly
Russian retirement. Moscow gave neither
confirmation nor denial.
In brief:
In a fortnight up to May 28 the names of
more than 3000 more A.I.F. prisoners in
Japanese hands became available, making 5000
in two months and 6700 in all. There are still
9000 to be accounted for.
& * * *
Wing-Commander G. F. Gibson, D.S.O. and
bar and D.F.C. and bar, has received the
V.C. for his breaching of the Mohne and Eder
dams, and 33 of his crew were decorated,
among them eight of the 13 R.A.A.F. men.
« * * *
General MacArthur, G.C.B. Congratula-
tions !
* * * *
Three of the Spitfires reported missing after
the Darwin combat on May 2 will fly again.
The destruction of a Jap float ’plane in the
Arafura Sea when attacking a small ship has
been confirmed through the finding of two
Japanese airmen on an island.
On May 29 British light naval forces set fire
to four German armed trawlers off Dunkirk in
a 45-minute close-range action. E-boats and
R-boats also were set on fire. The enemy ships
withdrew in such confusion that they fired on
each other. One of the trawlers blew up and
another was left sinking. A small British vessel
came under heavy fire and was presumed lost,
but the remainder returned to port with little
damage and only three casualties.
* * * *
According to Secretary for War Stimson,
American losses in North Africa since Novem-
ber 8 were 2184 killed, 9437 wounded and 6937
missing—total 18,558. British and French
losses were roughly 52,000; the enemy’s losses,
323.000 — killed 30,000, wounded 26,400 and
prisoners 266,000. These figures are for the
Tunisian campaign only. Addition of casualties
sustained against the Eighth Army from Ala-
mein to Tripoli would bring the figure over
the 400,000 mark. Mr. Stimson remarked that
it was unusual for an army to have more
killed than wounded, but when the facts come
out it will possibly be found that large numbers
of wounded were evacuated in the earlier period
of the campaign.
* * * *
Enemy agencies in Spain continue to report
the flow of Allied convoys into the Mediter-
ranean. One last week was said to include
a “52,000-ton Cunard liner”—there are no
52.000- Cunard liners, unless one has been
completed recently in secret. At the week-end
Berlin spoke of massed small craft and small
naval ships and tugs gathering in Tunisian and
Algerian ports.
* * * *
Japanese Radio claimed last week to have
“completely destroyed” Chittagong aerodrome,
but Chittagong apparently had not heard of
the disaster when 15 bombers and 20 enemy
fighters appeared later, presumably to wipe put
of existence what had been wiped out of exist-
ence. One enemy bomber and three fighters
were destroyed, 1 one bomber and three fighters
“probably destroyed,” and another bomber and
two fighters damaged. The R.A.F. suffered no
casualties, and little damage was done to the
aerodrome. Fighting on the Arakan front was
confined to patrol actions.
* * * *
The crew (seven) of a Lancaster, whose cap-
tain was Flt.-Sgt. G. V. Scott, of Toronto
(N.S.W.), had an extended view of the North
Sea after their successful visit to Bochum in
the Ruhr on May 13. Their giant machine was
brought down on a level keel. All the crew
succeeded in getting into the ship’s dinghy, with
24 tins of water and each man’s personal
rations. They also had a pack of cards, which
filled some of the weary six days during which
thev were afloat. On the fourth day they
drifted so close to Dover that they could see
people in the streets. They were picked up by
a minesweeper two days later.


“BILLABONG”
TROUGHING
DANks
A Heq s x
Stable Door
A hi K S '
Cattle
fjo 2|7(S
Pig
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
mANKS^
L.-TED.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
SHANAHAN, William. —Son of Michael Shana-
han and Mary Ann Ryan, formerly of Corsair
Street, Richmond, born about 1867, and last
heard of about 1902. He or his children
will hear something to advantage if he or
they communicate with NATIONAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CARRY THE
BURDEN i
W
&
%
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige,
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Although weights for the G.N. Hurdle
have not been published, Anpapejo ran
himself into popularity for that race .by
defeating Spellboy and Virile in the Hos-
pice Hurdle at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. The former Sydney jumper was
racing over hurdles in Melbourne for the
first time, but there was sufficient support
to reduce his price from 10 to 1 to 6 to 1.
He won only narrowly but with a good
deal in reserve, and looks certain to im-
prove. With Anpapejo and the champion
fencer Winterset, owner “H.' J. Ascot”
has fair prospects of landing the G.N.
double. Anpapejo bruised his near knee,
but the trouble is not serious. Gay
Invader, stable-mate of these horses, was
favorite for Saturday’s race, but jumped
indifferently, and was beaten some dis-
tance from home.
• • .
Hoots were directed at starter Norman
Wood when Dorset, equal favorite, and
Lord Jevington, equal second favorite,
were two of three horses left at the post
in the Benevolent Steeple. Lord Jeving-
ton chased the field and moved up fifth
at one stage, but Dorset and Ringford
took no part in the race. Wood told the
stewards at a subsequent inquiry that he
thought all the horses were in line, but
that apparently he overlooked this trio,
accidental occurrence!” was the stewards’
verdict. Gold Watch, equal favorite, won
well from West Haran and Pantoon, but
he is a small gelding and does not im-
press greatly from a G.N. Steeple view-
point. Highland March finished a poor
sixth, and seemingly is not quite as good
as he was.
Luck changed for H. H. Lawrence
when Lunar Lynx, owned by him, justi-
fied his favoritism for the first Society
Maiden Plate. Lawrence has raced seven
horses during a period of nine years, and
Lunar Lynx, a two-year-old gelding by
John James from Moonbar, is his first
winner. Contrasting with Lawrence’s for-
tune, Rupert Watson won his third two-
year-old race on successive Saturdays
when Burma outclassed his rivals for the
second Society Plate. His previous win-
ners were David’s Last and Sun Bonnet,
Burma, an attractive colt by Law Maker
from Chantant, was racing only for the
second time, and, although starting at
20 to 1, some nice bets were landed for
small outlays. He won as he liked by
almost four lengths, and more will be
heard of him.
_ 6 * , * * * *
Trustee, Adelaide-owned, improved on
his latest form to give bookmakers a
25-to-l result in the Patients’ Welter. He
finished well to win narrowly from San-
gallo and the pacemaker. Director. It had
been intended to offer Trustee for sale,
but plans may be changed now that he
has recovered form. Cloudy Bay (fourth)
and Lucille (fifth) were best backed, and
excuses were possible for both. Hestia
ran well enough to indicate an early win.
......
Brother Bill completed a hat-trick by
easily defeating Helianthe and the un-
lucky Leahero in the Nurses’ Handicap,
He is probably the most improved three-
year-old in Melbourne, but owner-trainer
P. Foster considers he has done enough
for the time being, and he has been sent
for a spell. Liberal Knight dashed to the
front about three furlongs fro’m home in
the Sisters’ Trial, and won comfortably
from Elegies and Manawatu. His rider,
V. Hartney, had won earlier on Lunar
Lynx.
4 *,* * , * .
A £2oo ° handicap by the Newcastle
J.C. in October would be another feather
in secretary Hibberd’s cap, and from
horse-owners would receive a full measure
of support. Transport difficulties will
reduce the number going to Melbourne
in the spring to a minimum, and the \\
miles 100 yards of the proposed New-
castle race will be well within the com-
pass of many horses after they have been
through spring racing in Sydney,
* * * *
Hard luck f° r Ascot to lose its Satur-
day at Rosehill. Secretary Jenkins’s corn-
ment that the meeting was postponed,
not abandoned, savored of optimism, but
now that the Prime Minister has agreed
to racing on Boxing Day, New Year’s
Day and Easter Monday perhaps he may
be inclined to consider the position of
clubs losing one of their few dates owing
to unfavorable weather, and allow them
to avail themselves of present raceless
Saturdays. It would not increase the
number of racing days now permissible,
and would be appreciated by everyone
directly associated with the game as well
as the sporting public.
* * * *
There was nothing surprising in Young
Valais’s win in the Cameron Handicap
at Newcastle. At his two previous runs
at Canterbury Park he outpaced smart
horses in the early part of seven and a
quarter furlongs, and, though Winnipeg
was too good for him at the finish on
the last occasion, it was palpable the
heavy going assisted in pulling him up
in the last hundred yards. Though not
always placed, Young Valais has rarely
run a bad race this season, and the luck
of it for his owner and trainer was that
if the Cameron Handicap had been de-
cided on the date originally fixed he
would not have been a starter,
* * * *
Some American writers are not compli-
mentary to the appearance of Count
Fleet, who, at a ridiculously short price,
won the recent Kentucky Derby. One
authority referred to him as follows:
“He’s tall and gangling, and his quarters
are so high that he looks almost sway-
backed from some angles. And he runs
with his head held high, which the wise
guys say is no way for a thoroughbred
to travel to get a mile and a quarter.
Besides, some insist he looks too skinny
to carry 9st. over the Derby course.”
Still, as Count Fleet weighed 10351 b., he
could not have been exactly skinny, and
it is probable that after he ran away
with the Derby some of the critics found
good points in him that they had previ-
ously overlooked.
* * * *
Chief Secretary Baddeley would seem
optimistic in expecting the Sydney Turf
Club (if it functions) to reduce starting-
price betting greatly. So far as better
racing is concerned it would be interest-
ing to know how that is to come about.
With opportunities reduced, a fair pro-
poition of our best horses race nearly
every week, and the number of runners
generally reaches the permissible maxi-
mum. In Melbourne starting-price
betting had increased greatly up to last
year, liberal prize-money and good fields
not having the effect of decreasing the
ranks of those who like to bet that way
in preference to going to race meetings.
If there is genuine desire to minimise
starting-price betting the only way to
bring it about is by collaboration of the
Postmaster-General’s Department and the
police, and that has accomplished some-
thing in Melbourne this year,
* * * *
A little while ago we were” told that
most of the trouble caused in races was
due to inexperienced apprentices. Some
was, but on occasions when a horse
ridden by an apprentice suddenly lost its
place and interfered with horses further
back I 1 was due to the rider being shown
a trick of the trade” by some older
jockey. The suggestion that younger
riders might be coached in races by the
older division has always amused me.
When an experienced rider was certain
of a nice present if fie won, it would
really be too much to expect him to give
an apprentice much consideration if the
latter’s mount looked a danger.
Lately the stewards have been paying
marked attention to the efforts of older
jockeys as well as apprentices, and it has
been brought home to some of both
divisions that they must not indulge in
go-as-you-please work, even if absolute
fairness is likely to involve financial loss
in a race.
*■ * * »
Of the 58 yearlings catalogued for
Inglis and Son’s sale at their Newmarket
stables, Randwick, on Friday next, 33
(geldings and fillies, but no colts) are
from the Kia-Ora stud. The sires are
Young Idea, Piccadilly, Constant Son,
Medieval Knight, Midstream, Double
Remove, Lord Paramount and Paren-
thesis. Some of the youngsters are fully
or closely related to well-known winners.
Representing other studs are four by
Felcrag, three by Gold Rod, and other
sires are Le Grand Due, Veilmond,
Marabou, The Buzzard, Bullhead, Silver
Standard, Tuckiar, Royal Step, J. R.
Smith, Melfort and Plantain. So, with
a little luck on his side, a buyer will
stand a fair chance of picking up some-
thing as good as anything disposed of
at the autumn sales.
* * * *
The question of seniority versus ballot
in the allotment of, position in the pad-
dock at Randwick is again agitating
bookmakers. Well, with all respect to the
claim of veterans, they should remember
the ballot gave them opportunities in their
earlier days, and the public would not
now appreciate all the younger division
being crowded out of the choice positions
by many men—not all—who, to a great
extent, have lost their betting dash.
* * * «
It is not so many years ago that time,
either in training or racing, was not
treated seriously in England. The out-
look has changed, and recently the Lon-
don “Sporting Life” had a two-column
article on the Derby chances of the vari-
ous candidates based on the times they
recorded in the two-year-old races they
won. Figures so greatly favored the
Aga Khan’s Nasrullah that the writer
reckoned it was merely a matter of that
colt being able to stay to win the Derby.
However, the writer’s deductions as to
Nasrullah’s superiority over the other
colts did not work out correctly in the
Two Thousand Guineas last week,
Nasrullah, though a hot favorite, only
managed to run fourth, the winner being
the 18 to 1 chance Kings way, who cost
Saunders lOOOgns. as a yearling, and was
not raced as a two-year-old. In conse-
quence his name did not appear in the
list of Free Handicap weights compiled
by the Jockey Club handicapper, A.
Fawcett, at the close of last year. He is
by Fairway (300gns. fee) from Yenna, by
Ksar.
* * * *
Prize-money for the English classics is
on the light side this year. The Derby
carries £2OOO added money (£BO to start),
Oaks £lOOO and St. Leger £l5OO, the
cost of starting in either of the last-men-
tioned two being £5O. Added money for
the Two Thousand was £lOOO and for
the One Thousand £7OO.
* * * .*
There are 52 entries for this year’s
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle Race,
and 53 for the Steeplechase. Well-known
Sydney horses Mag Mort and Anpapejo
are in each.
A *.* , * ,
, fording to cabled news Bing Crosby
has hls mfQiim-dollar Delmar race
|l rack ,* n California. The Government
bas takend oV£ r to convert it into a plant
i or man ufactunng parts for an aeroplane
factory-
.
Miscellaneous
At home to Fitzroy on Saturday Haw-
thorn won its third match by 13.8 to 9.21.
They’ve dropped calling Hawthorn the
Mayblooms or the Haw-haws—they’re
now the Hawks, and they have been
beaten onlv hv the unbeaten F<i<!enrlnn
S eate j ° nly by th ® unbeaten Essendon.
Essendon went to Richmond and
trounced the Tigers by 14.13 to 11.18.
Footscray wasn’t troubled by St, Kilda,
13.11-6.12 ; Collingwood beat Carlton by
15.14 to 12.5, and out at North Mel-
bourne the locals made hacks of the once-
mighty Melbourne, 15.14-10.11. About
55,000 saw the games, 25,000 of them at
Richmond
'*‘ * * *
Manly v. Eastern Suburbs was the best
match of the Rugby Union season. East
had the better of the first half, 9-6, but
the Villagers were the deadlier tacklers
and stronger finishers, and they ended
with 14 to 9; two tries to one. Other
games:
Randwick 9, Gordon 6; West 9, North 6;
Uni 9, St. George 3 ; Parramatta 12, Drum-
m°yne 3.
A 1A * nfl , ..* . *
Althougb the decision for Tommy
£°‘S f £ g i“ Wlth °T Be , n°°>
at Leichhardt, Sydney, was hooted, it
was correct. Outpointed in the early part,
Colteaux afterwards did the bulk of the
work. He bled profusely from a punch
( or butt ) on the lower lip, but it only
made him fight harder,
......
Dick Ellis > a stocky lightweight from
Newcastle, was a party to a grand fight
witil Bob Fuller a t the Sydney Stadium,
Su P er lor in reach and condition, Fuller
knocked the tired Ellis flat in the tenth
with an inside right to the chin, but
before that he had had many anxious
moments.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
In that portion of Rookwood cemetery
set aside as the last resting-place of U.S.
service men, there was enacted on Sunday
a ceremony that is as old as the Civil
War in America. This was a memorial
service for men fallen in battle. Memorial
Day in U.S. is one of memories, some
kept green by tradition, some, alas! green
as the newly-sprung grass on freshly-
turned graves. The service at the cemetery
was attended by America’s Consul-
General Ely Palmer, by Vice-Consul Wil-
son Flake, and by U.S.A. officers and men
of the Navy and Army. A salute of 21
guns was fired by members of an Aus-
tralian artillery unit. Lastly, wreaths
were placed on American graves.
Throughout the city and suburbs flags
were at half-mast on buildings till noon.
At Victoria Barracks, on specially-
erected masts, the American and Aus-
tralian ensigns and the Union Jack were
flown all day.
The men and women who lost their
lives when the hospital ship Centaur was
torpedoed off Australia’s coast were re-
membered in prayer and sermon at last
Friday’s memorial service in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral. Lady Gowrie, as Australian
president of the Red Cross, was in the
congregation; with her Lady Royle.
Premier McKell attended, as did the Min-
ister for Agriculture, Mr. Dunn. Many
Red Cross workers were also present.
There were representatives of the services,
nursing sisters and men of the merchant
navy. After the cathedral service the
different groups placed wreaths on the
Cenotaph.
We buried him in Skyros, in a divine
olive grove....We were Under orders to
sail early next morning, and, as there was
no time for his burial except at night, we
conveyed his body up a wild scented valley
and held a service by moonlight.
This was written of Rupert Brooke by
F. S. Kelly in 1915. The writer was a
commander of the Royal Naval Divi-
sion in the 1914-18 war, and the poet
was in his battalion. F. S. Kelly was a
musician, and he put all his sensitive im-
pressions of that ceremony into an elegy
for strings and harp. This was performed
at the orchestral concert in aid of the
R.A.A.F. Central Area Comforts Fund.
The composer’s brother, Bertie Kelly, and
his wife, who is president of the women’s
auxiliary of the fund, listened with Lady
Gowrie and a sizable vice-regal party in
the gallery of the Town Hall.
In Lady Cowrie’s party were Bishop
Pilcher, Peter Lubbock, Mrs. A. A.
Rankin, of Newcastle Dame Mary
Hughes, the Mervyn Finlay couple, Ivie
Price, Phyllis Parkinson. Mrs. Robert
Dixson wore a white camellia of great
size and dignity on her black frock. The
Walter Swinsons were there, and son
Ryder, beginning to look better after his
long illness. Margaret Gillespie and Mrs.
Roy Henty represented the Lunch-time
Music Club. Singer Raymond Beatty and
the Harold Botts were others. Many
young workers for the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, June Bracken their chief-
tainess, sold programmes for the cause.
Souvenir booklets of the film “One of
Our Aircraft Is Missing,” which made its
debut at Government House, and which
will shortly be shown in public, were
quickly mopped up,‘'and so helped in the
final count.
Two nineteen-year-olds were added to
Sancta Sophia’s list of Arts graduates
when Helen Wills and Margaret Connelley
had their degrees conferred on them
recently. They celebrated the occasion
with a dance' at the Pickwick Club, where
Pat Evans and Pat Anscombe, their
fellow-students at Sancta Sophia on leave
from the W.R.A.N.S., were members of
the party.
Seemingly all the world loves a Waaaf.
On Monday there was hardly room for
a spoon to stir when Lady Gowrie
opened the display of W.A.A.A.F. activi-
ties. This is housed in David Jones's
auditorium, and the public can con-
tinue to view it till the fourth
of this month. An exhibition of
photographs giving glimpses of various
phases of the services was an attraction,
but far more interesting to the visitors
was the real-life demonstration of how
the job is done. Some of the Waaafs
were kept busy showing how a parachute
must be folded and attached to the safety
harness. Girls sending messages in Morse,
girls overhauling motors, girls busy and
adept at the meticulous jobs essential to
flying were an absorbing sight.
It is now possible to adopt a soldier
and have the joy of knowing that every
time the trucks roll into the front lines
of the battle stations some hardy veteran
of 18 upwards is 'plucking an issue of
chocolate and cigarettes and suchlike
joys, that the adopter at home has paid
for. One shilling a week paid into the
Australian Comforts Fund will keep some
unknown warrior provided with the extras
as dear to his heart as tuckbox was to
him when he was at school. The scheme,
frankly adopted from the P.O.W. street
collection, is achieving great popularity.
The adopter cannot, of course, name
any special soldier, and the comforts,
equally of course, are distributed to
every soldier, but the £2 12s. a year pays
the cost of 52 packets. As this is an off-
shoot of the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund,
every municipality will have its branch
whose collectors will call and, in return
for each sixpence or shilling, will hand
the giver a stamp. These stamps will be
affixed to a card, and when the equivalent
of £2 12s. has been given the A.C.F. will
hand out an adoption certificate.
Allison Nelson, 15-year-old Adelaide
pianist, will make her bow to a Sydney
Town Hall audience on Saturday night
under A.B.C. auspices. This is not her
first concerto performance. This young
goldilocks has already played the Men-
delssohn D Minor Concerto in both Adel-
aide and Melbourne. In Sydney she will
be heard in the Saint Saens G Minor
Concerto, Percy Code conducting. Allison
has been winning scholarships and exhi-
bitions since she was six. When only 11
she was recommended for the Royal
Schools of Music scholarship, involving
study abroad, but it was decided that she
should remain in Australia until she
attained 15. Now war conditions impose
a further postponement.
Sydney, and indeed every part of Aus-
tralia where Lady Wakehurst is known,
grieves with her in the bereavement which
has befallen her. Last week news came
through that Mrs. Geoffrey Lubbock had
died in Berwick, Scotland. Sydney re-
members Mrs. Lubbock as a tall, hand-
some lady approaching the seventies.
Lady Wakehurst is a daughter of Mrs.
Lubbock’s marriage to Sir Charles Ten-
nant (a noted daughter of his by a former
marriage is Lady Asquith). Colonel
Geoffrey Lubbock was her second hus-
band. Two sons of this marriage are
Peter Lubbock, the Governor’s private
secretary, and Flight-Lieut. David Lub-
bock, R.A.F., now a prisoner of war in
Germany.
The Society of Women Writers was
deeply touched by the gracious act of the
Governor’s wife, who, knowing that the
guests were assembling for the society’s
lunch in her honor, kept her engagement,
though the cable announcing her grievous
bereavement had just arrived. Her
speech, too, on the writing and pioneer
women of Australia was one of the most
vivid the Women Writers have heard.
Secretary Etta Cowan was responsible for
the unusual table decorations, arranged
in island baskets. President Nora Kelly
introduced the guest. Mrs. Gwen Spencer
made an able and amusing speech of
thanks.
Conferring of degrees at Sydney Uni-
versity on Saturday brought out clusters
of bright-faced young women doctors,
even as the flower draws the bee. Only
medical student to graduate with first-
class honors was Dr. Joyce Nelson, who
is a resident doctor at Prince Alfred’s.
Among the swag of trophies scored by
Joyce were the Arthur Edward Mills
graduation prize, the Clayton Memorial
prize. Dr. Gwen McGirr, now a resi-
dent medical at Lewisham, is another
now complete with credentials. Four
girls attained second-class honors in medi-
cine. Jean Grahame, of Suva, now % a
Bachelor of Economics, has a job with
the Control of Meat Supply Department.
There are girl graduates in architecture.
The Christian name Jean pops up in
every section (or so it seems).
From Melbourne
City troglodytes began to breathe a
more delicate air last week, and a glance
over street stalls proved that violets were
indeed in again. The early winter ones
are always smaller and much more sweet-
scented than the full-bodied ones that
come in later, though no commercial
violet has anything like the perfume
energy of grandma’s “dogtooth.” During
the off season Melbourne was treated to
bunches of what purported to be violets,
but proved on further investigation to be
baby violas —very much the same to look
at, but boasting not a vestige of scent. A
general shortage of decorative flowers
has given thp chilli an avocation outside
the pickle bottle. Really big ones look
delightful in wall vases, their Chinese red
showing up finely against a cream back-
ground.
W.A.T.C.’s Sister Susie’s Club for Air-
men opened with a rustle of gold braid
and a spate of pleasant words last Wed-
nesday. Air Vice-Marshal George Jones,
the C.A.S., did the actual official open-
ing. Keeping a very firm rein on expen-
diture the W.A.T.C. leaders have pro-
duced a bright and thoroughly comfort-
able effect with furniture rounded up in
forays into second-hand shops and the
like, and covered in an attractive cream-
and-red design. Unbleached calico makes
the curtains. The red-and-cream note is
continued in bands of red in the painting
of window ledges and the like to contrast
with the cream background. The prob-
lem of the airman who comes in to press
his pants without bringing an extra pair
to wear while he’s doing it was given
thought, and a controversy —screen versus
curtain —enlivened the discussions of the
organisers. The club, which is under the
wing of the Air Force Auxiliaries Com-
mittee, will be staffed by junior members
under an experienced leader of more
mature years.
Of interest to many University and
family friends is the engagement of Mar-
got Kent Hughes, here pictured, and
Lieut. W. L. Ross, “Bill” to fellow-
students. Second daughter of Mrs. Con-
stance Hughes, who 9 keeps Melbourne
Hospital auxiliaries functioning smoothly,
and the late Dr. W. Rent Hughes, Mar-
got has a very fair share of the family’s
talents and looks. Lieut. Ross, who is
the son of Mrs. Ross, of Armadale, and
the late W. T. Ross, left his law course,
which he was studying in residence in
Trinity College, to join the A.I.F. and go
overseas. Future plans are as yet un-
determined.
Commonwealth Commandant Nancy
Bird, of flying fame, now Mrs. Walton,
was in this city for the W.A.T.C. Bureau’s
opening. State Commandant Gladys
Bruntoif, who can show the doubting
recruit just how attractive the W.A.T.C.
uniform can look, was also there to tell
high Air Force officers about the fine job
her girls are doing. She specially stressed
the value of the work done by those
staffing the Air Observer Control Depot,
whose work has been praised by
R.A.A.F. officers concerned for its effi-
ciency. Teaching girls Morse and aero-
plane-fabric making were other activities
touched on.
The orchestral concert for the Fight-
ing French on Saturday afternoon
brought a much bigger crowd than after-
noon concerts usually do, and there was
an atmosphere of enthusiasm that caught
everyone, orchestra included, and made
for a particularly lively performance,
starting with a very spirited rendering of
“The Marseillaise,” with full comple-
ment of brasses. Violinist Jeanne
Gautier looked willowy in a filmy full-
length frock of a real “tricolor” blue.
Gala note was given by a procession of
Allied service men up the aisle at the
end of the performance. Each man
carried an armful of flowers, and Jeanne
was presented by the leader with an
enormous bouquet made up of red, white
and blue.
This concert was Bertha Jorgensen’s
debut as leader of the orchestra, and she
received an ovation, well deserved, as she
has been a valued member of the band
for many years. In the audience was
Elise Steele, who took on the leadership
from the late Edouard Lambert, but was
forced to retire and rest under doctor’s
orders. Question of the appointment of
a permanent leader doesn’t seem to have
been decided yet, and there are all sorts
of guesses in circulation.
The Red Cross says its Popular Baby
Appeal is coming along finely. Tally to
date is 94 young shavers, and more are
rolling in hourly. The appeal promoters
feel that the “individual mother” class
isn’t producing the response it should, so
the very beautiful wristlet watch that the
lucky mother who pools most money by
her own efforts will receive is being dis-
played in a Howey Court window. Large
business houses have bee# among the
first to enter babies. One store entered
baby daughters of three directors and
another the grand-niece of a saleswoman.
Proud fathers who enjoy talking about
their youngsters above all other things
are having the time of their lives in a
good cause.
Representing Czechoslovakia in the
Allies’ Queen Carnival is attractive,
petite Mme. Klausner. She is a particu-
larly fitting choice as her husband, Capt.
Klausner, is fighting with the Czech
forces in the Middle East, and she has
common ground for interest and sym-
pathy with Australian wives whose men
have so recently returned from that
region. She knows Australia well, as she
and her husband have lived here for
some time. The Fighting French are
nominating Mme. Perrier, wife of the
leader of the French delegation.
It’s being debated amongst gourmets
whether they have the Allied forces or
alien growers to thank for the appear-
ance of sweet potatoes on this city’s
fruit stalls. These seem ,to have sud-
denly arrived on the market in the last
few weeks. In bygone years one merely
heard their praises sung by visitors when
they ( were discussing “things I miss in
Australia.” Now the stay-at-home Mel-
burnian can try for himself—and most
probably decide that they’re not a patch
on artichokes after all.
Victoria will havb a chance to express
its thanks to the Navy very shortly, as
preparations are being made to make a
State-wide drive for funds for Naval
Relief, beneficiaries of which include men
serving and retired from service and their
dependants. The appeal will be made
from June 11 to 25, and its organiser,
Sydneysider Lieut. Joel, who has been
brought south to do the job, intends to
comb the entire State. Invitations to sub-
scribe will go out to every firm, shire or
municipality known to the Postal Direc-
tory, and it’s hoped that £25,000 at least
will result. A market fair in the Town
Hall will be part of the drive. The Lady
Mayoress called together all mayoresses
on Monday last to start the ball rolling
in each municipality. It is hoped, too,
that many private persons will hold
dances or card parties to raise funds.
Margaret Hooper and Keith McCul-
lough, engaged, have vocational interests
in common, as she is doing the physio-
therapy course and he is in his final year
in medicine. Margaret is the only daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. L. J. M. Hooper,
Monaro-road, Kooyong, and Keith, who
was a well-known University Rugby
player before, war put the snuffer on the
game, is the elder son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. P. McCullough, of Regent
Court, South Yarra, and has connections
in this country, England and the U.S.A.
Among the brides of last week was
Naomi, daughter of architect A. G.
Stephenson and Mrs. Stephenson. Naomi
is an interior decorator who, despite her
youth, has been responsible for the mural
decoration of some of Melbourne’s new-
est public buildings. Bridegroom was
William Cleland (R.A.A.F.), of Adelaide,
and the wedding was celebrated in the
side chapel of All Saints’, St. Kilda.
A fully formal wedding coupons
dodged by borrowing —* was Pam
Finchim’s last week, even to bridesmaid
Noel Burston. Bridegroom Squadron-
Leader Bruce Rose, D.F.C., is back in
this country after good service overseas.
The ballet evening which Daisy
Pirnitzer and Hanny Kolm put on shows
that the growth in Melbourne of a ballet
school on Continental lines is well on the
way. The dancing of the two principals
is, of course, much more polished than
that of members of the school, but the
pupils show great promise. The chance
of experimenting with decor which these
new ballet movements are giving is
creating new vistas for those whose
talents lie in that direction.


•fiOO
/b*€L
BLOT
A SHORT TIME AGO, one of
our correspondence Art stu-
dents accidentally dropped a blot
on a drawing. His trained eye
quickly perceived possibilities in
that black shape, and a few deft
s
J
strokes sufficed to turn it into the
sketch on the left ! . . . On our
advice he sold the idea to a firm of
blacking manufacturers, and since
then has introduced this character
into drawings for that company
valued at more than £lOO.
This indicates how easily money can
be made by people with bright ideas,
provided they have ability to draw,
backed up by proper tuition.
YOU, TOO
It is not long since the originator of the above
vnl r __ , , sketch passed our Art Ability Tests. Perhaps
YOU, TOO, have latent money-making ability which could be developed
by first-class Correspondence Training.
fsfdsfdfdfdf
Anyone over fifteen years may send 4|d.
postage for our beautifully illustrated 32-
page booklet entitled “Art Ability Tests.”
It offers a free criticism and contains
interesting information about all branches
of Commercial Illustrating.
(Please mention “The Bulletin’)
£rt Training institute
80 Swanston St., Melbourne
KOO-U W4*r
AN c *TRa ROOM
* 0
O
Jr,
-
■-■•,-
3^g
£
The family has *
been growing up during the
war years . . . and when peace comes you’ll he
busy fixing that extra accommodation which you can’t
build now because the exigencies of war must first be
met. But with the coming of peace you’ll be able to put
your plans into effect—with Masonite. That’s the ideal
material for modernising the house, building additions
economically and easily.
0.
1T...
SA V£ FOR IT*. .
AND BUILD IT
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
★INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
SMOKE-OH!
Hot water should be available in every
household.”— Daily.
Husbands declare that it is.
* 4* 4*
A neat little apron you can make from a
man s discarded shirt.”— Woman’s mag.
And thereby hangs a tail.
t *T°
Mr Ward declares he is not a rubber
stamp. S.M.H.”
True—even a rubber stamp can be
useful.
Evidence.
“It is naturally a shock for a man to dis-
cover that his employer is insane.” — Short story.
Yes, indeed! I’ll never forget how
astounded I was the other day. I had
been working for old Benson for over
twenty years, and he had always been
so rational, so utterly businesslike. For
the moment I imagined that I had mis-
construed what he said. So I stammered
“Er—l beg your pardon.”
Then came the evidence again. “I said
that the Income-tax Department seems to
have undercharged me,” he repeated.
Ring up and get them to check it over.”
T. W. N.
i 6 *s*
. The lawghter of the people in this area is
either drunken or insincere; the smile is half
a sneer.”— “Daily Mirror.”
The dirty half-smile ifi the Dirty Half-
mile.
“The vote of confidence was carried unani-
mously, there being only seven dissentients out
of 31 present.”— Suburban paper.
But for the seven it would have been
super-unanimous.
Funny how many men get tight when
they’re at a loose end.
.Ashing sizer required by new modern
cotton spinning and weaving mill.”— “S MH ”
a.. ‘ ‘
umdmger, in fact.
Paleontology.
One day a brontosaurus lay abashing in
the sun.
It lay there from the early morn till
shortly after one.
And then from shortly after one until
the close of day.
And all throughout the weary night it
dozed and dozed away.
And this went on for many days, despite
the pressing need
That it should rise and wander forth and
find itself a feed.
At last the pangs of hunger raged within
its vast inside, .
So finally it ate itself and consequently
died! ■
T. W. NATHAN.
N.C.O.
A wife should have at least 75 per cent,
of her way in the home.”— Woman’s paper.
Even a henpecked husband may.
On this assessment, raise his dome;
With this percentage he can say
“I’m quartermaster in my home!”
BRIAN BUREAU.
The Dame.
A mocking laugh echoed through the
submarine as the conning-tower hatch
clanged shut. Each of the dozen great
detectives remained imperturbable. Sher-
lock Holmes had already got his finger-
tips accurately together and sat gazing
upwards.
“It would seem,” remarked Dr. Priest-
ley, “that we are trapped.”
“The miscreant,” declared M. Poirot,
“must, of course, be one of ourselves ;
who else could”
“Jealousy?” hazarded Dr. Thorndyke.
“Dames!” exclaimed Lenjmy Caution.
“There’s somethin’ sorta screwy about
this set-up. No dames. Even Mr. Holmes
remembers that baby Irene Adler.
There’s always a dame.”
Holmes’s toes clenched within his
boots.
At this point a port torpedo tube
opened and Father Brown hauled himself
out by the crook of his umbrella. “Dear
me,” he said mildly, “you appeffr to be
quite correct. It is one of us. And yet,”
he smiled, “it is not.”
He peered into the periscope, manipu-
lated a cluster of controls and the vessel
began to sink. “A pityT had to drown
him,” explained the little priest. “He’s
an anachronism like the bomb he was
igniting on deck. His biographer was
Emile Gaboriau.”
There was a chorus. “Gaston Leroux!”
“Gone Vichy, I suppose,” suggested
Inspector French.
An effulgence at the end of the com-
partment materialised into a most beauti-
ful woman, all curves.
t( “ No > inspector,” she said sadly,
‘Gastoh did it on my account. I must
confess to an implacable passion for
Mr. Caution, and in one form or another
I have often confronted him, sometimes
successfully, sometimes not. Lately he
has been a little fickle, and I sought our
death together here. It is unfortunate
that you other gentlemen became in-
volved. Mr.\ Rider Haggard used to
write of me. I Ayesha, sometimes
called She.”
“Dames! ” breathed Lemmy Caution.
J. B. C.
Pulped.
. '.Tiie respondent, Mellon, protested that the
incident with the girl only happened because
he was intoxicated. He had made similar ex-
cuses before. Decree nisi granted.”
—Divorce evidence.
Let this sad tale its moral teach :
Each impulse loose to dam;
When ripe this Mellon met a peach
And got into a jam.
H. M.
Too Smart
“Why shouldn’t we spend the last clothing
coupons, anyway? The Government set the
number, not us.”
Woman correspondent in daily.
It began when the wife discovered
that there were still seven H’s left in my
book—the other 105 clothing coupons I
had spent on 1 pr. braces, 1 collar, 1 pr.
socks, 4 pr. scantees, 1 jacaranda-blue
box coat, 2 slips, 1 brassiere, 1 pr. wed-
gies and a beanie. She said we would
have to use them up. There was an H
left in Aunt Maggie’s book ; that would
make eight. I suggested perhaps she
could get herself a coat and skirt.
“Idiot! ” she derided. “Eight coupons
would only get the pockets. Anyway.
I just got an ensemble with father’s
coupons.”
“Well, get some stockings ”
“tv,* nnt * .
tight iars and I believe ai s ’
even then No I’d better 1 y dcteri ° r . ate
for you”' g something
un... T , ~ ,
. , , ™ ant an ything, I pro-
/ stlU ba Y e ,^ wo singlets
00 smad f° r Alfie.
There must be something you could
do with, even if you have to put it away,
Anyway, get dressed ; we’re going into
town. You don’t catch me giving coupons
”
But those last eight coupons weren’t
so easy. The wife saw a nice quiet purple
shirt that the salesman agreed would suit
my peculiar coloring. It would be 14
coupons. He was sorry, but eight were
no good—not even as a deposit. The
wife was coming up for her fourth
breath in the ensuing argument when I
dropped in the facetious suggestion that
they should bisect the garment, A sudden
light came into th© strife’s eyes and she
grabbed my arm. “The shoe depart-
ment!” she exclaimed triumphantly, and
thither we went.
The pair she selected were 355. The
salesman got me to try on the left shoe—
a perfect fit. The wife produced the
eight coupons and 17s. 6d. “We’ll take
that shoe!” she announced. “And get
the other one when the new ration books
come out.”
The minion protested the impossibility
of the arrangement, and called for rein-
forcements. The manager upheld his
subordinate, but the wife said that no
firm could refuse to sell goods marked
for sale. You could buy single cups and
saucers—you weren’t compelled to buy
a whole dinner service. Moreover, if
she didn’t get it she’d put the W. 0.1., the
Prices Commissioner, the Man-power
authorities, the Controller of Leather,
the Boot Manufacturers’ Association and
the Housewives’ Union on to him.
It was then that an oft-heard phrase
flashed across my own memory. “And
I’ll see Eddie!” I said. The fellow
blanched. Evidently he had visions of
being on the blunt end of a banjo some-
where North of 28.
The wife bore the shoe out in triumph.
Next day I dropped in at the shop to
try the right one on just to make sure it
fitted. It had been sold to a one-legged
man that morning.
I’m waiting now for the wife to go
in with the new book.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Water Conservation
Every time the great waterways out-
back are transformed into carriers of
floodwaters, billions and billions of tons
of precious water race away to an irre-
coverable waste. Within a few short
months after the floodwaters have soaked
away and evaporated, the same waterways
revert to a string of dry and drying-up
holes. In some of the river channels a
galah could not get a drink where a few
months previously there had been 20ft.
and 30ft. of water.
The flush of nutritious pastures after
floods provides Nature’s hint for the
development of these semi-arid areas.
Immense dams must come into being to
harness those floodwaters and practical
irrigation schemes evolved.
It’s not a job for politicians-r-water
conservation is far too big a subject for
them —but for men of the type of Dr.
Bradfield, assisted by pastoralists and
agriculturists who know the areas to be
served. Much of the Mildura fruitgrow-
ing district would still be semi-desert had
it not been for the Chaffeys, and immense
areas outback that are highly adaptable
for wool and beef production and for
agricultural pursuits will remain dormant,
lightly populated and mediocre in produc-
tion unless Nature’s broad hint is accepted
and acted upon by practical men.
If private enterprise were given a man-
date in a few of these semi-arid areas
success and eventual population would
follow as long as politicians were kept
well away.—A. M. (N.S.W.).
To Get Population
To promote emigration as a means of
defence and development “Timothy
Tywire” suggests a Central World Com-
mittee of Rational Organisation with an
Australian representative. This means
that power is to be given to a committee
to arrange transfer of people from one
country to another. Hitler has tried that,
and he and likeminded people would no
doubt like to see such a scheme for Aus-
tralia. Then the naughty boys and girls
of Europe could be sent here to make
Australia safe for Nazi and Fascist
doctrine.
Did the U.S.A. adopt such prin-
ciples to people her vast territory? No.
The U.S.A. and Canada made land avail-
able to migrants. Huge industries gave
employment to the millions that found
their own way to those countries. Men
and women were attracted through the
possibilities of freedom. Emigrants who
were making good in the new land told
their friends in the old land to come
along.
R. H. Parkes suggests that immigration
should be a Federal Government mono-
poly, and proposes settlement of Jewish
refugees here. He says Jews mind their
own business. Jews usually mind other
people’s business. They finance busi-
nesses, and usually end up with owning
them, together with any improvements
that have accrued. Mr. Parkes considers
that England will require most of her
people to rebuild what has been de-
stroyed. Sir William Beveridge does not
think so. His social security scheme
allows for 8f p.c. of the people to be un-
employed. Mr. Parkes would settle Jews
here to feed the unemployed in England?
Why not leave the Jews there (they are
never unemployed) and make conditions
here in Australia as attractive to immi-
grants as the U.S.A. and Canada have
done in the past?
An illustration of what can be accom-
plished by private enterprise such as the
B.H.P- should be sufficient to convince
“W.C.C.” (W.A.) that 13 millions addi-
tional population could be settled in com-
fort here in Australia provided land is
dealt with in the same efficient manner
as B.H.P. has dealt with iron and steel.
I maintain that the N. S. Wales land
tax for closer settlement is a step
in the right direction. English landlords
who own large estates in Australia should
be able to arrange migration schemes
whereby both England and Australia
would benefit without either Government
having to father the scheme. — Stephen
Carley (N.S.W.).
Freedom and Planning
Lord Woolton, British Minister for
Food, hopes that war-time food-distribu-
tion methods will be largely retained
when peace returns. “We have secured
freedom from want in war,” he says. “We
can do it in peace.”
This opinion gives some insight into
the mentality of those who accept the
“planning” philosophy. The controls,
hindrances and interferences which war
makes necessary are, for normal people,
an irritating— at times almost maddening
—addition to their burdens. They can
tolerate them only as long as the national
peril requires. For the bureaucrat, how-
ever, emergency conditions set up just
the environment in which he can flourish.
He has the perfect excuse for pushing
people around and wasting their time.
It is not clear whether Lord Woolton
belongs to this breed. As least he appears
to contemplate with equanimity the inde-
finite continuance of a system of distri-
bution which involves rationing queues
and other time-wasting accompaniments,
of bureaucratic control, and leads
to black markets and lawbreaking
on a large scale. He finds it possible
to identify this sorry makeshift economy
with the eagerly-awaited “freedom from
want.” Will all promises of things to
come be similarly interpreted?— Col
(N.S.W.).
Control of Industry
The results of the nation-wide Gallup
Poll on the question of Government con-
trol of industry after the war indicate
that this move would be unwelcome. We
are, presumably, fighting this war in the
cause of freedom, which involves, pri-
marily, the right of the individual, not
“Gad, Prendergast, these south-casters chill me to the marrow. I just
can't stop shivering !”
the right of the Government to impose
a virtual dictatorship on industry.
We do not wish to sink into the
slough of dull collectivism, Freethinking
and development of individual initiative
are a vital necessity for the advancement
of the nation after the war. —D. J. B.
(ViC-). ___
That Wool Agreement
Stephen Carley (B. 21/4/’43) accuses
“H.D.” of failing to explain the British
wool agreement fully. It would be rather
difficult to do that, for it is doubtful if
any representative of woolgrowing
organisations has ever seen it.
The position seems to be that the Com-
monwealth Government, buys the wool
from the grower and, in turn, resells to
Britain. That being so, the onus of raising
wool prices to a par with costs rests with
Canberra in the first place, the approach
to England being purely secondary and
a matter between the two Governments,
jy’ Canberra likes to sell the wool at a
loss it ought to foot the bill and not force
the woolgrower to do it.
We will probably get a share
of the profit on resales, but what
a share! It seems to consist principally
of wool exported in the raw to neutral
countries, which are rather hard to
locate. — Garth Temby (W.A.).
Milk and Butter Returns
Further to this Sydney milk business
(B. 26/5/’43). It is farcical to main-
tain that the butter man can live
on the equivalent of 7d. per gallon
while the whole-milk supplier must
get Is. 2d. net. Either the butter
producer is being badly swindled or the
milk producer is overpaid. With a bank-
ing experience which covers every dairy-
ing district in this State and most of
Queensland, 1 am inclined to believe it is
a bit of both.
In 33 years the price paid to cream
suppliers has gone up roughly 40 p.c., as
against a cost-of-living rise of well over
100 p.c., while the price paid to milk
suppliers has increased by over. 80 p.c.
But to equal what the milk supplier is
receiving, the butter producer would
need to get 3s. per pound for his pro-
duct ; 99.9 p.c. would sign a 10 years’
contract if they were guaranteed 2s.
per pound, which is roughly lOd. per
gallon.
Don't tel! me that the milk producer
pays more for his land than the butter
man does. Land values on the Rich-
mond and Clarence are higher on the
average than in any part of the milk zone.
A very large proportion of Sydney’s milk
supply comes from land which carries
an unimproved capital value of £3 to £l2
per acre. — Sandpatch (N.S.W.),
Another Little War
“The fight is on” in Hobart (Tas.),
local dairymen having declared their in-
tention to charge Is. 6d. a gallon for milk
instead of the ruling Is. 4d., conje hell or
high water. They assert that they’ve been
bamboozled by Government and Prices
Commission, and have found out that
milk isn’t a declared commodity.
When he heard about it the local
Deputy Prices Commissioner rose up
and swore that if they did this
awful thing he’d telegraph Canberra
at once and have fresh milk “de-
clared” within 24 hours. The dairy-
men bounced back with an equally posi-
tive assertion that if it was “declared” at
less than Is. 6d. they’d let the cows go
dry or put calves on them for vealers,
and what would the Prices Commission
do about that? “They have acted in a
very hasty manner, and I think they are
very foolish indeed,” muttered the D.P.C.
Hobart is one of the lucky capitals
without a State Milk Board. Its citizens
are prepared to put up with anything to
avoid having one, so .they’ll probably pay
the extra 4d. a quart with cheerfulness. —
Tasser (N.S.W.).
A Plea far Orators
Despite our costly education system
the speech of the average Australian
leaves much to be desired. I heard an
overseas visitor remark that our “slovenly
conversation” was a “blot on our cul-
ture.” Oratory was never at such a low
ebb ; indeed, it is a lost art in this coun-
try. The radio should make us speech-
conscious, but an eloquent broadcast is
the exception. No man should dare
speak in public unless he can speak effec-
tively.
One need spend but a few minutes in
a playground or schoolyard to note the
deterioration in our children’s speech.
The talkies undoubtedly have given them
only a rich heritage of slang.
Well might we emulate England and
institute verse-speaking choirs. A Chair
of Elocution in six .State universities
might well form part of the reconstruc-
tion plans.—A. D. (S.A.).
Wanted: Australian Journalism
There was a breadth about the “Anti-
podean” magazine, published by George
Essex Evans and John Tighe Ryan, in
that it not only elected to cover Austra-
lasia but also aimed at forming a literary
link between the writers of the old world
and the new. The editors knew that their
fellow-writers expounded the virtues and
vices of Australia from personal experi-
ence and not as the overseas reader or
visitor might wish Australia to be.
The paper was an annual, and in its
pages from 1892 to 1897 men wrote of
life with infinite sincerity. True, there’s
more than a dash of bravado here and
there, but that, too, is Australian. These
writers did not cling to the cities. They
went afield.
Contrast contributions in this maga-
zine with many of the Australian writings
of today. The cosmopolitan element that
has crept into journalism has little pride
in what, happens outside towns. In then-
anxiety to cover up their country’s short-
comings, many contributors to Australian
papers emulate English and American
styles. Theirs is the lost horizon. Bound
by the thought of what their country
should be, they are ashamed of the
alleged limitations of men and women
of the outback. There is gall in this, and
it leads to many misunderstandings be-
tween the city and the country. But the
tide will turn. Given encouragement,
writers must* arise among the coming
generations of the outback people them-
selves.
1 should like to see The Bulletin
go in for literary competitions for
children and young people of the out-
back, writing of the outback. Such
a move could be made only by The
Bulletin, whose writers know Australia
best. It would result in a new infusion of
ideas welling out of the life outback—the
seasons, the droughts, the floods, the
battles lost and won. These are the things
we want books on —things wholly Aus-
tralian. — David Ashway (N.S.W.).
Religion and Education
A noticeable and noteworthy aspect of
serious Australian war-time thought is
the interest in religion and education.
Any public statement about either draws
fire from all quarters.
Those whom the nation regards as its
religious leaders have here the great
opportunity they have .sought. The
Church must answer this manifest
desire for guidance, remembering
that above all controversy two facts
stand firm —one, that Australians
are a religious people, though
churches be empty ; two, that each
has the right to his faith. With
those two facts before them the
nation’s religious leaders have a
clear call, not to the futile and con-
fusing public debates which seem
to attract them, but to deliver the
simple message of the Christian
religion.
In education there exists the stumbling-
block of six different and differing de-
partmental systems. Most of those who
do the work of teaching, and from whom
not enough is heard, know what is good
and what bad in the syllabuses, but their
hands are lied by red-tape. Any State-
employed teacher who institutes a needed
reform risks severe departmental dis-
pleasure.
Among other things, the belief that
professors are necessarily good teachers
needs examination ; so does the absurd
departmental canon that a thousand in-
dividuals attending a school can be
turned out to one pattern. Much more
should be done about vocational guid-
ance, and there are far too few agricul-
tural high schools in a primary produc-
ing country.
Australians, though their educational
and intellectual standards will bear com-
parison with the rest of the world, are
still a distressingly ignorant people, and
the adult, population is increasingly
aware of it. Therein lies the challenge to
the nation’s educators. — An O.F.M.
(N.S.W.).
Life Insurance and Savings
Being under the impression that life
assurance was a kind of self-imposed,
compulsory saving, in 1924 I insured for
£250, payable at death. I am nearly 70
years of age, and find the paying of the
annual premium (£lO 9s. 10d.) somewhat
of a hardship, so I wrote the co. asking
what amount they would allow me as a
paid-up policy. They offered £110; but,
as during the time the policy has been
in force I had paid £199 6s. 10d., I
considered the offer too low. 1 then
asked for the value of a cash surrender
and was offered £69 195.! So much for
my savings!—George Roberts (Q.).
Too Many Laborers?
An interesting yet deplorable fact about
Australian electoral' rolls is the large
army of men who give their occupation
as “laborer.’ There are more laborers
than any other class of workers, and it
makes one wonder just why in such a
young country so many able-bodied, in-
telligent men cannot lay claim to a more
skilled calling.
A certain number of laborers is neces-
sary in any country, but judging from
the rolls there are far too many of them
in ours. There must be some reason for
this preponderance of laborers, and it
behoves us when planning for a better
order of things to find out what it is
and to remedy it. — P. Radwon (Vic.).


SHIN LOP SERVE!
ALL THE SERVICES
Of all the great Australian Industries few are making such a wide
and varied range of articles for the Army, Navy, and Air Force as
the Dunlop Rubber Company. Whilst tyres for military
vehicles and aircraft are the most important items, the Dunlop
factories ore working night and day to produce a host of other
important rubber articles. Altogether the number of items supplied
by Dunlop to our defence services and their auxilaries provides
an outstanding effort from one organisation. The Dunlop Company
and their 5,000 employees, are doing everything within their power
to help achieve the victory which is certain.
SOME OF THE DUNLOP
RUBBER PRODUCTS
ASSISTING
THE NATIONAL EFFORT
Cor, Truck, Tractor, Motor Cycle,
Cycle and Aeroplane Tyres and
Tubes . . . Tank Wheels . . .
. . . Moulded and Wrapped
industrial Hose for ail purposes
... Ail Types of Industrial Belting,
Fan Beits, Life Beits . . . Gas
Masks, both Moulded and Stockin-
ette types . . . Serum Stoppers
. . . industrial Flooring and Rubber
Flooring, Sheet Rubber of various
types ... Life Saving Waistcoats
. . . Waterproof Footwear and
Clothing . . . Waterproof Sheeting
. . . Special Rubber Boots and
Shoes . . . Ground Sheets . . .
Blood Transfusion Tubing . . .
Surgical Tubing . . . Ebonite
Products of numerous types.
DUNLOP
BRIT I S 1
TH E FUt^
DUNLOP RUBBER AUST. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.}.
