

nn
The Bulletin
“The '’Bulletin,”
Vol. 64.—N0. 3291
Wednesday, March 10, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE SEVERN BORE.
A BORE, caused by the heaping up of waters in a narrowing
channel, often with disastrous results, constitutes one of the
Severn’s “chiefest curiosities.” Let a glance be taken at England s
greatest river. It rises on the north slope of Plinlimmon in
Wales, and flows in a semicircular course of 210 miles till it
opens out into the Bristol Channel. Its basin extends over
6000 sqflare miles. Because of its narrowness, the strong tidal-
wave, dr bore, is the consequence. There is another river in
England where a similar spectacle is to be witnessed—the Trent—
and it reaches so far inland as Nottingham. This is called the
Algir, from a Scandinavian river-god. Some idea of the extent
of damage these bores are capable of accomplishing, if they
“get out of hand” or if the bore reaches unusual height, is pretty
generally known. Statistics over a number of years show that
in. the Severn the height of the bore is 9ft. In other rivers
it is more. Thus in the Seine, where it is known by the terra
“mascaret,” a word meaning eddy of water, it has a velocity of
13 miles an hour and a height of lift. In the Amazon, here
designated “pororoca,” it attains a height of 12ft. to 13ft. In
the Hooghly, 20ft. to 25ft., and only very recently, when it
assumed exceptional height, great stretches of country were sub-
merged and 22,000 people drowned. In the Tsian-tang in China
it is truly formidable with a height of 30ft, and velocity of 25
miles per hour.


ManceJournaUsm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
liooklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Sly Name
My Address
S.B. US
The Red Page
BOOKWORMS IN KHAKI.
Bookworms are to. be found in the
army as in every other walk of life.
When others are yarning over a drink,
chasing a ping-pong ball around a table,
or yelling their heads off at a community
concert, you will find them, stretched out
on their palliasses with kitbags as pillows,
deep in a book or a magazine. They
settle down to their books when night
envelops the camp and read until the
orderly sergeant proclaims “Lights out!”
They read through the dreary train jour-
neys which are a part of every soldier’s
life. They read at mess and in the guard-
house, and during spells on a route
march. Some even carry a book into battle.
Not all of them were booklovers in
civilian life. The keenest reader in an
infantry battalion to which I belonged
had been a well-sinker. His father hailed
from Molong (N.S.W.) and knew
“Banjo” Paterson. He told me that he
had rarely opened a book before join-
ing the army. He acquired a love for
reading when laid up in the camp hospi-
tal. In his kitbag were Durant’s The
Story of Philosophy, Aveling’s Introduc-
tion to Psychology and Robinson’s The
Mind in the Making. “I want to get at
the meaning of things and why we all
behave as we do,” he remarked to me one
night in a back-country drawl as we
sipped our coffee standing around a blaz-
ing Soyer stove. Later, I was able to
let him have Huxley’s Ends and Means
and a book by C. E. M. Joad, and you
would have thought that I had given
him a pass for a month’s leave.
His closest friend, a shearer’s cook who
now cooked for A Company, baked the
best steak and kidney pie in camp and
had an all-time interest in Australian
poetry. He knew the best-known poems
of the bush balladists by heart, but his
reading ranged wider than Lawson,
Paterson and Boake. He could recite
whole passages of Chris Brennan, Bob
Fitz Gerald and Hugh McCrae. One
evening in the cookhouse he held a hard-
boiled kitchen fatigue spellbound with
a spirited rendering of Douglas Stewart’s
Sonnets to the Unknown Soldier. He
went to the Middle East and 1 sent him
a copy of Tom Inglis Moore’s Six Aus-
tralian Poets and Ernest Moll’s Cut from
Mulga. He wrote in praise of Tom's
book, but thought that Moll had picked
up too many tricks from Robert Frost,
He had an intimate knowledge of
modern American poetry. 1 should have
liked him to meet Frederic Belsky,
whose In Cadence Court is the first book
of verse by an American soldier to be
published in Australia.
Another glutton for reading was Jock,
a battered, bandy, crusty little boiler-
maker from Glasgow. A fine soldier,
but always in trouble, he was a rebel
with a violent and caustic tongue, with
which he lashed all who disagreed with
his political opinions. He had' a hoard
of sociological fiction; including works
by Jack London, Upton Sinclair, Walter
Greenwood and John Brophy. Jock’s
favorite—he had met him once in Scot-
land—was Lewis Grassic Gibbon, whose
trilogy A Scots Quair he had read
three times, and the merits of which he
never tired of extolling to whoever would
listen to him. Jock, strangely, had a poor
opinion of Burns, and this got him into
many an argument with other Scots in
the unit.
Jock, the well-sinker and the shearer’s
cook would analyse every page. There
was nothing indiscriminate about their
reading. Norman, our permanent duty-
driver, who once drove a tourist bus on
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.), was an
example of the opposite. I have seen
him borrow from the Y.M.C.A. officer
a lurid gangster yarn, a sugary romance,
a book on Greek mythology and Carrel’s
Man the Unknown and read the lot dur-
ing a long week-end. On Monday he
would get another queer assortment —
Edgar Rice Burroughs, Osbert Sitwell,
“Ouida” and Swedenborg’s The True
Christian Religion, and polish off the
lot in a couple of days. Since he could
never remember titles he was constantly
borrowing the same book over and over
again,
Cyril was different again. He was
pale and studious, with horn-rimmed
glasses, and one day sat engrossed in a
slim volume of Blake while the rest of
us were listening to a lecture on camou-
flage and concealment. Cyril, I am
afraid, was not meant to be a soldier.
Steeped in the writings of Blake, Pat-
more, Hopkins, Beddoes, Dekker and
Donne, he would bore you from reveille
to retreat. After an incident while we
were on manoeuvres, involving the upset-
ting of a travelling field kitchen, our C.O.
had him transferred to a base pay depot.
1 met him in the Anzac Buffet recently
and he spoke to me for a solid hour about
Spenser’s Epithalamium.
Almost as self-absorbed as Cyril was
Alex., whose bible was Hogben’s Mathe-
matics for the Millions, and who read
such things as Calculus Made Easy or
Carlaw’s Plane Trigonometry while shav-
ing. He had never heard of Jacob Ep-
stein, but Albert Einstein he knew from
A to Z ; at least, he said he did. He
came to grief when, because of his
alleged flair for figures, he was detailed
to the orderly-room to compile the daily
strength return. It was not until the
return was several hours overdue that the
adjutant discovered that Alex, was not the
mathematical wizard we all thought he was.
Stan was another who impressed us
until his downfall. From somewhere or
another he had obtained an obsolete com-
mentary on military law and set himself
up as legal adviser to all the deadbeats
and malcontents in the unit. One of his
customers was fined seven days’ pay for
an offence which Stan had assured him
beforehand he could commit without -fear
of retribution. Stan’s stocks fell when
his client and a few tough mates took
Stan, his palliasse and blankets, and de-
posited the lot, one cold night, in a river
somewhere in Australia.
Cyril, Alex, and Stan were exceptional
cases, as were the well-sinker, Jock and
the shearer’s cook. Most of the men
merely wanted a book now and then to
pass the time away. A few were reading
for examinations. Two gained accoun-
tancy diplomas when I was with the unit.
They were provided with textbooks by
the Army Educational Library, and had
no need to scrounge for books like some
of us.
When 1 first entered camp I took with
me a swag of Penguins and a couple of
old favorites, including a Palgrave. Dur-
ing the process of lending them, I learned
a little about the reading habits of the
40-odd men in the hut. One chap, a
middle-aged sign writer who had served
in the Great War, thought Mrs. Gaskell’s
Cranford the greatest novel ever written,
while confessing that Marie Corelli’s The
Sorrows of Satan, Hall Caine’s The
Woman Thou Gavest Me and Mrs. Hum-
phry Ward’s Robert Elsmere were nearly
as good. He also had a soft spot for
Elinor Glyn and Florence Barclay. An-
other old-timer voted for Rider Haggard,
another for Max Pemberton, whilst a
third used to state with pride that he had
read every book written by the late Nat
Gould. Nat published more than 130
novels.
Others were modern in their tastes.
William Saroyan had an enthusiastic bar-
racker, as had Liam O’Flaherty, Joseph
Conrad and Eric Linklater ; Damon Run-
yon had a lone backer, and Zane Grey
had five or six admirers. We had a
couple who swore by O. Henry, another
by Dostoevski and a third by the author
of Bulldog Drummond. With the excep-
tion of lon Idriess, Frank Clune, F. J.
Thwaites and Lennie Lower, there was
not much demand for Australian prose-
writers, though I managed to encourage
a few to read A House Is Built, Man-
Shy, Coonardoo and Capricornia. I was
getting a few others Australian-minded
when I was transferred to another camp.
Though there’s something to be said
J'or the timely arrival of a brewery wagon,
there’s no better antidote than books for
the inevitable boredom of army life. And
here’s the reason for this article: This
month (March) the Camp Library Ser-
vice, Sydney, opens its drive for one mil-
lion books and magazines for the men
of the fighting services. Until such times
as Angus and Robertson, Dymock’s or
Robertson and Mullens are able to open
up branches in Wau, Buna, Milne Bay
and elsewhere our fellows up north are
dependent upon donations from the
public of spare books and magazines for
the bulk of their reading matter.
[Parcels of reading matter for the troops can
be left at the Camp Library Service, old Public
Library building, Bent-street, Sydney, or at
Sydney suburban or N.S.W. country branches
of the Australian Comforts Fund. All town
halls or shire halls are receiving depots, as are
all N.S.W. public schools.
Books may be railed free if addressed to
the Camp Library Service and marked clearly
“Comforts for Soldiers; Not for Sale.”
Large parcels of books will be called for in
the city and inner Sydney suburbs; ’phone the
Camp Library Service, B 2728.]
W. E. Fitz Henry.
In Memory of Tasman.
At sunset, as it became calm, we dropped
anchor in 15'fathoms, good holding ground.
In the evening, about an hour after sunset,
saw many lights on shore and four boats
close inshore, two of which came towards
us, whereupon our two boats returned on
board... .After our men had been on board
about half an hour those from the two
praus began to call out to us in a rough,
loud voice, but we could not understand
the least of it. However, we called out to
them several times by way of reply, where-
upon those people started again several
times, but came no nearer than a stone’s
shot. They also blew many times on an
instrument which gave a sound like a
Moorish trumpet. We made one of our
soldiers (who could play the trumpet a
little) play them some tunes in reply.
A simple enough prelude to a long
and turbulent drama of history—the quo-
tation is from Tasman’s diary and in it
Maori and pakeha meet for the first
time. The day after white man and
brown exchanged salutations in the dusk
occurred the tragic encounter when the
Zeehaen’s cockleboat was attacked by
the Maoris, “in which fray three of the
Zeehaen’s men were left dead and a
fourth, owing to the heavy blows, was
mortally wounded.”
The disaster, though he was prepared
for trouble, was apparently a great shock
to Tasman. “This monstrous happening
and detestable affair,” he calls it. Sick-
ness of heart, 300 years old, speaks in
a clear voice through the printed trans-
lation of the journal: “Since the detest-
able deed of these inhabitants, committed
this morning against four of the Zeehaen’s
crew, teaches us a lesson, we consider the
inhabitants of this country as enemies.”
1942 was the tercentennial of Tasman’s
discovery of New Zealand. To mark the
occasion, Maoriland’s Internal Affairs
Department has issued a book consisting
of a fine poem by Allen Curnow, an
essay on Tasman by J. C. Beaglehole
and a fresh translation of part of the dis-
coverer’s journal by M. F. Vigevno. N.Z.
Internal Affairs has already shown itself
something of a miracle among Govern-
ment departments by its excellent “Cen-
tennial Surveys” series, and the present
book is another feather in its cap.
Printed by Whitcombe and Tombs, it is
beautifully made, and thg contents are of
first-class literary as well as historic in-
terest.
A point from J, C. Beaglehole’s essay;
The reason for the attack is beyond
knowledge, though perhaps we may con-
jecture that it was in the main fear of the
stranger, who came thus in summer, the
time of war; beyond knowledge, for the
Ngatitumatakokiri tribe, whose canoes
went out that day from Wharawananga
Bay . were themselves doomed to slavery
and destruction in the eighteenth century,
and it is a mere thread of tradition that
preserves to us even their name.
Legend of Dunkirk .
Paul Galileo’s The Snow Goose (Watts
and Watts Pty., Ltd., Melbourne ; Angus
and Robertson), a long short story set
in double space to make a neat little
book, is a war piece which, like Alice
Duer Miller’s poem The White Cliffs, has
said the right thing at the right time and
so become widely popular.
It’s a sort of poetic crystallisation of
the spirit of Dunkirk. A hunchbacked
artist, living alone in the Essex marshes,
befriends, among other wild birds, a
strayed snow goose. Through the snow
goose he meets and falls in love with a
girl. The bird is the symbol of their
love and the link that holds them to-
gether. At Dunkirk time, just when the
inarticulate love affair is about to be-
come vocal, the hunchback goes off in
his little boat to help in the great epic
of rescue. The snow goose flies with
him wherever he goes. He is killed; the
bird vanishes. Like Chekhov’s Seagull, it
is an image of the beauty of the spirit.
The "Times Literary Supplement” said
of it: “Mr. Gallico relates the story with
all the delicacy of touch and allegorical
suggestion of a fairy tale. It is a beauti-
ful and deeply-moving little book, full
of the haunting silence and space of the
Essex marshes.” Like The White Cliffs,
it has obviously meant much to many
people. And there’s a place for such
books in war-time.
But it’s hard to accept it as readily as
the "Times” does. How will it read
when Dunkirk, taking its place in his-
tory, has lost the aura of passionate emo-
tion that now surrounds it? Over-poeti-
cal, most likely. Another essay in that
overdone English rustic tradition satir-
ised so justly in Cold Comfort Farm.
Wild spirit called to wild spirit, and she
seemed to be flying with the great bird,
soaring with it in the evening sky, and
hearkening to Rhayader’s message.
Sky and earth were trembling with it
and filled her beyond the bearing of it.
“Frith! Fritha! Frith, my love. Good-
bye, my love.” The white pinions, black-
tipped, were beating it out upon her heart,
and her heart was answering, “Phillip, I
love ’ee.”
With all due respect to “The Times,”
it’s not very likely that The Bulletin’s
Frith would love ’un.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sydney Minerva has struck a line of
plays that the public likes —the American
“screwball” comedy. And it’s a good
line. “The Man Who Came to Dinner,”
“You Can’t Take It with You,” “Arsenic
and Old Lace” and the latest of the series,
“My Sister Eileen,” all had one great
virtue in common —an abounding, over-
flowing gusto. It was gusto that made
the Elizabethans great: Marlowe is not
just words, but a flood and a thunder of
words. Shakspeare didn’t give just a
single dainty little murder, but a stage
littered with corpses. And the Ameri-
cans, though frivolous by comparison,
have the same underlying exuberance.
They “pile it on.” “The Man Who Came
to Dinner” could have been merely a
comedy about a domineering guest who
upset a whole household. But the tradi-
tion of gusto insisted that the upsetting
be assisted by Harpo Marx and Noel
Coward, penguins and an octopus, a
squad of murderers and a flock of cock-
roaches. There were thirteen bodies in
the cellar in “Arsenic and Old Lace.” And
as a climax to the troubles of two country
girls pursued by admirers in New York's
Greenwich Village, “My Sister Eileen”
brings what looks like the entire crew of
a Brazilian warship on to the stage.
Strong in characterisation, and as rich
in dialogue as it was in situations, “The
Man Who Came to Dinner” was the out-
standing piece of the comedy series.
“My Sister Eileen” assays the lightest
of the lot. It lacks a strong central
theme. The adventures of two country
girls trying their fortunes in New
York, one an aspiring actress and
one an aspiring writer, have a mild
charm, but not the compelling interest of
the disruptive guest in “The Man Who
Came to Dinner” or the thirteen murders
of “Arsenic and Old Lace.” Possibly
there’d have been dramatic interest in
the actress sister’s complications of the
heart if Myra Morton had put more
life into the role of a flirt. She looked
beautiful enough to make half New York
fall in love with her; but she acted as
if she were unaware of the fact, and as
if she had never dreamed of deliberately
fascinating a man, which is a shade too
artless even for an innocent country belle.
Interest consequently centred on the
elder sister, Ruth, capably played by
Marjorie Gordon ; but there is nothing
startlingly new to be said about the trials
of an aspiring writer and, judging by the
title, the interest should have centred on
“my sister Eileen.” It’s the piling on of
incidental detail, that keeps the pot of
comedy boiling steadily. Charles Zoli was
an amusing Greek landlord, and Marshall
Crosby a delightfully cynical cop.
“My Sister Eileen” makes a pleasant
show ; and the “screwball” comedies are
a pleasant fashion. But sooner or later
they’ll lose the capacity to surprise
on which they chiefly depend. For
weightier fare, the Minerva might
consider a piece such as Emlyn
Williams’s “Morning Star,” which the
amateurs of Melbourne National Theatre
played with all the conviction that comes
from a vital theme. It concerns a young
medico who, discouraged by official oppo-
sition, is tempted to abandon his experi-
ments. An air raid, which gives him a
chance to bring off a vital experiment, is
his salvation. The raid was highly real-
istic, the emotional atmosphere, if con-
ventional, tense. A good cast included
John Power, Mollie Minogue, Bernard
Lamble, Leo Howard as a prayerfu.
Welsh A.R.P. warden and Ella Bennett
as a charwoman who sounded as real as
the bomb explosions.
At the talkies:
Gene Tierney is one of Hollywood’s glamor
goils who have been “boosted to stardom-
Turned out by the make-up man to the same
stereotyped pattern as so many hundred otn
g.gs., she has the additional advantage of practi-
cally no acting ability. It was therefore in-
evitable that she would be cast in a strong!)
dramatic role. The frail-looking lass appears
in “Belle Star” (Sydney Plaza) as the tie-
woman wife of an outlaw who defied the c
quering Yankees when Missouri was overrun w
the Civil War. Based on a legend, the story
has plenty of action, Randolph Scott is a
able hero, and technicolor helps the atmo-
sphere. But the disciples of the g amor-at-an
cost school have spoilt what should have been
a first-rate period-piece. .
With the Dr. Kildare films dead under m
blight of Lew Ayres’s conscientious objecting
M.G.M. has made what appears to be the ursi
of a new series of hospital-doctor pictures.
“Calling Dr. Gillespie” (G.U. Theatres) i
a well-done murder tale without mystery
with fewer loose ends than mpst of its )P -
Philip Dorn, the Dutch actor, is impressive a
the psychiatrist who collaborates with,
crippled philosopher-medico Dr. GiUesp
(Lionel Barrymore) in investigating a yo =
man’s mental break-up.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
i
m
m
w*
m
A*
m
n
j
m
m
m
m
mm
9
mm.
m
fp \
8*
& f\
4 * «
J J<
IP V vj
# < $ §>v %
si
mtm
it
m
j
rv
-aaaww***® 0 *
«IGHGRAD€
R€D
ROOF PAINT
I 5.;^
&
>***?
m
m
#
C 9
V# 1
Vr'
SP
*>**<*
RED ROOF PAINT
High Grade Red Roof Paint. Give
your roof a coat of this paint. It
will be a vast improvement. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes ... ! gall, i gall. 1 grt.
Prices .. 16/3 9/- 5/6
*3
m
KILRAT BAITS
Certain death to rats
and mice. These baits
are made up in the
form of small baked
biscuits, ready for
use. Packed in tins
containing 30 baits.
Price, tin 1/6
MIXED PAINT
Paint is insurance against
decay. Keep your wood-
work well painted. It will
beautify your home, en-
hance its appearance and
add to its value. This
Ready Mixed Pure Paint
in Cream and White only.
1 gallon tin. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, 19/6
PURE
fGH-GRA
pAiny
t&krarj-.u'Jil
® Paints—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANT RID
Are you pestered with Ants?
Ant Rid is a reliable prepar-
ation for the extermination
of this pest. Non-poisonous
and ready for use. Can be
left about with safety, 1/6
PASTE WAX
Johnson's Prepared Paste
Wax for floors, furniture
and motor cars. 1 lb. jars.
Price, jar 2/6
"QUICKSTRYP"
A sixpenny packet will save
pounds' worth of brushes.
Hard and stiff brushes
are made like new with
Ouickstryp Brush Cleaner.
Price, packet 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT. POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


STRONG MEDICINE
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
JOHNSON was
a chemist who
had a very low
opinion of doc-
tors. Almost every
prescription made
him sneer. He was convinced that he had
learned more from doctors’ mistakes
than any doctor ever knew, and he re-
garded himself as a protective buffer
between doctor and patient.
As soon as he saw George Varnik enter
his shop he recognised that here was an
extraordinary case. He lost interest en-
tirely in a couple of W.A.A.A.Fs. who
were waiting breathlessly for his judg-
ment on the right shade of lipstick to
wear with their summer uniform. Var-
nik’s ancestors had emigrated from a
remote, mountainous country in Central
Europe, where they still believed in
witches, werewolves and Doppelgdngers,
but being of the second generation of
Australian-bom George looked much
like any other Australian farmer. He
handed his prescription to Johnson with-
out comment.
Johnson read it in his usual sceptical
manner. He elevated his eyebrows and
gave George a long, searching look. “Is
this all the doctor ordered?” he asked.
George nodded.
“Well, it won’t do you any harm, but
it will never cure you.”
George looked disappointed and em-
barrassed.
“Try a bottle if you like,” said John-
son ; “but when you’ve finished it come
and tell me I was right. It will cost
you twelve shillings and sixpence.”
“Twelve and six,” said George, begin-
ning to feel that people took advantage
of him.
Johnson bent over George to impress
him with his sincerity. “How much does
a doctor know about drugs, anyway?”
he asked. “He just sticks to his old
formulas. But I can experiment in a
hundred ways.”
“Experiment,” George said uneasily.
Johnson put on a smile that was all
kindness and reassurance. “Not on you.
I’ve finished for the time being, and I
know’ what I know. Take this prescrip-
tion, for instance. The principle in-
gredient is a laxative ; the other stimu-
lates the gastric organs to encourage
appetite. Now that’s not your whole
trouble by any means” He bent
close to George and looked him hard
in the eye. “Now, is it?”
“No,” said George; “the stomach
trouble is only one of the results.”
“Exactly! I saw as soon as you came
in that your trouble is psychological.
Your doctor probably realises it, but he
can only prescribe for the physical conse-
But if he knew drugs the way
I do he’d be able to remove the cause.
Doesn’t that seem the more reasonable
thing to do?”
“Yes,” George agreed, a little vaguely.
“Well, then, if you’d like to come into
my lab. and tell me your symptoms I’ll
be able to tell just what I can do for
you.”
/'"'JEORGE went in readily enough and
took a seat on the high stool, but
he hesitated a long time before he began.
“It’s rather a long story,” he said at
last, “but it began like this. A few
months ago I set out to do a job half
a mile down the paddock. I had gone
about half the distance when I remem-
bered that I needed a wire strainer, so
1 had to go back for it. My wife saw
me and scolded; she knew how far
behind I’d got with the work since the
boys joined up. ‘lf you hadn’t forgotten
it,’ she said, ‘you’d be at the job by now.’
“I’d had a lot of that sort of thing
from her lately. It always irritated me,
but this was the first time it happened.
I looked down the track as I started,
and / saw myself just taking the last few
steps to the spot where I was going.
“It startled me a lot, but after a time
I put it down to a trick of the eyes in
the dazzling sun or a mirage or some-
thing. I set to work to dig a big hole
for a strainer post. It was pretty hard,
so when I had the hole half finished I
sat in the shade of a tree for a rest.
When I was getting up again I glanced
across to the job, and there, as plain as
life, I saw myself tamping the earth in
around the post.
“I can tell you I was pretty badly
rattled this time. I got to work as if
the devil was prodding me with his pitch-
fork. Each time I lifted my head I could
see myself walking back home. I arrived
back a good while before I finished the
job, if you understand what I mean.”
Johnson smiled his charming, under-
standing smile. George went on: “That
was only the beginning. Next morning,
when I was having my little doze after
stopping the alarm clock, I had an un-
easy feeling, I opened my eyes, and
there I was getting dressed in a great
hurry. It gave me such a turn that I
felt like staying in bed all day, but Mari-
tana suddenly yelled at me, and up I
jumped from habit. When I got outside
I had a glimpse of myself way down
the paddock, rounding up the horses.
But the horses didn’t see me, and 1 had
to go down myself (I mean the real
myself) and chase them up.
“When I came in for breakfast Mari-
tana said: ‘A real man would have his
team in the plough by now.’ I looked
out of the window, expecting the worst,
and there I was, just as she said.
“All that day I saw myself at inter-
vals and always a few rounds ahead of
myself. Before night I’d gained a few
more rounds (I mean I saw myself gain
them, although I really lost them through
losing a ploughshare and having to walk
right round the block looking for it).
“As the days went on I got farther
and farther behind myself. When I
was starting to plough the next paddock
1 saw the other fellow starting to sow
it. I’d begun thinking of him as ‘Him’
by then, He’d got so far away from me
and behaved so differently. After a while
He was so far ahead of me that I couldn't
always keep track of what He was doing.
He’d be harvesting crops while mine were
still growing, and better crops than 1
ever grew.
“For a long time I didn’t say anything
to Maritana, but she got so suspicious
of my jumpiness that I had to. You see,
quite often when I was having a spell
after dinner I’d see Him rushing about
like a lunatic. At first she said it was
only my guilty conscience. Then she
studied some old books her grandmother
had brought out with her, and said
that the only way I could ‘lay’ Him was
to work so hard that I caught up with
Him. I tried that, but, although I nearly
killed myself, I could see that I was get-
ting farther and farther behind. 1
reasoned it out that He’d made so much
money that He had several men work-
ing for Him, so I gave up trying.
“But Maritana had taken an unhealthy
interest in Him. She was always wanting
to know what He was doing, so that 1
could do the same. She got into the
habit of comparing us and pointing out
the results of my mistakes.
' “That’s how things are now. I still
see Him every time I’m off my guard.
When I drive along the road in my old
car He roars past me in an expensive
sedan. I see Him in shops, looking more
and more prosperous and getting respect-
ful attention from everybody. I sleep
badly, and have horrible, tangled-up
dreams all about Him and me. I’ve lost
my appetite and I’m losing weight. That’s
why 1 went to the doctor.”
Johnson smiled cynically: “And he
gave you a laxative!”
George was inclined to share his con-
tempt. “Anyhow,” he said, “can you do
anything about it?”
“Certainly.” Johnson stood up and
walked along his rows of bottles, looking
at them and rubbing his hands together.
“In my work I have always noticed that
most drugs have a psychological as well
as a physical effect. It used to be thought
that the mental condition was simply due
to an improvement in health, but now
we have wonderful new drugs which
clearly demonstrate otherwise. For in-
stance, this one makes a patient feel
worse when he is getting better, and there
are others which have no physical effects
at all, but profound psychological re-
sults.”
He began to seize bottles from the
shelves, and set to work with great en-
thusiasm, talking all the time. After a
lot of complicated mixing he produced
a bottle of medicine and a box of pills.
“Take a pill after each meal,” he said,
“and give your wife a dose of this mix-
ture each night.” He smiled a little at
George’s surprise. “You can’t deny that
your condition is influenced by your
wife’s,” he said. “Come and see me in
a week ; or sooner if there are any un-
toward developments.”
George thanked him, and went out full
of confidence.
DURING the next week Johnson had
his moments of uneasiness. He
looked up quickly every time a customer
came into his shop, his heart beat faster
every time he went
to answer the tele-
phone, and on several
occasions when the
ambulance was
called out he rushed
into the street to see in which direction
it was heading.
He was greatly relieved when George
appeared on the appointed day. He hur-
ried George into his laboratory, grabbed
him by the arm and looked at him criti-
cally. Then he said hurriedly : “How’s
your wife?”
“She’s hardly got out of bed since the
first dose,” George told him ; then, see-
ing the alarm on Johnson’s face, he went
on, “But that’s all right. She’s not sick,
only lazy.”
“That’s not a normal condition for
her, is it?” Johnson asked, still anxious.
“No, usually she’s a perpetual-motion
machine and expects me to be the same.
But now it’s great.
“For the first couple of days she did
nothing but sleep. I was nearly going
to let you know, but it was so peaceful
round the place it seemed a pity to spoil
it. My pills were doing me a lot of good,
too ; made me feel sort of easy and re-
laxed. I could sit down for a spell with-
out getting all nervous about seeing Him
tearing round. And when I did see Him
He didn’t scare me so much. In fact,
on the fourth day I laughed at Him and
He disappeared after a while.
“All this time Maritana mostly lay in
bed and dozed. But the strange thing
was that, when I began to stop seeing
Him, she started. She saw Him in dreams,
but they were not just dreams; what
happened to her in the last one proves
that. She took to waking up and telling
me about Him.
“In the first dream she was coming to
town with me. The old car was jibbing
and giving us a lot of trouble when along
He came in His flash sedan and offered
her a lift. She took it without a thought
of how I’d feel about it and sat back
in the cushions feeling very pleased with
herself. But He looked down on her in
disgust. ‘You can’t sit there doing no-
thing when you come with me. Here,
work this out. If I buy 600 ewes at
18s. 7d. per head, rent 1230 acres for
them at ss. 6d. per acre, get 456 lambs
and 15 bales of wool from them, how
much would I need to sell them for at
the end of the year to make £2OO profit?’
“Now, if there’s one thing Maritana
hates it’s mental arithmetic. It took her
all the way to town to get an answer
(what with having to start over again
every time He scowled at her) and then
her answer was wrong. He was very
nasty to her after that. Told her she’d
have to brighten up a lot before she’d be
a suitable wife for a successful man.
“The next dream she had she seemed
to be married to Him. He suddenly told
her that a lot of important people were
coming to see Him, members of Parlia-
ment and the Wheat Board and their
wives and female secretaries. He told
her He wanted them entertained in the
manner to which they were accustomed.
When she came out of that dream she
was in such a state that she didn’t want
to take any more medicine, but I gave it
to her when she was asleep. I was feel-
ing better every day and I wasn’t going
to have her getting normal if I could
help it.
“On, the fifth day He only came twice,
and then only in a vague, cautious way.
I let out a roar of laughter and He dis-
appeared like a match that’s blown out.
Yesterday I knew I had Him beaten as
far as I was concerned, and last night
Maritana had another of her dreams.
She woke up with a lot of dreadful yells.
I found her on the floor terribly excited.
“She’d gone to town with Him again
and been dragged from place to place in
a terrific hurry to help Him with His
business problems. Then, just before
leaving for home again, she saw an old
friend she hadn’t seen for years. She
stopped to talk to her, but He came back
in a fury and lugged her away. He was
so wild about losing a few seconds that
when they came to the railway crossing
He refused to wait for the train to pass,
although she screamed and implored
Him. He drove flat out right in front
of the engine. It mangled Him and the
car to sausage meat, but by a bit of mar-
vellous luck Maritana was thrown clear.
But was she bruised! You should see
her; all the colors of the rainbow. I’ll
swear she’d never go riding with Him
again—even if He hadn’t been well and
truly laid by the train. You’d better give
me something for her bruises.”
“Oh, yes, certainly,” Johnson said,
pulling himself together with an effort.
Various Verse
The Stockman.
The sun was in the summer grass,
The coolibahs were twisted steel:
The stockman paused beneath their shade
And sat upon his heel,
And with the reins looped through his arm
He rolled tobacco in his palm.
His horse stood still. His cattle-dog
Tongued in the shadow of the tree,
And for a moment on the plain
Time waited for the three.
And then the stockman licked his fag
And Time took up his solar swag.
I saw the stockman mount and ride
Across the mirage on the plain;
And still that timeless moment brought
Fresh ripples to my brain;
It seemed in that distorting air
I saw his grandson sitting there.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Night Swimming.
Look at that silver water shimmering for you,
Waiting to cradle you in a sudden, cool
embrace;
To set your sleeping sinews a-ripple in all
their grace;
To revolve your gritted brain on the oiled
bands of the shadow —
This is the place.
You, with all your thoughts paralleled into
blueprints;
You, with destruction’s statistics; you, with
your guns;
You pitiful—you brilliant, furious ones —
Off with it, doff it all! Then, on with this
motley,
Make this living magic yours, once.
No deep growl in the warm, black throat of
night;
The searchlight dreams on a ripple. Lithe
bodies, dashing,
Knife the clear moonlight. Like columns
crashing,
The whipped sprays crumble to a powdery froth.
Bare arms gleam in the air like swords flash-
ing.
Smoke lifting; the strong fire writhing in its
wooden fetters
—All this is not the animation, the breath
Of another existence. It is the current be-
neath
War, rumors of war. Grip fast this minute;
treasure it,
This minute. In a shellburst you will laugh
at the idiot, death.
N.S.W.
P. WEBB.
The Rider.
Time in my licking clock becomes
A desperate traveller of the night,
Heard hooves down highways of the mind
Beating with midnight urgency.
Past quiet pools pricked out with stars,
Crusted with bright autumnal mire,
He rides, with fire from flint and iron;
Past leaning darkness fenced apart
By hedges white with fine dust.
He needs no sign, but wheels and turns
Obedient to the wheeling sky.
And rides to warn—but whom he warns
I know not, and I fear to know.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Immortality.
And you and I again I thought,
As long last night awake 1 lay,
For all our passions’ strength are naught
But chance creations of the clay.
They tell me I’m a pagan sure —
And by your soul I set no jot.
The love that our warm bodies store,
Dramas that with our lips we knot
Of towering bliss and dark despair—
These things are all our love to me.
They tell me, too, there is a rare.
Divinely strange divinity
Not in our kind of love but in
A heavenly union of the mind.
Our love is but a fleshly sin—
Real love has worth —none in our kind.
And most they praise the immortal breath
In saintly doting each on each
The endless asons after death
Which you and I shall never reach.
And yet, my dear, one thing I know
Despite this scorn which they now lend
We will as much immortal show,
Since of our clay I see no end.
When next they tax me how, I’ll say:
“Fools, benighted, craven fools,
To love, to want, to fire, to slay,
Need we the learning of the schools?"
Though clay or dust we claim our base
Instead of god or shimmering soul,
In endless Time we’ll have our place,
Through boundless Space our strengths wi.J
roll.
At one with dust that gave us birth,
As fresh, undying as the earth,
We’ll clasp again in loving spoils —
Ecstatic in a piece of quartz.
N.S.W.
O.N.B.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3291.
Wednesday, March 10, 1943.
NO ANSWER.
“Calling honorable convey, calling honorable convoy, calling....”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Pirectors:
H, K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Bat'rack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opu
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place , 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
A FAMILY QUARREL.
In common with the other Dominions
and Britain, Australia has made a sub-
stantial annual contribution to League
of Nations finance since the League went
into exile in the U.S.A., and in 1941
Australia sent delegates to the League’s
International Labor organisation, on
which the U.S.A. is represented, and
which has an American chairman. In
1920, by virtue of Article X of the
League Covenant, Australia, Britain,
Canada, Eire, India, New Zealand and
South Africa pledged themselves “to
respect and preserve as against external
aggression the territorial integrity and
existing political independence of all
members of the League” ; and the pledge
remains.
The British Commonwealth and its
associated nations were original members
of the League, and so were Poland and
Yugoslavia. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
joined in 1921- All these countries
figured in the list of members compiled to
March 31, 1942, and published in the
Statesman’s Year-Book. Referring to the
mutual guarantee of territorial integrity
and political independence, the Year-
Book points out that “any State violating
this pledge is automatically in a state of
outlawry with the other States, which
are bound to sever all economic and
political relations with a defaulting
member.” A footnote in the 1942 issue
reads; “Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
must be presumed to be no longer mem-
bers of the League since their absorption
in the U.S.S.R.” Since there is nothing
to show that the little republics consider
themselves extinguished, either by “their
absorption” or by the German occupa-
tion, the presumption may be wrong.
The position of Poland and Yugoslavia
is in no doubt. Though their territories
have been overrun by the enemy, they
possess legal CJovernments, recognised
by the British Commonwealth and the
United States and protected in hospitable
Britain ; and, helped by the Anglo-Ameri-
cans in various Ways, their fighting men
are carrying on the war. While the British
Commonwealth and its associated coun-
tries keep the League alive, the Poles
and Yugoslavs have an unquestionable
right to call upon them to fulfil their
obligations under Article X.
On Britain the Poles have a special
claim. Under the Agreement of Mutual
Assistance between the United Kingdom
and Poland, signed at London on August
25, 1939, and good for five years, it is
set forth not only that “Should one
of the Contracting Parties become en-
gaged in hostilities with a European
Power in consequence of aggression by
the latter against that Contracting Party,
the other Contracting Party will at once
give the Contracting Party engaged in
hostilities all the support and assistance
in its power” —a $ Britain did and is doing
—but that
Should a European Power attempt to
undermine the independence of one of the
Contracting Parties by processes of eco-
nomic penetration or in any other way
the Contracting Parties will support each
other in resistance to such attempts.
There is also, of course, an Anglo-
Russian alliance, signed in London on
May 26, 1942, With the foreknowledge
and approval, though not with the actual
participation, of the White House. The
instrument is in two parts, the second of
which is pertinent to the situation of
Poland (and Yugoslavia) while envis-
aging co-operatiOn by the U.S.A. and the
Dominions.
Article 3. (1) The High Contracting
Parties declare their desire to unite with
other like-minded States in adopting pro-
posals for common action to preserve
peace and resist aggression in the post-war
period.
Article 4. She did one of the High Con-
tracting Parties during the post-war period
become involved again in hostilities with
Germany or any of the States associated
with her, in consequence of an attack, the
other High Contracting Party will at once
give to the High. Contracting Party so in-
volved in hostilities all military and other
support and assistance in its power. This
article shall remain in force until the High
Contracting Parties by mutual agreement
shall recognise that it is superseded by the
adoption of the proposals contemplated in
Article 3 (1). In default of the adoption of
such proposals, it shall remain in force for
a period of 20 years until terminated by
either of the High Contracting Parties
[on 12 months’ notice].
Article 5. The High Contracting Parties,
having regard to the interests of the
security of each of them, agree to work
together in close and friendly collaboration,
after the establishment of peace, for the
organisation of security and economic pros-
perity in Europe. They will take into
account the interests of the United Nations
in these objects, and will act in accordance
with the two principles of not seeking terri-
torial aggrandisement for themselves and
of non-interference in the internal affairs
of other States.
Ten weeks afterwards the world was
informed that Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Roosevelt had met somewhere in the
Atlantic and subscribed to “certain
common principles,” of which these led
all the others:
(1) Their countries seek no aggrandise-
ment, territorial or otherwise.
(2) They desire to see no territorial
changes that do not accord with the freely-
expressed wishes of the peoples concerned.
(3) They respect the right of all peoples
to choose the form of government under
which they will live, and they wish to see
sovereign rights and self-government re-
stored to those who have been forcibly
deprived of them.
Recent Moscow proceedings have been
frightfully embarrassing to the Govern-
ments in London, Ottawa, Canberra,
Washington and other places. A
“Pravda” article in which Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania were claimed for the
U.S.S.R., as parts of the Czarist empire,
has been here mentioned, together with
a denunciation of the fighting Yugoslav
Minister of War as a traitor, co-operat-
ing in Yugoslavia with the Axis, and the
Polish Prime Ministers protest against
Soviet propaganda inciting the Poles to
rise, incitements which he could not coun-
tenance, for they would lead to useless
bloodshed. There followed an impas-
sioned denial that the Polish Government
had designs on U.S.S.R. territory extend-
ing to the Dnieper. It was denied also
that Poland had ever conspired with
Germany against the U.S.S.R. The
Polish-Soviet treaty of July 30, 1941, was
mentioned, and the Polish Government,
it was insisted, stood for nothing more
and would take nothing less than the
restoration of the Polish-Soviet frontier
as it existed on September 1, 1939 —“any
undermining of this unchallengeable atti-
tude, which conforms to the Atlantic
Charter, would be detrimental to the
unity of the Allied Nations.”
In the next stage of the argument there
was a blast from Moscow Radio which
was heard round the world. The charge
that Polish leaders had plotted with the
Nazis against the U.S.S.R. was angrily
repeated: “the whole world knows of the
Polish Government’s pro-Fascist policy
of rapprochement with Germany and of
its Minister Beck, who tried to oppose
Poland to the Soviet Union.” The Polish
Government in exile was accused of
“breaking the united front of Slav peoples
in their struggle against the German
invader” by refusing to recognise “the
historic rights of the Ukrainian and
White Russian peoples to be united
within their national States” incorporated
in the U.S.S.R.
Disregarding the fact that this reunion
has already occurred, the Polish Govern-
ment thus comes out as the advocate of
the partition of the Ukrainian and
White Russian lands and the policy of
plundering the Ukrainian and White Rus-
sian peoples. Leading Soviet circles ex-
press the opinion that denial of the rights
of these peoples to reunion with their blood
brothers gives evidence of imperialistic ten-
dencies on the part of the Polish Govern-
ment, whose references to the Atlantic
Charter have no foundation whatever.
Even Lord Curzon, despite his unfriendly
attitude to the U.S.S.R., realised that
Poland could not put forward a claim
to the Ukrainian and White Russian lands,
but Polish Government circles still show
no understanding of this matter.
Which means, if it means anything, that
Moscow regards the annexation to Russia
of the half of Poland seized during the
invasion of September, 1939, as an
accomplished fact not affected by Ger-
man occupation of the whole country.
On September 17, 1939, Molotov an-
nounced that “Warsaw, as the capital of
the Polish State, no longer exists,” and
that the Polish Government and State
must be regarded as having “virtually
ceased to exist.”
For these reasons, the treaties between
Poland and Soviet Russia have ceased to
operate. The Soviet Government could not
remain indifferent to the fate of its blood
brothers the Ukrainians and White Rus-
sians, who even formerly were nations
without any rights, and who have now been
entirely abandoned to their fate. The
Red Army has been instructed to enter
Poland and take under its protection the
lives and property of the populations of
the Western Ukraine and West White
Russia.
And September 28, 1939, brought a
German-Soviet treaty “finally partition-
ing Poland and establishing relations of
friendship between Germany and Soviet
Russia.”
Poland was the special creation —or
re-creation —of President Wilson. Ameri-
can reactions to the Moscow claims will
be interesting, especially as it has come
out, as a result of inquiries made by
the American Federation of Labor, that
“two former Polish Socialist Labor
leaders who went to Moscow when Ger-
many invaded Poland” have been “exe-
cuted for subversive activities.” The
Americans may decide that European
power politics are too complex to war-
rant their shedding rivers of American
blood on battlefields of Europe, perhaps
to make Sovietism supreme on that con-
tinent, and that their military strategy
should aim most of all at defeating the
Jap, a job with no apparent political
complications, and obviously within the
compass of General MacArthur and
Admiral Nimitz, provided they are pro-
perly supported.
It is not easy to see what our own
Government can do about these develop-
ments in Europe. Certainly they might
be made the subject of an inquiry by its
Co-ordinator-General of Public Works,
who has completed the taking of vast
masses of evidence concerning a Sydney
newspaper feud and the grievances of a
union secretary and three or four clerks
against the A.W.C., with instructions to
report not earlier than 1950.
As Others See Us.
With Australia the main focal point of
the war in the Pacific, this country has
naturally become “news” in America.
The Diggers—last war and this —have
always had a topline “press” there,
Americans havipg an honest admiration
for any good fighter, just as they have
a hearty contempt for somersaulting and
other cowardly dodges as practised by
their local Corns.
The current run of comment on Aus-
tralia touches the Commonwealth and its
inhabitants from Brisbane round to
Broome (either way). Some of it is writ-
ten by visiting correspondents ; some by
Doughboys writing home or doing a
piece for one paper or another ; some
of it is official, such as the “Pocket Guide
to Australia” issued by the War and
Navy Departments as information for
troops.
The “Guide” —about as sensible a
booklet as could be compiled—lists
U.S.A.-Australia links: Governor Phillip
established the first settlement in the same
year that the U.S. Constitution was rati-
fied by the States ; Hargraves, first to dis-
cover gold in quantity, had just returned
from California ; the first flight across the
Pacific was a joint affair, Kingsford
Smith and Ulm (Australia), Lyon and
Warner (America). “The Australian,”
the “Guide” states with evident admira-
tion, “has few equals in the world at
swearing, except, maybe, the famous
American mule-skinner in World War
1.” For the guidance and instruction of
Doughboys and Leathernecks it supplies
the Australian swearing pronunciations.
Another link;
If you’re good at sports you’ll probably
be more popular in Australia than by
being good at anything else. One of the
national heroes is Don Bradman, a stock-
broker from Adelaide, who was the nation’s
greatest cricketplayer—he rates more lines
in the Australian Who’s Who than the
Prime Minister.
(Mr. 8., 33 lines and a footnote; Mr.
C., 24 lines and no footnote.)
The Australian Rules football referee
“carries a rule book the size of an ordi-
nary Webster’s Dictionary”:
Unlike cricket, which is a polite game
[shades of body line], Australian Rules
football creates a desire on the part of the
crowd to tear someone apart, usually the
referee —some parks have runways covered
over so the referee can escape more or
less intact after the game is over.
Other links listed by the “Guide”: Bob
Fitzimmons ; the Davis Cup teams ; Joe
Kirkwood, “a familiar figure in Ameri-
can professional tournaments,” and, as a
correspondent says, the Americans and
the Australians are “two of the gamb-
lingest people on the face of the earth.”
It’s been said of the Australians that, if
a couple of them in a bar haven’t any-
thing else to bet on, they’ll lay odds on
which of two flies will rise first from the
bar, or which raindrop will get to the
bottom of the window first. If an Ameri-
can happened to be there, he’d probably
be making a book
Two-up is “a very simple version of
an old American pastime, matching
coins.” It’s “the favorite game after the
one of putting a buck or two on a horse’s
nose.” As to this, the “Guide” gener-
ously records that the Melbourne Cup
was established “14 years before our
Kentucky Derby.” Not only the
“Guide,” but other commentators, almost
without exception, touch on the leading
Australian passion: “the racehorse is
the monarch of every Australian he sur-
veys, and of every Australian’s purse”
(“Saturday Evening Post”) and the writer
plunges fearlessly on:
There are one or two articles of faith
among Australian sportsmen that the Yank
should be warned against challenging. One
is that Phar Lap, the great Anzac race-
horse, was poisoned to death in America
by an assassin’s hand If you think it was
death from natural causes, do not open
your trap to that effect between latitudes
10 to 50 south and longitudes 110 to
180 east, embracing New Zealand, where
the mighty steed was bred, and Australia,
where the martyr’s great heart is enshrined
in a museum.
On another sporting celebrity:
There is also the case of a brilliant young
Australian middleweight boxer named Les
Darcy, who died in Memphis, Tennessee, of
“mental breakdown and fever.” The'quo-
tation marks are Australia’s, and, if you
think they indicate suspicion, you are right.
The “Saturday Evening Post” writer
mentions the fact that much of what
Australians knew of American “manners,
customs and speech before our [U.S.j
troops came in large numbers was gleaned
from the movies.” He lists a typical
enough programme, and adds: “If you
have to see those pictures to know what
America is like, ignorance is best.”
This American found Brisbane
“friendly, breezy”; Adelaide, “quiet,
pretty and conventional” ; Sydney, “cos-
mopolitan and lively”; Melbourne, “less
a city and more a community, possessing
certain cardinal points of leadership, such
as being the sports capital of a sporting
nation” ; Perth, “an excellent town, with
the handsomest girls in Australia.” As
for Australian girls in general—
I called Australian girls intelligent just
now, and intelligent they are, and beautiful,
too, but I am forced to report that one of
the liveliest stirs of the war there was
caused by the rumor that Jimmy Stewart
[the film actor] had arrived in Australia
with the United States Army. All women
are nuts to some extent.
He makes some amends for that wise-
crack :
Australian girls have sunny tempers and
marvellous legs, strong and durable; which
is all for the best, the taxicab situation
being what it is.
On other phenomena:
Melbourne has the world’s happiest
traffic cop.
There are five distinct gauges of rail-
way and the problem of fast transport
in bulk is a whopper.
The koala bear has absolutely no lice
or fleas, and eats several different kinds
of eucalyptus leaves. The kangaroos,
wallabies and duck-billed platypuses are as
advertised.
A member of the U.S. forces wrote of
feeling “incredulous and giddy” at sight
of his first wallaby, passing within three
feet of him, its advent heralded “by the
cries of a group of foot soldiers who
were pursuing it through the woods. One
of them had been chasing the animal for
five miles, running most of the way—
After we had been here a while most of
the wallabies withdrew from the area,
perhaps overcome by exhaustion.”
Another writer, touching on New Zea-
land: “To mark their appreciation of
the hospitality extended to them, Ameri-
can nurses made a gift of £720 to the
city of Auckland. The sum, handed to
the Mayor, has been donated to the
establishment of a residential nursery in
Auckland.” Which speaks for itself of
American-Maoriland relationships, what-
ever the Chicago “Tribune” may say.
The “Guide” tells the troops:-
You might get annoyed at the “blue
laws” which make Australian cities pretty
dull places on Sundays. For all their
breeziness, the Australians don’t go in for
a lot of drinking or woo-pitching in public,
especially on Sunday. So maybe the
bars, the movies and the dancehalls won t
be open on Sundays, but there are a lot
of places in America where that’s true,
too. There’s no use beefing about it —it’s
their country.
On one topic American commentators
have been openly hostile —the limitations
on use of the militia, as imposed by the
Hopscotch Bill. Some comments on this
would make that bill’s supporters crim-
son about the gills, allowing them cap-
able of blushing at anything. Here the
commentators take their stand on the fact
that drafted Americans are liable to be
sent all the way out here, and, having
got here, are then liable to be sent we.l
beyond the militia-limit boundaries. It
would take a pretty powerful bit of
special pleading to prove that line of
criticism unjust or uncalled-for, particu-
larly coming from a country one ot
whose correspondents at large, John
Lardner, sums up on Australia thus:
It is a vast place and a human place.
It is worth knowing better. In the months
1 spent there and on the seas and islands
near there, my chief purpose was to watch
and report the progress and background
of war; but a man must be thick-shelle
indeed who can fail in that time to savor
the spirit which is Australia and which giyes
breath and a living pattern to his scrambled
observations. May it please the court, it s
a fine country.
It all adds up to probably the best
“press” Australia has ever had abroa
It can’t help but strengthen the ahead)
strong ties across the Pacific.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Battle of the Bismarck Sea.
Mr. Churchill could have said it with
greater accuracy: “Give MacArthur the
tools and he will finish the job!”
The Battle of the Bismarck Sea was a
masterpiece of staff work and daring in
seeing the job through,
A G.H.Q. spokesman fairly stated:
“This victory was so complete because
the convoy was anticipated and its inten-
tions diagnosed.” The late hysterical
press and political squealers on the theme
of poor military leadership up north
should feel properly ashamed.
For a couple of days after the convoy
was first sighted by a U.S. airman on
reconnaissance in a Liberator rainy
weather favored the Japs. As soon as
it cleared up our bombers and fighters
struck, and when they were through “the
waters of the Huon Gulf were a scene of
indescribable carnage.” Crowded with
troops, the transports were packed with
war materials. Exploding ammunition
ships sent columns of smoke to the sky.
the sea was covered with debris of ships
and ’planes, with blazing oil and drown-
ing men. The official report summed up
on it; “A major disaster to the enemy.”
In the same week Spitfires manned by
topnotch experienced Australian and
British fighter pilots took on Jap Zeros
in massed dogfights out over the sea from
Darwin and shot down six out of 15 for
certain and damaged the rest.
Airmen in the convoy battle spoke of
the defending Jap pilots as evidently
“picked men.” One of the Spitfire pilots
didn’t think so much of the Japs:
A couple more enemy ’planes came at
me in head-on attacks. 1 held my fire
till they got to about 600 yards, but they
were not game and broke and dived down
—so the Japs are not quite as game as
some people think.
These Spitfire pilots have practically all
fought and downed Germans, but nobody
ever heard them say anything like that
about the Hun. Their feeling of superior-
ity over the Jap is all to the good ; it
would be emphatically endorsed by
Admiral Halsey. There is further sup-
port in the American claim that the
ratio of losses in the Solomons has been
one American to 15 Japs. Also in the
thrashing the Diggers and the Dough-
boys gave the Japs in Papua.
What stands to the Japs still is weight
of numbers. Until this is readjusted they
will continue to be a force to be reckoned
with. It is very good that such losses
as those of the convoy battle can be in-
flicted on them ; it isn’t so good that
they can afford such losses, which to the
Allied side as yet facing them would
represent “a major disaster without any
exaggeration. . .
Apart from that steadying considera-
tion, the evidence accumulates that the
Japs most definitely can be licked, as
most decisively they will be when Mac-
Arthur is supplied with the tools for the
job.
Pay-as-you-go.
Unification of income tax was a stride
to dry land from a dark and putrid bog.
With no support till the present war
began, The Bulletin campaigned for it
over many years, and it is a pity the
reform was not tackled 20 years ago.
Had it been consummated then, the
national authorities would have been
obliged to assume, and would have grown
accustomed to the exercise of, greater re-
sponsibilities, and the provincial authori-
ties would have been shorn of powers
for mischief such as convulsed the
country during the last and worst Gov-
ernment of Mr. Lang.
As it happened, the one income tax
arrived at a very bad time, and the Gov-
ernment which introduced it is, in a large
measure, spoiling the good work by
clumsy miscalculations and by irritating
and totally unwarranted expedients. Of
its new Income Tax Assessment Bill Mr.
Fadden said, not unfairly, that “this bill
reeks of injustice and bristles with
anomalies.” The Government takes up
the position that anomalies are insepar-
able from income tax, which is nonsense.
It would have done well to adopt as a
standard the British income tax, which
is simple and intelligible, though stiff,
and on which have been grafted post-war
credits, which, as all parties acknowledge,
will be a boon and a blessing to working
people after the war.
Instead, though the Government has
been obliged to abandon its notion that
it can leave the greater part of the
national income untaxed or taxed at
nominal rates, it still jibs at post-war
credits, and persists in regarding the tax
collected in the current year as a tax on
the previous year’s earnings. On this
point the history of the Commonwealth
impost and, as has been stated in print,
the opinion of its own Crown Solicitor
are against it, but it has sought refuge
in disingenuousness. “As from” April
1, though the financial year does not be-
gin till July 1, it is going to take in-
creased amounts from pay envelopes and
hold excess payments against future assess-
ments. It alleges that the additions to be
thus exacted are required, not for war
expenditure, but for “national welfare
proposals.” Pretence, extortion and cal-
dilation of when taxes are actually due
are alike objectionable.
Many an Australian who gave up a
good position to go into the services has
found himself in difficulties through hav-
ing to meet income tax calculated to the
end of the previous year out of an
income reduced by one-half or three-
fourths. Many wage-earners will be in
the same position when the war is over.
These difficulties can be cleared away by
adopting the principle that income tax
is a tax on the current and not the pre-
vious year’s earnings, but to Mr. Chifley
“pay-as-you-go is regarded by some as
an opportunity to get out of what they
owe.” If mulish obstinacy to pay-as-you-
go persists, it is the Government which
will be unable to collect vast sums which
taxpayers will be falsely presumed to
“owe,”
Pay-as-you-go was recommended to
Congress by Beardsley Rural, chairman
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, and has been adopted by the Ways
and Means Committee of the House of
Representatives. Says the New York
“Daily News”:
The main argument for the plan is that
under it the Government will be much
surer than it is now of getting its money.
Technically it would lose a year’s income
tax from each taxpayer. Actually the
veteran income-tax payers would go right
on paying and the new ones would start
right in paying. By the time each of the
income-tax payers of 1943 dies, each on
his appointed date, inheritance taxes will
probably be of such size as to make good,
at least, any loss the Government might
have suffered.
In short, the Rural- plan calls mainly for
a bookkeeping operation in the interest of
efficient, businesslike and surer income-tax
collections. It is a proposal to do some
daylight saving in the field of income taxa-
tion as a means of preventing a large-
scale stampede to the bankruptcy courts.
We have got to avoid any such stampede if
we want to keep our econbmy up to full
fighting and producing strength.
The same is true of Australia and Aus-
tralians.
The Food Bungle.
No efforts by Government apologists can
overcome the truth of Dr. Page’s state-
ments about it. Mr. Beasley produced
a lot of figures and Mr. Chifley produced
a lot more. They may have impressed
superficial readers, but nobody can teach
Dr. Page anything about Australian land-
production figures, and, declaring that it
was “unfair and ungenerous” to insinuate
that the civilian food position was due
to the demands of Allied forces, the ex-
Priminister turned on a shattering barrage.
The difficulties with the civilian popula-
tion are due to the Government’s unprece-
dented bungling; waste in army buying
and ordering, waste in man-power waste
through lack of co-ordination Our spare
butter could feed 6,000,000 more people,
our spare meal 4,000,000 more, our spare
dried fruits 20,000,000 more, our spare
canned fruit 5,000,000 more, our spare
apples and pears 7,000,000 more, our spare
wheat 20,000,000 more Our average food
production is over 7,500,000 tons a year....
The total supplied to Allied troops, accord-
ing to Mr. Chifley’s report, is roughly
75,000 tons, or 1 per cent 10 per cent.
of the export surplus we cannot ship away.
Neither Mr. Beasley nor Mr. Chifley
had made any reply at the week-end.
Mr. Scully, Minister for Commerce, who
is responsible for food production and
distribution, feebly muttered that the
“food position was being handled satis-
factorily.” The same day Mr. Scully was
forced to admit that 6000 wheatgrowers
had not yet been paid by his department
for their wheat. At this he was
“alarmed,” and he blamed shortage of
man-power, adding with a flourish that
the existing staff would work round the
clock and be paid overtime, if necessary,
to get the farmers paid. Man-power!
Seemingly Mr. Scully isn’t finding it hard
to get several hundred men (1000 is one
estimate) to build unwanted sheds
in unwanted wool-appraisement centres
in his electorate and that of fellow-
member Clark.
Board Rules.
“Seedy,” from the other side of Booli-
gal (N.S.W.):
To appreciate fully economy of the N.S.W.
Road Transport Board variety, I commend you
to the day’s work required to re-register a farm
lorry equipped with a gas producer. The
ritual follows;
(1) Have the lorry inspected for roadworthi-
ness. If you have the spare cash and the
garage has the spare parts, you will be over
the first hurdle.
(2) Obtain your insurance cover. No easy
matter in a country town. The BJd. commission
which the agent receives scarcely makes him a
starter in the Business Stakes. Still, by point-
ing out the folly of allowing a Government
department to encroach on a business field,
you may sink his business principles in a
flood of sentiment —beer being unprocurable.
(3) Fill in your Primary Producer’s Declara-
tion. A priceless document this. It contains
six sections and three subsections. To answer
accurately would take a week. You spit
derisively and make your guesses. Next, visit
the police station, where an apathetic cop certi-
fies to the accurateness of your imagination.
You now feel that your exertions are worth
while, as you have saved half of your tax
and a tenth of your license fee. Not that you
have gained anything by paying the balance.
Your lorry is never on a road which is not
paid for by shire rates.
(4) Producer-gas Certificate. This, for-
tunately, involves little thought on your part.
You are only too well aware that the damned
thing is still on the lorry. What puzzles you
((Continued on page 8.)
“SO MUCH ONE MAN CAN DO!”
“To the disgust of the Opposition Mr. Wilson, M.H.R. for Wimmera, is to do his travelling to and from a politicians’ conference overseas by 'plane."
"Take care of yourself, Wilson, whatever you do! Always remember you’re our majority."


You Can Stop
That Backache
But you must help your kidneys to
flush out acid poisons by taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don't delay—go to your chemist or
store and ask for Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, Use them regularly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Sydney.
vast Lonoe/-
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
_ „ Gives
Full Leather
Protection
Don’t dab the brush into the polish,
draw it lightly over the top and give
your shoes that last brisk rub with
a soft cloth.
zx
33
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
is why the department should write a full-page
letter on the subject when a rubber stamp
could be imprinted on the license itself.
(5) And, finally, write your cheque.
Sailing home with a tail .wind, you will
doubtless reflect on the possibility of. selling
your block, investing your few bob in blue
pencil and red-tape, and sitting back in leisure
to watch post-war reconstruction by boards and
commissions take its inevitable course.
POLITICAL POINTS
Another £100,000,000 war loan is com-
ing on the market, and, if only as an
expression of gratitude to the men who
dug the Jap out of the malarial swamps
of Papua and smashed his convoy in the
Bismarck Sea, it must be fully subscribed.
But how foolish, how utterably stupid to
preface it with a crude plan to exact
another £8,000,000 of income tax during
the last three months of the financial year
(the Government swore that income tax
wouldn’t be increased) and to continue
the exactions indefinitely, overpayments
to be held against future tax assessments.
And the crude plan is through a House
which long since reached the end of what-
ever usefulness it ever had. The Oppo-
sition Senators will have something to
say about it, but of themselves they can’t
do anything effective.
That sarcastic brute from Barker at
it again:
Cameron: I wish to know, Mr. Deputy
Speaker, whether you intend to allow the
Government Whip to interject from the
front Bench.
Deputy Speaker: I ask Mr. Conelan
not to interject.
Cameron: Do you intend, Mr. Deputy
Speaker, to apply Standing Orders to the
front Bench or must we apply to an Aus-
tralian Labor party conference for a direc-
tion on the point?
Not so far-fetched as it may sound.
James, the member for Hunter, who in
matters where capitalists are concerned
gives a colorable imitation of being a
raging lion, excused the going to seven
Labor conferences for militia-service in-
structions on the ground that “we are
servants of the movement,”
Sharpley, one of the three union bosses
denounced by Mullens, M.L.A. for Foot-
scray, is out against Mullens as a Com-
munist candidate. The others, Thornton
and Thomson, are on the panel which is
to “advise” (i.e., issue orders to) the Cur-
tin Government on “war issues affecting
trade-unions.” “Opening the Commu-
nist campaign” in Footscray, Sharpley,
who is assistant secretary of the Muni-
tion Workers, threw mud at Mullens and
Dunstan and roses at Curtin—“we should
build a tower of strength round the Cur-
tin Government.” “This,” said Dunstan,
“will no doubt prove most embarrassing
to Mr. Curtin” ; as for himself, “No
greater compliment could be paid to me
than to be criticised by Mr. Sharpley.”
On the day Dunstan was sworn in as
his Minister for Decentralisation, Lud
Mayor Nettlefold, assuming the mantle
of prophecy as well as the rabbitskin,
predicted that in ten years’ time Mel-
bourne would have a population of
2,000,000. Lud Mayors ought to be more
polite than that, surely.
It looks as if there will be a vacancy in
England presently for an Anglican dean.
Anyway, the Very Rev. Hewlett Johnson,
Dean of Canterbury, has joined the edi-
torial board of the Communist “Daily
Worker,” suppressed for over a twelve-
month, and that by a Labor Minister,
for publication of subversive articles and
advocacy of peace-by-backdown with the
Nazis, and declared himself “prouder of
this position than of any I possess.” In
other words, prouder of joining a Red
concern with a rotten war history than
of being a priest of God, Recently the
recruit to the Revolution had to be chided
for casting up in a parish on one of his
political missions while the rector was
holding a church service ; and this ought
to be the limit.
In his speech to the new Congress, the
President “praised the fighting leaders of
our Allies, Winston Churchill, Joseph
Stalin and Chiang Kai-shek.” The New
York “Times” noted, as did several other
papers, that “the applause for the
generalissimo was loudest of all.”
Curtin on “the National Security
(Economic Organisation) regulations ap-
proved'today” (February 19, 1942):
Broadly speaking, wages are to be fixed
at the levels ruling on February 10,
1942... .Absenteeism in industry, except for
illness, recognised holidays and emergency
conditions, will be outlawed.
Union bosses, strikers and Ward’s
Women’s Employment Board have made
the “fixed wages” part of the pronuncia-
mento the worst jest on industrial record.
As for absenteeism in industry, there is
more of it than ever; and outlaws only
laugh.
Along with the familiar Issue of Red
Army and Second-Front-in-Europe stuff,
the “Clerk,” “official organ of the Feder-
ated Clerks’ Union, N.S.W. branch,” gave
particulars of “a new determination
“Mr. W. Taylor, vice-president of the State A.L.P., announced that Mr. Lang had been
expelled.”
“I wanna sign articles for another go at Easter."
covering male temporary clerks in the
Commonwealth service.” In spite of wages
tj , °
bemg fixed at the levels ruling on Febru-
ary 10, 1942,” increases, “including cost
of living,” run from £36 p.a. to £4B
p.a., with “minimum meal allowance,
double time on Sundays, payment f° r all
public holidays, penalty rates for shift
w;ork, three days special leaxe P- a ->
special transport allowance and allow-
a A nc , e uty away from usual stations.
And there is a triumphant closing par..
whiW a 'ScUon oTthf
Federated Clerks’ Union.
A very rotten form of discrimination which
was introduced by Ward. Though the
Constitution is not express on the point,
it is doubtfully constitutional.
~ „ ajt a • -. ,
Mullens, M.L.A.-, was right, it tran-
spires, when he said that a Communist
college was on the Corns.’ programme in
Victoria. Premier Dunstan was wrong
when he decided against subjecting Com-
munist activities in Victoria to an in-
quiry, though there is still time for him
to do the proper thing, and many mem-
bers of his Parliament would be willing
to serve on a Select Committee. Being
in Adelaide when an inquiry was asked
for by Victorian Labor members, Thorn-
ton, secretary of the Ironworkers’ Asso-
ciation or Red racket, bellowed to an
“Advertiser” man that “No tinpot State
Government or slapped-up municipal
council is going to hold an inquiry into
our union.” Dunstan should take up the
fellow’s challenge, and one of the sub-
jects should be the voting of 10,000 Vic-
torian munition workers into Thornton’s
Red racket by a few hundred men at
a Melbourne Sunday meeting.
In a radio dispatch from Tunis to the
New York “Post,” one Paul Ghali dis-
cusses what cablemen never mention
the attitude of the Moslems in North
Africa. In Ghali’s judgment “only those
completely ignorant of Oriental psy-
chology can believe that the Moslems
will remain quiet if fed and clothed.”
One of their grievances concerns “the
return to the Jews of the privileges of
full French citizenship.”
Moslems enjoy only second-class rights
as French subjects. Dating from 1871, this
always has been resented by the Moslems
of Algeria, whp welcomed its suppression
Vichy- While they do not wish to see
the Jews persecuted, the Moslems feel en-
titled to equality of treatment, since they
are in an overwhelming majority,
And no doubt they have heard all about
that American petition for a Jewish army,
a frank statement covering the whole
s it ua tion in French North Africa, politi-
ca[ an d military, seems overdue. It
might strengthen the hands of General
Eisenhower, who has had to contend with
a sea c f troubles. In spite of all, and
the strain on shipping is great,
the non-starters who have attacked the
Eisenhower arrangements from the
moment he arrived in North Africa are
f°armg for an immediate Second Front
m Europe. The general s views on that
project and the projectors would be
* L , -
wo “ ft “f ring ’
Dr. E a § e > advocating a single com-
modity-control authority it has been
advocated in The Bulletin from the
beginning—rightly described the food
position in this country as “being in a
mess.” In that he will have the backing
of every housewife in the land, none ot
whom knows from day to day what com-
modity will suddenly skyrocket in price
or completely disappear—until she learns
that a board has been set up to control
it.
Deciding that public opinion and the
other shop wouldn’t stand it, the McKells
are dropping the compulsory-unionism
part of their Arbitration Act Amendment,
Lang, correctly anticipating expulsion
for the second time, wrote these lines
on the first page of his new Book of
Revelations, a sequel to Why I Fight:
I asked them [“the Grand Inquisition set
up by the A.L.P. executive’’] if compulsory
unionism was Labor’s policy. They agreed
it was. I told them that only nine mem-
bers of Caucus with myself had stood out
for compulsory unionism. The Govern-
ment was piepareo to abandon it.
Mr. Taylor said a meeting of union
executives had agreed to the dropping of
the compulsory-unionism provision. Mr.
McNamara retorted that they [“the Grand
Inquisition”] had only consulted the unions
they knew would agree.
Ten for compulsory unionism, and there
are 55 Laborites in the Assembly alone.
The N.Z. Army Appeal Board has
refused to exempt C. G. Scrimgeour,
head of the Government’s Commercial
Broadcasting Services, from the military
call-up. Neither his Minister nor the
Broadcasting Services supported the ap-
peal. Scrimgeour, who is 40 and, “physi-
cally in Grade I,” chose the wrong coun-
try to appeal in.
On a greatly needed change:
Overruling his Police Commissioner Mac Kay,
Premier McKell very properly directed that a
charge against a Consolidated Press editor
should be heard in the ordinary way. He did
not weaken when served with an extraordinary
letter to the effect that, if “the proposed
charge” failed, “the person or persons who
directed the making of” it would be “held
responsible in damages,” as well as the accuser.
Now he has before him the verdict 'of Mc-
Culloch, S.M., who, acquitting the accused
(very properly), expressed “surprise” at police
methods in such cases and trenchantly criticised
the Commissioner’s course of action. One of
Mac Ka y’s proceedings was to send to the Sun-
day papers a statement characterised by the
magistrate as “grossly improper and calculated
to prejudice the arresting constables —on the
eve of a trial in a superior jurisdiction the Com-
missioner would not have dared to issue such
a statement, and 1 doubt whether any news-
paper would have published it.” There was
also something about “an influential person
being able to secure redress which is not avail-
able to the average man.” McKell’s associa-
tion with Mac Kay’s department dates from
last year, when Mac Kay (“The Flying Pieman”
to Labor members before he found favor with
Lang) fell out with the executive of the Police
Association. Obviously the department needs a
thorough overhauling under a new Commis-
sioner.
From the Rev. Gordon King:
Touching the statement (B. 24/2/’43) that,
“except in the hearts of the people, no national
ceremony marked the Singapore anniversary
and no Minister or bishop was heard lament-
ing the fact.” In St. Andrew’s Cathedral the
Archbishop of Sydney called a public service.
The attendance filled the cathedral to capacity,
and Bishop Hilliard delivered a sermon rela-
tive to the occasion. I am pointing out this
fact lest you should imagine that you alone
dislike all the pro-Red propaganda that is being
shorted around this country, and that you alone
happened to have thought of the fall of Singa-
pore.
Published with appreciation, tempered
with regret that the St. Andrew’s cere-
mony was not part of a national com-
memoration. For the rest The Bulletin
was and is deeply conscious of the fact
that there are at least 60,000 Australians
who had and have poignant reasons for
remembering what others in high places
forgot.


ţ
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
Many Australians spending some time
in Japan over the past 40 years got to
know Dr. Samuel Heaslett, up to 1940
the presiding Bishop of the Anglican
Japanese Church. Arrested when the
Japs broke loose in the Pacific, Dr. Heas-
lett was four months in solitary confine-
ment, charged with being a political
agent under the control of the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury! Back in London
he has been telling of his experiences,
which included washing his own cell and
walking scores of miles in its tiny space.
Above all other ill-treatment he most re-
sented being handcuffed when taken out
for examination, this happening pretty
well every day.
Seaman by birth:
There are not so many walking the earth
who ever sailed in the old clipper ships —Cap-
tain J. D. S. Phillips, here portrayed by Frith,
was born on one. The event happened in
Sydney Harbor aboard his father’s clipper ship
CART. PHILLIPS.
John Duthie; hence the baptismal initials,
which stand for John Duthie Sydney. As a baby
J.D.S. made two voyages round the world via
two capes. Then, when J.D.S. was three, his
fathc died at sea off Tassie (in those days the
sailing route used to be round south of the
Speck, instead of through Bass Strait). Like
Nelson, taken in a rum cask to England for
burial, J.D.S.’s father was similarly brought to
Sydney. J.D.S. “went to sea” as a boy and
did 12 trips round the world before finishing
with sail as master of the Aberdeen clipper ship
Cairnbulg. When given his first skipper’s post
he was in his twenties, looked somewhat young
for the job, and was therefore ordered to grow
a beard. He was also ordered to get married,
the co. believing strongly in that state for its
skippers, whose wives and families generally
sailed with them, thus bringing up successive
skippers the right way. Captain Phillips left
the marrying part till he got to Sydney, and
met the right girl at Milson’s Point, within
coo-ee of where he was born. On leaving sail
he joined the Canadian Australian Royal Mail
line, and after 125 round voyages came ashore
at Sydney as assistant marine superintendent
and pilot for that co. (1918-31). He then joined
Burns, Philp, and was coasting pilot and re-
lieving master till February last year, when he
turned the game in, having covered altogether
a total of 2,974,832 nautical miles of blue water.
Touching on Jivni Gu, the
Tongan prince who has gone to Gatton
(Q.) to learn agriculture, one member of
the royal family to which he belongs
bore the title of King George and was
the author of a stupendous jest in 1870.
At the beginning of the Franco-Prussian
war he solemnly assured the two power-
ful antagonists that Tonga had firmly
decided to be neutral! Incidentally, there
is nothing neutral about Tonga’s attitude
lo the present war.
“L/Bdr.”: Completing the gallery of
A.I.F. Nos. 1, WXI is Lt.-Col. A. J.
Hobbs, E.D., who was mentioned in dis-
patches some time ago.
Jimmy Woods, route manager and fly-
ing superintendent of a W.A. commercial
air line, has been made a Chevalier of
the Order of Orange Nassau by the
Dutch for his part in the rescue of crew
and passengers (including children) of a
Dutch seaplane stranded on the Ninety
Mile last March. Sighting the ’plane.
Woods dropped a message and flew off
for help. He found that a search party
sent out had gone astray, so he flew the
manager of a station to the spot to mark
it. Then he brought and dropped sup-
plies (milk for the youngsters, water,
sugar, tea, matches and suchlike), guided
the lost ’plane party to water by circling
over it, and finally brought news of
rescuers on the way.
Always wanting to be a sailor, Chris-
topher Loder, eldest son of N.S.W. Gov-
ernor Lord Wakehurst, has gone into the
R.A.N. as ordinary seaman. Before com-
ing to Australia he spent his holidays sail-
ing round about the Hebrides. There,
no doubt, were picked up his salty tastes,
for both his parents’ families have favored
the army. Now 17, he got his education
at The King’s, Parramatta.
Going home after a late party one
night a Melbourne citizen stopped and
rubbed his eyes in amazement. The
single row of stately elms which, when
he last passed down that street, waved
their branches on his left were now on
his right! It wasn’t pink snakes, but a
demonstration of the art, science or
magic of J. T. Smith, curator of Mel-
bourne’s parks and gardens, just retired
after 22 years’ service to the city. A past-
master at transplanting mature trees,
Smith once lifted a hundred 18-year-old
trees and replanted them on the Yarra
bank. Another time he dug up an
avenue and shifted it to the abattoirs,
where shade was wanted. Some of the
noble avenues of elms and poplars in the
Fitzroy Gardens are his work; ditto the
umbrage that suddenly came around St.
Paul’s Cathedral after the new steeple
was completed. Smith started out as a
choirboy and bellringer at Tunbridge
Wells (Eng.), and after that was a gar-
dener’s boy at Stoke Poges, where Gray
got the inspiration for his “Elegy.”
Three years on the right side of 40,
Soviet Minister to Australia Andrei Pet-
rovitch Vlasov is the youngest of the
assorted diplomatic corps building up at
Canberra. He kicked off working in a
timber mill at 13, became People’s Com-
missar for Foreign Affairs four years ago
and stepped from that post into the Aus-
tralian job. The Vlasov party of 14 in-
cluded the new Minister’s wife and three
daughters. It is described as an “ad-
vance party” ; other members yet to come
out from Russia will bring the total up
to about 60.
Pilot-Officer Peter Kingsford Smith
(nephew of “Smithy”) has been posted
missing. Trained in Canada, he had 41
operational flights to his credit when he
spoke at the broadcast held in honor of
his famous uncle on February 9. His
latest job was piloting four-engined Hali-
fax bombers. Two brothers are
R.A.A.F. squadron-leaders.
Notched his century at Arrowtown
(M.L.), George Romans, the son of whose
first marriage is George Henry Romans,
chief of the “Hansard” staff at Canberra.
Of the ten children of the second mar-
riage, three are with M.L.’s overseas
forces ; one, Lieut.-Col. R. E. Romans,
broadcast a message to his dad from the
Middle East on the eve of the 100th
birthday.
William Leitch, a Hobart man, began
work with the Henry Jones jam people
as a 10-year-old and has been there ever
since—7o years in the one job! He is
just about convinced now that it’s a per-
manent position. Foreman for 50 years
and now a director, he still arrives at
work every morning at eight o’clock.
Australian football occupied a lot of his
early spare time, and when he got too old
to play he became Tasmanian delegate
to the A.N.F.C. and was made the only
Tasmanian life member when he retired.
He has a son who has been 41 years in
the same firm.
A topnotch journalist:
One of many journalistic stories credited to
“Monty” (Montague MacGregor) Grover was
his confession, made in returning thanks at a
dinner given him by fellow-scribes, that he had
up till then “been 20 years in journalism and
three years on the Sydney ‘Morning Herald.
For a much longer stretch of years he remained
one of the best and best-known of Australian
scribes. He wrote prolifically and well for
The Bulletin (good verse as well as pars.), and
late in life joined this paper’s staff as Mel-
bourne correspondent for several years. Also
a novel of his, entered for the first £lOOO novel
competition in the late ’twenties, ran through
these columns as a serial. Seventy-three when
he passed on at South Yarra on Sunday, he
always had a strong preference for his native
Melbourne, where he was with the “Age ’ and
the “Argus” before being foundation editor
there of both “Sun News-Pictorial” and even-
ing “Sun” and supervising editor of Melbourne
“Herald’s” associate publications. He left the
Inky Way for a while to be J. C. Williamson s
secretary, visiting England in that capacity early
in the century.
Archdeacon Gill, or All Saints Mis-
sion, Mamba, New Guinea, had to see
20 years’ work come to a standstill. A
day or so after the Japs arrived at Rabaul,
Zeros went past the mission windows.
The archdeacon noted that the enemy
was using the place, which stood on a
hill, as a rendezvous for bombers from
Rabaul and covering fighters from Sala-
maua, and when our ’planes appeared
the mission found itself under dogfights.
As Rev. Gill puts it, “About the end
of July the Japs began to take some in-
terest in us.” They dropped incendiaries
as a preliminary to a single-’plane
machine-gun raid at “eye-level,” and the
slugs hummed between and around Gill
and his man Friday, who is called Robert.
Then launches came up the creek at
night and the situation became “more
interesting.” Finally, three bombers had
a crack at the station, and after seven
more raids the place wasn’t worth look-
ing at. Gill got his 50 native helpers
away in stealthy canoes by night, but
whether he flew, floated, emanated, swam,
crawled or simply disguised himself as
a Pacific current and drifted away to
safety isn’t being told. He’s so sure of
going back that, at his Queensland refuge,
he’s planning the rebuilding of his mis-
sion.
The chap here depicted has two pass-
ports that would carry anybody a fair
distance: (1) the superbly Invernessian
handle of Duncan Jock McGregor ; (2)
a Dutch insignia that makes any Dutch-
man sighting it want to do the honors.
Now 63, Jock has been 45 years in Aus-
tralia. He kicked off from Caledonia
stern and wild by going to sea and re-
versed the usual process by running away
from his ship. For a while he toiled for
B.H.P. and in the Port Pirie smelters.
He had a shot at the Boer War as a ser-
geant in the Cameronians and at the
1914-18 show as a Digger, 15th Battalion,
D. J. McGREGOR.
original Anzac, sar’n’major, M.M. In the
present scrap he was an eyewitness of
what happened at Darwin in the first air
raid. When Frith sighted him and re-
garded his dial as a challenge Jock was
having a break from controlling one of
Australia’s limited number of quicksilver
mines. Jock collected his Dutch insignia
for rescue work at a burning ’plane. Of
his four sons, two are missing in Malaya,
the other two R.A.A.F. pilots.
Herewith, Coventry’s impression of
the top part of the Falstaffian presence
of Adelaide Art Gallery Director Louis
McCubbin, who’s just now also South
Australia’s Deputy-Director of Camou-
flage. Before heading for Adelaide he’d
been president of the Vic. Artists’ Society.
He managed Melbourne centenary’s floral
fete. His father, Frederick, was one
of Victoria’s most distinguished painters.
LOUIS McCUBBIN.
An official war artist in the 1914-18 fight,
Louis McCubbin subsequently did back-
grounds for the War Museum sets. As
a Bulletin scribe once described him,
one of the best-humored men alive.
Maoriland’s list of baronets has been
enlarged by the death in Britain of Sir
Samuel Wilson Mappin. His son, Frank
Crossley Mappin, who has been farming
in the Auckland district, becomes sixth
baronet. He’s been in M.L. for 34 years.
Into the silence:
Overseas, Commander Frank Worsley, the
Maorilander who navigated an open boat 800
miles from Elephant Island to South Georgia
when Endurance (Shackleton’s 1913-16 expedi-
tion ship) was crushed in the ice. Worsley
was chief navigator of Shackleton’s Quest in
1921-22, when Shackleton died at sea. in the
1914-18 war Worsley commanded mystery ships,
with one of them ramming a submarine and
capturing its captain.
At 77, in Melbourne, William Dunkley, a
director of Metropolitan Ice and Fresh Food.
One of Australia's leading refrigerating engi-
neers, he had a sideline in exploration, knew the
Inland well and led the Macßobertson Round-
Australia expedition, 1938.
At Rochester (Vic.), Mrs. J. Donovan, who
linked back to the early days of Ballarat. Her
father, Dr. John George Sewell, arrived there
from London with his wife, and expected to
pick up gold. Finding that it required a pick
and shovel, he returned to his profession.
He amputated the arm of Peter Lalor, who was
in smoke at the time, being sheltered by James
Bourke.
At 34, while on a visit to South Aus., Arthur
D. Gallagher, manager of engineering at the
Geelong (Vic.) International Harvester works
He was with International for more than 20
years in the U.S.A., Canada, Europe and North
Africa before coming to Australia. As a change
from the draftsman’s board he turned to the
paintbox and was an exhibitor at the Pans
Salon; other works are in Geelong Art Gallery.
In Melbourne, P. R. Sutherland, past presi-
dent and foundation member of Melbourne
Scots, director of T. and G. and London In-
surance companies, chairman of several mining
boards and past president of the Melbourne
Fire Brigades Board.
Ossie Beyers, who organised the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, and, as secretary, fought
the battles of members for 20 years. He
lost a leg serving with the 3rd Tunnellers in
the 1914-18 scrap.
In New Guinea, in action. Trooper Colin
Campbell, of Gunbar (N.S.W.), son of the late
T. Campbell, fdrmer general secretary ot the
Farmers and Association. Two
brothers are in the fighting forces.
In Sydney, Frank Hoyle, 75, manager of
the insurance department of Farmers and
Graziers’ Co-op. and known all over N.S.W.
Born in Victoria’s Goulburn Valley district,
he published newspapers in Finley and Tocum-
wal, joining F. and G. in 1920, a year after
its foundation. Sydney solicitor Roscoe Hoyle
is a son.
At Hobart, aged 52, George Muir, a 1914-18
Digger and former president of the Hobart sub-
branch of the R.S.L. Always a keen worker
for returned soldiers, his “Dinkum Aussie
appeal in 1933 raised £l6OO for the League s
funds.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”; During Singapore Week my
thoughts strayed to the lady war corre-
spondent from the “Wimmen’s Weekly,”
who arrived in Malaya with a satchelful
of credentials from service Ministers and
other celebrities and “danced the shoes
off” her “feet,” meanwhile recording her
impressions of the life the Aussies were
leading. And a wonderful life it was —for
Billjim one rapturous round of feasts of
“ ‘Arabian Nights’ magnificence” and
dalliance in cabarets with “glamorous”
Chinese dancers, reclining meanwhile in
“gaudy sarongs” on “delicate carved
chairs inlaid with mother-of-pearl” and
cooling off in a millionaire’s swimming
pool. The Diggers strenuously denied the
accuracy of these luscious descriptions,
and I have heard that there was an un-
pleasant scene when a young gentleman
from the “Wimmen’s Weekly” office ven-
tured among them ; but that is by the
way. You would have thought the “Wim-
men’s Weekly” would remember the
alleged sybarites on the anniversary of the
day which saw the stricken army of
which they were part enter into its dread-
ful captivity. Actually, there was no
“Wimmen’s Weekly” on that mournful
anniversary, but there was an issue two
days before and another five days after.
In neither was there a line about the
victims of the cruellest of fates. Admit-
tedly, there was an outpouring of gush
about soldiers, and the lady or ladylike
gentleman who uses the editorial “we”
had a vision splendiferous—“We look
to the day when a mighty force will sail
out from England to attack the common
enemy.” But the soldiers were foreign,
and “the common enemy” hangs out, not
in the Straits Settlements, the Malay
States, Java, Amboina or Japan, but in
Europe.
* * * *
“Dicka”; Tag this titbit to the U.S.A.
array of hard-to-find-in-any-dictionary
words, taken from a letter in N.Y, “Sun
If I understand plain, simple English
without any discombobulation....
1 = * * *
“S.T.S.”: The airman who changed
his German-sounding name (B. 17/2/’43)
for fear of reprisals if captured must
have been singularly timid. The U.S.A.
must be crowded with soldiers in the
same position. To ,S.A. there came, a
century back, a host of Saxons and other
South Germans, mainly to get away from
Prussian domination. Not only have
they been a source of quiet strength—
you never hear of riots in S.A., very
seldom of strikes —but in the third and
fourth generations Schmidts or Mullers
died for Australia by the hundred. A
young friend of my own who died in
France—as his father had died in South
Africa —was Fritz Hiibbe, and one could
hardly beat that for a sheer German-
sounding name,
* * * *
“Uramao”; Adopting the principle
enunciated by G. K. Chesterton in a
“Father Brown” yarn on the theme that
postmen are invisible because so familiar,
a young burglar in Auckland (M.L.) used
to go around in daylight in shirtsleeves,
carrying a basket of groceries. If there
was no one around in houses he visited
he made the most of his opportunity.
Including jewellery and money, he piled
up £332 before they caught him.
* * * *
“Tinmuth”; The suggestion that
Gandhi’s fasts harm the old gentleman
draws only derision from some friends
of mine who are addicts of what they
call the “cleansing fast.” They claim he
merely kills two birds with one stone,
“renewing his youth like the eagles” while
working in some political propaganda.
Almost miraculous therapeutic virtues
are claimed for the prolonged fast, prop-
erly undertaken and terminated. Long
known amongst Asiatics, many modern
health cults have adopted it. American
author Sinclair Lewis has preached and
practised it for years. Pasters claim that
most of the ills that flesh is heir to are
shed away by the process, and they put
up some pretty good evidence in support.
Anyway, Gandhi seems to do well enough
on it.
* * * *
“Eureka”; There are some fine ex-
amples of wooden pillars disguised as
stone at St. Peter’s (C. of E.) on Cook’s
River, N. S. Wales. Built in 1839, the
roof of this fine old Gothic building is
supported by massive pillars which were
once hardwood trees cut within a few
yards of the church. As sound as a bell,
the timber seems good for another few
hundred years.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; A claim by a hotel against
a motor-car is something new. But the
S.A. Brewing Co. has recovered £7s—
of what it claimed —from the woman
owner of a lorry and her husband, the
driver. The Aldgate Hotel is at the foot
of a steep pinch on the Melbourne road,
in the Adelaide hills, and the truck had
somehow run backwards downhill into
the hotel verandah.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The “Flat-iron Building”
(otherwise “Marcus Clark’s Old Build-
ing”) in Railway-square, Sydney, now a
soldiers’ hostel, was the first big job
as an architect of “Jimmy” Nangle,
“I won't get up yet; they're still serving ‘middies’.”
afterwards Director of Technical Edu-
cation and later still N.S.W. Government
Astronomer. Nangle’s creation on an
awkward block of land of what was for
its day an imposing structure was re-
garded as a very clever achievement.
He started work as a boy in a grocer’s
shop at 2s. 6d. a week, and said (in days
when honors and degrees were being
conferred on him) that the proudest
moment of his life was when his boss
voluntarily gave him an extra bob a
week.
H* % *
“Ike Hollar”; There are more streets
named after the Bents than the one men-
tioned on the Red Page (B. 27/1/’43).
They are to be found in old country
towns, and the townspeople usually
imagine that the name came from the
shape of the street —the one in Katoomba,
for instance, follows the line of the rail-
way. And Paddington has a Bent-street
“ Don't encourage them. Sue. It's like playing with fire!”
which during the 1914-18 war established
a record by contributing 68 men to the
ato * & i
A.I.F. out of a mere baker s dozen houses.
This street may be a continuation of the
city one. But all the Bent streets have
not caused the Bents to be remembered
not causea me juenis to oe rememoerea.
A resident of the Paddington thorough-
fare reckoned that the street was ironi-
cally named that way because it was the
only street in the whole suburb that was
actually straight.
*** . *
“Lao-dah” ; A contribution to the
liquor controversy in Melbourne, printed
• xu,. “c nr> ■
in ttlw bun 1 ICtoriai
Why all the fuss about the difficulty of
gettmg bottled beer? In the first place,
we would be better without it; secondly,
beer undermines the health and empties
the pocket Many years ago I was camping
with a pal, and we had corned beet and
about six bottles of beer. A dog came to
us j and we g^ ve some beet, then we
offered it some beer in a saucer but, dry
as it was, it wouldn t touch it. I thought
it was time to turn teetotaller.
The implication is that a dog’s taste
should be the criterion for human beings,
t ® f
I have seen a dog eating the COipse of
a Chinaman m Nanking during one of
China’s frequent revolutions, and it
wasn’t a particularly fresh corpse either.
* , r .t iT „
Xhe correspondent of the Sun was
stating a well-worn argument which was
popular with prohibitionists during the
last referendum in Victoria. It is a very
unsafe argument, as was demonstrated
many a time by interjectors.
* * jf
“Loc” : One of the strange tales of
war-time concerns a British freighter,
Empire Pelican, which was sent out un-
escorted with a cargo of food and ex-
plosives. In the Mediterranean some
Italian planes picked her out and es-
corted her for three days, firmly con-
vinced that they were helping II Duce
win the war. Later still, Empire Pelican
found herself in the midst of an Italian
convoy being blasted by British ’planes.
And when she arrived at Malta the
gunners of the island, not expecting her,
tried to blow her out of the water.
Nevertheless, she delivered the goods.
* * * *
“Craiser” : The ex-pastrycook in Syd-
ney who became an inspector of victory
■a. /t> T/i /-i i i „
suits (B. 24/2/ 43) had nothing on a case
I know. A chef who had directed the
cuisine of a famous cafe in Paris, an
equally-renowned one in London, and
the kitchens of two of the leading hotels
in two of Australia’s largest cities got
it into his head that his experience might
be of some use to the war effort, so he
offered himself to Man-power. We
don’t need such experience as yours in
service kitchens,” they informed him.
Now he is making nuts and bolts in a
munitions factory.
* * * *
“Spasebo” attends a popular demon-
stration :
A huge crowd of excited people were throng-
ing the steps in front of the locked front door
of the Melbourne Town Hall. So great was
the mob that the trams had to stop, and so
intense was the enthusiasm that some were
attempting to climb in through the windows
and white-helmeted policemen were plucking
them down by the seats of their pants. It
looked as if Melbourne’s Bastille were being
stormed, but it was merely the overflow from
a packed house of average Melbourne cits who
had assembled to do homage to the Red Army
on its 25th anniversary. I managed to
squeeze inside. Waaafs and Awas were filing
on to a platform decorated with the flags
of the United Nations, and generals, at-
taches and other important official persons sat
before two huge enlarged photos., one of Mr.
Churchill and one of Mr. Stalin. The Lud
Mayor arrived late through having to get into
his own Town Hall by a back door, and, some-
what flustered, started reading congratulatory
messages from the Prime Minister, General
® lam , ey > the president of the Coal and Shale
Employees Union, an archbishop and others,
but be was soon pu t a t his ease. The crowd’s
emotion hallowed everything Russian, and it
was only necessary for someone to mention a
Russian place-name, sing a Russian song, dance
a Russian dance in Russian cos tume or utter
the name of Stalin for thunders of applause
to roll around the ceiling. Everybody was so
ready to be happy that even when a canon
to
Soviet Republics nobody was so ill-mannered
as to recall Lenin’s familiar slogan “Religion
is the opium of the people.” In fact, the meet-
in S had so much the atmosphere of a religious
revival that it didn’t seem incongruous at all
that Dr. Floyd, the choirmaster of St. Paul’s,
should be sitting at the organ ready to accom-
pany a choral rendering of “Soviet Land,”
“ the stirring melody of which,” to quote the
“ Age ” report next morning, “was sung in fine
bass-baritone by Mr. William Laird.” Add to
which there was a collection, with £5O cheques
fluttering into the hat, and a message to Com-
rade Stalin in phrases that couldn’t have been
more adu i ato ry if that statesman had been
Buddha, Asoka, Confucius and Lao-tse all
boiled into one. It doesn’t seem long
since I attended a recruiting meeting at the
same town hall, with the same sort of P eo Pj^
on the platform and the same sort of people
j n die body of the hall. At that meeting the
mildest reference to any virtues in Lenin,
Stalin, the Red Army or the U.S.S.R. on the
P art °/' any individual misguided enough to
make it was the surest way of being escorted
door. What is this public opinion the
Gallup Poll people so assiduously analyse?
A WORD IN SEASON.
“Times change, and togs, by fashion’s stern
decree,”
My artist friend remarked sententiously.
(Note that the art in which he most excels
Is limning shapely and seductive belles,
Resembling those we glimpse upon the screens,
For chocolate-boxes and for magazines.)
“Most women,” he pursued, “contrive to veer
Adaptably enough to modern gear.
But one soon finds, such problems who attacks,
That only streamlined girls look chic in slacks.
“When three nude goddesses up Ida went”
(My friend has always had a classic bent)
“Suppose that Paris, that engaging lad,
Had viewed the trio even lightly clad,
From how I feature her I should surmise
Slender Minerva would have won the prize.
Juno a trifle trying he would find
With generous proportions thus outlined.
Venus might suffer, too, from waistline lacks.
Tis only streamlined dames look smart in
slacks,
“The female form,” he said, “the distaff frame,
Divine or pagan—and they’re just the same —
Fits into pretty nearly everything
Devised to billow or designed to cling,
From fig-leaves such as grew on Eden trees
To swishing skirts and flowing draperies.
Still, there’ll be always found, when women
dress,
Contours to cloak as well as those to stress.
And a true artist’s soul, like mine, it racks
To see too plump anatomies in slacks.
“Slim, sylph-like figures some,” he mused,
“prefer;
Others approve of something ‘curvier.’
Each to his taste. ’Twould be a world unreal
If all should centre upon one ideal.
The more the types, decked in whatever guise,
The wider field there is to witch our eyes.
But let me tell you”—here a cloud he blew
Of smoke and sank a tot, as artists do —
“Whether your gaze be fixed on fronts or backs,
None except streamlined girls look sweet in
slacks.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HUMIDITY.
“Mr. Mares said that the heat during February
was not excessive but the humidity was pronounced.”
Thermometers we used to scan
In dog days with avidity
To mark how high the mercury ran.
It seemed the plain and obvious plan
Before our weather-sharps began
To talk about humidity.
“ ’Strewth! but it’s hot,” one chap would
blow.
Another with acidity
Would cite the glass as proof to show
’Twas merely 85 or so.
But then our fathers didn’t know
A thing about humidity.
They trusted purely to their sight.
And no one of sagacity
Would e’er have ventured to indict
The register of Fahrenheit
For evidence that wasn’t quite
Consistent with veracity.
Yet now in summer’s strain and stress
The mercury’s agility
Begins to count for less and less.
Since heat is all they can express,
Thermometers no more possess
Their old dependability.
I sometimes wish —although I’m not
Impugning their validity—
That weather-wizards hadn’t got.
When it is only fairly hot,
To add discomfort to our lot
By measuring humidity.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Matelot”: A sailor, charged at Syd-
ney’s Central Police Court the other day,
provided a brand-new excuse in answer
to being booked for indecent language.
“Indecent language,” he exclaimed when
called op to plead to the charge. “Well,
it’s the only language I know. There is
no decent language on the sea. We speak
in what you folks call swear words all
the time.” His comment subsequent
to being fined three pounds was “WhaU
Three pounds for only those words!”
But “only those words” had practically
burnt a hole in the charge sheet and
almost lifted the roof off the courthouse
when read out.
* * * *
“Blue Peter”: You have to sub-edit
your songs these days if you want to
avoid offence to your Allies. Was listen-
ing in to some “new releases” over the
A.B.C. last .week and among them was
that fine old baritone war-horse “The
Admiral’s Broom” —in this case sung by
Raymond Newell. Gone is “Van Tromp,
the Dutchman bold, who walked beside
the Zuider Zee.” He’s been replaced by
“Mein Herr, the German bold, who
walks beside the German Sea.”
* * $ *
“Curtain Raiser”: Lud Mayors of Mel-
bourne, in moments of exuberance, have
offered various visiting movie magnates,
tennis-players and other distinguished per-
sons the freedom of the city. It now
turns out that they had no authority to
do so. In fact, before the present incum-
bent, Lud Mayor Nettlefold, can make
that grandiloquent gesture the council
must pass empowering legislation. The
Lud Mayor proposes to move for such
powers. He is envious of the prestige
of his city, and points to the collection
of handsome gold and silver caskets at
Canberra containing scrolls of city free-
doms conferred on W. M. Hughes when
he was an Empire figure. His Worship
hasn’t stated whether the freedom will
include the right to order a pot of beer
in a city hostelry without receiving a snub
from the attendant Hebe.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Pubs, eh? My home
town sports a main street which, 60 years
ago, had more than 100 pubs within a
mile. In several cases four and five
hotels existed in terraces side by side.
Even today there are a couple of dozen
pubs in half a mile if the Luftwaffe hasn t
interfered with them. Reason? The
town was the first stage out from London
on the main Bath road, and at the height
of the coaching era Hounslow was a busy
little place.
* » * *
“X.S.”: For the second time in a few
days, Justice Lowe had to listen at the
Criminal Court in Melbourne to a case
in which, as the Judge put it, “a com-
placent husband handed his wife over
to the usurper.” According to counsel
for accused, the girl married at 15 a
farmer of 17. There were three children.
Six years later she went through the
form of marriage with another man, and
they went to live with the husband and
the children as a married couple. A dis-
pute arose, and No. 2 reported the lady
to the police, a charge of bigamy being
instituted. Released on a bond, she went
back to No. 1, whom in process of time
she presented with a fifth child, having
had the fourth to No. 2. At 26 she
brought home a new young man and
introduced her husband as her brother-in-
law and her children as her sister’s. After
a few weeks the legal husband was told
that his wife and the new friend pro-
posed to marry, and he carried their lug-
gage to the station and saw them off to
Melbourne. After the bigamous nuptials
“wife” and “husband” returned to the
legal household, but another child was
on the point of arriving, and a dispute
arose between No. 1 and No. 3 which
led to the second bigamy being reported
by No. 1. Counsel said the woman was
an epileptic and at times believed that her
mother was her sister. Sentence deferred
till May 17 ; meanwhile release on bond.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The other day
three peacocks were offered for sale in
Sydney and at £2 there were no buyers.
At least five times that amount for a
single male bird would have been con-
sidered cheap formerly; but dealers
are not paying money for outdated pets
as grand ornaments that nobody wants
any more. The disappearance of houses
with really spacious grounds seems to
have brought about the change.
* * * *
“F.S.”: When there was a distinct pos-
sibility of air raids 60 of the most
famous pictures in Melbourne’s art gal-
lery were removed to the country. The
canvases included Hans Memling’s
“Pieta,” the Flemish triptych, and the
fifteenth-century “Descent from the
Cross” of an unknown Flanders artist.
Now they are to be hung on the gallery’s
walls again to show visitors Melbourne’s
treasures of culture. One may be recog-
nised as an old acquaintance by some of
the visitors. It is the £32,000 Van Eyck
“Madonna and Child” which went to the
New York Fair in 1939 and was left
there during the early stages of the
Japanese swarming.
“Chev”: Victorian Nat. Gallery trus-
tees have decided to abandon the annual
exhibition of new work by Australian
artists, to which handsome money prizes
used to be appended. One of the reasons
for the decision is said to be that so
■ many artists are with the Army, the Navy
and the Air Force. So they are ; but
a recent exhibition in Melbourne of pic-
tures and even sculpture by men and
women of the fighting services showed
that at least the younger generation
hadn’t made the war the excuse for giving
up their painting ; it had rather acted as
a stimulus.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I wonder how much Mr.
Churchill’s belief in his mission contri-
buted to his recovery from what turned
out to be serious pneumonia and how
much must be credited to the magical
M. and B. tablets. Possibly fifty-fifty,
but at 68 pneumonia used to be regarded
as a dangerous disease and recovery in
five days would have been considered
almost miraculous. Still, Titian recovered
from the plague when he was over 90
and continued to paint, though his mind
was so weakened that his artist’s instinct
was satisfied when his friends gave him
a bucket of whitewash and a brush and
allowed him to splash it around his
studio. Gandhi, five years older than the
Prime Minister, was, at time of writing.
"What's wrong with you? When I give the order I want to hear
your heels click ."
coming up the straight in fine style
in his 21 days’ race with death
by starvation. It may be argued that
what keeps him alive is his dream ot
giving the world an example by gaming
independence for India by non-resistance.
On the other hand, unbeknownst to the
Mahatma, kindly friends could easily slip
into the limejuice he allows himself a
pound of sausages or a beefsteak in the
form of a vitamin pill, or even an M. and
B. tablet. One of these days some char-
latan will rig up a fast in this way and
be discovered, and fasting as a political
weapon will be permanently discredited.
* * * *
“Theo D. Lite”; The relatively short
distance to the horizon has saved many
ships from observation by U-boats, but
has been the cause of many derelict
crews not being seen. The sea vanishes
where the eyeline strikes the curved sur-
face at a tangent, the distance in miles
being one and a quarter times the square
root of the height in feet of the observer’s
eye above water. A man standing on
the seat of a lifeboat would see a little
over three miles, whereas the captain on
the bridge of an Atlantic liner would
see only a dozen miles. Diesel-powered
ships that leave no betraying plume of
smoke would be out of sight of a sub.
at 12 to 15 miles, depending on size. It
is only when great height is reached that
the horizon stretches away beyond the
limits of vision. At 10,000 feet it recedes
to 125 miles and at 50,000 feet the edge
is nearly 300 miles away. A single sub.
looking for a ship east of Australia would
have about the same chance of seeing it
as any of Sydney’s optimists have of
winning the lottery. On the other hand,
a ’plane looking for a ship in the same
waters would have about the same chance
as you or I would of landing a fiver.
* * * *
“Sea Salt”: When sinkings of Japanese
ships are reported I wonder whether the
Kalgoorlie is listed on Davy Jones’s regis-
ter. Christened at launching Glenfruin
and used awhile on passenger and mail
services around the Thames, she was
bought by Mcllwraith-McEacharn, fitted
with refrigeration machinery and fittings
from the Orient liner Chimborazo and
renamed Kalgoorlie. She made her first
Australian trip on June 1, 1897. After
about a dozen years of service and buffet-
ing, the ship was bought for a coal hulk
and found moorings at Singapore. Re-
fitted with boilers from the Norwegian
steamer Oscar II and renamed Hong
Hwa, she was next on the Rangoon-
Malaya-China service, survived many
bandit episodes and typhoons and never
started a rivet. Then she was bought by
a Japanese co. in December, 1933, and
was last heard of at Osaka in January,
1934. Her record is a tribute to the
honesty of British shipbuilders.
* * * *
“K.”: Hollywood’s historicides have
done many dreadful things to the storied
past. The Tudor sovereigns have suffered
at their hands (attempts were even made
to glamorise Elizabeth), while things attri-
buted to Nelson must have made that
doughty sailor kick holes in his coffin. Few
of those who have portrayed in celluloid
the French scene in the Revolution days
seem to have any acquaintance with the
works of Carlyle and other historians of
the period. And, most blatantly, some of
the worst blunders have been made on
the home front in movies about the U.S.
Civil War. All this as a prelude to
praise for a most notable exception.
The people responsible for everything
historical that went into the making of
“Gone with the Wind” deserve a cheer.
War facts, costumes and a host of other
details appear, under a second inspection
of that marathon film, to be well-nigh
faultless.
* * * *
“Loo”: He was walking along the city
street. The weather was warm, his nose
was red, and he looked both thirsty and
desperate. A sad-faced man stepped in
front of him, thrust a tract into his hand
and whispered “Friend, all is not lost;
you may still be saved!” “Too right I
may,” cried* the man joyously. “I thought
I’d pawned everything, but that reminds
me —I’ve still got me brother-in-law’s
overcoat!”
* # * *
“L.L.”; Spotlight on the beneficent
effects of the war-time liquor restrictions
in Melbourne, which the wowsers con-
fidently expected would lead to a reduc-
tion in the absorption of strong waters.
A man compelled by chance to have a
Jimmie Woodser breasted the bar and
asked for a handle. “What! Only one?”
exclaimed the astonished barmaid.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: The information conveyed
to me by my favorite newspaper strategist
that Adolf of Munich has urgently sent
his “crack JSger Corps reserved for
use in desperate situations” to Orel to
save his army reminds me that Britain
once had some crack Jdger among her
hired Hessians. Unlike the modern crack
ones, who, despite the strategist, were
formed into motor-cycle police in 1935,
the old breed were distinguished for their
weapons and their owner. They were
armed with a long rifle which was loaded
by hammering the bullet down the barrel
with the help of a mallet and a rammer.
As,they were forward troops, and had
to stand up during the loading operation,
and as they got off about four shots an
hour,, they needed to be men of stout
heart. But they were probably given
courage by the knowledge that their
hirers, the Landgraves of Hesse-Cassel,
thought nothing of producing a Hessian.
Frederick VIII boasted 100 children, for
each of whom he provided a competence
by levying a salt tax on his subjects. I
regret to say that his son, who set out
to beat the old man’s record, dropped
dead in the straight with only 94 to his
credit. Which was very sad —especially
for a devoted Fraulein who boasted that,
without a license, she shared the respon-
sibility for 24 with him, “all,” as she
plaintively remarked, “produced without
love.”
« * * $
“D.E.”: Blurbs and postscripts ex-
cluded, A.B.C.’s Red Army Day rhap-
sodies (B. 3/ 3 / ’43) were spread over
three (3) days. The stuff became so
dreary that a forcible-feeble Fadden
speech on the Militia Hopscotch sub-
ject came as a pleasant interruption,
especially as there was an unrehearsed
effect wholly in character. Obviously
reading from a script, Artie made three
stabs at “uncompromising” and then
put the accent on the wrong syllable.
Uncompromising is what Artie never is,
so no wonder he couldn’t get his tongue
round the word.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A newly recruited flapper
was struggling with a mass of correspon-
dence in one of those multitudinous de-
partments in Melbourne when the boss,
one of the old-style civil servants, came
along. “Ah, Miss X,” he said, “you’re
doing very nicely.” “Thanks, sir,” said
the damsel. “I thought I could cope with
it.” “Quite so,” said the high official,
“and, of course, it’s not a man’s job.”
“Maybe not, but my two predecessors
were supposed to be men,” retorted the
damsel.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” purveys some geographi-
cal history;
Mr. Curtin isn’t the first statesman in his-
tory to use invisible geographical distinctions
as legal limits to expansion. When Columbus
returned in 1493 with news of a vast field ot
exploitation for Spain in the West, Portugal
became alarmed at the prospect of its powerful
neighbor trading in its own particular preserve,
the extreme east of Asia. There was a long
dispute, and eventually the two parties agreeci
to apply to Pope Alexander VI for a ruling.
His Holiness issued Bulls granting Portugal
the right to make discoveries east of a meridian
passing down the North Atlantic and Spain a
similar right west of the same line. By a subse-
quent treaty the two Powers agreed upon a
meridian 370 leagues west of the Azores. Un-
fortunately, subsequent Portuguese and Spanish
Governments got it into their heads that the
Pope’s comprehensive decision had given them
a prescriptive right over lands which their
subjects had not occupied and never did occupy
and over people they had never seen. When
France, Holland and England began to poke
prows into these arbitrarily-closed waters the
alleged owners had no compunction about
executing such seamen as they caught. What
made matters more confusing was that at that
time the only method of calculating longitude
Was by dead-reckoning, so that when Cabot dis-
covered the fisheries of Newfoundland Portugal
vigorously objected, although Newfoundland was
well outside its alleged jurisdiction. Timor,
Goa, in India, and Macao, in China, were the
only remnants of the Portuguese Empire which
persisted into the twentieth century, and with
the Philippines went all that had remained to
Spain of the vast realm that Pope Alexander
bequeathed to the hidalgos.
* * * *
“Pawang”; The sedative effect of col-
lecting, classifying and “listening” to sea-
shells on shell-shock patients reported by
a Maoriland psychiatrist (B. 17/2/’43)
is probably due to the influence of early
associations. Most children have played
on a sea-beach and listened to “the
roar of the breakers” in shells.
Indulging in pleasant associations adts
like an anaesthetic and could make
a shell-shocked patient momentarily lose
his anxious feelings without, of course,
getting to the roots of the trouble. Dur-
ing the 1914-18 war Freud was credited
with curing shell-shocked Austrian sol-
diers by showing them the nature of their
conflict. They believed that they should
act like heroes in the front line, but
felt a natural terror. As a result of this
mental conflict they became paralysed
and helpless and were sent to the back
lines, which was what they unconsciously
wanted. But as the curing of their con-
flict (and its resultant paralysis) would
mean return to the army, Freud s treat-
ment sometimes produced much more
frightful manifestations than the original
sickness.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: In one of his recent
essays Professor Walter Murdoch
claimed that “Australia is too vast for a
man to hold in his heart,” though Mur-
doch himself seems to hold it pretty well.
His theme was that every man is pro-
vincial, that his love of country amounts
to love of the spot where he was
born and bred, the people he grew
up with, met on the street every
day. Well, it may be true of the
town class and the rooted farmer,
but what of the nomads, the men
who’ve tramped and worked and
starved and fought over the length
and breadth of the land? What of
the native-born poets? These had
no love for a single spot; in their
hearts was the great brown land,
drenched in sun, from ocean to
ocean, and the air free and the track
free and a man free to go or stop as
he pleased. Most of the nomads left their
birthplaces at an early age ; few of them
ever stayed in one place more than a few
months. I’ve seen them on a job, seen the
sudden faraway look come in their eyes,
and heard them say “Aw, well, reckon
I’ll snatch me time an’ make f’r Echuca”
or The Burra or The Hill or anywhere
else. If you were one of them you’d
meet them anywhere, in a Murray bend,
on a Gippsland track, camped between
Inverell and Glen Innes, out at Eudunda
or heading for The Alice or trying to
jump the rattler to Kalgoorlie or sitting
well-dressed and cashed up in the saloon
bar of a big city pub. To these men the
sky is their roof, the earth their floor,
the movable horizon their walls, and they
live in and love Australia ; and, because it
is so big and they love it, so they must
keep moving so as to keep an eye on all
of it.
• * * *
“Sailor Bill”: With the rainy season
under way, the sloppy ground in our
stableyard is alive with pink earthworms,
long and thick as quarter-grown snakes.
Matter of my neighbor won’t touch
’em because he’s sure that’s what they
are. The kookaburra stabs the soft
ground until he exposes the end of a
long worm with his bill. He then grabs
hold of the portion and pulls on it.
After he has been digging his toes in
for half an hour or more the worm gener-
ally wriggles backwards out of its burrow.
As soon as it is out, one of the lucky
Jack’s fellow-hunters grabs the other
end, and both feathered friends take off
in opposite directions with between two
and three feet of worm between them.
What follows is both noisy and comical,
especially if a third Jack grabs the bone
of contention in the middle. All of
which is to enlighten those Aboliars who
have expressed unbelief about kooka-
burras dragging worms out of sloppy,
unturned ground.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Reference to Victoria’s
Black Friday (B. 17/2/’43) recalls an
incident on Black Saturday in N.S.W.
(which, if my memory is correct, oc-
curred on Jan. 14, 1939 —the day follow-
ing Victoria’s conflagration). On that
morning my neighbor spent two vain and
profane hours trying to persuade his
tractor to roll out of the shed under its
own power. Then came the fire, and
more important things claimed his atten-
tion. About midday a wind-borne spark
fell in the dry kangaroo grass covering
the home paddock. A small shed went
up in a twinkling ; the washing on the
line vanished, leaving only the charred
stubs of pegs, and the next minute the
big shed was alight. Down the paddock
came dashing the eldest son, yelling
something about saving the tractor. “It’s
no use! ” roared the father in panic ; but
the youth had gone, A minute later the
tractor chugged out, rolled to safety and
stalled—just as the shed fell in! The
logical explanation of course is that the
heat warmed the engine ; but at the time
it seemed little short of a miracle,
especially as the machine refused to budge
another inch until a mechanic had spent
an hour on it.
* * # *
“B. 4”: Can support “Basalt” (B.
17/2/’43) re the spotted sambhur estab-
lished now at Maryvale station, N.Q.
For years one of these creatures —a doe
—lived in captivity at Lissner Park,
Charters Towers. It was very docile,
and about the size of a yearling Jersey,
Once when wallarooing I disturbed a
herd camped in a black ti-tree scrub bor-
"How the ’ell do I know where your mumma is ?”
dering a deep, narrow creek. Disdaining
to scramble down the banks to escape as
cattle would, these sambhur cleared the
creek with magnificent bounds which held
me in such astonished admiration that I
forgot the primal urge of the hunter as
I watched those flashing bodies. The
vision was but momentary, as their speed
matched their agility.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “I sent the new
hand out to bring in a couple of heifers
from the back paddock,” said Dad Spear-
grass, “and as he wasn’t back by dinner-
time I went out to see what’s delaying
him. I found him down at the far end
of the paddock stretched head downward
at the spring where the stock water. He
wasn’t drinking and he certainly wasn’t
sleeping—just lying there with his head
up gazing straight in front of him, and
he didn’t answer or move when I called.
When I got close up I saw that he’s star-
ing at a big black snake that’s stretched
in the sedge-grass about a foot from his
nose. I grabbed a length of deadwood
that happens to be handy. Then I took
a second look at the snake and bent
down and shook the hand. He seemed a
bit dazed, but after a while he pulled
himself together and told me that he’d
been having a drink and when he lifted
his head there’s the snake glaring at him.
He’s too scared to bat an eyelid or do
anything but stare back at the snake, and
after a bit a queer, paralysed feeling
comes over him and he wasn’t sure what
had happened until I roused him. Well,
I’ve often heard of snakes mesmerising
birds and even people, but it’s the first
time I’d heard of a dead reptile being
able to do it!”
“Loc”: Grinning from ear to ear, Bert
dragged the apparently lifeless brown
snake up to the kitchen door, saw that
the coast was clear and dumped his
burden on the table. Hearing female
footsteps approaching, he bolted. There
followed the noise of an egg-beater in
action, and after a couple of seconds
this gave way to a throaty scream. This
was expected, and Bert strolled into the
kitchen to find the missus out cold and
four feet of very lively Joe coiled in . the
pudding-bowl sampling its contents. At
first Bert nearly adopted his wife’s pro-
cedure, but thought better of it, and
settled both snake and duff with boiling
water.
* * * *
“Flying Fox”; “No. 1 Bench” (B.
17/2/’43) reminds me of a C.Q.
township built before the advent of
sheet-iron roofing. All the dwell-
ings were shingle-roof, the timber
used being what the residents termed
river-oak. These shingles neither
warped nor buckled, but lay like the
carapace of a tortoise. As the trickle
which supplied water dried up, the resi-
dents were obliged to resort to the un-
sightly iron roofs to provide tank water.
The casuals merely nailed the sheets to
the shingles, and thus secured a double
roof of remarkable coolness, whilst those
who discarded the shingles sweltered
under a canopy that would grill a chop.
The bark of this river-oak was used to
tan hides into a soft and durable leather
for hobbles and whips, of much better
quality than that produced by kino from
the gums. Maybe this timber is identi-
cal with that of the she-oak of which
“No. 1 Bench” writes.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: In abo. place-names the ulti-
mate syllable has always been of the
same importance as “kov,” “grad,”
“burg,” “heim,” “ham” and “Chester” are
in Europe. Simply, our Eastern tribes
within a certain range found “bone” a
suitable place-ending, and were fond of
consonants anyway, as in that difficult
mouthful Gelumgambone. S.A. dialects
were softer, more musical. Close to-
gether below Adelaide are Aldinga and
Willunga and Noarlunga, with the Onka-
paringa flowing past. Reynell, founding
a family and a vineyard, fitted in neatly
with Reynella. But Angas was uncom-
promisingly British with Angaston ; Mor-
phett Frenchified with “ville”; Stirling
and Hawker and Melrose thought the
plain family name good enough for a
town. Further south are the pleasant-
sounding Kangarilla and Yankalilla ; up
north a whole bunch of towns ending in
“owie.” A musical dialect altogether.
“Mac Fergus”: Those industrious col-
lectors of Boong place-names have left
out the daddy of the lot—Boomoonoo-
moonoomoona. North-east Victoria
claims and prizes it.
* * » m
“Wang”; Dad, entering the kitchen
about 10 p.m., paused and stood listen-
ing to doleful sounds coming from the
next room. “What the devil’s that?” he
asked. “It’s Dave,” replied Mum. “He’s
in a terrible state. That girl stayin’ at
Brown’s has turned him down an’
he’s taken it bad.” Dad’s eyes glistened.
“Well, he ain’t goin’ t’ inflict his damn’
misery on us,” he said, and he opened the
door of Dave’s room and strode in. Dave
was in bed, an'd as Dad entered delivered
himself of an extra mournful rumble.
“Here! What the hell’s this row fer?” de-
manded Dad sternly. “Go away an’ leave
me alone,” moaned Dave. “I’m feelin’
crook. I can’t even smoke.” His pipe and
tobacco were on a chair beside his bed.
For a moment Dad was inclined to be-
lieve that Dave was suffering from some-
thing else than unrequited love, as he was
a heavy smoker; but his heir’s next
words altered his opinion. “Don’t stand
there watchin’ me in me mis’ry,” wailed
Dave ; “I’m explorin’ the valley of de-
spair.” “Cripes! Are y’?” scoffed Dad.
“An’ that’s why y’re not smokin’, I s’pose.
’Fraid of settin’ fire to the undergrowth
there. Well, y’d better stop that whin-
gin’ an’ save y’r breath so’s y’ll be able
t climb outa that there valley easy an’ be
home in time t’ start work in the morn-
in’ ” and he walked back into the kitchen.
“He’s doin’ a bit of explorin’,” he told
Mum, grinning, “in some valley he’s dis-
covered, an’ if y’ hear him movin’ about
in the night y’ know he’s returned from
it an is doin’ a bit more in his room —
for these.” And he put Dave’s pipe and
tobacco on the mantelpiece.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Old Grumpy Wattlebark
was each year elected president of the
Wombat Gully Cricket Club, not because of
popularity and enthusiasm for the game,
but because he owned the only piece of
ground in the district suitable for cricket
purposes. But diplomatic kidding had
convinced Grumpy that he was honored
with the choice because of his vast cricket
knowledge, and he was wont to blow out
his bags accordingly. His chief argu-
ment was that the game had deteriorated
since his young days. “What I say is,”
he remarked one day, “the young fellers
playin’ cricket today is mollycoddled
too much ; they want this an’ they must
have that, or they can’t play prop’ly.
When I was a young feller we useter
play with a karraseen-tin fer a wicket an’
beer-barrel staves fer bats, an’ I’ve seen
half a dozen of us in our team knock up
a hundred each of an afternoon.” “Well,
that ain’t much t’ skite about,” scoffed
one of his audience. “Oh, ain’t it?”
snapped old Grumpy. “Well, let me tell
you, young feller, that before any of us
could get a stave fer a bat we had first
t’ empty that barrel!”
* * * *
“Boxer”: There are still fast shearers
m the back country. One of them ic
“Puddin’ ” Currans, of Hermidale, Cobar
(N.S.W.), who has been known to barber
an extra large wether while a match
burnt out—and that is well under
three-quarters of a minute. Also, for a
wager he shore a lamb in thirty-two
blows in thirty-four seconds! And in that
sub-standard rainfall district of the mid-
west sheep are sheep—they’ve got to be
big to survive.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: No need for “Teepee
Ck.” (B. 24/2/’43) to worry about the
alleged destruction of Pinus insignis
seeds by black cockatoos. Any quan-
tity of the cones, with plenty of seeds
therein, can be obtained in coastal dis-
tricts of N.S.W. where the locals would
hardly recognise a black cockatoo if they
saw one. This pine has long been used
as a breakwind, so the supply of trees is
ample. Incidentally, the name insignis,
given it in 1833 by the plant collector
Douglas, is not now used ; the correct
name of this pine is radiata ; the common
name, Monterey pine. Forestry people
are not enthusiastic about radiata these
days. Certainly it is a fast grower and is
a soft wood, but nobody seems to have
discovered its usefulness for anything but
packing-cases, and not very good ones at
that. However, the shortage of material
for cases is so acute these days that box
factories can find a market for anything.
* sfc * *
“J. Hutt”: Those Timor ponies (B.
3/2/’43) ranked as favorite stock imports
to early W.A. They were in most of the
races at Swan River’s first meeting, held
at Woodman’s Point in 1834. As racing
mounts they were hardly a success, being
too easily frightened by the crowd and
so liable to bolt. But for many years
they were largely used as hacks, being
handy for the dry sandy track which then
ran from Fremantle to Perth and on to
Guildford.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Padflogger’s” Jacky Tacky (B.
17/2/’43) was merely a tyro in extract-
ing hilarity from a sticky soojee sugar-
bag when compared with the technique
adopted by Tommy Tanna in the days
when the Kanaka swotted in the sugar
fields. These boys would arrange with
their boss to go “walkabout” of a Sun-
day, selecting for a meeting-place a
secluded and scrubby spot on our sec-
tion of the creek. Our boys borrowed the
big tub “to do washem.” The tub was
well filled and the bags garnered, well
soaked and swished around. Into the
tub went a couple of bottles of metho,
then two of sauce, two of condensed
milk and a bottle of yeast donated by
Mum. While the ambrosia was being
stirred the kai-kai, a couple of pigs
pinched from the butcher, sweet-bucks
and loaves of bread were spread on the
bags. The head serang then ladled out
the delicious brew with a 21b. jamtin, the
recipients downing their issue without a
break for breath. After a couple of
rounds the porker was stabbed, to an
accompaniment of grunts and squeals.
The subsequent riotous proceedings were
rounded off with a complete anti-climax.
Mouth organs, jew’s-harps and hymn-
books were produced and mission hymns
roared out with such fervor that a visi-
tor might well believe he’d stumbled on
a truly devout assembly.
THE COMMON FATE.
The air is soft and peaceful after rain,
The crickets sing in the dead grass near and
far;
And what have they and I to do with war,
And fear, and death, and pain?
After the taut dry day has come release:
The grass breathes perfume, honey-sweet and
wild.
The crickets sang like this when I was a
child;
They sing of love and peace.
Sweet unreality!—The western sky
Is redly streaked with blood; and now I hear,
Far off, a rabbit's sudden cry of fear,
One more about to die.
And, deep in grass, insect on insect preys;
The owl and fox glide swiftly to the kill;
And the eternal strife goes on. Yet cool and
still
The evening sleeps. I raise
My eyes to the first star glpwing in the east.
So calm it looks, so beautiful, from here!
Yet see its roaring, leaping flames brought
near—
Fierce as a ravening beast.
The star appears. And that far-distant sea
Shining along the horizon’s silver rim,
Beneath its surface what fierce shapes, what
grim
And brute ferocity!
No longer strange, since life and strife are one,
No madness seems this human struggle, then —
But common fate, from flies and mice and
men
fo the far turbulent sun.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


“.... keeping both eyes on the target and maintaining a firm, steady
pressure."
“Boxer”: “Gab’s” water-divining
steer (B. 20/1/’43) never suffered from
the “influence” as did my burr-cutter
“Ratbag” Chandler. While passing over
a stream of water or anywhere within
the “zone of influence” it was suicidal
for “Ratbag” to carry an axe, hoe or
shovel. His collarbone was broken while
he was carrying a pick over a bridge. The
shafts of his sulky snapped while driving
over a subterannean stream. His peculiar
gift proved fatal. Writing out a cheque
one day at the pub, his pen turned
in his hand and pointed straight at the
whisky bottle on the shelf. Bung killed
him that night for daring to expose how
he was diluting his grog.
* * * *
“Bo”: In all the country pubs, farm-
houses and other bucolic establishments
in which my being has reposed I have
never known a fire to be poked with a
poker. Conflagration - stirrers have
ranged from old bed-posts and broken
plough-handles to disused walking-sticks
and lengths of No. 8 fencing-wire. Put
up at a small hostelry out from Stan-
thorpe (s.-e. Q.) one winter night and one
of the solo school, a commercial new to
the*fun, got up to liven up the fire. He
grabbed the old gun-barrel which did
service as a poker and pushed the nipple
end in the flames. There was a loud ex-
plosion, and we eventually put the com-
mercial’s clobber out with a soda siphon.
The publican told us the barrel had been
used as a poker for fifteen years or so.
It was the casual-Aussie attitude again
—nobody had ever thought to see if it
was loaded.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: A character who will
not fade from the old Murray tales is
the long-dead “King” Carter. Sergeant
of police at Mildura in the teens of this
century, he was known up and down
the river and respected by all sorts,
both for his firmness and sense of a fair
go. A big man with a huge walrus
moustache, he had a way of dealing with
rebellious offenders. “If it wasn’t f’r y’r
uniform I’d go y’,” suited the “King.”
“Ri-buck,” he’d say, “come over here
an > sbed tbe un if or m. You beat me
an’ Y* can go. If I beat you I run you
in.” Some took him on, and he always
stuck to his word. He never mentioned
the fl„ b t wb en the offender came before
the Beak. Mildura was a wild place in
those days, since all the western shearers
used to congregate there from the cut-
outs and the river boats made it a ter-
. , T * u
minal port. It would have darned
sight wilder without its “King.
* * * *
“Loc”: With a doubtful eye Harry
looked at the mess of feathers and hooks
that the swaggie had the hide to call a
“lure.” “And you want five bob tor
flfl s flamin’ thing! Anyway, does it
work?” “My oath it works!” boomed
. , f
the decrepit lure-manufacturer. Why,
only last week I had it in me pocket and
wen t into the store. After a bit I heard
a sort «£ rumblin’ behind me At first
I took no notice, but it kept gettin
louder, an’, s’welp me, when I turned
round every bloomin’ tin of sardines in
the place was followin’ me round!”
* „ * ,*
Hdjudinci i Australia, nowadays can
afford to ignore the camel, but what a
marve j 0 f economy the oont was in its
time! With no more than an odd gallon
of water now and then it could stride tms
continent from end to end. The teamster
was always in a worry about feed ; the
withered grass of the desert might keep
a borse going for a time, but chaff and
oa { S were necessary to maintain condi-
flon and strength. The camel—one just
bobb i ed j t out, for the Australian
desert was a veritable larder for it—
acac j a (mulga), quandong, kurrajong,
mustard busb . The camel ate this last
f odder voraciously, though dreadful was
the a f ter math when the gorged oont
brea thed on its owner. But quandong
was tbe f avo rite ; the whole of its ver-
dure went—leaves, tender twigs, fruit,
stones and a fl There were plenty of
po : son W eeds around, too, but the camel
soon i earned to leave them alone. Nor
could we ever get it to take on the euca-
lypt, though, when very hungry, it would
njbble at the green twig-tips that the
carries even in the hardest desert,
* * *
“D. Bunker”: Being a competent boiler
firemanl am much intrigued by _ the oft-
repeated statement descnfemgthe sinking
™ fliata st^m
sure . nse £ 1° a P IV 1 , g .
marine boiler it may be 500 pounds
allow the steam to ««pe. Aim■ ebmnat-
mg the possibility o • &
U .P- Jbe second tact was that steam m-
side the boiler is gen i n .
bustion of fuel insi e •
versely, by deluging
water combustion ceased, and with it the
further generation of steam ipside the
boiler. And that is what happens when,
as a ship sinks, water floods into the hre-
boxes and puts the fires out. How such
extinguishing is going to generate such
terrific steam pressure that the safety
valves will bet unable to discharge it fast
enough and the steel plates of the boilei
will be rent apart well, I leave it to
the newspaper boys. When a ship smks at
an acute angle, stem or stern, the boilers
will tear from their beds, smashing
through bulkheads, so that later salvage
work is rendered difficult.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That suggestion that the
term “cocky” was given to small farmers
because of a type of fence (B. 3/ 3 / ’43)
is a new one on me. I saw the Victorian
Mallee opened up and I’m satisfied that’s
where the term originated, but I have
two versions of its origin. One is that,
when the first hay appeared in the cleared
Mallee and the white cockatoos swarmed
down from the Murray country after the
grain, and you could see a paddock liter-
ally snowed under with them, it was a
common thing to say “Old Mac’s got a
fine crop of cockatoos there.” Hence
Mac and his contemporaries came to be
called cockatoo farmers or cockies. The
other version is that a choleric old
squatter, seeing the land being cut up for
settlers, loudly complained about these
“damned fellers settlin’ on the land like
a flock o’ cockatoos.” In Victoria the
term spread, and it became necessary to
label farmers, hence wheat-cocky, cow-
cocky, fruit-cocky and Collins-street-
cocky. Seasonal workers accepted it.
You’d meet a mate, ask where he’d been
and he told “mallee-cockyin’,” or “cow-
cockyin’,” and so on.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; A stock-and-station
agent in the town put us on to a job
scrub-cutting. He said the owner was
away and he was handling the business.
The price was right and he carted us and
our dunnage out, we made a camp, got a
week’s tucker on the strength of it and
hopped in. The job went well until we’d
been there about 10 days, when a car
heaved in sight and out got a large and
capable woman, who strode over and
greeted us with “How’s it going, boys?”
We grinned bashfully and said it was all
right, then looked at each other as she
strode round eyeing off the scrub and
making comments. After a bit she came
back and said “Well, everything seems
all right. Anything you want?” Where-
upon Mat said “Look, missus, what’s the
strong of you?” She smiled benevolently
and said “Oh, I happen to own this
place.” Mat flung down his axe.
“Measure up the job.” he said; “I’m
snatchin’ it. Never worked for a woman
an’ ain’t startin’ now.” Concerned, she
tried to break him down. “It’s no good,
missus. Y’ might be a good boss an’ all
that, but I’m not workin’ for any woman.
It’ll be time enough f’r that if I ever get
married.” Next day we were heading
north, looking for work under a man
boss.
* * * *
“Zake”: Johnny the Drip, whose
ancient grid had carried himself and
knot around for years, parked his iron
steed outside the store at Buggywhip
while he went in on the bite. On emerg-
ing, his bike was gone and, all efforts to
trace it proving of no avail, he eventually
moved on per boot. Three years later
he was back in the hamlet, and the first
thing that caught his eye as he came up
the only street was his grid leaning
against the post of the store, still with
his “drum” tied across the handlebars
just as he had left it. As he was gaz-
ing at it in amazement the storekeeper
came out. “Hey, y’ better leave that
alone,” he adjured. “Cove who owns it
went real crook when it disappeared be-
fore, and if he comes back and finds it
gone again there’ll be hell to pay. Just
leave it where it is.”
* * * *
“Propalong”: Old Charlie, who keeps
the water up to 2000 sheep and 70 head
of cattle, had been in the boss’s bad
books for some time, so when the latter,
driving out in an old-man duststorm,
found sheep hanging on an empty trough
he headed the car through the whirling
red sand towards Charlie’s hut. Pulling up
within ten yards of the dimly-seen' hut
door, the car was immediately charged
by a bullock. The boss’s frenzied punch
at the horn-button brought Charlie to the
door, to be immediately charged by a
red ; and-white cow. “Pump’s broke
down,” he yelled, retiring immediately
as a poker-tailed bullock tore out of the
redness and went for him. Then the
boss became aware that the red sand
walls about him were frescoed dimly with
the shapes of angry bovines. So, revving
up the engine and blowing the horn, he
left old Charlie still marooned and went
off to gather reinforcements. And he’s
still wondering what would have hap-
pened if he’d left the car at the sheep
troughs and walked up to the hut.
* * * *
“Subcanem”: When Lawson can’t do
any better for a hound than describe it as
“thin, thieving and spidery,” it looks as
though there isn’t much to be said for it;
but whatever the greyhound’s faults it
is a quiet dog. It doesn’t run up and
down fences barking at other dogs or
yapping at passing humans or cars,
though built for car-chasing. Meet a
greyhound on the street as a stranger, and
speak to him, he will give a friendly wag
of his tail, and will pass on so pleased
that you will feel like a Boy Scout who
has done his day’s good deed. And in
the bush a dog that can provide the
camp with meats in 'any shape, from
rabbit to kangaroo, beats all your fancy
mongs.
* * * *
“Louden”: Dick the Doobite, with
a fair-sized cheque in his pocket, was
swagging it into town. At the five-mile
creek he came upon a town-bound horse
and sulky standing in 4ft. of water on
the flagged ford. In answer to his in-
quiry the sole occupant of the sulky, a
young woman, told him the horse was a
jib. With visions of a lift, Dick found
a stout stick and floated it to the driver,
at the same time telling her to use it
vigorously. This she did—without result.
Dick then bombarded the stubborn steed
with sticks, stones and clods of earth.
No good. He was leaning against the
footbridge handrail conning the position
when on to the bridge rolled “The
Barrel,” a bagman of lusty girth, travel-
ling away from town. With a “Wot s
goin’ on ’ere?” “The Barrel” stopped and
flopped against the handrail. Came
a sudden rending of timber, two mighty
splashes that startled the jib and caused
it to plunge out of the water and bolt,
and two totally-immersed swagmen, hav-
ing recovered their saturated luggage,
shuffled ashore. Then Dick caught sight
of the horse and sulky speeding towards
town and the fight started.
"Got him!"
MOONLIGHTERS.
On Queensland runs at full of moon down
valleys pearled with dew
They leave the homestead yards behind and
pass the wilgas through,
To win the longtailed scrubber bands who when
the sunset wanes
File silently from out the scrubs to graze upon
the plains.
It is the wisdom of the hills, the lore of scrubs
and plains,
That he who speeds through bush at night
must toy not with the reins;
And wizened stockmen teach new hands, for
life to all is sweet:
Who comes to grief where cattle rush must
fall upon his feet.
Their cropping on the feeding-grounds! The
lifting of their heads!
The sudden rush of cloven hoofs—the blur of
roans and reds!
And up the wing a shadow shape, dim as the
shadows are.
Cuts off the leaders ere they reach the fringe
of dark belar.
Perhaps a bough that bars the way looms
only as a smudge;
Perhaps he rides too fast a race, too fast for
eye to judge:
An empty saddle in the lead, a wing man takes
his place,
And onward up the scrub’s dark edge goes
on the midnight race.
Lucky is he who does not claim the brown
earth for a bride,
Who turns the lead on these wild nights where
only lionhearts ride.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
m
|¥)
| \ If I J
J Jr
40z., Boz.. 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
BRANDALERS
P
At*
do not experiment with imitations,
a beasdadbe a go, iab, bikmisoham. eso
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager wnnFF
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOhEfi,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEV.ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., Liu.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dorsels as Breeders.
“R. Ney”: Jim Daley and R. Eastoe,
who’ve been experimenting with them at
the Wagga farm stud, point out
that their average gestation period is 144
days, three fewer than the generally
accepted time.
Little work has been done on this sub-
ject as it affects sheep in Australia,
though Dr. R. B. Kelley’s C.S.I.R. bulle-
tin on fertility in sheep was a useful con-
tribution. Daley and Eastoe, over a period
of years dealing with controlled stud
matings, have observed lambs arriving
ahead of schedule and felt doubts as to
the accuracy of their breeding data.
Ewes for the experiment were selected
on quality, pedigree and past breeding
performances (maiden 1940 ewes excepted
on the last), and a carefully checked
record of the mating was made to the
morning or afternoon. The morning or
afternoon of birth was also recorded.
Throughout the tests the condition of
rams and ewes was kept up, and, though
there was a dry spell before and during
mating, the lamb crop was well up to
the mark.
In the 101 ewes of varying ages used,
the gestation period averaged 144.05
days, the variation between maximum
and minimum periods being 12 days, but
74.3 p.c. of the ewes varied from 142 to
145 days, 17.8 p.c. 146 to 149 and 7.9
p.c. fewer than 142 days. The ages of the
ewes had very little effect on the aver-
ages, and the belief that the period for
maiden and young ewes differs from that
for older ewes wasn’t borne out.
The incidence of multiple births was
watched, the Dorset ranking high for
prolificacy. The average of multiple
births in the group of ewes ranging up
to seven years old was 32.2 p.c. It was
shown pretty clearly that multiple births
came from ewes born in good seasons.
Ewes born in the flush 1939 season aver-
aged 59.2 p.c. multiple births, much
higher than those of any other age.
Maiden ewes aren’t likely to bear more
than one lamb in a season.
Dehorning.
“C. Punch”: Adult cattle won’t suf-
fer much from dehorning if the job is
done with proper equipment. The cutter
has to be heavy and sharp and the opera-
tor snappy. Given that, dehorning is not
as painful as, say, milking a cow with
sore teats.
Any drawbacks to dehorning will be
more than compensated by advantages.
In a dairy herd, good cows are often
badly injured by aggressive hornies, and
there is generally the bully that tries to
herd everything into a corner, causing
excitement that is followed by a drop in
milk flow. As for trucking horned beef
cattle to market, it’s a sure cause of
avoidable cruelty and loss.
The best dehorner, of course, is a
polled bull. A true poley will sire only
polled offspring when put to horned
cows because his poleyness is a geneti-
cally-dominant characteristic.
Short of a polled bull, start on the
calves, the younger the better. The best
time is up to five days old and not later
than ten days. Clip the hair away round
the horn bud for about a half inch and
smear the surrounding area with grease
or vaseline, making sure none gets on
the bud. Then moisten a stick of caus-
tic potash and rub it firmly on the horn
bud. Use paper for a holder and don’t
be silly enough to wet it with the tongue.
Keep the rubbing up for about a minute,
by which time a raw area will be pro-
duced. After that, watch the calf and,
if the horn makes any show of growth,
give it another go. You can overdo the
rubbing, causing a nasty wound and pain.
With station cattle have a dehorning
muster before the youngsters are five
months old and clip the horns with de-
horners. Use heavy instruments that
are massive and cut cleanly and quickly.
Keep them disinfected overnight and be-
tween animals. Don’t dress the wound
—a healthy blood-clot is the best —don’t
plug the horn cavity, don’t work in dusty
yards or in wet weather, don’t use
flimsy or blunt tools, and keep dehorned
calves away from horned cattle.
Barbed-wire Cuts.
“Will C.”; If a horse gets its legs
tangled in barbed wire, don’t startle it
“Plurry measles, orright. Better put him in spare room, Mary”
or talk noisily, but get someone to take
its head and soothe it while you untangle
the wire from around its legs, cutting the
wire where necessary.
With the nag freed, look to its wounds
and check heavy bleeding with cold water
or a fairly tight bandage. Get the
patient to a loose-box or stall before the
limb becomes stiff and painful. There, if
blood is still coming away, give the parts
another dose of cold water, the colder
the better, and see that all dirt is washed
away. Put a drop of lysol, Condy’s
crystals or similar antiseptic in the water.
Bandage with unbleached calico band-
ages, putting cotton-wool against the
skin.
It’s best to keep the horse in a yard
or loose-box until it can get around fairly
well. Then it can be turned out to graze
—a small level paddock is ideal —but
keep other nags away. The wounds
should be well washed with warm anti-
septic water at least twice a day and
carefully rebandaged. The bandages may
be covered with clean hessian to keep
them from getting dirty. The parts will
be swollen and sore for a few days, but
the main thing is to keep them free of
dirt and manure. If pus forms it must
be cleaned out. Syringing with hydrogen
peroxide is good. When the cuts aie
healing remove the bandages, but protect
the parts from infection by daily appli-
cations of pure kerosene.
Distemper in Dogs.
“Huxave”: The dog’s feverish from
the start, though his nose be cool and
moist. He goes off his food, is dull and
weak, and, if his appetite doesn’t fail,
may vomit the food. There’s a sticky
discharge from the eyes. At the crisis
the temperature may stay about 104 de-
grees for some days and the mucus from
the nose may be tinged with blood if the
lungs are affected.
Acute distemper is only one step this
side of pneumonia, and often only a vet.
can tell the difference. Main thing is to
house the dog comfortably and to keep
it warm. Rug in an all-over jacket that
protects neck and chest and leaves the
hind legs free. Plasters of antiphlogistine
help when breathing’s labored. Cut them
six to 12 inches square according to the
dog’s size, and place one each side of
the body above the elbow along the ribs.
Renew every 12 hours and have the
second lot ready to slip on before the old
ones are removed. If hard to get off
place the new ones over them. Long-
haired dogs will have to be clipped first.
Once a day clean out the mouth with
a weak solution of Condy’s or salt and
water, and the eyes with a weak mixture
of boracic and water. Remove mucus
from the nostrils with the end of a
match padded with cotton wool and
soaked in paraffin.
Warm milk, thin gruel or beef tea is
sufficient for a day or two. Vitamin D
Gluco keeps strength up ; use as directed.
When things look black, rum, whisky or
brandy in the proportion of one teaspoon
to two of water stimulates heart action.
Drinking water should be warm.
Vigorous exercise under a month can
bring about a bad relapse.
Coastal Winter Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”; Peas, cabbages, cauli-
flowers, carrots, parsnips, onions, turnips
and winter lettuce can take the place of
summer flush crops which are coming
to an end.
Proper rotation can be as good as fal-
low and where labor is scarce it helps in
keeping a smaller acreage under con-
tinuous cropping. One man, with a little
assistance at digging or pulling time, can
work a patch up to six acres profitably
by correct attention to crop needs and
succession. A good rotation can be cab-
bages or cauliflowers after beans ; par-
snips and carrots after lettuce; winter
lettuce after red beet, turnips following
tomatoes ; peas after lettuce, silver beet
or tomatoes ; onions after beans or beet.
There’ll be need for some manuring to
suit the new crops and preparation of
seedbed for those sown direct. All tile
leaf crops will benefit by a dressing of
blood-manure or No. 3 general fertiliser,
3cwt. to the acre, and as much farmyard,
poultry or dairy refuse as can be had.
The root crops need a fertiliser mixture
rich in super, and potash at the same rate
—No. 5 will do. No organic manures.
Deep and finely-broken soil for carrots
and parsnips. Rotary hoes can do it,
but on smaller areas the spade and fork
are best.
Where a spell of even two months can
be given, take the opportunity to sow
lupins or tares, and dig them in as a
green crop while still succulent, then have
cabbage (early types) or lettuce seedlings
ready to catch a spring crop.
There are odd frost-free patches along
the coast where a winter crop of both
tomatoes and beans will bear freely if
planted-out while the ground is still
warm. In that case it is a simple method
of transfer —beans follow tomatoes and
vice versa. Neither is susceptible to
diseases of the other. Make the soil up
with an average No. 3 dressing before
planting-out tomatoes and work m an-
other dusting along the rows as the first
fruit-clusters set.
Hints for the Farm.
“B”: Have the herd tested annually.
If a t.b. case turns up, remove it at
once, disinfect sheds and all feeding
utensils. Cowsheds that are well venti-
lated and well drained defeat bacteria.
Feeding high-producing cows well and
rugging them in cold weather are other
wise precautions. A calf reared in
healthy surroundings rarely develops
tubercular trouble.
“B.”: Watch the hooves of cattle in
dry weather. They get splintered on
hard ground and should be rasped back
to the right size. Stones, etc., that get
wedged in the cleft of the hoof dont
fall out as they do in wet weather and
lameness or inflammation will result.
“Alf”; Don’t mix superphosphate with
pasture seeds unless you’re ready to sow
straightway. In tests lucerne-seed
mixed with super, and left six days lost
over 20 p.c. in germination.
“Sailor Bill”: Fowl perches should be
painted with wood-preserving oil at regu-
lar intervals to keep parasites away.
Scaly leg in hens can be stopped if the
legs are well painted with wood-preserv-
ing oil. Work the oil beneath the scales.
One application will clear up mild cases,
but long - standing ones may require
several applications.
“H.0.L.”: Make a stock emulsion by
heating ilb. of hard soap, sliced into a
gallon of soft water, until it dissolves,
then take off the fire and stir in a gallon
of kerosene, mixing until you have a
white, creamy emulsion. For thrips
dilute with 14 parts of water to one of
emulsion, for fleas nine to one and for
fowl ticks and fowl mites four to one.
Dr. Evatt has been at some pains to
clear up the legal position of citrus-
growers under the Commonwealth acqui-
sition scheme:
No order or regulation can arbitrarily
fix the price without the grower’s consent.
The Commonwealth may fix a time limit
for lodging of claims anent prices to be
paid and establish “a just and equitable
method” of assessing them. The grower is
always at liberty to consent to both prices
and method; after doing so he cannot then
apply to the Courts for a review. Unless
there is an agreement the producer is not
bound by the price where his fruit is com-
pulsorily acquired under a Commonwealth
law or regulation.
Asked by McEwen to set out the legal
position of producers of other commodi-
ties under Commonwealth war-time con-
trol, Dr. Evatt promised to have it done.


rr
Si
m ■ ,
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for March or April, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Papua Lessons.
(From a report by N.Y. "Herald Tribune ”
correspondent Lewis B. Sebring.)
The campaign in Papua created several
important factors for the Allies which
will aid them in future operations. Some
of these factors include:
The development of a force of Ameri-
can and Australian officers and troops
trained in jungle war and alert to every
enemy trick. A corollary to this is a
growth of confidence among the troops,
who have found that the foe can be
beaten at his own game if proper tactics
and sufficient force are employed.
The perfection of a system of air trans-
port of men and supplies, which has
proved most important, and a better
understanding of air and ground co-
operation, both in the use of ’planes as
observation posts for directing ground
fire and in employment of them as a sub-
stitute for artillery through bombings of
enemy positions.
Greater appreciation of the value of
artillery, especially howitzers with a high
angle of fire, in jungle country where it
was thought formerly to be useless, and
the disclosure of the Japanese dislike for
the directness and power of high-explosive
artillery fire.
A practical application of health rules
which are essential in the tropics, such as
the necessity of maintaining proper diet,
including the use of salt tablets and vita-
min pills to make up for excessive per-
spiration and the lack of foods with
proper nutritive values.
A realisation that troops must be with-
drawn after brief front-line combat
periods because of the climate, which
exerts a gradual, sapping influence on
both physical and nervous systems, or,
putting it the other way around, the
necessity of sending in frequent, fresh
replacements.
Testing of equipment under most ardu-
ous conditions and discovery of flaws in
equipment, such as the need for leather
heels and sturdy hobnails in shoes to be
used in New Guinea mud instead of the
rubber heels and smooth leather soles
worn by the first American troops enter-
ing the zone.
The campaign showed also the neces-
sity of keeping all units in contact with
headquarters and for keeping the flanks
of adjoining units in touch with each
other so as to prevent any breaks in the
line facing an enemy.
The campaign won for the Allies
several valuable airdromes, which might
not have been developed were it not for
the incentive provided by the Japanese
invasion.
Difficulties in the Pacific.
(Condensed from a “Collier’s ” (U.S.A.) article
by W. B. Courtney.)
You can understand what’s going on
in the Pacific, appreciate why the prob-
lem here is different from that in Europe
or elsewhere, if you bear this simple
general picture in mind:
1. There are two enormous fronts, ours
and the Japs’, facing each other along a
line that stretches more than a third of
the way around the globe, drawn straight
down the middle of the Pacific Ocean,
from the Bering Sea and the Aleutians,
across the tropics, to the cold waters of
the Southern Ocean. Truly, global war.
• 2. The fantastic distances of the Pacific
Ocean work in favor of the Japs against
us. (a) The Japanese front is virtually
self-supporting, from within the mandate,
also from the tapping of comparatively
near-by sources —the Philippines, the
Indies, Japan itself, (b) The United States
front has to be supported from the North
American mainland, throwing an enor-
mous burden on shipping and upon
naval measures to protect that shipping
over thousands of miles of waste seas.
3. The myriad islands of the Pacific,
“anchored carriers,” provide the only
means by which air power of present
range and capacity can overcome the
frustration of the Pacific’s vast distances.
(a) All Pacific islands are not suitable
for air bases. That’s why Guadalcanal
is of supreme importance to us —for it’s
a very good air base, just outside the Jap
umbrella. ( b ) Unfortunately for our prob-
lems, most of the Pacific islands lie on
the Japanese side of the Pacific, while
oug side is practically islandless. For
example, it is more than 2000 miles of
the emptiest of seas from our mainland
to Hawaii, our primary base. On the
other side, 2000 miles from Japan will
take her anywhere under her umbrella,
past Truk, her primary base, to the useful
limits of her mandate.
That is the main canvas. It shows dis-
tances, strategy and islands fundamen-
tally entwined in the Pacific.
The basic U.S. lifeline to Australia,
down the Pacific, is more than 7000 miles.
It takes from eight to eleven tons of
shipping to send each fighting soldier and
his equipment to the field. Then it will
take two or more tons of stores and
materiel every month to keep him there.
At average convoy speeds, each round
trip, if regularly maintained, would take
ten to twelve weeks at best.
Yokohama to Truk is about 2000 miles.
The Japs, thus, on their lifeline, can make
almost four round trips to our one.
From Truk, Jap primary base, to the
scene of the fighting in the Solomons is
about 1000 miles direct over protected
waters, with good Jap bases intervening,
Rabaul, Kieta, Buka.
From Hawaii, our primary base, to the
scene of fighting in the Solomons is about
3500 miles direct. The U.S. cannot make
N.Y. “Daily Mirror."
THE WEB.
“If Japan can organise her present holdings and consolidate her
position, Japan-not Germany, not Britain, not Russia, not ourselves,
but Japan —could be the world's strangest Power.” —Last U.S.
Tokyo Ambassador J. C. Grew.
it straight. The Gilbert Islands inter-
vene, and they are Jap strongholds. We
must go round about, via the Fijis ; say
a good 4000 miles.
The romantic concept of an incredibly
vast concerted pincers offence by us in
the Pacific, with the Aleutians as one
jaw, Australia the other, and Hawaii in
the centre, the fulcrum that would crush
the upstart little cherry seed, is simply
beyond the shipping capacity of any
single modern nation.
Inevitably, this must break up into
many little pincers that will crunch bites
out of the Jap defences at vital places,
always snipping toward the heart.
It is now obvious beyond the point of
military secrecy that the Solomons are
one jaw and New Guinea the other jaw
of a pincers in which Rabaul —the big
Jap base on New Britain Island —can be
squashed. From Rabaul, we will be in a
position to bomb —with ’planes of suffi-
cient capacity now available —-Truk, the
Jap mandate heart, while we formulate
new pincer moves. But Rabaul must be
taken before we can get at Truk. Mean-
while, by holding Guadalcanal and Tulagi
only, we are far from practical conquest
of the Solomon Islands alone.
Washington on Skates.
(Washington correspondent, N.Y. "Daily
News.”)
The most graceful bit of thin-ice skat-
ing that has been turned in for a long
time is the work of the diplomatic edi-
tors who prepared the American White
Book and were suddenly confronted with
the fact that back in December of ’39
Russia invaded Finland.
Both White House and State Depart-
ment reflected the all-out sympathy for
Finland in those months. The President
called for a “moral embargo” on the
shipment of ’planes to Russia, and de-
clared that the war debt payment of faith-
ful little Finland—an instalment of
$234,693 —be set aside for the benefit of
its stricken civilian population. Under-
secretary of State Sumner Welles pro-
posed that the United States and 21 other
American republics join in a continental
declaration, denouncing Russia’s aggres-
sion.
Now the White Book just issued by
the State Department is presented as a
resume of U.S. foreign policy from ’3l
to ’4l. But when the editors reached
December, 1939, in their official chrono-
logy they were confronted with the facts
of war in Finland.
With Stalin now our hard-fighting pal,
that little affair with Finland seemed to
be a rather embarrassing topic to bring
up at this time. The boys pondered
and worried about the proper way to
phrase any accurate report of the
events.
They called for suggestions. Finally
one bright mind popped up with the
right answer:
“Just let’s make believe it never hap-
pened.”
And so the White Paper history of the
U.S.A.’s part in World War developments
neatly hurdles the Russian invasion of
Finland in December, ’39, by gracefully
leaping from the Pan-American confer-
ence in September to the President’s
address to Congress on Jan. 3, 1940.
In North Africa.
( Algiers correspondent, N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”)
Sights and sounds of the North Afri-
can campaign:
An Arkansas farm boy’s answer to my
question as to what he was going to do
after the war, “Just go back home and
watch things grow.”
The most fervent prayer I have ever
heard: “O God, if you can’t stop this
war, please stop the rain,” offered by a
drenched American lieutenant.
A mud-caked British dispatch rider,
who announced after vainly trying for
hours to get his motor-cycle started, “The
blasted blaster’s blasted!”
The argument between an American
tank officer and a Royal Air Force pilot
over which had the safer job. The Ameri-
can argued that only a direct hit would
injure a tank crew, whereas the R.A.F.
pilot said he was in physical danger for
only two seconds each time he flew.
An Arab who was willing to pay 100
francs for a pair of British Army shoes,
but who baulked at paying more than 300
for a wife.
The American artillery sergeant who
kept saying, while his gun was firing, “I
don’t know why I’m doing this. I’m
mad at nobody.”
Notable trends in the Algerian barter
market: One American cigarette was
worth three eggs six weeks ago ; now it
takes two cigarettes to get one egg. Vin
ordinaire has risen from one to seven
francs a bottle. Sucking pigs were 400
francs, and now cost 2500. Oranges
that were two francs a kilo are now
five francs fifty centimes. The native
“Murder, Inc.,” will eliminate a rival for
as little as 4000 francs, and cut one-third
off the price if the victim positively does
not carry a knife.
Pearl Harbor.
(Condensed from N.Y. "Daily News.”)
As early as Jan. 27, 1941, Ambassador
Grew reported from Tokyo that “one
of his diplomatic colleagues had told a
member of the embassy staff that theie
were reports from many sources, includ-
ing a Japanese source, that Japanese
military forces planned a surprise mass
attack at Pearl Harbor in case of
‘trouble’ with the United States.”
On Nov. 3, 1941, Grew warned that
war with Japan might be inevitable, and
on Nov. 17 he mentioned the Japanese
fondness, well known to the world since
the attack on Port Arthur in 1904, for
starting wars without warning. Secretary
of State Hull echoed these warnings. In-
structions to assume the alert were sent
to the Army and Navy commanders in
Hawaii, Lieut.-Gen. Walter C. Short
and Admiral Husband E. Kimmel.
The War Department, according to the
Owen J. Roberts report on Pearl Harbor,
should have been more insistent than it
was in its orders to Gen. Short. But
the main blame for the disaster appears
to fall on Short and Kimmel.
Theirs was a divided command. They
were barely speaking to each other, let
alone consulting constantly. Their con-
tempt for each other seems to have been
exceeded only by their contempt for their
respective air forces.
The approach of the Jap ’planes was
detected by a young non-com. who had
got permission to experiment with the
airplane detector system after it had
been turned off at 7 a.m. He heard a big
flight of ’planes at 7.02, reported it at
7.20 and was laughed off. At 7.55 the
Japs arrived, with an estimated 21 tor-
pedo ’planes, 48 dive-bombers, and 36
horizontal bombers. In about a half-
hour the Japs put our Pacific fleet out of
commission for the time being. They
hit every one of the eight battleships at
Pearl Harbor, sinking one, capsizing an-
other, badly damaging three, and damag-
ing the other three. .
It was the blackest chapter in U.s.
military and naval history. Yet, while
plenty of medals have been passed
around to men who undoubtedly acted
heroically that day, Kimmel and Short
have only been retired on three-quarter
pay. _
India Well Defended.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Sun” article by
Dewitt Mackenzie.)
India’s security is no longer a cause of
anxiety. Of course, there must always
be an element of danger so long as the
Mikado’s barbarians are sitting just across
the Bay of Bengal in Burma. However,
Hindustan today is so well set for mili-
tary action that it feels capable of deal-
ing with any emergency.
India has a big army, at least a mil-
lion men under arms, here at home, in
addition to the hundreds of thousands
of men who are fighting overseas.
There was always the bare possibility
that Hitler might persuade the Japs to
strike at India or that some other cir-
cumstances might impel them to cross the
Bay of Bengal. Therefore, it is a matter
of immense satisfaction to see these con-


The Name alone
is changed
IIMITtD
|M>
What’s in a name?—A great deal
or very little, depending upon the
effort and sincerity of purpose
employed in its making.
When E.T.C. Industries Limited
adopted TECNICO as the Company’s
brand name it was fully realised
that it would have no significance
beyond that earned for itself by
faithful manufacture and a high
standard of performance, backed
by unswerving business integrity.
We can now be justly proud of the
fact that TECNICO products have
won for themselves a high place in
the industries of Australia, particu-
larly in the exacting field of aircraft
production.
So, for the advantages to be gained
in the simplicity of a single title the
Company name has been changed
to TECNICO LIMITED. In all other
respects the Company remains en-
tirely unchanged and the same man-
agement, from the same address,
will continue to strive to still
further improve its manufactures
and add new lustre to the name
TECNICO. TC.1.43
TECNICO LIMITED: CR. CARRINGTON RD.
AND RENWICK ST.. MARRICKVILLE. N.S.W.
PHONE LL32I I
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upop the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2D), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
Wm
10 for 1/
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
A foolish spender is I traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5064 a
tingencies recede even further into the
dim shadows.
There is another sort of invasion which
the Japanese are attempting. That is the
conquest of propaganda. Every effort
is being made to create disaffection
among the people of India, but fortu-
nately the average native has no delu-
sions about his fate at the hands of the
Japs if they ever got a hold here, and
morale of the Indian Army is said to be
airtight.
India’s present vastly improved posi-
tion is due to her own growing strength,
but also, of course, to the weakening of
Japanese resources as a result of the
operations of the United States forces and
their Allies in the Pacific. Japan’s heavy
losses in aircraft, warships and cargo
boats have greatly weakened her strik-
ing power and limited the range of her
activities.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
As disclosed in official papers published by
the U.S. State Department, Breckinridge Long,
Third Assistant Secretary of State at the Paris
Peace Conference in 1919, proposed that the
Pacific islands that Japan took from Germany
in 1914-15 and which she now holds across
the path of the United States to the Far East,
be restored to Germany with the view of ne-
gotiating later with Berlin to obtain them for
the United States. Mr. Long believed that the
islands could be obtained by the United States
from Germany, perhaps as an offset in the pay-
ment of indemnity. The project did not go
through. Japan obtained the islands under
mandate of the League of Nations, then secretly
fortified them and used them against the
United States in the present war, notably as
a base for the attack on Pearl Harbor. — N.Y,
“Times.”
* * * *
For Japan this is 2603 instead of 1943.
Custom gives each year a title borrowed from
the signs of the Zodiac. Nineteen forty-one,
notable for Pearl Harbor, was the Year of the
Snake. Nineteen forty-two was the Year of
the Horse. Nineteen forty-three is the Year
of the Goat. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
London sidewalks soon will echo to the clank
of wooden-soled shoes. The thick soles will
be partly covered with leather to minimise
noise and simplify repairs. Uppers will be
mostly made of suede.
At Christmas London’s West End stores dis-
played a few hothouse grapes at $2l a pound;
roses sold at a dollar each. Brandy brought
$24 a bottle.
While British Labor has an unbounded admira-
tion for Russia’s war effort this has no
bearing upon the feeling toward British Com-
munists who tried to sabotage the war effort
before Russia entered the war. British trade-
unionists have their own notions on how to
attain their ideals without copying Communism.
—London correspondent, “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Practically all of the men in the U.S. Army
buy war bonds regularly every payday. Signs at
most army posts feature the slogan: “Ditch
the Blond—Buy a Bond!”
The Garand repeating rifle, with which Uncle
Sam’s doughboys are equipped in combat, is
the best weapon of its kind in the world. When
the Government wanted to try some improve-
ments on it, Gen. MacArthur refused to permit
any tampering with it.— ltems from a soldiers’
column in N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
“I am certain that the renewed friendship
between our countries will be enduring. It will
not only last for years but for centuries. We
have a common interest in the Pacific, and that
interest is our survival. If you go we go, and
we don’t intend to go.”— New York Mayor La
Guardia, welcoming 100 visiting Anzac airmen.
* * * *
Army Ordnance experts now foresee the time
when the tank, which made France fall, will
be outmoded and discarded as a useful weapon.
In fact, they say the tank will be discarded for
large-scale combat before this war is over.
Death of the tank is the anti-tank gun. If
you can mount a large enough gun—and give
it sufficient mobility—you can blow up the
enemy’s tanks and cripple his mechanised forces.
This is what happened to Rommel. He had
previously enjoyed superiority in anti-tank
weapons. While the British were still using a
75mm. gun, Rommel brought into action an
88mm. gun. This was what caused the rout
of the British forces last June. But now the
British have an American-made 105 mm. gun,
mounted on a tank chassis, and it was this
weapon, known as a tank destroyer, which
outshot the German 88’*- and crippled the
German tanks in Egypt.—iV.T. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
No veteran reunions of the future will be
prouder than those of the survivors of the
Allied troops who beat their way from Port
Moresby to Buna. Theirs was a marvellous,
miraculous feat, unsurpassed in our history.—
Colonel Frederick Palmer in the N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The gold coins supplied to American troops
in Africa for use in dealings with the natives
were all borrowed from Canada because the
U.S. Treasury, for all the $22,743,838,112.03
worth of gold in its coffers, has not a single
$5 gold piece. All U.S. gold coins were melted
down when President Roosevelt called in gold
currency, and only collectors and illegal
hoarders have any now. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
At the very moment when the Allied leader-
ship was being accused of slavery to “defence
mentality,” it was carrying out a bold and
sweeping offensive concept of this war. There
was co-ordination of operation and unity of
command which the amateur tacticians didn't
know about. The selection of Africa for the
first, major Allied offensive indicated under-
standing of the focal importance of the Dark
Continent in a war of oceans. The second-
front element —which was holding meetings
even when General Eisenhower and his men
were on their way to North Africa—is probably
not abashed, but it does look shopworn.—
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
One of the most remarkable developments in
the U.S.A. since Pearl Harbor has been the
spread of the payroll-deduction method of
buying war bonds, in which an employee
authorises his employer to take a regular sum
for the purpose from his pay. At the start
of 1942 700,000 workers were signed up, with
average allotments of 4 per cent, of their pay.
By Nov. 15 the total had rocketed to 23,000,000
workers in 156,000 firms, laying aside an
average of 8 per cent. One of the cardinal
points of Treasury Department procedure in
setting up payroll-savings plans is that the
campaign in each plant be conducted by a joint
committee of management and labor, with
Government emissaries keeping in the back-
ground as advisers. Some sceptics expected
this practice to stir up trouble, requiring as
it did that the lion and the lamb lie down
together, and that labor unions not only permit
but promote an outside invasion of that sacred
precinct the payroll. These forebodings, hap-
pily, have not been borne out. In one big
rubber factory a strike broke forth, for un-
related reasons, in the midst of a campaign
to install payroll savings. There was a quick
huddle; labor and management jointly pro-
claimed that the payroll drive was to con-
tinue as scheduled, regardless of the strike
Harry T. Paxton ; “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
President Roosevelt for a full decade has
dealt with Congresses that were fat with docile
Democrats. When Mr. Roosevelt came to
Washington in 1933 the Democratic majority
that came with him was so large that he had
no need to use the skill he had gained in deal-
ing with hostile Legislatures as Governor of
New York. That skill has been little used for
10 years. During that time the President has
dealt with Congress largely through trusted
lieutenants. Many an important Democrat on
Capitol Hill has not talked personally with the
President in 10 years. For weeks at a time
Mr. Roosevelt’s principal, if not his entire,
contact with Congress would be his weekly con-
ferences with the Vice-President, the Speaker
and the Majority Leaders of the two Houses.
Mr. Roosevelt’s relations with Republicans in
Congiess has been virtually nil. He may expect
little help from them except on measures of
importance to the cpnduct of the war. In this
respect, one Democrat, with more than 20
years in Congress, recalls the days of Calvin
Coolidge as the era in which there were the
friendliest relations between the White House
and Congress that he has ever seen. Mr.
Coolidge invited to his breakfasts not just
the Republicans, but also the ranking Demo-
cratic members of committees. Not many
Congressmen see the living quarters of the
White House these days.—“ United States
News.”
* * * *
A London “Sunday Dispatch” article, written
by Don Iddon and published under a New
York date, declared : “Wendell Willkie is making
unrestrained attack! upon so-called British
imperialism and British leaders in a series of
speeches here, supposed to be ‘off the record,’
but quoted up and down the country. The net
result of these talks is to create a lack of faith
in British war aims among the people of
power and influence in the United States.
Willkie has addressed large groups of news-
paper men, bankers and industrialists and has
made much the same speech to each group. In
every case he emphasised that his remarks were
private, but the charges made are echoing in
the clubrooms and restaurants of New York
and Washington.” The “Dispatch” corre-
spondent wrote that he attended one of Mr.
Willkie’s talks and found Mr. Willkie guilty
not only of a number of anti-British statements
but of indiscreet remarks about certain United
Nations’ leaders in the Near East and their
shortcomings. “In one instance,” wrote the
correspondent, “the sanity of one Allied
leader was said to have been questioned by
one of our Allies.” Most of Mr. Willkies
pro-British speeches are “on the record," but
the anti-British are made “off the record,” the
“Dispatch” article contends. “Only Willkie
himself and possibly a small group about him
know the motive behind this campaign," it
asserts. Commenting, Mr. Willkie described
the article as “pure bunk and fictional writing,
adding: “I could not so reflect on any Allied
leader or the British war effort, as I hold them
and it in the greatest respect. The report of
an off-the-record talk violates the fundamental
ethics of the newspaper profession, and doubly
so when the report is untrue. I have talked
to no industrialists nor banking groups on or on
the record.” — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ~.
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR THOMAS LANGLEY late of
No. 27 Troy Street Campsie—TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY MAY LANGLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2694 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance before the
17th May 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from E. PAUL BRANDT
Esq. Solicitor 350 George Street Sydney.—
U-. 5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
McMahon’s Hair Restorer is used for bald patches, alopecia
patches, dandruff, itching and dryness of the scalp, and
falling hair.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally, post 5/6 to the wholesale distributors,
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY., LTD.,
C 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ŧ
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTON'S
k KOLA TONIC
Product of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
FOOD
WILL WIN THE WAR
AND WRITE THE PEACE!
Claude R. Wickard
US. Secretary for Agriculture
To feed our fighting men and our civilian population it is
essential that we shall grow hundreds cf thousands of acres of cereals
and vegetables. It is the urgent niped of Australia .. . NOW!
The ploughing, discing, harrowing, sowing and harvesting of these
hundreds of thousands of acres can be done more economically with
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors. It will save manpower, valuable time
and fuel. It will answer the Nation’s call for speed and more speed
in preparing for victory now and prosperity in the future.
In this as well as every other vital job . . . Caterpillar Diesel Tractors
have enlisted for the duration and for the progressive days to come.
The light track-type tread of a Caterpillar tractor beats time and
weather. It enables work to continue even after heavy rain ... if
necessary on a 24-hour a day basis . . . gaining important growing
days. Crops yield better from being planted on time in
properly prepared seed beds. Whatever job there is
do Caterpillar diesel power will do it more economi-
cally and more efficiently.
vile?
lliiliii
''
| iili
'i
mtm
m
i UM
mm
mm
I wip
- ; *
■M
V '
s h> y ■
' A - J / i
f
Caterpillar |g
ll
mm
■ m* . ■
'M ti-
wm it'
**"*•-*'~*^ < p|p|p
WTJ.
wr /
, '' », ■>,, X
W \ **\
4 -v......*..... n
m
¥ "
r * “
■>i ' < i J '
1 '....
'
<
' * '* r £
gi ■ Jli'
*8
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS AND WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING
t
EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
ţ
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 3321 Marquis Street, Gunnedah.
'Phone: Gunnedah 326 Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge Street,
South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. 'Phone: Port Macquarie SI; Mr. D. McDougall,
96 Kincaid Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane; 'Phone: J 1456;
Rankin' Street, Innisfail. ‘Phone; Innisfail 475 4-33-4;;
Service Department.
Wonts.
To buy pair of size nine tube-type ice skates.
—3336.
To buy works of Nostradamus. —3337.
Information Sought.
How can I obtain a copy of my birth certifi-
cate? I was born in N. S. Wales.
Apply to the Registrar in the district where
you were born. You must furnish full name,
place of birth, and parents’ names, including
mother’s maiden name. Important that the
correct date of birth be stated —otherwise addi-
tional fees for search may be incurred.
Recipe for a flyspray that won’t stain ?
One gallon kerosene, 11b. pyrethrum powder.
Stir for two hours, strain to remove powder,
then add 3 fl. oz. methyl salicylate (to neutralise
kerosene odor).
Best method of withdrawing a stake, which
cannot be got at with forceps, from a horse ?
Means of withdrawing the stake depends on
its location. Services of a vet. are advisable, as
otherwise serious damage may be done. Usual
method is to locate the stake by means of a
probe, and cut down on it with a scalpel
until the body can be gripped with forceps.
Brief Answers.
J.R.S.: Official Year-Book of the Common-
wealth (5s.) N.H.: A man of over 60 must
register. Only if the industry is unprotected
may he change at will... .L.T.: 1808-74. Value
would depend on playing qualities E.W.:
There are 15 evergreen tamarisks listed in
Johnson’s Garden Directory. ... W.J.M.: (1)
Samuel McCaughey. (2) U.S.A. (3) From 1890
onwards. (4) (a) 6.751b., ( b ) 7.11b., (c) 8.11b.
. ...W.C.C.: You must make your mother an
allotment from your pay... .R.F.E.: (1) and
(2) Yes....T.M.; All cases, when packed,
should contain at least C.S.: A
simple way would be to lay old bags over
patches. After some weeks, grass will be killed
off... .C.N.; Inquire from Registrar in Divorce,
Supreme Court, Brisbane L.W.: To pre-
serve rope, beeswax (two parts), tallow (four
parts) and blacklead (one part). Mix by boiling
and apply hot while running rope over a pulley.
....L.M.M.; Depends on manner in which
estate has been left A.McN.: You must
satisfy the local police that you have sufficient
reason for carrying such a weapon G.M.:
Rout!edge and Sons, London S.K.: You
could have obtained that machinery from any
of the recognised salesmen in peace-time.
Doubtful now....N.V.: Any damaged fish
should be rejected from the start... .R.C.:
Lise paste made from rye flour... .D.P.: It may
be dealt with by carbon bisulphide fumigation.
... .M.S.: A copy may be seen at the Mitchell
Library... .E.I.: Try Anderson and Co., 399
Gem £ e-street, Sydney N.P., J.McC. and
C.D.: Detailed information on its way....
M.W.: Lord Bledisloe was recently connected
with the British Ministry of Information....
C.G.; From 2000ft. to 5000ft. You could
obtain detailed information from the Curator
of the War Memorial at Canberra.... I.McG.:
On its way... .A.W.R.: Angus and Robertson
have a copy of The Australian Freelance (5s.).
The Authors and Artists’ Handbook is out of
print for the duration... .H.G.: Not unless a
second-hand dealer can supply you....W.D.:
Line completed in 1912... .G.B.: Powdered
borax (sodium borate) as a flux, and an alloy
known as spelter as solder... .T.H.: Skiplon,
ridden by W. Cook... .S.T.: Screen should be
painted also with the asphalt paint... .J.L.:
Using a silver coin to test for poisonous fish
is not recommended... .F.P.: Hypo 2oz.,
sodium sulphite water 20oz D.E.:
Dry wood escapes the rot you mention....
W.M.: The French Minie rifle was, for a time,
the best in Europe, but has long been obsolete.
N.S.: “Who” is used as subject; “whom”
as object. Accordingly, “Whom is he?” is
incorrect... .H.Y.: Carbon tetrachloride is
recommended for use in “fluky” country during
winter... .C.D.: Juice may be preserved by a
layer of olive oil, which can be later drawn
off by means of cotton-wool... .S.M.: No
danger to children... .R.F.: “V.L.G.” operates
on 31.32 metres (frequency of 9.53mc.)....
J.C.: Onions keep best where there is a good
circulation of air....P.L.: Paint with raw lin-
seed oil and allow to dry thoroughly... .S.D.:
Lewisite is rapidly destroyed by water
F.H.; The “wither-tip” leaves you mention
are probably due to a copper deficiency.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should he addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
11. W.:
How long must we these drivellers abide
Who have not the intelligence to know
That, if one way or other Time’s allied,
He is on Nippon's side?
. ...E.K.: Mainly potholes... .A.L.H.: Read
it over and see what you think of the line “To
mention simply is not done”... .C.M.G.:
Thought those willows would “weep”....
H.T.8.: “The Race” is not in it... .M.C.D.:
There’s a poem in it but it never, gets 0ut....
J. : Like the ghost who didn’t believe in
humanity; but he’s thin and his bones rattle.
... .N.S.: An outline 0n1y... .P.J.Z.: A
flicker of originality among much conventional
imagery F.T.S.; Stick to it, but don’t say
“nay” and “doth” D.A.0’8.: For a
woman’s paper... .J.D.F.: In intention, estim-
able; in execution, disastrous Bilby: The
total of city-bound bards who have promised
to go back west now stands at 25,987 J.B.c
Plainly, it is a slashing satire; but what the
deuce it’s trying to satirise is shrouded in eternal
night... .A.D.: There’s some real feeling
smothered in that “jewelled canopy” H.G.:
Adds nothing to a venerable theme... .T.W.:
Both lightweights... .K.G.; Were the “leeches”
meant to be funny; or were you stuck for a
rhyme for “beaches”? A.A.W.: Afraid the
fire would really be the best place for it
K. : “Mr. Upton’s Abracadabra” still mis-
fires. .. .L.A.8.; Feeble... .D.O’S.: Try it on
a daily... .V.G.L.: “Restitution” is still un-
satisfactory.


What qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than b 4 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual—
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
LfSX
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNb
Capital (paid and uncalled') and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
V.
■
m
<W<rv
SI
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Recjuirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS&son
Pty. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755.616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937.. 386,732 294,378 104,072{ 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 .. ■■ 2,802,326
1938.. 389,295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund, £8439 . . • • • ■ 2,769,718
19'39.. 389,796 350,183 106,466 2,702,865
1940.. 387,682 377,818 105,130 2,607,599
1941.. 375,088 340,345 108,125 2,534,21 2
1942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472,755
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1933,
£4463; 1934, £8926; 1935, £9000; 1936-40,
£4500; 1941, £9OOO ; 1942, £4500. t Including
loss on King-street property, £4994.
Impatient shareholders are still pressing
for more liberal dividends ; the manage-
ment is equally steadfast in its resolve
that policy-holders’ interests shall be
paramount, and is strengthened in its
determination by virtue of war condi-
tions. The co.’s chief business is the sale
of assurance, and the board realises it is
little use trundling its wares unless
bonuses and other benefits comparable
with those of competitors can be offered.
Bonuses, indeed, ranged from a very
satisfactory 30s. to 60s. p.c., according
to age, on whole-life contracts in pre-war
days ; they have since been reduced to
provide against war contingencies, a pre-
caution adopted by every conservative
office. A.P.A. rates were cut roughly in
two last year, when the div. (now \\ p.c.)
was also halved.
Shareholders have a previous control to
blame for present skimpy returns. The
old directorate wished a swag of trouble-
some mortgages, an investment policy dis-
continued in 1929, on the co., and featured
short-term endowments without creating
adequate reserves of tangible revenue-
producing assets in the early years of
these policies. While capital losses on
mortgages have stopped recoveries
even now appear —these endowments
have been flocking home to roost for a
decade, and current income has had to
take the strain. Since 1936 all outgoings
have exceeded total income by £349,727
—after deducting an Accident surplus of
£3624, £61,457 was in respect of last
term.
Paradoxically, however, published
figures show the true position to have
actually strengthened by reason of the
lightened actuarial liability:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
£'£ £ £
Public sec. 1,412,297 1,273,452 1,095,978 1,082,573
Mortgages 603,935 517,449 474,877 463,515
Loans on
policies, etc. 137,562 119,389 102,727 89,062
Book debts,
cash, etc. 88,420 97,365 108,274 104,631
Eq u ipment 10,463 16,088 10,120 7,929
Properties.. 726,389' 814,462 817,677 818,785
Shares . . 321,313 385,321 405,438 416,750
Tangibles 3,300,379 3,223,526 3,015,091 2,983,245
Creditors . . 119,812 151,218 108,057 142,061
Net tangibles 3,180,567 3,072,308 2,907,034 2,841,184
Assur. fund* 2,758,352 2,629,684 2,426,396 2,346,030
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £18,441,
1936; £15,000,1939; £21,850, 1941 ; £21,000,
1942.
At the close of last accounts net tan-
gibles £495,154 in excess of assurance
funds, the actuarial liability under poli-
cies, were on view ; six years earlier the
figure was £422,215. In addition, there
is an inner reserve of £127,000 in the
difference between market and book
values of public securities held. Policy
liabilities have been calculated on a 3 p.c.
net premium basis, very stringent (but
necessary) in the circumstances and com-
paring with a lenient 4 p.c. Sprague basis
when the present board undertook the
conversion of a sick into the present
sound business.
Signs aren’t lacking that the changed
policy with regard to the acceptance of
risks is beginning to show up. Endow-
ment claims declined from the 1940
(peak) £279,687 to £215,171 last term,
and the average for 1943 and 1944 will
be roughly £140,000. It is sheer bad
luck that the benefits at present are being
partly offset by war mortality, an in-
calculable factor which may be delayed
in its complete action, death claims rising
by £26,313 to £94,652 in 1942. Also,
restriction of investment opportunities,
cheap war financing and higher income
and land taxes have punctured the net
earning rate on the mean funds ; 4.4 p.c.
in 1940, it receded to 3.8 p.c. in 1941
and to 3.7 p.c. last year. That experience
has been universal. .
Against these uncontrollable influences
more economy in management is i
evidence in this life-department ana ysis.
Sum 1934. 1939. 1941. 194 2.
assured £516,393 £1,049,692 £1,057,556 £1,031,564
rst . nK cn oi ii 9 31 433 29,359
ReSrVooS 203-405 204,768 212,950
Int efc! St :. 115,533 119,369 104,987 101,063
Claims . . 196,661 333,333 324,572
Exes. . . 79,836 88,612 50,997 81,641
Deducting depreciation (£2266), taxation
and divs., the expense rate came back
from 32.9 p.c. of premium income m
1940 to 29 p.c. last year. There is room
for improvement yet, and the tendency
of premiums to swing upwards again
should help.
Claude Neon Industries, Ltd.
Claude Neon Industries and Subsidiaries.
Towards De-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, fidt.*
1939.. 47,414 10 p.c. = 31,630 15,784 94,189
1940.. 34,441 10 „ ~ 31,631 2,810 91,379
Scanlan’s New Neon acquired; added
reserves, £21,415, less intangible in-
crease, £10,288 .. •• ®0,262
1941.. 42,098 10 p.c. = 36,343 5,755 74,497
Share premiums, £585 .. •• •• 73,9iz
Loss. ...
1942.. 16,712 Nil 90,624
* Provision for contingencies, etc., not included as a
reserve, or patents, goodwill, etc. (£177,836), as
assets.
Neon cos. sprang up freely in the ’thir-
ties, and the game, for some, became too
lively to last. The present co. is the
product of a series of amalgamations
and absorptions. Details;
1934. —Claude Neon Lights (N.S.W.) bought
Claude Neon Lights (S.A.) and the Westrahan
business of Claude Neon (Vic.), and changec
its name to Claude Neon, Ltd.
1938. —Shareholders of Claude Neon, Ltd
(capital, £122,381), and Claude Neon Lights
(Vic.) (capital, £80,000) exchanged their hold-
ings for shares in Claude Neon Industries, the
present holding concern, on the basis of nmi
for five and six for five respectively. A pau
capital of £202,381 thus became one of
£316,305, and goodwill, etc., was written up to
balance the consolidated statement.
1940.—Scanlan’s New Neon, Sydney (paid
capital, £70,000), acquired by seven-for-ten
share swap. Added purchaser’s reserves £22,000.
of which £10,288 offset by intangibles.
Conditions last year were anything but
placid. Business fell away when lighting
and other restrictions became effective on
Japan’s entry into war. Earnings, derived
mainly from rentals for signs, thus re-
ceived a nasty jolt. Gross profits dropped
by £80,402 to £86,825, and a net loss of
£16,712 was figured after slipping £5122
into contingencies account.
Whether claims for rentals of signs
can be enforced is a matter still before
the Courts. A judgment in April last
was to the effect that contracts for under-
awning signs were effective, but contracts
for over-awning ones had been frustrated
by lighting restrictions. An appeal to
the Full Court on the latter point was
dismissed. Then, in the Commercial
Causes Court of N.S.W., Mr. Justice
Halse-Rogers decided there was no frus-
tration, and delivered judgment in favor
of Scanlan’s New Neon, applicant co.,
for the full amount of rentals claimed.
An anneal to the Full Court against this
decision is pending. The High Court of
Australia has decided also that the doc-
trine of frustration does not apply. An
appeal is likely here, too, but to the
Privy Council. The position has been
complicated by prohibition since Feb. 17
of all shop-window and sign lighting,
even in daytime.
The board has made known to cus-
tomers its willingness to adjust all con-
tracts, which number about 12,000, in
general offering a one-third cut. Exten-
sive adjustments have been made already,
as these aggregate figures indicate:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £316,305 £316,305 £363,940 £365,305
Creditors* . . 25,632 38,558 58,553 28,584
Rents in advance 36,726 34,087 38,784 31,695
Prov. contin... 24,649 33,549 35,400 40,522
Property & plant 29,623 36,015 52,439 67,537
Neon signs . . 228,666 219,586 267,159 155,606
Stocks . . 32,457 62,540 86,735 85,628
Debtors . . 22,282 25,006 30,252 51.131
Cash & invest. 11,910 3,789 3,792 15,580
* Including taxation.
At June 30 value of rental contracts capi-
talised was stated at £581,038 (down
£299,771), of which £545,496. (down
£319,473) was unmatured. The differ-
ence, £35,542, being matured rents re-
ceivable, is included with debtors. Signs
on rental, less amortisation, now stand
at £155,606 (down £111,553); so the cut
here has been prompt and deep. The
surprising thing is that it was achieved
with so little disturbance to shareholders’
funds.
Outlook is hazy. Further writing-
down of both unamortised signs and
stocks, involving perhaps sums set aside
for doubtful debts and contingencies, may
be necessary. However, a spot of bright-
ness is the demand from factories for
fluorescent lighting, and profits in this
connection will offset in part losses other-
wise. Further, plant has been installed
to mass produce, on a partnership basis,
Brownbuilt steel equipment for defence
and essential services. Also, factories in
each State have been diverted as far as
possible to pioduction for defence pur-
poses, and declared “protected.”
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ *
1932.. 18,409 24 p.e. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11.875 24 „,. 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 2-4 ~ „ 12,281 7;>7 52,03-
1935.. 11,057 2* „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,51.5 6 „ ~29,474 41 51,2al
1938.. 21,291 4 ~ ~ 19,649 1,642 52,893
1939.. 34,685 7 ~ ~ 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ ~34,386 62,678
1941.. 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 4^
1942.. 35,033 7 ~ ~34,386 647 02,200
Australia’s military role as supply base
for the South-west Pacific has transformed
a disquieting outlook for meat and many
other primary products. In the first year
of war, when shipping was plentifu.,
Britain took most of our surplus produce,
including 260,000 tons of meat. In the
second, a figure of 198,000 tons was
finally decided upon, and prohibitions on
the slaughter of mutton and lamb were
brought down and restrictions on store
receipts of beef imposed. What Britisfl
contracts have since been worth isnt


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advx.
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
\Y7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
vv satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate .will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the Judgment
gained by CO years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E, Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
s.
W 3lflott
HOISSIMSNVM
ii
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUDOWIC I S
have the answer
■OEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
** Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
•mil'
COUPLI NGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
* A
LUDOWICIS
pfiUt zp
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
Security
oi a Savings Account!
Hoarding ... whether of money
or goods... is neither wise, pat-
riotic, nor safe. Saving, on the other
hand, when you use a Commonwealth
Savings Bank Account, is of definite
benefit to you and to your country. It keeps
your money active, allows you to build up
your savings for the clearing of urgent liabilities
and for investment in Australia's war effort, and
provides security for your future.
Save ... and put all your savings in a Commonwealth
Savings Bank Account.
A Commonwealth Sathcs
Bank Account
SIMPLIFIES SAVING FOR INVESTMENT IN
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
orthe NEXT WAR LOAN in advance
&
known, but, faced with an embarrassing
export surplus in 1941-42, the Federal
Government undertook in July, 1941, to
buy at fixed prices all lamb of certain
grades accepted for export, as well as
canned mutton and pig-meats, and the
purchase scheme was extended to frozen
beef the following January, much export
beef being diverted to canners. Now,
the problem is one of maintaining ade-
quate killings for all purposes. Demand
for beef and pig-meats particularly has
increased, and, perturbed by the internal
price trend, the Government has set
about to control all aspects of the indus-
try from grazier to consumer.
On the export side, price movements
appear to have kept returns fairly con-
stant through all this;
Year Meat Year Meat
June, Exports. June, Exports.
1929 .. £6,342,000 | 1938 .. £12,254,000
1934 . . 7,097,000 I 1939 . . 11,780,000
1935 .. 8,487,000 | 1940 .. 15,120,000
1936 .. 8,754,000 | 1941 .. 15,818,000
1937 .. 1-0,332,000 | 1942 f .. 13,431,000
t 11 months to May.
To meet local as well as overseas demand
—there is a shortage of refrigerated ton-
nage—Q.M.E. last term further expanded
its can-making activities, which it had
passed to a subsidiary in 1941, and ex-
tended its packing season till the end of
the year. Profits recorded little benefit,
the 7 p.c. div. calling for all but £647 of
declared earnings. For the second suc-
cessive year no allowance was made for
depreciation, and that is not a policy to
be continued indefinitely, no matter how
satisfied the management may be with
the adequacy of past provisions.
Including the total investment of
£68,163 in the can-making co., £183,622
net has found its way into fixed assets
over the past three years:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* . . 190,827 319,459’ 233,358 284,347
Property, shares
in other cos. 399,091 329,155 422,178 444,614
Stock. . . . 141,332 283,079 35,752 37,904
Stores .. 19,698 18,992 39,639 31,319
Debtors . . 81.421 65,143 50,801 85,1^5
Cash, etc. . . 103,612 201,900 220,000 195,000
Shares subsid. 40,000 50,000
Advances subsid. 2,161 18,163
* Including provision for contingencies.
The money has been found as a result
of war-time marketing arrangements
which brought prompt payment for stock.
Lumped with fixed assets are shares in
other cos., which include a holding in
Singapore Cold Storage, for the present
retained at book values. Creditors in-
clude something for taxation and other
contingencies, and the composite item
arouses curiosity in view of the cash
holding.
What will happen when the war-time
contracts run out remains to be seen.
Its present political stance suggests that
the Argentine, which had a stranglehold
on the British chilled and baby-beef trade
till Britain imposed levies and quantitative
restrictions on shipments in the mid-
’thirties, may become a less-prominent
supplier of John Bull when Dominion
trade routes are free again.
Bullion worth £1,199,680 stg. was ex-
tracted from Australia’s biggest goldmine,
Lake View and Star (W.A.), during the
year to June 30. Mining profit was
£437,771, against £459,374 the year be-
fore. British taxation took £220,000, and
£36,447 was set aside for depreciation,
leaving £181,324. Dividends comprised
an interim 6d, and final Is. Apart from
mines, plant, machinery and ore reserves,
assets at balance date included stores
£201,468, war loans £41,233, tax reserve
certificates £150,000, cash £199,770.
Points in general manager Joe Thorn's
report: (1) Development —with the short-
age of labor, only a minimum is now
being done —26,485 ft., or 11,000 ft. less
than the preceding year’s total; (2) not-
able exposures on No. 4 and No. 2 lodes
in the Chaffers section; (3) successful
development of minor lodes in this and
other blocks ; (4) increase of 69,500 tons
to 4,200,200 tons in ore reserves, with
decrease of o.l2dwt. per ton in grade
(5.05dwt.); (5) treatment in Chaffers
plant of 596,955 tons of ore averaging
4.97dwt. for improved 90.5 p.c. extrac-
tion, and re-treatment of 840,909 tons of
o.B3dwt. residues ; (6) costs at 235. 6}d.
(up 7|d.). The six directors divided
£7700 “additional remuneration,” as
against £lO,OOO in 1941. Sixty per cent,
loss of staff and halving of mine output
were recently reported.
« * * *
Paringa (W.A.) is handing out 1\ p.c,
stg., making an unchanged 15 p.c. for the
year to August—with English income tax
chipped off, equal to 9s. 4d. Australian
per 100 shilling shares, of which 3,863,428
are issued. Paringa works a group of
mines at the north end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile. It is one of the old hands
on the field.
* * * *
London-controlled Tindals opens a
sleepy eye to announce that Consolidated
G.M. of Coolgardie, its wholly-owned
operating offshoot in the West, earned
£A31,178 (up £10,215) during 1941, of
which £13,984 was cut away for deprecia-
tion. In the same period the holding co.’s
loss was £4025 stg. Policy of applying all
surpluses to development, including ex-
tension of treatment plant, which it was
aimed to step up to 10,000 tons monthly,
continued. It is a 4|dwt. show. The
parent, which has £25,000 of 10 p.c. notes
coming up for redemption at a premium
of 12 p.c. next June, values its operating
interest shares and advances at
£582,706 stg.
* * * *
In the half-year to December, war con-
ditions halved the 3s. div. rate share-
holders had come to expect from Wattle
Gully G.M., at Chewton (Vic.). Future
distributions will be made “as and when
funds accumulate,” and that, of course,
depends on output and hence man-power.
Fortunately, the health of developed
reserves is enabling available mine labor
to be concentrated on ore-breaking. A 40
p.c. fall in treatment in the latest period
had these effects:
All-in
Six Treated, Real’n, Costs, Net , —Dividends—
Months, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
June,Ml.. 14,166 77/4 34/-£31,294 3/-£27,000
Dec.,’4l.. 16,709 71/10 33/3 32,603 3/- 27,000
June,’42.. 12,279 81/8 39/1 26,386 3/- 27,000
Dec.,’42.. 7,519' 82/2 46/8 13,552 1/6 13,500
One-shift working—about 900 tons a
month —has been the order since the close
of accounts for 7dwt. yields over the
plates. The mine has now yielded
160,000 tons of ore, most of it coming
from the relatively flat west-dipping reef
which first became prominent at 500 feet.
Battery feed is at present being drawn
from the 6, 7 and 8 horizons, where slop-
ing widths are up to 70ft., 60ft. and 50ft.
respectively. Finances show practically
no debt and a nest-egg of £24,467 in
more or less liquids, including stores.
5^
Commonwealth Coal Commission
chairman Mighell recently visited Collie
(W.A.), and, in view of his report, the
opening up of near-by Wilga as a second
coalfield isn’t likely to be encouraged
by the Federal or State authorities. He
says Collie can produce all the coal that
is required during the war, and that coal
can be more rapidly produced there than
elsewhere. A new mine is being opened
up by the Griffin co., and an opencut
is being developed by Amalgamated Col-
lieries. An appeal for increased produc-
tion is made to the miners, action against
absenteeism is threatened and better
transport for the workers is promised.


stt»: M
v ♦.
■ *
4
f
t* *
' . . . dipt into the future, far at human
eye could see.
Saw the Vision of the world, and all
the wonder that would be ;
Saw the heavens fill with commerce,
argosies of magic sails.
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping
down with costly bales."
—Tennyson.
WRITING NEW CHAPTERS
IN AVIATION’S HISTORY
.., Australia* s Empire-Aviation Pioneers
In unceasing united effort the
entire Qantas organisation,
working with the Allies, is play-
ing a vitally important part in
the service of the Nation at War.
To the achievements of the past,
new chapters are being added
in aviation’s history, as Qantas
aircraft fly urgently needed war
equipment right into fighting
zones .. Qantas personnel com-
plete many hazardous tasks . .
Qantas plant works night and
day on overhauls and mainten-
ance to keep vital aircraft ready
for the air.
Today, in its essential Merchant
Air Service operations, Qantas
is overshadowing all past per-
formances of 10,000,000 miles
flown in the last 20 years.
Pioneer of overseas routes and
chosen instrument of the
United Kingdom and Austra-
lian Governments in operating
them, Qantas Empire Airways,
now devoted to the winning
of victory, will be more than
ever qualified to play its part
in the tremendous develop-
ment of post-war aviation.
Qan
EMPIRE Al RWAYS (
Sydney . Melbourne Brisbane
mm
iTOURtoETS
DorCt leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hands. Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith, Boy dell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
smimmfiiGGO
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F. M. Boydcll, A.1.C.A., A.C.I.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
Protect Your Future With
5
DIESEL
TRAINING
What are you doing about
ensuring your employment after
the war ? Now is the time
to prepare yourself with extra
training. Reinemb e r, work
may not always be plentiful where you are at
present.
The Diesel Engineering College has trained
hundreds of men who have obtained employ-
ment as Diesel Operators all over Australia.
It is a comprehensive course for 11
practical men, embracing train-
ing on typical diesel engines.
No textbooks needed. The
course is simple and
easy to follow, and this
field of engineering has
a great future. Send
Coupon for details
NOW or ’phone B 2902.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation jour
booklet, “Diesel Opportunities.
NAME
address....
I
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Something Out of It All?
I. is reasonable to assume from the
enormous amount of money being spent
by this country on defence, that con-
stderable development of manufacturing
and transport is going on, even if that
development is aimed primarily at one
ob ective, and that not a peace-time one.
11 is proposed to spend £540 million on
war this year, about £460 million of it
in Australia, and though an increasing
proportion of our outgo represents non-
reproductive expenditure-such as the
SatS^ll?ed e Ta?; n^lhroS:
lay will result in permanent benefit to
the Commonwealth. The money has
been spent lavishly, often wastefully, and
it is miifp nossih p that some of the
‘SxmrV?” pctnhiichpft will never he of anv
works established will never be oi any
value even to the war eliort-there have
heen manv in the asnect of the
been many changes m the aspect or me
war apart from original planning defects.
But out of the whole £lOOO million or
so that war will have cost us by June 30
next—and it is not so long since the
entire national debt of Australia was no
more than £lOOO million, including the
cost of our railways and Government
works—we shall be particularly unfor-
tunate if some of it doesn’t result in last-
ing industrial value, even if nothing
like the proportion which borrowed
money and bank credit represent in our
war outgo.
We have been told something about the
Commonwealth’s north-south road, and
no doubt other roads have been built
out of war funds. There are shipyards
and aircraft factories, and though these
are now operating under war conditions,
when cost of production is of little object
(or would seem to be), our technicians
and workmen are getting an unparalleled
opportunity of finding what can be done
in this country, and after the war the
plant will still be there, in some cases—
where a Government plant—partly paid
for by taxation, and written off as a cost
of war. There are numerous examples
of industries, both Government and
private, getting the chance of doing work
1 - L , . , . H Kv war
'7he Government's taxation policy 'in re-
proflts re(ained in a busi .
« time plant extensions
encouraged the most prudent
as n .° en “"', g ; ‘"'id he varv helo-
foMnstance it
£ul to Australian industry, for insmnce, rt
war-time plant “ t = n *'°" s
written down sev y ~
™ e dol f ble taxation of undistri-
lafed ’ for P P rates ’ 0 f denre-
allowance pvpentinnal instances
ciation. On y i P' :.u
have arrangements been reached with me
Government for special depreciation,
, , „ ~nHer war
though three-shift working under war
conditions is being recognised as particu-
plant, and some compen-
p
sa “ry taxation allowance made,
Among those industries to estab is
themselves on a firm basis since war came
are the cotton-spinning and -weaving
concerns. These have a big market o
cater for; prior to the war they sup-
PU ed l ess tt* 3ll 10 px. of our cotton-
goods requirements. That percentage has
n ° doubt increased greatly by now, and
dungarees, twills, denims, canvas, duck
and tyre-cord are being woven in a i-
tlon to the knltted cotton goods that
were being turned out heie long before.
Towels are being made on a far grea. cr
scale, and cotton khaki drill is emg
run ky tke mde -
In matters of electricity we are going
ahead. Various types of cable are now
being made by metal and motor-tyre
interests. The tyre cos. are also making
all kinds of rubber military equipment
that may result in the evolution of new
peace-time products,
At the last annual meeting of B.H.P.
it was stated that the co. was supplying
all Australian users with ferro-alloys,
and a sister-Dominion was being looked
after as well. Ferro-manganese, ferro-
silicon, ferro-chrome, ferro-titanium,
ferro-zirconium and ferro-molybde-
num are among the alloys being
Turned out. The ferro-alloy plant is also
producing calcium carbide, an essential
ingredient in the production of mag-
nesium. The co.’s magnesium plant is in
full operation, and is a great help in the
manufacture of the lighter alloys. Tung-
sten carbide, the hardest thing known
next to the diamond, was a jealously-
guarded patent (originally owned by
Krupp’s) until B.H.P. research made it
available for tipping machine tools in
Australia. Ship construction is going
ahead and vast developments in steel
generally are taking place. No figures
are available these days, but ex-
pansion has been prodigious so far
as output is concerned, notwith-
standing all sorts of difficulties in trans-
port of raw materials, etc., which are
among the factors which recently caused
B.H.P. to ask for its first rise in prices
since long before the outbreak of war.
The development of the steel industry
is a most encouraging sign for post-war
Australia. B.H.P. is producing the
world’s cheapest steel even under war-
time conditions —in Australia we have
had a particularly sharp costs inflation —
and it seems that great associated indus-
tries will come with the return to peace.
Perhaps tinplate will be made here, and,
even if our shipyards and similar heavy
industries stagnate because of a possible
surplus of tonnage produced by British
and American shipyards when the latter
reach their war-time production peak,
there are sure to be many everyday metal
articles or materials in general public
demand to which greater attention can
be devoted. In the matter of machinery
alone there is a very substantial market
in the Commonwealth, and with dozens
of factories now tooled-up to make many
kinds of machines and mechanical equip-
ment we should be able to do away with
some millions of pounds’ worth of this
kind of thing previously imported.
Machine tools of various kinds have come
to Australia as a war-time development,
and many more are now being made in
this country. The value of Australia’s
newborn machine-tool industry may be
almost incalculable in the future.
War has given a stimulus, in many
cases artificial, to the production of
minerals. Copper is being “babied
along,” and so are tungsten (wolfram or
scheelite), tantalite, tin and many other
“strategic minerals.” Some interest has
even been shown in the production of
aluminium, and Mr. Beasley says the
Government would go ahead and spend
£5,000,000 on a plant to turn out 10,000
tons of ingot aluminium a year if only
the necessary machinery could be
brought to Australia. A delegation has
returned from the U.S.A., Canada and
Great Britain after studying “all phases
of manufacture.” The report of the dele-
gation is being digested. At present
Australia’s aluminium activities consist
of the rolling and extrusion of imported
ingots.
Our defence operations in North Aus-
tralia and New Guinea should help to
open up that country after the war and
to spread knowledge of those areas.
There will undoubtedly be improved
transport facilities left by the military
and other authorities when eventually
there is a return to civil life. Aerodromes
and surplus ’planes should help in open-
ing up places which, prior to the war,
were remote from the principal Australian
centres. If the present ideas on the de-
velopment of N. S. Wales shale-oil areas
are put into effect it is possible that
Australia may be turning out an eighth
of its pre-war petrol requirements within
the next couple of years.
Petroleum will perhaps be of even
greater economic value in the post-war
period than it was pre-war. Australia
to date has been fruitless in its search
for real flow oil. In this ancient con-
tinent most of the oil strata seem to have
merged with coal and shale seams. But,
until the Japs struck, the Shell co. was
busily searching for oil in Queensland,
and in Papua Australasian Petroleum (a
Vacuum, Anglo-Persian and Oil Search
combination) was boring for oil, after
the expenditure of about a million in an
exhaustive preliminary surface survey and
plant installation. The bore had got
down to more than 6000 ft. when opera-
tions were suspended because of the
Japanese invasion, and since then no
further information has been published.
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum was also on
the job looking for oil when a similar
interruption took place.
The Australian economy generally has
been upended since war began and the
continent scraped over. The Govern-
ment has been granted enormous powers
and has been given the spending of well
over half the national income. Never
have such opportunities been possessed
by an Australian Government to
strengthen the industrial and economic
foundations of the country in the course
of attending to the war job. Unfortu-
nately, the Government now in power
has been more preoccupied with politics
and socialisation than with the sober
economics of industry. But some of our
directors-general of various sections of
the war effort were able industrialists
in peace-time, and from this and similar
facts we are entitled to entertain hopes
that the blast of war will not leave wast-
age alone behind it. If we had paid for
war as we went along—and in this respect
we could have done far better than our
actual showing to date —what we are able
eventually to salvage for peace-time pur-
poses out of our war expenditure would
have been all “bunce.”
How our civil service grows and grows
and grows! Visit a Government depart-
ment and see how many faces you can
recognise that formerly were to be found
in private industry. Men have been
drawn from all sorts of jobs to
swell the ranks. It is to be hoped
that they get thoroughly sick of
their jobs by the time the war is over,
otherwise we may find ourselves wonder-
ing whether we have not disposed of an
enemy only to be afflicted with a pest.
There is no doubt about the pattern of
the socialisation policy of some Federal
Ministers, and when the war stops there
will still be tax revenue coming in at a
high rate and a legion of Government em-
ployees to look after. They’ll all have
votes but no immediate work, unless jobs
are created. While the money continues
to come in jobs will be created.


5
e
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
*.«■» 1 V-
os'- oO''
iksr.
wr.
&nly
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared —Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CiNtRALINSURfINCE CO LTD J
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
K. V. I’EIUiLNS, General Manager
mi
iiii
JL
mu
\t 4 S*S /
' ' /j
M
wS»
m
Thrifty housewives
more important
now than ever!
How every Woman at Home Can Help Win Victory
There has never been a time when
the thrift of Australian house-
wives has been so important. Vast
sums of money are needed daily
to provide the arms and equip-
ment needed for modern war.
You can help provide this money.
Avoid every non-essential pur-
chase. Save every penny you can
and lend it to Australia. Tims you
help conserve manpower for war
purposes and directly contribute
to the maintenance of our Army,
Navy and Air Force.
Has Your Street a
War Savings Group?
Every street may partici-
pate in Australia’s War
THIS IS
WAR
SAVINGS
STREET
Savings Drive. When a group in your
street has been formed, a sign will be
erected in a prominent position. An
authorised collector will call on you.
Form a Group of your owsi.
If no one has called on you so far, apply
at your local Council Chambers for a
Voluntary Worker’s Badge and start a
group yourself.
Here is what
Your Money Can Buy
6d
16 x -
£lo
buys a War Sav-
ings Stamp.
a £1 War Savings
Certificate.
a National Sav-
ings Bond.
THIRD LIBERTY LOAN
Advance subscriptions may be made through
any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
Nothing matters
now but
5.43.17
VICTORY
SAVE
AND LEND
The Third Liberty Loan, £lOO million
cold cash this time —there is no concur-
rent conversion—will open on March 16.
Special efforts are to be made to get
a full public subscription to the loan. It
is not asking too much of the people.
Up to the present the lower incomes, on
the whole, have been showing a credit
in their war-time earnings after paying
war-time taxation —that is in comparison
with their net pre-war position. And
though a million or more of these people
are actually in pocket as a result of the war,
their response to previous loans was dis-
appointing. Even allowing for the fact
that many may have thought they were
justified in improving their financial posi-
tion for a couple of years, some should
have such a comfortable nest-egg in the
savings banks and elsewhere that a wider,
more national outlook can now be taken
without even pondering the question
long.
« * * *
Lend-lease administrator Stettinus has
announced the transfer overseas of eight
United States industrial plants valued at
$l2 million. New York “Daily News”
says that three plants, including a Ford
tyre factory, will go to Russia, two to
India and three, including two for mak-
ing tins for food, are for Australia. The
“Daily News” expresses regret at the ship-
ment, claiming that the plants will be
subsequently converted to peace-time
production, to the benefit of Australians,
Russians and Indians, “so helping to
accentuate the post-war American busi-
ness slump.” The “Daily News” needn’t
have felt so terribly sorry about the busi-
ness so far as Australia is concerned. In
pre-war years the Commonwealth bought
much more from the United States than
it could really afford, and this country
did more than its share to keep Ameri-
can business from slumping, especially
when the smallness of U.S. purchases
from us was taken into account. In any
case, food-canning machinery is not likely
to take away from the United States any
Australian market it might have pos-
sessed here in canned food. Even the
estimable Heinz and most of his 57
varieties had established an Australian
domicile some considerable time before
war began. The transfer of any food-
canning machinery to this country can
be taken at its face value—its main pur-
pose will be to look after the feeding of
United States and other troops for the
duration. After the war it will probably
lie idle for the want of orders. And unless
the U.S.A. is really in need of the plant
no harm will be done to anyone.
* * * ' *
Up to the end of December 31 Aus-
tralia had provided reciprocal lend-lease
to the recorded value of £27.5 million.
By the end of this financial year the
total value of such aid to the United
States is expected to reach £6l million,
the total for the 12 months 1942-43 being
put at £55 million. Beef, veal, and pork
figure prominently in the quantity of
foodstuffs supplied, with mutton and
lamb a smaller figure than pork. A
statement tabled in the House by Trea-
surer Chifley said that “United States
forces have enjoyed an equal priority
with Australian forces, and, in some
cases, have been given preference. The
extra demands which have been imposed
upon our productive capacity have in-
volved a real and, in some cases, severe
restriction on the consumption of sup-
plies or use of services by the civil popu-
lation.”
* * * *
The refugee alien threatens to be a
problem of some size in this country.
There are snags in the matter of making
use of him in the war effort, and where
use is not made of him he is able to reap
unusual advantages'in the present short-
age of Australian-born man-power. Many
small businesses previously owned by
Australians have been closed owing to
call-ups, while in some aliens the “busi-
ness” instinct is very strong. One has
only to look to places like Johannesburg
to find out the political and social prob-
lems that can arise out of an influential
alien section of the population.
According to a “Treasury spokesman”
at Canberra, “trickery and dishonest
methods are being practised on such a
large scale by German and Austrian
aliens in Australia to escape taxation
that the investigation staff of the Com-
missioner for Taxation is to be consider-
ably enlarged to deal with the evaders.”
Many offenders had arrived in Australia
with large liquid assets, and, after in-
vesting their capital in profitable enter-
prises, had kept discreetly clear of the
tax authorities. Some aliens are also
taking the public down.
The Income Tax Assessment Bill has
been accepted by the Labor Caucus and
the House of Representatives without
amendment. There has been no clearing-
up of the lag-year question, and the Gov-
ernment has not committed itself on the
legal aspect of the matter. Post-war
credits have been turned down again,
* * * *
King Island Scheelite, Bass Strait, has
“proved the existence of a very big
deposit of ore,” shareholders have been
told. According to chairman Wallace H.
Smith it is believed to be one of the
largest in the world. The plant and
finance programme was explained in B.
3/ 3 / ’43. Interest on the £155,000 Com-
monwealth advance will “probably be
4 p.c.”
* * * *
“Rationalisation” has erred in its total
prohibition of certain kinds of non-essen-
tial production where labor has been the
desired saving. It has meant that many
older men who are of no value to the
army or Allied Works Council are now
out of a job and are debarred from mak-
ing furniture or similar work which, even
if considered non-essential from the
strictly defence point of view, is mighty
important in the eyes of the thousands
of young people marrying at the present
time. Jewellery and watchmaking trades
have been hit unnecessarily. Rationalisa-
tion, with very few exceptions, should
be carried out on a man-power and
materials basis; if certain man-power
and certain materials are wanted for war
work, let them be taken. But the man-
power and materials left should not
simply be “frozen.”
There are possibilities of a shortage of
malting barley, but not until next year.
Director of Agriculture Bulcock says. “If
there is no barley there will be no beer/’
adds Mr. Bulcock. This latter may
come as a surprise to some critics of cer-
tain Australian beer, among whom may
be included the gentleman who writes
those chatty, hearty articles in “Eco-
nomic News,” described as “a bulletin
issued each month by the Queensland
Bureau of Industry.” He not so long
ago spread himself almost poetically on
“Drunkenness and the Drink Trade.”
Stating that “with us the ordinary man’s
legitimate pleasure, a good drink taken
in friendly and comfortable surroundings,
is thwarted at every turn by an unholy
alliance of brewers and wowsers, in order
to satisfy the avarice of one and the
narrow-mindedness of the other,” he
further says that “monopolistic trading
conditions compel the Australian to ac-
cept beer of poor quality,” and adds that
in one State the beer is “almost undrink-
able,” though “the brewery cos. are de-
termined that once we get inside a hotel
we shall drink and nothing else.” This
expert on the economics of alcohol,
whose “Economic News” more recently
(arising out of a B.H.P. item) referred to
“the Sydney Bulletin” as “the mouth-
piece of the big monopolies, excellent
paper though it be in other respects,” can
at this stage perhaps be expected to kick-
in with something along the lines of “beer
without malt, excellent stuff though it
be in other respects.” The cost of his
excursions into print is borne by the
Queensland Government.


THE SERVICE MAN
Annihilating Victory!
“Ek Dum”; At the beginning of
March General MacArthur issued an un-
usually grave warning about the extent
of Japanese preparations in the arc of
islands north of Australia. The same
day the enemy pointed his words by
action.
Reconnaissances picked up a fleet of 14
enemy ships, partly merchantmen, partly
a strong force of escorting cruisers and
destroyers, proceeding warily along the
northern New Britain coast towards the
mainland of New Guinea. They were
near enough to Cape Gloucester and the
many bases which the enemy has built
along the north of New Britain to have
constant land-based air cover.
This part of the Bismarck Sea was
known to the Germans when they ruled
it as the Calm Sea. There are times
when it would be more appropriately
known as the Cottonwool Sea. This was
one of them. Visibility was next to no-
thing and spasmodic. It was impossible
to attack, to decide the exact strength
and nature of the fleet, even to guess at
its destination. Nevertheless numerous
experts guessed—mainly that Madang
would be the destination, or Finschhafen,
it being opined that the foe would not
have the audacity to imagine that he
could compass the passage of the Vitiaz
Strait. He thought he could—Oriental
fatalism is evidently a top-heavy in-
gredient of the Japanese make-up. He
was bound for Lae.
When the convoy was first seen inter-
mittently on March 1, it was guarded very
thinly in the air, but next day it had
put up an umbrella of 30 to 40 fighter
’planes. The weather was still bad —
“rain, haze and thick cloud”—but steadily
improving, and the Allied heavy bombers
began their attacks, pressing them home
from low altitude in the face of heavy
ack-ack fire and continual attempts at
interception by enemy fighters.
The results were devastating. One
10,000-ton transport was hit three times
by 10001 b. bombs and left awash and
sinking. An 8000-tonner broke in halves
and sank within two minutes in a sheet
of flame. The fore-hatch of a small
vessel became an inferno after a direct
hit on the bows. Soon the sea was dotted
with scattered vessels, warships and
merchantmen alike, burning or smoulder-
ing, and 13 ’planes of the fighter escort
had been reduced to wreckage.
General MacArthur’s communique on
March 3 described what was left of the
expedition as remnants scattered and
dispersed over a wide sea north-west
of Finschhafen, apparently trying to reach
their destination at Lae. Allied losses,
to this point, were reported as light.
Beauforts in Action.
After a final attack at dusk on Tues-
day by Flying Fortresses, the R.A.A.F.
Catalinas took charge and shadowed the
remains of the convoy until near dawn,
when Australian-built Beaufort torpedo-
bombers attacked, scoring a hit on a war-
ship which appeared to be a cruiser.
Meanwhile the enemy ships had been
increased at some stage by the addition
of eight vessels, and formations of 12 to
17 fighters which had come into the air
against the Allied attacks were increased
to waves of from 20 to 30.
The Allied forces put in everything
they had. Fortresses and Mitchells,
Havocs and Beaufighters, Lightnings,
Bostons, Kittyhawks and Airacobras filled
the air for 15,000 feet up with falling
bombs and whirling dogfights over an
area sometimes as limited as 10 miles
square.
The enemy warships attempted to de-
coy the attacking ’planes away from the
merchant ships, but it was too old a
trick to try on veteran pilots handling
the greatest aggregation—and the best
correlated —which has been seen in the
New Guinea area.
The Beaufighters and light fighter-
bombers swept mast-high, pouring in a
deadly stream of half-inch and larger
ammunition. Any Jap fighter that tried
to interfere with them and divert them
from the job in hand at once found a
Lightning or an Airacobra on the back
of his neck. The approaches to the
battle were filled with whizzing and fear-
somely-decorated apparitions going home
in a hurry for more petrol and ammuni-
tion and returning even faster so as not
to miss the rest of the melee.
The Beaus from their lower level had
a splendid view of Japanese leaping by
dozens into the sea as the 20-millimetre
bullets tore up decks.
By noon on Wednesday it was all over
bar the coup de grace. The enemy, who
had apparently gambled on getting
through in bad weather, had lost and now
had a clear but smoke-hung day in which
to view his wreckage.
“A Major Disaster”
A “merciful Providence,” General
MacArthur said, “has guarded us in this
great victory.” These reverent words
were literally true. For if the weather
had not cleared on Monday night the
Allied attacks would not have been pos-
sible and the convoy, or the best part of
it, would have reached Lae.
As it was, the South-west Pacific H.Q.
was able to report, in sentences which
have become part of history:
The Battle of the Bismarck Sea is now
decided. We have achieved a victory of
such completeness as to assume the pro-
portions of a major disaster to the enemy.
His entire force was practically destroyed.
His naval component consisted of 22
vessels, comprising 12 transports and 10
warships—three light cruisers and seven
destroyers. They represent a tonnage esti-
mated at approximately 90,000. His air
coverage for his naval force has been deci-
mated and dispersed, 55 of his ’planes being
shot out of combat and many others
damaged. His ground forces, estimated at
probably 15,000, destined to attack in
New Guinea, have been sunk or killed
almost to a man.
They probably comprised part of the
51st and 20th divisions and special troops.
As the fight progressed, as 33 enemy
fighter ’planes fell into the sea and 22
more limped out of the action, useless for
further fighting, and others went home
damaged, the enemy air position became
weaker and his forces more dispersed,
until finally “his remnants, isolated and
bewildered, Were gradually annihilated by
our successive air formations.”
Until March 6 the Allies were busily
mopping up remnants. Then the final
balance sheet of the air fighting was
issued. The U.S.A.F. and R.A.A.F. used
136 ’planes and dropped 226 tons of
bombs, making 80 direct hits and 63 near-
misses. The enemy used about 150
machines, of which 102 were “definitely
put out of action.”
“Our losses,” General MacArthur’s
H.Q. reported, “were light—one heavy
bomber and three fighters shot down and
a number of others seriously damaged
but returned to base.”
It was added that the decisive success
of the action could not but fail to have
important results on the enemy’s strategic
and tactical plans. His campaign (it was
suggested) was completely dislocated for
the time being at least.
On Wednesday afternoon all the flot-
sam of wrecked ships covered the sur-
face of Huon Gulf for miles in and be-
tween the wide black oil pools. Now and
then a lifeboat full of dazed Japanese
was seen. Sometimes the exploring fliers
came upon a little group of ships, oil
pouring from them and their flames and
black smoke columns shooting to the sky.
The sharks were busy.
For the second time New Guinea had
been saved by air action. The effect on
Japanese troops of disasters in which tens
of thousands have drowned like rats off
Midway, in the Coral Sea, in the Solo-
mons and in the Bismarcks —without the
chance to raise a rifle—must be devastat-
ing. In the Papua campaign the Diggers
and Doughboys destroyed the myth that
the Jap was a super-fighter.
Air-power in the north-east Australian
area has now reached a stage at. which it
has become suicide for enemy ships not
guarded on a mammoth scale to venture
near Allied-held territory.
At the same time, it must not be for-
gotten that the same applies in some
degree to Allied ships venturing near
Japanese-held territory. And though
Japan has lost another trained division,
there are still from 75 to 100 divisions in
being and more in training.
Spitfires in the North.
“Ek Dum”: On the day when Aus-
tralians learned with relief and pride of
the great victory in the Bismarck Sea,
Mr. Curtin announced the presence of
Spitfire squadrons in Australia. They
are here as the result of a gesture by Mr,
Churchill made in response to Dr. Evatt’s
personal request for air support.
Their arrival was somewhat delayed
by the developments of the Libyan re-
treat. which compelled the diversion to
Egypt of the first batch of machines to
be sent.
The' squadrons have been here some
time, and have been adapted to tropical
conditions. Many Australians have
looked at them without recognising
them ; for the Spitfire and the Hurricane
are the mothers of all fighters, and the
Kittyhawks and their kind bear a strong
family resemblance to them. Others
recognised them ; but the secret was well
kept.
With the squadrons came the nucleus
of the Old Guard of Britain and Lilya:
Thorold-Smith, one of Finucane’s squad-
ron —a Sydney Uni. footballer and son
of a Sydney dentist —Caldwell, Truscott
(both heroes of many fights), K. E. James,
an early Empire Air Training Scheme
man who had taken part in 42 sweeps
over enemy territory, and Peter Watson,
of Vaucluse, who had been in 45, and
had sometimes led his squadron.
With these Australians have come a
number of R.A.F. men from well-
blooded squadrons ; so that the R.A.F.
has become as much part of the fighting
forces of the Pacific as the R.A.A.F. is
of those of Europe. Among them are
Squadron-Leader E. M. Gibbs, who
began his fighting career in an Avro-
Anson, Flight-Lieutenants J. A. Tuckson
and R. W. Foster.
All these men are experienced, and
their presence will have its effect on
training in the R.A.A.F., of which less-
travelled members will soon pick up
their wrinkles.
The first pilots to learn from the new
arrivals were 15 confident-looking Jap
“O” fighters who came whooping in over
the airstrip at Darwin on a strafing jaunt.
One R.A.A.F. pilot was about to land ;
him they drove into the air and nearly
caught. Having had a merry and noisy
time without doing much damage, they
started for home in three storeys, five
’planes to a storey, when they suddenly
saw the apparition of Spitfires under-
neath coming up to attack their lowest
formation.
For speed and manoeuvrability the “O”
fighters are no slouches in the hands of
first-division Jap pilots, and they gave a
fine display of aerobatics —firing upside
down, dropping off into backward drives
and a host of mechanical turnabouts. But
they had no chance with the Spitfires.
Six of the “O’s” were shot down in short
order. The rest used their speed to the
limit to get home before the Austral-
British squadron could draw any more
beads on them.
Henceforth, “O” fighters and bombers
visiting Darwin will come in with trepi-
dation. It won’t be safe for bombers to
come in at all without very heavy escort.
Rommel's Prospecting Drives.
“Ek Bum”: Last week, as previously,
the enemy in Tunisia was engaged in
testing the strength of Allied forces at
all points from which a major Allied
attack is likely to come, at the same time
trying to hamper British communications.
Rommel’s assaults were made at
the points of concentration of supply and
man-power. Obviously he hopes, by in-
volving the Allies in fairly large-scale
local operations, to distract them from
their decisive objective—the preparation
of the future main war against Axis
positions when the rains are over.
One of the evidences of the real nature
of German-Italian operations in both
north and south is the brief duration of
the Axis efforts and the swiftness with
which their forces withdraw so soon as
they meet with stiff resistance. The
Anglo-American poliqy is one of elastic
defence, which allows the enemy to push
his way a certain distance without per-
mitting him to take matters into his own
hands, opposing sufficient resistance to
leave him in doubt as to whether or not
the defenders are using main strength.
Sometimes he appears as if he has
broken his way to within an inch of a
great success and of shearing right
through the Allied positions to the open
plains of Algeria.
Just when German Radio has worked
itself into a mood of triumph, the Allies
administer a strong sedative and the Axis
brigades, badly mauled, find themselves
in retreat.
The chief play for some days was
staged in the extreme north of Tunisia.
The enemy drove westward toward
Tabarca —the British main line is half-
way along the coastal road between it
and Mateur. While maintaining their
other activities, testing the whole of the
British perimeter in the Tunis-Bizerta
section, a Von Arnim force thrust out a
fist of tanks and artillery which drove
its way past 'Sedjenane, 20 miles from
Mateur, so that Berlin commentators
and strategic uncles began to speculate
about the fate of the First Army’s rear if
the German tanks appeared west beyond
it and cut through its communication
lines.
At that stage British tanks (Churchills)
and artillery took a hand and the Ger-
man shock force first sat suddenly back
on its haunches and then began to move
backwards. But the British at the week-
end, fighting fiercely, were still seven
miles west of their old front. The
weather held up further operations.
Further south, the Anglo-French re-
occupied the Paid Pass, Pichon and
Ousseltia, and, with the Americans, con-
solidated the gains to the east of Kas-
serine. They met little opposition in the
Paid drive. The Allies also were press-
ing in the s.-w. towards Gafsa, which
seemed at the time of writing likely to
fall soon.
Eighth Army Attacked
On March 6 Rommel transferred his
activities to the Mareth Line, where an
artillery duel already had been develop-
ing for four days. There followed, not
a crucial battle, but fierce fighting—the
usual series of German expeditions of
covering tanks, backed by a taxi-rank of
motorised infantry and footsloggers.
The heavy weight of the fighting was
toward part of the gap between the
Mareth defence line and the sea. But
the Eighth Army knows all Rommel’s
tricks and it had the antidote —105 mm.
guns, 25-pounders, which pounded the
Axis lines for 90 minutes at a time, abun-
dance of aircraft to maintain overhead
superiority and reconnaissance; also better
morale born of earlier victories over the
same troops and formations. A power-
ful anti-tank barrier soon knocked 21
monsters of the enemy spearhead to bits
and the artillery and bombing aircraft
broke up the infantry support, the
Italians, as usual, suffering heavily. The
enemy artillery tried to damp the vigor
of the defence, but soon shut down.
Two drives proved for the time being to
Rommel that the best place for his pan-
zers was in the mountain lairs and bear
pits. Cairo’s account was that both assaults
had been effectively held. The enemy
failed to infiltrate the Eighth Army’s lines
at any point (it was asserted) and suffered
outstanding losses. The Eighth Army’s
own losses were described officially as
“negligible.”
On March 7, however, there had de-
veloped a new and fierce battle of which
the features were not clear at the time
of writing.
In North Tunisia the rainy season is
struggling miserably to its conclusion in
a sea of churned-up mud. By the end
of the month the whole ground from
north to south along the Allied lines
should be fightable and natural aero-
dromes on the Algerian plateaux usable
if not perfect.
A desperate struggle is in the offing.
The Germans will not give way easily.
The loss of Tunisia and a threat of in-
vasion of Sicily or Sardinia would have
a devastating effect on the outlook of
the German as well as the Italian people.
Hitler is making day and night attempts
to reinforce North Africa, regardless of
losses which grow heavier with the
strengthening of Allied air-power. On
March 4 alone four transports were sunk
in daylight by Fortresses, while Light-
nings kept off an enemy fighter escort
and sea losses continue steadily.
The Air War in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: During 28 days in Feb-
ruary the United Nations air forces based
on Britain were in action over enemy-
held territory on 26 days and nights.
There was no slackening in the first week
of March. On the contrary.
On Feb. 28 1000 tons of bombs were
dropped on St. Nazaire, the U-boat base
on the French coast, at the rate of 23
tons a minute, and the naval area was
described afterwards by a pilot as look-
ing like a bubbling mass of red flames.
On March 1 Berlin had its 58th attack.
The select party of heavies that made it
dropped 8000-pounders on Central Berlin
(450 tons in half an hour), round the
Linden and the Wilhelmstrasse district,
which is rich in Government buildings,
including Hitler’s Chancellery and the
War and Air Ministries. The visitors left
fires which could be seen 150 miles away,
and which were still burning four days
afterwards. Nineteen bombers did not
return. .
The enemy’s account of objectives hi
would suggest that sophisticated Central
Berlin contains nothing but creches, kin-
dergartens, hospitals and churches, but
none of these was named. It was ad-
mitted that 486 persons were killed and
377 wounded, but losses must have been
much heavier. One neutral report said
that 10,000 Berliners were homeless.
Hamburg’s agony followed on a large
scale, but much of Hamburg previously
had been knocked into a shapeless rub-
bish heap. There were side attacks on
the great railway junction of Hamm and
on Knabe near Stavanger (Norway).
Operations were topped off for tne
week with the greatest raid of the war
on Essen on March 6. About 40 tons
of bombs per minute were dropped tor
40 minutes. The devastation will take
days to assess. Fourteen bombers were
lost. Berlin admitted severe casualties
and damage to public buildings.
Lorient, another U-boat base, was


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST EDWARD COOPE.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORA COOPE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 450 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 9th April 1943'and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from C. H.
PEARCE & CO. Solicitors 84 Pitt Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
TO ALBERT HENRY AUGUSTUS KENT
late of Moree New South Wales Butcher. —
TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE MABEL
KENT has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1235 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Twenty-first day of May
next and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. WEBB & BOLAND
Solicitors Moree or MESSRS. WHITEHEAD
FERRANTI & GREEN of 92 Pitt Street Syd-
ney their City Agents.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
Missing Friends.
TO DENBIGH ARTHUR JOHN STEWART
formerly of Colac in the State of Victoria Chef
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MARY HELEN STEWART
has instituted proceedings for a divorce on
the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Twenty-fourth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three the case
may proceed in your absence IF you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office on or before the Third day
of April One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the sealed copy petition and copy citation in
this suit may be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitor JOAN ROSANOVE 415
Bourke Street Melbourne Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
TO RICHARD HENRY COPE formerly of
Adamstown in the State of New South Wales
Mechanic but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ALICE COPE has
instituted proceedings for a divorce on the
ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Twenty-fourth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three the
case may proceed in your absence IF you in-
tend to defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the Third
day of April One thousand nine hundred and
forty-three AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the sealed copy petition and copy citation
in this suit may be inspected at the office of
the Petitioner’s Solicitor JOAN ROSANOVE
415 Bourke Street Melbourne Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
CD
am
salted with explosive by U.S. machines,
which left the naval powerhouse and
other objectives ablaze. Three bombers
and two fighters did not return. Libera-
tors, escorted by R.A.F. fighters, heavily
bombed the naval base at Brest. Naples
was raided on March 5,
The fighters, like their big sisters, had
an unusually busy week. On one day
the R.A.F. Fighter Command made 750
sorties.
Two enemy attempts to raid the Lon-
don area were on a small scale compared
with British attacks on Germany. The
first was made on March 3, just after
dark, but though between 30 and 40
bombers crossed the coast few risked
the solid walls of ack-ack fire, and four
were shot down. Some damage and
casualties and the wrecking of dwellings
along the Thames estuary were admitted,
and 178 people were killed on the stairs
of a subway shelter during a scramble
which followed when, in the darkness, a
woman tripped on the steep stairway.
The nearest bomb fell two miles away.
The second raid early on Thursday
morning did not get beyond the “alert
stage.”
Rshev and the Donetz.
“Ek Dum”: The most distinctive
feature of the later part of the winter
fighting in Russia was the tapering off
of casualties. It would seem that, how-
ever bitter the fighting for some of the
towns and positions while it lasted, it
was neither long nor large after the snow
phase of the season began towards the
end of January,
Correspondents reported after visiting
the armies of occupation that Kharkov
had been defended by only three divi-
sions and some armored support. Eight
months before it had withstood the might
of Timoshenko’s southern armies.
This weakness has been attributed to the
wholesale slaughter of German troops, but
not to withdrawals of divisions. Moscow
denied statements made by a New York
“Times” correspondent in October and
by British correspondents in February
that 42 Axis divisions had been with-
drawn from the Russian front on the eve
of winter. According to Moscow, actu-
ally 19 divisions had been hurried from
the west to strengthen the German posi-
tions. Last week Rome declared that
“ten divisions, forming the Eighth
Italian Army,” had been brought home
from Russia “to rest and to have the
ranks refilled.”
In any case the theory of Axis weak-
ness in man-power was largely dis-
counted immediately by the fact that,
though the Germans gave up towns like
Rostov and Kharkov with only rearguard
actions, they did not give up Novorossisk,
an isolated point on the Black Sea, seem-
ingly precariously held, and menaced
both by land and by the Russian Black
Sea fleet. Because of the thaw or for
other reasons, the Russians apparently
found it impossible to break into the
Cis-Caucasian bridgehead and recapture
the Kerch Strait or to make any landings
on the Crimea or to achieve any sort of
control of the Azov Sea. And when
they came to push their advantages in the
Donetz, it was discovered that, while the
Germans had yielded big manufacturing
towns, they were holding on like leeches
to the sources which made them big
manufacturing towns and without which
they must be the gutted shells of large
inhabited places.
The ruins of the machine shops of
Rostov and Voroshilovgrad and Kharkov
were abandoned. But the coal, iron and
aluminium which those towns used re-
mained in a savage German grasp, along
with the electrical potential of the
Dnieper. When the Russians sought to
grasp these things, they were not merely
fended off, but pushed back fiercely along
the Kramatorsk Line, while desperate
fighting along the Azov coast failed to
take them further than the main German
defence lines of last winter, 20 miles or
so from Rostov, or to any point round
the “Lugansk triangle” of industrial and
productive centres beyond those which
they held last winter. It remains to be
seen whether the Russians have used their
full strength or whether they are waiting
for the effects of the thaw to wear off.
For the whole week, indeed, the Ger-
mans appeared to be on the offensive on
a 70-mile front, pushing northward till
they secured most of the important
Isyum sector of the Donetz, the region in
which the joint of Timoshenko’s attack
was smashed last May. This is south-
east of Kharkov.
On March 3 Berlin Radio asserted that
there was fighting north-east of Kharkov
as well as south-east. On March 5 came
enemy claims to the recapture of
“numerous localities” on the Donetz front,
including Lisichansk, on the western
bank of the Donetz, 120 miles n.-w. of
Rostov, and to the “encircling” of the
Third Russian Army south of Kharkov.
In the North
Meanwhile the position further north
appeared incongruous with this German
strength in the Donetz and Kuban areas.
Some progress was obviously being made
by the Russians with the encirclement of
Orel, though it was hard going for the
gallant fellows, especially since their
southern and eastern communication lines
were now in the grip of the thaw.
Early last week a Russian offensive
was reported to have successfully gained
ground between Lake Ilmen and Lake
Seliger in the Bologoe district. Here
Timoshenko was said to be in command,
as previously he had been said to be in
command at Leningrad.
This offensive, it was announced from
Moscow, engulfed territory held by the
16th German Army, during battles which
broke through strongly fortified positions
in a number of sectors threatening
doubly to encircle the Germans. A Red
Army communique (March 2):
The enemy, sensing his danger, began a
hurried retreat to the west under Russian
blows. During eight days’ fighting we
relentlessly pursued the enemy and libe-
rated the town of Demyansk [about 40
miles s.-e. of Staraya Russa] and the dis-
trict centres of Lychevo and Zaluche
[Zaluche is between 25 and 30 miles west
of Demyansk]. We cleared the Germans
from an area of c OO square miles, took
3000 prisoners, captured 78 ’planes, 97
tanks, 289 guns, 711 machine-guns and
other war material.
The enemy left 8000 dead on the battle-
field.
Demyansk, never before mentioned in
a communique, was described as “the
fortress of Demyansk”—a “deep wedge
menacing the Moscow-Leningrad rail-
way.”
History Repeats Itself
The Germans had this area in the
grip of their 16th Army in the winter of
1941-42. In January, 1942, before the
thaw came, they hurriedly evacuated the
area, much of it being frozen swamp, and
leaguered themselves at Staraya Russa,
where they held out, though hard pressed.
After the spring came they apparently re-
gained the Demyansk country without
much fighting.
Rshev Abandoned
On March 3 came a surprise announce-
ment from Berlin;
The fortress area of Rshev has been
evacuated by the German forces without
interference from the Red Army, in accord-
ance with the High Command’s plan for the
systematic shortening of the line. After
blowing up the bridges ove - the Volga the
German rearguard successfully broke con-
tact with the enemy. Subsequently Russian
attacks upon the German forces in their
new positions were beaten off with heavy
loss.
The Moscow Information Bureau
issued a special communique:
Our troops several days ago launched a
determined attack against Rshev. The
enemy had long since converted its
approaches into a strongly fortified area.
Today we occupied the town after pro-
tracted and furious fighting. The enemy
left about 2000 officers and men killed in
Rshev and its approaches. The booty cap-
tured according to incomplete data —110
tanks, 78 guns, 35 locomotives, 1200 rail-
way coaches, five dumps of ammunition
and war material.
Rshev was one of the few hedgehog
defences about which anything substantial
was known. The town is on the eastern
side of the upper Volga. It was bound
within a strongly-fortified perimeter 100
miles in circumference, and it had again
and again resisted heavy Russian at-
tempts, including one in spring and one
in December, to break into it.
Rshev was so large a defensive proposi-
tion that it was difficult to believe that
it could be served by road, especially in
the thaw. Its direct western railway had
been cut at Velikiye Luki and its com-
munication with the Smolensk-Moscow
rail and road (via Vyazma junction) was
either threatened or actually severed. The
enemy, therefore, was faced with the pros-
pect of maintaining communications
across the western sloughs and by other
precarious routes for two months or so ;
and apparently the prospect did not
please, especially in view of the seemingly
increased Russian offensive power. This,
combined with a pressing necessity to
shorten the line and economise troops
against the need for them in the west to
defend the southern French and Italian
coasts, as well as North Africa, goes
far to explain this and other moves and
their precipitancy.
Berlin had reported a Russian offensive
against the Gzhatsk positions, the nearest
German forts to Moscow, about 90 miles
away. There was no Russian confirma-
tion of this till the Red Army Command
announced on March 7 the capture of
Osuga, 17 miles south of Rshev (German
dead 800), of several other inhabited
localities in the same region and of
Gzhatsk itself after two assaults:
On the approaches of Gzhatsk we killed
1200 of the enemy. The Gzhatsk gar-
rison, consisting of a regiment, was com-
pletely wiped out.
Simultaneously a German communique
declared: “We evacuated Gzhatsk accord-
ing to plan and frustrated all attempts to
interfere with our withdrawal.”
This seemed to make it clear that a
general withdrawal was in progress from
some of the strongest positions in the
central forward German sector.
Movements West of Kursk
In the same Russian communique
which mentioned the fate of Rshev, the
Red Army reported the capture of two
towns on the Kharkov-Bryansk railway—
Lgov, 25 miles n.-w. of Kursk, and
Dmitriev, 25 miles n.-w. of Lgov. These
have a particular interest in view of
Hitler’s professed anxiety to “systemati-
cally” shorten his line. They are valley
towns, commanding the headwaters of
the Seim, a tributary of the Desna —the
river which runs into the Dnieper near
Kiev, and around whose lower waters the
great encirclement battles of September,
1941, were fought after the fall of Kiev.
They might, therefore, have been given
up temporarily, for the period of the
thaw.
But the fact that they are on the
Bryansk-Kharkov-Taganrog railway sug-
gests that the Germans would not be
anxious to allow them out of their pos-
session for ten minutes.
It was here suggested (B, 17/2/’43)
that the enemy might abandon Orel for
strategic reasons and establish his eastern-
most hedgehog north of the Donetz at
the great railway junction of Bryansk and
his defences along the core of the rail-
way thence to Smolensk.
By using the railway from Novo Sokol-
niki via Vitebsk, Smolensk, Roslavl,
Bryansk to the Donetz, the Germans might
create a line or chain of positions not
much more than half the length of that
which would be involved if they held
the Kharkov-Kursk-Orel-Gzhatsk-Rshev
lines.
They also would shorten their commu-
nications to their main front.
Serious as were the losses incurred by
the enemy at Stalingrad in the retreat
from the Caucasus and Stalingrad, he has
already reduced his front in the south
by nearly 50 per cent, and shortened his
communications to main bases by any-
thing from 250 to 500 miles. He still
holds more territory than he did at this
time in 1942, including the Crimea, the
Cis-Caucasus bridgehead across the Kerch
Strait and Novorossisk. To underrate
him is folly,
Orel Threatened
Towards the week-end the main battle
for Orel seemed to be developing. It
seemed to be a race between the Russians
and the thaw ; and the Russians were
making their usual intrepid and self-sacri-
ficing efforts. Orel stands for more to
them than to the Germans. Its capture
would mean the opening of a direct rail
communication between Moscow and
Kharkov.
The spring campaign might reasonably
be expected to be early this year, in view
of the small snowfall and the possibility
of only a brief thaw.
Whatever the developments, the Ger-
mans have a far harder row to hoe than
at any time hitherto. They will need every
economy of line, men and armaments
they can contrive. Each week the burden
will become heavier. In the end it will
break the back of their morale.
At present their greatest fear must be
that they will not be able to keep their
clutch on the decimated Balkan peoples,
and that the back door to their defences
will swing wide open, as it did in 1917.
The point has been reached at which
even Woolcott Forbes would not issue
a policy on the German future.
During the great Bismarck Sea battle
General MacArthur showed the strength
of S.-w. Pacific Command in the air by
continuing the bombing of enemy bases
round 2000 miles of the northern de-
fence arc in the normal way. Alexis-
hafen, Cape Gloucester, Wide Bay (where
an ammunition ship exploded), the Waria
River, the Lae area, Mubo and Gas-
rnata were all attacked in the east, and
in the west the Tanimbar Islands and
Saumlaki —the nearest enemy base to the
Australian coast —200 miles off Arnhem
Land —were given good dustings. One
expedition went as far afield as Soemba
and Soembawa. The latter is about 200
miles east of Java and 1000 miles from
Darwin.
* * * *
Operations in the Solomons have in
the main been confined to routine bomb-
ing from Bougainville to Munda and
Vila. On March 5 a surface task force
bombarded these enemy-held ports, and
two large enemy destroyers were sunk
when an attempt was made by the Jap
Navy to stop the bombardment. No U.S.
vessels were lost. U.S. Navy reports that
five out of seven Jap torpedo bombers
which attacked a convoy without causing
damage were shot down on Feb. 17.
* * * *
Uncle Sam admits the loss of U.S.
cruiser Astoria —a 9950-ton heavy cruiser
—in the battle off Savo Island, near
Guadalcanal, during one of the last
enemy attempts to grab the American
positions.
* * * *
U.S. Navy credits a submarine (Lieut.-
Commander Lucius Chapwill) with hav-
ing sunk 13 Jap ships, including three
warships.
* * * *
In Yunnan the Chinese were reported
to have begun an offensive west of the
Salween on March 4, recapturing several
towns. Chungking claimed that all
Japanese attacks in Kiangsu had been
driven off and 400 of the enemy killed.
There was heavy raiding of Jap bases
in Burma during the week, including
Akyab and Mandalay, but bad weather
has hampered land operations.
* * * ♦
The cruiser given by the Admiralty
to replace H.M.A.S. Canberra is to be
H.M.A.S. Shropshire after all; Uncle
Sam has paid the R.A.N. the compliment
of naming one of his new heavy cruisers
after the lost Australian flagship.


ANTIMONIAL LEAD
Highest Purity
Any Desired Antimony Content
THE BROKEN HILL
ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
380 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
62 Brookman Buildings, ADELAIDE
Selling Agents.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Alexandria, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Perry House,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA:
H. B. Harker, C/o The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. Noble & Son, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Zonda is selected by our Melbourne
correspondent as the likely winner of
the Newmarket Handicap, to be run at
Flemington next Saturday. Favorite since
the declaration of weights, she has done
well since winning the Futurity Stakes,
and probably is better now than when
third with 8.8 in the 1941 Newmarket
and an unlucky fifth with 9.3 last year.
Although lacking in height, she is a very
thick-set mare, and 9.4 should not stop
her provided she draws reasonably well
at the barrier. J. Purtell rides.
H. Wolters, trainer of the last two
Newmarket winners, Kelos and All Veil,
considers himself fortunate to possess
three horses with chances this year. They
are Plica, All Veil and Lilette. Plica,
biggest horse in the field, may be best of
Wolters’s trio. He ran fairly in the
Futurity Stakes, enjoys a decided weight
advantage over horses that finished ahead
of him in that race, and has worked bril-
liantly since. Lilette, whom Badger has
been approached to ride, also has thrived
since her first-up dead-heat with Law
Student at Flemington. Wolters, unlike
most trainers, is not worrying about the
barrier draw.
Collective fortunes were lost on Bur-
berry in the Oakleigh Plate and Futurity
Stakes, but at the time of writing he was
second favorite for the Newmarket. As
he ran on at the finish of the Oakleigh
(54-f.) and weakened at the end of the
Futurity (7f.), six furlongs may be the
ideal distance for him. He meets Zonda
(first) 101 b. better but Art Union (third)
and Millais (fourth) only lib, better than
Futurity terms. Millais would have done
better in the Futurity had he escaped in-
terference, and, having raced only nine
times, looks certain to improve. Law
Student, Denko and Distinction are
others well in the market, but Reception’s
chance, according to his trainer, was not
improved when he was eliminated after
acceptances for Mentone last Saturday
week. Reception is one of the best
straight-six gallopers seen in recent years,
but his trainer considers he needed an-
other race to bring him to his top.
With the Victoria Derby winner Great
Britain an absentee, East End, a filly,
should defeat the colts in the V.R.C. St.
Leger. She cannot yet be classed along-
side Furious, last winner of the Oaks and
Leger, but, on performances, her rivals
are not a formidable lot. East End has
done well since her first-up third to Sun
Valley and Pandect in the w.f.a. St.
George Stakes last month, and, although
tiring at the finish of the nine furlongs,
it is improbable any of the Leger colts
could have done as well. She combines
brilliance and stamina, and should get
l|m. among horses of her own age.
Illyrian and Amazed, who dead-heated
for second in the Victoria Derby, may be
hardest for East End to defeat. Amazed
probably will do better on the larger
Flemington track than he did at Mentone
last start, but Illyrian, although still a
maiden, has shown stamina in most of
his races, and must be preferred on Men-
tone form. Blue Valley failed in open
company following an impressive win
among three-year-olds at Mentone, but,
with Badger in the saddle, is assured of
substantial public support.
Precept, a staying son of Peter Pan,
will appreciate the seven furlongs of the
Sires’ Produce Stakes. He meets a
stronger field than he defeated at Men-
tone, but is improving with every race,
and looks like giving his apprentice rider,
H. McCloud, another important success.
McCloud’s wins this season include the
Melbourne Cup on Colonus and Men-
tone Cup on Gay Revelry. If Ben Butler
were as fit as when he won at his only
spring start he would attract as the likely
winner. He won that race in the style
of a potential champion, but has not been
produced since. The fact that his trainer,
L. Robertson, entered five other horses
for next Saturday’s race could be con-
strued as an indication that he was not
overconfident of Ben Butler’s prospects.
East End’s brother, Sirius, winner of the
Alma Stakes, and a likely stayer, looks
best of the others.
* * * *
It is reported that J. Holt is of opinion
that Distinction could have fairly
escaped a Newmarket penalty of 41b. for
his win at Mentone. A jump from 31b.
above the minimum in a suburban han-
dicap to 131 b. in a Newmarket is cer-
tainly a big one, but Distinction won de-
cisively in fast time. As he is up to
weight the difference will not affect him
to the same extent as many other horses.
As a four-year-old he won the six fur-
longs Windsor Handicap at Flemington
with 7.6, and was weighted at 8.5 for
the last Caulfield Cup and 7.11 for the
Melbourne Cup. However, sprinting
appears to be his forte. A five-year-old
half-brother, by Constant Son, to Talk-
ing, he cost 750gns. as a yearling.
* * * *
In order to win with 9.3 Tranquil
Star will have to put up a record for a
mare in the Australian Cup, the best for
her sex being Gasworks’ 8.5.' Tran-
quil Star won the last Caulfield Cup with
8.12, but as she was well beaten in the
Melbourne Cup with 9.3 it seems too
much to expect her to win the Austra-
lian Cup with that weight. Spearfelt
was the last winner with more than 8.5,
his weight in 1927 being 9,13. The pre-
vious year Pilliewinkie was successful
with 9.6.
* * * *
Finalist, a gelding and now 11 years
old, is still India’s crack stayer. At one
period last year the Maharajah of
Gwalior intended retiring Finalist, but,
acting on the advice of A. Higgins, Final-
ist’s owner decided to give him another
run in the Viceroy’s Cup at Calcutta last
Boxing Day. Higgins trained him for
the race, and in a great finish Finalist
defeated the even-money favorite, Wans-
fell (King-Emperor’s Cup winner), by a.
head. It was Finalist’s fourth Viceroy's
Cup win since he arrived in India from
England in 1937. Ridden by Jones in
his recent Cup, Finalist carried 9.3,
started at 3 to 1 and the time for the 1|
miles was 3.7 f, which was on the slow
side compared with previous years.
It was not generally anticipated that
the Lord Mayor of Sydney’s appeal to
the Prime Minister for an extra day’s
racing would achieve anything, but he
at least has the satisfaction of saying
“Well, I tried.” In Adelaide Premier
Playford continues to make such a strong
stand against resumption of racing that
the position in that city appears hope-
less.
* * * *
The A.J.C. is asking for more coun-
try meetings in N.S.W. A reasonable
request. Last year, with a view to assist-
ing the war effort, many clubs did not
race. These included some of promi-
nence, and they now propose resuming
operations. However, this year’s quota
is based on that of last year, when fewer
than 100 days were raced. In 1941 there
were 250, and over 500 in 1938. Natu-
rally, clubs that carried on last year will
again expect registration, but if they re-
ceive it that means there will be difficulty
in granting registration for days required
by some clubs of greater importance
The A.J.C. is consequently placed in an
awkward position—one that can only be
relieved by the Prime Minister seeing fit
to grant a few extra days.
» * * *
Sixty-two stallions are represented in
W. Inglis and Son’s yearling catalogue
for next month’s sales at Randwick.
Midstream heads the list, and, as usual.
the youngsters by imported sires greatly
outnumber those by Australian horses.
Totals are as under:
♦Midstream .. .. 19 The Marne .. .. 4
♦Brueghel .. .. 16 Silver Standard .. 4
♦Golden Sovereign 13 Sion 4
♦Conspirator.. .. 12 ♦Sir Calidore.. .. 4
♦The Buzzard .. 12 Spearfelt .. .. 4
♦Le Grand Due .. 12 ♦Denis Boy .. .. 4
♦Beau Pere .. ..11 Hall Mark .. ..4
♦Double Remove 11 ♦Manitoba .. .. 4
♦Fresco 10 ♦Madagascar .. .. 4
♦Assignation .. 9 Minnesota .. .. 3
♦Andrea .. .. 8 ♦Constant Son .. 3
♦Felcrag .. .. 8 Oro 2
♦Harinero .. .. 8 ♦Scintillation .. .. 2
Hua 8 ♦Genetout .. .. 2
Talking 8 ♦Tippler 2
Lynch Law .. .. 8 Tuckiar 2
Sylvandale .. .. 8 ♦Myosotis .. .. 2
♦Coronation Day.. 7 The Chief .. .. 2
♦Simeon’s Fort .. 7 Veilmond .. .. 2
Winooka .. .. 6 Young Crusader.. 2
Nuffield .. .. 6 Rampion .. .. 1
♦Marconigram .. 6 ♦Royal Sun .. .. 1
Marabou .. .. 6 ♦St. Magnus .. .. 1
♦Posterity .. .. 6 ♦Seascape Boy .. 1
Gold Rod .. .. 6 ♦Lackham .. 1
♦J. R. Smith .. .. 5 ♦Medieval Knight.. 1
♦Melfort .. .. 5 Metallurgy .. .. 1
Royal Step .. .. 5 ♦Dark Lover .. .. 1
Pentheus .. .. 5 Gilt Edge .. .. 1
♦Bullhead .. .. 5 Fanfare .. .. 1
Peter Pan .. .. 5 Thracian .. .. 1
♦ Imported.
* * * *
The Owners and Trainers’ Association
has asked for representation on the Syd-
ney Turf Club if the bill for its establish-
ment goes through. There should be no
objection to that, as the association’s
representative would presumably be a
man of practical knowledge in most
things associated with racing. Bearing
on membership of the S.T.C. one clause
that might well be deleted is: “That no
bookmaker shall be eligible for election
as a member of the club.” In fact,
bookmaking is such a big factor in con-
nection with racing that it might not be
going too far to suggest that one of the
twelve directors should be a bookmaker.
The probabilities are that any bookmaker
selected by members of that fraternity
as fitting to represent them would be pos-
sessed of racing knowledge more likely
to be helpful to the club than that of
some of the possible political nominees.
One objection that may be raised against
the membership of bookmakers is that
they would become too strong a voting
power.
In one respect—one only—the Rivers-
Walker brawl at Leichhardt resembled
the second Dempsey-Tunney bout. In the
third spasm Walker felled the other pug,
but because he would not retire to a
neutral corner the referee, Pearson,
stopped the count, and Rivers was down
for at least 12 seconds before he struggled
to his feet. Afterwards Walker was
cautioned for butting, and at the end of
12 wild rounds, punctuated by animated
monologues. Rivers got the decision.
With straight lefts and right uppercuts,
Bob Fuller, a lightweight from Wollon-
gong, gave the more experienced Tommy
Johns a parlous time at the Sydney Sta-
dium. Johns favors swings, but he rarely
landed on the elusive Fuller, and at the
end of the twelfth round he was a very
sick and sorry pug. Fuller is a towns-
man and pal of Jack Johnson, who at
Melbourne the same night stopped Sloane
in the eighth. Melbourne thought highly
of Sloane, but he wasn’t in it with the
Wollongong middleweight.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
St. Leger Stakes: East End, 1 ;
Illyrian, 2 ; Amazed, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Precept,
1 ; Ben Butler, 2 ; Sirius, 3.
Newmarket Handicap: Zonda, 1 ;
Millais, 2 ; Plica, 3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Dinkum Aussie, 1 ;
Edigram, 2; Gold Head, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Hecuba, 1 ;
Joygiver, 2 ; Denton, 3.
Flying Handicap: Usher, 1 ;
Mannerheim, 2; Flying Shuttle, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Colonel
Post, 1 ; Hieron, 2; Lord Valen-
tine, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Irish Sea,
1; Petruchio, 2 ; St. Elmo or Mer-
ton, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Mortine, 1 ;
Angel, 2 ; Linemond, 3.
FOR NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
Distinction 1
Zonda 2
Lilette or Denko 3


Situation Vacant.
WANTED.—MiddIe-aged COMPANION
HOUSEKEEPER for elderly woman. No other
members in the house, which has every modern
convenience, electric light, refrigeration, etc.
Wages, £2 per week and keep. Fare paid.
Apply MRS. TOM ROCHE, Green Hills,
Adelong.
Missing Friends.
YATES McDANIEL, whose photograph of
survivors from ship lost oft' Sumatra, February,
‘42, is reproduced in “Malayan Postscript”
(Faber and Faber), is urgently requested to
communicate with MRS. GEORGE BRYCE,
Stirling West, South Australia.
MRS. NINA MOORE.—If MRS. NINA
MOORE or (if deceased) her children will
communicate with the undersigned she or they
will hear something to her or their advantage.
—MALLESON STEWART & CO., Solicitors,
46 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director.
’Phone (three lines); 873C1. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
The just-opened Soldiers’ Hostel (the
Australian Defence Canteens Service
Club) near the Central Railway Station
met with general approval on Saturday
night from the men it is meant to
serve. When all the sleeping quarters
are opened up it will house 480 soldier
guests, but on Saturday only 120 were
lucky enough to secure beds. Tariff
rates are Is. for a bed and Is. for each
meal, or 4s. a day for full board. The
hostel will be staffed by soldiers and
members of the A.W.A.S. It has lounge,
reading-and dining-rooms, a snack bar
and a milk bar. Billiards, table-tennis
and a grand piano promise enjoyable
hours to patrons. Army Minister Forde
made the opening speech, Mrs. Forde
having opened the main doors at 6.30
precisely.
The clubhouse and lawns of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron were given over
to the cause of the Navy on Saturday
afternoon. The women’s committee of
the Naval War Auxiliary had arranged
a garden party, and brisk trade was done
in such things as eggs and mar-
rows and home-made jams. Those in
sporting mood could take a cast in the
fish-pond or try their skill on the hoop-la.
The eye of envy followed her whose deft
casting secured a glass dish or a cake of
soap. The A.W.A.S. gave a hand wher-
ever it was needed. There were talk
and movement on the lawns and a band
playing all the afternoon, and tea was
served. President Mrs. E. W. Marriott
and Mrs. Don Taylor were two of a
committee that had a busy but satisfying
day.
In order to obtain sheepskins for fight-
ing men and merchant seamen —sheep-
skin vests and mittens for Air Force per-
sonnel, all Navy units and some Army
units, and vests and boots asked for by
Australian prisoners of war in cold
European camps—the C.W.A. now finds
that it must go on the open market
against whatever competition there may
be. This competition is severe, since
Britain and America both want the skins,
and so do Russian-aid organisations.
Undoubtedly all three need sheep-
skins. But since Australia has plenty
of them her own men shouldn’t
be allowed to go short simply be-
cause the C.W.A. can’t find the money
to buy them. The association doesn’t
ask for Government help to the detri-
ment of any other organisation, but it is
suggested that the Australian Government
could either stand sponsor for C.W.A.
sheepskin purchases or ascertain the need
and acquire the necessary skins. So long
as it can get the skins, the C.W.A. will
do the rest without cost to the Govern-
ment.
Long, narrow and pleasant, with the
light flooding through windows at each
end, the rooms for the entertainment of
Allied service men at 13 Bridge-
street are already drawing 150 guests
each day, sometimes more. The
place is primarily a recreation centre
and only light refreshments are supplied.
It is closed in the morning, but open
every afternoon and evening till half-
past ten. The color scheme is gay, bright-
red lacquer tables standing out well against
ivory walls. Curtains and other furnish-
ings are of one of those pinks that tone
with red. A long roster of helpers under
the presidency of Mrs. S. M. Stokes is
ready for service at all times. There is
dancing every night, and here all Allied
men are welcome. Here they can write
their letters or play games, and on Sun-
days there will be special entertainments.
Sydney will have a chance to view the
exhibition of art by men and women in
the services from March 16 onwards. At
three o’clock on that date Lord Wake-
hurst will officiate at the Sydney opening
of the show, which has drawn great
crowds in Melbourne. The exhibition,
which will benefit the Red Cross, will
be run by the Special Appeals Committee
of that society. The War Art Council is
its sponsor.
A woman was in a poulterer’s the other
day ordering the weekly chicken when a
smartly-dressed customer accompanied
by a small daughter came into the shop.
This woman, too, was ordering a chicken.
“Dressed?” asked the shopman briefly.
“Oh, yes, dressed,” was the reply. Then
a small agitated voice piped up: “But,
mummy, are you sure you can afford the
coupons?”
Peggy Knibb, one of Melbourne’s
young sopranos, will make her first
appearance before a Sydney audience in
the last concert of the A.B.C.’s Beethoven
Festival at the Town Hall on March 18.
She will be one of the soloists in the
D Minor Symphony. All through 1940-
41 Peggy seemed to spend her time col-
lecting prizes in competitions. Last year
she won the Australian Music Examina-
tion Board’s scholarship valued at £lOO
and entitling the holder to free tuition
for three years at the Melbourne Univer-
sity Conservatorium of Music. The Mel-
bourne girl’s voice is operatic in quality,
as was demonstrated by her appearance
as Marguerite in the Con. Opera School’s
production of “Faust.”
Lunchtime seems popular for the open-
ing of art shows. When Dr. lan Clunies
Ross unlocked, with the key of speech,
Geoffrey Collings’s displays of pictures
depicting the scene in war zones of North
Australia, the Macquarie Galleries were
pleasantly crowded. The three males
facing the listeners were the artist, in
tropic khaki, Capt. Walter P. Maier-
sperger and Dr. Clunies Ross, in dark
tailorings which looked definitely pre-
Dedman. How vivid are the blues, the
greens and the reds of the torrid scene
the artist shows! How picturesque to
behold, how devastating to keep on
soldiering through!
Scarcely one present but lingered with
nostalgic gleam in the eye before No. 11,
“Spud Barbers.” And some were there
who felt a little twinge of regret because
of the letter that’s always going to be
written tomorrow when they saw the
hungry faces in “Mail’s In.” The artist’s
wife was at the opening, her small sailor
hat dangling two short tails of gay plaid
ribbon. A small Collings daughter en-
joyed a bit of father’s limelight. As de-
scribed by a school friend, she is “a little
blonde girl with two fair plaits.” Lots
of service men drifted in, all very pleased
with the pictures. Elaine Haxton came
in a white linen dress wearing a red and
a blue stripe down the front. Mrs. Dun-
das Allen, Mrs. Frank Medworth, Mrs.
Greg Blaxland, Mrs. Ben Edye and
daughter Stephanie were other gazers.
Writer Mary Kelaher, whose gifted pen
was responsible for several “Australian
Woman’s Mirror” serials, wrote finis to
her own life-story last week. Mrs.
Kelaher, two of whose young sons —poet
“Tip” Kelaher, who wrote those haunt-
ing verses for The Bulletin, and young
brother Kelly—had been killed in action
in North Africa, died in Sydney Hospital.
Her husband and her daughter (Mrs.
Masman) share this triple sorrow.
One of Mary Kelaher’s books was The
Green Years, chosen by Archibald Strong
as the “novel of the week.” Another
was A pron Strings, and in between
Mary wrote capital verse. She married
at 18. Women who go on strike and
gaily pose for newspaper photographs
should think of the tremendous tragedy
in which this bright life closed.
From Melbourne
With official predictions of an acute
vegetable shortage this winter ringing in
our ears, pickling has become the subject
of the hour. At war-work meetings and
the like it is debated whether the toma-
toes everybody has been growing should
be salted, pickled or steam-sterilised for
winter use. W.A.A.A.F. House managers
are pointing proudly to shelves of their
“home-grown” in lines of bottles. Every-
body has become so vitamin-conscious,
what with the advice of the British Min-
istry of Health and, of late, of Australian
health authorities, that all have come to
feel that tomatoes are a daily necessity.
Also in request are spinach and silver beet,
which defy the bottler but must be first
on the winter sowing list. The fact that
the grocer is running out of sauce and
chutney is another problem, and every-
body goes about armed with a pickling
recipe of grandma’s.
Australians must be prepared to say
good-bye to sugar except as an occasional
treat, according to Melbourne’s Health
Officer, Dr. Dale. Speaking to the Air
Force Women’s Association last week he
wrapped up the threat in one of his usual
charming and amusing speeches, but
there it was all the same. He ex-
plained that people could, if they liked,
chew sugarcane and thus absorb, in addi-
tion to sugar, minerals of which refined
sugar is bereft, but his audience didn’t
find the thought very cheering. Dr. Dale
is an enthusiast for wholemeal bread.
During the Depression he was respon-
sible, with his City Health Office staff,
for the so-called “Dale” loaf, which,
being made up of wholemeal and milk,
was equivalent to a fair mixed diet, tak-
ing the place of the more expensive meat.
Pictured here by Dorothy Welding is
Madame Laporte, wife of Commandant
Laporte, Liaison Officer for General de
Gaulle in the Pacific. She is deeply in-
terested in the success of the “Easter
Shop” which members of the Fighting
French Movement in this city are open-
ing as a fund-raiser. Pivot point of
arrangements for the shop is Miss
Frances Barkman, president of the
Women’s Committee of the movement
and a constant worker for the cause. The
shop will sell new clothes in addition to
the usual antiques, jewellery and toys,
and everyone is looking forward to see-
ing some real French chic in the frocks
sold. French-style food will also be in
stock, and Mme. d’Arbonville’s pain
d’epice, a sort of gingerbread, will be a
specialty. The shop will be open for a
fortnight in a central part of the city.
News from Waaafs who are hold-
ing the fort in Queensland is full of
tributes to citizens of that State for the
kindness that has been extended and
the help that has been so freely
given to girls from other States. Par-
ticularly appreciated is the kindness of
the women, as so often in more southerly
parts women not in uniform are a bit
sniffy about those that are, and there is
a disinclination to give welfare organisa-
tions co-operation. Letters say, too, that
the R.A.A.F. personnel in northern
stations is well-disposed and members
often sacrifice an afternoon’s leave to
help polish the dance floor at a
W.A.A.A.F. station —possibly not quite
disinterested enthusiasm, but all to the
good anyway. Girls in the north who
went there full of legends of Brisbane’s
wickedness say such stories are vastly
exaggerated.
The granting of commissions as U.S.A.
officers to Australian women dietitians
and masseuses, or, as they are now called,
physiotherapists, will make the six girls
who first receive them the envied of all
their friends. Among the six is Doreen
Langley, daughter of Brigadier and Mrs.
Langley. The family formerly lived at
Warrnambool and is now at Bendigo, but
for years study took Doreen to Mel-
bourne University, where she was in
residence at Janet Clarke Hall. This
State now has an impressive number of
dietitians. Some have done service in
the Railway Department; others in
public hospitals. Soon, it is bruited, every
fashionable hotel will have one on its staff.
Lots of well-known young people made
Saturday their wedding day. University
gx*aduate Doreen Dennett married
Sergeant Stuart Cross, son of Dr. and
Mrs. Stuart Cross and grandson of novel-
ist Ada Cambridge, at Brighton, and
“Puss” Carse married Trooper Hay at
Christ Church, South Yarra. The parties
to the last-named marriage belong to
well-known landed families, the bride
being a daughter of barrister Frank
Carse, who was killed in the 1914-18 war,
and thus a granddaughter of the Falkiner
family, of N.S.W. and Victoria. On
Friday, at Yarram, Ellen, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Rutter,
was married to Captain A. N. Fraser,
A.A.M.C., A.1.F., son of Mr. and Mrs.
Andrew Fraser, of Canberra.
The visit of Miss E. Gordon, National
Fitness officer to the Commonwealth, has
coincided with an outbreak of folk danc-
ing in the lovely room behind the
National Gallery. Folk dancing has to
be seen to be appreciated, but those sur-
feited with shuffling to the moaning of
saxophones and the beat of tom-toms
welcome the merry music and still merrier
steps of the folk dances. One of the
best characteristics is that all the steps
can be learned in one evening.
A cablegram from London announc-
ing Lady Huntingfield’s death was sad
news for Victoria. No Governor’s wife
has proved more approachable nor better
known and liked among all sections of
the community. No worthy effort was
too small for her interest and the Free
Kindergarten movement profited vastly
by the time she gave to it. Even small
fetes and tiny “working-bees” found in
her a cheery sponsor, though her day was
a very full one. Schoolgirls and Uni-
versity students remember Lady Hunting-
field as one of their most popular speakers
and dinner guests, for she could always
make a brief inspiring speech and smooth
away the nervousness of young table com-
panions prepared for the ordeal of their
lives.
The Victorian Federation of Mothers’
Clubs is raising the question of free edu-
cation for all, and it may be depended
upon to tackle the problem in common-
sense fashion. Formed to include mothers
of all State-school children, members
are grouped around each individual
school, but send delegates to State-wide
meetings. Schools are frequently in-
spected by them and deficiencies are
vehemently protested against and often
put right, as members stand solidly
behind their delegates and present a for-
midable front to the Minister. The ques-
tion of completely free education open
to all has become more pressing because
so many parents have become dissatisfied
with the State’s scholarship system.
The exhibition of Russian culture at
the Velasquez Galleries, Bourke-street, is
attracting much interest. Many of the
exhibits date back to Czarist days. There’s
a remarkable reproduction of N. Gay’s
“Peter I questioning the Czarewitch
Alexev at Peterhof.” The father, force-
ful and dominant, is seated, sardonically
smiling at a pale young man who stands
before him with downcast eyes. There is
almost too much power in the work. An-
other arresting pair of reproductions
looked like Gainsboroughs but were both
by well-known Russian artists of the
same period as Gainsborough. Similarly
themes which seem typically Hogarthian
were handled by Russian artists of the
same era in much the same style, which
may be argued to show a considerable
English influence over the Russia of the
period. Ikons held the attention of many
of the visitors on the first day.


BACKACHE!
Get quick relief
with
r
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly on the kidneys
—help them function normally again and filter
out excess uric acid. Relief from Backache soon
follows.
Directions for taking Gin Pills ...
Take one or two Gin Pills
with a glass of water after
meals, and again when retiring.
FOR BACKACHE,
WEAK KIDNEYS,
RHEUMATISM,
and JOINT PAINS.
"—-
m ■
4
mm
:£‘
m
8 a
»
ijji
* li
Dr. SHELDON'S
Small Size - - 1/9
Large Size - - 2/9
GIN PILLS
FORTH ILI R I iHfT ? S
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below-
SOLDIER—34th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life. ...as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER— 32nd May, ’43: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. 1 used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’43: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April. ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’43: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me m good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’43:
“1 find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’43: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years 1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’43 : “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’43: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIE>‘
MIND.”
Name
A ddress
151
SMOKE-OH!
“A French architect has built for himself a
house that can be turned round.”
—English newspaper clipping.
Now he can give a different back-view
to each neighbor.
4* 4* 4*
“One day a week at least I give my husband
tongue for his lunch.” — Woman’s paper.
Some husbands get it for every meal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Small cockroaches have infested my plant-
houses. How can I get rid of them?”
— Correspondent.
Scare ’em out with big ones.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Appendix Operation on a Submarine.”
— “Sun’’ heading.
Admiralty reports indicate that the
vessel is doing as well as can be expected.
***
Another Slant.
“The place was blacked-out so well that I
leaned on what I thought was a tree-trunk,
but it was a cow, and it moved on.”
/ remember being so beautifully
blacked-out on one occasion that I leaned
on what I imagined was a lamp-post. It
happened to be a cop and it moved me
on.
Leaning on things that aren’t there is
even worse. A friend of mine often used
to lean on what he believed to be the
front door while trying to insert a bottle-
opener into the keyhole, and invariably
he would pitch headlong into the hall.
His wife would then lean a blunt instru-
ment on his skull. p
•J*
It is a mistake to imagine that people
in the best circles are always on the
square.
4* 4* 4* 4
Fair Manufacturers.
“Girls are now fully engaged in making the
things this country wants.”-— Woman’s paper.
But still a girl’s main idea is to make
up attractively and make up her mind
to make some young man make up his
mind to make up to her and eventually
make her the woman who will for ever
make up his mind for him.
P. P.
4* 4* 4* _4-
The Crimson Bathing-suit.
“.... and the man unable to joke while he
works simply doesn’t know his job.”
—From a psychological treatise.
“I’ve just thought of a new vehicle
for murder,” said the anaesthetist.
The surgeon had reached a routine part
of the operation and lifted his brows
courteously as his colleague continued.
“I would simply impregnate my victim’s
bathing-suit with hypochlorite of lime and
an acid and have him dive obligingly
into deep water. A sort of human Seid-
litz powder. Bubbles of chlorine would
precede him to the surface wherever he
went and his head would emerge into a
layer of lethal gas. It would at least
induce unconsciousness. There would be
gasps, amazement, consternation and a
coroner’s finding of death by drowning.”
“Beautiful,” conceded the surgeon, nod-
ding his head appreciatively, “and into
the bargain all traces of the cause are
dissolved before the body is found.”
“And what’s more,” added the anaes-
thetist, slightly shifting the patient’s head
by the ear, “if we had a crimson bathing-
suit to start with the body would be (dis-
covered in a white one. Hypochlorite of
lime is bleaching powder, isn’t it? And
that will be the murderer’s mistake that
eventually hangs him.”
“A pretty touch, my dear Moriarty.
You’re a regular Machiavel; how do
you think of these things?”
“Well, you’ve been rather long today.”
“H’m. But fortunately I don’t swim.”
J. B. C.
Plea for the Picturesque.
“Wau-Mubo : Our forward elements have
driven the enemy from the Wipaining-Waipali
area. Seventy cadavers were counted in one
locality.”
It is felt that a snappier terminology
in communiques has long been overdue.
And why not? Wouldn’t the citizenry
respond with greater interest? After all,
most communiques are rather bald state-
ments. Perhaps in the future we may
expect something like this: —
“North-eastern Sector —Solomons : One
of our recco. crates was burning up the sub-
stratosphere off Munda yesterday when a flock
of Zeros, sitting pretty up around 30 thou.,
peeled off and pushed the sticks down hard
for the kill. One Co-prosperityite became a
torch'pronto; another was last seen trying to
grab bits of his aerial steed as they flew off.
The rest of Nippon’s supermen, with a truly
remarkable unanimity, suddenly remembered
an important appointment with a gent, regard-
ing a hound and departed for parts unknown.
One recco. limped back to its perch on crutches,
but it will be whizzing off the tarmac again
soon. Back in the ops.-room the team voted
it a wow of a dust-up.”
And if it comes to that there’s no
reason why there shouldn’t be a departure
from precedent in, say, battle orders to
the Umpteenth Battalion, viz.: —
“We know that you’re a-whoopin’
To be up an’ boop-a-doopin’
Through the jungle, where the crocs, and
mozzies lurk,
And to give a dose o’ jitters
To the little yaller critters
As well as hell from Mills and Bren and dirk.
So in manner quite selective
We’ve arranged a nice objective
For tomorrow' — that’s the track from Wu to Mo.
The going won't be easy.
But we know you’re never queasy.
So you’ll kick of} sharp, boys, at 0430:”
And perhaps a communique could be
issued now and again in the language
of James Joyce: —
“Yesserwas yesserwas we golluptu yeswe we
yes yeswe golluptu have toolots toolots have
we yes have we wormly gunpit of the gun
shells of the gun shells of the shellpit hopple-
dop also shells and gorker gorth of the gun-
shell don’t.”
There are lots of people about who like
Joyce,
Bo.
Transcendental.
If I exist, apart from being Me,
It follows I conceive through mental
prisms
The Is, the Is-not and the Yet-to-be
In terms of apperceptive syllogisms.
Hence, Time and Space eternally evolve
Into Space-time; and, justice being
done
To all pragmatic claims, ’tis clear we
solve
Whether the one be two, or two be
one !
You frown. I hear you murmur this is
not
Philosophy but nonsense. Well, so what ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Rake’s Progress.
Though some still cry “An eye for an
eye !”
For myself I simply beg
To be allowed, where the flappers crowd.
To have an eye for a leg.
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
White Australia
The abandonment or modification of
the White Australia policy is contem-
plated by a prominent Methodist clergy-
man, Rev. H. M. Wheller. Declaring
that the policy “is coming up for judg-
ment,” he wonders whether we can give
“any ethical justification” for our alleged
failure to develop the country.
Mr. Wheller evidently has learned
nothing from recent events. Our present
danger is grave enough, separated as we
are by a few hundred miles of sea from
a ferocious enemy to whom ethical argu-
ments mean nothing, unless they can be
used as a plausible excuse for aggression.
Are we, then, to court an even more
serious and permanent peril by the estab-
lishment of a land frontier across this
continent? Or does Mr. Wheller suggest
an intermingling of races which will
create for us problems similar to those
which have always beset the Union of
South Africa?
If there is to be any future at all for
the white man in Australia, no modifica-
tion of our national policy can be enter-
tained. Once we permit the entry of
rapidly-breeding aliens, “ethical justifica-
tion” will allow us only an ever-diminish-
ing share of our land as their numbers
swamp ours. Australians must keep all,
or they will be left with nothing.—Col
(N.S.W.).
A Word for the Base Wallah
In almost every newspaper one sees
attacks made against “base wallahs.”
Usually a man is a “base wallah” only
because he is unfit for active service with
a fighting unit. It doesn’t follow that he
likes the job. On the contrary, he hates
it—and has very good cause to hate it —
because, apart from being an object of
scorn, he has unpleasant jobs to do.
In my own unit 50 p.c. were “B” class
as a result of the campaigns in the Middle
East (I had lost my left eye during the
Syrian stoush), 30 p.c. were drafted in
against their will and 20 p.c. applied for
transfer to the unit.
Next time you see a square color patch
with the grey border and you feel like
making some unpleasant remark on it,
reflect that that man has probably seen a
fair amount of fighting, and if he is
having an easy time he has earned it.—
Z. B. W. (Q.).
Women in the Fighting Services
Thousands of women are now in the
fighting services’ auxiliaries, and from ad-
vertisements in press and radio it would
appear that it is the Government’s inten-
tion to enlist all that can be secured.
But is this policy best for the war
effort? Many young women in the ser-
vices are doing excellent and useful jobs
as nurses, telegraphists, typists, cooks,
waitresses, etc., but what percentage of
those in uniform are really usefully em-
ployed? A true analysis would shock
Canberra.
Service organisation is basically an
organisation of personnel for active ser-
vice and is prodigal with man-power.
The women’s auxiliaries are organised on
the usual establishments. The following
illustrates just what that means; Take
100 young women from useful civilian
jobs where they work and are rarely
more than 10 p.c. absent from all causes,
and enlist them in, for example, the
A.W.A.S. In due course the petition
will approximately be this:
Officers 5
N.c.os 15
Cooks .. .. .. 3
Mess waitresses .. . . 3
Clerks .. .. .. 3
Leave 10
Rest day .. .. .. |Q
Sick in hospital .. .. 10
Light duty .. .. 5
No du<y ~ ~ .. 5
Schools 5
74
For parade .. .. 26
100
But this is not all. To keep this 100
probably another 100 are absorbed in
other branches of the service—adminis-
trative staffs, A.S.C., ordnance, pay, etc.,
and this second 100 suffer casualties more
or less on the same scale. Accordingly,
the provision of the 26 young women
daily for exercises and squad drill re-
quires the enlistment of 200.
Clearly the authorities have lost a true
perspective of the matter and vital in-
dustries are losing their labor.
Sex debars girls from participat-
ing in combat. In their employment
there should be only one consideration
and that is the release of men. This is
more effectively and far more efficiently
done by girls who remain civilians. More-
over, it would be much better for the
girls themselves. Camp life is not good
for young girls.
Clearly, to achieve the maximum war
effort, the wholesale enlistment of women
into the services should be discontinued.
They are needed desperately in offices,
shops, factories and on farms, but not on
the parade ground.
The problem is a vital one and calls
for immediate review. Review by a com-
mittee of businessmen with some mili-
tary experience, not by a committee of
military men with little business ex-
perience.
To curtail the activities of the women’s
auxiliaries they will need to be men of
great courage and determination, as any
married man will agree.—M. C. M. (Q.).
Diggers* Party
If a Diggers’ party is to be of any
use to Diggers it cannot afford to be the
tool of any political gang. It must stand
“Thought so—that bloke's a ladies' hairdresser!"
on its own feet as promoter of the
Diggers’ welfare.
This, 1 think, can be done effectively
without going into active politics. If we
can get every uniformed man and woman
into one great league we shall be able
to demand our just dues from any Gov-
ernment, because we can offer a huge vote
to any party willing to grant us justice.
In other words, we will be strong
enough to make or break Governments.
Let genuine returned men come for-
ward and set about the formation of a
-league which will embrace every man
and woman who has served in this war.
That is what we most urgently need, and
until it is accomplished we Diggers will
get nowhere, — Kurbot (Vic.).
Someone Else’s Horrors—or Ours?
1 read that “Moscow Strikes Back,” a
film which depicts German atrocities in
Russia, has been “passed for exhibition
subject to certain cuts being made by
order of the Commonwealth Film Censor
Board.” In other words, the horrors are
to be toned down.
There is a strong and healthy antipathy
in this country to horror films, and under
normal conditions I have no quarrel with
the censorship which guards us against
them. But can we afford to be squeamish
just now? A high-pay-happy section of
our population refuses to realise that this
war is the world’s record horror, and that
it may burst across our coasts and engulf
our cities and citizens unless we strain
every nerve and sinew to hold it off.
Britain tried playing at war for seven
months, until the autumn terror of 1940
gave her as grim a lesson as any nation
in history has suffered and survived.
Britain today is awake and tensed for
total war.
If a few films of horror can help
towards rousing us up, in heaven’s name
let us have them in preference to death
and destruction, and count ourselves
lucky! —Harold T. (N.S.W.).
Communism and Guts
Why worry about Communism? It
will need a much stouter breed of men to
bring Communism here than Australian
Corns, have shown themselves to be.
When Communism came to Russia in
bloody revolution, its adherents suffered
and died, fired by the heroic example of
their leaders. Those leaders were inspiring,
and when everything had been reduced to
squalid chaos and misery there were men
of the calibre of Lenin and Trotsky to
create the new world. Then there was a
man like Stalin to knock the corners off
that first rough edifice.
Where are the heroic leaders in Aus-
tralia? Where are the thinkers of the
calibre of Lenin and Trotsky amongst
Australian Communists? If the Corns,
are fighting for freedom what sort of
freedom do they want? We have the
same freedom here as in Russia. In
either country any man can do what he
likes so long as he does what he’s told.
There is a bit more telling about a few
more things in Russia though!
What chains do our proletariat want
to get rid of? Nowadays the most ob-
vious chains the laborer wears are those
of trade-union dictatorship, conscrip-
tion and enforced class-consciousness.
Show me a place where class distinctions
are more evident than in a union shop
and I’ll eat it.
Finally, lead me to a decent-sized group
of Australian Corns, who want Corn-
munism here to improve the lot of their
fellows and not their own, and I’ll walk
round them with my mouth open. They’ll
probably be in a glass case, anyway. As
for paying the price of revolution I don’t
think they’ve really contemplated it,—
Observer (Q.).
Man-power and Lawnmowing
As to this man-power shortage, in my
street in a Perth suburb there periodically
arrives a large petrol-driven truck from
which two, sometimes three, strong, active
young men descend, then proceed to dis-
embark three large petrol-driven lawn-
mowers. With these they then mow the
vivid green lawns of several villas. The
job done, they have a smoke-oh. Then
away goes the petrol-driven outfit to the
next job.
From this I am led to conclude that
lawnmowing must be a protected indus-
try —super-protected, in fact, since,
although many citizens have been per-
emptorily ordered to get gas producers
placed on their vehicles, these lawn-bar-
bering artists appear to have an ample
supply of petrol for every need.
Of course, these young fellows may be
military rejects. But only yesterday I
met a farmer, also a military reject, who
had to sell his farm at a sacrifice be-
cause of the impossibility of getting assist-
ance.—W.C.C. (W.A.).
Beautiful Unanimity
There is, I read, to be a special
inter-State conference of the A.L.P.
During the business there will be no
barneys, no backbiting, no “split.”
That the resolution to be put will be car-
ried with smiles all round, and without
a dissentient voice, is. as certain as that
the sun rises daily. Moreover, this vote
of affirmation will, in defiance of all
precedent, have the unanimous endorse-
ment of the Opposition. In fact, the
unanimity on this question among all
a “ l^^ ne ntanans will be beautiful to
behold, an earnest that on certain all-
important matters our Federal Legisla-
ture can nobly sink party and put the—
er public interest above everything.
Yes, brothers, the conference is to dis-
cuss the recommendation of the Parlia-
mentary Labor Party Committee for a
substanha l increase in the number of
M.H.Rs. and Senators. An admiring
electorate recalls another occasion when
the same perfect unison was accom-
plished , it had to do with the self-gift of
a larger pay envelope.—ZAKE (N.S.W.).
Dehydrated Beer?
That cove who advocated it (B.
24/2/’43) is lucky that he lives in Queens-
land. Me and my cobbers have long
been satisfied that the beer we get is
alieady dehydrated— at least that’s what
it tastes like.— Blue Buller (N.S.W.).
Loans and Taxes
After studying Treasurer Chifley’s pro-
posed Budget and his comments, I feel
that the Government’s fiscal attitude is
that, so long as it gets the money, it
doesn ‘ matter how it is raised, so why
not raise it by ways that cause least
iriction?
But the argument begs the whole ques-
tion. Of course it matters how money
is raised. Suppose a man has to pay for
expensive medical attention for his
family: he can either borrow money or
set aside money out of his income by
reducing unnecessary spending and in-
creasing his earnings if possible. In the
first case, he increases his liabilities, and
at some time or other he has to repay
his indebtedness out of his income. In
the second case, no continuing liability
is incurred ; the expenditure is met im-
mediately out of income.
Similarly with Government spending
on war, which is mainly expenditure on
services and on materials used immedi-
ately ; there is little of permanent value.
By using its current income, expanded
by increased taxes and made more effec-
tive by cutting out all non-essential spend-
ing, the war is paid for directly and
finally as the expenditure is incurred. By
borrowing, or rather by relying largely on
borrowing, a Government increases its
liabilities.
And can it ever be true that the finan-
cial method that causes less grumbling
is the best? If a Government’s approach
to public finance be to seek the method
that imposes least hardship, now and' in
future years, that avoids increasing the
national debt, and that brings home to
every citizen the real cost of Govern-
ment spending, then there is no excuse
whatever for adopting a financial policy
whose sole justification is that it “gets
the money without too much grumbling.”
—Wusslean (Vic.).
Inflation and Deflation
Mr. Nicholson (B. 3/2/*43) and his
fellow woolgrowers and other land
men have not been placed in diffi-
culties through a policy of deflation.
The trouble is the disparity between the
level ,of prices of land products and
prices of manufactured goods and ser-
vices generally. ■ And this is due not to
monetary causes, but to political action.
Rises and falls in prices are governed
by factors other than the quantity of
money. Supply and demand for land
products have to be taken into account,
also the trading conditions with other
countries. With nations working for
self-sufficiency the flow of international
trade for some years declined, with con-
sequent effect on prices.
Returning to Mr. Nicholson’s argu-
ment I find that in the years 1919 to 1923
prices for wool in Australia were below
parity with other prices-index figures
(base 1911 = 100), being 83.76, 70.24.
79.70, 78.13, 98.69 —an average of 20
p.c. below parity. According to Mr.
Nicholson the return of England to the
gold standard in 1925 meant deflation and
low prices, but we find that the years
1924 to 1929 showed index figures for
wool prices of 133.67, 153.40, 100.45,
114.82, 119.35, 101.77 —an average of
20 p.c. above parity.
From 1929 to 1933 the comparative
figures were 101.77, 73.90, 61.11, 62.58,
64.60 —an average of 37 p.c. below parity.
This period covered the depression years
which succeeded the bursting of the boom
in U.S.A. in 1929. In September, 1931,
England again left the gold standard, but
prices still continued low. The action
taken in Australia under the Premiers’
Plan in. 1931 was designed to reduce
costs in line with the already depressed
prices for our land products.
Mr. Nicholson said that Hitler got his
chance through ruin following deflation.
J. K. Horsfield, the economist, says
that the middle class of Germany, which
accepted the Nazi revolution, was a
middle class ruined by inflation. —
Student (W.A.).


t
Services
COHHU
sgsr SE,V,CE
KSJg SofwfSI s EW c.
WIRELESS TRtm f , ND ERS
» noAD C ASTI NC5
° OF broadcasting
BECORD.NG OP AUSTRAUA
MARCONI SCHOOL
radio telegraphy
RADIO mechanic
RADIO ricL>nn.
RESEARCH • JI
development
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sia) LIMITED
Australians National Wireless Organisation
