

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, M VoL 64.—-No. 3327
Wednesday, November 17, 1943
V# AX •
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
Jeppelts
LISMORE CASTLE.
WHERE TIMID JAMES II RECEIVED A FRIGHT.
QRIGINALLY built by Prince John, and restored by the Duke
of Devonshire after the Union, Lismore Castle in Ireland’s
county Waterford has many interesting associations with England,
not the least being that at one time Lismore was owned by that
man of parts, Sir Walter Raleigh. Now among the estates of the
Duke of Devonshire, Lismore came into the hands of the Cavendish
family through the marriage of the fourth Duke with Lady
Charlotte, the heiress of Richard Boyle, Earl of Burlington and
Cork. Like Tennyson’s “Palace of Art”;
Full of long-sounding corridors it was;
That overvaulted grateful gloom,
Thro’ which the livelong day my soul did pass,
Well-pleased, from room to room.
Described by some as the Warwick Castle of Ireland, Lismoie
stands high above the great plains of Tipperary, and it was the terri-
fying view downwards from the window of the drawing-room
that caused James II to start back in horror when he rested heie
during his flight from the Battle of the Boyne. Overlooking the
gentle-flowing Blackwater River, famed for its marvellous salmon
fishing, and which is spanned here by a bridge built in 1775,
Lismore Castle command# the finest views in Southern Ireland,
and in it is preserved the ancient Book of Lismore. The splendid
ballroom with its imposing Gothic roof and stained-glass windows
was once the chapel. Near by, in a bishopric said to have been
established in the seventh century, is the cathedral of its founder,
Saint Carthagh, and a rath, or Celtic mound, Lis Mor (Great Fort),
from which the town takes its name.'


ẁ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
M i A ddres»
S.B. 143 AGE
The Red Page
NEW PROKOSCH NOVEL.
Nobody is writing better prose today
than Frederic Prokosch. Written in the
first-person, the “I” a nonentity, his last
novel. The Skies of Europe, lacked con-
viction, but the writing was beautiful. It
is a poet’s prose, warm, supple, balanced
and flowing in rnblodious rhythm.
From the opening paragraph of his
new novel, The Conspirators (Chatto and
Windus; Angus and Robertson), it is
clear that Prokosch is still a master of
style. He knows the correct way to use
the short sentence —dramatically, like a
sword-thrust or the blow of a fist in the
midst of longer and smoother sentences.
Any writer under Hemingway’s influence
would have made the opening paragraph
read:
The two men wore grey cotton uniforms.
They were standing in the shadow of the
tower. One was old, one young. They
were prisoners. The yellow prison walls
formed a great uneven hexagon. They rose
from the hilltop that dominated the city
from the east.
The drama of that paragraph is the
sentence “They were prisoners,” but in a
barrage of short sentences all strike with
equal force and the drama is lost. Pro-
kosch places one short sentence between
two longer and the emphasis falls exactly
where he means it to fall;
Two men In grey cotton uniforms were
standing in the shadow of the tower, one
old and one young. They were prisoners.
The yellow prison walls, forming a great
uneven hexagon, rose from the hilltop that
dominated the city from the east.
Here is another example of the fineness
of his prose:
The great elm-trees were withering into
gold. Shimmering with ten thousand rest-
less feathers, they hung over the square
like wings; or like history itself, carrying
vein upon vein of hidden life and shedding
a labyrinth of shadow over the pavement.
A breath passed through them. Ten thou-
sand ripples of light, a bronze brittle light,
came alive among the boughs; and three
tiny feathers, a bit more golden than the
rest, spun slowly to the ground.
Matching the fineness of the prose and
born of the same distinction of mind is
the fineness of Prokosch’s thought. This
is a spy novel, set in Lisbon —a type of
work that does not demand fine writing
or fine thought—but between the inci-
dents of the melodrama Prokosch makes
many opportunities for philosophising as
accurate and# as picturesque as this
analysis of Portugal in its decline:
“I feel that I’m rotting away inter-
nally. Sinking into a kind of swamp. A
miasma of the nerves. Day after day,
night after night. What do you make
of it?”
“You need a change, Herr Schmidt.”
The voice grew pleading; grew more un-
controlled as the face grew less visible.
The fingers beat rapidly on the ebony tabic.
“Rest? Good God, all life here is rest,
relaxation, decline. I want action! But
' what’s to be done here? The country, the
people” ...
“Portugal had its golden age too, re-
member.”
“Of course. Camoens. Vasco da Gama.
The great the great poet. They
still hover over the country like ghosts.
Nothing has happened here since they
died.”
“Except an earthquake.”
“An earthquake. A few kings and
queens. A battle or two. Innumerable
sardines.”
There’s an outstanding little comedy of
political analysis when a Greek, a Serb
and a Pole, all refugees to Lisbon, dis-
cuss the war and the future. As long as
they are talking about the iniquities of
the Germans all is well. But as soon as
they revert to the European past—out of
which the future must grow—they begin
to quarrel. “Why didn’t you help us
against Italy until it was too late?” the
Greek demands of the Serb. “Greece
was calculating and corrupt,” the
Serb retorts ; “Greece was too old.” The
Greek retorts angrily that his com-
patriots are the only true heroes of this
war. What about the Poles, says the in-
dignant Pole. “A country of tyrants and
serfs!” shouts the Serb. In the midst of
the quarrel the three men hear revolver
shots. Someone has been assassinated.
Possibly a German. Instantly they for-
get their rancor. They are comrades,
united in a tremulous excitement.
The idea behind this scene is that
Poles are Poles, Greeks are Greeks and
Serbs are Serbs, each with their separate
histories and each with their separate
destinies. They will unite —momentarily
—in a frenzy of hatred against Germany.
That is probably a sounder basis than
most on which to begin thinking about
the New Order.
In The Skies of Europe the virtues of
Prokosch’s style outweighed the faults of
his method. In this novel, unfortunately,
they don’t. It is overwritten. As in
Ethel Vance’s Reprisal, reviewed here
recently, the action of what is essentially
a simple little melodrama is unwarrant-
ably interrupted by the excursions into
philosophy and politics. Every scene is
made an occasion for a display of fine
writing, so that dramatic reality vanishes.
Every character is made to speak the
same mellifluous English and to think
with Prokosch’s own sensitivity, so that
none is convincing as an individual. As
in the short stories of Stephen Spender
—to whom The Conspirators is dedi-
cated —there is an air of vagueness about
the book and the fine writing is often
close to preciousness.
Wicked Laughter.
For some of Henry Lawson’s stories
you need to be in a chufchgomg mood.
Notably in the Little Arvie series, of
course, but also in those moments when
he is sentimentalising about Mateship
and Hospitality.
It is true that Mateship and Hospitality
are noble. It is also true, ultimately,
that one goes to literature to be ennobled.
But, confused by Dickens, Bret Harte
and his own temperament, Lawson was
always in a bit of a muddle as to both
the nature of ennoblement and the
method by which the arts achieve it.
The three stories in a booklet pro-
duced by Lothian Publishing Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Mateship and The Strangers’
Friend, illustrate clearly his confusion of
mind and the way his genius overrode
that confusion.
“Mateship,” which begins by praising
Dickens at his worst — A Tale of Two
Cities : an excursion into sentimentality
redeemed only by the portraits of the
hags of the Revolution, the bel-
ligerent Miss Pross and the body-snatch-
ing Jerry CruncherMs not a story but
a sermon. Instead of merely writing a
story about mateship—and thereby pre-
senting an image to uplift the soul—the
author obtrudes everywhere. Likewise
with “The Strangers’ Friend.”
Refreshing as a cold shower between
those two warm baths of sentimentality
is a story only two pages long called “His
Mistake”—and this time Lawson makes
no mistake.
A Chinaman blows in from nowhere
to a North Queensland station and is
given a job as shepherd. He disappears
into the dust to begin work. Some time
later Billy the black boy comes riding
home:
“Wotinel now, Billy? Didn’t you see
the new sfTepherd?”
“No, boss.”
“Didn’t you see anybody there at the
hut?”
“No, boss.”
“ it! Didn’t you see a Chinaman
there?”
“No, boss. What like it that phella?”
“XXX ! ! ! ! Didn’t you see a
man —or a woman if you like?
Didn’t you see any double dash thing?”
“No, boss.” Then, as an afterthought,
“I sec it something. Yellow, like it dingo.
Tail like it yarramin.” (A horse. John
had had his pigtail down and loose, and
was dressing it when Billy happened.)
“Talk it like a plurry cockatoo. Bin killit
sheep, mine think it. I bin kill it!”
I suppose they buried the Chow —and
the boss carefully gave Billy an elementary
lesson on the Races of Man before another
blew out of China.
Here is a completely immoral story. It
is not noble to kill inoffensive Chinese
shepherds. It is neither mately nor hos-
pitable. Yet Lawson, despite all his ser-
monising about the duties of man to his
fellows, obviously took the same unre-
generate delight in this story as does the
reader. He exults in the reprehensible
iittle incident.
Small as it is, the story is clearly a
work of art in a way that neither of the
sermons is. If it is a work of art, it is,
of necessity, ennobling. Scientists could
have told Lawson that what distinguishes
man from the beasts is that he cooks his
food and that he laughs. Shakspeare
could have told him that the wicked
laughter of Fal staff, accepting life and
defying the gods, was much more deeply
ennobling to the spirit of man than any
moral lecture.
Lawson the genius must have been an
awful shock sometimes to Lawson the
muddled moralist.
Post-war Guideposts,
Among a pile of Australian-made books
and pamphlets on the shape of things to
come Herbert Gepp’s When Peace Comes
(Robertson and Mullens) stands out.
Gepp knows as much as any man about
Australia’s resources, which he has not-
ably helped to develop ; and he has an
engineer’s reverence for facts. His
latest book is a bit scrappy —a collection
of articles, papers and speeches, produced
at various times and dealing with various
current and post-war problems-—but is
of value as very fairly representing the
Liberal-commercial outlook.
Gepp is all for kindness and per-
suasion in industrial affairs. One of his
own shows, Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, is experimenting with “joint pro-
duction committees consisting of repre-
sentatives of the mill management and of
the employees. These committees act as
advisory bodies on production efficiency
and employee amenities.” This, it is sug-
gested, may be a starting point from
which to develop “full co-operative effort
by management and labor.”
Gepp has no encouragement for social-
ists. He finds it difficult to believe that
democracy could survive a socialistic
form of government, and is of opinion
that “no arbitrary general limitation of
profit would have any basis either in
theoretical logic or in practical experi-
ence.” But for all that he thinks the State
might impose some control on mono-
polies and tariff-protected industries, and
exercise supervision over new capital
issues. He makes articulate the essence
of the Labor case in a very sympathetic
passage:
The average worker.... seeks a place in
the social and industrial order of a more
dignified and solid kind than his present
position in industry gives. He has a sense
ol instability and insecurity: the ever-
present threat and degradation of unem-
ployment hangs over his head like the sword
of Damocles. He feels he is anything but
the master of his fate; on the contrary
that his life and that of his dependants are
controlled by the decisions and sometimes
the whims of others upon whom he can
exert no real influence. He sees himself as
the helpless prey of economic circumstances.
Hilaire Belloc, in an unusually pessi-
mistic vein, suggested how that feel-
ing could (and probably would) be cured
in The Servile State. Herbert Gepp, in-
spired by J. A. Spender, of the “West-
minster Gazette,” would prefer to work
towards self-government in industry.
Pattern for Peace (Robertson and Mul-
lens) is a statement of the viewpoint of
the Roman Catholic community. It
reflects concern regarding Australia’s
birthrate and recommends housing im-
provement, encouragement of home
ownership and a “graduated family wage”
as antidotes. In industrial affairs it would
have “more conciliation and less arbitra-
tion,” and, like Mr. Gepp, would have
the State curb monopolies and see that
foreign capital doesn’t control Australian
industries.
Something io Live For (Currawong
Publishing Co.), by A. E, Mander, dis-
cusses various social problems for 124
pages in a vague, cotton-woolly, amor-
phous fashion.
Changes That Are Upon Us is a re-
print of Prof. A. P. Elkin’s presidential
address to the Australian Institute of
Sociology. He. discusses “social-holism”
—a reference apparently to a term coined
by Bentham to cover what are now called
totalitarian tendencies of government.
Prof. Elkin, who discusses political affairs
with the aloofness natural to an anthro-
pologist, foresees the State taking a larger
and larger part in the life of the indi-
vidual from the cradle to the grave.
Approval and reproof are alike outside
his intention, but he hopes “a purpose
will be found which will make life worth
while and free individuals from environ-
mental frustration.’*
Brass Tacks for Laying Post-war
Plans (Robertson and Mullens), by J. H.
Rhodes, is mainly an argument in favor
of planning as against drift. It may be
gathered that the author favors Govern-
mental control of currency and credit and
considers “balanced production” should
be aimed at.
Proposals for the Future of Medical
Practice, by Charles Byrne, combats
some current schemes for nationalisation
or socialisation of medical service, and
presents the counter proposals of the
B.M.A. (Australian branch), which aim
at giving the medical profession as a
whole the advantages of “a doctor with
a wealthy clientele, working adequately
under favorable conditions,” while en-
suring to the whole community a com-
plete medical service.
Price Stabilisation (Angus and Robert-
son), by Prof. D. B. Copland, is an ex-
position and defence of the operations of
the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner
—“We are going to attempt intelligently
and courageously to meet the costs of the
war with a minimum disturbance to our
economic system ; to segregate those costs
and not to allow them to have an influ-
ence on our price level during the war,
and certainly not to allow them to be a
scourge after the war.”
Education for Some, by J. A. La
Nauze, M.A. (Australian Council of Edu-
cational Research), is a plea for raising
the school-leaving age and “extending
the facilities for higher education.”
The Dominions —Partnership or Rift
(A. and C. Black, Ltd.), by Arnold L.
Haskell, advances a number of very good
reasons why the Empire family should
stick together, while stigmatising as
“fantastic” the idea that the U.S.A. is
trying to detach the Dominions from
their allegiance to the Crown. The little
brochure seems to be intended as a
counterblast to the “utterances of a
handful of American Senators.”
War-time Labor Developments in
Australia (Melbourne University Press)
is a strictly businesslike compendium of
legislation, regulations and legal deci-
sions arising out of the war-time control
of various phases of industry. If it runs
to a second edition in a year or two's
time it will probably have to be twice
as thick.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Miss Cum brae Stewart, Australia’s
veteran pastel-worker, has a show of
nudes and landscapes at the Velasquez
Galleries, Melbourne, the nudes as cold
and impersonal as a weather forecast.
Her most interesting landscapes are those
that deal with the loveliest parts of
England and Europe, painted at a time
when nobody imagined they would be
bombing targets.
After trudging 1200 miles per elephant-
foot the Greatest Show on Earth arrived
back on schedule at its old Cup-time
stamping-ground, Wirth’s Olympia, Mel-
bourne, intact except for two of its
pachyderms which were plodding along
somewhere in the vicinity of Wodonga.
Man’s power over the Glorious, Fero-
cious Beasts of the Jungle is demonstrated
in the Cage of Death ; 50,000 pounds of
Lovable, Hulking Harlequins of the
Animal Kingdom— i.e., elephants—surge
round the ring like ambulating moun-.
tains; the three Misses Wirth swing by
their powerful necks in a whirling circle ;
the leading clown plays a dastardly trick
on his audience by offering it glasses of
Scotch and soda and bottled beer which,
to the disgust of the overcautious, turn
out to be the genuine article; and there’s
a dandy performance by a glorious-look-
ing sensitive black horse bestrode in dress
suit and belltopper by its trainer, Alex
Christie, who taught it to do its stuff in
a fortnight. The Flying Covettes repeat
their exquisitely-timed display on the fly-
ing trapeze, but their elaborate skill was
lost on the small boy whom The
Bulletin took with it for expert opinion.
He liked the simpler things, as when a
clown sits on a non-existent chair or
swats one of his colleagues on the behind
with an enormous fly-flap and a noise
like thunder.
At a concert at Sydney Con. Arnold
Matters, in excellent voice, declaimed
lieder of Bach, Handel, Hugo Wolf and
Verdi, with occasional excursions into
trifles by Massenet, Borodin and others.
Young Richard Farrell, a pianist of
promise, played Brahms and Chopin, but
best capitalised his best asset, youthful
freshness, in Ravel’s “Jeux d’Eau.”
At the talkies;
Nunnally Johnson has written a captivating
screen transcription of Steinbeck’s The Moon
Is Down (Sydney Century), and it’s had
masterly direction by Irving Pichel. Steinbeck
emphasised the weakening of young
moral fibre in the face of the
iron-rigid unfriendliness to their “protectors.
Striking Steinbeck touches: The young lieuten-
ant who, having had charge of the firing party
which shoots a young Norwegian, is afterwards
stabbed by the widow when, not knowing who
she is, he seeks a cure for his loneliness; the
lieutenant, listening moodily to the Brahms
Lullaby played at his command by the inn-
keeper’s wife, then savagely dashing his beer
in the innkeeper’s face when the patrons silently
file out after obeying his order to remain seated
for 15 minutes after his entry. Sir Cedric Hard-
wicke has a role to suit as an icily dignified
German colonel who finds little difficulty in re-
pressing his better instincts when ruthlessness
is called for, and E, J. Ballantine is nice and
oily as a Quisling storekeeper. But Henry
Travers, the stationmaster of “Mrs. Miniver,”
runs away with the show —a just about perfect,
natural interpretation of the little mayor who,
after trying to reason with the German com-
mander, accepts his fate as a hostage with dig-
nity and without heroics. A fine film all round.
Homicide and humor blend well in “A Night
to Remember” (Victory), the ironical case ot
an author of murder mysteries who moves into
a New York Greenwich Village apartment in
search of local color and finds he has to work
overtime to divert suspicion from himself when
a murder happens on the premises. Brian
Aherne, the amateur sleuth; Loretta Young, a
decorative aside. It strikes a rich lode of laughs
and excitement.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING 1
"THE SENIOR STORE 1
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
id
'X> 0- >t. & . Ate, i CVC CCiC w
I
.
.
.; -v
N
AY
-V
40" Hard Wearing Quality
Fisher Net. Obtainable in
either Biscuit or Arab
shades. Price, yard, 2/11
No Coupons Required
ill
SSfiw
Wm.
II
m
m
m
wm
Mum
wiMm
A
mm
Hmm
m
Felt Table Covers trimmed with matching
or contrasting braid or fringe. Obtainable
in Blue, Rust, Fawn, Green and Wine.
Size 60 x 70. Price 457-
Size 60 x 86. Price 557-
No Coupons Required
150 pairs of White Net Crossover Curtains with
contrasting coloured edges on frill. In Green,
Blue, or Rose. Frilled valance is attached, com-
plete with tie-backs. Price, pair 32/6
. No Coupons Required
48 inches wide, Off White Tapestry or dual pur-
pose fqbric. Can be used equally for coverings
or curtains. Price, per yard 157-
No Coupons Required
Satin Cushions with attractive centre panel and
pleated top, finished with puffed walls. Colours
are Green, Rose, Blue, or Gold. Price .... 32/6
No Coupons Required
ẃ
36" Substitute Waterproof Sheet-
ing. Owing to scarcity of stocks
we are offering you this cloth to
meet your emergency needs.
Price, per yard .: 8/11
No Coupons Required.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Box 2712 C. G.P.0., Sydney


COOK O' THER WALK
By J. SOMERVILLE BEST.
THERE was a goodish bit of mail in
the box, but only one newspaper.
That might have been his own or
Barney Crockett’s —there was no way
of telling ; but he supposed he had as
much right to it as anyone else. He
opened it to look at the headlines.
A great wave of victory sweeping on;
and him in it in a way, running the farm
while his son-in-law was in the army.
Maybe it wouldn’t be long before Hugh
was home again. No ; they’d be wanting
’em all for a good while yet with all
those Japs to be dealt with.
’Course it was tough on Mary having
Hugh away like this, but still an’ all it
wasn’t as if she didn’t have a man about
the place. Even if he was an old codger,
and her father at that, he was doing a
pretty good job—there was no get out
about it.
He stuffed the paper into his pocket.
Mary said he made more mess of a paper
in less time than anyone she’d ever come
across. His hands were the clumsy
hands of a laborer. The nearest to pre-
cision work they had ever done was
packing fruit; and then Mary sighed to
see«them fumbling, remembering Hugh’s
lean, brown fingers, agile and adept.
Mary herself was also an expert packer,
but her father had never been expert at
anything except hoeing. And he was
getting too old for that.
He shuffled through the letters, leaving
a grubby thumbprint here and there.
There was one from Hugh for Mary and
one for himself. He stared at it with a
pleasure that merged into uneasiness.
Not often Hugh wrote to him. He hoped
there was nothing wrong. He turned it
over several times doubtfully and then
shoved it into his pocket along with the
paper.
He started back down the lane towards
the sunset. The clouds were piled up be-
hind Watson’s shed and the sky was red
over the mountains. Another good day
tomorrow.
A great day for ploughing it had been ;
with the soil soft after the rain and the
sun warm. Everyone in the lane had
been at the same job. On each side as
he walked there were long brown
swathes across the green of winter weed.
HE came to Barney Crockett’s on the
corner where the lane turned north.
Barney was leaning against the gatepost
smoking. He had seen the old man go
up and was waiting for his paper.
The old man nodded. “G’d evenin’ , . .
Been a great day.”
Barney scowled at his letters, obviously
bills. “What about my paper?” he
asked.
“Wasn’t no paper there. Reckon them
school kids makes off with ’em some-
times.”
“There weren’t any kids at school to-
day. They don’t go back until tomorrow,
I wanted to see how Valencias were
selling. My seconds ought to be going
in. Watson reckons he’s getting fourteen
bob.”
“Fifteen for mine,” the old man said
promptly. “But, mjnd y’, they was good
stuff ; by cripes they was. That place of
ours grows bonzer fruit. ’Course a lot
depends on the feedin’; Hugh was
always a bit stingy when he was home.”
He paused to fill and light his pipe.
The smell of Barney’s, vile though it was,
had tickled his nostrils.
“Still smokin’ that stuff! ” he observed.
“Why don’t you get somethin’ decent?
This here’s some Hugh sent me home
from ’is canteen. And good baccy, too,
by cripes it is.”
“Should think he oughter send you
some baccy, leavin’ the orchard on your
hands,” Barney grunted.
“By cripes, I can tell you it keeps me
’oppin’. I got that much work I dunno
which way to turn. I bet if Hugh knew
he wouldn’t sleep at nights.”
“How is he?”
“Well enough. Still gets those bilious
turns. I got a letter somewhere. There's
one for Mary, too. I s’pose he won’t
like settling back to farm work when it’s
over. But that won’t be yet awhile.”
Fumbling in his pocket for the letter
he took out the paper and laid it casually
on the gatepost. Barney stared at it and
then at him in mingled irritation and
amusement.
“You lying old beggar!”
The old man blinked. “Well, anyways,
you was too danged lazy to walk up and
get the thing. I know there’d be nobody
else’d go for the mail if I didn’t.”
“At least you can give us a look at
the market reports.”
The old man mumbled something in-
audible the while he went on searching
for his letter. Finding it at last he tore
it open with fingers even more awkward
than usual.
* His old eyes battled with the pencilled
scrawl. Pity Hugh couldn’t have written
it in ink. Pity he hadn’t kept it to read
when he got home. He was about to
stuff it back into his pocket when a phrase
made sense.
“By cripes! ”
He peered at it more closely.
When he put it away at last he glared
at Barney as if he had made the thing
happen. Hugh giving orders round the
place again . . . Himself going back to
the old routine of hoeing and pruning . . .
“The M.O. has recommended my dis-
charge” . . .
Barney was watching him. “Bad
news?” he asked.
The old man answered: “Only them
bilious turns I was talking about . . . I’ll
be gettin’ along. Big day in front of me
tomorrow.”
Barney looked after him as he plodded
away. “There goes the busiest man in
the world! Funny, that letter ;it seemed
to give him a bit of a jar.”
Dragging along through the greenish
twilight the old man felt jarred indeed.
Couldn’t make out why he was so tired
all at once. Maybe he’d overdone it with
that ploughin’.
’Course it’d be a great thing for Mary
and the little feller, Hugh coming ’ome
again. And he wasn’t a bad sort o’ chap
as sons-in-law went.
Cutting across the orchard he peered
through the dusk at the long, clean fur-
rows he had turned that day. The trees
looked mournful in the last pale hgnt
that shone out of the quiet sky. Funny
to think he mightn’t have the chance to
plough ’em again . . . There was that
fruit to be got away tomorrow. Some-
how he didn’t feel like bothering with it
now. Maybe it wouldn’t hurt to leave
it until Hugh got back . . .
HE stumped up the steps and into the
kitchen, where Mary was giving the
little feller his tea. She looked up and
smiled.
“Oh, there you are, Pa. I wondered
where you’d got to. You’re late tonight.”
“I went up for the mail.”
He saw how the eager question leaped
into her eyes, and how she turned away
to the cupboard, unwilling to show even
to him how she longed for a letter. Her
voice came over her shoulder with
affected unconcern.
“Did you get anything?”
Sometimes he played a little game with
her to keep her guessing; but tonight he
had no heart for it. He said flatly
“There’s one from Hugh,” and laid it on
the table.
The little feller was clamoring for his
attention. “Granpa. Granpa! ”
The old man leaned over him. “What
you been doin’ all day? Granpa’s been
ploughin’. You goin’ to do the ploughin’
for Granpa when you get big?”
Mary said on a sigh “What a lot
Hugh’s missing. If you’d like to start
your tea, Pa, don’t wait for me.”
He shook his head. “I ain’t very
hungry tonight.”
“You work too hard. You ought to
knock off earlier.”
She took the child into the bedroom
and closed the door. The man of the
house sat down wearily in front of the
kitchen fire. It was true what he had told
her ; he wasn’t hungry. He took Hugh's
letter from his pocket and read it again.
“ It seems pretty sure, but of course
you never know with the army. So don’t
say anything to Mary in case it doesn’t
come off. Anyway, it’ll probably take
three or four months for the thing to go
through ”
Three-four months! He hadn’t noticed
that part before.
There was a lot to be done on the farm
between now and then. He’d have his
work cut out!
He began to feel hungry. Maybe he d
just been overtired, and this little rest
in front of the fire had done him good.
Well, there wouldn’t be much rest in the
next three-four months!
He could hear Mary singing softly in
the bedroom. Maybe tomorrow she’d
bring the little feller to the orchard with
him, and to the shed while he was
packing.
He went to the table, noting with satis-
faction the presence of soup spoons.
Mary made first-rate soup. And there
was a damper, too.
He began to slice the bread. When
Mary came out some time later she stared
at the little that was left.
“Good heavens, Pa! I don’t know
where you put it!”
“A cove’s got to eat when he’s workin’
hard like me. A big day in front of me
tomorrow, too. Can’t leave them Valen-
cias any longer. If we have a westerly
they’ll be on the ground.”
Her brow puckered. “But what’s the
use of pulling them tomorrow? Mon-
day’s a holiday, and there won’t be any
market until Tuesday.”
“What’s wrong with sending ’em in to-
morrow night for Friday’s market?”
She stared at him, caught between
amusement and vexation.
“Oh, Pa, don’t say you’ve gone and
forgotten again! Tomorrow’s Friday
and the carrier goes in tonight.”
Letter to a Friend.
There were three angels at my birth
Who promised this and that for me
Forgetful perhaps, though meaning well,
—I doubt not their sincerity.
The next that comes I think you know—
The white hbrse and the saddle-bow,
Or as you like.
And after, now,
I write from some tall ivory tower:
Godmother in a crooked hat
Is with me, and her evil cat;
She with her wheel has taught me how
To spin good thread to pass the time.
Next comes why I should write to you.
Either in dream or childhood
It happened once, so long ago
Much I forget, but this I know:
A pricking as I turn the wheel
And all the world at once is still —
And mine the power to make it so.
Until in two or three years’ time
The white horse and the saddle-bow
—Twigs cracking in the street below —
Fill in the gaps the way you know.
Shall I turn the wheel and let it be
Or make provisos and except
This way and that? For instance, now,
Suppose my spell should bind the lifts
Immobile in their webs of steel;
Then skyscrapers would furnish cells
For latter-day philosophers
Or desert fathers wrapped in calm
—New Simons on a plinth of stone —,
With stars above and light? below
For contemplation and delight;
And often at the quietest time
The brushing of prophetic wings
Outside the ninety-second floor . . .
A good, wise spell.
Or let it be
The clocks alone, or telephones.
So shall I prick my finger deep
And plunge the whole world into sleep
Until the sound of hooves below? ...
Or shall I overturn the wheel,
Escaping from the ivory tower
To pass old Time, not let him pass?
Banish the tempter and her cat,
Sharp-eyed beneath the crooked hat?
Agree, though her devices fail,
She taught me how to spin a tale.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON
It Was Hot That Day
By LES ROBINSON.
THE heat was intense ; or, perhaps I
should say, seemed to me to be so,
for how was I to know that the day,
or the night either, which I thought
most oppressive, was to blame for it?
Might not that warmth, in my opinion
so excessive, come from within instead of
being external? In other words, how
was I to be sure that I had not what in
the hospitals is termed a “temperature”?
While 1 was engaged thus in turning
the matter over in my mind a large spider,
whose feet, I thought, had perhaps be-
come too hot for it to remain upside
down on the iron roof any longer, let go
suddenly and plopped into my shaving
water.'
“You could have ascertained quite
easily whether you had a temperature or
not by getting vour thermometer and, in
the usual way, taking it,” you might say.
1 d +° n A“v T Inlw tn tbp in
mometer. And for all I knew to the con
trary,l might be getting influenza or
something. Such thoughts were alarming,
and made me perspire more Profusely
than ever. The only way to make sur
that the heat had nothing to do with t e
state of my health was, I decided, to find
out whether other people were feeling
too hot or not. •
The first person I saw when taking a
walk with this end in view did nothing
to reassure me. In fact, “You are getting
a fever of some kind or influenza,” I said
to myself, for he was wearing an over-
coat. I had forgotten for the moment
that he was regarded in the neighbor-
hood as being eccentric.
The next was a perfectly bald man
without a hat, walking slowly along the
sun-smitten footpath. He did not help
to reassure me either, for how was I to
know that he wasn’t eccentric, too?
A fish-vendor, followed by a horde of
excited flies, was coming up the street.
“Isn’t this a trying day?” I remarked
when we drew level with each other.
“Yes, mister, they’re just right for fry-
ing. Fresh caught this morning! ”
Both his statements were, I concluded,
misleading, for I had not gone far before
I perceived a large fish he had thrown
into some bushes. Perhaps it had begun
to frizzle in his basket as he walked
along. This thought did reassure me a
litfle.
Some boys, I noticed when I reached
the local park, were, in defiance of a
notice-board prohibiting bathing, espe-
dally in the nude, enjoying a dip in one
of the larger ponds. Much to the annoy-
ance and chagrin of the park-ranger,
who was brandishing a stick and shout-
ing at them from the bank, they had re-
moved their clothes behind some shrubs
on an islet in the centre of the pond.
There was not a punt or boat within his
reach evidently. They, perhaps, had
commandeered either, if existent, or
reached the islet in a home-made craft of
their own. Knowing that he was unable
to chase them off it unless he too removed
all his clothes, they seemed to be taking
little notice of his threats,
.„, 4 ,
A VERY large tortoise, alleged to be
** over a hundred years old, which,
asleep, in a trance or state of coma, had
remained, as though defunct, without
movement of any kind whatsoever tor
weeks in one corner of its wire-netted
enclosure, awoke suddenly and, to the
astonishment of all beholders, lumbered
off towards a patch of shade. It looked
rather like a tank going into a ction,
except that it seemed startled, and, unless
1 AF 1 8 mistaken, p
intimation that it was being
roasted alive had, I surmised, commencing
the outer sur face of its carapace,
meated fl na fl y fl s inner conscious-
£ The wond ; r to me was that the
poQr creature? unused to being in haste,
considering the age it was sup-
posed tQ be? exp i re f rom heart-failure,
The heat> j bought, when such sights
were to , be seen must surely be excep-
tional.
Residents of the western suburbs,
which received the full brunt of it, were,
j learnt later, cruelly deceived by a
mirage> The ’ scene that appeared be-
fore "their delighted eyes—its seeming
rea fl ty being, they all said, astounding—
was a f rozen lake upon which skaters in
winter attire were skimming, while at the
lake’s edge, in a grove of snow-laden
trees, liquid refreshment in a bar or
buffet was being consumed,
Optimists among the western
suburbanites, some carrying ice-skates,
others jugs, billycans and buckets, in an
endeavor to reach the lake and the buffet,
trudged miles without, of course, getting
any nearer to either, and merely, such
was their haste, increasing the discern-
fort they were suffering from the tem-
perature.
These were some of the newspaper
headlines that caught my eye next morn-
ing: “Heat-crazed Ferry Captain Alters
Course to Avoid Hitting
Taken to Reception-house” ; “Water to
Be Rationed” ; “Water Board Resigns” ;
“ ‘Grin and Bear It,’ Says Brewery
Manager” ; “Dry-Goods Proprietary in
Liquidation”; _ “Hotels All Close ;
“ ‘Position Serious/ Says Minister for
Non-essentials ; Wea.ther Ideal, Says
Undertaker”; ‘“Earth May Explode,
Says Scientist” ; World Began to End
Yesterday,’ Says Astrologer • Zoo Re-
frigerator Keeps Polar Bear Alive ;
“Well-known Rotanan Arrested for
Bathing in Horse-trough.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3327.
Wednesday, November 17, 1943.
THE ONE CERTAIN CURE FOR BLACK MARKETING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
-Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H K Prior j E. Webb
P H Prior ' David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2 52IBB; '’Phone 87971.
Victoria ;
Queensland: 239 ’Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathans Buildings {opp.
London- 1 Hare mle lng 47 U Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
BOMBING SEASON.
Today vast air armadas that have to be
seen to be properly realised —upwards
of 1500 huge bombers and fighters —
climb up from Britain’s airfields to carry
the war into Germany. So far something
like 150,000 tons of bombs have been
dropped on the German homeland.
Nothing like that happened to the Ger-
man homeland in the last war. If Hitler’s
patented explanation of why Germany
lost that last war—that the home front
failed to stand the strain, collapsed and
“stabbed the army in the back”—was
historically true, which it isn’t, another
German collapse might be expected to
occur in no long time.
Old Diggers who were there gained a
different impression from that propagated
by Hitler. They saw the Germans bolt-
ing their 30 miles a day, and at close
quarters squealing as loud as anyone
could. They’will take convincing that
the Germans were not well and truly
beaten in the field before ever the Ger-
man home-fronters collapsed. Even so,
the rot, when it started at the fighting
front, spread rapidly through the home
front; and nothing of what has happened
this year had happened then. Therefore,
close observers of the bombing contend,
a collapse inside Germany is an improv-
ing possibility.
To the argument that bombing failed
to produce such a result in Britain, they
reply that it might have done so if
Fighter Command had not succeeded
where the Luftwaffe has failed. Up
to the beginning of this year more
bombs had been dropped on Britain
than oh Germany 69,000 tons
to 67,500. A rough idea of what Ger-
many has been taking is had from the
fact that the comparative ratio has been
improved in Britain’s favor by better
than 34 to 1.
While Britain was “taking it,” the cool
heads of the R.A.F. were studying the
Luftwaffe attack and laying their plans.
The mere indiscriminate bombing which
had had terroristic success elsewhere
was ruled out by the R.A.F. command,
which strongly opposed also the
brained schemes for “second fronts” that
would have had the disastrous effect,
apart from mass slaughter, of leaving no
R.A.F. margin for carrying on the bomb-
ing inside Germany. If the “Second-
Fronters” had had their way Hamburg
and Essen would still be among Ger-
many’s great armament or submarine-
building centres.
The R.A.F. prevailed. In the Battle
of Britain it had saved not only Britain
but all that is meant by western civilis-
ation. It had won the right to prevail—
a right which the “Second-Fronters” have
neither won nor aspired to win. The
R.A.F.’s Air Chief Marshal Harris—
who, with the American General Baker,
conducts the bombing offensive —has this
month outlined the plan that was already
being drawn when the gallant men of
the R.A.F. were alone battling the whole
strength of the Luftwaffe’s four-to-one
odds in the skies above' the Thames.
Mainly the plan is to pulverise every
single one of Germany’s 90 main centres
of war production. “We are well on the
wav to their destruction.”
Of those military objectives from
which, fortunately, no amount of clamor
has been able to divert Bomber Com-
mand —it has been estimated that at least
16 have been so completely knocked out
that they need only minor raids to pre-
vent rebuilding; the industrial areas of
25 other cities have been more than 50
per cent, wrecked, and half of these need
only one more heavy attack of about
1500 tons of bombs to be completely lost
to the German war industry.
The job of completing the destruction
might not have to be carried right
through. Even as it nears completion
more and more strength of the combined
R.A.F. and American air strength based
on Britain will be available for blasting
the vtey wherever the Continent may be
attacked by ground forces. Had the wild-
cat “Second-Fronters,” and not the cool
heads of the R.A.F. prevailed the whole
fruitful bombing scheme would have had
to be abandoned, or else there would have
been only a weak coverage for the attack-
ing troops. “Second-Fronters,” being
practically all amateurs (to describe them
politely), ignorant of war and war’s grim
realities, and guided by their emotions
and politics, could not be expected to
weigh up such contingencies.
On the direct military side, too, the
bombing scheme has had positive results
which “Second-Fronters” never acknow-
ledge. It is claimed to have tied up some
1500 fighting German ’planes in Ger-
many, France and the Low Countries, as
compared with only 270 German fighters
always in action on the entire Russian
front (N.Y. “Times”). More than a
million men are engaged manning Ger-
man anti-aircraft defences, with another
half-million engaged in civil defence and
yet another million workers engaged in
making munitions and equipment for
these forces. Such attacks as the on-
slaught which devastated Hamburg and
others that have happened since have had
direct effect not only on the spot but on
Russian and other battlefields. The Rus-
sians, who know this well enough, did not
suspend their own bombing of Germany
because they thought it useless, but only
because they could not spare means of
keeping it up.
These are the strictly factual military
considerations. Of greater weight on the
side of those who expect a German col-
lapse under bombing are the inevitable
civilian casualties and morale-shattering
destruction. “Never before,” British High
Commissioner Sir Ronald Cross has said
in a broadcast, “has mankind suffered so
appalling an onslaught outside the imme-
diate field of battle.” He mentioned
reports from Germany of more than
7,000,000 people evacuated from the
bombed cities, and German civilian
casualties “several times larger” than the
50,000 civilians killed in Britain by Ger-
man air attacks.
At a safe distance, and without the ex-
perience, even these figures are meaning-
less without an impossible effort of imag-
ination. The recent day-and-night bomb-
ing of Germany one close observer has
described as meaning that the people
there never leave home and family in the
morning knowing they will be there at
night; they never know when they start
the day’s work if they will be alive to
finish it; they never can have complete
rest, be without fear, be clean. They
exist in the midst of an onslaught that
steadily and relentlessly crumbles their
cities from the face of the earth. Within
another few months, this observer de-
clares* the air bombardment will so pul-
verise Germany that a generation of re-
building will not replace all that is de-
stroyed. The whole of the world’s re-
corded earthquakes concentrated on Ger-
many could not, he says, burn and raze
and convulse it more thoroughly.
An even clearer picture of what this
really means in terms of human beings
has been given in a detailed report which
described the Hamburg havoc as the worst
that ever smote any human settlement.
Refugees with smoke-blackened faces
continued long after they reached safety
to wander around as if seeking shelter.
Their hands still shook; their speech
came jerkily; they refused food —still,
after what they had been through, hav-
ing no stomach for eating.
What it was like had to be pieced to-
gether from the few words of many such.
The picture included a rain of incen-
diaries spreading fire till whole sections
of the city were drowned in flames. Giant
clouds of smoke and dust enveloped
Hamburg, darkening the sky. Water from
burst mains flooded streets which the
burning heat quickly dried. A direct
hit and a terrible explosion deprived
the entire city of gas. The screaming of
sirens (though becoming fewer), the roar-
ing of explosive bombs and the whistling
of phosphorous bombs and aerial mines
kept up an infernal concert. People
packed shuddering in shelters —as many
as five or six thousand in one; listening
fearfully and wondering if the roof would
hold. In the height of one raid a young
Swedish mother gave birth to a child in
that shelter.
As they emerged the heat of the burn-
ing buildings was scarcely bearable. Hun-
dreds of thousands would have given a
fortune for a glass of water, but all
mains had burst, and there was not a
drop. Everything burned around them
—buildings, trees and bushes. The city
became a mass of fire. Streets widened
out in a ruin of ashes. Sections that had
housed 300,000 people were razed to the
ground. The main railway station was
a sprawling wreck of charred and burn-
ing skeletons of trucks and carriages, and
of rails twisting into the air.
A phenomenon of a burning bombed
city beyond imagining is the “fire storm”
that suddenly breaks out where before
all might be still and calm. People caught
up in such “storms” are stripped of their
clothing and left lying dead in the streets,
twisted and naked”. The living wandered
about seeing nothing, half-demented with
terror. Blazing with phosphorous, they
were seen to throw themselves into water
—but the phosphorous burnt there.
Even with such details as these, nobody
without the experience can realise it
fully. The Germans who have gone
through it know now what the British
suffered when London, Coventry, Liver-
pool were being bombed on a heavy-
enough scale ; when the heart was being
torn out of Rotterdam, and Lidice was
being wiped out, and the Nazi leaders
were exulting. Despite all the Nazi-
inflicted horror, the Archbishop of York,
in a letter to his diocese, has recorded
that he has received many letters asking
him to protest as a Christian against the
bombing of German towns. He has re-
plied that “the real justification for con-
tinuing this bombing is that it will shorten
the war and may save thousands of lives.
Those who demand the suspension of all
bombing are advocating a policy which
would condemn many more of our own
soldiers to death, and would postpone the
hour of liberation which will alone save
from massacre and torture those who are
now in the power of the Nazis .1 cannot
help thinking that some of those who write
to me in impassioned terms about the
sufferings of the Germans in the bombed
cities forget the prolonged and awful suffer-
ings of the Poles, the Czechs and the Jews
of all nations. However much we deplore
the sufferings of the civilian population and
the destruction of their homes, and of
beautiful buildings, we must continue to use
our superiority in the air as a means of
ending the war as speedily as we can.
How speedily that will be must cer-
tainly depend to a considerable extent on
how long the German home front can
bear what is now happening to it, and
also on the joint R.A.F. and American
Bomber Command being free to carry on
and increase that bombing, without being
diverted from their deadly objective.
There is one aspect of it, too, that
might be specially worth considering.
That is, the ultimate bearing it may have
on the propensity of some nations to
make wars or follow reckless leaders
into wars. A people that has once really
felt and seen the effects of bombing in
its midst cannot be such eager trailers
after Mars in the future.
Playing with Fire.
In 1941, after the expulsion of the Vichy
French forces, Syria and Lebanon were
declared “independent and sovereign
States.” The proclamations were issued
by General Catroux, then Free French
Commander-in-Chief, in the name of the
Allies, and on November 26, 1941, the
date of the proclamation to the Lebanese,
a Mr. Alfred Nakkache was named Presi-
dent of the Republic of Lebanon, Beirut
being the seat of government. Last week
it was announced that the President and
nearly all of his Ministers had been
arrested, the Chamber of Deputies dis-
solved and the “independent and sovereign
State” placed under martial law by the
French —all without reference to the
British, who at once protested.
The arrests, it has been asserted, were
made “with considerable violence,” and
Senegalese troops “fired on crowds of
demonstrators” in Beirut, In a broadcast
speech the French High Commissioner ex-
plained that the proceedings were taken
because of “a plot against France.” Per-
haps they are not distantly related to the
exclusion of the French Committee of
National Liberation, in which General de
Gaulle now reigns alone, General Giraud
having been relegated to the position of
Coramander-in-Chief, from the Moscow
arrangements for the pacification of
Europe, except that it is to be granted
representation, along with Greece and
Yugoslavia, on the committee designed to
regulate the •affairs of Italy when they
admit of being regulated.
The “plot against France” is connected
with a Lebanon Chamber of Deputies
measure altering the Constitution. To
this a representative of the Committee of
National Liberation, which has its head-
quarters in distant Algiers, objected on
the ground that it was one-sided, in effect,
claiming the right of veto ; and Lebanese
patriots replied with a threat of a general
strike. The population of Lebanon is
about 900,000, and a third of the people
are Moslems. On that score alone Britain
is interested in the nasty business, for the
Moslems have powerful supporters
throughout the Arab world, and a general
strike of Arabs in Palestine was threatened.
British policy necessarily aims at main-
taining friendly relations with the Arabs
in all the combustible regions which they
occupy, wholly or in part, A difficult
job at any time, it has been made more
difficult by an American Jewish agitation,
championed by an astonishing number of
influential American Christians, for the
immediate forming of an. “army of State-
less and Palestinian Jews” and the con-
version of Palestine after the war into a
Jewish Commonwealth, “a political State
for the Jewish people,” with in the mean-
time an “Open Door to Palestine for
Jewish Immigration,” control to be
vested in “the Jewish Agency.” From
the same quarter there has come ardent
support for General de Gaulle.
There are 4,800,000 Jews in the United
States. They are not all Zionists by any
means, but a great many are, and some
of the leaders have no love for or grati-
tude to Britain. Yet some meed of grati-
tude might be expected, if only because of
the protection and consideration secured
for the Jewish colonists in Palestine
since the mandate was established. The
achievements of these colonists are ad-
vanced as the principal argument for full
Jewish control, the grant of which would
mean the betrayal of Britain’s word to
the Arabs and a certain Arab-Jew war;
but, as Lord Cranbourne has pointed out,
they would have been impossible if “His
Majesty’s Government and the Palestine
Administration” had not “managed to
preserve law and order and provide con-
ditions under which the tender plant of
Zionist colonisation has been able to
germinate, sprout and flourish.”
Without the firm hand of British ad-
ministration, I believe the Zionist experi-
ment would only too probably have been
doomed to early and complete failure.
Yet regardless of all considerations other
than their dangerous ambitions, the
American Zionists demand that Pales-
tine, in which Moslems have predomi-
nated for many centuries and whose capi-
tal is a Holy City for three faiths, shall
be handed over to Jews. At q New York
gathering in August, a certain Dr. Silver
presented the Zionist case in these terms:
It is because Palestine is the Jewish
homeland that we have the right to insist
upon unrestricted immigration. It is on
the national idea that the upbuilding of
Palestine as a place of large-scale Jewish
immigration has always rested and can
alone continue to rest. Our right to immi-
gration in the last analysis is predicated
upon the right to build a Jewish Common-
wealth in Palestine. They are interlinked
and inseparable.
These sentiments he embodied in a reso-
lution which was adopted with “over-
whelming approbation.” A report says
“there were angry outbursts” against a
dissenter, Judge Proskauer, when he
“explained his dissent by a desire not to
embarrass the United Nations’ war effort.”
There are Zionists in Australia also,
and they, too, have Christian associates.
In May they demanded “the opening of
the door of Palestine to free Jewish mass
immigration,” adding “that alone can
solve the problem of Jewish homelessness
in the world.” And in the presidential
address it was stated that after the war
“we” would “demand the establishment
of a Jewish Commonwealth within the
framework of the British Common-
wealth.” .
On the other side, and a host in him-
self, is Isaac Isaacs. In a series of “Heb-
rew Standard” articles which would fill
a fair-sized book and which, for wealth
of argument, learning, apposite quotation,
irony and passionate loyalty to Australia,
the British Commonwealth and the cause
of the United Nations are rather wonder-
ful considering that the writer is in his
89th year; the former State Solicitor-
General and Attorney-General, member
of the Federal Convention, Common-
wealth Attorney-General, Chief Justice ot
the High Court and Governor-General
has shot the Zionist case to pieces.
“What,” he asks, “do the American,
Mexican, Irakian, Russian, North Afri-
can, Afghanistan, Turkish and Syrian
Jews care for ‘a Jewish Commonwealth
within the framework of the British Com-
monwealth?’ Even the Palestine Jews
urging an exile Government situate in
the United States do not favor it.”
If is claimed that the Jewish people all
over the world are one nation, that they
are a distinct nation, that Palestine is their
homeland, that wherever they may be else-
where they are exiles, are “homeless, are
“wanderers,” or even —as in an address to
Jewish youth in Australia —are ‘ slaves ....
leading an abnormal life.
How sane, patriotic Australian Jews can
listen, not merely without remonstrance but
even with approbation, to such un-Austra-
lian deliverances passes my comprehension.
But some do Tc
Do they regard themselves as aliens' is
Australia not their homeland? Have they
now or have they ever had the desire to
leave Australia and live in Palestine.
As an Australian Jew I resent the epithets
“homeless,” “exiles,” “wanderers and
“slaves.” I resent the necessary implication
that Australia is for the Jewish community
“a foreign land” and that Jerusalem calls
us to it as our political homeland. It me
political Zionists are right.. . .what possible
answer could be made to Hitler? The real
answer to him is that what he says and
what the political Zionists say is not true.
The extreme Zionist doctrines promul-
gated are fuel for the fire of anti-
Semitism Political equality for Jews
everywhere, no exception being made even
as to Moslem countries, and no such
equality for Moslems or Christians in Pales-
tine' In plain Australian that Zionist
claim, besides being inconsistent, is wholly
undemocratic, and I denounce it as con-
trary to all that the United Nations stand
f °ln 1925 the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council decided that the purpose of
Article 2 of the Mandate is to secure that
“the mandatory shall not discriminate in
favor of persons of any one religion or
race.” That interpretation is strengthened
by reference to Article 15, which says No
discrimination of any kind shall be made
between the inhabitants of Palestine on
the ground of race, religion or language.
One would think that words could not be
plainer. Yet it is demanded that Britain
shall break, openly and daringly, one of the
greatest trusts ever reposed in a self-respect-
infn na i 940 the English High Court de-
cided that as there has been no annexa-
tion of Palestine by the Empire—and mdeed


there cannot be as matters stand—Palestiile
is still a foreign country. By what process
do the lawyers of the Australian Zionists
propose to make a foreign country p
of the British Commonwealth.
The Arabs, beyond the general objection
to domination in temporal affairs, especially
oppose the inclusion of Jerusalem in a
Jewish State. They have had the Mosque
of Omar, which is on the site of Solomon s
Temple, for a longer period than Jerusalem
was in Jewish hands. The Woodhead Com-
mission found that to include even part
of Jerusalem in a Jewish State would in-
evitably “lead to disorders of the most
serious kind.” How true that opinion has
proved to be is evidenced by the prepara-
tions for civil war.
Apropos of “the preparations (not,
of course, confined to one side), a mili-
tary court in Palestine recently sentenced
two British soldiers to 15 years’ imprison-
ment for trafficking in arms. In a con-
nected case the prosecution alleged that
the accused, two Jews, charged with
illegal possession of Australian rifles (300)
and American cartridges, “were agents
for a vast, wealthy, unscrupulous gun-
running organisation of Jews, the most
active members of which aim not only at
defence against the Arabs but at extend-
ing the borders of Palestine after the
war.” “According to 63 witnesses, the
arms smugglers described themselves as
working for the Jewish Agency,” and “a
Jewish policeman testified that the inde-
pendence of Jewish witnesses was im-
paired by a Jewish terrorist organisation
that was alleged to have slain and intimi-
dated witnesses in previous cases” (New
York “Times” report). The accused were
convicted: one, “secretary of the Jewish
Seamen’s Union,” got 10 years, and the
other seven years.
From Lebanon to Palestine is but a
step. Beirut is only 80 miles from Haifa.
And when shooting starts in the Middle
East it is apt to spread. It may not
spread to Palestine, but if it does the
blood of the victims will be on the hands
of the Zionist agitators who have attacked
and weakened British authority.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The V.Cs.
To read or listen to class-war propagan-
dists, you would think that all the wealth
of the nation was produced and all the
fighting done by trade-unionists (if the
company and the environment are con-
sidered suitable, you will learn also that
in the fullness of time they will make a
sticky end of the capitalist system, Par-
liamentary government and other nefari-
ous institutions). Study of the list of
V.Cs. does not support the second of
these assertions. So far in this war they
are 12 in number and six hail from cities,
six from the country. Not one has
been claimed as an exponent of the class-
war or as a Trades-hall habitue or
adherent.
Corporal Edmondson, first of the four
N. S. Wales V.Cs:, who sleeps at Tobruk,
farmed a Liverpool property for his
father. Pilot-Officer Middleton, whose
glorious deed when terribly wounded is
listed as “unsurpassed in the annals of
the R.A.F.,” was the son of a pastoralist
and was on the land himself before he
joined the R.A.F. Lieut.-Colonel Ander-
son, English-born with an M.C. from the
last war, enlisted again from a sheep
station which his wife is carrying on until
he returns from his Japanese prison. Lieu-
tenant Cutler went into the A.I.F. and so
to Syria, from the Public Trustee’s office.
There are four Westralian V.Cs. also:
Group-Captain Edwards from Fremantle,
the most-decorated man in the R.A.F.,
personally honored by the King ; the late
Privates Gratwick, of Katanning and
Libya/and Gurney, of Perth and Tel el
Eisa, son of an old goldfields prospector ;
and Private (now Sergeant) Gordon, who
has added lustre in three countries to a
great Scottish name. None was cradled or
trained in the class-war “philosophy.”
Gordon was a farm worker from Gingin,
son of a former Liberal M.L.A., who was
spared to learn that his lad had received
the highest distinction that a soldier can
earn. And the Victorian Flight-Lieu-
tenant Newton, whose sacrifice, like that
of Pilot-Officer Middleton, has brought
tears to many eyes, was from Flinders-
lane.
Out of the Westralian forests in the
last war came Lieut.-Colonel Murray,
V.C., C.M.G., D. 5.0., D.C.M., and
Lieutenant McCarthy, V.C., C. de G.
Both were members of the Timber-
workers’ Union. In effect, courage and
devotion to duty are the monopoly of
no section or class, nor has any stunted
vision of triumphant provincialism or
proletarianism inspired our fighting men
in two wars. Those who have been spared
their trials and sufferings can best re-
quite their services by quitting them-
selves like true men and women in the
cause which is sanctified by their blood
—the cause of a free Australia, united
with the other members of the British
Commonwealth under the Crown.
In Japanese Hands.
As the war proceeds the hearts and
minds of Australians are concerned about
two things—the welfare of Australian
prisoners of war in Japanese hands and
the matter of leave for overtasked fight-
ing men in New Guinea.
In spite of persistent attempts by
Allied Governments and Red Cross
societies, Japan has refused to allow the
sending of parcels. Even an arrangement
made with Russia to ship parcels via
Vladivostok each month from U.S.A. has
brought no hint of Japanese permission.
A Sydney meeting of the Australian
Prisoners of War Relatives Association
has been told that two-way radio com-
munication between prisoners and rela-
tives may be arranged before the end of
the year. Through the instrumentality of
the Vatican messages are to be sent from
Australia to prisoners of war, and the
Apostolic Delegate hopes that replies
may come via the Papal Delegate at
Tokyo and Vatican Radio. On the other
hand, a postal official has had to give an
astonishingly long list of names and
addresses of persons in Australia to whom
prisoners have sent postcards which are
“undeliverable for various reasons” —the
people named are asked to communicate
with the G.P.O, to obtain delivery.
In a statement issued last Wednesday
Army Minister Forde said that so far
19,927 of the Australians originally re-
ported missing in Japanese territory have
been traced and that 3421 are still miss-
ing. Of those traced, 10,173 have been
reported as prisoners through Geneva,
capture cards have been received from
8767 and 987 have been referred to in
various ways. Unhappily 76 men have
died in Japanese custody. The Govern-
ment is trying to arrange for mails and
relief parcels, as well as further news.
All this is a decided advance on the
comparative silence of a few months ago.
Mr. Forde should make a regular
monthly statement.
Leave far Digger Veterans.
On the matter of leave for Middle East
veterans in New Guinea, Mr. Curtin has
replied in the following terms to the ques-
tions asked by parents and relatives, and
by two Ms.H.R., Mr. Hughes and Mr.
Mulcahy:
A considerable part of the Australian
military forces has served and is still serving
in New Guinea; both A.I.F. and militia,
operational and administrative units.
Forces which have served in New Guinea
since December, 1941, represent nearly half
the available forces which could have
served there, leaving out “B”-class per-
sonnel, reinforcements undergoing training,
and “X”-list personnel, including hospital
cases, convalescents, and those attending
schools and on special duties.
The militia has played an active and effi-
cient part in the operations which began
with the active fighting in August, 1942.
Something more than 40 per cent, of the
total Australian troops engaged were
militia.
A.I.F. formations are being constantly re-
plenished by new personnel who previously
had not seen active service. Many of these -
have been drawn from militia units. More
than two-thirds of the strength of one
A.I.F. division comprised new personnel
when it returned to New Guinea for active
operations.
As operational and administrative re-
quirements permit, and as they, in the
opinion of the Commander-in-Chief, are re-
quired in New Guinea, certain formations
proceed to New Guinea, permitting others
to return for a rest period in Australia.
The necessity for ensuring that both A.I.F.
and militia-are relieved from time to time
is kept constantly in mind.
All possible precautions against malaria
are taken, and no soldier is sent back to
New Guinea or to a forward operational
area in New Guinea unless classified in
“A” medical category.
“Is,” it will be noted, not “has been.”
Was Acting Sergeant Smith (B. 8/9/’43
and 10/11/’43) “classified in ‘A’ medical
category”? And, apropos of the third
paragraph, cannot Mr. Curtin be more
precise without disclosing information to
the enemy? “Something more than 40
per cent, were militia” is vague, especially
coming from a leader whose policy in
September, 1939, was that not one militia-
man should be sent beyond the con-
tinent and Tasmania.
There followed a statement from Mr.
Forde that “new arrangements” for home
leave were being made, and that “under
a new quota plan,” to operate “at an
early date,” a regular flow of troops
would “go on leave.” So Mr. Forde
admits the need for some leave plan
right on the heels of his leader’s assur-
ance that all is well.
Neither statement will satisfy the
people most concerned. Both constitute
an unanswerable argument for one army
to fight for Australia wherever it may be
needed.
At the week-end, Mr. James, the Labor
member for Hunter, made two appalling
revelations: (1) a Ninth Division attack
was delayed for lack of ships, there being
insufficient coal; (2) because of the same
coal shortage men who had served two
years in New Guinea were “unable to
get leave.” _
A Wizard Up North.
“Norther” : Grandiloquently spouting
about a new land-production plan for
Queensland, Commerce Minister Scully,
shadowed by a somewhat dazed Food
Controller Murphy, blew into Brisbane
on a gale of optimism.
He said he was “looking to Queensland
for the slaughter of 1,000,000 mature
cattle in 1944, compared with 850,000
this year,” as part of the plan.
I am hopeful of inaugurating a big
sheep-slaughtering programme beyond any-
thing Queenslanders ever dreamed of.
Normal weekly killings at Queensland
works at this time of year are 30,000. My
objective is 60,000.
We want Queensland to produce every
head of cattle, sheep and pigs that can be
got to the works. It involves a huge pro-
gramme of fattening and droving, rail
transport, killing and canning, but it can
be done. I will remove all obstacles which
Commonwealth action can remove.
Probably too dazed by the spectacle
of 250,000 cattle and 30,000 sheep a week
suddenly appearing, prime and ready for
killing, within a year (though every
sheep- and cattleman is short of labor
and material and nobody can speed up
breeding), Mr. Murphy said nothing.
Otherwise he might have reminded his
chief that it’s barely a year since he was
promising the country a glut of vege-
tables, particularly potatoes.
END OF THE GAME OF MUSICAL CHAIRS (WITH “NOISES
OFF” FROM BEIRUT).


: Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
WS 164
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
X,
, P
J
m
J
-<
■
t
PYROX
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
From the New York “Times” of Sep-
tember 30:
Ralph E. Brewster (Republican of Maine),
one of the five Senators who have just re-
turned from a round-the-world investiga-
tion of American war fronts and centres of
Allied war direction, said he had no expec-
tation that Lord Louis Mountbatten would
be able to supplant General MacArthur.
Curtin would not agree to it, for one thing,
and “he has the authority to decide.”
The same Curtin, whose authority is so
immense where MacArthur and Mount-
batten are concerned, hasn’t been able
to persuade billiard-markers and dog-
trainers turned miners for “protection”
(his own expression) and their lordly
associates to hew coal for five days a
week without striking when the caprice
seizes them. Among the; results (and
here Rowley James, M.H.R., is the
authority) have been enforced delay of
a divisional attack in New Guinea and
enforced refusal of leave to Diggers there
—Diggers who have been fighting Japs
and disease for two years.
Averaging the price of a union ticket
at 255. p.a., and adding something for
levies, Australian trade-union bosses must
be dragging in over £1,500,000 a year. In
four years the number of union members
has been increased from 915,470 to
1,182,417, in many cases by the ultima-
tum “Join the union—or else.” And, at
least in N. S. Wales, there is no legal
necessity to publish balance-sheets.
Westralia is to have a State election on
Saturday, the first for nearly five years.
With 11 members unopposed and only
15 more necessary to give it a majority
of one on the floor of the House, Labor
should win. There has been such a
movement of population out of its
special districts and the distribution of
electorates is so cockeyed that it could
win easily without polling a majority of
electoral votes.
With two days to go it was stated that
the number of subscribers to the Fourth
Liberty Loan was 410,000 short of
Curtin’s “target,” 750,000, and that total
subscriptions were £20,000,000 less than
the £125,000,000 required. Closing day
brought the announcement that subscrip-
tions were still “several millions” shy.
That same day news came from Ottawa
that Canada’s Fifth Victory Loan of
$1,200,000,000 (£342,857,100 Australian)
had been oversubscribed by $82,627,000
(£23,607,700 Australian). Later in the
week it was given out that, with a flood
of belated applications coming in and
“Allied forces in this theatre backing the
attack splendidly,” the Chifley loap would
“at least be fully subscribed,” though it
would not be possible to give definite
figures until, perhaps, the ensuing week.
All Canada’s war loans have been over-
subscribed.
It was thought that Premier Willcock
would be one of the unopposed W.A.
Assemblymen (12 actually, one being Ross
McLarty, the Murray-Wellington Nat.),
but at the last moment an R.A.A.F. man
cabled a nomination for Geraldton from
London. His chance is one with the late
Buckley’s ; Geraldton has been Labor for
30 years. The one member of the
Government with an opponent who may
be accounted dangerous is Hawke, the
Minister of Labor, against whom H. J.
Prater, the Primary Producers’ secretary,
has come out in Northam. Hawke un-
seated ex-Premier Jimmy Mitchell, since
Lieut-Governor, in 1933. Though the
strong railway vote will be difficult to
overcome, Prater is expected to give
Hawke a run for his money.
Re-elected unopposed for Boulder, ex-
Premier Phil. Collier is entering upon
his thirteenth term as M.L.A. for that
dusty place. In his time one of the ablest
of State politicians—and that goes for
all six Parliaments—Collier has for years
been content with the roles of elder
statesmen and Father of the House. W.
D. Johnson, out again for Guildford-
Midland, arrived in Harvest Terrace four
years earlier than Collier, being a Labor
member of the first (1901) vintage; but
Johnson’s service has not been continu-
ous. Neither has that of Norbert
Keenan, once more a candidate for Ned-
lands, who is older than both, Keenan
was Mayor of Kalgoorlie when Johnson
became its M.L.A.
CONTEMPORARY SYDNEY VERSION.
“Name, ‘political philosophy’ and all, the U.A.P. has consented to be swallowed by the
Liberal Democratic party.”
Like the storied young woman from Riga,
She went for a ride, on a tiger.
At the end of the whirl.
There was only the girl.
The animile being inside her.
An 80-year-old Lebanese named Stan-
ton Mellick (just like a character in a
Hardy novel), was fined £5OO in Sydney
for selling blankets above the fixed price.
It was said on his behalf that he’d in-
vested £32,000 in war loan at interest and
£15,000 free of interest, and that his, wife
had put in £3OOO, also free of interest.
Which just shows how an 80-year-old
Lebanese can gather the shekels, though
he can’t read or write English,
Supporting pay-as-you-earn, and men-
tioning the case of the unfortunate
George Lawson, Melbdurne “Herald”
said that other defeated members “must
continue for the next 12 months to pay
£6 or £7 a week in taxation on Parlia-
mentary salaries they have ceased to
draw.” Those with property incomes will
pay a lot more than that, though in a
lump sum. In one case the lost salary
will lift the tax well above 10s. in the £.
Archie Cameron on Curtin:
A shrewd politician; the shrewdest party
tactician I have met in my 17 years in
office....He has not looked a very happy
man since he came back to Canberra. I
have seen only one smile on his face.
When I look at what he has behind him
I have no doubt as to the reason for his
rather gloomy appearance.
And on Ward:
Some day men will sit down dispassion-
ately and write the truth about “the Bris-
bane Line.” When that day comes the
reputation of the man who originated the
controversy will be described by a word
of three letters —“mud.”
It was a two-o’clock-in-the-morning
speech and was not reported —except in
“Hansard.” Napoleon prided himself on
having “two - o’clock - in - the - morning ’
courage. Cameron has it, too —all the time.
There was a sequel to the case of the
British Communist party’s national
organiser who got seven years for worm-
ing secret information out of an Air
Ministry girl “for purposes preju-
dicial to the safety of the State.” The
national organiser also laid his spell on
a young Red fool of an army officer
from whom he obtained not only “a
written report” of the young Red fool’s
“life-history, education and political and
social background” but also “a written
description of the layout of the establish-
ment” in which the young Red fool
worked “and other highly secret informa-
tion,” all “calculated to be useful to the
enemy.” The young Red fool was court-
martialled, cashiered and sentenced to the
same term as the national organiser is
serving. Young Wentworth might have
devoted some telling sentences to
these cases in his Sydney Town Hall de-
bate with the Communist Sharkey, but
perhaps if he had done so his address
would now be the Sydney hospital.
In name at least the Advisory War
Council still exists; “Hansard” says so.
Members are Curtin, Chifley, Evatt,
Beasley and Makin; Menzies, Hughes
and Spender; Fadden and McEwen ; Page,
“co-opted” in the last Parliament, is “co-
opted” no longer. Menzies, Fadden and
co. should have absented themselves alto-
gether unless or until Curtin withdrew
his charge that their home-defence plan
was “defeatist in outlook and preparation.”
Though 1944 University quotas are to
be increased, there has been another
piercing squeal from C. Evatt, the Syd-
ney Minister of Education, whose idea
seems to be that every young person who
has matriculated is thereby entitled to
spend the rest of the war on the Univer-
sity front at the taxpayers’ expense. And
there have been renewed threats to place
the Sydney University Senate under Labor
control. No mention of any plan for
giving intelligent young fellows honor-
ably discharged from the fighting and
auxiliary services opportunities to enrol
as undergrads and take advantage of the
subsidy scheme. Old soldiers both, Ded-
man and Wurth should try to make the
necessary arrangements, to which there
are no insuperable obstacles.
Churchill has warned the British pub-
lic to prepare for another year of war
against the Nazis and for casualties
greater than ever. He can’t have taken
his cue from the great Max Werner, who
in a prophecy prepared for the October
“Colliers” (to be published that month it
must have been issued several weeks
previously) gave Hitler only three months
more. “Colliers” explains with awe that
the prophet, a wandering Jew from
Eastern Europe, has never been a soldier
and never seen a battle, but has mastered
the science of war in libraries and other
secluded places, reading what is in
the minds of generals and correcting their
dispositions by divination or something.
He is the inspirer-by-example of all news-
paper strategists of the Left-Wing breed,
one of whom when the Japs were in
Rabaul laid it down that the situation
could be saved by sending “a few Aus-
tralian divisions to Java.” _
President Roosevelt is entering upon
the last year of his third term. Present
indications are that he will be nominated
again, no other Democrat being men-
tioned, but re-election is another matter ;
recent State and local elections have gone
steadily against his party. For the Re-
publican nomination Dewey is a firm first
favorite, Willkie stocks having slumped.
Dewey, however, will have to secure a
release from a promise that he would
see out his term as Governor of New
York, and in any case he might prefer to
wait —he is young enough. A rally to
General MacArthur is possible. Nearly ail
the Presidents have been lawyers (though
not all the lawyers practised) or soldiers.
Seeking power to provide for deprecia-
tion of assets, Brisbane City Council,
according to Lord Mayor Chandler, sent
10 letters to the State Government at the
rate of one a month. The tenth brought
an answer —the Government would
“examine the matter.” After an interval
for refreshment of his vocabulary, some-
what strained by his strictures on the
education system (“it is turning out intel-
lectual morons who speak a mixture of
Cockney and Harlem”) and Parliament
(“its standards would not be tolerated in
a tavern”), his Ludship will endeavor to
do justice to the case,
Dunstan, speaking on the Victorian
food situation:
Australia must be a great country to
stand all the missions and commissions
with which it abounds. No matter what
problem arises it is handed to a commis-
sion to solve. Normal functions of Parlia-
ment are quickly diminishing, and it might
soon become a mobile institution, with
members on tour like other roving commis-
sions.
Whereupon, it may be assumed, Dunstan
turned to his desk to study the recom-
mendations for appointments to a new
commission.


ẁ
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
At the recent Princeton (U.S.A.) World
Conference of Churches, Bishop Moyes
of Armidale (N.S.W.), though he became
seriously ill, refused to leave the four-
day conference, and his addresses were
regarded as brilliant. Later, at Toronto,
he was ordered into hospital for an im-
mediate and dangerous operation. A
cable was sent by his diocese offering to
foot the operation bill, but Toronto
replied, in effect, “Nothing doing; this
is on us,” and doctors and hospital re-
fused to charge a penny. Incidentally,
Toronto University conferred upon the
Bishop’s colleague, Rt. Rev. Wilson
Macaulay, Moderator-General of the
Presbyterian Church in Australia, the
honorary degree of D.D. Bishop Moyes
was similarly honored by the University
of Washington (D.C.).
Visiting Australia, Commander Anthony
Cecil Miers, V.C., D.S.O. and bar. He
won the V.C. by following an Axis troop
convoy at sea for 17 hours, then going
after it up a 20-mile harbor at night, at
daylight torpedoing some of the ships
and escaping down the 20 miles of the
harbor under heavy attack. His sub-
marine, the Torbay, put ashore the
Scottish commandos who last year raided
Rommel’s North African headquarters.
Their leader, Colonel Keyes (son of
Admiral Keyes), was killed and was
posthumously awarded the V.C. Miers,
V.C., has had earlier acquaintanceship
with Australians. He rescued many of
them from the beaches.at Crete.
A direct link with the Eureka Stockade
snapped when Rifleman Peter Lalor was
killed in action in September. His father,
Captain J. P. Lalor, an officer of the
Australian Permanent Forces, was killed
at Gallipoli, and Captain Lalor’s grand-
father was the Peter Lalor of Eureka. The
great-grandson was educated at Xavier
College and Melbourne University, where
he was a brilliant scholar and a poet. He
was studying in London when Hitler
erupted. Joining the King’s Royal Rifles j
he saw some commando service, then
went with his regiment to North Africa,
where he joined the paratroops for special
service. His mother lives in Melbourne.
Evidently legal folk, like historians,
are specially favored in lease of life. Law
writer George Samuel Keable, who passed
on in Melbourne last week at 91, was
another of many examples. Some Bench
examples, all knights: William Irvine,
who died recently, was 85 ; Isaac Isaacs
is still going strong at 88 ; Frank Gavan
Duffy was 84 ; Judge Moule 81 ; Thomas
a’Beckett 83, Edward Holroyd 88, Hart-
ley Williams 86 and Robert Molesworth
84. Even those engaged in the precincts
of the courts seem to live longer than
most. Among the band of cleaners at
Melbourne Law Courts a year or two
back were two sisters who, between them,
had 97 years of service. Keable, who
started as a law writer in Chaucery-lane
way back in 1875, was a beautiful calli-
graphist, and for over half a century
was responsible for engrossing the cer-
tificates of admission to practice issued
to solicitors by Victoria’s Supreme Court.
He was 88 when he executed the last of
them for Harston Partridge, the law
stationers who engaged him for this par-
ticular job. Once in the long ago Keable
and some other youths in the law got
themselves into a spot of bother when,
one lunch hour, they painted red the
spots on a Dalmatian dog belonging to
an eminent barrister who used to bring
the dog into the city and let it lie under
his carriage all day.
Wing-Commander “Tom” White is
probably the only Australian poet who
has had a long poem transmitted round
the world. Masefield’s short poem on
the Shrine of Remembrance in Mel-
bourne was cabled, and so was a longer
poem of Kipling’s in that poet’s heyday
—at 3s. a word. White’s “Sky Saga,” a
long narrative poem running into thou-
sands of words on the deeds of the
R.A.F. in Europe, with something of
White’s own experience as a pilot, was
recently broadcast by the 8.8. C. and re-
laved from 3LO Melbourne. It is being
published by Hutchinson’s, London, with
an Australian edition of 5000. Proceeds
go to a benevolent fund for R.A.F. and
R.A.A.F. airmen.
W. H. Taylor, general manager of
W.A. Government Tramways, Ferries
and Electricity Supply, is first hon. mem-
ber to receive the Diploma of Merit of
the Ex-Naval Men’s Association of Aus-
tralia. He earned it as chairman of the
Naval Welfare and Comforts Fund in
W.A.
N.S.W. local government was mostly a
muddle when A. R. Bluett first took a
hand at its reformation. Lately retired
from the secretaryship of the Local
Government Association, Bluett had most
to do with launching the Act that cleared
up the mess. A solicitor to begin with,
and the association’s secretary for the best
part of his life, Bluett is a recognised
Australian authority on his pet subject.
Also an enthusiast in the same line, his
brother, E. C. Bluett, was secretary of
the Local Government Clerks’ Associa-
tion.
Tasmania’s Chief Secretary Edward
Brooker did much of the spadework for
the Apple Isle’s schools set in open sur-
roundings, with free bus transport, hot
meals and training in the trades and
crafts appropriate to farmers’ children.
Born in Middlesex, Brooker was on Gal-
lipoli with the Imperial Army —at Cape
Helles on the day of the landing. Coming
to the Speck, he was one of the engineers
at the foundation of the huge Cadbury-
Fry-Pascall business and was with that
organisation for 13 years. In 1934 he
won Franklin and in 1939 became one of
A. G. Ogilvie’s Ministers. His big job,
he considers, is Minister for Post-war
Reconstruction. One son is soldiering in
New Guinea, another is a sergeant
gunner in the Air Force and a daughter
is a Hobart portrait painter.
S. G. Holland, leader of the Maoriland
Opposition, comes to Australia after a
general election which greatly strength-
ened his following in Parliament. Up
till midnight on polling day the result of
the elections hung in the balance. Speak-
ing to the crowd in Willis-street, Welling-
ton, at 11.30 that night, Prime Minister
M.L. Opposition-leader.
Peter Fraser despondently declared that
a change of Government seemed immi-
nent. At midnight the soldiers’ vote was
made known. Twelve seats, which ap-
peared to have been lost, were suddenly
saved. As one M.L. newspaper said:
“The civilians threw the Government
out. The soldiers put it back.” The
result of the elections was a personal
triumph for Holland —a born New Zea-
lander, just turned 50, a returned soldier
of the last war, considered the best plat-
form figure since Seddon’s day. Robust
and ruthless, Holland came into the pic-
ture little more than a year ago. It was
only in the general election that he be-
came really known to the electorate. In
the new Parliament he has a following of
34, which contains 21 new faces.
A. A. Copland, one of the six agri-
cultural experts loaned by the M.L. Gov-
ernment to England 18 months ago to
step up agriculture, has landed the job
of manager of Lord Beaverbrook’s estate
in Somersetshire. Copland, who had
been doing research work at the Somer-
set Farm Institute, graduated from Lin-
coln College, Canterbury, as Master of
Agricultural Science with first-class
honors. Beaverbrook has a special lik-
ing for Maorilanders. He chose Fred
Doidge, former M.L. journalist and now
M.P. for Tauranga, to run his chain of
dailies. Doidge, who knows Australia
pretty well already, is giving it another
once-over in company with Holland.
When he'lately made landfall in Aus-
tralia with Shropshire, the gift cruiser
from Britain, Captain Collins remarked
that “It has been an exciting war, but
even so it is unusual to have five D.S.C.
winners, including a D.S.C. and bar and
a C.M.G., in the one wardroom.” As
well, he mentioned that eight members
of the wardroom had been “over the
side” and pretty well all the complement
had been under fire. The decorated mem-
bers are Lieut. Major, D.S.C., who hails
from W.A.; Lieut.-Commander W. S.
Bracegirdle, D.S.C., R.A.N., gunnery
officer, whose father was once A.D.C.
to th,e Governor-General; Lieut.-Com-
mander L. Gellatly, D.S.C., R.A.N., of
Sydney; Lieut.-Commander J. M. Alhs-
ton, D.S.C. and bar, R.N.; Lieut.
S. W. G. Heithersay, D.S.C., formerly of
the Canberra ; and Lieut. I. D. Rhodes,
C.M.G., R.A.N.V.R., of Melbourne.
Altogether it is a remarkable complement,
with experience ranging from the attack
on Oran to Arctic convoys to Russia.
Twenty years back Professor A. D.
Ross, of W.A. University, who has been
elected president of the Australian
branch of the Institute of Physics, was
asked by the London board to organise
the branch. It began with a membership
of five, with himself as hon. sec., a job
he has held ever since. The branch now
has 130 Fellows and Associates and many
subscribers and registered students, with
divisions in Melbourne, Perth and Sydney.
After four years’ control of the Sal-
vation Army in S.A., Brig. R. S. Hare-
wood goes to be Field Secretary at Mel-
bourne H.Q. There, under Commissioner
W. R. Dalziel, he will watch over S.
Army activities in Victoria, S.A., W.A.
and Tasmania. Brigadier C. J. Brimble-
combe is to take charge of the S.A. Corps,
after a couple of years of solid work at
the top of things in- Tassie, where he
had a lot to do with organising the S.
Army’s war services, and found time to
write a booklet of the organisation’s his-
tory in the Apple Isle.
With the retirement of A. J. Melrose
from the presidency of the Liberal
Country League of S.A., Douglas P.
Gordon takes on the job. Son of knight
David Gordon (President of the Legisla-
tive Council), D.P.G. is a grazier and an
Old Digger.
Roydon Keith Palmer, killed by a Jap
bomb while covering American opera-
tions at Bougainville, is the first Aus-
tralian war correspondent to be killed
in the South Pacific area, though Osmar
White had both legs fractured by a bomb
while in a small vessel in Rendova
Harbor. One of the most popular men
of Melbourne “Herald,” Palmer was
magazine editor when he jumped at the
chance of being successor to Winston
Turner as correspondent in New Guinea.
Born on a New Zealand farm, he was
educated at Canterbury College and
Christchurch University, was a leading
Rugby player in the Dominion and took
to the Inky Way on Christchurch
“Times,” later transferring to Christ-
church “Sun,” and in 1936 to Melbourne
“Herald.” A breezy, versatile writer, he
had a passion for aviation, made the
first Mel bou me-Perth one-day flight in
1939 and was one of the first two men
to fly from Australia to the U.S. and back
when the Clipper service started in 1940.
Into the silence: —•
At 68, in Melbourne, Sinclair James Mc-
Gibbon, of the Perth accountancy firm of that
name. He was Australian Wheat Board Com-
missioner from 1916 to 1920, was a former
member of the A.8.C., and was Commonwealth
business and financial representative abroad in
matters relating to the fighting services. A
son is a captain in the A.I.F. and another is an
R.A.A.F. pilot.
In Melbourne, John Henry, onetime poli-
tician, then sporting writer, and for the past 16
years judge for the V.R.C. He was judge for
the Williamstown Racing Club for many years.
In Melbourne, at 63, Very Rev. Archiman-
drite Antonius Moyabed, the Syrian Ortho-
dox Church’s only priest in Victoria. It was
all one to him whether he conducted his ser-
vices in Greek, Russian, Arabic or English.
Born in Tripoli, Syria, he had charge of the
Syrian Orthodox Church in Moscow when the
Bolsheviks took over.
In Sydney, Dr. Cosmo Fowler, who, as an
Australian working in London hospitals when
the 1914-18 war started, linked up with the
British A.M.C. and saw the show through until,
staying to attend to the wounded at Villers
Bretonneux, he was captured. He returned
to Australia after the war and was practising
in Paddington at the end, a man in whom every
returned soldier (Paddington is full of them)
had a friend.
At' 72, Matthew Joseph Brodie, R.C. Bishop
of Christchurch (M.L.). Born at Coromandel,
he was the first native-born Maorilander to be
consecrated bishop, succeeding J. J. Grimes in
1915, each covering a period of 28 years.
Bishop Brodie trained for the priesthood at
Sydney St. Joseph’s and St. Patrick’s at Manly.
At 32, by enemy action at sea, Lieut. W.
Bremner Highet, F.R.C.S., R.A.M.C., a Jack-
sonian Prizewinner of the Royal College of
Surgeons last year. He specialised in ortho-
paedics. and the “Lancet” referred to him as
“One of the most promising men of his genera-
tion.” The dissertation that won him the Jack-
son Prize ran into three volumes of 200,000
words and 100 photos. Highet was with the
last Byrd expedition and was in the first bomb-
ing of Shanghai.
In Sydney, at 59, Gordon Bennett, formerly
editor of the “Farmer and Settler,” a prolific
writer of articles, verse and stories, and a
great worker for the man on the land. A one-
time regular Bulletin contributor, he spent' all
his working life in the newspaper game.
Bushman author;
Getting into book covers is becoming almost
as regular with Bulletin scribes and artists as
seeing the weekly issue to bed. Another in the
list is Charles Shaw, who knows the bush better
than anyone else on the premises, and most
of them were bushmen once. Some of them
over the years have become hardly distinguish-
able from born Harborsiders, live in such
joints as King’s Cross, and haven’t had the
Domain sundial and statuary offered to them
as bargains for years. But Shaw is good Bush
still. Born in Melbourne, he seems to have
had enough of it by the time he was four.
Then he was up in the Mallee country, and for
five years later on worked up and down the
CHARLES SHAW .
Murray, where the old paddle-steamers used
to pick up their loads of wool and wheat,
machinery and timber and fruit, and the hawk-
ing boats used to pull into the riverside and,
if you didn’t have the coin to buy, take eggs
and suchlike as good currency. Subsequently
Shaw’s bush wanderings took him to western
N.S.W., and, writing a bit for country papers,
he got a start in journalism on one at Forbes,
graduated to the “Farmer and Settler” in Syd-
ney, and wrote his way on to The Bulletin.
It wasn’t till this year that he commenced
author, but he made a rush start while about
it —first with the double-barrel publication by
Dymocks of his Abo-page ballads, The War-
rumbungle Mare, and the astonishing amount of
bush lore (and bush humor) that he crowded
into Outback Occupations. The first edition of
the verse sold out inside three months. Pub-
lished with it in June this year, Outback Occu-
pations has gone through a first and second
edition, and Dymocks are confident that the
third edition of 5000 will be sold before Christ-
mas. And now —making three books by Shaw
inside six months —Dymocks are publishing The
Green Token, an adventure and mystery yarn
for youngsters, set on the Murray with the
old paddle-steamers. All are illustrated by Scor-
field.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ek Dum”: When I nominate the
decoration I am to receive as Colonel-in-
Chief of the Fireside Fusiliers, I shall
plump unhesitatingly for the new Rus-
sian Victory Medal, demanding a guaran-
tee from the Kremlin that it shall be up
to the specification set out by Granny
“Herald,” viz:
A large ruby star inset with 91 16-carat
diamonds.
Of course, there will be some inconveni-
ence in wearing it —the diamonds apart
from the setting will weigh well over
half a pound, and I will need to have
the bauble sectioned or turned into a pair
of brassieres or something, since even my
martial left breast can scarcely accom-
modate the setting for a cluster of stones
which alone would make a row over sft.
long if placed side by side and cover a
block about Sin. square. But I’ll put up
with that. Not counting the rubies and
enamel, a chest protector valued at any-
thing from £75,000 to £150,000 should be
considered worth a little inconvenience
to the wearer.
“Bo”; Inured as lam to the blasts of
adjectival superlatives that blow ' out of
talkie ads. —it is a poor Thursday
when not more than seven “tremen-
douses” and five “colossals” are em-
ployed I can’t help registering the
kind of shudder you get when Aunt
Nellie starts telling your kids how well
you used to recite “We Are Seven” when
I see “stars” billed in the latest mode,
as Gene (“Rings on Her Fingers”) Tier-
ney or Lloyd (“Blues In the Night”)
Nolan. The habit is spreading, and I
foresee it reaching the political arena, so
that at the next elections we may listen
to eulogies of John (“Give the coalies
any damn’ thing as long as you shut ’em
up”) Curtin, Jack (“It’s all right, boys,
the fines’ll never be collected”) Beasley,
Frank (“I wonder what a breech-block
is?”) Forde and Artie (“We’ll just poke
in an interjection here and there and
they’ll know we’re not dead”) Fadden.
But by that time we’ll all be so case-
hardened we’ll be able to take anything.
* * * *
“Author’s Ghost”: A luscious phrase
was used by a book-reviewer in a
notice of J. H. M. Abbott’s The New-
castle Packets an<l the Hunter Valley :
“Mr. Abbott writes with a fine perspec-
tive and contagious enthusiasm, even if
without marked interpretative sensitivity.”
A day or so afterwards the author of the
book showed me some lines written to
him by The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”
under the caption of “What the hell is
it?” Thus they go;
Since first you hit the literary track
You’ve climbed up many a rugged hillside, Jack,
And kept your feet on many a steep declivity.
Such whips of wares you carry in your pack
That', I admit, it takes me quite aback
Ancf sort of saddens me to learn you lack
Interpretative sensitivity!
* * * *
“F.S.”: Victoria’s National Gallery
will stage the biggest auction sale of
antiques in Melbourne history when 750
examples of old Hindu carving, Japanese
and Chinese porcelain, Venetian glass-
ware, Doulton, Cloisonne and Satsuma,
huge French clocks and Chinese teapots
measuring several feet in diameter
go under the hammer. According to
Director Daryl Lindsay, they are being
sold because they can’t be regarded as
good museum pieces and because the
Gallery either has better examples of the
, works or they are reproductions. If such
a step is necessary (and on that point
opinions differ) no better time than the
present could be found for such a clear-
ance.
“McNoham”: Along with the black-
marketing and profiteering going on,
Sydney is experiencing an epidemic of
scrupulous honesty. The tax-gatherer has
received £32 in one lump from a repen-
tant dodger, and another citizen has sent
in 30 bob for uncollected fares on
crowded trams. Now, a brewery reports
“’Ow about another rifle, Sarge — there's no more room to cut notches
in this 'uni"
having received two £so' notes as “con-
science money.” “Conscience money” for
a brewery!
* * * *
“Spoke”: The strange tale from
Toronto of how an unidentified man,
accompanied by a U.S. officer, walked
through a military hospital scattering
thousands of dollars in 100-dollar notes
without giving any explanation had a
Victorian precedent. For years an
unknown individual has annually
turned up at a charitable institu-
tion in Melbourne, deposited an en-
velope and departed, the envelope
turning out to contain notes to the value
of £lOO and over. Last year the office
expected his arrival, and an overzealous
official chased the benefactor down the
street, but, perhaps fortunately for the
institution, failed to catch him. Prob-
ably the mainspring of such eleemosyn-
ary activities is the thrill of being a
mysterious figure.
“If my Pekinese dies of starvation I'll hold
you entirely responsible."
“Petrie”: Certainly there’s a good
market for antiques. To a friend of mine
a hideous oil lamp, of German make, was
left by a relative about 40 years ago. He
decided to sell the thing, and put it in an
auction room expecting 10s. at most. It
brought £9.
* * * *
“V.C.”: It came out in divorce pro-
ceedings the other day that a Sydney man,
given to enjoying himself among the
flagons, went out one night to a party
and woke up in Bourke, 500 miles away,
with a suitcase containing his dinner-suit
and the missus’s dusters and scrubbing-
brushes. This performance ought to be a
record of some sort, but there are others
with similar achievements to their dis-
credit, notably the fellow who, known to
be unreliable and leaving for the west of
N.S.W. by car, promised his wife he’d
drink only at towns beginning with P.
He, too, finished in Bourke, but on the
verge of d.ts. To his tearful wife he ex-
plained that he was all right after passing
Parramatta and Penrith, but by the time
he’d stopped at Plapstone, Pleura, Plack-
heath, Plithgow, Pathurst and a few
others he was lucky to get to Pourke at
all.
* * * *
“Looby”: He picked a ruler from the
souvenir counter, a broad, bevelled affair
with a colored picture of Sydney running
along it. “How much?” he asked, “One-
and-six,” said the shopgirl. “Right-oh,
gimme a dozen.” “Can’t. Three’s the
limit,” was the stern reply. “All right,
gimme three. I’ll keep coming back.
They’re just' what I want.” The girl
thawed two degrees. “You must have a
lot of friends to send them to,” she said.
“I got no friends,” he grinned. “But I
gotta bachelor flat, see? And these rulers
are just the right thickness to shove under
the skirting boards to keep out cock-
roaches.”
* * * *
“Silverfish”: That lack of knowledge
of book values to which “S.T.S.” refers
(B. 10/11/’43) is not, unfortunately,
shared by second-hand booksellers. The
smallest and grubbiest of their shops are,
it would seem, on tiptoe for the affluent
collector. Went into one such cave of
dingy and long-dead literature the other
day, and, just to gauge the establish-
ment’s idea of prices, hauled off the shelf
a work by Charles Garvice. It was marked
9s. 6d., and as it was issued neW 50 years
ago at 3s. 6d. that seemed to me a fan-
tastic price. The bookseller didn’t agree
with me. “It’s a first edition, back un-
broken and not a page missing,” he
proudly declared.
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne was lately
diverted by the spectacle of an old
gent, walking along the street in the
vicinity of St. Francis’s Church with a
blue checker pigeon perched on his hat.
Astonished passers-by concluded that he
was a modern St. Francis of Assisi. They
were even more astonished when the bird,
fluttering off for a moment, re-alighted
on the hat. Convinced that something
was wrong, the old chap tried to
take his hat off, finally scared the pigeon,
and, when he saw the huge fat bird flying
away, was himself astonished. Mighty
friendly the Melbourne pigeons, but
seldom as friendly as that.
* * * *
“CcEsar’s Ghost”: The cause of a
recent row amongst Sydney amateur
theatricals was that in a production “fat”
lines were unfairly chopped from some
of the parts to improve others. The dis-
tribution of “fat” has always been a
potential cause of ill-feeling if not of
open rebellion in stageland.
One of the worst offenders of
this rehashing of plays was
Alfred Dampier. Dampier was
a very fine actor indeed ; there
were seasoned old playgoers
who swore he was the greatest
Shylock of his time, eclipsing
Irving; but in preference to
going abroad he toured with
his family show through Aus-
tralia and M.L. Even after
he had carved up the “fat” of
a new play at a private con-
ference, he would hold up a
rehearsal with “Ah, that is a
fine line! I think we will give
that to Rose” (one of his
daughters) or “Really, I think
Lily should speak that line.”
Gus Neville, who was with
Dampier from boyhood until
the actor - manager retired,
found that a part he had been
given lacked punch and burnt
the midnight oil seeking for im-
provements. One of the lines
he evolved was “Where the flag
of England floats, there is free-
dom ! ” Dampier was delighted.
“A very fine line, dear boy, a
very fine line indeed,” he said.
“I think we will give it to
Rose.” And Rose it was who spoke it
on the night.
sit * * *
“Spoke”: A Melbourne Beak was ques-
tioning a witness on the domestic habits
of her lord. “Does he drink much?”
he asked her. “He’s drunk every day of
the year,” replied the witness. “Except
on his birthday,” she affirmed, and then
added meditatively; “He likes to make
that a red-letter day, y’ Honor.”
H: & * *
“Zake”: Sydney magistrates have
often been accused of undue leniency,
and a recent Sydney case gives color to
the charge. A bloke who assaulted a
barmaid in a George-street pub was set
back a fiver, plus sundries for damages.
Now had he just hopped the bar and
stoushed Hebe, or tapped her on the bean
with the beer-pump handle, I’d have had
no comment to make, but when it is con-
sidered that the dastardly fellow dashed
a whole glass of beer in the girl’s face,
and this in a city where the stuff costs
nearly its weight in silver and is doled
out as from a miser’s hoard —well, see
what I mean?
... -3. *
CUSHY JOBS.
Far, far away —between where Charing Cross is
And Ludgate Hill, or some such storied
spot—
Are half a dozen amiable Aussies
Drawing fat salaries for doing—what?
Their occupation vanished, like Othello’s,
Or shrunk to near extinction anyway.
It makes one wonder what these honest fellows
Our Agents-General do to earn their pay.
No loans to float—that all-important function
Long years ago into the discard went —
No chance to boost with fervor and with
unction
The merits of the States they represent,
No dressing-up for any Royal levee
With all the pomp their eminence demands —
Surely the time must hang a trifle heavy
Upon these estimable gentry’s hands.
No Premiers arriving to be feted
Or shepherded round various noted haunts
(How frequently occasions were created
In pre-war days for these official jaunts!),
No requisitions for enlightening lectures,
No bids to banquet-halls, or precious few—
It furnishes material for conjectures
What in the world our Agents-General do.
They look the parts that click with their posi-
tions,
These envoys, one may readily surmise,
Who’ve landed the retiring politician’s
Most lavishly remunerated prize.
Still, they had less and less to occupy them
In piping times of peace, and since the war
It most assuredly would tax and try them
To say just what we’re getting value for..
Some day no doubt their sturdiest well-wishers
Will frankly recognise it’s crystal-clear
A famous recipe of Jacky Fisher’s
Is singularly applicable here.
Not yet. They haven’t reached their final phases,
Until they do (as Billy Hughes might say)
The puzzle’s what the blanky, blithering blazes
Our Agents-General do to earn their pay.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HERE’S HOW!
“At a meeting of the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance.
Senator Keane was accused of ‘either_ colossal ignor-
ance or bigoted partisanship’ for having stated that
beer is necessary for morale.”
0 Senator, already mildly famous
For breadth of beam beyond the normal span,
Some hold you a colossal ignoramus,
Others a narrow-minded partisan.
Could words break bones, you might derive an
added . ' „ ~ ,
Glee in reflecting yours are so well padded.
Most Ministers their straight-flung views are
chary
Upon contentious topics to disclose.
Experience has made them ultra-wary
Of treading upon any section’s toes,
Lest gust's of acrimonious invective
Should rock some roof —with them for an
objective.
With such as refuge in those cautious attitudes
It’s clear as daylight that you can’t be
Scornful of generalities and platitudes
You’ve boldly nailed your colors to the mast,
Scouting the view we’d win the war the sooner
Debarred the “middy” and denied the
“schooner.”
f
Well, width and wisdom, as the elder Weller
Stoutly maintained, are notably allied.
If Bung can show a better-furnished cellar •
To brighten up this blessed Christmastidfe
And set the pumps more liberally flowing,
He’ll know to whose sagacity it’s owing.
1 leave to publicist and politician
To cheer with vigor or denounce with snarl
The doubtless arguable proposition
That beer is an essential of morale.
Meanwhile, if any solace it affords you,
My solid Senator, I “looks towards you.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Mac Hoots”: I see Tony Eden was
reported in the dailies as saying that
M. Molotov “triumphed very success-
fully” over the language difficulty at
the Moscow conference. Great as the
occasion was, it surely did not call for
quite so much redundance. Eden’s
failure to “triumph successfully” with the
difficulties of his own language leads me
to suspect that there might be some truth
in a story which American papers have
published. According to the “Wall-street
Journal,” Anthony sent to Churchill
the draft of a speech he was to make as
Foreign Minister. The P.M. returned
the draft with the note: “Dear
Tony, I have read your speech. You have
used every cliche in the English language
with the exception of ‘Please adjust your
dress before leaving.’ ” One thing I like
more than anything else about Churchill
is that he is conducting the war in flaw-
less English prose.
* * * *
“Cuegg”; “Jachris’s” Guadalcanal sign
(B. 20/10/ ’43) recalls another that raised
a grin in the earliest days of the Milne
Bay fracas. The “Gingerbeers” placard
bridges with a warning to vehicular traffic
as to the maximum weight the structure
will stand. Our A.S.C. platoon as a joke
constructed a Heath Robinson sort of
structure as entrance to our bivouac
area and topped it off with a sign “Max.
Load 5.142857 tons: By Order Edward
Kelly” Down the perilously narrow and
slippery road came an Allied soldier man
in a six-tonner. He halted at the sign,
perused it intently, and, though his
original course took him past our biv.
and he had no occasion to enter, he
backed his vehicle, got across safe,
backed out and resumed his journey
apparently well satisfied with the con-
structional ability of the immortal Ned.
* * * *
“Briar”; Sydney, like Melbourne (B.
3/11/’43), and (one is encouraged to
hope) all Australian towns and cities, is
looking upon flower gardens that have
never bloomed so luxuriantly in the
memory of man. In especial, never have
there been seen such roses—the North
Shore is a-riot with them, of every known
variety and pedigree, and their fragrance
fills the air in the eastern, western and
seaside suburbs as well. They are lovely
enough to make the most prosaic of us
long for a poet’s gift of expression. But
such a gift, possibly, would not be of
much use. The great poets make fre-
quent play with the mere mention of
roses and lilies and other gracious flowers,
and with similes in which these play part,
but, as anyone who likes to spend an
hour with a dozen good anthologies can
discover, they do not care to enter into
rhapsodical details. Francis Thompson
might have dared the task—his descrip-
tion of a snowflake, “insculped and em-
bossed by His hammer of wind and His
graver of frost,” is in the right key of
homage—but like the rest of the dwellers
on Parnassus he places the beauty of
flowers among the verities that need no
exposition. The musical composers are
less inhibited. McDowell managed to
express the exquisite freshness of the
wild rose and the impression of deep
peace evoked by contemplation of a
water-lily.
* * *
“Avon”; The niftiness of the garb
with which an esteemed Ally equips her
soldiers has inspired the sartorial authori-
ties of the N.Z. Army. Summer battle-
dress for the troops, material khaki drill,
is a pants-and-shirt regalia—pants creased
and free of ankle-gaiters, shirt nicely cut,
with a well-fitting collar, and (epoch-
making innovation) a tie, even for full
privates. The slouch hat worn like a
four-sided pyramid—derivation North-
west Canadian Mounties or Boy Scouts,
whichever you like—remains. It.’s a
Maoriland trade-mark now, and has been
seen in the vicinity of some very work-
manlike exterminations.
=K * * *
“Old Loco”: I’d like to resurrect from
their graves some of those old fogeys
who solemnly told me as a boy that, while
Australian railway workshops might be
able to turn out coal trucks and even
shunting engines, we must import our
express locomotives. I’d like to show
them the latest product of the S.A. Rail-
ways workshops at Islington. She’s the
first of a group of seven streamlined mon-
sters designed by Chief Mechanical
Engineer F. H. Harrison for fast pas-
senger traffic on the flat. Wheel arrange-
ment is 4-8-4, tractive effort 33,0001 b., top
speed 70 m.p.h. All axles run on roller
bearings, loco and tender are electrically
lit by their own turbo-generator, cylinders
are all-welded steel (in place of cast steel),
first of their sort in Australia, and*4he
construction of the tender also marks
the beginning of the all-welded epoch.
Just about the time this flier took the
rails the first Garratt-type locomotive
built in the Commonwealth, a 3ft. 6in.
gauge job, started duty in Queensland.
“Clooter”; I once owned a curio (B.
3/11/’43) that ostensibly was a fountain-
pen. It also carried a toothed wheel
which, revolving in a well of red pigment,
could be used for cancelling. Fitted in
the side were a steel toothpick and a
tweezers and by a touch on the nib you
could have fine, bold or medium writing.
The contraption was gold-mounted, too,
and when I took it to Uncle I fufly ex-
pected to raise a quid. “Two bob,” said
Uncle. “Take it or leaf it.” I took it.
* * * *
“Ex-C.C.”: Tell “Flagoner” (B.
3/11/ ’43) the term “as drunk as Chloe”
originated in Melbourne, growing out of
a theory that anyone who had, like
Chloe, spent a .score or more of years in
Young and Jackson’s bar must be pretty
well pickled.
* * * *
“Pigment”: “F.S.” is away off the
target when he says (B. 27/10/’43) that
artist judges have been no more success-
ful in selecting good pictures than lay-
men. The acknowledged masterpieces in
the Melbourne gallery were, without ex-
ception, purchased on the recommenda-
tion of artist advisers, and frequently in
spite of strong opposition from laymen
trustees. “F.S.” argues that artists’ view-
“Hey, you've pinched the troop's camp-site—what are you going to
do about it?"
points vary because of psychological
reasons. So do doctors’, but the patient
is not likely therefore to take his # case to
laymen. When attempts have from time
to time been made to foist spurious works
of art on galleries it has not been the lay-
man who has discovered the imposition.
* H= * *
“Craiser”: That P. J. Kennelly, M.L.C.
(Melbourne West; Labor), wants
drinking in hotel lounges banned, especi-
ally during the summer, is a quaint
example of the workings of associations.
Evidently P.J.K. wouldn’t be upset at the
sight of men struggling ten deep to get
possies at a bar where half a dozen
frenzied females slop beer into un-
washed pots which the customers swill
down like cattle at a horse-trough. But
the sight of people sitting quietly at a
table in a room drinking their liquor at
their own sweet leisure apparently has
sinister associations for him. In peace-
time Europe a man could take his drink
sitting down and probably in the open
air in the sight of passers-by without any
fear that his rich aunt (if he had one)
would cut him out of her will for in-
dulging a sinful habit in public. I saw
in no European city I visited a tithe of
the drunkenness 1 have seen in Mel-
bourne.
# * * *
“Meymott”: Private Johannes Hitler
had no need to be a magician to be able
to swim a river naked and then produce
his paybook (B. 27/10/’43). Soldiers of
Continental armies carry paybooks,
smokes, matches, etc., in a waterproof
bag, something like a toilet bag, slung
round their necks. Our fellows adopt
the same idea in the tropics.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: At the very beginning
of White Australia’s history it was re-
‘marked that tallness had set in amongst
the locally-born offspring o/, the early
N. S. Wales settlers, and the “Cornstalks”
of the Oxbury became notable. Australian
youngsters are still putting on the inches ;
the members of the newer generation
usually stand an inch or more higher
than their parents. The rationing
authorities having the job of consider-
ing applications for extra coupons for
outsize children have collected some
figures. In N.S.W. alone there are
125,000 youngsters in the outsize cate-
gory ; the State’s biggest is a 15-year-old
boy who weighs 18 stone and stands
6ft. Sin. A Victorian 15-year-old school-
girl is 7ft. tall, though not so heavy, and
that State has also an 18-stone school-
boy, 14 years old. Girls are showing in-
creases in stature more than the boys ;
they are amongst the outsizes in a ratio
of two to one. That is the result of the
change in the ideas of the way small girls
should be brought up, of course.
He * * *
“Sixenate”: “Master in Lunacy” is
likely to go as the official designation of
the chap who looks after the estates of
mental patients when the Lunacy Act
(its title is to be changed, too) comes
before the N.S.W. Parliament for amend-
ment ; many alterations have been prom-
ised. Actually “Mental Hospital” has
long taken the place of “lunatic asylum”
or “madhouse” in describing the institu-
tion where the mentally ill are treated,
and now even the name of Callan Park
may be changed. Whilst Authority is in
this kindly mood Bedlam Point, which is
near Gladesville Mental Hospital, should
disappear from the maps also.
% % * *
“Lao-dah”: Anyhow, what is the use
of Basic English (B. 20/10/’43)? It
attenuates a magnificent language, and it
won’t bring the nations together, as its
sponsors romantically imagine. No arti-
ficial language could. If a common
tongue is a prophylactic against \yar why
didn’t it prevent the American Civil War?
Englishmen and Americans spoke the
same tongue during the War of Inde-
pendence, and in the Wars of the Roses
Yorkists and Lancastrians even had very
much the same accent to their English.
* * * *
“Macßopus”: Regarding the identity
of the Man from Snowy River, I
disagree with H. M. Friend (B.
20/10/’43). I know the Monaro well,
and have always heard that the “Man”
was James McTiernan, member of a
well-known Monaro family connected
with the McNamaras. Old Hugh McTier-
nan came from Ireland (County Leitrim)
in the late ’forties, and settled some miles
out of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.)—he had run
away with his employer’s daughter, a
Glennon and a connection of the Royal
Stewarts, from Dublin. They had a big
family, and all the sons were noted horse-
men. James settled near Stawell (Vic.).
The youngest of the family, Ned, died
only a few months ago, aged nearly 90.
$ ♦ *
“Ear Punisher”: I am sceptical about
the efficacy of these lie detectors, one of
which (B. 3/11/’43) is said to have been
used at the Sir Harry Oakes murder trial.
It is my custom to sally forth to get the
breakfast milk, and as the milk purveyor
is usually high in the eyries of an 11-
storey building when I arrive he has
granted me permission to leave fourpence
on the seat of his vehicle and abstract
a bottle. Tdo this with the full approval
of his moke, which merely cocks its ear
and throws a friendly eye back while I
perform the operation. Passers-by, how-
ever, usually view my manoeuvre with
deep suspicion and look around for a
policeman. Despite my complete inno-
cence, I always feel acutely self-conscious
when they do this, and if the needle of
a lie detector took my nervous reactions
it would no doubt find me guilty. Doesn’t
everybody at a King’s Cross party look
guilty when the hostess reveals that she
has lost her diamond necklace?
* * * *
“20 Batt.” also remembers:
I was Area Commandant of Bapaume at the
time the Town Hall blew up. I don’t think
there were two French politicians. The local
deputy came up with a chit from the authori-
ties and I showed him over the ruined town.
By a fluke I had a couple of days earlier ex-
amined a room in the Notary’s Office, and,
being something of the sort myself, thought
the mass of documents, copies, etc., strewn all
over the place should be preserved, so I had
them all packed and sent to Div. H.Q. The
deputy nearly fell on my neck in gratitude when
I told him what I had done. At sundown he
asked me whether he could be billeted for
the night, and I accordingly took him to
the T6wn Hall and told my corporal there
to give him the best bed in the place and feed
him. Though I had an office there I slept
elsewhere. After the explosion passers-by who
had seen my name on a little board outside the
office thought I was finished. We dug for a
couple of days with relays of parties sent up
by Div. in the hope of possibly unearthing an-
other man or two in some concrete pocket. The
blow-up came a week after the Bosche had
evacuated.
* * * *
“Hist”; A novel series of
postage stamps has just been
issued in the U.S.A. —a tribute
to 11 European countries
martyred under Nazi occupa-
tion. Each stamp carries, against
a greyish-purple background,
the national flag of the occupied
country in vivid colors. So far
stamps dedicated to Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Norway, Lux-
emburg and the Netherlands
have appeared. Still to come
are Belgium, France, Greece,
Yugoslavia, Albania and
Austria. The background de-
sign incorporates on the left a
phoenix symbolising the renewal
of life ; on the right, a woman,
broken fetters still dangling
from her wrists, rises from her
knees. The stamps should have
some political value as a token
of international friendship, and,
of course, they have very sub-
stantial collector value. The first
day’s sales of Norway’s stamp
(five cents) added $31,396 to
Uncle Sam’s postal revenue.
“R.H.P.”: “Munger” may
come from the Gyppo word
mungaree (food), but more likely
from the French manger (or
“mangy,” as it was generally called by
the First A.I.F. in France). Which reminds
me of the yarn about a Digger, intent on
a feed of eggs, entering a restaurant and
ordering “ four oeufs.” “Quatre oeufs?”
translated madame, beaming. “Cat ceufs
be blowed! ” replied the linguist. “I want
’en oeufs!”
* * * *
“Yair”: After a long and much-
baffled search for the Intelligence Depart-
ment, the elderly woman approached an
official at an important-looking polished
table. “I’m makin’ some inquiries for
me daughter,” she said cautiously, “an’
she told me to try and find an Intelligent
Officer.” The eminent civil servant smiled
superiorly. “Intelligent Officer?” he
echoed, “never heard of such a person!”
But, as she left, a slow look of worry was
beginning to ooze over his features.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: An Allied service man stood
outside St. Luke’s Church at Liverpool
(N.S.W.), the oldest Anglican church
in Australia, listening to the beautiful
peal of bells from the tower. He seemed
astounded that such music should come
from such a small tower, and wondered
how the bells could be accommodated
there. Actually he was listening to a
gramophone record. Recordings made of
peals of the leading churches in England
are played on a gramophone connected
with amplifiers in the tower.
* * * *
“Kirribilli,” with some pre - Bridge
histoiy:
The usual means of crossing the harbor
for the first 50 years of settlement was by
waterman’s boat from Sydney Cove. In 1838
an attempt was made to set going a regular
ferry, and the formation of a company was pro-
posed to provide a steam punt for the transport
of passengers, vehicles, horses and cattle be-
tween Dawes’s Point and Blue’s Point. It was
to have had a capital of £3OOO in 300 shares of
£lO each. But this proposal came to nothing,
and it was not until 1845 that a small paddle
steamer, the Ferry Queen, began to run from
Miller’s Point to Blue’s Point. She towed a punt
for vehicles and stock on either side. In 1847
this steamer was replaced by The Brothers,
The Brothers being succeeded by the Herald,
a paddle steamer of 22 tons. About 1861 the
North Shore Ferry Co. was formed, and its
first steamer was the Kirribilli. In 1878 the
North Shore Steam Ferry Co. took over the
old co.’s business, and out of this organisation
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., developed.


ABORIGINALITIES
* * * * .
“Eureka”: We were on the track
through Monaro (N.S.W.) and Mick was
carrying about a fortnight’s growth. I
chipped him about having a scrape and
a brush up before we lobbed into Dele-
gate. “What’s the use?” Mick replied.
“Nobody knows me in Delegate.” He
was even more disreputable as we ap-
proached Cooma, Queanbeyan and Col-
lector, but he always had the same answer
to my urgings: nobody knew him in
those towns. Just before we got to Goul-
burn I tackled him again. “What on
earth for would I want to doll up to go
there,” he protested; “everybody knows
me in Goulburn! ”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: There’s a paddock tyith
fairly long grass outside my fence and
along it the black meat-ants have worn a
wavering, twisting track from their nest
to a distant heap of food scrapings.
About every sixth ant seems to have
dipped into the treasure trove to better
purpose than the others and staggers
under the weight of a larger titbit. At odd
sheltered corners in stony crevices border-
ing this bypath some brown lizards of a
type larger than the house lizard lie in
hiding. When the prize seems worth the
risk they jump like a streak to grab the
ant’s trophy from his jaws and make off
with it into the grass. But they’ve got to
be sure —and quick. A miss or an error of
judgment and the ants are on to the
marauder in swarms. At least three clean
lizard skeletons testify to the grimness
of the combat and the effect of being
“slow on the draw.” This is the law of
tooth and claw in a minor setting. Why
the lizards don’t go and gather their own
scran from the fodder heap is beyond me,
sN * * *
“Naturala”: If “Pat Ater” (B.
6/10/’43) wrote on a Moloch horridus
resident in N.S.W. it goes to confirm the
wide range of the tiny reptile. Moloch
may not take kindly to captivity as repre-
sented by confinement in a cage, but he
can be partly domesticated and made a
pet of. I’ve been in W.A. goldfield camps
where it was considered just the thing to
go to town with one of the brightly-
colored little creatures adorning the old
felt hat, and perhaps another clinging to
the lapel of the coat. They didn’t resent
being handled and stayed put.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Birds v.’planes (8.20/10/’43)?
Custom has bred a race that worries no
more about them than does a horse about
motors, though many of us can remem-
ber when the problem was acute whether
any given horse would have a fit at sight
of a car. In the early days I had plenty
of chance to watch the barnyard when a
barnstormer ’plane used to run trips every
hour or so. The difference in method was
remarkable. Each time that the big new
“hawk” came over every chicken took
cover, and in ten seconds was out of
sight. The young turkeys, on the other
hand, held their ground, got together in
an American football huddle and gabbled
a chorus of obvious curses at the intruder
till it disappeared.
* * * *
“P.A.”: Many of them came up to my
bush-fringed cottage, but they were
pretty shy, and it was not until 1 noticed
some drinking from the house-gutters
that a unique chance and a quick deci-
sion enabled me to get to closer quarters.
When the purple “master bird” himself—
yes, it was the mature male satin bower-
bird —availed himself of this hospitality
and was busily engaged, that was my
chance. I got him by the leg in a quick
jump from a chair. It was worth his
indignant squawking and hard nips to
see those eyes, than which nothing living
is more beautiful and with which only
perhaps the finest porcelain or iridescent
jewels can compare. They are amethyst
shading to violet, with a ring of magenta,
and the whole ensemble has to be seen
to be believed for its startling charm. No
wonder this satin master in black plumes
with a bluish sheen and eyes like that has
been termed the “most intelligent bird in
the world.” See those wonderful eyes
and believe it.
=H * * *
“Sycamorus”: Joe, who lived across
the creek and supplied the township with
milk, came up to where I was spreading
out spuds to sprout. “Do you want to
buy my bull?” he asked tersely. “I’m
goin’ to chuck up the land!” Joe had
been my neighbor for 20 years and had
always seemed more or less satisfied with
his lot. I asked him what was the
trouble. “Ar, they’re makin’ things too
tough for a bloke these days,” Joe said.
“That blasted dairy inspector has given
“Be careful. Cocker !”
me three weeks to build a new milk
shed. What do I want with a new milk
shed? What’s wrong with the bathroom,
like I’ve always used? The missus and
kids only have a bath on a Saturday
night, and the bath’s the ideel place for
settin’ the milk and skimmin’ it. They
say it’s typhoid they’re scared of. Well,
there’s never been any in my family or
the missus’s either! ”
He * * *
“Nor-west”: By an odd geological
freak most of the rivers on the western
rim of this continent have the narrowest
of entrances and then, a mile or so in-
side, spread out into the finest sheets of
water, some so wide that the opposite
shore can barely be seen. The best-known
example of this formation is, of course,
the Swan. Where the tidal rise and fall
is merely a matter of a few feet this
narrow-necked formation produces noth-
ing spectacular, but in the North Kim-
berley, where tides rise up to 36 feet, one
sees a phenomenon of hydraulic power
probably without equal anywhere. Wal-
cott Inlet lies at the head of Collier Bay,
itself a vast indentation. Thirty miles long
by about five miles wide the inlet has the
narrowest of bottlenecks, flanked by
high, precipitous cliffs. Through this
entrance millions of tons of water rush,
filling the 30 miles by five to a height of
36 feet. Then with the ebb the whole
vast volume pours out again. The boil-
ing, the whirlpools are terrifying if one
is in a small boat. Further north lies
the Prince Regent River ; again a bottle-
neck and a landlocked sea enclosing over
100 square miles. So these gigantic
sluices ebb and flow, waiting the arrival
of the genius who will transform their
riotous waste into electricity for the
service of than.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Most times a breakwind
of bark and boughs suffices the Kimber-
ley abo. for a roof, but when the “wet”
arrives he is forced to find some cover-
ing. It lies at hand on most river
valleys and every patch of swampy
ground ; cadjeput or paperbark. And it is
a remarkable fact that d tree little more
than two feet in diameter and 20 feet tall
will yield a sheet of bark ten feet by six
feet. Bent over in the form of a semi-
circle, with the ends buried in the ground,
it makes a roof that will resist the most
prolonged rain. Two such sheets with
a sufficient lap make a commodious
dwelling. Nor does comfort stop there.
Similar sheets make a carpet, a ground-
sheet for a bed. A little discrimination
in selection, seeking an old, dry tree, and
a sheet may be got to form the family
blanket. Shorter sheets, reinforced by
boughs, serve to close the ends of the
tunnel, one end serving as a doorway.
So while torrents pour outside Binghi and
his family curl up snug and warm in
their home, built in a few minutes and
from materials of which Nature has pro-
vided a superabundance.
* * * *
“Billy See”: “Old Seventyfiver” (B.
6/10/’43) was right when he spoke of the
loneliness of the city. Arriving home one
midnight I noticed a lone figure seated
under one of the ornamental gums with
which our council adorns our suburb. He
hadn’t the aspect of a drunk, and even
if he had been the night was cold. Giv-
ing him a hail I found him just a poor,
country bloke completely stranded. He
was looking for some friend, had taken
the wrong tram, got into the wrong
suburb, and, by the time he realised that,
all trams and buses had stopped. All up
and down the street were houses, but all
with gates to be opened and with front
doors forbiddingly closed, and he just
hadn’t the front to go to any and knock.
And the few late homecomers had mostly
passed quickly to the other side of the
street when they sighted him apparently
loitering. So in the end, leg-weary with
fruitless walking, he had decided to spend
the night with the only friendly object he
could find, a tree. Yes, there was a
shakedown on my side verandah.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old Fiery arrived just
on time to see Strawberry’s final feeble
attempt to climb the steep bank before
she flopped back into the creek and obli-
vion. It took two horses, a whole lot
of profanity and the last remaining hours
of daylight to drag the defunct bovine
up the perpendicular bank. Next morn-
ing the old bloke rode out with, the
skinning knife, but someone had got
there before him. Old Fiery noted
the cloud of dust disappearing in
the direction of Hegarty’s place,
recalled that gent.’s penchant for making
fancy greenhide belts, etc., and decided
to investigate. Hegarty was just taking
the skin out of the sulky when his ear-
drums vibrated to the choicest collection
of cuss-words he’d heard. When the de-
fendant at last got a word in, his voice
rang with righteous indignation. “You
come here and call me a thief in my
own place! ” he exclaimed ; “why, it’s
like your blasted hide!” “No,” roared
Fiery, “it isn’t like my hide at all; it is
my blasted hide! What’s more” (he began
detaching the. stirrup-iron) “if I don’t get
it” He got it.
“Horseless Horseman”: The abo.
doesn’t need to use cobwebs to catch fish
(B. 20/10/’43). Droving along the
Flinders River (N.Q.) during a season
when that waterway was a chain of water-
holes, all our dark horsetailer did to keep
our babbler supplied with perch was to
peel off and dive in, empty-handed. In
the water the black, seal-like swimmer
simply careered around in likely shady
spots till he got his hand on a scaly in-
habitant ; then, by means of hypnotic
stroking, he began working himself and
the fish towards the bank. It took up
to 20 minutes, but he rarely failed to
hurl a specimen ashore. Sometimes, en
route, he would transfer his attentions to
a larger finback. Try as we might we
whites hadn’t the knack or the patience
for fish-charming. Even under tuition
we couldn’t move a captive a single yard.
“Bass Strait Pirate”: As the most in-
genious method of fishing used by any
Australian professional I vote that of the
Hobart ’coota-fishermen. A small piece of
wood on which is fixed three barbless
hooks is made fast to a pliable rod with
a length of parrot chain, and this is
merely dangled over the stern to attract
all the barracoota required. As the fish
are jigged up they are slung over the
catcher’s shoulder into a shoot and
passed into the hold. A decade ago what
fish couldn’t be sold at sixpence each,
gutted at the Hobart wharf, were used
in the manufacture of manure. Last
week at Flinders (Vic.) I met a fisherman
whose net return for seven boxes of
’coota (about 28 fish to a box) was £2O
9s. on the Melbourne market!
* * * *
“T.C.”: When old Joe heard that meat
was to be rationed as from January he
was not amused. Poking a thumb at a
fair bit of the horizon he said “Well, it’s
curtains for a lot of your steers and mine,
too—unless they ration salt as well.”
n * * •
“B. 4”: The main object in dealing with
refractory jibbers is to change the settled
purpose embedded in their minds. Two
methods are employable to effect this:
prolonged patience or a sudden shock.
Once saw a pair of prads which refused
to move the station buckboard from the
front gate. Instead of whipping them
the squatter sat under the hood reading
till lunch, and then successive relays of
jackeroos took over till sundown. The
mokes now kept turning round inquiring
heads in bewilderment, but there they
remained hobbled and reined back all
that night. After breakfast the squatter
again boarded the outfit, and, despite the
mokes’ manifest signs of movements, kept
them anchored till noon, when they began
madly pawing the ground and rearing to
go. Their wish was granted and that pair
never again jibbed.
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: Our back door is near a
corner. Recently, as a girl was briskly
walking off the step, a willy-wagtail, dart-
ing round the comer, dived under
her shoe a split second before it touched
the ground. The speed of Willy’s take-
off, was a model for aeronauts, though
he left a fair portion of his rudder under
her shoe. It’s the first time I’ve seen a
bird docked by such means.
* * * *
“Sr Anu”: The authorities are per-
turbed at the high incidence of Lb.
amongst the abos. at Lake Tyers, Vic-
toria. What did they expect? It is pretty
well established that t.b. is a disease of
discouragement, and, apart from their
gumleaf band and making toy boome-
rangs for tourists, the abos. have nothing
to do, plenty of time to do it in and
complete security from want or even dis-
comfort. In other words, they have what
any official would say were the very best
conditions. But the best conditions aren’t
necessarily what white society thinks best.
When they had a desperate struggle for
existence and were terrified of a universe
of evil spirits our black brothers were
healthy and produced works artistic
enough to be included in a National
Gallery exhibition in Melbourne. Under
the perfect conditions they have at
Lake Tyers they get t.b. But then,
unfortunately, any Government that
deliberately gave them harsh condi-
tions, even ,if it cured them,
come in for world-wide condemnation as
a pack of wicked tyrants. So nobody
really knows what to do about it.
*.* * *
“Nepean”: For the most misleading of
place-names my vote goes to Mud Island,
that low, little-visited atoll a mile or so
long inside Port Phillip Heads. Sur-
rounded by huge sandbanks it consists
solely of sand, its inhabitants being mil-
lions of birds, including Mother Carey’s
chickens, located there in a large rookery,
DAWN-MAGIC.
From a cave beside a cove
While a recent dawn came stealing
Shyly, softly, lone I watched it
Hidden loveliness revealing.
Drowsily the scene awoke
As though touched by fingers tender,
Till all tilings took shape and color
’Neath the early, pearly splendor.
Touching, tossing sapling-tops
And tall trees grey-limbed and olden,
Rich and richer grew the picture,
Pearl-tints giving place to golden.
Ere the sun rose, rose a wind
Tidings of his advent bringing,
Bidding birds be done with slumber
And make sweet the air with singing.
Then, as bird and bird rejoiced
Each in concert with his fellow.
Glossing slope and height the waters
Of the cove grew lemon-yellow.
Then the sun rose, and I saw
Fern and fin and flower and pinion,
Dancing leaf and racing ripple,
Tribute pay to his dominion.
Leapt a kingfish, while on high
Wheeled a seahawk idly soaring,
As his rays lit land and water
Warmth and love of life restoring.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Old-timer”: Red Louis, his pram-boat
anchored to a gum root, had the gizzard
of a wood duck out for bait. Things
were quiet, the Murray slipped along,
chuckling to itself, and Red dozed. Then
something touched the line and he gave
it a quick jerk. He pulled it in, looked
in awe at the No. 4 hook bitten clean in
two, hurriedly bent on a bigger hook,
baited it and threw it out. Again the
touch and Red, on a hair-trigger, gave
a savage tug. The line broke clear and
he hauled it in to find- that hook bitten
in two. “Great leapin’ leather-heads!”
breathed Red, “that must be the daddy
of all the cods.” He pulled over to his
camp, got a meathook, bent a shank on
it with fire and hammer, then cut and
filed a barb on the other end. This,
bound to a length of clothesline, he
baited with half a rabbit and heaved
into the river. It was taken, but as Red
hauled the boat started to pull down, so
he jumped ashore, got a running hitch on
a sapling, spat on his hands and pulled.
He dragged up the rusted cylinder head
and part of the block of some old
steamer, then he sat down on the bank
and cursed. And the Murray, greatest
joker of all rivers, slipped along, chuck-
ling to itself.
* * *
“Drover”: The best lot of fat sheep I
ever saw was a pen of English Leicester
wethers. Intimates of weight were being
made prior to the sale, and when a 16-
stone butcher scorned the auctioneer’s
estimate of 1001 b., the wielder of the
hammer issued a challenge: “All right,
Mick ; there are thirty-six wethers in the
pen, and if you can pick them up and put
them all in the next pen without having a
spell they’re yours for nothing.” The
butcher took him on, but Sfter tossing
14 into the next pen he turned it in.
“Those wethers’ll kill nearer two hundred
than a hundred,” he gasped. “I’ll buy
them for door posters.” They averaged
1151 b.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Although it has ap-
peared in postal directories as Canterbury
for years the little one-store, one-pub
township lying on the lonely mail track
that runs from Windorah to Betoota (Q.)
is still known as J.C. to most of those
who make the big bullock paddock be-
yond the Cooper their home. Away back
in the ’sixties, when explorer John Cos-
tello was giving the lower reaches of the
Cooper the once-over, he carved his
initials in the trunk of an old gum near
one of his camps. Years later, when a
roadside store came into existence,
drovers referred to it as the J.C., and the
name stuck.
V *t*
“Sailor Bill”: Not all cuckoos are
parasitic nesters (B. 27/10/’43). The
coucal or swamp pheasant, a large,
brown bird that doesn’t like flying, is a
cuckoo which builds its own nest and
rears its own young. Generally they’re
simply called “pheasants.” The nest is a
globular affair set on the ground among
thick grass in a swampy place. The
coucal lives on frogs, baby birds, mice
and insects, but sometimes it becomes as
bad on hen eggs as the crow.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Just before we struck
the one-pub town we picked up another
swagman and the three of us joined up.
When we got to the pub Mat told us to
wait while he sized it up. He came back
with a scheme. That bar had a front, a
back and a side door. Presently the
publican saw a big man come in the side
door, look around and go out. Then a
nuggety bloke (me) came in the front,
looked round and went out. Then a red
head (our new mate) came in the back
and repeated the performance. When
Mat reappeared in the front door the
publican said “Hey, what?” but Mat
was g one The three of US continued to
bob in and out of the three doors until
that publican rose up and roared Wliat
the hooray’s goin’ on here?” We rushed
into the bar, wrestled with each other
. , t apa : n Peace and the
and rushed out again. Feace, ana me
astounded Bung sat breathing deeply be-
hind his bar. Then a face slowly peered
round the front door and was hastily
“Untangle the kid quick, Sarah —it might want to run."
withdrawn. The publican whirled just as
a second face vanished from the side
door. He ran at the back door, but there
was nobody there, though three heads
gravely considered him from the front.
“Hey,” he called feebly, “what is this?”
The heads vanished. The publican got
behind the bar, feeling safer there, and
drew three pots, “Hey, you blokes,” he
called desperately, “come an’ have a
drink an’ tell a man what’s up.” Silently
we filed in, downed the beers and looked
at him. “Don’t be frightened, mate,”
said Mat, “it was only a game t’ see
who’d shout first. You won.” Then we
retired to our swags.
* sH H= *
“Walkabout”: In the Cooper country
(s.-w. Q.) a couple of enterprising spirits
erected some yards and commenced run-
ning down some of the wild pig mobs.
The porkers were plentiful and only the
young sows were raced down and tied
and eventually carted to the yards, where
they were fed on corn and boiled beef.
When the mob had reached around 300
the pig drove to Longreach commenced,
a cart going on ahead and the driver
dropping a trail of corn, whilst the part-
ner with the aid of a pack of dogs kept
the mob together. The porkers camped
well and gave no trouble in the brake at
night, but the third day out they rushed
off dinner camp and, splitting up into a
dozen or more mobs, were soon lost for
ever amongst the lignum.
■»* * #
“The 0.D.”; Nice, stirring picture of
kookas killing a goanna (B. 10/11/ ’43),
but what makes “T.C.” think that the
kooka, fitted with a typical kingfisher
beak, “stabs” its victims? And what
was the matter with the go. that it stayed
in the open, suffering the attack for “two,
four, six, eight hours?”
* * * *
“Bo”: McCutcheon was polishing his
bar counter on a dead afternoon when
through the door burst “Hairy” Herb,
the town’s beer hum. Herb was breath-
less, but after a few seconds managed to
gasp out there’d been an accident, and
the victim would need a swift reviver
if his life were not to ebb away. Mc-
Cutcheon silently jerked his thumb
over his shoulder; but the courier
was insistent. Old Leckie’s horse
had shied at a sheet of paper blow-
ing across Woollybutt’s only street;
the sulky had hit a stump and
Leckie had been shot out. McCutcheon
went to the door and looked out. Sure
enough there was Leckie sitting up in
the dust looking groggy. Wilson, the
stock agent, was tending him. Thereupon
McCutcheon conceived his determination
to perpetrate a first-class joke and at the
same time get his own back on the old
wowser who was always sooling the cop
on to break up the pubkeeper’s Sunday
trade. He went outside and came back
with a glass full of gin. “Here’s a glass
of water,” he said. “That’ll make old
Leckie feel better. See that he gets it
all down.” McCutcheon knew if he‘d
given whisky it would never reach the
accident victim. Luckily gin could be
mistaken for water. In a minute “Hairy”
was back again. “He reckons he still
feels crook ; I think he could do with
another.” Gladly McCutcheon repeated
the dose and “Hairy” bore it forth. Then
the beer-jerker sat back happily to await
the emergence of his old temperance
enemy as a temporary booze artist and
the town’s amazement and laughter. Ten
minutes later, by which time he judged
the joke victim would be at the arm-
waving stage, McCutcheon poked a
cautious head out to view the street.
Leckie, quite recovered, was talking
quietly and soberly to Wilson. Up the
street staggered “Hairy,” uproariously
“shot.” McCutcheon cursed. He hadn’t
allowed for “Hairy’s” nose.
* * * *
“Wester”: Centipedes! Those sissy
specimens on Sydney’s North Shore line
(B. 10/11 /’43) wouldn’t get a second look
from us blokes out here where the natives
live on barbed wire and crowbars. Any-
thing under nine inches long is a pro-
tected animal under the P.P. Act.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was very thankful
to get assistance on the farm, though he
thought he would have preferred a more
intelligent specimen than the man who
came to him with Doolan’s recommen-
dation. Not'that Andy wasn’t willing.
The first morning he milked three cows
to Bill’s one, until Bill discovered that
Andy had his own ideas about strip-
ping. At the end of a week Bill
knew that his new hand had to
be watched; he closed no gates
unless reminded; he left tools wherever
he happened to use them ; he was punctual
only to meals. Bill put up with the un-
reliable help until the day of the council
elections. He wanted to vote for Tomp-
kins, who had promised a new road past
the Jupp farm. He was delighted when
he found that Andy also had a vote, he
“Think I'd better duck in and get a perm.”
being the owner of an uncultivated block
of land. On voting day when Bill came
up to get ready to go to the township, he
told Andy to harness the horse to the
jinker. Bill got dressed, but when he
went into the yard Andy was standing
scratching his head beside the jinker.
“The horse is gorn,” he explained. Bill
exploded. “It’s you, leaving all the gates
open. Don’t stand there looking at the
jinker. Go and find the horse.” Bill
went in to have his tea while he waited.
For once Andy was late for a meal. It
was long past the voting hour when
Andy returned. “I found the horse, boss,”
he announced. “In the pound.” Bill was
speechless. “Sorry you was too late fer
the votin’,” Andy went on. “I believe
your man is likely to lose his seat. They
say the bloke I voted fer’ll get in.” “The
one you voted for?” said Bill. Andy
nodded. “Yairs, I got a lift to the town-
ship when I was lookin’ fer the moke, so
I went in an’ voted.”
# * *
“C.E.”: The conviction that a snake
doesn’t die until sundown is probably an
offshoot of the ancient belief that the
reptile was immortal. The belief was
widely diffused through many countries,
the immortality of the ophidians being
obtained by the shedding of their old
skins, which thus renewed their youth.
This gift of immortality, it was thought,
was originally intended for man, but
through a slick piece of work on the part
of the serpent the distinction was
switched. As a result the snake need
never die of his own accord, though he
could be killed by man. The moon was
also connected with the belief, being in
many instances the donor of immortal
life. As the moon waned, died and after
three days rose to shine anew, so it was
intended man should die with the moon
and rise again with renewed youth. After
the snake snatched the honors he became
r the enemy of all mankind. How the sun
comes to be mixed up with the yarn
isn’t apparent, though probably this
variation proved more convenient than
having Joe wait around so long for the
old moon to pass out.
•k $ *l' •t'
“Wang”; Dad and Jimmy Lynch were
walking along the main street when Dad
suddenly exclaimed “Gripes, there’s
Hungry Murphy! Let’s duck before he
sees us.” He made a sudden turn and
bumped against a couple of big chaps
standing in front of a shop. “Easy,
mate,” remarked one of the pair good-
humoredly ; “what’s the hurry?” Dad
apologised and pointed along the street.
“We’re dodgin’ that bloke over there,”
he said; “that’s Hungry Murphy: he’d
take y’ down for yer beer if y’ weren’t
watching him. Excuse us,” and he and
Jimmy departed hurriedly down a side
street. A couple of hours later they were
in the bar parlor of Ryan’s pub. “Lis’en,”
Dad said; “out there in the bar —
Murphy.” He walked to the parlor win-
dow and peered out into the bar-room.
Murphy was standing there, and beside
him the two big chaps. The bigger was
facing Murphy menacingly. “Whatcher
mean be drinkin’ me beer, y’ cow?”
he demanded, pointing to an empty
pot on the counter. “I never touched
yer damned beer,” replied Murphy.
“Y’re a liar,” roared the other, and
then, with a nasty gleam in his eyes,
he went on, “An’ me change outa the
quid I just paid fer two pots ; it’s gorn,
too. Come on, y’ lousy sharp, cough
it up!” Murphy appealed to Ryan.
“Know nothing about it,” Ryan replied.
“Come on now, it’s yer last chance,” said
the bigger chap. “Cough up that quid
or I’ll call a cop.” Still protesting and
almost weeping, Murphy handed over a
poufld note and mooched off. Half an
hour later Dad and Jimmy met the pair
coming out of the bar. “Thanks, mate,”
said one of them. “What for?” asked
Dad mystified. The other grinned. “For
that tip you give us ’bout that bloke y’
called ‘Hungry,’ ” he said.
BUSH AIRFIELD.
O many moons have waxed and waned and
many sunsets died, '
Since first we blazed the trees around and flung
the logs aside,
And grubbed the heavy saplings out and
rammed the new earth back,
And shaped the straight run and the curves
that formed our racing track.
A place of storied memories it was to us who
love
The emerald sweep of turf below, the gleam
of silk above,
With every yard its history, but, as we taped
it round,
The shadow of an eagle paused a moment on
the ground.
An omen grim, perhaps, to tell that yet the
engine’s drone
Would drown the thunder of the hooves, the
crowd’s expectant tone,
In years when we, unheeding, played nor
dreamed of troubled night.
That we, the carefree Southern race, for life
and land should fight.
Where black Santina gave the field a full half-
furlong break
Then left them like a mob of mules to labor
in her wake,
Where Floral Lad and Archie Dale have sped
across the loam
Tall, eagle riders of the skies may bring their
warbirds home.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES* ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
’ TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. (.TO
FAMOUS SAUCES BY
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
ẅ
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
QUICKand DEADLY
- KILL THOSE RABBITS
CYANOGAS
with
SAVE
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly,
vermin. Economical,
cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs in Westralia.
“R.NL. J. Stacey has 10,500 acres
in “Sunny Vale,” Quairading district, 140
miles east of Perth, and has taken 10,300
fat lambs from it in the past three years,
300 bales of wool worth £6000 in two
years, more than 30,000 bushels of wheat
in one season. Ten thousand acres are
cleared, a large area is cultivated and
about 600 acres of lighter country grows
lupins to fatten the old ewes for market.
The district average annual rainfall is
1518 points, though it has been bettered
in the past three years, Stacey’s property
was timbered with salmon gum and gim-
let before clearing, and his father, now
dead, insisted on subdivision, plenty of
wells and dams and the protection of
soaks. The flock of over 4000 ewes is
made up of Border Leicester-Romney
Marsh and Corriedale-merino crosses
and big-framed merinos. The rams are
Dorsets and Southdowns.
Mating starts with December, and most
of the lambs are dropped in May and
early June. Southdown rams for the
B.L.-R.M. cross and Dorsets for the
others. Last December 4325 ewes were
mated ; they reared 3800 lambs, and from
them 3489 were drafted and trucked to
Fremantle works in October. Skins were
valued alive and made 4s. a head ;
net average per head, including skin
value, was 20s. 6d. Last season Stacey got
21s. 6d. when the lambs graded nearly
78 p.c. first quality with an average of
39.781b. This season’s lot graded over
56 p.c. firsts and about 1-jlb. lighter. The
drop was due to a rather difficult season.
Last year the flock cut a 101b. average,
wethers’ wool included. This year there
were no wethers, the cut averaged
and the top price was 18|d. for 12 bales
of crossbred. Stacey makes a bird of
having the ewes strong at mating time.
They get oaten hay in summer and graz-
ing on oaten and wheaten stubble. March
and April rains bring away good grass,
and later the ewes and lambs go on to
the young oats, the lambs being drafted
off just ahead of the grass-seeds.
Elder, Smith and Co., who handled the
consignment, claim that Stacey’s 3489
lambs railed in one day (it was a special
train) is unique for W.A. and want to
hear of anything better in Australia.
Sheep Dogs.
“Hux”; Give them dry, well-ventilated
kennels that can be easily cleaned. If
placed in a small yard the dog needn’t
be chained. Surroundings should be
sunny in winter and cool in summer.
Don’t give the dog raw liver or diseased
meat or offal; they breed hydatids. An
exclusive diet of flesh doesn’t give as
good results as a mixed diet containing
a proportion of starchy foods. Don’t
•overdo the latter. Good bones keep the
dog’s digestive processes in order. Cut
out rabbit and poultry bones. They’re
dense and splintery, can lacerate the gut
or cause impactions.
Meatmeals usually fed to pigs, plus
household scraps and bones, will keep
working dogs in good order. Use 10
to 12oz. of it daily made into a thick
soup with skim-milk and add household
scraps and bones. Same meal mixed
with pollard is also nourishing. Dogs
on this diet interfere less with dead
carcasses. The old practice of letting dogs
“ Don't heed "im —'e's ticklish about the feet.”
off the chain daily to feed on the nearest
carcass is bad. Dogs are not natural
feeders on carrion. Habit may sooner
or later develop into sheep-worrying.
Fencing Timber.
“E.H.S.”: When the tree is down (B.
10/11/’43) square oft the butt, then mark
off the required lengths and at each mark
drive the axe through the bark well into
the log so that the cut will be plainly
visible when the bark is removed. With
the mark as a centre remove a strip of
bark about a foot wide around the log.
Cut a nick at the mark, rest the saw in
it and start sawing, keeping the saw
vertical and at right angles to the log to
ensure a true cut. If the cut shows a
tendency to close, a wedge driven into it
will open it up and lessen the drag on
the saw. When the tree rests on sloping
ground the saw must be held so- that the
cut is made perpendicular to the axis of
the log, otherwise the billets from that
log will be of unequal length.
Remove the bark and with the maul
and a small wedge punch a line from the
bottom of the log through the centre to
the top then drive a medium-sized wedge
on the punched line near the bottom and
another at a corresponding distance from
the top, and the log will open out along
the line. Now drive a large wedge into
the crack showing on the top of the log,
followed by another about the middle and
a third near the further end. This should
be sufficient to open the log up, but if
not the job can be completed by double-
banking the wedges or using a lever.
Place each half of the log flat side
down and break into billets of convenient
size. When the log is very large or
unusually tough time will be saved and
much hard belting avoided by using three
or four inches of well-tamped blasting
powder in a lin. auger hole bored well
into the log, care being taken to keep
the bore clear of gum cracks or hollows
which tend to lessen the disruptive effect
of the powder.
Jap Millet.
“Pat Ater”: It’s becoming more popu-
lar in the N.S.W. dairying country for
grazing, hay and silage. A dairyman at
Kangaloon (over 2000 ft. above sea level
but within coast conditions) grows it both
on red basaltic soil and grey, hard loam.
There are three reasons for its rise. It
jumps off the mark quickly once the
frosts are over —an important factor on
these highland holdings where sowing is
often delayed—it “comes away” splen-
didly after being grazed and it is palatable
and nutritious at almost any stage of
growth.
After trials with sachaline and other
crops the Kangaloon man has three pad-
docks of millet, totalling 25 acres, on a
small holding of 120 acres. There's room
there, too, for 25 acres of improved
grazing with perennial rye, cocksfoot and
clovers and a coming patch of Phalaris
tuberosa, eight acres maize, lucerne and
oat fallow.
Jap millet doesn’t need much lime, un-
less in very acid soil, when a small
dressing of about 5 to lOcwt. to the
acre will improve growth. Super, at the
usual topdressing of lewt. stimulates root
action and early progress. Ground that
contains some humus or a ration of nitro-
genous manure gives proportionately
better results. Moisture holding is im-
portant, too, to ensure continuity of good
grazing throughout the season.
It will grow in sandy soil as well as
heavier loams, but there some farm-
yard manures or a blood fertiliser, after
turning-in a green-manure base (grown
over winter), is recommended for good
bulk. Jap millet grows well along the
coastline. Many dairy-farmers at Kiama
(N.S.W.) now give it place as their main
summer fodder and grazing crop. About
there the soil is from granite or bluestone
outcrop, deep volcanic rich stuff aided
by splendid rainfall. Sow seed on a well-
broken seedbed and about as thickly as
for winter-grazing oats.
Hints for the Farm.
“B.”: The dairy-farmer using sheep as
followers to the herd has less trouble
with worm infestations. Cows, without
harm to themselves, swallow many of
the parasites that infect sheep. Parasites
eaten by cattle, liver fluke excepted, are
destroyed.
“Sarina”: Beekeepers should grow a
sizable patch of buckwheat; the flower
is very rich in honey. For fowls the grain
is splendid and the foliage is useful green
feed. A flour of good quality can be
ground from the seed. Buckwheat is a
quick-grower and thrives in most soils.
“Pat Ater”: Get hold of Katahdan
seed spuds. Scarce as yet, Katahdan is
proving a high-class potato. Highly re-
garded by purveyors of fish and chips
they are eagerly sought by merchants.
On the N.S.W. Dorrigo and Burrawang
tablelands they grow well. Early, with
about half the growth of Factor, they
seem sturdier and more disease-resistant
and produce an even crop of good-sized
and -shaped tubers of splendid quality
and flavor.
“Plane Creek”: White wax scale will
destroy citrus trees if neglected. Make
up 21b. of washing soda, 2oz. of caustic
and 4gal. of cold water. Add the caustic
to the washing soda and pour on a little
hot water. Add the cold water. Spray
affected trees with the mixture twice, with
a week between.
“B-gar”: To mend a hole in a tank
when there’s no solder available melt
some sulphur in a tin over the fire and
add an equal part of fine sand. Apply
the mixture whilst it is hot. Buckets,
dishes or other similar articles can be
mended thus, and as long as the articles
are kept off the fire the sulphur-cum-
sand “solder” will remain.


NOW AVAIL
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
TO ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" trucks have
been specially imported by the Government as a
Defence measure to ensure efficient road transport
within Australia. These vehicles are equipped with
sturdy, full floating, 2-speed rear axles; imported
all-steel cabs; imported platform bodies with skid
strips, coaming, front loading board and rope rails;
detachable dropsides and tailboard or triple-purpose
stakesides, and other approved essential body types.
Capacities up to 4i tons.
Deliveries of these vehicles can now be arranged for
essential users who obtain the necessary "Permit to
Acquire" from the Emergency Road Transport Board.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained from our branch in the
Capital City of your State, or from any Authorised
Metropolitan Distributor for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTCR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
miHinmiwnw fINCORPORATED W VICTORIA!
branches in all capital cities
SMITE
Known the world over as the pioneer
system of pressure lubrication, ALEMITE
today keeps the machines of war in motion
and the machines of supply in produc-
tion. Plan for the future now; when new
automotive and industrial equipment is
, again available specify ALEMITE.
r
Standard Dot
Most
for
Hydraulic Fittings
Of cyanide hardened steel with positive
locking grip on Push Type Nozzles. Pressure
builds up a positive leakproof seal. Available
in standard thread sizes and many angles
sturdily constructed
heavy duty indus-
le. Of hardened
heavily plated,
are available
different
g 1 e s and
read sizes.
trial
steel,
they
o
Button Head Fittings
Sturdy, rugged, compact; for industrial
heavy machinery applications where a full
flow of lubricants without restriction is
required.
ALEMITfi®
Reg.U.S.Pot.Off. a m
&lubrication
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
THt
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Giant U.S. Navy.
(From “United States News.”)
The United States Navy is advertising
—for the discomfort of Japan —hitherto
secret details of its growth in size and
power during the last three years.
those details make the loss of 58 war-
ships in battle and the loss of 129 other
fighting ships, through transfer and con-
version, seem small. They underscore the
significant increase in the relative import-
ance of aircraft ,in the Navy’s combat
plans. The traditional definition of sea-
power now is expanded to “sea-air
power.”
The increase shows over - all naval
tonnage rising from 1,875,000 tons in
July, 1940, to almost 5,000,000 tons, the
naval air force rising from 1744 ’planes
to 18,269 ’planes.
Not yet at its peak, naval shipbuilding
already has added a big new fleet to U.S.
naval might. The number and weight of
battleships, carriers, cruisers, destroyers,
destroyer escorts and submarines almost
have been doubled since July, 1940. The
U.S. Navy now has 613 warships aggre-
gating 2,217,982 tons, and is getting a
new carrier every month.
Landing craft are the most numerous
non-combat ships. With the aid of an
overriding priority from President Roose-
velt through the first six months of 1942,
the Navy rushed to completion a fleet
of invasion vessels that totalled 12,964
by June 30. Also, the Navy has received
1274 mine and patrol craft, 654 yard and
district craft, 151 auxiliary vessels.
The ability to build this huge fleet is
a basic advantage that the U.S. Navy
holds over the navies of all other nations.
It makes feasible the strategy of attack,
for losses can be replaced on a scale no
other navy can equal.
Underground Allies.
(From the “Atlantic Monthly.”)
The European underground fighters
against the Axis are not predominantly,
or even importantly, Communist extrem-
ists.
Who are the men and women compos-
ing these hidden and deadly foes of the
German tyranny? They comprise social
and political elements gathered from all
walks of European life. Many of the
most able of them in Belgium, for in-
stance, are clergymen. Thousands of
them in Poland are boys in their teens.
They number in France persons who, be-
fore the war, represented a diversity of
political and social status, ranging from
professional men and women to work-
men and peasants, from extreme con-
servatism to extreme radicalism.
Those already executed by the Nazis
include craftsmen, teachers, fishermen,
priests, farmers, printers, university
students, fugitive army officers, domestic
police, sailors, businessmen and day
laborers. The purveyors of the under-
ground press in Holland and Belgium
and Norway represent every variety of
profession, trade and political opinion of
pre-war times.
If there is to be revolution in Europe
when Germany collapses these men and
women, banded together by fierce
patriotism and hatred of their murder-
ous foe and his collaborators, will make
it. Dismissed, outlawed or thwarted by
failure of the Allies to understand their
aims and purposes, they will be the more
bound to make it.
That eventuality need not happen. The
eight agencies set up in London under
the Governments in exile can enable the
Allies to collaborate with and guide the
forces of revolt into constructive channels
toward constructive goals.
Warning on Japan.
(From a N.Y. “This Week” article by Hallett
Abend, who saw the Japs at first-hand for 15
years.)
I predict that the day of greatest danger
to the United States will be the day when
Germany surrenders. That day Japan
will launch an appeasement programme.
It will be the signal for thousands of
Japanese agents and propagandists to
start whipping up a great movement in
America for a compromise settlement in
the war with Japan. If it succeeds we
shall have lost the war. Within 20 years
we should have to fight Japan again.
Many indications which can be pieced
together leave virtually no doubt that the
plans are all laid. They are based on a
very keen understanding, by the Japanese,
of American psychology—an understand-
ing which all of us who have lived with
and studied the Japanese appreciate all
too fully. They are calculating cunningly
on the effect the collapse of their Axis
ally will have in America. They foresee
what our emotional reactions will be.
And they are planning to take advantage
of them. The danger that they will
succeed is very real and very great.
Even bringing the Japanese to uncon-
ditional surrender will not be enough to
totally discredit the military with the
Japanese people. The masses of Japan
must be given undeniable proof that
aggression does not pay. Disarmament
alone will not do this. Therfe must be a
prolonged United Nations military occu-
pation of the home islands.
We must not only defeat Japan’s
armies in the lands they have overrun,
but we must bring visual evidence of their
defeat to the people of Japan in their own
homeland.
Every Japanese city of any size must
be garrisoned by troops of the United
Nations. There must be parades by our
armies down Tokyo’s Ginza and down
the main streets of every other Japanese
city and town. And Chinese troops must
participate.
Not for revenge—not to humiliate
Japan’s cities as Japan, humiliated Shang-
hai, Manila, Singapore and Hong Kong
—but to smash for ever in Japanese minds
the myth that they are divinely invinciMe.
And this can be done only by the
presence of our troops.
That job, and all the danger that makes
it imperative, will still face us on the day
when Germany surrenders —barring the
improbable chance that Japan will then,
too, be beaten. For that is the day when
we must be doubly vigilant against the
Japanese and their campaign to get us to
call it quits.
For, if we quit, boys now in short
pants will have to fight and die. And it
may be in vain.
German Ukraine Plans.
(Condensed from a “Wall-street Journal”
article by Raymond Moley.)
There is plenty of evidence that the
Germans did not march into Russia
merely to march out again. A year ago
Germany believed that it had permanently
acquired the Ukraine.
Swiss newspapers over the past summer
revealed many details of extensive Ger-
man colonisation in the occupied terri-
tory. Considerable numbers of peasants
and their families were settled there with
facilities for cultivating the soil and for
raising cattle and sheep. These settlers
were mostly German and Rumanian, but
among them were also some Dutch and
Scandinavians.
Rumanian territorial expansion ex-
tended beyond the Dniester River. A
new province created there is called
“Transniestria.” It was formally annexed
to Rumania with all the rigmarole usually
observed by Hitler in assigning territory
to another country, including, as in other
regions, a sizable debt to Germany to be
paid off by the new province.
The unfortunate settlers will, of course,
be resettled now, without much kindness.
An even harsher fate awaits those Kuban
Cossacks who threw in their lot with the
Germans. It is significant that current
dispatches said that soldiers “and
civilians” were being evacuated from the
Kuban. It meant that numerous Kuban
Cossacks north-east of the Black Sea
never fully acknowledged the authority
of the Soviet Government. When the
Germans came into the region last year
they joined them. In the retreat they
have frantically followed the Germans.
Those who fell behind were zestfully
hanged and shot by the Reds. Current
reports seem to indicate that some of
the Kuban Cossacks are saving their
necks by trailing along with the retreat-
ing Germans. How far they will be
carried no one knows.
It is clear that Stalin’s fury toward
Germany and Rumania has been given a
fine edge by their assumption that the
rich territory covered by the German ad-
vance was, in fact, becoming a permanent
possession of theirs.
There is, of course, the possibility that
Germany, conscious of her coming de-
feat, may be on the way to getting off
Russian soil as a preliminary to suing for
peace. If so, the Nazis may well be
grossly underestimating the fury their
actions have stirred in Russia.
Results of Pacifism.
(From a “Reader’s Digest’'' condensation of a
book by Walter Lippmann on American foreign
policy.)
The preachment and the practice of
pacifists in Britain and America were a
cause of the failure to keep pace with
the growth of German and Japanese
armaments.
In the name of peace the nation is
made weak and unwilling to defend its
vital interests. Finally, with its back to
the wall, the pacifist nation has to fight
against a strategically superior enemy ; it
fights with its own armaments insufficient
and with its alliances shattered.
This was the way in which the pacifist
ideal led the peace-loving nations to the
very edge of the catastrophe from which
they are now saving themselves only at


M
V , v
4 J
jp {
Are you shackling this man?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
This advertisement is inserted by the
Breks Trousers
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
Sovereign Hats
1®
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
yeaU'A
Save * or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065
prodigious cost. The generation which
most sincerely and elaborately declared
that peace is the supreme end of foreign
policy got not peace, but a most devastat-
ing war.
In the interval between the two great
wars the United States sought to promote
peace by denouncing war, and by pro-
moting disarmament. The disarmament
movement was tragically successful in
disarming the nations that believed in
disarmament, in dissolving the alliance
among the victors of the first World War
and reducing them to almost disastrous
impotence on the eve of the second World
War. .
The movement for peace by disarma-
ment was initiated by President Harding,
who summoned our ex-allies to the
Washington Conference. We insisted
upon the rupture of the Anglo-Japanese
alliance, thus isolating Japan and offering
her the option of finding new allies
among the vanquished States. Japan
made her new alliance with Germany.
We then “imposed,” as we imagined, a
ratio of naval forces, especially of ihe
long-range offensive ships, which guaran-
teed Japan against any prompt and effec-
tive naval Intervention by America or
Britain in the Far Eastern area of
Japanese ambition. Finally, having dis-
armed ourselves strategically vis-a-vis
Japan, we worked with the British on the
project of reducing the value of their
navy and of ours.
The effect was to impair radically the
Anglo-American control of the sea com-
munications of the world. That was not
the intention, of course. It was supposed
that if the ratio of the fleets was main-
tained the balance of power would be
the same, though the fleets were smaller.
This was a fallacy in calculation. For,
as the absolute size of the British and
American fleets was reduced, the area in
which they could operate contracted. The
reduced British fleet had to be concen-
trated at the British Isles. The reduced
American fleet had to be concentrated
between California and Hawaii. Thus
Japan obtained superiority in all the
waters that mattered to her; thus the
partners of one great war disarmed one
another in the short period remaining
before they were to be partners again
in an even greater war.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
There are two conclusions which, it seems
to me, must be reached by anyone who ex-
amines carefully the mass of available infor-
mation about the Balkans today. One is that
the arrival of Anglo-American forces would
be welcomed wholeheartedly by a great majority
of the people, both in those countries officially
occupied by the enemy and actively resisting
him and in those other countries which the
Germans call allies and we call satellites. The:
other conclusion is that, despite all the diffi-
culties with which they are confronted, the Ger-
mans intend to defend their Balkan conquest
and will contest every bit of this predomi-
nantly mountainous terrain. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune ” correspondent in Turkey.
* * * *
“I am confident that the helpful contribu-
tions made by American citizens toward the
establishment of a national home for the Jewish
people in Palestine will be continued.” — Presi-
dent Roosevelt; message to Zionist convention.
* * * *
Dr. Frederick Stare and George Thorne, in a
report on recent U.S. diet findings: “Lumber-
jacks may demand plenty of red meat to get
their timber out, but that demand rests on
habit and not on a nutritional or medical
basis.” — N.Y. ‘‘Times.”
* * * ♦
The fact that Republican leaders are willing
to make an alliance with Britain and give the
latter a free hand in Europe is not surprising.
It affords the easy way out —the way to shift
responsibility to Britain and keep America out
of Europe’s quarrels—-a. favorite Republican
position for the last two decades or more.—
Washington syndicate writer David Lawrence.
* * * *
How strong is Japan? It is at present an
industrial pygmy totally unable to engage in a
slugging match of modern weapons with the
American Colossus. It is faced with all sorts
of shortages, weaknesses and difficulties in de-
fending what it has won. But, given five years
of undisturbed freedom to digest its resources
and Organise its labor supply, it may well be-
come the most powerful military nation the
world has ever seen. Elence the U.S. has no
time to lose getting on with Japan’s destruction.
— “Life,” UfS.A.
* * *
A big category of exemptions allowed in
America and Britain does not apply in Russia,
where the age limit also runs quite high. Por
instance, one of my own acquaintances was
called to active duty after his sixtieth birthday.
—Edgar Snow; “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
There is one way to make the dissolution
of the Comintern helpful both to democracy s
survival and to collaboration with Russia.
That is to accept it as carte blanche from our
ally to take effective action against the Com-
munist conspiracy at home. — Max Eastman;
“Reader’s Digest.”
* * * *
There is nothing to the widely circulated
report that General Marshall opposed the
appointment of Lord Louis Mountbatten as
Allied commander of operations out of India.
Actually, General Marshall actively favored
the selection of Lord Louis for the Par
Eastern task .—“United States News”
* * * *
There can be no doubt that the great Ger-
man withdrawal in Russia and the events in
Italy have greatly heartened the anti-Franco
elements in Spain and increased their activities.
The Falange is reliably reported to be the
chief topic of discussion on the Iberian penin-
sula, with opposition leaders of all shades
of political opinion agreed that either this
Spanish equivalent of the Nazi party or General
Franco must go. The refusal of the monarchists
to accept Falange overtures has caused great
apprehension among the governing clique m
Madrid, and as a result the monarchists are
now perhaps the most closely watched of any
opposition groups. — “Christian Science Moni-
tor” European correspondent.
* * * *
“Our fighting men are mad because of the
false optimism of our news. It’s a general con-
dition of our news reporting, our communi-
ques, our radio commentators and our desk-
writers. Our present news censorship as I saw
it at the front enrages and disillusions our
fighting men in the truthfulness of our leaders
and at home it breeds apathy.” — U.S. Senator
Lodge, after his world tour.
* * * *
“African desert and Italian beach fighting
cannot be compared with Pacific jungle warfare.
Jungle fighting is fiendish. It’s horrible. In
the desert you can see your enemy and make
plans; in the jungle you cannot see him. Be-
sides the Japanese, you fight diseases. And
vour fear is great. Even without the skulking,
tricky, animal-like enemy our jungle fighters
wage a 24-hour-a-day battle to keep alive.
U.S. Senator Lodge, who was formerly with the
first American group of tanks at Tobruk.


Persona! and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of FLORENCE
LOUISA HALL, or HOYDEN, last heard of some
years ago at 17 Berriga Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney
(formerly of Hobart and Launceston), kindly com-
municate with D. W, ABBOTT, Solicitor, Glen limes.
LYNCH, Thomas Virgil.—Last known engaged in
Mining Industry, Sabo Cam Norte, Philippines. Any
person knowing present whereabouts please com-
municate WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE, EXECU-
TOR AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 135
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIIEV
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BABRERE DISTRIBUTION CO,
(Dept. 2H), 343 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in oyer-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S*
For Australia at War . . .
o
o
o
S'
.O
o
£
TO'^
We
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
PLANNING YOUR NEW HOME
You need not be put off an otherwise desirable locality just because it is not sewered.
Hygeia Dissolvenators overcome the disadvantage of living beyond reach of the
sewerage system.
They eliminate the nauseous closet pan and the sanitary man.
NO SMEUS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS. NO EMPTYING.
Efficiency and longevity are fully guaranteed.
Can be installed in an ordinary building allotment.
WHY NOT ONE IN YOUR PRESENT HOME?
Write for illustrated pamphlet.
Price: Family Size, £l9/2/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating, 10/9,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone: 81052. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co,, Ltd., Perth.
Cocoa
and the war
!)!•
$
7<o
In this war, as in the war of 1914-18, Cocoa has proved of
inestimable value as a stimulating food drink. Our own soldiers
and airmen drink Cocoa in quantities that run into many tons per
week . . . while our Navy drinks “Kai”, its own particular form of
cocoa, a rich soluble chocolate which is the very thing to warm the
cockles of a seaman’s heart. Cadbury’s are working night and day
to keep pace with these re-
quirements, which, today
absorb such a big proportion
of the output of your favourite
Bournville Cocoa.
Hf
$
N
A.
T*
x
O
*
Ht
*
m
mm
m
WTgj
K
C
a'N
jj
illlilliHlili'"l !■ il.l »■■
; ; ■ • '' V '. ‘ ,■ V -i ■■ • V -
Made by CADBURY —makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Hislop’s The Two Babylons. —3398.
To buy clean quandong nuts, all sizes, at
about Is. 6d. per pound.—3399.
To buy or borrow Jonah, by Louis Stone,
Up the Country and Ten Creeks Run, by “Brent
of Bin Bin,” This Vital Flesh, by William
Baylebridge, Moonlight Acre, by R. D. Fitz-
gerald, and Cuckooz Kontrey and Five Bells,
by Kenneth Slessor. Soldier asking.—34oo.
Information Sought.
Casualties of British, Dominion and American
troops to date ?
American were issued last month; British and
Dominion available only to September 3, 1942:
Killed. Missing. Wounded. P.o.w.
U.K. .. 73,477 75,403 50,163 76,801
Brit. Dom... 18.612 151,316 38,131 31,090
American .. 23,592 32,556 33,605 26,130
Can the series of humorous sketches of army
life which ran through The Bulletin’s Smoke-
oh f pages some time ago be bought in book
form ? —3401.
Yes. They, together with a skit on the
Foreign Legion and other collected Bulletin
humor have just been published by Dymock’s,
Ltd., Sydney, under the title “Around the Army
and Other Nonsense,” by S. W. Keough. Price,
3s. 6d.
(1) Prospects of Australian dried-fruit in-
dustry after War? (2) Average cost of pro-
duction per ton of dried fruit?
(1) Prospects will depend upon whether Empire
preferences for dried fruits are continued or are
replaced by some form of international control
profitable to producers. Otherwise there appears
to be no prospect of the Australian industry
being able to compete in overseas markets
against countries with low cost of production
such as Greece and Turkey. About 75 p.c.
of the Australian production is the surplus over
Australian requirements; it is necessary for the
maintenance of the industry that this surplus
should be sold abroad at payable prices. (2)
About £35 per ton in orchard sweat-box.
How to stop leather boots squeaking?
The noise is made by two pieces of leather
rubbing together; steep soles in neatsfoot oil
and drive a wooden shoe peg through centre
of sole.
(1) Who wrote the poem “The Birkenhead”?
(2) Biographical details of William Hay, author
of several convict stories?
(1) There are two poems of that name; one
by Sir Henry Yule, the other by Hattie Ting
Griswold. (2) Born at Burnside, Adelaide, in
1875, son of Alexander Hay, M.L.C., and
Agnes Hay, authoress of Afterglow Memories.
Educated at Melbourne Grammar School and
Trinity College, Cambridge. Graduated in Arts.
Many publications, including Stifled Laughter,
Herridge of Reality Swamp, Captain Quadring
and Escape of the Notorious Sir William Heans
(all Tasmanian convict stories), historic and
literary studies and other Australian stories.
How many times, and in what years, did
Doiran win the Great Eastern Steeplechase?
Four times, in 1918, 1919, 1922 and 1933.
Brief Answers.
W.C.: Les Darcy’s last fight was at Sydney
Stadium on September 30, 1916, when he
knocked out George Chip in the ninth round.
Darcy never fought Jerry Jerome... C.Y.:
Clean with saddle soap, and when dry use bobt
polish Jobber: The verses come from “Love
Ridden,” by Will Ogilvie. Published in Hearts
of Gold and Other Verses, by The Bulletin
(1903) L.D.: Information is unobtainable.
R.S.: Since 1932, when the order is given
to starboard helm, the wheel is turned to star-
board, the rudder turns to starboard and the
ship’s head turns to starboard. When ordered
to port helm, the helmsman turns me wheel to
port. *
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
T. 8.:
Who said that Britain soon would fall,
That she would answer to his call
And he would be lord over 1 all ?
—The man with three eyebrows.
L.A.B.: No wow endings, please
W.L.8.: Prosy.. . .A.H.: Sending it, sympa-
thetically, “Away from city’s clatter, screech,
bang and clang”... .J.C.: “Are there no bards
to laud our frolic hours?” Verily, we wot not.
F.K.C.: Tom and his team never get out
of the rut E.G.C.: Let the hen sing her
own praises J.C.: Keep at it J.L.H.;
At least, you tried hard.. . .M.E.S.: In the
opening of what you “sez to Mrs. ’Arris” were
two bad rhymes; one correct, and then an-
other atrocity T.C.: “Onions” brought tears
to our eyes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.S.T.: There is a heavy air of decomposi-
tion about that rubbish-tip joke A.M.8.:
We recognised Churchill by the cigar, so the
face behind the drooping hirsute hedge must
be Joe’s.


ŵ
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
,——Dividends \ To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.
£ £ ■ » **
tqqk 12 514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,840 4,174
lilt:: 6 „m,, 12:645 8 946 14,043
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,4U0,
reserves capitalised, ••
1937.. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,520 8,441 26,892
-iqqo 24 871 6 124 19,384 5,487 32,379
ml:: 29.00 i e:: 124,, 22976 6,025 wot
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190 .. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. •• 30i,uz»
1942 85 133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943;: 103:820 6 „ 10 „ .83,372 20,448 241,661
* Excluding outside interests.
In spite of the opportunities (and the
national need) for expansion, during the
year capital remained stable owing to the
lack of man-power and other essentials
necessary to carry out the physical part
of any new planning. Plant extension
was confined to the installation of
machinery ordered previously; it came
to haild safely, and all Melbourne mills
are now fully equipped and operating ;
only minor additions have been made in
Sydney. But, as has been the case with
much war-time plant expansion, output
is now showing “very marked develop-
ment.” Sales have increased both in
quantity and value, though profits have
not responded on a corresponding scale.
Originally operating a spinning mill at
Camperdown (Sydney) and weaving and
dyeing mills at Newtown, together turning
out cotton tweeds, drills, ducks, denims
and dungarees, just before the war the
co. formed C. and D. Mills to manu-
facture canvas and duck, two materials
soon after in urgent war-time demand.
Then Sanforising Services of Australia
was established to pre-shrink cotton
cloths, particularly for overalls. Major
developments soon afterwards were the
taking-over of Austral Silk and Cotton
Mills, Victoria, because of its yarn out-
put, and the formation of Bradford Spin-
ning Mills (Vic.) and Bradford Weaving
Mills (Vic.). The two new offshoots
set up on the Barnet Glass factory site
at Footscray, one spinning tyre-cord yarn
and thread for the other, which special-
ises in cotton duck and smallware fabrics,
besides waterproofing materials. A
further spinning mill came into opera-
tion last term. Total yarn output of tire
undertaking rose 10 p.c.
Austral Silk and Cotton added piece-
dyeing to its activities, and in Melbourne
a Sanforising plant carries on as in Syd-
ney. The parent co. turned its attention
more to drills, tyre fabrics and gauze as
the war progressed, but recently a
shortage of industrial clothing has
called for some revision of manufactur-
ing. However, output last year included
nearly four million yards of webbing for
the forces, with no profit to the co.
After charging £75,128 for depreciation
(up £10,301, and equal to a little over
10 p.c. on the book value of plant alone),
and setting aside £92,574 to cover the
year’s tax bill, net profit was shown
£18,687 higher at £103,820, representing
12.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
12.3 p.c. in the preceding period, afte r
charging back taxation (£5931) under-
provided. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
and reserves moved up by £20,448 to
£241,661.
Completion of the plant-installation
programme last year was responsible for
an addition of £124,291 to the book
value. Freeholds moved up £7493. These
movements occurred against the depreci-
ation allowance of £75,128. Fixed assets
now total £1,131,278, against £167,006 in
1938;
Parent ( Consolidated Figures—
-1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £202,742 £674,482 £894,329 £894,976
Outside inter-
ests 153 158 153
Liabilities .. 1 f 356,133 352,464 603,726
Tax reserve, !- 26,765 4
etc. .. J I 45,940 86,772 9'3,390
Freehold . . 49,068 348,928 382,373 389,866
Plant, etc. .. 117,938 5.58,565 617,121 741,412
Stock, etc. . . 66,906 310,029 459,085 595,598
Sundry debtors 28,672 102,242 128,588 127,334
Cash, etc. . . 16,957 1,903 11,342 21,382
In spite of the tremendous expansion of
the undertaking the board reports that
much of the plant has for a long time
been working overtime, and, notwith-
standing the efforts to maintain its effici-
ency, “wear and tear have been, and must
continue to be, corjsiderable.” ibis is
likfely to raise * post-war problems,
especially in view of the heavy taxation
of reserved profits. In the past the Brad-
ford board has bought its spindles and
looms cannily, and there were some lucky
transactions even during this war, but
price levels generally have been against
low-cost plant extension. War-time mone-
tary inflation, however, does not indicate
low price levels immediately after the war.
With regard to cotton supplies the
Government is going to bear the differ-
ence between the landed cost of raw
cotton and the stabilised figure at which
it is handed over to industry through the
D.I.P. So well have Bradford’s stocks
been bought in the past that it will have
to pay the Government over £50,000 in
order to bring the cost of its own stocks
up to the stabilised price. The co., of
course, will recoup this eventually in its
selling prices.
The growth in the undertaking has
been accompanied by this spread in
capital:
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-1939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,104
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
Cotton.
December, 1939, 34,000 f.p. ords. to
Dunlop-Perdriau and 240,193 ords. to share-
holders.
1940- term, 57,000 f.p. ords. issued
in payment for Camperdown (Sydney)
premises.
1941- term, 204,954 ords. for general
expansion.
Now standing at £894,976, the share-
register includes £153,104 of 6 p.c. pref.
money. There has been no loss of vigor
with growth. The business has been con-
ducted with skill and foresight, and the
future looks as bright as the past pro-
vided the Government recognises that, as
the Bradford board remarks, “existing
industries must be the medium through
which the great mass of our people are
to be re-employed in post-war activity.”
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933. - 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6i p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7i P-c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 ~q „ ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. i z ’
8J p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 1 97n fi qo
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..5 ’
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 1 9q r cna
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ’
1939.. 106,659 12,000 28,000 35,000 1 0 99 krq
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ) 6 '
10 p.c.*
1940.-112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 1 o.q SQ4
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j
p.c.
1941.. 110,044 12,000 28,000 35,000 1 Q7Q qoo
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..f
t 74 p.c.
1942.. 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 „qo 053
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. S ’
1943.. 92,718 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 415771
To staff fund, £5OOO . . •• )
* Including li p.c. centenary bonus.
A full year of clothes-rationmg has had
few debilitating effects on city retail
profits, Farmer’s results being fairly
typical of the trade’s experience
Turnovers, naturally, have been affected
in varying degree by civilian ration-
ing of articles of attire and the in-
adequate supplies of nearly mer-
chandise nominally on the “free” list;
but coupons in public hands have
been sufficient to meet clothing needs, as
distinct from wants prompted by new-
found purchasing-power, and manage-
ments have had marked success in deal-
ing with costs as the result of forced re-
ductions in customer service and the
manner in which most stock has become
good stock. At the same time, a flood
of constantly changing prices, W. 0.1.,
D.I.P. and other economic organisation
regs. hasn’t made the adjustment easy,
and a special problem of firms such as
Farmer’s has been to develop alternative
sources of merchandise supplies for the
high-class imported goods which formerly
bulked so large in their turnover.
The going during the fifth year of war
will be more difficult. There is a definite
hard kernel of costs which sets a limit
to savings in this respect, while effective
demand has been lessened by inclusion
of items of household linen on clothing
coupons, which in addition may have to
be stretched out over a longer term than
in the first rationing period. Still, there
was a margin of £22,718—5.7 p.c, on the
£400,000 of ord. capital—between last
year’s earnings and distributions, and the
manner in which fixed assets moved
down £72,245 suggests that the result
may have been conservatively stated.
Prefs., the preponderance of which was
a drag oh the ords. in the early ’thirties,
have nothing to fear in the event of ord.
handouts taking more austere form, not
being subject to the N.S.W. Interest Re-
duction Act.
The attractive store, in which the whole
of the capital and most of the reserves
are locked up, sits pat on the milling
George-Market-Pitt street corner. But
buying policy as much as location has
produced the satisfactory results of the
past decade, and a new type of customer
is apparent in the recent tendency of
goods and cash to change hands at the
time of purchase. This release of working
capital represented by debtors, plus re-
tention of nearly £lOO,OOO of surplus
earnings since the outbreak of war,
largely explains the high degree of liquid-
ity now evident:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
£ £ £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,001) 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 500,000 480,000 470,000 450,000
Creditors*.. 206,902 311,469 320,841 317,371
Freehold and
plant . . 1,467,511 1,406,829 1,372,860 1,300,615
Stock . . 373,644 473,930 593,946 421,817
Book debts 184,048 270,091 155,481 90,935
Cash and in-
vestments 29,263 40,557 86,107 389,775
* Including contingencies.
The extent of the cash holding arouses
curiosity as to the exact composition
of the omnibus creditors and “contin-
gencies” item. More than half last year’s
accretion of £303,668 to cash or its near-
equivalent arose from the board’s in-
ability to turn coupons collected from the
public into fresh stocks. Still, inven-
tories are in excess of pre-war values, if
not assortment and volume, and though
some might like to see them higher the
war appears to be approaching a stage
where retailers may prefer a hand-to-
mouth existence to the risk of heavy loss
on austerity styles and fashions when
industry again turns from destructive
to constructive pursuits.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 9,882 6 p.c. = 8,406 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 „ „ 8,400 2942 137,121
1935.. 12,510 6 „ „ 8,400 t 2no 139 031
To provident fund, £2OOO j 2110
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c. = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ „ 11,200 3931 147,206
1938.. 15,204 10* „ ~ 14,000 1204 148,410
1939.. 15,305 8„ „ 11,200 7 147,515
Written off, £5OOO .. 3 A
1940.. 14,005 8 p.e. = 2805 150,320
1941 14,039 8 „ „ 11,200 2839 1 153,159
1942.. 11,363 7-J „ ~10,500 863 154,02 z
1943.. 11,522 7„ „ 9,800 7 m 454*44
To provident fund, £lOOO )
* Including 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
Earnings of these trustee cos.- are derived
from corpus and other commissions
from investment of their own funds. The
moderate corpus and commission charges
are anchored by legislation, and always
have been. The cos. have been thus un-
able to lift charges for their services to
offset, or help offset, the inflation of costs
due to imperative war spending. Because
peace-time organisation for war, indus-
trial and otherwise, in Australia was on
a quite inadequate scale, a whole net-
work of expanding controls —each new
control produces a crop of further con-
trols —had to be suddenly introduced to
meet the needs of the present rapidly-
developed war situation. It needs to be
remembered, however, that on the finan-
cial side these controls deal only with the
symptoms, not the causes of inflation.
Among other things, the restrictions
have forced down interest rates and kept
rents low, which means only moderate
returns for the cos. from investment of
their own funds, represented mostly by


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
ffitain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIJEa & COLEISUN, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anfi Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
f/jf Br/ffdh
Sfurdo
Ke/ioMe.,
SUPPLIES ARE SMALL
BUT EVERY EFFORT IS MADE
ID DISTRIBUTE EVENLY.
SUPREME
DIPLOMA
MADE IN ENGLAND
m
s
YOUR ASSETS
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hands. Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith, Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
SIDITtiBOVDEIUCO
133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Your personal
Post-War World
6 practical things you can do
to make it a happy one
A COMFORTABLE home, good food and clothing,
education for your children and a feeling of security.
Doubtless that is your idea of a personal Post-War world. How
can you attain it?
Here are 6 practical things that' you and your family
can do:
*
(1) Buy and hold War Bonds to the limit of your
capacity.
(2) Pay willingly your share of the taxes —even of
increased taxes.
< 3 ) Work as hard —and as long—on your job as you
can so as to keep down the cost of the things or
services you are producing.
(4) Provide for your own and your family’s future by
adequate life assurance. (Most of the money you
put into Life Assurance will go into War Loans
and so serve a double purpose.)
(5) Buy only what you need and make what you have
last longer.
(6) Live faithfully by the rationing Rules and the
Price Fixing codes.
If you do these things you will play your part In avoid-
ing the tragedy of inflation and in making your personal Post-
War World a happy one.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman,
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq,,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary,
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb. Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
L U O 0 WICI S
have the
■OEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
9 #
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
LEATHER
BELTING
PULL E Y a
CO UPLI NGS
•
SHAF T I N G
0
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
pfMU/rv
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Government securities and rent-produc-
ing freehold. Further, the said restric-
tions and the caution they produced
among investors have slowed up realisa-
tion of estates and affected corpus and
other commissions. Thus trustee cos.
have long been subject to the “price-ceil-
ing” principle,, and have been compelled
to absorb expanding costs within the
business, without hope of subsidy.
However, war and the uncertainties,
complications and controls it has pro-
duced have created a new and urgent
need for the revision of wills, as well as
thrown into still bolder relief the many
advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee. This partly, explains the
rate of expansion in the volume of busi-
ness entrusted to the expert care of the
cos. The next table shows how the busi-
ness of the T., E. and A., Australia’s oldest
and second-largest trustee co., has stepped
along:
Gross Exes. p.e. of
Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1920.. £13,533,081 £41,924 £25,538 60.9 p.c.
1930.. 23,674,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 „
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 „
1937.. 29,399,725 86,672 71,541 82.5 „
1938.. 30,615,311 87,913 72,709 82.6 „
1939.. 30,283,146 94,375 79,070 83.8 ~
1940.. 31,379',997 93,550 79,545 85.0 „
1941.. 31,952,948 97,453 83,414 85.6 „
1942.. 33,019,984 99,892 88,529' 88.6 „
1943.. 34,443,143 95,523 84,001 87.9 „
* After providing for contingencies.
Last term there was a growth of
£1,423,159 in the volume of trusts on the
books. Still, after providing for income
tax and contingencies, gross earnings
from all sources were £4369 lighter. The
drop was more than offset by a saving of
£4528 in exes., due almost wholly to a
shrinkage of £4159 in rates and taxes
(£10,935). The net result was thus prac-
tically unchanged at 8.1 p.c; pn capital
as against 8.1, 10, 10 and 10.9 p.c. back
to 1939. Half a point was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 7 p.c., and £lOOO
was sent to the staff fund.
When the books closed the £140,000 of
paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of £154,744 of reserves. The lot,
together with £3O coming to outsiders,
was represented by the Sydney and Mel-
bourne offices freeholds, £127,000 (down
£650); fittings, £ll,OOO (down £1000);
Government securities, cash, etc.,
£162,675 (down £2761).
Golden Plateau is giving attention to
three wolfram shows at Kildare (Q.),
proposing to cart the ore 36 miles to the
Cracow mill for crushing and concentra-
tion. Production of the steel-toughening
mineral is “to be looked upon as a
national effort”; “unless improved
results are obtained we will not make a
profit,” one of the snags being that the
erratic nature of the chutes necessitates
expensive handpicking of. ore. With
the scale of goldmining activity lopped
in half, div, prospects thus remain
uncertain. It was this restriction of
treatment, associated advance in costs and
reduction in head values from s.sdwt.
to 4.9dwt. that caused last year’s land-
slide in profits:
Re- Mine
Year, Treated, eovery.eost,* , —Dividends^
June, Tons. Ton. Ton. Surplus. Share. Amt.
1942.. 74,592 57/3 18/5 £115,006 2/- £84,000
1943.. 88,722 44/3 21/- 29,942 1/- 42,000
* Excluding development.
The impact was cushioned by capitalising
wolfram expenses of £2227 and by an
enforced cut in development from
£19,533 to £6451. Despite this curtail-
ment reserves of proved and probable
ore (111,300 tons, grade 4.Bdwt. tons)
stand only 10,000 tons lighter, widths and
heights in the slopes panning out better
than expected. After its rich youth the
mine appears to be settling down as a
low-grade producer, and manager Miller
reckons normal man-power would
quickly see production back to former
dimensions. Meantime, small-change in
the till and elsewhere tots up to £80,750,
while stores of £23,645 indicate that
essential supplies are being well main-
tained.
Profit of Hill 50 (W.A.) for the year to
June 30 last was £31,190, compared with
£63,264 for the preceding 13 months. Out
of the latest figure £6288 is allowed for
depreciation and £3247 for expenditure
on the now-abandoned Morning Star
option. Gold-production receipts totalled
£99,961, and interest received, £lBl.
Working costs averaged 425. 6£d. a ton,
against 355. Id. Directors attribute rise in
costs to a material decrease in the ton-
nage treated, increase in the price of
stores and parts used and lower efficiency
of labor. However, all-in-all they regard
results as satisfactory. Ore reserves
(owing to restricted development, none
were opened up during the year) are esti-
mated at 219,096 tons of s.B3dwt. (un-
changed) average grade. By reducing the
tonnage of milling ore and transferring
machine miners the main shaft was
deepened to 400 ft., and “everything is in
readiness to open up this level when
miners become available.” New general
manager T. Peart, formerly of Mt. Mag-
net and Youanmi mines, says:
Over the last three months of the year,
which covers the term of my engagement
with the co., the greatest difficulty has
been the irregular and inefficient labor
force available for any class of mining.
Until conditions show some’ improvement
it cannot be expected that any substantial
progress can be made towards the com-
pletion of essential development. The mine
fully justifies the continuation of progres-
sive development of profitable ore-bodies
that have been followed down by winzing
below No. 3 level and to explore other
promising avenues where similar deposits
to those already located may be found.
There were three divs. aggregating
£28,125 during the year.
* * * *
From Jo’burg: Average earnings of
the 300,000 blacks in the South African
goldmining industry are 2s. 3d. a shift,
according, to the Producers’ Committee
of the Transvaal Chamber of Mines. In
addition to cash earnings, supplementary
benefits like tucker, living quarters, medi-
cal benefits, etc., come to 2s. a shift,
Total wage expenditure on colored labor
in 1942 was £12,730,628.
Latest sales in Melbourne of the ord.
shares in N.Z. Forest Products have been
at 10s, In New Zealand turnover has
taken place at prices up to Bs. Pacific
Forests ords. have sold at ss. 9d. in Auck-
land.


RESERVED MEN
This is the war’s
biggest job
Flying in the RAAF is the war’s
biggest job —so vital that what-
ever your present occupation, re-
served or otherwise, you are
invited to apply for enlistment as RAAF Air Crew. So
come forward now! Thousands more young men are
required to fly the world’s finest aircraft, now becoming
available in ever-increasing numbers.
For training as PILOTS, NAVIGATORS and
WIRELESS OPERATOR-AIR GUNNERS, age
limits: 18 to 32 years.
* JOIN THE
MAP
am CREW
RAAF4.26
Apply personally or by letter
to your nearest R.A.A.F.
Recruiting Centre or local
R.A.A.F. Committee.
STATE EXPRES.
m
aiarayspieade !
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
IBBBP-H.41
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Australian Industry After the War
Following what was an outspoken but
reasonable address in view of the wish-
ful thinking and false sentiment that form
so much of the base of the Australian
political outlook today, H. J. Hendy,
president of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures, found himself attacked
both from the pulpit and by the Sydney
“Herald.” The pulpit has the precedent
of both the Archbishop of Canterbury
(“Not only is the capitalist system sordid ;
it doesn’t even work”) and the Dean of
Canterbury (Socialist Sixth of the
World) ; the “Herald” has Freetrade ante-
cedents, though, its present economic
policy, like its political outlook, has
become confused. The “Herald’s” sub-
leader dealing with the manufacturers’
post-war aims suggested confusion rather
than Freetrade.
This is portion of the “Herald” blast:
If anything could undermine public faith in
the future for which we fight, it would be the
“Back to 1939” movement proclaimed in Mel-
bourne last week by the president of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures. “With all the
theorising of economists and social welfare
experts about the Golden Tomorrow,” said
Mr. Hendy, “I detect too strong a tendency
to accept as inevitable a lowering of tariffs.”
The hopes of the peoples who have undertaken
this war of liberation from tyranny, however,
are not thus to be brushed aside merely be-
cause some community of manufacturers or
other sectional interest fears that the “new
order” may involve it in some future incon-
venience. Mr. Hendy expresses concern lest
the “remarkable progress” of Australian manu-
facture should be “washed into the sea be-
cause of the implications of any mutual-aid
agreement or any other document.” No such
criticism was voiced by Mr. Hendy at the
time when American aid was inaugurated.
The actual statement of H. J. Hendy
was:
I am for Australia and Australian manu-
factures. And I want to say, very emphati-
cally, that manufacturers in Australia, par-
ticularly those who assume the responsibility
of leadership, should have no doubt at all as
to tire precise point at which all discussions
about the future of our industries should begin.
In all the talk about charters, pacts, agree-
ments and the. like, in the undisguised concern
of oversea manufacturers for their future ex-
port markets, with the implications of lend-
lease so clearly unstated and unknown (in this
country at least), with all the theorising of eco-
nomists and social-welfare experts about the
Golden Tomorrow, I detect too strong a ten-
dency among some who I think should know
better: to accept as inevitable —to accept be-
fore we have even said a word in our own
interests —a lowering of tariffs, the barter of
trade agreements and pacts and to capitulate
before what may be the damaging implica-
tions of charters and agreements. To my mind,
nothing could be tnore harmful to the future
prospects of our people and of Australian
manufacturing industry than such a weak and
precipitate surrender.
Mr. Hendy then gave what is the key to
the reason for his analysis and warn-
ing : “If we. capitulate without a
struggle we may be assured that no one
else will fight for us.” Australians who
are depending on manufacturing for their
existence, whether they know they are
dependent or whether they don’t, are rely-
ing on the manufacturers’ association to
protect lt may be accepted that
nobody in the Commonwealth under-
stands the economics of factory produc-
tion so well £s manufacturers. If fac-
tories are necessary in Australia, the obli-
gation of preserving them rests with the
controllers of the factories. Australians
as a body have recently shown astonish-
ing reluctance to accept obligations. of a
national character. Their attitude is re-
flected in their Government.
Hendy quoted Treasurer Chifley, who is
also Minister for Post-war Reconstruction:
The ordered development of secondary in-
dustries in Australia after the war will be no
easy task. We are committed to the Mutual
Aid Agreement, which most of the United
Nations have signed with the U.S.A., and the
signature of this agreement may suggest that
Australia will not be entirely free to develop
her secondary industries without regard to the
special interests of other countries. But if
Australia has obligations to the rest of the
world, her first obligation must be to herself,
and the Mutual Aid Agreement certainly does
not envisage a restoration of the status quo
as it existed before the war. It provides for
positive action by all the countries, designed to
bring about a general raising of living standards
throughout the world.
That statement by Mr. Chifley is some-
what cryptic in its references to the
Mutual Aid Agreement. Although the
Minister speaks of Australia’s first obli-
gation being to herself, the suggested
commitments under mutual aid are
enough in themselves to arouse public
concern. Certainly they have never been
fully discussed. In protecting our own
legitimate industries not only are we
looking after ourselves; we are protecting
the interests of those who sell to us, as
unless we can pay for what we buy only
trouble is caused.
Eric A. Johnston, president of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, recently
said in Britain: “I think that the
more a country passes from economic
backwardness to economic forwardness
the more it will buy.” In this connec-
tion the remark of Mr. Hendy seems
apropos: “It should be left to us, who
know our way of life, who know the
Australian outlook' and temperament, to
carve out our own system for ourselves,
without importing from some other
country any other economic set-up or
way of life.” If overseas countries show
improvement on our methods, let us take
what we want of those methods and leave
what we don’t want. But we should
never give away our right of choice.
Apparently the “Herald’s” mention of
a “back to 1939 movement” was a fig-
ment of its own imagination. Mr. Hendy
in fact has very different views:
Whatever was the status quo ante bellum,
referred to by Mr. Chifley, I am not concerned
at all with preserving that, because I do not
regard it as a proper or adequate measuring-
rod of industrial development in this country
as it will be at the end of hostilities. During
the past four years Australian manufacturing
industry has made remarkable progress in
operative skills, the production and use of
machinery and in scientific and technical know-
ledge, and I am concerned about that—con-
cerned that it will not all be washed into the
sea because of the implication of any Mutual
Aid Agreement, or any other document, in
terms written or implied, open or secret.
It is wide of the mark for the “Herald”
to say that “no such criticism was voiced
by Mr. Hendy at the time when Ameri-
can aid was inaugurated.” So far as the
war with Japan is concerned, one of the
first public statements by General Mac-
Arthur in Australia was to the effect that
he had come to this country in order to
retake the Philippines. The efforts of
both Australians and Americans in the
preservation of this continent are essen-
tial to the recapture of the Philippines.
In the circumstances it does not appear
necessary for post-war economic obliga-
tions to arise out of a joint war effort
and “mutual aid.”
Speaking to British businessmen, the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce president
already quoted said:
Americans overwhelmingly have no inclina-
tion to try to revise your economic methods
or your political methods in the international
field. On the other hand, they do not intend
to revise theirs. They do not intend to prac-
tise or to promote political dominance or eco-
nomic dominance by people over people any-
where. They respect your conscience. They
also respect their own. They want to start
with the situation as it is. Only our extreme
and unrepresentative theorists in the U.S.A.
want to start with a new heaven and a new
earth. Americans overwhelmingly want to
start with things as they are and then see
what co-operation between Britons and Ameri-
cans is possible. This can be accomplished
without injury to consciences on either side
and with benefit not only to both sides but to
other peoples as well.
It would appear that critics of Hendy’s
address are out of touch also with United
States opinion. “Only our extreme and
unrepresentative theorists in the U.S.A.
want to start with a new heaven and a
new earth”!
Mr. Hendy again:
If the Mutual Aid Agreement, or any other
agreement, provides for positive action to bring
about a general raising of living standards,
the world had better know that Australia will
be best able to implement such provisions by
continuing the upbuilding of our industries
from the point where they are at war’s end.
Any “plans” the present Government may
have in mind for secondary industry that will
enable it to contribute to Australia’s post-war
development are very important. I do not,
however, take kindly to any suggestion that
Governments need to “plan” for manufacturing
industry, because, inevitably, plans breed con-
trols, and official planning is of such remark-
able fecundity that controls are soon about
us like a swarm of locusts
We will, most assuredly, require our lives
and businesses given back to us after the war,
in the name of that freedom for which we have
fought, and for which so many of our sons
and daughters have suffered and died.
One of the problems of the post-war period
will be finance. The proper handling of finance
will undoubtedly be a condition precedent to
any useful work being done in the post-war
years. One can but express the hope that there
will be no''theoretical experimentation with the
country’s finances.
The Government of that day should set its
face against the adoption of any wild theories,
however strong the pressure or from whatever
source, under the mistaken notion of some of
my young economist friends, who airily dis-
miss consideration of possible financial diffi-
culties with the profound generalisation that
“money won’t matter in the post-war years.”
At the end of the war it is obvious that in-
dustry should possess the necessary financial
resources to refit itself for the task ahead of it.
To use a colloquial expression, industry should
now be allowed to retain a little “fat” to see it
over lean years, and allow it to remain the


Queensland
Insurance Go.
. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
BRANIJAUtR’S
m
r,**
i
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
Ido not experiment with imitations.
a BBAHDAUB& A 00, IMI. BIRMISO UAM. ENO
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty..Ltd., King Street. Sydney.
mare fr
a
%
mmm
T 'I
■
In addition to equipment for the three fighting
services, wherever there is a heavy haulage job on
the Home Front, there you will find Olympic
Tyres “pulling their weight” for Victory
rHE Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.,
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
W
ltedl)
.Esr>
INSULATED
CABLESk
1
i I I :
m
LEADERSHIP
In the field of technical and scientific development—and still more in the
stress of commercial competition—leadership is a position not easily
earned or lightly held. Nor is the house of Philips unmindful of the
obligations which leadership entails; the confidence of the public for
over fifty years is a proud responsibility.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
In cases which do
not quickly respond
to lodex treatment
see your Doctor.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
IN CASES OF
STIFFand SWOLLEN
JOINTS, SPRAINS,
RHEUMATIC TWINGES
AND STRAINED MUSCLES
lODEX gives
Quick Relief.
The value of lodex has been proved in
thousands of cases. Owing its potency
to its great penetrating power, lodex,
gently massaged into the affected part,
goes right to the seat of the trouble,
reducing inflammation, congestion, and
quickly easing pain.
NO-STAIN lODINE
source of employment for the thousands who
will be released from purely war-time avoca-
tions.
Without political white-anting, whether
from internal or external sources, Aus-
tralia is going to have trouble enough
when the war is over to keep its indus-
tries active and its people employed. For
a period the war-time arrears of civilian
production and the very real deprecia-
tion of capital assets that has taken place
over the past four years may be a stimu-
lus to re-employment—provided plant
overworked during the war can keep
going. But great financial and industrial
disorganisation has accompanied the war.
Costs have risen steeply, and in many
industries labor has deteriorated under
job-control and anti-social doctrines.
They are problems that can be overcome
right enough, provided they are tackled
the correct way. But we must get down
to realities, and avoid mirages of “a new
heaven and a new earth” and a “Golden
Tomorrow.”
An improved standard of living with-
out loss of our traditional freedom
is what we seek. Better living con-
ditions will still come from the old
sources —frpm energetic and intelligent
work, from invention, from controlled
imaginativeness, from organisation .and
from co-operation and toleration among
the people themselves. The war itself,
except by accident or coincidence, has
made the achievement of improved living
standards no easier. This war is primarily
one against aggression—for life rather
than national death. Those who see
other extravaganzas will largely be found
among people who have voluntarily
shouldered little of the war’s heavy
burden.
It is announced that the Fourth
Liberty Loan was oversubscribed without
the goal of 750,000 contributors having
been reached. Great use was apparently
made of the funds deposited in the sav-
ings banks, which have been rising
steeply. This secondary investment of
savings in the war loan has its inflationary
dangers, and to that extent these loan
operations are a dubious success. Only
severe controls on spending are prevent-
ing depositors using their savings-bank
credits in their own way. The Govern-
ment is at present spending their money
on war. There will come a day when
depositors will want to spend their money
themselves. This double spending of one
lot of money is highly inflationary. That
is why direct investment by savings-bank
depositors in war loans is so desirable.
* * * *
The Canadian Fifth Victory loan of
$l2OO million was oversubscribed by
$82.6 million.
» • * »
The obligation to invest in war loans
as a condition of real-estate purchase (B.
10/11/’43) w ill not apply to people who
are buying homes for their own occu-
pation or to farmers buying land which
they intend to work themselves. Mr.
Chifley says the institution of the war-
loan rule in property purchases followed
an investigation which revealed that some
people were trying to put all their funds
into property and ignoring the nation’s
needs for war-loan money.
* * * *
Smuts, of South Africa, says that the
policy of his Government is to preserve
the system of free enterprise, but some
form of State control after the war will
be necessary. It was a question of how
much and what form of control was
needed. Except to bridge the transition
period from peace to war, he believed that
war-time controls should not continue.
It was not the Government’s policy to
enter into competition with private
undertakings, but it would have to find
out by experience how extensive controls
should be and what form they should
take. This formed part of the State’s
“wider responsibility,”
* * * *
From the August New England Letter
of the First National Bank of Boston:
Under a dynamic economy the Government
would play a passive role, except in the case
of emergency. Its primary function should be
formulating the rules of the game and their
impartial enforcement. It should stimulate
and not stifle private initiative, and should en-
courage the people to help themselves instead
of supplying them with crutches, although, of
course, necessitous relief should be provided.
Moreover, it should adopt policies that make
for a smooth-running economy, free from the
gyrations and speculative influences that leave
glaring maladjustments and tragedy in their
trail. Above all, it should conduct the affairs
of State in a manner that makes for national
unity, which is essential to the full utilisation
of our powers.
Me sfc
In whatever mess our money and our
man-power are left by a weak and/or
ignorant Government and an inflated
war-time bureaucracy, Australians will
have to take the view that it is a mess
that must be got out of in the end. The
dropping of bundles now will not only
tend to make the mess worse than it need
be ; it will also add to the moral diffi-
culties of shaping up to hardship and
worry when delayed-action prbblems
have to be faced. The facts are that there
has been no equality of sacrifice among
Australians during this war, monetarily
or otherwise, there has been far too much
pay for too little done, and there has
been gross waste on all sides. Many who
have evaded payment of their share of
the war while the war was on will have
to pay the hard way later on. In spite
of hardships of that nature, Australia will
survive. But in order to make survival
less difficult we should attempt to face
up to facts now. After all, we have had
four years in which to get over our
muddling, and the same period in which
to scrap sectionalism. The virtual failure
of every war loan but one since Labor
took office, in spite of the huge savings
being accumulated by wage-earners, is
indicative of the phony nature of Labor’s
philosophy as dealt out to its adherents
in the past. When put to ‘ the test it
fails palpably. But Prime Minister Curtin
admits no failure. He is too much the
party politician. The nation has to bow
to the party.' It is a state of affairs that
will need to change.
* * ,* *
The O. Gilpin firm disclosed a loss of
£41,555 for the year ended June 30.
Shareholders were critical of the position
at the annual meeting; a suggestion that
the co. go into voluntary liquidation or
dispose of non-paying country stores was
opposed by the board. The chairman
said that with the decentralisation of in-
dustry which had begun during the past
year people would be encouraged to
return from the city to the country, and
this would cause improvement. Mr. P.
Lee, solicitor for the co. and executrices
of the Gilpin estate, said that the late O.
Gilpin had executed an equitable mort-
gage over his home and his shares in O.
Gilpin, Ltd., in favor of the co. to cover
£53,000 owing to it. As soon as probate
was granted the executrices would execute
a deed in favor of the co. Mr. Gilpin’s
estate had a total liability of £199,622,
including £133,570 uncalled capital on
140,000 shares in the co. on which only
had been paid up. Assets amounted
to £157,472, leaving a deficiency of
£42,150. Since the probate statement was
filed additional liabilities had increased
the deficiency to £67,321.
* * * *
Senator Keane, Minister for Customs,
says that illicit stills producing cheap,
poisonous “wine” and other liquor had
been discovered by Customs officers since
the restrictions on liquor output had re-
sulted in black markets. Keane added
his belief that, unless reasonable supplies
of beer were maintained, illicit stuff would
have an injurious effect on soldiers and
civilians. In Britain the only interference
with liquor has been to reduce its alcohol
content and increase the excise steeply.
In Australia, apart from control of out-
put, the malt position has affected brew-
ing capacity.


THE SERVICE MAN
Trials at Finschhafen.
“Ek. Bum”: The position in the Huon
Peninsula remains substantially un-
changed. In the advance from the Ramu
there has been no material progress re-
cently, and in the dreamlike foothills of
the Finisterre—the dream becomes a
nightmare on closer acquaintance—the
foremost Australian spearheads live
among precipices in a war which is more
like a rock wallaby hunt would be if the
rock wallabies were in hundreds or thou-
sands and heavily armed. There is some
consolation in the fact that the climate is
healthier than in the jungle swamps.
The approaches up the Ramu, especi-
ally in the last stages, are over rippling
brooks, brawling over pebbly beds, and
through plains and valleys relatively open.
The landscape seen from afar has an
ethereal quality. '
But at this time the weather is at its
worst. The monsoon rains are on ; the
brooks are wide spates of hurrying water ;
the land, which can be pleasant at some
seasons, is mud underfoot. Slopes be-
come Luna Park slides. The patrols
along the narrow cliff paths must be
doubly wary. At any time a slip would
send them down hundreds of feet into
the tangled rubble and undergrowth
below. Now the boot leather sometimes
feels as if it were perpetually falling on
wet, slithering orange peel. And the
further the patrols push into the hills
the greater will the cold be at night.
Contrast this with the lot of the men
at Finschhafen. A year ago they were
under the brilliant stars of Egypt, where
it was just beginning to rain. But behind
them were imminent leave, city lights, all
the comforts of home. The sick and
wounded were already in base hospitals
far from Alamein, as well cared for as
they could be in Sydney.
The Soldier in His Hole
At Finschhafen the coastal monsoon
rains come down in a steady deluge.
The Digger lives in a hole in the
jungle like a bean in a pod, for Jap
bombers may come over at any moment,
and often do.
The hole is wet, clammy and cold all
round and lined with loose mud, which
comes off on the fingers. Occasionally
the rain accelerates and then a shower
of jungle soup pours down on the back
of the neck, or the hole fills with dirty
water altogether.
It is almost impossible to keep warm,
in spite of the clammy heat, once the wet
gets into one’s bones. Perspiration drips
permanently out of the pores, sapping
energy. Clothes are never dry —attempts
to dry them when they are washed are
doomed to failure.
Few men can be clean and shaven
Razors and blades rust and corrode in a
matter of hours. The heads drop off
matches —anybody who has been in this
climate knows the sensation, when he
was “newchum,” of putting his hand into
a pocket and withdrawing it, tangled in
the wreckage of a box covered with wet
phosphorus. Soap disintegrates. Boots
mildew in a matter of hours. Hang your
coat on a limb and the sweaty collar may
be covered with fungus in the morning.
The humidity seeps through blankets.
But it is necessary to sleep in a half-
suffocated condition under waterproof
sheets, forming a roof over the slit
trench or hole, with a mosquito-net for
good measure. These precautions will not
keep out the ingenious insects of New
Guinea, whose name is legion, and whose
teeth are manganese steel dipped in
poison. The mud seems septic.
Attack or defence in the sodden, trod-
den mass of the Finschhafen perimeter,
which opens on the A.I.F. side every
little while to allow in natives carrying
possessions, who have spent sleepless
weeks trying to escape from the sand-
wich of fire in which they have lived ip
no-man’s land, is a horrible affair.
Bamboo has been planted round
Finschhafen, so that the rain forest there-
abouts is more like Burma and wetter
India than New Guinea proper. The
bamboo has become thoroughly accli-
matised and forms dense palisades, which
sway and switch and creak and squeal
perpetually in the wind of a night. Bam-
boo in the tropics is not the feeble vege-
table sometimes seen in southern botani-
cal gardens. It is a towering, swaying
forest of closely-packed flagpoles with
roots of volcanic iron. Splintered by
artillery fire, it becomes knives and
needles; and its broken bases are about
as safe to walk on with sodden and rotten
boots as btoken bottles.
To the Jap it is a familiar feature of
the landscape. He knows its habits and
its uses. To him it is an asset and a
touch of home. Our men have to learn
its lessons. They are learning them to
an incessant orchestration from the
3000 ft. heights above and from the tree-
tops—the cough and slap of mortar fire,
the sliding rattle of machine-gun fire, the
crump of grenades bursting in under-
growth, the whee-and-crack of rifles.
When the fighting warms up, whether
in attack or counter-attack, it is always
at close quarters, but generally against
the invisible. Even the veteran casualty
clearing station works under fire.
The enemy is somewhat better off.
On the heights of the Saddleback his
lines run or seem to run north-eastward
along a series of hills and spurs; with
natural glacis and walls of loose mud
to be scaled on every side but one of the
approaches, and those walls fortified by
nature from the bamboo zone upwards ;
with sliding detritus, cliffs over which
small waterfalls trickle, spurting occasion-
ally with the heavier showers and vine,
tree and jungle as obstacles. The road,
winding up, has to be negotiated under
enemy fire.
And towards the north the enemy posi-
tion reaches the sea, and itself lies as a
barrier across the maze of kanaka tracks
which run across the eastward foothills of
the Huon ranges, and along the seaboard
to the Maclay coast and Sio and Begad-
jim and Madang.
Wet through, mired to the last whisker,
insect-bitten, sore, tired, reeking with per-
spiration, limited in his diet, longing
for a clean shirt and fresh socks and a
wash, occasionally floating in his bean
pod, sometimes rattled like a shrivelled
seed by bomb or mortar blast in his hole
in the ground of a night, always tensely
busy since his eye must be always open
and his weapons cleaned half a dozen
times every day, the Hero of the veteran
division engaged is a Hero indeed. And
he is actually making progress, stabbing
into the Japanese positions.
Bougainville and Rabaul.
“Ek t)um”: In a sudden and excited
communique Tokyo alleged that a great
sea battle had been fought on November
8 off Bougainville—“to be known as the
second Battle of Bougainville.”
Having claimed already that 56 Allied
warships had been sunk and 78 damaged
between October 31 and November 5,
including two Allied aircraft-carriers, two
heavy cruisers and two destroyers in one
action alone, three aircraft-carriers, four
battleships and two cruisers and three
destroyers the enemy characteristically
added. After Berlin had repeated the
story, with no appearance of excitement
—it mentioned that a Japanese naval
commander had been killed —Colonel
Knox gave the yarn the lie direct.
He said on November 13 that it was
“all false,” and that there had been no
surface engagement in the South-west
Pacific since November 2. The Naval
Secretary’s statement was unqualified and
positive.
General Tojo had, meantime, congratu-
lated Admiral Koga on “the greatest
Japanese victory since Pearl Harbor,”
and Tokyo Radio had announced that
“the third Battle of Bougainville had been
fought” on November 12, Japanese naval
’planes sinking “an enemy cruiser, a large
destroyer and damaging two large air-
craft-carriers, a battleship, a large cruiser,
three small cruisers or large destroyers
and one destroyer.” Jap losses? Thirty
’planes!
On November 14 it was asserted from
Tokyo that “the fourth Battle of Bougain-
ville” was in progress.
Allied Raids
Allied raids on Rabaul the dates
being those of the communiques:
November 8: Vunakanau aerodrome disper-
sal areas bombed and large fires started.
R.A.A F. Beaufort torpedo bombers swept
across Simpsonhafen and Keravia Bay, send-
ing up a freighter in smoke and probably hit-
ting a heavy cruiser. At Bougainville fires
were started on the bivouac area and three
small coastal ships and 12 barges were wrecked
at Kieta, the administrative centre of the man-
dated district.
November 9: Heavy bombers in a noontide
raid dropped 85 tons of bombs on Rabaul’s
Rapopo aerodrome, starting large fires and
damaging installations and barracks. Five
fighters were lost, but nine enemy bombers
and three fighters were destroyed on the ground
and 23 out of 50 intercepting enemy fighters
were shot down. At Buka (N. Solomons) and
in adjacent harbors medium bombers in two
attacks sank a corvette, five small vessels and
two barges and strafed 25 barges at Chabai.
An enemy fighter and a bomber were damaged.
All Allied ’planes returned, but some were
damaged. Two barges were sunk in Tmputs
Bay. Bivouac areas were strafed near Empress
Augusta Bay and five out of 12 dive-bombers
attacking Allied shipping were shot down. A
heavy cruiser and two destroyers were set on
fire by medium Allied units which were believed
to have made direct hits or near misses. At
Buin 72 tons of bombs, in the wake of torpedo
and dive-bomber preparation, were dropped
on Kara ’drome. There was no interception,
but the Allies lost a machine. Their fighter
escort sank five barges offshore. Three “light
and ineffective” enemy raids on Treasury
Island were repulsed.
November 10: Patrol unit's bombed aero-
dromes at Buin, Kahili and Kieta. Enemy gun
positions were blasted round Cape Torokina.
November 11: Two co-ordinated bombing
and strafing attacks were made on Alexishafen,
12 miles from Madang. Five gun positions
were wrecked and 21 ’planes caught on the
ground were wiped out, as well as 14 out of
30 fighters intercepting for certain, apart from
two “probables” ; the Allied force lost three
machines. Thirteen Jap bombers and 13 fighters
for certain, apart from three bombers and four
fighters “probably,” were destroyed in the air
during an attack on Allied shipping at Empress
Augusta Bay. Two ships sustained slight
damage. Eight Allied machines were lost'.
November 12: R.A.A.F. Beauforts attacked
shipping in Keravia Bay, scoring a probable
torpedo hit on a heavy cruiser. Lakunai and
Rapopo aerodromes were blasted in night and
before-dawn attacks, causing fires seen 50 miles
away. One ’plane was lost. Alexishafen saw
further bombing and strafing, and three fighters
and three fuel trucks on the aerodrome were
destroyed. There was no interception, but one
Allied machine was hit by ground fire and
failed to return. Attacks continued all round
Bougainville. Enemy positions near the Laruma
River north of Empress Augusta Bay were hit
and seven of 40 enemy ’planes attacking Allied
shipping in the bay were shot down by gunfire.
Allied torpedo and dive-bombers flew to Ballale
and Kara and left 68 tons of bombs behind
on the runways and dumps, while fighters
strafed whatever objectives they could find in
the surrounding coastline.
November 13: A Japanese cruiser and two
destroyers were sunk, 11 destroyers probably
damaged and 88 ’planes shot down in a three-
pronged Allied assault on Rabaul on November
11. Seventeen Allied machines were brought
down and others were damaged; several pilots
were rescued. The Japs admitted the loss of a
destroyer and 10 aircraft and slight damage to
a cruiser ; they claimed 71 Allied ’planes,*
The Warning of Events
On October 13 General MacArthur
issued a communique which was read by
the Prime Minister in the House of Reps,
and also in the Senate. It recorded the
destruction or severe damage at Rabaul
of 177 aeroplanes, three destroyers, two
merchant ships and 113 smaller craft,
with other vessels damaged.
Since then Rabaul has been raided re-
peatedly, and in these attacks over 500
enemy aircraft have been destroyed, in
addition to many “probables.” After an
attack on Nov. 2 the harbor presented
“a scene of utter wreckage and destruc-
tion,” and hundreds of tons of metal and
explosive have blasted the aerodromes.
Nevertheless, the attackers on Nov, 11
found plenty of food for serious thought
at Rabaul.
The operation was begun after mid-
night by a force of R.A.A.F. Beauforts
—which have figured more in the com-
muniques in the last week than in months
previously. The Beauforts came down
low in the dark in bad monsoon weather
and bombed the dispersal areas at Yuna-
kanau. Some time after midnight a
stately squadron of Liberators sailed over
Lakunai, which is between the town and
the harbor mouth —here, in earlier and
happier times, there was the racecourse.
They left 25 tons of explosives as a
memento. Fires sprang up as they
turned away, to act as beacons and pro-
vide smoke signals for carrier-based
squadrons of torpedo bombers and Hell-
cat fighters and a further force of Libera-
tors from the south, which arrived to give
the harbor shipping an early-morning
shave.
The enemy launched a swarm of
fighters against the machines, but the air-
craft-carriers were the main attraction.
Against 24 interceptors lost over the
harbor, the enemy in his four futile
thrusts against the Allied naval carrier
force had 64 machines shot down.
The significance of the situation lay
mainly in the strength of Rabaul after
it had suffered a month of heavy strokes.
One wave of attackers alone included
40 dive-bombers. Three hundred Japa-
nese ’planes were observed by reconnais-
sance units on the day before the assault
on Rabaul aerodromes, as well as 23 war
vessels in and around Rabaul.
Four Days From Tokyo
A spokesman from General Mac-
Arthur’s H.Q. explained what had mysti-
fied many. He pointed out that by hop-
ping from base to base fighters could be
flown from Japan to Rabaul in four days
and thus it was possible for the enemy
to replenish his forces at the rate of 100
to 150 ’planes a day. And:
In spite of heavy loss, much of which
was due to the initial surprise of his ’planes
on the ground, the enemy is able to main-
tain continuously the strength of his air
force. Little or no pressure is being ex-
erted on him from other fronts, which
enables him to concentrate his air forces
here.
Marines Consolidate
At Empress Augusta Bay, the Ameri-
cans are consolidating and widening their
bridgehead. The two tiny islands which
shelter the northern anchorage have been
occupied, save for some foxhole positions.
The enemy is being pushed out of his
forward artillery posts. Military units
have been landed to reinforce the Marine
Raider battalions that secured the first
foothold under naval guns.
The Marines, pressing on enemy flanks,
have driven the Japanese out of Piva
village in the largest foray so far fought.
The enemy left 300 dead behind and
much equipment, including artillery. To
November 13 about 500 of the enemy
had been killed. Piva is on the Laruma
River, about six or seven miles north of
the bay, where the main Japanese resis-
tant force northward is concentrated, and
where enemy reinforcements were landed
during the week from a warship.
Grim fighting lies ahead for Bougain-
ville. Jts defences are barely scratched.
And, as at Finschhafen, it is obvious that
the Jap is not giving away any strong
defendable strategic position without
fighting for it inch by inch.
On Choiseul, the long island to the
south-east of Bougainville, the enemy is
still in possession. The'communique of
November 12 announced:
Our paratroop battalion which raided
Choiseul as a diversionary measure for
the landing on Bougainville, having fully
accomplished its mission, has been with-
drawn.
The enemy lost 143 dead in the landing
at Voza against nine Allied dead and 16
wounded. The American force made
only a patrol advance, clearing out some
enemy position. It did not make contact
with any main force.
Darwin Raided
During the week operations were
limited in extent in the north-west Aus-
tralian sector. The largest and most far-
flung raid was made by Liberators, which
dropped 27 tons of bombs on Soerabaya,
Java’s most important naval base.
On November 7 a wholesale sweep by
long-range fighters and medium bombers
was made on all positions in the Tanim-
bar Islands, which are only 200 miles
from the Australian Arnhem Land coast.
The attack was continued later in the
week.
On Friday, November 12, Darwin,
which had been immune from attack for
several weeks, had its 64th raid. Before
dawn nine enemy machines came over.
Spitfires went up promptly and Flying-
Officer J. H. Smithson, Oakleigh (Vic.),
shot down two raiders —he already had
two fighters to his credit. Only minor
damage was done by the raiders.
In the Ellice Islands Funafuti was
raided by 30 enemy bombers. Small
damage was caused and two men were
wounded.
The European Sandwich.
“The Dnieper retreat would not have been
necessary but for the betrayal by the Italian
divisions. The Donetz Basin, Kharkov, the
Kuban and much more were actually lost at
Augusta and Catania.”
—Berlin “Boersen Zeitung,” 25j101’43.
“Ek Dum”: It was the Eighth Army
of Montgomery which wrested the east
coast of Sicily from the Germans. It
was the day it captured Augusta that the
great German retreat in Russia began
to move in the Orel region.
The Eighth is, of course, not the same
Eighth Army as that which won Alamein.
Its Australian and New Zealand divisions
have been detached, along, with some
British divisions and Indian units. It is
a constantly changing mosaic whose pat-
tern alters to suit circumstances, but its
core remains unchanged. Somewhere in
the van there are always the three motor
caravans —a bedroom, an office and a
guest room —which form the unosten-
tatious forward H.Q. of General Mont-
gomery and his two young aides.
Somewhere behind is the large general
organisational H.Q. which its commander
rarely sees. The main force itself is
built round the two veteran northern
Divisions—the 50th (Northumbrian) and
51st (Scottish). Much of General Ander-
son’s First Army has been woven into
its new pattern.
The 50th Division are nearly all
Geordies —Northumbrian battalions from
“Newcassel” and thereabouts, with the
Durham Light Infantry: a dour lot
whose vicious little fights near the Sicilian
east coast tore a hole into which the
main torrent of the Eighth Army flowed,
while the 51st carried the Fiery Cross
through the Sicilian Highlands a little
further inland, flanked by Canada’s First
Division.
They had taken the main weight of
Rommel’s attacks all the way back from
the Tobruk region to Alamein in ’42, but
the Geordies boasted that they were
“always nearer to the enemy,” by virtue
of the fact that they bore the brunt
closer to the Mediterranean coast than
Bir Hacheim in the disaster of The Box.
Cut off in the Gazala sector when the
South Africans were overwhelmed at
Tobruk, they fought their way out to the
escarpment, retreated all the way fighting
for 250 miles to Mersa Matruh, were vir-
tually surrounded there again and.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — IN Divorce.
TO JAMES 'EDWARD RUSSELL late of Sydney
New S'outh Wales—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS
AMY BASSETT (falsely called Gladys Amy Russell)
has filed a Petition for Nullity No. 2648 of 1943
on the ground of incapacity to consummate the mar-
raige If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 31st of December 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY Solicitor 2b Oastlereagh Street
Sydney.—(n.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
CD
am
weary and ill-supplied as they were, tore
their way out of the steel ring again like
a tornado, and stuck their grim backs
immovably against the eroded Alamein
ridges. They need all their grimness in
the mountains of Italy.
German Purpose
The hope that the Germans will col-
lapse there is faint, though their demoli-
tions of facilities at Leghorn and at other
points along the west coast suggest that
they may raise false hopes by abandoning
the military imitation of the hero of a
once-popular work written by General
Montgomery’s grandfather {Eric, or
Little by Little ), and, instead of going
downhill steadily, make a dive for the
safety of the Po defence line before
winter sets in thoroughly. Snow has
fallen. The Eighth’s vanguard is north
of the latitude of Rome, which may be
released before long, and which the Ger-
mans are not likely to be eager to destroy
or to see destroyed.
It can be reckoned that the Italian war
is switching into a new campaign. The
old one just concluded may fairly be
summed up in detail.
African Summary
The first stage consisted of the breaking
of the forces of Rommel at Alamein,
which began on October 23, 1942.
Tobruk, 350 miles away, was taken on
November 13 * Tripoli, 1400 miles from
the starting point, on January 23. Within
the first six weeks 700 German and Italian
aircraft were destroyed.
Meanwhile the western section of the
African campaign had begun on Novem-
ber 16, eight days after the Allied land-
ing. It was inhibited in its earlier period
by the conditions of the rainy season and
the necessity of building up reinforce-
ments and supplies to a prudent level.
Even allowing for this, it took only 178
days to annihilate the Axis in North
Africa, with 261,000 German-Italian
casualties in Tunisia alone.
During the campaign 20,000,0001 b. of
Allied bombs were dropped and 1096
enemy aircraft destroyed. In the final
battle, between April 24 and May 4, 3000
bomber and 14,000 fighter sorties were
made. In General Anderson’s break-
through assault on May 5 a way was
literally blasted through the enemy.
Bombs alone were dropped at the rate
of one pound for every eight square yards
over an area four miles long by 1000
yards wide.
Sicily Cut Off
With the interlude of Pantellaria the
oversea campaign began in the air—after
some preliminary bombing—on June 13.
In the first week Sicily was cut off from
Italy by the wrecking of ports and aero-
dromes. In the next eight days Sardinia
was isolated in the same way. On June
26 Sardinia was cut off from Sicily. Be-
tween July 1 and 10 26 attacks were made
on ail-fields affecting Sicilian defence.
Enemy air forces ceased to operate,
railways ceased to be workable. These
operations were a lesson in the new, vast
power attainable in the air.
There followed a great demonstration
of sea and air power. On July 10 the
Allies began to land 140,000 British,
Canadian, American and French troops
on Sicily. They brought with them 600
tanks, 1800 guns and 14,000 vehicles.
They were covered by fighters based on
Malta. In 38 days Sicily was ours. In
the campaign, apart from the bombing of
Italy and Sardinia, 18,000 tons of bombs
—two tons to the square mile —had fallen
on Sicily. The air forces had made
33,000 single machine sorties, had de-
stroyed 451 ’planes and captured 1100.
By August 20 the occupation of Sicily
was complete, and every peahen strategist
was deeply disturbed when General Alex-
ander’s land forces failed to make a
further move for nearly a full fortnight,
even though the move had to be across
a five-mile strait against mountainous
territory.
Actually, the attack on Italy had begun
in the air long before that on Sicily
finished, and the country and the Govern-
ment were being well softened up.
The Eighth Army was again the van.
It landed on September 3. The Fifth
Army’s landing at Salerno was made on
September 9 ; that same day the Eighth
Army occupied Taranto, on the other
side of the peninsula. The Eighth Army
units on the west made contact with the
Fifth Army 250 miles from the starting
point, on September 16, and were in action
on the southern Salerno sectors on Sep-
tember 17-18. On the 19th the Germans
evacuated Sardinia and began to with-
draw from the Salerno area. A week
later (September 27) Foggia, with all its
great organisation as the central pivot of
Axis air-power in the Mediterranean area.
was in General Montgomery’s hands. On
October 1 Naples was ’ captured. By
November 10, four months from the land-
ing in Sicily, six of Italy’s 18 departments
were in Allied hands.
Huge Conquests
Measured in terms of land and popu-
lation Allied conquests since December
5, 1940, apart from the freeing of sea
routes, worked out as follows:
Area.
Africa— Sq. Miles. Population.
Italian territory, Somali-
land, Ethiopia .. 1,173,000 12,700,000
Eritrea and Libya,
French North Africa 3,866,166 36,000,000
In Europe —
Italy and .Corsica .. 47,000 11,500,000
5,086,166 60,200,000
Thus the Allies of the south ha.ve
taken an area going on for twice
the size of Australia with times
its population. They have recovered a
population equal to nearly twice that of
the Ukraine and they have opened up
priceless sea and air routes and ports and
endless stores of labor and raw materials.
The Allies now have in the Mediter-
ranean powerful armies, huge self-sup-
porting supply bases and the largest fight-
ing and mercantile navy ever seen there.
An official British document describes
the Allied Mediterranean air force as
“the world’s greatest striking air force.”
Its reach grows longer. The day-by-
day extension has been fascinating to
watch. Argos, Eleusis and Araxos in
Greece in the first week in October;
Athens, Salonika, Larissa next week;
Skoplje in Yugoslavia next week again;
twice on to Wiener Neustadt, only a few
miles from Vienna.
Two Sandwiches
The Germans are now in two sand-
wiches. The nearest point of the
Russian front below Kiev already is with-
in reach of Alexander’s Liberators and
Lancasters (about 800 miles). Breslau, the
great base for the East, can be bombed
in 500 miles from Foggia. The second
sandwich is that between the Mediter-
ranean and Britain. The enemy meat in
this last April was 1100 miles wide.
English shores are now only 650 miles
from Corsica, 800 miles from Foggia,
Mr. Churchill Sums Up.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Churchill’s speech in
the Guildhall on Lord Mayor’s Day did
much to place the war, and particularly
the war on the Russian front, in its
proper light.
Without lending any countenance to
the belief that the Russians are preparing
to enter Berlin, he praised “the glorious
advance of the Russian Army from the
Volga westward across the Dnieper,”
stressing that “Russian valor, general-
ship and science” had “beaten, broken
and outfought the German Army to an
extent which might prove mortal.” But
he said “might,” not would —he does not
expect impossibilities of the Russians,
knowing what they have suffered.
Then the P.M. said:
I regard this hour as at once the most
hopeful and stirring of any through which
we have passed. It is a reasonable assump-
tion that, unless we make some grave
strategic mistake, the year 1944 will see the
climax of the European war. Uriless some
happier event occurs, on which we have no
right to count, and the hand of Providence
is directed by some crowning mercy, 1944
will see a very great sacrifice of life by the
British and American armies and battles
far more costly than Waterloo and Gettys-
burg Not only the fortunes of this fear-
ful war but also the happiness of future
generations depend upon the fraternal
association of Britain and America, within,
and without prejudice to, the larger world
structure that will be effected to secure the
peace and freedom of mankind.
The thread of warning that the path
to victory was not all strewn with de-
moralised Huns “reeling,” “staggering,’’
“fleeing in disorder,” “bewildered,”
“crushed” and contained in vast “traps”
was sealed thus:
I am proceeding on the assumption that
the campaign in Europe in 1944 will be
the most severe, and for the Allies the
most costly in life, of any we have yet
fought Hitler still has 400 divisions. He
has a police force which gives him a grip
upon the agonised but regimented people
of Germany, incomparably stronger than
anything that has existed before The
German troops, wherever we meet them,
are fighting with their accustomed skill and
vigor. We cannot exclude the possibility
of new forms of attack on this island
This is no time to relax any of our pre-
cautions. This is no time to divide the
unity of the nation.
All this, despite the fact that “Britain
and her allies have had a succession of
almost unbroken victories in every theatre
and on every occasion,” and North Africa,
apart from the shattering damage to Ger-
man industrial centres and the injury to
German morale, which might, “when
combined with other blows,” be “the pre-
cursor of decisive events on the European
front.”
Mr. Churchill’s views were reinforced
by Major-General George Strong, Chief
of U.S. Military Intelligence, who said
also that the war against Japan had
only begun. Japan’s man-power resources
were great, the morale of its armed forces
and civilians excellent, and geographic
factors were giving this enemy enormous
strength, which was in many respects
increasing.
The Russians take a much rosier view
of the situation that concerns them. They
say the Germans and their Axis Allies
have suffered the following casualties on
the eastern front:
Total Casualties
June 22, 1941, Killed, (killed included).
To Dec. 7, 1941 .. 4,200,000
To June 22, 1942 .. 1,380,000 10,000,000
To Nov. 7, 1942 .. 1,864,000 11,250,000
To Nov. 7, 1943 .. 3,664,000 15,250,000
Pattern of Retreat.
Under the strain of the long, heavy
enemy retreat the Russo-German war is
retaining a pattern unvaried since the
first move from the Stalingrad area a
year ago on November 19. The enemy’s
one departure from practice on mainland
fronts was his disastrous leaving of a
force at Stalingrad, hoping to hold the
railway communication knot and detain a
large Russian force while the weak satel-
lite front to the north and south-west was
cleared.
In every retreat in every sector,
with that exception, the order of pro-
ceeding has befen the same. The Ger-
mans have announced a Russian offensive
at some spearhead point. After an in-
terval, the Russians have confirmed the
news. The Russians are then seen ad-
vancing at the rate of miles a day on the
key point of the spearhead. It yields sud-
denly—in some cases its evacuation is
announced in Berlin 24 hours or more
before the Russian announcement of the
capture. The city is found gutted. It
yields few prisoners.
The enemy then announces Russian
offensives on the flanks of the spearhead.
This again is* confirmed. On the flanks,
the same process as in the centre goes
on, except that it is more rapid. Mos-
cow correspondents, none of whom is at
any front, describe vast breaks-through
and the construction of a vast trap in a
salient between the two flanks. The
pursuit of the routed enemy is told in
colorful ‘ language.
Then, on either flank, some strategic
point is reached —say Gomel, on the
southern flank of the Orel sector, or
Orsha on the northern flank. The retreat
stops. It transpires that the trap between
the two flank key posts has not closed on
any appreciable number of troops. But
the retreat all along the line stops.
The Germans have had to confess that
they have suffered severely; that their
losses have been heavy. Snarling wearily,
sore with the battering, they lick their
wounds. For three or four days or a
week peahen writers give it out that
Gomel or Orsha or both are about to
fall. A glimpse at the map shows that
between the two places there is a much
shorter line than when Orel was the spear-
head —one almost straight along natural
obstacles which were being used as war
barriers when Europeans lived in caves
and fought with clubs.
Berlin announces that “the Russians
have begun a heavy offensive” in the
Smolensk (or some other) region—-or
some new spearhead point. “They suc-
ceeded in driving small wedges into our
front, but these have been successfully
sealed off.” Invariable formula, sig-
nifying that the process has begun again.
It has been carried out at Orel, in the
Smolensk sector, in the first retreat from
the Donbas, and now in the second and
third stages of the retreat from the
Dnieper Bend to the Bug or perhaps
the Dniester.
Substantial as the enemy’s losses are,
and however greatly his morale may
suffer, his swift movements are incon-
sistent with wholesale slaughter. When
the Germans were moving forward at the
rate of miles a day they did not claim
heavy slaughter of Russians so much as
heavy captures of prisoners. Captures
of Germans, as announced in the first
week of November, were relatively small
—98,000 in four months, and more than
half wounded, was no crippling total.
More serious, beyond all doubt, are the
depressing effects of the long retreat over
scenes of previous sufferings and sacri-
fices and of the ceaseless fighting, what-
ever the scale.
In the sector south-west of Kiev the
Russians, moving ahead at a pace which
suggested that the Germans had quitted
the sector save for rearguard troops, ad-
vanced 70 miles within a week, got astride
the Leningrad-Odessa line and took
Zhitomir. Zhitomir is 75 miles from the
old Russian border. This advance was a
natural corollary to the taking of Kiev,
and seems to indicate that the Germans
may try to retire at least to the Bug River
line —that is, to the Polish Bug ; there is
another river of the same name in the
Ukraine —and perhaps even further so
as to consolidate the North Italian and
Balkan defences.
In the Crimea the enemy continued to
resist fiercely on the Kerch Peninsula, a
rugged but not very defensible position,
because of its narrowness. Whether he
is engaged in a determined attempt to
hold the Crimea, or in a delaying action
to cover a large-scale sea evacuation —
reading between the lines, he is not badly
off for sea-power —is not so far clear,
but he was reported to be burning Kerch.
Europe was full of rumors of an agree-
ment, made or impending, under which
the Dardanelles would be opened to the
Allies. The Germans hurriedly attacked
Leros in the Dodecanese, chiefly with
airborne troops, in order to strengthen
their grip on the AEgean entrances and pre-
vent the further strengthening of the ring
round Rhodes, on which they have about
a division of troops. At the week-end
they held half the little island, but the
town and harbor were still in Allied hands.
The Schlieffen Plan
It was here suggested as far back as
February last that the German High
Command might be contemplating retreat
as far as the present line or perhaps even
further. It was pointed out that the
younger staff advisers of the last war
favored retreat right into Silesia as a pre-
liminary to offensive measures ; but Hin-
denberg, despite his experiences in 1914,
was not prepared to face the political
reactions of such a measure. The Ger-
man High Command, which learned in
1914, 1916 and 1941 the penalties of
departing from the Schlieffen Plan, may
have at length decided to follow in the
footsteps of their master.
While everyone will agree with Mr.
Churchill about “the deep and dire in-
jury inflicted by the Red Army on the
whole structure of German military
power in Russia,” the strength and enter-
prise which the enemy is showing on
other fronts and his ability to stand up
to heavy blows and long retreats dis-
count the suggestion that his power is
shattered. And it is dangerous to believe
that the Red Army is not itself suffering
or that severe privations are not being
experienced on the home front.
Among several raids, in one of which 500
machines went out to blast the North Sea coasts
and returned with a loss of only one aircraft,
considerable damage was done to North Euro-
pean enemy traffic and facilities. Over Bremen
U.S. Fortresses lost 15 heavy bombers and nine
fighters, but shot down 33 enemy machines and
escorting Thunderbolts and Lightnings 10 more.
Over the Channel three Australian Spitfire
pilots shot down five out of eight twin-engined
Messerschmiti 110’s, and lost one machine,
but no pilots.
* * * *
Enemy raiding over England was on the
normal light scale, but a bomb falling on a
crowded dance hall in the London environs on
Sunday night, November 7, reduced the building
to a mass of rubble and caused a ghastly
tragedy—the worst in London since five teachers
and 29 schoolchildren were killed at Lewisham
last January.
Messrs. Churchill and Roosevelt have an-
nounced jointly that 60 U-boats were sunk in
the three months ended October 31 and 150 m
the last six months. Merchant tonnage losses in
October were the second-lowest in any month
of the war, and in the three months more
enemy submarines than Allied merchantmen
were sunk.
German Radio alleged that 150,000 tons of
small ships had been wrecked or damaged in a
convoy which was dispersed off the African
coast'. No confirmation.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy reports the loss of three de-
stroyers. Borie was holed and had to be sunk
after ramming a U-boat in the Pacific. Henley
went down in the South Pacific as the result
of a torpedo explosion. Chevalier broke in
two and sank off Vella Lavella after being
damaged by the enemy and colliding with an-
other Allied ship.


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer
Never touch the
edges..
..M&
V
S'V-'*
to
..hold Blade
at the end..
• Wash your face first and lather twice as long
as usual.
• Wipe away all moisture from the blade to prevent
rust forming. Reasonable care will double the
life of your blades.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
means safety, waste means disaster—Buy Savings Bonds or Certificates
White WH!
“£!* Whisky
Scotch
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.
Glasgow and London.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
, subject of disquieting
• uiuuis uurmg the week, romped home
ahead of Counsel and Claudette in the
Melbourne Cup on Saturday. He was
the medium of a substantial plunge,
starting equal favorite with Skipton at
7 to 2.
Scare stories circulated about Dark Felt
did not pass unnoticed by the V.R.C.
Following rumors that Dark Felt was an
unlikely runner and that V. Hartney, who
had ridden him to three successive wins,
would be replaced by O. Callinan, a
V.R.C. official was sent to the horse’s
stable to satisfy himself that he was fit.
J. A. Cain, lessee of Dark Felt, made no
secret of his chagrin at “outsiders” hav-
ing backed his horse down to a short
price, while he would be left to take the
“dregs” on race day. Public fears, how-
ever, were set at rest on Friday, when it
was known definitely that Dark Felt
would be a runner and that Hartney
would ride him. Always well placed,
Dark Felt hit the front at the top of
the straight, stalled off Counsel and won
as he liked by three lengths, to give
Hartney a welcome 23rd birthday present.
Few Melbourne Cup winners have had
a more romantic rise than Dark Felt, a
six-year-old entire by Spearfelt (winner
of a Melbourne Cup) from Gallant Elsa.
Originally he was owmed by veteran
trainer F. Musgrave, and learned to
gallop alongside Ajax. His placings for
Musgrave included a third in the Vic-
toria Derby, but he was a maiden when
that owner disposed of him for 500gns.
Since being raced on lease by Cain from
E. W. Spark, Dark Felt has won 10
races for £10,725 in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. He is an infinitely better horse
now than when he finished fourth in
the Melbourne Cup a year ago, and the
Williamstown R.C. handicapper was
justified in penalising him 101 b. to 9.7 for
the Williamstown Cup next Saturday,
in which, however, he will not run. He
carried 8.4 last Saturday. Although Dark
Felt’s lease to Cain was not due to ex-
pire until April next year, an extension
was obtained shortly before the running
of the Melbourne Cup. Cain trained him
for his wins last year, but this spring he
has been prepared by R. Webster,
Counsel had every chance, but was no
match for the winner. Claudette may
have run second had she not been dis-
appointed in going for an inside run at
the turn, and, as winner of a G.N. Hurdle
and third in a Melbourne Cup, she -is
the most versatile mare seen for years.
Precept (Derby winner) and Skipton
(second division Caulfield Cup winner)
disappointed their-backers. They finished
fourth and fifth after being a long way
out of their ground early, but their runs
had finished before the winning post.
Saul, another G.N. Hurdle winner and a
stablemate of Claudette, weakened to
finish sixth after leading to the turn. Gay
Revelry’s rider, Phillips, was the only
jockey with a hard-luck story. He thought
his mount,had a winning chance imme-
diately before he was squeezed badly and
forced on to the running rail at the turn.
Three Wheeler, a stablemate of the Cup
runner-up, Counsel, easily justified her
even-money favoritism for the Oaks
Stakes. Malaga, attempting to lead
throughout, was about 10 lengths ahead
of Three Wheeler coming to the half-mile,
but latter cut her down to win by 31-
lengths, with Hesitate third. Three
Wheeler is a bay by Manitoba from Tri-
cycle, trained by L. Robertson for G. R.
Nicholas and J. C. McDonald. Her last
four starts have yielded three wins and
» _ $0
a third, but it remains to be seen whether
she is better than, her stable mate, Sim-
mering. Latter, who was injured when
she lost her rider in the Derby, is gener-
ally acknowledged to be the best Vic-
torian three-year-old of her sex.
Estimated attendance of 90,000 at
Fiemington on Saturday was not a record
for Melbourne Cup day, but was the
largest since the war. Totalisator turn-
over of however, was an all-
time record for Australia. It eclipsed
the previous best of £l6l, estab-
lished on Caulfield Cup day. Seven races
were run on Caulfield Cup day against
six last Saturday.
* * * *
Large attendances and heavy tote bet-
ting customary nowadays possibly cause
regret on the part of ex-proprietary clubs.
Rosehill was well patronised on Saturday,
and there was a tote turnover of £49,270,
against £32,755 at the corresponding
meeting last year. ,
In a rattling finish, and vigorously
ridden by O’Sullivan, Industry won the
November Flying by a neck from Tah-
moor, after the latter headed him com-
mencing the final furlong. Industry was
never further back than third, Ajixa and
Cradle Song leading into the straight.
Silverelda ran on strongly to finish a
close third. Lagoon did well for five
furlongs, but outside the place-getters
Haddon Hall was most worth noting. He
may yet return to his best two-year-old
form. The time, 1.12, equalled the course
record.
Faerie Queene’s decisive Cumberland
Handicap win suggested that most of her
previous racing had been at distances
short for her. Chatham’s Choice, who
did the pacemaking, with Battle King his
nearest attendant most of the time, had
a useful lead from Haripur entering the
straight, but Faerie Queene (W. Cook)
made short work of him as soon as she
put in her claim. Omapo and Arahura
dead-heated for third without ever being
suggestive of being more than minor
place-getters, and Feltpal, Merrimba and
Pinero were among the “also-rans”
throughout.
In the Two-year-old Stakes Princeton
(W. Cook), who headed Gipsy Lady at
the straight entrance, lasted too long for
Invictus, though only a neck separated
them at the winning post after they had
raced together immediately after turning
for home. Modulation’s 1300gns. brother
Wheatland did not meet with luck in run-
ning, and his third probably made him
better worth following than the first two.
Stuart (Brueghel-Dusky Vixen) and St.
Just (Denis Boy-Valotte) shaped promis-
ingly? and Union Jack, a stoutly-built
half-brother, by Manitoba, to Flight,
showed pace. The winner is by Golden
Sovereign from Politesse (Lord Quex-
Courtesy), who was a speedy galloper.
The first division of the Maiden
Handicap was won in easy fashion by
Manday Son (F. Smith) after Peter’s
Pence had set up a long lead early in the
piece. .Mintage and Cordale filled the
minor places, but were never dangerous.
The latter, however, came from a long
way back at the turn to cut Night Parade
out of third place, and is worth follow-
ing. Faust did not do nearly as well as
the previous week, and Before Dawn also
gave his backers a poor run. Heavily-
backed Thorn, from M. McCarten’s
stable, was unlucky at the start, and was
not after in it. Manday Son is by Man-
fred from Birthday Girl.
The second division of the Maiden
Handicap went to Castle Frontenac (F.
Delaney), another of Genetout’s sons. He
was not prominent in the early part of
the race, but from the top of the straight
ran over his opponents. Beau Rasade, in
second place, ran fairly, and the slow-
beginning Medieval Queen, after being
last at the half-mile, struggled into third
place. Burnooka, a Chatham gelding,
showed pace, leading to the turn, where
Helen M. was also conspicuous. Lavaine
did well up to that point, while marked
failures included Bruegmah and Extend,
Sincerity flattered her backers when
she headed Chatlock nearly a furlong
from home in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, but a newcomer in All Scot (J.
Turner), trained for Hunter White by
W. Kelso, finished too strongly for her.
All Scot was indifferently placed at
the turn. West Point commenced smartly,
but was beaten a long way from home ;
and though Belle. Pomme and Turn
•Again were a couple of the leaders at
the straight entrance they faded away at
the finish. All Scot, who was bred by
his owner, is by Fresco (son of Solario)
from Dundee Lass, by Tippler from For-
far Lass, and is better than he looks.
Dick Whittington (Kelly), who has run
his best races at Rosehill, led round the
turn in the Parramatta Handicap, and
narrowly defeated Glendower, who
should be better at his next run. Gry-
phon was a fair third, without ever quite
looking a probable winner. It was the
same with Edigram, who was fourth,
without displaying any dash, A section
of the paddock spectators demonstrated
against Gryphon’s rider, Mupro, just as
they did against Sincerity’s rider, Thomp-
son, in the previous race. The allega-
tion that Sydney’s racegoers include a
full share of bad losers is regrettably
true.
* ' * * *
After all, Skipton’s defeat in the Mel-
bourne Cup was not a tremendous sur-
prise. Excuse is made for him on the
score that he was galloped on, but
though a good horse he is seemingly not
a great one, and two miles at a very
solid pace with 9.9 evidently proved too
much for him. The Melbourne Cup was
first run in 1861, and only five horses
have successfully carried more than 9.7.
In the Cup Precept also failed to uphold
any idea that he was an exceptional three-
year-old, though his fourth was closer
than anything of the same age got last
year. e
The last mile of the Melbourne Cup
was run in 1.40 j, and the last half-mile
in 50j.
* * * *
Entreaty (dam of Phar Lap) died in
Maoriland last month from blood poison-
ing after foaling a filly. Her age was 23,
and nothing else from her approached
the standard of Phar Lap.
* * *
S.A. Premier Playford went to the limit
in banning racing in his State, but now
that the sport has been resumed there
he is not in agreement with Prime
Minister Curtin’s suggestion that betting
on inter-State races should be pre-
vented, Many Sydney racegoers hold
with Premier Playford. Without any-
thing being really gained thereby it
seemed far-fetched procedure to bar
betting on the Melbourne Cup at Rose-
hill on Saturday. It helped “off-the-
course” business.
* * * *
It is with regret that I record the death
last week of an old workmate, W. J.
Frank, who was associated with the Syd-
ney racing press for nearly 50 years. In
his youthful days he was known as Aus-
tralia’s champion boy walker. Later he
contributed training-track notes, as well
as other matter, to several Sydney papers,
and handicapped for Sydney pony clubs,
his association with Victoria Park in
that capacity extending over 40 years. It
would have been impossible for anyone
to possess a more kindly and generous
disposition than “Bill” Frank, and of him
it can be truly written: “If he could not
do a man a good turn he would never
do a bad one.”
* * * *
Anyone with sufficient money can own
a racehorse, but a win or two does not
necessarily make him “a good sports-
man” (even newspaper brand) in any
sense of the word.
Miscellaneous
Australia once had the best heavy-
weights in the world. If Norm Harvey
and Bob Turner can be accepted as rep-
resentative it now has nearly the worst.
The pair met at Leichhardt, and after a
lot of clumsy brawling the referee stopped
it. Scarcely a solid blow was struck till
the seventh round; and in the eighth
a left and right to the chin had Harvey
hanging on like a leech. He refused to
let go and was declared the loser on a
foul.
In another substitute fight at the
Stadium Jim McKeon gave a good
account of himself against Max
Cameron. Cameron’s greater experience
and speed told after a few rounds, how-
ever, and he won on points.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Manday Son,
1 ; Wee Laddie, 2; Thorn, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (in the ab-
sence of Majesty): Wheatland, 1 ;
Tea Rose, 2 ; Invictus, 3,
Horsley Handicap: Flying Knight,
1 ; Trimmer, 2 ; Cradle Song, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Royal
Peer, 1 ; Goya, 2; All Scot, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Ron Rico,
1 ; Wellesley, 2 ; Faerie Queene, 3.
Leumeah Handicap : Pall Mall,
1 ; Glendower, 2 ; Royal Result, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Time does not wither nor custom stale
the ceremony of Armistice Day. Indeed
as time goes on the fields of fair renown
won by the glorious dead take on an
added verdure. They are for ever green in
memory. Perhaps, too, because so many
of their sons and grandsons have, alas,
joined the “old” immortals, Sydney this
year seemed to regard Armistice Day
with deeper poignancy. Never has the
ceremony at the Cenotaph been more fer-
vently attended. Never have the poppies
heaped against the Martin-place memorial
burned so deep into the city’s conscious-
ness. Lord Wakehurst was one who bore
a wreath to the Cenotaph. Wreaths were
also placed by Federal Minister for
Health Fraser (representing the Prime
Minister), Premier McKell, Mayor Bart-
ley, representatives of the United King-
dom, Canada, Maoriland and India, and
Consuls of the Allied Nations.
The siren voice of Max Lawson could
be heard warbling along the corridor as
soon as the lift stopped at the first floor
of the Australia last Friday afternoon.
He was auctioning a collection of the
delicate vintages of France and Australia
for the benefit of Fighting French
Prisoners of War. Champagne and
liqueurs must have rejoiced to be the
means of helping the men of their coun-
try who had inflicted punishment on the
usurper and the aggressor of the wine-
growing lands of France. The big recep-
tion room to the left of the corridor was
the scene of action, ‘lts rows of chairs
were filled with members of the French
community and their wives and many
Australian friends. Bidding was brisk,
and as bottles were knocked down they
were given back, often to bring even
higher bids. Total for the afternoon
reached about £2500.
The wines had been donated from
private cellars, and Mrs. Andre Brenac
is responsible for the Sydney application
of the bright idea which first bloomed in
Melbourne. Bottles were knocked down
at 15 guineas. Whisky brought fabulous
prices, so did the fine liqueurs. From
£7 10s. to £l5 a bottle was gaily bid.
The Frank Alberts bought a jar of
Bacardi rum for £6O. Vichy even had
to do its share for the French p.o.w.
Two bottles of Vichy water put up for
sale were first greeted with derision, a
few hoots even. Nobody wanted them.
They were put up and up again and in
the end added 10 guineas or so to the
fund. Shortly before five there was a
break for sherry and savories. The sale
was over by six o’clock. Mrs. Andre
Brenac and Mrs. Jimmy Bancks were
among those who secured interesting-
looking bottles.
The first night of Helen Jerome’s stage
adaptation of Charlotte Bronte’s Jane
Eyre saw the Minerva crowded. This
was a gala premiere, and the entire
proceeds benefited the A.C.F. Myra
Morton (Jane) wore her frocks with
grace, and the figure of Edwin Styles
(Rochester) would have made the
fortune of any tailor of his day. In his
pearl-grey wedding raiment he 'was
stunning. Kathleen Robinson was
greeted with applause for her delicately
etched-in character of a housekeeper of
early Victorian vintage.
Toys which belong by right to the age
of innocence must not be denied to the
child at Christmas. Even war must not
be allowed to halt the steps of doll and
dog, teddy bear and lambkin on their
way to the Christmas stocking. Women
members of the Naval War Auxiliary
many weeks ago decided to help the cause
of childhood and their own funds, and
entered the toy-making industry with an
enthusiasm that has stocked a shop in
Rowe-street with gay and gaudy cuddly
animals of every description. The bright-
hued cockatoo, the penguin in his formal
black and white, the doll Rose Marie
around whom a guessing competition is
raging, are all the outcome of the busy
and clever fingers of these workers for
love.
The almost perfect animals in the
Noah’s Ark were, drawn and designed
by Mrs. Kerr. Buckets for the beach and
waste-paper containers for kiddies were
painted with creatures of nursery-rhyme
by Mrs. Howden. The shop has
been crowded out daily, and a
special corner had to be set aside
for the sale of tickets in the competition
for the dolls’ house. This architectural
triumph is the work of Lieut.-Commander
Read, R.N.V.R. It is complete with all
modern conveniences. It blazes with elec-
trics, has the telephone installed, and a
porcelain-fitted bathroom. It has upstairs
and downstairs ; is furnished in the best
style. Its carpets are blue, its curtains of
a crisp whiteness. A doll of royal blood
need not blush to give it as her address.
The N.W.A. ’phone number is MAI 132.
At the Royal last Saturday “The
Pirates of Penzance” lifted the old
skull and crossbones flag and turned
the world into a brighter place for
those who were caught in the net
of their fun-making. New frocks for
all the chorus made a sort of mobile rain-
bow on the Pirates’ private beach.
Florence Taylor, who sang the name
part in Gluck’s “Orpheus,” in the just-
concluded Conservatorium opera season,
came to Sydney from Samarai, in Papua,
which had been her home since child-
hood. For two years she has studied
singing with Mrs. Goossens, of the Con.
staff, and the big and exacting part of
Orpheus was her first appearance in
opera. The voice is a rich and flexible
one, and has a range of two octaves.
Since her marriage four months ago the
singer is Mrs. Alan McEachern (Alan is
a nephew of the widely-known basso
Malcolm McEachern, and has a voice of
the same calibre). Photograph by Geoff
Powell.
Last Monday History House resounded
to the Lunch-time Music Club’s final
concert of the year. It will be March,
1944, when this happy club meets
again. Then, Providence willing and
things going according to plan, the
war outlook will be very different from
that of the ominous lowering days
through which the club has been lifting
its banner and the hearts of many of its
audience. Music-lovers owe a debt to
this lunch-time movement. At least one
person can remember sighing with relief
as the heavy velvet curtains at the door
fell' into place shutting out the war-
heavy world. A very soothing and
steadying effect had the 40 minutes’
music in those trying days. President
Margaret Gillespie, vice-president Mrs.
Gordon Henty and musical organiser
Sydney de Vries deserve a vote of thanks.
Six wheel chairs for patients in a mili-
tary hospital are the reason why
the women’s commitee of the Musical
Association is arranging an outsize
American tea. This “bring a gift and
buy a gift” afternoon will be set in
Paling’s concert hall on Saturday,
December 4. On the afternoon follow-
ing, for the same fund, Mrs. James Brash,
(contralto Alice Prowse) and Mrs. W. S.
Thomson will be joint hostesses at a
garden party set to music at 56 Drumal-
byn-road, Bellevue Hill. Pianist Agnes
Caspers is turning herself into a one-
woman toy factory, and making pink
elephants and blue rabbits to be sold for
the cause.
Mayor Bartley has sounded the tocsin
for the annual general meeting of the
Australian Comforts Fund. This will be
held in the vestibule of the Town Hall at
2.30 on December 20. Lord Wakehurst
has promised to be present. The A.C.F.
is very proud of the 1944 wall calendar
which it has published. This is clearly
printed and has an inspiring design in
color, “Trail of Victory.” Price is one
shilling.
From Melbourne
Cup-day weather couldn’t have been
better. Gently warm, like buttered toast,
with a few little breezes whispering
'about, it was an invitation to an after-
noon in the open air, and many who’d
decided not to go to the races this year
popped on their glad rags and made for
Flemington. As a result the day was far
more social than it has been for years,
for even before the war people were giv-
ing the Cup meeting a miss because, of
the crush. Whether vice-regal endorse-
ment of the occasion had anything to do
with the matter remains obscure, but the
sight of a full vice-regal box garnished
with lots of red tabs and gold braid made
many feel that the good old days were
back again. Lady Dugan had the day
before entertained some of the country
folk down for the races.
It was a great day while it lasted. But
unless someone does something about
the back of the stands, where the book-
makers bawl, a first-class tragedy will
take place if ever the betting crowd gets
panic-stricken through an alarm of fire
or someone running amok. The mob is
so tightly jammed that its members are
helpless. But of course Cup day is pro-
ductive of congestion. Afternoon tea
attracted queues like those that seek
bottled beer on the first of the month.
There were not many inter-State visitors,
but friends from overseas abounded,
squiring the youngest and prettiest
maidens.
Those who wore lightweight spring
suits to the Cup probably came off best.
These were in most cases topped with
vivid little hats, sailors and boaters pre-
dominating. A healthy sign was the re-
turn to freak fashions —last year women
were too war-anxious to play jokes with
clothes. One happy soul wore all white,
mostly satin,, with a veritable cartwheel
hat, also white, and wreathed with
daisies. The worst-dressed women were
in the newest clobber, for the latest pat-
terns aren’t very delectable, and the
quality of silks has fallen off. The
matron’s ensemble (patterned frock and
plain* fine wool, full-length coat) seems
to have been decently buried, for which
nobody grieves, for it had outlived its
period. Actually, so many matrons are
thinner now, result of war-time work,
that they can wear a short jacket.
The newly-elected president of Travel-
lers’ Aid, the Harrison Moore lady, pic-
tured here by Spencer Shier, has an asso-
ciation with the society stretching back to
the foundation 27 years ago. She is in-
terested in the welfare of women and
girls generally, and is a member of quite
a handful of girls’ clubs and the like.
A capacity for succinct speech and a
ready wit go with her zest for good causes
as becomes a daughter of an eminent
legal clan (her father was Justice Edward
a’Beckett). She is the widow of Wil-
liam Harrison Moore, onetime Dean of
the Faculty of Law at Melbourne Univer-
sity.
A cheerful aftermath to Paddy’s
Market was the Lady Mayoress’s meeting
in the Town Hall last week. The
market’s tally for hospital funds was well
over £lOOO, and there were no troubles
except that the younger Campbell,
daughter, Margaret, is in controversy with
animal-lovers who’ve tackled her about
putting kittens in crates. But the kittens
didn’t come to any harm. It’s always a
joy at Mayoress’s room occasions to see
the flowers, straight from the municipal
hot houses. Last week a very good deco-
rative effect was achieved with a small
Japanese maple tree in spring leaves set
before a huge wall mirror flanked by a
lush spray of potted orchids.
Vivacious Merna Yeomans, who bears
the imposing title of Deputy-Director of
Rehabilitation for the Victorian Red
Cross Division, administers a newly-
extended department to care for dis-
charged service men and their families.
Finding the need for this service steadily
increasing the Red Cross has found it a
special spot in the National Bank build-
ings at the corner of Lonsdale- and
Swanston-streets and made the organisa-
tion semi-independent. Miss Yeomans
has had experience of rehabilitation of
sick and wounded men at Heidelberg
Hospital. She also had a spell as an
almoner at Royal Melbourne.
“Watch on the Rhine” having proved
too tough a nut for the theatregoing
public to swallow happily, its season has
been cut short and a production on safer
box-office lines, “Kiss and Tell,” will take
its place. The ill wind that has removed
the first “meaty” play fed to Melbourne
theatregoers for months has run true to
form in doing somebody some good—
Borovansky’s ballet group, which is
bridging the interval at the Comedy for
three weeks before the new play, is
ready.
Opening on Friday night the ballet
was well received by an enthusiastic
audience. Highlight was Dorothy Steven-
son’s “Sea Legend” (she’s an expert
choreographer as well as premiere
danseuse). A macabre effect was con-
tinued in the back-cloth. Dorothy her-
self took the role of the classic sea-
maiden who leads the simple young man
to his watery grave, looking extra
ethereal in grey wig ornamented with
celluloid bubbles. The corps de ballet
throughout looked ravishing with the
heavily-shadowed eye make-up that’s part
of the tradition. It might have started
a trend among the glamorous for blue
shadows and black sweeping lines to
accentuate the peepers if mascara hadn’t
been too rare to squander.
Those who have been mourning those
strawberries of yesteryear, that the war
seems to have spirited away or indulging
in dreams of a country-made fruit-cake,
with no eggs spared, should be in the first
rush when the ’doors are opened on the
C.W.A. Fair in the Lower Town Hall
on November 23. Not only are such
dainties held out as lures, but there is
to be a flower stall with blooms fresh
from the gardens of the Dandenongs. The
fair is to swell the C.W.A. Sheepskin
Fund, which provides vests for members
of the forces in cold spots.
The G.P.O. these days is becoming a
sort of Roman forum. Before the war
the post-officing crowd consisted of
squads of office boys and one or two new
grandpas telegraphing to relatives news
the proud father was too excited to attend
to. Now at all hours of the day the place
is full and buzzing with mothers, sisters,
cousins and aunts sending cables, wires
and canteen orders to service lads and
inquiring whether H.M.S. Sea-Cow can
be reached by post or if a box of plums
would weather the journey to Wingi-
wangi Island.
The pictures that adorn Town Hall
walls are not often up to standard of the
other furnishings. Present holders of
Lud Mayoral honors in Melbourne are
conscious of certain shortcomings on this
score and are making moves to improve
the standard. A deal with the Lyceum
Club for a seascape, overlarge for the
club but likely to be at home in the
Town Hall, has been made. The National
Gallery might be expected to help, but
the Gallery trustees take the view that
their benefactions should be poured upon
schools and the University.
While meteorologists seemed satisfied
to explain that the icy draught this city
was caught in last week was the effect
of “accumulated cold,” those who had to
go about in it were mainly concerned
with covering up. The spring suits and
summer frocks that had been showing
for some time went out of sight again,
and great coat collars went up. Appar-
ently the weather deities got annoyed
about the way people have been saying
“Quite a mild winter, wasn’t it?”
Enid Philip, who staked her first “one-
woman” art show last week (she had
previously contributed to group shows),
is not in the least “arty.” She frankly
admits that she works on her canvases
while the dinner’s cooking and makes
her painting share her duties as housewife
and Red Cross worker. Flower pieces
culled from her own garden form the
bulk of her show, sprinkled with land-
scapes. At an early date nearly every
picture bore a red seal.
In the last two weeks at least four
shows by women artists have been on to-
gether, including the Victorian Women
Artists’ group. The absence on war ser-
vice of so many men artists and the good
market for pictures at the moment may
have something to do with it. Most of
the exhibitors have been kindly treated by
the critics and buying public. Women
who never thought much about it before
are taking an interest in art and acquir-
ing its jargon. One recent convert got a
bit of a shock when in reply to a ques-
tion where No. 43 in the catalogue had
got to the gallery caretaker remarked
“Miss Megilp isn’t here yet; she won’t be
hung till Tuesday.”
Dear Janet Eyre, when we were young,
Upon a day you made us weep;
Indeed our tender hearts were wrung,
Weighed by your wrongs, we could not sleep.
And oh, our maiden hearts were stirred,
When making nest in Thornfield Hall
You captured Rochester, gay bird,
Who offered fortune, wedlock, all!
But ah your sorrows were not o’er,
For your love had a former wife,
And so across the weary moor,
You tramped to seek another life.
Dear Janet Eyre, when first we met,
You made a novel, heart and core;
These days upon the stage you’re set,
And you are our Jane Eyre no more.


WATCH OUT! FOR SLIGHTEST
SIGN OF BLEEDING GUMS, IT’S OFTEN
PYORRHE
gums
UMDW
gums
sow
'MLAHed
GUMs
gums
BlttO'l* 0
SAP
4 out of 5 May be Victims-
often leads to tragic loss of teeth
Everyone even young people—
should beware of those first signs
of sore, tender, bleeding gums.
This may be Pyorrhea—a danger-
ous infection where gums join the
teeth —so common to-day—many
people never even suspect they
have it. IP NEGLECTED, Pyorrhea
often causes soft, shrinking, pussy
gums—then actual loss of teeth I
Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Easy FORHAN Way I
Every morning and night massage
your gums and brush your teeth
with Fortran's Toothpaste—the
ORIGINAL toothpaste for mas-
saging gums and cleaning teeth;
recommended and used by many
dentists themselves.
This Forhan method Is effective
because it not only helps gums to
be firmer—thus able to ward off
this terrible infection—but also
cleans dingy teeth to their “natu-
ral” brightness. Forhan’s actually
helps remove acid film that often
starts tooth decay.
Use Fortran's—the only toothpaste
containing B. J. Forhan’s D.O.S.
special antl-Pyorrhea astringent.
A/sian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co., Sydney. Price. 2/4, Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
Does BOf H';Jobs ■ ” Gleans-'Teeihz —Saves Gums
Missing Friend.
HENRY DEAN, last heard of at Mytleford, in the
State of Victoria, also late employee of the Oolling-
wood Council. —Will the person or any one knowing
the whereabouts- of the abovenamed, communicate
with P. J. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor, 379' Collins Street,
Melbourne, immediately?
or
Quality !
uora
m
mmm a
■j
r
■
3O years,
the Akubra Mills
was developed to a
point of the highest ||
efficiency. This per-
mitted an immediate
and complete response to
the huge demands of the
War Department
There has been great
restriction of civilian
supplies, but always ask
for Akubra your hatter
may have what you want.
LOOK your best in an akubra
VICTORY
WAR
SERIES
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
HERE is a small portable Water Pumping Unit which Is
doing more than a “man-size” job in New Guinea, the
Solomons, and Northern Australia. Many hundreds are
already “on active service” and many more are yet to be
delivered.
The “heart” of the unit is our 2 h.p. (hopper-cooled)
“Ronaldson-Tippett” Petrol Engine with V-belt driving a
small centrifugal pump mounted on top of the engine.
The entire unit is truly portable. It may be carried by two
men and put down anywhere. Though comparatively light
it has all the strength, the ruggedness and the dependability
desirable under the extreme conditions dictated by war.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BA LLAKAT, Victoria.
N.S.W. Distributors: Boualdson Bros. & Tippett Pty„ Ltd.,
Frazer House, 43 Bridge (street, SVDALY.
Q’land Distributors: Boualdson, Tippett (Wd.) Fty., Ltd.,
Farbury House, 181 Eagle Street, BBISBAJNE.
SMOKE-OH!
“Sylvia’s garments were so torn by the acci-
dent that she had to use more than a dozen
safety-pins to fasten them together.”
—Short story.
Another pin-up girl?
*2* V *l* *l*
“I am pure Australian-born and in love with
a foreign girl. When I ask her nationality
she goes red in the face.”
—Correspondent in “Sun.”
Perhaps she’s a white Russian.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Brides Must Be Good Cooks.”
—Heading in daily paper.
If they want to be different?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Cats, and a Dog.
“My boy-friend’s so devoted,” Kitty
said, in boastful way. “Of course, I’m
very modest, but it’s really true to say he
follows me around just like a dog. Oh,
he’s a dear.” Said Katty: “Well, the
reason, pet, to me is very clear. You
met him when he wasn’t more than some
unwanted stray. You whistled till he
followed you. He now can’t get away.
You say he’s always at your heels. He’s
on a string, that’s plaip Just get a
license, darling, and then keep him on a
chain.”
Eve.
“Simultaneouly, our heavy bombers attacked
with 90 tons of 10001 b. lambs.”
—Hobart “Mercury.”
There’s something woolly about this
announcement.
“For Sale. —A Jersey Cross Cow.”
—Daily paper advt.
Why, she’d turn the milk sour!
4* 4*
“Straphanger Conscience.”
—Sydney “Sun” heading.
Certainly stands the strain!
* 4* 4* 4* 4*
“Make one dress out of two old ones.”
—Woman s mag.
How old-fashioned! Make two dresses
out of one old one, you mean, dear.
Underestimated.
“There’s nothing more fascinating than climb-
ing plants.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
That’s putting it mildly. Well do I
remember the sheer delight I experienced,
as a boy, in shinning up the trunk of the
gnarled old chrysanthemum in the back-
yard and swinging from its sturdy limbs,
with complete disregard for the awful
drop beneath. And what wouldn’t I give
to recapture, just for an hour, the
heavenly bliss of. bird’s-nesting high up
among the swaying branches of a lofty
sweet pea!
Cal.
*!• 'l* *l* 4*
“The once-thriving township is now just a
collection of dilapidated shops and houses.
The hand of decay is plain. Even the bank is
tumbling down.”— “Sun:”
They can’t even get a robber to hold
it up.
Variability.
agree
.. sopher who stated,
“I thin,., tre I am.” In me,
This raises . elings quite elated.
But that is fust tonight. Tomorrow,
When Tm no longer fired by drinking,
I may admit, in doubt and sorrow,
Perchance 1 only think Tm thinking.
T. W. NATHAN.
Loud Answer.
“Fifty-pound fine for raising rent.” — “Truth."
Which goes to show the fate of men
Who try their best to spoof.
He said “I want no backchat!” when
He tried to raise the rent, but then
The tenant raised the roof.
YAIR.
She Shells.
Although milady saved a store
Of shells collected by the shore,
Methinks the kind they use at war
Would suit her blasted temper more !
NAT.
Among the Brobdingnagians.
“A 13-year-old Sydney schoolboy weighs
15st. 81b., is sft. 11 yi n. in height, and has a
chest measurement of 42-|-in.”
Bullumbungabudgery, in the N.S.W.
Pilliga country, is the place, though, for
real outsizes in adolescents.
I recall the shock I got when I first
took up my appointment at the school.
I was soaking a sponge with ink for
use either on the blackboard or on re-
fractory pupils when the room suddenly
went dark. I looked up, and saw a figure
blocking the doorway. Then a voice,
alternating between a basso profundo and
a shrill alto said “lings, it’s the new
teacher. Gripes, them alecks would send
us another dopey-lookin’ little squirt!”
“That’s enough of that! ” I said sternly.
“What is your name?”
At that moment the small building
shook as another figure leaped through
the window. He stood about 6ft. 7in.
and wore a dense growth on his chin.
Slipping off the pair of No. 11 boots
which he carried tied around his neck
he let them fall. They seemed to weigh
about 101 b.
“Gosh, y’ must be a mug if y’ don’t
know ‘Ocker’ Stevens,” he bellowed. “His
ole man’s the town copper. ‘Ocker’ car-
ried a 3001 b. sow up a 20ft. ladder and
down again for a bet of some chewin’
gum Sundey mornin’. He”
“I’m not here to listen to recitals of
brute strength,” I broke in acidly. “What
is your name?”
“ ‘Snodger’ Smithers, if y’ want to know,
but what the hell’s it got to do with you
who I am?”
“Are you a pupil of this school?” I
demanded.
“No, mug, I’m one o’ the flamin’ white-
ants that’s eatin’ the floor joists! ”
I reached for the cane and whistled it
through the air. “Well, we’ll start off
with a lesson for one,” I said. “Come
here at once.”
He came forward with great de-
liberation, but instead of stopping in
front of me he kept walking. Before I
had time to raise the cane his enormous
bulk was pushing me backward until I
was up against the wall.
“I could if I liked,” he boasted,
“just take one deep breath an’ knock y’
rotten. Now apologise to yer class or
I’ll sock y’ with yer own cane!”
By this time a lot of other huge fellows
had trooped into the classroom. After
the din of their entry had subsided to a
dull roar of voices I sang out: “I’ll tell
‘Ocker’s’ father about this!’”
“Ocker” Stevens laughed. “Yairs?”
he said. “Well, ‘Snodger’ cleaned him up
yestiddy fer chippin’ him about knockin’
his own old man about. Now apologise
or ‘Snodge’ ’ll flatten y’!”
I rustled up what I hoped looked like
a grin. “Now, boys,” I said. “We’ve had
our little joke, so we’ll better lessons.
Now what about a spot of geography?’
Apparently I had mentioned a favorite
subject, for with one concerted yell of
approval the now assembled class surged
around the revolving global map. After
a furious struggle 1 managed to get in
the centre and said “We’ll take the moun-
tain system of Victoria.”
“Can that tripe, dope! ” shouted
“Ocker” over four octaves. “This is a
bettin’ game. We spin the globe an’ put
our oscar on a continent, see? If that
continent is opposite the supportin’ arm
where the spinnin’ globe stops y’ cough
up. Odds are six to one any continent.
I’ll have a trizzie on Africa.”
“But this is disgraceful!” I protested.
“There are only five continents, so the
odds should be four to one.”
“Sixes!” yelled the class in a stentorian
burst. *
I looked at Smithers. He was rolling
up his sleeves, and I caught sight of his
enormous biceps.
They mucked me of £24 before I could
escape to another district.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
A Shopgirl Talks Back
I cannot let “Toni’s” slur on shopgirls
(B. 3 1 11 /’43) pass without a protest. My
sympathy is entirely with shopgirls. Why
should the customer be always right?
There is no divine right of money. Half
the time the customer is a pin-headed,
suspicious, arrogant, greedy insult on two
legs.
Don’t talk to me about customers!
They have handed me torn notes and
said I caused them to be torn, they have
allowed their progeny to crawl all over
me, they have badgered me about my
addition, they have threatened to report
me to someone for looking murderously
at them.
Some, X admit, were quite nice, and to
them I have given the ten centuries of
courtesy that lurks in all of us ; but the
human being is not at his best when
searching for something to benefit him-
self. So I say, let the shopgirls have their
9ing, and if their shops are unpopular
after the war that will not endure for
long. It will be easy to crawl back to
the toadying, smirking, hand-washing
attitude of pre-war days, and the custo-
mer will not know it doesn’t mean a
thing.— Shopgirl (N.S.W.).
R.A.A.F. Rankings
The Army Minister some time ago
announced that there would be no more
promotions of members of the military
forces in base jobs until those already
promoted had been moved to forward
areas. The Air Minister should take a
leaf out of his colleague’s book and start
demoting some of the high-ranking gentry
who never fly. The yearly payroll for
these officers must be huge. Most of the
work could be carried out by non-
commissioned officers, the highest being
a W. 0., with, of course, a couple of com-
missioned officers in charge.
The Commonwealth Government
“Gazette” shows an astounding number
of commissions granted under the head-
ing of “Administrative and Other Duties.”
The Air Minister is always to the fore
to laud the deeds of our fliers, both here
and overseas, yet these men are asked to
take charge of valuable personnel and
machines with the rank of sergeant-pilot
while “administrative” personnel are com-
missioned.
Why not have section-officers on the
same basis as the Waaafs? Let us give the
toys who do the flying and the risks all
the plums, not those who can start work
at 9 a.m., finish at 5 p.m., and go home
to a cosy bed. Also, why not bring back
fliers with years of service overseas, hun-
dreds of whom have administrative ability,
and give them these cushy office jobs
before their nerves crack under the con-
tinual strain of flyihg on operations. —
Per Ardua ad Astra (Q.).
My full backing goes to “lago” con-
cerning the ranking of R.A.A.F. men and
titles (B. 20/10/’43). “Squadron-leader”
suggests some acquaintance with upstairs
air activity ; but it is a most misleading
title when one runs up against a man in
an administrative job whose air-hours are
nil. Surely some other appropriate classi-
fication can be found.
Is there need for chaplains to be
flight-lieutenants,” for instance? Why
tot adopt the system of the Navy and
Ift that particular job carry its own title
»nd status? I am aware that a dentist
in the Army is a captain, likewise a
Padre ; but why should they (and others)
be labelled captain or colonel with all
% accompanying trappings and salut-
ing demands? We are told that it is re-
ified for purposes of discipline. But
is the Navy plan ineffective because its
laplains aren’t captains or admirals?
Australian military authorities started
off in this war without giving military
Ink to chaplains, but later reverted to
|fe former method. Does anyone know
Mly? COMMONSENSE (Tas.).
The position regarding R.A.A.F. rank-
ings is misunderstood. Admittedly, the
la ice of titles for R.A.A.F. officers has
lot been good, and the terms “pilot-
officer” and “flying-officer” are some-
ftties confusing to those outside the ser-
fee. Even in air crews a pilot-officer is
Pot always a pilot—he may be navigator
Pr gunner. Within the service these mis-
understandings do not exist.
The ground staff commissioned officer
Ps earned his laurels. My own case is
probably a typical example. Being well
above air-crew age 1 enlisted in the
ground staff two and a half years ago,
relinquishing a comfortable and well-
paid job to do so. Working and study-
ing hard, after two years I managed to
gain a commission, and am now holding
the rank of pilot-officer.
Sergeant-pilots certainly handle very
valuable aircraft, very often in combat,
and for so doing rightly draw more pay
than we do. But it appears to be over-
looked by the uninitiated that whereas
that sergeant has the responsibility for
one aircraft a P/O equipment officer,
with an engineer officer of the same rank-
ing, very often accepts the responsibility
for maintaining and keeping in the air a
whole squadron, plus the providing of
all incidental equipment for the work-
ing of the squadron.
One branch of the service cannot exist
without the other, and the air crew recog-
nise the worth of the ground staff officers,
co-operation being cordial and whole-
hearted. The graduation lecture which
the ground staff commissioned man hears
at the School of Administration includes
the words “Moving towards the main
objective of your service, which is to
sefve the air crews of the R.A.A.F.” We
recognise that fact and endeavor to move
towards that objective.
Co-operation from outside the service,
with recognition of the fact that the
commissioned ground' staff man is not
“I think I'll go for a commission, Jim. Anything's better than this!”
just a blot on the landscape but does a
good job and in all cases is not eligible
for air crew would help.—No Wings
(Vic.).
“W.B.’s” grouch about R.A.A.F. com-
missions (B. 13 /10/ ’43) seems to me woe-
fully off the mark. When I see the lads
who have been at war abroad and have
brought back their memories and
their white belts and gaiters and chev-
rons, I envy them —I cannot find words
in which to say how much. Are such
men, who have walked with the gods, to
come back and gaze with longing eyes
at the empty insignia of officers who have
not shared their experiences?
They do not need your sympathy,
“W. 8.”! Far from it. It is for you to
grovel, for all of us to bend the knee.
They are the kings of the race, and can
hold their heads high, from now on until
their time is through.—R. H. G. (W.A.),
Higher Militia Age
The fighting in New Guinea being
largely of a skirmishing nature, with
many troops at a loose-end at bases, the
intake into the forces of 18-year-old
youths should be held in abeyance.
It has been admitted that mere youths
are a handicap in battle, the juvenile
mind being unstable when fierce fight-
ing is in progress. If the minimum age
for recruiting was 19, recruits would be
20 before being ready for battle and an
asset, not a hindrance, in the fighting area.
This concession to youth would mean
less disturbance to industry, already short
of man-power, and would save a con-
siderable amount of money. — Jeff (Vic.).
An Essay in Inflation
President Roosevelt in a recent message
to Congress gave another timely warning
against inflation, even a “little inflation
which some people say will not hurt
anyone.” He said it was like the first
shot of opium; “A man swears he will
not make it a habit, but soon he loses
all control of himself.”
China —the Cathay of Marco Polo —
was the scene of a disastrous inflation
experiment in the thirteenth century.
Kublai Khan printed an issue of notes
as an emergency measure to meet war
and other expenses. His people had to
accept the notes at face value. More and
more paper was required to pay for
goods, and goods became scarcer and
scarcer. Then came a crisis.
The ruler of Persia, Ghazan, at that
time nominally subject to Cathay, refused
to allow the paper money to be circu-
lated in his territory. His country’s
stable finance attracted foreign mer-
chants, the caravan trade developed,
taxes were low and the people generally
were prosperous by comparison with the
inflation victims of Cathay. —H. G. C.
(S.A.).
Coupons for Uniforms
The V.D.C. has to surrender coupons
for its summer uniforms, but school
cadets can still get them coupon-free from
Army stores. If cadets are of sufficient
importance to be given this concession,
the V.D.C., entrusted with a part in Aus-
tralia’s defence, should get their uniforms
not only without coupons but free of all
cost to themselves. — Petrie (N.S.W.),
Penalties Against Strikers
The inference drawn in an editorial
(B. 3/11/’43) that penalties imposed for
N.S.W. industrial offences since 1934 have
not been enforced is not correct. State
Minister Downing’s explanation is.
Prosecutions by the Commonwealth are,
in so far as the State is concerned, pri-
vate prosecutions, as penalties imposed
thereunder are payable to the Common-
wealth. In any case where fines or
compensation are payable to private
persons, convictions are not enforced ex-
cept at the request of the parties con-
cerned. Some years ago the Common-
wealth authorities requested the State law
people to abide by this principle, and
not to enforce penalties under Common-
wealth laws without reference to the
Commonwealth bodies concerned.
As to the prosecutions of coalminers
for absenteeism in the early part of this
year, this procedure was adhered to, and
the Commonwealth Crown Law office in-
structed that the penalties were not to
be enforced. Dr. Evatt says the instruction
must have been given during his absence
abroad. But the last instruction not to
enforce the penalties was given late in
August, after his return. Doesn’t he know
what is going on in his own department?
He definitely tried to “pass the buck”
to the State Cs.P.S. — Macßopus (N.S.W.).
Veges.
A neighbor of mine near Melbourne
took a truckload of magnificent cauli-
flowers and cabbages to market, and after
strenuous exertions Succeeded in selling
a third of his Iqad. He took the rest home
and now it is rotting. All the other growers
that morning were in a similar position.
What has Mr. Murphy, the Food Con-
troller, to say about it? The amount of
man-power, equipment, seed, fertiliser
and water expended in this futile occu-
pation the year round must be colossal.
Why can’t the Government establish a
depot near the market where growers*
could get a reasonable price for their
surplus, which could be disposed of to
factories, hospitals, Red Cross and de-
fence establishments?
The Food Control Board is spending
a heap of money trying to get house-
holders, notoriously inefficient, to grow
vegetables in their backyards when effi-
cient growers are being compelled to
leave first-class food to rot, A
grower of my acquaintance is so dis-
gusted with the situation that he has
ploughed a whole field of cabbages
under.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
The present vegetable glut is not an
encouraging outcome of the food-produc-
tion drive. With a greatly increased popu-
lation hankering for vegetables, the man
on the land is laboring under all sorts
of difficulties to produce them, and offi-
cialdom has blundered gravely in the task
of distribution.
The Government, to ease the recent
bean glut in Brisbane, bought up the sur-
plus at 24d. per pound (at the same time
the price in Melbourne was Is. 2d, per
pound) and distributed it to charitable
institutions. Unless some saner and
sounder system of synchronising produc-
tion and marketing is devised, the farmers
instead of their beans will be entering
charitable institutions. — Bunyip (Q.).
Plight of Animals
it will be a very serious matter if,
through lack of meat, people are to be
relieved of the responsibility of feeding
them. One would have thought that
certain kinds of offal could have been
spared for their ration. Even if special
shops- for the sale of horseflesh are
opened in the city and suburbs, many
owners will turn their animals on the
streets rather than go to some trouble to
procure their food. Moreover, unless
such meat is rationed, early shoppers will
be the only ones to secure supplies.
Never yet have the stray members of
dogdom known the mercy of water-
troughs in Sydney streets. This year,
foodless and waterless, the plight of
thousands of the friends of man will be
the most pitiable in the history of the
Commonwealth.
Nor is this the only front on which
animals are suffering through cruel treat-
ment. Our methods of killing demand
revision. Because of increased transport
of stock and shortage of trucks over 600
to 700 animals now arrive weekly at the
stockyards—dead.
The Kosciusko National Park presents
another instance of a ruthless attitude
towards animals. Out of the 1,140,000
acres set aside as a sanctuary .for wild
life all but 70,000 acres have been let to
stockholders under grazing leases or other
arrangements. Intrusion of cattle into
these areas will cause tremendous loss of
wild creatures. Under the U.S. national
forestry systems, the fauna are well fed
as well as carefully preserved.—C.
Haven (N.S.W.).
Australian Bush Literature
No one who sits down to read the
works of our Australian writers can arise
without feeling a more fervent love for
Australia. Through the wide bushland,
the air of which is tinctured with a fra-
grance all its own, roves the reader, and the
vastness of the view gives to him a liberal-
ity of outlook which engenders tolerance.
Happily those who have written of our
wonders have not been those who bore
the collar of servitude or felt the sordid
spur of cruel ambition. They were men
and women in whose breasts glowed a
fierce fire of affection for their native
land, and who could boast a high degree
of manly independence and love of good-
fellowship.
Take our old friend of the road Henry
Lawson. We meet him far outback,
swag-laden, travel-stained and weary. He
will not let us go on, but must share with
us a mug of billy tea. He is down at
heel and dying for a meal ; yet he walks
proudly on. Like the knight-errants of
old he does battle with evil. He pities
the drover’s wife left alone in the wild ;
he shares the tragedy of the workless in a
city street. May the earth lie lightly on
your ashes, Henry, and may the great
dreams you had for your country come
true!— J. T. (W.A.).
Civil Servants’ Hours
I read that it is proposed to revert to
the five-day working week for Federal
civil servants, in operation before Japan
entered the war.
If the state of affairs which existed in
December, 1941, has been changed to
such an extent that our hard-working
Federal servants can return to their five-
day working week, why should we not
all relax our efforts ; the factories turn
out less munitions and armaments and
the industries which are feeding our
armies produce less food? Our fighting
men do not give up fighting for two days
in the week because at long last we have
something to show on the credit side of
the sheet. Nor do we, of the administra-
tive side of the service, have our working
week shortened because of it.
Now the outlook is so much brighter,
surely a more concentrated drive for
further victory is required from all sec-
tions of the community.—L. M. (Q.).


Wk
i*
m
P; 1
7Sr
j#:
M
4
A
■
A PART OF
AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
<l In the air, at sea, and on land, Wireless is
helping Australia on her War Fronts. The ex-
tensive manufacturing resources and the Research
and Engineering Laboratories of Amalgamated
Wireless are to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy, Army, Air
Force, and Merchant Navy.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATIO
Put Your Sayings On Service Buy War Savings Certificates
