

t
ţ
The Bulletin
I
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.-No. 3284
Wednesday, January 20, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PLUCKLEY.
IT is an old complaint that many of England’s most, picturesque
villages soon lost their quaintness and charm with the advent of
the railway. Perhaps there is more truth than poetry in this. Yet
it must be accepted as one of the unavoidable concomitants with
that “march of time” which, in many ways, produces much that
i , ■ ,• , , ’ c\ u i ■ ,
“ P ur !)y materialistic at the expense of the purely picturesque
Kent, the garden of England, despite its proximity to the busy
haunts of man and hives of commerce and industry, still retains
many villages which attract as in days before the “iron steed,” even
though that formidable instrument of modern development has
not given them the by-pass. Pluckley, sixty miles away from
London, on the main line to Dover and Folkestone, is one of these
exceptions. Curiously enough, it is but live miles from Ashford,
a great centre of manufactm mg activity associated with the build-
i»g of locomotives and other vehicles necessary to railway adminjs-
tration, and is, or was, a favorite visiting-place lor the Ashloid
*"*■“»«« 'he.r off-days. Here were to be found and, it »to be
hoped, still are, examples of the old village pub which forms a
ple P asl ’ gj and
even cherished, tradition in the nation's song and
story. Close by this old-world township are the famed marble
quarries from which are obtained an exceedingly hard and durable
building material, susceptible of a good polish and much used
j n da ys that are passed in embellishment of the noble fanes of
Canterbury and Rochester as well as in ancient mansions remaining
in this section of the country.


11l
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Hook let, explaining how to Write for Profit, iu
idvertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
b’.B. 243
The Red Page
IRRECONCILABLE INDIA.
E. M. Forster’s A Passage to India,
first published nearly twenty years ago,
becomes more topical every day:
“Clear out, clear out, I say. Why are
we put to so much suffering? We used to
blame you, now we blame ourselves, we
grow wiser. Until England is in difficulties
we keep silent, but in the next European
war —aha! aha! Then is our time.”
It must surely have been the realisation
of its outstanding political interest at the
present time that moved Dents to include
A Passage to India among the latest
Everymans. As “one of the few modern
novels for which it is reasonable to pre-
dict something of a lasting place in Eng-
lish literature” it would have deserved
inclusion in Everymans, on literary
quality, at any time: it was a stroke of
editorial genius to bring it out at the end
of 1942.
It’s almost a pity to read Forster’s
novel for its politics. It is primarily
literature: a dramatisation in novel form
of the ultimate loneliness of the spirit of
man, its struggle for communion with
its fellows, its inevitable failure and its
solitary exile under the great arch of the
sky against whose immensity all creeds,
all loves and all hates merge into the
meaningless reverberation Bourn ...
Bourn ! —which Dr. Aziz and Mrs. Moore
heard in the caves of Barabar. As when
Fielding and the spinster Miss Quested
come to an understanding, brief com-
munion is possible between spirit and
spirit, but it is very brief, and the momen-
tary contact makes even more frighten-
ing the mystery of the surrounding
eternity. Human beings whose minds
meet for a moment beneath the immen-
sity of the sky are, in Forster’s unforget-
table symbol, “dwarfs shaking hands.”
When a writer of Forster’s calibre, per-
ceiving that racial differences are a con-
venient dramatisation of the isolation of
any man from his fellows, sets out to
paint the clash between the English mind
and the Indian, it is natural that the pic-
ture should be more vivid and more true
than any that could be offered by a pub-
licist with a political axe to grind. Free
from ideological rancor, Forster is
searching for human truth. He is as
free from prejudice as it is reason-
able to ask of any writer: that is,
99 per cent. free. For he is, one feels,, a
little on the side of the Moslem through-
out. The whole book is written in a spirit
of detached irony; Dr. Aziz and the
Hindu characters are portrayed as
honestly, satirised as amusingly as are
the Subaltern, the Spinster, and those
typical Anglo-Indians the Turtons and the
Burtons. But the quality of the irony
is not always the same ; it is acid when
he deals with the English, sympathetic
when he deals with Aziz.
There is some injustice to the English,
perhaps, in the whole scheme of the book.
Reduced to its fundamentals A Passage
to India is the story of how Dr. Aziz
and Fielding tried to be friends and,
because complete and lasting sympathy
between spirit and spirit is impossible,
failed. But, from the political viewpoint,
the story is that a Moslem and an Eng-
lishman tried to be friends and, because
“East is East and West is West and
never the twain shall meet,” failed. And
they fail in this book largely because of
a mistake made by Miss Quested, the
Turtons and the Burtons—the English
ruling class.
The great drama of the book —the
clash between East and West and the
crisis in the friendship of Aziz and Field-
ing—comes when Miss Quested accuses
Aziz of having assaulted her in the cave
of Barabar. On the spinster’s word,
without real evidence, Aziz is immediately
arrested and thrown into prison ; every
white man with the exception of Field-
ing, who believes in his friend’s inno-
cence, loses his head completely in an
ebullition of chivalry, indignation and
racial solidarity ; every white woman be-
comes a fury clamoring for the Moslem’s
blood ; men and women, the English are
united in the determination that “justice
must be done” —meaning that Aziz must
be found guilty. Hindu and Moslem put
their private feud aside to support the
Indian against the English. There are
riots, ugly incidents, every word the Eng-
lish say among themselves is treasured
against them by their hostile servants ;
dark man and “pinko-grey” are on the
verge of war. The English overawe and
intimidate the nervous Hindu magistrate ;
it seems certain that Aziz —for, of course,
he is innocent: suffering from the sun
and her spinsterhood. Miss Quested has
had a hallucination —will be unjustly
convicted. Then comes the magnificent
fiasco when, released from her hallucina-
tion, Miss Quested admits that she has
made a mistake and the English—though
they will never acknowledge it and Aziz
to the end of his days remains under
police surveillance —are proved to have
been the dupes of racial hysteria, unjust
and foolish. The outcries of the women,
the solemn chivalry of the men, the
adolescent belligerence of the Subaltern,
the ostracising of Fielding—all these are
shown to have been supremely silly.
To the reader, knowing all along with
Aziz, Fielding and the author that the
Moslem is innocent, the activities of the
English appear ridiculous throughout.
And so, within the framework of the
novel, they are. The satire is superbly
done. Nothing could be funnier than
the Turtons and the Burtons at the club.
But supposing, as could well enough
have happened in real life, that Aziz
were guilty. The chivalry of the English,
their banding together at the club, their
determination to see the criminal brought
to trial no matter what mobs howled
against them —nothing that they do would
look silly then. The Turtons and the
Burtons would look heroic, Fielding a
sentimentalist.
Has Forster, from the political view-
point, slipped into injustice here? If
the arrest of Aziz carries the implica-
tion that the English are always in the
wrong in their dealings with the natives,
the novelist has certainly done his own
people an injustice. But perhaps the cor-
rect political interpretation is that the
English symbolically speaking are
always wrong because they don’t, as
Fielding did, take the trouble to know
the hearts and minds and souls of the
Indians. If the Turtons and the Burtons
had known Aziz as they should have,
perhaps Forster means to say, they could
never have suspected him of the crime.
And if that is the political moral of the
book, no Australian would want to
quarrel with it. “Cultivate the natives,”
not “cultivate our gardens,” was the
lesson of Singapore.
At this point, A Passage to India
reaches its greatest political significance,
for its “message” is that it is impossible
to cultivate the native.
Any wandering journalist or politician
of the Wendell Willkie type can solve
the whole Indian problem in two minutes
by telling England to “make friends”
with the natives. It takes a mind like
Forster’s to perceive the impossible and
to refrain from advocating it. Had Aziz
merely fallen out with the Turtons and
the Burtons it would be easy to find the
answer to the Indian problem. But the
“agony” of the book is that Aziz and
Fielding cannot maintain their friend-
ship, and that is a political statement as
well as a spiritual one. An Englishman,
however liberal, cannot, in Forster’s view,
remain permanently in harmony with an
Indian: racial differences, with centuries
of tradition behind them, are real differ-
ences and cannot be surmounted.
It is not “justice” Aziz wants. On the
whole, as Forster admits in his cold
honesty, he gets justice from the Turtons
and the Burtons. But it is not enough.
Under Fielding’s tutelage Miss Quested
writes a letter of apology to Aziz: “Our
letter is a failure,” says Fielding,
“for a simple reason which we had better
face: you have no real affection for Aziz,
or Indians generally.”
She assented.
“The first time I saw you you were want-
ing to see India, not Indians, and it
occurred to me; Ah, that won’t take us
far. Indians know whether they are liked
or not —they cannot be fooled here. Justice
never satisfies them, and that is why the
British Empire rests on sand.”
One sees the English dispensing jus-
tice, steering an honest path through the
multitudinous complexity of Indian
affairs:
Mohurram was approaching, and as usual
the Chandrapore Mohammedans were build-
ing paper towers of a size too large to pass
under the branches of a certain pepul-tree.
One knew what happened next; the tower
stuck, a Mohammedan climbed up the
pepul and cut the branch off, the Hindus
protested, there was a religious riot, and
Heaven knew what, with perhaps the troops
sent for. There had been deputations and
conciliation committees under the auspices
of Turton, and all the normal work of
Chandrapore had been hung up. Should
the procession take another route, or should
the towers be shorter? The Mohammedans
offered the former, the Hindus insisted on
the latter. The collector had favored the
Hindus, until he suspected that they had
artificially bent the tree nearer the ground.
They said it sagged naturally. Measure-
ents, plans, an official visit to the spot. But
Ronny had not disliked his day, for it
proved that the British were necessary to
India; there would certainly have been
bloodshed without them.
And the British, Forster implies, may
indeed be necessary. Under British influ-
ence, Professor Godbole set out with
enthusiasm to found the King-Emperor
High School ; in a native State he could
never raise quite enough energy actually
to get the school going. Dr. Aziz, a
good medical man under the British,
became a tribal medicine-man in the
native State to which he retired after the
trial. Away from the English, both Hindu
and Moslem were hopelessly inefficient.
Fielding had “no further use for polite-
ness,” he said, meaning that the British
Empire really can’t be abolished because
it’s rude. Aziz retorted: “Very well, and
we have no use for you,” and glared at
him with abstract hate. Fielding said:
“Away from us Indians go to seed at once.
Look at the King-Emperor High School!
Look at you, forgetting your medicine and
going back to charms.”
Aziz knows this is true: yet the
“abstract hate” persists: the British must
go. When the Indian political associa-
tions meet to abuse the British, they
know that their “unity” will disappear
when their rulers disappear; yet the
abstract hate persists: the British must go.
Hamidullah had called in on his way
to a worrying committee of notables,
nationalist in tendency, where Hindus,
Moslems, two Sikhs, two Parsis, a Jain
and a Native Christian tried to like one
another more than came natural to them.
As long as someone abused the English
all went well, but nothing constructive
had been achieved, and if the English were
•to leave India the committee would vanish
also.
The root of the trouble, as Forster
sees it, is simply that the English don’t
like the Indians and the Indians don’t
like the English. They are incompatibles.
Both sides are responsible for this anti-
pathy. There are the Turtons and the
Burtons, and the women of the Turtons
and the Burtons (an odd problem of
Empire!):
He had discovered that it was possible
to keep in with Indians and Englishmen,
but that he who would keep in with Eng-
lishwomen must drop the Indians. The two
wouldn’t combine. Useless to blame either
party, useless to blame them for blaming
one another. It was just so, and one
had to choose.
But Fielding himself, ultimately, can-
not get on with the Indians, He and
Aziz must part. And that is partly
because Fielding inevitably reverts to the
English type, partly because Aziz in-
evitably reverts to the Indian type. Once
—at the time of the trial—Fielding has
defied his own kind and stood as the
Indian’s champion ; but —
He had thrown in his lot with Anglo-
India by marrying a countrywoman, and he
was acquiring some of its limitations, and
already felt surprise at his own past hero- J
ism. Would he today defy all his own &
people for the sake of a stray Indiaifr
Aziz was a memento, a trophy, they were
proud of each other, yet they must in-
evitably part.
In fact, he can’t be bothered any
longer with the Moslem. Once, for
friendship, personal and national, he
would make the great gesture ; but not
again and again. That is asking too much
of human nature; and Aziz will inevit-
ably get into trouble again and again,
whenever he mingles with the English.
The whole crazy expedition to the caves,
the cause of all the trouble, came from
the .Moslem’s foolish invitation to Mrs.
Moore and Miss Quested to visit him at
his house when he knew very well that
he could not really, for shame, entertain
them at that squalid and fly-thronged
hovel; had he not quarrelled with the
guide, he would never have been left
alone with Miss Quested ; had he not
forgotten to look after her and had he
not lied about his neglect to save his
face, she would never have been left
alone to suffer her hallucination ; had he
not continued to lie, the circumstances
would never have looked so damning.
The Turtons and the Burtons were not
the only ones at fault in the affair of
the caves. His evasiveness poisons his
relations even with Fielding ; his absurd
suspicions, born of racial mistrust, make
lasting friendship between them impos-
sible; —
Aziz did not believe his own suspicions
■ —better if he had, for then he would have
denounced and cleared the situation up.
Suspicion and belief could exist in his
mind side by side. They sprang from
different sources, and need never inter-
mingle. Suspicion in the Oriental is a sort
of malignant tumor, a mental malady, that
makes him self-conscious and unfriendly
suddenly; he trusts and mistrusts at the
same time in a way that the Westerner
cannot comprehend. It is his demon, as the
Westerner’s is hypocrisy.
Aziz is not all India, and he knows it.
He has not been fair to Fielding, and he
knows it. Yet he can persuade himself
that he is all India, and with a fanaticism
in which reason has no part whatever
he solves all his problems by crying for
the expulsion of the English—for the
destruction of the only element of sanity,
as Westerners understand it, in all his
troubled country;
He couldn’t quite fit in Afghans at Mau,
and, finding he was in a corner, made his
horse rear again until he remembered that
he had, or ought to have, a motherland,
Then he shouted: “India shall be a nation!
JJ> foreigners of any sort! .Hindu and
Moslem and Sikh and all shall be one!
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah for India!
Hurrah i Hurrah!”
“India a nation!” Fielding taunts him.
“She whose only peer was the Holy
Roman Empire, she shall rank with
Guatemala and Belgium perhaps!”
Aziz in an awful rage danced this way
and that not knowing what to do, and
cned: Down with the English, anyhow,
That’s certain. Clear out, you fellows,
double quick I say. We may hate one
another, but we hate you most.”
When the British have gone, says Aziz
(anticipating Gandhi), he is perfectly Will-
>„ , T r ■ ,
tng to be friends with them. Why not
friends now? Fielding asks reasonably
But the horses didn’t want it they
swerved apart; the earth didn’t want it,
sending up rocks through which the riders
must pass single file; the temples, the
tank, the gaol, the palace, the birds, the
carrion, the guest-house that came into view
d?d“ t'wanTi “herald'ta
their hundred voices: “No, not yet,” and
the sky said: “No, not there.”
That is Forster’s last word on the sub-
ject—a magnificent piece of symbolical
writing. The horses of destiny swerve
apart. It would be asking too much of
a novelist to take this book as the final
political truth about India. But in a
1- „ , * „. ■ - cjc ™ QrrQn „ (l
Fme wb f n . perfectionists rearrange
the world to their liking with all the ease
of the daring young man on the flying
trapeze, it is worth reading, or re-reading,
* i «’ L i & r T j* • ♦
ea rn that the problem of India is not
an easy one for Fielding, for Aziz or for
the Turtons, the Burtons and their ladies.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: I rather like the talkies’
war effort all those highly topical
offerings stressing the heroic on land
and sea and in the air. The making
of the film “Wake Island” (Sydney
Plaza) so soon after the event might
seem like making a Roman holiday
for civilians; and perhaps a docu-
mentary, like those Damien Parer made
in New Guinea and Timor, w'ould have
been better; but even as an ordinary
Hollywood show —light relief and drama-
tic battle scenes —it is a sort of tribute
from civilians to the Marines who fought
at Wake Island and, as such, it’s wholly
justifiable.
How swiftly Hollywood gets on to its
war themes —Wake Island already! Ten
to one, somebody’s now working out one
on the Solomons. Made so quickly,
there’s not likely to be any lasting value
- from the point of view of art —in any
<M these topical war films; but they’re
good propaganda, they may be of his-
torical interest, and an odd one —like the
film version of Jan Struther’s Mrs. Mini-
ver —does amount to a work of art. They
correspond oddly to the ancient ballad:
once upon a time, as soon as a great
battle was fought, some non-starting bard
made a ballad about it; these days
Hollywood makes a talkie.
“S.W.K.”: Disney did not —as I re-
minded myself after seeing the film ver-
sion of Kipling’s Jungle 800k —create the
animal kingdom. There were classics
long before the birth of Mickey Mouse;
Norman Lindsay’s quaint and lovable
Australians in The Magic Pudding ; Ken-
neth Grahame’s Rat and Toad of The
Wind in the Willows. Some day The
Magic Pudding will make a glorious film.
Made into a play as “Toad of Toad Hall,”
Kenneth Grahame’s fantasy went quite
well when Doris Fitton’s Independents
staged it in Sydney ; as an A.B.C. broad-
cast it didn’t quite come off because,
with only their voices to identify them,
the animals didn’t sound like animals.
Korda hasn’t that difficulty in the Jungle
Book film —he uses real, live animals
and, by sensibly limiting their conversa-
tions, makes them quite convincing per-
sonalities.
Only in two instances does Alexander
Korda move from the text in his interpre-
tation of the Kipling classic. For pur-
poses of spectacle he altered the manner
of the killing of Shere Khan, the tiger,
by having Mowgli perform it with his
knife; and he has twisted slightly the
incident of the king’s ruby-studded
ankus in the cobra-guarded treasure-
house of the Lost City. He has achieved
some remarkable shots, including a gem
of the ancient cobra swaying in front
of the terrified despoilers of his cave.
Kipling’s most dramatic scene, the “Let-
ting in the Jungle,” when, inspired by
Mowgli and led by Hathi, the animal
kingdom revenges itself on man, is done
by Korda with all the spirit of the origi-
nal. Technicolor helps throughout, and
especially in a great jungle fire scene
which Korda has added to dramatise the
destruction of the village. It’s a pity he
didn’t think of bringing in an unseen
commentator to recite Kipling’s verses
between the scenes.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
maimmm
m
%i i s
Men’s High Grade Shoes
In Box Calf, Tan Calf and Black
Glace Kid. In all fittings. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, pair 35/-
12 Coupons Required
Glace and Wallaby Boots
No toe caps. All fittings. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Prices, pair 39/6, 42/-
12 Coupons Required
In Box Calf
In Box Calf. Narrow, medium and
wide fittings. Full and half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price, 39/6
12 Coupons Required
Black Box Calf Boots
Mens’ Black Box Calf Boots with
genuine welted soles. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, pair 35/-, 37/6
In Black Glace Kid, Price, pr., 42/-
12 Coupons Required
‘Tree’ Officer’s Boots
“Tree” Brand Officer’s
Boots in Tan and Black;
and also Brown grained
leather. Standard screwed
and sewn soles. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns’. Pair . . 27/6
6 Coupons Required
ť
Men's Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Used Coif Balls Can Be Re-covered
Bring -your Golf Balls to us. Our Sports Department will buy them
at 2/- per dozen. The Government has given permission for used
Golf Balls to be re-covered. All Golf Balls will be accepted by
us except those with deep cuts which have damaged the core ,
or which are obviously perished through exposure to weather.
These re-covered balls will then be re-sold in perfect playing
condition at a price yet to be fixed by the Prices Commission.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


F act. Not Fiction: —
AIR ACE CALDWELL
IN an R.A.A.F. mess somewhere in
Victoria an argument cropped up on
the knotty question of whether
roosters can fly. To settle it, they col-
lected one, took him up a couple of
thousand feet and dropped him over.
The old chap stalled, sideslipped, went
into a terrific spin, landed on the back
of his neck, got up, looked round and
walked off.
It didn’t settle the argument, but at
least it showed the old bird was tough.
Therefore, he had part of the makings of
a good fighter pilot. Touching on which,
a Digger, with a pelt as sandbitten as
Moses’s must have been by the time he
sighted the Promised Land, blew in one
day and got yarning about the Middle
East. Among other things, about a cove
who made a forced landing on the desert.
Says the Dig.: “His undercarriage was
shot away, so he had to make a belly
landing. She hit and bounced 20 feet
and came down and went rolling over
and over. You couldn’t see much of her.
It was just a big ball of dust rolling
along. And there’s a smaller ball of
dust following her, The ’plane stopped
and blew up. The smaller ball stopped
and got up and shook himself. It was
the damn’ pilot. Those blokes are
tough.”
A Digger’s word should do for that;
and there are plenty of other examples,
none of them more conclusive than the
performance of Australia’s No. 1 air ace,
Squadron-Leader C. R. Caldwell, in the
scrap in which he won the D.F.C. As
gathered from the citation and suchlike
official sources, Caldwell that day put up
a show that’s one out of the box even
in the company it belongs to.
He was on fighter patrol over a Navy
convoy taking supplies to the besieged
Diggers in Tobruk. Going on these
patrols was one of the toughest jobs they
had over there, and none of them was
exactly a snack. It meant flying hun-
dreds of miles, first to get to the convoy,
then in sweeping back and forth, ready
to have on anything that turned up, high
above the blotches of ships and smoking
funnels creeping snail-like on with their
cargoes. Anywhere along the last hun-
dred or so miles of the way the shore-
based Hun bombers had only about 20
miles to come out to attack, and the
Messerschmitts had only that far to come
out to fight, with the sun at the back of
them.
This day Caldwell had the job of top
weaver, sweeping about above the rest
of the fighter escort, keeping an eye
everywhere around and above to see that
nothing managed a surprise attack on
them. At this sort of game the pilot
has to be alert as a hawk. He has to see
that nothing pounces on to the tail of
the others —and look after himself, too.
Suddenly, out of the sun, two Messer-
schmitts swooped on him. From a few
hundred yards’ range they came in blaz-
ing at him with everything they had —
and they have plenty. Converging bul-
lets smashed the glass screen in front of
him. They ripped off half the instru-
ment panel. A bullet from above cut
a scar across his right forearm. He felt
one in the shoulder, another in the leg,
another in the back. Fragments of them
cut chips out of him. A shot tore the
radio earpiece off his helmet. He spun
a bit, going down fast.
But he got hold of her. When the
Huns must have been sure they had him,
he got her out of the spin. She was
still somehow flying. He went for height,
turned —and attacked!
One of the Huns went down; con-
firmed from the ground later as a posi-
tive. The other broke off the engage-
ment, lighting out for home. Which
needn’t signify that he had the wind up.
Certainly Caldwell doesn’t say so. His
view: “Probably he was out of ammo.”
These chaps say of the Huns: “They’re
always ready for a fight.” In the in-
ferior machines the R.A.F. had in the
Middle East early in the piece going up
to the height at which the Huns had all
the advantage was asking to be shot
down. Quite needlessly, because “If you
didn’t go up, they’d always come down
to you.” Even then the Messerschmitts
at first had an edge on them, but at
least it was more of a fair go.
The action in which Caldwell, shot
in sundry places, yet managed a kill,
happened up near Sidi Barrani. That his
’plane kept flying was a miracle, but she
got him back all right, or he got her
back. A check-up showed more than
100 bullet-holes in her, as well as the
three in Caldwell. Also, there were five
20mm. cannon-shell holes in her. A
great hole a foot across had been blown
through one wing. One of the landing
tyres was flat with bullet-holes ; half a
landing flap had been blown away.
It shows what ’planes these days can
put up with, to say nothing of those who
fly them. A fraction of what she’d taken
would have said good night to one of
the old crates they flew last time. Even
so, that was one ’plane that the coves
of Caldwell’s ground staff knew at a
glance wouldn’t go up for any more of it.
All told, Caldwell has gone through
about eight ’planes, five of them shot
up, in the course of about 60 combats
and 290-odd operational flights. If that
doesn’t show how hard these fighter pilots
work for their results, then figures are
a waste of time. On the scoreboard
Caldwell is Australia’s No. 1 air ace by
a pretty big margin. His score reads:
20 confirmed kills; one he helped to kill;
six probables; 11 damaged. Among
Australians the next best is “Bluey”
Truscott’s 12 kills. Best of all on the
scoreboard is the R.A.F.’s Malan, with
32 certified downings. At just over that
("Modelled by Frith.)
SQUADRON-LEADER C. R. CALDWELL, D.F.C.
AND BAR ; CROSS OF VALOR.
total of years, Caldwell aims at passing
Malan, who, oddly enough, is not only
a namesake, but also a countryman of
South Africa’s scarcely pro-British Malan.
Maybe it should be noted in regard
to these scores that they’re kept on the
British brand of scoreboard, which goes
for Australians, Maorilanders and others
of the Empire. Simply, it’s that every
entry is established fact. There are no
perhapsers ; the score’s as authentic as
one by Walter Lindrum. Every entry
has to be confirmed by independent wit-
nesses. It’s in contrast with those
accredited descendants of Ananias, among
whom a school jewie can turn into a
70-pounder with virtually no effort of
the imagination—and especially if it gets
away! The principle at the back of
the British sort of scoreboard is just a
recognition of this very human propen-
sity.
Still, it’s a bit tough when scores go
mounting up that make theirs look on the
small side—extra tough considering the
solid hard work done to make these
scores. In the way of sheer hard work
the Middle East show has all along been
in a class by itself. Fighter pilots who’ve
come back have told how they used as
many as six different ’dromes in seven
days in the first race towards Tripoli ;
and maybe they used ’em still faster on
the way back again. Ground troops get
some sort of a break, if it’s only spend-
ing a day or two back behind a sand-
hill, trying to organise a race meeting
with scarabs. For fighter pilots it has
meant being actually in action without
a break for three months at a stretch ;
of course, living on bully and suchlike
hard tack, including the free-for-all
standing ration of gritty dust.
For the whole stretch —they might be
able to dash away for a two-days’ break
before starting another stretch —they’re
on the job seven days a week, often mak-
ing several separate sorties each day.
On this Spartan brand of programme,
Caldwell has done in the one day: one
sweep ; two strafes ; one bomber escort.
Perhaps this upholds the saw that variety
is the spice of life, or a change of work
as good as a spell.
On a general canvas among sundry of
them, these fighter pilots reckon strafing
takes the bullet-proof biscuit as the worst
of the lot. Fighting a ’plane—so they
say—is pie to it. For strafing you dive
down on troops, transport and suchlike,
starting to blaze into them from 500yds„
up, and keeping on down to 10ft. from
the ground. Then up for just enough
height, and down again ; giving them all
you’ve got, but —which has a certain
point if you’re the strafer —at the same
time taking everything they can bring to
bear on you: machine-guns, ack-ack,
rifles; they’ll even be potting at you with
revolvers. In all, it’s a terrific concen-
tration of fire, whereas with a ’plane it’s
merely a few machine-guns and cannon
letting go at you.
Merely—by com-
parison, anyway.
That score of
C a 1 d w e 1 l’s, of
course, doesn’t in-
clude what he’s
done in this line
—in the way of
shooting up
troops, .trucks and
the rest. Here
there’s no tally to
go on the score-
board. The pilot
has to be content
with his own feel-
ing about it. As
to what goes on
the board, a whole
team of others —
living the same
sort of life, work-
ing their bursts at
a rate that would
make any home-
fronter dizzy—
help to put it
there. These are
the ground stajif.
The fighter pilot
has his own team
of them. When
he comes in they
get to it, service
his ’plane, refill
his ammo, supply,
put the juice into
her ; make her as
near perfect as
hands can man-
age for the job the fighter pilot has to
do.
In the Middle East the ground chaps’
great bugbear is the sand. It gets into
the pipes ; it clogs the ’plane’s breathing.
The coves who have to attend to all this
live in their little bits of tents, bombed
by night, roasted by day. They take a
special interest —a pride of ownership,
you might say—in their particular pilot.
The better he does the better they like
it, and him. But theirs is very much
more than a reflected glory.
If they swear by their pilots, their pilots
certainly swear by them. Caldwell would
be first to burn a bit of incense to them
for the fact that he’s still on the job, with
the score he has. Very thoroughly Aus-
tralian, this chap. Topping about six-
feet-four, his height somehow isn’t par-
ticularly noticeable. He’s tall, all right;
but the proportions are exact, neither big
nor whiplike, and straight as a cornstalk
of his native N.S.W. That makes him
Australian-born (Bellevue Hill, Sydney);
his parents are Australian-born also ; and
he was entirely Australian-trained (Brad-
field, Mascot, Wagga) when he went over
to get to know the job in the Middle
East.
To get to know, too, that his training
as a fighter was just starting. Among
other things, in regard to shooting, which
isn’t by any means what many laymen
have imagined it to be —merely a matter
of pointing your ’plane at the other fel-
low and pressing a button. A near-
enough analogy to it is duckshooting,
where the shooter follows fast, swerving
flight round with his gun, and then fires,
judging that shot and bird will arrive at
a certain point together.
The fighter pilot does much the same
sort of sweep, unless he gets fair on the
other fellow’s tail, which he doesn t
always do. There it’s just a matter of
pressing the top of the firing-piece on
the joystick, and you give him your
machine-guns ; or press the bottom, and
you give him your cannon ; press the
middle, and you give him the lot. At
other times the fighter pilot has to allow
for deflection. The other fellow may be
going away from him on a rising curve.
In this case, the attacking pilot, who has
to do his judging on a split second, has
to allow for change in distance, change
in altitude and change in direction all
together.
A difference with the duckshooter is
that the pilot has to judge right, or most
likely he’ll pay for it with his life. Above
everything, it calls for ability to make in-
stant decision. Everything in the air-
fighting game is fast; terrifically fast.
How fast one section of Caldwell’s bag
indicates —in one scrap he shot down the
greased-lightning total of five ’planes in
12 minutes!
He couldn’t always shoot like that.
Even among the topdog fighter pilots
there are topnotch shots and others who
are fair enough, but not in the class with
the real shots. Fighter pilots who are just
poo' - shots don’t end up so well.
On the job in the Middle East —where
he was to gather his D.F.C., the bar to
it, and the Polish Cross of Valor as well,
and where, among other posts, he com-
manded the R.A.F.’s great No. 112 Fighter
Squadron—on the job there, Caldwell
found at first that his shooting wasn’t
really so hot. He’d had a couple of
chances, and hadn’t brought them off.
Not so good ; and not so healthy, either.
He evolved his own training method. He
noted the shadow of another ’plane travel-
ling on the sand. He figured that, as it
was moving at the same pace, it made a
tiptop target. So he gave it a burst. The
bullets spurted the sand up a good 20ft.
to the rear ; he wasn’t making the right
allowances. He corrected that, and tried
some more. By keeping this up he be-
came a shot. As the Huns —there’s only
one Eyetie in his bag—were to find out.
Before, in the long run, they sent him
to England for a break, Caldwell had
fought in the air from border to border
across the desert, and back again. He’d
strafed through Syria from ’dromes in
Palestine ; had been for a while stationed
on Cyprus; had taken a hand in the
fighter escort for the evacuating of Crete.
Also, he’d tested out and developed the
Kittyhawk as a fighter bomber, and he
found it makes a pretty good one.
In England he flew Spitfires across the
Channel and over France. Compared
with the desert he found this a nice sort
of life. In England and such places,
when you come home you come home.
You’re in civilisation —different from the
desert; very different. Not that the
desert is to be sneezed at altogether; By
no means. These fighter pilots have a
special regard for it. A youngster who
aims to be a pilot was asked by Caldwell
where he’d like to go. The youngster’s
choice was Canada, and then on. “Take
my tip and go to the Middle East if you
can,” says Caldwell. “There’s nowhere
like it.”
Still, different. Different also
America, where he dropped in for a
month or so on the way back, getting a
slant on Uncle Sam’s ’plane production
and ideas of war flying. There, too, he
had an invitation over to Alcatraz —for
afternoon tea! Decidedly different, with
the San Quentin Glee Singers putting on
a turn for the visitors, and one smilling,
dark-haired chap, in for chopping a
couple of people up and putting them in
bags, coming on stage and singing a
touching lovelorn ditty and all about
“The light in your hair, mother darling ’!
Most decidedly different. And, after
ail this and much more crowded into a
year or two, very different seeing again
his native heath, to which he was brought
back to help stonker the Jap. Not so
different, though, as it no doubt would
be if he was slipping back into a peace-
time job. What in the name of Mercury
on Pegasus will these chaps do for a bit
of excitement then? These chaps like
Caldwell, D.F.C., etc.? He graduated for
it all through Sydney Grammar, through
being quarter-mile hurdles champ, of
N.S.W. and Australian rep.; through
working in a bank and jackerooing, and
then being an insurance broker. What-
ever it is insurance brokers do, Caldwell
somehow doesn’t seem to fit in there. On
appearances and on his record he looks
as if he was specially built to be just
what he is, a topnotch fighter pilot.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64. —No. 3284.
Wednesday, January 20, 1943.
THE SHARK FISHERMEN.
“The submarine menace continues to be serious. It is estimated that Germany is building 25 U-boats a month and has 470 constantly at sea.”
“There’s no letting up on this job, J. B.!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H, Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
„ M e } b -j urn £: , Britan*
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet tree,
on on, .o.
KEEPING AUSTRALIA SAFE.
First the war has yet to be won. That
it will be is fundamental conviction
among the Allied Nations, Even when
this side consisted entirely of a badly-
shaken Britain on the defensive and
British Empire outposts physically and
geographically unable to do anything
much about it that conviction held good
as an article of faith. In Australia it
still held when the Japs swarmed down on
their all-conquering way right to the door-
step, threatening to come straight inside.
There is all the more reason for it to
hold good today. Without taking liter-
ally the perhaps purposeful forecasts of
enthusiasts like the American Admiral
Halsey, it needs no inspiration of opti-
mism to hold that the war at large has
taken a fair turn for the better. Despite
wildly misleading headlines in sensation-
mongering newspapers —“Mutiny Among
Hitler’s Troops”; “Complete German
Collapse”—discounting this sort of rub-
bish, the Russian winter offensive is as
cheering as it is important. Compared
with the position a couple of months
back, a great change has come over the
African scene ; at one end a great British
military victory, and at the other end a
notable American diplomatic victory, lead-
ing on to combined Anglo-American occu-
pation of a vast area that may be of vital
importance in the long run of strategy.
The once well-nigh militarily defence-
less Britain, which held out alone only
by virtue of the staunchness of its Navy
and the gallantry of its R.A.F., is its
old self again, doubly strengthened. J.
Bull stands formidable now. Uncle Sam,
as well as recovering from Pearl Harbor
sufficiently to be already giving back
more than the Jap bargained for in the
Solomons, has materially strengthened
Australia’s defences in man-power and
machines. Americans on land and in the
air have combined closely with Aus-
tralians in fighting the Jap back —if only,
comparatively, a yard or two—-from this
country’s threatened doorstep. Uncle
Sam at home is daily increasing in
stature. His war production is reaching
a peak that will overshadow the whole
combined Axis effort.
Altogether it adds up to an improve-
ment that faith may have believed in but
realism could not have expected. Clearly
there has been a fair element of luck in it,
one of the chief bits of luck being that
Britain is an island. Had it had a land
frontier —like Holland, Belgium, France
and other countries that went down in
quick succession—it would, unprepared as
it was, certainly have gone, too. More
than that: had it been really prepared
the chances are that Hitler might not
have been game to start. It seems quite
evident that he underestimated Russia.
It is hardly credible that he was unaware
of how Russia was building up military
strength, just as he was building up Ger-
many’s. What he would seem to have
underestimated is the national spirit
backing the Russian military prepara-
tions. Making that mistake, he felt quite
safe to launch his war, knowing as he
did that Britain —in common with all
its Empire outposts, and America, and
most of the soon-overrun European
countries —was militarily unready.
Even as it was, had he gone for Britain
instead of turning on Russia things
might have panned out very differently.
He thought Russia, for all its known mili-
tary preparations, would be easy. Had
he won quickly there the war itself would
have been as good as won ; at any rate,
defeating a thus-established Germany
would have been a vastly different propo-
sition from what it looks today. At that
time —in the early stages, before the Rus-
sian national spirit rose—it looked as if
it was going to be easy. At that time, too
—except to those strengthened by a des-
perate faith —it looked as if Britain was
next door to beaten. Most decidedly,
there is an element of luck in all this.
A very large element. While the Ger-
mans and the Japs prepared, and the Axis
comic relief tried to prepare, the British,
at home and in the outposts, and the
Americans with them, lived in their
happy cloudland of illusions. From that
viewpoint the whole world and human
nature had changed. War was hateful;
therefore there would be no more war.
On the strength of this singular logic war-
ships were sunk, soldiers were first be-
littled and then sacked, military forces
were so reduced that they were as good
as abolished. Openly preparing to make
war on the ones who were thus inviting
it, there is little wonder that the Ger-
mans, Japs and even Italians thought of
them as decadent.
That was the position when the war
came. Brought down from cloudland,
the illusion-worshippers now had to try
to do in haste and war what their
enemies had done in long years and
peace. They had to prepare and fight
together. They are still doing both. On
their home fronts all is riot —a riot of
enforced regulations, of savage taxation
exactions, of feverish speed, of violently
changed living conditions, of desperate
measures of all sorts. It is the price of
chewing the lotus in the piping days.
It is the rank harvest of the seed then
sown by the cloudy cranks. It is the
bitter fruit of the dual conspiracy of
timeserving politicians to bemuse the
people and of the people to bemuse
themselves.
The luck of it is that there has been
the time for it. In every case it meant
starting from scratch against a weightily
and deliberately prepared enemy. The
worst of it is that the home-front aspect
is the least of it. This experience—what
has been gone through, is still on, and is
yet ahead —may possibly teach home-
fronters something about themselves.
Will they learn anything about the mili-
tary aspect? If they haven’t learned yet,
and don’t learn before the end, will those
with the fighting part be able to teach
them? These are the real sufferers. Be-
side the rush and jumble on the home
front at its worst the fighters’ part is
incomparably tragic. It is better now
than it has been ; it will be better still;
but this can only be said after years of
war. Earlier, the great bulk of those with
the fighting to do were poorly trained
and badly equipped. Why?
Australia might do well to remember
the reason. It is identical with that re-
sponsible for all the home-front shifts
and starts —taking it easy in peace, pay-
ing in war. The difference is that the
best of the young manhood of the nation
pays with life; the home-fronter pays
only with inconvenience, and even this
is lavish comfort compared with what
is the lot of the troops as an inescapable
matter of course. The balance can never
be properly righted; but at least the
present fighters and their prospective suc-
cessors, the growing youth of the nation,
might see to it that the avoidable death-
traps of a fighter’s life —lack of training,
poor equipment, unsuitable leaders —are
not deliberately put down by carelessness
in peace to wait for them. There is one
way to accomplish this —by making per-
manent defence a first national considera-
tion.
The Old Diggers have the right
idea about it. At their last Australia-
wide congress they adopted an “Austra-
lian Charter” which included provision
for a large standing force, and they
would favor militia training as a per-
manency. The trap in wait for this has
been pointed out by one of the highest
of authorities, the U.S. Army’s chief of
staff, General Marshall:
After a war a democracy like ours
usually throws to the wind whatever scien-
tific approach has been developed in the
conduct of war. This is a historical fact.
It is the result of the immediate post-war
aversion of the people to everything mili-
tary, and of the imperative demand of the
taxpayer for relief from the burden im-
posed by the huge war debt.
As far as Australia is concerned, there
might be one hope of this, which is what
happened last time, not happening again.
This time there will be so many in the
fighting forces before it’s all over that
they should represent a definite influence
for the good of the country afterwards.
More than politicians and home-fronters
put together, they realise what section of
the community it is that really pays when
a country goes unprepared to war. They,
at least, are not likely to swallow the
certain future nostrums of peace ever-
lasting, They will know, too, that now
that this country has once been involved
with war descending from Asia it must
for ever be on its guard against a repeti-
tion.
- Even now politicians show not the
slightest sign of being aware of these
things. Indeed, the party in office gives
plentiful signs that it would be first to jet-
tison defence as soon as the immediate
necessity was removed. It has done so
before. Its defence record stinks. The
best that can be said for it is that, once
war had come, parts of it tried hard to
be realistic. But leading members of its
Government are nothing like this even
now, and others of them, even with war
on their hands, are more notable as
pedlars of dreams of freedoms than as
defence realists. Their political opposites
give no sign of being any better ; they
give every sign that they’ll bid hard and
direct to the electorate’s pocket instantly
this becomes expedient.
Defence will then be up to the old
reliables, the Diggers. And one big thing
they should induce Australia, with them,
to do is see to it that defence is estab-
lished once and for all beyond the reach
of any set of meddling politicians, of
whatever shade of political color or
degree of political self-interest.
Thwarted Happiness.
In “Butter and Mud” (B. 13/l/’43) it
was stated that two Sydney newspapers,
the “Daily Telegraph” and the “Sunday
Sun,” had turgidly glorified Marshal
Timoshenko on the score of his direction
of a campaign in which, it transpired, he
has had no part, at the same time making
scornful references to an unfortunate
’plane-starved British general. The refer
ence to the “Sunday Sun” is here
repeated.
On December 6 the “Sun” discovered that
“Timoshenko’s armies,” having “timed the
recoil and spring to perfection,” had
“swung from rock-defence to attack”;
and there was a picture of Timoshenko to
prove it. The panegyrist turned from this
congenial theme to have a crack at General
Percival, who, being British, was, of course,
fair game. He asserted that “General Per-
cival promised to counter-attack to save the
battered Australian contingent,” and that
counter-attack there was none. And in the
last scene he saw “G.O.C. Malaya Lieut.-
General A. E. Percival marching towards
the conquering General Yamashita behind
the white flag and the [it should have been
“a”] Union Jack.” This outrageous lie
was published in a supplement called
“Fact.”
There arrived on the following day a
letter from “Yours faithfully, J. H.
Butters, Chairman of Directors,” Asso-
ciated Newspapers. “ ‘Fact,’ as some
hundreds of thousands of persons know,
is a supplement of the ‘Sunday Sun,’ and
it does not publish outrageous nor any
other kind of lies.” So said the Chairman
of Directors ; and he proceeded, more in
anger than sorrow:
“We are aware that the limited
resources of your company do not permit
your receiving the wealth of facts which this
company purchases, but we must submit
that your editor should not make damag-
ing statements without verification. Had
he taken the trouble to ask us our author-
ity for the truth published in ‘Fact’ we
should have been happy to have shown
him a photograph of the actual event,
with General Percival, the two flags and
a Japanese escort, all too horribly
visible. The photograph is here for your
inspection. You may care to see it before
you publish a retraction.
“We anticipate that you will in your
next issue suitably and unequivocally
withdraw your statement charging us
with publishing an ‘outrageous lie,’ and
expect from you an assurance of that
intention by noon on Saturday, the 16th
instant.”
The expectation and anticipation could
not be gratified. And although “we
should have been happy” (happy!) to
produce “a photograph of the actual
event, with General Percival, the two
flags and a Japanese escort, all too horribly
visible,” The Bulletin would not dream
of accepting a photograph taken in such
circumstances by some person unnamed
and unknown, but “horribly” suspect, as
proof of whatever “Fact” may choose
to impute to General Percival. No charge
of conduct dishonorable to the leader of
a British Commonwealth army and humi-
liating to the British Commonwealth can
be proved against General Percival until
he has been heard in his own defence.
In A Year of People’s War, by W. A.
Wood, with a preface by Rupert Lock-
wood (the Chairman of Directors knows
that person), a Russia-First picture was
painted;
One episode lit the gloom of Singapore’s
decline and fall. The Government restored
legality to the local branch of the Kuo-
min-tang, previously banned to please the
Japanese. It also recognised and armed
the Communist party. As these drove off
through the city to fight to the death they
sang a Chinese war song: “Arise, arise,
those who do not want to be slaves. Build
a new great world with your flesh and
blood.” The British commanders were not
thinking that way. Sixteen days later
General Perceval [s/c] was photographed
by gleeful Japanese pressmen advancing
with a white flag in one hand and a Union
Jack in the other to surrender his army of
80,000 men to Yamashita.
How the alleged photograph was got
from the “gleeful” Japanese, and how
much, if anything, was paid for it, by
and to whom, the gloating author
did not explain. Whether it exists
or not is immaterial, except as revealing
the depths to which Russia-Firsters will
sink. In the absence of General Percival
it is no evidence against that general.
In the practice of modern photography
faking has become an art, and the
alleged photograph could have been
faked (any slick photographer could
do a job as easy on his head). Japanese
cameras must have been busy at that
period, and it would have been in the
interests of Japanese propaganda in Asia
and in the anti-British world to fake it.
In point of fact, The Bulletin had
already seen what was published as a
photograph of “the actual event,” and
which may or may not be the one the
“Sunday Sun” would have been so “happy”
to show. It appeared in the June 29 issue
of “Time,” by which “Fact” has obvi-
ously been strongly influenced, though
“Fact” goes in also for gibes at Aus-
tralian “Red-baiters” and the like, written
in the style of Comrade Thornton’s “Iron-
worker.” Among the “Red-baiters” are
Archie Cameron and Calwell, Ms.H.R.,
and “Labor Poo-Bah Clarrie Fallon” is
another of “Fact’s” aversions, one of his
offences being that at the 1942 A.W.U.
Convention he “successfully moved that
Russia, ‘in view of the vast assistance
given her by the Allies, should be asked
to assist in defeating the Japanese
menace.’ ”
But the “Time” photograph does not
show “General Percival marching to-
wards the conquering General Yamashita
behind the white flag and a Union Jack.”
General Yamashita is not in the picture,
and General Percival is not marching
behind any flag. He is one of several
figures stepping along a road, and is, in
fact, the foremost figure, a stride ahead
of the figure nearest to him—a British
officer. Alongside that officer is a Japa-
nese officer, evidently of high rank.
Behind him, half-concealed, is another
Japanese officer, probably an aide-de-
camp, and there may be a third, con-
cealed behind a British color-sergeant,
who walks on the right of the first Jap
officer, a step behind, and bears the
Union Jack. Alongside the color-sergeant
is a British trumpeter with a white flag,
and another Jap, some steps behind,
brings up the rear. At the roadside is
a Jap with a camera, and there must
have been another —or many others
on the other side of the road.
In the Manual of Military Law, “issued
by command of the [British] Army
Council,” it is laid down that “the com-
manders of armed forces are presumed
to be invested with powers to agree to
capitulations, but they are responsible to
their Government should they exercise
these powers in cases other than those
of necessity.” There is no question of
General Percival having capitulated with-
out the sanction of his Government or of
having overridden the judgment of a
council of war.
At a conference held on February 13
General Percival “suggested attack.” The
other generals present (among them was
our own Gordon Bennett) were of
opinion that “further resistance was
useless,” and “a message to this effect
was sent to General Wavell, who replied
ordering the troops to fight to the last.”
At another and larger conference, held
on the morning of the fatal February
15, it was “unanimously recommended
that, as further resistance was useless,
the force should surrender It was
decided to send Brigadier Newbiggin and
the Chief Secretary as envoys to meet
the Japanese commander... .It is under-
stood that the enemy refused to deal with
any officer but Lieut.-General Percival.
Consequently there was some delay in
finalising trie capitulation.” (The quota-
tions are from Soldiering On.)
Nor is there any question of General
Percival having, through weakness, sur-
rendered “upon worse terms than he
might have made.” He was in no posi-
tion to bargain. He had to accept the
enemy’s terms or consent to a frightful
and useless massacre of his army and the
vast civil population.
The Manual of Military Law proceeds:
The intention to surrender is frequently
indicated by the hoisting of a white flag
and parlementaires are then sent to arrange
for a suspension of arms and draw up and
sign the capitulation.
According to the Hague Rules, a person
to be regarded as a parlementaire must be
authorised by one of the belligerents to
enter into communication with the other
and must present himself under cover of a
white flag
It is permissible for a commander to de-
clare subject to what formalities and
conditions he will receive a parlementaire
and to fix the hour and place at which he
should appear.
And apparently there is nothing in the
laws of war to prevent his insisting on his
opposite number being the parlemen-
taire.
The number of persons who may accom-
pany the parlementaire to the enemy’s lines,
unless special authorisation for additional
ones is given, is limited to three: a trum-
peter, bugler or drummer, a flag-bearer and
an interpreter. The parlementaire may,
however, come alone, carrying the white
flag himself. .
Since time immemorial a white flag has
been used as a signal by an armed force
which wishes to open communication with
the enemy. This is the only signification
that the flag possesses in International
Law. The hoisting of a white flag, there-
fore, means in itself nothing else than
that the one party is asked whether it will
receive a communication from the other
Everything depends on the circumstances
and conditions of the particular case.
Great vigilance is always necessary, for
the question in every case is whether the
hoisting of the white flag was authorised by
the commander. When a white flag is
hoisted the adversary need not necessarily
cease fire. It is only by sending a parlemen-
taire that an arrangement can be come to.
The parlementaire should be treated
with all the honors due to his rank and,
if thought desirable for his protection, a
guard or escort should be provided for him.
There is a great deal more in the
Manual of Military Law. It would have
been instructive reading for the “Sunday
Sun” editor who went to Malaya in


August and reported, not that the army
was perilously short of good bomber
and fighter ’planes, but that it was
suffering from “dhoby itch,” from
“a tropical psychological phenomenon
called by the Malayan term ‘bloody-
mindedness,’ ” caused by too much gazing
at rubber-trees, and from a saddening
dearth of picture shows (“there is not
one mobile motion-picture unit in
Malaya”), “material for sport, books to
read,” Singapore leave and mountain air.
The “Sunday Sun” editor’s general pre-
scription for the A.I.F. was that “the men
should be transported to hotels, guest-
houses and private houses on the Cam-
eron Highlands in convoys —the Cameron
Highlands would take the A.I.F. out of
the sweat and steam.”
If the Manual of Military Law is not
“too horribly visible” in the “Sunday
Sun” office, The Bulletin would be
“happy” to lend the “Sunday Sun” a
copy.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Two V.Cs.
Two stirring stories of deeds of high
heroism by Australians —one with its set-
ting at Milne Bay, the other over
Europe—were told in the citations on the
V.Cs. won by Corporal John Alexander
French (first V.C. of the New Guinea
fighting; thus the first won in Australian
territory) and Sgt. R, H. Middleton (first
R.A.A.F. V.C. in this war).
Doubly tragic that both had to be post-
humous awards. Each was superbly
won.
French, in charge of an infantry sec-
tion which ran into terrific fire from three
Japanese strongposts, ordered his lot to
take cover, and, armed with grenades,
went forward alone. He silenced the
first post, came back for more grenades,
went out again and silenced the second
post. Then, still singlehanded, he
attacked the third, going straight at it,
firing a tommy-gun from the hip, and
still going on, blazing away, after he’d
been seen to be badly wounded.
He silenced that third post, too, and
his section moved up to find that all
members of the three enemy gun crews
had been killed, and that Corporal
French had died in front of the third
gun pit.
French added to the great record of
Queenslanders in heroic deeds. He was
born at Crow’s Nest in the year the last
war started and was first from that place
to enlist in this war. Like the bulk of
those who bore the brunt of the New
Guinea fighting he was a Middle East
veteran. He put in five months in
Tobruk. One brother is in the A.1.F.;
the other in the R.A.A.F.
Two years younger than French, Flight-
Sgt. Middleton was born at Waverley
(N.S.W.). Captain and first pilot of a
Sterling in a bombing raid on Turin, he
had to decide whether to keep on or turn
back when the climb over the Alps left
them perilously short of fuel. He kept
on, and, despite the chances that they
mightn’t be able to regain height, went
down to 2000 ft. to make sure of the tar-
get, and at that low altitude made three
flights over Turin before the target was
identified.
The ’plane meanwhile was badly shot
about. A shell burst in the cockpit,
wounding both pilots. A shell splinter
destroyed Middleton’s right eye, expos-
ing the bone. Probably wounded else-
where as well, he became unconscious
and the ’plane dropped to 800 ft. before
the second pilot, also wounded, got con-
trol.
They flew the damaged machine back
over the Alps, running into more heavy
fire over France. When they got over
the Channel they had fuel for only five
minutes’ flying, Middleton, bleeding
badly from his wounds and so weak that
he could speak only with great difficulty,
ordered the others to bale out while he
flew along the coast. Five got out all
right; then Middleton, his strength now
almost gone in loss of blood, headed out
to sea and crashed there. In the words
of the official comment: “His devotion
to duty in the face of overwhelming odds
is unsurpassed in the annals of the
R.A.F.”
Any comment would be redundant.
Deeds of this calibre make their own
comment on the men who performed
them and through these on the fibre of
the race from which they sprang. En-
couraging to feel that that holds good,
despite the meaner contradictions of it
that can be seen on the political and
industrial home front.
More State Extortion.
People unfortunate enough to own motor
vehicles in N. S. Wales are to be shot at
again under the McKell State’s new third-
party insurance measure. Those who had
comprehensive policies covering third-
party risk with private companies are
now being told that the compulsory third-
party policy must be separate from any
other. Why the complete cover couldn’t
be embodied in a single policy is a mys-
tery, explainable only by the fact that
the McKell Government will collect Is.
tax on every policy, and that it is made
far easier for the motorist to register if
he insures with the Government’s own
office. At 30/9/’42 there were 287,737
motor vehicles registered in the State,
representing a cool £14,386 a year in
taxes on the new policies.
But that isn’t all. Under that Act a
motor-owner is permitted to take the
third-party cover only from date of regis-
tration to date of expiry. Since many
have availed themselves of the quarterly-
registration arrangement—on which an-
other slug was stuck —they' will either
have to register for the full year or take
out four third-party-risk policies in the
year, adding 10s. to the premium for the
year and another 4s. stamp tax on the
policies.
In the absence of any official explana-
tion as to why the cover is thus limited
from date to date or why an exist-
ing third-party cover isn’t sufficient,
the thing begins to smell like an-
other McKell Government effort to
recompense itself for loss of the “right”
to tax income already taxed by the Com-
monwealth and, in many cases, by other
States, And since this Government has
set up an insurance office at a time when
private insurance offices are working with
minimum staffs the thing smells a bit
stronger. All this comes from a crowd
whose Premier is never tired of talking
about what he and his following are
doing for the State War Effort. If
harassing an already over-harassed class
and making more jobs for Government
employees are helping the war effort, the
McKell State is leading by the length
of a straight.
Twenty-nine Months After.
A year or so ago N.S.W. Attorney-
General Martin was full of plans for law
reform; and the Lord and the litigant
know that it is needed. A friendly news-
paper announced that Mr, Martin con-
templated introducing seven or eight law-
reform bills. His enthusiasm seems
to have oozed out of him since he became
a uniformed captain, though his mili-
tary duties seem to make no great inroads
on his administrative and Parliamentary
work, such as his Parliamentary work is.
Last week Mr. Martin withdrew the
proceedings against five persons connected
with a concern known as Commonwealth
Hemp who were charged with conspiracy
with two other persons (one is dead) to
obtain money with intent to cheat and
defraud. They were very long-drawn-out
proceedings, begun at “Central” in April,
1941, and not there concluded till May,
1942 Thirteen months for a police-court
hearing! And it wasn’t begun until eight
months after charges had been laid!
This kind of thing is a dreadful busi-
ness for the people concerned (it is con-
ceivable that worry hastened the death
of the party referred to), besides being
altogether unsatisfactory to the public.
Mr. Martin should try to regain his en-
thusiasm for law reform, at least in the
criminal jurisdiction.
"Imperialism."
A Little Englander before the war,
Herbert Morrison, the Labor Home Sec-
retary, has become a robust defender of
the imperialism denounced by Mr. Wen-
dell Willkie, With the tart “assumption”
that “there are others who are as ready to
accept responsibility as to offer advice,
and as ready to share the burdens as the
benefits,” Mr. Morrison offered on behalf
of his Government, “without prejudice to
our own obligations for the progress of
British territories,” to share “with others
some wider pooling of tasks and respon-
sibilities.”
India after the war can have full self-
government for the taking. But to talk
about granting self-government to many
dependent territories is sheer nonsense. It
would be like giving a child a latchkey, a
banking account and a shotgun.
Australian rule in Papua may be called
“imperialist.” The natives must appre-
ciate it or they wouldn’t have given
recentlv so many inspiring examples of
pure devotion to white “masters.” There
are other Papuas in the British Empire.
A.L.P. EXAMINATION RESULTS.
“Here are your Leaving Certificates. You’re B’s in all subjects.”


Backache, Leg Pains,
Often a Danger Sign of
Tired Kidneys
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
assist kidneys to function properly—
to discharge acids and poisons. Give
your kidneys the help they need before
it is too late.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
iQljypr
EYE LOTIOI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
SOME COMMON SENSE
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEt, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin has discovered that his Govern-
ment has drifted into a man-power situa-
tion “of the utmost gravity.” What else
could be expected when he handed Man-
power over to Ward and let Ward have
his, fling?
Labor at Canberra is dreadfully wor-
ried about Fallon, Federal president of
the A.L.P. and Queensland secretary of
the A.W.U., who is alleged to have
said at the old union’s delegate
meeting at Brisbane that “the Govern-
ment’s actions seem to conflict with all
the things this movement stands for,” and
that “if this position continues I will be
obliged to consider my allegiance.”
There is some doubt as to what Fallon
did say; but it is on record that he
pressed for increases of military pay and
allowances to Canadian levels. The
Government will try to humor him in
this field, though apparently far more
keen on another “social-service” distri-
bution than on doing the square thing
by the services.
There are increasing doubts as to
whether the Commonwealth Powers Bill
will be accepted by the Adelaide Parlia-
ment and the Perth Legislative Council.
On a party vote the measure is through
Queensland’s one House.
Fullagar, the Melbourne K.C., has
advised objectors to the Commonwealth
Powers Bill that “while a State Parlia-
ment may under this bill” limit “in any
way” matters referred to the Common-
wealth Parliament, “it may not limit the
legislative power of the Commonwealth
with respect to the matters referred, nor
may it revoke a reference once made.”
The objectors in question are the
Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers
and Employers’ Federation and the Mel-
bourne Chamber of Commerce, and pub-
lication of the opinion drew a testy refer-
ence from the P.M. to “the pressure
which selfish sectional interests may seek
to exert.” The P.M. has not been testy,
at least in public, about the selfish sec-
tional interests which tried —and in Syd-
ney are still trying— to block militia
service in the south-west Pacific.
Subsection xxxvii of Section 51 em-
powers the Commonwealth Parliament to
make laws with respect to “matters re-
ferred to the Parliament of the Common-
wealth by the Parliament or Parliaments
of any State or States, but so that the law
shall extend only to States by whose Par-
liaments the matter is referred, or which
afterwards adopt the law.” No time limit
is mentioned. Fullagar, K.C., maintains
that States cannot constitutionally transfer
powers to the Commonwealth for a
limited time. And if they refer matters
to the Commonwealth with a specified
five years’ limit, to begin when hostilities
end, the Courts would hold that “no
matter was validly referred to the Com-
monwealth at all.” Still, there are more
ways of killing six cats than choking
them with cheese. /
Hitler, railing and boasting at Munich
on November 9:
The Russian does not stand at the
Pyrenees or before Seville. This would be
the same distance as the one we stand on
today at Stalingrad or, let us say, on the
Terek. After all, we stand there. Nobody
can dispute that.
Anybody can dispute it now, for the
Nazis no longer stand on the Terek.
They are still in arid about Stalingrad,
though they must be having a ghastly
time, and if they fail to hang on it will
be all up with Adolf’s reputation for
wizardry as far as his subjects are con-
cerned. For in the same speecn, reier-
ring to Stalingrad, he assured said sub-
jects that “we actually have it,” while
admitting that “there are some very small
spots left over,” and that “to get to the
Volga at a specific point, at a certain
city,” was the grand object of his 1942
campaign.
On a strict party vote the U.S. Demo-
crats re-elected the Speaker—a much
more important functionary at Washing-
ton than at Canberra—by 217 to 206,
but the majority began to fade and the
President to come under fire as soon as
the new House got to work. Without
consulting the old Congress, the Admin-
istration set a $25,000 limit on salaries,
after payment of taxes. Defending the
decree, Judge Byrnes (“Economic Stabi-
liser” Byrnes) argued that it would affect
“only 3000 persons.” The reply was
that these persons could not be deprived
by edict of their constitutional rights,
and that the notion had been borrowed
from the Communists, who, in their 1928
“After the war the initiative and enterprise of private individuals must still be used.”
Dr. Evatt.
“I say, old boy, you'll have to look after yourself — we’ll want you after the war”
platform, had a plank “that all incomes
over $25,000 be confiscated.”
Of the police-court hearing in the
Commonwealth Hemp affair “S. M.
Herald” records that “there were 121
actual sitting days, and the depositions
covered 2460 pages.” Had N.S.W. pro-
cedure and practice prevailed in England
when Lord Kylsant came under suspicion,
that shipping peer might have died
before the case was completed. As it
was, he was tried, convicted and sen-
tenced in a matter of weeks.
Percy Spender, lecturing on his second
global-war tour, was impressive when
speaking of the resolution which up-
lifted the British when the Hun had done
his worst to make hideous wrecks of
their cities (“nearly a million houses
damaged in London, and in Portsmouth
over 69,000 out of 71,000”), but not when
he suggested more global-war tours:
From the Prime Minister down there
should be a Minister going overseas every
two months to explain our problems face
to face with those in authority in America
and England.
This when there are nineteen Ministers!
Bear-leaders would have to be supplied
in some cases to interpret their senti-
ments, if not their argot. Fancy Eddie
Ward or Don Cameron in Washington!
Reports that Canada is a party to
Lease-Lend were denied last week by
Justice Davis, the new Canadian High
Commissioner at Canberra. Canada, he
said, has neither asked for nor received
Lease-land aid to the value of a far-
thing ; on the contrary, it is repaying the
equivalent of £3,000,000 Australian of
its debt to the U.S.A. this month, and
to Britain it has granted $1,000,000,000
worth of war materials and supplies as
a free gift. It vyouldn’t take Chifley long
to learn from Justice Davis how Canada
does it.
Perhaps remembering that this is nor-
mally the silly season, writing boys
started, and then denied, a story that
the Minister of Labor and National Ser-
vice was about to resign on a point of
principle. As if anyone could imagine
Ward leaving the tartshop of his own
accord!
January 6 was the eleventh anniversary
of the Scullin Government’s exit and
of the swearing-in of Lyons as leader of
the Government that was to last longer
than any other. Jan. 10 was the 25th
anniversary of the beginning of Hughes's
last Government. It remained till Febru-
ary 9, 1923, and not till October, 1934,
did Billy have another sniff of office,
though it was his own fault. In the inter-
vening period he brought down two Gov-
ernments, the one led by his own
Nationalist Treasurer and the other
formed by the first of his five parties.
So far the Senate hasn’t worried the
Curtins, but it could worry them exceed-
ingly if Opposition Senators availed them-
selves of their opportunities. They have
a majority of two, and, barring accidents,
will retain it till June 30, 1944, what-
ever happens at this year’s elections. And
only five Opposition seats, those of Spicer
(Vic.), Latham (W.A.), Wilson, Mcßride
and McLachlan (S.A.), are to be contested,
whereas 14 Labor Senators will have to
face the music. The 14 are Amour, Arm-
strong and Arthur (N.S.W.); Brown, Col-
lings and Courtice (Q.); Clothier, Frazer
and Cunningham (W.A.); Aylett, Darcey
and Lamp (Tas.); Keane and Cameron
(Vic.). It will be long odds against that
lot getting back.
The prospect of an Anglo-American
landing in Yugoslavia is clouded by the
existence there of two mutually hostile
Slav forces, one backed by London and
Washington and the other by Moscow.
In America itself there are European fac-
tions sundered by violent animosities. In-
formed that the Archduke Otto, “Pre-
tender to the Austro-Hungarian throne,”
was willing to raise an Austrian battalion
for the U.S. Army, the State Department
blithely invited Otto to go ahead. The
next mail brought furious protests from
“anti-monarchist groups of Austrians and
members of other States once subject to
the House of Hapsburg,” and when the
last mail left Secretary Stimson was trying
unavailingly to soothe their savage
breasts.
A very enlightening statement on
the situation in Algiers was made by the
Mayor of Oran, one Attle Wian Gaetan
Livecove; and it wasn’t cabled to Aus-
tralia. The gentleman with the name
that sounds like another League of
Nations told the New York “Sun” re-
porter that the Algerians were short of
nearly everything they required, “paper,
soap, drugs, cattle feeds, machine oils,
cotton clothing, milk, coffee and tea” ;
and the Americans would need to bear
it in mind.
I am Oran’s first citizen. My suit has
been turned; my shoes are cracked; our
bread is black. The population needs
assurance that the American occupation,
which cut off the last hope of supplies from
France, will not mean a worsening of con-
ditions, while obliging us to face Axis
aerial attack.
And the position of the Tunisians must
be worse still. Strange that so little
attention has been paid by the commen-
tators to the condition and feelings of the
natives, though in Algeria, Tunisia and
French Morocco there are 15,000,000 of
them. But perhaps it isn’t strange, com-
mentators being what they are.
First it was said that Premier Dunstan
would go after the Wannon Federal seat;
and it is a seat he could win. Now they
are saying that he will remain in his
cushy job and ride the whirlwind of the
State election—if so mild a disturbance
can ever be likened to a whirlwind.
Queensland has a State Employment
Council which has five committees to in-
vestigate five different aspects of post-war
employment. If present conditions are
maintained the only form of investigation
needed will be one bearing the question:
Have you a union ticket?
Mr. Scully appointed Mr. Bulcock Com-
monwealth Director-General of Agricul-
ture. Then Mr. Chifley appointed Mr.
Wise, of W.A., Mr, Murphy, of the Com-
merce Department, Professor Wadham
and Mr. Lambert, of the Sydney R. 1.8.
(which has a new name these days), as an
expert commission for rural reconstruc-
tion. Then Mr. Dedman appointed Dr.
Callaghan, of S.A., as assistant'director
(Rural Industries) of the W. 0.1. All are
additions to the thousand and one boards
and commissions now running agricul-
ture. It should be a great harvest.
So that everybody could enjoy the
week-end contemplating the Utopia to
come, it was announced on Saturday
morning that the Government had a great
big £30,000,000 social services scheme up
its sleeve and that it had appointed a
Director-General of Post-War Recon-
struction, crammed with booklore but
without practical experience, presumably
to lay the foundation-stone of the Utopia.
Who is to find the £30,000,000 and how
a Government that can’t govern can re-
construct will be beyond anybody who
thinks about it.
“0.D.”: Don’t get the idea that Mr.
Badly (B. 13/2/’43) is letting up on the
war effort. In order to help push the
Japs out of New Guinea or assist a
Second Front or something he’s going
to urge that matters be expedited by the
installation of the “magic-eye” camera
and starting-boxes on Sydney race-
courses. The starting-boxes idea doubt-
less came natural to a man whose main
public announcements concern dogs and
dog-racing.


.
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally .. . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Can any other union secretary equal
the family fighting record in this war of
N.S.W. Printers’ sec. J, F. Wilson? At a
meeting of the union’s board of manage-
ment this month a motion was carried
in silence regretting the death in action
in New Guinea of the secretary’s son,
Pte. Keith Alan Wilson. Two other sons,
Lieut. Eric Wilson and Pte. Jack Wilson,
were posted missing in Malaya ; so, of
course, they were early A.I.F. Lieut.
Wilson has since been reported a prisoner
of war, which Pte. Jack Wilson is believed
to be also.
The high-sounding job of Director-
General of Post-war Reconstruction has
been handed by the Curtin Government
to Dr. H. C. Coombs, who hails from
W.A., where he gained most of his educa-
tion, with London School of Economics
completing it. He was economist to the
Commonwealth Treasury when, last year,
the need to evolve a rationing scheme
cropped up. Thirty-six at the time, he
was held, even by those who don’t care
much for the color of his economics, to
be the one man in sight with the neces-
sary combination of brains and energy
to make a success of it. Given time,
many could no doubt have made a fair
fist of it; but time was so limited that
the job called for nothing short of a
supercharged human dynamo. Inside
three weeks Coombs had nutted the
whole scheme out, and put into opera-
tion it worked without a hitch. Insiders,
no mean hands at organising themselves,
rated it as easily one of the finest organis-
ing jobs they’d ever witnessed. The
doc.’s latest appointment presages more
than a tinge of socialism in Australia’s
“post-war reconstruction.”
To authors and booksellers gathered
together at a Hotel Astor (New York)
lunch, Stephen Vincent Benet praised
young Aldrich’s novel Signed with Their
Honor, bracketing it with This Above
All, by Eric Knight, as evidence that “we
are going to get some extraordinary books
of fiction from this war.” Lewis Gannett,
the “Herald Tribune” reviewer, capped
that with a statement that “Signed with
Their Honor is the best novel to come
out of the war so far.” A poll of news-
paper and magazine reviewers gave first
place for 1942 to Steinbeck’s The Moon
Is Down; the Victorian youth’s novel
was placed ninth.
From a Digger Senator:
True, only too true, that there are far too
few dinkum Diggers in our national Parlia-
ment; but “Digger” Brand’s 4th Brigade is
out on its own. Brand has with him in the
Senate Cooper and Sampson (15th), Latham
(16th), and in the Reps, there are Allan
McDonald (14th) and Josh Francis (15th). Six
out of the one infantry brigade is not bad.
If only Noo South would send along a bloke
from the 13th we’d be set.
Handed the high U.S. decoration of
D.S.C. for his part in the Papuan scrap,
Brigadier G. F. Wootten is a Duntroon
product who became an A.I.F. major in
1916. It is held that there was an em-
bargo on Duntroon graduates going be-
yond that rank, and that but for this
Wootten and other Duntroonites would
have gone much higher. In 1930 Woot-
ten handed in his commission in the
permanents, but continued his association
with the militia, in which he commanded
an armored regiment before joining the
second A.I.F. on its formation. The
other brigadier to receive the D.S.C. from
Gen. MacArthur, Brig. K. W. Eather,
was too young for the first A.1.F., but
joined the militia at 18, got rapid promo-
tion and was given a militia battalion in
1937, the first non-returned man to get
such an appointment. Both brigs, are
New South Welshmen and each wears the
D. 5.0., Wootten’s dating from 1916 and
Bather’s from 1941.
Will Dyson, who poured out a stream
of drawings of the last-war Digger
which attracted world-wide attention be-
cause they didn’t attempt to depict him
as a sentimental military tailor’s dummy,
has a promising successor in his nephew.
Sergeant Ambrose Dyson, now in an Aus-
tralian camouflage section. Sgt. Dyson
has produced some brilliant water-colors
and even etchings under conditions which
most artists would say were impossible,
using an old mangle for a press and a
feather to apply the acid.
“Norvlyn”: The TXI number belonged
to Captain Donald Edward Portwin, a
26-year-old Victorian who enlisted at
Hobart, but was later found medically
unfit. He then served in District Records.
Now he has re-enlisted in the A.I.F.
“D.S.”: Touching on Hobart’s Arch-
bishop Tweedy as the youngest Austra-
lian ever to be made an archbishop.
Archbishop Duhig, of Brisbane, was born
in Ireland, but came to this country as
a small boy. He was both the youngest
bishop and the youngest archbishop ever
appointed to a diocese in Australia.
When made Bishop of Rockhampton he
was 34, and when appointed Coadjutor-
Archbishop of Brisbane with right of
succession he was 40. Dr. Tweedy is
42. Among Dr. Duhig’s many activities
at present is the writing of a history of
the Church in Queensland.
“Sixenate’s” reviver of drunks:
If I wore one I’d dip me lid to Jack Creagh,
who has passed hence in Sydney. Police Court
missionary for untold years, Creagh took the
pledges of some 80,000 repentant drunks. He
was a daily attendant at Central, with hot
coffee to revive those suffering from the night
before. He used to confess that he was a brand
from the burning himself, and, unlike the
general run of reformed backsliders, who in-
cline to wowserism, he never lost patience with
those who slipped on their pledges. His clients
included some surprises. One was a doctor
whose practice had gone to the pack and who’d
taken to sleeping in parks. He now has a
thriving practice. Others included various pro-
fessional men, a V.C. or two, and a chap who,
while in Creagh’s hands, wrote a book that had
a tip-top sale. Back in Boer War days Creagh
won the lightweight boxing championship of
the British Army.
Frith’s appended victim, Canadian Paul
Malone, is renewing acquaintanceship
with Australia as press attache to Justice
T. C. Davis, Canada’s new High Com-
missioner here. Additionally, Malone
has the job, under direction of his
new chief, of representative in Aus-
tralia of Canada’s War-time Information
Board. He was here before in 1939-40
under the Empire journalists’ exchange
scheme, and improved the occasion by
marrying a Sydney girl, Deirdre Ingram,
Canadian Attache.
of the “Sun” staff. The Canada-Austra-
lia link has meanwhile been strengthened
by the arrival of a boy. Before heading
for wider experience, which took him,
also on exchange, to England—“ Evening
News,” Leeds, and London “Times” —
Malone was in Canada’s counterpart of
our militia, and he went back from here
in 1940 to join up, but was passed out
medically unfit. Now 27, he guesses
Australia will find the new High Com-
missioner one of the best it has ever had
from his country, from where it has
always had good ones.
“El Verdugo” inspects a Senator:
George McLeay, leader of the United parties
in the Senate, has two personalities—Far and
Near. Viewing the far one for the first time
(legend says; a forthright Laborite exclaimed:
“Pickwick!” But Archie Cameron is reputed
to have asked: “By Dickens or Rodin?” As
you approach George McLeay, his appear-
ance and behavior change like an oil painting
as the viewer walks towards it. The almost
cherubic contours which were obvious from the
Senate gallery look, in close proximity, somewhat
hummocky, though symmetrical, like a profitable
outcrop on a Vic Wilson quarry. The mellifluous
voice which tosses decorous wisdom in dulcet,
if adequate, tones to the world at large can, if
George is in form, acquire at near hearing the
controlled roar of a sea lion. The Senator’s
pet hate is government by regulation. Some
of his friends have a theory that crows began
to fly backwards in S. Aus. when they came
too near George and he mistook them for
Statutory Rules. George’s career, like himself,
SENATOR McLEAY.
improves in quality and vigor on closer inspec-
tion. Born in Port Clinton (S.A.) he is a stout
Scot and even has a brother (a last-war M.M.,
by the way) who performs the extraordinary
feat of being at once an M.H.A. and a member
of a Highland Pipe Band. George does not
sloop to such frivolities, but history mentions
his connection with a substantial kirk and
membership of a literary and debating society.
Before he founded the wholesale and retail
firm which bears his name he was in the
Customs Department. Elected to the Senate
in 1934, it took him only four years to join
the Ministry (he had previously been Govern-
ment Whip), five years to blossom as a full Minis-
ter and Senate-leader —his portfolio included a
P.M.G.-ship and Customs, and he was a
member of Menzies’s Economic Cabinet. Now
he is one of the solidest of the 11 S. Aus.
apostles who are spreading the gospel of firm
government in Canberra. His diversions are
noted in Who’s Who as golf, lacrosse, tennis
and cricket. After Frith’s voluminous portrait,
next Who’s Who will probably carry the adden-
dum “also hunting artists.”
Group-Captain Arthur William Murphy,
D.F.C., A.F.C., lately promoted Acting
Air Commodore, was one of the Aus-
tralians associated with Lawrence of
Arabia. When Lawrence led his Arab
army in an outflanking sweep through the
desert to Damascus Murphy accompanied
the expedition, and for his services was
awarded the Order of Nahda. With Air
Vice-Marshal Wrigley, he made the first
flight from Melbourne to Darwin to meet
Ross Smith on his journey from England
to Australia.
Should a gang of men suddenly appear
in Sydney’s Martin-place and proceed to
lay down a bowling green it’ll be a suit-
able preparation for the arrival of E. C.
Malin. new manager of the Commercial
Bank of Australia’s branch there. Malin,
who comes from Brisbane, has been
suffering from the kiss-kitty disease for
years. Treatment as hon. sec. of New
Farm Bowling Club failed, and he was
on the point of trying a course as vice-
president when the transfer came.
George Parnham, chairman of the
N.S.W. State Wool Committee in place
of G. L. O. Dewez, has held the man-
agerial reins for Country Producers for
20 years. He has been handling wool
and the hammer for longer than that.
Starting in the wool game with the old
Australian Mortgage and Agency Co., he
was Country Producers’ first man to take
the rostrum at the Wool Exchange. He
keeps a directorial eye on “Country Life”
and the printing firm of William Brooks.
Ninety-two-year-old Jas. Patching, of
Brisbane, claims to be Australia’s oldest
photographer. Born in Brighton (Eng.),
he came to Queensland as a young chap,
was with Poulsens, of Brisbane, for many
years, then launched out on his own.
For over half a century he lived in one
house in the Q. capital’s Upper Padding-
ton.
An 0.8. E. has been awarded in London
to William McCann, only son of the
S.A. Agent-General, now revisiting Ade-
laide. S.A.-born, he was, as a child, with
his father at Buenos Aires and got a
good grasp of languages, which he in-
creased later with the Dutch Airline staif.
His war service is in the Spanish-Portu-
guese section of Britain’s Ministry of
Information.
Like his father, the late Dr. Leonard
Cockayne, A, H. Cockayne (M.L.’s retir-
ing Director-General of Agriculture) is a
recognised world authority on botany
and agriculture, grassland farming his
particular forte. Born in 1880, at 19 he
was assistant demonstrator in biology at
Canterbury Uni. College; entered Gov-
ernment service in 1904 and went over-
seas to study agricultural developments
and the grading of M.L. meat. ' He col-
lected an 1.5.0. in 1937.
According to an old hand who blew
in from up towards the top of Australia
there’s still at least one mail run not yet
taken over by ’planes, or even less
modern brands of transport. He reckons
that, using a team of about 20 pack-
horses, Jim McDowell carries the mails
between Coen and Laura, some 260 miles.
It works out at about 1200 miles thus
covered every month.
Into the silence;
In Brisbane, at 74, George Francis Nicklin,
father of the Opposition leader in the Queens-
land Parliament. For some time a Bulletin
contributor, he established the “Tweed Herald”
at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) in 1893.
In Adelaide, Marcus Cartledge, known to
all visiting cricketers and footballers as a
hard-working legislator and authority on both
games.
In Adelaide, at 84, Nat Solomons, who was
a leader in everything he undertook—synagogue,
tobacco, Justices’ Association, Rotarian, subur-
ban mayor and especially as pioneer and direc-
tor of moving-picture theatres.
In Adelaide, at 72, Canon Edward Herbert
Bleby, rector of St. Paul’s for 32 years. He
was reputed to have solemnised more mar-
riages than any man in S.A.
At Malvern (Vic.), at 87, Mrs. Elizabeth
Ryan, of the O’Rorke family that pioneered
Gippsland. Born at Lilydale, she sat at the
same desk in the local school with Nellie Melba.
Her father built the first bridge over the Yarra
and later ran a hotel at Wood’s Point when
nuggets were good currency. Her husband died
two years ago at 102.
A lot of first-hand knowledge of Japanese
dispositions went west with Captain A. A. C.
Kroef in Melbourne. Former commodore of
the K.P.M. line, hie was retired in Sydney when
the Nazis swept over Holland, and he was
called back to the Dutch service. When the
Japs got going his ship was seized and he was
none too gently gaoled at Yokohama. Subse-
quently released, he made for Melbourne. For
more than a quarter of a century he served
on the Singapore-N.E.1.-Australia run, and one
of his hobbies was bringing the wild animals
of the Indies to Australian zoos. He had an
intimate acquaintance with the sea routes of
the Pacific and of the minefields which stud
Japanese harbors.
At Launceston, Francis Horne Reach, one-
time merino breeder and a great judge of them,
as Sydney Sheep Show exhibitors knew. He
and his brother ran the Chiswick stud at Ross,
and both were keen followers of hounds. They
started the Midland Hunt Club, and for a
good many years F.H. owned racehorses.
At 69, in Melbourne, Rogerson Bullen, who
began as a drover and ended as one of the
biggest stockowners, graziers, and exporters in
Australia, with a colossal knowledge of his sub-
ject.
At 48, in Melbourne, Alexander Edward
Kelso, one of Victoria’s most distinguished
engineers. He directed the building of the
Silvan and O’Shannassy dams, and his plans
for the projected million-pound Yarra dam were
described by J. L. Savage, chief designing engi-
neer of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, as
brilliant. He won the Military Medal in the
last war with the 10th Engineers. Ward —yes,
Ward —was one of his admirers.
In London, Charles Henry Chomley, who
edited the “British Australasian.” Born at Sale,
(Vic.), he lawyered, farmed, went in for poli-
tics and wrote voluminously on subjects rang-
ing from economics to Ned Kelly before
going to London.
At 81, in Melbourne, Edward Newman,
master builder. Music-lovers survey one of
the finest specimens of his craft when they
look at the Melbourne Town Hall organ.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
“D.E.”: The Order of the Day in
which General MacArthur gave such
lofty praise to the R.A.A.F., the A.I.F.
and their American comrades in a great
campaign closed in words which made
history, for although Australian fighting
men have figured in many victories they
were never before so addressed by a
commanding officer:
To Almighty God I give thanks for that
guidance which has brought us to this suc-
cess in our great crusade. His the Honor,
ihe Power and the Glory, for ever. Amen.
Odd that a war so frightful should
have thrown up generals so religious as
our MacArthur, Montgomery (Eighth
Army), Anderson (First Army) and
Dobbie (the Rock of Malta). I suppose
we had devout generals in the last war
(the French certainly had Foch, Weygand
and Castelnau, all deeply religious men);
but I never heard of them addressing
their troops in devotional language: Haig,
though serious-minded, did not mention
the Almighty in his “backs-to-the-wall”
masterpiece. Lee was a praying general,
and one of the greatest. An extract from
his post-Chancellorsville Order of the
Day:
While this glorious victory entitles you
to the praise and gratitude of the nation,
we are specially called upon to return our
grateful thanks to the only Giver of Vic-
tory for the signal deliverance He has
wrought. It is therefore earnestly requested
that the troops unite on Sunday next in
ascribing to the Lord of Hosts the Glory
due to His name.
Grant was different. There was no
devotional sentence in his General Order
to the triumphant hosts of the Union at
the close of the war.
* sp * *
“Yair”: Bert has never been very fond
of his no-good brother George, so we
were surprised when he expressed
pleasure at the birthday gifts George had
received the week before. Poor
George!” said Bill. “As a rule he only
gets hankies and shaving cream, but this
lime they gave him just what he was ask-
ing for ; and I was glad.” “What did he
get?” we asked. “Plenty,” said Bill. ‘On
the morning of his birthday they caught
him leaving the boarding-house with all
the sheets from the upper floor in a suit-
case. So they gave him six months.”
* * * *
“Blue P”: The brazen attempt by the
Sydney press to shanghai poor John
Curtin to Washington had reached the
hysterical stage when this was penned,
and that presages a dropping of the
matter. But it reminds me of the time
when two papers in one country town
became unanimous in asserting that the
Government was neglecting the place
with its unemployed-relief measures.
Then one got the idea that the. mayor
should go to the city and “put the case.”
The other paper not only supported that
idea but insisted on half the council
going too. In the end the mayor,
reluctant and indignant, was shoved
on the train. A week passed; an-
other. Letters and telegrams went un-
answered. At last came a package for
the town clerk. It contained the mayor's
resignation and a note to the effect that
he had found himself a good job and
would henceforth be a denizen of the
metropolis.
* * * *
“Tummas McN.” : I’ve stood enough.
For years I’ve let the flapper press and
the films say pretty well what they liked
about modern girls, but now that the
local tripe-kites have made a song and
dance about a “redheaded W.A.A.A.F.
who was present when a brawl occurred
in a Melbourne picture show and a man
died from injuries, I want to get right
up on my palsied old pins and declaie
that in 97i years of observing women
I’ve always given prizes to redheads. The
fictioneer and the press and the fillum
have always tried to make her out to
be fire and dynamite, but for demure-
ness, self-respect, modesty, maintenance
of the mystery which makes a woman
attractive and for her capacity as a wife
and mother, commend me to the red-
headed girl. And don’t offer me Lupescu
in rebuttal. In the face of a world of
disapproval, sarcasm and insult she stuck
to her man.
* * ♦ *
“Avon”: An interesting little legal
problem was recently placed before the
M.L. Supreme Court. A Mr. A obtained
a divorce from his wife, naming Mr. B
as co-respondent. Between the decree
nisi and the decree absolute the divorced
woman gave birth to a child, of which
Mr. B admitted paternity. Subsequently
Mr. B married the divorced woman, and
they sought legitimisation of their off-
spring under a statute which recognises
subsequent marriage of the parties as a
“I'm expecting the admiral for tiffin, Wilfred; have the quarter-deck
awning spread by seven bells!"
ground for removing the stigma of ille-
gitimacy. Such an application goes be-
fore a magistrate, and in this case the
Bench said it had doubts about its juris-
diction. The child was born while its
mother, in the eye of the Law, was Mrs.
A, and no matter what the mother or
Mr. B said about it, the child was the
legitimate offspring of Mr. A. Before
it could be legitimised as the offspring
of Mr. B it would have to be bastardised,
and the S.M. couldn’t find anything in
common or statute law that gave him
authority to perform that operation,
Smith, J., in a reserved judgment, took
the commonsense view that there was no
doubt about the illegitimacy, on the evi-
dence, and directed the magistrate to
issue the certificate of legitimisation asked
for.
££T , * *„ TT * * ~ A
Bayswaterloo : Homing night-
prowlers, milkmen and others who hap-
pened to be loose m Sydneys Kings
Cross noted a flurry of excitement. People
were seen to grab the morning paper,
eagerly run their eyes over it, rush inside,
“No doubt things Were tough in Papua, son, but you should have been
out with the V.D.C. last week-end....”
grab their hats and flee. Within an hour
a crowd had collected in the doorway
of a building, and presently the door
opened in response to the ringing. The
crowd, shouting and struggling, rushed
forward and the woman who opened the
door was swamped in a flood of cage*
humanity. Dazed, she got clear, pulled
herself together and escaped. She has
sworn never again to advertise a flat
to let.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Listening the other Sunday
afternoon to Lud Mayor Nettlefold
unfolding his post - war plans lor
Melbourne in an address entitled
“My Dream City” I was reminded
of a politician who brightened his
electioneering speeches by promising
six bridges over the Yarra and an orna-
mental lake ten miles long covered with
artificial islands and gondolas. A tew
years after he had gained his place in
the councils of the nation a friend who
happened to have been abroad m the
interim happened to meet him at a party
and tactlessly said: “Oh, howjado,
Mr. Bunkum? What about those six
bridges?” “Why bring them up? said
the eminent statesman disgustedly.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: I suppose my paternal
great-grandmother turned in her grave as
usual when she read (B. 13/1/ 43) that
“Governor Barclay-Harvey and Attorney-
General Jeffries once more raised the
flag and said appropriate things at
Admiral Hindmarsh’s old gum-tree when
S.A. celebrated the province’s 106th birth-
day. She always maintained that the
old bent gum-tree was not the tree under
which the declaration of the colony s
birth was read, the original tree having
been chopped down for firewood a tew
years later. A look at the Declaration
tree tends to confirm her statement. It
is unlikely that the pioneers would have
selected a Corotesque-looking tree, the
occasion being round about Christmas
they would have been much more likely
to have chosen one for its shade ;
especially as it was the custom of official-
dom to robe itself in accordance with
English tradition.
* » *
“C Q” • Jock Thomson, mentioned as
having been one of the earliest exploiters
of oil in Timor (B. 13 /1 / ’43), was a
curious mixture of hardheadedness and
gullibility. On one occasion he returned
to Perth from Java with a tale of how
there was a poison tree on the island so
deadly that birds fell dead when they
attempted to fly over it, and the reign-
ing sultan used it as State executioner
by making malefactors walk under its
shade. The yarn went the rounds of the
papers until some unkind person
pointed out that Jock had stumbled on
a very old fairy tale, the legend or the
upas tree having first been brought from
the N.E.I. to England by a Scottish sui-
geon about 1830.
* * * * _
“S.T.S.”: “I shouldn’t be surprised if
nations trembled before the mighty troops
of Titipu” (B. 23/12/’42). And how
many people today know (or care) that
Town of Titipu” is “The Mikado’s”
d title? L am one of the very
seconuary me. r t u e
few veterans who can
original Mikado (Rutland Bar g
the monarch, George Grossmith as ivo )
of 1885 in London ; remember how the
quoted lines were accepted as being
absurd, as Gilbert certainly intended
them, Japan in those days was just a
j and G f cherry-blossom and of fans,
True, the gruesome threats of the mon-
arcb seemed a little out of character ;
feut then Qjjbert himself had a grim
streak as witness several of the Bab bal-
and tQrture jests in “ The Yeo-
men of the Guard.” Also the Mikado’s
threats were carefully given a comic side,
as where a prison cell is called “a spot
that is always barred.” (The barring ol
t he S p Gt stroke in billiards was a point
j ust t hen in warm discussion between
John Robert s and Peall, who liter-
wore the cloth into a groove with
unending potting of the red off the spot.)
merry jest the whole play was in
Ann . day people use the
1885 Why o t *P | ing
Stilrng oil in if as a threat entirely
humorous.
BADLY TO THE RESCUE!
“N.S'.W. Mines Minister Badly has secured
Cabinet’s 'sanction for the appointment of a depart-
mental committee to investigate scandals in the
tin-hare business.”
Queer stories are in current circulation
Suggesting that there’s something rotten in
The workers’ sport, the poor man’s recreation;
That punters seldom get a decent spin
When the long dogs, in eager emulation,
Streak hell-for-leather after hares of tin.
One hesitates to think it may be so,
But don’t appeal to me —I wouldn’t know.
This is admittedly a darned censorious
World. And on racecourses I’ve often found
Fellows whose fancies haven’t proved victorious,
And whose defeat has set them back a pound
Or two, asseverating in uproarious
Tones and in torrents of explosive sound
The view that finds its climax in a shout
From half-a-hundred throats of “Rub Them
Out.”
But these gaunt tykes! sans jockeys to direct
them
Whether to run their courses fast or slow,
It seems unreasonable to suspect them
Of making honest backers lose their dough.
Still, Mr. Badly, one presumes, has checked
them:
There isn’t anything he doesn’t know.
It strikes me, where the betting man abounds,
Whether your brass is bunged on prads or
hounds.
He’s out to purify the sport plebeian
From those abuses that therein have crept;
To clear the stables some have styled Augean,
And leave them adequately scrubbed and
swept.
There’s many a Minister has earned a paean
Of praise for showing himself less adept
At grasping what the masses deem their due —
And taking steps to see they get it, too.
Statesmen there are whose future claim to glory
May rest on loftier aims and nobler traits.
Still, each must do his duty suo more
In humble as in more exalted ways;
And even Badly’s name may live in story
When, parenthetically, someone says
In years to come: “Maybe a poor old cow,
But still he cleaned the dawgs up, anyhow.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ONE IN TWENTY.
“The proportion of divorces to marriages in Vic-
toria-one to 450 in ]B70 —was about one to 20
last year’’ (B. 18/1 /’43).
A grim reminder this, you can't deny,
For those enjoining us perpetually
The marriage knot should be a lasting tie.
Full many a worthy cleric, one may guess,
Will feel a spasm of acute distress
At this fierce light on human fickleness.
One marriage comes to grief in every score,
Where one in twenty times as many, or more,
Was all that foundered seventy years before.
Can it be Molly sooner tires of Mick,
Or Dick Of Dorothy, or she of Dick,
Than in the halcyon days of good Queen Vic.
And were our grandmothers, and granddads too,
More constant in their loves and far more true
To solemn vows than birds like me and you/
Or is it that, when wedlock proves a frost,
Recovering the freedom that you’ve lost
Costs but a tithe of what it used to cost?
Who shall decide? Assuredly not I.
Figures they often tell us, cannot he.
An aphorism that precludes reply.
But when to statisticians’ stuff you move,
You’ll hardly fail to find therein that you ve
Clear proof of-anything you want to prove.
N.S.W.
PIFARDS.


“Tarry Rope”: The exigencies of Man-
power brought to the ferry steamer skip-
pered by a friend of mine a raw recruit
to take the place of a stoker absorbed by
the Navy. The chief stoker set him to
work building up the fires, and climbed
upstairs to discuss with the skipper the
sailing race of the day before (ferrymen
are as interested in such harbor events
as other men are in horses). Left to him-
self, the evidences of growing steam
power in the boilers alarmed the recruit,
and at last he climbed out of the stoke-
hole to report. “I say,” he said, “the
kettle’s boiling.” If he stays in the ferry
service till he’s 90 he’ll never hear the
last of that.
* * * *
“Dhas”: I feel a vast sympathy for
those latter-day Maori prophets who
take the Bible literally (B. 13/1/ ’43). I
met one who had come to the extraordi-
narily happy conclusion that the text
“The Lord will provide” could be taken
at its face value. From the toils and
troubles of dairy-farming he retired to
his whare to grow a beard and meditate,
while his followers —it was a tenet that
exactly suited the Maori temperament —
also knocked off work for life and sang
hymns all day to the mouth-organ and
steel guitar. Various irreverent pakehas
who had some commercial interest in
the unmilked cows and the ungathered
hay intervened before the faith had
really had a fair chance to show what it
could do.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Wasn’t it “Ouida” who set
one of her romantic officers on an aged
gelding and described how the combina-
tion won the Epsom Derby? Perhaps
it was Marie Corelli —no, it was Marie
whose hero won the boatrace for Oxford
because, as stroke, he pulled faster than
anyone else. My memory may, I ad-
mit, deceive me on these points, but it
is trustworthy concerning a “West Aus-
tralian” reporter (now leader of a “Han-
sard” staff) who, describing an inter-State
eight-oar race on the Swan, achieved a
vivid pen-picture of the victorious crew
in action with “sixteen brightly flashing
oars.” These feats of descriptive writ-
ing have been rivalled by James Hilton,
author of Lost Horizon, in Random
Harvest. He has a character called The
Biffer, “jovial, obese and somewhat thick-
witted after the hundreds of collisions
his skull had withstood in years gone
by,” and truculent in his attitude to “a
pack of burereratic busybodies.”
“Just let ’em come ’ere, that’s all. I’ve
still got strength to give ’em what I gave
the Gunner”... .What he had given the
Gunner (at Shoreditch on May 17, 1902)
was a straight left hook in the fourteenth
round.
“A straight left hook” 1 There must have
been moaning among the shades of Larry
Foley, Jackson, Fitzsimmons, Hall, Cree-
don, “Griffo” and Darcy—for it appeared
in the Australian edition.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Over a million people suf-
fered loss or injury, 11,000 perished,
and snakes and crocodiles floated
over 3000 miles of country in the flood-
waters when a cyclone put its foot down
in October on that human antheap known
as south-western Bengal. The full ex-
tent of the disaster was kept out of the
papers lest the Japanese should take ad-
vantage of the chaos, but it has now been
revealed that Nature did more damage
in an hour than a foreign foe could have
done in weeks of bombing. It is the
moral effect of bombing that is impor-
tant. When a few bombs dropped on
Calcutta there was a large-scale evacua-
tion, but there was no evacuation of
Bengal, Cyclones there are an old story.
They have caused ten times more damage
than man’s inhumanity. I once lived in
the shadow of an active volcano in Java
from whose crater boiling mud periodi-
cally slopped over and swept the moun-
tainside as clean of villages and ricefields
as if it had been wiped by a duster.
Whenever the volcano showed signs of
having colic the natives moved down to
the lowlands, but it never entered their
heads to do anything after the eruption
but move back and repair their ruined
houses.
* * * X
“Bumpk”: Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan has
been warning shopkeepers who have re-
moved their window protection that they
may be ordered to replace it at short
notice if circumstances require it. Evi-
dently Mr. Dunstan has never noticed
that nine shopkeepers out of ten ignored
his original order. The vast mass of
the glass in the city has never been pro-
tected.
“Rubber Man”: The secrecy which
shrouds Russian labor conditions and
production is availed of by Leftist writ-
ing boys to endow the Soviet worker
with supernatural powers. Consider a
current claim that the Soviet synthetic
rubber worker can produce 20 times
more rubber than the Malayan or
Indies plantation native did —which
means that the Russian is producing
from 60 to 100 tons of rubber per year.
If this statement were true fewer than
1000 workers would be needed for the
whole of the Soviet rubber requirements,
and the annual value of the stuff produced
by these super-workers would be from
£A7500 to £A 14,000 per man. I don’t
believe it.
* * * *
“A Major”: There’s nothing very re-
markable about “Craiser’s” concert
pianist friend disliking critics (B.
13/1/ ’43); the relationship between the
two breeds has always been very like
that between cats and collie dogs. But
it is unusual to find a “virtuoso” pianist
who can put his antipathy into intelli-
gible form. For years and years I was
much exposed to executant musicians ;
it was my job to interview them, and with
certain wonderful exceptions I found
them a dull lot, not only ignorant of
every subject but their own, but almost
incredibly narrow and restricted in their
musical knowledge. The years of many-
hours-a-day drudgery essential to the ac-
quisition of first-class digital technique
seem to have a bad effect on the general
intellect. Some big minds have survived
the ordeal —Liszt, for instance, interested
in all the arts and philosophies, Paderew-
ski, who could discuss any topic intelli-
gently, and, still in the land of the living,
Percy Grainger, an encyclopaedic master
of musical lore, stand out as having
minds as nimble as their fingers. But
they are exceptions to a sad rule.
=l= * * *
“Lao-dah”: The new photographs of
Hitler, alleged by commentators in Lon-
don to show a tremendous physical and
mental deterioration, don’t show it in the
“This spot seems to remind me of something.”
version telegraphed to Australia. Cer-
tainly he is stouter ; but most Germans
have a tendency to stoutness, and stout
people aren’t necessarily mentally below
par. I used to see one-third of the late
G. K. Chesterton filling a hansom cab
in London while the other two-thirds
were accommodated outside at a time
when he was writing as whimsically,
effectively and paradoxically as ever.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Daily-newspaper pro-
prietors are fretfully complaining of
delays in overseas communications which
hold up newspaper production and are
virtually asking for permission to set up
their own radio station. Why not let
them have it? It would relieve the cables,
already congested to such an extent that
a lot of the traffic has to be posted. A
large proportion of the newspapers’
“overseas communications” are super-
fluous, even from the point of view of the
papers themselves. A correspondent is sent
to some remote place where some great
strategical development may be expected.
Six months, 12 months pass and nothing
happens. He naturally tends to magnify
any trifling circumstance into an event of
world-shaking importance, not to men-
tion the fear that he might lose his job if
he doesn’t do something, and every now
and then he rushes to the telegraph station
to send a dispatch which a distant sub-
editor wearily drops into the waste-paper
basket. If the newspaper proprietors had
their own station to play with they could
indulge themselves in this sort of thing
without danger of retarding the war
effort.
* * * *
“Hamer”; Twenty years ago I drafted
for a veteran who has passed over
an obit, headed “The Last of the Larri-
kins.” As his descendants include some
highly respectable, even eminent, citi-
zens, he was not likely to get such a send-
off, and I see he didn’t. “Jersey” (he
did his push-fighting in the days when
red-headed Lord Jersey was Governor
and all redheads were “Jerseys”) had a
part in Sydney’s greatest push battle,
which lasted over four days. It started
when the Gipps-street push, to avenge
a member, raided the Rocks ; the power-
ful Rocks push gathered and took a
counter-attack to the enemy’s territory ;
but, having word of their coming, the
Gipps-street mob had called upon the
Kippax-street and Rennie-street (Padding-
ton) pushes for aid. The main battle
was fought in Green’s-road, Paddington,
and when police gathered from all the
metropolitan divisions broke it up scat-
tered battles sprang up all over Sydney.
The hospitals and the glaziers did a roar-
ing trade in consequence. “Jersey,” of
the Rennie-street mob, continued his
push fighting until after he was a grand-
father, though by that time pushes
were becoming extinct. The passing of
the macadamised roads, with the flints
which supplied ammunition, and the
growth of other amusements for the
youngsters killed them. “Jersey” main-
tained that the pushes originated in a
combination of the native-born against
the “redcoats” of the garrison in earlier
days.
* * * *
“K.”: From its storehouse of quota-
tions my turn-over desk calendar informs
me, on the authority of Augustine Birrell,
that “friendship is a word the very sight
of which in print makes the heart warm.”
True enough, but I know of other words
which in print have a still more vivid
appeal. Take “laugh,” for instance. It
looks a cheerful word, and I’ll guarantee
the mouth of the reader is already half-
formed in a smile before his eye has
finished scanning it. And there is some-
thing mysteriously funny about the word
“beer.” Why? Had the name for that
satisfying beverage been, say, amberine
or malto or hopjuice, it is doubtful if it
could conjure up the mirth that invari-
ably seems to be associated with the
written word “beer.” On the other hand,
“sinister” is to my mind the most for-
bidding-looking word that ever came off
a linotype.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: It’s a funny world where
trade in food is ruled by boards and the
housewife knoweth not from day to day
how to feed her people. A few weeks
ago in Sydney a potato was so rare a
thing that poets wrote longingly of it
and anyone suspected of owning one
was a target for envy and black
suspicion. Then we read of heaps of
the things rotting in railway yards
and being carted to garbage dumps. I
foresee shortly a big advertising cam-
paign: “Eat potatoes and win the war.”
About the time it gets going spuds will
be as scarce as hen’s teeth again.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The announcement that the
A.B.C. projects a Beethoven festival this
year is a reminder that, although this war
is being fought with as much ferocity as
any in history, the enmities engendered
haven’t been extended to the world of
art as some people tried to extend them
in the last war, when a society (very ill-
fated, as it turned out) was started
to prove that Melbourne could do with-
out foreign, and especially German,
music. The society ended by boring even
its own members. During the Napo-
leonic wars, although national passions
reached an extraordinarily high level,
Sir Humphry Davy was invited to
Paris to deliver a lecture while hos-
tilities were in progress. Readers of
Sterne’s Sentimental Journey will remem-
ber that the sly parson made his trip
through France in perfect safety when
that country was ostensibly at war with
Britain ; and when his host in Paris, a
high official, discovered his guest had
omitted to provide himself with a pass-
port, he immediately communicated with
the Foreign Office and had the omis-
sion rectified —which was done as a
matter of course.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Three aspects of an attempted
bribery case in S.A. The charge:
Attempting to get exemption papers for
his son, a gardener said to a military
officer “If you get an exemption I will
make it all right with you.” The de-
fence; “I meant that the army would
benefit, as my son would be in my garden
growing vegetables for the troops.” The
judgment: “Foolish old man! Fined
£lO and costs.”
* * * *
“Caballer”; “Bo” (B. 6/1 / ’43) in his
unleashed memory of spies is less than
just to the French country folk. I was
in the first of the battalions that took
over the line at Bois Grenier on April
7, 1916, and all the way from Steenwerck
to Armentieres farmers ploughing, old
ladies laying out washing and citizens who
lit a cigarette after dark were under deep
suspicion. As Dr. C. E. W. Bean puts it:
“The absurdity of most of the spy stories
that flooded the corps for a month or
so was not at first evident even to the
staff a peasant was arrested as his
movements were considered suspicious.
It subsequently transpired that his house
had been demolished during the bom-
bardment.” In every case where the
reports were investigated the suspicions
were found to be baseless. But, of
course, there was a reason for the sus-
picions, and it dated back to the autumn
of 1914. Troop trains arriving at
Poperinghe were shelled regularly until
they caught the stationmaster
loosing carrier pigeons. I re-
member being taken into a
stable with a whitewashed wall
and marks on the wall about
four feet from the ground as if
someone had been chipping at
it with a pick. “That,” said
my guide, “is where five bullets
hit the wall after they had gone
through the stationmaster at
Poperinghe.”
* * * *
“Prosetaster”: Melb. “Herald,”
in a leading article captioned
“War Has Not Inspired Great
Art,” compares the war-inspired
output of this war unfavorably
with that of the 1914-18 period,
which, as the “Herald” enume-
rates, included fine pictorial
work by Augustus John, C. W.
R. Nevinson and Will Dyson
and notable poetry by Rupert
Brooke and Siegfried Sassoon.
It might have been added that
even these gleanings are now
mostly forgotten. War-time
hardly ever produces art of the
sort that becomes immortal.
But it produces hatred and other
strong emotions, and so should inspire the
cartoonist and the satirist. Raemakers and
Dyson did splendid work a quarter of a
century ago inspired by revulsion, but
the poets (rejecting the dictum of Horace;
“indignation makes the best verse”)
almost all accepted war, even in its
nastiest phases, with philosophic equa-
nimity. Barrenness of this war’s artistic
crop lends support to the view that there
are times in human history when the
background is so tremendous that the
artist quails at the idea of putting any-
thing commensurate in front of it.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; A patron of a Sydney
school, besides giving a full set of Dickens
to the library, offered a prize for an
essay upon the happiest character in
the novels. Mark Tapley was the most
popular choice, though others were men-
tioned, including Dick Swiveller. My
own preference, the little toymaker in
The Cricket on the Hearth, was ignored,
but he is a delightful creation. I remem-
ber a Sydney man who ran a doll’s hos-
pital who was very reminiscent. Some of
his reconstructions were miracles, and his
joy of accomplishment was immense.
Unfortunately that joy in craftsmanship
has largely vanished, and with it a great
deal of happiness.
* * * *
“X.S,”: In pre-war days a painter who
specialises in historic bits of Melbourne
set up his easel in front of a picturesque
old bluestone cottage tucked up against
the back wall of a big modern building.
He was settling down to a couple of
hours’ peaceful limning of this charming
subject when the door of the dwelling
suddenly burst open, about 500 men
rushed out and over him, and without
waiting to offer explanations or apologies
dispersed in all directions. The artist
learnt later that the cottage was the
secret exit for a two-up academy which
operated in the adjacent building.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gab”; “Was workin’ once fer a cove
durin’ a big drought,” said Andy. “The
dam had just about dried up and we had
to drive the sheep to a neighbor’s for
water. One day the boss and me is
driving home in the sulky when we see
a steer in the wrong paddock ; he was
a bit of a rogue, and we’d put a forked
stick round his neck, but he got through
the fences just the same. The boss leaves
off bellyaching about his troubles long
enough to sool the dogs on to the brute,
but he sees ’em coming and starts trot-
ting back towards the place where he
got in. But one mong with more speed
than gumption catches and turns him up
the hill, and that steer had only gone a
couple of yards when he comes down in
a bellowing heap. He gets to his feet
again, quick, and is moving down the
paddock when the dog, tickled pink with
his first effort, goes after him and brings
him back to the same spot. Strike me if
he don’t go head over Charlie again! By
this time the boss and me is sick of
roaring at the mong, and just as we go
to move off it hit me between the eyes ;
yair, you guessed it —the first water-
divinin’ steer I’d ever struck. We pre-
vail upon the boss to have a smack at it,
and he gets the borin’ plant in. He’s
never been without water since!”
* * * *
“Fielder”: The family had gone out
and the only light in the house was in
the room where Bill sat reading. Sud-
denly light streamed from underneath
the door of the room opposite. Bill’s
hair went on rising as he waited horri-
fied for the burglar to open the door.
As this didn’t happen, he crept up and
put an eye to the keyhole: no bur-
glar. In his best manner Bill opened the
door. A slight movement on the elec-
tric-light switch caught his eye. An out-
size mantis had caught his foot around
the loose electric knob and turned on
the light. Measured up later, it was 14in.
long.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Steve was working on the
fence when Simpson’s trap with Mrs.
Bill and the old man aboard came along
the road. “Hear about Jonesey?” asked
Bill, pulling up. “He was taken to hos-
pital this mornin’. Bit of an accident.
He was tryin’ out that new stock pony
of his against Mac’s blood mare. Y’
know the one?” “Too right, I do!”
“Well,” continued Bill, “the pony swerved
at the stockyard gate and crashed the
poor cow inter a stump.” “Go on! An’
who” “Mac picked him up, but he
had a broken leg and some concussion.”
“Yair, but” “That poor wife of his,
too!” murmured Mrs. Bill sadly. “And
them four little kids!” “Too bad,”
agreed Steve awkwardly. “But, look
here, did” “Yair, dunno how they’ll
manage with the boss laid up,” added
Bill. “S’pose we can all lend a hand,
eh?” “ ’Course,” agreed Steve impatiently.
“ ’Course, But did his pony beat Mac’s
mare?”
* * * *
“N.”: The natural-history books of my
boyhood were always careful to feature
the hermit crab and his dwelling, but I
never expected to see the same kind of
dodge worked here on the Murray. I
collected a kero.-bucket of mussels in the
lagoon, and while picking them over
came across one big shell that, by its
gape, contained only mud. On the point
of chucking it away I noticed that it did
have a tenant, but not the original one:
a smaller mussel, young and handsome
in his golden-brown shell, was tucked
away inside. Whether it was a case of
the prodigal returning to the paternal
homestead, an adaptation of the air-raid-
shelter idea or merely a result of the
housing shortage I don’t know.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Met an old cobber, and
my mind flew back 25 years. Of the 20-
odd kids who wallowed in the old dam
Ted was the only one who never learnt
to swim. Despite an intense yearning,
any amount of juvenile advice and
plenty of whole-hearted practice he could
not even learn to dog-paddle. Nor could
he swim when he went overseas with the
second A.I.F. But hear his strange story:
“It was in the evacuation of Greece . . .
my boat went down ... I remember
struggling in the water. Then I found
myself swimming—yes, swimming ! The
nearest boat was about thirty yards away,
but I reached it unaided, without a life-
belt and with my rifle still slung on my
back! Since then I’ve tried a dozen
times to swim, but I can’t keep up for
three strokes!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The recent recognition of the
skill and courage of a police blacktracker
is not the first case of its kind in Aus-
tralia An N.T. native is the proud pos-
sessor of the Royal Albert Medal, or,
rather, of the ribbon, the medal having
been sent to Canberra for safe keeping.
He was one of four Binghis being taken
chained to Darwin by a constable. When
they came to the swollen Roper River
the constable released his captives, un-
shackled their chains and told them to
swim for it. He himself was thrown
from his horse, and a kick from it knocked
“It all depends what We consider is our duty to the nation .”
him unconscious. One of the natives
promptly wrapped his chain round his
waist and, plunging into the rapids,
fetched J. Hop to safety. Then he set off
at full speed to the nearest mission
station and returned with assistance to
the river bank, where his fellow-prisoners
were patiently waiting, and a whole con-
tinent to lose themselves in around them.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: “Theo D. Lite’s” exposition
of what happens when dynamite explodes
(B. 16/12/ ’42) is entirely correct, but
doesn’t alter the fact that “fracture
always strikes downward.” Here’s a bit
from the book of experience. Shovelling
ore into passes in the slopes of the
Boulder (W.A.) mines we often came on
masses of rock the size of a motor-car.
To break these expeditiously we laid up to
a dozen plugs of gelignite on top, with
detonator and fuse, then merely covered
the “shot” with a few shovelfuls of damp
sand. The explosion, striking downwards,
would shatter that massive rock into a
dozen pieces. Now, had the explosive
been blasting powder, the only effect
would have been to blow the sand away.
Again, when charging a powder hole it
is necessary to “tamp” with damp clay,
lamming it nearly to the hardness of the
rock itself. With fracture no tamping is
necessary, though many miners do push
down a few pieces of paper. Actually,
the transformation of liquid nitro-
glycerine into gas is so prompt that even
atmospheric pressure acts as an obstacle
to the vast expansion of gas, causing it
to react downwards; whereas a slower
explosive like gunpowder merely pushes
the atmosphere aside and shows no down-
ward thrust of energy.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: I’m pleased that “Boga-
duck” (B. 16/12/’42) has locations of
flint along Australia’s south coast, but
I cannot agree that the aboriginal used
flint for his tool-making. In isolated
localities he may have, but the great mass
of his race used almost every other
kind of stone —quartz, diorite, basalt and
bluestone—-and, when the white arrived,
glass, from bottles and porcelain from
telegraph insulators. But flint was so rare
—well, in the whole expanse of W.A.,
about a third of the continent, not one
flint tool has been found. Had the abo.
had flint at his command he might have
made more progress along the path of
civilisation, for his tools would have kept
a better edge, with better cutting power.
And he was capable of it —how quickly
he developed the wire-pointed and the
shovel-nosed spear once he came in con-
tact with civilisation’s wire fences!
* * * ♦
“Naturala”: Heard this question
slammed at a mob of diggers in a camp
radio quiz: A horse and a cow are lying
down in a field; they are disturbed ; on
which pair of feet does either animal first
rise as it makes to get up? How many
bushies could answer the query offhand?
The horse starts to rise first with his fore-
feet, the cow with her hind pair. Science
gives an odd reason for this. The ances-
tors of the horse lived in the wide plains
and prairie, where the grass was tall.
Being defenceless and harassed by many
enemies its first precaution when rising
from rest was to look around. To do
this it raised the forepart of its body
first, elevating by means of its front legs.
The ox, on the other hand, was born of
(the forest. As it got up it kept its head
down so as to watch through the under-
growth and beneath low-hanging
branches for the possible rush of the
timber wolf and similar carnivores. So
it lifted the hind part of its body first.
So habits born in the need for survival
a million or more years ago persist in
the domesticated animals of today.
♦ * * *
“Blowfly Creek”: War has expanded
the activities of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research in all sorts of
unprecedented directions. One forced on
it by the fact that there are thousands of
Australian and American soldiers in
tropical waters who may do a bit of
fishing is a special investigation just con-
cluded into the edibility or otherwise of
Australian seafood. Under the resultant
ban is the common toadie. Some years
ago a Melbourne woman died after eat-
ing fried toadfish. A similar dainty
nearly finished off Captain Cook at New
Caledonia.
Sfe
“Aratta”: Dad had been at pains to
instil into the new hand’s mind that what
he wanted from him was a cheerful desire
for co-operation. “Bein’ helpful, see?”
he said, making matters plain and under-
standable, During the following weeks
Dad had been driven nearly crazy by
acts of stupidity on the part of the hand,
and had contemplated sacking him a
dozen times; but his heart had conquered
his head. One afternoon he came on
the hand hopping about caressing a leg,
“What’s wrong now?” asked Dad. “The
flamin’ horse kicked me,” explained the
other. “He got his leg over the trace-
chain an’ I wus tryin’ t’ lift it back.”
“Well,” said Dad, “why didn’t y’ simply
do this, y’ goat?” and he unhooked the
trace-chain off the hames. “ ’Struth! ”
said the hand, “I never thought of that.
But,” he continued in an aggrieved tone,
“that there horse is an ungrateful animal,
kickin’ me when I was tryin’ t’ do him
a good turn.” “P’raps he was tryin’t’ be
helpful,” remarked Dad, mildly sarcastic.
“To me?” queried the hand. “No, to
me,” said Dad, “tryin’ t’ knock a bit
o’ sense into y’r head.” “But it was me
leg he kicked,” explained the hand. Dad
threw up his hands in a gesture of
speechless exasperation; then a grin
spread over his face. “Well,” he said,
“it shows his intelligence. He knew it
wasn’t any use kickin’ y’ on y’r head."
* * * *
“Gipps”: In the Gippsland hill
country it’s common enough to find a
’roo with his toes hooked between the
two top wires of a fence, dead. When
not pursued, the ’roo is a leisurely hopper
and frequently places his toes on the
second-top wire as he goes over. Where
the wires are close together and slack
they make a deadly trap. The top wire
trips him, and as he falls forward the
lower wire is turned uppermost, holding
the toe in a vicelike grip. In one after-
noon’s ride I counted five ’roos strung
up in this way. The cockies cut them
down as soon as they find them, because
bunny uses the carcasses as a bridge over
the wire-netting.
* * * *
“Peak Hill”; I’ve got a fellow-feeling
for that Maoriland guide (B. 13 /1 / ’43)
who defends the kea against the charge
of sheep-killing. He demands, but
apparently cannot get, any witness who
has actually seen the parrot in the act
of killing the sheep; nor have I ever
succeeded in capturing a witness prepared
to swear he’s watched an Australian
wedgetail carry off a lamb. This eagle,
a grand bird of noble aspect, the largest
of its kind, whose flight on a clear, bright
day is a spectacle for poets and kings, has
been so calumniated that every bush boy
is brought up to regard it as an enemy,
to be destroyed on sight. As a destroyer
of rats, mice, rabbits and carrion it does
great work for the country. Its condem-
nation on pure legend and hearsay is
one of the ornithological tragedies of a
country that reeks with them.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; Strike me blue, foan and
handsome! I’ve just got in from shifting
850 wethers from a scrubby
over a ridge through a stock route and
into another paddock, and me and my
old kelpie George are a bit tired. With-
out George I’d have been a week shifting
the jummies, but that there dog has been
well-trained, knows all my visual and
oral signals and works to ’em like a
machine. Now I am told by “Pardon
Me” (B. 13 /1 / ’43) that memory in
animals is non-existent, that George does
it by “smellorection” ; in other words,
that when I shriek at him “Keep out, y’
silly ol’ blankard,” he understands the
words by the smell of ’em. Strike me
blue, roan and handsome!
* * * *
“G.A.8.”: Swarms, on leaving the
parent hive, always settle on the first
convenient bush that takes their fancy,
noise or no noise. Once settled, scouts
reconnoitre for a new home, which may
be anywhere within a couple of miles.
When a home has been picked, the swarm
rises and goes fast and straight, and all
the pandemonium of a battlefield
wouldn’t stop it. I was fooled once into
believing that a shotgun, fired into the
midst of the swarm, would bring it down.
The day I put the theory to test a visitor
had just arrived at the house. He
thought someone was qualifying for the
silly house when he saw me rush out
with the gun and blaze at the apparently
empty sky. The result was negative.
This swarm was travelling more slowly
than usual, and I tore after it, tumbling
through wire fences and over the palings,
blazing away again as we neared the tall
green timber. The swarm slowed a little
among the trees, but never swerved from
the direct course. Nearly a mile from
where I first gave chase it began to flow
expectantly around each large tree, but
was led on and finally gathered into a
dry spout high up on a big ironbark. I
don’t doubt that the shooting might have
been effective had one happened to dis-
able the queen or ground the guide lead-
ing the swarm to the new home.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: I wouldn’t advise “Esk D.”
(B. 13 /1 / ”43) to go on believing that
Australian hardwoods will grow from
“a stake cut from young and vigorous
stock.” Willows, tamarisks and similar
vegetables will do it, but not a Murray
redgum “or other eucalypt.”
1943.
This is an ancient menace,
Old when our world was young—
The struggle for life by the living,
The trial of strength by the strong.
And those who were weak have gone under;
The wolf never fled from the fold.
And those who have broken are scattered.
And those who have bargained are sold.
And those who were brave in the morning
And those who were wise in the day,
And those who loved music and laughter
When shadow with sunshine was gay.
Who slept when the riightwatches darkened,
And dreamt of old health in new ills —
Their footsteps are dim in the deserts,
Their voices are thin in the hills.
This is an ancient menace,
Stark peril to man and the State;
Old as the courage that meets it,
And the strength of the strong who can wait.
N.S.W.
J. B. JACKSON.


“Bo”: When Claude the rouseabout
came to the station his almost incredible
thinness drew many a jocose remark
from the shearers. A wolflike appetite
never made the slightest difference, and
with the object of adding robustness to his
chassis Claude took to wearing two shirts.
Gradually this grew to three, four and
then five, until he began to look as if
a zephyr wouldn’t blow him over. Then
one day a new shearer with a nasty
temper arrived, and he kept picking on
Claude till Claude could stand it no
longer. The mob formed a circle at the
back of the pens, and the shearer peeled
off his athletic and shaped up. Claude
laboriously took off his top shirt; then
came the one under that and then the
next. By the time he had got off his
fourth and was undoing the buttons of
the last bit of mercery the shearer’s eyes
were sticking out like a crab’s. Then he
said in disgust “Strike me dead! If ’e
takes orf anything more there won’t be
any blasted thing left for a bloke to hit! ”
* * * *
“Narrin”: I’d advise “90 Mile” (B.
30/12/”42) to travel a few miles from
his village before he talks of “dead-
shots.” The musk-duck I shot —witnesses
and photo, on application—was a little
below me. I had three goes at him from
a .22. Although I can’t claim to belong
to the same class as Gorrie, I’d kick
myself if I couldn’t pick my elevation by
the third shot. And in case “90 Mile”
imagines a musk-duck is a difficult tar-
get let him practise on diving shags at
100 yards in choppy water.
“Loc”: Angus’s schoolboy grandson
was up for the holidays, and the old man
took him out Too-shooting. The lad
had never held a gun before, but Angus
gave freely of his own knowledge, which
was considerable, explaining patiently the
intricacies of wind-allowance, etc. After
about ten minutes of listening to advice
the boy spotted a Too racing through the
scrub about 100 yards away and, point-
ing the gun in its general direction (with-
out the formality of aiming), fired and
pierced the bouncer through the eye. We
couldn’t console Angus by saying that
the shot was the daddy of all flukes,
for we learned that in a moment of bene-
volent sarcasm the old Scot had prom-
ised the boy 2s. a foot for anything he
shot, expecting merely to part with about
3d. for a silvereye or some other
small fry. The Too, however, measured
6ft. 4in., and the youth, who had
inherited certain characteristics
from his grandparent, demanded
the measure be made inclusive of
tail, which brought the length, and
cash, up to almost twice as much.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: An insurance can-
vasser invaded the mallee fastness
where we were busily murdering
trees and, fastening on Mat, tried
hard to get him in. “Aw, it’s no
good t’ me,” said Mat. “Besides,
I’m on me own, y’ know, ’cept f’r me
mate here, an’ I ain’t wasting good
money t’ benefit him.” The go-
getter looked him over. “Look,”
he said softly, “a man like you is
cut out to marry, settle down an’
have a family. What about it then?
Why not start providing for them
now?” But Mat grabbed his axe
and assumed such an aspect that the
insurance man hurriedly grabbed his hat
and fled. Mat watched him go, an
alarmed look on his dial. “What,” I
said, “think y’ frightened the poor cow?”
“It ain’t that,” he said slowly. “But do
y’ think he meant that about me getting
married?”
* * * *
“Banjo Basil”: If “R.H.G.’s” theory
(B. 13/1/ ’43) is correct, all right-handed
men are really left-handers. His descrip-
tion of how a “true right-handed man”
holds a shovel or axe is the opposite to
how I held ’em in my stormy youth, and
I always believed I was a right-hander.
In later years, having contracted that in-
curable disease called golf, I find myself
wielding the weapons in the same manner
as I wielded Douglas and banjo —left
hand nearest the body which, if
“R.G.H.” is right, is probably why I’m
such an awful golfer, though, ! was reck-
oned a good axeman in me time.
* * * *
“Nipper”: With visions of the im-
ported Kikuyu grass rushing furiously
all over Australia and choking all the
native flora, “Naturala” (B. 13/1/ ’42)
has got all dithery. He is hollering over
a mare’s nest. Certainly Kikuyu is a
vigorous, aggressive grass, and is death
to most other lawn grasses. But it is a
good fodder grass, and by its truculent
nature and the fact that it stands up well
to drought and can exist on poor soil it
should, introduced into the right areas,
go far to solve the soil-erosion problem.
Perhaps they are so full of energy at
King’s Park, Perth, that they sat and
watched the Kikuyu Shoots climb the
Swan River bank, whiz by and swallow
up all the indigenous plants in the park.
Any grass can be kept under in a city.
It’s when it hits the mulga that the true
test of its habits and its usefulness or
otherwise comes.
* * * *
“Zake”: “B. A. Ker’s” jingle on flies
(B. 13/1/’43) will be appreciated by all
who, in this worst season for the pest
for a couple of decades, are busy gouging
them out of eyes and ears. But he over-
looked a couple of characteristics of the
buzzers that make a man deplore the
limitations of his vocabulary. There is
“. ...And, madam, two thousand four hundred and eighty-four coupons."
“It’s just temporary, sir, till the muzzle is fixed.”
the fly’s habit of getting up right under
the brim of your hat, where you can’t
get a smack at it. And is there anything
more calculated to make a man madder
when he has trapped one on his face
than to have the fly flash for safety
between his fingers?
* * * *
“Solitude”: I came on Seventyfiver
squatted in a corner of the yards, sur-
rounded by an array of dilapidated tins
and buckets. He was squinting vacantly
into space and muttering to himself while
a handful of jumbucks watched from
the furthest corner. “Easy t’ see,” he
snorted as he sighted me, “that the blokes
who put up this here poison drench
don’t have t’ mix the flamin’ stuff. Sense-
less damn’ directions they give y’.”
“Going to dose them?” 1 asked, picking
up the drench tin. “Yair, an’ it says,
to dose 200 sheep or about 400 lambs,
mix eight ounces of contents with H gal-
lons of water. Trouble is there ain’t no
such thing as a H-gallon tin. I got t’ use a
one-gallon. There’s that two-ounce to-
baccer tin, though. That’ll do orright f'r
measurin’ the stuff.” “Dose for ewes,”
I continued, reading on, “is one fluid
ounce, and for lambs of six months 12
c.cs.” “Twelve c.cs., ah!” he mused,
worriedly. “Yair; well now, how much
do y’ reckon I ought to give nine-month
weaners out of a H-ounce drenching
tube when I get the right amount mixed
f’r them thirteen nuisances?”
* * * *
“0.L.8.”; The days of the big shear-
ing tallies are not yet over. A team of
six shearers on a Maoriland station aver-
aged over 300 apiece on each of three
nine-hour days. The best was 336, the
lowest 322. For sheer consistency as a
team that takes a lot of beating.
* * * *
“Arev”: Murphy’s cows were con-
stantly breaking into Bill Jupp’s paddock.
No matter how strong the fences
appeared, Betsy and Blossom showed
devilish cunning in smashing their way
in. “It’s not so mqch what they eat as
what they damage,” Bill told Joe Murphy.
“Why can’t you keep them out?” Joe
reckoned he’d try, but his efforts, if he
made any, failed, “I’ll have to take the
law into my own hands,” Bill told his
wife. “Now, Bill,” said Mrs. Jupp, “be
careful. You don’t want any trouble.”
Bill patted his wife’s shoulder. “Don’t
you worry, Mum. Just leave it to me.”
Next day the cows were in again, having
a feed off Bill’s cabbages. As Bill was
later driving them towards the fence
Murphy, with goggling eyes, was looking
at a notice alongside the fence. “ ‘Poison
laid’!” he read out. “What’s that all
about?” Bill shrugged. “Aw, the rabbits
have been troubling me a bit lately. I
thought I’d better put up that notice.
I wouldn’t like your cows to get
poisoned.” It was then that Murphy
noticed the distress of Betsy and Blossom.
Their eyes were rolling and they were
frothing at the mouth. “Me cows!”
shouted Murphy. “They’re poisoned!”
Bill looked alarmed. “Yair, they might’ve
got a bit. Better give ’em some salted
water, Joe,” he advised. Murphy drove
the cows home in record time. “Well,”
Bill said to his wife afterwards, “those
cows won’t trouble us again.” Mrs. Jupp
stared. “You didn’t poison them, did
you?” Bill laughed. “Well, I think
they’ll recover from the flakes of soap
1 baited the cabbages with. But I’d like
to see Joe trying to get his cows to drink
salt-water.”
* * *
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of dancin’,” re-
marked Dan, “Tim Brady, a bloke I was
mates with one time, was the best I’ve
seen—light as a feather on his feet. The
girls uscter near fight t’ get him fer a
partnerin’ the way Tim useter kid to
’em beat the band. But he overdid it
one night. There was a dance at Possum
Bend, an’ all the wealth an’ beauty of
the districk was there. Tim was waltzin’
with Sarah Stonewall, whose ole man
kept the general store at the Bend. Sarah
weighed about 15 stone. After the waltz
was over she sits down in a corner with
some of the other girls, yappin’ an’
gigglin’. Ole Tom Stonewall is standin’
near ’em, an’ presently we see his
whiskers sorta bristle an’ his eyes glint,
an’ he rushes t’wards where Tim is
standin’ an’ makes a swipe at him,
yellin’ ‘Y’ dirty liar; y’re tryin’ t’ get
me in bad with me customers!’ There’s
a devil of a noise fer a few minutes, an’
we get the pair outside, where the John
takes a hand, ‘Now then, what’s all this
about? Whatcher mean be such con-
duck?’ he ses t’ ole Tom. ‘He sed me
girl Sarah was as light as thistledown,’
ole Tom roars, pointin’ t’ Tim. ‘Well,
what’s wrong with that, anyway?’ asks
the John. ‘Everything!’ yells Tom. ‘lt’s
a dirty trick t’ do me in bad with me
customers.’ The John looks puzzled.
‘How?’ he ses. ‘Be makin’ out I don’t
give right weight,’ Tom says. ‘Sarah
weighed on me scales on’y t’day, an’ she
went 14 stone 101 b., an’ he ses she’s as
light as thistledown! The cow’s tryin’
t’ make out me scales don’t weigh right! ’ ”
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: We were a slightly hilari-
ous mob at the pub, and the doctor was
as hilarious as any of us. What happened
in the kitchen was never proved, but the
boiled pudding brought to the table that
night resembled a football stuffed with
gluey rope. We eyed the thing, turned
it over, weighed it in our hands, made
bets. Interest was waning when Red
Louis, who everybody thought was
asleep, suddenly announced “This thing
demands a public inquiry. We’ll hold one.
I’ll be chairman.” Then the doctor, haying
some difficulty in maintaining equilibrium,
said “Can’t hold inquiry. Haven’t made
p.-m.” He was instantly ordered by the
chairman to conduct a post-mortem, and,
with a carving-knife for scalpel, meticu-
lously opened up the pudding in the
region where he reckoned its appendix
ought to be. Then his knife struck some-
thing ; he probed and drew forth a large
lump of brown soap. “Great heavens,
he whispered, stricken, “thish ish sherious
mishtake, mosh’ sherious! Why dirrent
someone tell me the —the thing was in
insherestin’ condition?” And he led a
beeline rush for the bar.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Fright and sorrow are
traditionally held to have been the cause
of many a young person’s hair turning
white overnight; its accuracy has as often
been questioned. But a close brush with
death when perishing from thirst has
been known to do it. Back in the middle
’nineties Jerry McAuliffe, pushing through
to just-discovered Kurnalpi (W.A.) with his
black and a couple of camels, came on
a couple of stark-naked whites having a
sort of game tossing sand over each other
while occasionally ladling up a handful
for a drink. Luckily Jerry had some real
water, and though he was in a fairly
tight spot himself he somehow managed
to get the two sufferers into what passed
for civilisation. Both recovered, but it
was not until they got back to Coolgardie
that they secured the services of a mirror.
Then the taller and heftier of the two
found himself gazing at an old man.
When he left Coolgardie only a couple
of weeks before his hair had been raven
black ; now it was silver-white.
A SUCCESS STORY.
I watched the straining bullocks come to halt;
1 heard their driver offer up a prayer.
He was a gentle man, without a fault;
He knew they did not like to hear him swear.
On bended knees he begged of them to move,
And tickled them beneath their weighty chins;
He did not think their conduct to reprove,
But pleaded that they might forgive his sins.
But they —the beasts of burden —stood about,
Occasionally swishing with their tails;
They took no notice of that gentle lout—
How sad it is when human kindness fails!
For, though we stood at quite a distance off,
We fell a wave of warmth pass through the
scrub,
And searing through the air there came a cougn,
Close followed by the thudding of a club.
The bullocky had finally done his block,
He hurled a mighty gibber and an oath;
The kindly beasts showed little sign of shock —
They nodded with approval at them both.
The creaking load of timber moved again—
The moral of this tale should never fade:
It generally pays to be profane.
And bullockies should call a spade a spade.
N.S.W.
COLIN MANN.


m
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material!
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm
■
M
•> * -
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY “IYSASHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
The Modern Romney.
“R.N.”: When the Romney Marsh
ram, then running almost exclusively on
the highlands and wetter areas, was first
put to the small merino ewes grazed in
that type of country there were heavy
losses at lambing time and the Romney
got a bad name. So long as it remained
a big, heavy, flat-sided, coarse-boned
sheep of poor wool and mutton it merited
it. Yet for lamb-raising in wet districts
the Romney had two great assets in its
constitution and resistance to footrot.
Now breeders have worked another suc-
cess ; the modern Romney is an ideal
crossbreeding sire in suitable districts.
Australian breeders turned to Maori-
land for improvement. From there came
Romneys of fine and better balanced con-
formation. Maorilanders had evolved a
sheep as different from the English and
Australian Romney as Australian
merinos were different from Spanish.
The M.L. Romneys brought to Aus-
tralia were low-set, deep, roomy and very
active, with better meat and wool. As
a sire for lamb-breeding in high- and
good-rainfall areas, the new-type Rom-
ney transmits flesh, early maturity and
hardiness ; the mothers have plenty of
milk, are fecund and of contented dis-
position. The wool is good, high yield-
ing, of fair lustre and about 46-50’s
count. It is soft handling and uniform
in the fleece.
It is a mistake to concentrate on wool
quality when choosing breeders ; what is
needed is a correct balance of shape,
flesh and wool. Avoid Romneys with
red hair about the hind legs and poll.
Footrot.
“Myrrhee”: If sufferers are isolated
and treated now and all new sheep com-
ing in are examined, the property can be
kept free during the wet months.
In January or February examine all
sheep and isolate those showing signs of
infection. Put those not infected through
a footbath of 5 p.c. formalin or 10 p.c.
bluestone as a safeguard before return-
ing to the paddocks. If the weather is
wet or summer pastures are green, leave
the old paddocks unstocked from two to
four weeks before the clean sheep are
put back. On irrigated pasture, leave
paddocks unstocked three to four weeks.
G. Nicol, B.V.Sc., considers that if a
high proportion of a flock on irrigated
pasture is affected, it is wise to dispose
of the whole flock, leave pasture un-
stocked for three or four weeks, and re-
stock with clean sheep. An alternative
would be to pare thoroughly the feet of
all affected sheep and treat with 10 p.c.
formalin every two or three days, while
clean sheep are put through a footbath
of 2-5 p.c. formalin until all are cured.
As an added precaution the sheep should
be re-examined and put through a 2-5
p.c. formalin or 10 p.c. bluestone bath
every two or three days for two to three
weeks.
Above all, be careful of new infection
from new stock.
Sowing Oats.
“8.C.”: Choose varieties now on the
lines of (a) locality and climate, ( b ) graz-
ing, (c) hay or grain and (d) dual pur-
pose.
On high country and contiguous slopes
a late-maturing type like Algerian gener-
ally does well for all purposes. On cold
highlands Guyra is useful, and on the
warmer, wetter tablelands White Tar-
tarian and, for quick growing, Fulghum
do well.
On the drier plains Algerian is all right
for grazing only, but doesn’t 'come up
to Belar for hay and grain or Fulghum
for grazing. Mulga and Gidgee, quick-
maturers, suit the dry country for hay or
grain, but are no good for grazing.
Oats ought to have a place in any
wheat-farm rotation, the area sown being
based on average feed needs and con-
served fodder supplies. It’s well to re-
member that plenty of grazing oats save
the natural pastures and give native
grasses a chance to seed and spread. Sow
for grazing or for early grazing and later
hay or grain in early autumn —say mid-
March if the subsoil is wet, and it ought
to be this year. Where there are good
summer rains a February sowing is safe.
For hay or grain the sowing can follow
the wheat sowing, though Algerian
should be in by April. Sowing can be
done on stubble, except in the drier wheat
country, where a fallow-sown crop has
a better chance. For grazing, 601 b. to
701 b.; for hay or grain, 501 b. to 601 b.
an acre, with of super. To beat
smut dust the seed with a mercurial dust,
2oz. to the bushel.
“ Hey! Thought I told y' never t' bring reptiles inter the 'ouse!"
Clearing.
“8.A.”; Much hard labor will be
saved by “stoving” all large trees instead
of grubbing in the usual way. Strip the
soil about 2ft. 6in. around the bole, ex-
posing the upper surface of the roots.
Pack the bole with solid junks of timber
up to ground level, and slightly higher
around the butt; then set fire to the tim-
ber and when it gets fairly going cover
with sods like an old-style charcoal-
burner’s kiln. By adopting this method
the base of the tree is burned out and
with it the taproot and laterals. When
a dry ironbark, white, grey or yellow
box falls it will continue burning until
the entire log is gone, but others need
stoking until burned off.
Grubbing heavy green timber is a
tough job, some trees requiring three or
four days’ hard work to bring them
down, but a green tree can be “stoved” out
in the same way if the bark and sapwood
are chipped off the base and the upper
surface of the roots before firing. When
the tree falls it should be cut into con-
venienf lengths and stacked into piles, -
topped with the small limbs and branches
ready for burning. Don’t approach
“stoved” trees from the leaning side;
they often fall without warning.
Gambia Pea.
“Mackay”: As a crop for cane areas
over the rainy period it is ideal. It stands
up well to floods, flourishes after them
and prevents erosion. The green stuff
per acre is weighty. Ploughed under in
its succulent state, it rots easily and little
nitrogen is lost. Plantings can extend
from October to January, but earlier
ones do best. Time of sowing doesn’t
affect the flowering. Gravels, clay loams
or sands all suit it, though germination
may linger from one to three weeks.
Give the seed a light burial and soak in
hot or cold water before broadcasting
if you want to speed sprouting. About
101 b. to the acre is sufficient. Mixing
with sawdust or dry sand makes the
spread more even. A moist seed-bed is
best. A sparse stand lets the plants branch
out two or three feet.
The pea is upright, free from runners
and goes over at the touch of the plough
disc. Even when fully mature it makes
no fuss about rotting. Gather the pods
when fully ripe and thrash out after dry-
ing. Gambia pea gives a five- to seven-
month cover.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hux”: Any sick animal deserves a
good bed, shelter and ample green feed
and fresh water. In drenching don’t
raise the head above a horizontal posi-
tion, pour only small quantities into
the mouth and allow time for swallowing.
Pinching the throat to induce swallowing
doesn’t help, only excites the animal.
Lower the head when coughing begins.
“Huxave”: Contour furrowing of pas-
ture lands helps in combating erosion
by reducing the length of the slope and
increasing the amount of water absorbed.
Where the slopes are more gentle the
land may be conserved by using con-
tours plus reasonable cropping rotations
—fallow, wheat, pasture —and cutting out
short-term rotations. A well-grown
cereal crop provides excellent protec-
tion against erosion, but losses mount
when the soil is unprotected during too
frequent fallows, the pasture’s safe-carry-
ing capacity is exceeded or adequate
amounts of organic matter are not added
to the soil.
“L. Cove”: Heavy crops of paspalum
are giving dogs eye trouble from ergot
fungus. Symptoms are discharges from
eyes and nose or redness around the lids ;
sometimes the hair around the lids wears
thin. Clean the eyes with a weak solu-
tion of boracic or salt dissolved in warm
Crater and drop in some cold, sfrong tea.
That’s one of the best eye-soothers.
“23-4”: Waterproof bagging by mix-
ing two parts of boiled linseed oil with
one part of raw linseed oil and working
the mixture well into the stretched bag-
ging. Give a light second coat if neces-
sary.
“Mackay”: A few acres ploughed and
sown to roots in the autumn will help
the piggery the following season. Swedes,
sugar beet, English and sweet potatoes
are all good food value ; beet and pota-
toes often double the starch yield of
cereals per acre. Used as a supplement
at the rate of per head per day, one
acre of roots will feed six bacon pigs
from 14 to 16 weeks up to bacon weight.
“L.C.”: Ringworms round the eyes of
calves often change to small lumps simi-
lar to warts. Dressing them every second
or third day with castor oil gets rid of
them.
“Bungaree”: Sheep drinking regularly
from two tanks in claypan country near
Brewarrina (N.S.W.) fell away in condi-
tion, while travelling stock refused to
drink at all. The water was muddy, and
analysis showed it deficient in salt.
Around the edge of the water 1801 b.
bags of salt were laid about five yards
apart, about two-thirds of each bag being
submerged. That caused the mud to
settle and made the water palatable. A
few days later the remaining salt was
tipped on empty bags so that ripples
could reach and lap it up. It offers a
good way of clearing muddy tanks.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
(1) When and how should lime be applied to
the vegetable garden ? (2) Has it any manurial
value ? (3) Best kind of lime to use ?
(1) Lime can be applied at any time of the
year —the heaviest dressings preferably in spring
and autumn. Spread it evenly |in. deep over
the soil; next day dig it in to a depth of at
least 12in., followed by a second digging a week
later. Plantings can be made after a fortnight.
(2) Lime has no manurial value, but its proper-
ties, by dissolving acids in the soil, are a de-
cided help to germination and growth. It, how-
ever, should never be applied at the same time
as fresh manures. (3) Air-slaked and agricul-
tural lime can be freely used on all types of
soil.
*
The flowers of my tomato and cucumber
plants have been tipped off by an insect of
some sort. Cause and cure ?
Looks as though cutworms or Rutherglen
bugs are busy. For cutworms, make a mix-
ture of six parts bran and one part each of
sugar and arsenic (by weight) into a wet mash.
Scrape away a little of the soil at the stem-
base of each plant and place half a teaspoonful
of the mixture in it. Keep baits beyond the
reach of children and animals. In the case of
Rutherglen bugs, spray with either Benzole emul-
sion or arsenate of lead (according to the formula
on the bottle) or dust with derris powder,
doing the job in the early morning before the
dew evaporates. None of these treatments is
injurious to plant life.
Flying-foxes are raiding my fruit trees
near Condobolin (N.S.W.). How can I
eradicate them ?
It’s a problem that has worried coastal
growers for years. All sorts of schemes
have been tried, including a lighting system that
would throw the trees into darkness and hide
them from the flying pests, but the only sure
method is the shotgun, which entails searching
the locality for their daytime hideouts and
prowling the orchard at night. Obtaining cart-
ridges is difficult now; apply to the nearest
secretary of the Fruitgrowers’ Federation for a
permit. The alternative is poisoning. If that is
adopted, keep stock and children out of the
orchard. Spread a small amount of strychnine
on the cut surfaces of ripe fruit. Laborious,
but effective in a part where the pests are
sporadic visitors.
Method of drying peaches and apricots?
You’ll need some wooden trays—they can be
made from old boxes, and 3ft. by 2ft. is a
handy size—also a large box made out of bag-
ging or hessian, with lifting handles at each
end, to fit over a stack of the trays, say 3ft. 6in.
by 2ft, 6in. by sft. high. Pick the fruit when
it’s ripe enough to eat but not overripe. With
a sharp knife cut each fruit in two, remove
the stone and lay the halves, cut side upward,
on the trays. When enough trays are filled,
scoop a shallow hole in the ground and in an
old camp-oven or similar receptacle light a
sulphur fire —the sulphur is intended to color
the fruit and force the sugar content. Leave
the fruit in the sulphur box 3f to four hours
when the day temperature is 100 in the shade,
lengthening the period by an hour for every
lOdeg. cooler. After sulphuring let the trays
dry in the sun and finish them off in the shade.
It’s a tricky process, and unless you have a lot
of fruit it would be much safer to preserve it.


GnUtute
for i««>,
conserve your^T 1 ™ 93
fl f' ane -vaTv e bUt '-
fo r your radio “ neede d
J2L2!1 d,ot «o N
«n>
Mm
AUSTRALIAN - MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
03 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/8IA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH. Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
W&Jdnq
fafi (Jktmif.
Today we have but one pressing concern —
to make our maximum contribution towards
winning the war —and that as speedily as
possible. When this has been achieved it will
be our aim to play a useful part in post war
development throughout the Empire mean-
while we send greetings to our friends in the
Commonwealth.
Resident Representative: C. H. Hordern, 472 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber * Hillman * Sunbeam-Talbot
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer « Harrier
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Pacific War First!”
[Extracts from a speech broadcast by Re-
publican Rep. Melvin J. Maas after his return
to the U.S.A. from “active duty” in the
South-west Pacific. He was recommended for
the Silver Star for gallantry at Milne Bay last
September.]
“Not only have our losses been played
down, and then made known only long
after they occurred, but defeats and disas-
ters have been twisted into being an-
nounced at the time as successes and vic-
tories for our forces, thus grossly mis-
leading the American public.
‘ For instance, one naval battle was and
still is publicly acclaimed as a great
American victory when, in fact, our
losses were greater and far more serious
than those of the Japs. The Japs knew
this, of course, at the time.
“The only effect of misrepresenting our
losses and the outcome of the engage-
ment was to fool the Americans and
thereby give them a false sense of opti-
mism.
“Another illustration is the naval dis-
aster on the night of August 8 in the
Solomons, when four heavy cruisers
were sunk by the Japs—-three American
and one Australian.
“Even though our forces had warning
many hours in advance, we still were
caught totally unprepared. We suffered
a disaster that night second only to Pearl
Harbor, but worse in one sense, since this
time we had advance warning in time
to have been prepared.
“The Japs, with only three cruisers
and several destroyers, struck in
the middle of the night, caught our fleet
literally asleep, opened up with their
deadly attack, and were gone out of
range of our guns without ever even being
fired upon by our ships.
“The whole thing was over in eight
minutes, leaving thousands of men help-
less in the cold waters of Tulagi Harbor,
an unbelievably large number dead or
wounded. It was hours later before the
last survivors were picked up.
“The burden is upon us to drive Japan
back. She is now in possession of fabu-
lously rich territory in Asia and the south
Pacific. Her conquered resources in oil,
tin, rubber, bauxite, iron, etc., are un-
believably enormous.
“If Japan is permitted time to develop
these wells and mines and convert them
into her war production we will never be
able to defeat her in war, and in post-
war trade she will be able to outproduce
and outsell the rest of the world every-
where in the world.
“The Solomons campaign was not well
organised and not followed up at all. I
am disclosing no military secrets. The
Japs well know all this.
“Local commanders in the Pacific do
not have sufficient overall authority to
order all branches into one plan for the
whole Pacific; yet if is one operating
area.
“Admiral Nimitz is in nominal com-
mand, but General MacArthur has com-
mand, entirely independent of the Navy,
of a vital sector of the Pacific.
“Admiral Nimitz’s naval forces, sup-
porting his Marines, captured Guadal-
canal, but all of the enemy’s bases, from
which Guadalcanal is daily attacked, are
in MacArthur’s area, and Nimitz has no
control over MacArthur’s forces.
“These two commanders of divided
forces are located thousands of' miles
apart from each other. Such army forces
as Nimitz does command are determined
not by Nimitz but by the Army in Wash-
ington.
“There can be no effective unity of
command in the Pacific until there is
first unity of command over our Army
and Navy in Washington.
“The Army and Navy are run sepa-
rately, with separate staffs and separate
plans. We can hardly expect a unified
United Nations’ war effort until we have
first unified our own forces.
“United and unified we can win this
war. With divided commands and inde-
pendent plans we will continue to lose it.
“What is taking place in Europe is a
terrible European war with dire conse-
quences to us all, but what is taking place
in the Pacific is not war at all, but the
first mighty explosion of a truly world-
wide revolution against the White Man’s
civilisation. If we lose this revolution
the White Man’s day is over.
“We are fighting dozens of separate
wars all over the world. Many of these
‘fronts’ are pressure fronts —that is,
undertaken locally to satisfy various of
our Allies, but not as a part of a well-
worked-out general plan.
“Each United Nation is now demand-
ing a larger and larger share of U.S. war
production and more and more American
troops to fight in its area. We are
carrying on so many ‘Second Fronts’ that
we seem to have had little or nothing left
with which to carry on our own ‘First
Front’ in the Pacific.”
A Soldier Speaks.
[A young doctor serving with General Mac-
Arthur’s forces somewhere in the Pacific sent
this letter to a friend in the U.S.A. Published
in New York “Daily Mirror,” it goes for
Australia, too.]
“How are things on the home front?
Are you making analines for us, or does
finagling in international circles still con-
tinue? Boy, I hope not, because from
what we read in U.S. papers we are get-
ting mighty disgusted with many of the
folks at home. There is absolutely no
excuse for strikes or wage increases or
any racketeering snakes. The best thing
to do would be to place the ringleaders
out here for a while amidst the snakes
and muck and Jap bullets. That would
teach them to be good little boys.
“Our kids out here are doing a swell
job with a minimum of everything. One
never realises just how much it takes to
fight a war —and mind you, the war hasn’t
even begun yet. You folks at home are
going to find it necessary to keep put-
ting out more and more of better and
better —or else. It’s really a shame to see
the propaganda the folks at home are
subjected to. A little more of the truth
would certainly end strikes. And this
business of ‘every night’s a Saturday
night’ affair.
“If anyone complains to you how
tough it is to do without this or that,
just give them a piece of my mind. Just
being on U.S. soil is enough to compen-
sate for any other hardships. You ought
to see how the Javanese, Chinese and
Malayans live.”
German Health Slips.
(From an article by New York “Sun” London
correspondent.)
Apart from the heavy air-raid tolls,
Germany’s deathrate is rising rapidly.
The worst figures come from the
heavily-bombed towns. There was a high
deathrate among German children in the
first quarter of 1942. It amounted to
more than 74 per 1000 of live births, as
compared with 61.3 in 1938.
In the heavily-bombed towns of the
Rhine and Westphalia, weekly deaths
from tuberculosis rose by 10 per cent, in
the first quarter of 1942, and by 20 per
cent, in the second quarter, as compared
with the previous year. These statistics
relate to civilian deaths only, and, since
many tuberculosis patients had been pre-
viously removed from western Germany,
it may well be that the real figures for
this disease are much higher.
Among children in Germany diphtheria
and whooping cough mortality has gone
up by nearly 100 per cent. There were
more than 173,000 cases of diphtheria
and nearly 250,000 cases of scarlet fever
in the old Reich, while in the “Greater
Germany,” which includes the territories
occupied by the Nazis, the number of
diphtheria cases rose from 42,000 to
130,000 in the past year, while scarlet
fever cases rose from 101,000 to 238,000.
Bombing Isn’t So Easy.
('Condensed from a London “Fortnightly”
article signed F / Lt.)
It is not by any means simple to de-
stroy the major German industrial plants
in detail. The truth, which it is high
time the public appreciated, is that, ex-
cept on quite exceptional nights in the
year, it is a matter of very great skill or
very good fortune to find an individual
plant by night.
Night bombing by means of heavy
concentration is a most deadly weapon ;
but it is not a weapon of precision. The
target for a great night-bombing raid
over a well defended area can be little
less than a section of a city. If that city
is heavily enough bombed, the factories
in it will be duly hit. No less than 250
separate factories were damaged by the
great raid on Cologne. But it is probably
true to say that few of these factories
could be seen clearly enough for precise


<*gf
'THAT'
the
WHY PENALISE
YOUR FRIENDS?
When you appoint a friend to be your executor or trustee you probably intend it
as a compliment to him. But is it? Don't you realise that in these difficult times,
should he have to assume these responsibilities, you are actually penalising him?
He probably has worries of his own to attend to. To add the anxiety of looking
after your estate as well is to burden him with more than he may be able to
bear. It is much more generous to your friends and beneficiaries to appoint
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. as your trustee or executor. It is a permanent
institution, under experienced and capable direction. It has the combined know-
ledge of finance, taxation, and investments that no one of your friends, however
capable, could equal. And it is accustomed to bearing the responsibility of
administration. Call or write for full details of the service it can give you.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
ART FOR PROFIT AND PLEASURE
WHEN these abnormal times are behind us, where will you stand
financially? Commercial Art offers you a fascinating career and
future security, for industry and advertising are dependent on the
work of the trained Artist. You can begin learning now—m your own
home and in your own time—to draw posters, cartoons, fashions, and
illustrations! Develop that flair for sketching under tteliighly-
snecialised tuition of experienced Commercial Artiste. When you
learn from Australia’s Foremost School of Commercial Art you leam
from leaders of the profession, and every step of your progress is
guided by an expert.
t
\X7BITE today, enclosing: 4Jd. for postage, for
** our profusely illustrated book, which includes
“Art Ability Tests.” This book may prove the
gateway to your success. It contains valuable
information about Commercial Art, a scientific
Questionnaire and special Test Drawings. Copy
these drawings and we will give you an expert
criticism of your art ability—free! No cost or
obligation if you mention “The Bulletin.”
Art Training Institute
SOSwanston Sr. Melbourne
aim. It was simply that a sufficient con-
centration of bombs was put down on the
city to ensure hitting the factories.
Every raid is a struggle, a desperate
contest of wits and of nerve. It is only
sometimes that we win complete suc-
cesses. Just as we cannot expect our
Army or our Navy to win every engage-
ment which they must fight, so we cannot
expect our Air Force to be 100 per cent,
successful every night which they go over
Germany. If every raid was as successful
as our best —if every raid was a Mainz,
a Liibeck or a Cologne—the German
power to make war would already have
been very greatly reduced. No doubt if
the Germans had no defences every raid
would be as successful as those were. But,
in fact, our aircrews encounter the most
formidable defences every time they
attack.
The Germans are using the service of
some one and a half million full-time
adult workers (about half of whom are
uniformed and highly skilled members of
the armed forces) in their air-raid de-
fences. This has been a heavy burden,
imposed by our bomber offensive, on the
enemy’s war effort. For this one-and-a-
half-million figure takes no account of all
the workers employed in producing the
enemy’s mass of searchlights, guns, de-
tectors, night fighters and equipment of
all kinds with which the enemy must
provide his defence workers. But it has
enabled the enemy to prevent the swift
and certain rubbing out of his great fac-
tories by means of the same simple and
direct attack as we were able to inflict
upon the almost undefended Renault plant.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources).
At Barrie, Ont., on November 25, Edward
G. Rohrbough, an American-born Toronto
newspaper man, pleaded guilty to a charge
under the Defence of Canada regulations which
involved the transmission to “Time” of a
story on a disturbance at the Bowmanville
camp for German prisoners of war. He re-
ceived a two-year suspended sentence. It
was shown by the Dominion that, contrary to
the account published by “Time,” no gas of
any kind was used, no machine-guns were used,
no prisoner was deprived of food and no
prisoner was transferred from Bowmanville. —
Canadian correspondent, New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * »
To transport 500,000 fighting men and their
equipment to action areas in the Pacific will
require 500 10,000-ton ships, and to keep
them supplied will require the constant services
of 300 ships. To transport 1,000,000 men to
Atlantic combat areas would require 1000
such ships.— L. H. Korndorff, president of the
U.S. Federal Shipping Co.
* * * *
One thing seems certain in Europe after this
war; civil wars. “ You did it!” will echo
throughout those countries, and Communists,
Fascists, Socialists, Anarchists and “republi-
cans” will unsheathe their knives. — Benjamin
De Casseres; New York “Journal-American.”
m * * *
The United States and Great Britain are
about to review their roles as allies in the battle
of production. Just now they appear to be
allies in name only. The U.S. has laid out its
munitions production schedule to accord with
its own military plans—but without allowance
for lend-lease, which is the tie binding the
arsenal of democracy to Britain and other allies,
Lyttelton, British Minister ol Production,
accompanied by a large group of British
officials and W. Averell Harriman, U.S. lend-
lease expediter in London, has arrived here
[Washington] to try to straighten all this out.
Minister Lyttelton’s task here is threefold,
First> he must get lend . lease mate rials-at least
materials for Britain fitted into American
munition production schedules. Second, he
must reach some agreement on whether each
natlon Wlll s P ecialls e m the production of
certam munitions. Third, he must try to get
American military authorities to recognise lend-
lease schedules as binding commitments. This
tas . k . P n be performed only if American and
British military chiefs can agree on a joint
military strategy. — “Wall-street Journal” Wash-
ington correspondent.
* * * *
Approximately 44,000 childless married men
jn york J ty and 689;333 more throughout
na tj on will be called into the armed ser-
vices during 1943.— New York “Daily News.”
* * * *
In tke U.S. elections a good many people
si S ned petitions for the Communist party in
tFe e 2j e f t {j at t^e y were petitions asking for
aid to Russia. There were 100,000 signatures,
but the Communist party got a little over 40,000
votes. New York “Daily Mirror columnist.
o*tcome 0 * tc0me o( * the [u s * elections is prob .
a biy the most favorable news the country has
had in several years. The widespread losses of
th .e New Deal politicians show that there is
hope St Ameri-
can democracy will work. There has been real
ground for fearing that our political system
c<auld not eliminate the poisons formed by
wholesale vote-buying through Government
spending . Many have feared that the damage
do ne to our economic system by the “social
planning” of the collectivists could never be
repaired. Indeed, the massing of radical voters
in p the “American Labor party,” and such cases
as Communistic attacks on Senator Coudert
in New York, have been unpleasant reminders
of the foreign elements which threaten the unity
and therefore the life of the nation. Regardless
°f the ultimate outcome, we now know that
American voters still have ideas of their own,
and that even a sort of Federal Tammany
political machine cannot control them-not even
™ war times.—Economics Professoi Lewis
Haney, of New Yoik University.
, . . . . , t , ,
If American factories turn out fewer plane
and tanks than expected those planes and
tanks will be better than expected. The sacrifice
of quantity is deliberate, for the sake ot
quality. ’Planes will have more fire-power and
greater range; tanks will be heavier. In the
Battle of Britain the R.A.F. was quantitative y
inferior to the German Luftwaffe, but quah-
tatively superior. The results of that battle
demonstrated what quality could do to quan-
tity. We shall have quantity, too, with the
production of our workshops, but not at the
sacrifice of the much more important quality,
— New York “Sun.
* * ~ .
This time few thought there d be room tor
religion in the duffel bags of U.b. soldiers.
For this generation of Americans was raised
in the scoffing, debunking era. When mobili-
Sation begein, cinci the Government, 3S usiicil,
undertook to provide spiritual ministry for the
men, many veteran clergymen doubted whether
religion would catch on. But religion has caught
on—with such vigor that the chaplaincy ser-
vices have been swamped by it. Army and
navy chapels are jam-packed. The men in
uniform, in one of the most amazing develop-
meats in U.S. religious history, appear to have
made up their minds to wind up the era of
glib scepticism, once and for all, and return,
en masse , to religion. For the year that ended
June 30, 1941, soldier attendance at army re-
ligious services totalled nearly 12,000,000. The
indicated figure for 1942 is much larger,
During the sweltering month of August, when
civilian church attendance drops to its year-
round low and many churches are closed, the
41,000 soldiers at Fort Jackson, S.C., averaged
85 per cent, at services every Sunday. During
last Lent, at the replacement centre at Fort
Bragg, N.C., the chaplain in charge estimated
the average attendance at Sunday services at
above 90 per cent. — “The American.”
* * * *
There's been a “little Pearl Harbor” in the
Solomon Islands area. U.S. naval power,
already divided, is badly hurt by aircraft-carrier
losses, by inability to bring this country’s naval
air power to bear. So the most to expect seems
now to be this: In 1943 U.S.-British offen-
sive power should begin to be felt, and the
U.S. Navy should begin to gather strength for
sustained blows against Japan. If Hitler is to
be defeated, he should be defeated in 1944.
That’s the year in which U.S. power should
reach its peak, when U.S. Army, Navy and Air
Forces all will pack a terrific wallop. It is
to take that long to get fully set. In 1945
there certainly should be a day of reckoning for
Japan.— “ United Stales News.”
* * * *
The war will be won—or lost—by the
United States in the Pacific. It will be won
only if we centre sufficient naval, air and land
forces upon that objective—as nearly all of our
forces as possible. It will be surely lost if we con-
tinue to spread our forces thinly throughout the
world, holding inferior positions on all fronts
and having mastery of none. The Pacific war is
not a minor affair. It is not secondary to anything,
We must recognise and deal with the grave
fact that we will win the whole war by winning
in the Pacific, or lose the whole war by losing
in the Pacific. America must dispose its forces
in accordance with this fact. America must
fight where its mortal interest lies, as Russia
is fighting with everything it possesses and
as England is prepared to fight with its total
resources in defence of England. America
must and can defeat and destroy Japan. But
America must muster its total might to accom-
plish this. — New York “Journal-American.”
* * * *
Any American will be willing to make
any sacrifice over Pearl Harbor. Now I doubt
if you can get more than a fistful of soldiers
to admit that they want to fight to give India
to Gandhi. More likely, if you ask the ques-
tion right, most of them would say “To hell
with India and Gandhi.” Not that they hold
anything against India or Gandhi, but it is
foreign stuff to them, not affecting their lives
or interests so far as they know. Also they
would say it’s none of their business whether
treaties between England and India are “out-
worn and anti-democratic.” — George E. Sokol-
sky, N.Y. “Sun.”
• * * *
Quebec is more foreign to Americans than is
France, for it is essentially foreign also to the
twentieth century. It despised the France of
the French Revolution and of the Third Repub-
lie. Now its youth admires the France of
Petain. Quebec is a testament to the tolerance
of Britain, which watched 65,000 conquered
Frenchmen in Quebec expand between 1763 and
1942 to a total of about 6,000,000, in all
Canada and the Northern U.S. Today the
British Crown is a very small part of the life
of the province of Quebec. The test of British
policy has come in Quebec’s contribution to a
world war for all free men everywhere. In last
April’s plebiscite Quebec voted over 70 p.c.
against conscription for overseas service.—
“Life,” U.S.A.
* * * *
If the “hatred of the godless” is condemned
when displayed by Nazism and Fascism, why is
it whitewashed in Communism? It is my
earnest hope that we extend full help to the
Russian people as a nation, but not to the
Soviets as a political party. The last reference
which I read was that the Soviet party consisted
of 3,000,000 members. This minority is greatly
out of proportion to a population of
158,000,000 people. Will the Atlantic Charter
guarantee over 150,000,000 people their right
to choose their form of government? Letter
to New York “Times Magazine.’
* * * *
If the United States had to depend on its
pre-war merchant fleet its lifelines across the
Atlantic and Pacific would become tenuous
indeed. Happily, American shipbuilding is
performing a miracle, the like of which has
never been seen before in maritime annals.
Every day three large merchant ships leave the
ways, and soon four a day will be produced,
Few persons even in the industry would have
thought this possible two years ago. New
York “Journal-American.”


Missing Beneficiary.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of MISS N. B. LOVETT, daughter of Charles
Lovett, or any of her relations, kindly com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Hamilton, New Zealand?
Missing Friend.
THE Trustees of the Estate of the late MRS.
DORCAS BELL desire to contact the son of
the deceased JOHN BETRAM BELL, formerly
of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, and late of
Yunta Station, Yunta, South Australia. —
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF
S.A., LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT JAMES SHARPE late of Military
Camp Jamberoo N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
LAWRENCE WILLIAM PHILLIPS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2106 of 1942 against his
wife JOYCE PHILLIPS on the ground of her
adultery with you If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 2nd
April 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. W. REILLY Solicitor
of 2b Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD NORMAN WALKER late
of 102 Brennan Street Leichhardt. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET MARY WALKER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2500 of
1942 alleging that you the said LEONARD
NORMAN WALKER have been guilty of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you desire to defend the
suit you must enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the
Thirty-first day of March One thousand nine
hundred and forty-three and obtain a copy of
the petition free of charge from JOHN
CHARLES PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James
Buildings 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney New
South Wales. —DATED this Eleventh day of
January One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
(1) In snooker, after all the red balls have
been potted, a player pots and goes in off a
colored ball. Is the colored ball spotted up
again? (2) If with only the black ball left a
player goes in off does he lose the game ?
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, except when going in on
makes a tie; then the black ball must be spotted
again.
* * * *
Particulars, history and present value of the
twopenny piece struck in 1797 ?
Twopenny and penny pieces were struck in
1797 at the Soho Mint in Birmingham, Eng-
land. They weighed 2oz. and loz. and con-
tained 2d. and Id. worth of copper. Only one
year’s issue appeared, but they are still common.
To collectors the twopenny piece is worth Is.
to 3s., according to condition.
* * * *
Recipe for a wax car-polish ?
Shred jib. beeswax and put it into a jar with
half a pint of pure turpentine, then stand jar
in hot water and stir contents with a stick till
thick. Fumes are inflammable, so be careful.
Apply merest smear and polish with soft rag.
Brief Answers.
F.N-: Melburnians, Adelaideans, Sydneysiders,
Geelongites; Parisians, Londoners, Glaswegians,
Chicagoans, San Franciscans A.L.T.: The
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.” published in this office.
Also Sydney “Stock Exchange Gazette,” obtain-
able free from any Sydney broker N.P.F.:
Adelaide Historical Museum should be able
to furnish the information... .J.S.: Try Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, 10 Young-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
J.K.:
Australia more Australian
Make, by using our own
Seeds, where it is proved by test
No other need be sown
For beauty, shade or shelter.
G.T.:
Oh, land of the fighter; oh, land of the fair,
Land of the lovely sunny southern hemisphere ;
Land of little koala bear and old-man kangaroo,
The gay galah, the emu, kooka. and white cockatoo,
Where grows the tall and stately gum, wattle and
waratah, too,
Hats off ! Hats off, Australia, to you!
. ...T.C.W.: Try it on the nurse... .D. 0.:
“Since I’ve been a typist my life has been
blighted.” But why blight ours? ... .8.T.:
Don’t like the mermaids... .K.F.: Elementary.
... .8.L.: You’ve miles to g 0... .E.K.S.: All
lightweights B.B.; “The joys of spring
come in abundance.” And the poems....
D.C.L.: “1 can laugh with the jackass perched
on the gum.” Perhaps you can, but you can’t
make “gum” rhyme with “fun.” D.W.:
Snake yarns are a drug on the market... .E.R.:
“For What It’s Worth” went for nothing....
P.S.: Needs nourishing C.R.: Not far off;
let’s see some others... .1.W.: Begins well, but
it fades away to nothing C.R.A.8.: You
don’t... .T.W.: Might suit a children’s
magazine 8.M.W.: Sopping with sentiment.
... .E.E.: N 0... .E.R.R.; Feeble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.S.L.: A long explanatory gag and faint
pencil sketches on colored paper! M.8.L.:
First billiard table we’ve seen that’s rhom-
boidal and has Jacobean legs... .R.M.W.;
The cockeyed perspective made it bad enough
without all the muddy cross-hatching... .L.J.:
It’s back to the slate and pencil for you.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
In the course of his address at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia,
Limited, held on 31st December—after reviewing the financial position—the Chairman of Directors (Sir Colin Fraser) said.
Ladies and gentlemen,—
The operating plant at Risdon has worked at
full capacity, except for a short period, when
an important operating reagent was not avail-
able in adequate supply.
Both operating and engineering sections have
had a trying year, suffering throughout from
the disruptions caused by labour irregularities
and disabilities.
The constructional programme on plant ex-
tensions suffered very much from shortage of
labour and its inefficiency, and these factors,
with the difficulties of materials supply, have re-
sulted in slow progress and high construction
costs. The extensions programme is sadly be-
hind schedule, and there is at present no visible
prospect of improvement in the pace of con-
struction.
This difficulty has also troubled the Hydro
Electric Commission in its construction work.
It is not confined to Tasmania, but also obtains
throughout the mainland, and here the effect is
felt at those of the Company’s roasting plants
where endeavours are being made to provide
further roasting capacity.
The available roasting capacity cannot fully
meet the Risdon demand for calcine, and for
some time past we have been encroaching on
reserve calcine stocks. This position will con-
tinue until further roasting capacity is avail-
able.
Conditions, due to movements of labour and
loss of efficient operators, have affected pro-
ducing efficiency, and in consequence zinc pro-
duction, and have given those in control of the
Risdon and other plants an anxious time
through the year.
Our wages bill is steadily rising, and since
wages were “pegged” in February of this year,
the annual wages bill at Risdon and the West
Coast Mines has increased by more than
£30,000 per annum, due to increased cost-of-
living adjustments and to the concessions made
by the Wages Boards, each being responsible
for about half the total increase.
Our main product, high-grade metallic zinc,
is still in heavy demand both here and over-
seas, and no effort is being spared to main-
tain and increase output.
Our cadmium metal production has been
readily absorbed, principally by the U.K.
authorities, and to an increasing extent in Aus-
tralia.
In addition to refined zinc and the usual by-
products, we are still supplying, in order to
assist the manufacture of munitions, certain
special products; these include zinc-base die-
casting alloy, oleum strength sulphuric acid, and
also, in small quantity, high-grade cobalt metal.
WEST COAST MINES.
Throughout the year there was fortunately
sufficient labour available at Rosebery to en-
sure full ore supply to the concentrating mill.
Developmental work unfortunately suffered
owing to shortage of skilled miners, but our
earlier vigorous development of both mines has
enabled us to meet the position so far with-
out serious inconvenience. Although there
was a good deal of movement of labour from
the West Coast, the closing of many mainland
mines released experienced miners and thus
helped us to replace miners who moved out of
Rosebery from time to time.
In order to assist in increasing for Defence
purposes the supply of copper from Australian
sources, ores of copper content higher than
the normal content were mined in the Hercules
mine, replacing a corresponding quantity of the
usual lead-zinc ore in the mill feed. A copper-
lead-silver concentrate was produced, in addi-
tion to the usual lead and zinc concentrates.
This mixed concentrate was taken and treated
by the Broken Hill Associated Smelters at
Port Pirie.
While developmental work done in the mines
was less than usual, I am glad to be in a posi-
tion to tell you that the quantity of ore ex-
tracted during the year was fully compensated
by very satisfactory development of the main
Rosebery ore body, and the ore reserve ton-
nage remains at last year’s figure, approximately
1,500,000 tons of average-grade ore.
The mines and mill are in good order,
though shortage of skilled tradesmen’s labour
and labour movements generally laid a heavy
burden on those responsible for the mainten-
ance of operating efficiency.
ZINC.
During the year, and in fact since the col-
lapse of France in June, 1940, an unprece-
dented demand for zinc has gradually de-
veloped. Great Britain, dependent wholly upon
the importation of zinc concentrate from Aus-
tralia, Canada and elsewhere, has pushed her
producing capacity to a maximum. The United
States of America has steadily expanded her
smelteries and is building up her concentrate
supplies by importation from all possible
sources and is budgeting for a production in
1943 that will constitute a record. Canada
has also raised her important zinc metal output
substantially. We in Australia, the Electrolytic
Zinc Company, pressed by the British Govern-
ment early in 1941 to increase output for export
to the United Kingdom and also to India, under-
took to do our best. In order to help finance
plant extensions, the Company made a new
share issue of £400,000. For reasons already
indicated, construction has lagged and we have,
unfortunately, failed to realise our scheduled
production figures. We are hopeful, however,
that the immediate pressure on our available
operating plant will be eased by the middle of
1943 and that thereafter the prospect of ex-
panding the output will be better. Hiawever,
under existing conditions it is impossible to
forecast; we can only use to the best advan-
tage the restricted resources available.
I have from time to time, drawn attention
to the manifold uses of zinc in ordinary times
under the several headings brass-making, gal-
vanising, rolled zinc, zinc die-casting alloys,
zinc oxide, zinc sulphide, lithopone, zinc dust
and miscellane. Relatively few people out-
side those directly concerned realise the im-
portant part which zinc, and particularly
highly refined zinc, plays in connection with
the war effort. It is one of the principal
foundation-stones upon which the munition
industry rests. Every cartridge case and every
nroiectile which leaves a gun calls for zinc in
one or other of its alloyed forms; as a con-
stituent of brass or bronze it is also an im-
nortant constructional material in Defence
equipment of all kinds; as an anticorrosive or
protective material it is used in galvanising
and also in oxide form in paints and pigments;
zinc oxide is also an important constituent ot
motor and truck tyres. Zinc dust finds a
place in smoke mixtures and flares. This will
indicate to you the importance of zinc, and
particularly of high-grade zinc, in war-time, and
you will perhaps realise better the urge for the
increase in production which for reasons I have
already mentioned we are finding it so difficult
to bring about. We believe that but for the
high-grade zinc produced by your Company
Australia would have been unable to get sup-
plies for its munition manufactures, the more
particularly as all overseas production has been
urgently required for the needs of the United
Kingdom and its allies. At no time since war
started has there been any overseas surplus
available.
Actually, under war conditions, more than
two-thirds of our output is required locally.
Its distribution is controlled by the Ministry
of Munitions; and supply is authorised only
for munitions and essential services. It is
opportune to mention here that your Company
is selling zinc to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and its contractors and to others in Aus-
tralia at a far lower price than that ruling in
any other country.
INVESTMENTS.
From my remarks in past years shareholders
have been informed of the very important
work being done by the main companies in
which we hold investments, and I do not pro-
pose to traverse the whole of this ground again
today. But I would stress again the tremen-
dous value of these companies in contributing
—particularly in the supply of non-ferrous
metals and fabricated materials —to the coun-
try’s war effort; without them our munitions
and supply problems would have been almost
insuperable.
In this connection I would like to mention
particularly Metal Manufactures and its wholly-
owned subsidiary Austral Bronze Company,
which supply copper, brass and other alloys in
all forms needed by the Munitions and Supply
Departments; Australian Aluminium Company,
which is now producing sheets, tubes and ex-
truded sections —principally for aircraft con-
struction ; Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,
the product of which, as you know, is of highest
national importance; the Associated Pulp and
Paper Mills, now practically the sole source of
supply of Australia’s requirements of many
of the writing and printing papers. It is well
that shareholders and the general public should
realise that, but for the efforts of our Com-
pany in close collaboration with other public
companies, it is more than probable that this
war period would have found Australia lacking
in the particular products to which I have re-
ferred, and which are of supreme importance
now.
> THE LIGHT METALS.
Much publicity has been given by Govern-
ments and various interests during the past
two or three years to the matter of producing
aluminium in Australia. In this connection,
shareholders will remember that the Electro-
lytic Zinc Company is one of the four share-
holders in Australian Aluminium Company Pty.,
Ltd., which latter company owns and operates
the modern works at Granville, near Sydney,
rolling and extruding, for Defence purposes, alu-
minium and its strong alloys. Part of this
Company’s original programme, interrupted by
the outbreak of war, was to erect a smeltery to
produce aluminium from imported and/or local
bauxites. The Company realised, however, that
under war conditions the establishment of this
industry could be undertaken only by the
Federal Government. I would like, therefore,
to advise shareholders and the public, and
particularly the Tasmanian public, that the Aus-
tralian Aluminium Company Pty., Ltd., in De-
cember, 1940, made an offer to erect and operate
on the Government’s account an aluminium
smeltery in the vicinity of Risdon. Such smel-
tery, which was to be designed and constructed
on the most modern lines, was to have a capa-
city at the outset of 2000 tons of ingot alu-
minium per annum, with provisions for rapid
and economical extension to produce 3000 tons,
and at a later stage 5000 tons per annum,
The time estimated to erect this plant was 18
months, assuming a high order of priority was
given by the Government to the constructional
work.
The plant to supply the refined alumina for
this smeltery—in the first place, 4000 tons of
alumina to make 2000 tons of metal —it was
envisaged would be located either at Port
Kembla, close to the Wingello bauxite deposits,
or at Risdon —the estimated time to erect such
plant being 18 months. At the time this pro-
posal was framed and the offer made the
Ouse Valley bauxite deposit had not been dis-
covered.
The Australian Aluminium Company Pty.,
Ltd., it was proposed, should be appointed
managing agents for the Government at a fee
to be agreed, and the only stipulation was that,
in the event of the Commonwealth Government
desiring at any time to sell the plant or plants,
the Company was to be granted first refusal to
purchase same at a fair market price.
This offer was not accepted by the Gov-
ernment, but the Australian Aluminium Com-
pany Pty., Ltd., and its Tasmanian constituent
shareholder, the Electrolytic Zinc Company,
which latter would have been responsible for
most of the constructional and establishment
work, and also the operation of the plant,
have the satisfaction of having made this offer
in order to assist the Government and the
Australian Defence effort.
At our Annual Meeting in 1937 I advised
shareholders that we had joined with asso-
ciated interests in England to develop and
operate a process for the production of mag-
nesium, and that when we had acquired the
requisite knowledge and experience and the
time was opportune, we proposed entering upon
the production of this metal in Australia. There
is no doubt that after the war the light strong
alloys of aluminium and magnesium, together
with other metallic elements, are destined to
assume ever increasing importance in the manu-
facturing engineering industries. So, too, are
the special alloys of which highly refined zinc
is the base Shareholders can rest assured
that the Electrolytic Zinc _ Company, which
possesses many advantages, intends to play its
part in these special fields.
OUTLOOK AND CONCLUSION.
In regard to the future, it is difficult to fore-
cast, even with half the current year ended,
the approximate financial results which should
be realised for the June, 1943, year. It is
fairly safe to expect that the output of our
principal product, refined zinc, will closely
parallel that of last year, but an early upward
adjustment in the controlled price at which we
will sell within Australia the greater part
our production will be necessary to compensate
for the substantial increase in producing costs
now ruling, together with the further increase
which is certain to take place during the second
six-monthly period of the year. The application
we are making for an increased price of zinc
we feel sure will be granted, as the justification
for same is quite clear. For the surplus zinc
which we export to the order of the British
Government the price is subject to adjustment
to meet variations in producing costs. Higher
costs are also, of course, reducing our gross
profit margins on all our by-products and mine
production, viz., cadmium, copper, lead, silver,
superphosphate, etc., and are, furthermore, re-
ducing the dividends received from the com-
panies in which we are shareholders. Income
tax on the Company’s profits, which last year,
as adjusted, called for £350,352, cannot be
expected to fall below the present high war-
time rates. We welcome, however, the recogni-
tion by the Government of the principle of
the Wasting Asset in mining and the exemption
from taxation under Section 23 a of the Act of
one-fifth of our surplus from our mining opera-
tions —although this, with us, is a relatively
small amount. Such exempt income, it should
be mentioned, as and when distributed as divi-
dends to shareholders, will be free of tax in
their hands.
The really disturbing factor in our business
is the strong upward trend in cost factors which
is continuing at an accelerated rate. This in-
flationary movement is, of course, Australia-
wide, and the Government alone can take the
steps necessary to prevent it getting out of
control. In this connection, I would like to
quote, and also commend to the Government,
a statement made by my colleague Sir
Walter Massy-Greene, an ex-Treasurer of the
Commonwealth, at a recent Company Meeting:
“Today the greatest contribution which the
Government can make to secure the post-war
prosperity of industry and the future employ-
ment of the people, is wrapped up in proper
war-time financial control. That is a true
Government function. Much depends in
the coming years on the national financial
policy that is being followed today, and it
must be admitted that there are disquieting
features. So far, indirect methods to prevent
spending have not achieved their objective,
and the gap between income and expenditure
is dangerously large, accompanied by an
ominous inflationary trend not to be lightly
ignored. It is to be hoped that this very
plain pitfall will be avoided. Some inflation
is inevitable. It can and should be con-
trolled, but if certain, possibly distasteful
steps are not taken it will inevitably get out
of hand.”
In my earlier remarks on the Light Metals I
indicated that the Electrolytic Zinc Company
was prepared to play its part in the expansion
of industry in Tasmania in directions more or
less related to its existing business. This is, of
course, if it is the policy of the Federal and
Tasmanian Governments to encourage large-
scale private enterprise. In this connection I
would impress upon those who seem to fear
bigness in producing or manufacturing industry
that there are certain commodities which can
only be produced successfully on a large scale
if the cost of the commodity to the Australian
consumer is to be kept at a reasonably low
level, and, particularly, if portion of the output
—as in the case of zinc-—must be sold in ordi-
nary times in the competitive export markets.
Large-scale industry, too, is apt to be regarded
by many people as necessarily monopolistic.
The Electrolytic Zinc Company, for instance,
has frequently been referred to as a monopoly.
This is, of course, incorrect, as surplus hydro-
electric power, and also coal, is available, and
about 60 p.c. of the zinc concentrate produced
by Australian mines is still being exported.
I make no apologies for the past perform-
ance or record of Electrolytic Zinc Co. as an
important unit of Australian private enterprise.
It operates, as you know, principally in Tas-
mania in the production of zinc, by-product
metals and superphosphate at Risdon, and in
the mining of silver-lead zinc and copper ores
at Rosebery. In New South Wales and South
Australia are located its roasting and sulphuric-
acid plants catering to Australia’s important
superphosphate manufacturing industry, and
also during war-time to explosive manufacture.
It has always faithfully carried out its obli-
gations to Governments and the community
as a whole, to the people whom it employs and
to the users of its products.
The people whom it employs have shared
directly and also indirectly through community
benefits in the prosperity of the Company. I
have no hesitation in saying that, had there
been three independent companies in Australia,
each producing 25,000 to 30,000 tons of zinc
annually, instead of one—the Electrolytic Zinc
Company —Governments, the sleeping partners
in industry, would have received considerably
less in taxation, the people employed would
have drawn lighter pay envelopes and the
price of zinc in Australia would have
been considerably higher. The success achieved
by the Electrolytic Zinc Company has,
furthermore, enabled it to play its part in the
creation and expansion of important industries
on the mainland and the Associated Pulp and
Paper Company’s fine new enterprise at Burnie
—a truly great record, and a good example of
the value of private enterprise.
As I remarked at the Broken Hill South
meeting yesterday the talk of a new order by
people who would wreck the existing order
without the vaguest idea of what is to replace
it is dishonest. As in Great Britain, America
and Canada, so in Australia there is every
reason to believe that, so as to assure the liber-
ties and best promote the welfare of our people,
the new order will grow out of all that is best
in the old order. Governments should, there-
fore, plan now to give the maximum assist-
ance to industry to prepare itself to meet the
transition from war to peace. _ This involves
freeing industry from all unnecessary controls
and restrictions which hamper freedom of
action; it also involves helping industry to
maintain and build up vigor and strength. The
task which Australia will face in providing em-
ployment as demobilisation progresses will be a
herculean one, presenting even more urgency
and difficulty than mobilising for war. It will
certainly tax to the limit the ingenuity, energy
and resources of Governments and commercial
industry.


voWK JUNSMWM
pROBItW
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUD 0 Wlcrs
have the answer
TJEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LEATHER
BELTING
PULL E Y a
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
★ 41
m
LUDOWICI'S
PfiUUTV
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
To-day’s World makes
YOUR WILL
AND YOUR EXECUTORS
even more vital matters!
a?
y/z*.
. •
IMPORTANT at all times, the making of your
Will and the choice of your Executor are now
more serious responsibilities than ever before.
War inevitably brings increased risk of personal
attack, property destruction and the death of
private executors.
Place your affairs in safe, independent hands by
appointing The Union Trustee Co. your trustee
and executor. Then you can be certain that your
wishes will be carried out exactly, always.
Sound advice provided now by unbiased experts
may save your dependents needless difficulties in
later years.
Write, 'phone or call NOW for full particulars.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.,
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C.
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
t
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7J p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 106,153 106,710 Nil 586,320
S. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 301
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1933.. 155,793 80,811 52,635 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 9,872
From depreciation reserve, £7500 .. 17,372
1936.. 184,551 89,491 63,568 31,491 48,863
Bonus div. Sun Newspapers, £126,343 .. 175,206
To staff fund, £8729 166,479
Building renovation reserve, £3OOO .. 163,479
Nominal
7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £376.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 338,870
To Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 333,870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 .. 150,949
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1940.. 202,334 89,536 64,280 48,518 199,467
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 194,467
5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1941;. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund, £5OOO 231,347
3 p.c.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To staff fund, £2290 .. .. .. 231.585
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
October 1, 1931, and to special tax (2s. in £)
October 1, 1931.
The co.’s career has been one of the most
eventful in Australian publishing; just
at the moment earning power on its in-
tangible-swollen capital ranks among the
lowest. The slide in recent earnings re-
flects new competition in the Sunday and
previously-exclusive evening fields from
the “Telegraph” and “Mirror” respec-
tively. Also newsprint rationing, which
not only has knocked endways what the
board terms its “phenomenal pre-war ad-
vertising revenues,” but has both limited
Associated’s striking power and rendered
its rivals’ establishment less costly. Sun-
day circulation has almost recovered lost
ground; the daily is only very slowly
so doing:
1939.* 1941. 1942.
Daily “Sun” .. .. 241,360 175,000 195,020
“Sunday Sun” . . .. 331,173 300,000 322,391
“Woman” .. .. 160,000 220,494
“Fix” 180,000 219,488
“World’s News” .. 57,000 68,771
“Wireless Weekly” .. 22,100 24,905
“Radio and Hobbies” .. 14,900 17,270
* Sept, half-year.
While the ban on most imported periodi-
cals has done the co.’s two principal
weeklies no harm, circulations —
“Woman’s” is said to have increased be-
yond 250,000 —are about the maximum
permitted with the newsprint available.
Rationing, now supervised through a
newsprint pool, has been helpful in cut-
ting paper costs. Consumption of 25,318
tons pre-war fell to 9738 tops (down 62
p.c.) last year, a saving of some £150,000
p.a., despite a rise in price from £lB 3s.
6d. a ton in 1939 to £24 7s. lOd. for
1941 and to £3l 18s. 6d. for the year
under review. Economies for a while
also followed staff depletions ; but pay-
rolls lengthened £28,000 in the term just
behind, when allowances to enlisted em-
ployees took £7024 and payroll tax of
£10,116 was another new factor in costs.
Company taxation has grown into a pro-
portionately heavier burden: 23.8 p.c. of
gross profits in 1939, the £89,266 pro-
vided last year represented 41.6 p.c., and
is likely to become higher.
These and other things like fuel
rationing, congested communications
and a violently fluctuating public
demand for news help explain the con-
traction of £65,332 in last term’s de-
clared net earnings, the lowest for 10
years. After meeting the prefs.’ minimum
5.4 p.c., only 3.2 p.c. was left for the
ords., which were cut to 3 p.c. Conserva-
tion of finances has considerably helped
of recent years, but the £231,585 of free
reserves still isn’t much of a counter
to the million and a half at which intan-
gibles figure, so that not even the prefs.
can see pound-for-pound asset cover un-
less depreciation provisions are taken in.
Here is the actual set-up of finances: —r
1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £2,563,601 £2,563,601 £2,563,601
Overdraft .. .. 72,908 336,960 324,240
Other liabilities*.. 156,855 254,810 228,850
Provident fund . . 6,976 15,395 7,710
Deprec. reserve .. 364,376 460,872 508,105
Freeholds .. .. 653,144 730,350 752,175
Plant, etc. ~ 643,388 793,797 794,631
Shares .. . . 188,700 400,592 419,970
Stocks . . .. 163.864 323,066 288,762
Debtors, cash, etc. 192,050 184,473 186,475
* Including- tax provision.
Shareholdings include 160,000 ords. —
exchanged for the “Telegraph” and old
“Evening News” plant—in Consolidated
Press, which distributed all available
earnings in its last term in a 6\ p.c. div.
The rest is mainly scrip in Australian
Newsprint Mills Pty., the daily-paper
newsprint venture on the Derwent (Tas.)
declared to be contributing 70 p.c. of
local consumption ; it has paid an initial
3 p.c. div. An addition to the portfolio
is the investment of £4OOO in Mudgee
Motor Fuels, a shale-oil venture.
Paper resources are down to about 17
months’ supply, and the 20 p.c. cut in con-
sumption announced in April has been
followed by another of 15 p.c. since the
close of accounts. It means further in-
roads into advertising space if news
coverage is to be maintained. Also, the
Dedman department is endeavoring to
overwhelm the advertiser, particularly of
medicines and liquor, with regulations
anyway.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.c.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included, £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932.. 194,443 13.3 ~ „ 137,552 > SQ , , ~R q
Written off premises, £40,000 1 16,891 1,689,657
1933.. 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,552 \ , 7n »
Written off premises, £40,000 ) 1 3,752 1,703,409
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263.681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 ) Q „ QSfi 9 , 7 „ ~9
Written off premises. £30,000 ] 93 ’ 986 2 > 1 78,432
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536.775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 .. 2,534,509
1939.. 335,614 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 .. 3,256,711
1940.. 442,103 17.1 p.c.=176,239 , 4?2 K -
Written off premises, £50,000 j 215,864 3,472,570
Unexplained reductions, £74,042 ..3,398,533
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3.822.472
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 .. 3,714,109
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,383 3,956,492
Government control has replaced the old
individual freedom previously enjoyed in
trade and private activity. In this and
other ways war has brought widespread
changes that have altered the charac-
ter of the economic set-up in both Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Also, Japan’s
entry into the struggle and her advance
southward have multiplied and compli-
cated our problems, especially man-power
and shipping. And markets for Aus-
tralian and Maoriland goods and ser-
vices which enterprising traders in both
countries were rapidly developing in
southern and eastern Asia have been
lost, temporarily at any rate, together
with some assets.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts this 70-year-old Auck-
land-controlled fire and marine office lost
16 of its Asiatic branches and agencies,
and there was an unexplained reduction
of £108,363 in reserves. Also, coastal
marine war risks are now a Government
monopoly in Australia ; a State insurance
office competes for business in N. S.
Wales; inter-office transfers of existing
business have been banned in the interests
of man-power; and the M.L. Govern-
ment recently set up Consolidated Im-
porters, Ltd., to control bulk buying—
all private purchases under the new
scheme are deemed to be on Government
account so far as war risk and ordinary
insurance are concerned. The S.B.’s. last
accounts, however, had not felt the
effects of all these measures.
Federal tax authorities recently figured
that 36 p.c. of the co.’s profits was
gathered in Australia. Approx, one-
fifth is won in the Dominion, and most
of the remainder comes from London,
Africa, India, Middle East, Canada and
U.S.A. The increase in insurable values
in all these areas more than offset busi-
ness recently lost to the co. in southern
and eastern Asia and the falling-off in
car insurance, etc., as these underwriting
figures show:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Kate. Kate.
1929.. 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 p.c. 30.2 p.c.
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 „ 31.0 „
1936.. 1,040.070 562,000 295,461 56.5 ~ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609 704,128 293.578 59.6 ~ 24.8 „
1938.. 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 62.8,, 23.5 „
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 ~ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022.962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
1941.. 2,145,516 1,039,776 628,818 48.4 „ 29.3 „
1942.. 2,235,471 1,361,333 503,704 60.9 „ 26.5 „
Last term an extra £89,955 of net pre-
miums was gathered at £2 16s. p.c. less
cost. But losses (up £l2 10s. p.c.) gobbled
these gains and £196,488 besides, leaving
the underwriting surplus (£280,434) at
27.2 p.c. on share capital. There was
a contraction of £10,860 in interest,
rents, etc. (£168,277), making the net
return from all sources £207,347 lighter
at £448,711, equal to an attractive 43.5
p.c. on capital. It needs to be remem-
bered, however, that reserves are nearly
four times capital. On the two combined
the year’s net result was 9 p.c.
Outstanding feature of the balance-
sheet structure is strength:
1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £1,031,640 £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* . . 625,691 869,264 1,136,858
Premises .. .. 473,250 497,397 527,856
Mortgages . . 246,000 286,879' 335,303
Deposits, cash, etc. 971,101 868,392 1,005,843
Stocks, debentures, etc. 818,754 839,560 781,314
Municipal debentures,
etc 469,373 587,655 731,593
Government securi-
ties . . 2,125,260 2,640,361 2,739,687
Book debts .. 129,331 157,879 132,351
* Including reserve for outstanding losses.
When the books closed net tangibles
equal to 223 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums were on view, or nearly half as
much again as is usually looked for,
and all but £527,856 of it represented by
assets of more or less liquid nature.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends N
Pref." To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2j „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. .. 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 24 p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31.668 10,500 4 „ ~ 12,962 8,206 29,540
Reserves disappear, £7498 .. .. 22,042
1939'.. 27,421 10,500 4 p.c.=12,962 3,959 26,001
1940.. 27,860 10,500 4 „ ~ 12,962 4,398 30,399
To staff pension fund, £3OOO . . .. 27,399
1941.. 29,258 10,500 54 p.c.=17,822 936 28,335
1942.. 38,230 10,500 5| „ ~ 17,822 9,908 38,243
To staff pension fund, £4OOO . . . . 34,243
With the immediate future as misty as a
Melbourne winter, the board didn’t dash
in to distribute fully the fruits of a turn-
over that hasn’t been so remunerative
since the palmy days of 1929 and earlier.
And earnings were better than they look.
For, caught in the first two war years
with insufficient in hand for the tax-
gatherer—profit figures have been ad-
justed here —“your directors deemed it
wise to provide for any alteration in
rates” and accordingly set aside £50,000
for income tax alone. That should take
care of the increased liability that has
arisen in Victoria through uniform taxa-
tion or appears in the offing because of
the mounting costs of war. The actual
company bill for 1941 came to £18,006 ;
land tax charged in the latest accounts
took another £12,136, rates £6318 and
payroll impost £3826.
The brighter showing primarily re-
flects the influence of monetary expan-
sion, and turnover was further helped
by the improved selling facilities
Coles’s former leasehold premises pro-
vide. Actually, the co.’s normal-account
clientele bought lees because concentra-
tion of taxation on the middle and upper


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
lIMITFn iNSURANCE
U il I I L L) COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g m\iU MdEETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution,
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
“Good for a Lifetime.”
No. 136
“TUMBA”
CATTLE POLEY
*
1
•: 2 .
£l3/2/6
(Complete)
March Delivery.
Note how the
combined flap
and skirt is
sewn direct to
the seat, thus
giving the
narrowest pos-
sible grip. All
the dees are lined
with metal and
attached strongly to
the tree.
WALTHER*. STEVEMSOM
39S CEORCE ST. SYDMEV
«A
km
Security
of a Savings Account!
Hoarding ... whether of money
or goods... is neither wise, pat-
riotic, nor safe. Saving, on the other
hand, when you use a Commonwealth
Savings Bank Account, is of definite
benefit to you and to your country. It keeps
your money active, allows you to build up
your savings for the clearing of urgent liabilities
and for investment in Australia's war effort, and
provides security for your future.
Save ... and put all your savings in a Commonwealth
Savings Bank Account.
A Commonwealth Savings
Bank Account
SIMPLIFIES SAVING FOR INVESTMENT IN
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
WAB SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
or the NEXT WAR LOAN in advance
SUGAR RATIONING
does not mean—
SUGAR rationing does not mean that we should not use sugar
in our morning tea. It is merely a simple way of helping
us do our duty.
We have to be thrifty. Thrifty with sugar, with tea, with
clothing, with MONEY.
We have two wars to win: the war against inflation and the war
against the aggressors.
To keep the cost of living from spiralling upwards, we must
spend as little as possible. We must live frugally; pay off our
debts; pay our Life Assurance premiums; and put all we can
into the War Loans. In our own interest we must make things
do, or do without.
Paying our Life Assurance premiums (even increasing them)
helps the war effort, for a large part of the money goes into the
War Loans. The A.M.P. Society (which belongs to its members
and is purely co-operative) is putting £500,000 a month into
the Loans. This money does the double duty of protecting its
members’ families while it protects the Nation.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern. K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
income brackets, which include the com-
munity’s main savers, reduced their
power of spending. But the lightly-taxed
shopping mass that hunts along Bourke-
street and is fickle in the transfer of its
affections swirled through the co.’s doors
with pocketfuls of cash until checked
by clothes-rationing three parts through
the term. A succession of buying
scrambles made almost any stock good
stock, “bargain” sales became unneces-
sary and were later forbidden, and the
manner in which goods sold themselves
brought substantial economies in adver-
tising, etc., and made correct budgeting
for exes, next to impossible. The
£38,230 (up £8972) of profit shown was
8.6 p.c. on the balance of capital after
feeding the prefs., ord. participation was
kept at p.c., and £4OOO was ear-
marked for staff pensions, which the
management plans to extend to cover the
whole body of employees.
Despite the rigid control exercised oyer
British shipments and the diminishing
local capacity available for the civilian
sector, the co. managed to add £21,700
to merchandise stocks:-
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Ord. capital. . £324,041 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital. . 150,000 160,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 376,820 386,868 887.381 358,947
Premises, etc. 468,089 501,309 497,573 496,374
Plant, etc. .. 96,320 113,328 108,847 102,722
Book debts .. 59,741 63.471 80,244 44,793
Stock.. .. 199,678 237,346 230,105 251,840
Cash, etc. . . 39,814 8,335 13,103 50,192
At £251,840, these are “conservatively
valued” and, in contrast with many stores,
not so very much more than usually
carried —both factors that may save a
lot of bother later, when austerity styles
and fashions may depreciate heavily. Of
liabilities, £225,000 is a mortgage debt,
so the floating balance gives no cause
for anxiety.
With most, if not all, aspects of pro-
duction, consumption and distribution
controlled and tied up by a knotty tangle
of war-time regulations, Government is
now the real determinant of trading
policy, business managements merely the
executive instruments. Clothes-rationing
has bitten deeply into turnovers, and
other lines are automatically rationing
themselves with increasing severity. Much
will depend op the reduction in costs
that can be effected and the further
extent of Government demands on retail
laboi, floor space, etc.
Bricks are being heaved at the Collie
(W.A.) coal industry, which the Perth
“West Australian” said recently was a
case for investigation by a Select Commit-
tee. Heavers declare (1) that, owing to the
industry being run by the producing cos.,
the miners’ unions and the Trades Hall as
“an unholy alliance,” consumers —the
State Government is by far the biggest—
are paying too much; (2) that, by slow-
ing down development, and in other ways,
some producers are not working their
mines in the best interests of the State.
Listen-in to Minister for Mines Pan-
ton: —
The Government purchased the bulk of
its coal from Collie, but when improved
methods were suggested to speed up pro-
duction managements of the cos. asked
who were to pay for them. If the Gov-
ernment ordered the cos. to adopt them, the
price of coal would be increased automati-
cally. The Government was being pushed
into the position of managing the mines
while shareholders drew dividends.
He told Cabinet that the two alternatives
to straighten out the position were to
nationalise the coal industry, which he
did not think likely at the moment, or
to order installation of machinery and pay
through the nose for coal. Wilga, it is
claimed by interested parties, could pro-
duce and sell coal much cheaper than
Collie, but Collie producers, unions and
the Government don’t want Wilga
opened up. Wilga is near Collie, and
appears to be the only other known Wes-
tralian coalfield suitable for large-scale
exploitation.
* * * *
At 848,180 fine ounces Westralia’s gold
output for 1942 was 261,1380 z. short of
that for 1941 and the lowest yearly pro-
duction since the 846,2080 z. recorded in
1936. Fall is attributed mainly to short-
age of labor because of voluntary enlist-
ment and compulsory call-up, demise of
some producers, and closure or reduction
in capacity of other treatment plants.
♦ * * *
Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, Ltd., general manager of
the De Bernales Westralian group, re-
futes the statement made by opposing
counsel in the London Court of Appeal
that there was no gold (counsel later said
he meant “payable” gold) in any of
the mines floated by De Bernales and
others in London except one (Yellow-
dine). It says these are the outputs since
flotation, according to Mines Department
records: —
Pine oz.
Gladiator . . 25,393
Emu .. . . 48,763
Phoenix .. . . 25,223
Southern Cross . . 1,435
Beryl . . . . 1,723
Riverina.. .. 11,622
Fine oz.
Aladdin .. .. 2,308
Atlas .. .. 518
Sand Queen .. 7,067
Yellowdine . . 147,487
Comet .. .. 50,730
King of Creation 2,129
Claimed pre-flotation outputs of mines
acquired by the various cos. in the group
from De Bernales and partners are:
Fine oz.
Pericles.. .. 19,867
Phoenix . . 126,573
Beryl . . . . 53,470
Lochinvar . . 67,312
Emu . . . . 132,487
Black Range . . 216,726
“Wheel of Fortune 78,532
Mars .. . . 20,122
Fine oz.
Leonora.. .. 7,602
Day Dawn .. 733
Southern Cross .. 89,732
Riverina.. . . 19,381
Gladiator . . 26,395
Sand Queen . . 175,563
North Kalgurli
United . . 129,471
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie is deferring
consideration of div. policy—3d. stg.,
supplemented by a final 4£d., went out
last term —till the close of its financial
year in March. Throughput for some
time has been at the reduced level of
10,000 tons per four-weekly crushing,
and the 4.4dwt. recoveries of the past six
months are nearly fdwt. below last year’s
average. However, because of the 100-
p.c. British excess-profits tax, which ‘is
based on earnings prior to when the co.
reached out, the heralded further fall in
profits is of more immediate concern
to the Chancellor of the Exchequer than
to shareholders. The latter must wince
each time they look at the figures:
1941. 1942.
Profit .. . . £179,894 £121,040
Depreciation .. 29,000 28,000
Taxation .. • ■ 113,000 64,000
Written off .. 7,613 7,781
Net . . .. £30,281 £21,261
Divs 32,152 21,509
At March 31, 1942, surplus more or less
liquids amounted to £141,995 stg. Ore
reserves are 610,500 tons, grade sdwt.
* * * *
Phoenix Mines is hoping for returns
from its 19 p.c. shareholding in Central
Norseman Gold Corp., which has at last
shaken off its heavy debt to Gold Ex-
ploration and accumulated a tidy cash
reserve for contingencies to boot.
Between March 25 and Dec. 15 Central
Norseman crushed 63,185 tons for
30,9 lOoz. fine gold, recovery of 9.7dwt.
being a ’weight up on the previous term’s
experience. Latest from the mine is that
the ore-reserve position is “little changed”
from that obtaining in March, despite
restricted development.
jf * * *
Bendigo, Victoria’s principal goldfield,
now' boasts only six operating mines,
against 35 two years ago. Central Nell
Gwynne is the latest major war casualty.
Those remaining are mainly on the De-
borah line, and only North Deborah
continues a regular div.-payer. In all, the
100 active reef mines which Victoria had
at the end of 1939 are down to a score.


OAe va&p'V*
i %cJe ynohj™
Me v>eiw
To-day its work is vital in the wider
national sense.
When peace comes it will resume
its importance in the broadcast radio
world.
HIS MASTERS VOICE”
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE GOY. LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Rl4/42
>
m •.. m:• m. mmmm®mm*
i
I
'
■
H % > , \ '' s+ . 5 g ' ' |
' - I
Wmmli Wmmk
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S, 160. 8.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Drunk on Bank Credit
One of the most dangerous activi-
ties in Australia at present is the
Government’s use of bank credit to evade
open and honest direct taxation of the
people. The effect of bank credit is to
confuse Australians into the belief
that the war is being paid for at
a much lighter cost to them than
it really is. It is inflation —double-
barrelled inflation in war-time —and ought
to be “declared” under the black-market-
ing regulations. Australia, economically,
is at the present being let down hor-
ribly by a Government that talks about
a “new order” after the war and has
actually been humbug enough to appoint
a Director-General of Post-war Recon-
struction. Like the drunk who is always
going to “do the right thing” tomorrow,
Australia’s Labor Government is making
an awful hash of things today.
For October, 1942, the Australian
outlay on war was £46 million, for
November £4B million and for December
£46 million. Total for the half-year to
December 31 was £253 million—at the
rate of £506 million a year. When, a
few months ago, Treasurer Chifley bud-
geted for a war outlay of £440 million in
1942-43 it was rightly considered a very
big figure, and one to be given grave and
deliberate thought. Actually the Budget
method of financing this £63-a-head war
bill was haphazard and irresponsible ;
there was a £43-a-head borrowing pro-
gramme accompanying it, and taxation
for war purposes was no more than £2O
a head.
Although war expenditure alone is
something that no bank or private person
would advance money on as a matter
of business, Canberra Labor chose to
finance the greater part of our war
bill by borrowing rather than by
taxation. Only the patriotism of a
section of the people on the one hand
and the financial jugglery of the Govern-
ment and its servants on the other have
made this economic madness temporarily
possible. The financial irresponsibility
of the Government and its peculiar war-
time position have imposed a double
burden on that section of Australians
which believes that war is a matter of
deadly fighting and sacrifice, and not one
of political profit, self-seeking and
evasion.
We now see that for the first six months
of the present financial year our war
expenditure has been at the yearly rate
of £72 a head—up £9 a head on Budget
estimates. If the rate of outgo shown
over the last three of the six months is
kept up for the next half of the year war
spending for the 12 months will be £530
million, or £75 a head. Up to the present
the excess over original estimates has all
been financed by extra borrowing. Some
proposals now afoot to increase taxation
rates are to be submitted to Caucus
before the Government will put them
before Parliament. From this there is a
suggestion that the great body of Austra-
lians earning £8 a week and under are at
last to be asked, through their union
bosses and the like, whether they will
pay as they go a fairer share of the cost
of war than is now the case.
Of the £253 million actually spent dur-
ing the past six months, £206 million was
loan money of one kind or another ; only
£47 million was tax and “non-loan”
money. It is customary for more income-
tax revenue to come in during the second
half of the year, but this will not be so
pronounced now that most personal in-
comes bear tax at source. To date, any-
way, taxation has been below the Budget
rate and borrowing far above it.
Of this £206 million of loan money
raised for war purposes since June 30,
£lO6 million represents Treasury bills and
similar short-term finance not provided
direct by the public. In the whole of
the preceding 12 months bank credit used
was under £BO million. At Dec. 31 the
unfunded debt of the Commonwealth
was £lB7 million within Australia ; over-
seas there was a small credit balance.
This position has largely arisen since
Labor took office.
These Treasury bills are the outcome
of “bank-credit” methods of finance. The
gap between the spending-power given
to the Government by the people in the
shape of taxation and loans and the costs
incurred in making a major war effort
has been financed by this inflationary
process. That it has been used to the
extent of £lO6 million in the past six
months will astound many who took Mr.
Chifley’s Budget speech at its face value.
He visualised the raising of £240 million
by public loans and £6O million by war-
savings certificates. With the experience
of the previous year’s financial opera-
tions before it The Bulletin’s comment
at the time was: “Did ever a company
promoter stand so blandly and hopefully
while tendering such a hopeless pros-
pectus?” Now that it is revealed that
public loans and war savings over six
months together amount to only £lOO
million—at the rate of £2OO million a
year instead of £3OO million —and bank
credit is in fact a larger figure, the
financial incapacity of the Government
as a whole is clearly evident. There has
been written and spoken evidence of Mr.
Chifley’s wishful thinking, and there is
now official evidence of how merely wish-
ful his forecasts were.
It has been noted here before that
Labor’s financial policy, if Labor has any
financial ideas that can be called a policy,
is first of all to “soak the rich.” After
it has increased taxation on incomes out
of its own class and stormed at “the
capitalist” until this field has been ex-
ploited to the full, it will borrow where
it can. Afterwards its “stalwarts” will
blackguard the “bondholder.” When
public response to borrowing falls short
it turns weakly to bank credit, the most
tipsy and undermining of all makeshift
financial methods. In its last desperate
condition “repudiation” is a word it has
been known to use. And all this is part
and parcel of its “idealistic” nationalisa-
tion programme. It asks for vast
authority without showing responsibility.
The enormous amount of bank credit
accompanying Labor’s management of
Australia’s war effort represents that
much unnecessary inflation in circum-
stances where inflation is an ever-present
danger. It is a well-known fact that in
war-time, with the inevitable shortages
of goods and services, high prices tend
to be offered for whatever is available,
and production and transport costs also
inflate. The natural corrective of this
is to take away from the people, in taxa-
tion, the cost to the nation of the war
effort. This helps to keep the supply of
money and the supply of goods at some-
thing like balancing point, and only un-
controllable costs and prices inflate. But
the Government is not only failing to
tax adequately; it does not even take
away from the people spending power in
the shape of borrowings sufficient to right
the position in a temporary fashion. It
is actually passing new credit out to the
people in a huge volume.
That is the effect of the use of bank
credit. At present it represents the
creation of credit on the security of
nothing more than war expenditure, and
that is mostly economic waste, however
essential to our future existence it may
be. As it is raised to pay for a type of
expenditure that does not increase the
quantity of things on which recipients of
the “credit” usually spend money, it
results in an excess of money in circu-
lation at a time when there is a pro-
nounced shortage of the necessities and
comforts of life, no unemployed to find
jobs for and new avenues of investment
necessarily closed because of the concen-
tration of energies on the task of win-
ning the war.
The Government, briefly, is creating
excessive spending power with nothing
for the holders of that money to spend
it on. And in spite of this excess of
money in their hands, the people’s re-
sponse to appeals for loan money raised
in the usual way has, on the whole, been
far below expectations. The war-savings
campaign has been pretty close to a
failure. What Mr. Chifley “wished” for
in this regard this year will not be seen
in a year of Sundays.
In our present war-time affairs we see
finance, ordinarily a vitally useful ser-
vant, organiser and disciplinarian, pros-
tituted to politics, wishful thinking and
ignorance. The £lO6 million of bank
credit used in “paying” for £253 million
of war waste is one measure of the
present Government’s failure in a
straightforward duty and service re-
quired of it by the people in their
present total war effort. It is not the only
evidence of failure ; there is plenty more
to be found in the regulations of Ded-
manism, and more known only to the
fighting services. But of all the failures
of the war, those of finance will live with
us longest. The duration of the war will
be as nothing compared with the period
of its economic influence in the aftermath.
Restrictions on the advertising of
patent medicines now provide that ads.
must not contain statements other than
the name of the stuff, claims to its efficacy
in not more than 30 words, an illustra-
tion of the article or its container, direc-
tions, price and name and address of the
maker or distributor. There must be
no misleading statements as to composi-
tion or efficacy. Some of the provisions
have point, others are pointless. All
come under the National Security Regu-
lations, not an amendment of any Health
Act.
$
For the moment, at any rate, no new
restrictions on industry are contemplated,
Mr. Dedman says. He reports “appre-
ciable improvement in the output of tex-
tiles recently.”
Bureaucracy received several broad-
sides last week. It started a little earlier
with a criticism from the N.S.W.
Retailers’ Association. That body en-
deavored to avoid personalities, confining
itself to certain National Security Regu-
lations :
The real dragon which is commencing to
consume itself, as well as a wholly dispro-
portionate amount of money and man-
power, is in the regulations themselves.
Many of them are unnecessary—others
could and should be modified.
Consider the degree to which different
departments and associated bureaucracies
overlap and the saving in expense and man-
power that would be achieved by elimina-
tion of overlapping. Also regulations which
really achieve nothing but, because they are
regulations, some department or officials
are conscientiously administering with no
effective result other than increasing labor
and expense.
Spooner, M.H.R., went for the bureau-
cracy itself. “Everybody,” he said,
“understands that there must be emer-
gency powers in war-time, but there can
be no excuse for the manner in which
they are used on many occasions. There
is more than muddle and confusion.”
He mentioned the taking over as a mili-
tary camp of a high-class dairy farm,
when cheaper land was available;
gangs of men started working on it
without any official notification to the
owner. At this stage of criticism Can-
berra began talking about it being
“understood” that the Prime Minister in
future would press for the handling of
major matters by legislation instead of
by regulation. Spender took up the
attack next day with a double-edged
one: “Ministers who sign regulations so
that they may become law cannot hope
to understand or keep control over the
regulation-making machine, which is
working as much overtime as the note-
printing press.” He added that Parlia-
ment had drifted out of touch with the
people. Control had passed from
Ministers to departmental heads, econo-
mists, experts and so-called ditto, “who
owe no responsibility to the people and
who frequently are hardly aware that
such humans exist.” Certain war-time
regulations bore no relation to the war.
“If some regulations are enforced there
will be no phase of our private life we
may call our own.”
Senator McLeay rounded the week’s
good work with what included a reference
to “the triumph of union control and
mob rule over responsible Parliamentary
government.” At this stage Dedman was
heard murmuring that, because of its
“temperate tone and constructive criti-
cism,” the statement by the Retailers’
Association merited attention.


X^l
■The hangars ol the greete.t or
craft es.en.bl, depot l>
rained at £3.000.000. are can-
strutted in timber. The hug
amount at steel ean.er.ed b, the..
means hard!, need, emphasising.
'The Australian Timber Journal.
Diesel
TN the great forests inrecord time,
I Tractors are hauling oul h f | the WO rk of men on
and at record low co», to rein
the fighting front. ■ timber tot
Timber tor barracks, timber for Ca^ rpiU
CATE ® r*”"" 1
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH
pty. ltd.
V\l
tmmmm
«i
-p
,,v-
-
CRAVEN K
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
SORE THROATS
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5052
Carreras Ltd.
154 Years’ Reputation for
Sir Herbert Williams, M.P., of the Em-
pire Economic Union, according to an
A.A.P. cable:
British exports are very dicky. Whatever
the merits of Lend-Lease, America is saying,
in effect, that we aren’t permitted to export
anything without the consent of the United
States Government. In that sense we are
in pawn to America.
Meanwhile we are losing the economic
goodwill of countries we formerly supplied.
Some people want to destroy our Empire
completely, and apparently Mr. Wendell
Willkie does not think the Empire is a very
good thing.
In the U.S.A. there is political trouble
brewing over Lend-Lease, some critics
taking an opposite view to the British
M.P. with regard to exports and re-
exports, but most charging the Office of
Price Administration, which handles
Lend-Lease, with muddle and incompe-
tency. Director Leon Henderson has
resigned.
# * * *
Total contributions in war-damage in-
surance premiums last year were
£7,221,000, made up as follows:
New South Wales .. .. £2,958,183
Victoria .. .. .. 2,209,449
Queensland 824,991
South Australia .. .. 633,277
Western Australia .. .. 429,852
Tasmania .. . . .. 165,121
Expenses were £132,977, “mostly pay-
ments to councils, which get Is. 3d. for
each assessment.” Of total receipts,
£6,500,000 was put into the Austerity
Loan. Voluntary premium contributions
figured at about £1,000,000.
The N. S. Wales Attorney-General has
directed that no further action be taken
in the Commonwealth Hemp conspiracy
case. Those concerned were Michael
Sinclair (or Spiegel), E. R. White, David
Hampton, W. J. Taylor, P. R. Higgins
and George S. Holburn. Hoi burn died
while, the case was in progress, and
Higgins was ill at the finish. The men
were first charged in August, 1940, and
hearing of the case began in April, 1941.
* * * »
Taxation rates on public cos. run into
big figures these days, and there are no
rebates to shareholders. To begin with
there is an “ordinary” tax of 6s. in the
£, and on undistributed profits 2s. is paid.
In addition, there is the War-time (Com-
pany) Tax on all profits in excess of 5 p.c.
p.a. on “capital employed,” beginning at
6 p.c. on the first 1 p.c. excess and rising
in steps of 6 p.c. for each additional 1 p.c.
excess, until a maximum rate of 78 p.c.
is reached on any earnings in excess of 17
p.c. on capital. At 17 p.c. the actual
average war-tax rate is 39 p.c. There is
a super-tax of Is. in the £ in lieu of this
war tax when total earnings are in excess
of £5OOO but are not subject to a greater
rate of war tax than Is. So far as private
cos. are concerned, they pay tax at 6s. in
the £ on all profits, and undistributed
earnings are then taxed in the company’s
hands at the shareholder’s rate, which
may rise to 17s. 6d. in the £. Distributed
profits of public cos., whether previously
taxed as undistributed or not, bear tax
at the shareholder’s own rate, and in
the case of private cos. only those un-
distributed profits sent to a special reserve
may later on be handed out free of
further tax to shareholders.
He sj: s{j
Senator McLeay says that the “persis-
tent refusal of Labor to face up to the
obvious taxation necessities, and its
equally obvious reliance on extensive
bank credit, is beginning to fill the people
with dread and misgiving.” It is to be
hoped that the Senator is right; it is only
by an awakening of public intelligence
that this appalling mismanagement of
the national finances will be arrested, the
Government at all times being vote-con-
scious. Senator McLeay added:
The Chifley Budget of last year left a
gap of £300,000,000 to be bridged by loan
and credits. Of this amount only
£77,000,000 has been received in cash as
a result of the recent Austerity Loan. To
the remaining £223,000,000 must be added
* s e ‘by W thetreasurer 6
When the £80,000,000 bank credit carried
? ver from the previous year is also taken
iato account, we find that there is an
to °hpfm^ U nL stl
. . ’
Possibly there was optimism m expect-
in S an y attem pt 1° bridge last year’s gap
this year ; once these gaps are created it
is unusual for them to be bridged. The
State of N - S - Wales still has a short "
term debt of £4O million dating back
to the days of Lang and Stevens, and it
represents nothing more than unfunded
Budget deficits. In point of fact, at the
present time our war expenditure is so
huge that we will be doing well if we
pay as we go without bringing forward
undischarged past debts. It is only
too clear now that we could have
done without l a st year’s bank credit if
the Government had done its firm duty
at the time. Yesterday’s problems in this
war have looked progressively smaller
in the light of today’s. The Government
started off by falling down on jobs of
the smaller years, which adds to the
difficulty of doing the tasks of the bigger
years.


THE SERVICE MAN
Closing on Sanananda.
“Ek Dum”: The last grim drives
against the Sanananda pocket were in
progress throughout last week, but it
was a slow and dirty business in the
swamps and along their margins on the
Soputa track. However, the heart seems
to have been knocked out of the enemy,
and he did not make nearly the same
resistance as at Buna.
On Jan. 11 Allied H.Q. reported that
forward elements of the forces had taken
Tarakena village with five Jap m.-gs. and
a mortar, and killed 40 of the enemy.
Next day the report was that the
Allied troops were still closing in. That
night heavy rain fell. It continued to
fall next morning into a quagmire which
varied from ankle- to armpit-depth in
front of the enemy defences.
Further gains were made, but opera-
tions had been slowed up.
The air forces tried to atone for this.
Their bombing of Japanese positions
added to the discomfort of the enemy
wallowing in mud and water in his under-
ground bolt-holes.
The crisis in the attack seems to have
passed in events which led to the taking
of the great flank pocket established on
the Soputa track on Jan. 14. This affray
illustrated the changed spirit of the
enemy’s fighting.
The pocket was half a mile long and
quarter of a mile,broad. It was strongly
defended —there were mines, interlocked
systems of concealed pillboxes and
guarded gun posts and well-camouflaged
trench systems. These defences had
borne with 56 days of constant artillery
and aerial pounding.
On Jan. 12 attacking infantry found
itself up against resistance from the m.-g.
positions which made it look as if the
job would be a long one.
But the enemy suddenly gave up. His
men fled by platoons and sections into
the jungle, and a rare hunt followed in
which one Australian company wiped
out 70 fugitives at the cost of only one
man wounded.
The area was so torn with shrapnel and
bullets to the topmost branches of the
high trees that the landscape seemed as
if it had contracted a horrible, large-scale
type of measles.
Some prisoners were captured. They
were weary, shocked, emaciated and suf-
fering from fever and dysentery. They
were survivors, in many cases, of posts
whose original garrisons of a dozen had
been whittled down by bombardment to
a sleepless two or three.
They could scarcely have been more
glad than their vanquishers that it was
all over. Many Australians had lain for
as long as two days and nights in the
fetid swamp before artillery could
macerate the small island posts into a
condition in which a charge could expect
to succeed.
On Saturday another break-through
was mentioned. This was accomplished
by the destruction of forward enemy posi-
tions and the capture of large quantities
of ammunition, arms and equipment.
Over 150 enemy dead had been buried
up to Friday night.
Meanwhile other operations along both
the northern and southern coasts of
New Guinea served to prove the
vigor wjfh which the curious campaign is
being pushed forward and the hold which
the enemy has on the island. It was
still necessary to strafe the coastal dis-
trict round the Mambare mouth near
the border.
A three-day raid by land forces at
Mubo, which is an outpost village about
10 miles from Salamaua, while it de-
stroyed H.Q. and the radio station and
resulted in the death of 116 Japanese,
made only a preliminary impression on
the defence of the district.
The Fight in the Air
Aerial operations mentioned in com-
muniques were:
Jan. 11: Heavy units raided aerodromes at
Wewak, Finschhafen and the Madang occupied
area. The enemy convoy which had left Lae
in the week-end was followed along the south
coast of New Britain, and direct hits were
scored on two vessels. Without loss of Allied
’planes, three enemy fighters were shot down
and another probably destroyed. Two strong
formations strafed the town and aerodrome of
Lae. Fires started could be seen 40 miles away.
Jan. 12: A raid on Gasmata the previous
Saturday was recorded. Torpedo bombers hit
a large destroyer or small cruiser amidships;
a heavy explosion followed. Next morning no
warship was in sight. A jetty at Dobu, in the
Arus, was bombed.
•Jan. 13: Nine enemy bombers attacked
Merauke, Dutch N.G., causing slight damage,
and long-range R.A.A.F. fighters strafed facili-
ties at Fuiloro, Timor. Other bombers across
the island bombed the Komiatum trail and
smashed up a bridge across a swift-flowing stream.
Jan. 14: Another nine enemy bombers
attacked the wharf area at Merauke. Allied
heavies shot down two fighters and probably
another at Gasmata, New Britain. Co-ordinated
attacks on Lae under fighter cover wrecked large
dumps and generally played hob with supply
and barge transport. The Komiatum trail was
again swept thoroughly.
Jan. 15: Fuiloro and Laga, n.-w. of Dull,
Timor, had another visit from R.A.A.F. fighters.
The runway at Gasmata and the beautiful town
area of Madang were ploughed from above.
Medium bombers, which were not intercepted,
wreaked more damage on the supply dumps
along the foreshores at Lae. Heavy bombers
attacked Salamaua and Finschhafen and fighters
made a sweep of enemy-held points along the
coast —Labu, Sachen Bay and south-eastward.
Jan. 16: The Tanimbar islands (enemy-held
land nearest to the Australian coast) were
attacked, and an Allied heavy unit ranged
to Kendari, Celebes, and shot down two in-
tercepting fighters. Rabaul, Gasmata, Madang,
Finschhafen, Lae and the Mambare River estu-
ary positions all suffered bombings and strafings.
A heavy bomber attacked by six Jap fighters
in the Huon Gulf shot down two and seriously
damaged a third. A single enemy bomber
raided Moresby in the dark without doing
damage.
Jan. 17: Lae, Gasmata, Madang, Wewak,
Finschhafen, Kurenada were all attacked and
an enemy cruiser was bombed off Cape St.
George.
On Jan. 17, Allied ’planes sank five
more ships of 25,000 tons at Rabaul.
Only a Lull
The whole essence of the week’s news
is that Papua —for the present —is nearly
clear of the enemy. Large sections of
the Allied forces will now be able to
enjoy a hard-earned rest and a thorough
refitting in pleasanter surroundings. But
the lull will not last long.
The next attack on New Guinea may
be the strongest yet faced. The six raids
which have been made on Merauke since
December 28 are not without signifi-
cance, and the accumulation of shipping
in Rabaul and the North Solomons is
growing to great proportions, despite
continued destruction of vessels and in-
terruption of convoys.
Without naval command of the sea
north of Papua, and with as yet inade-
quate air support for decisive attacks on
bases on a sufficient scale and timetable,
there is no room for complacency.
“Gets the Shudders”
Airmen are carrying on gallantly under
conditions which are worse than anything
in the regular air-fighting season in
Europe —completely waterlogged ’dromes
scratched out of the jungle and with
makeshift squadrons and flights when
they are pressed.
It will be a feature of the history of
the yvar that, a year after it began and
five years after a visiting British air
marshal made it clear that the Wirraway
was nothing more than an advanced
trainer, R.A.A.F. men whose lives were
of more value than half a dozen machines
were still being asked to meet “O”
fighters in Wirraways. They actually
have done magnificent reconnaissance
work over the Buna battle, and one
of them (Pilot-Officer J. C. Archer in
charge) actually shot down an “O.” The
pilot could scarcely believe his eyes, and
remarked that there must have been
something wrong with his opponent,
whose wounds, however, showed that his
only deficiencies were caused by bullets.
An Australian correspondent of the
“S. M. Herald” reported that the com-
mander of one of the best U.S. Kittyhawk
squadrons on the island said to him:
Every time I think about what those
kids have to do in those old crates I get
the shudders.
It is to be hoped that somebody in
Canberra, too, is getting the shudders.
General Blarney’s Review
General Blarney’s review of the cam-
paign was broadcast on Jan. 17, and was
a graphic bit of work.
It revealed in the first place that the
general arrived in New Guinea to take
command of the land forces on Sep-
tember 23. At that time the enemy force
which had crossed the Owen Stanley
Range was meeting with stiff opposition
from our men and was finding difficulty
in supplying a large formation over road-
less mountains. This was the end of the
Allied defensive campaign.
A day or two later a few guns were
got into position on the Moresby side,
and General Allen, veteran of Libya and
Greece, and his Sixth Division men drove
the enemy steadily up the mountains. A
little later Lieut.-General Vasey took
command of the advance and pressed
the enemy steadily back, finally inter-
posing part of his force between the
Japs and Buna and compelling them to
face a sharp conflict at Gorari, from
which only a remnant of them was able
to escape to the hills. The Australians
had inflicted a complete defeat upon
them.
On Nov, 16 General Vasey’s force was
marching down the road to Gona, well
clear of the ranges. This was the signal
for the U.S. units to the south to move
against the enemy.
Though General Vasey’s men had made
such a thorough job of the Gorari battle
that not a single patrol was encountered
until the coast vicinity was reached, the
enemy was found to have constructed
“extraordinarily powerful bases” at his
beachheads.
Difficulties increased for the weary
Australians as they reached the humid
swamp jungle of Buna area. They were
of much the same type as those with
which the invading Japanese had had to
deal. Desperate efforts were made to
find a route through the mountains over
which a road could be built rapidly.
They ended in failure, and the marching
of troops from Milne Bay was voted
impracticable.
After consultation with the U.S. air
commander. General Kenneth Walker,
who has since died gallantly in battle,
the G.O.C. decided to try flying an
Australian battalion, mostly South Aus-
tralians, to Wanigela, 100 miles n.-e. of
Milne Bay. A few days afterwards a
substantial United States force was flown
in.
General Blarney said;
For some of them and for our own
lads it was in most cases their first flight.
But you would never have known it. I flew
across with one party. They were bright
as buttons and loved it.
The flying experiment was completely
successful despite the size of the task —
supplies, of course, not only had to be
flown to the front, but flown in in time.
The Japanese failed for some time to
discover the move to Wanigela, and the
Allies were able to consolidate there and
establish sea communication.
Meanwhile the parties on the Kokoda
trail also had consolidated and their
dumps were filled by air.
The beachhead battles then began.
First, Brigadier Dougherty’s men took
Gona in a “sharp attack” in which they
proved themselves masters of the Japa-
nese. U.S. troops pressed on through the
almost unbelievably difficult swamp and
jungle to the south.
The slowness of the operations which
followed was entirely due to the limita-
tions of communication and transport.
The battle was carried out almost en-
tirely by infantrymen with rifle, bayonet,
mortar and grenade.
Gradually road difficulties were over-
come. Guns and tanks were brought for-
ward, and the whole defence area round
Buna was gradually cleaned up as Briga-
dier Wootten, with a famous Australian
brigade, co-operating with U.S. troops in
a series of admirable operations, gradu-
ally swept down as far as Giropa Point.
In the meantime the Americans, in-
spired by the personal leadership of Gen-
eral Eichelberger, pushed across the filthy
creeks and through the jungles into Buna
station.
This, said General Blarney, left only
the strongly-defended Sanananda posi-
tions —“a corner from which there is little
hope of escape.” The enemy had been
defeated by “the superior quality of
Allied troops, who outmarched and out-
fought him”:
Our total battle losses are many thou-
sands less than those that the enemy has
lost in the land fighting alone.
In addition the air forces “held the
ring” for the Allies most successfully and
defeated every attempt at reinforcement,
mauling every convoy badly. The
enemy’s sea losses alone had exceeded
the Allied losses in battle, and a sharp
blow had been struck at the shipping of
a foe who had not only been defeated
but practically exterminated.
General Blarney continued:
Because of this defeat do not imagine
we are out of the wood. The enemy’s self-
belief is colossal. His valuation of life is
small. Do not imagine because we have
driven him out that all menace is past.
There is no kid glove about the Japanese.
He has definitely threatened to destroy
Australia, and we do not know how far
he will go to carry out that threat. Our
troops, in close-knit brotherhood with the
Americans, under conditions of unbeliev-
able difficulty have removed the menace
from one quarter for a time at least. Many
of us grieve today for the brave lads who
have gone. They have died in honor. We
think of them with pride, and the more we
understand what they overcame the deeper
our gratitude must grow to them.
Tropical diseases, such as scrub typhus
and malaria, are even more deadly than
the Japanese. Men fighting day by day
cannot protect themselves adequately from
such insidious enemies. The troops are able
to meet and overcome the terrific difficulties
of the route, the heat and humidity of
the lowlands, the continuous rain and the
cold nights crossing the high ranges. They
are able to endure all these hardships, and
they go day by day, night by night, their
sole time off a few hours such as they can
snatch for sleep.
They marched on slippery, muddy trails,
tripped up by jungle vines. Often no
fires could be lighted to cook meals. Emer-
gcncy rations, which are very light, Had
sometimes to be eaten dry. The men took
all this, and we saw the Australian and
the American at their best. They get no
overtime pay for Sundays. They endure,
and through self-sacrifice they conquer.
The general paid tribute to Brigadiers
Eather and Lloyd, who led the men on
the Kokoda track; to the American
forces and their leaders and General Mac-
Arthur, stressing “his magnificent under
standing of us” ; to General Herring for
his co-operation as commander of corps,
to the sailors who carried the forces and
to the airmen who kept the ring.
“To all these Australia owes happy
relief from the immediate menace of in-
vasion.”
In the Solomons
The U.S. Navy reported some casual-
ties on Jan. 14 during two enemy air
raids on Guadalcanal, though installa-
tions were not damaged. Raids notwith-
standing, U.S. troops in Guadalcanal
have swept clean another 3000 to 4000
yards of enemy-held territory.
On Jan. 15 a Catalina reconnaissance
’plane attacked five enemy destroyers 16
miles n.-e. of the Russell Islands. One
direct hit and two near hits damaged a
destroyer, which was left burning. Daunt-
less dive-bombers the same morning
attacked enemy destroyers 140 miles
n.-w. of Guadalcanal, damaging two.
Eight “O” fighters out of 12 which tried
to intercept the U.S. bombers were shot
down. The U.S. forces lost five fighters
and a dive-bomber. Later three more
“O’s” were destroyed near Guadalcanal.
In the afternoon a mixed force, rang-
ing from Fortresses to fighters, attacked
five Jap destroyers and blasted 12 float-
planes out of the air s.-e. of Faisi with-
out the loss of a single machine. And
near Munda, New Georgia, two hits were
made on a cargo ship. Grumman Wild-
cats and Airacobras brought down seven
out of 12 “O’s,” losing one machine.
“A Matter of Time”
Major-General Harmon told corre-
spondents on Guadalcanal that the clean-
ing up of the island is a matter of time.
It is also a matter of a great job in
tracking by specialised patrols which
largely operate under command of skilled
Australian and British bushmen, who
know the islands and who have taught the
Marines their technique. The Marines’
C.O. says that, at present, 15 Japanese
are being wiped off for every Marine
lost. Japanese pockets are sought out in
the rough mountain country by the
silently moving patrols, which normally
consist of a dozen men with specialist
officers. It is the policy of these parties,
which often are out for two or three days
together, not to fire a shot unless forced
to it. They merely indicate to H.Q. the
position of the enemy. And after poul-
ticing the sore with h.e., the H.Q. auto-
matically-armed parties do the rest.
At sea and on New Georgia’s Jap aero-
drome centres sporadic affrays continue,
such as that on the night of Jan. IC-11,
when torpedo-boats got among enemy
destroyers off Guadalcanal, hit one ship
with two torpedoes, made a single hit on
another and two possible ones on a third
and sent the force skittering north-
westward.
As in New Guinea, however, Tojo’s
men are far from finished with in the
Solomons. Their naval and mercantile
concentrations in the Buin-Faisi and
Buka-passage areas are strong and grow-
ing stronger.
Eighth Army Advances.
“Ek D.”: Jan. 14 brought German
official news, following a thickening of
the British spearhead on the Tripoli-
Benghazi road and incessant air attacks
on Marshal Rommel’s communications:
New attacks from the Eighth Army must
be reckoned with in the next few days.
The 44th and 51st British infantry divisions
are standing on the coastal road, and
the 10th Tank Division is stationed south-
ward, while on the extreme southern flank
are the 7th Tank Division and two N.Z.
divisions supported by Greeks and De Gaul-
lists.
Next day the Germans said that
the Eighth Army had tried to encircle
German and Italian panzer formations
from the south —apparently in the region
of the Wadi Zem Zem—but that the
attempt had been frustrated after violent
fighting during which “35 British tanks
were destroyed.” The Italians reported
“fierce fighting on the Sirte front,” and
Berlin added a postscript that the main
attack was expected at any moment.
Next came news that General le Clerc’s
Lake Chad troops were in contact both
with the Eighth Army and with the
Algerian French in southern Tunisia.
They had marched 1900 miles and
cleaned up many Italian garrisons.
On Jan. 17 the Cairo communique
reported that the Eighth Army had begun
an offensive on Jan. 15 and that by the
next day the enemy had withdrawn from
the whole of the Buerat area. By even-
ing his rearguards were being engaged
in the Sedada-Birtala area —that is, 65
to 80 miles west of Buerat, on the verge


CD
am
of the Misurata defences, and less than
130 miles from Tripoli. The enemy was
withdrawing west of Misurata.
The Eighth Army appears to have
secured its success by the same method
as at El Alamein, and later at the N.Z.
road block which caught the Germans
on their way to Sirte. The British obvi-
ously have superiority of vehicles and
can afford to keep up pressure on the
main rear while sparing a strong force
to sweep southward, render the enemy’s
inland flank positions untenable and
jeopardise his rear.
Berlin said that General Montgomery
used his whole resource of aircraft and
artillery against the Axis positions before
launching his attack.
Fighting did not appear to be heavy.
Cairo mentioned the taking of “some
prisoners and tanks.” If there is to be
a main battle for Tripoli, which was
heavily raided while operations further
east were in progress, it has yet to come.
Weather improved on the Tunisian
front. There was increased air activity,
and the French, south of the main sector,
succeeded in moving to enemy lines near
Kairoun. But in the Bizerta-Tunis tri-
angle there was nothing more than sharp
patrol activity.
That the Allies should be capable of
a major effort is shown by the announce-
ment that over 7,000,000 tons of shipping
have been escorted to North Africa since
the Allied landing.
Second Phase Arrives.
“Ek Dum”: There are three phases of
the Russian winter. Autumn normally
closes in October with much rain, and
the first phase begins.
October was normal. Copies of the
London “Times” and the Manchester
“Guardian” for the period round the end
of that month make reports of the events
of that time as they appeared in most
of the Australian papers sound like the
description of another war altogether.
It is plain that the seeds of the later
movements which were here pictured as
the result of a devastating three-day
Russian blitz, Nov. 19-22, had already
sprouted late in October. The Germans
by then had withdrawn from the strip
of barren alkaline land which runs up
directly to the west of the southern half
of Stalingrad, and the Russians had
flowed into it, fighting the German rear-
guard and flank from the south.
On Oct. 23 a “Times” correspondent
wrote that “no outstanding major suc-
cesses have been reported, but there have
been negative developments—negative for
the Axis armies—and they have been
largely due to the autumn weather.”
A Berlin spokesman described Rus-
sian attacks as “wild and bitter,” and
added that the Italians “now several hun-
dred thousand strong in Russia” —the first
German admission that Musso. had sent
so many—had borne the brunt of the
fighting at the Don end of the front,
“aimed at preventing the relief of Stalin-
grad.” He admitted that their losses
were “grievous.” It was on this
sector that the great drive across the Don
was declared to have begun less than
three weeks later; but Moscow did not
mention the Italians. The “Times” re-
ported “considerable progress” at that
time in the “bolt position” between
Stalingrad and the Don and the capture
of some of the higher ground by the
Russians.
A German military spokesman said:
“Torrential rains and the mud which
they have created have brought opera-
tions to a temporary stop. One must go
back months to find a parallel to the
present immobilisation of the front,
though at Stalingrad there is still hard
fighting on a small scale at close quarters.
There is also a great volume of artillery
fire.”
The “Times” correspondent endorsed
this enemy description of the season and
added that, if the wet were checking
operations at Stalingrad, many other
portions of the front must be waterlogged
to a far greater extent —Rshev, for
example, and a long stretch south of
Leningrad. In the Caucasus, snow was
reported to be already over 6ft. deep on
the high land south of Tuapse.
From this point on a “lull on one side”
was reported, but the Germans spoke of
increasing pressure both north and south
of the “bolt position” before Stalingrad.
It seems, therefore, that the Russian
offensive and the German withdrawal had
begun a month before it became a press
and radio sensation, and that the events
after Nov. 19 were only a culmination
of a long course of fighting for position
which was not intelligible to Australian
newspaper or radio students from the
accounts which reached this country.
The operation seems to have been well
thought out by the Russians and highly
creditable to them. Plainly, it was pre-
pared for and its materiel collected dur-
ing the wet autumn period. The Ger-
mans admit the Russian prowess in
transport under rain conditions. Hitler’s
backhanded sneer that the Russian was
a “sort of swamp human” had a compli-
ment for a kernel which every German
general would have liked to pay his own
A.T.C, and A.M.C.
And official German sources, paying
a tribute to the success of the Russian
operations in the mire, remarked that
the mud made the German task one
“almost reaching the limits of human
endurance”;
Lorries are able to crawl, along for only
two or three kilometres daily if they keep
strictly to improvised tracks, but they are
engulfed if they swerve ever so slightly
from the tracks. Tractors come to their
assistance, but they, too, run the risk of
disappearing in deep mud. In some places,
infantry are compelled to use immobile
lorries as a sort of bridge, passing supplies
along from hand to hand.... The Russians
easily adapt themselves to these primitive
conditions with primitive contraptions in-
stead of lorries at the worst places.
Victory and Soil
These were the conditions at the thresh-
old of the onset of winter, whose earliest
phase began with a heavy freeze. During
such freezes there are high winds amount-
ing sometimes to blizzards, some snow,
low temperatures. All these conditions are
put through the multiplication table by
the correspondents, but last year they
seem not to have been so hampering to
movement as those of the last months
of winter. In mid-January a change to
a second winter phase is due.
The Russian gains when viewed in the
light of a soil-survey map produce an
anxious feeling when one knows what
lies ahead. The whole of the country in
the northern part of the Don bend which
has been taken over by the Russians is
bog soil. Where the edge of the rich
black earth of the Ukraine has been
reached, there the Russian advance has
stopped. It conforms so closely to the
terrestrial formation that where a tongue
of black earth runs into the bog soil, and
there is a town on it, the town remains
untaken ; where the bog runs westward
into the black earth, and there is a town
on it, it is taken. The Russian claim at
the week-end to have broken into the
“main German defence line” east of the
Donetz places this line along the edges
of the bog country.
From this bog area, which ends about
the middle of the Don bend, the country
changes on the south to a belt of chest-
nut, sub-arid land, interspersed with un-
fertile patches. This belt narrows in the
south and flows down just east of Stav-
ropol to the Caspian via Grozny. A long
tongue of bog soil immediately to the
west of it hangs from the upper Don
bog country to the Stavropol region like
a curtain, within a few miles of the
Caucasus.
Everything west of this is rich grain
land. East of the chestnut-soil belt is
first a wide strip of unfertile alkaline
country along the edges of the Ergenni
Hills, then the brown and grey saline
soils and the salt sands of the Kalmuck
steppes, reaching to the Caspian.
All this poor land of the south—bog
soils, chestnut-sub-arid and below-sea-
level steppe and swamp—the Russians
have captured. The German retreat off
it has been more organised than in the
north, and there has been less fighting.
As at Stalingrad, the Germans have given
up town after town, but have left a con-
siderable force south of the Terek, de-
scribed as hopelessly trapped. It will be
hard to conduct any serious operations
against this “hedgehog” in the period of
heavy snow to come.
The poorness of the country captured
does not mean that it has cost the Ger-
mans nothing. The Russians claim great
captures of booty and terrific slaughter
of the enemy.
But the retreat has shortened the enemy
lines of communication, making it pos-
sible for him to defend his shorter front
with fewer men. He has been able to
lengthen out the Russian advance so that
his opponents would reach the best
worth-while objectives at the worst pos-
sible time to fight for them.
February—Cold and Snow
The new portion of the season opens,
as it did in January last year, with a
sudden burst of ostensibly worried Ger-
man admissions of Russian strength and
effectiveness. These may be partly subtle
propaganda.
The August issue of the British “Army
Quarterly” remarked that last year,
though “attacking and gaining ground
(up to January 15) the Russians encoun-
tered desperate resistance from the bat-
tered and frozen German forces”; and
this was sufficient to delay matters so
that the Germans could establish their
“Igels” (hedgehogs) in time for the late
January snows. Then the Russians sent
out their winter troops, properly speak-
ing, for the first time —Cossacks, pro-
vided with pony transport and motor-
sledges.
The “Army Quarterly” reported:
Naturally enough, such columns could
not hope to reduce any of the more for-
midable works. So they advanced between
the “hedgehogs” and proved entirely effec-
tive in breaking down all lower forms of
enemy resistance. Only at Mojaisk were
the Russians able to overcome one of the
enemy’s main centres of resistance ; and
here the proximity of the place to Moscow
rendered the operation not only easier but
also, from the Russian standpoint, highly
desirable. Elsewhere, as at Rshev and at
Staraya Russa, the Russian winter troops
simply lapped round these strong German
centres, much as the rising tide flows round
a high rock on the beach. So when we
read of “X villages being recovered,” the
probability is that half these villages had
not a single German soldier in them. Again,
when we read of “hundreds of Germans
killed or captured” this probably refers
to the total “bag” for a considerable area
guarded only by detached posts or small
communication centres.
Early Spring—Flood's
The third part of the Russian winter
is suddenly evolved out of heavy snows
and incessant intense cold at the begin-
ning of March.
It is made up of a little of everything
—snow and mild spells and finally a
period during which snows melt, rivers
overflow and the whole country becomes
a vast bog. There were scarcely any
ordered operations last March and April,
despite the peahen press, which mowed
down the fleeing Germans in herds and
came within an ace of taking Khar-
kov without the writers of German or
Russian official communiques hearing the
news.
Voronezh and Stalingrad
Thursday brought news from Ger-
man sources of fresh Russian offensives,
south of Leningrad—of a pattern with
the operations at the same time last year
—and south of Voronezh.
At the week-end the Russian bulletins
mentioned the Voronezh offensive. As
in the other cases, it turned out to cover
the bog-soil strip only. The first com-
munique declared that the Russians had,
“after three days’ fighting,” advanced 30
to 56 miles, capturing 600 inhabited
localities (including Rosoch), eight dis-
trict centres (including Kamenka) and
three railway stations, routing three Ger-
man and six Hungarian divisions and
taking 17,000 prisoners, with 75 tanks
and 800 guns. It was reported that
15,000 Germans were killed. As at
Cherayshevsk and Kotelnikovo 17 air-
craft were mentioned. The capture of
Kamenka was announced a month ago
during the first north-Don offensive, and
press and radio then declared that the
Red Army was back in the Ukraine.
Moscow Radio summed up the new ad-
vance by saying that it had brought the
Red Army within 120 miles of Kharkov.
Press and radio had it there, on a broad
section of the strategic front and in the
best area of advance, early in December.
. On Jan. 17 Moscow reported the cap-
ture of Millerovo ; and that is good.
A special announcement from Moscow
Radio referred sensationally to the posi-
tion in the Stalingrad area. It said that
on January 9 the German General
Paulus, not Hoth —after mentioning often
that Stalingrad was a Timoshenko v.
Hoth affair, press and radio transferred
T, to Leningrad and H. to the Don—
was summoned to surrender with the
honors of war and a guarantee of his
men’s lives —a most unusual procedure,
since in civilised warfare a prisoner’s
life is inviolable once he surrenders —
that morning.
The ultimatum was rejected—accord-
ing to one Moscow Radio account it was
not answered —and in a seven-days’ offen-
sive the Russians “advanced everywhere,
covering from 13 to 22 miles in different
directions” and killing more than 25,000
men. Twenty-six localities and 1526 forti-
fied German positions were occupied, and
6986 prisoners and 371 ’planes and 514
tanks were taken, the “original 200,000 to
220,000 troops” having been reduced to
between 70,000 and 80,000.
Survivors, Moscow added, are “with-
out winter clothing” and are feeding on
to of bread a day and horse-
flesh. Since November 19 600 ’planes,
many bearing supplies, have been shot
down. “Your forces are suffering from
hunger, cold and sickness,” said the Rus-
sian commander to the Germans, “and
are living in insanitary conditions. You
have no possibility of breaking the Rus-
sian ring.” Apparently in reply Hitler
awarded Paulus another decoration. If
the Stalingrad garrison goes, this won’t
save Hitler from the world’s scorn.
On Jan. 15 the Germans admitted the
loss of Velikiye Luki but not of its garri-
son. They alleged that the garrison—in
the Russian account, wiped out when the
town was taken last month —cut its way
through to “the relieving forces.”
Iraq has declared war on Germany,
Italy and Japan.
* * * *
General Wavell’s summary of the situa-
tion in Burma after a tour of the southern
front is that “the clearance of this part
of Arakhan is useful, and will have a
good effect in India.” The campaign, he
said, would prove good training for the
troops. The country was difficult, “prob-
ably similar to conditions in New
Guinea; the big problem is transport.”
The Japanese, he declared, were certainly
feeling the draught as the result of general
pressure on all fronts. They seemed to
be getting hard hit, especially their ship-
ping, and it puzzled him why so little had
been seen of Japanese ’planes in the S.
Pacific.
* * * ♦
Berlin was raided on the night of Jan.
16 by a large force of R.A.F. bombers
which, out of a partially clear sky,
dropped a great weight of explosives and
incendiary bombs. Many large fires were
seen. Berlin Radio went off the air for
some time. Later it announced that
some buildings in Greater Berlin had
been damaged and two raiders shot down,
and that 31 had been killed and 150
injured. For the first time since May 10,
1941, bombs fell in the London area.
Four raiders were shot down. There
has been no R.A.F. raid on Berlin
since Nov. 7, 1941, when 37 machines
were lost.
* * ♦ •
The U.S. Navy, admitting the loss of
the aircraft-carrier Hornet, 20,000 tons,
on Oct. 26, announced that the ship was
abandoned and sunk by destroyers after
2771 out of a crew of 2900 had been
rescued. Before the Hornet went she
had sunk or damaged 18 Jap ships,
including carriers and battleships.
Tokyo Radio declared that the Hornet
was sunk by special air concentrations
in revenge for having carried General
Doolittle’s squadron to raid Tokyo.
November losses, previously announced
without the ships being named, were the
light cruisers Juneau and Atlanta (6000
tons), the destroyers Walker, Preston,
Cushing, Benham, Monssen, Laffey and
Barton, and the cruiser Northampton
(9050 tons).
* * * ♦
An Atlantic convoy, guarded by
British, Polish and Norwegian escort
ships, ran the gauntlet of 35 U-boat
attacks before it reached a British port
with only “some losses.” Coastal Com-
mand Liberator bombers, used for long-
distance convoy protection, picked up 13
U-boats in nine hours along the convoy’s
route. A Liberator, commanded by
Squadron-Leader T. M. Bulloch, a crack
sub.-hunter, met eight in a day. Two
were sunk and others were damaged, and
half a dozen decorations were won by
the airmen who saved the convoy.
« * * m
From Stockholm came a story that
Admiral Doenitz, C.-in-C. U-boat fleets,
had travelled under water round the Cape
to meet Admiral Nagano, chief of the
Japanese Naval Staff, and that an 8000-
ton U.S. merchantman was sunk by the
admiral’s U-boat off Capetown. Berlin
said that Doenitz had returned from a
long cruise during which he had studied
the present state of sea warfare. He
must have arrived back to the salute of
bombs, for his return coincided with the
transfer of the main R.A.F. bomber effort
from the German border to the French
coast, particularly L’Orient, the lair of
at least 20 sea jackals.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
HP**"
«ii |K||(
in mm
is wii
Si Hill
Pilii
i mm
ill
; ;
mm
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate lariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
In itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No wafer supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OP HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Ilygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 121% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OB TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co Pty.Ltd. Telephone 81052,
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral
Producers Co-op.
Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide
Co., Ltd., Melbourne; K. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd.,
Victorian
Perth.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at the Moorefield meet-
ing at Canterbury Park may not have
been a record for that track, but could
not have been far short. It was certainly
large enough to give shareholders in the
Moorefield T.C. cause for regret that it
is to become a part of the proposed Syd-
ney Turf Club, with all profits returning
to racing. The tote turnover was nearly
£33,000 —strong evidence that a large
number of people are not affected suffi-
ciently by the austerity campaign to cause
them to save money for future \Var loans.
Furthermore, it upheld the idea that a
large section of the public would appre-
ciate more racing.
For the first furlong of the Peter Moore
Cup most of the runners were travelling
little more than three-quarter pace, and
J. Thompson, shooting Salivant away leav-
ing the straight, had such a long lead
commencing the last six furlongs that
when the other riders decided to go after
him Salivant’s defeat was almost impos-
sible. Goonee, Prince and Rimveil were
his closest followers most of the way,
and that the last-named got within less
than a length of him was due to Thomp-
son easing his mount to such an extent
over the last furlong that the stewards
warned him to avoid similar tactics in
future. Veiled Threat was never a possi-
bility, nor was Nightbeam. The time,
1.52 equalled the course record.
High Flight, Fervent and Tralena were
the early pacemakers in the Three-year-
old Handicap, but though High Flight
led into the straight he was easily beaten
by Flying Shuttle (J. Thompson). One
of the whippers-in for the first half-mile,
Angel finished well to get third, and
better suited by Randwick, and with an
extra furlong in her favor, she may be
seen to greater advantage in the Adrian
Knox Stakes. Hawklet was ahead of
Angel at the turn, but was passed by the
latter in the straight.
Royal Peer (McMenamin) came with a
rattle to take the Juvenile Handicap from
Warlock, who, after disposing of Mara-
vedi (a filly by The Marne) and Denton
in the straight, looked a winner. Weight
stopped Belle Pomme, who was promi-
nent for a long way, and of the unplaced
division Scene (by Harinero) did best
over the final furlong. The winner, who
is raced by his breeder, C. H. J. Schmidt,
is by Royal Step from Only Blue.
The 14.2 pony Little Gundi (Burridge)
finished strongly to win the first division
of the Trial Stakes from Montfort and
Miss Leonard, the last-mentioned two
starting from outside positions. Valle-
sano, Bedford and Cooringwang were
first into the straight, but tired, and Hau-
teur ran fourth. Usher (Bartle), favorite
for the second division, led soon after
barrier-rise, and though Makatha—who
had a bad post position—and Ayarpee
kept him moving to the turn, he won com-
fortably from Ayarpee and Ridere. The
last-named ran on gamely to beat Valoroi
and Makatha for the minor position.
Skerries and Gauntlet led from Mortine,
with Glendower next, approaching the
turn in the Welter Handicap, but though
when fairly on the road home Glen-
dower’s chance appeared particularly
bright, he was outstayed by Tel Asur
(Munro), who was a long way from the
leaders at the half-mile. No excuse was
possible for Mortine, who was well placed
from the start to the straight entrance.
Linemond made a fair showing.
Stylish attempted an all-the-way win
in the Moorefield Handicap, but Lord
Valentine (W. Cook) had her beaten at
the top of the straight and then lasted
long enough to win by a neck from
Panurge, who, after meeting with a little
bad luck, was giving him a long start
commencing the last furlong. The ever-
present Jymjon, who was having his 36th
race in about 14 months for half a win,
was fourth.
* * * *
Prairiedale, 10-year-old veteran of the
field, improved on his Moonee Valley
form of a week earlier to defeat Emphatic
and Aufania in the Summer Handicap at
Mentone on Saturday. Starting at 10 to
1, he moved up third on the turn, and
won going away. Prairiedale retains his
form remarkably well, but, according to
his owner-trainer, J. Hayward, the secret
of his longevity lies in the fact that he
did not race until he was five years old.
At that age he was successful at a picnic
meeting in N.S.W. Hayward describes
Prairiedale as one of the soundest and
hardiest horses he has trained, and, all
going well, intends to run him in the
Australian Cup. Duomint, who had
finished many lengths ahead of Praine-
dale at the Valley, was a disappointing
favorite for Saturday’s race.
David Copperfield looked a good thing
beaten by Art Union and Sunshine Boy
in a close finish for the Sorrento Stakes.
Troublesome at the barrier, he swung
away as the tapes rose, and was a clear
last after the field had gone 50 yards.
Art Union, however, recorded a good
winning performance. He was a long
way out of his ground entering the
straight, but finished strongly on the out-
side, and won in the last stride. Art
Union is field-shy, and likes to see plenty
of daylight. Night Gang, former first-
class sprinter who recently made a suc-
cessful comeback at provincial meetings,
just missed a place after attempting to
lead all the way. El Reo failed at the
business end, but interference prejudiced
the chances of Phoines and Vergure.
Hiawatha, raced in the same interests
as David Copperfield, compensated for
the latter’s defeat by winning the Tal-
garno Welter. He shot to the front at
the top of the straight, and lasted long
enough to defeat Ellison by half a head,
with the favorite, Lucille, third. Hia-
watha was generally considered to be
on the verge of a breakdown when pur-
chased recently for 50 guineas, but his
trouble was traced to its source, and he
quickly responded to treatment. He has
raced only four times for his new owners,
and already is a bargain.
Blue Valley justified his odds-on
favoritism for the Woodleigh Handicap
by winning very easily from Lemact and
Salrina. He defeated nothing of much
account, but carried 9.1, combined bril-
liance with stamina and won stylishly
enough to suggest he is about to live up
to his juvenile promise. If he progresses
as anticipated he may be a danger in the
V.R.C. St. Leger. Apprentice W. Bullen
landed a long-priced double on Liberal
Knight (20 to 1) and Mataura (100 to 1)
in the divisions of the Rosebud Trial.
One bookmaker laid five bets of £lOO to
ss. against Mataura, who comes from the
Riverina. Portway, a gelding by Porto-
fino from Otway, and only the second
horse raced by his part-owners, outstayed
the favorite, Swagger, in the Beaumaris
Handicap.
* * * *
There have been upsets in the Adrian
Knox Stakes and another may be a possi-
bility. If the distance were six furlongs
backers might not go beyond Hesione,
but, though in her work she is showing
her two-year-old pace, there is the doubt
as to how the mile will suit her. Angel’s
Clibborn Stakes win entitles her to be
favorite, even though in her last three
races she has not run up to that form.
However, she is preferable to Hawklet,
to whom she gave 81b. and a beating last
week. Flying Shuttle won so well at
Moorefield that she enters into calcula-
tions, but Mastery may be the best out-
sider. She did not experience the best of
luck in the race won by Young Valais at
City Tatt.’s meeting, but finished fourth
and was running on.
* * * *
Entries for the Newmarket Handicap
and Australian Cup close on February 2.
This is a little later than usual, but the
races mentioned will not be run until
March 13 and 20 respectively. Weights
will be issued on Feb. 23.
* * * »
The Minister for Transport is allowing
yearlings to be conveyed by rail in their
own State for the annual sales in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. However, there is
still a provision which may adversely
affect prices in each city. Inter-State
transport by rail is definitely barred. This
means that buyers from other States will
have it practically forced upon them to
leave their purchases in Melbourne or
Sydney to be trained. The decision is
rough on breeders, as in the past the suc-
cess of sales has in a measure depended
upon inter-State buyers, more perhaps in
Sydney than in Melbourne.
H= ¥ * *
So far this season F. Dalton has had
more wins at Sydney meetings than any
other trainer. Freckles, Moondarewa and
Guild Hall have each won three races
for him. Owing to lameness, Freckles
may not reappear for some time. Yaralla
is the winner of four of the eight races
credited F. T. Cush, and Easter Time,
with three wins, has done most for
D. Lewis. B. Payten, with the largest
team at Randwick, has won six races,
the hurdler Anpapejo contributing two.
Up to the present Payten has been un-
lucky with his two-year-olds, but the
probabilities favor his faring better with
them later in the season. Inclusive of
14.2 pony events, trainers with two or
more races to their credit in Sydney up
to the end of last week were as under:
Wins.
F. Dalton .. ..9
F. T. Cush .. .. 8
D. Lewis .. .. 7
B. Payten .. .. 6
E. Hush 5
J. W. Cook .. ..4
W. A. Tucker .. 4
J. M. Mitchell .. 4
G. P. Nailon.. .. 4
F. McGrath .. .. 3
T. Murray .. .. 3
J. A. Scully .. .. 3
A. Bellingham .. 3
R. Abbott .. .. 3
A. G. Anderson .. 3
C. Ryan 3
W. McCurley .. 2 |
S. Lamond .. ..21
J. S. Packer .. .. 2 j
Wins.
M. McCarten .. 2
G. Price 2
N. Dewsbury.. .. 2
M. Laidlaw .. .. 2
P. Allotta .. .. 2
T. Clune 2
E. H. Bowman .. 2
N. Russell .. .. 2
P. Riddle .. ..2
O. Pettit .. .. .. 2
N. Quigley .. .. 2
W. Henderson .. 2
R. R. Smith .. ..2
M. Dann 2
H. Fielder .. ~ 2
M. Poison
W. Gander .. .. 2
A.. R. Morrisby .. 2
J. L. Munro .. .. 2
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Baddeley is
said to favor the introduction of photo-
graphic finishes and the horse-stall start-
ing gate so as to bring racing right up to
date. So far as the latter is concerned
it might be advisable to leave well alone.
The starting machine now in use in Syd-
ney so greatly impressed J, E. Widener
that he tried to get it permanently in-
stalled at Belmont Park (New York), but
a set was made against it by some
trainers, jockeys and a few members of
the racing press. The result was that
it was dropped after a comparatively
short trial. Despite that, many Ameri-
can critics pronounced it the best system
of starting ever employed in that coun-
try. Occasional bad starts cannot be
avoided. The behavior of horses contri-
butes to that, and the same thing happens
with the stall-gate. At Rockingham
Park (Salem) in October a horse named
Flying Duke refused to jump out of his
stall, and took no part in the race. His
backers were highly delighted when the
management announced that the whole
of the $6661 —about £2020 —betted on
him on the tote would be refunded. This
made a big hole in the dividend paid
by the winner,
* * * •
It will not be long before intending
buyers are poring over their yearling
catalogues, and it is not improbable that
some breeders are becoming anxious as
to whether the next couple of months
will give their sires a better return than
they have experienced during the past
three. Sires of successful two-year-olds
at this season’s Sydney meetings are as
under:
Hall Mark.—Hall Stand, three wins.
The Buzzard. —St. Quentin, Falcon Knight.
Felcrag.—Moorland, Craglia.
Emborough.—Estborough.
Brueghel.—Ajixa.
Beau Pere. —Belle Pomme.
Simeon’s Fort. —Clarion Call.
Manitoba. —War Eagle.
Royal Step.—Flight, Royal Peer.
*
Entries for the Oakleigh Plate totalled
68, the highest since 1935. In 1931 and
1932 the race was run in divisions, there
being 11 starters for each in the former
year and 14 and 13 respectively in the
latter. Division-winners in 1931 were
First Arrow and Merab, and Umbertana
and Blematic in 1932,
* * * *
There is naturally a deal of specula-
tion as to which of our present racing
secretaries will be appointed to that
position with the Sydney Turf Club. It
might not be safe to bet that any will.
A clause of the bill sets forth; “The
Governor may appoint some member of
the Public Service to be the acting secre-
tary of the club until the directors shall
appoint a secretary thereof.” If that
acting secretary wishes to retain the
position, the chances are he will stand an
excellent chance of finding sufficient
backing to do so, even though the ser-
vices of men of greater experience may
be available.
* * * »
Queensland trainers have won their
share of two-year-old races in Sydney
this season. W. A. Tucker has taken
four, three with Haddon Hall and one
with St. Quentin, and A. G. Anderson
has scored with Estborough and Falcon
Knight. Sydney owners are unlikely to
overlook their success, and after the
yearling sales are sure to keep the trainers
mentioned well in sight as men who can
handle youngsters.
Doing more fighting than dancing—
his usual procedure—Hockey Bennell
knocked out Bill Fadden at Leichhardt,
Sydney, and repeating these tactics in the
same hall against Jimmy Dundee he
settled that industrious pug in the ninth
round. Bennell looked the winner after
the first bell. Well beaten on points,
Dundee put on a game show in the fifth
and eighth. The finishing punch was a
nicely-timed right to the chin which
knocked him halfway through the ropes.
The referee did the rest.
Mahomed Fahmy, an apologetic immi-
grant from Egypt, displayed no mean
fighting spirit against Les Sloan at
the Sydney Stadium. He missed with
many of his swings, but was leading on
points at the end of the ninth round.
Still the aggressor, he drove Sloan into
Egypt’s corner, only to be floored with
an inside-right counter that travelled only
a few inches. Fahmy regained his feet
at “nine.” Very groggy, he went down
without being hit and was disqualified.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Encourage Handicap: Lance, 1;
Gryphon, 2 ; Miss Leonard, 3.
Valicare Handicap: Kurranulla,
1 ; The Beacon, 2; Belle Pomme or
Constant Reine, 3.
Adrian Knox Stakes; Angel, 1 ;
Mastery, 2 ; Hesione, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ;
Panchio, 2 ; Soho, 3.
January Handicap: Baroda, 1 ;
War Trophy, 2 ; Lambeth or Prince,
3.
Paddington Handicap: Faene
Queene, 1 ; Ron Rico, 2; Ryl-
stone or Angus, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The idea of taking into the V.A.D. the
girls as they leave school is very popular
with the prospective recruits. At 16 and
17 they are not qualified to become
members of the A.A.M.W.S., as the
former V.A.Ds. are called, but they can
do the work which such services did in
peace-time. Even certain war work, such
as manning the blood bank in town, has
been mentioned as quite within their
capacity. The real object, however, the
authorities explain, is to accustom the
girls to the work so that when they be-
come eligible for the A.A.M.W.S. they
will not drift away to other services. The
training, too, will have been taken over
a fairly long period, two years for some
of the just-sixteens, and will thus have
been better digested.
Women students started their tomato-
canning work in a slack week, as the
average tomato felt that it was not quite
red enough, and only a few not in the
know agreed to ripen, so everyone had
a chance to get a spot of practice before
things became rushed. The first few days
showed Mary Tan and Rita and Eva
Chong, three Chinese students, members
of the Women’s College, to be far in the
lead with their records for the number
of tomatoes popped in the can. As they
had never done any kind of manual work
before and boasted the beautiful little
hands so prized by the ladies of their
nation, fellow - students were amazed.
But these girls came from Singapore and
shared with the whole Chinese community
a passionate desire to help in the war
against Nippon. Students noted also that
the Chinese lassies kept their aprons
clean; others were smeared in the hue
of the tomato from head to toe.
Christ Church Opportunity Shop (run
for war funds) has prospered to the re-
markable extent of £B6O in eight months,
which isn’t altogether surprising, as South
Yarra shoppers knew it well as a choice
spot for cakes and attractive oddments.
Real monstrosities were kept well out of
sight, and the prospective customer wasn't
unnerved by the sight of the oldest and
ugliest vase in creation leering from the
window, as so often occurs in suburban
patriotic shops. The C.C.O.S. has sent
out an SOS for more supplies of jam, and
particularly for furniture, china or
jewellery. For the last, all shops seem
to find a very good market, oddly enough,
whether the real or the costume variety,
probably through the combined appeal of
being wearable and couponless.
Proud mother of last week was the
widow of one of the finest sporting
writers Melbourne ever saw, Moxon
Cook. Cause of pride was the 0.8. E.
conferred on daughter “Snowy” (Mrs.
Rupert Scott) for services during the Ger-
man blitz on London. Mrs. Scott
pioneered the war-time nursery school
and, working with the widow of Chief
Justice Rufus Isaacs (he who became
Lord Reading), evolved a foolproof
scheme for evacuating the children
through their nursery schools. Casual-
ties from enemy action were nil. Two
countries gave honor where it was un-
doubtedly due ; the U.S.A. said its ad-
miration with a bumper contribution to
the cause of £70,000, and the Old Dart
with an 0.8. E. Mrs. Scott was a school-
girl at Clyde and a Melbourne Uni.
student before she married Rupert Scott,
well-known in Harley-street and at
Bart.’s, London.
Making a big drive to help war nurses
back into private life after the war, the
Florence Nightingale Victorian War
Nurses’ Fund has opened a collection
campaign with the joint blessing of the
Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress.
Nurses themselves are taking a part in
the drive, and they should rake in the
shekels, for their uniform is popular in
these parts. Remembering how hard
was the rehabilitation of many of their
number after the last war the nurses
, are leaving no stone unturned to see that
this time there’ll be money enough to
keep in comforts the sick and ailing, and
get into other suitable work those whose
nursing days finish with hostilities.
Wedding of Joy Philips, A.A.W.M.S.,
to Flying-Officer Kenneth Pryce Wilson
on Friday was the scene of much con-
gratulating and good wishes apart from
the usual ones, as friends are glad to
have the bridegroom back home after
'some exciting times with the R.A.A.F.
abroad. Torpedoing of a ship on which he
was travelling was part of the story, and
friends managed to get an idea of what
{spending a few days in a lifeboat togged
in shorts and sports coat feels like. Fly-
ing-Officer Wilson had achieved the
nomenclature of “Whiskers” owing to his
ability to produce same while with his
squadron, but for his wedding they all
came off. Mrs. Wilson will continue with
her work, and both hope to take up
housekeeping in Melbourne on their re-
turn from the honeymoon.
Two women who remember Melbourne
with pleasure sent cards last week. Mrs.
Georg Szell’s came from a Park Avenue
(N.Y.) address. She reported her
violinist Georg as having appeared at 20
concerts, some with Schnabel, and said
Georg and she still talked, between re-
hearsals he was conducting at the Metro-
politan, of the lovely times they used to
have in Australia. Other sender of
seasonal wishes was Mrs. Alice Luiggi,
from Detroit, whither she and husband
(of Gerferal Motors) have returned after
a sojourn in Australia, mostly in Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Luiggi is fondly remem-
bered by the American Women’s
Auxiliary, now the U.S. Women’s
Auxiliary Corps, as publicity secretary
for a dance that netted a big sum for the
Children’s Hospital.
Snatching a brief span from driving
for the A.W.A.S., Cherry Waiter was
married at historic St. Andrew’s, Brighton,
with all the traditional glory of white
satin and two bridesmaids —Lois Robin-
son and Lorraine Wagstaff. Husband
Lieut. lan Carson, son of the Norman
Carsons, was also on a brief leave from
military duties, and they cannot make any
immediate plans for flatting as both
expect to be separated by war duties.
Cherry (christened Olive, by the way)
made a name for herself as a dress-
designer in less troubled days, and work-
ing independently built up a clientele
which included women in such far places
as Singapore and Johannesburg. Wed-
ding frock was, of course, her own design.
Picture is by Jack Cato.
Wedded at St. John’s, East Malvern,
was Harley Wettenhall Nanson, daughter
of Mrs, Nanson, Wattletree-road, East
Malvern, and the late Prof. E. J. Nanson,
for forty-eight years occupant of the
chair of mathematics at Melb. Uni.
Bridegroom is Corp. Eric Kelynack,
A.1.F., son of Mrs. Kelynack, of Chil-
well, Geelong, and the late A. Kelynack.
The bride is a graduate of a few months’
standing in mothercraft nursing, and in-
tends to continue with that avocation if
her husband is called to more distant
parts by military duties. Her sister, Mrs.
Graham, whose husband, Serg. Stanley
Graham, is in the North, was matron of
honor.
Of service interest was the marriage of
Lieut. Alan Dower to Muriel Wedg-
wood. Alan, who is the younger son of
R. J. Dower, of Downes-avenue, Brighton
(till recently he was Superintendent of the
C. 1.8.), and Mrs. Dower. The bride is
a descendant of Josiah Wedgwood of
pottery fame and member of a clan
which has produced many notabilities.
Wedding was at the John Knox kirk, Gar-
denvale, the bride doing full honor to
the occasion in cream satin and lace.
Capt. Wedgwood, uncle of the bride,
gave her away, in the absence of her
father. She is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Wedgwood, of Dorrigo, N. S.
Wales.
Wearing a brand-new engagement ring
is Jean Simpson, daughter of Major-
General J. H. Simpson and Mrs. Simp-
son. Miss Simpson has been doing a
pharmacy course and is just waiting on
results to finish up as a qualified chemist.
Fiance is Sergeant Lindsay McDougall
Wallis, A.1.F., son of Mr. and Mrs. C. C.
Wallis, of Glen Iris.
Another engagement of University in-
terest is that of Helen Plante to John
Wisdom. Both are graduates, Miss
Plante in Arts (Modern Languages
School) and John in Mechanical Engi-
neering, and are now engaged in war
work. They have no immediate plans.
Helen is the younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. T. H, D. Plante, of Brighton,
and her betrothed is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. Wisdom, of Holroyd-avenue,
East St. Kilda.
From Sydney
Never has Hyde Park looked more
suave than this summer. There is cool-
ness in its earth after the plenteous rains,
the green vistas are broken by pale pinks,
by burning blues. In spite of the tropic
heat in which the city swelters, the park,
with its spreading trees, remains cool
and inviting. The Domain and the
Botanic Gardens, too, are jewels which
Sydney wears with pride. Through the
garden alleys and arcades trembles the
essence of a thousand perfumes, while
the waters of Farm Cove rise and fall
softly, lazily, like a breeze-bestirred mass
of bright blue plumes.
From Malta the sublime comes a
Christmas greeting to Oswald Cheeke.
It is an outline of the island of Malta,
in its heart a V for Victory, above it the
George Cross, which, as all will remem-
ber, was awarded to the heroic citizens
of this intrepid bit of Empire. In the
corner is the coat of arms of the Buffs,
the regiment to which Oswald’s nephew
belongs.
Nude legs go boldly in the town,
The plump and lean, the white and brown,
The smooth and the unshaven.
And some show bowed beneath the gown,
And some turn in from ankle down,
But when glad day wears sunset’s crown
They all look so unlaven.
When Peace comes back with her
wealth of blessings the greatest of them
to woman will be the silk or near-silk
stocking. There is something so glossily
complete and neat about silk-clad legs.
The gossamer weave is kind to blemishes
and points a slim ankle with consum-
mate cunning. If in a brave new world
domestic help must be rationed, if every
she has to be her own carrier and land-
scape gardener, yea, even though the tax-
collector should make himself as hated
as his Biblical predecessor, still woman
will smile happily, and as readily be led
into the garden to hear the nightingale
or the cicada, if her legs are allowed to
luxuriate in the snuggle of silk.
The really big goldfish in the music
lake is the Beethoven Festival. This will
shimmer through rainbow waves of sound
through February and part of March,
The artists engaged for the seven concerts
of the series are very proud of the
distinction. One of the pianists is Joyce
Greer, who will be heard on March 4
at the Conservatorium with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. Joyce in London
was a pupil of the famed Matthay, now
full of vigor. Two prizes plucked
by the Australian during her student days
in England were the Bach Prize and the
Josephine Nathan Initiative Award.
Rachmaninoff, Horowitz, Alexander
Borovsky and Moiseivitsch were just a
few of the notable musicians met by
Joyce during happy days abroad.
Still another of Sydney’s guest-houses
has been mopped up by the Army. It
is Ranelagh, a Darling Point hostelry
where good meals and good beds have
been served, almost since time im-
memorial, to a somewhat select coterie.
It is to become a leave house for service
women from February 1. This makes
the umpteenth city guest-house to be
taken over in the name of the services.
Where the men and women who have
made such places their homes go to seek
a new resting-place is just one of the
minor mysteries of this war. Of flats
there seem to be none. Maybe the evic-
tees had better take a hint from Chester-
ton’s Arboreal Club, and build little
houses in the trees. The Domain could
give harborage to a few hundred of them.
They could climb in and out of their
nests by way of rope ladders, and they
could say fiddlesticks to any would-be
cuckoo in the nest.
Lyra Taylor, who has just resigned
her general secretaryship of the
Y.W.C.A., is a Maorilander. She brought
lots of erudition to her job, being an
M.A. and LL.B., and she spent over
a decade in the U.S.A. and Canada before
her arrival in Australia. Canada knew
her as general, secretary of the Y.W. in
Montreal. From Australia she goes back
to U.S.A. Her successor, Jean Scott,
has a warm voice with the real Glasgow
flavor. Perhaps that was one of the
reasons she won such popularity in New-
castle and northern minefields, where she
was Y.W.’s organising secretary for some
years. There she was fondly known as
“Scottie.” Jean was a Waac in the
1914-18 war. That wasn’t a bad train-
ing ground for getting the human
touch,
Dunedin (Maoriland) goes to Canberra
in the person of Winifred Stenhouse.
Winifred is a graduate of the School of
Home Science which became part of the
University of Otago, by the purling Water
of Leith, many years ago. Winifred was
appointed the other day to the Institute
of Anatomy at the Federal capital as
assistant to Dr. F. Clements in a nation-
wide nutrition campaign. She leaves the
Women’s College, Sydney University,
where she has been dietitian since 1939.
She came to Australia as principal of the
Memorial College of Household Arts at
Kirribilli —the college that was founded
by Dr. Mary Booth.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says bit-
terly that only a female combination of
acrobat, snake-charmer and hypnotist
could manage to catch the eye of any
waiter in a hotel lounge these days. She
says that three times last week, after wait-
ing half an hour in her favorite public,
she was forced to leave as dry as when
she had entered. “And that’s a pub that
I have practically built,” she ended
gloomily. “Why, every week for years
I have dropped in with a pal at least
twice for a gin and squash.”
The teen-olds about to leave school
will regard as good news the lowering
of the V.A. enrolment age. At eighteen,
instead of just commencing, they will be
qualified nursing and dental orderlies.
It is expected that these younger recruits
will come surging in wherever Dorothy
Wilby, now on a State-wide tour for the
A.A.M.W.S., raises her banner.
A.C.W. Elizabeth Mackellar,
W.A.A.A.F., married her Lieut. Rex
Moore, A.1.F., late one afternoon last
week. St. Philip’s on Church Hill was
the rendezvous, and here came Elizabeth
in her bridal silks and tulle, and her ’maids
Helen St. Vincent Welch, AW.A.S., and
Patricia Pearce, W.A.A.A.F., both in uni-
form. Lieut. Moore has been on active
service in the North, and in the Middle
East. The L. M. Mackellars, of Gunne-
dah, are the bride’s parents; the W.
Moores, of Bayley Park, N. S. Wales,
are the ’groom’s.
The Ladies of the Grail welcomed
over a hundred city and country girls to
their summer school, which is being held
at St. Scholastica’s College, Glebe Point.
In particular the course is directed to the
training of leaders for the Vanguard,
which is part of the Catholic Youth
Movement. The training is towards the
building of character, the making of
good citizens. Summer schools with the
same objects in view are being held in
the other capital cities.
Sandra Jaques (she was Meg in the
film version of Ethel Turner’s Seven
Little Australians ) has become the bride
of Flying-Officer Peter Gibbes, D.F.C.,
R.A.A.F. Sandra is a pretty girl,
and has appeared in several Department
of Information films. Peter Gibbes’s
mother is Mrs. M. Cato, of Darling
Point. Sandra’s father is C. A. Jaques
and her mother Mrs. Carla Jaques.
A.R.P. workers in and around the city
should not peak and pine on their job
for lack of nourishment. The National
Emergency Services Mobile Canteen
Auxiliary rushes out nightly intent on
restoring their tissues with good food.
Now the fleet of N.E.S. mobile canteens
is, in turn, to have a central source of
replenishment. In a building erected
practically under the wing of Church and
State (it stands in the Town Hall grounds,
and that’s next door to St. Andrew’s) will
be an ever-ready mountain of sandwiches
and pies for the nimble-footed canteens.
Gallons of coffee, too, will be dispatched
from this mother canteen. The fleet
has already proved its worth on
many occasions. Its service is smooth-
running in the extreme.


am
/ ' ;>g£S3afc
•>,. .,._
%
■
m
mm
m
m
m
r
.
' '
fv
*\^AaaJZ.
n; v
** .
te
'-X'
XXX Vv ' / v ' '
For full information, see your dealer or write to —
HENRY DISSTON & SONS,
Pty. Ltd.
78 Vine St., Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
DrtY An rHIPPFKinAI F PO.
1-42
CUTTING COSTS
Disston Experience In the manufacture
of QUALITY Saws, Disston Research In
metallurgy, Disston Engineering and
Disston Steel, give you the saws that
help you REDUCE COSTS.
Regardless of the kind of wood you cut
or how you cut it—Disston can provide
a better saw to help you REDUCE
COSTS, make a better product, make
more profits.
Disston Saws have been developed and
improved to meet modern needs.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws range
in diameters from 4 to 78 inches.
DlftTON
SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULAR SAWS
Jo-v Wood.
SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. and Mrs. Masse, of Joville, Ohio, have
19 children.” “World’s News.”
Masse production
*F *F *F *F
“Lancaster Loops the Loop.”
It ought to give the Yorkists a flip,
*F *F *F *F
The most annoying lines in a play are
often' the ones that the censor draws.
“Axis shipping statements cannot be trusted.”
— Commentator.
No! Italian naval vessels even lie in
harbor.'
*** *** 4*
“The end of the fight found Earle lying
on the floor with both his eyes blackened and
his face battered almost beyond recognition.”
—Short story.
A belted Earle?
•J* *J* *|«
Extenuating Circumstances.
“Should we ever interfere in other people's
quarrels?”— “Woman’s Weekly.”
It all depends. I was determined not
to interfere when the couple next door
began a full-scale action last Friday night.
He came home short-weight in his pay,
and she threw the kettle at him ; then
he threw her and the kettle out into the
backyard. I hated to sit there watching a
lady getting treated in that fashion, but,
after all, it wasn’t my place to interfere.
As she just lay there he turned away
to go inside. But she was only foxing.
Struggling to her feet, she seized a garden
spade, and felled him with a terrific
wallop over the back of the skull. With-
out hesitation I leapt up, scrambled
wildly over the fence and seized the
weapon just as she was about to deliver
the coup de grace.
Interfering? Yes—but I was quite
justified. I couldn’t just sit there and
watch her do him in. Why, I lent the
man a quid only that morning!
T. W. N.
•J#
“The crowds are expected to jam the court.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Jam for the court, but bread and
butter for the lawyers.
“For Sale. —Quadruple-fronted Blonde Brick
Bungalow, Streamline Design, etc.”
— “S.M.H.” advt.
With brassiere, stockings and pantees
to go with it?
V V v v
With, and Without, Peer.
“She is one of those writers who uses the
peerage for every action of her stories.”
—Literary notice.
Her hero is a prince of good fellows,
who dukes his friends warmly. The
villain, although he tries to lord it over
those who will stand for it, is full of
baron threats, but in the end has to
take the count.
There are descriptions of glamorous
knights at sea during which the hero
peers into the lady’s eyes and expresses
his honorable love. Somehow he gets
out of court; but the story hangs to-
gether until be comes in on the crest (every
real hero must own one) of the wave, to
give villainy the king hit and take the
lady in his arms, physical and family.
H. M.
After twenty years of absence he had made
an appointment to see his wife, still living in
the old home It seemed unchanged. The old
dial was still in the garden.”
—Magazine story.
And by the look on it, no doubt, he
knew she was going to give him a bad
time.
•1* *l* *|*
“There are about one hundred and fifty hairs
to the square inch on a man’s face.”
— “World’s News.’’
Double that if you’re two-faced?
•h *
“Japan is free from goitre.”
— “World’s News.”
But she’ll get a pain in the neck all
the same.
Cuts Both Ways.
“The human body owes much to heredity.
Were it in the gift of man to select his ancestors
the wise would choose those of proved healthy
stock.” —Medical writer.
What a happy thought—your antecedents
to pick !
Eschewing weaklings, and crooks that
may have been swung.
Not taking your blood from any Tom,
Harry or Dick,
Thus saving yourself from being a
human mong.
For preference, now, the ones I’d pick
would have brains
Longevity, coolness, courage, a certain
.
A lucky streak, good looks, a way with
the janes
And. topping’ all, a penchant for
making cash
But, say! A thought has just struck me.
Touching on choice,
I wonder if, pondering on their pos-
teiity,
Those ancestors chosen by me, if they
in a voice,
Would be so anxious to make a
selection of me!
K.
Envoi.
“There is ground for assuming that the new
taxes will be stiff.” — <( Dciily Mitror.’’
Prince, your demands to date have been
so stiff
And from my income you have filched
such whacks,
I’d feel relieved and grateful to you if
You’d take my wage and let me keep
the tax!
P. M.
Pathological.
And aged person with a walking stick
Declared to me that he was feeling sick.
And so I hastened then and there to tell
That ailing person 1 was sick as well.
Thereat we straightway sought a near-by
seat
And, comfortably stretching out our feet,
Began our numerous ailments to rehearse :
As a result we both feel vastly worse.
T. W. N.
Giving Him the Good Oil.
“President Roosevelt has nominated Mr.
Edward J. Flynn, chairman of the National
Democratic Committee, as Minister to Aus-
tralia. Mr. Flynn will be the President’s per-
sonal representative with the rank of Ambassa-
dor.”
“Well, Ed,” said Franklin D., “before
you go out to Australia there are a few
things you should know about that
country, its_ people and institutions.
Harry Hopkins has been getting around
among the fellows who know, and he has
gleaned a lot of information that, if you
absorb it, will make your path easier
when you mix with the boys down-
under.”
“Sure, I see,” said Ed. “Sort of low-
down on the high-ups, eh?”
“Sort of, Ed. Now, for instance,
when you meet the big shots of the mili-
tant unions wait till they’ve started talk-
ing—they’ll talk plenty ; you know the
boys—and after you’ve figured them out
drop in a suitable “Ah, bah goom!” or
a “Hech, mon!” They’ll like that. You’ll
commit a solecism by using “Stone the
crows! ” or “Stiffen the dingoes! ” or any
other native expression. Australianism
in any form is resented by the imported
big shots.”
“Sure! Sure! I get it. Ain’t it the
same in the Bronx? We’ve had enough
O’Shaunessys and Olaafsons and Popo-
dopouloses there to waterlog a battle-
ship.”
“Of course, Ed, you’ll be interviewed
by the dailies. You’ll probably be de-
scribed in one as being 57, born in the
Bowery, 6ft. 2in. of bone and muscle,
blue-eyed, ever-smiling and a cheese-taster
by profession. Under a photo, of a diving
’plane will appear your name. Your
photo, will be on the next page, and
under it will be the caption ‘Russian
Stormovik Attacks Munitions Train.’ A
contemporary will write you up as being
66, born in Cork and brought to
Schenectady as a baby, short and stout
with brown eyes and a granite jaw, and
you will have been a successful under-
taker. Whatever you do don’t point out
that neither is right. Guessing from
newspaper news is one of the three
great national sports. The other two are
a game called swi-up and cursing at the
raceless Saturday.”
“Okay, chief, I’m wise.”
“Now, when somebody utters the
words ‘Dedman regulation,’ you’ll be
expected to join in the hearty laugh.”
“Yep ; but, Franklin, what if the sub-
ject’s raised when I’m with one of the
Dedman guy’s Cabinet colleagues?”
“Well, Ed, in that case I think you’ll
be expected to give an extra hearty guf-
faw. Now, Ed, you’re sure to be asked
to attend meetings held to raise money
for purposes such as Clothing Estonian
Widows or Buying Bibs for Bessarabian
Babies and the like. Watch your step
here. Don’t be led into mentioning, if
you are called on to say a few words for
the cause, the possibility of doing some-
thing at some time for destitute Austra-
lian orphans.”
“Sure, Franklin, I’m on.”
“Oh, and Ed! It’s a dollar to a dime
you’ll be booked for a Millions Club
luncheon. There’ll be about 17 speeches
before your turn. Better get in some
solid practice yawning with your mouth
shut, and stick to coffee —it’ll keep you
awake.”
“Leave it to me, Franklin.”
“Remember, too, that you can trip up
on even so trivial a subject as the weather.
As a thoroughgoing Democrat you’re sure
to be trotted out to meet the N.S.W.
wharf-laborers you know, Ed, long-
shoremen. They’ll have a stop-work
meeting to meet you, for they pride them-
selves on being the Commonwealth’s ace
democrats. If it happens to come over
a bit cloudy while you’re addressing ’em,
for heaven’s sake don’t remark ‘lt looks
a bit like a change!’ You’ll stampede
’em, and there probably won’t be a pick-
up on the waterfront for a week after.”
“I’ll remember, chief.”
“Oh, and one thing more, Ed —the most
important of all. Foo is having a good
run, and you can join in that; but there’s
another thing that’s sweeping Australia
now. When you hear ‘Lay off Dozey
Reid,’ just kid you didn’t hear it!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Occupation®.! Therapy
An item I would like to put on the
agenda of the New Order is some form
of occupational therapy for the young
delinquent. It may exist in a mild
generalised form in reformative institu-
tions, but I think the specialised forms
practised in certain cases of mental dis-
order would well repay adoption with the
incorrigibles and social misfits who get
into trouble young and stay in it.
I speak out of practical (though non-
criminal) experience. The brightest star
in my own office was the problem child
of the establishment, with a bad history
of temperament and chronic absentee-
ism and complete lack of interest in her
routine job. Transfer to the right job,
which called on every ounce of her
energy and intelligence, worked a
miracle, and neither late nights nor illness
can keep her away. Another “problem”
whom I knew (a husky six-footer of well-
to-do parents) was packed off to Canada
to save his bored and erring soul as best
he might. He joined the Mounties and
more than justified his choice. A fine
personality was saved by the right job.
The cases that come before the Courts
are almost all from the masses, where the
family can neither rescue erring youth nor
buy off its escapades. Yet the same high
spirits, immaturity, misjudgments, frus-
trations and square-peg handicaps beset
the youth of rich and poor alike. But
for the saving grace of educational
opportunity or patient and experienced
relatives, the juvenile and, eventually,
police courts would increase business
enormously.
It is recognised that occupational
therapy in the form of training for and
drafting into “round holes” is not the
whole answer. I think I would have
the support of the medicoes in stating
that gland therapy is called for in a pro-
portion of cases. If that be so, then in
the name of humanity let us have it.
Surely the unfortunate victim of Nature’s
aberrations is entitled to it, if only to
protect the community. Keel Row
(Vic.).'
Exemption for the Only Son
Probably a great deal of the present
controversy about the only son has been
caused by the policy affecting only sons
in the First World War.
W. M. Hughes at the time of his first
conscription referendum provided for
the exemption of only sons on applica-
tion, which was readily granted by the
magistrates.
I remember the day I was called up for
medical examination. Out of 42 of us,
seven were passed as fit.
Of the seven five were only sons, who
sought and obtained exemption.
Circumstances on that occasion were
entirely different. In 1914-18 enlistment
was on a purely voluntary basis and the
danger of invasion to Australia was not
just across the horizon.
This is a time when our very national
existence is menaced, and the necessity
for an only son as well as a husband
to fight is apparent.
From memory I believe the reason
mainly advanced in 1914-18 for the
exemption of an only son from military
service was the cry that if an only son
met death the name would die out.
But what’s in a name these days when
we have a “Dedman” and a “Frost”? —
Bluey (Q.).
Military Police
R. Treacy inquires why soldiers don’t
like military police (B. 23/12/’42). Any
member of the A.N.Z.A.C. that arrived
in Egypt in December, 1914, could tell
him that while the fighting Australians
and Maorilanders who made the name
of Anzac were training like professional
athletes to fit themselves to beat the
enemy 1500 men in the A.I.F. uniform
volunteered to stay in Egypt for three
years as military police. All but the 1500
shuddered at the thought.
After Gallipoli the Third Brigade, of
which I was one, gathered its forces and
cleaned up the Jacks in the street as a
warning. This was after our O.C. had
investigated the facts and secured the
release from the Jacks’ prison of two
of his best soldiers.
I and others who were at Mena Camp
in 1915, and Ziareah and Tel-el-Kebir
after the evacuation, as well as others
who suffered from military police while
on leave in London, have taught our sons
what Jacks were. Perhaps that is the
reason why our sons in this war don’t
like ’em. — Emmer Emmer (N.S.W.).
I endorse all that R. Treacy says re
military police. Admitted, there may be
some narks amongst them, as there are
in all other bodies, civil and military,
but, in any case, they are doing their
allotted job, and the universal hatred of
them is hard to understand.
One of the gamest men I ever saw was
one of the hated “Jacks,” standing on
Hellfire Corner, Ypres, in 1918, divert-
ing traffic to safer paths during a heavy
bombardment. He stayed on the job
till a direct hit sent him and most of
the corner skywards.
I am inclined to think that the cam-
paign against the Provost Corps was
started by individuals who have good
cause to hate all police, civil and mili-
tary, and they have been supported, for
some inexplicable reason, by more
responsible elements. —R. H. Parkes
(Tas.).
A Potential Danger
Malaria, scourge of the tropics, is
spread by the Anopheles mosquito. With
its extensive ricefields, under water for
six to eight months of the year, the N. S.
Wales Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area is
a great breeding-ground for mosquitoes.
Anopheles has been found there from
time to time, and there is a danger that,
with malaria-infected soldiers from Panua
“It this Wars done nothing else it has at Least made us War-minded .”
and other parts moving about the M.1.A.,
the curse may be established.
Prevention is better than eradication,
and hitherto the Commonwealth health
authorities have done excellent work in
preventing the carrying of tropical
diseases to the south. But thoughtful
citizens in the M.I.A. are worried. —K.
(N.S.W.). _____
Forestry
Australia doesn’t seem ashamed of the
fact that it has the lowest forestry re-
serves in the world —one per cent, of its
total land area of 297,000,000 square
miles. Even Algiers, which is 50
p.c. desert sand, devotes 10 p.c. to
forestry conservation. While Finland’s
forests represent 73.5 p.c. of her land
areas and Nigeria runs her close with 64
p.c. of country sown to forests, it’s worth
noting that, before hostilities, Japan ran
third in this race by setting aside 59 p.c.
of an overpopulated country for timber.
Germany used to make it a practice to
grow two trees for every one felled. And
what about Australia? Destruction of
forest empires and overstocking ad lib.
as a straightout invitation to soil
erosion. Why worry if we lose 20 times
as much plant food through erosion as
we take off in crops?
There’s one leaf that the Australian
farmer could well take out of U.S.A.’s
agricultural story, and it concerns the
farm woodland. This is a small forest
area grown on that section of the land
too poor for crops or pastures. It fore-
stalls erosion and gullying, enriches the
soil and preserves moisture. Usually
it supplies the farm’s timber needs, fuel,
fencing, etc.; in other cases it’s regarded
as a forest crop, harvested annually and
sold commercially. America’s no
Solomon for wisdom. She only woke up
after losing 100,000,000 acres of pasture
lands. Today over 5,000,000 of her
farmers are cultivating woodlands —on
an average 27 acres apiece. In some sec-
tions of the continent 85 p.c. of the
water used to irrigate the farms can be
traced back to the woodlands. —H. C.
(N.S.W.).
Colin Clark, director of the Queens-
land Bureau of Economics and Statistics,
which collates figures about the exports
and imports to and from the southern
States (just as though we were foreigners),
is also Deputy-Director of War Organisa-
tion of Industry. He recently announced
that Queensland would have a precise
number of tens of thousands of workers
in 1950, and with similar exactitude could
even predict the number in work in 1960
—that there would be a house-building
boom in post-war days, with Russian
timber probably being used in their con-
struction.
Queenslanders wonder if the professor
has ever been outside Brisbane to take
a look at a few of the forests which pro-
duce trees sufficient to build millions of
houses. — Mark Patch (Q.).
New Year’s Day Absentees
Minister for Labor Ward states: “It
appears that the workers were absent”
(on New Year’s Day) “in defiance of their
trade-union leaders.” But what did some
of the “leaders” themselves say?
Mr. McNamara, M.L.C., a union secre-
tary ;
I hope the Government will not again
make the mistake of trying to chisel the
workers out of their holidays. Our mem-
bers do not work on Saturday, and the
Government should have made Monday a
holiday for Boxing Day, and Tuesday a
holiday for New Year’s Day.
And Mr. Malone, an assistant union
organiser;
The men took New Year’s Day off as
a protest against not being granted a holi-
day for Boxing Day... .A similar position
will arise at Easter.
Evidently, then, these “leaders” were
with the workstoppers, and it was the
Government that was defied by both.
Yet workers in N.S.W. are to be com-
pelled by law to join unions! — Arc
(N.S.W.).
Gallup Polls
The fact that the American Gallup
poll estimated Republican strength at be-
tween 158 and 178 seats, instead of 209
seats (B. 6/1/’43),‘is of no significance
to the Australian Gallup polls. Voting is
not compulsory in U.S.A., and the error
occurred in estimating the proportions
of Democrats and Republicans who
would bother to vote. The important
point for Australians is that Dr. Gallup’s
estimate of the nation-wide vote for each
of the major political parties was again
right within 4 i p.c., despite the difficulty
of estimating turnout at the election.
This table shows part of Gallup’s
record for important elections;
1936 Presidential (average in 48 States),
right within 6 p.c.
1937 Detroit Mayoralty, right within
2 p.c.
1937 New York Mayoralty, right within
4 p.c.
1938 Congressional, right within six seats.
1938 New York Gubernatorial, right
within I p.c.
1940 Presidential (average in 48 States),
right within p.c.
1942 New York Gubernatorial, right
within 0.1 p.c.
1942 Congressional, right within 41 p.c.
There are about 100 million adults in
U.S.A., but only 30 million voted, com-
pared with 50 million at the 1940 Presi-
dential election. As less than half the
voting population voted, Gallup “sample
polls” provided a better indication of the
public mind than the election itself
[whew! —Ed.], and President Roosevelt
requested Dr. Gallup to prepare a report
on the election and its significance.
The error of 31 seats in the estimate
arose from the fact that the stay-at-
homes were largely Democrats. Just
before the election Dr. Gallup found
that 73 p.c. of Republicans interviewed
regarded the election as “very important,”
while only 59 p.c. of Democrats thought
it important. Analysis of election results
shows that the decline of Democratic
popularity since 1940 was greatest in
areas where turnout to vote was least:
Decline in Demo-
States Where Turnout Was — cratic Popularity.
Between 42-59 p.c. of 1940 turnout, 8.7 p.c.
„ 60-64 „ „ „ „ 7.9 „
„ 65-68 „ „ „ „ 6.9 „
» 69-75 „ „ „ „ 4.4 „
Labor-union members (who provide the
backbone of the Democratic vote in the
North) turned out smaller in proportion
to population than any other major popu-
lation group. It may have been apathy
or it may have been caused by outside
factors, such as migrant war workers
being unable to meet local voting require-
ments. (In U.S.A. the right to vote at
Federal elections depends on require-
ments for local elections.)
Dr. Gallup stressed in his election fore-
cast that it was based simply on estimates
of shifts of sentiment since 1940, in geo-
graphical sections (groups of States). It
would be impossible to make exhaustive
and continuous surveys in every one of
the 435 Congressional electoral districts.
When the national vote is close, an under-
estimate of only a small percentage can,
and did, throw out estimates of resultant
Congressional seats. Roy Morgan,
Director Australian Public Opinion Polls
(Vic.).
What’s Wrong with the Civil
Service?
In a recent book, Passed to You, Please,
J. P. W. Mallalieu analyses the causes of
the ineptitude of ’ the civil service, and
thinks that they lie in the fact that (in
England) the administrative class is re-
cruited almost entirely from the univer-
sities and public schools, and that this
class is ignorant of the ordinary man's
way of life and problems.
It is clear that in Australia, at any rate,
the root of the trouble is not to be found
there. Our civil service is not drawn
either from the universities or the public
schools. In England the entrance exam-
ination is about the same standard as
that required for the B.A. degree here.
In Australia, it is fixed so low that a very
ordinary boy of 16 can pass Without diffi-
culty, and the State schools make it their
peculiar province. So I don’t think Eton
and Oxford can fairly be blamed.
No, the root cause lies deeper. The
type of boy that selects the civil service
for a career is so distrustful of his own
abilities that he prefers to take a safe
job rather than risk the competition of
the outside world. So he starts life with
an inferiority complex, and takes it out
of the public with all the insolence of “a
servant when he reigneth.” Once in the
service, he is there for life, so long as he
avoids actual crime. No amount of in-
competence or ineptitude can seriously
prejudice his career. He never has to
take a risk—in fact, to refrain from action
is accounted to him for a merit. An en-
terprising or independent man is sure to
fall foul of his superiors.
It is seldom or never necessary to make
a decision —most problems will solve
themselves if left alone, and even if they
don’t it is only the damned public that
suffers. Outside the service, the business-
man or managing director who will not
take a risk or make a decision might as
well shut up shop. A businessman has to
study economy, and for preference works
with a small and well-trained staff —the
public servant measures the importance
of his department by its size, not its
efficiency.
A small instance: It was suggested
some time ago that, instead of sending
cheque-books to the Stamp Office to have
the forms individually impressed with
2d. stamps, the stamp could be printed
with the rest of the form and the
nominal value collected from the issuing
bank. It is an obvious reform, and works
well in M.L. But when it was discovered
that by adopting it the services of six
men in the Stamp Office could be dis-
pensed with the proposal was dropped
at once. Similar instances can be multi-
plied.
On top of all, the civil servant is a
member of a close corporation, and his
aggregate voting power is so great that no
Government dares to interfere with him.
So the vicious circle is complete. A lad
of inferior ability finds himself in a job
in which he is protected from all competi-
tion, where the qualities that make for
success in the outside world are actually
a detriment, and, to crown all, finds that
his corporation is so powerful that it can
dictate its own terms to his employer.
What wonder then that he regards that
employer with richly deserved contempt!
And why should the employer expect
anything but ineptitude and incom-
petence? Those are the qualities he pays
for —and gets. — Fitzwilliam (N.S.W.).


THE BROKEN HILL ASSOCIATED
PTY.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
_ BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED
PRODUCERS OF:
H
A
LEAD: OUR BRAND IS WORLD FAMOUS
GRADES : SOFT pig, assay, corroding, super-refined, and tellurium
BHAS lead is used in storage batteries, in white lead paints, in cables for
telephone systems, in pipes and sheets for plumbing purposes, in antifriction
alloys, printers* alloys, solders, antimonial lead, and other products too
numerous to mention.
ANTIMONIAL LEAD:
Produced at Port Kembla on behalf of BHAS Pty. Ltd. by the E. R. and
S. Co. of Aust., Ltd. This antimonial lead is of a high degree of purity;
it possesses first-class casting qualities and excellent physical strength.
SELLING AGENTS for Antimonial Lead:
Mr. H. B. BARKER, c/o BHAS Pty. Ltd., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M. 4381.
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. PTY. LTD., O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MX. 1091.
SILVER: Refined (bar and granulated)
THE COMPANY PURCHASES
ON SPECIALLY FAVOURABLE TARIFFS.
Head Office: 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Smelting Works; PORT PIRIE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LONDON:
The Australian Ore and Metal Co. Pty.,
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ADELAIDE: B
C. S. Stokes,
62 Brockman BuUtU&||
R. N. Kirk & Co.,
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SWI
COMPANY QF AUST. P
• i
BLUESTONE; “ESA” Brand
for Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines,
for Treatment of Footrot in Sheep,
for Wheat Pickling.
Our booklet, “Better Yields by Spraying,” has been
of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists.
Copies will be sent gladly on request.
Agents in all States:
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.
BEARING METALS: “Graphine” Brand
Highest Grade Cadmium-Base and Lead-Base Alloys
for all Engineering Purposes,
Our Antifriction Bearing Alloy Booklet is a practical
manual for Engineers. It says clearly and concisely
how to select the right alloy and how to run it up. It
also gives an account of the principles underlying the
use of bearing alloys. Copies of this useful book will
be sent gladly on request.
The Company’s technical experts will be glad to
advise customers on bearing metal problems.
FOR AGENTS SEE PANEL ON LEFT,
Agents for
BEARIinG METALS
Melbourne:
Mr. H. B. Marker,
c/o The Electrolytic Refining & Smelting Co,
of Aust. Pty., Ltd.,
360 Collins Street. M 4381,
Sydney:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty. Ltd,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MXIO9I.
Adelaide:
A, Noble & Son, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street. C 2231.
Brisbane:
Bell's Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
156 Edward Street. 85025.
Perth:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
336-340 Murray Street. 89791.
We Purchase:
ORES of Copper and Precious Metals
We Settle Promptly at the Best Available Rates
Write to our
Registered Office: 25 O’CONNELL ST..SYDNEY. 86371.
Melbourne Office: 360 COLLINS ST. M43si.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
'Phone Port Kembla 72.
