

f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.- No. 3309
Wednesday, July 14, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON GARDENS WHERE ONCE STRODE ARMOURED KNIGHTS.
•yHIS vista of the Middle Temple
gardens recalls the romantic era of
knighthood long before the Inns of Court
came into being. The ground came into
possession of the Knights Templar in the
year 1160, at Middle Temple, and here
they had their London headquarters for
a hundred and fifty years, until the Second
Edward suppressed the Order on an
allegedly trumped-up charge of sorcery.
This Edward then presented the Temple
to that rival Order, the Knights of St.
John, who, not desiring to remove, leased
Middle Temple to law students. Middle
Temple, with Lincoln’s Inn, Inner Temple
and Gray’s Inn, now the Inns of Court,
makes up the four English legal
societies which exclusively possess the
right of calling persons to the Eng-
lish Bar. Each of the four is on a
footing of equality, although Middle
Temple probably has the oldest history.
The gardens here shown are thought to
have been laid out in 1600 under the
supervision of Francis Bacon, who here
planted the famous catalpa-tree, the
oldest in England, which may have been
brought across the Atlantic by Raleigh.
The Inns of Court have housed many of
the greatest Englishmen, who may say
with Wordsworth: “Great men have been
among us; hands that penned and tongues
that uttered wisdom better none.”
Dickens worked here as a clerk, and also
associated with this hallowed part of
London were Cowper, Edmund Burke
and Charles Lamb, who said of the
Temple “It is the most elegant spot of the
metropolis. A man would give something
to have been born in such a place.”
Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, W.
E. Gladstone, Charles Kingsley and H.
H. Asquith are among those famous sons
of England who, as Pepys observed,
“walked under the Chapel of agreement.”


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
SI Oil’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
I’leane send, without obligation, your Sew Free
liookiet explaining how to Write tor Profit, a*
advertised in the tsgdney “Bulletin.”
My Same
Mg Address
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
THREE NOVELS .
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “do
j detect upon your table the sinister out-
lines of three of the novels of the day?”
“Couldn’t resist ’em,” said Mr. Shean.
“I wanted to see what happened.”
“And what does happen in Miss Mazo
de la Roche’s The Two Saplings (Mac-
millan)?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“Babies,” said Mr. Shean. “Two of
’em. And of all the ducksy-wucksy,
cuddly-wuddly little cheruby-werubs I
ever met”
“You have gone out of your mind,”
said Mr. Gallagher.
“Well,” said Mr. Shean, “an English
woman and an American woman go into
the same nursing home and”——
“The nurse mixes up the babies,” sug-
gested Mr. Gallagher.
“Naturally,” said Mr. Shean. “And
then she ‘giggles and giggles.’ I nearly
died giggling and giggling myself.”
“When you have finished braying and
braying like a jackass,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “you might proceed with the
story.”
“The years roll by,” said Mr. Shean.
“And then one day on a steamer cross-
ing the Channel who should meet
whom?”
“The English lady and gentleman with
their little boy should meet the Ameri-
can lady and gentleman with their little
hoy and a mother’s intuition should gel
to work and there should be the devil to
pay,” said Mr. Gallagher “And the
boy brought up as an English boy should
be taken to America to see what it feels
like to be an American boy ; and the boy
brought up as an American boy should
be taken to England to see what it feels
like to be an English boy ; and we should
come to the conclusion that, although
there are great differences between Ameri-
can boys and British boys, they have the
same ideals and so everything’s all right
in the end. Taking all that for granted,
I ask you one vital question: do these
bonny little lads grow up in Miss de la
Roche’s novel or do they remain bonny
little lads?”
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“they remain bonny little lads; and I
cannot help thinking that I should have
been better pleased if the nurse, instead
of just swapping them about, had put
them down a deep well and giggled and
giggled.”
* * * *
“I trust,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
your second novel contains nothing to
make a naturally benevolent man wish to
be unkind to little children and animals?”
“Norman Collins’s Anna (Collins;
Angus and Robertson) is another kettle
of fish,” said Mr. Shean. “It is set in
the days of the Franco-Pmssian war, and
does not fail to stress the similarities be-
tween France then and France today. I
find the historical background pleasing
and the characterisation, particularly in
the opening chapters, is strong enough to
defeat any preconceived notion that the
work might be a mere fancy-dress period-
piece. Anna, the heroine, is a delight-
fully lively creation. One would Call her,
if the word had not gone out of fashion,
a minx. For the sake of his wealth and
position she is quite willing to many the
revolting baron chosen for her by her
father; and, partly to dodge the baron,
partly out of the love of flirting, she is
also quite willing to run away with the
young French cousin who comes to stay
with them in Alsace-Lorraine. The pas-
sages describing her onslaught on the
young man’s affections are frank, realistic,
satirical and amusing enough to have
been written by De Maupassant.”
“I observe,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
your enthusiasm is focused upon the
opening chapters of this novel.”
“I am sorry to say it,” said Mr. Shean,
“but the rest of the book broke my heart.
Here we have a portrait of a woman avid
for adventures ; wilful, unscrupulous,
gay ; she might be going to become a
Carmen. And she does have adventures.
The French cousin is killed ; she marries
a restaurant-keeper ; she leaves him for
an officer ; the officer is killed in a duel
with a profiteer, and Anna goes away
with the victor ; when the profiteer leaves
her, she enters a convent; unhappy there,
she leaves, goes to England and marries
an Englishman. But through all these
adventures she is portrayed as a victim:
weak, drifting, unresponsive, suffering.”
“We have,” said Mr. Gallagher, “a gay
lady who wishes to have many love
affairs having them sadly and unwill-
ingly? Instead of the spectacle of a
warm-hearted Anna dancing along the
road of her destiny, we have a cold-
hearted Anna drifting gloomily to her
doom?”
“We have,” said Mr. Shean. “And it
doesn’t make sense. I can see the gay
Anna of the early chapters very clearly ;
but I cannot see the suffering Anna of
the middle chapters or the decorous Anna
of the happy-ending. What begins as a
coherent study of a character becomes
merely a string of doleful events. Instead
of observing the gaieties of a minx we
are invited to share the sufferings of a
nonentity.”
“If Anna had enjoyed her life,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “she would have been
much too Continental a character to
marry a really nice Englishman in the
last few pages.”
“True,” said Mr. Shean. “Mr. J. B.
Priestley describes this book as having a
full rich flavor ‘like the best mixtures for
pipes ; but you wouldn’t think of saying
that of a story by De Maupassant.”
* * * *
“I observe,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
The Two Saplings concerns two really
nice boys and is built on the assumption
that to demonstrate that England and
America are really nice countries (as un-
doubtedly they are) is to create a work
of art. And I observe that Anna is built
on the assumption that readers like to
know that even a naughty French girl
can become nice enough in the end to
marry a really nice Englishman. I have
come to the conclusion that there is
something radically wrong with novels
that set out to be really nice. I trust
that your third novel, both nationally
and morally, is thoroughly objection-
able?”
“I am sorry to inform you,” replied
Mr. Shean, “that Mr. S. I. Hsiung’s The
Bridge of Heaven (Peter Davies, Ltd.) is
about a really nice Chinese gentleman.”
“Suffering crows!” cried Mr. Gal-
lagher. “Is there no novelist left on earth
who loves a scoundrel? You fill me
with terror lest Tire Bridge of Heaven,
like all the other contemporary Chinese
novels, should contain an enormously
complicated history of the Reform move-
ment in China, the coup d’etat of 1898
and the Revolution of 1911. You appal
me with the thought that this novel, like
all the other contemporary Chinese
novels, should secretly be a tract de-
signed to convince me of something I
have been convinced of for years, the
virtues of the Chinese people and the
excellence of their cause.”
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “I
have a surprise for you. The Bridge of
Heaven, besides being about a really nice
poor scholar, is also about his scoundrelly
brother; and the scoundrelly, miserly
brother is not a villain of propaganda,
but a rich and amusing character por-
trayed, as Lin Yutang might say, with
love and irony. Mr. Hsiung’s gentle
satire is a delight: ‘No adjectives in any
known language are adequate to describe
the happiness of a man who is to become
a father for the first time at the age of
fifty.’ Or there is the neat little tilt at the
Prefect in the following passage:
“ ‘Li Ming stood waiting outside his front
gates for the arrival of the guest of honor.
Making a deep, respectful bow, Li Ming
thanked him for his condescension in com-
ing and apologised for causing him dis-
comfort in this strenuous long journey.
The Prefect merely responded to the salute
slightly and said casually that his sedan-
chair bearers had caused him no special
discomfort.’ ”
“This is actually a detached, ironical
novel about China, concerned not with
propaganda but with oddities and dramas
of character?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“Partly; alas, partly,” said Mr. Shean.
“I must confess that all the interesting
villains die off very early in the piece
and we are left with the really nice Ta
Tung and Lotus Blossom and the com-
plicated story of the Reform movement,
the coup d’itat of 1898 and the Revolu-
tion of 1911.”
“Interesting, I suppose?” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “Informative, important and im-
possible?”
Well, said Mr. Shean, “I know it is
all wrong to read propaganda novels,
and I will grant you that most of the life
goes out of the book when the Reform
movement comes in, but I must admit I
found a certain guilty pleasure in reading
how they plotted in Hong Kong and
made bombs out of kettles. ’ Melons
too.”
“Melons?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“Watermelons,” said Mr. Shean.
“Made into bombs. Very dangerous to
bite. Ting lost three fingers and Sun was
just about blown to smithereens. When
about to eat a watermelon in future,
you would be well advised to make sure
that it is not a bomb. Also when boiling
the kettle,”
“Thank you, Mr. Shean,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “I shall. And lam pleased
to learn that even in a really nice novel
there can be some really nice moments.”
Blitz Report
In spite of almost nightly bombardment,
having to get up early each morning and
set out while it is still dark and occasion-
ally before the All Clear, a certain amount
of ill-health and emotional obsession in my
personal life, and an intense awareness of
the ghastliness of everything around, my
life has been much more happy in the last
few months here than at any other time
elsewhere. I suppose that everyone has
this strong individual life going on inde-
pendently of all outside events.
To the present commentator that is by
far the most interesting paragraph of
Inez Holden’s It Was Different at the
Time (Bodley Head). The bombing of
London, everyone must agree, was one
of the most terrible events that have ever
occurred on this planet. To a woman
especially, one might imagine, it would
be completely intolerable. Yet here is a
Londoner and a woman who saw the
whole thing and —beneath all the horror
—found herself happier than ever be-
fore.
If Inez Holden had set out in this book
always to give an exact account of her
personal emotions during the blitz, it
might have been valuable. But the lady
is chiefly interested in studying other
people along the lines laid down by Mass
Observation. It sounds impressive :
When these sort of instincts [snobbish]
have been talked out, friendships are
formed more in interest groups, or age
groups, but not in class groups at all.
Class consciousness ceases to act as a
reflex action.
It sounds impressive—but all that that
pretentious jargon means is that people
of all classes make friends with each
other when thrown together in war-time.
Mass Observation is the discovery of the
obvious. It is, too, somewhat insulting
to those “observed”: the author forgets,
when she acidly records the “inane con-
versations” of girls about their boy-
friends or colonels about their snooker,
that under those outward events, as under
the vaster events of the blitz, the strong
individual life has its being.
A picture of the war years in London,
It Was Different at the Time can’t help
having its moments of interest. But it
would be much more interesting if mass
observation hadn’t taught the author to
write about human beings as if (not being
Wellsian socialists) they are half-witted
guinea pigs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Looking, at rough guess, about nine
feet high, Edwin Styles inevitably stretched
head and shoulders above the other
members of the cast at Sydney Minerva’s
“The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse.” There
were also a sureness and a polish about
his acting that lifted it above the general
level of this and recent shows. Not that
anyone gave a bad performance; but,
whereas it was easy to believe that
Styles was a doctor turned burglar for
the sake of scientific research, it was diffi-
cult to believe that the amiable A 1
Thomas, “Bunny” Campbell-Gray, Leslie
Victor and Yvonne Banvard were really
a gang of crooks. Harvey Adams worked
harder, and with more success, yet he
makes a better policeman than he did a
blackmailing fence. Even Styles himself,
if one imagines what Charles Laughton
could do with the role of a doctor who
appears sane but is, in fact, mad, might
have been more sinister, and so brought
more tension into the scene where he
murders the blackmailer. If the producer
wished it the play could be made into
something almost as emotionally compel-
ling as “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,”
from which it derives. Muriel Steinbeck,
as the nurse who is forced to watch the
doctor’s journey to disaster, was left
practically alone to imbue the piece with
emotional reality. Her performance was
rich and convincing. Regarded simply
as light entertainment —which is probably
all that was aimed at —the play succeeds
admirably, and is a welcome change
from the preceding series of lively
but somewhat pumped-up Ameriaga
comedies.
With his mother accompanying
the piano and his father assisting in a
string quartet, eight-year-old Melbourne
violinist Desmond Bradley made his
debut as the protege of a trust which in-
cludes some of the leading citizens of
Melbourne. A diminutive figure, with
the self-possession of a virtuoso, his im-
maturity was countered by his*remark-
able dexterity. If his trustees make his
apprenticeship a reserved occupation
from concert-giving for ten years his
unusual talent has a good chance of
coming to rich fruition.
Jenny Howard and Tibby Roberts,
aptly entitled “Two Crazy People,” have
even themselves in hysterics when they
talk in something resembling Scottish in
Sydney Tiv.’s “Red Hot and Blue.”
Frank Brown —the juggler who didn’t—
and Eddie Marcel, unleashing another
batch of his specialised roasters, also help
to make a bright show. The Tiv.’s Red
Indian maidens are at their best in the
ballet “Let’s Go Native.”
At the talkies:
Somerset Maugham dips deeply into the well
of his knowledge of feminine psychology in
“The Moon and Sixpence” (Sydney Century),
and the lilmsmiths have done full justice to
his engaging tale of the middle-aged London
stockbroker who, under an irresistible urge to
paint, cynically abandons wife and children
to go to Paris’s Latin quarter, thence to Tahiti.
George Sanders gets just the right spirit of
airy nonchalance in his delineation of the
painter. Apart from what they say, both
Sanders and Herbert Marshall, the family
acquaintance who tells the story, are worth
listening to merely for the quality of their
spoken English. “Hitler’s Children” (Plaza),
the film version of Gregor Ziemar’s Prepara-
tion for Death, is a propaganda offering, with
some sound acting by Tim Holt and Bonita
Granville and fine character pieces by veteran
H. B. Warner and Otto Kruger. “Somewhere I'll
Find You” (St. James), a wittily-dialogued
newspaper story, done in M.-G.-M.’s most
polished manner, ranges' from Indo-China to
Bataan. Although “Commandos Strike at
Dawn” (State) hasn’t the watertight story that
made “Next of Kin” a film to win Churchill’s
praise, its actual battle sequences, done by
Canadian and British commandos, have the
authentic touch. Paul Muni is convincing as
the Norwegian patriot who guides the British
striking force. The funniest vaudeville turn
seen for a long time occurs in “Star Spangled
Rhythm” (Prince Edward), a sparkling extrava-
ganza with practically every Paramount head-
liner engaged.
The Contemporary Art Society’s show
at the Education Department’s Gallery,
Sydney, is made chiefly interesting by
exhibitors who do not, like the fat boy
in Pickwick, seek to shock and startle and
make people’s flesh creep in the fashion-
able manner but find themselves in the
“modernist” boat by reason of genuine
individuality. Of such are William
Dobell, whose essays in portraiture show
insight and unusual talent; Rah Fizelle,
whose delicate drawings have beauty in
every line; such decorationists as H.
McClintock and such well-equipped
masters as D. Orban, who just occasion-
ally dabbles in the rococo. Clement Ken-
nedy, who tackles a most unusual light
effect in “Major Operation” (a welder
at work in the hull of a torpedoed ship),
can claim to be a modernist not afraid
of a little-used track. James Gleeson,
chief of the nightmarists though he is,
has produced a gem of color in “Galaxy,”
and Walter Placing’s simple poster de-
signs give pleasure. A swarm of imitators
of European poseurs also compete for
attention.
“F.S.”: It is as easy for a young artist
to pick up the fashionable art idioms as
for a person born in Footscray to speak
with a Footscray accent, and his feminine
portraits at Koszminsky Galleries, Mel-
bourne, suggest that Bernard Lawson has
been looking at a lot of “modernist” ex-
hibitions. His landscapes look more
direct and in his drawings he gives a racy
description of the night life of the city.
In his show at Park’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, C. Swinton Diston treads in the
steps of his father, who was a well-known
Melbourne painter, but uses the palette-
knife to get effects which could have been
got more easily with brushwork. Still,
a picture has to be judged by what is
said and not on its method, and Diston
repeats pleasantly enough what has often
been said before about the picturesque
environs of the city. “The Silo, Alphing-
ton,” is one of the nicest.
A show of modern Dutch and Flemish
masters at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, demonstrates that Hals, Hob-
bema, Rubens and even Van Gogh have
more reason to kick holes in their coffins
nowadays than the sad condition of their
country provides. Pick of the bunch is
a really fine snow study by Jan Sluyters.
Savery’s “Flood of the River Leye, ’ a
huge canvas, is depressingly smudgy.
Frieda Tas’s still-life shows the fashion-
able contempt for drawing, perspective
the elementary rules of painting in
■ls. That the art of the little landscape
Survives is proved by examples from the
brushes of P. Gabriel, Theophile de Bock
and Willem de Zwart, who paint almost
as slickly as Ernest Buckmaster does, and
charge about as much for a squaie inch
as the Australian does for a square foot.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING''
"'THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices
BOOKS iA AIRCRAFT TRAINEES MECHANICS
o-t-
-> -v
:c ■%’
r
kr^k
zs
iVf-/'
4
rtxcCi
?K7T
U 1
>jm
rPvQJ
Pin Point the Bomber. By Francis Chichester. THIS GREAT AIR GAME BOOK is in the lorm of a
game and a large map of the territory from Kent to the Rhineland is provided. The player is
given the necessary clues to his position and must tax his skill and ingenuity to deduce from them
exactly where he is, in other words to "pinpoint" his bomber on the map. . The book makes a
perfect present for anyone connected with the R.A.A.F. or A.T.C., whether air crew or student,
and is likely to prove one of the most popular parlour games for all. Price 12/9
Postage, 4£cF.
M?
v3 v
V-?
CO^
M»s**
Y*?
c0 V
The Aeroplane Simply Ex-
plained. Flying Simply Ex-
plained. Gliding and Soaring
Simplv Explained. All by Mal-
colm Logan. Price . . lOd. each
Postage, I'/ad. each.
■
1
•i?
Wm
Aircralt Instruments. By Orion Edward Patton. A book
designed to present a brief, yet overall study of Air-
craft Instruments, their theory, function, and use. Many
diagrams. Price 33/-
Postage, 7i/Sd.
| I
&V-i
lON
.....
iPilif
' iill
The Observer's Book on Astro-Navigation.
By Francis Chichester.
Parts I-111. Price, each volume .... 4/3
Postage, each.
Part IV. Price 7/6
Postage, 2V£d.
Hi
The Observer's Book on Aircraft Instruments. By
W. J. D. Allan. Price 4/3
Postage, 2!/2d.
The Pilot's Book on Elementary Aero-Engines.
By H. C. Russell. Price 4/3
Postage, 2 ! /2d.
The Air Cadets' Handbook on Engine Mechanics.
By W. D. Arnof. Price 3/4
Postage, 2V2d.
The Air Cadets' Handbook on How an Aeroplane
Flies. By C. G. Grey. Price 3/4
Postage, 2V2d.
The Air Cadets' Handbook on How to Pilot an
Aeroplane. By Capt. Norman Macmillan. 4/3
Postage, SVzd.
The Air Crew's Book of Practical Mathematics.
By P. H. Robinson. Price 5/9
Postage, 2%d.
The Ground Engineer's Manual. By A. C. Robin-
son. Written in the form of question and answer,
and illustrated with helpful diagrams, this book
has been specially designed to assist the student
and practical man in the study of aircraft engi-
neering. Price 4/6
Postage, 3Vfcd.
Air Training Mathematics. By I. R. Vesselo. lOd.
Postage, IV^d.
O Boof{ Department —Second Floor.
M life
if
PM
Won
Sf>
Teach Yourself Air Naviga-
tion. By "Kaspar." An intro-
ductory book to the subject
of Air Navigation, from
which students or other
interested persons may learn
the fundamental principles.
Price 47-
Postage, 3 1 /zd.
■ ■■. I lip I
fa y /
1111 ii
'
11111(1“
liiiiii
ms
mm
Mi-V
Aeroplanes in Detail. By I. H. Clark. From the original
drawings, showing in clear form the constructional
detail of all the leading British and German aeroplanes,
together with some American. Price 4/3
Postage, 2Vzd.
AN WO NY ■HORDERNS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.


CHARLIE’S BAD LUCK
By MYRA MORRIS.
house, hidden from
the road by a little
forest of dark-green
orange-trees, was small and poky and
flagged, as a rule, with odd bits of hes-
sian that wore a queer, sly air of inde-
cency, like petticoats showing.
It was the orange-trees, Charlie Noonan
told me, that made him buy the property
in the first place. But he was unlucky
about the oranges. They were old, worn
trees, like most of their kind in the White-
bridge district, and their day was done.
People had given up citrus in favor of
the stone fruits that were in constant
demand at the township cannery.
“ ’Struth,” Charlie would lament, “if
1 had’ve bought an orchard of canning
peaches then it would have been oranges
in fashion! It’s just me bad luck.”
Charlie was a tall, lean man with black
tufty eyebrows and the patient, glazed
eyes of a cow. You felt that in youth he
had sported a drooping moustache which
by rights he should never have shaved.
The ill-luck of the Noonans was a sort
of legend in the district. People called
them the “Hard-luck Noonans.” Charlie
was unlucky even in his offspring, having
been blessed with four daughters.
“Four daughters to a man scratching
a living off of the land,” he was fond of
saying. “Anybody else ’ud have had four
great sons to take a hand with the plough-
ing an’ all.”
And not only was it a family too femi-
nine in its kind ; it was a family badly-
spaced, with two buxom young ladies
at one end, and at the other two freckled
kids who attended school and cheeked
their mother in and out of season. We
were sorry for the Noonans in those days.
Things happened to them. Their cows
got into the lucerne patch, swelled up
like poisoned fish and died. Charlie
bought a grand dinner-suit (second-hand)
for the Irrigators’ Ball, and it so hap-
pened there wasn’t an Irrigators’ Ball at
all, and he was left with the suit on his
hands. It was about then that the hail-
storm happened, and it was hail to re-
member. Sharp-pointed, knifelike hail
slanting and dancing across the orchards
and pitting the young apricots so that
they would be unfit for cannery use.
Throughout the settlement people
looked at each other, winked and sat
comfortably in their chairs. An act of
God. There was nothing to be done;
and, if their crops were ruined, the in-
surance bloke would come up from Mel-
bourne and hand them out substantial
compensation. No one minded hail ! No
one but the Noonans, who, for the first
time since their apricots had reached
bearing-stage, had forgotten to pay the
insurance money.
“It was because of Mum’s new teeth,”
Eily, the eldest daughter, told me in a
whisper as the hail beat a rat-a-tat-tat on
the schoolhouse roof. “Dadda let it go
on account of the dentist. It’s just our
rotten luck.”
Lots of people might have called it
carelessness, but we were not like that
on the settlement, and we all felt miser-
able for days with everybody talking
about Charlie Noonan’s bad luck, and
the two kids at school sniffing into hand-
kerchiefs that had been made from the
tail of Charlie’s shirt. In the end we
had a handout and collected thirty
pounds. Charlie, who had no false pride,
took it with tears in his eyes. It would,
he said in a broken voice, get him over
a bad patch, and God would repay us
even if he couldn’t.
TO show his gratitude, Charlie spent
most of the money on a second-hand
piano and food and drink. Then he in-
vited us all along to the party.
The party went well for a start, but it
sort of fizzled after a bit, for there was
the piano standing in the middle of the
room with its lid up and its keyboard
looking like a mouth fitted with nice new
teeth —but no one could play a note!
“What, none of you able to play a
bit of a tune!” roared Charlie. “Spare
me days, what the hell can you do? And
me after paying twenty-five pounds down
for the piano at Whittaker’s sale!”
It was hard luck, all right. We stood
around, sheepishly rubbing our hands (it
was very cold, for they had broken a
pane of the window getting the piano in
and burst the door off its hinges) and
staring hard at the black and white notes.
I felt guilty, remembering the times when
I had as a kid stayed out and played
instead of going to Miss Davis, the music-
teacher.
“Poor Dadda,” Eily said afterwards.
“He’s never had a chance. Everything’s
gone wrong on him!”
It looked like that certainly, and one
and all we were glad when Charlie
Noonan a few weeks later won a hamper
in a sixpenny raffle. When the raffle was
drawn by Joe Myles, the undertaker, at
the back of Connell’s shop in White-
bridge, everybody cheered. It was a good
hamper. There was a dressed turkey in
it, a bottle of fizz, a plum pudding and
Lord knows what-all! Charlie drove into
the township to get it in the rattly Ford.
His luck, he told us with his sad brown
eyes moist and shining, his luck had
turned at last.
But it was a funny sort of luck. Driv-
ing home with the hamper set proudly
on the back seat of the car, Charlie found
himself stuck in the dead middle of the
railway line just out of Whitebridge, with
a goods train coming slowly at him. It
was a bad moment, but Charlie had
almost got out of it when the back of
the car was struck.
Not so much a blow as a gentle sort
of push, Charlie told us afterwards,
excitedly. “A gentle push in the pants
like. But it stove the back of me bus
in and busted me hamper up for good.
I’ll have the railways up for damages.”
It was a shame, all right—a man to
lose his winnings that silly way through
no fault of his own. “It’s a curse on me,”
moaned Charlie, and everyone said it
looked like that, and he wasn’t to dream
of paying for drinks.
Charlie gave up talking of the ill-fated
raffle, but he couldn’t quite forget it. He
began to look fagged out, and the hot
weather coming in early seemed to be
playing up with him. One day he came
in from the orchard and fell down on
the floor in a sort of faint, which the
doctor from Whitebridge called a heart
attack.
“He’s never been ill in all his life
before,” wept Eily on little Mrs. Noonan’s
shoulder. “It’s just our luck —us think-
ing him a strong man when he isn’t strong
at all.”
HP HERE was no doubt about it. Charlie
I Noonan was gravely ill, and Mrs.
Noonan and the girls took turns in nurs-
ing him, going about with tight lips and
streaming eyes. There were two awful
days when he lay sunk in a coma, and
the sound of the sparrows quarrelling
outside in the orange-trees seemed to be
right there in the centre of the hot little
bedroom.
“It’s the end,” the doctor said. “Any
hour now. You’ve got to be prepared.”
Eily, her sister Kate and Mrs. Noonan
put the best face on it and worked in
the house to keep their minds off what
was happening. The ’phone went all day
long, and people called, shuffling their
feet on the bricks at the back door. Kate,
a big managing girl, had a word on the
’phone with Joe Myles, the undertaker,
who had rung up apologetically to ask
after his friend.
“Purely in a friendly way,” Kate told
us later with brimming eyes ; “but I felt
it my duty to get down to business. Now
Dadda’s gone, I’ve got to be the prac-
tical one. Everything’s arranged. ‘To-
morrow,’ I told him. And I’ve rung the
florist’s”
She had thought
of everything. You
couldn’t help but ad-
mire Katie. There were
people on the settle-
ment who had dared to
say that the Noonans were not good
managers. I thought of these now.
For want of something to do, I helped
Eily clean out the back rubbish room
that had been used by Charlie as an
“office.” Old, yellowed papers, folders,
circulars tied up with string were there,
a pack of grimy playing cards. We
made bundles of them and thrust them
deep into the fire of the kitchen stove.
Next morning Eily came running to
me, her broad, freckled face shining with
joy.
“Dadda’s better!” she shrieked. “He’s
sitting up. He’s talking! ”
It was true. Charlie Noonan had come
out of his coma. The doctor from White-
bridge looked almost disapproving.
Charlie had done what no one could have
expected him to do. He was alive when
by rights he should have been dead. He
could count on making a good recovery.
In a few days Charlie was as good as
gold, sitting on the end of the verandah
with a frayed bit of hessian flapping
behind him. Good old Charlie, back
from the dead.
“Yes, back from the dead,” he told
me, with his dark eyes mournful. “But
what do I find? All me treasures burnt
before the breath was out of me body!
There’s a pack of cards I carried round
fourteen year. I like looking at them. I
won twenty pound at poker with them
playing a man in the train. The only
luck I ever had in my life. And now, to
come back and find ’em gone! It’s tough
luck on a fellow, I’m fellin’ you.”
Yes, it was tough luck all right!
BOATWORK
By JOHN STUBBS.
THE launch lay
alongside the
landing, her big
diesel grumbling
quietly to itself. To
the south the vivid
blue bay lay white-streaked under the
hard summer gale. The launch rose and
fell in the lee of the pier to the strong
southerly chop, sometimes giving the land-
ing a friendly nudge and squeezing a
protesting squeak from the rope fenders.
On the landing was a pile of stores for
the Greek steamer lying in the bay. The
two men who formed the crew of the
launch eyed this pile with great disfavor.
There were cabbages in ramshackle cases,
potatoes in doubtful-looking sacks, bread
and meat in ungainly cheesecloth
bundles. Heedless of the blasphemous
protests of generations of boatmen,
providores still sent down their stores
like that. An evil genius could scarcely
devise a more unhandy way of packing
stores that more often than not had to go
up a ship’s side on the end of a Tope.
The men set about loading the stores.
Last of all were two huge stone bottles
of wine in wicker baskets. They joked
about these in the cheerful, tolerant sort
of humor always evoked by liquor in
bulk.
“Them Greeks certainly go for the
bombo! ”
When all the stuff was loaded the older
of the two men went to the wheel and
the younger man lifted the headline from
its bollard and slung it on to the deck.
The diesel’s grumble changed to a dull
roar, a flurry of white water appeared
under the stern and the launch began to
back away. As she came astern the
younger man, still on the landing, coiled
the dripping sternline in his hands and
swung himself casually aboard as she
passed. She rounded up and he moved
forward, flipping the fenders inboard to
keep down the spray.
As they cleared the pier they met the
long, steep seas rolling up clear from the
heads, and the launch drove deeply into
them, bursting through and throwing her
streaming bows high. Sometimes the
helmsman would see a big one coming
and ease back the throttle to avoid tak-
ing heavy water aboard. The younger
man stood in the open cockpit aft, feel-
ing with a keen, conscious pleasure the
short shift and slide of the deck under
his feet and the salty bite of the wind
through his spray-drenched shirt.
It was Saturday afternoon, and the
older man wished he was at the cricket.
The younger man, who was an incur-
able romantic, and in his franker moments
admitted it, wished he was on the bridge
of a 10,000-tonner. As the fifty-foot
launch bore more resemblance to a
10,000-tonner than she did to the local
cricket-ground, he was the more content
of the two.
In half an hour they were near the
Greek, and as they swept round to come
alongside the younger man eyed her
critically. She pleased him. She had
the clean, unencumbered lines of the
modern freighter—a high, raking stem,
sweeping aft to a slim, fast-looking stern,
and a clean, rounded bridge structure
free of angles and square corners. He
hoped her skipper appreciated her. He
thought of some of the ships the Greeks
used to send to sea. The boatmen used
to say that if you didn’t go alongside
them gently you were likely to find your-
self in the hold, launch and all.
It looked like being a touchy job. The
ship was riding high and yawing about
all over the place, with big seas boiling
along her sides. Sometimes you could
kid a skipper to send a man to the bridge
to put the wheel over one way or the
other and so give you a bit of a lee, but
most of them wouldn’t bother. Usually
it wasn’t worth the shouting and argu-
ment involved, and you just went in and
relied on your boatwork.
THE launch came in slowly at a slight
angle, and the younger man went for-
ward to pick up the boatrope. The
helmsman gave her a kick astern and
watched for the pitch of the screw to
throw her head up into position. After
years at the game he still felt satisfaction
at the response of a well-handled boat.
The man in the bows, flat on his face on
the tiny foredeck, leant overboard, picked
up the boatrope and caught a quick turn
on the bitts. They’d gone rather too far
ahead, and he slacked away, letting the
launch run back on the crest of a sea,
snubbing her and making fast when she
was in position.
As he moved aft, a carelessly-flung
rope from the ship’s deck hit him. The
heavy knotted end caught him a stinging
belt on the ear and the coils fell over
his shoulders, trussing him like a fowl.
His mate leant from the cabin window
and snarled up to the deck “Have an-
other shot —y’ only wounded him!” The
rope-thrower, registering contrition, flung
another with greater care, the wet coils
falling with a dull thump on the deck.
The men set about sending up the
stores, working with a quick dexterity,
looping and knotting deftly, braced easily
against the fantastic gyrations of the
launch. The Greek’s crew, time heavy
on their hands, lined the rail to watch
the fun —a swarthy, picturesque mobJ
looking like Hollywood pirates. A flimsy!
case on its way aloft crashed against
the ship’s side, raining cabbages into the
drink, and a roar of appreciative laughter
came down from the deck.
Finally the wine started its perilous
ascent and a grim change came over the
watching crew. Twenty pairs of eyes fol-
lowed each wild swing
of the basket. Once it
bumped hard, and
twenty long - held
breaths were expelled
in a gasp of horror.
At last it came safely over the rail and
dawn'broke again on twenty set faces.
The younger man went to the wheel
for the run home. He pulled the clutch
in, easing the boat ahead to take the
strain off the rope. When they were
clear he pushed the throttle forward, spin-
ning the wheel hard down to line her up
on the pier. Above all, he liked this run-
ning with a big following sea. Never
did a boat seem more alive—the swift,
surging rush down the face of a sea ;
the heavy, dragging feeling as the sea
passed underneath ; then that breath-tak-
ing, urgent rush again as the next sea
picked her up. Kept you busy with the
wheel, too, because she sheered like the
devil if you didn’t watch her, trying
always to broach to and offer her broad-
side to the next sea.
Presently they neared the landing, and
he looked forward to the little trial of
skill involved in picking up the moorings,
which were on a wing of the pier oppo-
site the landing. It wasn’t really easy in
a wind. You had to shave the landing
and bring her round in a tight circle to
the moorings. If you made your turn
too soon, you overshot and had to back
down. If you made it too late, she
wouldn’t come round in the space, and
the wind and sea would hold her broad-
side against the piling until she’d pounded
herself to pieces.
He eased the throttle right back and
idled into the landing, running alongside
a couple of feet off to allow for the out-
ward swing of the stern when he made
his turn. Judging it to a hair, he spun
the wheel, jerking the throttle wide open
to kick her round, then a light touch
astern to check her and she rode lightly
to the swell, exactly in position. His
mate grinned at him appreciatively—
“ Sweet as a nut.”
He felt a warm glow of satisfaction as
he cut the pump and the engine died
with a low mumbling in its throat.
To Doubtful Debtors.
It is too much to be remembering.
Always to be remembering that we.
Going about our business prosperously
As we were used, and sensitive to sting
And more to pinprick, we who fondly cling
every privilege of our lost peace,
!■*- debtors to the dead, and buy our lease
Hpquiet with men’s blood and wearying.
It is the way of madness, so to be.
Always to be remembering the debt
(The dead being voiceless and the living proud),
Yet, gratitude being cold, shall justice sec
The coward in us longing to forget,
Nor shame us into courage, crying loud?
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3309.
Wednesday, July 14, 1943.
SAVED BY “BRITISH IMPERIALISTS.”
“Pleading privilege under the Bill of Rights, which settled the Crown on William and Mary (1689), Mr. Ward refused to give evidence at the inquiry into his missing-
document lie.”
“You can’t touch me, see!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp,
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London; I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WHOPPERS TODAY!
“....The great masses of a people may be
more corrupt in the bottom of their hearts
than they will be consciously and intentionally
bad, therefore with the primitive simplicity of
their minds they will more easily fall victims to
a great lie than to a small one.” —Mein Kampf.
Evidently Hitler is not the only believer
in this dogma on lying. The Common-
wealth elections may go through with-
out one notorious disciple in the art
accusing a previous Government of hand-
ing an A.I.F. division over to the Japs,
but if they do it will be either a miracle
or an oversight. As it is, Hitler could
not look on some of the early electioneer-
ing without approval and admiration. If
the R.A.F. and the invasion threat gave
him the time for it, he could relish the
spectacle of a party so taken with his
poor view of the people at large that it
proposes and hopes to win the elections
on a string of lies, direct and indirect,
but nonetheless lies: —
(1) The Brisbane Lie. The notion with
this fabrication is that the people in
general will infer that previous Govern-
ments approved of plans for handing
over to the Japs, “without firing a shot,”
the whole of Australia north of a line
cutting across the continent from Bris-
bane west. People in the mass have had
some insults thrown at them at times, but
they have hardly ever been asked to
stomach a greater insult to their intelli-
gence than this one. Even those gullible
enough to have given some credence to
the lie when it was first launched must
know the facts by now. Fact (a): No
such plan was ever considered by the
accused “previous Governments.” Fact
( b ): A plan for defending Australia, if
necessary, on a strategic line somewhere
north of Brisbane was submitted to the
Curtin Government. Fact (c): In the
face of the then existing circumstances
the preparation of such a plan was a
military imperative. Fact ( d ): It would
be a damning criticism, of the military
leaders if advance plans were not made
for any imaginable eventualities.
All of which puts this lie in the direct
class, the ingredient “without firing a
shot” putting it in a class with Hitler's
biggest.
(2) The “Defeatist in Outlook and
Preparation” Whopper. Here the notion
is that a supposedly gullible public will
infer that the accused “previous Govern-
ments” regarded the war as lost and
therefore did nothing towards winning
it. The facts to the contrary are legion.
Because of previous defence neglect—for
which the accusing side was chiefly and
brazenly responsible—the first of the
“previous Governments” had to begin
building up a defence establishment from
a standing start. When war came it had,
in limited time, to organise in every field
of military effort. It had to conjure up the
beginnings of an army, and that it did,
despite the most strenuous efforts of the
then (Labor) Opposition —the present
accusing party! Though not quite as
swiftly as Labor as a Government had
earlier suspended compulsory training—
the start of the rot in Australian defence
—the Menzies Government reintroduced
compulsion. It formed — once more,
against strenuous Labor Opposition
efforts—the new A.I.F. ; and it began
the production of munitions and other
war requirements.
In the time at its disposal that one of
the two accused “previous Governments”
did well. Instead of attempting to dis-
credit it—asking a supposedly gullible
public to believe that it did worse than
nothing—the accusers, pedlars of this
crude falsification of fact for election
purposes, should be humbly grateful for
predecessors that made every single bit
of their own achievement possible. The
country should be grateful, too; and
unless there is something in the dogma
that people at large are utter mugs, what
the Americans call “suckers/’ for any lie
that is big enough, some of that grati-
tude may shortly be set down on voting
papers.
(3) The “We, Your Sole Saviours”
Whopper. The facts regarding this one
are plentiful, too. As well as those
answering the “Defeatist in Oatlook and
Preparation” Whopper, all of which
apply here in reverse, the main fact about
the “sole saviours” is that everything
they have done in the way of defence
measures has been done under the direct
pressure of events, and, anyhow, has
been only what any other representative
body of Australians would have done.
Against this achievement, which is the
one they brag about and the one for
which they seek special kudos from the
supposedly gullible, must be set their
acts of omission and commission—in
respect of strikes, militia limitation and
so forth —of which another body of men
would not have been guilty.
With all these whoppers runs the pre-
sumption that the people at large are
infantile in their gullibility. Despite
Hitler and eminent disciples to the con-
trary, that presumption might prove as
false as the falsehoods it has inspired. At
least, that should hold good for the crude
falsifications here listed. These crudities,
however, have been buttressed with a
line of appeal much more subtle. In the
nature of a promise—in an election in
which the usual vote-catching promises
are necessarily at a discount —it is a
whopper of its sort. Not directly stated,
it is a return to the former false optimism
which, before the event, labelled the Japs
anybody’s “pushover.” From the mood
of squealing, despairing pessimism which
prevailed up to little more than two
months back, there has been a change to
equally unconvincing optimism.
The purpose is plain. It stems from
the “We, Your Sole Saviours” Whopper.
A really conclusive victory over the Japs
would have served the purpose well.
Lacking that —or anything approaching
it —the people at large are told (a) that
there is no longer any danger of inva-
sion ; ( b ) that fighting the Japs is now
just a football match “in which the
United Nations have kicked off after the
interval, and are going to carry the ball
into enemy territory for a smashing
victory.” The subtlety in this extra-
ordinary changeover from abysmal
gloom to jocular levity is that people
gullible enough to accept it may credit
the moody acrobats with somehow having
brought about the miraculous change. In
that event there would naturally follow
a reaction of gratitude, since the infer-
ences to be drawn from the new access
of optimism are the ones that all in their
hearts wish to draw. Everybody hated
to believe that things were as black and
dreadful as the now happy optimists were
insisting a month or so back. Everybody
would like to believe that —through some
miracle mysteriously and secretly per-
formed —everything is now as bright as
the late jeremiahs gaily and daily insist.
The former black pessimism reached
its crescendo in May. Then, right out of
the blue, came the “no-invasion” pro-
nouncement a couple of weeks ago, with
the “football match” vision to follow. It
is certain that the later mood will pro-
duce as sarcastic comment in America
as the pessimism hysterics did. One
American comment on the gloom days:
Asked to comment on this [the then sud-
denly invoked spectre of 200,000 Japs
massing ready to invade Australia], Secre-
tary Knox observed that there is no indica-
tion that the enemy has gathered the mass
of shipping which would be necessary for
an immediate assault. This, cabled back to
Australia, was promptly followed by the
solemn warnings which Prime Minister
Curtin never fails to produce at the slightest
opportunity.
If there is anything more in the change-
over to buoyant optimism than an
attempt to win votes from the gullible
with a rose-tinted cloudy promise in lieu
of a resounding victory, then that N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” rebuke of what it
further described as “jittery” would seem
to have been well justified. Other Ameri-
can papers will surely describe the new
optimism as election-stunting folly, as
thinking Australians have already classi-
fied it. Unless some colossal victory over
the Japs is being kept dark, there is no
warrant whatever for such optimism.
Apart from some island specks, nothing
has been taken from the Japs. They
still hold all their vast major conquests.
Their Navy has been damaged, but it is
still almost as good as intact. Where
they count their armed forces in millions,
they have lost merely a few thousands.
Even when, after the still tremendous
job of beating Hitler has been done, the
full British-American force may be turned
against the Japs, complete victory may
still be far off. That the Japs will be
beaten eventually nobody doubts, but,
with their record to go on, it must be a
wild, not to say foolish, optimist who can
expect that beating them will be other
than hard and bloody, with the inevitable
setbacks of war along the way, and ter-
rible casualties. Only most desperate
bidding for votes could lead to that pros-
pect being represented as a mere sporting
event, with all over bar the shouting.
The twist from the Whopper of Imme-
diately Impending Invasion to the
Whopper of There Go the Japs, See How
They Run! indicates something else be-
sides an outrageously insulting idea of
public credulity. It indicates a funda-
mental lack of political principle in its
perpetrators. It is twisting worthy of
Corns., who have no shame whatever
about either lying or twisting as a matter
of policy. The widespread suspicion
that the black gloom was inspired by
the necessity of filling a loan has its
counterpart in the equally widespread
suspicion that the new optimism is no-
thing more nor less than a vote-catching
stunt, with a reckless disregard for such
consequences as the depression that natu-
rally would follow any major setback. It
will be time for wild whooping when the
Japs are on the run, when they have suf-
fered a major defeat, when Borneo and
Burma and Malaya and the Dutch East
Indies and China and the Philippines,
with the scores of powerful island
fortresses, have been taken. Till then,
treating the Japs as a prospective push-
over is as dangerous as it is ridiculous.
Rocks All the Way.
It is a reproach to this country that one
of its ablest sons should be the victim of
a fierce, unreasoning campaign which
never ceases. Other Australian public
men have had to contend with the malice
and uncharitableness of political oppo-
nents. Since the Commonwealth was
established none has been pursued by so
many enemies as have combined in a
bitter and incongruous band to bait
Robert Gordon Menzies and drive him
out of politics —if they can.
Envy, a vice of Dominions as well as
republics, is one of the ingredients of
the current hostility to this man.
A very low form of provincialism,
it has spared few Australians who have
risen to eminence, not even Melba.
There are people so constituted that
superior talents annoy them. If they
were real democrats, as no doubt they
profess to be, they would rejoice that
such a career as that of Mr. Menzies
should be possible in Australia.
He has owed nothing to fortune or
influence. A country boy, born in a
modest home, he was grounded in a Gov-
ernment school, and his progress to the
University and the Bar was of the Spartan
kind, marked by scholarships and family
sacrifices. While still young he was
earning a princely income as a Mel-
bourne barrister. He gave up most of it
to enter public life, and there he has
kept his hands clean. Though his
enemies have said almost everything else
about him, not one of them has had the
hardihood to suggest that he is person-
ally corrupt or has surrounded himself
with corrupt or dubious men.
But from his prentice days as a poli-
tician he has been taunted with cowardice
because he didn’t go to the last war. The
gibe has been flung at him on the hustings,
in newspapers and in Parliament itself,
but he has always disdained to
answer it. The fact is that his elder
brothers enlisted in the A.I.F. and stipu-
lated that their young brother should
remain behind, so that if they fell the
name might be carried on by the
hope of the family. Thousands of
such domestic arrangements were made in
Australia during those years, and objec-
tion to young brothers being forced into
the colors accounted for much of the
Digger vote against conscription, which,
though not a majority in 1916 or in 1917,
was on each occasion very large. Dr.
Evatt, whose career has run on much the
same lines as that of Mr. Menzies —he
is eight months older —was no doubt an
unwilling party to another of these family
compacts.
There is no record of Dr. Evatt’s hav-
ing ever been asked in public or in print
why he didn’t go to the last war. His
brother, the Sydney Minister of Education,
graduated from Duntroon in 1921 with
the King’s Medal, but no one ever asks
him why he isn’t at this war. All the
dirt is reserved for Mr. Menzies. That
he lacks neither physical nor moral cour-
age was shown when he went alone to
an open-air meeting and faced a shout-
ing mob of N.S.W. coal strikers, stand-
ing up against a barrage of objurgation
which no newspaper could print.
Of course, the vilest attacks on Mr.
Menzies have come from Communists.
It was they who worked up the water-
side strike at Port Kembla which took
in bishops and other credulous persons
of both sexes and prompted even a
former Governor-General to liken the
strikers to the Men of Eureka. Their
strike was aimed at the Japanese in the
alleged interests of the Chinese. The
gang that whipped it up has now com-
pletely forgotten the Chinese and invents
all sorts of excuses for the Russian peace
(expressed in neutrality and fisheries
agreements) with the enemy installed on
Australian territory, while yelping for
an invasion of Europe which would cost
Britain, now nearing the end of its fourtlij
year of war, rivers of its best blood. ™
“Pig-iron Menzies” Communists called
him, and the term has been repeated a
thousand times by knaves and fools. It
is hurled at the member for Kooyong
wherever he goes. These particular
enemies speak with so many voices
that it would be impossible for any
one man to answer them all; but
once in a broadcast speech Mr. Menzies
presented the sober facts of the transac-
tions with Japan and justified his Gov-
ernment’s refusal to give that country a
casus belli to oblige non-starter Commu-
nists.
So far from the Menzies Government
being a “Pig-iron for Japan” Government
the records show that during my term ot
office, from April, 1939, to August, 1941,
no pig-iron or iron ore was exported to
Japan, and exports of steel did not reach
50 tons. True, there was 170,000 tons
of scrap-iron, but in 1939 alone the United
States exported to Japan 2,000,000 tons of
scrap-iron and the like. At the same time
we were importing from Japan substantial
numbers of lathes, grinding machines and
other tools of high quality, badly needed
for our own munitions programme.
Evidence of this was given only last
month by John Hetherington, the war
correspondent, back with the Ninth Divi-
sion. Visiting South Australia on a tour
of inspection of the wonderful arms fac-
tories and shipyards that arose in that
State (part of great decentralisation-of-
industry measures from which inland
Australia will derive enduring benefit)
when Mr. Menzies was Prime Min-
ister, Mr. Hetherington was shown a
lathe, “one of twelve imported from
Japan just before the outbreak of war,”
which have “turned barrels for many
guns that Australian troops have used in
the fight against Japan.” He was told
also of German machines, ordered for
the Australian Government and sent in
the last ship to leave Hamburg for Aus-
tralia, which “have served as the proto-
types of machines now in use in many
Australian arms factories.”
Continuing, Mr. Menzies said that dur-
ing his term Australia had exported to
Japan wool valued at £8,000,000 and
wheat valued at £1,700,000. Though it
stood to reason that some of the wool
had gone to the making of military uni-
forms and that in one form or other some
of the wheat had passed through soldiers’
digestive systems, “about these items I
have heard no complaint.” He pointed
out that when the crisis was working up
Australia had an understanding with the
other parts of the British Commonwealth
and the United States in respect of trade
and financial policy towards Japan, and
that by a lone-hand embargo on exports
of materials capable of military use “we
might very well have provoked this war
with Japan at a much earlier date than
December, 1941.” To those whose minds
are open to conviction, altogether con-
vincing.
Already exposed to the fury of Com-
munists, Mr. Menzies became the centre
of their concentration of hate when —
like that other war Prime Minister, Mr.
Mackenzie King, of Canada —he put their
organisations and publications under a
legal ban. If he had not done so he
would have been false to his trust, for
after the Ribbentrop-Molotov agreement
and the Russian invasion of Poland Com-
munists became internal enemies of the
most dangerous . description. Having
begun with blatant opposition to the
national register and to compulsory mili-
tary service for home defence, they en-
gaged in a vile conspiracy against the
war and the nation, corrupting unions
and labor organisations, fomenting strikes
in war factories, forming cells in mili-
tary camps and issuing a flood of revolu-
tionary and peace-with-Hitler propaganda
from secret printing presses.
One of the printing hideouts was
raided, and the controllers received a
very light sentence, being then interned
on their refusing to give guarantees for
the abandonment of revolutionary and
peace-by-backdown propaganda. Labor,
coming into office, set them free im-
mediately and removed the Menzies
ban on Communist organisations and
publications. Straightway Communists
resumed their efforts to gain control of
“the movement,” and they have so far
succeeded that they are bringing off im-
mense amalgamations of trade-unions
without ballots of the members, have
captured control of the Sydney Labor
Council, have had the A.C.T.U. head-
quarters shifted to their headquarters,
Sydney, and have made the landscape
hideous with posters bespeaking support
for the United Front and Curtin Labor,
the implication being that the complete
surrender of Curtin Labor is only a
matter of time. As for strikes, there are
more than ever —350 in 1940, 567 in
1941, 602 in 1942 (the year of Curtin
Labor and the Japanese threat of inva-
sion) and upwards of 200 in the first
quarter of 1943. Yet the Curtin Labor
excuse for legalising the Communist con-
spiracy was that Communist influence
would be thrown against strikes.
Partly because he is a foundation
-member of the newspapermen’s union
|fnd is hail-fellow-well-met with all the
’members he meets, Mr. Curtin has
a marvellous “press.” Even in papers
which are supposed to be against
his party he receives the most
flowery compliments, being credited with
oratory which sways multitudes, with
being “the greatest living Parliamen-
tarian,” and, of course, with being a per-
fect wonder at winning general elections


[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of 252 Gcorge-street, Sydney, take the
responsibility.]
—though he has never won any yet, and
in 1940 was nearly defeated in Fre-
mantle for the third time in 15 years.
Mr. Menzies, with none of the senti-
mental associations which endear Mr.
Curtin to his brothers of the fountain-
pen, and with a different brand of politics
from most of them (there is a nasty Mos-
cowmaniac element, especially in Sydney),
has a very bad “press.” He has never
cultivated the art of pleasing newspaper-
men, whether bright young things who
laud Labor Ministers and sneer at Oppo-
sition ex-Ministers in so-called “capital-
istic” papers or ambitious gentlemen
higher up who have tried to be poli-
tical king-makers. So, though he has
greater drawing-power than any other
Australian public speaker and his radio
addresses are the only ones here given
which can be compared with those of
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt, he is
for the most part reported scrappily, his
best things omitted, or ignored. And with
some political writers on “capitalistic”
papers, one in particular, it has become
a pastime to gird at him.
No doubt some of the feeling against
Mr. Menzies derives from the old pre-
judice against Melbourne and Melbourne
men —the parochialism, by no means con-
fined to Sydney, which lingers on ab-
surdly from the colonial days. But from
whatever source it springs, leaving Com-
munist mud-geysers out of the argu-
ment, it is gross and contemptible, and
should be abandoned once and for all.
In candid moments Labor members them-
selves confess that they admire Mr. Men-
zies, and they listen to him with great
attention. Many of the envenomed shafts
fired at him come from his own side. Yet
even persons who .stoop to envy and spite
should be capable of recognising that
Australia never stood in greater need of
brains and character in its Parliament,
and that the need will grow as the prob-
lems of peace come up for solution, that
of White Australia especially. And brains
and character Mr. Menzies certainly
possesses.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Very Bad, Eddie!
In the days of Sydney larrikin “pushes”
there were two precepts which larrikins
were expected to obey, on pain of being
expelled from the “push” with fists, feet
and road metal; and in Sydney poli-
tical and trade-union reincarnations of
“pushes” these commandments have been
taken over, though the punishment may
not be quite the same. One is “You
mustn’t ‘squib it,’ ” the other “You
mustn’t ‘squeal.’ ”
Called upon to prove his charge, made
by way of bolstering up his Brisbane Line
lie, that “one important report is now
missing from the official files,” Mr.
Ward “squibbed it” in the most igno-
minious fashion. It thereupon became
necessary for him to plead that he did
not “squeal” by revealing the name of
the person, if any, who “most reliably
informed him” that the “important
report” was “missing from the official
files,” and that “this earlier [Brisbane
Line] plan was submitted while Mr.
Spender was Minister for Defence.” This
may go down with his mob, but it won’t
go down with the nation.
When a royal commission was asked for
Mr. Ward did not object, nor, of course,
did Mr. Curtin. That gentleman said it
was his attitude, and would be that of
any Prime Minister, that “any inquiry
sought representatively by the Opposition
on a matter affecting a Minister or the
administration of a Minister” must be
“instituted.” Mr. Ward’s complaint was
against the terms of reference to the
commission, which, he protested, didn’t
go far enough. He had “asked for the
fullest inquiry long before the matter was
raised in Parliament” ; and he taunted
“the gentlemen opposite” with being
“afraid of a complete and open inquiry.”
Since “every member in this House knows
that the Prime Minister and myself have
both said here that we are now satisfied
that no statement is missing from the
official files” (in other words, that he had
lied like a redshank), “an inquiry con-
fined to that one sentence, T am most
reliably informed that one important
report is now missing,’ would not satisfy
the public demand.”
But already his courage, if any, was
oozing out of him. Suspended from his
post “until such time as the report of
the commission is tabled in this Parlia-
ment” (which may now be interpreted to
mean the next Parliament) and retired to
a back bench, he heard the Prime Min-
ister say coldly that “I have never at any
time had any doubt about the files
complete,” and that, while the missing-
document charge was a proper subject
for inquiry by royal commission, “the
general question of the defence policy of
this country is one for the Parliament
and the people and not for a judicial
inquiry.” But he also heard Mr. Maurice
Blackburn, that Don Quixote of debate,
invoke the Bill of Rights to prove that he
could not be brought to book by an
extra-Parliamentary tribunal on the
score of statements made in Parliament,
and in his misery he was miserably com-
forted.
So, instead of presenting himself as a
witness at the inquiry, he claimed privi-
lege. The claim was upheld by Justice
Lowe in respect of three of the four
terms of reference (“the most reliably
informed” assertion, the question whether
the Minister was informed, and, if so,
particulars of the information given and
the persons, circumstances and reason),
his Honor stating that “Section 49 of
the Constitution Act provides that the
powers and privileges of Senators and
Ms.H.R. are the same as those of Com-
moners at the establishment of the Com-
monwealth” ; but he ruled that he had
authority to hear evidence about asper-
sions cast on a “third person outside Par-
liament.”
Accordingly evidence was taken, mostly
in secret, on “the question whether any
document concerning the Brisbane Line
is missing from the official files.” Coun-
sel for the Menzies and Fadden Adminis-
trations submitted that his Honor should
find that “no document concerning the
matter known as the Brisbane Line, ex-
cept Sir Iven Mackay’s appreciation or
report of February, 1942, was ever in
existence.” Saying that “counsel may
quite safely leave the matter to me,” his
Honor announced that his finding would
go to the Governor-General.
Article 9 of the Bill of Rights reads:
“The freedom of speech and debates or
proceedings in Parliament ought not to
be impeached or questioned in any court
or place out of Parliament.” The bill is
254 years old, having been passed in the
reign of William and Mary. In other
words, Mr. Ward, in taking shelter from
the consequences of his own mendacity,
crept into a funkhole dug by “British
imperialists.” This point should be
emphasised whenever he lifts his brazen
head on an election platform, for, with
his notorious animus against “British
imperialists,” this must be the unkindest
cut of all.
"Elementary."
As Dr. Watson might have seen it:
Sherlock Holmes placed his fingertips together
and leaned back in his chair. “My dear
Watson,” he said, “let us look at the back-
ground of this mystery.
“On June 25 an election is announced. At
once things begin to happen. On June 28 Bul-
cock, a Director-General, is optimistic about the
food position. On June 29 Keane, a Minister,
undertakes to ease the book shortage, and
Scully, a Minister, foresees a glut of vegetables.
On June 30 Holloway, also a Minister, descants
on new maternity allowances, Keane promises
more tobacco and Scully dangles a £6,500,000
subsidy for dairy farmers. Next day this same
Scully promises ‘plenty of eggs soon,’ and a
high official promises more potatoes.
“On July 2 Hughes says the ban on statu-
tory holidays has been raised and workers
are to get a longer lunch-hour. Next day
the brownout is lifted, and Holloway
announces more canteens for wharf-laborers,
On July 5 ‘high’ limits are lifted from some
Stock Exchange securities. On July 6 Forde,
a Minister, orders a bigger issue of tobacco
for Army canteens, Keane promises more tex-
tiles—there, Watson, we first come to the subject
of our investigation—an official foreshadows
pretty titles for the Women’s Land Army and
Scully announces a fixed-guarantee price for
barley. On July 7 we are to have more cotton
for aborigines (Keane) and more blankets for all
and sundry (Dedman, another Minister), and
July 9 brings an assurance (Forde) of pro-
ficiency pay for private soldiers.”
Sherlock paused. “Now,” he went on, “on
July 8 a certain Carmody, general manager of a
clothing firm, derides the promise of more tex-
tiles, saying that permits for textile imports were
issued only on June 10 and that the goods
could-not possibly get here for some months,
You follow me, Watson?”
1 nodded.
“Very well. Next day Keane avers that the
textiles are already in the country. Carmody
defiantly replies that he will believe in the
goods when he sees them.”
Holmes smiled to himself and got out his
pipe.
“Now, the point, my dear Watson, is this;
If those textiles, and Keane’s own words make
them 1,848,000 yards of flannelette, rayon and
cotton, are in port now, they must have been
ordered many weeks ago. A D.I.P. official says
they were ordered direct by the Government,
Now why were the ordering of and the presence
of these goods kept secret until now? Before
you answer, Watson, consider that on July 8
it was announced that clothing coupons in
Britain were to be reduced.”
“My dear Holmes,” I said, “it’s elementary.”
“My dear Watson,” he replied, “it’s trans-
parently so.”
AD r* * D I
• H.w. 111 Kepiy.
Fnnivr P T A Mnses the mineral man-
FROM C. J. A. Moses, the general man-
ager ;
Your article of July 7 headed “A Job Wait-
ing” is calculated to convey some wrong impres-
sions. You quote a newspaper report concerning
“comprehensive reorganisation” of the A.B.C.
There has been a simple internal reorganisation
whereby allied duties have been co-ordinated
to prevent departmentalism and to effect eco-
nomies and improve service.
Discussing the report on these changes you
state: “There is not only a feeling that A.B.C.
heads are doing particularly well these hard
times, but....,” etc. These are truly hard times
for any organisation which has to do extra work
with fewer staff, and had you meant that in
these circumstances “A.B.C. heads” had done
particularly good work I would have heartily
agreed with you. But obviously you imply that,
while these are hard times for the people,
“A.B.C. heads” are doing particularly well for
themselves. By implying that you are being
recklessly unfair and unjust.
No executive in the A.B.C. has received
any increase of salary or allowance as a
result of these changes These officers include
men who served in the last and the present
war, and they strongly resent the innuendo
that they are feathering their nests while other
people are making sacrifices. They have will-
ingly undertaken extra duties to cover the work
of colleagues in the forces and to cope with the
many extra demands made on national broad-
casting in war-time. They are men no one
has a right to besmirch.
The etcetera of the paragraph I quoted is:
“The concern is doing things irrespective of
listeners’ wishes.” The context makes it clear
that you refer to the news sessions. You,
who have always cherished brevity, must agree
that quantity does not connote quality. The
main news sessions last 15 minutes. All our
information indicates that this is the maximum
period for which news broadcasts are effective.
You say; “There must also be a need for
home news to troops at battle stations.” There
is, and the A.B.C. supplies it, broadcasting to
the battle stations a daily bulletin of Australian
news which is taken down and roneo’d for notice
boards at army camps, R.A.A.F. depots, naval
depots and warships, and used by all service
papers, such as “Table Tops,” “Guinea Gold'
and “Army News.” The men and women at battle
stations know all about it and appreciate it.
Those within reach of metropolitan wave-lengths
like the news short and sharp, as anyone who
has been among them can testify.
You also say that the A.B.C. never seems to
have realised that it has a continent to cover
rather than a few suburbs. You link this
remark with an extract from the report of the
Parliamentary Select Committee —“rapid growth
of the central staff” —and add that the latest
appointments suggest that the centralisation
policy has full steam up.
There is no centralisation policy at all, in the
sense that authority is denied the States. The
A.B.C. gives one national programme built from
the contributions of all States, and designed as
the result of the closest consultation between
the programme officers of the States. Obyiously
this national programme has to be co-ordinated
Federally. There are also six programmes de-
vised and operated by the States and related
to Federal control only for the purposes of pre-
venting repetition, securing balance and main-
taining a general standard.
You refer to the Commission’s refusal to
broadcast the Prime Minister “even when he
speaks to the U.S.A.” The Commission must
be detached from party politics. Immediately
an election was announced it apportioned time
to political parties and cancelled all other talks
by political candidates, even if their talks were
not on political matters. There was no political
bias. Mr. Menzies, as well as Mr. Curtin,
went out. The political impartiality demanded
of the Commission could be defeated by the
projection of any candidate even although he
never said a word about politics.
Finally, you refer to that bete noir of yours,
the “A.B.C. Weekly,” and say: “Despite a
change of format [it] is still apparently losing
£30,000 or so a year of listeners’ money.”
Shouldn’t you have said that apparently it is
losing much less than it did considering that,
with your knowledge of the business, you must
know that its sales and advertising revenue have
both increased by more than 50 per cent.?
The Commission reports to Parliament the
facts concerning the “A.B.C. Weekly,” but I
can say that, to get the same amount of adver-
tising for its business as the “Weekly” provides
for the Commission’s programmes and activities,
any commercial organisation would willingly
pay thousands a year more than the “Weekly”
costs the Commission.
The Bulletin “besmirched” nobody
and retracts nothing. But it expects Mr.
Moses to be more explicit (perhaps the
Auditor-General will be) about the
“simple reorganisation whereby allied
duties have been co-ordinated to prevent
departmentalism and to effect economies
and improve service,” and about the
finances of the “A.B.C. Weekly,” which
“apparently” is “losing much less than it
did.” Apropos, that unfortunate enter-
prise gets, in time taken from the cus-
tomers’ entertainment, an amount of
blah for which “any commercial organ-
isation would willingly pay thousands a
year.”
TOPPING THE FRUIT.
“Since the Commonwealth election was announced Ministers and officials have promised more paper for books, more potatoes,
a glut of vegetables for next year, ‘plenty of eggs soon,’ more smokes for all and sundry, a £6,500,000 dairy subsidy, lifting
of the brownout, more canteens on wharves, more flannelette, rayon and cotton, new titles for Land Army girls, a guaranteed
price for barley, more pies for workers’ lunches, cotton for abos., more blankets, ‘proficiency pay’ for privates and removal
of the ban on statutory holidays.”


C. S.H.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PL
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A. C. A.” POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man's earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
® Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can tgo wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
9 Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/ 43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c, of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director, P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
“AII I ask for at the royal commission
is a complete inquiry on the widest terms
and a fair chance to give the country the
facts I possess.” That was Ward on June
27. When his “fair chance” came he
“squibbed it.”
Ignoring “give-us-a-go” whines from
Federal and State Labor politicians, Syd-
ney’s bakers’ union struck again at the
week-end, this time against a Full Indus-
trial Commission award. “Doughies” are
good fellows as a rule, and no doubt
many of them hated the idea of holding
the community to ransom, especially as
workers’ families would suffer most; but
they are thralls to a unionism which is
without moral principle. But what is to
be thought of the Commonwealth and
State Labor Governments, for which
people voted in the belief that they would
hold their lawless elements in check in
war-time? The strike is one more
demonstration that when these larrikin
outbreaks occur they are afraid to stand
up for their own policy and for laws that
they themselves have passed. State Labor
in particular has a yellow streak as broad
as a shark’s back.
Every time a politician of the Ward
brand opens his mouth to allege that
“gentlemen opposite” proposed to aban-
don half Australia to the enemy, he ought
to be asked where he intended to be
when and if the abandonment came
about. The spectacle of a politician of
the Ward brand rushing north to oppose
his body between the enemy and the
people is too much for the imagination.
Ex-Mayor Beaurepaire, M.L.C., sports-
man, successful businessman and good
tel low, is to run for the Senate in Vic-
toria with the able Spicer and C.P. man
Moss. The Agrarians decided against
running a ticket of their own or “endors-
ing” Moss or Hogan, but no harm will
be done if they vote Beaurepaire, Hogan
(or Moss) and Spicer as they did Brand,
Gibson, Leckie and Spicer in 1940. Gib-
son came out without endorsement and
was the second Senator elected, with a
majority which would have been round
100,000 had it been necessary to count
all the preferences.
The Sydney U.A.P. drifted into the
way of thinking that Lang could be de-
pended upon to win elections for it,
and apparently it can’t get out of the
habit. Though new blood is a crying
need it has “endorsed” old-stagers like
Marr and Perkins, together with McCall,
who paired with Coles and was a party
to the Rationing Commission tom-
fooleries, and though out of the Senate
candidates available it could have picked
a couple who would have made a strong
appeal to the electors—Richard Win-
deyer and Manfred or the Rhodes
scholar Starke —its choice fell on Arkins
and Dein. Arkins was licked horribly
in 1937 and Dein even more horribly in
1940. “The gods themselves fight in vain
against stupidity,” as someone said.
Declaring the selection ballots void
because of “irregularities” (the persons
adjudged guilty of “irregularities” are
free to be irregular at the elec-
tions) the N. S. Wales A.L.P. executive
has nominated Amour, Armstrong and
the former I.W.W, man Grant, now a city
alderman, for the Senate, and the garrulous
Morgan, M.H.R., for Reid. To Beasley’s
great relief Lang is coming out against
Morgan. It is an electorate in which every-
body expels everybody else, arid the
shadow of the Big Fellow broods, incom-
prehensible and menacing, over every-
thing.
There’s a vast difference in the way
the McKell Government reacts to strike
threats. When a mob of bakers threat-
ened to cut off Sydney’s bread supply
again by striking against an Industrial
Commission award, to which the chair-
man, a recent McKell nominee, was a
party, not a peep came from the
McKells. But when harassed tramway-
men, tired of struggling with hooligans
on packed trams coming from Rugby
League matches, talked of refusing to
man special football trams, the McKells
sent their Minister O’Sullivan and their
Road Transport Commissioner Neale to
persuade them not to do it. The greedy
professional outfit known as the Rugby
League has far more political influence
than the trammies.
The Queensland surplus keeps mount-
ing, Now it’s round £7,000,000, made up
of £5,250,000 placed in the “Post-war
Reconstruction and Development Trust
Fund,” £1,600,000 held in the “Unem-
ployment Fund” from unemployed-insur-
ance collections over the war years and
a consolidated-revenue credit of £102,022.
The Commonwealth Government, which
provided masses of the easy money out
of income-tax revenue, has a deficit of
£400,000,000 or so.
“Balance Sheet” Thornton boasted that
he and his union confederates “deliberately
and in a planned way made strikes our
business,” and at two A.C.T.U. congresses
he and his gang nearly brought off reso-
lutions against “the imperialist war” and
for “appeasement with Hitler”' (Mr.
Lang’s expression, but perfectly correct).
Balance Sheet’s” Red racket has a new
recruit —the very well advertised Mrs.
Jessie Street, who is coming out against
Harrison in Wentworth. Proudly describ-
ing herself as an “O.K. ironworker,” that
lady, a Judge’s wife, was present, com-
plete with gush, at a “conference” when
a ferocious Red-racket attack was made
on Mrs. Cassidy and others standing up
for law and duty against lawlessness in
a Sydney war factory—which was sailing
pretty close to the wind of contempt
of Court.
Beasley at the Sydney Trades Hall,
according to Sydney “D.T.”;
Labor’s political opponents almost put
Australia up against the wall.
And according to “S. M. Herald”;
Labor’s political opponents almost put
Labor men up against a wall.
Either way it does no credit to Beasley.
Sydney’s N.E.S. Minister gave it out
that, with the brownout lifted, light would
be supplied to training grounds at night
for professional footballers. Common-
wealth Coal Commissioner Mighell gave
it out that few households will have coal
for fires this winter and the County Coun-
cil is talking about rationing electricity.
In Sydney under Labor “rule,” horses,
dogs and footballers and their hangers-
on fill the places; the rest run nowhere.
Old Joe Collings, who led for Curtin
in the Senate when be wasn’t apologising
for Theodore and his Allied Works Coum
cil, has found a Sydney newspaper ad-
mirer who certifies that Joe “made a
first-class job of a difficult Ministry.”
It will take a lot more than that to re-
elect Joe and his ticket. On a poll of
536,341 the Labor three were down
40,000 votes or so in 1940, and in
Assembly by-elections and municipal
elections, with adult franchise ruling,
Queensland Labor stocks have slumped
terribly since then.
At the election of September 21, 1940,
few votes were cast by “forces overseas.”
In Queensland, for instance, they re-
turned only 1918 ballot-papers out of
565,914 issued altogether; they were
generally in favor of the sitting member,
though Labor got most. This time there
will be a great vote from the services,
and Labor members are dreadfully un-
easy about it. There is a feeling that the
services don’t really care for all the
strikes, absenteeism and go-slow.
That great strategist Beasley (June 23 ;
“Hansard,” p. 158): —•
The experience the A.I.F. gained in North
Africa and in desert fighting was not suit-
able for the kind of fight it was required to
wage in the islands of New Guinea and
elsewhere.
Martens, supporting Beasley;
Battle experience has very little value if
one cannot detect the presence of an enemy
three or four yards distant.
They have never had any battle experi-
ence, so they know.
While Hartigan (N.S.W.), Dunstan
(Vic.) and Clapp (Commonwealth)
were arguing about empty train seats, and
while wives of service men were arguing
with the authorities about travel priori-
ties, it came out that Mr. Ambrose
Palmer, who was in Sydney on “busi-
ness” on 3/7/’43, would be in Sydney
on the same “business” on 10/7/’43,
spending the intervening period in Mel-
bourne on war work. Mr. Palmer’s Syd-
ney “business” was seconding another
pug from Melbourne, who also got
“priorities,” and refereeing bruising
matches between minor Sydney pugs.
A great dust is being raised by
refugee aliens and their friends and sup-
porters because some of them called up
for work with the A.W.C. were either
not in good health or “skilled men doing
good service in their professions.” All
they have to do is join a union, where-
upon they’ll get exemptions, double time,
holidays, the right to strike and extra un-
leavened bread on suitable days or know
the reason why. Tears are wasted on
non-unionists, as bishops, pressmen and
politicians should know.
The Adelaide Premier, announcing a
surplus of £233,000, insisted that it must
be viewed “soberly” and that the State
must go on being economical. His Labor
contemporaries in Queensland and N. S.
Wales prefer socking away surplus mil-
lions into “post-war reconstruction” ac-
counts and the like when every pound is
needed for war funds.
In the innocence of its heart Curtin
Labor offered to look after Polish in-
terests in its beloved U.S.S.R. after the
Polish representatives were expelled from
that country in consequence of the Polish
request for a Red Cross inquiry into the
Nazi-alleged massacre of 9000 Polish
officers near Smolensk. Last week
General Sikorski, his daughter and mem-
bers of his staff, together with Cazalet,
M.P., and other Britons, died in a
Liberator bomber crash at Gibraltar, and
Sikorski has been succeeded as C.-in-C.
by a general, Sosnkowski, who resigned
from the Sikorski Cabinet in 1941 rather
than accept the Soviet-Polish agreement.
The function of a protecting Power is all
right for Switzerland, a crowded little
republic. It is very apt to bring head-
aches to a Government in control of a
continent to which millions of Europeans,
among them masses of Jews, may want to
escape from the immemorial quarrels of
their continent.
It ought to be impossible under the
Constitution for a Commonwealth Labor
Government to penalise public servants
for not belonging to trade-unions and
becoming enforced subscribers to Labor
or Communist funds. Unfortunately the
Constitution does not expressly forbid
discrimination in favor of unionist
employees or against non-un.ionist em-
ployees, such discrimination being un-
dreamt of when it was drafted. Section
116 says: “No religious test shall
be required as a qualification for
any office or public trust.” Obvi-
ously it needs to be amplified with
the words “nor shall any disa-
bility or discrimination be imposed on
or at the expense of any person exercis-
ing his lawful rights,” or words to the
same effect,
. In September, 1939, Ward, with Cur-
tin’s approval and support, tried to have
Communists and other non-starters ex-
empted from all forms of military ser-
vice on their say-so that they had con-
scientious objections. Now the same
crowd refuses to allow that Government
employees may have conscientious objec-
tions to joining Labor or Communist
unions, and punishes them at the point
of their pockets
Though Britain and these Dominions
are at war with Finland, the U.S.A. is
not. The Finns still maintain a Legation
in Washington, and on May 1 they paid
Uncle Sam $474,000, interest due on
$26,000,000 advanced during what Presi-
dent Roosevelt styled “the wanton in-
vasion,” At the same time the Finns told
newspapermen that interest payments on
their first world-war debt would be met
after the expiry of the moratorium,
granted by a joint resolution of Congress,
on June 15, It is a strange situation, but
no more strange than the Russo-Jap
situation in Moscow, Tokyo, Vladivostok
and other places, especially fishing
grounds in the North Pacific.
In the Scullin Labor debacle of Decem-
ber 19, 1931, Ministers Theodore, Bren-
nan, Moloney (“Brennan and Moloney
concur”), Blakeley, McNeill, Dooley,
Cunningham and Chifley lost their seats,
and so did Curtin. It may not be so bad
this time, but clouds are gathering over
the heads of Ministers Ceilings, Keane,
Don Cameron and Dedman, as well as
Pollard (Ballarat), McLeod (Wannon),
Falstein (Watson), Langtry (Riverina),
Breen (Calare), Conelan (Griffith),
Baker (Maranoa) and Barnard (Bass),
nor is Forde (Capricornia) feeling as
comfortable as he felt in other years.
His news-reel appearances among
soldiers have been distinctly unsuccessful.
On the other hand, Bell’s resignation has
aroused Labor hopes in Darwin, as also
has local C.P. opposition to Corser in
Wide Bay, and the “We’re going to beat
Stacey” cry can be heard in Adelaide. But
they were going to beat Stacey in 1934,
1937 and 1940.
Union bosses are not sensitive plants,
and no doubt Harry Bridges can stand
the things said and written about him in
the U.S.A. A recent critic wrote him
down as “an alien, a native of Australia
and a convicted Communist facing de-
portation as an enemy.” He remains
president of the International Longshore-
men’s and Warehousemen’s Union, and,
in concert with “the Communist-domi-
nated C. 1.0. maritime unions,” is accused
of trying “to gain control of U.S. ports
communications and shipping lines.”
There is a rival international Longshore-
men’s Association headed by one Ryan,
an anti-Communist. Ryan’s union, ac-
cording to Bridges’s critics, has a loading
record of 17 tons per gang-hour, against
the Bridges union’s 13.7 tons —“described
by the chairman of the Pacific Coast
Maritime Industry Board as pitifully
below the standard that can properly be
expected.”
“Bungaree” objects:
Touching that par. in B. 23/6/’43, “Gentle-
men of Ballarat and Savages of Bungaree,”
Bungaree didn’t turn Hogan down. Bungaree
shire was taken out of the Warrenheip elec-
torate and added to Allandale in 1927. A
small part of the township remained in Hogan’s
electorate and gave him an absolute majority—
Hogan 56, Hyatt 37, Woodward 17. And
prior to the election 200 district farmers had
Hogan as their guest at a complimentary dinner.


f
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
The appointment to a post at Washing-
ton of Erie R. Dickover, American Con-
sul-General in Australia, deprives Mel-
bourne of one of its most engaging
personalities. An A.R.P. warden and a
member of the Melbourne, Savage and
Australian clubs, he has walked through
the Botanic Gardens to his office every
day for three years, and considers it the
most charming walk he has met in his
extensive travels. He came to Australia
from Japan via Batavia, and is obviously
wanted for his knowledge of Nippon,
which he gained in 23 years in that
country.
Clarence J. Spiker, Erie R. Dickover’s
successor, has spent 29 of his 55 years in
Uncle Sam’s foreign service, most of it
in Japan and China. Consul-General at
China’s ancient capital Hangkow when
the Japs hit Pearl Harbor, he enjoyed
protective custody until his captors re-
cently released him in an exchange of
diplomats.
As a starter in the Commonwealth
elections, Driver J. C. Cahir will give
voters a long run for their money. In
New Guinea he has applied for leave to
have a shot at Batman as an Independent.
Managing clerk to his brother, Mel-
bourne barrister R. T. Cahir, when he
enlisted in 1940, he has had nearly two
years’ service in the Middle East and
close on a year in New Guinea.
An innovation in political history is
the marriage in M.L. of two Parliamen-
tarians —William Poison, sheep-farmer,
ex Dominion president of the Farmers’
Union, M.P. for Stratford since 1928,
and Mary Grigg, widow of a grandson
of John Grigg of Longbeach, who suc-
ceeded her husband (Major A. N. Grigg,
killed in action two years ago) as mem-
ber for Mid-Canterbury. She is owner
of Surrey Hills station, and one of the
handsomest women in the Dominion.
Apart from the facial lipes here set
down, Frith’s main impression of new
N.S.W. Detective Superintendent of the
C. 1.8. J. J. Keogh is that he wouldn’t
tackle him at cards even with gift money:
“Keogh has eyes that look as if they could
C.I.B.
see through anything.” In the C. 1.8.
since 1916, Keogh has ,a long list of
successes in the Sherlock Holmes in-
dustry, the Moxley murder conviction
probably the most outstanding. He joined
the police early in the century and
gathered his early experience in the
toughest school of the day, Darlinghurst
and Surry Hills when the pushes were
going strong. Later he was for a while
at Broken Hill. A N.S.W. North
Cowster (b. Bellingen), he has the odd
distinction for a detective of owning a
dairy farm.
Walter Duncan, who has become the
hundredth (or thereabouts) private secre-
tary of Billy Hughes, is a onetime
Clerks’ Union vice-president who fought
a few elections unsuccessfully as a Labor
candidate. He got his political chance
when in the first election after the 1914-
18 war the Nationalist party wanted sol-
dier candidates. A wireless message to
him on the transport by which he was
returning to Australia brought back his
consent to be nominated; and as the
N.S.W. “Nationalist Soldier Candidate”
for the Senate he secured a seat which
he held until 1931. Since then he has
helped Hector Lamond, formerly a
“Worker” editor, to run a chain of South
Coast papers. In politics Duncan hitched
his wagon to the star of Hughes, an asso-
ciation which may help him in a diffi-
cult job, though he is making no bets
about lasting longer than any of his many
predecessors.
One prospective Commonwealth elec-
tion candidate may not hear the result
for a long time after—Captain H. B.
Gullett, M.C., the late Henry Gullett’s
son, likely to stand for Henty on the
U.A.P. ticket against rationeer Coles.
Gullett is in New Guinea, so far into the
jungle that it took weeks for news of the
movement to induce him to stand to
reach him. He is 28, was educated at the
Sorbonne (Paris) and Oxford, and was a
Melbourne “Herald” man, as was his
father. At the outbreak he enlisted in
the A.1.F., saw service in Libya and
Greece and got his captaincy in the
field. He won his M.C. in New Guinea.
Bishop W. H. Baddeley (of Melanesia
since 1932, and reported to be carrying
on in his diocese in the Solomons) has
an unusual string of letters for a parson.
They include D. 5.0., M.C., as well as
M.A. (Oxon). He got the D.S.O. and
M.C. with the Royal Sussex and East
Surrey regiments in the last war, and was
mentioned four times in dispatches. Born
in Sussex, he married Mary Katherine
Thomas, daughter of the Bishop of
Adelaide.
The Northern Territory’s member;
The day before Darwin suffered its first
tragic bombing the opening paragraph on this
page (B. 18/2/’42) recorded that A. M. Blain,
M.P. for the Northern Territory, seventh-genera-
tion Australian, twice-wounded Digger of the last
war, was missing in Malaya. It is since estab-
lished that he is a prisoner in Borneo. The
paragraph concluded:
The last The Bulletin saw and heard of
him was a gleaming black eye under a
fearsome tin hat, a large rifle with a long
bayonet waved indignantly out of the back
of a G.S. wagon wharfward-bound, and
a voice as of Boanerges conveying an
assurance that if this paper failed to give
the something Government crimson Hades
about the indescribable [air-raid] shelters it
hadn’t built at Darwin, there would be an-
other declaration of war on his return.
Blain, a surveyor whose work in lonely places
is being used for many a defence job, entered
the House of Reps, in 1934 and had fewer enemies
and more friends in it when he enlisted in 1940
than any other man. His election address in
1937 was a warning which proved to be an
almost exact description of what happened in
the East Indian-N. Australian defence zone, and
his prophecy that a coming war would see his
plan for a Centralian highway and regional de-
velopment begun also came true. At 46, he
enlisted in the A.I.F. because he said that he
“could not ask young men in the Territory to
enlist in force unless I set them an example”;
and, fighting his last election, he announced
his intention of not criticising any opponent
who was a fellow-soldier or who had sons in
the A.I.F. John Curtin made one of the
fine gestures of which he is capable when he
told Parliament the other day that he would
advise Labor not to oppose the N.T.’s member
—he said it was unthinkable that a prisoner of
war who had risked his life in the front line
at Singapore should be opposed. Blain’s nomi-
nation paper is now in the hands of Diggers of
the Ninth Division, who expressed a wish to
sign it.
Since leading his N.Z. troops in the
notable part they played in winding up
the Axis account in North Africa Lieu-
tenant-General Freyberg, V.C., has had a
busy sort of “holiday.” Back in Maori-
land for a week or two he advised on
future war policy for M.L., then crossed
to Australia to “study the broad outlines
of jungle warfare.” In Canberra he had
a soldier’s word to say for the enemy in
the Middle East: “Some of the Axis
generals captured were very likeable men.
One or two of the Italian generals were
with us in the last war.” Also that,
though the Italians had performed poorly
in North Africa, they were “showing dis-
tinct signs of wanting to defend their
country.” Himself always one of the
toughest of fighting men, Freyberg, who
wears a K.C.B. and D.S.O. as well as his
V.C., looks, at 53, good for many more
years of the toughest going.
Soldiers of the Allied armies who see
a handsome, young full-blooded abo-
riginal painting the haunted landscape of
the Centre are looking at an artist who
once held a one-man show at the swag-
gerest gallery in Melbourne and beat all
city records by selling out so quickly that
a wire had to be sent to the Hermanns-
burg Mission for fresh supplies—but the
artist was hundreds of miles inland with
ALBERT NAMATJIRA.
his paintbox and his family of close on
a dozen. That is Albert Namatjira. He
sticks to the wilderness he paints so
keenly; but, what with soldiers and
C.C.C. workers, he enjoys an audi-
ence that war has enlarged beyond the
dreams of the most ambitious city artist.
C. P. Mountford, the Adelaide anthro-
pologist, holds that Namatjira catches the
strange colors and weird shapes of the
Never-Never better than any visiting
artist, though his studio is the ordinary
brush shelter and his implements a water-
color box and a few brushes. He can
also draw in the old tribal tradition.
Namatjira began in art when he was
camel-boy for artist Rex Battarbee, who
taught him. Battarbee is also now in
the Centre.
Reg Walker, who has beaten Seymour
Hawker for Adelaide’s mayoralty, has
had only three years in the City Council
but long municipal experience in
suburban Burnside. Hawker had held
the seat for the past two years. Election
is by all ratepayers, but only one-fourth
of them took the trouble to vote.
Figures, Walker 2170, Hawker 1583. The
new Lady Mayoress is a much-travelled
woman, with 18 ocean voyages, also an
active Red Cross worker.
One of the very few airmen to have
won the M.M., which is almost exclusive
to the Army, Pilot-Officer G. C. W.
O’Neil, of Cremorne (Sydney), had what
he described as “a pretty eventful day”
when he made a parachute-landing in the
Mediterranean. One of a top-cover escort
for bombers, he saw an Me 109 going for
one of the bombers below, and dived
after him, but was attacked himself on
the way down. His controls wrecked by
the bullets, he had to bale out, landing
in the sea with a two-mile swim to shore
ahead of him. His harness tangled him
for a while, but he got rid of it, and, as
the water was warm and he carried no
Mae West, he decided to make the swim-
ming easier by kicking off all his clothes.
Clad in nothing but a wristlet watch, he
got ashore among South Africans, who
fitted him up with new gear, cigarettes
and a good feed. In the show for which
he won the M.M. he was forced down
by engine failure very much on the wrong
side of the line. It took him three days
to get through to his own side, and the
information he picked up on the way the
Armv found very handy. Educated at
Shore, O’Neil was jackerooing when he
got into the R.A.A.F.
Daryl Lindsay, Vic. Nat. Gallery
director, is to have an assistant, Dr.
Ursula Hoff. Born in England, she
studied on the Continent and got a doc-
torate of philosophy at Hamburg for a
thesis on Rembrandt. For the last three
years she has been secretary and librarian
at the University Women’s College in
Melbourne.
Ludvik Schwab, who succeeds Haydn
Beck as teacher of violin at Adelaide
Conservatorium, is known internationally
as viola player and pianist. Born in
Czechoslovakia, he studied with Sevcik
at Prague, at the same time as Kubelik.
Later, he was Kubelik’s accompanist for
14 years, touring Australia with him in
1908. In 1912 Schwab went to U.S.A.,
where he founded the New York String
Quartet, which he conducted till 1934.
Adelaide-born pianist Merle Robertson is
his wife.
The War Council decision that two
Australians should join a course in
Britain for “the training of personnel in
the administration of territories recap-
tured from the enemy” brings Major N.
Penglase and Professor George White-
cross Paton into the limelight. Penglase
has experience of New Guinea that
should come in very handy later on.
Paton is Professor of Jurisprudence at
the Melbourne University. Born at Gee-
long, the son of a parson, Prof. Paton
was educated at Scotch College and Mel-
bourne Uni., where he got his “blue” in
athletics. He was Victoria’s 1926 Rhodes
scholar, became a barrister-at-law of
Gray’s Inn and lecturer at the London
School of Economics. He got his job in
Melbourne in 1931, and in 1938 was sent
as third Australian delegate to the League
of Nations.
Noel Hilary Cunningham, given a
place on the board of Australasian
Catholic Assurance, comes from a pas-
toral family which settled in the Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) district 99 years ago. He
was wounded at the second battle of
Peronne (54th Battalion), and has had 22
years with the A.C.A. For six years he
was secretary of Sydney Northern
Suburbs Cricket Association.
Into the silence;
At 63, at Frankston (Vic.), Edward Dudley
Campbell Trenchard, one of the big stock-and-
station men. He was a member of the Victoria
Racing Club for 40 years.
At 74, after a long illness, Judge “Ted”
Cleland, on the S.A. Bench since 1936. After
training under Josiah Symon, he had an enor-
mous practice, and as a K.C. was sent to
London to argue S.A.’s “disputed boundary”
with Victoria before the Privy Council. On
the Bench he was noted for unconventional
speaking, quick decisions, and a readiness to
use his wide knowledge of life outside the
courts. (He had been, among other things,
chairman of S.A. Football League.) Of the
many tributes paid to him by Courts and col-
leagues all refer to his abundant sense of
humor. Cleland came of the old vine-and-olive-
growing family of the southern State; a
brigadier-general in Perth and an Adelaide Uni.
prof, are nephews.
At Glenelg (S.A.), at 62, Alfred Stokes, a busy
doctor and president of the B.M.A. in 1936;
a noted athlete in his youth. Both his sons
are in the army.
Rev. James Milne, of Auckland, a native
of Aberdeen, where he was educated. His
first charge when he migrated was Chalmers
Memorial Church, Sydney, later moving to
Oamaru. He was chosen by the Presbyterian
Assembly as M.L. delegate to attend the Lau-
sanne Conference in 1927, where he also rep-
resented the N.Z. and Australian Press Associa-
tion.
In Sydney, at 56, Edward Lloyd Sanders,
member of the N.S.W. Parliament for the past
18 years. Shipping and Customs mainly occu-
pied him outside the House.
In Melbourne, a month short of 88, Major-
General R. E. Williams. Born at Ballarat, he
went from schoolteaching into journalism—
Ballarat “Courier” and Melbourne “Herald,”
of which he became a director. He was C.O.
of the Victorian regiment which attended the
Inauguration of the Commonwealth in Sydney
in 1901. In the 1914-18 war he was State Com-
mandant of Victoria. He represented the Com-
monwealth on the relief ship that went to Japan
after the 1923 earthquake.
Arthur Midson, one of the very old hands
of Brisbane public life, for many years chair-
man of the Metropolitan Water Board, for
which he visited Europe and America to plan
the existing water scheme. In the days when
Brisbane had only a single golf club Arthui
Midson was its captain.
At 85, in Brisbane, John Gibson, who came
to Queensland in ’64 and was one of the
pioneers of the sugar industry at the firs t Bm-
gera plantation and mill. He letued in


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: It is not so Jong since
all the citizens of Sydney, and particularly
the N.E.S. wardens, argued violently as
to which was the most dangerous suburb
if air raids should come. And every-
one, I noticed, took a peculiar and indig-
nant pride in maintaining that his own
suburb was dangerous above all others.
What were my oil-tanks when Horrocks
had a ship moored almost at his door-
step? What was Horrocks’s ship to
iorrocks’s gasometer? A military camp
containing no fewer than 23 soldiers was
less than a hundred yards from Peabody’s
bungalow. Dogsbody was harrowingly
close to the railway. Everyone, clearly,
was No. 1 military objective in the city
of Sydney. With the present greater feel-
ing of security, I thought that the com-
petition had closed, undecided. But far
away in one of those outlying suburbs
where the military targets consist chiefly
of roses and gum-trees, I met a warden
who still stands firm. “Look at that,”
he cried when I tactlessly suggested that
no bomb was ever likely to fall on his
snug retreat. “Look at that! The Pres-
byterian church! Right on top of the
hill! The Japs go for the churches, you
know!”
« * * *
“Zake”: I see where a soldier, court-
martialled for going ack-willie, pleaded
that, as batman to a C.O. alleged to be
very much disliked, he got, as it were,
the backwash of the officer’s alleged un-
popularity. This I find particularly
hard to believe Usually the Diggers
of a unit have a special sympathy
for the dingbat who has a “cow
of a bloke” to look after —a rarity,
anyhow, in an army in which the
spirit of cameraderie and democracy
is strong. Anyway, a dingbat can easily
get himself the sack. The brigade major
of a unit I was attached to for a time
used to vent a vile temper on his unlucky
dingbats. In consequence he changed
them more often than Billy Hughes does
his private secretaries. In the end nobody
would volunteer for the job, so Blue was
“told off” to perform it. Three days of
tepid shaving water, black polish on tan
boots, leaving boots out in the frost and
then scorching them before the brazier,
while holes appeared mysteriously in
socks and underwear, culminated in
Blue’s spilling, when it was his turn to
wait on mess, a plate of hot soup in a
visiting colonel’s lap. Next night Blue
was up with a wiring party, and glad of it.
* * * *
“Bo”; It was O. Henry who said the
“mystery” of woman was a concoction of
the sex for the bamboozling of man. The
romantic novelists did and still do their
best to keep the swindle going, but of late
years they’ve been putting up a losing
battle against advertisements for undies,
scarifies, lipsticks, brassieres and soaps
of magical efficiency. And now, crown-
ing instrument of disillusion, the X-ray
movie has come. A current offering
shows a beauteous damsel, profile, hold-
ing a glass of something. She drinks,
and the X-ray cinematograph is switched
on. Immediately hair-do, carmined lips,
dimpled chin, arched brows, sparkling
eyes disappear, and nothing is left but a
skeleton with a watch clamped round a
bony wrist and a necklace festooned
about a spinal column and a pair of
collarbones. Again, a girl’s beautifully-
turned leg is seen swinging from a table
edge. Under the animated X-ray it be-
comes just a kneecap swinging over an
unlovely shinbone.
* * * *
“N. E. Bottles”; Sly-grog George has
a queer idea of values. When Bert got
a bottle for the first time he said “Five
bob for a bottle of beer! That’s
murder! ” Sly-grog George looked per-
suasive. “It seems a bit hot on first
thought,” he said, “but then, just think!
At any bottleyard you’ll get a bob a
dozen on the empties!”
* * * *
“Extern”: A recent crop of prosecu-
tions in Maoriland, which emphasised
with thirty-bob fines that pitcher theatres
must advertise the censor’s classifications
—“Approved for Universal Exhibition,”
“Recommended by Censor for Adults”
and “Recommended by Censor as Defi-
nitely Unsuitable for Children” —has set
me thinking as to the value of these pre-
cautions. In my Sydney subbub the
Saturday-afternoon show is the same as at
night, and more often than not contains
a couple of drammers marked by our
censor A (adults only) ; and this catholi-
city seems fairly typical of the rest of the
city and State. I have never noticed
parents whisking their kids back home
because all the fillums aren’t marked G
(general exhibition), nor have the un-
chaperoned youngsters who make up
most of the matinee mob shown any dis-
crimination. I take it that the Australian
“A bloke could never grow to LOVE one of them Victory ships, Bert.
They got no personality— no CHARM!”
law is designed merely to give some sort
of warning to particular parents or as a
counsel of perfection to the general. It
may serve that purpose, but most judi-
cial authorities are agreed that easygoing
latitude should have no place in legisla-
tion. If conditions don’t warrant posi-
tive action the Statute Book should lay
off the subject.
SfS Sfc jft
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is specially interested in
the campaign against “Advance, Australia
Fair,” being ready with an alternative.
We didn’t know “A.A.F.” at all till the
radio stations, Sydney-controlled, began
plugging it into us lately ; and, having
now heard it repeatedly, we maintain that
we have a better thing of our own in
Finger’s “Song of Australia,” about as
well known all over S.A. as “God Save
the King.” Why shouldn’t ours, too, be
given a fair and equal trial by radio for
“I wouldn't stand there, sir. You're in no-man's-land."
the States that hardly know it? As “A
Major” says, “associations accumulated
through persistent usage” are the main
factor in matters of sentiment such as
this.
H*
“Con Man”: I’ve just had a narrow
escape. Went to Sydney Conservatorium
to hear Friedman, heard him and went
home in a satisfied state. Next morning
I was informed by Neville Cardus that the
variations of the Op. 11l Sonata of
Beethoven were “not intent enough.”
Not shaded with those vanishing tones
needed by this most simple and sublime of
music, with its trills that take us, by their
mechanical perfection, to an inwardness of
mind almost terrible for mortal man to
contemplate.
In my agitation and relief, torn between
thankfulness for my good luck and a
lurking doubt as to whether Friedman
will always be able to restrain his “intent-
ness” and thus save my mind from too-
terrible contemplations, I grabbed the
rum-jug by mistake and upended it over
the porridge. I was forced to eat the mess
because my missus doesn’t believe in
wasting rum.
t- * -f *
“Pitt St.”: My journey to toil every
morning used to be brightened by short
chats with sundry acquaintances. Now
that is gone, since all I can get from
them is a hurried “See you later; got to
get into the cigarette queue.” You find
these queues, upwards of 50yds. long,
in double file, all over the city round
about 9 a.m., 12.30 and 4.30 p.m. Un-
less you get in early you’ll spend any-
thing from 10 to 20 minutes in one for
a small packet of smokes. Nobody has
taken the trouble to work out how many
man-hours are lost in this fashion every
day, but it must be a formidable total.
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: Our ordinary
Sydney citizen is a dull person. Steeped
in a desire to aid the war effort and
determined to do all he can for the
country in his own little way, he has lost,
if he ever had, the opportunism that
characterises sturdy fellows like gate-
money footbrawlers. None of him, for
instance, saw in the brownout-lifting any-
thing more than a slight easement of
war conditions. Compare the Sydney
Rugby League. Howling with joy it
promptly switched on all the floodlight-
ing at its training centres, and R.L.
coaches exuberantly declared that the
extra lighting would mean a “50 p.c. im-
provement in teamwork and condition of
players.” R.L. writers were no less
pleased. The “D.T.” enthusiastically an-
nounced that “five floodlights gave Bal-
main players ample light.” “The Lights
of Leichhardt are to Shine Again,” the
“Sun” said. Next day the County Coun-
cil hinted at electricity rationing, saying
it had only 13 weeks’ coal left.
* * * *
“Pawang”; When Sister Kenny
brought out her ideas about curing in-
fantile paralysis during a Victorian epi-
demic doctors pronounced her method
not only impracticable, but a menace,
because she pulled off the bandages they
had put on their patients. Now that she
has been accepted in the U.S.A. and re-
ceived by the President, these doctors are
ready to reinvestigate her method. How
obliging!
* * * *
“B. Hackshaw”: American scientists
are reported to have discovered a vita-
min which stops greying hairs in certain
animals and could conceivably do the
same for human beings. What good
would that do? The appearance of age
is general—it isn’t confined to a man’s
top-piece or to woman’s crowning glory,
A glossy black thatch on the head of an
aged person looks as incongruous as a
belltopper on the head of a South Sea
Islander. Old trees and saplings have
each their own beauty and should be
content with it. A woman of 60 who
tries to look like 16 merely draws atten-
tion to the pretence. The only features
of an aged individual that can look young
without looking ridiculous are the eyes
and the lips, but that is a matter of in-
telligence and feeling, and beyond arti-
ficial methods of rejuvenation.
* # * *
“J.E.D.”; The queer story of an Aus-
tralian-born nurse who, after having her
tonsils removed, speaks the Yorkshire
dialect of her forefathers has interested
the Manchester “Guardian,” which
declares that the dialect requires a clear
throttle to cope with it. The paper sug-
gests that the surgeon should dig deeper
into that nurse’s “physiological sub-
conscious,” and remove her appendix
to see whether she can talk pure Chaucer.
* * * Sj!
“V.C.”: A.B.C. seems to have a queer
idea of cheering sick people up in its
“hospital half-hour” at 8.15 every morn-
ing. It puts up lugubrious tenors, bassos
and whatnots to wail things like “Ave
Maria,” “Silent Night” and so forth.
These compositions are beautiful, but
they’re not meant for 8.15 on a keen,
bright Australian winter morning.
POTATO-BEER.
“Owing to the glut of potatoes in Britain, and
America chemists are investigating the possibilities
of the vegetable as an ingredient in the making of
beer.”
Truly a bit of news to stir the blood!
Let’s hope it’s not (in Digger phrase) a furphy,
An idle canard or a baseless dud,
That there’s material for an amber flood
Of ale in what some people call the spud,
And others term the murphy.
Potato-bread, when there was dearth of wheat,
Once furnished for the hungry Huns a handy,
If none too palatable, counterfeit.
And, though I’ve read of Slavs who gulp it
neat,
I've never met —nor even wish to meet —
Potato-brandy.
But were the sturdy plant convertible
lnto the homeliest of nut-brown juices
Compounded human thirst to quench and quell,
There’s surely very little need to tell
How such a prime discovery would swell
Its present list of uses.
Hops for their growth demand some favored
spot,
Soil that a rarity in any State is,
Barring the Speck, which some of such has got,
Choice as a fertile Kent or Worcester plot. ~
But any cultivator knows that’s not
Hie way with praties.
Could spuds provide us drink as well as scran
Twould surely make our war-time burdens
fewer.
Apart from all the schooner-draining clan
And those who objurgate the bottle ban,
The Bung, I’ll bet, would be a happier man,
A cheerier soul the brewer.
Here’s luck, you chemists, in the task you're
set!
Bend all your backs to it, forbear to dally.
Should you evolve a satisfying wet
We’ll be a trifle deeper in the debt
Of —was it Drake or Hawkins? I forget.
Or was it Raleigh?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
IS ART DECADENT?
I sometimes go to painters’ shows
And scan their wares with the desire
To grasp the finer points of those
Which experts tell me to admire.
But all too oft I can’t acquire
The least idea of what is meant,
And ask myself with sudden ire
If modern art is decadent.
At concerts, too, I list to pros.
And amateurs who smite the lyre
And ’cross the fiddle draw their bows
With what they take for force and fire.
But when the orchestra or choir
By Neville’s caustic pen is rent,
I’m seized with apprehension dire
That modern music’s decadent.
1 read the verse that bards compose
Who’ve clambered up Parnassus higher
And roost on peaks amid the snows
To which I never may aspire.
1 find their ditties apt to tire,
Quaint words with ragged measures blent.
But though they’re tough as fencing-wire
I wouldn’t say they’re decadent.
When Homer sang of Ilium’s woes,
Or Zeuxis and Apelles spent
Their time depicting what they chose
In their Athenian studios,
I’ll lay they’d critics, starve the crows!
To growl their art was decadent.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Spokeshave”: The crowd was filing
into an illustrated lecture at Melbourne
’Varsity; subject, the art of the wild
abos. of the Centre. On blackboards
behind the lecturer’s dais were drawings
in chalks of several colors. “Oh, my
dear,” a matron’s voice was heard saying
in thrilling accents. “There are the abo-
riginal pictures! How simple, how direct
and yet how masterly in design and com-
position! What an innocence of eye,
what a feeling for the beauty of common
objects!” “Pardon me, madam,” said a
gruff voice. “This is the anatomy school,
and those are anatomical diagrams. They
have nothing to do with the lecture.
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: I agree with “Jamwood” (B.
30/6/’43) that poet Robert Richardson
is undeservedly forgotten; but aren’t
there dozens of once well-known bards
undeservedly forgotten? To mention a
few of them of my own day: Arthur
Bayldon (his “Marlow” sonnet was
acclaimed all over the world), John
Sandes, Arthur Hennessy, James S. Ryan,
Francis Myers, J. F. Keeting, Frank
Morton, Edmund Fisher. If some pains-
taking poem-fancier would go through
the files of The Bulletin a rich collec-
tion of Australian-born verse might be
compiled. I doubt whether “Jamwood
would have remembered Robert Richard-
son but for that Mark Twain borrowing.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Candor is one of the Ameri-
cans’ admirable qualities, and it has been
strikingly exemplified in the reporting of
their war. Hanson Baldwin’s cold sum-
mary of the American effort in Tunisia
(B. 23/6/’43) struck no new note; early
American defeats in that region were
chronicled with the utmost frankness. And
the advent of the Thunderbolt brought
the stinging N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
comment that “only now, nearly a year
and a half after war was declared upon
us and three years after the German
onslaught in the west, has this, our first
high-performance army fighter, reached
the battlefront”; together with a lot
more:
Many months ago, when the comparative
deficiencies of our fighter designs began to
be too obvious to be denied, we were told
that everything would be all right when the
Thunderbolt appeared. As far back as 1940
the design was already under active de-
velopment; it is now said that mass produc-
tion did not actually begin till last fa 11....
Some day a full and fair history of Ameri-
can airplane design will be written; it will
assess not only the real successes achieved,
but also the failures, the want of imagina-
tion, the mistaken decisions involved and
the extent to which they were concealed in
ballyhoo and propaganda.
A shining example of honest and fear-
less war journalism, written with know-
ledge and without cant.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Broadcasting station SKA,
in Adelaide, closed down for the last
two years because of its Jehovah’s Wit-
ness affiliations, is to reopen on terms
highly characteristic of S.A. The Method-
ist Mission is to appoint four directors
of the new body and the “Workers’
Weekly Herald” one director. No
“gambling information” is to be broad-
cast ; no moneylending or liquor ads.
accepted.
* * *
“Taniwha”: Maoriland pedagogues
are preening themselves over a report
from the N.Z. Army Education and Wel-
fare Service that, whereas the Australian
Army (as the result of an investigation
conducted among a formation of 18,000
men) is reported to have 3 p.c. of illiter-
ates, the M.L. Forces have none. They
say this is due to the thoroughness of the
M.L. primary schools and insistence that
education shall be available in the re-
motest places—even the kids in light-
houses are taught by correspondence.
From my own experience of the M.L.
education system I should say that any
superiority it can boast over Australian
methods is due to its freedom from frills.
The three R’s are still regarded as the
only real essentials, and they are taught
so thoroughly and determinedly that the
stupidest or most inattentive of young-
sters can’t escape learning how to read,
write and figure. For the rest, as the
principal of one of the biggest M.L.
teachers’ training colleges said years ago,
“We must be content if we can say we
have opened the door of knowledge;
we can’t compel everybody to go in.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: For the first time in history
an Australian artist has had a similar
compliment paid her as was paid to
Leonardo da Vinci when thieves stole his
“Mona Lisa” from the Louvre. Scotland
Yard and the Edinburgh police are
searching for a miniature removed from
the Scottish Academy, Edinburgh. The
subject is Betty Ince, daughter of a Mel-
bourne barrister, and the painter is Stella
Marks, wife of Monty Marks, now a big
man in the Korda talkie outfit. Before
the last war Stella and Monty tried to
keep the flag of Art flying in Perth
(W.A.). Both have gone far since then,
and not only geographically.
“Lo”: I don’t think “Bo” (B. 23/6/’43)
need be afraid that soldiers will be
afflicted with disgraceful civvies after this
war. The sort of suits discharged men
will be given will be the same in range
and quality as produced for ordi-
nary civilian use. There are 13 sizes,
graded in half and quarter stages, and
very short and very tall men will have
their suits made to measure. There are
more than a hundred patterns, and none
of those quaint features that made the
average Digger in 1919 go round the
corner and pawn his issue for ten bob.
H! * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A tram-conductor
witness, who described himself as “a
troubadour,” puzzled a Sydney magis-
trate, who asked in vain where the term
originated. It dates back to the days of
the old steam trams. Passengers bought
cardboard tram tickets by the dozen;
when he received them the conductor
punched them in an appliance carried
across his chest before putting them in
his bag to mark the tally of his fares.
The punch had a bell in its interior
which gave a musical tinkle with each
punching. Somebody therefore dubbed
the conductors “troubadours,” and the
name survives 40 years after its origin
has disappeared. One of John Norton's
papers ran a “Troubadours” column.
* * * *
“Camsa”: Tell “E. Chooka” (B.
30/6/’43) that the old all-steel steamer
J. G. Arnold is on the bed of the Murray
under 40ft. of water, near Waikerie. She
lay at Morgan until about 18 months
“They’re on’y retreads, Spike.”
“Pinch ’em, anyway—they'll do f'r the kids to play with."
ago, when she was taken up to Mildura.
Anderson’s sawmills bought her engines
and machinery, and the hull was towed
back to Morgan. Then in October last
year the hull was bought for delivery at
Mildura by the Vic. Forestry Depart-
ment. The Murray was in flood at the
time, and the top seams of the old
steamer were inclined to open. Heavy
winds drove the water over her nose,
and she soon sank. Divers went down,
but the current was too powerful for
them. Later the hull was too full of
sand to be moved, and the old ship was
finally abandoned. The old Gem has just
come off the slips at Mildura. Ernie
Orchard skippered the Gem for about 30
years, and at one time had George
Makings with him as deck boy. Now
Makings has the Marion and has brought
Orchard out of retirement to be mate.
The Marion and the Gem are still on the
Morgan-Mildura run, but the Marion
with her 4ft. draught can keep going
when the Gem (6ft.) has to lie up.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Deakin was most effective
as a phrase-maker. His description of
an opponent’s policy as “a necklace of
negatives” is still remembered. Charles
Kingston, by sheer force of logic and
conviction, could stir an audience deeper
than Alfred could. Holman was
probably the most accomplished Aus-
tralian orator of his day, though many
preferred Murray Peters, M.L.A. for
Deniliquin and for Canterbury (1907-14).
Peters, turned down for the A.LF.
because of defective eyesight, got a
job in the Forestry Department, im-
proved his peepers, had another
go at enlistment and joined up as
“Murray.” When a debate was organised
on transport All (the old Marathon) I
rang “Murray” in. The other side was led
by “Gunner” Moore, a political war-
horse who justifiably expected that the
honors of the debate would be all his. I
recall with relish the look of amazement
on Moore’s face when “Muiray” un-
wound flights of oratory, being acclaimed
the best speaker by a unanimous roar
from all the Diggers. Murray Peters
died overseas.
* * * *
“Looby”: Mum still avers that city girls
are a bit empty between the ears. She
went into a big millinery shop and asked
for a hat. “What type?” “Oh,” grinned
Mum sheepishly, “just something to do
the milking in.” The girl looked a bit
startled. Then she went out to the back
and returned with a large beach-hat. ‘ See
if this fits you,” she said apologetically.
“I’m afraid it’s the biggest we have,
but it’ll hardly be large enough to shade
the cow as well.”
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: The Trobriands, now under
Allied occupation, are like a thou-
sand other Pacific islands, but they have
a special interest for scientists. It was
there that the psychologist Malinowski
conducted researches into the sexual life
of savages. He reported that the Trobri-
anders are free, at any rate in childhood,
from the sex taboos of both primitive
and civilised societies. The one-man-
one-woman rule pertains after marriage,
but before it there is every variety of
sexual selection. The system is matri-
archal and the natives are or were
ignorant of the part played by the father
in procreation, the moon being credited
with that function. Consequently the
father is regarded purely as the friend
and supporter of his children and the
status of parent is accorded a maternal
uncle. Practically all the taboos that do
exist are on uncles. The Trobriander
cracking a joke about uncles makes the
same hit as a Western comedian who
alludes to the lodger.
* ♦ * *
“El V.” on “Waltzing Matilda”:
I will take on “A Major” (B. 30/6/‘43),
George Limb (B. 9/6/’43) and anybody else on
the claim that the tune is “typically Australian. ’
Sidney May, of Queensland University, has,
through the Macpherson family, traced the air
to a programme of music at the Warrnambool
(Vic.) races. There Miss Macpherson heard
it in the middle ’eighties, and there it figured
as “Thou Bonny Braes of Craigielee.” Before
I ever heard “Matilda” I heard from a mother
brought up in a military town a song to the
same air called “The Bold Fusilier”:
A bold Fusilier came marching down
through Rochester,
Bound for the wars in the Low Countree;
And he sang as he came to the Old Bull
at Rochester
Who’ll be a sojer o’ Marlbro’ with me?
Chorus.
•Who’ll be a sojer, who’ll be a sojer,
Who’ll be a sojer beyond the wide sea,
Wi’ his pack upon his back
And his Bessie for a sweetheart,
Who’ll be a sojer in the Low Countree?
Try it with fife and drum. It sounds like one
of those military airs which have braved the
ages. Apropos, Papal Guards and Swiss
Army bandmasters burst into loud guffaws
when they are shown the verdict of Grove that
“The British Grenadiers” is an English tune
Of Elizabeth’s day. Their bands were playing
it centuries before there was a Grenadier in
existence —and still play it.
* * * *
“Waitemata”: At a time when Austra-
lian municipalities and water boards are on
one hand raising rates on the score of the
increased cost of services and on the
other curtailing services because of lack
of man-power, the noble action of Auck-
land City (M.L.) deserves to be inscribed
in letters of gold on a plate of silver.
The Council, finding it had a surplus of
£lO,OOO at the end of its year, handed it
over to patriotic funds. It then reduced
the rates by a penny in the £ and de-
cided (there being a water shortage) not
to charge for hoses and sprinklers until
it could supply water for them. True
this council had bumped the rates up
the year before, but even so its subse-
quent magnanimity is astounding.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Gisborne (M.L.), pop.
16,000, claims its sons have won more
military decorations than any other town
in the Empire of comparable size. The
awards have all been won in the
R.N.Z.A.F., and include four D.F.Cs.
and a bar, a D.S.O. and D.F.M. Gis-
borne once inaugurated a Bulletin Club,
consisting of regular contributors. Two
of the club members were killed in action
on Gallipoli.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Overindulgence in tattoo-
ing has been put forward in an Adelaide
court as evidence of mental weakness on
the part of a man charged with stealing
bicycles. He had been in the militia
only two days, but in that time had con-
trived to get tattooed on the body and
both arms, with an additional and un-
usual adornment of crossed daggers on
the forehead.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Australians will be able to
feel a measure of sympathy for outraged
Englishmen at the proposal of Lord Gib-
son, a legal luminary of Scotland, that a
new capital for the Empire, to be called
Britannia, should be set up in the no-
man’s-land between Hadrian’s Wall and
the Cheviots. The drawback of new
synthetic cities is that they have no asso-
ciations for people, happy or unhappy.
London, the Thames, Westminster, the
Embankment, Downing - street, White -
chapel, Threadneedle-street and a hundred
other London localities are so rich in
associations for Englishmen that most ol
them would sooner stay in a London re-
duced to rubble than go to the noble
lord’s new city, even if it were made of
amethyst and jasper and planned by an
archangel. Sydney and Melbourne are
equally rich in associations for Aus-
tralians ; Canberra has scarcely any. It
takes generations to enrich a city with
associations, and these need not all be
happy to be cherished. Londoners seem
even more attached to their city since the
blitz than they were before it;
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: Melbourne’s broad-
casting stations in recent programmes
have used the works of English com-
posers to the virtual exclusion of all
others. There are some very worthy
English composers, but the attempt to
make them cover the whole field brings
in compositions that do English music
grave disservice. The broadcasting
people ought to be told that, whoever
we are at war with, it isn’t Beethoven,
Bach and Mozart.
* * =!■• *
“Jindivick”: Time was when the
frigates of Britain were a terror to sea
rovers, pirates and all enemies of his
Britannic Majesty. Of trim, sleek lines,
carrying anything from 20 to 60 guns,
they swept across the oceans of the world
under clouds of square-rig sails. Father
Time has replaced them with the steel
cruiser. Packing a punch like a mule,
making two knots to its predecessor s
speediest one, the cruiser has held the
field, backed by those bruisers the battle-
ships, for more than half a century. Now,
like an echo from the past, comes the
news that H.M. frigate Lagan is the first
of its type to sink a submarine. This is
the first public mention of the modern
edition of an ancient type,
* * * *
“Niloc”: U.S. Army Intelligence has
opened a school for “special correspon-
dents.” Curriculum at present is con-
fined to aircraft-recognition, map-reading
and first aid. It has been suggested that
the Ninth Commandment might help-
fully be studied as well.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I have just come across a
tribute to an Australian writer in The
Art of Teaching English, by the expert
J. H. Fowler:
Amid the outpourings from the press of
much deplorably feeble writing, one hails with
satisfaction a notable increase in the number
of writers who have the power of reproducing
simply, lucidly and strikingly the scenes they
have witnessed. One excellent example of this
kind of work which I have lately come across
I should like to take this opportunity of men-
tioning —Capt. C. E. W. Bean’s Letters from
France. That letters so sound and sincere and
unpretentious should have been written and
that the Commonwealth of Australia should
have appointed a man with these virtues ot
style its official reporter, seems to be a happy
augury for the future of English. For our
language is destined to become, more and more,
what the English-speaking world outside the
mother-country combines to make of it.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The bloke from Gipps-
land, who’d been with us nearly eight
months, was the only one who’d seen
rain within the previous two years. He
said so, which led to a lot of skite about
long droughts and big floods and so
forth, and old Barney, the local weather
prophet, was moved to predict that rain
was very close. Everything, according
to Barney, indicated it. The ants were
making for high country, the moon had
been rung three nights, he’d heard black
swans going west the night before and the
cattle were restive on their camps.
“Garn,” snorted the Gippslander, “I’ll bet
anybody it don’t rain for six months.”
Most of us had great faith in old Barney,
so we took' him aside, conferred earnestly
on the signs and portents, and then took
that Gippslander at evens for a tenner.
A careful bloke, he insisted on the pub-
lican holding the bets and had it written
down: “I hereby bet the undersigned
that it don’t rain for six months.”
Thirty-three days later the drought-
breaker came, and when it cleared up
after four days the district had had three
inches. Joyfully we cantered in to col-
lect the doings. “That Gippsland bloke,”
said the publican, “was in this mornin’
an’ got the dough. Yairs, he reckoned
that his bet was that it wouldn’t rain for
six months an’ it hasn’t; it’s only rained
for four days. They’re pretty wide awake,
them Gippsland blokes.”
* !■! * *
“G wan”: The jackass was sitting fluffed
out on a branch when the hawk attacked.
Twice the latter dived, and twice Jack
adroitly sidestepped a few inches in the
last split second. At the third attempt
the feathered Hun made due allowance
for the move, but the cunning old devil
on the bough stayed put. As the hawk
flashed by Jack made a pass on his own
account and recovered balance holding
two of the enemy’s tail feathers in his
beak. The attacker fled, screaming in-
dignation. Jacko opened his bill, cocked
his head to one side, watched the
trophies flutter to the ground, gave a
throaty chuckle, fluffed himself again and
settled down to whatever it is the sardonic
fowl thinks about in his spare time.
* * * *
Henry G. Lamond: As one who has
counted mobs of up to 47,000 with no
break in the run, let me into this sheep-
counting argument. Average good,
accurate counting is 16,000 an hour. The
width of the gate depends upon- the class
of sheep. With a green background a
man’s eyes should never tire; with a
knowledge of lights and shades there
shouldn’t be any strain. The worst sheep
to count are weaners —shorn for choice.
They come in rushes, dribbles, stops,
jumps and falls.
* * * *
“Wakool Will”: “Solitude’s” Seventy-
fiver (B. 23/6/’43) would not have fired
Ins rifle if he had done the rounds with
Jim Cooney, of Donnybrook (Vic.). Jim
would see the hare in its seat and, if
riding, would dismount ahead, return on
foot, circle the hare and pick it up before
‘Seventyfiver” could cock his rifle. I
remember Jim, when acting as gillie to
the late Archbishop Carr, of Melbourne,
pointing out a hare in its seat to his
patron and then circling, catching and
presenting it to the archbish. without a
fur ruffled. His method was to circle
and come in, and when just past the
hare’s head bend down and lift by the
neck and loin with both hands. As he
used to say, “go one step past the hare’s
head, the hare crouches to avoid being
seen, and then do your lifting.” It’s easy.
* * * *
“Bo”: Steve Brophy and Dan Hallett
had adjoining blocks and, being as flint
and steel, their agricultural activities over
15 years had been punctuated by verbal
lashings as opportunity offered. Once,
when an altercationless week had passed,
the absence of vocal brickbats so wrought
upon Dan that he couldn’t sleep, and his
peace of mind wasn’t restored until he
had felled the big dead box in the right
of way between the properties, bringing
down part of Steve’s fence and flatten-
ing two sheds. The bitterness it brought
in its train lasted for years, and that was
as strong meat for the souls of the an-
tagonists. The breaking into each other’s
crops by stock and the flaunting of
feathers or the dropping of a prized
rooster’s head into the owner’s mailbox
after the bird’s disappearance kept the
flames fed; so also when fruit-trees were
stripped as strokes and counter-strokes
by the rival kids. Then Brophy, a widower,
perhaps for diversion from the joys of
socking into Dan, wooed and won the
widow Marrott and her few hundred acres
of good wheat land. It was settled that
Steve would put his eldest son on his own
block and take up residence on his newly-
“She’s very big-hearted , though !”
acquired property ten miles out. Dan
had mooched into the church, and sat
moodily watching the wedding ceremony.
He seemed agitated, and when the minis-
ter came to the part exhorting those with
objections to the union to speak up or
forever hold their peace Dan heaved him-
self up. “Yair,” he rumbled. “/ reckon
this splicin’ oughtn’t to be held!” The
minister’s eyebrows shot up. “And why
not, may I ask?” he said. Dan clawed
his whiskers. “Well, who the blazes will
I have to argue with afterwards?” he
burst out miserably.
* * * *
“Nipper”: Odd that those brought up
among cattle rarely sport the blue ribbon
of the champ, at show weight-guessing
competitions —those I’ve attended in
N.S.W. and southern Queensland, any-
way. The last one was at Cobargo
(N.S.W.); the winner was a bank cleik’s
wife. At one North Coast town, over
five years, the bullock’s poundage was
estimated closest by a baker, a rabbiter,
a barmaid, a hairdresser and a station
cook (both female).
* * * *
“Mat’s Matd”: We’d just got into
Forbes (N.S.W.) and were standing under
Flannery’s pub eyeing the town when a
lean individual seeped up and said “How
about the price of a feed, mate?” Mat
came back quick: “Hey, fair go! We’re
doin’ this side of the street.” The lean
one drew off, eyed Mat carefully, spat
and remarked “Garn, you’re strangers.
Ain’t never seen y’ before, an’ I bin here
all me life.” Mat hustled me down to
the bridge, where we grabbed our swags
and headed for the rolling west. “Hey,
what’s the hurry?” I demanded. “Listen,”
he said. “Blokes like me an’ you ain’t
got a chance in any town that breeds,
rears an’ trains its own hummers. It
always makes me feel like a Chinese fos-
sicker workin’ over a old minin’ dump.
Let’s break f’r Roto ; it’s too small for
local hums.”
“Zake”: Mooney, chipping burrs up
on the road paddock, pricked up his ears
as he caught the sound of protesting bel-
lowings coming from Minnie, one of his
best milkers. With dire forebodings as
to what Arthur, the new hand, was doing,
he cast aside his hoe and tore down to
the milking yard. At what he saw Mooney
staggered in his tracks. Arthur, holding
the halt-filled bucket under the crook
of his left arm, had backed the cow into
the bail and was tying the leg rope, one
end of which was already around her
neck, to the beam across the top ot the
shed When Mooney got his breath back
his bellow made Minnie's seem like a
whisper. “You blasted goat!” he burst
out; “you put her head into the bail to
milk her!” “1 did,” replied the flustered
Arthur “but I could on’y reach the two
teats ok the side I'm siltin’, so I thought
I’d turn her round to do the other two.
xu luiu ill H t u e
M toTu fheTtool.”
bail to put the s . *
“DA”- When the smooth-haired Eng-
lish collie was crossed with a dog in which
ran the blood of the Gippsland dingo
and a black-and-tan collie, the resultant
progeny was the kelpie, Australia’s best
working dog. Thriving on work in the
heat, managing sheep in a way no other
dog could, more trustworthy than a
human when it came to taking charge of a
mob, faithful to death, he was also a
fighter who would tackle anything. But
things started to go against the kelpie when
bred carelessly, and he lost something of
his original style. So the Border collie
crept in, especially in the show-ring, a
sphere in which the kelpie is not at his
best and from which, in consequence, he
has gradually disappeared. There’s no-
S -
thing wrong with the Border collie. He’s
a fine breed and intelligent. But he’s not
the tough, enduring, 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian dog needed for Australian con-
ditions that the kelpie is. If the kelpie is
bred out it will be a sad happening for
the sheep industry.
“Beefo”: In writing of blue Queens-
land cattle-dogs, “Herbert Dawson” (B.
30/6/’43) says there’s “now scarce a
station without one.” Surely he must
have meant dairy farms! If cattle never
were wild before, the introduction of
cattle-dogs soon teaches them to gallop,
and on stations where dogs are or have
been it’s only necessary to imitate a dog’s
bark to hear the scrub crashing as the
cattle race away. I cah imagine the re-
ception “H.D.” or any other ringer
would get if he rode up to a cattle station
in Queensland or the Territory with a
blue heeler in tow and asked for a job,
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d been mustering and
were caught on the high tops in a storm
of sleet and piercing wind. The cold was
terrific. I glanced across at Seventy-
fiver, but, except for ice and snow on his
dial, the old chap looked as usual; so,
pulling at my shirt collar, I concentrated
grimly on keeping my nag moving in the
teeth of the gale. Presently everything
was blotted out, and the job of finding
a way off the ridge grew steadily worse.
Battling every foot with a violently-
shuddering nag, flying branches and
driving chunks of ice, half an hour later
I struck a likely looking spur and, yelling
to the old bloke, I led off. The moke
staggered over boulders, skidded down a
slope of moving shale, fought vainly for
a foothold, and fell the last ten feet
over a rock face. As it went to its knees
exhausted I slipped the girth and took
shelter beneath a ledge, crowded closely
by the whimpering, half-frozen dogs.
Soon the old bloke arrived. “Whatsa
matter 9 ” he wheezed. “Y’ sick or some-
thin’?” “N-no,” I managed, banging my
tortured body with numb fists, “but—
er —my hack gave out.” He looked the
beast over sorrowfully. “Yair, that’s the
worst o’ nags nowadays,” he remarked,
tumbling off his own stiff-legged dumper.
“Jus’ like everything else —they breed ’em
too soft.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: With the return of
popularity of the horse for transport I
have been struck by the conservatism of
designers of those contraptions the horse
pulls along. Obviously evolved in an era
of tree stumps and three-foot ruts, they
haven’t kept pace with the times. Motor-
car designers soon abandoned the high-
clearance, top-heavy architecture of the
first flivvers when potholed roads gave
place to smoothly bitumened or concrete
strips; hence streamlined cars with low
clearances. The high pitch of the horse
vehicle makes it hard to get into, hard to
get out of, limited in capacity compared
with an automotive vehicle and costly in
tyre upkeep. It is responsible for most
of the accidents which are occurring on
the slippery highways. If the moke falls
down the human cargo falls right into its
back legs. I suggest a cart hung under
the axle instead of above it,
* * * *
“A.R.P.”; “Gumsucker” wants to
know (B. 7/7/’43) how I’d apply a ban-
dage and little pad if, alone in the bush,
I gashed my right hand badly while oil-
stoning an axe. If this suggests that
“G.” is a graduate of the cobweb, mud,
thistle-milk, tobacco-ash school of stop-
ping-bleeding practitioners, I hurl the
question right back at him. If he really
wants to know, I’d do it in the same way
as I did when, alone in the bush, I sliced
my left hand from base of the thumb
across the wrist to the second bracelet —
with my shirt, my teeth, my spare hand.
That slash came from a skinning-knife.
; I S
“C.E.”: From the sheltering bank of a
dam the local V.D.C. was being in-
structed in the throwing of hand
grenades. “By cripes,” exclaimed Dad
Wilson as he watched O’Reilly’s efforts,
“he went mighty close t’ them tins that
time, eh?” The district leader turned
his head. “I would like you men to
understand,” he announced with dignity,
“that the line in front is an enemy
trench, and the targets arranged at inter-
vals are heads of the opposing force, ft
lowers morale to speak of them as tins.’
Dad scratched his head and digested the
information. Presently it was Steve’s turn
to throw, and after a well-calculated
heave there was a roar as the end target
shot upwards, then began rolling down
the slope. Amid a chorus of “Good on y’,
Steve,” Dad Wilson stood on the bank
and watched the rolling casualty as
though fascinated. As it came to rest at
the foot of the slope he turned and landed
the district leader a sock on the jaw.
“There, General Blinkin’ Mac Blarney,” he
growled, “p’r’aps that’ll teach y’ not t’ go
collectin’ Japs out o’ my trap. Yair, y
might kid the others with them yarns,
blast y’, but that yellerbelly that’s just
got blown t’ bits wus me last good milkin’
bucket.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Horseless Horseman” (B.
7/7/’43) is too darned seldom. There
ought to be more of him. Any bloke who
can dig up old Murray tales can get my
ear any time, especially tales about the
mid-Murray and the river’s oldest town,
Euston. “H.H.” can imagine its effect on
me when, a youth of 17, I blew into it
from down south, found that practically
everybody in it was related to everybody
else, and that a real old-time feud raged,
though what it was all about I never
discovered in two years’ hovering round
its outskirts. Euston first woke me up to
the bush lad. I’d got a bit sweet on a
lass, and when a small circus hit the
place and she sort of invited me to take
her, her recognised swain being then 52
miles away in a broken-down motor-
lorry, I did myself up and was on the
job bright and early. Was on my way
round to her place when his nibs heaved
in sight, dusty, footsore and tonguemg.
I got him into the pub, refreshed him and
learned that he’d walked the 52 miles.
It was too much for me ; I went thought-
fully home, wondering what would have
happened had he turned up an hour later.
* * * *
“Tinopai”: Maoriland’s determination
to preserve the customs of the natives is
reflected in a judgment of O Regan, J.»
that expenses of tangi are properly par
of funeral expenses, payable out or
the personal estate of deceased, be he
chief or tribesman. As most Maoris don
possess any personal estate this will
another case for the tribes to get more
boodle from the Government. In this
case cost included two pigs, a cow, a cor
of firewood, six sacks of potatoes bread
and groceries. But no drink. 7 hat h
never been a feature of Maori tunera
feasts.
THE BUSTARD.
Low I circle with pinions flailing.
My wide wings mottled as flood-borne foam;
They bear me on, though my strength is failing,
Back to the plain of my fledgling home.
The wheat-wave swirls where the wind has
tossed it,
The sorghum burns like a crimson flame ;
Tire land has changed since the day we lost it—
The fateful day when the settlers came.
We were so used to the stockwhip’s thunder,
The silver tinkle of gear and spur,
That, floating down with the blue-grass under,
We played at our ease where the cattle were.
But new days dawned, and the stockmen’s
singing , . . c
Passed like a dream that was sweet and bnet,
And the clank of ploughs and the axes ringing
Sounded a note that was wild with grief.
Little was left in our lives that mattered;
They had cleared the scrub and the land was
strange.
With all that were left of our clans shot-
shattered,
I headed westward across the range.
I flung behind me the purple passes
And reached the land where the suns go down,
Lost in the drifts of the Mitchell grasses,
Far from the clamor of farm and town.
But still where the clouds from the coastal
highlands
Over the wheat-wave dapple the sky,
The lands where the settlers came are my lands
And bustards come to their home to die.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


dark rider.
Oh, where are you going, you silent rider,
As you pass through the dusk of the winter s
night.
With flowing cloak, and a wind-blown mane-
crest,
A silhouette in the dying light ?
T am bound away for the Sunset Mountains,
Where the wind is blowing the tussock grass
In a voice like children whispering secrets,
And the hooves of unseen horses pass.
My face is turned to the summer meadows
Bosomed so deep by the mountainside,
By little lakes with a golden margin
And shallows where the wild swans glide.
I am going where the birds sing sweetly
A song that the plainsman never hears,
Music to haunt you for ever and ever,
A cadence to follow you down the years.
And where I am going the ghostly horses
Are racing again on the flowery sod,
And their manes are fire in the starry darkness,
And their gallant hooves ring up to God.
And will you race with them, silent rider,
With flowing cloak in the fading light,
In a joyful gallop among the flowers
Beside the lake so still and so bright ?
Aye, we will race in the star-candled twilight.
Set free from earth-bound pain and fears.
We will never return on the road from the
mountains,
For we have been dead two hundred years.
MAORILAND. JOYCE WEST.
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: For years old Tom has
instructed the rising generation in the
science and subtlety of the Noble Art;
and when one of his proteges entered a
camp tourney he was full of enthusiasm
and advice. “It’s psychology that wins
fights,” he declared. “Give the other
feller one of them inferiority complica-
tions and the rest is easy. That’s how I
beat Lightnin’ Smith —kept him waitin’
in the ring for ten minutes, jumped in
as if I owned it, laughed at Lightnin’ in a
pitying sort of way, then turned round so
he could see me back muscles ripple as I
limbered up. Impressed me personality
on him—that’s what I did. From then
on he was a beaten man!” When the
protege came home after the scrap old
Tom was anxious to know how he’d won.
“Did y’ dazzle him with psychology?”
“N-no,” confessed the pupil guiltily —
“jist ’it ’im with me ’and on the jore.”
* * V *
“Nor’-west”: Re the argument about
certain timber indicating underground
water, and vice versa , I once travelled
with a well-sinking survey party in north
W.A. Beginning in mulga country our
expert gave his opinion: “Fair water
here, but too far down.” About
100 miles further on we came on desert
oak country. He prophesied plenty of
good water at a shallow depth. The
wells proved him correct. Beneath the
mulga lay a deep bed of tough clay, 50
feet or more thick ; under this a stratum
of greenstone. Some of the wells touched
the 100-feet mark before a sufficient flow
came in. Where the desert oak grew was
sandstone country, the vast bed of some
primeval lake. Here water in places came
in at nine feet, making up to 2000
gallons an hour. The abo, name for
desert oak in that region is coorgabbie
(plenty water).
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Out towards the War-
burton Ranges we ran short of matches.
“Don’t worry,” remarked Long Ned,
From his prospecting outfit he produced
a 2in. magnifying glass, carried for in-
specting the mostly-illusory stains of
gold on likely-looking stone. Tousling
up a bit of dry bark for tinder, nesting
it in a handful of spinifex, he caught
the sun’s rays in the glass, focused them,
and in no more than a minute had the
spinifex burning. Have done the same
thing with the concave bottom of a clear
glass bottle, and with a little care in
breaking have produced an effective burn-
ing glass from the shoulder of a brandy
bottle. Any piece of glass concave on
one surface and about 2in. or more in
diameter will do. Have often pondered
on how much suffering could have been
avoided and lives saved had the leaders
of expeditions likely to find themselves
in desolate and fireless places taken the
simple precaution of carrying a small
burning glass.
# % & *
“Jummy Nurse”: All these tales of
endurance by dogs, horses and camels
give me a laugh. The toughest animal
in the Australian back-country is the one
popularly used as a symbol for timidity,
stupidity and physical weakness. I’d
like to see anything else stand up to what
the plains merino stands up to and sur-
vives. Living half its time on sand and
promises, more often thirsty than not,
dogged, driven, drafted, harried by blow-
flies and worms and duststorms, panting
in the heat or shivering in the frost, de-
prived of its clothing at a time when it
needs it most, frequently suffering wounds
that would give a first-aid party the jo-
joes, somehow or another the merino
lives on, about the only animal that can
be turned out on the dry plains and
thrive.
“Pitt St.”: I’m a city Aussie, and it’s
always a bit of an eye-opener on the rare
occasions when I find myself out in those
parts where people think nothing of going
100 miles to see a picture show or have a
game of cards. The mailcar dropped me
at a crossroads, and presently there came
a utility truck. “You the bloke for the
station?” I said I was. “Well, hang on
fT a bit. Got t’ take some stuff up t’
Duffy’s.” I sat on my luggage and
waited. Nearly two hours later the truck
came back. I learned that Duffy’s was
30-odd miles away. These bush blokes
must have developed their philosophical
faculties when they think little of waiting
a couple of hours till somebody comes
back from a 30-mile journey. Imagine
asking a friend to wait in Martin-place
while you slipped out to Penrith and
bark!
"He says it's only a hop, step and jump froth here. Bill."
“D.R.H.”; A man hears a lot about
four-legged outlaws from the continents
where they root and pitch, but what
about a two-legged girth-breaker? Half
a dozen years ago a policeman from
around Wilcannia (N.S.W.) was willing
to back with cash his ability to sling
any local horseman who got on his back.
He gave the tight-legs the advantage of
a surcingle. I never heard of any rider
collecting the stakes.
* # * *
“Aratta”: Dad ran a critical eye over
the weedy little new hand who had been
sent up to him from the registry office.
“Not much of y’,” he commented ; “but,
never mind, a few months up here will
make a diff’rence with y’, 111 bet. list
come along an’ I’ll show y’ round.”
He proceeded about the farm, pointing
out various things of interest. “Every-
thing grows big an’ quick up here,” he
said —“it’s the soil an’ the climate” ; and,
enjoying himself immensely at the evi-
dent astonishment of the hand, Dad en- (
larged on the growing qualities of the
combination. Down by the riverside
Choom stopped and stared at the skeleton
of a horse in the fork of a gum-tree about
20ft. up. The dead nag had been washed
there in a big flood in the river some
years before. “Ah,” said Dad, “that'll
show y’ how things grow up here. That
there tree is jist two year old, an’ that
“The society wants you to raise the horse’s head two feet."
there skeleton of a horse y’ see there wus
a foal what got staked on the tree when
it wus a saplin’ three feet high.”
#*| * *
“Dewey”: A well-told story, “The
White Dam” (B. 23/6/’43); but Ewers
slipped Tommy is held under water by
the weight of a small tank of water and
is drowned. But the tank wouldn’t be
heavy under water—it wouldn’t even
weigh as much as an empty tank does
out of water. That’s Archimedes’s prin-
ciple, and if you don’t believe it youve
only to sink a bucket in the creek.
Although it’s full of water it has ar y
any weight till you start to raise it out
of the water. *
“Narrin”- Although I’ve recently been
divorced from a rather amphibious life
on the Murray, and although a total
dearth of cartridges and a lot of ignorant
comment by city bushmen might have
deterred a lesser man, my sporting in-
stincts remain uninhibited. True, I now
lack tiger snakes, but there are always
rabbits. And I shot one the other day,
at 30 yards, clean through the ribs, with
a 30in. arrow. Believe me, such a shot
to a tyro with the bow provides a real
thrill. It may have been a fluke, but
until I hit another rabbit I refuse to
admit it. But, very sadly, I have to admit
that the bow was not a branch off a
mallee-tree strung with binder-twine and
used for propelling a length of bamboo.
And when I get to the stage of shooting
sparrows with the thing I’ll let the
Council know.
« * * ♦
“Propalong”: Three of us were camped
on the open tablelands. After three
meatless days we were hungry enough to
tackle rabbit, and there was a warren only
about half a mile from us. A bit before
sunset we saw the bunnies popping out
and thumping off to a patch of feed
about a hundred yards from the burrows,
but, having neither traps nor guns, our
chances of rabbit for tea looked slim,
especially as the only cover for miles was
a little watercourse Which passed the
warren on the side opposite to the feed-
ing bunnies. And then Ned took charge.
Dividing his forces he gave Jack his
orders, and then Ned and I started to
sneak down the watercourse towards
bunny-town. We got there without dis-
turbing the feeding rabbits, collected
armfuls of big gibbers and climbed over
to the warren. Ned got to work block-
ing the burrows at arm’s reach down
from the mouths. When the job was
finished we slid back into the water-
course, and presently a mighty yelling in-
dicated that Jack was in action. Peeping
over the bank we watched the bunnies
scoot for home. When they had dis-
appeared below ground we strolled over
and hauled half a dozen from the blocked
burrows. Simple, but it works.
* :[■ * *
“Snarker”; That wild wallaroo (B.
7/7/’43) fell to a police bullet. The fierce
an-i-mile had terrorised the entire district,
according to the press, which gives a list
of its doings long enough to make an
ordinary assault-and-battery practitioner
blush for shame. Australians must be
getting soft. One time these monsters
were always tigers or leopards or polar
bears or supernatural monsters, but ever
since the wild reindeer terrorised the
Junee (N.S.W.) country the purveyors of
yarns seemed to have been stumped. A
ferocious wallaroo! It’ll be a native bear
next.
* * * *
“TV.”; Whenever, in 1943, an un-
shaven person starts frothing over about
the downtrodden working man, I like to
think of young Bill Ballantyne when,
still in his teens, he was in charge of the
musterers on Tapio nearly 70 years ago.
Tapio then was shearing 100,000 sheep
and beginning to run the fences that
eventually enclosed 1,000,000 acres of
N.S.W. Out one day on a bad horse
young Bill was carried by the bucking
prad into a tree. A limb caught his
right arm, breaking it at the wrist but
failing to unseat him. There were no
doctors in Wentworth in those days, and
the injury involved a trip by river-steamer
and coach to Adelaide, painfully slow to
a man with a shattered arm, and darned
expensive. It was three months before
the youngster got back to the run, and
then he found that his pay had been
stopped from the evening of the acci-
dent.
* * * *
“Bad Victorian”: As an exile from
the Cabbage Garden for near 50 years, 1
wonder if stringybark still holds the posi-
tion in popular esteem it did in my youth.
As a gift to the pioneer it surely must
rank first as a building material. A sap-
ling only a foot through yields a bark
sheet 3ft. wide. And how easily it peels
off! Just a straight vertical cut, a few
taps with the head of the axe and off it
comes. For walls it licks wattle and daub,
both for speed in building and resistance
to the weather; for roofing it leaves
thatch miles behind —goes on like corru-
gated iron and nails a lot easier. Rain-
proof, it’s warm in winter, cool in
summer. Back in the ranges in the days
I knew coffins sometimes were made
from it, and as an infant I spent many
hours in a cradle the sides of which were
stringybark.
$ * *
“Drover”: I don’t know about bul-
locks petted as calves turning out vicious
later on (B. 23/6/’43), but they are
usually the limit in contrariness. On the
last lap of a 30-mile dry stage with 1200
fat bullocks during midsummer, two of
these ex-pets turned it in and lay down
when within 100 yards of water. A half-
caste was sent to the camp for the water
canteens and two of the cook’s large
mixing dishes. After some hesitation one
of the bullocks drank, got to its feet and
staggered off to the water ; but each time
the dish was placed before the former
milker’s poddy it would bellow with rage
and horn it away. When we’d emptied
the canteens in vain effort the bullock
somehow got to its feet and attempted
to charge its would-be benefactors. After
shuffling a few yards just on 9001 b. of
prime beef slumped down in the sand
and within a few minutes had become
crow and tucker. The other bul-
lock was trucked with the mob.
“Jemalong Jim”: Warroo Walters
jumped the rattler at Red
Bend, intending to get to
Cootamundra. He snuggled
in among some bales of
cornsacks and pulled the tar-
paulin over himself. Time
passed, while the train
bumped and rumbled and
backed and filled. Then a
hand lifted the tarp. and
Warroo looked at Jimmy
Parslow, the guard, who
said “Where you nankin’
for, mate?” “Coota.,” said
Warroo. Jimmy smiled
sadly. “When y’ get there,”
he said, “tell ’em I expect t’
be in on Thursday.” “But
this is Monday.” “True,
mate, but Coota. won’t see
this train till Thursday. It’s
only goin’ t’ Pullabooka,
an’ then me an’ the engine
comes back.” Warroo climbed out,
shook himself, eyed the train malevo-
lently and moved off, saying “Ruddy
train services ain’t worth a damn. Ain’t
fair t’ the taxpayers ; the blanky Commis-
sioner ought t’ get the sack.”


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, FALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. HAY MOREP
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGQA, HENTY HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES LONDON
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO..
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Corries in Queensland.
“South Mungo”: As a general-purpose
sheep the Corriedale is hard to beat. It
yields a fair wool clip, good lambs, and
the wethers or dry ewes can always be
turned over at a fair profit. A point
worth noting is that the breed is only
about 70 years old—it was got from a
merino-Lincoln cross inbred to type —
and has to be watched to check rever-
sions. A long-established breed is fairly
reliable; a new breed is apt to slip the
moment vigilance slackens, so Corrie-
dales have to be culled severely.
Experts in Queensland have observed
an inclination to breed too fine a sheep,
which defeats the Corriedale purpose,
which is to give size and sturdy consti-
tution with a heavy fleece. A fine-wool
fleece can meari only loss of size and
constitution. All the same, advocacy of
a strong covering doesn’t mean a lower-
ing of quality, and here again severe
culling comes in. True Corrie wool
should be of great length comparatively,
bright and truly crimped along its whole
length.
When culling a Corriedale flock it’s
often necessary to cull from both ends.
You can have ’em too big and showing
too much Lincoln or too small and
showing too much merino. Go for the
happy medium, and if in doubt about
your own capacity to pick ’em don’t be
afraid to hire a good classer or call in
a departmental expert, because both
lambs and wool are worth good money.
It’s yet to be proved whether the
Corriedale can put up with hard times as
well as the merino, largely because Corries
are mostly run on good lamb country.
Personally, I doubt if they would stand up
to the dry country and produce as well
as merinos. But they’re a good proposi-
tion for small-area men in fair rainfall
country on the strength of their dual-
purpose attributes.
Losses of Piglets.
“Hux”; A clumsy sow rolling or
treading on the litter can cause up to
25 p.c. of deaths in the first three days
after birth. The sow should be in light
condition before mating and during
pregnancy. Give her free range and
she’ll remain fairly lean in the autumn,
foraging green stuff that supplies pro-
teins and minerals. If feed’s too succu-
lent in spring she’ll put on weight. Don’t
let her get poor or the litter may develop
slowly and be liable to disease.
Placing the sow in the farrowing-pen
three weeks in advance helps to keep her
thrifty and gets her settled. Reducing
the feed a week before the litter’s due is
a precaution against milk fever and
swollen udder. Cut out all feed just on
farrowing and supply lots of water. On
the first day after delivery' a bran mash
plus a dash of molasses is enough. Feed
lightly the first week.
Maoriland pig-raisers are beginning to
question the use of farrowing rails, hold-
ing that piglets are slow to move and
don’t know that safety lies ip getting
behind them. When they are used, place
the pens so that the little pigs can run
around the sow and won’t be squeezed
against the wall when she lies down.
Use of short straw or sawdust gives the
piglets a better chance to get away than
long straw.
The English practice of placing the pig-
lets ip a sawdust box as soon as they’re
born often saves two or three animals
per litter. Sows mated too young can’t
stand the strain of reproduction. Mated
when too fat internally the litter is small,
undersized and often has runts.
Buffalo Fly.
“Outback”; “Mackay” (B. 23/6/’43)
says “we must keep the buffalo fly out
of the dairy country,” but it is in
the dairy country of the Atherton
Tableland, and it has reached the truck-
ing yards at Townsville. Efforts to
check its southern advance have so far
proved successful; but scientists like Dr.
A. J. Nicholson, of the C.5.1.R., believe
that now the fly has reached congenial
country it will go right down the coast.
The climate is not expected to stop its
advance south for some considerable
time, and Dr. Nicholson says there is
little reason to think that a buffer area,
while being very costly, would do more
than delay its progress to an inappreciable
extent. Queensland cattlemen and the
"Not a word to the other girls — let's keep it OUR secret!"
Minister of Agriculture consider efforts
now to combat the fly should be the re-
sponsibility of the Federal Government,
and an officer from the C.S.I.R. is investi-
gating the problem.
Rhodes Grass for Hay.
“E.L.S.”: More of it should be cut for
hay in Queensland, where its grazing
value is well known but its hay value
neglected. It can be cut and stored when
growth is heavy, and in some parts it
mightn’t be a bad idea to grow it es-
pecially for fodder reserves. Don’t try
mowing a paddock that’s rough with
sticks, etc., because broken parts can’t be
replaced these times.
If a patch of Rhodes looks like being
heavy later on, get the stock off it and
clear up any rubbish lying about. Rhodes
is ready for cutting in summer, and
generally recovers pretty quickly after-
wards.
A point worth noting about Rhodes
grass is that it is a perennial and there-
fore costs little to maintain ; at the same
time it is a good erosion check and im-
proves the soil. It’s not likely to be
much of a hay-maker in colder parts,
because it cops out from frosts.
The hay is easy to cure. It should be
got into the stack within 48 hours of
cutting. Yield will vary with soil and
climate, but on good soil young stands
should give at least two cuttings a year
and run out between i\ and two tons
an acre. Hay quality and palatability
vary a good bit, but most stock will eat
it readily.
Vegetable Growing.
“H.C.”: To keep production high
replenish organic manure systematically,
allow sufficient lime and apply balanced
fertilisers. Deep digging and regular
cultivation improve the soil. Don’t
bring the subsoil to the surface; leave
it in its right stratum. If it’s clayey, break
it up to prevent waterlogging.
On slopes leave the soil turned over
rough until you need it; the steeper the
slope the rougher the soil to absorb run-
off of water for the summer. Sow
vacant patches to a green manure crop of
blue lupins or oats. Dug in, lupins help
retain the nitrogen ; oats build up humus.
Either prevents leaching of plant food
from the soil. Rotational cropping keeps
the soil healthy and prevents disease.
Weed control influences yield,
“Pat Ater”: July is the time to sow
peas in colder districts; sowing can go
on till December on the frosty high-
lands. As green peas are not long-pro-
ducers, a second, third and later sowing
should be made until early spring.
Peas like good soil, in spite of the
theory that bacteria-nodules fix the
nitrogen supply for legumes, anyhow.
The bacteria are not always present,
and in barren or poor, sandy soil there is
always need for humus and balanced
plant food in fertiliser form. Make up
the ground with a lime ration and ferti-
lisers. Turn them in, but keep the food
in the top six inches of soil, where the
feeding roots work. Greenfeast is best
for the coast, but where some staking
can be done with twigs Earlicrop (or
Gem) gives well-filled pods. On the
highlands. Stratagem and Richard Sed-
don are worth trying. Telephone, on tall
supports, and sweet-podded Sugar Pea
are useful.
Artichokes are hardy and easily
grown, but produce a bigger and better
quota of tubers in rich, deep soils. As
nutritious as potatoes, they suit both cool
and warm areas. Early beans are worth
trying in coastal areas where frosts are
seldom, July sowings bring results in
a warm, sheltered patch. The soil is
prepared as for peas, but don’t sow beans
after peas. Nothing better than Brown
Beauty or New Discovery.
Leeks, forced from infancy and with
generous watering, supply splendid
summer greens.
Care of the Soil.
“Plane Creek”: With fertilisers
rationed small farmers should take greater
care of their land. Growing of legu-
minous, green-manure crops is one way
of restoring soil, which responds promptly
when green plants are ploughed under
to rot. The plants store nitrogen and
the humus binds the soil together, thus
preventing erosion and enabling it to ab-
sorb and hold moisture. Legumes may be
Sown after a rough ploughing and har-
rowing. Liming the ground beforehand
is a good idea.
If new land is needed, grub the timber
from a horse paddock for cultivation,
and give the nags a fallow paddock. Bum
the fallen timber in heaps, but don’t burn
the grass—plough it in. Don’t try turn-
ing a pasture of couch, guinea or Kikuyu
grass into a cultivation paddock; you
can’t get rid of such grasses easily.
When breaking up use the harrows
freely after ploughing to break down
clods, and gather up half-buried vege-
table matter. Bury the latter for nitrogen
and humus, or burn it for potash. Don’t
cart old cane-stools off, but drag a couple
of dry logs into the paddock, set fire to
them side by side, and pile stools on until
you have a small smoking volcano. Top
up with fresh stools morning and night
and you’ll soon get rid of ’em.
Practise crop rotation. Farmyard
manures, though inferior to artificial
manures, are useful. Best are sheep, pig
and fowl manure. Horse manure forces
plants in cold, wet soils ; cow manure
improves light, dry soils. English spuds
and cabbages do well in drills bottomed
with dry fowl manure. Sheep manure
gets in its best work in heavy, wet soils ;
?pig in light, dry ones.
Hints for the Farm.
“Steve”: To get a bereaved ewe to the
yard to use as a foster-mother, tie a
long string, 30ft. or so, round the dead
lamb’s neck and tow the carcass slowly
to the yard. The ewe will follow. I’ve
practised this for years.
“Drover”: For scrub itch in stock or
dogs try this solution: Bring to the boil
lib. sulphur and 11b. lime in 4gal. water
and allow to simmer for two hours.
When cool strain off and store in a suit-
able container. Apply daily for a week,
and then when the animal is dry rub-in
some unsalted beef or mutton fat. Repeat
until the mange is cleared up.
“Farmer Bill”; For lice on horses boil
11b. of soap in Igal. of water till it’s
dissolved, then add a pint of kerosene.
Pour from one bucket to another till it’s
emulsified, then dilute with water to re-
quired consistency. Choose a warm day
and clip the horse all over before apply-
ing the dressing; collect and burn the
hair. Repeat treatment within ten days
to kill lice that have hatched from hidden
eggs. Disinfect covers or harness, scrub
feedboxes, edges of mangers and rub-
bing posts with hot, soapy water plus a
dash of lysol.
“Bill C”: Forage poisoning makes a
horse dopey, listless and disinclined to
eat. Move it to a dry, well-ventilated
stable and dose with raw linseed oil. An
ounce of powdered carbonate of am-
monia added to the oil will stimulate
heart action. Offer light, easily-digested
tucker and plenty of clean drinking water.
Mouldy chaff can cause similar symp-
toms. When cutting grass for chaff-
making take care that no vines of any
kind are cut with it.
“Agro”: Cocky chaff —the wheat
husks and upper part of the stalk ordi-
narily blown to the wind —is valuable
fodder. It can be saved by using a chaff-
carrier and empfied in heaps, to be later
carted in and stored under cover. Fed
on its own, mixed with molasses or a
little oats or with ordinary chaff, it will
carry stock over a drought.
“Agro”: Despite “A.H.8.” (B.
30/6/’43), I’ll stick to boiled rabbit with
boiled wheat for egg-production because
of actual experience over many years.
My birds laid well on this diet and stayed
healthy.
“Myr”: Eggs for incubation should be
clean, fresh, not less than 2oz. in weight
and of good shape and shell texture, with-
out ridges or roughness. Good pullets
can’t be expected from poor-quality eggs.
Don’t wash eggs intended for the in-
cubator or hold them longer than ten
days. An incubator temperature of 55deg.
to 65deg. F. is ideal.
“B.”: Check up on the valve mechan-
ism when the tractor lacks pep. Crank
the engine slowly. If there’s rebound in
each compression stroke the valves are
closing properly. Lack of compression
can be traced to sticky valves. Allow the
motor to idle, apply kerosene to the valve
stems and let it work down. If the
engine head is the L type remove a plug
and run kerosene down the hole ; this
cuts the gum and softens carbon on the
valve stems. Wear may cause leakage,
and valves are then burnt and warped
by exhaust gases.


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS
Returns of land held at midnight on the 30th June, 1943, are required to be lodged by:
(а) Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have altered in any way
since the 30th June, 1942. Returns showing such alterations should be furnished on Form “CB” by
the 31st July, 1943.
(б) Persons resident in the Commonwealth who held land of an unimproved value of £4,000 or upwards
and absentees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over who have not previously lodged
returns. Such persons should ledge full returns on Ftonn “A” by the 31st August, 1943.
Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have not altered in any way
since 30th June, 1942, ARB NOT REQUIRE© TO LODGE RETURNS. Where land is held in more
than one State and returns are necessary, the returns should be forwarded to the Deputy Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the Principal Post Offices or at
Federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Building, 31-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Postal address. Box 1046 W, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10 p.c. additional tax—minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns £lOO.
H. C. HIGGINS, ACTING DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF LAND TAX.
SCOTT’S “RENOWN”
S.: '
1
K
2^
A Rope for Every Purpose
but these days mostly for the forces.
Fighting men must have first call on our products, and shipping
must be geared and supplied to carry on.
There has never been so great a need for rope and cordage,
and at our Mascot Ropeworks we are going “flat out for Victory”
in an effort to meet the demand for the “Sinews of War.”
To our many friends and customers we would like to say:—
If you miss the service and attention we were able to offer you in
the past, please realise we have a man-size job to carry out in the
execution of very essential requirements. Our sales staff are in the
forces and doing their bit, and if you are experiencing trouble in
obtaining your supplies of rope and cordage we will do our very
best to help if you phone or write
J. SCOTT PTY. LTD.
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 82861, 8W6396.
MBSm
Pv
■
:■ <•>
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always iresh . .
Always .sinoo ISi
i
Carreras Ltd 154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5064 8
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
They Smashed Rommel.
(Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” article
by Allan A. Michie.)
Many things helped beat Rommel, but
the story of those six months which
changed the course of the war and the
destiny of the world is, after all, largely'
the story of two men and an army.
Few cocktail-sippers in Cairo’s Shep-
heard’s Hotel bothered to look up that
hot summer day in 1942 as a scrawny,
long-nbsed British general arrived,
glanced at them disapprovingly and
strode across the terrace. Few would
have recognised him, for Lieutenant-
General Sir Bernard Law Montgomery,
newly appointed commander of the
Eighth Army, was unknown except in
military circles.
The army regarded him as a some-
what eccentric but competent officer with
a passion for hard work ; a devout, dour,
humorless abstainer who neither drank,
smoked nor swore. An admirer of
Oliver Cromwell, Montgomery himself
had a Cromwellian streak. “I read my
Bible every day, and I recommend you
to do the same,” he had told his staff.
His other favorite book was Pilgrim’s
Progress.
The troops he had commanded in Eng-
land remembered him as a stern dis-
ciplinarian who had put them through
gruelling endurance tests. A fanatic on
fitness, Montgomery required all his men
and officers up to brigadiers to run a
seven-mile course once a week, and he
usually ran the route with them. When
the older officers complained he changed
it to a six-mile run.
General Sir Harold R. L. G. Alexander
was Montgomery’s close friend. Alex-
ander, an aggressive fighter whose motto
is “Attack, attack and re-attack, even
when you are on the defensive,” had
ironically been fated to conduct two of
Britain’s great retreats —Dunkirk and
Burma.
At Dunkirk, Alexander organised the
final evacuation. When one of his aides
moaned “The situation is catastrophic,”
Alexander retorted crisply “I am sorry,
I don’t understand long words like that.”
His studied coolness communicated itself
to the men waiting patiently for boats
while Nazi dive-bombers roared over-
head. When there was nothing more to
do but wait and suffer, he squatted on
the beach and built himself a sand castle.
In the fading light of the last day he
toured the sands to see that no live sol-
dier had been left behind. He and a
naval officer were the last to leave. .
The situation in Burma was hopeless
when Alexander was flown out to take
command. He was instructed to hold the
Japs as long as possible so that Wavell
could organise the defence of India. With
his tiny, ill-equipped army of 25,000 he
fought 100,000 Japs for four months,
and escaped across the only mountain
road into India a few days before the
monsoon made the road impassable. In
British military circles, this is regarded as
a feat second only to the masterful
evacuation from Dunkirk.
Montgomery had been at Dunkirk, too.
He had told his men “If you run out of
ammunition, tear the enemy to pieces
with your hands.”
These were the two men whom
Churchill brought together to save the
crucial Middle East. Churchill’s orders
were simple: “Rommel must be de-
stroyed.” The strategical job of co-
ordinating the Eighth Army’s advance
with the British-American invasion of
North Africa, then in the making, was
Alexander’s job. The tactics of defeat-
ing Rommel were left to Montgomery,
Monty sounds boastful. And so he is.
But he has had what it takes to make
good on all his boasts so far. He be-
lieves in meticulous planning. His offen-
sive against Rommel was worked out to
the last tin of bully beef.
As the Eighth Army pursued Rommel
along the Mediterranean, the spotlight
of publicity hugged Montgomery. Alex-
ander, back in Cairo’s G.H.Q., was almost
forgotten. But for routing Rommel the
two men, deserve about equal credit.
They complemented each other perfectly.
Alexander, able to see things in broad
perspective, was an ideal man for
handling the over-all military and diplo-
matic problems of the Middle East com-
mand. The explosive Montgomery pro-
vided the spark that made the Eighth
Army irresistible.
Both Montgomery and Alexander have
been professional soldiers all their adult
lives. But the two men are alike only in
their military background. The faultlessly
dressed, trim-moustached Alexander,
third son of the fourth Earl of Caledon,
is a polished product of Harrow. He
speaks fluent French, Italian, German,
Russian and Urdu. At one time he was
aide to King Edward VIII. He is one of
the few generals in the British army with
an adequate private income.
Alexander, suave, travelled, wins his
points by sheer charm. He is not a man
to give way easily—but he is so polite that
he seems self-effacing. Montgomery is
brusque and staccato-voiced. He makes
no effort to conceal his egotism, must
dominate every conversation. He has a
high theatrical sense, and never misses
a chance for a touch of drama.
The Alexander-Montgomery combina-
tion had the advantage of tackling the
job at a time when first-class equipment,
both British and American, was beginning
to reach the Eighth Army. Their pre-
decessors had to get along without proper
tools. But even with all the tanks and
guns and ’planes no general could have
licked Rommel but for the spirit of the
fighting men of the Eighth Army.
For almost three years they had waged
heartbreaking seesaw campaigns across
some of the toughest terrain in the world.
They had endured the heat that turns
rifle barrels hot as pokers in a fire, kham-
sin winds that burned the swirling sand
into their flesh, flies that covered their
food and bodies, disease, disappointment
and privation. Their losses had been
heavy. All along the Mediterranean they
had left their dead: Britons, South
Africans, New Zealanders, Australians,
Fighting French, Greeks and Poles, in
shallow, lonely graves that are inscribed
“This is hallowed ground. They died in
the service of their country.”
Sometimes they had been badly led.
Never had they had adequate equipment.
In the early days against the Italians,
they had held Egypt with fewer than
15,000 men, a few score antiquated
armored cars and 87 ’planes.
But through it all the men of the Eighth
Army refused to admit they were de-
feated and therefore never were defeated.
They never lost confidence that, given the
proper equipment, they could beat Rom-
mel’s armies. They waited a long time
to prove that, man to fighting man, they
were better soldiers than the Nazis.
Conceived in adversity, nurtured in de-
feat and retreat, brought up on blood
and sand, the Eighth Army has grown in
battle to be the best equipped, co-ordi-
nated and experienced single fighting
machine on the Allied side. It was left to
Churchill to pay it the simple tribute of
the free world when it marched proudly
into Tripoli. Said the Prime Minister:
“When after the war is over a man is
asked what he did, it will be enough for
him to say T marched with the Eighth
Army.’ ”
China More
(f™J „ ■■Come™ ar,L\y DonaM R.
Stevenson.)
China can’t do with as little as she has
been getting so far under lend-lease. Just
how little that has been was made clear
by President Roosevelt’s report to Con-
gress on lend-lease operations for the
period ended March 11, 1943. Accord-
ing to this report, the total amount
of lend-lease materials transferred to
our allies in two years was worth
$7,831,000,000. Out of this, China has
received $158,000,000 worth of goods
and services—only $17,000,000 more than
the amount sent to New Zealand, and a
fraction more than 2 per cent, of the
total received by all nations.
What’s more, China didn’t even get all
of that. According to the President’s
statement, almost 50 per cent, of the sup-
plies for China are still in India awaiting
transport; and there are few materials
in the world which can stand exposure
to the Indian climate for several months
without suffering serious deterioration.
The war in China can’t be kept going
at that rate. The Chinese have stood up
six years against the Jap army, which
in a period of less than six months


f
el igag, e^
•• ' „rtta<* ttt t n v vU e
, fla v-y-
-***** 54
The MSK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radiola.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sio) 111
Australia s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
I Sharpening the \
Bulldog’s Teeth
m
::
mm
WHS?
Every day sees the British Bulldog with more
power to his bite—Every day sees new planes,
new tanks, new ships, hew weapons of every
description roaring the death knell to aggres-
sion.
In this inexorable march to Victory, the
Rootes Group is playing its part—for the entire
Organisation has long been concentrated solely
upon the forging of weapons for freedom.
In the days to come, closest industrial co-
operation within the British Commonwealth of
Nations will help to solve our mutual post-
war problems.
Resident Representative:
C. H. HORDERN. 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber v Sursbeam-Talbot
Hillman
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
i Commer * Harriet
conquered all European-held territories in
the Far East. The very fact that the
Chinese have been fighting that long
means that they are tired and may not
be able to hold on.
Chinese morale during this war has
been amazing. I can testify to that, for I
have seen the Chinese fight back every
step of the way from Shanghai to Nan-
king to Hankow to Chungking. So far,
their morale hasn’t shown any signs of
cracking, but the time eventually comes
when morale has to be given a lift with
something more substantial than kind
words and sympathy.
If ’planes and armament are not pro-
vided, China might have to pull out of
the war. That is not probable, but still
it must always be considered as a possi-
bility.
Indian Army Difficulties.
(Condensed from a New York “Nation” article
by Colin S. Maclaren. )
The Indian army of today consists of
nearly 2,000,000 volunteers. Some say
this is a poor figure for a sub-continent
of 390,000,000 inhabitants, but if they
looked beneath the surface they might
wonder that the number was actually so
large.
Raising and maintaining an army in
India is a radically different problem
from what it is in the West. Often the
first task is to teach the men a new
tongue. There are some 24 distinct lan-
guages in India. The recruit rarely speaks
more than his local bat, or patois. Before
“eating the oath,” as the Urdu has it, he
must have picked up some Hindustani,
India’s lingua franca, and to become a can-
didate for promotion he needs a know-
ledge of English.
There is the difficulty of getting equip-
ment —much stressed by the Government
of India. There are also the barriers of
caste: religion and tradition in India
have usually required that soldiers should
be drawn only from the second highest
major caste. Whether this tradition could
now be radically changed and the army
enlarged by the unrestricted inclusion of
non-martial castes is a very complicated
question. To the Indian mind any
politico-military combination is strange.
Even stranger is the recent report that the
Japanese have formed an army of Indian
ex-prisoners. To think that the Japanese,
with their methods and their lack of lin-
guistic and traditional background, could
lead Indian troops for long is fantastic.
Another serious problem is rations.
Not only is the cow sacred to the Hindu,
and pork unclean to the Mohammedan,
but bully beef and Maconochie stew, be-
ing in tins, are unacceptable to the Indian
soldier, who as a rule requires his meat
fresh. Mutton and goatflesh are about
the only kinds of meat practicable for
rations, but luckily the Indian is not a
big meat-eater. His absolute essential is
atta, Indian flour, from which he makes
the flat cakes of unleavened bread that
are his staple diet. A problem in trans-
port is posed by his bulky cooking pots,
which he must carry everywhere with
him. Other things he can hardly be with-
out are ghee, or clarified butter, sugar,
lentils and garlic.
The strict observance, in all circum-
stances, of Indian dietary laws put a
big burden on the quartermaster. But
Hindu soldiers have been known to starve
to death rather than eat beef, and cart-
ridges greased with pork and beef fat
were the spark that touched off the Indian
Mutiny.
Aside from the question of caste, a
potent factor against general mobilisation
of the people for war is their widespread
pacifism.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
If children and adults not classified as refu-
gees be included, there are some 200,000 post-
-1933 Jewish arrivals in Britain (a prominent
Jewish journal lately referred to “some hun-
dreds of thousands”). They were admitted,
under specific pledges to Parliament, for tem-
porary sanctuary only. No one in touch
with the electorate can doubt that any relaxa-
tion of these pledges would be resented. The
growth of anti-Semitism is beyond dispute; a
subject of constant reference in the Jewish press
and anxiety to British Jews, so often a valu-
able element. Two possible solutions present
themselves. The first, utilisation of the Pales-
tine quota when conditions permit. The second,
if the larger problem of distressed Jewry is to
be faced, the creation under the peace treaties
of a Jewish State in south-east Europe, their
age-long majority habitat. There are reasons
for believing that the States concerned would
be ready to consider the small mutual territorial
concessions involved as a step towards solving
their own most irritant minority problem.
Jewish leaders would be well advised to face
realities, and not to seek to over-exploit sym-
pathies aroused by Nazi beastliness at a time
when Jews are not alone in suffering wrongs
as well as in having rights to maintain. —
A. W. H. James, M.P.; London “Times” letter.
* * * *
The State dinner given at the Kremlin in
honor of American envoy Joseph E. Davies
included caviare, back of dried sturgeon, her-
ring with dressing, back of sturgeon in sauce,
English-style roast beef, cold ham, gelatine,
olives and spring salads, radishes, cucumbers
and a variety of cheeses. Then came wild fowl,
chicken soup, consomme, Siberian salmon,
snipe and fried potatoes, turkey and cauli-
flower. This was followed by strawberry tarts
and vanilla ice-cream, candy, nuts and liqueurs.
The main drinks during the dinner were red
and white wines—red Georgian wine being one
of Marshal Stalin’s favorites —vodka with hot
pepper, and champagne.— U.S. Associated Press
Moscow correspondent.
* * * *
It was radar that caused the great casualties
at Dieppe. The enemy had it all the time.
As early as 1932 the principles of radar were
written up at length in German scientific maga-
zines.—Walter Winchell; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
I guess all Stalin was afraid of [in disbanding
the Comintern] was that some of the queer
notions now circulating in America would
spread to Moscow. Perhaps he agreed not
to send us any more wild notions if we would
do as much for him. — David Boone; N.Y.
“Sun.”
* * * =H '
German boys [captured in Tunisia] were as
curious about us as we were about them.
Every time I stopped a crowd would form
quickly. In almost every group was one who
spoke English. In all honesty I can’t say their
bearing or personality was a bit different from
that of a similar bunch of American prisoners.
They gave us their cigarettes and accepted ours,
both for curiosity’s sake. They examined the
jeep, and asked questions about our uniforms.
If you passed one walking alone, usually he
would smile and speak. One high American
officer told me he found himself feeling sorry
for them—until he remembered how they had
killed so many of his men with their sneaking
mines, how they had him pinned down a few
days before with bullets flying; then he hated
them. I am always a sucker for the guy who
loses, but somehow it never occurred to me
today to feel sorry for those prisoners. They
didn’t give you a feeling they needed any
sorrowing over. They were loyal to their
country, and sorry they lost, but now it was
over for them they personally seemed glad
to be out of it. — N.Y. “World-Telegram” war
correspondent Ernie Pyle.
* * * *
An announcement by the U.S. Treasury De-
partment that “it was looking into reports that
some officials in North Africa had made large
profits through advance information about
revaluation of the French franc” has revealed
that occupation of French North Africa by
American troops had been accompanied by
large business transactions on the part of in-
formed Frenchmen. Not all of these business
deals have been divulged, but we are informed
that very large amounts of French francs—
allegedly more th«n 25,000,000,000, in bank-
notes and securities —had been shipped to
North Africa from Metropolitan France. Re-
ports from North Africa indicate that a few
days before the arrival of the Americans a large
number of cases filled with French banknotes
arrived in North African ports to be taken over
by Algerian banks, and that, at the same time,
French banks cabled large franc credits to
North African branch offices. The tremendous
increase of these shipments to North Africa
during the days preceding the American in-
vasion proves clearly that these financial trans-
actions had been instigated by men who knew
exactly where the American blow would fall.
It also appears that they were aware of the
immense opportunity of exchange profit which
the American occupation presented.— “ Christian
Science Monitor.’'’
* * * *
So long as Japan holds the islands south of
the Equator the danger to Australia and New
Zealand will remain. It may be necessary to
avoid too great a dispersion of our resources,
and to give priority to the destruction of
Nazism and Facism. But it would be unwise
to overlook or to underestimate the Japanese
peril, or to take the comfortable view that,
after victory in Europe, Japan will collapse
without a sanguinary struggle.— H. G. W.
Woodhead; London “Contemporary Review.”
H* ,
In Chicago on April 12 occurred an incident,
apparently superficial—but likely to cast a long
shadow. It is likely to be duplicated in varying
forms and likely to have a bearing on what
the United States does about the post-war
arrangement of the world. The Chicago inci-
dent was a resolution adopted by the govern-
ing body of the Polish Roman Catholic Union
of America. In part the resolution reads:
“Whereas the Government of Soviet Russia lays
baseless claims to large sections of Poland....
the Polish Roman Catholic Union of America
has concluded that the stand of the Soviet
Government and the Communistic press in the
United States for the annexation of lands of
sovereign and independent nations creates dis-
unity and impedes the concerted effort of the
Allied nations to defeat Germany, Japan and
Italy.” Here we have a group of American
citizens of Polish ancestry taking a position
about a boundary question in Europe. As
other boundary questions arise, in the progress
toward post-war international settlement, similar
positions will be taken by other American
groups of European origin. These American
racial groups have votes. In a number of
Congress districts the balance of power can be
in the hands of a Polish group, or a group of
some other European origin. Some States can
be swung one way or the other in a Presidential
election by the Italian group. Candidates for
Congress are obliged to take account of this.
Candidates for Presidential nominations, or
even for the Presidency, or their respective
campaign committees, are not so unworldly
as to ignore that a State may be lost or carried
by deference to a racial group.— Washington
correspondent, N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”


STORAGE EQUIPMENT
<v
commissioned at Air Bases
,w
.. -h ■■
mm
i 1
9. K! P
r
;■ :
"M.
m
a
m
il
8
< ;:
■ HIBIH
r :-
I 'V''
mm
HI
a
'" ;v; ■
m
mm
m
m
m
H
HI
mm
*
mi
m.
■ '
Mi
■
r &
mm
J
w
v *^i
H
' ?•’ 1
■
■
■
■I
■i
W lICHH
J|B[|
;r
m
m
Bj
' >
fS
HHH
■
...
■Mi
■
w%
Zs
SHI
■k
' •:?
mm
Wherever Australian War planes are
based, "Steelbilt” equipment is on active
service. "Steelbilt” lockers equip Air-
men’s quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt” Bins and Shelving; Opera-
tional flight records are protected by
"Steelbilt” Filing Cabinets. "Steelbilt” is
serving every arm of Australia’s fighting
services. Naturally, that means no more
"Steelbilt” for civilian use until after the
war. But while we are working top speed
on Defence needs, we are also getting valu-
able manufacturing experience ... de-
veloping new design features that will
mean big improvements on all "Steelbilt”
equipment when Victory is won.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doors weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
bangor door hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
ff
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves - £948,600.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W, Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M, Hughes.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
ƒ
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding m action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net Dividends. Written
Juno, Profits. 8 p.c. off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
8 p.c.
1931 . . 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932.. 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
1933.. 214,327 150,000 50,000 3,494,181
1934.. 216,566 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1985.. 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1936.. 247,460 150,000 75,000 3,571,787
7 p.c.
1987.. 266,126 171,935 80,000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 168,875 85,000 3,602,697
1939.. 240,294 163,625 65,000 3,614.366
1540.. 205,088 149,515 50,000 3,619,939
1941.. 208,892 139,125 50.000 3,639,706
6 p.c.
1942.. 121,120 116,375 3,644,451
Innumerable regulations have flowed
from departmental pens, and great
changes been effected in the structure of
Australia’s war economy, in the 12 months
since the Scottish’s ’42 accounts were
made up, sent to London and dispatched
back again. Federal expenditures for
civil and war purposes have soared to
over half the nation’s income, and indi-
vidual and corporate liberties have been
correspondingly circumvented as obliga-
tions on behalf of our own forces and
our Allies have pressed heavier. Man-
power comb-outs have intensified, con-
sumer-rationing has been extended to
additional items of food and cotton
goods, “rationalisation” of production
and distribution widened, a price
stabilisation plan instituted, aimed at
preventing further growths in costs
snowballing throughout the economy,
and supplementary financial controls
have been tightened. But while something
approaching a maximum war establish-
ment is being approached, the problem of
efficiently organising the resources
diverted remains unsolved. Moreover, the
Government has failed to transfer mone-
tary resources to itself in the same pro-
portion as physical ones ; thus it has not
only created troublous current fiscal
problems, but intensified the economic
ones of the future, when the floodgates
damming up the mass of war-created
purchasing power come to be opened.
The blueprint of reconstruction, of
course, will be partly determined by exter-
nal developments still to unravel them-
selves. Internally, all political parties are
pledged to ensuring securer tenure of
employment and a higher standard of
living and social services—policies whose
implications for banking and other sec-
tions of trade and industry cannot be
gauged till the methods of implementing
them are determined. A first requirement
of successful reconstruction, however, will
be the transfer in all possible cases of
the Government’s No. 1 priority for
equipment and materials to private enter-
prise. Indeed, maximum deferment of
Governmental renewal programmes, etc.,
will not only permit trade and industry
to rejuvenate its war-weary plant with the
greatest expedition and at lowest cost —
factors of both internal and external
trade significance—but will make public
spending a useful balance wheel to the
economy during the inevitable wane in
industrial activity once individual and
business restocking has been accom-
plished. One thing is certain from war-
time experiments in socialisation, when
only one main type of production (war
goods), in addition to a bare minimum
of civilian needs, is called for: to hand
to Canberra complete direction of the
multifarious activities of peace will be
courting economic disaster.
The smoothness of the industrial
changeover will partly depend on the use
made of the trading banks’ long and
specialised knowledge of industry’s re-
quirements. At present they are bound
hand and foot. Trading profits are limited
to the average of the three pre-war years
by regulations which make no allowance
for tax and other cost advances mean-
time ; increases in assets above August,
1939, levels must be deposited with the
Commonwealth bank at interest half the
Treasury bill rate ; investments in public
and private securities require special con-
sent ; and advance policy must conform
to that of the central bank, to which
foreign-exchange and some rural and
other finance business has passed. Thus
the trading banks’ power to influence
monetary policy has been subjugated to
that of the relatively youthful Common-
wealth Bank, and thpir status reduced to
substantially what the Banking Commis-
sion recommended in 1936.
The passive war role allotted the com-
mercial banks is exemplified in the E., S.
and A.’s balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
1939. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. .. £l,OOB £l,OOB £l,OOB
Bills, etc. . . 1,674,852 2,278,496 ]
Fixed deposits . 20,362,759' 20,319,040' 47,799,779
Free deposits. . 14,579,717 20,097,464 J
Total. . . . £36,618,336 £42,696,008 £47,800,787
Assets.
Liquids. . . . £14,001,901 £20,785,295 £28,948,662
Advances . . 30,532,941 29,726,881 26,627,207
Premises .. 718,264 822,379 805,629
Total. . . . £45,253,106 £51,334,555 £56,381,498
Accretion of £11,182,451 to deposits, etc.,
in the first three years of war was accom-
panied by a contraction of £3,905,734
in advances and the doubling of
liquids and their near-equivalent, includ-
ing £5,435,000 on special deposit with the
Commonwealth Bank, All those trends
have continued. In April, 1943, the near-
liquid reserves of the nine trading banks
had advanced to 59.4 p.c. of liabilities to
depositors, while advances had receded
to a figure only 52.8 p.c. of deposits.
It was taxation that tore the gaping rent
in the Scottish’s ’42 earnings, the uncon-
trollable outgoing mounting from
£270,709 to £436,158, including tax on
British investment income previously
taken in at a net figure. Struck after
interest on £1,868,009 of perpetual stock
costing an average p.c., profit of
£121,120 (down £87,772) was no more
than 4 p.c. on the £3,000,000 of capital,
or a mere 1.8 p.c. on all funds belonging
to shareholders. Apparent omission of
usual contingency provisions kept the cut
in the div. to 1 p.c. Allowing for Eng-
lish income tax and exchange, the 6 p.c.
paid was worth only 4.9 p.c. to Aus-
tralian holders, and just at the moment
the return is more likely to go lower than
to improve,
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. - serves, serves.
£ £ £> £
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,800 1 4 469 i 43 464
Staff provident fund, £3OOO j
1932.. 49,052 7i p.c. = 43,725 ] „ 897 u(i 9fia
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..( 2 ’ 827 146 > 288
1933.. 47,125 71 p.c. ~ 43,725 1 onn 147 ISB
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. J ’
1934.. 48,788 71 p.c. = 43,725 1 „ 14q 751
Staff provident fund, £2500 . . J
Inner reserve disclosed, £26,000 •• 175,751
4935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46 640 ) 5 354 181,105
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. )
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 ] 5 314 186 419
Staff provident fund, £2500 ~J ’ ’
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,130 8 p.c. = 46,640 ] qqft 90r
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. f "° 2 ° J ’ 632
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 12| p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.c. = 46,640 15,508 179,300
1940.. 78,418 8„ „ 46.640 31,778 211,138
1941.. 63,776 8 „ „ 46,950 16,826 227,964
To investment reserves, £6475 .. .. 221,489
1942.. 60,481 8 p.c. = 51,725 8,756 230,245
To investment reserves, £1316 .. • • 228,929
1943.. 50,886 8 p.c. = 52,059 227,756
Economic changes resulting from its
military role as a provisioning base for
Allied South-west Pacific operations have
stressed Maoriland’s overmobilisation
relative to all the needs to be satisfied,
and partial demobilisation is now in
progress, as in the Commonwealth. In
the supply of fertiliser so effectively em-
ployed by the Dominion’s fat-lamb and
dairying industries, Kempthorne Prosser’s
ability to contribute to the common cause
has been circumscribed by loss of the
rich Nauru and Ocean Island phosphate
supplies, and by the low grade of such
costly Egypt rock as the Phosphate Com-
mission has been able to arrange to help
fill the gap. On the other hand, the vital
wholesale-drug side of the business, in
which the co. grew up, has seen the pre-
war expansion occasioned by the
Dominion’s exchange difficulties acceler-
ated. Last term the pharmaceutical fac-
tory made “a notable contribution” to
the general result, and “considerable ex-
pansion in this side of our trading in the
future” is looked for.
Fertiliser interests controlled by K.P.
cover four of the nine works in that sub-
sidised and sheltered industry. The Gov-
ernment Statist records that after bounc-
ing up from 417,160 to 501,400 tons in
the year to March, 1941, super produc-
tion in the Shivery Isles sagged to 338,000
tons in 1941-42 ; chemical fertilisers were
less affected, output receding from
140,700 tons to 129,200 tons in the three-
year period. Difficulties, of course, were
magnified last term, and consumer ration-
ing became more stringent. Still, overseas
supplies for the four drug warehouses and
pharmaceutical factory came to hand
“surprisingly well,” and the decline in the
net result was kept down to £8595. The
£51,886 of profit exhibited was 7.9 p.c.
on capital, compared with 9.2, 10.8 and
13.4 p.c. for the three years before. The
groggy load of taxation Maoriland cos.
are staggering under meant that reserves
had to be drawn on to maintain the 8 p.c.
div. Fortunately, K.P.’s finances can
stand it. Speaking generally, however,
probably nowhere as in M.L. is fiscal
policy limiting the capacity of industry
and trade to play the part which will be
expected of them in the reconstruction
period.
The misfortunes of war have prevented
full utilisation of the £135,144 issue
shareholders tumbled over themselves to
subscribe at the end of the ’4O term, and
£67,738 is still at call:
1935. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital .. £583,000 £621,952 £650,732 £650,738
Liabilities* . . 84,438 449,087 521,226 340,683
Factories, etc. 366,221 407,557 421,711 394,689
Stock.. .. 274,477 512,264 646,668 507,599
Book debts .. 133,802 318,184 282,622 250,725
Cash, etc. . . 105,002 87,543 80,480 96,447
* Includes provision for taxation.
There is a great deal more in those figures
than meets the first glance. Even in the
present condition of depleted earning-
power, it is typical of the management
that depreciation allowances continue to
enjoy a No. 1 priority. Stocks come
down £139,069, mainly on phosphate
account, but in monetary value inven-
tories are still much in excess of normal,
and provisions for price fluctuations can
be taken as well looked after. There was
a cut of £180,543 in the combined tax
and creditors item, the more or less
liquid surplus (£514,088) benefiting by
£25,544.
Recovery and re-equipment of Pacific
phosphate islands are a first essential for
revivification of profits; the level of post-
war markets and prices for M.L. primary
products will be other long-run determi-
nants. Meanwhile, present’ chemical
manufacturing activities appear of more
than passing significance.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
—-Dividends , To Re— De-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.t
£ £ £ £
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17,650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18,902
1934.. 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17,708
1985.. 7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 15,475
1936.. 7,186 6.2,, 3 „ 5,748 1438 14,037
Loss resumption property, etc., £3500.. 17,537
Written off shareholdings, £1500.. 19,037
1937.. 9,264 6.2 p.c. 4 p.c. 6,890 2374 16,663
1938.. 5,583 6.2 „ Nil 2,775 ) _ l6 g 53
Vintage adjustment a/c, £3OOO j ’
Added intangibles, £2050 .. .. 18,90.')
1989.. 2,609 Nil Nil 2609 16,296
1940.. 4,212 Nil Nil 4212 12,084
Written off subsidiary, £5OOO . . 17,084
3 941.. 6,115 12.4 p.c. Nil 6,550 565 16,519
1942.. 13,751 12.4 „ 2J p.c. 8,652 5099 11,420
To tax reserve, £7500.. .. • • 18,920
* After charging previous year’s taxation,
t Goodwin, etc. (now £27,000), not treated as an
asset.
Wine-bibbers haven’t been put on the
same short rations as consumers of the
brewer’s product. Civilian sales instead
have been stabilised at the level of the
second half of 1941, when N.S.W. wine
consumption had reached the record
figure of three-quarters of a gallon per
head, and the requirements of Australian
and Allied canteens are all extra business.
Also, the quota system has produced
advertising and other savings helpful in
offsetting the general and specific costs
brought along by war. However, higher
outlay on grapes and fortifying spirit,
among other things, have to be faced up
to in the current term, and some price
relief at the distribution end will have to
be sought in the near future, the board


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
sissfe
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
smirttGovstiLeco
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
f
do not experiment with imitations,
c. brandauer a co, tu. Birmingham, kno
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIKS & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anfi Trade Marks. — Advt,
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ƒ
f
f
f
f
DON'T BE
WORRIED
ABOUT
INCOME TAX
BUY THE
PRIMARY PRODUCERS' ACCOUNT BOOK
Price - £1
The Pages In the Book are headed the same as the Items in the Income lax
Return.
To make the entries, simply turn to the Index, which shows on which page to put
them, such as: "Sheep Bought," Page 20; "Wool Sold," Page 29; "Wages,
Page 39; "Shearing," Page 57; "Petrol," Page 58; and so on.
Special pages are provided on which to enter the details in respect of the rebates
for "Spouse," "Children," "Mother," "Life Insurance," "Medical Expenses, etc.
To prepare the Income Tax Return, simply copy the entries in the Book on to
the return.
Full instructions are given regarding Live Stock Values, Depreciation on Plant
and Improvements, and other Important matters.
Should any difficulty arise, advice will be given free of charge.
SPECIAL SERVICE (Optional).
You may, if you wish, send the Book to us when completed, together with your
cheque for £2/2/-, when your Income Tax Return will be prepared by a leading
accountant and taxation expert of over 25 years' standing. The Book will be
sent back to you with the Return. Further details of this Service will be given
to purchasers of the Book.
Over 900 copies have been sold. Dozens of testimonials have been received.
If not completely satisfied, your money will be returned.
J. SHIPLEY & CO.. PUBLISHERS. 56 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now . Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
19550*11.4*
says. At present the public is buying
Caldwell’s bottlings at pre-war prices.
Caldwell’s are both viniculturists and
saloon-owners. The doubling of profits
last year was achieved despite man-
power worries common to all low-
priority industry and seasonal conditions
in the Rutherglen-Corowa district, where
the vineyards are, that were once more
“disappointing.” At the same time the
surplus stated isn’t all it seems. Because
taxation hasn’t been provided for in the
past till the bills actually came in, for
purposes of comparability only 1940
income and 1941 land taxes have been
debited by the “Wild Cat” against latest
earnings, the two amounting to £llO4.
Rates are now very much higher, so this
year £7500 in addition is reserved for
“possible taxation” in respect of ’4l and
’42. Excluding this, the surplus of £13,751
was enough to hand the prefs. their mini-
mum requirements and leave 10.3 p.c.
for the ords. Actually, the prefs.’ slate
was wiped clean by two payments of 6.2
p.c., and the ords. got 2\ p.c., their first
morsel in five years. Depreciation was a
nominal £914.
The improvement in earning-power
spread to finances. Here are the figures
before payment of the dividends men-
tioned :
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £146,073 £148,155 £152,326 £152,326
Deposits .. 23,174 14,694 8,100 0,119
Mortgages, etc. 18,530 7,180' 0,180 7,180
Overdraft . . 30,892 43,365 39,963 10,501
Other liabilities 14,626 23,785 27,955 25,735
Properties, plant,
etc 144,303 139,881 142,203 138,715
Book debts . . 28,854 24,547 22,125 17,450
Stocks . . 45,795 47.054 48,851 38,075
Cash, etc. . . 2,527 2,990 3,426 3,513
Shares . . 8,204 6,410 1,400 1,400
General overproduction and the slow
advance of local wine consumption in the
’thirties largely explain the lean returns
of the past decade. 111-luck has also
dogged Caldwell’s at the Brisbane end of
things, now conducted as a branch, where
shares in a subsidiary have been written
down by £16,500 altogether. Transport
strictures will make business here more
difficult and costly to service still, but
that disability may be outweighed by
diminution in the volume of inter-State
supplies coming on to the N.S.W. market.
Fortunately, Caldwell’s devoted little
time to Australia’s former 4,000,000-
gallon export trade, now in a condition
of blackout.
From London;
Gt. Boulder’s new board comprises A. Sim
(chairman) and J. C. Gardiner, friends of De
Bemales, A. M. Coulston and W. Grundt,
nominees of those who were “agin” the old
board, and R. Ellerton Binns, appointed by
special request of the Australian Shareholders
Resumption Committee. Sim is something in
the city, Gardiner is a director of the Sons of
Gwalia, Coulston is a chartered accountant,
Grundt is a well-off ex-tributor on the Boulder
mine, and Binns is chairman of Wiluna. With
this new-broom board in control, shareholders
are hopeful of an early resumption of dividend
distributions. The last was made on June 28,
1940.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia and Paringa, two of
Westralia’s golden group, have some-
thing cheerful to say in their latest
monthly reports. The former mentions
the exposure, driving south at the No. 31
(bottom) level, of ore assaying
over a width of Bft., and the opening up
of sdwt. stuff in the north level. Paringa
reports assay values of 126dwt. over an
exposed width of 48in. in a drive off
a winze at 67ft. below the 520 ft. level. A
190-ton parcel stripped over a width of
6ft. from the west side of this drive
assayed 30dwt. A vertical winze sunk
67ft. below the No. 6 level has passed
through the shoot, its value at the point
of intersection being s.2dwt. over an
exposed width of 36in.
-I- '!• 'I- V
Despite man-power call-ups, several
fair-sized, privately-owned Westralian
goldmines carry on; Evanston, on the
North Wilgarn field, is one. It is some
years since this find was made, and a
little less since the present owners, Ridge
Bros., acquired it. Formation from which
considerable wealth has been extracted to
date is very flat, and so far no mining
has been done below 125 ft. vertical. Ore
is crushed and concentrates are sent to
lllawarra for treatment. There is a dump
of sands estimated to contain gold of a
value running well into six figures await-
ing treatment. Western Mining Corpora-
tion had an option on Evanston but
didn't buy.
# Hi *
Linden Gold (W.A.) reports a net loss
of £241 for the 12 months ended October,
1942. Co. is domiciled in Melbourne.
Year’s expenditure there, including man-
ager’s salary, inspection fees, etc.,
amounted to £286, and income from in-
vestments to £45. Assets consist of Com-
monwealth bonds and accrued interest
£507, fixed deposits and interest £1505,
and cash £232. In August, 1941, co. sold
its mine plant and accumulated tailings
to Coolgardie Brilliant for £3500, which
has chortled about its luck ever since.
Linden’s directors state that various min-
ing propositions submitted to it in the
last 1? months didn’t warrant taking an
option.


■ ■■■'
■
iliii
mmm
m
■
■
Hi
■ I
"CM'CO).
m
4
i
LL
saiii
mm
s-a-.
m
M I*
I*
LULU
I' Mi
liiii
■
till
m
UliU
uu
ilit Ail
in
-mm- ■■
VACUUM
OUALITY PRODUCT
-f
.
mm
i* * * *:ir
y|i
.3L :>!'....; :
£
■
tea
■ m w fl
v «»# » \
■
■
«.
US
mwsKssm^ii
M3B
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Obvious Things to Do
One of the first acts of the Curtin Gov-
ernment after it took office was to bring
down a Budget, and from that day for-
ward the financial columns of The Bul-
letin have had little favorable to say
about the administration of the Curtin
Government. The first dawn of the ad-
ministration wrote very much the same
as the last days of reckoning now read.
“The Curtin Budget,” this paper said in
November, 1941, “shows little sign of the
fairness or realism in its design that one
would expect in an all-in effort. It is the
sort of thing calculated to appeal to the
m °b-—to let off 70 p.c. of the income-
earning voters from anything but the
most formal contribution to the war
effort, and to slug the others The
Budget in several instances puts ‘social
security’ above national security....
There are lifts in indirect taxation where
higher direct tax on the class affected
would serve the purpose more honestly—
further evidence of the ‘popular’ nature
of the Budget. Again the essential thing
necessary to the success of the war effort
—diversion of production from the mass
of the people and not merely from the
high-income-earners—is left to the volun-
tary system... .Labor’s class-conscious
programme is a miserable effort in gov-
ernment.” And though the trials and
tribulations of this suffering country have
grown greatly in size since that time, and
though taxation has been reluctantly
taken down into the lower incomes, the
pattern of Labor’s finance remains the
same. The Government has not shaped
up squarely to realities for a solitary
moment.
After 21 months of this administration,
with Ward, Wilson, Dedman and others
of the kind each feeling cockily that he
represented the Government’s majority of
one, there has been a serious breakdown
in the essential duties of government.
There has been very little true regard
for the business of running the coun-
try’s affairs properly. Too many con-
cessions have been made to selfish-
ness, indiscipline and expediency to
permit an effective war effort with reason-
able after-the-war prospects offering at
the same time. Politics of a parasitic,
“organised” character have infiltrated
nearly all industry, even to the extent of
making it difficult to get obedience from
colored seamen when a ship is in harbor
or at sea ; they, too, feel that they have
a friend in “Eddie” no matter how they
behave towards their employers.
The Government has spent lavishly
tens of millions in overtime on the
wharves, at sea and in the muni-
tion factories; it actually went out
of its way to increase the overtime
payable in the maritime industries,
and that apart from “danger money,”
which in some cases may be perfectly
legitimate, even if the Navy doesn’t get
it. We have inflation to the visible extent
of 22 p.c. already, with more straining at
the leash of National Security Regula-
tions. Our output of goods and services
per head has been below reasonable ex-
pectations in spite of the great cost.
Some Australian affairs are now in a
mess from which the country must extri-
cate itself. We cannot go on as we are
doing. Sooner or later we have to start
paying our way monetarily, a thing we
are not doing at present, and to the extent
we are not doing it we are falsifying our
economic system, the very basis of which
is confidence and truth. How can we
begin on this extrication?
For a start, we can get it well into our
heads that war is economic loss, not
profit. We all have to share in that loss.
There is a full day’s work in front of
everyone, but out of the pay received
heavier taxes have to be given than in
peace-time. The fact that labor is in
great demand should be made to mean
that more is expected of each of us, and
that slacking will carry penalties, not
rewards. There is no time for strikes,
and the interests of the nation are far
above class or section.
We must recognise that every abuse
of the great trusts imposed on the
Government by the people will have
its reaction for the worse on a
country already seriously strained physi-
cally and morally. The waste of war
is a huge burden in itself —the raw
materials turned over to munitions, the
labor taken from the farms and the
peace-time factories —but it is something
we are prepared for. What we are not
prepared for, and what undermines the
whole confidence and economic fabric of
the country, is wilful or ignorant waste
by our own people, such as we see where
policies of go-slow and strikes operate,
and where bureaucrats mishandle and
misdirect the vital work which has been
entrusted to them. About half the
production of the country goes through
Government hands for defence purposes,
and man-power is at the beck and call of
civil servants.
Australia wants honest, blunt govern-
ment now. It wants a full return of law
and order, confidence and fairplay, all
those things having been subject to a
measure of political abuse. It wants a
cutting-out of waste to the greatest pos-
sible extent, and a shaping of the national
financial policy nearer to the realities of
war. It needs a keen regard to be held
for the economic consequences of war
upon the peace. And it needs the plac-
ing of the national pride somewhere in
the war picture, instead of an everlasting
political grovelling to self-interest and
self-pity. Larrikinism in high places must
return to its rightful place in the gutter.
This war is serious.
It should be clear to us all that wax-
means hard work, financial sacrifice and
reduced living standards, as well as the
greater sacrifices made by those who have
taken on the deadly combat itself. On
the home front the people as a whole
can no more avoid economic sacrifice
than the service men themselves can avoid
loss of limb or life. In civil life, how-
ever, we should be able to eliminate
chance to a great extent and spread sacri-
fices much more evenly than on the
battlefield. For too long sacrifices by
Australian civilians have been appor-
tioned according to a political policy of
lightheaded fickleness. In some industries
we have fallen to a nodding acquaintance
with anarchy. Self-destructive selfishness
has had political sponsorship, and, instead
of seeking the enlightened co-operation
of the people, the Labor Government has
indulged in hocus-pocus, as illustrated by
the phony national-security scheme, which
it proposes to finance by taxation without
direct contribution, meantime spending
the fund on war.
The national-security scheme reveals
either an amazing lack of intelligence or
a shameful lack of sincerity.
The “forces of selfishness and sec-
tionalism,” to which Home Secretary
Flerbert Morrison referred in Britain a
couple of months ago, are mostly recog-
nisable, and where they are engaged in
illegal activities they can be dealt with.
They should never at any time be granted
concessions unjustifiable in the light of
the war effort and the common good.
In this country we want, in particular,
a return to obvious principles. We want
a cutting-out of humbug and make-
believe, and we need to recognise that
without sacrifices none of us can take
credit to ourselves for the part most Aus-
tralians desire to take in the war.
At the present time there are thou-
sands employed by the Government
who feel that they cannot get properly
to work in order to provide materials
of war and essential civil require-
ments. Some are frustrated by red-
tape, others by unionism run riot.
There is much waste of the services of
such people, and an unnecessary drain on
the man-power resources of private indus-
try.
We need better business methods in
government. We also need soundex-
financial methods, and the enlistment of
the aid of the private banks would help
to keep the central bank on a straighter
course. Also, we need to make up our
minds whether we want socialisation of
industry or not. If the decision is that
we don’t want it, then let us get the bug
right out of our system, and stop play-
ing around with doctrines when the real
problems in front of us are production
per head and per day and costs of pro-
duction.
In order to obtain the confidence of
the people, any Australian Government
will have to show that it is alive to their
difficulties, and that it is prepared to
put their interests above those bureaucrats
and union bosses. The “lag” year in taxa-
tion assessment should be definitely elimi-
nated, and tax legislation shorn of that
studied trickery which arouses hostility
and contempt in the attitude of people
who are quite prepared to do the fair
thing.
In anticipation of the end of the war,
however much further on that may be,
serious attention can now be given to
the probable effect of inflation on our
export industries, and to what can be
done now to prevent undue inflation.
Then there are the questions of social
security, employment and housing. They
should not be treated as matters of poli-
tics but matters of economics and indus-
try. Mere talk and formal legislation
will be worse than useless.


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs-;—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
■without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2E), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
CARRY THE
BURDEN
m
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER.
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
For Australia at War . . .
Ole
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty, Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
ESTABLISHED 19 20
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
yjy SAUCE
★ *
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
ELECTORS!!
Think This
Over
Irresponsibility, sectional
discrimination and non-co-
operation will not help
Australia.
The Curtin Ministry have
proved totally inadequate
to the tasks of War-time
Government.
SUPPORT THE
UNITED AUSTRALIA PARTY
s>
W
JOIN IT • WORK FOR IT • VOTE FOR IT
Authorised by T. K. MALTBY, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne
Since July, 1939, Australian Govern-
ments, as employers, have taken on
56,000 male staff and 63,500 females,
a total of 119,500. Excluding rural
Workers and domestics, private employers
have lost 78,600 male staff and have taken
on 111,200 females, a net increase of
32,600. Governments now employ 405,800
males and 118,700 females, private em-
ployers 877,600 males and 476,500 females.
Since the war started the female civil ser-
vice has more than doubled, while the
male has increased 16 p.c. The figures
exclude employees in the defence forces
at home and abroad. Private employ-
ment covers the major part of the muni-
tions industry. There are now 152,000
more people in employment than there
were pre-war—174,500 more women,
22,500 fewer men. Unemployed, rural
workers, retired people and youths, with
the aid of many more women, have made
up in numbers if not in capacity the de-
pletion caused by enlistments and call-
ups, said by the Prime Minister to be
in the vicinity of 800,000 men.
* * * *
In March this year there were 735,900
persons working in Australian factories,
compared with 542,200 in 1938-39. The
latest figure includes 130,200 in Govern-
ment workshops and annexes, shipyards,
etc., which compares with 10,100 in
1938-39.
* * * ♦
Commenting that many forms of
mutual aid do not lend themselves to
expression in money values. Prime
Minister Curtin says that “a rough meas-
ure of the relative position” shows that
Australia is receiving two to three times
as much lend-lease aid from the United
States as she is returning. It was about
time some such information was given
out. Lend-lease has been, and will con-
tinue to be, the subject of speculative
talk by the public,
* * * *
Last week the Treasury removed limits
to the prices for fixed-dividend or
-interest securities such as preference
shares (other than participating), pre-
ferred ords., company debentures, in-
scribed stock and debenture stock. There
had previously been many anomalies
among prices, and the ceiling had made
the yield, when scrip could be bought, a
distraction so far as the bond market
was concerned. Removal of the ceiling
showed sellers still difficult to find.
♦ * * *
In 1938, Commonwealth Bank figures
reveal, 219 Australian manufacturing
concerns showed profits, after taxation,
of 8.6 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. In
1939 the figure receded slightly to
8.5 p.c., in 1940 to 8 p.c., and in 1941
there was a sharp drop to 7.2 p.c. By the
end of 1942 the figure was down to
6.5 p.c.—subject to some later revision.
Over the four years 631 different com-
panies, including mining, pastoral, dis-
tributing, essential service and finance
concerns, showed a drop from 6.9 p.c.
to 5.7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds. In
contrast with this fall in company profits
—and though they have borne taxation
in the hands of the cos. concerned they
are still subject to tax when they reach
the shareholder —the cost of living has
risen 22 p.c., which has been made up to
wage-earners who work under awards.
In the light of these facts there is little
need to stress the obvious truth that
shareholders in companies as a body, re-
gardless of how big or small the cos. may
be individually, have borne a proportion
of the cost of the war that more than
equals that of wage-earners.
* * * *
An offer of $2500 million in Treasury
bills at 14 p.c. in the United States
brought subscriptions of nearly eight
times that figure. The Treasury, how-
ever, is taking only $250 million above
the original offering.
* * * *
Australia’s national debt is now in the
vicinity of £2OOO million. About a fifth
of that has resulted from the past year’s
defence spending, in respect of which
there was a deficit of roughly £4OO mil-
lion. The war has cost Australia over
£lOOO million, of which £740 million or
thereabouts has been chalked up for pos-
terity, ‘'posterity” being ourselves just the
same. Bank credit figures for upwards
of £270 million in the debt so far result-
ing from the present war.
* * * *
In 1942-43 New Zealand directly met
£lOl.B million of the costs of war, re-
ceived £26.8 million lend-lease aid and
borrowed £15.4 million from Britain
under the “memorandum of security.”
The £lOl.B million of costs directly met
in M.L. compared with £77 million bud-
geted for, but the £24.8 million increase
here was more than offset by charges
for finance by Britain falling £30.6 mil-
lion. “Army costs met directly from New
Zealand, including the cost of forces in
the Pacific Islands, were over £l2 million
in excess of estimates. The Air Force
estimates were exceeded by £5.3 million.
The large ‘civil’ expenditure of £14.9
million effectively emphasises the fact
that modern war is not exclusively a
struggle between armed men.” The £14.9
million has been included in war costs ;
“the Government must maintain the eco-
nomic health of the country and direct
and assist production both for armed
forces and for the essential needs of the
civilian population.”
♦ * * *
Under Labor’s taxation “concessions”
to the A.1.F., a soldier who served in
the forces for 100 days and was then dis-
charged has been taxed on his 6s. a day,
plus 2s. sd. a day added for his “keep.”
* * * *
On lend-lease paper sold out of stock,
paper merchants are being allowed mar-
gins ranging from 374 p.c. down to
about 20 p.c. On indents the rates are
from 10 p.c. down to 14 p.c. The mer-
chants have to pay by bank cheque,
while allowing usual credit terms to
their own customers. Senator Keane has
stated that the arrival of paper in Aus-
tralia under lend-lease may ease the
shortage of locally-produced books. The
British Board of Trade had limited ex-
ports of paper to the Commonwealth,
and had fixed quotas for different types.
This is understandable in view of
Britain’s own great shortage of paper
that followed the virtual isolation of
Sweden. An “agreement” has been
reached in Australia as to the basis on
which the parties will share paper sup-
plies for electioneering purposes. The
D.I.P. is handling lend-lease paper, and
is gradually learning something about
the trade.
* * * *
There are to be no further war loans
until after the election in August,
and, obviously, no Budget. A few weeks
ago Treasurer Chifley mentioned that a
£l3 million conversion would have to
be arranged to look after an issue matur-
ing on August 15, and that the next big
cash operation would take place about
the end of the year.
* * * *
Gold Dumps Pty., in which Placer De-
velopment owns 83.3 p.c. of the scrip,
has declared an interim div. of 24 p.c.
The High Court recently decided that the
co. was engaged in the occupation of
goldmining within the meaning of the
income-tax legislation. The case was re-
ported at length in B. 9/ 6 / ’43.
* * * *
The cement industry is at last feeling
the pinch of rising costs against fixed
prices. It used to be the practice of
Australian Cement and Kandos to pay
124 p.c. divs.; the latest interim from
A.C. is 8 p.c. p.a., compared with
1 14 p.c. in the preceding year. The in-
terim from Kandos in February was
7.8 p.c. p.a. Rationalisation of the
industry has been in force for some time.
* * * *
By December, U.S. Secretary for Com-
merce Jones has stated, 40 synthetic
rubber plants will be in a position to
make 800,000 tons of rubber a year.


THE SERVICE MAN
From Munda to Mubo.
“Ek Dum”: Once established on Ren-
dova, on New Georgia, south-east of
Munda, and on Vangunu, south-east of
the bigger island, the Americans in the
mid-Solomons began to draw their
cordon tighter lound the enemy.
At Viru, New Georgia, the cost of the
landing had been small —33, including
wounded and missing. On Vangunu
also our losses were relatively light; but
300 Japanese were wiped out.
Munda was badly battered already
when American warships and aircraft
invaded the Kula Gulf on the other side
of the island. Naval forces first appeared
during the night and shelled Vila and
Bairoko, the northern port of New
Georgia. Vila is across the Kula Gulf
from Bairoko, on Kolombangara.
It now became obvious that the
Japanese must either take powerful
naval measures or find themselves
surrounded by a ring of fire. Their
counter-attack was relatively feeble at sea
as in the air, though on July 5 40 “O”
fighters were over Rendova and heavy
flights of bombers had visited the island
the day before. Two of the “Os” were
shot down.
The Navy Scores Again
On July 7 it was announced that a
naval engagement was in progress in the
Kula Gulf. It took place on Tuesday
morning, July 6, and it was short, sharp
and smashing, fought at close quarters
and decisive.
In the first phase of the battle, lasting
only about five minutes, four or five
Japanese destroyers were sunk or fired.
A little later there was a running quarter
of an hour of fight in which three, pos-
sibly four, light enemy cruisers were sunk.
Afterwards American destroyers attacked
three ships which were trying to get
away, and sank two.
Every enemy vessel in the Kula Gulf
was either sunk or damaged. And the
only American loss was the heavy cruiser
Helena —most of her crew were saved.
She was, however, a new ship and no
light loss.
Meanwhile Vila was being battered
into pulp, and the same was happening
even more intensively to Munda. The
enemy was still able to hit back. He
sent a large force of bombers, escorted
by 56 “Os,” over Rendova. But his for-
mations were broken up by Corsairs,
which destroyed three bombers and nine
fighters for the loss of one U.S. aircraft.
On July 8 General MacArthur
announced that at dawn on July 5 the
noose had been tightened round Munda
by a landing at Rice Anchorage, on the
Kula Gulf side of New Georgia, just to
the north-east of Bairoko Harbor.
That night ground forces secured
another foothold on the Roviana Lagoon,
only six miles east of Munda aerodrome,
and made contact with the enemy along
the Barike River. By the end of the
week there was patrol fighting on the
very edge of the Munda occupation zone.
And the bombing had moved on.
Further north the Shortland bases and
Kahili were collecting 20 tons of bombs
apiece each day. Japanese air resistance
in the Munda area had dwindled to next
to nothing. On the morning of July 7
only two bombs were dropped.
Two days later the American air
offensive had expanded to a stage at
which Munda and adjacent bases were
suffering the heaviest air onslaughts yet
made in the Solomons. More than 70
tons of bombs were dropped on Munda
on July 9, while the artillery on Rendova
and destroyers and cruisers offshore
poured a steady stream of metal into the
stronghold, where about two brigades of
the enemy seemed to be laagered.
Sometimes there was no air opposition
till the afternoon, when four out of 45
“O” fighters were shot down for the loss
of a Wildcat. Two or three raids over
different areas were in progress at one
and the same time.
Simultaneously the land forces on New
Georgia began to move on their battered
objective from Rice Anchorage in the
rear and from the Roviana Lagoon in
front. They took Enogai Harbor, two
miles from Bairoko, and sealed off
Munda. Two Jap parties trying to break
the cordon lost 60 men.
At Wickham Anchorage and at Viru
straggling Japanese had taken to the bush
and were spending their days in jungle-
sniping.
But it was clear that a main battle
would soon bring matters to a head after
the Rice Anchorage force succeeded in
cutting the road between Bairoko and
Munda.
Buin, Kahili and the Bougainville area
were still taking heavy punishment from
the Liberators.
At the week-end a fresh Jap fleet,
evidently intent on reinforcement, was
reported to be coming into the battle
area. Made up of light cruisers and
destroyers, it was first sighted on the
night of July 9 south of Choiseul Bay,
in Bougainville. On Saturday it was east
of Kolombangara, which it was evidently
designed to reinforce.
Three times the Catalinas, and finally
Liberators, attacked and scored direct
hits on ships on the way from Bougain-
wille. It turned back on July 10 after
the attack and was seen making towards
Faisi.
Heavy Bombing in N. Guinea
The main operation in the New Guinea
area, at the other end of the attack arc
of the South-west Pacific, was the pul-
verising of the Salamaua area in pre-
paration for its digestion.
The weather was not perfect early in
the week. On July 5, bombers flew about
waiting for an opening in the eternal
cloud. Mitchells went up and down the
Komiatum track breaking up communi-
cation parties. The Kela village area was
badly strafed and bombed, so that the
smoke was almost as thick as the cloud.
On Wednesday the lonely lads of Mubo
were cheered by the music of the heaviest
air bombardment which the enemy so
far has suffered in the South-west Pacific.
Both heavies and medium bombers
took part. About 50 were involved with
heavy fighter cover —more than took part
in the battle of the Bismarck Sea.
They took for their target a rough
piece of country, a sort of triangle, not
more than a mile long on any side. This
inside 45 minutes they sowed with 106
tons of bombs. Since the area was a
narrow, confined valley, thickly jungled
between two 5000 ft. ridges, it was excit-
ing work.
The whole of the timber seemed as
if it was in the grip of a tornado. Trees,
earth, Japanese went skyward in geysers.
Earth which had never seen the sun in
a thousand years was laid bare. Where
there had been a thick mass of vegeta-
tion from 150 ft. to 200 ft. high there was
scarred ground, pockmarked with bomb
craters and strewn with the splintered
boles of great trees in a carpet of half-
buried branches, a very forest graveyard.
As they flew backward to their bases
the bombers passed over wildly-waving
groups of Australians, who were seeing
something which made their long sojourn
in the wet hell of Mubo worth while.
The raid must have left the enemy
gasping. Not even at Rabaul had he
seen anything like it. He brought into
action only one feeble gun, soon silenced.
The Australians waited long enough
to send a message to American bombing
H.Q.:
Your strike was without fault. The target
area was well covered.
Then they pounced on the dazed foe
and took Observation Hill away from
him before he knew what was happening.
Next day the bombers came again, this
time with a concentrated bombing and
strafing attack on the Buigap Creek area,
skirmishers pushed along the rain-soaked
area, and there was patrol fighting
towards Bobdubi and Orodubi.
A strange new feature of the war is
the comparatively light aerial resistance
of the enemy, except in the New Geor-
gian battle, where his air cover is far
from negligible. Otherwise, he seems to
be bent on conserving machines.
The bombing of the forward Mubo-
Nassau Bay men continued at the week-
end and was extended to Salamaua itself.
And Beaufighters travelled up the north
coast and strafed bridge-builders on the
Naru River close to Astrolabe Bay.
Spitfires at Darwin.
Darwin had its 58th raid last week.
As usual, the Spitfires, which since March
3 have been in a dozen forays, were in
the thick of fierce fighting, doing two
tasks at once and dealing with two types
of enemy.
It is obvious that the Japs are making
a special set at these splendid units.
They are sending in crack pilots in
special machines, hoping to take advan-
tage of the comparatively short range of
our machines and to trick pilots who
learned their technique in the Spitfire’s
natural element, over the English Channel.
The truth is that the Spitfire boys are
doing a grand job.
They are up against a type of plane,
the “OO,” as manoeuvrable, as well armed
and as airworthy, if not as staunch, as
any in use in the war, and flown by
picked pilots, some with six years’ ex-
perience. And though the loss of five or
six machines may sound heavy, when
read beside the “negligible losses” which
sometimes mark the descriptions of
battles in other areas, they are not more
than can be expected in fierce assaults
against bomber-fighter combinations,
pushed home to the limit, with the proper
objective in view—ground installation
defence.
This main factor is one which is little
advertised. Fighter squadrons are em-
ployed not merely to destroy a few other
fighters. They are the guardians of
ground and harbor defences, and the
test of their success is how far their
protection is effective, how far they are
able to ensure that the great air opera-
tions carried on from Darwin against
Timor and other Japanese centres are un-
interrupted by torn-up aerodromes, de-
stroyed ’planes and burning oil tanks
and tankers.
The Spitfire record in this respect is
one which the Japanese themselves, con-
templating this week their own battered
installations at Penfoel, on the Tanimbars,
in the Arus, at Babo (D.N.G.) and else-
where, must bitterly envy.
The 58th raid on Darwin took place
about noon on July 6. It was made by
27 bombers, escorted by 21 fighters. Little
damage was done. Ten enemy bombers
and two fighters were destroyed, and
three bombers and one fighter damaged.
Seven Spitfires were lost, but four pilots
—Flight-Lieut. P. St. J. Makin (Adelaide),
Flight-Officer W. Lloyd (Roma, Q.), Ser-
geant A. R. Richardson (Newcastle) and
Sergeant J. M. Wickham (Surrey, Eng-
land) —have turned up safe. Three good
lads are still missing.
Landing in Sicily.
“Ek Dum”; At 3 a.m. on July 10 in
the blue moonlight of the Mediterranean
a vast fleet appeared off the southern and
eastern coasts of Sicily.
General Eisenhower broadcast over
Algiers Radio:
British, American and Canadian armed
forces have launched an offensive against
Sicily. It is the first stage in the liberation
of tire European continent. There will be
others.
Thus old times came back to Sicily. For
a century life had been invasionless and
dull there, except when Garibaldi and
his Thousand came ashore in 1861.
In the north and south-east there are
mountains; but the island tapers down
to the west to a flat plain with 2000 ft. to
3000 ft. hills behind it. Here, no doubt,
the invasion was expected because this
western end of Sicily, between Marsala
and Trapani, has seen most of the great
African and Eastern invasions through
the centuries.
Here are low beaches with salt factories
where Dutch windmills, palm-trees and
prickly-pear all cast deep, black shadows
in July. The temperature then runs up to
105, except when the intermittent sirocco
is throwing red heaps of sand into Mar-
sala’s cathedral of San Tomaso di Cantor-
bery and into the bagli, where the old firms
of Woodhouse (who sold to Nelson’s
captains), Whitaker and Ingham store
the golden wine of the south.
And here it was that Garibaldi stepped
ashore under British guns, which were
protecting Woodhouse, not Sicily.
Rome Radio seemed deeply injured
that the Allied command had chosen to
desert the west and score a tactical sur-
prise, making the main attack on the
south-east corner of the island ; but prob-
ably military commanders were not so
much surprised.
Cape Bon is only 80 miles from the
western end of Sicily—-you can see it
on a clear day from Mount St. Julian
over Trapani, where AEneas built his city
before he founded Rome—but the eastern
end is a natural pivot of attack. The
proper approach to Sicily as a stepping-
stone to Italy is to immobilise the naval
bases and great airfields of the east and
south and score a way up the east coast
past Catania and Etna to the Messina
Strait. The first step in this is to
secure the defence area encircled by the
strategic railway in the s.-e. peninsula.
This railways-encircled land forms a
rough triangle with half a dozen ports,
including Syracuse—a queer town, partly
on a peninsula cut off by a sluice be-
tween its two harbors —the big naval port
of Augusta and Catania, which holds,
apart from its other facilities, great
marshalling yards which make it the
transport pivot of the south.
To their right as they land, from any
point on this eastern part of the coast,
the invaders could see a monstrous moun-
tain. Its dark base splays over 400 miles
of country. Its lower levels are clothed
in a jacket of forest and orchard.
white shawl is flung round its shoulders
and above its 10,700 ft. summit hangs
eternally a tenuous wisp of smoke —
Etna.
The Tide of Ships
The attack was made with an armada
which made Hannibal’s 600 ships and
45,000 men look puny. The forces had
been assembled, marshalled and pro-
visioned months ago from end to end of
Britain. Each division set out with its
own equipment in 70,000 tons of ship-
ping. The battle fleets assembled, the
white hospital ships came down in
coveys ; the tank-carriers with their open-
ing sterns, like a whalers’ mother ship,
astonished the gaping tunny fishermen
who still fly a red sail above a beaked
prow in southern waters ; the queerer-
looking craft piled high with landing
barges, the huge barges themselves, the
caiques, wood-and-water joeys of Medi-
terranean war, came into the picture
endlessly.
Axis watchers of La Linea must have
been able to see much of this. Weekly
they reported the advent of fresh
armadas passed through the narrow
Europa Strait from the Atlantic under
the shadow of Gibraltar —30 merchant
ships, four battleships, a string of cruisers
and destroyers round a flock of mer-
chantmen, a lumbering aircraft-carrier, a
mob of trawlers and minesweepers, a
dozen tankers under escort.
Cunningham’s white ensign fluttered
over them all, and the merry frigates,
corvettes, t.b.ds. raced about in droves
like puppies, here, there and everywhere,
pausing now and then to smash open a
U-boat or do some gun-barking at a sur-
prised Sicilian railway station —the bulk
of Sicily’s railways run near the coast.
At last, all was ready in this hottest
month of the year, when there is a long
fighting season ahead, no rain of any
consequence being due for months.
The Air Blast
For a solid week the Allies blasted
Sicilian airports. They were met in the
early part of the week by swarms of
fighters, but this worried them not. Over-
head soared their own umbrella —War-
hawks from Tunis and Pantellaria ; Spit-
fires from Malta.
By Friday most of the fields were silent.
Only rising smoke plumes, the smell of
burning petrol and the charred remains
of aircraft on the ground showed that
some of these open spaces had been
aerodromes at all. Visitors to Sicily on
Thursday and Friday were met with
ominous silence.
Rome Radio reported nervously on
Friday that all the African coastal region
had become a “sea of ships.” But it
was not sure when the invasion was com-
ing, despite the warning of Mr. Mac-
kenzie King earlier in the week that a
few days would see events the like of
which the world had never seen.
The First Wave
Between 11 p.m. and midnight on July
9 Sicily heard the slow drone of ’planes —
heavies flying at no great speed. A few
minutes later gliders came in along the
deltas and more plainlike levels of the
beachlands of the south and east. Quickly
commandos were disgorged by the
giant gliders, which were used for the
first time. They are very different from
the primitive affairs which the Germans
used on Crete. They open, most of them,
at the forward end. Jeeps, guns and
whatnot can be driven straight out of
them down their ramps.
Commando men, splendidly trained
and equipped, set quickly about their
work —cutting telegraph lines, mining and
destroying roads and railway bridges and
acting generally as guides to the invasion.
Then came the paratroopers, causing
confusion and wreaking havoc.
Finally at 3 a.m. the invasion burst on
southern and eastern Sicily. The hot
Sicilian dawn, full of dust and the eternal
smell of goats, rose red through the
African sirocco dust, revealing a strange
and terrible scene.
Around the ruins of Doric temples,
among the prickly-pear and the long,
often houseless, fields—Sicilian farmers
prefer to live in towns away from
brigands—and the dark cypress trees,
fires burned and shell craters were torn
in the earth.
Out to sea as far as the eye could
reach, behind a screen of cruisers and de-
stroyers, were the fighting tops and
muzzles of the battleships, belching
thunder. The hundreds of clanging iron
barges and landing craft, the racing tor-
pedo-boats and launches, with engines
all-out, made a vast, hoarse scream as
they put ashore the contents of 2000
ships along 100 miles of coastline. And
overhead the monotonous purr of 2000
engines made a background to the scream
of the shells and the crump of rivers of
bombs which fell on ill-fated Sicily.
Nothing much was known over the
week-end about results, about details,
about the proportions of British, Ameri-


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ODETTE MASTERS.—TAKE NOTICE
that AUBREY HEYWOOD MASTERS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1772 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before 30th November 1943 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
E. A. CLEARY & CO. Solicitors 56 Hunter
Street Sydney Solicitors for Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE WILLIAM ROGERSON late of
Womerah Avenue Darlinghurst New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GWENDOLINE
MAY ROGERSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2817 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years or upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
August 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from P. F. GALVIN Solicitor
17 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
Legal Notice.
ADVERTISEMENT FOR CLAIMANTS NOT
BEING CREDITORS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of Victoria made in the action 1943 No. 81 in
which John Humphries is Plaintiff and Frances
Ellen Mayne and Elizabeth Mayne Elliott De-
fendants the persons claiming to be next-of-kin
to David Edward O’Neill the son of Edward
O’Neill and Mary O’Neill (formerly Beaumont)
and who was born in New York in or about
the year 1865 and was late of No. 33 Alma
Road Caulfield in the State of Victoria Investor
deceased and who died on the Seventeenth day
of May 1920 are by their solicitors on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of October 1943 to come
in and prove their claims at the office of the
Chief Clerk Law Courts Melbourne or in de-
fault thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order. The first
day pf November 1943 at eleven o’clock in the
forenoon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. Dated the Four-
teenth day of June 1943.—ER1C S. VANCE.
Chief Clerk.
CD
am
can and Canadian troops or about the
operative commanders. Up to that stage
it was the show of Cunningham with his
Navy, and of Tedder and Douglas with
their air forces, under General Eisen-
hower’s central command.
British had taken the east coast from
Catania southward. Canadians had taken
the centre —the angle of the triangle at
Cape Passero. Americans had the sec-
tion nearest the Tunisian ports from the
Salso delta to the Canadian sector. Berlin
had mentioned an attempt to land at Mar-
sala, claiming that it had failed, but there
was no Allied news on this point. The
general plan was obviously for the
Americans to score up the Salso Valley
coast east of untidy Girgente, and join
round the railway with forces from the
British sector on the east side.
Certain only was it that the landings
had been on the whole sudden, well
organised and successful, carried out
without the loss of a single ship and with
a brilliant co-operation which made his-
tory. No Dieppe this, but as yet (by
July 12) there was no Dieppe resistance
reported.
The Canadians Land
Ross Munro, the brilliant young Cana-
dian reporter, whose descriptions of the
Dieppe landing were the finest written,
was first in with his story.
By the afternoon of July 10, with only
a few casualties on the beaches, the
Canadians were well established, Pachino
(pop. 20,000) taken and a substantial
bridgehead consolidated.
Nova Scotians, Brunswickians, French
from Quebec were coming ashore in a
roaring spate of landing barges. Gun-
fire rolled and cluttered far inland, echo-
ing back from Etna and the peaks against
the north in the Nebrodici Mountains.
It must have been heard as far away as
Taormina, with its ancient red-brick ruins.
Motor vehicles were all over the land-
scape. Dejected Italian prisoners were
being brought to the boats in small mobs,
each with a couple of Canadian drovers.
Northward the gunfire of the undemon-
strative British could be heard. Theirs,
with the naval base of Augusta, Syracuse,
Gerbini, Catania, was likely to be the
toughest sector —in fact, the vital one.
Up to Monday morning they had said
never a word to tell where they were or
how they were faring, except that all was
going well.
Over them the bombers flew to tear
some more bits out of the railway yards
at Catania, to blast all the little ports
along the Messina Strait and Messina’s
sickle port; to disrupt the tenuous com-
munications across the strait from the
Calabrian toe.
West of the Canadians, along the
southern coast, the Americans reported
all satisfactory. They were ashore at
several bridgeheads. They had burst
within 48 hours the trench defences of
Gela. They had control of the knot
which ties the south-coast road system
together. They were preparing to move
inland up the Salso and east of it, while
the British and Canadians opposed their
squeeze on the Catanian plain and to the
south of it. The combined forces were
beginning to move to link arms up the
Salso and across Catania plain, and
squeeze till the life was crushed out of
the defence system of the south-eastern
peninsula. About 150 miles of coast was
under Allied control, according to un-
official reports.
It will not be easy if there are stout
defences. The core of the corner of
Sieily is a mountainous range running
from the Salso headwaters down the
broad peninsula between Syracuse and
the south coast. It is a natural fortress
area. The ramparts for the most part are
several miles from the coast. Much is
rock—the quarries of Syracuse were
famous in ancient times. Thither the
proud new city sent its slaves from the
vanquished mother city of Athens.
Much of it is scored tortuously with
volcanic lava ravine and gully, broken by
water into twisted hideouts and deep
natural crevices which aircraft will find
it difficult to penetrate.
If the Germans fight there will be real,
bitter war waged in Sicily—a terrible
business.
Berlin told the world at the week-end
that Sicily did not matter, and that the
main defence area was southern Italy.
Perhaps ; but with Sicily in Allied hands
all southern Italy will be immediately
under the Allied air umbrella.
Naples, Taranto, Bari and Brindisi and
the water supply and immediate fuel
areas of Rome will soon be like the Ruhr.
If Sicily is not strongly defended the
future holds dark days for the mainland,
and that soon.
Grim Work in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: A giant, Napoleonic-type
battle, incorporating all the lessons of the
British victories in Libya and Tunisia, is
in progress in Russia.
This battle is beyond doubt the biggest
and fiercest of the war. Both sides have
concentrated all the power they could
muster in the two small sectors of Orel
and Byelgorod, 125 miles apart. The
Napoleonic features, obvious in Mont-
gomery’s tactics at Alamein and Mareth,
are evident.
There was the same diversionary action
(like that of Anderson on the northern
Tunisian coast) in the region of Velikiye
Luki, to persuade the Russians of weak-
ness there and draw them on. This fol-
lowed a previous action of the same sort
which was based on a German retreat
from Mtensk, to the north-east of Orel,
and which brought the Russians into posi-
tions less favorable than they had pre-
viously occupied. The enemy’s aim was
to ensure that when the Russians were
attacked they would be on ground which
they had not had time to fortify properly
and which had been ranged for artillery
and tactically surveyed to the last inch by
the previous occupiers.
It was the second time since winter
that the Germans had played the game
of trying to arrange the Red Army as a
target —the previous occasion was in the
Kuban.
Next came a stroke, or rather a feint,
at the centre of the Kursk bulge between
Orel and Byelgorod. Barely had this
attracted Russian attention when vol-
canoes burst loose in each of the claws
of the German bulges—thunderous bar-
rages, massed tank attacks, the hurling
forward of improved versions of the artil-
lery blocks which the enemy used in the
Don advance of 1942 —closely knitted
formations of tank and mobile artillery
which the Red Army also has copied.
The first part of this phase suggested
that the enemy was bent on making his
main offensive north of Orel. But he
gradually drew his greatest strength to
the southern section a few miles along
the Byelgorod line. There the approaches
were least favorable for the Russians, and
they were furthest from the main for-
ward supply bases. There also a break-
through would disrupt their railway com-
munications and possibly threaten the
integrity of the whole of their southern
line and of their rear in the Donetz
sector, forcing another retreat on to
favorable ground for a tank attack on
an army retreating towards Voronezh
and the Don.
Advantages of Germans
On both horns of the attack the Ger-
mans are at an advantage. Their rail
communications are direct, solid and
strung along a series of huge depots,
very defendable and well served by road
and rail in all directions. The interlink-
ing of the two main attack sectors with
each other and with other adjacent sectors
is favorable to the invaders, and they
can disengage and transfer their weight
in a way which is not possible for the
Russians because of the nature of the
transport arteries and ground.
The reason for the German retreat on
Smolensk is now clear. The approaches
all along the northern side of the cen-
tral German claw of attack are full of
swamps and other difficulties of terrain.
By his withdrawal into the western
salient, the enemy has cleared himself of
these while maintaining all his lateral
rail and road communications and uni-
fying them with those of the Smolensk-
Orel line.
The New Red Army
The statistics of the battle, as given
to the world by the new lot of correspon-
dents who have gone to Moscow, are
unimpressive beside those which issued
during the battle of Kharkov last year.
Nevertheless, the fact is the Germans
are now facing a well-trained and well-
officered force in Russia, with a battle-
trained and battle-proud organisation of
young leaders.
Stalin never subscribed to the world-
wide Communist propaganda about the
invincibility of the old Red Army. At
a time when every boo-boo boy and
every loud-mouth on the Sydney Domain
was shouting that the Russian retreats
in 1941 were a product of Stalin’s genius,
and that he was “luring the Fascists on”
so that Budenny and Timoshenko could
give them the coup de grace with the
help of a nation prepared to the last
button with characteristic Communist
efficiency, Stalin himself spoke with grim
realism:
A serious danger is facing our country. It
is necessary to understand and realise this
danger and reorganise our whole work on a
war looting. Today, as a result of four
months of war, I must emphasise that this
danger, far from diminishing, has increased.
....Of course our army and navy are still
young. They have been fighting for only
four months. They have not yet had time
to become professional in the true sense.
This has been remedied. Rigid disci-
pline has been introduced. There have
been a smartening up of methods, a
wholesale dismissal of commissars and
an adaptation of lessons taught in the
grim school of battle by enemies and
friends. And Anglo-American help in re-
arming the defenders and developing
their own large-scale Asian industries
has had capital results.
Heavy Air and Armor Losses
The battle opened fairly on July 4,
with desperate barrages from land and
air and charges of German tanks across
minefields after the manner of the British
Guards Brigade at Fondouk—at Fon-
douk the Guards greatly astonished the
Americans as well as the Germans by
this tactic.
By July 11 Moscow had reported sub-
stantial German losses:
Tanks Destroyed ’Planes
or Disabled. Shot Down.
July 5 .. .. 586 203
July 6 .. .. 431 217
July 7 .. .. 522 229
July 8 .. .. 304 161
July 9 .. .. 223 144
July 10 .. 272 73
July 11 .. 162 31
2500 1058
This was apart from 50,000 men lost
in 13 assaults.
On July 10 the Germans claimed that
1226 Russian tanks had been captured or
disabled so far.
German communiques early in the
week were meagre. There was an air of
elation about Berlin Radio such as had
not been heard since the disaster of
Tunisia. In the middle of the week, the
German spokesmen began to join with
the Russians in painting the vast scale of
the battle.
Contrasting Accounts
Berlin’s communique on July 6 merely
said that, as the result of a successful
local German infantry attack, which was
followed by a Russian counter-attack,
heavy fighting on the ground and in the
air developed in the Byelgorod sector,
extended north of Kursk • and was in-
creasing in violence.
Moscow said:
The Germans are developing a large-scale
offensive, furiously and rapidly, in the Orel-
Kursk direction, throwing in all the time
fresh reserves of infantry, tanks and ’planes.
The Russians repulsed all attacks in the
Byelgorod area, but the Germans in another
sector, despite severe losses, have forced a
wedge with heavy Tiger and other tanks
into the Russian positions, where a battle
of annihilation is in progress The enemy
is suffering heavily.
Moscow Radio added that the fighting
was exceptionally fierce in the Byel-
gorod area.
On July 8 the Russian Information
Bureau issued a special announcement in
which it stated that the German losses
were “the greatest on record in so short
a period” ; that in three days 30,000 Ger-
man troops had been killed, 1539 tanks
destroyed or damaged and 649 aircraft
shot down.
It was stated that 15 Panzer divisions,
a motorised and 14 infantry divisions
were being used by the enemy, and great
emphasis was laid on a declaration, which
was repeated and expanded throughout
the week, that these forces included
several bomber and fighter forces from
western Europe, together with another
force from Yugoslavia.
The statement said:
The German High Command concen-
trated its main forces on narrow sectors
of the front, the aim being to crush quickly
the Soviet defences and to encircle and
annihilate the forces in the Kursk salient.
ln both directions fierce fighting is
going on. Our troops hold their ground.
ln the Byelgorod direction the Ger-
mans, having suffered heavy losses, made
some headway. Our forces in Orel, Kursk
and Byelgorod regions disabled or destroyed
520 tanks during the day.
German Stories
The German communique on July 8
was brief:
In heavy tank battles yesterday in the
Byelgorod area and south of Orel, we de-
stroyed 400 Russian tanks. In heavy forest
fighting we made breaches in deeply-esche-
loned positions.
A German spokesman conceded that the
tank battle on Wednesday was the
greatest ever fought on the Eastern
front.” He said that “the Russians, as well
as the Germans, used tanks on a record
scale” —probably the first time such a
reference has appeared in German mili-
tary statements —and paid a tribute to
the toughness and skill and versatility of
the Russian defence.
One phrase had appeared in the
Russian communique that day which
gave ground for concern: “in the direc
tion of Byelgorod,” which in the past has
usually proved an admission of retreat
Next day the Germans claimed to have
penetrated the whole of the Russian de-
fences in the Byelgorod area and to have
reached the open ground to the east on
which last year they made swift pro-
gress :
The great struggle in the Orel and Byelgo-
rod areas continues with increased violence.
Since Wednesday we have made breaches in
the Russian positions, and a tremendous
tank battle has been going on in which the
Russians have made desperate lone trans-
lation said “strenuous”] efforts to halt our
ever-advancing tank wedges. In addition
to their earlier high casualties the Russians
have lost a further 420 tanks and also a
large number of guns. Yesterday the
Russians lost 117 ’planes.
Moscow’s report:
In the Orel, Kursk and Byelgorod regions
our troops continued to fight stubborn
battles with large forces of infantry and
tanks. These forces were supported by large
numbers of aircraft, and heavy fighting
occurred over the front lines. On the Orel-
Kursk front all attacks were repulsed.
In successful counter-attacks we dislodged
the Germans from a number of points they
had occupied the first day of the offensive
and improved our positions.
In the Byelgorod direction a group of
enemy tanks succeeded in driving a wedge
into our positions. In the day we destroyed
304 German tanks and shot down 161 air-
craft.
Over the week-end the swaying battle
of the wedges was still in progress, but
near the turning point.
In brief:
Western Germany and northern France were
the scenes of heavy raids again last week. A
further instalment of Cologne was wiped out
in an attack in which eight bombers were lost.
On July 9 ten bombers were lost in an attack
on Gelsenkirchen in the Ruhr.
U.S. heavies and R.A.F. light bombers
attacked several airfields in northern France at
the week-end, including Caen and Abbeville.
U.S. Fortresses ranged as far afield as La
Pallice on Biscay, a German U-boat base.
* * * *
One or two small formations of German
’planes made their appearance in southern Eng-
land and round the London environs. Nearly
all went home short in numbers. A Dornier
217 was brought down in flames near Cater-
ham (Surrey). In a south-coast town a cinema,
in which there were 184 persons, was hit by a
bomb on July 9, and 12 were killed, including
five Waafs.
* * * *
Losses of ships from sub. attack in June
were the lowest since the United States entered
the war, and losses from all forms of enemy
action the lowest since September, 1939. The
heavy toll taken of U-boats during May showed
its effect in June, when the main transatlantic
convoys were practically unmolested.


How to make Gillette Blades last longer . . .
■
PS
5 - .
5C
aSS 5
Dry gently on a smooth Towel.
Put the corner of a smooth towel on a flat surface, lay the
blade on it and draw it towards you endways without
touching the edges with your fingers. Turn end over end
to dry the other side in the same way. You won’t cut the
towel and you will add life to the strong “shouldered”
edges that already serve you so well.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Help by saving. Save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates
Beware of
Tired Kidneys
Men and women often suffer from
Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and
other ailments caused by the slowing
down of kidneys. By taking a course of
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
kidneys function properly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Public Notices.
I, EMIL KARL KATSCH, of Estonian nation-
ality, born at Reval, Estonia, and resident 15
years in Australia, now residing at 367 Harris
Street, Pyrmont, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, LOTTIE AMY MASSA, Australian-born,
German by marriage, born at Sydney, N.S.W.,
and resident all my life in Australia, now resid-
ing at 1 Trafalgar Street, Stanmore, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1,936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
PHOEBE AMELIA WILLSHIRE (,nee FYSHJ,
last heard of at 31 Arthur Street,
Will the person abovenamed communicate with
P. J. RIDGEWAY, Solicitors, 379 Collinf
Street, Melbourne, immediately?
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Claudette, a five-year-old mare by
David from Crowfoot, won her first race
over jumps when she defeated Gay In-
vader and Isambard in the G.N. Hurdle
at Flemington on Saturday. Riders of
the second and third horses considered
their mounts should have won, but
honors were with Claudette, who con-
ceded Gay Invader 10 lengths from the
last hurdle, and outstayed the pacemaker
to win by half a length in a bumping
finish. Claudette had raced over hurdles
only four times previously, and was not
a certain starter until her stablemate,
Saul, G.N. Hurdle winner last year and
early favorite this year, was injured.
Both are trained by D. Mcßae, who has
the distinction of having won the big
race in successive years with maiden
hurdlers.
F. Douglas emerged from the retire-
ment of farm life to ride Claudette, but
J. Mackie, who piloted her into second
place in the Ascot National, also received
a winning fee. His complaint that he
had been offered and had accepted the
National mount was upheld by the
stewards. Douglas, who was engaged for
Saul prior to the latter’s mishap, has
established a G.N. Hurdle riding record
with four wins. Anpapejo weakened into
fourth position, but would have done
better had his training not been inter-
rupted. Jack found three miles beyond
him, and Benghazi, who eased from
5-to-2 favorite to 5-to-l fourth favorite
was beaten some distance from home.
Victory March could not escape a
penalty after hiis Kensington Steeple win
with 81b. more than his G.N. Steeple
weight, but whatever beats him should
win the National next Saturday. Easing
in the betting to 7 to 1 he was ridden con-
fidently to win by a head from Bridge of
Dee, with Parentena, who defeated Vic-
tory March in the G.N. Steeple last year,
a moderate but promising third. Larissa
looked like winning when he raced up to
the pacemaker, Solecism, coming to the
second-last fence, but he fell, broke a
leg, and was destroyed. Highland March,
fourth, looked to have every chance, and
11.9 may be sufficient to stop him over
the 3m. If. of the National. Victory
March has been penalised 91b.
* * * *
An attendance that must have gone
close to 25,000 and a tote turnover of
£39,790 on Saturday probably made Can-
terbury Park debenture-holders regret
that it was not now a proprietary con-
cern. It must have been a most profit-
able afternoon, and without waiting for
the advent of the S.T.C. should tend to
further increase in prize-money when the
club again races.
Owner B. H. Crowley and trainer F. J.
Nowland had a day out, Arahura and
Artistic winning the principal double for
them. Third to Hesione and Rex Felt
all the way to the turn Arahura (Hanley)
finished too strongly for Hesione, who,
after looking a winner a hundred yards
from home, was beaten in the last couple
of strides. Rex Felt, who was going well
up to the straight entrance, weakened at
the end, and nothing outside the place-
getters ever looked like winning.
Artistic (A. Podmore) and Many Ways
made a match of the Canterbury Handi-
cap almost from barrier-rise. Many
Ways got level with him at one stage,
but Artistic was a winner from the top
of the straight. Half a furlong from
home Salivant moved up, but, though he
cut Many Ways out of second place,
had no chance against Artistic, notwith-
standing that, owing to bridle trouble,
the latter lost ground through hanging
out in the straight. Red Pete plodded
along into fourth position, but was never
doing well enough to be even a place
possibility.
In the Trial Stakes Gauntlet (Wilson)
ended his run of bad luck. Soon after
barrier-rise he was in charge, and was
not troubled to beat the minor-place
getters, White Feather and Timken. After
going a furlong Great Scot was being
hard ridden to get a forward position,
and did not after raise the hopes of his
backers. Bomb was fourth, without being
dangerous, and about the best that can
be said of the remainder is that Gunman
showed pace for five furlongs. It is
worth mentioning that Gauntlet’s time
was 1.56 L against Tel Asur’s 1.58 i in
winning the Campsie Handicap later in
the day.
Kurranulla (Bartle), who was in charge
soon after the field settled down in the
Nursery Handicap, was a sure winner
from the turn, though Scene (a Harinero
filly) kept him on the move. Joygiver
was third, but as, apart from being
rather wide out at the barrier, excuse for
him was not possible, he is seemingly not
so good as supposed a little while back.
Ashbeau and Cosmetic were always
prominent, while Red Robby was again
a failure. The winner is by Hua from
imported Probably Not (Beresford-
Stefanella) and was a 300gns. yearling.
All Love (McMenamin) returned to
the winning list in the first division of
the Three- and Four-year-old Handicap.
She and Temerity led throughout, but
though there was little between them at
the straight entrance All Love left the
latter in the run home. Hauteur, who
was slow off the mark, dashed up at the
finish in time to dead-heat Silverelda for
third. Handicapped by the extreme out-
side position at the barrier. Jungle King
ran fairly.
War Trophy tried for an all-the-way
win in the Campsie Handicap, but he
never got far away from Tel Asur
(Hughes), and the latter, disposing of
him in the straight, squeezed home by a
head from Windbrook, with War Trophy
a very close third, and little ahead of
Bona Fide, who was prominent through-
out,
Tahmoor (Duncombe) gave J. Munro
(Tel Asur’s trainer) his second winner of
the afternoon. Soon after barrier-rise
Tahmoor led Cradle Song in the second
division of the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap, and their relative positions
were the same at the finish. Great Spec
was an indifferent third, and then Pan-
branch and Panned. Marcoperi’s effort
suggested that for the time being she has
had enough racing, and the distance was
short for Chatham’s Choice.
Of the unplaced runners at Canter-
bury those most worth keeping in mind
for the place tote are probably Mastery,
Panbranch, Beau Timide, Panturn, Ash-
beau, Cosmetic and Brueghelier.
* * * *
Compared with a year ago, there has
been marked increase in attendances at
Sydney race meetings, but the betting
turnover —books and tote —has made
comparatively greater advance. It is,
however, easy to understand, with so
many people drawing bigger wages than
at any previous time in their lives. Even
in the leger reserves some bookmakers
are now doing business that would once
have been regarded as satisfactory in the
paddock. Applications for Randwick
licenses for the coming season are much
more numerous than are likely to be
granted.
Bookmakers’ figures are not available
—except to the A.J.C. —but those for the
totalisator are, and show that at Rand-
wick machine betting has nearly doubled
compared with last season, when there
was 23 days’ racing at that track and
the tote turnover was £966,929. The
A.J.C. lost its autumn fixture at its own
course, and that naturally made a differ-
ence. The 18 days raced at Randwick
this season have given a tote turnover
of £1,426,805, and, as there are two more
days at headquarters before the end of
this month, it is probable that the season s
total for 20 days at Randwick will be
fully £1,566,000.
In comparing present-day good horses
with champions of the past, some of our
old-timers argue against hard facts.
They believe that few horses racing
during the past few years are in
the same class as those of forty or fifty
years ago. If it is pointed out to them
that such an idea is not upheld by times
recorded in races, they are likely to reply
“There’s nothing in time,” notwithstand-
ing that most present-day trainers are
in a great measure guided in their esti-
mate of their horses’ chances in races by
what the watch shows them on the train-
ing track. Up to 1900 the best time for
the Sydney Cup was 3.31, and for the
Doncaster 1.40. The records for those
races are now respectively 3.20| and
1.35 f. Admittedly the Randwick track
has improved, but not to anything ap-
proaching the difference in times.
Miscellaneous.
Giants crashed in Melbourne on Satur-
day. Carlton, at home to Hawthorn, put
on its shooting boots and kicked nearly
twice as many goals as behinds to down
the Hawks by 16.9 to 11.14. Melbourne,
waking from its winter hibernation, went
out to Essendon and tore the Same Old
to pieces by 13.7 to 9.16. Footscray,
entertaining despised North Melbourne,
ran into a storm of speed and passing
and was licked by 12.14 to 9.23. Fitz-
roy was untroubled to beat Saints, 14.14-
10.11, and “Sowth” made hacks of Col-
lingwood, 16.14-9.6. Essendon and Fitz-
roy lead, Hawthdrn and Richmond are
next, then Footscray and Carlton, with
Melbourne pushing up.
* * *
Manly is still supreme in the three
Rugby Union grades; on Saturday the
firsts downed Norths 13-9. Randwick,
with substitutes in three key positions,
drew with University 8-8, thanks to a
gallant last-minute score by the captain,
Miller. East beat West 18-11. Other
games; Parramatta 3, Gordon 3 ; Drum-
moyne 3, St. George nil.
# * *
The Leichhardt (Sydney) bout between
middleweights Bobby Clark and George
Cook was as brief as a flapper’s affection,
but there was nothing romantic about
Clark’s appearance in the last of four
willing rounds. Gore streamed from his
left eyebrow, and he was so limp on
backing away that the referee pointed to
Cook.
Over from Melbourne again with
Ambrose Palmer, Jim Grey settled Ern
Clingan in the seventh round at Sydney
Stadium. He had the Sydney pug down
for “eight” in the sixth, and he found
the Clingan chin a wide-open target for
the decisive blow, a right-hander.
G.N. STEEPLECHASE.
By “PILOT.”
Parentena .. .. .. 1
Bridge of Dee . . . . .. 2
Victory March 3
(By our Melbourne Correspondent.)
Victory March .. .. .. 1
Parentena .. .. .. 2
Bridge of Dee . . .. .. 3
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Canterbury Park.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Stakes Handicap: Monaro,
1; Peter’s Pence, 2 ; White Feather
or Zue, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Annie Laurie,
1 ; Miss Brueghel, 2; Scene, 3.
Turf Club Handicap; Jungle King,
1 ; Arahura, 2 ; Rex Felt, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Salivant,
1 ; Bomb, 2; Many Ways, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Hauteur,
1 ; Panbranch, 2; Silverelda or
Valoroi, 3.
Brighton Handicap; Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; Gauntlet, 2 ; Artistic or
Beau Timide, 3.


Public Notice.
WOMEN FOR CANBERRA—FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.
WILL all men and women willing to work for
the return of Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge, Inde-
pendent Candidate for the Senate, write to
MRS. H. MOVES, Room 701, 62 Margaret
Street, Sydney?—Authorised by Women for
Canberra (N.S.W.). Hon. Sec., Mrs. Usher-
wood-Wilson.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Midway through last week, at 3.30
in the afternoon, the entrance to the
Y.W.C.A. suggested the famed remark
about the Cafe de la Paix in old-time
Pans—stay there long enough and you
would see your whole world pass. There
came the city’s Mayor Bartley, Miss
Mary Fairfax and Mrs. Jack Garry, of
the C.W.A. These and a cloud of friends
and supporters of “Open House” floated
into the main hall to drink tea and con-
sume cakes served from the canteen under
the direction of Mrs. J. W. Kidd, most of
the cakes having been made in the Y.W.
cafeteria.
Then followed the real reason for the
assemblage: the reading of the general
report of the War Time Auxiliary’s
(Open House) third year. Medal with
bar should be conferred on secretary Mrs.
F. S. Burnell for her clear, crisp enuncia-
tion. Not a word was lost. Treasurer
Mrs. R. J. Moyes, too, made her balance
sheet an interesting document. Then the
Mayor and Y.W.’s president, the Butters
lady, Cyril Docker, Mrs. Garry, Mrs.
R. J. Lyons (president when Open House
was started, not long returned from Mel-
bourne), Gladys Marks, Mrs. W. A.
Parker and Miss Mary Fairfax proposed
and seconded motions with such sparkle
that there was never a dull moment. Mrs.
K. F. Vickery, who is chairman of the
equipment and recreation committee, was
a notable.
One of the Y.W.’s poets had got busy
and, dipping his pen in affection and
esteem, had written a poem to Miss Mary
Fairfax, who was chosen to cut the cake
at the recent birthday celebrations. Even
as her knife was cutting fruity wedges
a service man sang the poem. Open House
anniversary rejoicings were kept going
for two nights. Every Saturday and
Sunday night service men and service
women are made welcome with dancing,
and, if they don’t dance, with games and
competitions. The main hall and gym-
nasium are always full to overflow. Now
a special hall for a Saturday-night dance
for men and .women of the services has
been made part of Open House by the
generosity of Winn’s store.
Nineteen girls and one young man sit-
ting in a semicircle across from the piano
on the stage of History House one night
last week told the story of “The Maid of
the Mill.” This is written in 20 small
poems by Wilhelm Muller and made melo-
dious by Schubert. It tells of the young
miller who falls in love with master-
miller’s pretty daughter. But, unlike the
miller’s daughter of Allan Water, she is
the fickle one, and throws over the miller
for a huntsman in green who blows his
own horn. (Could it be that even in
those days the meat ration was smaller
than the bread?) Anyway, young miller
decides on death by way of the handy
brook. The girls who sang were frocked
in cherry and white, rose and black, and
seemed very, very far removed from the
lass in the story. One of the girl singers
took the tenor parts, ’flu having laid low
the young man assigned.
Dr. Fanny Reading’s broadcast on the
twentieth anniversary of the National
Council of Jewish Women was dignified
and able. Dr. Fanny is the council’s
president, and has helped the organisation
grow in numbers and in the extent of its
work for good.
Last week the council held its sixth
conference, and a feature of the opening
lunch was that members brought their
own lunch baskets —the only ones served
'were 60 guests, representing 33 other
Women’s organisations. The patriotic work
of the members of the council includes
running the kiosk in Martin-place, which
has already brought over £4OOO to the
Mayor’s Comforts Fund. They have
raised funds for three mobile canteens,
and as a group they invested over £20,000
in the third Liberty Loan. All hospitals
and benevolent funds also benefit by
their kindly interest; and, of course, the
charitable institutions of their own reli-
gion are ardently supported.
Dr. Margaret Inglis (captain, A.1.F.),
eldest daughter of Professor and Mrs.
Keith Inglis, of Sydney, married her
Lieut. Audley Gillespie Jones, A.1.F.,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. R. Gillespie
Jones, of Melbourne, according to plan
on a recent afternoon in St. John’s kirk,
Wahroonga.
Nancy Consett Stephen’s record of
Service to the returned soldiers of the last
'var and those who are engaged in the
Present conflict merits a cherub-sup-
Ported illuminated scroll. In all the years
Miss Stephen (who died recently) never
faltered in her work of making the world
brighter and better place for the sick
Mid the wounded soldier. It was largely
through her that the Red Cross Society
made the t.b. service man and civilian a
special charge. Miss Stephen was a
member of the executive and finance
committees of the Red Cross and of the
homes and hospitals committee, and a
representative of the central council. And
she held several other offices. She was
an M.8.E., 0.8. E. and —rare distinction
—she had received the Award of Merit
from the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. Montague Con-
sett Stephen was her father, and one-
time Lieutenant-Governor of N. S. Wales
Alfred Stephen her grandfather.
When the history of contemporary
writing women is written a special page
will have to be given to Ruth Bedford,
who has made successful entry into every
field of literature. She has written poems
for grown-ups and for children. Two of
her collections, The Learner and Hun-
dreds and Thousands, have been pub-
lished in Sydney, the first by Angus and
Robertson, the second by Dymock’s. Her
first collection of children’s verse, Fairies
and Fancies (now unfortunately out of
print), was published in London by A. C.
Black. Hundreds and Thousands is still
making good sales. In her early youth,
with the gifted Dorothea Mackellar, Ruth
wrote novels. Many of her stage plays
have been produced in Sydney. Now she is
winning renown as a writer of radio plays.
She is a member of the Women
Writers’ Society, and, with Dorothea
Mackellar and Dora Moore, founded the
P.E.N. Club in Australia. Shortly before
the war she represented her country at
the P.E.N. congress held in South
America. In 1939 she went to Sweden as
Australia’s delegate to the P.E.N. confer-
ence, but that was never held. Acting
on Consular advice, Ruth started back
to London, travelling by way of Norway.
On the Sunday she reached Bergen Eng-
land declared war. For three days she
waited in Bergen for a ship, and then got
passage in a very small craft that took
30 hours instead of the usual 18 on the
passage.
Padre E. Davidson, of St. James’s, is
still busied about making the crypt of his
church a pleasant place for service lads.
It is just three years since he saw some
soldiers sleeping in Hyde Park and de-
cided, with one or two others equally
kindly, to get beds and give them decent
accommodation. St. James’s is now one
of the most popular addresses in the
soldier’s memo. book. Padre Davidson
(a soldier in the last war) wrote recently:
“I know that it is a common practice to
sleep in church, but I doubt if any other
church in Sydney can boast that 70 men
sleep under it.”
Croppa Creek was in the spotlight last
week, put there by the good work of
Geraldine Shelton in the Red Cross Baby
Competition. Geraldine, a very begin-
ning citizen of Croppa Creek, topped the
£70,000 (it was nearer £71,000) R. C. Com-
petition). Every one of Croppa Creek’s
116 inhabitants stood behind her nomi-
nation, and handed out at the rate of
£9 12s. 11.3 d. per person for their candi-
date. Most of this money was raised by
sending truckloads of gift sheep to be
sold in Sydney markets. Geraldine’s feat
wins her a £5O prize from Johnson and
Johnson and an inscribed silver cup. For
the Croppa Creek Red Cross branch it
wins £5OO. Janice Greason, of Bunda-
noon; Rose Ann Cunich, of Young;
Jillian Esmee Imeson, of Grafton ; and
Alex. Charles Mulley, of Camden, were
other little Australians who brought the
thousands rolling in.
In addition to city canteens and clubs
for the service woman, country leave-
houses are now being opened. Bathurst
and Wagga already have one each, and
two more, one at Parkes, the other at
Lismore, will soon be ready for occupa-
tion. These are in the care of the
Y.W.C.A. Regional Committee for War
Services and the Australian Comforts
Fund. Another leave-house is Tip Trees,
an old Strathfield home, which will be
under the direction of the Red Cross,
The house, as its name suggests, is in the
midst of a fine and mellow garden set
with tall and spreading trees.
_ ..
from Melbourne
Seeing the lights come up again is
giving all this city’s denizens a thrill, as
the early darkening of the skies these
days had given everyone a taste of real
brownout conditions and very miser-
ab e they were. The lamps along St
Kilda-road are coming in for renewed
admiration as no one had realised how
beautiful they were till a long period of
gloom ensured appreciation for their re-
gained brilliance. All the street lights
seem to have had a special clean-up for
the occasion but it may be just their re-
emergence that fills the eye.
Tre Abies Market Square at the
Town Hall went off well Organisers
worked liked bearers both before and
during the great day and the show was
kept open till midnight so that theatre-
goers might drop in for a supper snack
The Continental dishes supplied at both
luncheon and dinner were wel patronised
and the lunch hour particularly produced
a crush satisfying to the promoters The
experience of stallholders was that luxury
articles go off best. The Belgian stall,
purveying costume jewellery and the like,
made terrific profits, whereas stalls sell-
ing vegetables and other simple domestic
commodities netted only small returns
from a roaring trade as profit percentage
was so small •
One of this city’s most successful host-
esses is Leila Pirani, here pictured. Since
war began she has been exercising her
talent for entertaining for the benefit of
service men on leave who find them-
selves without friends to stay with in this
very overcrowded city. Her charming flat
(which boasts a specially good collection
of examples of Chinese art, by the way)
is always open to visiting service men
sent by Navy, Army or Air Force
hospitably centres, each of which counts
her among the more especially blessed
on their list of hostesses. Lonely sailor
boys particularly, liable as they are to
arrive when least expected, find this hos-
pitality a boon. One result has been that
“Miss Leila Pirani, Melbourne,” has
become an address to hand to pals in
all parts of the world. Letters are con-
tinually arriving to say “My pal Bill
Smith will be arriving shortly, and I’ve
told him to go and stay with you.”
Stocking the larder, keeping in touch with
the theatres, the radio programmes and
other forms of entertainment and being
ready for guests who may arrive at any
moment of the day or night make being
the perfect hostess a full-time job.
The Red Cross variety shops’ yield of
£21,250 in three years is a startler even
among the very fine fund-raising efforts
that are always going on in Melbourne.
Starting with one establishment in Col-
lins-street (up at the top, too, where the
average shopper doesn’t bother to pene-
trate) the organisers opened another in
Bourke-street not so long ago. Both are
small, quiet-looking affairs, and there is
nothing of the Summer Sale atmosphere
about them, but there is a constant
trickle of people going in to have a look
at things and the shops are not empty
at any hour of the day. The promoters
have shown sound sense in the matter of
window-dressing. The Variety Shop
always shows really attractive things, and
people can see at a glance that the stock
inside must be well worth inspecting.
The shop sometimes puts collector’s
pieces within the range of modest buyers.
A case in point was that of the city dust-
man who stopped his cart outside in
order to hop in and buy an antique
Winton teaset for his mother.
The first man to bring in something that
needed a stitch or two to the W.A.T.C.
Sister Susie’s Club was given service
“on the house” and treated to a cup of
coffee while the job was being done.
Among other early arrivals was an Eng-
lish pilot who came to have an 0.8. E.
ribbon sewn on. An unusual experience
was provided by one of the bigwigs of
the R.A.A.F., who popped in to look the
club over officially and insisted on being
provided with a needle and thread so that
he might demonstrate his housewifely
skill by sewing on his own coat button.
The club is a haven, too, for lads under-
going technical training who are just on the
brink of exams, and need a spot of quiet.
Inquiries reveal that most florists’
supplies nowadays come from private
gardens, whose owners make a few
shillings now and then by selling the
blossoms hanging over the front porch
or the daphne bush’s surplus. Mostly the
transaction isn’t arranged beforehand, but
people just pop into a flower-shop with
an armful or something to sell before
they start their shopping. Orchids have
been coming in from private growers for
a long time, of course, and it would seem
that an astonishingly varied collection of
people get fun out of growing them.
Orchids are certain to be a lot more
common than they used to be once the
demands of war-time have ceased and
more people have free time for garden-
ing. The orchid appeals especially to
the city-dwellers because it can be grown
in a very small space and indoors.
Diners out are noticing that a new set
of waitresses is taking the place of the
former somewhat precise and chilly-
mannered sisterhood. Now one is as often
as not served by a cheerful soul who
addresses one irreverently and drips soup
here and there. Diners don’t mind the
casualness —it’s such a change to be
treated like a human being after shop-
girls, tobacconists and other ministers to
the cult of living have destroyed morale
by a policy of cold contempt and indif-
ference. Still it’s a bit of a surprise to
be told brightly by your supper waitress
“Stop casting your eye over that menu,
dearie ; there’s only toast and sandwiches
going.”
The engagement of the Kenny sisters,
Rosemarie, the pianist, and Elizabeth, the
medico, brought a positive hail of good
■wishes on the pair, as they are among
this city’s most popular damsels. Rose-
marie, who has been giving recitals for
various good causes, announced her en-
gagement to Dr. Hugh Mulcahy, of
Claremont (W.A.), who did his medical
course at Melbourne University. Dr.
Elizabeth Kenny’s fiance is another
medico, Dr. William Gregor MacGregor,
of Benalla, who is in residence at Prince
Henry’s Hospital. The sisters are
daughters of Dr. A. L. Kenny (well
known for his interest in the cultural and
charitable life of this city) and the late
Mrs. Kenny, who was the very charming
Polish pianist Olga Zichy Woinarski.
Gertrude Johnston, of the National
Theatre Movement, can give a jackdaw
points in her capacity for collecting
bright bits in the theatrical dressing line.
Her amateur group is the envy of all others
because of the splendid wardrobe at its
disposal. This has been built up over
years of concert and stage work, and
now there isn’t a character in drama that
can’t be fitted out in next to no time.
Some of the women’s costumes belonged
to Melba, and lots of others have a
theatrical history much longer than their
good condition indicates. “Twelfth
Night,” the current production, makes
full use of colorful dressing.
A small display of homecraft put on
for the benefit of country delegates to
the C.W.A. Conference, who forgathered
last week, consisted in the main of a
splendid collection of sheepskin articles
for fighting men in cold spots. Those
responsible gave amazing figures of the
number of these articles supplied to the
services. Empire Air Scheme trainees
take sheepskin waistcoats made by the
C.W.A. in their embarkation kits, and
gloves go to all services, including British
Merchant Navy and minesweeping units.
Two thousand tiny slippers have been
sent to British and Russian children.
Efforts to popularise spinning and
weaving of raw wool is another part of
the C.W.A.’s activities. Already the
spinning-wheel is becoming, not an
antique ornament, but a useful machine
in lots of homes, and it is claimed by the
spinners that hand-woven wool wears
better than the factory article.


t 6
BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WJ?k
BY/THE ACRE
L
(
P
C=J
o
<2
v
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS 8 SON Pty. Ltd
391.403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
•m
SPECIAL, NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
In itself. All matter Is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH ANI) IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years,
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond d > P
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12i% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd. SSSTSS"'"’"’ 1 ;
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; K. P. Mdnerney and Co., Ltd., Pcith.
"LOmy MUSIC, ANbHflLPOfirr
mt>not have spent!"
'
mi
m
ZSb-'PSg
T-ii'.**’
aeiSrs
in^ri
&rr
;-»x<^oc<s o^
3U91J6
J*--
IBfl
iii
MpiUl
watch the SQUANDER
He loves to prowl around on pol-
ished counters and hear the cash
register ticking up the pounds,
shillings, and pence spent on things
which could be done without.
“Nice work,” he chuckles, “doesn’t
help the war effort a bit!” Be on
your guard against this fifth-
columnist! Put your spare cash
into War Savings Certificates and
National Savings Bonds. It’s safe
until you need it!
SS.4-2S
Have You Joined
Your Street's War
Savings Group?
If not. join it, and
start your regular sav-
ing right away. If your
street has not a Group,
form one yourself after
getting your Voluntary
Worker's Badge and
practical help from
the War Savings
Organiser, Common-
wealth Savings Bank,
U Casilereagh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Judge orders city draper back to his wife. ’
Not enough material for a divorce?
4* 'I* *1* 4*
“Churchill Keen on Coward Plays.
—“Daily Mirror.
Beware, Musso!
4* 4* *1* "I*
“Mrs. Sanders said her husband had a violet
temper.”— “Daily Mirror.”
Meaning he went purple with rage?
4* 4* 4-
Regulation.
Anyone having and/or not having
notice of the regulation issued hereunder
shall proceed within three days after said
issuing, or shall authorise such person or
persons as specified under the Act to pro-
ceed, to notify such person or persons in
accordance with the rules set out in Form
BB2, and shall thereupon serve upon the
authority hereinafter mentioned an order
in the case of an alien, or an alien in the
case of an order, such notification to be
duly registered as required by the Ration-
ing Commission, or not registered, as the
case may be.
Provided that everyone not observing
the above regulation shall be deemed to
have failed to observe same.
Penalty : To be served with another
notice.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“George Watt, the householder, completely
smashed the two intruders before his nerve
finally broke.” — Story, woman’s mag.
They broke in. George’s temper broke
out. When the party broke up the in-
truders were break-ups. Then George
broke down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Though we lived only a short distance from
the hotel, my husband always drove the car
there, and then drank double whiskies till he
became helpless.” — Divorce repoft.
“This is her second pair of twins, the others
having been born in the same hospital 17
months ago. She was formerly a telephonist.
The cats say she’s still giving the wrong
number.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In one of his letters her husband had said
that she was an angel out of heaven.”
—Divorce report.
Her being out of heaven was what he
complained about.
Cause and Effect.
“Difference of age between couples unsettles
more marriages than any other cause, but the
effect varies according to temperament, says
a writer.
December, settled, staid and grey,
Wed carefree, girlish, eager May.
Twelve months or so in Eden, then
May's loyalty was shaken when,
A passing whim to gratify,
She met and flirted with July.
And with such rivalry to face
December wasn't in the race.
But when she with her lover fled,
“Thank God for that!” December said.
P. O. M. C.
Though to the pub he'd always ride
(To walk, it seems, was too much
trouble).
Once there he got into his stride.
And then continued at the double.
B.B.
Wouldn’t It?
“The thieving of golf balls should be dealt
with in the strongest manner allowable by
law.” — Club secretary.
When 32 pills had gone before reach-
ing the first green I became convinced
that the master touch which had enabled
me to break 296 was somehow missing.
Glancing at my caddie, one of the long
pipe-cleaner type, I thought he looked
strangely obese.
Two feet from the pin I called for my
third putter, but it was gone—as was the
seventh niblick. Again I gazed absorb-
edly at my caddie. He had the air of
an angel, even to a couple of objects
sprouting like wings between his shoulder-
blades and beneath his shirt.
As the game wore on my supply of
clubs and balls dwindled. At the ninth
tee I was obliged to use an abandoned
cocktail onion, driving off with my golf-
bag. To my intense disgust the onion rose
beautifully, but fell in a bunker. My
caddie shook so much with heartfelt
sympathy that he emitted a distinct rattle,
and I recognised my pet No. 5 iron as
it burst through his jumper at the back.
I shook him. Out of the stream of balls
that cascaded from his person I seized
four, rammed them down his throat with
a putter, buried the thief to his eyebrows
in the bunker, then sat on him.
The Judge, himself an ardent turf-
shifter, agreed that it was justifiable homi-
cide.
NILOC.
The Lesser Evil.
“ ‘You made life hell,’ wrote man to wife
he now wants back.” — “Truth.”
She made his life too hot. Ah, well,
That story’s rather old.
A man would rather be in hell
Than left out in the cold.
LOOBY.
“By Request”
“In all units of the Australian forces a
‘request hour’ each week has been set apart
during which any soldier may directly approach
his officer and interview him on any personal
or service subject. The interviews are entirely
informal.”
The colonel was just coming out of his
hut when Private Clarke sauntered up.
“G’day, Joe, can I have your lug for
a few jiffs?”
The choleric colonel, remembering in
time that it was “request hour,” and
especially that part of the new regula-
tions that stressed the informality of the
proceedings, crushed back a few blister-
ing remarks that were leaping naturally
to his lips.
“Er—yes, what is it, Clarke?”
“Ar, cut the Clarke stuff out now, Joe
—l’m ‘Nobby’ to me China plates. Now
look, Joe, I’m down fer leave in a few
days, but, ’struth! will y’ get a mince-
pieful of the red ink in me paybook? If
the blanky war goes on another couple
o’ years the blasted Government’ll be
able to retire on what I owe ’em. Now
you know me missus, Alice.”
“I—er—believe”
“O’ course y’ do! Remember I give
y’ a knockdown to her that day we were
havin’ a barney at the station when you
come past? You know, she’s a big-built
piece with red hair, a bit like your own
strife.”
“Now, Clarke, I”
“Ar, that’s all right, Joe. We all know
she gives y’ curry. Ted Russell was sayin’
on’y last Sunday when your cheese an’
kisses lobbed in to camp that it was no
wonder the poor old blankard got a bit
cranky now an’ then with an old battle-
axe like her to put up with. You haven’t
got that on y’r own either, Joe. An’
that’s what I want to see y’ about. I’m
after some compassionate leave.”
“Is your wife expecting”
“Yair, she’s expectin’ me home in a
few days. That’s where you come in,
Joe. Put me leave off for a few weeks.
She’ll be goin’ up to Mudgee before’and
to see her people, an’ you know, Joe,
with missuses like ours a man wants to
slip the chain off now an’ then or he’ll go
cuckoo. Oh, an’ if y’ can spring us a
fiver that’ll be all to the skibo, too.”
“Sorry, Clarke, I can’t”
“Now look, Joe, can the ‘can’ts.’ I
s’pose this ‘request hour’ will be like the
flannelette and the extra smokes and beer
—it’ll disappear after the elections, so
I’m goin’ while the goin’s good. Don’t
forget—me leave put back and a few
notes chalked up. If y’ don’t I’ll see
Frank—an’ you wouldn’t like to be
shoved back to a one-pip artist, would
y’, Joe?”
Bo.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on _ the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted ,* and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
A.8.H.: Thanks... .H.R.; Too flatly ana-
lytical Sounds young W.McR.:
Pleasant, but none quite up to standard....
E.M.S.: Turgid.... P.L.: Try something
shorter for “Smoke-oh ....W.L.8.; What-
ever else you can say about Eddie Waid, you
can’t say he rhymes with “bird”... .L.0.K..:
Sometimes you achieve a promising simplicity;
then you wander oft into phrases such as inc
stock of his impressment” E.S.; When you
see a big brown trout in a pool by the mill
it’s ten to one you’re repeating an English rustic
formula because you’re stuck for a rhyme tor
“hill” DB ; Too many rhymes and not
enough'poem....S.B.: Poem about corkscrew
insufficiently sublime... - T.McC.; This is
“Dingo the Brumby’s” second gallop to Sydney
and back. If you send him again well put the
R.S.P.C.A. on to you... .TJ.: Amiable,
but it’s a familiar theme... .W.R.: Adds very
little to E. J. Harrington’s poem... .M.C.D..
Nothing but a cheer for “Our Bessie.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
Agriculture After the War
Touching the Rural Reconstruction
Commission, before trying to plan for the
future people should think back on how
our agricultural system worked before the
war began and where it failed and why.
They will remember that most farmers
were pretty dissatisfied with the deal they
were getting then. Farmers couldn’t afford
what they considered decent standards of
food or clothing, housing or education,
security or leisure—and these should be
everybody’s birthright. They couldn’t
afford them because the whole set-up was
rotten.
In the depression Governments were
forced to rush to the rescue. They didn’t
look at the matter as a world problem —
each country looked only to its own wel-
fare and tried to become self-sufficient.
.So after a time in some places there were
unmarketable surpluses in primary pro-
ducts, and in other places there were slums
and malnutrition and insufficient clothing.
That was the situation when war broke
out, and we can learn one big lesson from
it. No country can fend for itself, and
therefore neither freetrade nor protec-
tion is the road to world peace. Post-
war plans for Australia must be part of
a world plan and our agriculture must be
part of a controlled international scheme.
It’s bad luck that we have been given
a warped idea of what controlled agri-
culture should mean. The word control
rings unpleasantly in the ears of most
farmers —they are inclined to throw up
their hands and say “My God, more
boards!” The fact is that in the past
most control schemes and marketing
boards have been attempts to drag pri-
mary producers out of the mire where
national self-sufficiency policies had
already bogged them. A lot of pre-
war boards had an uphill job because
conditions for the farmer were pretty
bad before they ever came into being.
And then the boards were blamed for the
unsatisfactory conditions that followed.
The boards would have got less abuse
if they had made clearer to the farmers
their policy and methods. Anyway it will
be a great pity if people let their resent-
ment of past control blur their vision of
an internationally organised agriculture
after the war. — S. Outhwaite (Vic.).
Restricting Wheat Production
The other day I received my new wheat
license, by virtue of which I am permitted
to harvest an acreage of wheat represent-
ing 9 p.c. of my total arable holding-
all that cockies in this district are allowed.
A few years ago Aussie farmers
were strongly adjured to “grow more
wheat/’ at the same time as the U.S.
farmers were being asked to “grow less
wheat.” Now the position is reversed.
With the end of its huge wheat surplus in
sight, the U.S. is exhorting its wheat-
growers to produce all they possibly can.
Indications are that the post-war world
Will be a very hungry world, and that
there will be ships aplenty to carry food.
Surely then our own Government’s policy
is tragically myopic. Our wheat-farmers
are faced with enough difficulties and re-
strictions (absence of labor and a 30 p.c.
super, ration are main ones) without
more bureaucratic bossing from Can-
berra.
There are umpteen unnecessary boards,
commissions and departments hampering
hs at every turn, and the wheat-restric-
tion effort is crazier than most. — Planter
Pete (S.A.).
Australian Tobacco
Australian tobacco, is it (B. 9/6/’43)?
Here’s some evidence. Two or three
Years ago I tried a light pipe blend
Put up by a Queensland concern. About
half the price of the imported stuff I had
been smoking, the Bananaland tobacco
Was light and delicate, with a distinctive
flavor and character of its own. It was
not so bright in color as my former weed,
but it smoked very sweetly and was always
Cool. After I’d smoked it for a while I
found that I could not smoke the imported
tobacco with any degree of pleasure.
However, at the end of 1942, when I
sent for my usual supply, I found that
All the blends formerly listed had been
dumped together and —at an increase of
four shillings a pound —I received a
Parcel of what was described as a medium
blend. I’m smoking that tobacco this
minute. It has been roasted in the oven
for half an hour to drive off some of the
surplus moisture. But it’s still stuff
you wouldn’t in ordinary times be seen
dead with. If, as I’ve been informed, the
dumping together of blends was the result
of Government regulation, the infer-
ence for the Australian tobacco industry
is obvious. — Narrin (S.A.).
Seasonal Labor
Once more men have been released,
this time C.C.C. workers, for seasonal
sugar work, and once more a large per-
centage has taken a holiday. This latest
exhibition must surely satisfy the authori-
ties that such a system of providing
industrial labor will never be satisfactory.
There are now many Australian indus-
tries making seasonal demands for man-
power which can be met only by releas-
ing men from the C.C.C. or the army.
No other arrangement is possible until
the war has been concluded, so why not
accept this fact and constitute special
units in the C.C.C. of men experienced
in each of these industries?
The periods of the year during which
these men would be required for indus-
trial work are well known, and very little
organisation would be required to employ
them on work of such a nature that each
unit could be transferred when required
to its particular industry.
The men would then be transported as
a body to the areas concerned under
proper supervision and would perform
whatever work was required subject to
the usual discipline.—C. C. C. (Q.).
"This WOULD happen when I'm behind with my funeral fund.”
The Sixth and Seventh
In the early days of this war, British
troops stationed in Palestine received the
Palestine Medal. Not so our troops, who,
enlisting in 1939 and sailing early in 1940,
were stationed in Palestine during the
nastiest period there.
The Sixth Division, which served in
Egypt, Libya, Cyrenaica and later in
Greece, has nothing to show for its
part in these campaigns. Neither has the
Seventh Division for its part in the Syrian
campaign, which was brief but very diffi-
cult. Now it is revealed that the men of
the Ninth Division will be entitled to the
African Star.
Surely the men of the two other divi-
sions are equally entitled to it, or at least
a similar medal?
When the Sixth and Seventh Divisions
returned from the Middle East they were
given seven days’ leave and then sent to
New Guinea. When the Ninth Division
returned, its members were given a pub-
lic welcome in each of the capital cities
and twenty-eight days’ leave. They
deserved both ; but so did the Sixth and
Seventh. —J. E. D. (Q.).
“These Eagles”
I have just received a copy of These
Eagles —a book prepared by the R.A.A.F.
Directorate of Public Relations, and pur-
porting to be a “History of the R.A.A.F.
at War.” As one of the “new and amaz-
ing breed of men,” I should like to express
my reaction to this amazing epic of
balderdash. Never in my reading have
I been confronted with such an indiges-
tible mass of nonsense.
The sergeant-pilot is hardly mentioned ;
there are glaring inaccuracies, such as
crediting the Italian fighter ’plane C.R. 42
with a speed of 300 m.p.h., and here and
there such blushful pieces of guff as this:
Australians are “tops” as pilots. When-
ever the R.A.F. commander of an opera-
tional unit can do so, he stiffens his
squadrons with Australians.... All were
careful to point out that the British pilot
was a magnificent airman, with unlimited
courage and determination. But the Aus-
tralian pilot seemed to have some undefin-
able quality which put him above all other
pilots in the air.
When I had got that far I could read no
further.—!. H. (R.A.A.F.).
Proposed Award
Tasmania is interested in a suggestion
that the King be asked to present the
George Cross to Britain, as he has
done to Malta.
Britain, of course, would not make
this award to herself ; but at the request
of the rest of the Empire family there
seems no reason why such a well-deserved
honor should not be awarded. Australia,
Canada, South Africa and M.L. might
well combine in making the request,
which has no objection more serious than
lack of tradition against it.
Congratulations to C. K. Denny, of
Lilydale, who first thought of this, and
to Launceston, which adopted the idea
enthusiastically and held a public meet-
ing to consider ways and means. —
Eandoe (Tas.).
MaorHand’s War Loans
M.L. is engaged in filling a £35,000,000
Liberty Loan. To loosen the purse
strings of citizens the three services stage
demonstrations in populous centres, in-
volving the use of thousands of men and
their equipment. Many of these men—
especially in the Navy and Air Force —
are volunteers. They serve for one pur-
pose, to defeat the enemy in the field.
Yet their training has to be disrupted so
that they may turn showmen.
M.L. has led the way in conscription,
but jibs at compulsory war loans. Those
that remain safe in well-paid jobs needn’t
contribute anything. Many don’t. Those
who serve with the forces give their all.
Compulsory loans would ensure that
those remaining behind made some sacri-
fice. — Jaunty (M.L.).
A.
Why is the Commission now scattered
far and wide around Sydney and suburbs?
Its rent bill must be terrific.
There are staffs working at 96 Market-
street, 250 Pitt-street (seven floors), 264
Pitt-street (headquarters), 191 William-
street (news, talks and records) and Bur-
wood (N.S.W. branch activities).
And why so many “acting” officers?
There are “acting” managers in
Queensland, Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. They’ve been “acting” for a long
time, with no apparent prospect of their
appointments being confirmed.
When the general manager was on
active service his place was filled by Mr.
B. as acting g.m. Mr. B. had previously
ranked as Federal superintendent —a kind
of offsider to the g.m. Now that gentle-
man is back in the chair, with Mr. McC.,
who spent a year or so with 8.8. C.,
on his right hand, Mr. B. on his left and
Mr. D. at short call ; and, to make
certain that everything is hunky-dory,
there is a Federal Security Officer, Mr. S.
Was it this team, inspired by Mr. C., that
conceived the “bright new” programmes?
—Guinea Touch (N.S.W.).
The Menace of Malaria
Dr. Earle Page, returning from a tour
of the South-west Pacific area, where he
investigated the incidence of malarial
fever among Allied troops, reported that
the percentage of cases was higher among
the enemy troops than among ours, and
that the Allied combatants’ mortality
rate was the lowest on record.
True, maybe, but such statements avoid
the real issue. The mortality rate is
a secondary consideration. Once con-
tracted, the disease remains in the system,
produces successive bouts of fever, more
or less serious, and undermines the suf-
ferer’s resistance. Therein lies its greatest
danger.
Nothing has been found that will pre-
vent the onset of the fever where its
carrying hosts are prevalent. It is time an
investigation was undertaken by a medi-
cal authority with a specialised know-
ledge of tropical diseases. Dr. Earle
Page’s generalities only serve to allay
fears that it were safer to openly express.
—C. R. C. (Q.).
More Organisation
It is not only coal that has come under
war “organisation” in Victoria (B.
23/6/’43). Country girls, most of whom
know something about the land, have
been permitted to go to the cities to take
war jobs about which they know nothing.
Now Land Army girls who know nothing
or have to learn everything about the
land are being sent to the country.
In the same way I had a carpenter
working for me who lived in the district.
“They” sent him to North Queensland.
Now “they” have sent me a carpenter
who has to travel so far that he uses up
half his wages in transport. — Bumpkin
(Vic.). ___
For the next ten weeks at least comment
on election issues, parties and candi-
dates will have to appear with the con-
tributor’s name and address and will not
be published without them.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Dracula, by Bram Stoker. —3357.
To buy Papua Today, by Hubert Murray. —
3358.
To buy Do What You Will, by Aldous
Huxley.—33s9.
To buy Bulletin Reciter. —3360.
To buy Lex McLennan’s Poems. —3361.
Information Sought.
(1) Who first flew the Atlantic, U.S.A. to
Europe, time of journey, and when? (2) When
did Ross and Keith Smith fly from England to
Australia, and how long did they take ? (3)
When did Kingsford Smith fly from San Fran-
cisco to Australia, and time of journey? (4)
When did Amy Johnson and Jean Batten sepa-
rately fly from England to Australia ? (5)
What are Capt. P. G. Taylor’s outstanding per-
formances? (6) When was the Perth-Geraldlon
air service commenced ? (7) When was Q'antas
started? (8) Has a history of aviation in Aus-
tralia been published? (9) In what manner
does the Commonwealth Government control
Australian aviation?
(1) Alcock and Brown, June 14-15, 1919.
From St. Johns, Newfoundland, to north-west
coast of Ireland, 1890 miles; 16hr. 12min.
(2) Left England Nov. 12, 1919; arrived Darwin
Dec. 10, 1919; 28 days; 124 flying hours. (3)
Kingsford Smith left Oakland, Cal., May 31,
1928; arrived Brisbane June 9, 1928; 9 days
12hr. (4) Amy Johnson left London May 5,
1930; arrived May 24, 1930; 19 days 16hr.
Jean Batten left Lympne May 8, 1934; arrived
Darwin May 23, 1934; 14 days 22hr. 25min.
(5) (From Who’s Who in Australia.) War-
time service with Royal Flying Corps. Notable
achievements in recent years: Pacific flight in
Lockheed Altair Lady Southern Cross as navi-
gator and co-pilot with late Charles Kingsford
Smith in November, 1934; several extraprdi-
narily accurate long-range solo press flights
and heroic action which saved monoplane
Southern Cross and entire crew during an
attempted Australia-New Zealand flight in May,
1935, for which he was awarded Medal of the
Order of the British Empire for Gallantry. In
flying-boat Guba made first air crossing ol
Indian Ocean June, 1939, and survey of air
route for British and Australian Governments.
(6) January 15, 1924. The Geraldton-Derby
section —the first regular air service in Australia
—was inaugurated December 12, 1921. (7)
Founded in 1920. The first flights on the
regular Charleville-Cloncurry route were made
on November 2 and 3 in 1922. Mails, freight
and one passenger constituted the load. (8)
Haven’t heard of one. A monthly magazine,
“Aircraft,” has been published regularly for
many years past. This journal records all avia-
tion items of interest. (9) Through the De-
partment of Civil Aviation.
Brief information on the Mendel theory as
applying to the color of the beef Shorthorn ?
This theory is dealt with extensively m
Breeding and Improvement of Livestock, by
Rice. Generally speaking there are two basic
colors influencing the coat color in the beel
Shorthorn, red and white. When mixed, red
and white give a roan color; thus, if a red bull
is mated to a white cow, all the progeny will
be roan If however, a roan bull is mated to
a roan cow, 50 p.c. of the progeny will be roan,
25 P c red and 25 p.c. white. Neither red nor
white is dominant. There are numerous other
factors influencing the coat color in breeds ol
cattle, such as the factor called “white face,
usually occurring in Herefords.
Brief Answers.
CG.: Commonwealth electoral rolls can be
inspected at the Commonwealth Electoral Office
in each capital city... .ILL.: Any man serving
in the army on becoming insane, would be
discharged as medically unfit. On discharge he
would become a ward of the Repatriation De-
partment. No pay or allowances are payable
by the military authorities after the date of dis-
charge ..F.L.: The approximate number of
sheep in Australia is 125,000,000. No war-time
figures for U.K., but in 1938 Great Britain
and Northern Ireland had 26,904,000; Irish
Free State, 3,197,000 V.T.O’N.: The emer-
gency supply scheme was framed under the
National Security Regulations, and is adminis-
tered by the Minister for Commerce.., .A. 1.1.;
The specimen is not a coin, but an imitation
of a spade guinea. They are used as card
counters.


War Workers
must have
leisure
No reason why war workers shouldn’t keep fit
week-ends. But only a few do it this way.
This is Australia’s national sport. Photo was taken at a swimming carnival in the
big municipal pool in Newcastle.
Machines may turn 24
hours a day, but without
adequate rest and recre-
ation, no man can put forward his best
efforts. At the plant of the 8.H.P., a
properly ordered industrial system en-
sures that every man can work hard
and, in compensation, play hard. It’s
a good formula for a happy life.
And what a list of varied sports and
recreations is brought to light on a tour
of Newcastle Steelworks!
Typical of the way in which Aus-
tralian workers will band together in
search of sport, is the growth of the
BHP Swimming Club.
The Club started a few years ago. Its
foundation members were a small group
of young men who held swimming races
amongst themselves at the conclusion
of the day’s work. Their activities soon
attracted others, and in no time, car-
nivals were being held.
Then the women joined in, and chal-
lenges were handed out in all direc-
tions. Under the capable guidance of
its secretary, Fred Rich, one of the
original band of splashers, the BHP
Swimming Club has grown to huge pro-
portions, and by next season Fred
reckons that it will be the biggest Club
in the Commonwealth.
The Bowling Club is no less popular,
and Ralph Cotterel, the Secretary and
leading light, is quietly confident that
at least one or two of its members will
have the State’s big shot bowlers look-
ing to their laurels before long.
Yachting and golfing are two more of
the sports which have their share of
adherents in the ranks of the BHP
workers, while of course, fishing, com-
plete with tall tales of the ones that
Yachting is the best sport in the world
if you want to get away from town and
fill your lungs with good fresh air.
got away, Is an ever popular source of
recreation.
BHP has given Australia no less than
11 boxing champions, and amongst the
many youngsters who devote their leis-
ure hours to the manly art, there might
easily be another Harry Collins. Harry,
incidentally, is still working at his job
on the plant, ready with advice or a
lunch hour spar with anybody.
But the range of spare time recrea-
tions at BHP goes far beyond what we
might term the usual sports. For in-
stance, there’s Jack Gamble, Foreman
of the Slag Crushing Division. Jack is
a devotee of the sport which made John
Peel famous . . . hunting.
Jack’s getting on a bit now, but give
him a horse, show him a stiff fence . ..
and just see what happens!
You mightn’t expect to find any polo
players in a Steelworks, but Bob Coul-
ton, a Technical Trainee in the Refrac-
tories, is a keen and promising exponent
of the game.
Ken Hoskins, another Technical
Trainee, and Mark Pitt, of the Plate
Mills, are ski-ers of note.
Three of the many who make duck
and quail shooting their major sport are
Jack Swallwell, Chief Fireman, Rex
Bell, one of the Cost Clerks, and Jim
Smith, Guide Setter in the Rod Mill.
A balanced programme of work and
leisure means an efficient worker, and
the efficiency of its workers has contri-
buted to the BHP's tremendous output
of defence materials.
Here is the sport of kings. It’s pretty expensive for
most people, but it’s good fun to watch, anyway.
Ski-ing in thin land of sunshine is coming to be Australia's national winter sport.
Not expensive, either.
