

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin," Vol. 64.~N0. 3313
Wednesday, August 11, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered si the General Past Office, Sydney N S W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HERE STERN DOCTOR BUSBY WAS DRYDEN'S SCHOOLMASTER.
IF, as someone has said. Architec-
ture is frozen music, Westminster
Abbey and its neighboring buildings
are a veritable symphony. From the
broad Sanctuary, one walks under
an archway into Dean’s T ard, and
is at once out of London and within
the quiet precincts of what might be
a provincial cathedral. But this is
Westminster, the Nation s Shrine,
and, still in its shadow, one comes to
Little Dean’s Yard with the build-
ings of St. Peter’s College, West-
minster, grouped around it, as this
view shows. In the distance, the im-
pressive Victoria Tower of the
Houses of Parliament sends lofty
pinnacles skywards. Across the
quadrangle may be seen the fives
courts and entrance to the school
chapel. Originally a school attached
to the Abbey, Westminster School
has produced many famous scholars;
in Busby’s day there were Dryden
and Locke, while Ben Jonson,
Warren Hastings, Gibbon and
Southey were also students here. The
great schoolroom, with its fine
memorial window to Old Westmin-
sters who fell in the war of 1914-18,
was once the monks’ dormitory,
while the College Hall was at one
time the refectory of the abbot.
Westminster is the English public
school where originated the customs
of tossing the pancake on Shrove
Tuesday and of performing at
Christmas a Latin play with topical
epilogue and prologue.


a( HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.”
My Same
My Address
S. 13. 243
AOE
The Red Page
Winter Stock Route.
Here where red dust rose
To raddle sheep and men
And the kelpie tongued at noon
Silence has come again.
The greal-boled gumtrees bow
Beneath their load of snow.
The drover and his dray
Have gone; and on this hill
I find myself alone
And Time standing still.
Printless the white road lies
Before my quiet skis.
But where my skis trace
Their transient snow furrow,
For generations both
Man and beast will follow.
Now in this winter passage
I cross the deserted stage.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Small-town America.
A novel of small-town America in the
tradition established by Sherwood Ander-
son and Sinclair Lewis, James Gould
Cozzens’s The Just and the Unjust
(Angus and Robertson) is chiefly notable
for its sound characterisation—which
means that, despite a certain weariness of
tone, it’s a good novel.
The method is unusual. The story
centres on the local courthouse, where
two criminals are being tried for murder ;
during the three or four days while the
trial is taking place the whole life of the
community is surveyed, sub-plots being
worked out in the evenings, in the inter-
vals when the Court is in recess, and
sometimes while the Court is sitting.
Since any murder or murder-trial story
involves the reader in a man-hunt which
he’s anxious to finish as soon as possible,
the constant interruptions to the flow of
the narrative, the introductions of new
characters and new complications of sub-
sidiary action are in some ways a disad-
vantage. It’s not really a good idea to
start a story almost at the end—when the
murderers are on trial —and then work
back and around it.
Yet, on the whole, the method works.
Interest is sustained because each new
character is interestingly and convincingly
drawn.
For instance, on page 175 one meets
for the first time the woman who will be
the mother-in-law of the prosecuting
attorney. In so far as she holds up the
trial of the silent Basso and the ratlike
Howard, she is an interloper. But, ana-
lysed as a chronic bilker of tradesmen,
she’s an interloper worth meeting:
“Look, Mary,” Abner said, “you’ve got
to pay them some time.”
But the fact was, of course, that Cousin
Mary didn’t feel tire obligation. By a not
uncommon sleight of mind,- time passing
was made to eliminate the element of
honesty or dishonesty. She would not steal
from a shop counter (or, not to be arbi-
trary about a matter in which the District
Attorney’s office had seen circumstances
alter cases; she would not, unless the oppor-
tunity appeared ideal and her need very
great); but if a shop wanted to let her
have things she would take them without
considering too seriously how she was
going to pay. When the bill was presented,
it actually seemed to her unfair, the in-
convenient reopening of a closed and half-
forgotten transaction for which she now
had nothing to show, anyway.
Jesse Gearhart, the town’s political
boss, is another interloper as far as the
straightforward narrative of the trial is
concerned. But Jesse, again, is an interest-
ing, amusing and thoroughly convincing
character. He’s authentic on two planes.
First, as a generalised type of the small-
town magnate whose power and patron-
age are everywhere, who never actually
bribes anyone (or can be proved to have
bribed anyone) but who can confer so
many small favors with appointments or
contracts that whenever Abner does him
a service he feels that he has toadied to
him. And, secondly, Jesse’s authentic as an
individual: turning out, oddly, to be an
asinine motorist:
Jesse had the old man’s habit of doing
dangerous things calmly and ill-considered
things with great care.
“Would you be interested in helping
him? he said. He had been driving
faster; and, passing a car, he cut in front
and carefully slowed down. Abner instinc-
tively looked over his shoulder. The other
driver had fortunately been able to pay
attention and was able to get his brakes
on in time.
As the community as a whole is
authentic, so, too, is’ the smaller world of
the Court—the Judges, the lawyers, the
attendants and the Special Investigators
whose “kindness” with a rubber trun-
cheon has extracted a confession from
one of the criminals. The author writes
as if he’s a lawyer himself:
Abner remembered a passage his father
was fond of quoting from a life of Chief
Justice Parsons, or someone like that, about
the plaintiff who brought an action against
a neighbor for borrowing and breaking a
cooking pot.
Advice of counsel was that the defendant
should plead that he never borrowed the
pot; and that he used it carefully and re-
turned it whole; also, that the pot was
broken and useless when he borrowed it;
also, that he borrowed the pot from some-
one not the plaintiff; also, that the pot in
question was defendant’s own pot; also,
that defendant never owned a pot, cooking
or otherwise; also, that
What helps to make the survey of vil-
lage life relevant to the trial is that under-
lying both there is a unifying concept.
Unexpectedly, and against the letter of
the law, thp jury refuses to find the
criminals guilty of first-degree murder.
There’s no false pity about it, but the
jury refuses to see the sense of a law
which holds that, in effect, men who did
not murder a man did murder him. The
community, including the jury, is com-
posed of fallible human beings ; the law,
in this instance, is inequitable: yet, some-
how, the community keeps going, the
civilised relationships are preserved,
justice is done, democracy is vindicated.
It’s a pleasant, affirmative philosophy,
and Cozzens is too wise a novelist to
overemphasise it into a sermon.
The English Channel.
In 1599, eleven years after the defeat
of the Armada, four Spanish galleons
with 600 sailors aboard made a minor
but successful invasion of England.
Landing at Mousehole in Cornwall, they
burned up Mousehole, Newlyn and
Penzance and celebrated Mass on Eng-
lish soil before, fearing that Drake would
sail from Plymouth against them, they
prudently departed.
That was one occasion when the sea,
ships and gunpowder—the trinity that
has preserved England since the Nor-
mans —temporarily failed. Arthur Bryant
in The Years of Endurance, 1793-1802
(Collins) quotes another such occasion:
The French were undismayed by their
failure off the Irish coast. Pending the
arrival of the Spanish fleet and the sailing
of a vast armada against the doomed British
Isles, the Directory was collecting galley-
slaves and jailbirds for a nuisance raid to
stir up trouble in England. The command
was entrusted to an American adventurer
of bloodcurdling reputation named Colonel
Tate.
He was to land in the Bristol Channel,
burn Bristol and cause as much damage and
panic as possible. He was then to sail to
Wales and, marching swiftly across the
mountains, threaten Chester and Liverpool.
On February 17, 1797, this fearsome
force —designated the Black Legion—sailed
from Brest in a lugger and a corvette
escorted by two frigates. It proved scarcely
worthy of its instructions.
_ On the 19th at the mouth of the Bristol
Channel it missed a chance of capturing the
Dublin packet boat, which it mistook for a
man-o’-war. Next day it came to anchor
off Ilfracombe, where a small party landed
and burned a farmhouse.
But on hearing that the North Devon
Volunteers were on the march, the expedition
hastily weighed anchor and, abandoning all
ideas of Bristol, made for the Welsh coast.
Here on the 22nd it landed near the lonely
village of Fishguard. But even this secluded
spot proved too exposed for its courage.
The local aristocrat, Lord Cawdor, in-
stead of running away or waiting to be
roasted by his peasants, called them out
in their respective corps and, though out-
numbered, boldly advanced against the in-
vaders. Colonel Tate then surrendered,
“upon principles of humanity,” he ex-
plained. It was all his captors could do to
prevent the Welsh women along the Lon-
don road from cutting his throat.
The following year the French landed
in Ireland —as, on a much more formid-
able scale, they would have landed in
1796, if the wind hadn’t blown them
away from Bantry Bay. Like the Spanish
landing in Cornwall and Colonel Tate’s
adventure in Wales, the landing in Ire-
land was a sort of commando raid,
rather than a full-scale invasion:
It turned out to be only a single brigade
from Brest —too small to be a menace to
the British and too late to be of any aid
to the Irish. But though the first thing
that greeted its commander, General Hum-
bert, on his landing at Killala Bay was the
sight of a French agent hanging to a tree,
;md though the disarmed and dispirited
peasants of the west gave him little support,
he boldly brushed aside the local Fenciblcs ,
who attempted to oppose him.
Three days later at Castlebar he plunged
the whole country into alarm by routing,
with a quarter of their force, 4000 militia
and dragoons: a disgraceful exhibition of
British incompetence which justified all
that experienced soldiers like Abercromby
and Cornwallis had said about the discipline
of the Irish Army.
But the ultimate defeat of Humbert’s
little force of veterans was a foregone con-
clusion. After covering a hundred and
fifty miles in seventeen days in a series
of swift, foxlike movements, it surrendered
to Cornwallis at Ballinamuck on Septem-
ber 8. A week later that noted Irish patriot
Napper Tandy appeared in a Dunkirk brig
off the lonely Donegal coast and, on hear-
ing what had happened, returned at once to
France.
Somebody could make a fascinating
book by giving a detailed history of these
“invasions” of the British Isles. Though
the incidents in Wales and Ireland get
only a few pages in Bryant’s rather over-
crowded work, they are important in rela-
tion to his main theme—the resurgence
of the British character after the muddle,
frustration and deadly peril of the first
10 years of the war against the Revolu-
tion and Napoleon.
In the worst of those years, 1797,
Britain stood as much alone in the world
as she stood after Dunkirk. Her Allies
had gone over to the enemy ; their navies
were massed against her; Ireland was in
rebellion; the Fleet mutinied. In 1802,
exhausted by the prolonged struggle, the
people clamoring for peace, she signed
the Treaty of Amiens, a truce with a dic-
tator which Bryant compares with
Munich. Yet the resurgence had already
begun—there had been Cape St. Vincent,
Camperdown, the Nile and Copenhagen
—and when the war was renewed in 1803
the “years of endurance” gave way to
the years of victory.
The historical parallel with the present
situation, stressed throughout Bryant’s
book, is striking; somebody even said
“Never was so much work done by so
few men” —John Moore after Nelson’s
and Major-General Stuart’s successes in
Corsica. Probably one shouldn’t be sur-
prised that “history repeats itself,” be-
cause historical events arise out of the
national character and “human and
national characteristics, geography and
the laws of war change little”:
Those who thought Britain was defeated
were proved wrong. In her adversity her
real strength became apparent. It lay not
in her gossamer web of trade and usury
and amorphous commercial empire—as the
Jacobins, like their Nazi prototypes, sup-
posed—but in the character of her people.
Against that rock the waves of conquest
broke in vain.
Although Bryant doesn’t fail to stress
that Britain’s strength and security are in
her ships (’planes, too, one would have
to add today), he might well have dwelt
longer on the geographical fact that has
made it possible for the British charac-
ter to become a “rock” on which the
waves of conquest break in vain. The
sea —the Channel —has always given
Britain time for a national resurgence in
war: that’s the great fact that emerges
from this history, as it does from the
events of the present war.
For Writers .
Two English publishing firms, both
having Australian representatives, are
conducting literary competitions for large
prizes.
Hutchinson’s, in what it calls a “United
Nations Literary Competition,” offers a
total of £lO,OOO to be divided among the
prize-winners in nine categories: Fiction ;
Detective and Thriller Fiction ; Autobio-
graphy, War Experiences and Travel;
History and Biography; Essays and
Belles Lettres ; Poetry; Children’s Litera-
ture ; Philosophy of Religion and
General Philosophy ; Scientific and Tech-
nical Literature.
Entries to reach Hutchinson’s London
office by December 31, 1943. Details
from George Sutton, Australian repre-
sentative, 17 McKillop-street, Melbourne,
C.l.
Macmillan’s, celebrating the firm’s
centenary, offers: “£5OO payable to any
British-born man or woman between the
ages of 19 and 35 serving in any branch
of the armed or auxiliary forces of the
British Empire or a similar award of
2500 dollars to any American citizen
between 19 and 35 in the American
armed forces for the best novel. A simi-
lar amount will be paid for the best book
of general literature by such authors in
the categories of biography, autobio-
graphy, essays or belles-lettres.”
There are other smaller awards. A
candidate for this Macmillan offer may
submit “(a) a completed but unpublished
manuscript; or (h) a partly-written
manuscript on which he is working, to-
gether with an explanatory letter and
synopsis to show how he proposes to
complete the work.”
Entries to reach Macmillan's London
office by December 31, 1943, “unless it
can be shown that the delay in their sub-
mission is due to the conditions of the
war.” Details from Macmillan and Co.,
Ltd., 32 Flinders-street, Melbourne, C.l.
A note from Flexmore Hudson:
“Poetry” (quarterly of Australian ami New
Zealand rerse) is to pay a flat rate of ten
shillings a poem; more as the circulation grows.
The annual subscription is 4s. fid. Verses
should be sent to the editor, Luchdalc, South
Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
"Curtain Raiser”: “Everyman,” the
tilteenth century morality play put on by
the Ladies of the Grail at the Melbourne
down Hall, was wonderfully well done
in a sophisticated fashion, but it didn’t
have the charm of the miracle play which
was performed in the Botanic Gardens
some years ago by a non-ecclesiastical
organisation of amateur actors. The
stage was set up in the curator’s lovely
garden, and the characters made their
appearances like supernatural visitations
from out the surrounding darkness —one
from behind a lilac and the next from
the obscurity of a weeping-willow. The
fact that there were real stars looking
down made some of the lines sound
singularly appropriate. The crowd was
half-eaten by mosquitoes, but it was prob-
ably looking at the quaint old piece
under much the same conditions as the
pre-Shakspearean peasants enjoyed in
ancient England. Maybe it’s because on
the radio, too, characters come out of
nowhere that “Everyman” (like Marlowe’s
“Dr. Faustus”) was performed so suc-
cessfully by the A.B.C.
“Cauboy”: Noel Coward’s “In Which
We Serve is impressive, as almost any-
thing would be dealing with the theme
ol the life and death of a destroyer in
these times when the sky is infested with
1000-h.p. hornets, but it had one glaring
defect common to most of Cowards
playwrighting. Coward tends to get en-
tranced with devices. For some time he
wrote plays in which all the actors spoke
in sentences of not more than six words.
It was amusing, but eventually it became
as monotonous as an evening of machine-
gun bursts, and one wondered how he
would deal with a character like W. M.
Hughes. Then he had the idea of finish-
ing every scene by making one of his
characters reach for a bowl of flowers
or a vase, the more expensive the better,
and dash it to pieces. After a while thi
chief interest in a Coward play consisted
in speculating whether the jardiniere on
the o.p. side would be the victim or the
wireless set back front. In his naval
picture Coward makes the device of the
throwback all too obvious and overworks
it without adding to the emotional con-
tent. But his own performance as the
phlegmatic captain is outstanding and the
subsidiary ratings are perfect.
At the talkies :
So far as documentary and quasi-documen-
tary war films go the British are easily leading
the world. “Coastal Command,” the story of a
Sunderland’s crew, has the stamp of authen-
ticity written large upon it. This has been
followed by another fine air picture, “One of
Our Aircraft Is Missing” (Sydney Embassy).
It is on R.A.F. records that, after its crew had
baled out over Holland, the damaged engine of
a Wellington bomber, “B for Bertie,” carried
the aircraft across the Channel until eventually
it was wrecked against a power pylon. The
crew’s successful evading of the Nazis, mainly
by the aid of a courageous Dutch family, and
their final escape to England tell a story in
which tension is blended nicely with humor.
It is interpreted by a solid cast, including the
Australian Robert Helpman. Ronald Neame is
responsible for the superb photography. “Re-
union in France” (St. James), set in Paris under
the Nazis, deals with a French industrialist who
isn’t the traitor he seems. The Dutch actor
Philip Dorn gives a sound performance and,
although the story is laced with some improba-
bilities, there is good light comedy by Joan
Crawford and John Wayne. “Once Upon a
Honeymoon” (Regent) has Cary Grant at the
top of his form, with laughs assaying high in a
series of ludicrous situations carried through
in polished dialogue. Walter Slezak gives a
clinking interpretation of one of Hitler’s “inter-
national termites” at work.
James Emery, whose water-colors at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney,
were made in Egypt, Palestine and Syria,
went to those countries with the A.I.F.
He is a map-draughtsman by avocation,
a landscapist (taught by Julian Ashton)
for the love of it. His pictures, sound in
draughtsmanship, clean in color and evi-
dencing a complete technical command
of the medium, show far-off alien lands
which yet, as Ken Slessor remarks in an
appreciative catalogue foreword, are
“faintly and curiously Australian.” Emery
has sought the beauties, not the uglinesses,
of the lands through which he has
passed ; he has selected with discrimina-
tion and has an eye for an effective group-
ing. For the rest, he sees the scene before
him in the same form and hues as any
other man, and his sketches are as accu-
rate topographical records as the maps he
makes in another capacity. There was a
water-colorist named Turner once upon a
time who showed a similar respect for
Mother Nature.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
w
w
i
/
*
\
V
Mmu c ~j
Military Officers' Uniforms
Officers' Greatcoats made from 250 z.
proofed Khaki greatcoating. Double
breasted lancer front, deep collar and
turn back cuffs and made on the
British Army pattern. Tailored by An-
thony Horderns'. Post free anywhere
in Australia. Coupon-free. Price, £6/3/6
Officers' Twist, Tunic and Slacks, all
wool worsted ordnance twist, tailored
in the regulation style to fit 36" to 42"
chest. Coupon-free. Price ... £7/9/6
Olive Drab Puttees, Price, pair, 3/9 and 6 coupons.
Khaki Drill Shorts with two slant side pockets, pleats in
back and front, double waist straps and deep waist
band. Full cut to fit 36" to 46" waists. 12/9, 14/3
4 Coupons.
f.
ft
Coupon-free Military Officers' Safai Jackets
in Khaki/Olive lightweight cotton. Guar-
anteed fast dye. The neck can be worn
open or closed. Featuring four military
patch pockets, all round belt and buckle.
Sizes 34" to 44" chest. Price 25/
All Uniforms are Coupon-Free and are
Posted Free to anywhere in Australia.
Your Order must be accompanied by the
necessary Authority signed by your C.O.
Military Uniforms can be Dry Cleaned
and Tailor Pressed for 4/6
24-hour service for uniforms.
s** I ', h
ma*** 1 . / I
You'll Find These Interesting and Practical
Manual of Map Reading, Photo Reading
and Field Sketching. Official War Office
1940 publication. Price 6/3
Postage, 5*2 d.
Military Map Reading for the New Army.
With an appendix on judgment of dis-
tance. By Copt. W. Stanley Lewis and
F. W. Morgan. Price ' 2/6
Postage, 2id.
Exercises Based on
Military Map-reading
for the New Army.
(With solutions.) By
Capt. Stanley W.
Lewis and F. W.
Morgan. Price, 1/-
Postage, lid.
Ribbons and Medals.
Naval, Military, Air
Force, and Civil. Re-
vised and enlarged
by Copt. H. Taprell
Darling. Illustrations
in Colour and Black
and White. .. 117-
Postage, 4gd.
The Pistol in War.
Training with the re-
volver and self-load-
ing pistol. By Capt.
E. H. Robinson. Well
illustrated. Price, 3/9
Postage, S^d.
Small Arms Manual, by
Lieut.-Col. I. A. Barlow
and Major R. E. W. John-
son. Giving details of
rifles, light machine guns,
medium machine guns,
machine carbines, revol-
vers and automatic prin-
ciples. Many illustrations.
Price 3/4
Postage, 2jd.
Manual of Elemen-
tary Drill (all arms).
Official War Office
1940 Edition. 1/7
Postage, 2-jd.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


JACOB’S ESCAPE
By BRIAN JAMES.
JACOB often
sighed and re-
flected that fifty
years is a long
time. He often
prayed that Eliza-
beth’s temper might improve. But there
was no appreciable improvement in her
temper as far as he could see, so he
prayed harder still that he might attain
to a comfortable resignation.
Also, he made a complete study of the
Lives of the Saints, but he was disap-
pointed at finding no case similar to his
own. Whatever guidance the big volume
could give him in many matters it cer-
tainly showed no workable method of
dealing with Elizabeth.
So he sighed over the fifty long years.
Today, however, he felt that there were
limits to resignation. Elizabeth might
take possession of his farm and all there
was on it; she might appropriate the
whole family and exclude him from any
management of it (that didn’t matter so
much now since the family was grown up
and mostly scattered) ; she might decide
what boots he bought and what clothes
he wore on Sundays ; she might
But to be humiliated before the pig-
buyer was too much!
Walker, the pig-buyer, had called that
afternoon, and Jacob had sold (on his
own responsibility) four baconers at
three-fifteen. Fair as things
went. The deal was complete, almost.
Certainly he had been reckless in his
daring—but, blast it all! the pigs were
his. In a manner of speaking, that is.
Then Elizabeth appeared and called the
deal off —unless the buyer was willing to
go to four-five.
The buyer wasn’t willing.
Jacob protested, “But I just sold
them! ”
“You might have,” said Elizabeth,
“but I haven’t.”
The buyer grinned, rather too amiably.
“All right, all right!” he said, “No harm
done. I don’t think I really want them
pigs so bad as all that.”
He grinned again. A nasty fellow,
that Walker. Jacob had never liked him.
If only he had argued or become angry
over the thwarted deal it wouldn’t have
been so bad. But to grin! There was
too much understanding in that grin.
Jacob dimly felt that murders, suicides
and other spectacular crimes grow out
of grins like that.
With a pitful show of strength and
dignity Jacob walked off. Even then
Elizabeth rubbed in the defeat still
further. She ordered Jacob to wheel the
single plough down to the shed. Jacob
wheeled the plough.
Then Jacob went to the house. Eliza-
beth’s poodle, which had always treated
Jacob with the contempt poodles have
for underlings, was at the door. He
ignored Jacob. A long-unused rage came
over Jacob: he kicked the poodle right
across the room. The poodle yelped and
whinged and had a most satisfactory dint
in its side. Exultation was only momen-
tary —Jacob was all repentance—but the
poodle didn’t believe it and whimpered
under the sofa.
JACOB went to his room, a very small
room at the end of the verandah,
and sat on his bed. The incident of the
poodle shook him badly. It made him
feel small, and he couldn’t quite blame
Elizabeth for it either. But the rest of
the afternoon burned within him. That
grin on the pig-buyer seemed to sum up
his hopeless situation. It was too much
and it couldn’t go on. Then the remedy
came like a flash; he would run away.
He would assert his manhood (the daring
of it made him tremble). He would be
free!
After tea —agony of a meal in the fear
that Elizabeth might read his purpose —
he went to his room to put his resolve
into practice. Yes, he was going to clear
out, just as three of his boys had done.
Should have gone with them, he reckoned.
But where to go? What to do? Those
things would have to wait. Only one
thing mattered, clear out!
He started to pack, and found there
was really very little to pack. His best
clothes were in her room, in the big
cedar wardrobe, with camphor cakes all
over them. He felt, in any case, that it
would be stealing to take those best
clothes. Likewise, he could take no
money. He wasn’t sure that there was
any great amount in the house, nor
where it was kept. He and Elizabeth had
a joint account in the bank —which
meant that Elizabeth controlled the lot.
He put on his second-bests, and even
with these he could not smother a feeling
of guilt. Then he took a few singlets,
socks, shirts and handkerchiefs, razor,
soap and brush. All fitted very neatly
into an old knapsack one of the boys had
left. Overcoat he could wear —it was a
chilly night.
All this took hours, for indecisions
consumed the time. The house was all
darkness now, and a big moon was rising
over the Cookabundy Ranges into the
clear winter sky. He set out and sneaked
blunderingly through the orchard. Sailor,
the blue cattle-dog, came down to inspect
him. Sailor sniffed noncommittally and
then went back to his cornsack at the
kitchen-door. At least it could be said
of Sailor that he treated Jacob tolerantly ;
almost as an equal.
Jacob got to the creek at the foot of
the orchard. Here the creek was shallow,
gurgling between big stepping-stones.
He crossed and followed a slanting, deep
cattle track up the high bank on the
other side.
AND now the world stretched before
t~y him, as wide and trackless as the
night. There was only one spot in the
immensity that he really knew—the prison
he was leaving. He looked back.
Through the she-oaks he could see the
house clear in the moonlight. Home!
He couldn’t leave without feeling the
wrench.
But she shouldn’t have spoken like that
m front of the pig-buyer! She’d be
sorry now —now that it was too late.
That was a comforting thought.
Still, Jacob wasn’t too sure that she
would be sorry.
He turned towards the thin forest of
grey-gum and yellow-box. A mile away
was Herman’s place. Herman was his
brother-in-law and owned the big vine-
yard and cellar. Best of good fellows
was Herman. He would go to Herman’s
first of all for advice and consolation and
money. Herman would give all these
and would know what was best to do.
Also, he couldn’t leave without saying
good-bye to Herman.
There was a light in the big kitchen at
Herman’s. Jacob was not so confident
now. What about Katherine, Herman’s
wife? She was Elizabeth’s sister and
almost as much to be feared.
He stepped as lightly as he could on
to the wide, flagged verandah and
listened. There was not a sound. He
knocked at the door, and Herman, after
a short interval, opened it. Herman was
delighted to see Jacob.
“Just thinking of you, Jacob, just
thinking of you!”
Herman was always thinking of any-
one who called unexpectedly.
The late hour, the knapsack and
Jacob’s confused agitation all told their
story. Herman said questioningly “Eliza-
beth?”
Jacob felt just a little resentful that
Herman should understand so readily,
but it was a momentary feeling. He
looked round in timid inquiry. Herman
understood again.
“Gone!” he said very cheerfully.
“Gone for a couple of days to Rocky
Crossing—out to Phil’s place.”
That was good news. Herman was
alone. His younger boys were not likely
to be about when Katherine was away.
There was a bright fire of box logs in
the wide fireplace and an air of homely
comfort in the big room. The very cheer
of it undid Jacob. He broke down
rather helplessly. He had not meant to
do that. His shoulders shook badly.
“Herman, I wanted to tell I am
going to”
Herman was a true philosopher: he
could bear the misfortunes of others with
commendable fortitude. “Things could
be much worse,” he declared ; but cer-
tainly something would have to be done.
“But—wait!” He hurried out and re-
turned with a very smudgy-looking
bottle of his special sherry, dry and
full-bodied.
He set two tumblers on the table —
this wasn’t a time for thin-stemmed gen-
teel glasses. Then he brought in a box
log, part of a fair-sized tree, and heaved
it with a grunt on to the fire. Streams of
sparks flew up the chimney in happy
helter-skelter.
I—l ERMAN filled the tumblers, and they
J 1 drank. It was great wine: the un-
certain flames of the fire danced through
it; and the light and cheer of other days,
and hazily remembered summers, came
to life again in its generous warmth.
They drank again.
Jacob began his tale. The edge of
grievance had dulled somewhat, but he
started with the pig-buyer. No doubt
that was the wrong end to start, but Her-
man understood perfectly that a story
of this kind could start anywhere. Jacob
concluded with the declaration that he
was not going back.
Herman prodded the fire with an old
auger, and got another smudgy bottle.
On the natural desire to escape from
Elizabeth he said he desired to make no
comment. ‘She is my Katherine’s sister.
Yes, she is my Katherine’s sister.”
There could be no dispute on this
score but Herman had a trick of de-
liberating in such repetition. They are
sisters, Jacob. .
Herman kicked a glowing log severely
t 0 £ u } m lts P , e ‘ ... TT
But there was the scandal Herman
considered that this would be slEa ply
ea ? rn l ous -. es ’ enormous. It would be
wife-desertion. Herman did not distin-
guish too clearly between desertion and
escape. And then there was the question
of where to go.
“Where can you go Jacob? Nowhere!
y f U in° yOU 8
there. Nothing at all.
Herman went over this half a dozen
times, and Jacob confounded by the
°S!S, of 1 ’ T^ ep f Sl l^ n • ,
Then, Jacob, there is e money.
What money have you?
Jacob shook his head, and his shoulders
lifted ever so slightly. Herman saw the
gesture and was deeply touched. He
filled the classes.
He would lend the money—if he could,
But he couldn’t. Katherine was a very
careful woman. Very careful. He’d
have nothing at all now if it weren’t for
her. They had a joint account. But it
was difficult to operate on it. Very.
Katherine was careful all right. Herman
prodded the fire with unnecessary vigor.
Yes, Katherine was careful. A great
manager...
They drank again. But Katherine was
a wonderful little woman, just the same,
True, she had “her ways,” and she had
“her mind.” But she was wonderful.
By easy stages, all wives were “won-
derful little women.” That is, if you
knew how to manage them. Herman
knew ; yes, he knew. By the end of the
second bottle Katherine was superlatively
wonderful,
Herman drifted back, right back to
courtship days when Katherine was a
maid at McLeod’s big
station house. Eliza-
beth was “in service”
there, too. Did Jacob
remember his first shy
meeting with Eliza-
beth on the bank of f he creek? Just
below the woolshed?
Jacob remembered. It was yesterday.
No, it was today. Now!
Herman got a third smudgy bottle.
Then it was further back still —an ad-
venturous world before “wonderful little
women” came to bless it. McNiven’s
big cattle run on the Lachlan! Cattle,
cattle, cattle! Herman and Jacob were
stockmen together again on McNiven’s.
Such stockmen! Such horsemen! They
mustered every big wild mob over again.
They mastered every outlaw. They built
every strong stockyard. It was a great
life . . .
Hr HE third bottle was empty. The fire
J had died to dull blinkings through
the ashes. The night was late, but the
world had grown young again. Jacob
looked out into the clear frosty night
and said it was time he was going. The
moon was slanting down towards the
western ridges. Herman put on his over-
coat and said he would see Jacob to the
creek. He carried Jacob’s knapsack.
Not too steadily and arm in arm they
threaded a way through the big vineyard
and on to the forest of grey gum and
yellow box. They sang softly through,
again and again, the haunting strains of
“Strassburg.” Something earlier still than
McNiven’s big run. Much earlier than
“wonderful little women.”
Herman led Jacob right back to the
creek. Jacob was glad to be home again.
He sneaked blunderingly through the
orchard. Sailor came down and gave him
silent and noncommittal inspection. Then
Sailor went back to his cornsack. Jacob
went to his little room on the verandah
end, and got into bed. His bid for free-
dom left no ripple on the surface.
A month later Herman seemed to have
lost his power to manage careful and
wonderful little women. He made his
escape, and came to Jacob for advice
and consolation and money. And Jacob,
in his gentle way, led Herman home.
QAT
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
IF the deity named Foo has reached
the islands of the Western Pacific,
he will find a spiritual brother there
and, with all his ingenuity, will be
hard put to it to rival the remarkable
doings of Oat
Qa. is a notable figure in Melanesian
mythology—a merry sprite possessing
much mana and many of the attributes
of our Puck, mischievousness and a taste
for practical joking In some of the
groups he has the highest reputation.
Even today, in the Banks Islands, a
mother will rebuke a fractious infant or
one who whines for food with “Do you
think you’re going to die? Don’t you
kifow that Qat made you like this?” Or
a man will drive a straying and trespass-
ing pig out of his house with the re-
proach “Qat made you to stay outside!”
Qat is supposed to have control over
the seasons and the weather, and his
name is often given to remarkable natural
... , b i • i •
objects or phenomena. Volcanic lava is
reckoned to be the sauce he uses for
flavoring his food ; a beam of light shin-
ing from a hole in the roof across a dark
interior is his spear ; the speeding shadow
of a cloud over the sunlit sea is Qat’s
shadow.
Howevc.", he isn’t regarded as any sort
of a supreme being—he is just “the hero
of story-tellers, the ideal character of a
good-natured people who profoundly
believe in magic, and greatly admire
adroitness and success in the use of it;
Qat himself is good-natured, only play-
Y „ • , • & , ~ ut
fully mischievous, and thoroughly en-
joys the exercise of his wonderful
powers.”
It is to be regretted that the following
typical story of him, as told m the New
Hebrides, records his demise, but there
are others which maintain the practical
impossibility of terminating his active
career. Here it is, in literal translation:
“This is about the women that they say
belonged to heaven, and had wings like
birds; and they came down to earth to
bathe in the sea, and when they bathed
they took off their wings.
“And as Qat was going about, he
chanced to see them ; and he took up one
pair of wings and went back into the vil-
lage and buried them at the foot of the
main pillar of his house. Then he went
back again and watched them,
“And when they had finished bathing
they went and took up their wings and
flew up to heaven ; but one could not fly
because Qat had stolen her wings, and
f; d ™ak?Zeiff 0 u.l?lTe S r, U a P nd°asb
her . what are you crying £or? .
„ And jhe . Th have takm
my wings >
„ Then he , akes hef tQ his house an 4
marries her
“And Qat’s mother takes her, and they
g 0 to work ; and when the leaf of a yam
touches her there are yams as if some-
one had already dug them up ; and if a
leaf of a banana, again, had touched her,
just a single one, all the bananas were
ripe at once.
“But when Qat’s mother paw that
things were so she scolded her; but not
Q at ’ be ' vas B dne sll0 t C \ tll l g v birds. And
* he “ .? at s mother scolded her she wen
back into the village; and she sits beside
the post of the ho s se and cries And as
sbe cr j ed j-jgj- te a j*s flowed down upon
t h e ground and made a deep hole ; and
the tears drop down and strike upon her
wings, and she scratches away the earth
and finds them, and flies back again to
heaven. And when Qat was come home
f rom shooting he sees that she is not
tbere > and scolds his mother,
Then he kills every one of his pigs,
alld f a ? tens points to very man Y arrows,
“d skv° P ° f h ' S h ° USe
y ,
, And t^ n . h ? s , e f . tha the .
does not fall back, he shoots again and
hits the first arrow. And he shoSts many
tjmeS} and always hits? and the arrOWS
reach down to the earth.
“And, behold, there is a banyan root
following the arrows, and Qat takes a
basket of pig’s flesh in his hand and
climbs up to heaven to seek his wife,
And he finds a person hoeing; and he
fi nds his wife and takes her back ; and
he says to the person who is hoeing
‘When you see a banyan root don’t dis-
turb it.’
“But as the two went down by the
banyan root and had not yet reached
the ground, that person chopped the root
off, and Qat fell down and was killed,
and the woman flew back to heaven,
That is the end of it.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3313.
Wednesday, August 11, 1943.
THE ’ORN OF THE ’UNTER IS ’EARD ON THE ’ILL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘ ‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehh
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
THE ONE-ARMY IDEA.
Somebody ought to define clearly just
what is meant by the One Army so many
are talking about.
Mr. Curtin, of course, is against it,
his views concerning Australia’s fighting
forces and their part having always been
limited and peculiar. His present vision
is that “great armies will not be required
for the defeat of Japan.” Yet Japan has
“great armies,” and with them has
accomplished only too much. It may be
possible that in this war the whole his-
tory of wars is going to be turned upside
down, and a country in Japan’s position
beaten wholly from the air. That has not
been the experience in this war up to
date, the air arm having been in battles
an auxiliary to land forces, though a vital
auxiliary.
Perhaps Mr. Curtin bases his belief on
what General MacArthur has been able
to accomplish with very little. This has
certainly been great, but whether it is a
sound basis for Mr. Curtin’s pre-election
optimism looks open to question.
With one single exception—microscopic
Pantellaria, which, anyway, was as much
a navy show as an air show—every yard
of ground won in this war so far has
been won by armies; the stronger the
better the results. In Russia—-with,
apparently, the main strength of the Luft-
waffe on the one side and Russian,
British and American ’planes on the
other —the fighting has been a swaying
struggle between massed forces on the
ground. In the North African campaign-
ing—the air arm, of course, giving vital
assistance —armies on the ground decided
the issue. In Sicily—with the Italians
putting up as poor a performance as they
put up in Africa—the ground fighting,
despite complete air mastery in the last
phase, has been heavy and costly.
In the Pacific, compared with what the
Japs, with their hitherto overwhelming
weight of trained ground forces, have
overrun, only a few square yards have
been taken back, every yard at a bitter
price in lives. August ? was the anni-
versary of the opening of the Battle of
the Solomons; and the fighting for
Guadalcanal alone lasted till January.
Commenting on the current fight for
Munda airfield, war correspondent Win-
ston Turner reported on August 1:
Flame-throwers mounted on tanks are
breaking the spirit of the Japs on Munda
—something all our shelling and bombing
failed to do.
Attu, which the Americans took at un-
stated cost, was held by a mere 3500 Jap
troops, and bombing had not shifted
them, either —it had to be dope at hand-
to-hand. Driving the Japs back from
near Port Moresby was a job that de-
manded the finest fighting quality of such
trained and seasoned and splendid
fighters as the Sixth Division. An Ameri-
can correspondent has reported on the
continuation of that fight now going
on:
A gallant band of Australian soldiers is
fighting a campaign in the New Guinea
jungles that mocks all accomplishments of
this machine-age war.
Of the fighting in which the Sixth played
its heroic part, Dr. Evatt said in a broad-
cast in America:
Without giving actual figures and taking
Australian and American forces together,
I would estimate that their total casualties
in the New Guinea campaign, including
incapacity caused by tropical diseases, ex-
ceeded the total casualties in the whole of
the Tunisian campaign.
That represents only a fragment of a
grim and ugly story, some more details
of which were given last week by Captain
Gullett, down from New Guinea to con-
test Henty, the seat his able father held.
In the most vigorous and most pun-
gent speech so far reported in this elec-
tion campaign. Captain Gullett declared
that “the Labor Government’s manage-
ment of the army has been incompetent,
tragic and governed by Caucus direc-
tion” ;
In the past two years the army has suf-
fered from lack of reinforcements and from
political interference of the worst kind. A
single united army is desired by members
of both the A.I.F. and the militia, so that
the tired, exhausted and depleted battalions
of the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth Divisions
will not be forced to go into battle again
and again while some militia soldiers are
kept away from the front.
“What sort of a system is it,” Captain
Gullett asked, “that permits brave men
to be wounded two and three times, and
worn down by disease and nervous ten-
sion, while others have never seen a shot
fired?” Many in Australia have known
for some time what has been going on,
and it nauseates them to hear the tribe
of non-soldier politicians smugly taking
credit to themselves for what the brave
fellows referred to by Captain Gullett
achieved. It is no wonder that this
soldier candidate spoke trenchantly:
What sort of a country would allow
American conscripts, white and colored,
to fight for its liberties, and refuse to send
its own sons into battle? But I ask you
what better can be expected from a war-
time Prime Minister who has never seen a
shot fired, who, alone of all the war leaders,
has been “too busy” to visit his troops in
the field?
Men of Captain Gullett’s experience will
not be heard making the vote-seeking
suggestion that the war is won. They
know that, actually, all that has been
taken from the Japs is a fragment or
two of what they took. Nothing of their
own has yet been taken, though there has
been some whittling down of their
shipping and air strength—436 ’planes
claimed for July.
U.S. Secretary for the Navy Knox has
stated that the official U.S. view is that
the Japs are losing ships faster than they
can be replaced; but their existing
strength m both ’planes and ships is un-
known. It is certain that their navy is
still one of the great navy forces of the
world ; it has yet to be destroyed as part
of the job of belting the Japs back from
the extended defensive arc they have been
able to build in their own and conquered
territory.
As to this job, Secretary Knox made a
comment that might serve as a Steadier
to the “no-great-armies” optimists. He
was asked if it was reasonable to assume
that the Japs would withdraw from any-
where, even though their supply lines
might be played out. His answer was
“Emphatically no!”
No doubt the Japs will duly be beaten
back when the full power of Britain and
America can be brought to bear ; and it
can be hoped that the current stories of
the bamboo, or paper, cities —on which
so much of the “no-great-armies” opti-
mism appears to rest —will prove to have
more to them than the former “bogged-
down-in-China” and “pushover” stories.
In the meantime it wpuld seem to be
more realistic, at least, to regard the job
ahead in the light of general experience
in this war to date. In this view it would
seem that there must be more and more
severe land fighting, and that in due
course every available Australian will be
needed, and every available American
and Briton, also. Unless the “no-great-
armies” optimists have something undis-
closed to reveal, it would seem that very
strong armies indeed will be needed,
and in such a prospect Australians would
continue taking a leading fighting part,
for if this war in the Pacific is not Aus-
tralia’s it is nobody’s. It can be said to be
Australia’s and Maoriland’s first of all.
The others on the same side could lose
and still exist. The choice here is the
continuance or the end of these countries.
It would be a terrible end ; and, though
the position, without any question, has
improved beyond the most desperate
hopes, risk of that end will remain until
the war is won. It will remain if the
war ends in stalemate.
One question in dispute with this set-
up—a question that should never have
been in dispute—is how Australia will go
forward: with Mr. Curtin’s pet meridian-
istic limits for some; and the rest —that
is, of course, the A.I.F. —all the way?
The question should never have arisen,
because once the country went to war it
should have been at war wholly, not in
parts. This is being represented as as
strong a criticism of the main opposite
side in the elections as of the ex-Govern-
ment side. The opposite side was in
power, and started the arrangement that
continues. Mr. Curtin’s side-steppers have
made (they will continue to make) a
great deal of this point—with hypocrisy
that beggars description. As if they
opposed this arrangement! They opposed
both A.I.F. and compulsory militia. That
was the extent of their contribution, and
that is the measure of their present
hypocrisy.
The present position is that the
arrangement was made, and it stands.
The main opposing side in the elections
wants to end it; Curtin and Co. want
to continue it. That is the straight fact.
Yet details still need clearing up. One
thing clear is that Mr. Curtin’s pet
meridians would be wiped out by the
main opposing side as quickly as possible.
That is about all that is clear.
But it would not make the One Army
they talk about. How is this to be made?
The tribe of non-soldier politicians
could well make a mess of it. The A.I.F.
divisions have won their battle honors
and their status as a volunteer force.
They will want to fight on as they are.
Then the question crops up of reinforc-
ing them. Eventually, unless Mr. Cur-
tin’s vision splendid is true in its rosy
details, this will become necessary. Will
they be used then —as they were in
France in 1918—to reinforce each other
by breaking up battalions with proud
traditions? Will they be the spearhead
of attack, continuing as A.I.F. divisions,
with militia reinforcements? Or will
everybody, perhaps, be called A.I.F. ?
However it is worked out, converting
the two main, separate forces into one
army should be settled, once and for all.
It is a question that should never arise
again. In the future the position should
be that once this country has to go to war
it will go to war as a whole.
The Lucky Lazzarinis.
If it is true that “Labor has saved Aus-
tralia,” Mr. H. P. Lazzarini, who is called
Minister of Home Security and Minister
Assisting the Treasurer, must be one of
our saviours. (Loud and prolonged
laughter.)
Mr. H. P. Lazzarini is a brother of Mr.
C. C. Lazzarini, who is a Minister of
sorts in the Sydney Government. Depart-
ing from the custom of their ancestors,
they managed to get born at Young
(N.S.W.), one’s Christian names being
Italianised (Carlo Camillo) and the
other’s Anglicised (Hubert Peter). Trained
in the art of war, as war is understood in
the N.S.W. Labor party, they shot up
during the middle of the first World War,
when Italy was an ally, becoming “fear-
less fighters” on the anti-conscription
front. Carlo Camillo got in after the
first conscription referendum as M.L.A.
for Marrickville, and Hubert Peter in
1919 as M.H.R. for Werriwa ; and, except
that Hubert Peter was missing from one
Parliament, they have lived well on bad
politics ever since.
In salaries as members and Ministers,
calculating their cuts from secret Minis-
terial pools, these lucky brothers, whose
luck began when they were bom in New
South Wales and not in Italy, have
drawn about £44,000 from the public
purse. And all the time they have had
the use of gold passes entitling them to
travel free in Government trains through-
out Australia and New Zealand, and in
Government street vehicles in N. S.
Wales, together with free membership of
Parliamentary libraries and refreshment
rooms, annual allowances for postage and
the use of Ministerial cars during their
Ministerial periods. As Ministers they
have been dismal duds, Carlo Camillo
being chiefly remembered for those
bad and costly jokes the N.S.W.
Government fish-shops, which had a
sticky finish, and Hubert Peter for his
blackout and brownout wrangling with
his Sydney opposite number, Mr. Hef-
fron. And their politics have been ulcer-
ated with hatred; for Australians not of
their factions who have helped to keep
them in their comfortable jobs, and for
“British bondholders” —figured as fat,
loathsome objects, their pockets stuffed
with ill-gotten Australian gold, whereas
for the most part they are small investors,
executors of middle-class estates and con-
cerns like friendly societies and trade-
unions, drawn to Australian loans because
the return is a bit better than they can
get in Britain itself, and because they are
listed as trustee securities.
At different times these Lazzarinis
have been supporters of Mr. Lang
and opponents of him when opposi-
tion became safe. They were among
his servile instruments when he went
in madly for interest-default and
for repudiation of the part of the Com-
monwealth Constitution known as the
Financial Agreement and of the Pre-
miers’ Plan, and Hubert Peter virulently
opposed Scullin Labor’s efforts to com-
pel Mr. Lang to keep his State’s engage-
ments to “British bondholders” and to
the other States and the Common-
wealth, going to the length of helping Mr.
Beasley, Mr. Ward and “the Tories” to
put the Scullin Labor Government out.
Before he did this he attacked the mild
and anguished Scullin in these terms:
He is the same gentleman who, as the
supreme Red of Victoria, sat upon the
doorstep of a dying man, the then leader of
Labor, the late Mr. Frank Tudor, awaiting
selection for his constituency.
Mr. Brennan: That is a shameful,
cowardly statement. You dirty, lying
crawler!
Mr. Lazzarini: You are a greater liar .
and crawler than ever I could be.
The Deputy Speaker: Order!
“British bondholders,” the banks and
B.H.P. have always offended Hubert
Peter to his shrivelled soul. Returned
to the House after the compulsory
three years’ retirement, he thundered that
“the associated banks have misappro-
priated and stolen the deposits of the
people, and if the directors had acted in
the same way in any other commercial
sphere they would have been in gaol long
ago.”
Scullin Labor had begun by abandon-
ing compulsory military training, but of
this Hubert Peter enthusiastically ap-
proved. With exceeding satisfaction he
saw the army reduced to a shadow force
with a minimum of training and equip-
ment. It must be allowed that here he
was consistent in the Lazzarini fashion ;
in 1924 he had bitterly opposed the addi-
tion of H.M.A.S. Australia and Can-
berra to what the post-war “economies”
and the sinking of a still-serviceable
battle-cruiser had left of the R.A.N. On
that occasion he came out as a naval and
military expert and a prophet:
A lot has been said and written in Aus-
tralia and other parts of the world about
the Pacific Ocean being the scene of the
next great war An attempt is being
made to scare us. Members opposite and
the daily press are very fond of the argu-
ment that Australia would have been taken
by some other nation years ago if it had
not been portion of the British Empire and
had not enjoyed thq protection of the British
Navy. But this is mere assumption
The proposal to defend Australia with
two cruisers is mere stupidity* Annual
upkeep will amount to about £250,000, and
that money might as well be thrown into
the ocean.
It would not cost anything like £10,000,000
to make Australia self-contained for de-
fence purposes. The sum now proposed to
be expended on two cruisers would be
adequate to provide Australia with effective
coastal defence....
The speaker went on to hurl scorn at
“the fallacy of landing troops protected
by a Navy” as well as the other “fallacy”
of having an R.A.N.:
When we see another nation piling up
armaments we become suspicious ; and if
we build these cruisers other nations will
be justified in becoming suspicious of Aus-
tralia Apart from the “brass-hats” who
live by war, and their relatives and others
in armament firms, all naval and military
authorities agree that it is almost invari-
ably disastrous for a nation to attempt to
invade the territory of another nation when
the only approach is from the water
Does the Minister seriously tell the House
that any enemy would land a force in the
north-west of Western Australia?
When defence measures were proposed
this Lazzarini was always on hand with
a strident voice and a hostile vote. In
September, 1937, when it was proposed
to spend a whole £11,000,000 on defence,
he said: “The horrors of the years 1914
to 1918 were perpetrated purely and
simply in the interests of the capitalistic
profitmongers of the world, and after six
years of office all that the Government
can tell the electors is that it proposes to
spend eleven millions in the destruction
of their homes.... a screaming farce.”
In November, 1938, fulminating on a
text furnished by Mr. Curtin (“Any in-
crease of defence expenditure after the
Munich Pact appears to me to be an
utterly unjustifiable and hysterical piece
of panic propaganda”), Hubert Peter ac-
cused the Government of “doing nothing
but talk of building battleships and put-
ting guns round the coast”:
The guns ought to be trained on some
of the landlords; if that were done I would
help to man them.
Three months before the German war
broke out he violently objected to the
mild proposal for a national register:
I shall do all in my power to prevent
the bill from becoming law. Unquestion-
ably it is a prelude to economic and indus-
trial as well as military conscription. The
Opposition would never be a party to com-
pulsion of the youth of the country to save
Australia for the profiteer.
This tender regard for the youth of
the country did not extend to the youth
of Britain. When the Second-Front-in-
France agitation was at its height this
Lazzarini’s name was flaunted in Red
publications as one of the agitators. In
the then military position, with few
trained U.S. troops in Britain, ships being
sunk by the hundred (in 1942 Allied ship-
ping losses exceeded Allied shipping con-
struction by a million gross tons) and air
cover at least problematical, a landing in
force on the Channel coast, as Dieppe
showed, would have led to a frightful
massacre of British conscripts ; but if the
thought occurred to this Lazzarini it left
his withers unwrung.
On one occasion he elected to be dis-
creet. In September-October, 1935, when
the news arrived that the Italians were
invading Abyssinia, his present colleague
Mr. Beasley, who has periodical fits of
Anglophobia, tabled a very long and in
the retrospect very significant amendment
to a motion that a Ministerial statement
should be printed;
This Parliament records great concern
and its profound horror at the prospect of
a second World War developing out of the
conflict of Imperial trading interests, and ex-
presses its unflinching determination not to
allow Australia to become involved under
any circumstances It views with alarm the
action of the British Admiralty in dispatch-
ing H.M.A.S. Australia, with an Australian
crew, to the war zone, and requests the
immediate recall of that vessel to Australian
waters It formally declares the neutrality
of Australia, and instructs the Government
to take all necessary steps to preserve such
neutrality. It declares that it will not
support the application of sanctions or
contribute a quota of military, naval and
air force strength to an armed force for
such purposes, as such action would in-
volve Australia in war.
Mr. Curtin and five of his present
Ministers voted for the amendment, and
three other gentlemen who are now
his colleagues paired for it, but Mr.
Lazzarini, though in Canberra at the
time, was not among them. A Lazzarini
speech and vote on that occasion would
have been too much for even the very
tolerant Australian public. But this
saviour of ours was in his place when the
application of economic sanctions to Italy
was debated, and he yoted against the bill
in every division.


[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of 252 George-street. Sydney, take the
resnonsibility.l
PLAIN ENGLISH
Something Learned.
“In Japanese Hands” (B. 21/7/’43) has
drawn a statement from -Mr. Forde —
tardy but better late than never.
In campaigns with the Japanese 23,382
Australian soldiers —1211 officers, 22,171
other ranks —have been reported missing.
Of these, it has been learned through
Geneva, the enemy is holding 10,166
—B9B officers, 9268 other ranks —as
prisoners of war. Japanese radio stations
have reported another 3221 —79 officers,
3142 other ranks—as prisoners of war,
but this has not yet been confirmed by
Japan through Geneva, and the 3221 are
still listed as missing.
Of the remaining 9995 —234 officers,
9761 other ranks —nothing has been
heard, but “it is reasonable to assume
that there are substantial numbers of men
still to be reported as prisoners of war,”
and “every effort is being made to obtain
further lists from the Japanese Govern-
ment.”
Simultaneously Senator Ashley, the
P.M.G., announced that 14,000 letters
from Australian prisoners of war in
Japan, addressed in the first place to
Switzerland, are on their way to Aus-
tralia via Portugal and the United States,
having been re-posted between June 7
and June 27. And concerning men actu-
ally designated prisoners of war it has
been ascertained that 488 officers and
3142 other ranks are held in Malaya, 86
officers and 2166 other ranks in Java, 139
officers and 1323 other ranks in Borneo,
57 officers and 1233 other ranks in Thai-
land, 19 officers and 27 other ranks in
Formosa, one officer and 15 other ranks
in Manchukuo, six officers and 68 other
ranks in Korea and 92 officers and 550
other ranks in Japan itself.
There is ground for expectation that
the enemy will continue to release names
and allow letters to pass. Meantime, it
would not do this country any harm to
pause in the midst of the election uproar
and reflect with a proper sense of pro-
portion on the captivity of our brave
fellows and on what it must mean to
them and to those from whom they have
been absent so long.
Dr. Evatt: Pacific's Future.
In part of the speech he delivered at
Hurstville (Sydney), with its generous
tributes to the work of the Opposition
members of the Advisory War Council
and to the late J. V. Fairbairn’s contribu-
tion to the Empire Air-training Scheme,
Dr. Evatt referred to ideas he had set
forth in a magazine article (“Free
World,” U.S.A.). In that article Dr. Evatt
dealt with the application of the Atlantic
Charter in the Pacific when the war is
won. The problems involved in Aus-
tralia’s subsequently taking up the part
of a Pacific Power he described as “many
and infinitely complex.”
The mere enumeration of the numerous
Pacific countries and territories suggests a
range of problems, political, economic and
social, and their solution will tax our
wisdom, our understanding, our tolerance
and our sincerity.
Peace and stability, he held, “can be
achieved only by , building a way of life
in which the varied nations and peoples
can live together in peace and pros-
perity.” In suggesting “some conse-
quences and undertakings in subscribing
to the Charter,” he declared that “the
first and outstanding principle which
must be applied is that of security.”
The problem of organising security in the
Pacific cannot be dissociated from the prob-
lem of organising security in other parts of
the w0r1d.... security must be universal or
everyone will be insecure. This does not
mean, however, that within a system of
general world security there will not be
ample scope for the development of
regional arrangements both for the purpose
of the preservation of that security and
for the handling of ordered change within
the region.
The United Nations in the Pacific, Dr.
Evatt added, “will have to be assured
or their own security.”
In this respect Australia will naturally re-
gard as of crucial importance to its own
security the arc of islands lying to the
north and north-east of our continent.
It would be interesting to have from
Dr. Evatt —preferably before election
day —some further elaboration of the
“own security” theme. The only factual
suggestion he has offered is that Japan
must be disarmed. What are his views
on the extent to which Australia should
be armed ?
A lead for Dr. Evatt and all other
aspirants in the elections was given by
the Diggers at their last Australia-wide
Congress. They, also, produced a
Charter, and one of its planks was “a
permanent standing army of 100,000,”
to be established from the present fight-
ing services, “for the future defence of
Australia.”
Some reassurance on this point from
any of the political contestants would be
welcome. Otherwise, it is not much use
any of them talking at large of
“security.”
Mr. Curtin's Scruples.
In his first public address since his
return from another overseas job well
done, Dr. Evatt said “We must have Aus-
tralia united to meet the problems of the
future; we must work to become ‘a new
Britannia in another world.’ ”
The voice of Australia will always be
listened to in the great councils of the
world.
It will indeed if it is the authentic voice
of Australia and not the screech of a
party. For unity “to meet the problems
of the future” must begin at Canberra,
where the work of statesmanship will
have to be done.
Unfortunately Mr. Curtin can’t or
won’t see it. He affects to believe that a
national Government is out of the ques-
tion, not only because of the things that
divide his party from those of Mr. Fad-
den, Mr. Menzies and Mr. Hughes, but
because of their differences among them-
selves. In candid moments, however, he
admits that representatives of Labor, the
U.A.P. and U.C.P. have got on well in
the Advisory War Council, and that is a
great deal more than can be said of his
relations with members of his own
Ministry during the depression period
and since.
Consider, first, the record of Mr. Beas-
ley (Supply and Shipping), which Mr,
Curtin has judged it prudent to overlook.
Mr. Beasley was elected on October 12, 1929,
as a Scullin Laborite, and 10 days later Caucus
elected him to the Ministry, Mr. Scullin taking
him under his own wing. But on March 3,
1931, he whirled himself out of the Ministry
to lead the Lang faction, Mr. Lang having
concocted his plan ol interest-default, repudia-
tion and other wild measures which made Mr.
Scullin’s hair stand on end. A period of furious
opposition culminated in Mr. Beasley alleging
that Mr. Theodore, Mr. Scullin’s Treasurer,
was improperly using unemployed-relief money
to improve his doubtful prospects in his electo-
rate of Dailey and in challenging the Govern-
ment on a no-confidence motion. It was car-
ried, and the Scullin Government went to the
country, there to be obliterated.
The Beasley and Scullin factions fought one
another at two elections, those of 1931 and
1934. By 1937 they had come together under
Mr. Curtin’s leadership, but 1940 saw them
parted again, Mr. Beasley and Mr. Lang having
combined to form what, with characteristic
delicacy, they called the non-Communist Labor
party. Mr. Curtin’s word for it was “the ‘scab’
party,” and during the election campaign he
declared that it had ceased to exist. He was a
little premature, but in a few months he and
Mr. Beasley were fellow-members of the Ad-
visory War Council, and on October 7, 1941,
Mr. Beasley had fifth place in the Curtin
Ministry.
When the fatal division of November
25, 1931, was taken, at Mr. Beasley’s in-
stance, Mr. Chifley, now Treasurer, was
Minister of Defence and member for
Macquarie. Mr. Keane, now Minister
for Trade and Customs and Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council, was mem-
ber for Bendigo. Mr. Curtin was member
for Fremantle. All three lost their seats.
They must have been very bitter about it
for a long time, but all is now forgiven,
if not forgotten.
A little list of other Curtin Ministers
whose paths have diverged from Mr.
Curtin’s, in some cases violently.
Mr. Ward (Labor and National Service,
under suspension). —He quitted the Scullin
Caucus with Mr. Beasley and championed the
Lang plan until the bottom fell out of it. Helped
to dish the Scullin Government with his vote
and to maul Scullin Labor at two elections.
Became a pillar of “unity” under Mr. Curtin’s
leadership, and did not join Mr. Beasley when
that gentleman broke away again before the last
election. Publicly opposed Mr. Curtin’s anti-
coal-strike plans and his Militia Service Bill,
but was tolerated until he hanged himself, at
least Ministerially, on his Brisbane Line.
Mr. H. P. Lazzarini (Home Secretary). —A
follower of Mr. Scullin also till he turned Lang-
planner with Mr. Beasley and Mr. Ward and
helped them to destroy the Scullin Govern-
ment. A Beasley-Lang man till 1936; a Curtin
man since.
Mr. Holloway (Health). —A bitter opponent of
expeditionary forces and national service and
Mr. Curtin’s Militia Service Bill. Restrained by
considerations of solidarity (on no account to
be spelt “salary”) from pushing his opposition
to the Curtin Militia Service Bill to the point
of leaving the Ministry.
Senator Cameron (Aircraft Production, and
alleged to be a wor.der-worker in that field,
though he knew no more about it when he
started than any pub rouseabout). —Another
opponent of the Curtin Militia Service Bill.
He worked up successful opposition to it as
a leader of the Victorian A.L.P. executive and
had the Prime Minister on the mat. Still
muttering that a Time Will Come, but restrained
from leaving the Ministry by considerations of
salarydarity.
In the face of that record, it is idle
for Mr. Curtin to profess that his scruples
forbid him to work in the same Ministry
in the service of the nation with men who
as administrators have proved themselves
streets ahead of the Wards, Lazzarinis,
Holloways and Don Camerons. If
the vote of the electors is unmistakably
a vote for a national Government he will
soon get rid of his scruples.
Pay As You Earn.
In his policy speech Mr. Fadden touched
briefly on the combined party’s intention
to bring in a pay-as-you-earn system of
taxation. He and all on his side should
say more about it —the more the better
for themselves, for if it alone were being
put to the vote it would walk in.
The proposed system, Mr. Fadden
said, would take effect from July 1, 1943.
Taxpayers would be assessed “for taxa-
tion on income for the year in which
assessments are issued.” This, Mr.
Spooner later explained,
means that the taxpayer will not, upon his
death or retirement, be obliged to meet the
taxation for the past year. It means that
when a taxpayer has met his assessment for
the year 1943-44 he will have discharged
his taxation liability in full to June 30,
1944. He will pay during the year 1943-44
upon the income that he earns in that year,
and not, as at present, upon the income of
an earlier year.
Why Curtin and co., too, have not put
forward a plan on these lines is a mys-
tery, possibly explained by the fact that
the other crowd got in first. If it were
properly explained to them by their own
side Mr. Curtin’s staunchest supporters
would vote for it to a man.
Pay-as-you-earn is working in Canada,
where the responsible Minister said
of it: “Under this plan, when a man’s
income falls off his tax falls off
with it.” A similar plan for the United
States was put forward by Mr. Beards-
ley Ruml, chairman of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York. By the Ruml
plan—which Fadden and co. appear to
have adopted practically as a whole —
“taxes for 1943, which under the present
system would represent payment on
1942 income [as in Australia] would in-
stead be considered payment for 1943,
and last year’s taxes would be forgone
altogether.”
This has been represented as meaning
that there would be a reduction in tax
revenue for the Government and in tax
liability for the individual. A report on
the Ruml plan issued by the Royal Bank
of Canada explains that actually noth-
ing of the sort would happen:
Taxpayers will continue to pay their
regular taxes at the rate set down in the
latest tax Act, and Government receipts
will be practically the same as they would
have been under the original system. If
anything, revenues will be increased rather
than reduced, since they will apply on 1943
incomes, which, generally speaking, are
higher than those of 1942.
The author of the Ruml plan has men-
tioned among its effects:
For those in the lower brackets, the plan
will obviously have far-reaching beneficial
results, since unfortunate circumstances of
loss of income will now be doubly unfor-
tunate because of last year’s debt. For
those in the middle brackets, the plan will
eliminate countless personal and family
tragedies
As with the Fadden proposal as partly
explained by Mr. Spooner, a positive
gain to the taxpayer would be “the re-
moval of the burden of debt from income
taxes which he now carries and which be-
comes a charge against his estate or his
reduced income in the event of death or
of reduction of income.”
If a period ensues in which there is a
general and widespread decline in incomes
the relief to the taxpayer will be immediate
and in proportion to his individual loss of
income.
Of course it might be part of the rosy
vision of the Curtin party that war-boom
earnings in munitions and the like will
continue indefinitely. Optimism of the
sort that is now counting up peace
chickens is so removed from reality that
it would accept anything. But the general
taxpayer, necessarily taking a more
realistic view, is likely to see the pay-as-
you-earn proposal as a logical part of
uniform income taxation, and as a
method of preventing the extinction of
the middle class, harder hit than any other
class by soaring war taxes and by the
decline in value of savings and insurance
policies.
FREE TRANSLATION.
“Under CURTIN’S leadership the miner will NEVER let Australia down.”
—Wells, the Communist president of the Miners' Federation, in an election advertisement.
“Vote our way—or else!”


yr%
'Ji
mm
C. S. R. HARDWALL PIASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PLI
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shilling’s a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife's old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, IiTI).
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1,7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'trebt, Brisbane. q
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers. 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, 1 erth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
Though there are only three Senators
to be elected in Tasmania, the A.L.P. is
running a ticket of five and the U.A.P.
one of six. On the A.L.P. ticket is the
Rev. G. S. Carruthers, who is distantly
remembered on the mainland as a Doug-
las Credit candidate in Martin (N.S.W.),
opposed to McCall and S. C. Taylor, now
chairman of the N.S.W. Industrial Com-
mission. Australia’s slavish adherence to
an effete monetary system obliged the rev.
gentleman to put up £25 in negotiable
currency, and he lost it.
Running with the Rev. Carruthers in
Tasmania are Darcey, dreariest of all
credit cranks; Aylett, chiefly remarkable
for the initial letter of his name, and
Lamp, whose pet aversions seem to be
The Bulletin and British rule in India.
1 hey are having a rough passage.
Although Westralian farmers have
many grievances against Curtin's Govern-
ment and have expressed them with the
utmost freedom, the P.M. has the curious
notion that Forrest can be wrested from
Prowse and Swan from Marwick. Ap-
parently he bases it on the fact that the
“Sunday Times” is pitching into the Op-
position parties as a sequel to a wrangle
over their Senate ticket. Meanwhile he
is preparing his defences against the fiery
onset of Lee, while no doubt wishing
that the man who pressed him so hard
three years ago was having another crack
at Johnson in Kalgoorlie instead of at
himself in Fremantle.
Excellent platform arguments for a
national Government:
In truth, the War Advisory Council be-
came, under Mr. Curtin’s Prime Minister-
ship, something closely approximating to
a national. Government It shows that
the two parlies can co-operate on a non-
partisan basis for war purposes It also
illustrates how desirable it is that the rep-
resentatives of Australia in the conferences
dealing with peace....should not be con-
fined to the particular Government in
power It is the duty of every Australian
to eschew party bias. Labor cannot govern
merely as a trade-union movement; it must
also guard the interests of the great middle
groups.
Speaker? Dr. Evatt, opening his cam-
paign in Barton.
There is one thing about these soldier
candidates —you are rarely at a loss to
know what they are driving at. Major
Malloch, M.C., on the provision for two
armies:
It stinks. Why should the honor of
chasing Tojo and his rats to the hobs of
hell be reserved for some while others just
fiddle?
The Major is another sort of Rat —one
of the Tobruk breed. He is a Services
and Citizens’ candidate for Batman
(Vic.), which usually elects Frank
Brennan, though it turned him down in
1931.
Smuts is meeting what will be his last
Parliament with a magnificent majority
—llO members for the war (89 belong to
the Smuts party) and 40 against. He
has undertaken to “prosecute the war
until unconditional surrender is achieved,”
and that is interpreted to mean that “when
Italy and Germany are vanquished South
African forces will be sent to the Pacific.”
Presumably members of our two Labor
factions will permit the old field-marshal
to send them beyond the geographical
limits set for Australian militiamen.
Though the film “Desert Victory”
arrived in Australia long before “Mis-
sion to Moscow,” the latter is to be
shown first. Glorifying a foreign regime
as it does, with cunning falsification of
history and misrepresentation of British
policy—on these points Americans as far
removed as Professor Dewey and
Dorothy Thompson are agreed—it is
naturally preferred to a factual account,
w ith actual battle scenes, of a superb
British imperial achievement in which our
own soldiers, airmen and seamen won
deathless glory. It is to be shown in
Britain also by favor of Churchill, but
when the doting Joe Davies had it un-
wound before Stalin at a private screen-
ing Uncle Joe gruffly vetoed its exhibi-
tion in Russia. Stalin has a sense of
humor, but it is a different brand from
Churchill’s.
Tasmanians are annoyed with Curtin
for several reasons. The Hobart Govern-
ment because he isn’t giving it all the
mainland money it asked for; union
bosses because election exigencies com-
pelled him to intervene against them in
a beautiful hydro-electric works strike,
featured by a demand for the general
manager’s dismissal, and people in
general because he isn’t speaking in the
Speck. Fadden and Menzies, who votes
Tasmanian audiences the most attentive
in his experience, are giving special
attention to the islanders. This they
appreciate, and neglect they resent.
Somebody is trying to frighten J. P.
Abbott into believing that his return for
New England is endangered because
another Abbott (C. E.) has nominated
against him. This must have made
Roland Green laugh. In 1925 Roland
Green had Harry Green and Joseph
Greene for opponents. The only result
was that Richmond gave Roland the
greatest majority he ever had.
From Brisbane round to Fremantle
bands of Communists, with Labor
yahoos among them, have tried to howl
down the Opposition leaders. Curtin has
testified more than once that these men
have treated him with the greatest
courtesy, and he is morally bound to re-
pay them in the same coin. It was his
duty, anyhow, as head of the Government
administering an Electoral Act with
drastic provisions against hooliganism,
and particularly Beasley’s duty as Acting
Attorney-General, to secure for all
candidates the right of public meet-
ing and free speech. But the words
that could have scotched organised larri-
kinism once it lifted up its ugly head
were not uttered till Dr. Evatt returned.
Till then Australia was left to conclude
that Labor expected the clamor of the
unwhipped mob to be taken for the voice
of public opinion.
An immediate reduction in the prices
of woollen and partly-woollen cloths, par-
ticularly fabrics for women’s dresses, will
follow a Government order issued last
week. It’s to be hoped nobody forgets
there’s an election on August 21.
Shinwell, M.P., to Churchill, asking
for “an assurance of Allied recognition”
should the Italians form a Government
consisting of socialists and other elements
of Leftist opinion” :
Have you observed press reports that
demonstrators in Milan and elsewhere in
Italy have executed several prominent Fas-
cists, including some millionaires, and will
you not encourage that process?
Churchill very properly snubbed him.
Shinwell is a Jew of Polish descent, and
it may be that he was only trying to be
humorous, but, if so, it is a dreadful sort
of humor.
In English-speaking countries assas-
sination is not a political weapon,
and wherever they go the civilised armies
of English-speaking countries will not
permit mob murder. Unfortunately,
there are people professing to be civilised,
some newspaper writers, who think they
should.
Cabled that the New York “Post” and
other Left-Wing papers are disgusted with
General Eisenhower’s handling of the
Italian problem. Previously they were
disgusted with his handling of the French-
Arab problem in North Africa, though
it has been particularly successful. The
Italian problem bristles with difficulties,
one of which was stated by the N.Y.
“Daily Mirror” before the Anglo-
American-Canadian forces descended on
Sicily:
There are 1,623,580 persons in the United
States who were born in Italy. New York
State alone has 584,075, of whom 248,134
are aliens. There are countless other
Americans of the same strain, descendants
of the immigrants who came here in
greatest numbers around the turn of the
century—2,o4s,B77 in the 1900-1910 decade.
With the Presidential nomination only
nine months off, it would be too much
to expect Roosevelt to ask Eisenhower to
rush the Italian problem like a bull at a
gate.
The question in the Senate (Old Digger
Brand asked it) was “Is there any dif-
ference in the pay and allowances of
members and non-members of the Com-
monwealth Temporary Clerks’ Union?”
The answer (Joseph Silver Codings, a
candidate for the Senate in Queensland,
gave it) was that there was a lot of dif-
ferences in respect of tea-money, over-
time pay and salaries. Though all Com-
monwealth employees and all citizens of
the Commonwealth are supposed to be
equal under the law, unionist clerks get
£l2 p.a. to £36 p.a. more than non-
unionist clerks, according to grade. This
monstrous discrimination is a conse-
quence of an instruction issued by Curtin
himself to the Public Service Board for
transmission to the Public Service Arbi-
trator, and weakly obeyed. Returned-
soldier employees are exempt from the
discrimination. The Government hasn’t
dared to go that far.
It was a bad week on the Australian
front for Communists, particularly
Thornton. That ill-conditioned cam-
paigner for a Second Front (in France,
not Siberia) suffered two more checks
to his plans for uniting ironworkers and
munition workers in one big Communist-
controlled union, regardless alike of the
feelings of members and of Common-
wealth trade-union law as interpreted by
the Industrial Registrar: the Balmain
(Sydney) ironworkers refused to deliver
up their branch books and records “for
inspection,” and Melbourne munition
workers, renewing their opposition to the
Red “merger,” decided on “further legal
action to safeguard members’ rights and
privileges and union funds.” Then Dr.
Evatt announced that the electoral law
would be invoked to prevent bands of
hoodlums (nearly all Communists, and
obviously operating on a set plan) break-
ing up Opposition meetings. Finally
Fadden flatly declared that if the Opposi-
tion parties were returned with a majority
the ban on Communist organisations and
publications, lifted by the complaisant
crowd in office, would be reimposed.
“Evil communications corrupt good
manners,” and association with Labor
Council Communists seems to have
demoralised members of the Sydney
writers’ and printers’ unions, which send
delegates to that concern. Members of
the writers’ union awoke one morning
and found that their delegation had voted
for a united front with Corns. House
printers informed the “Sun” manage-
inent that the tone of political “propa-
ganda” published in the “Sun” was ob-
jected to, and that unless political reports
were improved to the liking of the Labor
Council the papers would probably be de-
clared “black.” The printers’ union board
followed with a declaration that it dis-
approved utterly of the tone of Opposi-
tion advertisements, and specified one
published in the “Herald” on July 24;
the closing words were “Our members
will be advised not to set or handle this
class of advertisement.” The “Herald’s”
reply was to republish the advertisement,
which had in the meantime been referred
to the censor by Curtin and altered, and
to state on behalf of the daily and weekly
newspapers that they would “resist to the
last ditch any attempt to interfere” with
their “freedom.” Newspapers are re-
sponsible at law for everything they pub-
lish, and in war-time they are subject to
military censorship. Rather than let
union bosses decide what it may or may
not publish, any self-respecting paper
would go out of existence.
Defending the rationing performances
of Keane, Coles and other worthies,
Curtin instanced the case of Slater, “our
Minister Plenipotentiary to Russia.” In
that country the gentleman with “the im-
pressive title” did not see “a fresh egg
or any butter or milk or fresh foods,”
and was refused “even a necessary
drug when ill,” although it was in stock.
Mentioning these deprivations, Slater was
told that “all is for the front” ; and that,
it seems, is the Curtin slogan also. A
touching story, but it doesn’t tally with
precise and detailed accounts, of the ban-
quets Moscow has put on for other
plenipotentiaries such as Beaverbrook,
Willkie and Davies: 30 courses, each
served with a beaker of wine, and with hot
vodka to top off. Perhaps Stalin thought
Slater was just one of those Australian
Corns, who fight only Australians and
for whom he evidently has a tremendous
contempt. Anyway, he never lets them
into the secret of the policy changes
which periodically oblige them to turn
somersaults.
Within the last two months there have
been nasty race riots at Los Angeles
(Cal.), Beaumont (Tex.), Detroit (Mich.)
and Harlem (N.Y.). Before thfe Harlem
affair American papers were quoting
slabs from Mein Kampf, in which the
“Aryan” author boasted that his agents
could always work up racial strife in the
U.S.A., and were remarking on Jap
efforts to nobble a negro society. They
may not be the only causes, but among
the ugly effects are significantly great
losses of man-hours in war factories.
Old Digger v. Young Digger:
“I like Joe Gullett,” the old campaigner said ;
“and if he can speak” There are no “its”
or “huts” in the case now; the soldier-son of
the man who was Henty’s member for 15 years
(1925-40), and who, with Street, Fairbairn and
Brudenell White, died in Australia’s service as
much as if he bad fallen on the battlefield,
has proved that he can speak. Indeed, he has
an inherited gift for the pungent phrase, as
witness his reference to Coles: “What does his
‘independence’ amount to? As I see it, freedom
to be elected on one programme and to act on
another.”
Personally and politically this Henty contest
is the most interesting in Australia. In ordinary
circumstances the Old Digger’s appeal might be
overwhelming, but quarter of a century has
elapsed since he doffed khaki, and in the
quarter-century he has become a rich man, able
to indulge his taste for golf when the fancy
takes him. Gullett comes straight out of the
battle, with an M.C. won on the field, and with
the marks of suffering and privation imprinted
on his youthful features. And his heart is hot
with indignation at things—no need to descant
on them —which could have been prevented had
the defence of the northern islands been under-
taken in good time, and had the problems o
tropical service, health and terrain been tackled
in earnest, as they must have been. So he has
first-hand knowledge which Coles lacks, and
he attacks what Coles has to defend uneasily
or still more uneasily ignore. It is not in
the nature of Harry Gullett’s son to quit the
U.A.P. as Coles did. In Henty, therefore,
principle is matched with expediency, youth
with middle age, the present with the past.
The odds are on the young fellow'.


ƒ
Gold Medal
WINKS
PERSONAL ITEMS
To succeed Archbishop Wand (ap-
pointed Bishop of Bath and Wells) as
Brisbane’s archbishop, Reginald Charles
Halse. Hailing originally from Bunyan’s
stamping ground, round Luton-Bedford
way, in the English Midlands, the new
archbishop graduated at Oxford in 1907,
was for a time a student teacher at Kel-
ham Theological College and worked in
London’s East End. Next he was in
North Queensland with the St. Barnabas
Bush Brothers; there he founded All
Souls at the Towers, and was for five
years that school’s headmaster. He was
Bishop of Riverina when the Arch-
bishops’ Election Committee, after 61
hours’ deliberation, chose him for the
present post.
In the midst of his campaign to retain
Balaclava (Vic.), Wing-Commander Tom
White got a cable from London that his
15,000-word poem “Sky Saga” is to be
published by Hutchinsons, with English
and Australian editions, that the poem
is the Poetry Club’s selection for its next
reading in London and that 8.8. C. pro-
poses to broadcast it. It is a lively, racy
picture in blank and rhymed verse of an
air trainee’s career from the time he
leaves Australia till he goes on opera-
tional flights over Europe, and the names
of the characters don’t conceal their
identity with Paddy Finucane, Bluey
Truscott, Isaacson and other well-known
fighter pilots, some of whom White
trained and all of whom he knew. The
poem, which has the dimensions of an
epic, was composed in the intervals of
commanding one of the largest R.A.F.
training stations in England. The dra-
matic highlight, a vivid description of an
operational flight action, is first-hand,
White having been one of the pilots.
White took the first Australian flying
squadron overseas in the last war, was
captured by the Turks and subsequently
put down his experiences in Guests of
the Unspeakable, one of the best escape
books written. While he was in a Turk-
ish prison he wrote a long poem on
Gallipoli which he never bothered to get
printed. It was remembering this that
suggested to him writing his “Sky Saga.”
Already held to be the most highly
decorated Australian naval man in this
war Lieut. Hugh Randall Syme has now
had added to his awards the George Cross
for great bravery and undaunted devotion
to duty in circumstances unstated. In
the German bombing blitz on Britain
Syme worked alone for days and nights
delousing an unexploded bomb which
had fallen in a congested tenement area.
For this he received the George Medal.
He thrives on danger, and subsequently
a bar was added. A Melbourne man, son
of the late Herbert Syme, he is 40, is a
Bachelor of Engineering, and was a.
motor-boat speedster. He joined the
R.A.N.V.R. in 1940.
“Cauboy” farewells a “Tom Thumb”;
Had his last curtain at 86 in Melbourne, John'
David Armstrong, known to a former generation
of vaudevilleans as Australia’s original Ton]
Thumb. As the world’s smallest man he toured
the world several times, and his carriage, drawn
by two goats, was a familiar spectacle in Lon-
don, where it once scared Queen Victoria’s
horses. In Melbourne he appeared under
George Coppin at the Old Royal. There have
been many Tom Thumbs. The most famous
was Charles Sherwood Stratton, who gave him-
self the title of general and was exhibited in
London in 1844 and again in 1857. His first
exhibition opened alongside the show of Benja-
min Haydon, a painter of the time. Coming
along to his exhibition Haydon found it empty
and General Thumb’s packed to overflowing,
and he was so disgusted that he committed
suicide. General Thumb’s height was 2ft., but
increased to 40in. The Melbourne-born Thumb
was a comparative giant of 3ft. 6in.
D. Crawcour, a Waterman’s Bay (W.A.)
native, is now, at 34, Assistant Director
of Aircraft Production in England. Ap-
prenticed to electrical engineering at
Midland Junction workshops after get-
ting his leaving certificate, Crawcour
served his time and was informed that
his “services were no longer required.”
He promptly got himself a job as assist-
ant electrician on a boat to work his
passage to England, where he worked at
Wallsend dockyard, kept up his studies,
got jobs with London wireless companies,
took diplomas and was made planning
engineer of the Phillips-Mullard radio
works, London. He was works manager
of another firm when war broke out,
offered himself to the Admiralty, was
sent to the Air Ministry, started as a
production officer, became chief of his
division, then Assistant Director. Re-
membered in Perth as a fine swimmer,
he was secretary of both the City and the
W.A. amateur swimming bodies when he
left. He had his wireless experimenter’s
license at 15.
A few weeks back The Bulletin had
a cable from its correspondent in New
York: “Evatt asked me cable advise you
Churchill delighted Lindsay cartoon.”
People move about the world at such
speed these days that Dr. Evatt went
close to beating the cable home. It
transpires that he presented the cartoon to
Churchill in the President’s presence. The
P.M. chuckled, and showed the thing to
Roosevelt with a laughing “Am I really
like that?” When Norman Lindsay’s
work appeared in The Bulletin shipping
magnate Thomas Gordon was on the
’phone as soon as he had set eyes on it to
secure the original, which he gave to Dr.
Evatt to take with him. It is now at
Chequers, the Tudor mansion 35 miles
IT DELIGHTED CHURCHILL.
north-east of London which Lord Lee of
Fareham in 1921 presented to the nation
for use as the official country seat of
British Prime Ministers. The cartoon
was a comment on Churchill’s statement:
! “I have not become the King’s First
Minister in order to preside at the liquida-
tion of the British Empire.”
A distinguished painter:
In Paris in 1920 there was an exhibition of
the works of Charles Morin. The art critics
bad never heard of him, nor had anybody
else. Still, the paintings, in water-color, pleased
the critics, and four of the pictures sold for
£3O each, considered a good price for water-
colors by an unknown artist. One of the critics
said “This young man has a future.” The
“young man” certainly had a future, though a
different kind of future from what the critic
had in mind. Charles Morin was Winston
Churchill in disguise. The leading British artist
Wilson Steer said of him: “Well, if Winston
Churchill can paint like that he ought to give
up politics and stick to painting.” Churchill still
does a bit of painting on the side; he did one
or two water-colors of the North African land-
scape where he met Roosevelt. Altogether, he
has painted some 300 pictures. Lloyd George
has two of them hung in favored positions in
his study. Two others Churchill, when Colonial
Secretary, presented to Dundee, his constituency,
to be sold for the benefit of the unemployed.
Another was a first-prize winner in an exhibition
in London in 1933. This was a portrait of artist
Sir John Lavery at work in his studio; later
Lavery painted a picture of Churchill painting
him. According to one of Churchill’s former
private secretaries, in a book she wrote about
him, Churchill once had a shot at painting the
Pyramids from the unusual perch of a camel s
back. The perch wobbled and the artist literally
bit the dust.
Another candidate to come a long way,
though not in one stage, to contest a seat
in the Federal elections is Captain W. L.
Jinkins, standing as the Services and
Citizens’ party candidate for Yarra. He
was p.o.w. for six weeks on Amboina.
He made his escape, and after a tortuous
journey of 1500 miles reached Australia.
Golfers are warned not to make the
side-stakes too high if they happen to get
into a game with an American sergeant
somewhere up north, particularly if he
answers to the name of Frankie. The
other half of his moniker will most likely
be Strafaci, and his tally back on his
native heath includes winning the national
public links and New York metropolitan
amateur championships. He has put on
weight, to the extent that a United States
war correspondent up there has reported
that “he has been nicknamed Porky by
his Australian friends.” But he still
plays a tidy game, and has added to his
tally the record for the local nine-hole
course.
With the retirement of Gordon Bennett
through ill-health, Jim Mahoney steps into
the editorship of the “Farmer and
Settler,” and with tiptop qualifications.
As a farmer’s son on a mixed farm
round Crookwell way, he had had plenty
of practical experience when he started
in N.S.W. journalism with
the Goulburn “Evening
Post.” As the “Post’s”
agricultural editor he in-
vestigated farming and
fruitgrowing in the Apple
Isle ; later he migrated to
Queensland to widen his
experience in agriculture,
livestock management and
journalism. Mahoney has
been the “Farmer and
Settler’s” sub. since 1940
and acting editor for the
past six months. In his
free time his interest is in
the V.D.C. as a battalion
b istorian-photographer.
In the audience at the preview of the
British film “One of Our Aircraft is
Missing” at Melbourne Savoy was
Flight-Lieut. Alan Ritchie, the bomb-
aimer of the Lancaster which flew Lord
Burghley to Australia. Also looking on
was the mother of Robert Helpmann, the
Quisling in the picture, Helpmann is
the South Australian who was leading
ballet dancer with J.C.W. for years,
and then joined the Vic.-Wells ballet
and became England’s leading dancer, a
Shakspearean actor of distinction, a
choreographer and latterly a film star.
Present also an aunt of Googie Withers,
who plays Jo de Vries in the film. Hugh
Williams, one of the principal figures in
the film, is the husband of Margaret
Vyner, the Sydney beauty who did some
stage and film work.
W. R. Hume (recently passed on in
Melbourne) was an Australian whose
name —and pipes—went round the world.
He took out the first patent for his cement-
lined pipe in 1898 ; since then one pipe has
been added to another till they thread
thousands of miles of soil in Australasia,
Asia and other places. His last big pro-
ject was the 12-footers. Born in
Fitzroy, Hume was telephone boy (in
“Little Collins”), plasterer, bricklayer,
carpenter, farmer, woodcutter and horse-
breaker before starting Hume Bros. He has
an appropriate memorial in the vacant
allotment opposite his home in Kew
which, to the astonishment of passing
tourists who stop to inspect the curiosity,
is found to be a quasi-Japanese garden,
complete with garden seats and toriis,
all made out of Hume pipes.
W. H. Donald, the Australian jour-
nalist who had for many years been
lending Chinese leaders a hand as ad-
viser, has been reported by the Chinese
Foreign Minister, Dr. Soong, to be a Jap
prisoner. Dr. Soong said that Donald,
who had been having a spell, was trapped
in the Philippines when the Japs launched
out. Donald was with Sun Yat-sen in
the 1911 revolution, and was for years
regarded as Chiang Kai-shek’s right-
hand man.
Awarded the B.M.A. (Section of Clini-
cal Medicine) Prize at Adelaide Uni., W.
R. Adey, a product of State schools,
has topped or been runner-up in medical
exams, since he began his course six
years ago. Besides winning the Dr.
Davies Thomas Scholarship twice, he
added the Archibald Watson Prize to his
collection earlier this year. He’s the 21-
year-old son of W. J. Adey, a former
Director of Education in S.A.
The V.C. awarded posthumously to
Lieut. W. A. Sandys-Clarke for wiping
out three machine-gun posts single-
handed in Tunisia before being killed
while attacking a fourth post was the
fifth V.C. to be won by the same family.
The other V.C. winners in the family
were Lord Roberts; General Congreve ;
Lord Roberts’s son, Lieut. Frederick
Hugh S. Roberts; and General Con-
greve’s son, Major “Billy” Congreve.
Into the silence:
At 72, at Ballarat, Charles Penrose Acteson
Taylor, managing director of Ballarat “Courier.”
He guided the destinies of the paper for over
half a century.
The second Victorian M.L.C. to die within
a week, James Miller Balfour passed over at
Warragul. He had been Chairman of Commit-
tees of the Leg. Council since June. He was
Bawra secretary during the last war, and was
chairman of the Victorian Dried Fruits Board.
In Adelaide, at 72, Beavis Benjamin Beck,,
a Londoner who spent 60 busy years among
books, first with Cole’s Book Arcade in Mel-
bourne and later on his own account in Adel-
aide. An authority on Australian fauna and
flora, he was one of the founders of Flinders
Chase —a wild-life sanctuary on Kangaroo
Island.
In Tripoli, at 49, Colonel F. M. Spencer,
in command of No. 2 General Hospital,
N.Z.E.F. While a university student he joined
the N.Z. medical corps for the 1914-18 war.
Sent back to M.L. to finish his medical course,
he returned to France to rejoin the army; re-
mained in England after the Armistice for
further study; then back to M.L. to engage in
private practice at Hamilton. Fie went over-
seas in January, 1940, with M.L.’s Second
Echelon, forsaking his practice as children’s
specialist in Wellington.
At 79, W. G. Henderson, who, hailing origi-
nally from M.L., started and conducted a news-
paper in Cairns, and in 1904 moved on to
Atherton and launched another newspaper.
This he ran until 1930, when he reckoned he
had earned a spell and put aside a pen that
had done outstanding service for North Queens-
land.
In Adelaide, at 77, Godfrey Cripps, who
went from England to South Africa as a young
man, became deputy sheriff in Capetown,
toured England as member of a S’African
cricket team, then went to Queensland, but
finally settled in S.A., 30 years ago, as a
master at St. Peter’s College. Stafford Cripps
is a cousin.
In Sydney, at 85, Tom Garrett, last of the
Australian cricketers who toured England in
1878. A year or so earlier, when he was 18,
he represented Australia in the first Test against
England in Melbourne. He went on three tours
of England, bagging on them a total of 403
wickets. Away from cricket he was for years
Registrar of Probates, then Public Trustee, and
afterwards a solicitor —he was a familiar figure
in Martin-place till his health failed.
In Sydney, actor Les Warton. For 18 years
he did “coon” impersonations on the Rickards
circuit, and later figured in a number of Aus-
tralian films and A.B.C. broadcast plays.
In Sydney, at 55, journalist Norman Walker,
for 32 years representative of Melbourne
“Herald.” He started on the Inky Way with
his father and brothers in their press agency,
which linked with all the leading provincial
newspapers in Victoria.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Five small boys boarded
the tram. They were by no means what
we used to call “sissies.” They wore
long trousers obviously inherited from
their elder brothers or their old men, they
clutched fishing rods in their hands, and
they had been fishing at Botany Bay in
weather very much like a blizzard. But
each of these hardy and manly young
gents wore on the little finger of his right
hand an enormous and dazzling ring.
Some sported what looked like Mum’s
wedding ring; some had the old
man’s signet ring; and some the
flashest of all wore enormous con-
traptions that had probably been
hammered out of tin. Whereby I learned
that the adoption of an American accent
by some of the most conspicuously
featherheaded ladies of the Cross was
not the only effect the influx of the Yanks
has had on the manners and fashions of
Sydney. The girls who talk Yankee pain
my neck, but the hero-worshipping small
boys pleased me. In secret fantasy every
one of them probably pilots a fighter
and shoots down Zeros by the dozen.
* * *
“Oxmead”: It is hard to pick up a
paper nowadays without reading some-
thing about, butter. An English authority
contributes an item new to me ; he says
that the habit of spreading it on bread
dates back only two or three centuries.
Certainly our rude Anglo-Saxon fore-
fathers can have known little of what the
word butter conveys to us; our very
term for it is borrowed from the French.
The ancients, I suspect, knew less of it.
There is no Greek or Latin word, as far
as I know, for butter, though references
to cheese are found in both languages.
I suppose there is a Hebrew word for
the stuff, or something like it; otherwise
we wouldn’t read in the Bible that Jael,
the wife of Heber the Kenite. brought
Sisera “butter in a lordly dish” before
committing her famous (or infamous)
breach of hospitality on a sleeping guest.
But in that case I mistrust the translator.
Surely a slab of butter, however attrac-
tively served, would have no great attrac-
tion for a tired and hungry general, flee-
ing from the battlefield. I prefer to
believe that what Jael handed the fugi-
tive was a brimming bowl of junket or
curds-and-whey, or, better still, the
Hebrew equivalent of what we call a
Welsh rabbit.
& & $ sK
“Bo”: It could happen only in the
U.S.A., and be perpetrated only by a
man with a name like Weinberg. One
Stephen of that ilk kicked off as the
States’ No. 1 Phony 23 years ago by
strutting around as a Rumanian Consul-
General and gracefully acknowledging a
21-gun salute fired in his honor. When
the beauteous Rhubarb Vaseline gave
male filmgoers a break by dying and Pola
Negri was prostrated with grief in 27 poses,
who was at Pola’s bedside with sal vola-
tile in one hand and a fat bill in the
other? Who but “Doctor” Stephen
Weinberg! Then, visiting the U.S.A.,
came Princess Fatima of Afghanistan,
to be met by a courteous official of the
State Department and taken on an exten-
sive and expensive tour, for which, of
course, the lady paid. Stephen again ; and
the State Department didn’t know him
from Adam. Pocketing exes, on a princely
scale he gave Fatima good value for
her money by presenting her to President
Harding and his entire Cabinet, which
included the Secretary of State. A great
lad, Stephen ! Recently he bobbed up
again, but this time stuck his neck out
a bit too far. As Stanley C. Weyman he
was running a school in a fashionable
hotel to teach draft-dodgers how to simu-
late mental infirmities and deafness.
This went well for a while, but J. Edgar
Hoover got suspicious. So exit Stephen,
a man of parts who has done his bit to
augment the gaiety of nations.
* * * *
“K.”; The British-agent hero of a
nightly radio thriller, “a drama of war-
torn Europe”—which in the main is quite
ingeniously contrived —had with his girl
friend inadvertently arrived at the farm-
house of a Czech Quisling, an allegedly
blind old dame, who, suspicious, laid a
trap for the pair by getting them to de-
liver a seemingly innocent message, to-
gether with some lace she had made, to
the local gauleiter’s wife. On the way
the agent’s girl friend, looking closely at
the lace, remarked on the unusual pat-
tern, but the agent didn’t seem interested.
It was then my young hopeful, unaware
of the author’s device for switching the
spotlight on to the lady’s intelligence,
burst out with; “lings! he’s dull for a
spy. Why, it’s easy! Y’ just shove the
lace over the letter and the message
shows through the openings. I saw it
worked in a picture last Saturday arvo! ”
Secret-service men should go to the
fillums oftener.
* * * *
“East S.”: Not all the courage and
self-sacrifice are being displayed on the
fighting fronts. When Keith Turley, a
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) miner, became jammed
70ft. down a winze, his mate Frank
McNamara told other miners on the
190 ft. level and then went after Turley.
But carbon monoxide fumes got him and
he fell 50ft. down the winze, Jim and
“Sure me savvy lease-lend! You leasem lagoon longa me, me lendem
dame longa you — O.K. ?”
fed Graham went down, struck the
fumes and managed to tie themselves to
the ladder before passing out. Alec
Smith put on a mask-which isn’t much
good against carbon monoxide—and
went down. Seeing that Jim Graham
was dead he got a rope round Ted, who
was hauled out, Smith himself just man-
aging the return. Later, others recovered
the bodies of Turley, McNamara and Jim
Graham. It takes ironclad resolution and
fortitude to tackle rescue jobs like that.
* * * *
“Petermac”: The term “filthy lucre,”
though obsolescent, is apt. Have you
ever noticed how stained a tram con-
doctor’s hands are after continually
handling coins? And the stain is hard
to remove. But Lily the conductress
says there’s a remedy. Before she makes
appearances socially she bandages both
hands with hot bread poultices.
“Drive carefully, Basil—an accident would ruin my election prospects .”
“Loc”: My sleepy vote of thanks fol-
lowed the last of next door’s party
through their gate and on his way. As
muffled sounds of wreckage-clearing
wafted over the dividing fence, yet an-
other batch of empties crashed at their
back door, and I caught a snatch of the
raucous voice of a tired and angry
squaw telling her husband off. “What do
you mean saying to mother she was
drunk? Didn’t you see how she slid
down the banister with a plate of
saveloys balanced on a soda bottle?
You know perfectly well no one
could do that when blithered. And yet
you” Her spouse grunted, slammed
the door, and left the world to darkness
and to me.
❖ ❖ ❖ sH
“X.S.”: A sounder appreciation of the
value set on sentiment by the Victorian
police force would have benefited a man
arrested the other day on a chffrge of
having stolen £428 in N.S.W. in 1942.
On the first anniversary of the death of a
friend he visited the grave at the ceme-
tery in Spring Vale. Three detectives
were waiting for him.
* * * *
C. Shaw, Vaucluse: I have counted
31 service-men candidates, listed as
such, though one or two, such as
Falstein, M.H.R., now R.A.A.F., give
their civil occupations. Other aspirants
have written themselves down as
manufacturer, manager, com-
mercial traveller, journalist,
timber merchant, farmer, insur-
ance agent, dentist, chemist,
doctor, munition maker, author,
engineer, hairdresser, barrister,
station manager, editor, organ-
iser, grazier, secretary, house-
wife, clerk, estate agent, railway-
man, plumber, solicitor, accoun-
tant, carpenter, college principal,
war correspondent, woolclasser,
schoolteacher, draughtsman, hide
merchant, painter, optometrist,
clerk in holy orders, fisherman,
grocer, display artist, photo-
grapher, physical culturist, Red
Cross Commissioner, miner,
mineowner, taxi and car owner,
truck-driver, actor, newsagent,
C.C.C. worker, radio announcer,
librarian, clergyman, public ser-
vant, electrician and mercer.
And each and every one con-
vinced, no doubt, that should
John Curtin lose his job he or
she is the man or woman
specially chosen by fate to fill it.
One hopeful Tasmanian has the temerity
to list himself as being of no occupation.
He can expect a visit from Man-power
any day after the ballot is taken,
* * *
“ A Major”: A correspondent of
u u ••■ „ • p , r . ,
®A . r 8 c
‘ Advance, Australia Fair as a
na h° na ' anthem (he calls it a little
occasional piece, written frankly for a
school ‘break-up’ ”), says we must have
a composition worthy of such “august,
sane and healthy company” as “God
Save the King,” the Belgian “La Bra-
banfonne,” “The Star Spangled Banner”
and the old Russian anthem. I quite
agree with him, but he missed out one
of the best of the bunch—the Austrian
one, by Haydn, so good that it has found
its way into the hymnals of a score of
Christian sects. As to the old Russian
anthem, the apotheosis of pomp and
dignity, one of the world’s musical trage-
dies was its suppression by “The
Internationale,” sung to a tune own
brother to that the old cow died of. The
excellency of our own “God Save” is
proved by its use at various times not
only by Britain but by the United States
(“My Country, Tis of Thee”), Prussia,
and then all Germany (“Hell dir ini
Siegerkranz”), Denmark and Switzerland.
By the way, Canada has two national
songs, “The Mapleleaf for Ever” and
“O Canada,” both of which are old-
established and widely accepted.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Relatives with sons
and husbands in the war zone sometimes
see them in newsreels, but the first case in
my experience of a painting bringing
people together in this way occurred in
Melbourne. A mother whose son is serv-
ing in New Guinea saw a reproduction
in a daily of war artist William Dargie’s
“In the Owen Stanley Ranges,” depicting
two camouflaged soldiers standing alert
in the jungle. She thought she recognised
one of the figures and a visit to the
Athenteum tended to confirm the impres-
sion. Then came a letter from her
son mentioning that he had been sitting
for a painting by an official artist.
WHEN THIEVES FALL OUT.
“The Axis is breaking up. Mussolini has fallen,
and Italy and Germany are about to fall out among
themselves.” —Allied broadcast to the Cretans.
When thieves fall out, a proverb tells us, then
They come into their own, do honest men,
A truth that full as applicable looks
For nations as for individual crooks.
For FUhrers and for Duces, top-notch tug%
Just as for gangs of ordinary thugs.
Law gets a boost, and villainy a clout,
When thieves fall out.
Shoulder to scheming shoulder long they stood
In boastful pride and bloodstained brotherhood,
Plotted and planned their programme foul and
fell.
Proclaimed their partnership invincible;
Struck at the weak, shrank from no sin or
shame,
And scoffed at retribution —till it came,
And brought that sour mistrust ana sore mis-
doubt
When thieves fall out.
Tims was upon the Brenner Pass they’d meet,
Gods in their own ineffable conceit.
Where now is broken Mussolini’s lair
You ask, and echo only answers Where?
Out of the March to Rome his glory grew,
The question now’s where Rome has marched
him to.
What vain imaginings go up#the spout
When thieves fall out!
When thieves fall out —or robber nations close
Their comradeship in crime to clash as foes—
Nearer for sure it comes, the time we’ll hail
When righteousness and justice shall prevail,
When they who flout the law, where’er they be,
Pay the inevitable penalty.
What should we feel except content devout
When thieves fall out?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
BALLADE OF EZRA POUND.
“Ezra Pound, the poet, is one of eight renegades
in Germany or Italy whom the U.S. Government
intends to try for treason, if it ever gets hold of
them.”
They’d like to have him back, their errant son,
But not to lionise him, that they vow,
To hail him as a poet-paragon,
Before his literary shrine to bow
And place a wreath of laurel on his brow.
While stirring pica ns in his phrase resound.
There’s no such luck as that for him, 1 trow,
They want him in the dock, poor Ezra Pound.
There’s some would try him, if it could be done,
For bogging Pegasus into a slough
Of words that into ragged riddles run
Until they might be Cherokee or Chow,
For all you gather from them, anyhow.
And on that count I’ll say there might be found
Incriminating evidence enough
To clinch a verdict against Ezra Pound.
But punishment is fortunately none
For verse through which a chap may vainly
plough
And grope for any meaning to be won.
Did such exist, you’ll readily allow
That many a bard might get into a row
For slyly sacrificing sense to sound
And find himself declared a cryptic cow
As justifiably as Ezra Pound.
Alack! It isn't for the rhymes he's spun
His countrymen would see him homeward-
bound.
The charge against him is a deadlier one,
They want him in the dock, poor Ezra Pound!
N.S.VV.
MIDFORD.


“Niloc”: On the principle that doing
one thing well is a sure recipe for suc-
cess, a Sydney street merchant has
monopolised the shoelace business in the
heart of the city for donkeys’ years. In
the shadow of the G.P.O. he can always
be found, a pillar of hope for those
whose laces have refused duty. Mine did
the other day near “Central,” and I
trammed past dozens of shops possibly
brimming with such wares because I
knew one place where I could find a sure
provider. He was there, and had a new
slogan; “Long-lasting Bootlaces —Made
in Scotland."
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I was glad to read Douglas
Tilghman’s castigation of a Sydney
“Herald” reviewer who traduced the
memory of Alexander Hamilton, styling
him the head of “a powerful internal
faction” that “worked for the destruc-
tion of the young Republic... .Hamilton
and his coterie were the Fascists of their
day, and they went very near to causing
civil war.” Hamilton a “Fascist”! The
creative genius of the young Republic
a would-be destroyer of it who “went
very near to causing civil war”! Actu-
ally he thwarted the ambitions of a
wrecker, Aaron Burr, and it cost him
his life —at 47. Talleyrand, who knew all
the great men of his time, placed Hamil-
ton second to none; arid old man of
affairs as he was, he said with pride “I
loved Hamilton and Hamilton loved me.”
These modern prigs, with their ignorance
of historical characters, their servility to
the Red gods and their hideous jargon,
can be extremely trying. I have heard
Disraeli described as “a Fascist” by a
Bright Young Thing who wouldn’t have
read one of his novels, so wise in their
understanding of and of the motives that
move man, the political animal, for a
gallon of leg-smear.
sp % *
“Lao-dah”; Once more I read that
the answer to Australia’s problems is
speedier means of transport between this
isolated country and other lands, and that
the answer to world problems is a world
council backed by an adequate air force.
I can’t altogether agree. I recollect that
Fisk, of A.W.A., used to advocate
swifter and cheaper telegraphic com-
munication as a means of getting nations
to understand one another; it doesn’t
seem to have worked that way. The
speediest and cheapest form of com-
munication is an argument over the back
fence, and often the only thing that pre-
vents it developing into war is fear of the
policeman. Admittedly a world council
which had a monopoly of bombing and
fighting ’planes could control the planet,
and if it were all-wise it could do a power
of good ; but who is going to elect it?
If it elected itself, as seemed to be sug-
gested in the film version of H. G. Wells’s
Shape of Things to Come, it would be
in the nature of a dictatorship, and the
Allies are pledged to end all that.
“Hamfat”: “The mechanical realism
of modern theatrical production has
killed the artistry of a profession whose
members formerly had to create their
own realism,” writes a highbrow bloke in
the “S. M. Herald.” That reminds me of
a notable bit of realism perpetrated by
that fine actor Harry Douglas when with
George Rignold. As Bill Sikes in “Oliver
Twist” he battered Nancy with a club
he had made himself. The head of
it (painted over of course) was a split
tennis-ball stuffed with a sponge soaked
with cochineal. Every time the club
bounced on Nancy’s, face or head it left
a gory mark. “Ev-ery night, laddie, wo-
men were carried out f aint-ing! ”
Douglas told me years afterwards.
Jf; % ❖ *
“Bumpk”: The greatest orgy of mass
faintings in Australian history (B.
28/7/’43) occurred at Christmas, 1934,
when Baden-Powell attended the vast
World Jamboree of Boy Scouts and Girl
Guides at Frankston, Victoria, and much
the same array of explanations of its
causes was set forth as is recounted by
“K.” During one of the interminable
parades amongst the sun-scorched sand-
hills, a few girls started to fall over, and,
by the contagious force of example, over
300 lasses had tumbled over like nine-
pins in the space of a few minutes. One
of the published explanations of the time
was that “the girls probably fainted as an
unconscious protest against having to
march past a stand where stood person-
ages equipped to lay down a barrage of
oratory that had been heard a billion
times before.”
* * # *
“Zake”: I suppose other readers of
novels share with me the habit of forming
a mental picture of the characters. Two
heroes depicted on the screen have almost
exactly fitted my mental conception of
them: Ronald Colman as Sidney Orton
in “A Tale of Two Cities” and Robert
Donat as the Count of Monte Cristo.
Others I have shuddered at; but my pet
horror is William Boyd as “Hopalong”
Cassidy. Clarence Mulford conjured
up for me in those humorous Wild-
Westers a picture of a lean, lanky, dusty
hombre in working garb with a craggy
face in which a hawk nose and humorous
slits of eyes were the salient features;
moreover he was lame. The potboilers
which are turned out in the name of
quite a, good bit of characterisation are
headed by a dandy whose personal and
equine equipment is brand-new and all
sparkling with silver trappings and who
minces like an elocution teacher. When
Hopalong’s on now, I’m off. „
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Cecil de Mille has risen in
revolt against the Hollywood glamor girl.
In seeking for a young actress to play
the role of “a sultry Javanese siren” he
interviewed hundreds and found that,
although many of them were distinctive
and different looking when they arrived,
they invariably made themselves up with
the same type lips, eyes, mouths and re-
inforced concrete faces. So much was
this so that when he threw three selec-
tions on to the test screen in succession
and asked his guests which they liked the
best they all thought it was the same female.
Seeing that De Mille has been largely
responsible for this stereotyping process
I haven’t much sympathy for him. And
what is a “sultry Javanese siren”? Hav-
ing lived in the country I have seen a few
million Javanese women, and I would be
willing to stake my next week’s pay
against De Mille’s fortune that if he got
the prettiest Javanese girl available he
would make her into just another Holly-
wooden vampire.
“Flatters me, don't you think, Prendergast?”
“Caesar’s Ghost” on Australia’s first
notable composer :
Nathan’s “Land of the Sun and Wattle” was
published in a printery in Bathurst-street, Syd-
ney, in the early ’forties. Though it was hardly
likely to be national in type, it might have
some points, and it would be interesting to
know whether there are any copies of the song
extant. Nathan, friend of Byron (he set the
“Hebrew Melodies” to music), composer 91
several operas successful in their day and still
surviving in some fugitive airs—now used in
military calls—.and a Beau Brummel before his
debts (which he claimed to be really William
IV’s debts) caused him to seek refuge in Aus-
tralia, was naturally a big pot in Australia
socially and musically. He published several
songs locally, their first delivery being always
made an occasion for a concert at which all
the elite attended. Nathan was still agitating
for the payment of his London debts by the
British Government so that he could return to
England when he was killed by Sydney’s first
tram in Pitt-street in the early ’sixties.
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: Here is a story that would
have interested Kipling: The Privy Coun-
cil is hearing an appeal against a decision
of the Calcutta High Court by the Ranee
of Bhowal, whose case, in effect, is that
in 1909 her husband, then the heir
apparent, died, and was cremated at
Darjeeling. A claimant has arisen to say
that he is the rajah, and that he didn’t
die. He was taken for dead and conveyed
to a cremation ground at midnight, where
a terrific thunderstorm so terrified his
attendants that they deposited him on the
funeral pyre and bolted. Revived by the
thunderstorm but in a state of amnesia
he was adopted by a troupe of sadhus or
holy men, who taught him their religious
rites and took him with them on their
peregrinations. In 1920 he suddenly
remembered that he had a palace at
Dacca and decided to give up the holy
business. He was recognised by his
sister and his grandmother, but his
wife could see no resemblance to
her husband. After a hearing last-
ing two and a half years, during
which 1500 witnesses were examined, the
High Court ruled that claimant was en-
titled to part of the estate and a share in
an income of £lOO,OOO. At the Privy
.Council hearing Lord Romer, comment-
ing on the contention that the funeral
party, finding the corpse was missing,
burned another (much the same thing
happened in Kipling’s poem),’ asked
whether a substituted body was easy to
find in India. Counsel replied that it was.
* * * *
“Water of Leith”: Let “Bad Aussie
(B. 9/6/’43) walk down Princes-street or
George-street in Dunedin (M.L.) about
knock-off time and watch the girls (the
boys are not here), and he will see more
than sufficient ginger-tinted crowning
glory to gladden his heart. At the end
of our street there is a family of seven
redheads; and there are four in my
family. As a side issue, I have a Maori
friend who was rufus-topped in boyhood.
Uncommon, but they occasionally do
crop up in Maori families of unimpeach-
able blood purity.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: As one who, in youth,
was recognised as among the most
blatant and vociferous of Melbourne
football barrackers, I had often won-
dered what became of the rest of the
tribe. You don’t find it at football
matches now, not in Sydney anyhow, and
being a slightly reformed character I was
crediting its disappearance to the powers
of education and example. But I was
wrong. At a political meeting in Sydney’s
King’s Cross the other night 1 found my
erstwhile contemporaries, all blatant,
many breathless, many shrieking and
everyone as one-eyed as ever. They had,
too, that old trick of opening the right
side of the face and forming a cavern
whence issued the flat, shrilling “Yah,
yah, yah!”
* * * *
“Scot”: As a tune “Waltzing Matilda”
is no more like “Thou Bonnie Wood
of Craigielea” than it is like “Old
Hundredth.” “Thou Bonnie Wood”
was the dispersal song every Friday
afternoon in the school I attended in the
North of Scotland nearly 60 years ago,
and you may be sure we beefed it out
when we were anxious to get out to throw
snowballs at each other.
“Lock” hurls back an aspersion on his
naval knowledge:
“Ken” (B. 28/7/’43) is hereby awarded 90
days’ cells. A little knowledge is a dangerous
thing, but any naval man can instantly pick
from my sketch that the dress-of-the-day was
“whites”; duty-men and duty-boat’s crews,
“blues.” The sailor with the swizzle stick has
obviously been ashore to buy it; hence duty-
man “blues.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The increasing speed of
aeroplanes (B. 28/7/’43) is nothing com-
pared with the increasing speed of educa-
tion. When 1 was a boy no child was
expected to learn simple arithmetic under
several years of arduous and painstaking
study, and the acquisition of higher
mathematics was supposed to be a life-
time’s occupation. The other day a son
of mine received a circular informing that
somebody or other was prepared to teach
him Einstein’s Theory of Relativity “in
26 easy lessons’’!
“Bohemian”: A cable announcing the
discovery of a new planet sixteen times
the mass of Jupiter aroused a lot of
laughter in astronomical circles and refer-
ences to journalistic ignorance. As
“Nature” explains the matter, the news
was correct, but might have been pre-
sented more intelligently. Patient obser-
vations of the dual star 61 Cygni re-
vealed perturbations in the orbital motion
of one of the components of the star,
caused by the existence of a third invis-
ible member rotating round one of the
visual components. This only means
that an example of planetary motion has
been found outside the solar system.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A good example of bureau-
cratic stupidity was the expulsion from
Victorian State schools of 12 children for
refusing to salute the flag and sing the
National Anthem. Their parents belong
to the sect of Jehovah’s Witnesses, who,
for all I know, may believe a lot of
nonsense. But Minister Lind is himself
nonsensical when he says these children
are not entitled to education unless they
agree to take part in the ceremony, be-
cause “we cannot have children who will
not recognise the flag, the Empire and
the King ” Isn’t there a rather older
admonition somewhere that children
should obey their parents? In this case
the parents, apparently, conscientiously
believe that they should not swear
allegiance to any earthly authority, and
they impress their belief upon their chil-
dren. If the children had their beliefs
changed they might then change the be-
liefs of their parents. But the State,
represented by Mr. Lind, cannot change
their beliefs if he refuses to allow them
to come under the influence of his
teachers.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Touching “Zake’s” ridi-
cule of one Scorza (B. 28 /7 / ’43) for
gloomily suggesting that among other
consequences of an Allied victory “our
hotels will again be full of British
and American tourists.” When that was
last the case the inequalities of
foreign exchange, heavily against
Italy, were a constant grievance.
When I was in Italy after the
1914-18 war my Australian pound
returned me anything from 70 to
120 lire. A morning spent driving
around Rome in a carriage With
two attendants cost 5d., and board
and lodging in a pension over-
looking the Ponte Vecchia in Flor-
ence cost 2s. 6d. a day. English
people with pensions or incomes
of £4 to £5 a week settled in the
country and lived in affluence. It
was Mussolini who put a stop to
the rot, and if he had been content
to concern himself with reforms
at home instead of going on a mad
career of foreign conquest they
would probably be erecting monu-
ments to him now instead of
burning his effigy in public.
“Pavvang”: The British Health Min-
istry’s Chief M.O. explains Britain’s im-
proved health in war-time as due to
greater employment, more money in cir-
culation, a compulsorily simpler diet, less
meat and sweetmeats and milk priority
for mothers and small children. But
what about the national emergency which
brought all the people together? Human
beings are gregarious animals, and they
can’t be healthy unless their social side,
as well as the individual in them, finds
expression. If it can’t find expression
they tend to become neurotic. In peace-
time, owing to their faulty thinking,
societies are usually at sixes and sevens,
but in a national disaster, like an air
blitz or the threat of an invasion, they
are drawn together. During times of
prosperity and peace a large proportion
of the population is bored to extinction ;
but it is difficult to be bored in an air
raid. Consequently, there is a lot of sig-
nificance in the report of London doctors
that neurosis has almost disappeared
among their patients.
jjc qs # 3J*
“B. Hackshaw”: Dr. C. E. M. load,
professor, author and member of 8.8.C.’s
Brains Trust, advocates the alteration
of Britain’s marriage laws to permit
a man to take a number of mates, and
instances his own preferences. He likes
the company of different women for
different purposes —one to go out to
dinner with, another to go to church with,
another to cook for him, another to play
tennis with and another to make love to.
He quotes G. 8.5., who said that any
woman worth her salt would prefer a
fifth share in a first-rate man to a whole
share in a fifth-rate man. One difficulty
is that the women the professor wanted
to dine with, go to church with, cook for
him and play with might insist on par-
ticipating in the love-making. Then he
would have to make adjustments for the
sake of domestic peace, just like any
polygamous Moslem. In short, the load
solution sets up more problems.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”; Dad was slow to anger, but
when roused packed a particularly
vicious temper which was wont to die
down as suddenly as it flared up. Ted,
the new hand, had been treading on his
toes all day, and when after the afternoon
milking the hand, wandering across the
yard with two full buckets of milk while
he stared up open-mouthed at a passing
low-flying bomber, walked straight into
a stump and five gallons of milk cas-
caded over the yard. Dad, at the near-by
woodheap, went berserk. Axe in hand he
tore across the yard, and Ted departed
at top speed for the horizon. As he flew
through the open gate of the horse pad-
dock Arthur, Dad’s son, was saddling the
light draught. “T-trip him up—huh!
can’t y’?” puffed Ted as he came abreast.
“He he’ll murder me with that
bleedin’ —axe!” Arthur calmly notched
the girth strap another hole. “Ar, y’
don’t want to worry about that,” he
drawled after the sprinter. “The head
always flies orf that flamin’ handle after
the first hit!”
» * * *
“Old-timer”: “The best place t’ bunk,
if y’ wanter beat the mossies,” said old
Bob, “is close t’ the water. Down there
all sorts o’ things is after the mossies
an’ so they keep high and well back.”
He rolled up in his nap and prepared to
sleep, about five feet up from the water.
“What if y’ get dreamin’ an’ tossin’ an’
roll down into the water?” young Jack
demanded. Bob grinned and showed him
the little log wedge on the underside of
his bunk. We went up on to the high
ground, lit a smudge and got into bunk.
Sometime in the night I awoke and heard
the steamer going downstream. Her
funnel was throwing out sparks and she
was belting along flat out, with the cur-
rent to help her, her paddles churning
nineteen to the dozen. She passed and I
settled down again. Then a loud yell
for help brought us out and running
down to the river. “Go f’r yT lives,”
howled old Bob as, drenched, he rushed
towards us; “the flamin’ Hume dam must
have busted. It’s the biggest an’ strong-
est flood ever.” Then we reminded him
that it was merely the wash of the pass-
ing steamer and left him cursefully re-
trieving his drenched and muddy outfit
from along the river bank.
* * * ♦
“Sur Cingle”: Pet calves are bad
enough, but easily the toughest proposi-
tion to break in are pet foals. Too
quiet to fight on a rope, they are never
reliable .when left tied up, and they’re
hard to mouth for the same reason.
Having very little respect for a man and,
anyway, being used to the foolish things
he does, they can differentiate between
an old bag and a real target for their
heels. Consequently, you’ve always to
watch the beggars. And for the same
reasons they often stand like broken-
down crocks while you saddle ’em, let
you get on and then, when you’re lulled
into a sense of security, erupt beneath you
in a way that is highly gratifying— to the
audience.
*
“Anthropo”: I suggest that it was the
advent of the sheep that brought out most
of the dingo’s bad characteristics. Before
the whites arrived he was the abo.’s
friend. Like the myall he was a denizen
of the wilds ; there was a kinship between
canine and human. When a dog or two
were wanted the gins simply sought out
where a dingo bitch was laying up and
took such of her litter as they fancied.
Such camp-reared dingoes followed the
tribe. When the whites arrived every abo.
family had a retinue, valued not so much
for the hunt as for the warmth they gave
“Pity ’e don't booze — 'e's a nice feller otherwise!"
at night by huddling close to their
blanketless owners. But, like the white
himself, the white man’s dog soon dispos-
sessed the native. In practically every
early-day community regulations were
issued forbidding the giving of dogs to
the blacks. But the practice went on, and
as European canines filled the camps the
warrigals were left to breed in the wilds
without check. Then came the sheep, a
delicious easily-captured prey. So such
domestication as the dingo had achieved
during his long association with the abo-
riginal fell from him. Within 20 years
of any settlement the whites had out-
lawed warrigal, though the blacks had
never regarded him other than as a pet.
# +
A .. „ 0 , ~ XT ll *
Pat Ater . Old Sandy McNabb, out
at Bunya Creek, was contemptuous of all
thistles grown in “this damn’ country” ;
even those the Cabbage Gardeners are so
fond of skiting about left him cold.
“They may have ten-footers,” he main-
tained, “but they’re all leaf, and only
lousy little flowers. Now, the one thistle
worth talking about’s the real Scotch
thistle.” There followed an argument
the upshot of which was that Sandy, now
almost apoplectic, swore he could recog-
mse instantly his national emblem. A
few days later he was presented with a
“bonny bunch” of enormous purple-top
“Scotch” thistles, which he accepted
wonderingly as the real thing. From the
smiles and references to globe artichokes
that come his way, Sandy is not so sure
now whether the vegetable was foisted on
to him for his beloved thistle. They’re
difficult to tell apart.
“B. A. Ker”: Fully a dozen times
George drew attention to a nail project-
ing from the galley table, announcing
that he’d “have to knock it down before
it tears someone’s pants.” Then one
night as he sat down for the usual poker
there was an ominous rip, and a 12in.
rent appeared high up the back of his
trouser leg. It being a bitterly cold night,
he decided to do the repairs seated before
the fire without vacating the garment. No
contortionist ever twisted himself into a
more grotesque position, but the work
appeared to be progressing well until
suddenly an agonised expression dis-
torted the sewer’s face, and rising un-
steadily he gave a really inspired imper-
sonation of a broken-legged duck. After
we’d rubbed the cramp out of his leg the
job was resumed and finally completed.
So George thought, till he found himself
standing like the hunchback of Notre
Dame. He’d sewn shirt and flannel into
the seam. George didn’t say a word, but
the silence was profane as he unpicked
the stitches and began again. With huge
homeward-bound stitches he closed the
gap, and, restored to good humor, strolled
over to the card-players, feeling for the
handkerchief in which he knotted his
small change. Then the storm burst:
he’d stitched the handkerchief into his
pocket!
# * # *
“Avon”: Sydneyites, who are shivering
in what the newspapers call the coldest
winter for years —a temperature of 37.8
degrees F. was reached one morning—
cannot expect much sympathy from
across the Tasman. A touching little
nature note from Hamilton, in the M.L.
north, which is regarded as almost tropi-
cal, says that on a recent morning when
the mercury stood at 18.6 deg. F. (13.4 deg.
of frost) the residents were mildly sur-
prised to see hailstones falling on the
asphalt sidewalks and nowhere else. It
was air moisture condensing on the over-
head power and telephone wires and
dropping off as soon as icicles formed,
„ r * , . * . *
T.V. : Whatever his capacity for en-
durance may be the jumbuck is certainly
43). I watched a mob
e wes and lambs coming in to the
tro V§ h - conspicuous nuisance in the
mo , b was a hulking long-tailed ram lamb
with a black patch on his pants. Maa-
iug fatuously he barged about in the
knocking the other youngsters over,
making piratica i raids on private milk
bars and seriously ruffling the dignity of
several matriarchs. His mother was one
0 f the first to reach the trough and, hav-
j n g such a lusty youngster to supply
with milk, she was thirsty. As soon as
she plunged her nose in the other lambs
acte d. Making a ring around Black-
patch they kept him engaged while one
a ft er another slipped away and, the ewe
still swigging down the juice, sampled
Black-patch’s private supply. Not per-
ceiving this, Black-patch was apparently
enjoying the ring-of-roses game when his
parent finished imbibing and the ring dis-
solved. Then, being for a moment with-
out occupation. Black-patch remembered
his tummy and swooped on the maternal
fountains. The old ewe flinched aside,
looked indignantly at her son, almost said
“You gluttonous little hog, you!” and
bowled him over. And I’ll swear the
other lambs laughed.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Mention of the Der-
went and freight-carrying wooden ships
(B, 7/7/’43) recalls the former Hobart
whaler Marie Laure, now a hulk in Mel-
bourne, the oldest vessel afloat in the
Southern Hemisphere. Built of teak in
the Seychelles in 1840, this bluff-bowed
old hooker, of a design all her own these
days, arrived in Hobart Town wiih sugar
trom Mauritius in April, 1849. Fitted
out there as a whaling barque for
Tasmanian owners she cruised the wide
waters of the Pacific for the next 44
years, lowering her boats as far north as
the Bering Sea and south amid the
staggering gusts of Antarctica ; for some
years her skipper was a Cape Verde
Islands black. When hulked in the Yarra
just half a century ago, her bowsprit,
found to be of rosewood, was sold for
furniture-making. An inspection of her
planking the other day convinces me
teak’s the most durable boatbuilding
wood.
* * # *
“Moyhu”: Said Eric: “I was putting
in a few days at Sullivan’s during the
winter. Sully’s got an ancient cockatoo
that has two feathers at the most. I
remarked that cocky would be in for a
miserable time when the cold westerlies
started. Sully looked at the bird sadly and
said; ‘l’ve had him 20 years now, but I
reckon I’d be doing him a turn if I ended
his misery.’ The cocky nibbled at his
perch and looked hard at us, and then
sat there as if he’s deep in thought. After
a bit Sully gets a saucer of molasses and
sticks it under cocky’s face. ‘That’s his
favorite tucker,’ he said gloomily. ‘Looks
like the condemned cell to me,’ I said,
‘giving him a feed before the pop-off.’
He swallowed hard and we both went
inside for a smoke. Then Sully picked
up his rifle and we walked out in time
to see cocky waddling up the path with
as many feathers as he ever had —but
they were black ones. Yair, he’d rolled
in the molasses and been on a visit to the
chook house. ‘What d’ y’ know?’ Sully
said ; then he turned and put away the
rifle.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: I glanced at the baro-
meter on the verandah, whistled at the
prospect of a fine day, and rode off to
meet Seventyfiver. The old bloke had
an oilskin strapped to his saddle, and I
grinned tolerantly as he fussed with a slip-
ping buckle. By midday the sun was
pretty hot, and as he was still having
trouble with the strap I inquired im-
patiently why on earth he’d brought the
blanky coat anyway. “You’ll see,” was
his only reply. I did. A couple of hours
later it was pouring rain, and from the
shelter of his oilskins the old chap seemed
little impressed by the efforts of a certain
shivering wreck to look unconcerned.
“Well,” I defended, after a long and ac-
cusing silence, “the barometer said fine
weather! How did you know it was
going to rain?” There was a chuckle
from the overcoat. “A couple o’ blue
jays warned me,” he said simply, “so 1
went out an’ checked ’em by the sky.”
Then, with a thoughtful sigh, “Yair, I’m
mighty thankful I ain’t never outgrown
the tales them birds an’ things can tell
a bloke.”
* * *
“Z.V.W.”: “Once,” said Paddy the
Liar, “I’m makin’ camp for the night out
on the plains country. Timber was
scarce, but finally I come to a big, dead
holler tree. I got out me axe and started
on it. After the first couple o’ whacks
a shower of eggs come down. ‘Gripes!'
I says to meself. The next moment honey
began to trickle down on to me head.
‘Blimey!’ I says. T must ha’ broken
into a grocer’s shop.’ Just then some-
thing else came down—a big snake. I
just had time to get clear when” ——'
It was Jack the Joke who hopped in.
“How could there be eggs in a tree where
there was a snake?” he demanded. “It
would’ve et the eggs!” Paddy scorched
the interrupter with a look. “Not the
ones I’m telling y’ about,” he snarled.
“They was snakes’ eggs!”
» * * *
“Edjudina”: Gelded camels were rare
on the W.A. goldfields of the ’nineties.
Cameliers, European and Asiatic, pre-
ferred full-sexed beasts. Cows were good,
tame and tractable, and they suffered none
of the disabilities common to females ol
other species. For it is the bull camel
that comes on season. Then he becomes
half-maniacal, full of fight. Under the
flux of his passion he goes off his meals,
becomes thin, but strangely attains to
nearly twice his normal strength and
powers of endurance. The ’Ghans knew
this and worked the “season”-stricken
beasts to the limit: the normal load of
scwt. or 6cwt., exclusive of the pack-
saddle, mounted to Bcwt. and even 9cwt.;
with this up a line of bulls were known to
trudge the 250 miles from Coolgardie to
Lake Darlot without turning a hair.
BALLAD OF EXILE.
Magellan sailed his little ship
Around the world away-oh;
And you and I shall make a trip
Before the break of day-oh.
Old Vitus went where ice-packs are
And not just for the thriil-oh!
Our journey’s end is not so far
But hearts may have their lill-oh.
Oh, it’s tighten up your pack, mate,
We're heading I know not where;
But many an honest man turned back
'Twixt here and Central Square!
Cheat were the men of former days
Who found the old world new;
And great the track that we shall blaze
Before the night is through!
The lonely deserts we’ll defy
Of empty streets at night.
The borders of the Cross pass by
In silence on the right.
Oh, the road that's straight by day, mate.
Is straight yet after dark;
But many a man has lost his way
'Twixt here and Wynyard Park!
Some of us left her years ago,
While some of us stayed behind;
But what of our Sydney do we know,
How much may we call to mind?
Then George Street-wards we’ll cut a trail
That ends where starts the sea,
And lean awhile against a rail
Down by a silent Quay.
Oh, it’s good to make a start, mate,
And keep a steady pace;
But many an honest man’s lost heart
’Twixt here and Martin Place !
Our road is by the harborside
And leading towards the Docks;
Behind us towers, in all its pride,
The Bridge upon The Rocks.
Plenty’s the danger is in store
And many a hostile ridge
Still lurks between us and the shore
Across of Pyrmont Bridge.
Oh, watch what you are about, male
—Alive is better than dead —
But many a body’s drifted out
’Twixt here and Bradley’s Head!
Then let us drink a rousing toast
To the narrow streets and brown,
And to every laughing, jolly ghost
Who still haunts Sydney town
And remembers well the time, with joy,
That he strolled by the old Tank Stream,
When all the world was only a boy
And the future only a dream.
Soon shall the race be run, mate,
Give every dog its day;
The world may yet be lost and won
’Twixt here and Neutral Bay!
A.I.F.
FRANK O’CONNELL.


“Esk D.”: There hadn’t been many
kangaroos in the bush surrounding the
valley farms for years ; then almost over-
night the scrub appeared to come alive
with them, and for some unknown reason
they began to concentrate in force on
Barkley’s place. Barkley sniped at them
in the early grey of morning and at dusk
with an old .303 until his bullets gave
out. After that he tried traps and snares,
but the ’roos were full of cunning and
wary of the most tempting baits. So
Barkley mustered all the dogs about the
place and, mounted on the black mare,
gave chase to every kangaroo that
hove in sight by day or night. The dogs
tossed it in after some of their number
were killed, and Barkley had to walk
miles to borrow a gun to shoot the mare
after she broke her shoulder in a crash
among the branches of a fallen tree in
the undergrowth. Then the ’roos, hav-
ing exhausted his means of attack, came
down in scores. But Barkley doesn’t
know the meaning of defeat. It was re-
ported lately from Ten-mile that a very
large mob of kangaroos had gone
through heading south. Following them
closely was another hopping figure,
bounding along just as fast and scream-
ing as it went.
H: $ $ $
“M.U.R.”: If that V.D.C. sapper (B.
4/8/’43) blew his charge down along the
Murray, the explanation of the smoke-
ram-dust ring floating heavenward ac-
companied by a high-pitched wail is
simple. The alkaline particles in Murray
clays form an amalgam which, worked
on by the alchemy of wind, frost, sun
and rain, becomes in time hard yet resili-
ent centrifugalised and roughly-circular
plates. These plates range in diameter
from a foot to three feet and, covered
with a light film of dust and sometimes
grass, lie just under the surface, plate
after plate touching each other in all
directions. This is why in wet weather,
when the tractor or car bogs on “spewy”
ground, those semi- and fully-circular
lumps of clay are thrown up in the soupy
mass churned out by the churning wheels.
A centralised explosive force such as
that mentioned which happened to be
placed in the dead centre of one of these
plates would shatter everything except
the resilient and adhesive outer filament,
which is what “Y.N.” probably saw float-
ing in the air. The wail, of course, came
from the alarmed Piangilm extensus, or
Pental Island ringworm, thousands of
which live in the plates in order to attain
to the desired circular appearance.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Out hunting on the
messmate flat my foxies disturbed a
kangaroo-rat. The fugitive ran straight
for a half-dead ironbark 50 yards away
and vanished among the roots. I’d known
kangaroo-rats to take refuge in the butts
of trees before, and reckoned this one a
goner. But when I got there it was to
find the dogs exploring an aperture in the
butt of the giant and no sign of the rat.
The tree leaned so steeply the dogs could
not climb half a dozen feet up the out-
side of the trunk. The quarry, Australia s
luckiest marsupial, had climbed up the
inside of the tree and escaped.
* * * *
“Tap Once”: Fatty, our old brown
Leghorn hen, had no more intestinal for-
titude than a wrist watch. Fat and lazy,
she ambled round the place and wouldn’t
even raise a protest if a sparrow hopped
in and grabbed some titbit under her nose.
Around our way about the worst you
could say of a man was. that he “couldn’t
fight old Fatty.” But Fatty was an ami-
able, genial old bird, and her ingratiating
manner saved her, from the block. She
went broody in her fifth year and we put
four black duck eggs, got from the
swamp, under her. She produced one
duckling and was as proud of it as if she
had produced a peacock. About the
third day a kookaburra decided that
that duckling was ripe for plucking. He
was used to taking things from Fatty,
and he dropped down casually and made
for the feast. Then a brown, shrieking
fury fell upon that jackass, beat him in
the dust, battered him, tore most of his
feathers from him and finally picked him
up and hurled him against the fence.
Somehow he got aloft and, teetering on
the crossbar of the telephone line, gazed
down awe-struck at Fatty, the duckling
peeping contentedly under her wing.
* * * *
“Prop”: Here’s a candidate for
“lummy Nurse’s” endurance stakes (B.
14/7/’43), Boko is an old X7O
prad, rusty-black, humpbacked, wall-eyed,
Roman-nosed, splayfooted and rough as
dead-finish country to ride. For eight
years he’s punched merinos and toured
fences. After 30 miles on the netting on a
blazing waterless day he has plodded
sourly home at night ove; big hills of
loose drift sand. I’ve seen him wading
knee-deep in lambs in the heat of
January, still morose, not even interested
when we waddied late arrivals by the
dozen “to save their lives.” I’ve ridden
him behind perishing sheep, bumping
them along one at a time to keep them
going. He has watched a respectable
mob of ewes lie down and die rather
than face the heat of a long stage and,
under a yard and a half of thick collar-
check, a heavy saddle and waterbag, he
has jogged along after the survivors. I’ve
seen him bore into a blinding duststorm
and, when it was over, go to the rescue of
sheep that were down in heaps, weak and
unable to rise because of their sand-
ballasted fleeces. I’ve brought him home
at night daggering with leg-weariness,
each heel raw and bleeding from sliding
on rocky hillsides, and I’ve ridden him
next day. And, despite years of this, I’ve
lain on the ground of a frosty morning,
a dozen gibbers coinciding with as many
bruises on my anatomy, and watched his
belly curving above me as he pigrooted
in the same sour and savage manner as
he does everything else. And the only
time he ever knocked up—he was a walk-
ing skeleton with ribs like corrugated-
iron—he still had guts enough to try to
kick my head off. Now bring on your
tough merinos!
* * * *
“Binghi”; In the Pilbara district
(W.A.) I watched a clever demonstration
“Ah may be Scotch , but Ah'm no frightened to give a bit o'
WEIGHT away."
“You want a ‘bull to win!”
by abo. gins in which the coolamon (B.
7/7/’43) played a part. The natives were
camped near old tinmining works, and
it was the habit of the gins to partly fill
the coolamons with mullock from the old
workings, and by a process known as
yandi-ing to separate from the mullock
particles of tin which later they exchanged
at the store for their simple requirements.
The yandi-ing was merely a slow side-
ways shake of the coolamon with infinite
patience and apparently great delicacy of
touch, until one could see the mullock
going to one end and the tin to the other.
The gins can also employ the same pro-
cess with tea and sugar or with a mixture
of any two such commodities of differing
weights. Only the gins were so engaged ;
the old man abo., as usual, was well con-
tent to look on.
* * * *
“Beefo”: The stoutest and longest-
lasting “rope” I ever used was made from
the hide of a white bullock. On a big
branding camp it outlasted those cut from
hides of dark-hued beasts.
Si! * * *
“Julia Creek”; On all N.Q. cattle sta-
tions I have worked on dogs were used
for yarding, and in suitable country with
plenty of water were taken mustering. We
didn’t go in for the blue Queensland cattle-
dogs (B. 14/7/’43). All breeds used car-
ried a strong strain of bulldog, and the
finest dogs I ever tried were a Smithfield-
collie cross mated with bulldogs. Strange
as it may seem, to achieve the best results
they must have sheep-dog in their strain,
preferably collie. One or two of these
dogs will handle a two-year-old bull with
ease, and even pull him down. Only for
the cruelty of it it's a spectacle that would
go well at any rodeo. Incidentally, any
breed with the bulldog in it doesn’t bark.
“Stony Crossing”: We Victorian
cockies had three trucks of mixed cattle
to load and had to do the job in the dark
before dawn. Our only dogs were talka-
tive nondescripts. Under the electric light
in the yards, the four of us poked and
swore and yelled and we looked like being
there for a month. Those cattle would
get in the race of the loading ramp, then
baulk, turn and barge out again. We’d
just about reached despair when a casual
youth appeared, said “Give y’ a hand,”
and sat himself on a top rail. There was
a shadow with him, and he murmured
to it, whereupon that shadow slipped into
the yards and we saw it flickering and
dodging around the bovine heels. At
the youth’s advice we stopped yelling.
Those cattle were in the trucks within
the next half-hour. The youth rejected all
offers for the grey-blue shadow, then
headed for his horse and sulky. “I’m
makin’ back up north, across the river,”
he told us. “You blokes don’t know
much about cattle or dawgs, do y’?”
* * * *
“Blayney”: Counting mobs of sheep,
is it (B. 4/8/’43)? I pulled up on
a road over the N.S.W. highlands one
bleak morning and found a bloke stand-
ing by a gate through which a big mob
was passing. He was staring at the
sheep, and his teeth were chattering. By
cripes, it was cold enough to make an
icicle chatter. “Cold,” I said. He didn’t
answer, didn’t look at me. “Keep quiet,”
said the shivering kid beside him, “he’s
counting them sheep.” Later, he explained
that at every hundredth chatter he nodded
and the kid kept the tally. How’s that
for speed?
* * 4 *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp had had an argu-
ment with his wife at lunch, and had
gone back to his ploughing feeling that
he’d been badly treated. As the after-
noon wore on, however, Bill’s temper
cooled. After all. Mum was a good sort
—one of the best. Maybe he’d been a
bit hasty. When he went up for after-
noon tea he’d square off. As three
o’clock approached, Bill watched for a
wave from the house in vain. He began
to wish that he had curbed his tongue.
He had heard of men who had quarrelled
with their wives and then found them
dead. Unable to stand the strain any
longer he hurried up to the house. His
face paled when he saw that the door
was shut. He opened it. All was silence.
He went through the house, careful lest
he fall over a prone body. Beads ol
perspiration broke out on his face as he
saw his wife’s house clothes on a chair
in the bedroom. Mum had gone! His
cruel words at the lunch hour had cut her
to the quick and she had left him! Bill
sat down on the bed, dazed at the blow.
After some miserable meditation he
dragged himself out to the kitchen. Then
he saw the note: “Dear Bill, the kettle
should be boiling when you come in,
and there’s a dish of buttered scones
in the oven. I’ll be home from the Red
Cross sewing meeting at five o’clock.
Bill gave a big sigh of relief. Gosh, he
was hungry! He hoped there was plenty
of scones.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Harry the Nip had acquired
The Streak as junior partner and general
aide-de-camp. As the pair left the
train they landed more or less safely
in a patch of the lantana which, coupled
with its beer, has placed Bogbelly on the
map. Ten minutes later they were leav-
ing the little post office-ram-store, Harry
clutching a large sealed Manila envelope
in which reposed a wad of telegram
forms, “Now,” demanded The Nip of
his elongated mate, “y’ see the stunt —
we goes inter the pub an’ tells Bung we
been travellin’ and lorst our luggage, and
would ’e put this oscar in ’is safe? ’E'll
think we’re rollin’ in it, an’ we ought to
be sweet fer a week.” Harry, who had
never learned to read or write, held up
the envelope. “Are y’ sure y’ writ ‘£9oo’
like I told y’ to?” His offsider assured
him he had. Harry shook his head. “I
still think y’ ain’t put enough noughts
on it,” he opined. “But it might look
crook if we go back to the office
now. Let’s go into the pub.” Exactly
five seconds after Harry had handed the
envelope over they had both landed in
a heap in the dusty street. Harry picked
himself up painfully and looked accus-
ingly at his mate. “I thought y’d muck
it up,” he said —“not enough noughts!”
* * * *
“Naturala”: Odd that the big ground
spider so deadly to most insects with
wings should itself be the prey of the
giant yellow-banded wasp, commonly
miscalled a hornet. Watched a combat
alongside a big granite boulder. After-
scouting around for a while in ever-nar-
rowing circles, the wasp landed and
began to walk slowly towards a piece
of fallen bark. Apparently feeling that
escape was hopeless, a big spider sud-
denly rushed out. Instantly the battle
was on. With mandibles open to bite,
the spider made a dash at its enemy,
evidently with the intent of getting a grip
on the latter’s slender waist. But the
wasp was ready; wheeling swiftly, it flung
out its forelegs, grappling with those of
the spider. Like a pair of human wrest-
lers, the two insects hauled and swayed
for a full half-minute. Then the wasp
displayed its inherited technique.
Balanced on its rear legs, it forced the
spider to rise higher and higher until its
abdomen was exposed. Then with deadly
accuracy the wasp’s abdomen shot under-
neath and forward, plunging the fieadly
sting into the victim’s vitals. Instantly
the spider collapsed, not dead but para-
lysed. The victor then dragged it away
to a nest already prepared, where it
would serve as living provender to wasp
grub, the egg of which was still inside
the mother insect’s ovapositor. Nature
seems almost to have deliberately planned
the spider’s defeat, for, like all insects, its
nerve centres run underneath its body.
ARE THERE NO GHOSTS?
Are there no ghosts?
No ghosts where sunlight spills
Through leafy lattices and gilds
The tawny bracken,
No wraith of fires smoking on their hills?
And on the margin of the sun-soaked plain,
There, where the shadows lay a sudden stain,
Blue-grey on gold, in western-sloping shafts;
And nardoo floats its tiny heart-shaped rafts,
Stalk-tethered, on the reedy gilgai’s edge,
Whose shallow waters mirror the wide sky;
Or in deep gullies where the white mists lie
Is there no trace,
To mark the passing of a conquered race?
Perhaps the wind remembers! It’s a dirge
You hear, that murmurs, murmurs in the reeds:
An elegy
The wind draws out in anguish from the pines
—Soft fingers plucking music from the strings
Of each dark tree.
And when the curtain of the rain is down,
Wavering the puddles with its silver spears,
Does earth recall? As seed within her brown
Deep heart is stirring, does her memory wake
For disinherited people, for the lost men’s sake?
Are there no ghosts? . Or do the dispossessed
Relinquish even that poor eternity
Remembrance allows? Yielding their quest
Of all men’s hungers, and their zest
Strong in the sunlight—life a sunlit day—
They left no token when they passed away.
The fire-sapped trees, the ringbarked skeletons
Stand gaunt against the sunset. No one grieves
For the lost loveliness of boughs; the leaves
The winds of long-past summers caught and
hurled
Are scattered, withered, to the callous world.
Dead trees; and vanished leaves—forgotten
men.
tf.S.W.
MARY LISLE.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO,. LTD
CYanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT'S the GAS that KILLS them.”
• Jl " • • : ... . . , ,
KILLS WITH AWHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump il in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWE
fƒ
Obta ina hie fr o m
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35535, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Stock Feed' Order.
C. Shaw, 252 George-street, Sydney:
Sheepbreeders should study the purport of
the Feeding Meals Order recently gazetted.
It affects every owner of sheep and cattle
who has to use meat meal, blood meal or
proprietary feeding meals and sheep nuts
containing either of the products, and it
sets out that no one may be sold any
quantity of these meals exceeding 71b.
per month. The feelings of a grazier with
20,000 hungry sheep who orders a truck
of meat meal and instead receives a 71b.
packet can be imagined.
This order is being administered by
State Departments of Agriculture, which,
apparently handed the job by the Com-
monwealth, are completely in the dark
regarding what is required. At least one
of them is trying to administer the order
without knowing what meat meal, blood
meal and other abattoirs by-products
are being produced in its own State, what
proportion is being taken for fertilisers
and how much is being exported.
Bulk of meat and blood meal used in
Australia is produced in Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria. To obtain supplies
a poultry-, pig- or sheep-farmer must
obtain a form, fill it in and send it to a
Controller, who will decide how much he
is to get or whether he is to get any at all.
Departmental officers say there is an
acute shortage of meat and blood meals,
and it might be pertinent to ask why a
shortage exists though as many animals
pass through abattoirs as in pre-war years.
One expert said that sheep do not
require meat or blood meal and that in
view of the shortage they will have to do
without. This is in strong contrast to
advice tendered by animal nutritional
experts qf the C.S.I.R. and various
State departments. Meat meal is used
extensively in its pure form and mixed
with various other meals and in sheep
nuts for drought feeding. There is a
regular demand for it every winter in
parts which suffer a protein drought
where grass is dry and completely
without nutrition.
Every year thousands of ewes die from
twin-lamb disease (pregnancy-toxaemia).
This is purely a nutritional disease due to
the heavy strain on the pregnant ewe
when there is little nourishment in the
natural pasture. To prevent it, the feed-
ing of protein-rich concentrates, such as
meat and blood meal, etc., for six to
eight weeks before lambing is recom-
mended by the highest veterinary author-
ities. There is no cure for the disease
and only this method of prevention.
Meat meal contains 50-60 p.c. protein,
blood meal 70-80 p.c. Contrast this with
wheat (11 p.c.), oats, maize, barley (about
10 p.c.) and lucerne (about 16 p.c.). One
truck of meat meal will maintain many
more stock for a longer period than a
truck of wheat or hay.
Stud breeders and all who are forced
to hand-feed at any time should keep a
watchful eye on the operation of this order.
Ringworm.
“Curlew”: This season it’s been very
prevalent in Victoria, probably owing
largely to the peculiarities of the season.
“Ringworm” is a misnomer. There is no
worm about it. It is caused by a para-
sitical fungus that affects and destroys
the hair and damages the skin.
Being a fungus it produces multitudes
of spores and so is capable of being
spread for considerable distances by the
wind, by being left on rubbing-posts or
by an infected animal rubbing against
another. A neighbor, carelessly hand-
ling infected animals, became infected
and had a bad time.
Treatment usually recommended is to
scrub the affected part with hot water
and soap, afterwards applying tincture
of iodine. Oil of tar, stock tar with
kerosene, creosote and other things are
recommended, but the simplest I know
is farm lubricant thinned by one-fifth
of kerosene. It is cheap, practically on
every farm and one application, done
properly, is enough. Have the mixture
in a tin and paint it on with a brush.
The kerosene helps it to penetrate the
dead scales. The mixture does not flow
off as formalin solution would.
The Shying Horse.
“Plane Creek”; He does it through
fear, playfulness or faulty vision. Beat-
ing him will make matters worse. Since
shying causes accidents it should be
"Gentlemen, we can overcome this fuel shortage if we put our
heads together !”
cured if possible. If he shies playfully at
ordinary objects, touch him up with a
switch and speak sharply to him. Don’t
force him to walk up to the object but
make him walk past it. Horses become
frisky when they’re getting too much
tucker.
If he shies from an unusual object,
don’t force him to go up to it, but soothe
him and coax him past it. If he backs
away, snorting, speak to him firmly and
touch him lightly with a switch. Don’t
flog him or he may whip round in his
tracks and bolt. Keep a firm hold while
you’re urging him past the object lest he
bolt immediately after passing it. Force
him to pass the object several times,
taking him closer each time. A horse
that is frightened of a bridge should be
led over it a few times, or he may cross
calmly if an unfrightened, nag goes first.
If he persists in his fear of a certain
object, only cure is to lead him up to it
and let him smell it and discover for
himself that it is harmless
A horse with faulty eyesight should
never be driven or ridden at a fast pace.
Such an animal is likely to shy at any-
thing. If he shies at certain objects only,
he may be - cured by being allowed to
observe and smell them at close quarters.
A nag that is upset by loud noises should
have his ears plugged with cottonwool.
Potato Planting.
“P. Ater”: It’s an August to Decem-
ber affair, according to climate and alti-
tude. Along the warmer patches of
coastline in N.S.W. it has already begun.
Few damaging frosts occur there after
August. On the Monaro tablelands and
Batlow, in splendid potato country, where
December plantings are the rule, Christ-
mas and February frosts can damage or
ruin a budding crop.
August suits many localities to get the
main batch in. Treatment of soil varies
with its depth and type. Deep fertile
stuff that responds to a fallow and a
dressing of a fertiliser with a blood-and-
bone base —to give it body—gives results
after breaking and turning in the extras.
But even these soils—usually the upland
basalts or the alluvial river flats —soon
show the effects of lack of humus unless
it is added in some form after one or
two croppings. A winter green, such as
vetches, lupins or field peas, turned in at
flowering stage, a month before planting,
will do, if manure is not available. Com-
post made of rotted vegetable matter and
cowyard sweepings is best of all. On
poor or impoverished soil it is almost a
necessity. Compost can be readily made
on the farm.
Along the coastal strips in sandy soil
cool, dry cow or stable manure, failing
compost, must be added to hold moisture
and provide plant food. The addition of
any good potato fertiliser at a generous
handful to the yard run will give balance
and nrevent tho “all tans and nn tnhorv”
a nd prevent the ail-tops-and-no-tubers
result. Turn it in under the seed rows.
\ 4- tv t \ t t * u x u r 1- t 4.
At Moss Vale, in a banen patch of llgnt
soil, enriched with three tons of cow
manure to the acre, I saw a crop of 18-20
tons to the acre dug. Nearly a record.
What to plant whole and how to cut
are perennial problems. Anything up to
2i„. or 2iin. in diameter can be planted
whole. Small marbles give excellent
results, especially in light soils. All over
the 2-fin. size need cutting. Do it by
keeping two eyes on each piece and have
the pieces fairly even. Rub the cut ends
in dry wood-ash before planting. Liming
is unnecessary.
,„r? ePth lJ°d Plan ; T eS With SOil A X '
tures. Modern tendency, approved by
experts, is to plant deeply—down to Sin.
is not too much in sandy areas, to avoid
overmuch hillinn Rather is it advisable
overmuen mnmg Katner is it advisable
there to have a slight depression to hold
moisture. This also helps the fight
against potato-moth. In heavier and
more tenacious soils give less cover. Sets
can be planted 15in. apart in rows with
2ft. or slightly more between them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Owners of pigs should
grow Jerusalem artichokes. Planted now
in good soil, heavy yields may be ex-
pected ; they’ll grow in very poor land
under dry conditions. Plant scwt. of
tubers to the acre. When the plants
begin to die, dig up the tubers, leaving a
few in the ground if another crop is
desired. Pigs do very well on artichokes,
and they’re good for home use, too.
“Mullengah”: P. Welch, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), gives his pigs houses of brick,
roofed with iron. Inch boards under the
iron give insulation. Each house has its
exercise yard, protected from winds.
Lucerne and artichokes are used for
grazing ; slaughterhouse offal, well boiled
and supplemented with grain, for pen
feeding. Welch favors Canadian type
Berkshires.
“Agro”: Suspend fowl perches from
the roof of the pen by wire and you’ll
keep lice away. Spray or paint the pen
with sump oil, and see that the chooks
have an ash bath. Use iron or other
smooth-surfaced material for the houses;
lice thrive in straw roofs and brush walls.
“Jindivick”: In winter give the water-
tanks the once-over. Empty the water,
overhaul the stand, replace the blocks if
necessary and lay a new platform. Clean
out the mud and, if the bottom is at all
weak, replace it. Clean screens and
guttering and check all fastenings before
* replacing. At this season water is easily
replaced. Should a collapse of guttering,
tank or stand occur later on a very dry
summer may result.
“B.”: Take care of sacks. Preserve
those containing goods by storing in dry
places. Don’t slash holes in the tops
when opening up. Damp sacks attract
mice, idle ones represent waste.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Any advice on topping cattle?
Some N.S.W. cattle-raisers are practising
topping off cattle by handfeeding and are satis-
fied it is a paying proposition. They use ground
grain sorghum ted in varied quantities up to
121 b. per head per day for about six weeks.
Where grain can be obtained cheaply and
difficulty is experienced in finishing oif cattle
owing to a dry spell it would be worth while.
This should not be confused with the American
system, where cattle are fed in yards on large
quantities of green silage and hay. It is not
considered that this would be a paying proposi-
tion under present conditions in Australia. A
low price for stores and a high price for fats
combined with low feed and labor costs are
necessary, and these conditions are not present
in Australia. In one case several steers were
fed for six weeks on grain sorghum combined
with dry feed in the paddock. The grain cost
about 12s. 6d. and the owner estimated the
increased price obtained to be about £2 to
£2 10s. The steers were a very well-finished
and* attractive mob, and a lot kept in the pad-
dock without handfeeding for comparison
barely maintained condition and were not
marketed for another six months.
/ want to try balanced-ration sheep nuts for
fattening pigs.
They are not being manufactured at present.
Try a mixture of wheat, meat meal and linseed
meal; about 651 b. of wheat, 71b. meat meal
and 31b. linseed meal. A 1001 b. pig would take
about 51b. of the mixture daily.
A good way to eradicate bracken without
using a mower or heavy disc plough ? _
If you can cut it, do so, then wait until the
young new shoots appear and drive sheep over
it. If that isn’t possible, try a heavy log
roller, followed by spike harrows. It's pretty
hard to keep down unless you’re prepared to
clear the area, stock it heavily and then sow
strong grasses and topdress them every year,
keeping the stock continually grazing on the
area. Some people use pigs in portable pens
with success.
Any advice on sowing blue lupins as feed for
fattening lambs in a district with cold winters
and excellent rainfall?
For spring feed it would be necessary to sow
in March or April on land that had previously
carried cereals. For autumn feed sow in Decem-
ber or January. On high country liable to
heavy frosts, sow in late December or early
January for late winter and early spring feed.
Since yours would be in the nature of an
experiment, sow the lupins in small patches at
various times within the periods mentioned ana
watch the results. Can’t advise on sowing rate
of seed or use of fertiliser for your district;
ask the State Department of Agriculture.


etv& a &
£
vr
V
£a<*** e
me
£o*
at* u
etA
in
in
tu e
t\ve
cpW
avi
v\vei
Voi° cC
a**
M*
\ess
Vt*ay
Navy
Navy
cVa^
w*
The FISK RADIOIA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radiola.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Ml) Eld.
Australia’s National JVireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
(ADVERTISEMENT)
COMMUNISM
A Malignant Growth
on Australian Labour
Communists have for years been steadily
and tirelessly white-anting the Labour move-
ment.
Communists realise that in numbers they
will never be more than an insignificant
minority.
Therefore their obvious policy is to capture
the Australian Labour movement, thus open-
ing the way for the establishment of a Com-
munist dictatorship.
They have very nearly succeeded. To-day
Communists are in executive positions in key
unions, and the Australian Council of Trade
Unions, representing 700,000 out of Aus-
tralia’s 900,000 trade unionists, has agreed to
a united front with Communism.
The cancer of Communism, unless checked,
will destroy not only the Labour Party, but
also our free Democracy.
Labour is Riddled
with Communism!
Authorised by
A. de B. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The basic aim of the Sane Democracy League is to expose the fallacies
of revolutionary doctrines. It needs members and funds to help it
do its job.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
To Bomb Tokyo.
(Condensed from “United States News.")
Attention is centring on the question
of whether China is or could become a
base for an all-out air offensive against
Japan.
Air attack, it is now said, is to become
the heart and centre of the coming offen-
sive—strategy which calls for laying
Japan’s munitions centres in ashes, there-
by forcing Japan to surrender. That is
one decision reached in the conferences
in Washington held by Roosevelt,
Churchill and the top commanders of the
Asia theatre of war.
The new strategy points straight to-
ward the use of China as a base. This
involves tremendous problems.
The zone in unoccupied China feasible
for large Allied air bases is nearly 2000
miles from Tokyo: nearly twice the 1000-
mile range considered practical for
America’s four-engined bombers carrying
a full bomb load.
The longer the range the larger the
petrol needs of a big-scale air offensive.
That is the central fact that leads to the
next big problem—supplies.
For an air offensive now every pound
of supplies, petrol, oil, bombs, ammuni-
tion and spare parts would have to be
flown into China by cargo ’plane over
the aerial Burma Road from India.
The United States, thus far, is unable
to provide a fraction of the number of
transport ’planes that would be needed
to supply big operations. Military men
mention 100,000 tons of supplies a month
as being small in comparison with the
size of the job. But flying men say even
that amount would require an air trans-
port fleet four times as big as the whole
commercial air fleet of the United States
in pre-war days. There is scant prospect
of getting so many ’planes. The sup-
plies for an all-out air campaign, es-
pecially from bases far from Japan, are
not now in sight.
Thus, supply and bombing range are
the twin problems of waging air war
from China. To solve those problems
would require two military operations of
a fundamental kind.
First, the reopening of a surface
supply line into China. By land, this
would mean reconquest of Burma and
the Burma Road. By sea, it would mean
driving the Japanese from the Bay of
Bengal, from Singapore, from the South
China Sea.
Second, the acquisition by the Allies
of air bases nearer China’s coast and
nearer to Japan. A push to Japanese-
held Hankow would let U.S. bombers
reach the southern tip of Japan at
Nagasaki. An advance to Japanese-held
Shanghai would put Tokyo and the in-
dustrial heart of Japan within bombing
range. But both these undertakings
would require blows at the strongest out-
posts of Japan.
So what starts as a project for air
war against Japan broadens out into a
fight for air bases and supply lines, in-
volving big operations by land and sea.
The plan for full-scale air war on Japan
from China is no simple undertaking.
U.S. Ambassador and Moscow.
(From an article in N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”)
On March 8 this year U.S. Ambassador
Admiral Standley opened his mouth in
Moscow and issued the historic statement
in which he charged that the facts of
America’s material aid to Russia were
being withheld from the Russian people.
Standley got results. He is the only
one of America’s many callers-at-the-
Kremlin who has. All the others came
bearing gifts. Standley alone got some-
thing out of Stalin.
Because of his protest the Russian
people now know that the heroic success
of their fighters is due in substantial part
to the American equipment poured out
to the Red Army —$1,041,000,000 of it at
the last accounting, more than has been
sent to Britain or any other country!
Had Standley been backed up he might
have won another of his points of pro-
test ; he might have broken open the
secrecy with which the Soviet surrounds
its military operations, excluding British
and American observers from the fronts,
even refusing to permit American fliers
to deliver American lend-lease ’planes.
But Standley was not backed up. The
professional Russia-lovers in our midst,
in whose eyes America can do no right
and Red Russia can do no wrong,
squawked like hens in a hailstorm.
There was no State Department or
Presidential censure of at the
time, but since then Washington <
gr °' Vl ! *?°° u u Kic
If Admiral Standley has submitted his
resignation, and if that resignation is
accepted, then true American diplomacy,
based on openness and honesty in the
tradition begun by Benjamin Franklin,
has suffered a serious and humiliating
disaster. And America will have lost the
services of the one man who has proved
himself best qualified to deal with Stalin,
to talk the language the Russian dictator
understands, and to win from him con-
cessions vital to the Allied cause—such
as Siberian bases for carrying our war
to Japan,
Manhunt in France.
(Condensed extract from a “Harper’s” article
by C. J. Fernand-Laurent.)
Especially since the occupation of the
whole country by the enemy, the man-
hunt in France for Frenchmen to work
in Germany has become serious—and
tragic. All men under 30 are systemati-
cally trapped by the Administration and
the police and, through the use of threats,
blackmail, and often physical force, made
to leave for Germany, It is a real slave
hunt.
Many prefer to run every conceivable
risk rather than go. They abandon their
families and their homes and take to the
woods, where they find officers and non-
coms. who are hiding from th& Gestapo
—remnants of that Army of the Armis-
tice which was demobilised at Hitler’s
order toward the end of 1942. Members
of that army in hiding form a part of
the underground army who await an
Allied landing so that they can enter the
struggle again and give the signal for a
general uprising.
If these insurgents are able to stay
hidden month after month without dying
of hunger it is because of the magnificent
solidarity of the peasants. When we see
the uprising of revolt, the terrible desper-
ate army of the oppressed and the hungiy
will find in the French peasantry its firm
est supporters.
To the* superficial observer
the French fighting overseas
with Genera i Kdning, General Leclerc
and General Giraud ; there is also the
j mmense pitiable army of suffering and
rebe]lious France herself.
Japan: Army and People.
( Condensed from a survey by Omori Harris in
“Harper’s,” U.S .)
What are the chances, if any, of Japan’s
cracking up?
For at least a thousand years these
islanders have consisted of two well-de-
fined classes, differing from each other in
customs, ideals and outlook on life far
more than the people of any Western
country since medieval times —with the
exception perhaps of Imperial Russia.
The common people had practically no
rights or privileges whatsoever.
To imagine that emperor worship is
an age-old thing with the whole Japanese
people, bred into their bones as Chris-
tianity has been in Europe, is absuid,
whatever their present rulers may assert.
Neither are most of the Japanese re-
markable, individually, for courage.
Th« average citizen in everyday life
acts with a prudence not far from coward-
ice. A tough customer will terrorise a
whole neighborhood. “Better not annoy
him, or he will beat up our wives and
children!” Hence, partly, the power
wielded by the Black Dragon and similar
societies, the lower strata of which consist
largely of thugs and gangsters.
That every Japanese will gladly lay
down his life for his ruler is another
popular myth. Every Japanese wife is said
to be obsessed by two ideas: to produce
as many boy babies as possible and to send
them to fight for their God-Emperor. The
fact is that birth-control clinics in Tokyo,
until banned by the authorities, were
swamped with applications for advice.
But the samurai class, from which the
modern army indirectly derives, presented


...
kb ■ •' .■'• '•'
wmi- :
a
lllfe
•VfJ
■■■;■:■
yrr....
hi" ■
%
%
■
Wmmmm
PRECISION AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
Aircraft equipment intended for our war
planes might well be likened to “The Invisible
Crew”. Such equipment as starters, generators
and magnetos, must be precision engineered
to highest standards of accuracy, for the lives
of our war plane personnel can depend on the
worthiness of each such unit.
Tecnico Limited, manufacturing many units of
aircraft equipment—“ The Invisible Crew”—
have developed an engineering organisation
equipped and staffed to produce precision
components comparable with any . . . Tecnico
Products. TC.2.43
Limited
lecnico
formerly e.t.c. industries limited
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST.. MARRICKVILLE
N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211
“BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
Wl
■ Wk
A ? K s&
Ma KCOc .
Stable Door
A/f B.^
“%£■
Cattle
damks
v[ ENT N? 2)76 h
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
&9
«a£>
pry. L.~rnp.
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
an exact antithesis to all this. The soul of
the warrior was his blade, loyalty (to
his feudal lord, not to the Emperor) was
the paramount virtue; to sacrifice his
life and the lives of his wife and children,
if necessary, to that lord was his highest
ambition ; loss of reputation was the only
evil.
When conscription was instituted in
1873 and the common people were
granted the inestimable privilege of bear-
ing arms, just like their superiors, they
were dazzled at the honor. Gratitude
demanded that they should be worthy
of it. Their officers have taken care to
keep them as far as possible in that state
of mind ever since.
The Japanese youth is extremely malle-
able. He enters the barracks with fear
and dislike. Three months of daily and
fanatic KSnlndAultratn sSdters
S i . I n- a a • ?
* h ° bave h ™ ! n swam P s and l u "8 les
bear witness to that.
But if he should happen to be taken
prisoner, the bent bow relaxes. He
drifts back though there are of course
exceptions to his former careless self.
Looking back over my last few years
in Japan, I recall endless silhouettes
which help to outline the attitude of her
people. Rows of patient, dull-eyed women
in white or khaki-green uniforms along
the windy platforms of Tokyo Central
Station, waiting, while a few bemedalled
officers strut up and down, for the Red
Cross trains with their loads of wounded
and dead ; the wife of our ward head-
man dropping in to bewail in nervous
undertones, the never-ending, meaningless
struggle in China which was drawing off,
one ofter another, so many middle-aged
husbands and rice-winners among her
neighbors; the suburban workers wait-
ing in line or tramping from shop to
shop in their hunt for an egg, a spare
loaf (since unpalatable bread must be
eaten to conserve rice for the soldiers),
or a bag of charcoal fuel; the curio-
dealer who, discussing with me the ruin
of his trade, suddenly started shrieking
curses on the Premier, the Government,
the whole military clique, till in pru-
oence I hurried away,
,f n light of these memories the
picture so often drawn of a nation of
fanatics knit together in a selfless spirit of
almost insane devotion, loyalty, and
sacrifice and welded through the long
? ges f * nto a homogeneous mass seems so
“ *°- b ?, almost com . lc .
to “
although he has to be
guarded whenever he appears in public,
and attempts on his life have been made
but how J ar that rlller ho|ds with th< ;
present adventure of his war lords is
very doubtful.
jj- was possibly the most painful mo-
ment of the Emperor’s life when he signed
the declaration of war with Great Britain,
His brothers, Chichibu and Mikasa, each
0 f whom I taught for more than three
years, are very democratically inclined,
great admirers of Western free institu-
tions and particularly of the British royal
house.
Successes in the Pacific at the outset
filled the nation with pride, and the dar-
ing adventure was popular for a time.;
but gradually this died down when the
months brought no more tangible gains,
The long, fruitless campaigns in China
have made the people very sceptical of
advertised victories. Doolittle’s raid on
Tokyo was, morally, a shattering blow.
Moreover, few people are so sensitive
as the Japanese to world opinion, and the
knowledge that they are detested every-
where except (possibly) by their allies,
themselves now fighting with their backs
to the wall, must have a deadening effect
on the nation’s morale.
In Japan the pendulum swings swift
and far. If a few sharp, sudden, heavy
blows are delivered on their homeland,
with ’planes dropping showers of incen-
diaries and “block-busters,” the people’s
confidence in their “invincible” army and
navy, their trust in the leaders who
brought them to this, may melt away.
Political leaders, snubbed so long by
the militarists, will gather courage and
ask questions in the Diet. The Court, I
am convinced, will show where its sym-
pathies lie. Then the liberal statesmen
who have bided their time for the past
five or six years will come forward with
constructive proposals, and the nation,
given a glimpse of peace, will eagerly
follow in their wake.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
The uncomfortable fact remains, Japan is
not being beaten. She is not even, as a whole,
being checked. On her ocean front, in the
Pacific, against us, she is being held. But
on her Asiatic front, in China, she is not
being checked at all.— Mark Sullivan; N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
It is our solemn duty to be able to say to
every fighting man on the day of his discharge;
here is your chance to have a part in the
greatest epoch of building which man has ever
known. In our sentimental way we call our
fighting men “the boys” and we look forward
with longing to their homecoming. But they
are not boys; and if they were they will have
grown to the full stature of manhood. They
have rights for the future which are as funda-
mental as any of those which are our national
heritage. And coming “home” means more
than an emotional march through flags and
cheers. If management has the vision, the
courage and the daring which are its basic
functions, it will rise to the challenge of the
soldier who said: “I hope that you are one of
those who’ll see to it that none of us will be
selling apples on the street when this war is
won.”— Henry J. Kaiser.
S: * # *
The present war is costing the U.S. more than
twice as much as was spent by the U.S in all
the years from its beginning until the defence
programme started in June, 1940. Official figures
show that so far Congress has appropriated or
been asked for a total of $338,500,000,000 for
fighting this war. The entire amount spent
by the U.S. Government, from the beginning of
President Washington’s first Administration in
1789 up to June 30, 1940, was $167,000,000,000.
This latter figure includes all the money spent
by the U.S. on its wars since the Revolution
up to the present conflict. — “United States
News.”
* * *
A Vichy paper has reported that the Grecian
Nike of Samothrace, “Winged Victory,” the
superb ship’s figurehead of stone which had
so long dominated the entrance hall of the
Louvre in Paris, is now at Goring’s Castle
Karinhall, near Berlin. It must have been a
terrific job to move the Nike from the Louvre
to Germany. It was only because of its great
weight that it was still in Paris when the Ger-
mans came, for the French, forseeing the Ger-
man looting, had moved many of the Louvre’s
priceless art treasures into Central France. The
Nike had been too heavy to move. But not
for Goring, the art-lover. Fantastic act of
vandalism though it was, this amounts only to
a small sample of the “art collecting” which
the Germans have done and are doing in this
war. For the first time in history the plunder
of famous works of art has been made a syste-
matic part of warfare. This wholesale
robbery exceeds the wildest tales by writers of
fiction. In every country the Germans have
invaded they have rounded up the art treasures
and hauled them away—to be sold, put in
German museums, added to the private collec-
tions of Nazi leaders or destroyed. Just as
they have uprooted whole peoples, so they have
ripped up the roots of whole cultures, from
France to Greece, Austria to Russia. Paint-
ings, sculpture—all are loot. — Eugene Tillinger;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” supplement.
v * * *
The 0.W.1. report on American air transport
reveals that production of the aircraft industry
in 1943, measured in dollars, will amount to
more than five times that of the automobile
industry in its biggest year.— N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The Japanese will not know till the war is
over the enormity of their blunder in executing
some of Gen. Doolittle’s men. For now the
American people will demand a war without
quarter against the Japanese cities and towns
and a burning of all the areas where military
installations are to be found. Japan will find
no sympathy in the United States when her
bamboo villages start to burn. — Washington
syndicate writer David Lawrence.
*t * * *
Most people suppose that the famous R.A.F.
ace Brendon “Paddy” Finucanc lost his life
because his Spitfire crashed into the Channel
after being hit over France. The truth is—
though this has never been published—that as
Finucane was falling he was strafed by German
machine-gun fire, and he was already dead
when he hit the water. Thus a new meaning
comes to Finucane’s phrase “This is it, chaps.”
—Drew Pearson’s column; N.Y. “Daily
Mirror.”
* * * *
The navies of the smaller Allies fighting with
the United Nations have a total of 220 vessels
and nearly 27,000 officers and men operating
under the flags of their respective countries, in
just over one year those navies have been in-
creased from 170 fighting ships and 15,000
officers and men to their present strength.
The composition of the smaller Allied navies
was stated recently to be: Fighting French
49, Norway 53, Netherlands 63, Poland 12,
Greece 33, Yugoslavia 3, Belgian section of the
British Navy 7. The fleets include cruisers,
destroyers, submarines, corvettes, light coastal
craft and minesweepers.— London correspon-
dent, N.Y. “Times.”
% Jfc
The enemy has heard some unexpected voices
sounding sour notes. In the midst of a Berlin
birthday tribute to “our beloved Fuhrer” the
radio sweetness was temporarily drowned out
by the shouted words “The entire German
nation curses today the hour that man was
born!” The source was not discovered. A
cheery Japanese neWs report to the troops on
Kiska Island ended with “The defeat of out-
naval forces at Coral Sea, Midway, the Solo-
mons and now our twenty-two-ship convoy to
New Guinea has saddened the imperial house-
hold.” The source of this counterfeit item was
an American operator in Alaska who had prac-
tised for months imitating the Japanese touch.
—N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
We cannot afford to forget this is a war,
the first in history, in which soldiers at the
front, by means of the radio, know everything
that goes on at home as soon as it happens.
There are radios in the foxholes, radios in the
advance observation posts, radios wherever the
fighting men gather when they are off duty.
Therefore we have always to think of events
not merely as they affect civilian morale or
the workers’ morale but as they affect the
morale of the troops. This is an aspect of the
strike situation which must weight heavily.—
N.Y. “Times,”


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
For Australia at War . . .
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valle/, Brisbane
f
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
■
HB ■
5 'I
lIP
;
mm
FADDEN
PROMISES
★ To establish an all-party National Government.
★ To restore Full Power to Parliament.
•k To end Socialisation and Communist control.
if To deal decisively with strikes.
it To see that discharged Service men and women
receive full pay until jobs are found for them.
if To introduce a generous repatriation scheme of
pensions and benefits with preference in em-
ployment for members of the Services.
if To establish, from July Ist, 1941, a post-war
credit nool to be repaid to taxpayers, with
interest, after the war.
if To introduce “pay-as-you-eam" taxation and
give the family man more liberal allowances.
Your vole is your safeguard—vote
United Australia Party
United Country Party
Send this advertisement to your Soldier Son!
For the Senate, vote [Tj ARKINS, 00 DEIN, 00 NOCK
and number every square— -otherwise your vote will be informal
Authorised by H, W. Horsfield. 30 Ash Street. Sydney.
\
m
%
' O'
10 for 1/1
20 for 2 1
Always fresh . •
Always smooth
Carreras Ltd.-IM Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 a
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy high-grade d.b. gun, one with spare
pair of barrels preferred.—3367.
To buy black and white bamboos 6ft. to 2Utt.,
any quantity.—336 B.... c
To buy copies from 1914-30 inclusive ol
“Flight” and the “Aeroplane.”—3369.
To buy collected verse of Robert W. Service.
—3370.
To buy a book giving particulars of manu-
facturing wood and metal toys. —3375.
To buy Barkers and Biters, by Robert
Kaleski 3371
To buy “Pocket Book Weekly” (Sydney) foi
March 27, 1943.—3372. ,
To buy Grease Paint and Oil Paint, by Dame
Laura Knight.—3373.
Whereabouts of Edward Quon, last known
place of residence Broken Hill, about 30 years
ago. Brother, James Quon, of Woodside, S.A.,
would like to hear from him or anyone know-
ing him. —3374.
Information Sought.
(1) How many ’planes did “Cobber” Kain
shoot down? (2) Where was he killed and
when?
(1) Kain was credited unofficially with having
accounted for over 40 enemy aircraft. No
record of exact number is available. (2) He
was killed as the result of an accident on June
10, 1940, at the age of 22. The crash occurred
at an aerodrome in France just prior to his
return to England on leave.
Whence does the Federal Government derive
the power to vary regulations in the period be-
tween the dissolving of the old and the electing
of the new Parliament ?
The regulations are made under statutory
authority, which continues whether Parliament
is in being or not.
Brief Answers.
B.Gv: (1) and (2) All persons, pensioners or
otherwise, are required to furnish income-tax
returns, irrespective of their income, which
may not be taxable... .A.G.M.: Not much
opening for penmanship today, since typewriters
are so common. You might try printers ol
illuminated addresses, wedding invitations, etc.
R.M.P.; Sprinkle the floor moderately with
kerosene and then scrape candles lightly over
it, polishing by sitting someone on a bag or
cushion and dragging him up and down....
J. ; (1) and (3) Write to Registrar in Probate,
Supreme Court, King-street, Sydney giving full
name of deceased and date of death. (2) Cost
depends on length of wi11... . H.L.: “Radar
is the term used for radio location of ships and
aircraft. ...G.N.; The German word ersatz
'means substitute; synthetic rubber would be
ersatz rubber. Australia’s representative in
Canada is Major-General T. W. Glasgow,
K. D.S.O M.Z.K.: Can’t say, but he
should write to the Army Education Service,
c/o Army Headquarters, for details L.C.N.:
Information on its way... .E.H.T.: Succulent
tree lucerne is suitable green feed for poultry,
but the birds do not always eat it readily....
P.M.: Joe Louis was born at Lexington, Ala-
bama, on May 13, 1914.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted j and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
It’s not so long ago since I thought peaches grew on
was carved from bullock and that pods
surrounded peas;
But since I’ve joined the army I’ve learned another
plan: . ,
Everything that grows on earth is grown inside a can.
N.B.; Jonathan’s jump doesn’t land him
anywhere in particular... .D.M.: Sometimes
nonsense is funny, but sometimes it’s just non-
sense D.T.: Too much reportage, too little
L h E.c\ Cr Sermon D .‘ ! .P. M . Nf- M’oetry
as easily as you made that string of quat-
rains....E.E.C.; Appropriate b*
!!! .G-V.a: jrody of ‘‘lf’M
r«/v;.B.A f .V An
sta e r?za to is decepUveTy nekt; NEM.S : “Exit
Mussolini” C.M.T.: Spring
Can’t accept verses while O' .. . though
not false to we.” Nevertheless we shall have
to return, the poem about, they.^ ;; C.O.U.^
Might make a par.... - J-McG.. There s a goo
cni2r&ni lost in the ovcr**writtcn iLcm 3.001x1. tuc
gir i w ho was in 80urke....R.M.F.: Elderly
and feeble jokes about politicians.


WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
FAMILY
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges
are fixed and moderate. Con-
sult your solicitor or write for
Free Booklet.
ƒ
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£948,600.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 117361. branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
f
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and rto Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHR DGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
To Re-
Oet., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 254,970 7 236/JuO : 4,6*4,783
1933.. 258,508 74 „ „ 253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed,* £106,000.. 4.756,166
1934.. 265,087 9)t p.c.=331,313* 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273.857 7J p.e.= 270,281* 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 4,668,330
1937.. 309.501 8 „ „ 297,000* 4,680,831
1938.. 310,049 8 ~ „ 288,000* 4,702,880
1939.. 292,023 8 „ „ 282,797* 4,712,106
From inner reserves, £25,000.. 4,737,106
1940.-266,106 8 p.c. = 261,000* 4,742,212
1941.. 237,012 8 „ ~263,625* 4,715,599
Tax written back, £20,000 .. .. 4,735,599
1942.. 168,570 6 p.c. = 191,812* 4,712,357
* After deducting tax. f Includes 2 p.c. centenary
bonus.
The reduction in earning-power reflects
no weakness in this Anglo-Australian
institution’s financial armor, but evidences
war’s acceleration of the fundamental
changes in the Australian banking system
which began with official control of in-
terest rates in the early ’thirties. Originally
started in opposition to the trading banks,
the Commonwealth Bank has gradually
assumed the additional functions of a
central bank, thus becoming the pivot of
the banking structure. Indeed, as the
result of agreements in the main volun-
tarily reached and subsequently em-
bodied in National Security regulations,
the banking set-up envisaged by the Royal
Commission of 1936 has been largely
attained, viz., regulation of the volume
of credit by the Commonwealth Bank,
the trading banks handling its distribution
within set limits. Justifiable in war-time,
the practical wisdom of permanently
divesting the experienced trading banks
of their power to influence monetary
policy or exercise economic discretion is
exceedingly doubtful. At the moment,
credit, the banks’ chief stock-in-trade, is
drastically rationed for all but war pur-
poses, despite its abundant supply, and
the price of it is so controlled that private
banking is denied even the return on in-
vested funds conceded to public utilities.
While advance and investment restric-
tions prevail, a continuance of only
moderate earning power need be looked
for.
Government finance is the domi-
nant factor in present monetary policy,
and is likely to continue so in the
initial stages of reconstruction at least.
The most expensive war in history
has so far imposed a financial burden of
£1,106,587,000 on Australia. Reciprocal
lend-lease was a new factor helping to
send up outlay in the last period of this
year-by-year account:
War Net from Chargeable
Year. Expenditure. Revenue. to Loan. *
1939- . . £55,100,00 Of £24,300,000 £28,800,000
1940- . . 170,200,0001 65,100,000 101,6uU,000
1941- . . 319,500,000 108,600,000 210,900,000
1942- . . 561,800,000 158,900,000 402,900,000
* Loans from the public and “banking system.”
tlncludes charges to trust funds.
In addition, a recoverable £26,000,000
was expended on munitions, etc., for
other Governments in 1942-43. Includ-
ing this but not overseas war outgo of
£79,000,000, war demands on local re-
sources may thus be at £509
million for the year. The counterpart
of this accelerated rate of transfer to war
work has been increasing strictures on
non-war activity, and consumption has
also been more extensively harnessed by
direct action —this both to ensure equit-
able distribution of diminishing goods
and services and also to restrain the pres-
sure of newly-created purchasing power
ballooning a price-level already inflated
some 25 p.c. on pre-war figures. The
other (and main) pincer directed at price
stabilisation is the draining of “inescap
able” increases in costs of essential manu-
factures into a war account by means of
Budget subsidies' at the point of produc-
tion or import.
The changed military situation in the
Pacific is at present testing the flexibility
of the war economy. A surfeit of certain
munitions is now showing up, and, while
some plants are adjusting' production
schedules to more technical projects with
peace-time applications, others are re-
verting from the casting of swords to
ploughshares. A Cinderella to date, food,
indeed, has been given equal priority
with munitions with the provisioning of
the greater part of American s.-w. Pacific
forces now Australia’s responsibility and
with Britain willing and able to take
enlarged quantities of foodstuffs. That
the near-peak of strictly war production
is near is evident in the creation of a
Civilian Requirements Board to maintain
an “adequate” supply of civilian necessi-
ties.
Through all this, the role of the trading
banks has been largely passive. Not only
are industrial advances in a strait-jacket,
but much business with primary pro-
ducers has been eliminated as the result
of control and acquisition of commodi-
ties like wool, wheat, dairy produce,
meat and fruit by Government agencies
financed by the Commonwealth Bank.
Primarily to prevent secondary inflation,
increases in trading-bank deposits since
August, 1939, must be deposited with
the central bank at a nominal rate of
interest, while advances repaid have been
mainly directed into Treasury bills by
stoppage of other investment channels.
As a result, the ’Asia’s figures, cover-
ing Australia and Maoriland activities,
exhibited unprecedented liquidity last
October:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £4,500,000 £4,500,000- £4,500,000
Notes . . .. 2,732 2,716 2,697
Bills, etc 5,711,816 5,943,139 6,313,687
Deposits . . . . 40,921,527 46,768,240 51,776,988
Liquid assets . . 16,228,593 22,859,030 31,687,582
Bills, etc. . . 2,466,733 3,155,668 2,969,277
Advances . . . . 36,534,456 35,240,846 31,940,227
Premises . . . . 770,275 822,440 818,894
The advances-to-deposits ratio then stood
at 61.7 p.c., while depositors and others
could see 54.6 p.c. of their money in
cash and its near-equivalent. Much too
liquid for the management’s liking, of
course ; but an immensely strong position
which will admirably fit the bank (if
allowed) to finance the orderly re-expan
sion of trade and industry in the tran-
sition period with a minimum of infla-
tionary consequences.
Excluding £20,000 excess provision for
tax written back in respect of past years,
the disclosed reduction of £68,442 in
latest net earnings left them at 3.7 p.c. on
capital, or a mere 1.8 p.c. on all funds
belonging to shareholders. Thus, despite
a two-point cut in the div., reserves were
again drawn on to make the distribution.
Allowing for English taxation on the one
hand and exchange on the other, the
6 p.c. is worth only 5j p.c. to local
holders. Total tax for the year was
£576,978 (up £52,953), or ovei fince
times the amount earned for shareholders.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends >
Pref. To Re— Re-
Mar., Loss. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ •£ £> £> £>
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10.868 .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,063
Unexplained reductions, £2885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1792 .. 177,388
Profit. 5J p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare -Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136.817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,040
Profit sale property, £827 .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills., £16,734.. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 35,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16.374 6 „ „ 32.422 13,209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190.116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201.323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 . . 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 . . 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16.374 8 p.c. = 43,229 2,897 173,762
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
Despite the blanket thrown over turn-
over by rationing and price-control, and the
spanners that Man-power, W. 0.1., Import
Procurement and other national secu-
rity controls have heaved into the works
of trade and industry, Foy’s sales appear
to have held remarkably well. During
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts, gross earnings from manufactur-
ing (the woollen and knitting mills were
kept fully employed on defence contracts)
and trading amounted to £496,488, or
only £464 less than for the previous year.
That was after allowing an extra £4746
for depreciation (£26,414).
Certainly there was plenty of money
about owing to heavy war expenditure,
largely on a credit (inflationary) basis and
wage lifts, and retail selling prices rose.
But rationing and price-control brought
about a shrinkage in sales of Sydney re-
tailers as a whole, which became more
pronounced as 1942 drew to a close. The
next table shows the percentage decrease
or increase compared with the corre-
sponding month of the preceding year:
Remune- Av. No.
S'ales, ration Employ-
total. paid. ees.
Aug. . . . . + 5.7 8.5 —12.5
Sept 7.0 9.5 —13.3
Oct —17.3 —13.0 —15.1
Nov —16.3 —14.4 —18.9
Dec. .. .. —23.1 —18.7 —24.5
Jan —15.3 —14.7 —19.8
Feb —27.5 —17.9 —23.0
Mar. .. .. -14.1 9.4 —19.5
+ Increase. Decrease.
Drapery lines most affected were dress
piece-goods and women’s and men’s and
boys’ wear, all of which figure promi-
nently in Foy’s sales.
However, costs and the taxgatherer
won the race. Nevertheless, the co.’s
exes. (£433,988, including an unspecified
allowance for taxation) were only £7143
heavier —reduction of staff and substitu-
tion of women for men helped to keep
the wages bill down, and part of the
premises were taken over by the services,
which helped to further lighten the burden
of overhead. The net result was thus
£7607 lighter at £62,500, which was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
8.5 p.c. on the £540,367 of ord. capital,
compared with 9.9, 9.6, 8, 8.4, 8.1 and 8
p.c. back to 1937. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c.; but it is doubtful whether it
will remain there.
To stem the spiral of inflation of costs
and wages —each lift in the latter defeats
itself as soon as it is added to costs
the Government brought down its general
stop-price plan on April 12 last. In this
way it has been sought to prevent any
increase in costs being passed on in sell-
ing prices. Traders must either absorb
the increase in costs within the business
or apply to the Government for a sub-
sidy, which will be paid only on goods
regarded as essential. Wares not in the
essential or subsidy class must be sold
within “ceiling” prices. As for imports,
when actual landed cost exceeds basic
landed cost (which is figured by the Prices
Commissioner) the difference will repre-
sent the subsidy that can be claimed. Pay-
ment will be subject to (1) ability of the
business to absorb higher costs, and (2)
the decision of W. 0.1. that no further
economies are immediately possible by
improved efficiency or rationalisation.
The plan is designed to protect wage-
earners, receivers of war-time separation
allowance, pensioners and other recipients
of fixed-money incomes. Merchants and
retailers, who according to Prices Com-
missioner Copland will act as agents’for
the Government on a “fixed” margin of
profit, will carry the burden.
Exactly how Foy’s will fare remains
to be seen. More severe drapery and
clothing rationing came into force on


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY,
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
agse
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management oi
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
SDHIHBOVIfIICCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
tit
ate
an.
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WtNTWORTH
Lit
c*>.
ne
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
**' * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anp Trade Marks. —Anvr,
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
It's your fight — your money is needed
now . Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
10950-11.4 Z
fOiH/EK TUNWWOW
problem
S' ■
luoo wi crs
have the
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
.f
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
POWtR
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
wimmmmmNmmmmmmmm.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
June 6. Here is a bird’s-eye view of the
co.’s financial structure:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities* . . 432,740 397,684 515,617 513,341
Property . . 728,044 726,389 723,970 720,982
Plant, etc. . . 118,125 101,555 91,673 72,721
Stocks . . 456,462 438,169 600,287 626,407
Book debts . . 105,223 114,690 91,941 70,023
Cash, etc. .. 13,876 20,312 21,680 40,040
* Includes tax provision.
Chief movement in the figures last term
was a growth of £26,120 in stocks, now
the most important item in the sheet.
The outside debt consists of a mortgage
on the freehold (unchanged at £207,000),
overdraft (£14,172, down £72,809) and
trade creditors, including provision for
taxation (£292,169, up £70,534). The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£223,129) was £24,838.
Sons of Gwalia’s latest annual surplus
at £83,813 compares with the previous
one of £134,436. Taxation takes £40,000,
depreciation £7500, and general reserve
fund £lO,OOO. Payment of a 2s. dividend
leaves £19,321 to carry forward, against
£25,488 brought in. Directors say that
decline in revenue is almost solely due
to the call-up of labor for national ser-
vice. Latest news from the mine states
that a continuance of good values at two
or three levels has substantially added
to its value.
* * * *
The new Gt. Boulder coali-
tion board doesn’t satisfy all Australian
shareholders. It was agreed that both
De Bernales and Grundt factions should
have two representatives with an inde-
pendent chairman. As R. E. Binns, who
was appointed chairman, was the nominee
of a group of Australian shareholders
headed by persons associated with Dc
Bernales he cannot, it is argued, be con-
sidered independent. Nevertheless London
opinion is that he will be.
Jp # *
Stimulated by vodka, Lena miners
recently celebrated the centenary of the
famous Siberian goldfield of that name
by completing their production plan for
the first quarter of this year ahead of
schedule. They produced IOSOoz. of gold
above the plan and presented it to Stalin
for the Stalingrad reconstruction fund.
Owing to the attitude of the Soviet Gov-
ernment, a London co., Lena Goldfields,
suspended operations on the field in 1930.
An arbitration court inquired into the
dispute and, after a prolonged hearing,
awarded the co. £stg. 12,965,000, and dis-
solved the concession agreement. In No-
vember, 1934, the Soviet Government
made a take-it-or-leave-it offer of
£3,000,000 payable as to £50,000 cash
and £2,950,000 in non-interest-bearing
notes spread over 20 years. Concluding
that a bit of the golden loaf was better
than perhaps none, the co. accepted this
offer. Lena field is in the Irkutsk Pro-
vince and comprises about 140 square
miles. Lena co. attracted attention when
operating there by purchasing gold stolen
from its mines at 25 p.c. below value and
saying nothing.
:I= * * *
“Wall Street”: Morgenthau, U.S. Sec-
retary to the Treasury, on gold: “I
know of no better means of settling in-
ternational balances than with gold. For
this reason it has been, and is, the policy
of the Treasury to facilitate the con-
tinued use of gold for that purpose. Our
stabilisation fund has definitely contri-
buted to the implementing of this
policy.” Morgenthau told the Senate
banking and currency committee that the
United States had sold more gold to
foreign countries in the last two years
than it had purchased from them. In
the fiscal year to June 30, 1942, the fund
sold 5644,000,000-worth to foreign coun-
tries and purchased $ 162,000,000-worth.
In the expired three-quarters of the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1943, it had sold
$401,000,000 and bought only $27,000,000.
Fund’s net profit on sales now exceeded
$32,000,000.
* * * *
Government smelting with a water-
jacket furnace is to be tried at Ravens-
thorpe on the Phillips River field (W.A.).
It is to be done to see if small-scale pro-
duction of copper in that way will enable
local miners to make money and go on
their way rejoicing. Smelting on a bigger
scale was tried before at Phillips River,
but the venture, in which both the Gov-
ernment and private enterprise were in-
terested, was not altogether a success.
* * * *
In Britain the Treasury is keeping in
mind the post-war problems industry will
meet when civilian trade will again have
to become the basis of activity and em-
ployment. Sir Kingsley Wood has given
an assurance that all the expenses of a
revenue nature incurred by industry in
earning excess profits will be allowed as
a reduction in the final determination of
the e.-p.t. liability. He gave four in-
stances of the terminal losses he had in
mind—deferred repairs and renewals, the
cost of changing the layout of factories
and restoring dispersed units even if
this is incurred after e.-p.t. terminates,
the extension of relief to cover not only
scrapped buildings and machinery, as
now, but also any loss in value where
equipment remains in use, and special
provision for post-war stock deprecia-
tion. The Treasury is to carry on dis-
cussions in these matters with industry.
In Australia there should also be co-
operation between the Government and
industry in these matters. There is actu-
ally no excess-profits tax here, but
there is a heavy, graduated tax that
operates even where profits are less than
pre-war but exceed 5 p.c. on capital and
reserves.


COMMONWEALTH
CONVERSION
LOAN
HOLDERS of Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bonds
MATURING ON 15th AUGUST, 1943,
are invited to convert their holdings into equal
amounts of stock or bonds in the new loan.
APPLICATIONS may be made through any Bank
Savings Bank, or Stockbroker.
TERMS OF NEW LOAN
INTEREST for 4-5 years.
3\°/o f° r 7-16 years.
The Loan is issued 1 at par under the authority of the
Australian Loan Council.
No cash subscriptions will be accepted in the new loan.
IT WILL HELP THE WAR EFFORT
IF YOU CONVERT YOUR MATUR-
ING STOCK OR BONDS AND
YOU ARE URGED TO DO SO.
CONVERSION LOAN CLOSES ON 16th AUGUST, 1943
C.L. 1-27
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
P. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
A. E, BOND P. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MS' SAUCE
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Labor’s Financial Record
The Labor party took Federal office
as a result of the defeat of the Fadden
Government on a financial matter —a
Budget in which post-war credits figured.
These levies reached down to incomes
of £2 a week. Although he voted
against the Budget, Coles, the chain-
store member for Henty, subsequently
said that the difference between
Labor’s Budget, which followed soon
afterwards, and the one which pre-
ceded it was as “between Tweedledee and
Tweedledum.” Actually Labor cut out
the post-war credits, recast the taxation
scale at the expense of the higher in-
comes, imposed additional excise on
liquor, tobacco, matches, wireless valves
and dry batteries. The 5 p.c. sales tax
was lifted to 10 p.c. and the 15 p.c.
to 20 p.c. Company tax was raised by
50 p.c. and land tax in certain cases by
20 p.c. The war-time company tax was
lifted steeply. But the Government
stood by its promise not to increase taxa-
tion on incomes under £3O a week —for
a little while. It proposed to borrow
more than Fadden, and it raised the old-
age pension rate.
On June 18, 1941, a few months before
Labor took office, E. J. Ward said “I
believe that a Labor Government alone
is the only kind of Government that can
organise the national war effort without
showing special consideration for parti-
cular interests involved.” Soon after he
became a Minister he asserted that “in
the last two months the Federal Govern-
ment has done more to protect the social
interests of the people than any other
Government, Federal or State. We have
now tremendous powers, and we will use
them.”
Mr. Ward was all for nationalisation
of industry at this time. The Port Kembla
branch of the Ironworkers’ Association
Just then carried a resolution congratu-
lating the Minister on his nationalisation
policy and his claim that profits from
basic industries should be limited to 3 p.c.
“We feel,” it was stated, “that this would
be in keeping with the tremendous sac-
rifices that the workers are making in the
speeding-up of production.” There was
so much wild talk about nationalising
the 8.H.P., etc., and the banks that New
Zealand’s Walter Nash, addressing union
secretaries at Sydney Trades Hall, was
prompted to protest. “So far as our own
banks are concerned,” he said, “I think
they are doing a better job than we could
make of it.” Nevertheless, rigid control
over the trading banks was one of the
first acts of the Federal Labor Govern-
ment —the regulations were gazetted on
Nov. 27, 1941. The Government at this
time seemed more concerned about
nationalisation” and social security than
about national security.
During the period of the dismaying
progress of the Japanese down the Malay
Peninsula and through the Indies, thou-
sands of Australians falling prisoner to
the enemy, the Government reduced the
working hours in the shipping industry
from 48 to 44, by-passing the Arbitration
Court by means of a National Security
regulation. About this time, too, the
utter irresponsibility of Ward was demon-
strated in the breakdown of the Indus-
trial Relations Council, a body that
aimed at settling disputes between
employee and employer without recourse
to strikes or reference to the Government
direct.
Within a few weeks of its first Budget,
Labor had to introduce higher taxes —one
of the first of many indications of the
Government’s inability to look ahead.
This time incomes down to £3 a week
were taxed, but not severely ; the higher
incomes were taxed further. The great-
in-volume under-£B-a-week incomes (70
p.c. of all incomes) were still only nibbled
at, though at this period of the war
Britain and Canada had reached a maxi-
mum in their taxation rates, and Aus-
tralia was clearly faced with a struggle
for its life. Labor was still talking about
maintaining living standards by the use
of bank credit and extracting the fat out
of the “rich.”
In February, 1942, the Prime Minister
announced an intention to restrict com-
pany profits to 4 p.c. on “capital em-
ployed.” “The movement” began to
breathe fire and brimstone in the direc-
tion of industry, in spite of industry’s
falling profits (as officially recorded).
Labor Minister Ward introduced his new
list of reserved occupations, which he
described as an “instrument of total war.”
Trade-unionists, civil servants and Com-
monwealth Bank employees had remark-
able exemptions by comparison with
others. “Man-power” was put above the
army in deciding who should stay in the
forces. Argument about the 4 p.c. pro-
posal went on, and the Prime Minister
admitted that he would welcome “sugges-
tions for dealing with some of the com-
plicated problems arising from the 4 p.c.
profits policy.” After a ban for a short
period, dealings in land and shares were
resumed, within certain limits. Prior to
the removal of the ban, Senator McLeay
attacked the Government for its vacillat-
ing policy over the man-power question,
especially in regard to coalminers, “and
for the muddled thinking which produced
the economic regulations resulting in the
complete disorganisation of industry, with
little benefit to the war effort.”
As from April 2, 1942, the old-age pen-
sion rate was lifted from 235. 6d. to 255.
a week. Profit margins of traders were
about the same time restricted to a fixed
money figure instead of the customary
percentage, and sales tax was raised from
10 p.c. to 12| P-c., and from 20 p.c. to
25 p.c.
Though living costs and wages were
rising quickly (influenced by the great use
of indirect taxation and borrowing, in-
stead of adequate income taxation),
rents were pegged at pre-war figures,
the landlord, like the shareholder,
being classed as a different type of
human from the wage-earner, who by
this time was in many cases reaping a
big harvest of overtime, “danger money,”
etc. Mr. Ward advocated nationalisa-
tion of the coal industry as the only
means of ending disputes, and was
quickly made appear ridiculous by a
strike at the State-owned colliery at Lith-
gow (N.S.W.). Because of the inflation in
production costs that had become marked
since Labor’s assumption of office, in
May, 1942, it was announced that Britain
would pay 15 p.c. more for wool in the
following season in order to assist the
industry to carry on. Clothes-rationing
was introduced in a manner that pro-
duced an anticipatory buying orgy.
“Standard cloth,” a Dedman creation, was
soon pronounced unsatisfactory and un-
economical.
In typical Labor manner, after the
thing had hung over bewildered industry
for months, Canberra described the 4 p.c.
profits proposal “administratively impos-
sible,” and dumped it. The P.M., also in
typical manner, said “the Government’s
plan to transfer 318,000 men from peace
to war activities has to go on even if we
crack under it,” and was reminded that
it should be no part of Australia’s de-
fence policy to “crack.” At the same
time Labor introduced the one bright
spot in its financial administration —uni-
form income taxation.
The Women’s Employment Board de-
cided that women war workers should get
90 p.c. of the male rate for the same type
of work. At a time when an Arbitration
Court Judge was being driven to periodic
explosions because of political interfer-
ence with a wage-fixing job that was
rightly his, the Prime Minister said:
Newspapers in this country are very afraid
that when the war is over the Labor party will
still be in control and the capitalist wolf will
not be able to feed on the Labor lambs in the
factories and workshops as it has done in the
last 50 years in this country.
The country can get on quite well without the
capitalists, but it cannot get on without the
people I represent. They do the work while
the shareholders, whom these other people rep-
resent, invest a few thousand pounds and then
sit back.
The Commonwealth Bank was mean-
time publishing figures showing a steep
decline in the earnings and dividends of
companies and a steady rise in wage
rates and deposits put in the savings
banks.
The Bulletin was prompted to com-
ment :
With this political turmoil and subservience
of experts to the manoeuvres of inexperienced
and daydreaming politicians Australia isn’t
quite sure of what it is supposed to be doing
in any direction. The present Government has
gone on a bender of “social reform” in the
midst of enemy attack. With a war-finance
policy that is weak to danger-point because
of political considerations, all thought of hard-
headed protection of our post-war future seems
to have been lost in the maze of “new deal”
stuff that aims at a redistribution of “wealth,”
rights and privileges and a cold-shouldering of
responsibilities. Instead of making the best
of what is an admittedly difficult position, finan-
cially we are making just about the worst of it.
Trade-union overlordship and civil-service con-
trol have gone to astounding extremes.
In September, 1942, Labor introduced
its second Budget. It again evaded in-
creasing direct taxation, and looked
toward a Budget deficit of £3OO million
with equanimity. Again old-age pensions
were raised. Mortgage-bank legislation
was introduced as a concession to Wilson,
who, with Coles, put Labor in office.
The A.C.T.U., with cast-iron callous-
ness, demanded that a “war-loading” of
6s. a week be added to wages “by regula-
tion.” The comment here was that “the,
idea, apparently, is that, with the country
at bay and deprived of its better-class
younger men, opportunity should be
taken to exploit the situation by flagrant
and unashamed profiteering to the extent
of 6s. a week.” Apparently the A.C.T.U.
in its own peculiar way regarded war
conditions as similar to the conditions
in 1937, when a prosperity loading of 6s.
a week was granted to wage-earners. Pro-
fessor Copland at this time gave an assur-
ance that there was no profiteering going
on on the proprietary side of industry.
With inflation becoming ever more
menacing, in February it was commented
here: —
Although war expenditure alone is something
that no bank or private person would advance
money on as a matter of business, Canberra
Labor chose to finance the greater part of our
war bill by borrowing rather than by taxation.
Only the patriotism of a section of the people
on the one hand and the financial jugglery of
the Government and its servants on the other
have made this economic madness temporarily
possible. The financial irresponsibility of the
Government and its peculiar war-time position
have imposed a double burden on that section
of Australians which believes that war is a
matter of deadly fighting and sacrifice, and not
one of political profit, self-seeking and evasion.
It has been noted here before that Labor’s
financial policy, if Labor has any financial
ideas that can be called a policy, is first of all
to “soak the rich.” After it has increased taxa-
tion on incomes out of its own class and
stormed at “the capitalist” until this field has
been exploited to the full, it will borrow where
it can. Afterwards its “stalwarts” will black-
guard the “bondholder.” When public response
to borrowing falls short it turns weakly to bank
credit, the most tipsy and undermining of all
makeshift financial methods. In its last des-
perate condition “repudiation” is a word it has
been known to use. And all this is part and
parcel of its “idealistic” nationalisation pro-
gramme. It asks for vast authority without
showing responsibility.
The Government, which amid the
shock of disasters in the Pacific was fool-
ish enough to say that there would be no
increase in taxation rates for assessments
issued during 1942-43, introduced a re-
vised income-tax scale as from April 1
this year, which included incomes down
to £2 a week. At the same time it did
not go as far as Maoriland, which im-
poses a national security tax of Is. 6d. in


B ■ 1
il
S 3
m
s
'S
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
Poisonous Waste
in the Blood
may cause Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, and other painful ailments
arising from disordered kidneys.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
make you well and keep you well.
Don’t delay. Remember the name—
DOAN’S!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
&7
m
a
■■■
as
SS
w.
'79r
4%
**Vs
338*
—MM
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
f
Judgment
Courage
Coolness:
"He (Mr. CurHn) has consistently shown himself
devoted to national above party ends, Australia
has been fortunate to find in Mr. Curtin a Prime
Minister whose judgment, courage and coolness
have stood the nation in good stead during the
most memorable and dangerous months of her
history."
—“Sydney Morning Herald.”
5 YEARS’ PROGRESS IN 20 MONTHS
In 20 months of Curtin Government our fighting forces have doubled.
Our munition MANPOWER has doubled—our munitions OUTPUT mul-
tiplied far beyond normal anticipation. Our Air Force has become a
powerful fighting arm. Instead of living under the threat of invasion
we are FREE of it. We have aerodromes, roads, oil installations, plants,
arsenals—POWEß!
Strategically, industrially, internationally,
Australia is FIVE YEARS AHEAD as a result of
20 months of Curtin Government.
ONE LEADER ONE POLICY
This is no time for political jay-walking. We MUST follow the direct
course laid down by the Curtin Government—the direct course to victory
in the war, and to sound, sane reconstruction when the war is won. Logic
and commonsense demand that we retain the Government which, in 20
short months, achieved more than any anli-Labor Government ever
ATTEMPTED.
Curtin is not allied to any factions or “isms.” Labor has had one alliance
—an alliance with the Australian PEOPLE. It is that alliance which is
enabling us to defeat our enemies DURING the war. It is that alliance
which will defeat the enemy of depression and privation when the war
is over.
JOHN CURTIN WILL NEVER LET AUSTRALIA DOWN
VOTE FOR OFFICIAL
LABOR
CANDIDATES
Authorised by J. Stewart, M.L.C., Parliament House,
the £, plus Is. in the £ for social security,
on all incomes, however small.
It was two years after Britain had estab-
lished what it considered a maximum
level of income tax that Australia's
Labor Government made any attempt to
tax adequately the lower incomes. And
even then it finished the year with a
Budget deficit of £403 million, of which
over half appears to have been financed
by bank credit. Only 28 p.c. of the war
bill was paid by taxation. During
Labor’s term of office the basic
wage had to be lifted 11s. a week
in order to keep in step with inflat-
ing living costs as computed by the
Commonwealth Statistician. Actual wage
rates rose, on the average, much more
than 11s. a week; labor costs in many
industries are at least 50 p.c. higher.
With war-time inflation admitted to
be over 22 p.c., and with the dairying
industry reducing production because of
costs and man-power difficulties, the Gov-
ernment announced an increased butter
subsidy, other subsidies and a price ceil-
ing, It followed one political appoint-
ment to the Commonwealth Bank Board
with another (Dr. Coombes). An extra-
ordinary report was issued by the central
bank, consisting largely of Government
whitewash.
One of the first acts of the new Govern-
ment elected on August 21 will be to
bring down a Budget for 1943-44, prob-
ably embracing a bigger war expenditure
than in 1942-43. If Labor is re-elected,
can our economic structure stand up to
another year of Labor financial methods?
The Return of Woolcott Forbes
John Woolcott Forbes, otherwise
Brandei, was brought back to Sydney
last week, and later at Central Police
Court 31 charges of fraud were laid
against him. Sergeant McAuley asked
that bail be refused. He said that a
warrant had been issued in 1938 for the
arrest of Forbes on a charge of forging
stock in the Producers’ and General
Finance Corp. The warrant was exe-
cuted in Bombay, but while on bail there
Forbes absconded. He was traced to
France, and there the trail was lost until
he was arrested in Mexico City.
Forbes, in what Sydney “Herald”
described as an “impassioned but unsuc-
cessful appeal” for bail, filled in some
of the gaps:
I beseech you abjectly, your Worship, to
permit me to outline my life in Australia, and
it is imperative that I have your sincere con-
sideration on the matter of bail. I am 40 years
of age, and, from an early age, I lived on the
land and worked on the land, and life was good.
At 27 years of age I was left a small fortune,
and came to the city and its glittering pave-
ments. Quickly I built my money into a large
fortune. It is a pattern of prosperity you will
no doubt have seen many times. I married a
lovely Sydney girl, descended from the family
of Lord Nelson, and my peak was reached when
I became managing director of the Producers’
and General Finance Corporation,
In my great love for and loyalty to this land,
I became a great contributor to its charities,
and to its defence when the first rumbles of
war were heard. I was the father of a happy
family, and all went smoothly. Then times
changed and, owing to my unsound business
training, I overreached myself. My wife became
ill, and I sent her to be treated in London.
In January, 1939, I left Australia and was
taken off the ship at Bombay by the authori-
ties there. Stupidly, I fled from myself, and
wandered about the face of the earth. Dark
were my days, and hopeless my nights.
Eventually I arrived in Canada and engaged
in the only business I knew —selling stocks and
bonds. After a while a restless feeling pervaded
my whole being. My wife and family were
penniless, and their position hopeless. Even
our wedding gifts were lost. 1 went to the
United States and in New York met my late
employer, Mr. Dawson, who suggested I sell
stock there. I thought it was sound, and went
to work in good, honest faith. I did not know
his morale had crumbled, and that he was using
me to recoup his losses. I had unwittingly be-
come the dupe of Dawson.
It was a tragi-comic spectacle of a man
snuffing out his life. I decided to urge my wife
to meet me in Mexico City.
My family and I are in a perilous position.
My future is black indeed. As a humble
prisoner I am pleading for my family not to
be crucified. If bail be not granted I am
like a man lost in the mirage of his own wilder-
ness. In all humility I pray to you for help.
Where else can I turn but to you, because I
am practically penniless and helpless? lam
pleading not for myself but for my loved ones,
so that their lives will not be shattered and
they cast into utter oblivion.
Bail was refused, but facilities were
granted for the preparation of a defence.
Interesting comment of a London
“Times” correspondent on U.S. reaction
to the British (Keynes) plan and the
American (White) plan for the control of
post-war exchange and trade: “There
are some Americans who have no liking
for either plan. Of many of these it
might be said that no scheme of Lord
Keynes’s authorship could hope to win
their support, for they hold him respon-
sible for many of the New Deal’s financial
policies, including, outstandingly, its huge
pre-war spendings, for which they never
had a good word. Nor are they any
more receptive to the proposals of an
American Treasury Department imbued
with a New Deal philosophy.”


THE SERVICE MAN
Americans Take Munda.
“Ek Dum”: Last week, in circum-
stances of heartbreaking difficulty, there
was progress at both ends of the Munda-
Salamaua arc of attack. On New Georgia,
where the terrain is not so vile as that
of the terrible mountain and hill country
on the Salamaua approaches, a main ob-
jective was reached.
Munda fell after 38 days of slow
approach, during the whole of which it
had been within range of Allied land and
sea guns and been powerfully attacked
from the air.
The offensive entered a new phase
early in the week. Fighting was intensi-
fied, and flame-throwers and tanks eased
the way to the eastern edge of the airfield
and the flanks of Bibilo Hill, a strongly-
defended enemy position.
On August 4 the bombers —Mitchells,
Dauntlesses and Avengers —tore up the
coastal defences in the Gurusai-Kinou
area, just to the north of Munda Point,
while a mixed force of fighters devoted
itself to the Japanese soldiers, many of
whom took to the salt water rather than
face the music.
On the ground land forces now were
closing in on Munda all round. West of
Bibilo Hill the attackers were through the
main perimeter of the airfield, having
pushed several hundred yards into what
seemed to be main defensive positions,
based on a long trench system, now en-
tirely overrun.
United States troops held most of the
higher points which commanded the air-
field.
August 6 saw the end of resistance at
Munda itself. U.S. units broke through
to the narrow western end of the island,
about a third of a mile north of Gurusai.
Along the southern side of the airfield,
advanced forces pushed on and seized the
eastern slopes of Lokengolo Hill, which
stands on the airfield between the run-
ways and the northern dispersal area.
The result of these operations was that
what remained of the Munda garrison was
completely encircled in isolated groups,
unable to carry on organised resistance.
Already 1671 Japanese dead had been
counted and survivors were being hunted
out of the jungle while a U.S. force
pushed towards Bairoko—on the north
of the western end of the island oppo-
site Munda—which still held a small
enemy garrison.
Air Co-operation
The background to the main attack on
Munda was a series of bombing expedi-
tions aimed day after day at bases from
which the enemy might receive succor.
At Buin-Faisi a daylight torpedo and
dive-bomber attack on the harbor, co-ordi-
nated with a heavy bomber attack on the
adjacent Kahili aerodrome, was made
under fighter cover. A large freighter
transport was set on fire, a tanker was
hit and eight barges were sunk.
About 500 bombs dropped on Kahili
damaged many of a large concentration
of aircraft and started several fires. An
“O” fighter was shot down ; a U.S. fighter
was lost. Fighters in the same area next
day wrecked seven Jap float ’planes, three
barges and a small cargo ship.
At the week-end 16 U.S. fighters
attacked 30 “O” fighters and brought
down seven of them for a loss of one.
Other bases were less heavily hit.
The enemy was far from idle. He
attacked Rendova, causing neither dam-
age nor casualties but losing three dive-
bombers, and another raider at night.
Friday’s communique mentioned another
attack on Rendova, during which 12
“O’s” were shot down and another was
left in flames and later seen to crash.
The Allies lost only two machines.
The Allied communique of August 8 told
how a mixed force of 60 enemy bombers
and fighters had been beaten off, after
causing light casualties at a field hospital.
Three dive-bombers were shot down by
a.-a. fire and three “O’s” by fighters—
U.S. loss nil.
Several barges were sunk at various
points.
More Naval Ships Sunk
On Friday night a Jap cruiser and
three destroyers were discovered in Kula
Gulf, between New Georgia and Kolom-
bangara. Allied naval forces attacked,
and after an hour’s fight, with the Allied
squadron intact, the cruiser and two de-
stroyers were sunk and the third destroyer
was probably sunk.
Salamaua Bombarded
From August 1 onwards Salamaua was
under Allied artillery fire, while Austra-
lian troops continued to work their way
almost inch by inch across the difficult
hill shoulders which spill themselves into
the valley leading to the port.
Sometimes, as at the position known as
“The Coconuts,” the Australians had to
work forward along a track following a
razorback all too well seeded with enemy
defences. Jap foxholes, weapon-pits and
crawl trenches, in spite of the blessing of
Allied artillery, made the cleaning up of
the positions more a job for ferrets than
for infantry.
There were heartening sound effects
in the offing on August 3 as the air forces
dropped 84 tons of bombs on ground
defences, installations, anti-aircraft de-
fences and the enemy communications
with the Komiatum section of the front.
The occasional views of Salamaua were
shut out by a curtain of smoke and flame.
A large part of the bridge across the
Francisco River, which lies between the
Allies and Salamaua, was destroyed. On
August 7 the performance was repeated
with 92 tons of bombs dropped in 20
minutes round Kela and the two Logui
villages.
The first bombing was followed by a
day of mixed work. Heavies cleaned
up dumps south of the Francisco, strafing
fighters at the same time and clearing
a path in the Mt. Tambu region. A
warning to the enemy that fate was
stretching out a fist which sent him into a
paroxysm of fierce but not very effective
counter-attacks.
Throughout the week-end pressure was
maintained in bitter little engagements,
while shells flew overhead into enemy
positions.
The fighting can end only in one way ;
but the path to Salamaua, like the paths
to Buna and Munda, is being dyed with
brave men’s blood.
Round the New Guinea and adjacent
coasts steps have been taken in the past
few days to clean up the concentrations
of barges which gradually have accumu-
lated in the main enemy ports. Over 220
were destroyed in seven days.
The usual milk run of bombers har-
assed the enemy from Timor to New
Britain. In these operations the R.A.A.F.
is playing an increasing part; and, judg-
ing from what Dr. Evatt has said, this
grand force is to be considerably
strengthened in machines and men.
Australian Beauforts already have some
good scores to their credit. The Japs
at Gasmata in particular have cause to
remember them.
Victory in Sicily.
“Ek Dum”: Under the most difficult
conditions the campaign in Sicily has
been fought almost to a conclusion.
But the Allied fighters are not receiving
their due credit, the eyes of armchair
strategists being riveted elsewhere.
The fact is that Tunisia and Sicily
alone have cost the Axis nearly 600,000
men in dead, wounded and prisoners,
and will cost them considerably more
within the next few weeks. And
if pictures of prisoners from the
Russian and Mediterranean fronts go foi
anything, the Axis troops in the Medi-
terranean are supermen compared with
the miserable specimens exhibited in
eastern-front films.
In Sicily alone 125,000 prisoners had
been corralled by August 8, and, in view
of the fierceness of the fighting, losses in
dead and wounded must have been heavy.
The new Allied offensive began to
develop in the afternoon of August 1. By
noon next day it had reached full battle
crescendo all along the line, from the
north coast to the south and south-west
of Catania.
The terrain is difficult —as bad as
Sevastopol. The invaders formed a fence
across the last corner of the island in
Axis hands. The British-Canadian sector
was concerned with taking Catania and
then driving up the circular road —it runs
south and west of Etna, then right round
the mountain on the north to the east
coast.
The line of the Allied fence, roughly
70 miles or a little more long from the
southern outskirts of Catania, ran well
to the south of the main road and rail
round Etna and up the track to the east
of Enna, via the Nicosia region, to Mis-
tretto and San Stefano on the north.
Mr. Churchill’s Report
By August 3 Mr. Churchill was able
to report that the operations had “opened
well.” The 78th British Division, after
bitter fighting, had taken Centuripe, just
south of the Simeto River, on the
Catanian plain fringes.
The Canadians, nearer the centre, had
taken Regalbuto, an important junction
halfway between Enna and Aderno, on
the round-Etna railway. Highlanders of
the 51st, old companions of our Ninth,
were on the seaward side of the 78th,
making towards the western Catanian
environs.
The P.M. said there had been a certain
delay while the U.S. Seventh Army
marched eastward, driving the enemy
before it and taking up a position on the
northern flank of the British Eighth Army
and the Canadians. But while this was
being done and things seemed quiet, large
reinforcements were moved up, and the
front was “well garnished with artillery
and supplies of all kinds.”
The whole of the great army constitutes
the Fifteenth Group of Armies, commanded
throughout by General Sir Harold Alex-
ander. Lieutenant-General Patton, a most
distinguished officer, commands the Seventh
Army. General Montgomery commands
the Eighth Army. General Alexander him-
self is conducting the battle. I think we
may conclude that our forces are in good
hands.
They were and are. Determined resistance
was encountered in all sections, especially
in that in which the Highlanders and the
78th Division were pitted against German
troops leaguered on hill-crag positions
approached by hairpin-bend roads. The
Germans fought with ferocity, not giving
up their strongholds until most of them
were wiped out.
This was particularly true in the
approaches over the steep ridges guard-
ing Centuripe and Regalbuto, most of
which are topped by jagged limestone
outcrops.
By August 4 the Americans had made
a considerable impression along the north
coast, and had reached S. Agata di
Militello —important progress, since it
sealed a road system which runs south-
ward across the island. Inland from the
port United States troops were not so
far advanced, having come up against
strong resistance in rough country.
This move and the fierce squeeze of
the Highlanders, the 78 th and the
Canadians on the Etna arc soon made
the position of the enemy in Catania
extremely dangerous. It was conceivable
that the British and Canadians inland
might reach the Aderno-Randazzo rail
and push on round Etna to Risposto, on
the east coast, north of the volcano, re-
ducing the Catanian garrison to the alter-
native of being carved up in their trap
or surrendering.
The danger came particularly from the
78th Division and the Canadians along
the Salso River from the Regalbuto-
Centuripe region towards Aderno.
Catania Ours
So the Germans abandoned Catania,
Sicily’s second city, after setting much of
it on fire, and began a retreat up the coast
through the narrow Acireale gap between
Etna and the sea. A flank force held on
tenaciously to the Aderno route to pre-
vent a British outflanking movement.
Retreat though the gap along the sea-
ward foothills of Etna involved travers-
ing some of the most closely-populated
rural country in the world —about 1200
persops to the square mile. And it was
all open to the Navy—which did not miss
its chance, though there was shelter
among the oaks and chestnuts and in the
orchards qt the northern end.
The flank holding line was not badly
off.
Progress along the road and rail skirt-
ing Etna to the south-west and north was
difficult enough for the British. From
Catania it climbs 915 feet in the first 14£
miles to Paterno, then 1000 feet in the
npyf 10 miles through Biancavilla —some
of the juiciest oranges in Europe are
grown there —to Aderno and a little more
to Bronte, Nelson’s ducal estate, another
10 miles on.
This road and rail route, however,
forming the core of German southern de-
fences (there seemed to be no Italians
left in the Sicilian fighting line), faced an
Allied approach from the southern and
south-western end of the battle line
across tangled hills and river valleys of
the Simeto and Salso rivers.
By Friday the British and Canadians,
after tough fighting, were threatening
Adernb. At the same time the Ameri-
cans from the Enna sector were storming
forward.
On St. George’s Battleground
The battlegrounds over which they
fought are strung along the 47-mile long
road which joins Nicosia to Bronte.
A few miles along the highway they
advanced over the battlefield of Cermio,
where “5000 Saracen horse and foot were
overthrown by 136 Christian soldiers”
(Gibbon), without reckoning St. George,
who “fought on horseback on the fore-
most ranks.”
Thence the attackers assailed Troina,
the highest town in the island (3675 ft.),
a craggy mountain fortress between
Mt. Cuculo in the west and Mt. Moana
in the east. -
It is easy to believe that Troina was
given up only after a savage battle in
which the mountainsides ran blood and
the Americans proved that they had be-
come veterans.
This victory and the advances of the
Canadians and the 78th to the south
and of the other sections of the Seventh
Army to the north along the coastal road
and rail, supported constantly by the U.S.
Navy, reduced the enemy territory to a
corner of the island about 45 miles
across, 50 miles long at the centre and
60 miles long on the eastern side.
Defences Begin tc Cave
At the week-end the western face of
this enemy defence arc began to cave in.
The Eighth Army broke the road and
rail block on the route round Etna, took
Aderno and swung in from the west to
within five miles of Randazzo, also fling-
ing a force round the seaward base of
Etna along the Acireale road from
Paterno, just outside the n.-w. environs of
Catania.
The Americans were held up in the
far north, west of the road between the
north coast and Troina, in very rough
country a little inland from S. Agata ;
but the Eighth Army drive to the south
had settled the Axis hash.
The country fronting the Allies is
rough, the 5500 ft. Mt. Sori and the
4800 ft. Mt. Cohe nestling to the left of
Etna’s 10,000 ft. peak; but the coastal
routes form the main key to the situation.
Unless the enemy could negotiate
these quickly and cross the Messina
Strait, now almost completely under
Allied control, it was certain by August
9 that he could be written off.
He has been tenaciously fighting skil-
ful delaying actions, resorting to all his
usual tricks of booby trap and minefield,
but these devices are familiar to the
sappers of the Eighth Army —among the
real heroes of the greatest fighting force
in the field with the greatest fighting
commander.
North Italy Bombed
To the heavy bombing of Naples and
the Calabrian toe the Allies added three
heavy bombings of Naples and a strong
Lancaster expedition from Britain to the
distracted cities of Milan, Turin and
Genoa, which for a time had something
else to think of besides the cause of Free
Italy and whether they should choose
Bolshevism or Badoglio.
Great damage was done in all three
places. Defence was reported to be
feeble and only two bombers were lost.
Axis Manoeuvres
Diplomatic and military-staff moves of
the week have been important. On
Wednesday, August 4, the Italian Cabinet
held its first full meeting, and there fol-
lowed the announcement that Italy would
fight on. Ribbentrop arrived in Rome.
Hitler held full-dress palavers with the
Great General Staff. Keitel conferred
with the Italian Chief of Staff, Ambro-
siano.
On the “authority” of “Popolo di
Roma’s” Geneva correspondent, Berlin
Radio alleged that President Roosevelt
had offered Italy an armistice on the
basis that armed forces should cease re-
sistance ; that collaboration with Ger-
many should cease immediately; that
Italian troops in other occupied countries
should be at once withdrawn ; that all
war material should be handed over to
the Allies, together with the fleet; that
an Allied military Government should be
established till the end of the war ; that
war criminals should be surrendered and
Allied prisoners freed.
Probably the Allies are not anxious to
negotiate for the moment. The clearing
of the enemy from Sicily and a landing on
Italian soil would greatly strengthen their
hands and accelerate negotiations.
Orel, Byelgorod, Kharkov.
“Ek Dum”; Orel fell at last, and its
fall was reported with a continuance of
the crude exaggeration, reeking of poli-
tics, and of the failure to relate events
in distant regions to their true causes
which have characterised the tales of
press and radio chroniclers.
The victories which gave the Americans
Palermo and the Eighth Army Catania,
cities three and four times the size of
Orel, and which doomed the hopes of
the Germans that Italy would hold out
were given second place. Nobody pointed
out the conjunction of events in Sicily
and in Russia.
Till after the day of the landing of the
Allies in Sicily the Germans had been


Divorce Notices.
TO ROBERT JOSEPH MALCOLM formerly
of Baxter in the State of Victoria Mechanic. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAISIE EDNA
MALCOLM has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of desertion UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Eighth day of
September 1943 the case may proceed in your
absence. —JOSEPH LYNCH, of 299 Bridge
Road, Richmond, in the said State, Solicitor
for the Petitioner, Maisie Edna Malcolm.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD BLOOM formerly of Griffith.
—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE MAY
BLOOM has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1516 of 1943 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the sth
day of November 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH Solicitor 133 Pitt Street Sydney. —
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
TO HAROLD CLARENCE FEBEY lately of
Brisbane in the State of Queensland whose
present whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that an action No. 21 of 1943 has
been commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Rockhampton by peti-
tion filed therein and writ of summons and
concurrent writ of summons issued thereout
on the Sixteenth day of June 1943 by ANNIE
GLADYS FEBEY wife of you the said Harold
Clarence Febey claiming a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of your deser-
tion and of your adultery and it has been
ordered that service of the said writ of summons
of the said concurrent writ of summons and
of the said petition on you by filing and sticking
up on the notice board in the Registry of the
said Court a copy of such writ of summons a
copy of such concurrent writ of summons and
an office copy of such petition and affidavit
verifying the same and a copy of the said order
and by forwarding to you by registered letter a
copy of such concurrent writ and an office copy
of such petition and affidavit verifying the
same care of MRS. NORMAN WEST 30
Amelia Street Bentleigh McKinnon Melbourne
Victoria and by publishing this notice once in the
Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published in Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales shall
be good and sufficient service of the said writ
of summons of the said concurrent writ of
summons and of the said petition upon you
If you desire to defend the said action you must
within sixty days from the date of the last act
done in compliance with the said order enter
an appearance at the said Registry and in de-
fault thereof the said Annie Gladys Febey may
by leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein
and judgment may be given against you in your
absence. DATED this Fifth day of July, 1943.
—(L.s.) F. J. RUSSELL, Registrar. REES R.
AND SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors, 178 Quay
Street, Rockhampton, Town Agents for R. L.
WEIR, Solicitor for the Plaintiff, Maryborough.
CD
am
driving two wedges in the Russian front
south of Orel and at Byelgorod, where
they penetrated the Russian positions in
an advance 20 miles deep. The Allies
made their landing in the Mediterranean.
On the day on which it was certain that
the British-Canadian-American bridge-
head was established Mussolini and Hitler
met for the last time.
That day the Russians began to go for-
ward and the Germans to go back. The
number of miles advanced in the Orel-
Byelgorod region was recorded daily by
excited correspondents. The Red Army
was represented as hurtling on in tremen-
dous battles which endangered the free-
dom of a hypothetical 250,000 enemy
troops in the spearhead at Orel, From
one point in the north-west where they
were supposed, at the beginning of the
battle, to be just over 35 miles from Orel,
they appear to have travelled 118 miles
to get to the city, which most correspon-
dents seem to confuse in importance with
Berlin.
When they arrived at it they, of course,
won “the greatest victory of the war,” as
they have always done to correspondents
whenever they have taken a sizable town.
Nobody seemed to see any connection
between the fact that the Allies had estab-
lished a Mediterranean bridgehead
threatening Germany’s southern ap-
proaches and the sudden switching of the
Germans from seemingly successful ad-
vance to defence.
“Reserves” Not “Used”
When Orel was reached it was not
fought for, save in a rearguard action
by (it was reported by Moscow) 50,000
men, whom a correspondent wiped out to
the last Hun. Said the Washington cor-
respondent of the New York “Times”:
“It is known that the Germans have
not used their reserves; this indicates
the possibility that the German with-
drawal from Orel may have been based
on political considerations.” At once the
enemy let go his hold on Byelgorod,
further south, scarcely fighting for it. It
was taken by two divisions.
Orel and Byelgorod the enemy had
begun to destroy a week before in the
rain which had poured down since the
Russian advance began. He left Orel
as he had left Stalingrad and Rshev —a
terrible tangle of burnt wreckage, from
which surviving inhabitants, who deserve
and receive the world’s pity, emerged. His
rearguard seems to have secured a passage
to the west —evidence of his claim that
the retreat was ordered and that he was
able to hold both flanks while retiring
out of a narrow salient. This in spite of
the fact that the Russians apparently
used five armies—those of Colonel-
Generals Popov, Sokolosky and Konev
and Generals Rokossovsky and Vatoutin,
totalling nearly 1,000,000 men—in the
operations north and south of the Orel-
Kharkov bulge.
The battle was accompanied by heavy
fighting further south —a diversionary
attack by the Germans and two Russian
drives, one north of Taganrog (Kuiby-
shevo), the other along the Donetz south
of Kharkov, during which it was once
again proved how little actually is known
about the position of the Russian front.
It was announced that the Russians had
captured Isyum —which was supposed by
the whole world of correspondents and
daily newspapers to be already in Rus-
sian hands.
Stalin’s Order
After the Orel victory Stalin issued an
order-of-the-day:
The Germans on July 5 began their
summer offensive from Orel and Byelgorod
in an attempt to encircle and wipe out our
troops in the Kursk salient and occupy
Kursk. Our troops, having repulsed all
enemy efforts to break through at Kursk,
went over to the offensive and occupied
Orel and Byelgorod exactly a month after
the German offensive began.
Stalin announced that the three rifle
divisions which broke into Orel would be
known in future as Orel divisions, and
that the Guards Division and two rifle
divisions which liberated Byelgorod—it
changed hands for the fourth time —
would become known as the Byelgorod
divisions.
German version:
The evacuation of the town of Orel,
which had been planned for some time, was
carried out in the course of shortening
our front during Wednesday night, and was
not hindered by the enemy. All our stores
were evacuated according to plan, and mili-
tary installations were completely destroyed.
Berlin Radio, which also drops into
politics when it is expedient, alleged next
day that the battle had been “the greatest
in history” and had cost the Russians
580,000 men, “killed, wounded and taken
prisoner,” and 7000 tanks. There was
nothing in German H.Q. communiques
to support this narrative. For the same
period (July 5-August 5) Moscow Radio
claimed 120,000 Germans killed and
12,418 taken prisoner, together with 5100
tanks destroyed or captured, over 2400
’planes shot down, 1632 guns and 11,000
lorries destroyed, and 875 guns, 2521
machine-guns and 352 supply dumps
captured.
Enemy on Defensive
The capture of Orel was important
mainly as removing the threat to Moscow
and as showing that, whatever the
enemy’s original intentions, his strategy
in Russia has become defensive since the
invasion of Sicily. The Orel horn was
of use only as an offensive spearhead.
For an army on the defensive it was an
embarrassment to hold.
It was here written nearly six months
ago (B. 17/2/’43):
The northern (Ukrainian) area from
Byelgorod to Orel is a fist at the end of
an eastward-flung arm It remains to be
seen whether an attempt will be made to
hold it. The main hedgehog in this area is -
well behind to the westward, at Bryansk.
The railway from Kharkov, via Bryansk
and Rosoch to Smolensk, Vitebsk and
Sokolniki, just behind Velikiye Luki, has
certainly been converted to German guage.
Retirement to this line from Orel would
again very greatly shorten the lines which
the Germans hold by pulling back a great
bulge. It is conceivable that Orel might
be abandoned for strategic reasons, but not
Bryansk; not Rosoch.
This is equally true today. It is very
heartening that the enemy has been
forced upon the defensive ; but the test
is only now beginning as to how far the
Russians can use their offensive power
and develop it, and whether the initiative
of the retreat is in the hands of the Ger-
mans or the Russians. This question
will not be settled until it is seen whether
the enemy fights for Kharkov and
Bryansk, and whether the Red Army
can break into the centre of the Donetz
industrial region. If it can do so the
developments will be of great signifi-
cance.
Meantime retreat in the region will
save the enemy large numbers of men
and considerable communication facili-
ties, and each mile he falls back throws
an extra burden on the Russians with
their long lines to the Urals and to the
sea. But the German High Command is
scarcely likely to reckon this advantage
worth while in the face of the loss of
moral advantage.
If it gives up even part of the industrial
Ukraine it will be under bitter compul-
sion.
Any serious break in the Donetz lines
might be followed by a long, swift re-
tirement beyond the Pripet marshes to
the positions laid down by the Schlieffen
Plan as those which presented the best
battlefield on which to meet the Russians.
Schlieffen envisaged fighting on ground
to which the German approaches were
unbroken by natural obstacles like the
marshes of the Pripet, Beresina and
Dnieper which would slice the Russian
line of advance.
“Kharkov Endangered”
After the Orel and Byelgorod affairs
events began to move with great swift-
ness. The Russians announced that they
had forced a salient north and north-
west of Kharkov, encircling and liquidat-
ing the garrison at Borisovka and driving
onwards to Zolochev, 25 miles north-west
of the big city, and Bogudukov, 45 miles
to the north-west, in the process cutting
the Sumy railway. This railway the Ger-
mans would have been expected to make
desperate attempts to keep intact if they
proposed to hold the Kharkov-Bryansk-
Smolensk line.
They have, however, seemingly made
no effort to hold these positions or to
slow up the Red Army drive further
south on the plain country towards Pol-
tava. In this respect their tactics are like
those which they pursued at the end of
the winter.
The swiftness of the Russian move-
ments is inconsistent with any German
resistance worth the name. Kharkov
seemed to be outflanked after three days
of the drive. The Russians’ advance took
them forward from 37 to 55 miles in that
period.
The same sort of thing was happening
on the Bryansk front, where the Russians
were reported as careering over country,
which they already were supposed to hold
at some points, at the rate of eight miles
or so a day.
Peculiar Developments
The advances were accompanied by
some peculiar propaganda developments.
As Orel fell, Moscow, dutifully copied by
Communist parties in other places, let
loose a barrage of demands for a Second
Front in France. It was asserted that
“the whole burden of the land war
against Hitler has been borne by the
U.S.S.R. for the past two years.” There
was a distinct note of criticism of the
Allies.
It was even asserted by “Moscow
News,” a paper produced in English
which was banned from Australia for its
anti-British sentiments in 1940, that
Sicilian successes were the complement of
Russian successes. The efforts of the
Allies in Africa were belittled with the
assertion that Axis forces there had con-
sisted only of four German and 10 Italian
divisions.
The same tone was taken in other quar-
ters with sneers at the Italians as fighters.
It was forgotten that in the sector north-
west of Stalingrad last year a German-
Italian army of about the same composi-
tion as that in Tunisia drove back Rus-
sian troops more than 120 miles across
the Don at a rate four times as fast as
that of the Russian advance on Orel in
the past few weeks. “Pravda,” Stalin’s
paper, declared that Britain and France
had broken their promise to open a
Second Front in France.
German Radio from Berlin echoed the
Russian charges throughout the week-
end, almost as if Berlin had turned Rus-
sian itself. It seemed to feel the failure
of the Allies to open a Second Front in
France as a personal grievance. At the
same time Berlin quoted from an alleged
order-of-the-day by Stalin, dated Feb-
ruary 16, assuring the Russians that the
objective of Moscow was still world
revolution.
Berlin reported that Mr. Roosevelt, Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Stalin were engaged
in a meeting to discuss the Second-Front
proposals or that a meeting was immi-
nent. Moscow Radio reported that Stalin
had left for the southern front.
Simultaneously, “War and the Work-
ing Class,” the official organ of the Rus-
sian trade-union movement, which of
yore was devoted to world revolutionary
propaganda, bitterly accused the Chung-
king Government of sending forces to
wipe out the Communist Fourth and
Eighth Armies. It declared that strong
factions among the Chinese favored a
compromise peace with Japan, and added
that a Chinese victory depended primarily
on whether General Chiang would be
“able to eliminate the threat of civil war
which will inevitably follow the persecu-
tion of the Communist Fourth and Eighth
Armies.”
In Washington the Russian attitude,
and particularly the “Pravda” charge,
produced what the Washington corres-
pondent of the New York “Times”
described as “heavy tremors.” He pro-
ceeded remarkably:
There are several reasons for the absence
of information concerning Russian affairs.
Admiral Standley has frequently asserted
that information is difficult to obtain in
Moscow. Russia has recalled both Wash-
ington and London Ambassadors.
Informed observers liken the present situ-
ation to that in 1939 when the Russo-
German pact was concluded. At any rate
there is a very unanimous feeling here that
the European scene is moving very rapidly.
Moscow reported considerable changes in
German diplomatic representation in
Japan and vice versa.
Conclusion
August operations furnish sound evi-
dence that Russian strength is being well
built up, and that the tables have been
turned against the invaders. If the Ger-
mans cannot support even a limited offen-
sive at the present stage they will be in a
bad way when the Allied effort in the
west has grown to full dimensions. Mean-
while, it would be wrong to forget that
the German border is still hundreds of
miles from the Russian lines.
In brief:
The R.A.F. gave Hamburg a final dressing-
over on the night of August 2. The city
had absorbed 10,000 tons of bombs in nine
days—23oo tons on July 24, 2300 tons on July
28, 2300 tons on July 29 and 1500 tons on
August 2 —all from R.A.F. heavies, with the
balance left in between by R.A.F. Mosquitoes
and U.S. Fortresses. On August 2, in the Ham-
burg and other raids, the R.A.F. lost 30
machines.
Stockholm newspapers declared that Ham-
burg police estimates made the statistics of the
raid casualties: 17,290 dead, 28,456 injured,
7200 missing, 372,000 (out of 1,000,000-odd)
homeless and 180,000 workless. There were
signs that civilians were being evacuated from
Berlin. The R.A.F. estimates that 3600 acres
of Hamburg were devastated.
British and U.S. bombers —more than 80 p.c.
British —dropped 12,000 tons of bombs on Gei-
many and occupied objectives in the last week
in July, and the R.A.F. Fighter Command
made 11,000 single-machine sorties.
Jfc % *
Of 177 U.S. Liberators which made a roof-
level attack on Ploesti (Rumania) oilfields and
refineries, 20 were shot down over the target,
an equal number are missing and eight were
forced down in Turkey. But substantial damage
must have been done.
*** , *
The Swedes have ended the arrangement
entered into in June, 1940, under which German
troops and materials to and from Norway were
allowed passage over Swedish railways. Hitler
forced it on them, and had to acquiesce in its
removal. Significant of the changed situation in
Europe, even if there may be nothing in reports
that the Nazis are withdrawing from Norway.
* * * *
An Australian Sunderland was reported on
August 6 to have fought off seven JuBB’s over
the Bay of Biscay. One Ju was probably de-
stroyed and others damaged. The Sunderland s
nose gunner, Flt.-Sergt. H. A. Bird, of
matta, was killed before the captain, F.O. B. A.
Williams, of Largs Bay (S.A.), sought the sheltei
of the clouds.
* * * *
On August 8 fell the anniversary of what the
Germans of last-war vintage described as their
Black Day; and it is a day immortal in the
annals of the A.I.F. To Germany it was also
a Schwarze Tag in the present war, though the
process of disintegration will probably be slower.
It was the day on which Berlin learned that
its U-boat campaign plans —“likely to prove a
vital, indeed the decisive, factor in the outcome
of the war”—had ignominiously failed.
Fresh U-boat plans which might operate in
six months’ time will be of little use to the
enemy—by the end of the year, come what
may, the Allied shipping position will be be-
yond ruin. The U-boats would have then to
sink quadruple their peak of destruction —
9,000,000 tons in 1942, according to their own
inflated estimate—to catch up to new building
within 1944. Berlin Radio’s U-boat h.q. spokes-
man said on August 4 that “for the present
the defence in the Atlantic has got the better
of us.”


t * * « ■ *r-«C;
0 * tv :>• (? £
♦«v
v-:.. .;# ss?&§
k rf»j
TOTALISATORS AND TOTAL WAR
The™ is over thirty years' experience in pre-
cision engineering behind the A.T.L. organisa-
tion. The highly skilled personnel and scientific
equipment which formerly produced the
myriads of intricate components comprised in
a Premier Automatic Totalisator are now con-
centrated on production of vital munitions.
Precision tools, gauges, aircraft components,
gun components, optical munitions, etc., are
produced by A.T.L. to limits as fine as .00001
of an inch.
When you think of precision engineering, pre-
cision tools or gauges think of
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
frUNEY ■ • MELBOURNE - - PERTH - ■ BRISBANE
Legal Notice.
MARTHA TRTPTREE late of 4 McGowan
Street Richmond in Victoria died intestate on
the 23rd September 1934’and the Public Trustee
of Victoria is administrator of her estate. JOHN
WILLIAM WEIR a brother of the deceased was
last heard of at Brunswick Victoria about the
year 1900.—WHEREAS the said JOHN WIL-
LIAM WEIR and/or his issue if any would be
entitled to share in the said estate if he and/or
his issue survived the said deceased NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that unless the Public
Trustee for Victoria receives a claim from the
said John William Weir and/or his issue or his
or their legal representatives before the expira-
tion of two calendar months from the date ot
this advertisement the Public Trustee proposes
to distribute the said estate as if the said John
William Weir had predeceased the said deceased
without leaving issue.—PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Aus-
tralia.
PLANNING YOUR NEW HOME
You need not be put ofl' an otherwise desirable locality just because it is not sewered.
Hygeia Dissolvenators overcome the disadvantage of living beyond reach of Ihe
sewerage system.
Tliey eliminate the nauseous closet pan and the sanitary man.
KO SMELLS. ISO PLIES. KO GERMS. NO EMPTYING.
Efficiency and longevity are fully guaranteed.
Can be installed in an ordinary building allotment.
WHY NOT ONE IN YOUR PRESENT HOME?
Write for illustrated pamphlet.
Price; family Size, £l9/3/6 Sydney. Crating, 10/9.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
36 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone: 81053. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Lid., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Caulfield (Vic.) track regulars are
unanimous in their opinion that
Skipton this spring will reproduce
the form that won him the Victoria
Derby and Melbourne Cup in 1941.
He has won only one race mean-
time, but trainer J. Fryer attributes his
loss of form to hurried preparations and
his strenuous campaign as a three-year-
old. Following a long spell, Skipton has
never looked better, and Fryer has ample
time to work on him. It is undecided
whether, like last year, he will contest
both Cups, but a return to his best form
would make him a big Melbourne Cup
danger with 9.2. He failed with the same
weight last year, but was below form,
and the w.f.a. scale allows for 51b. im-
provement. Skipton is one of the favo-
rites for the two-miler.
Melbourne horses nominated for im-
portant A.J.C. spring races were entered
on the off-chance of transport restrictions
being relaxed. If the unexpected did
happen it is probable Reception would
be on hand for the Epsom, Cloudless for
the Metropolitan and Pharisee for the
Derby. Pharisee, who looked unlucky
to lose the Ascot Vale Stakes on protest,
is one of Melbourne’s best colts, looks the
part, and is expected by his trainer to
stay. He will resume racing early next
month. Cloudless, an improving four-
year-old, has been relieved of recent en-
gagements because of soft tracks. He dis-
likes the wet, and his trainer would wel-
come an opportunity to take him to
Randwick for early spring racing.
El Golea, winner of the Newmarket
and £11,630 in stakes, will begin stud
duty this season. H. Macknamara, who
purchased him privately after El Golea
had failed to reach his reserve at auction,
intends to start a small stud on his Werri-
bee (Vic.) property. He will begin with
El Golea and several mares and fillies
bought by him in the last couple of
seasons. Macknamara previously was con-
cerned mostly with the breeding of high-
class dairy cattle. El Golea won over dis-
tances from six to 13 furlongs, and is a
magnificent type of horse who should be
a stud success if he receives the oppor-
tunities his record deserves.
* * * *
Epsom Handicap entrants include the
three-year-olds Moorland, Clarion Call,
Flight and St. Quentin. It is a hard race
for horses of that age, and it is improb-
able any of the four will greatly appeal
to backers. The last three-year-old win-
ner was Dare Devil (6.12) in 1892. So
far as the fillies engaged in the Derby are
concerned Flight is good—as a sprinter,
at any rate—but the race has not been
won by one of the sex since Picture in
1898, and Black Duchess, third in 1927,
was the last minor-place getter.
** l $ *
Two short races in a day do not
severely tax any fit horse. There may
have been others, but since Deemster
I cannot recall any having three runs
in ah afternoon at Randwick. In 1904
Deemster ran second in the Carring-
ton Stakes on the first day of Tatt.’s
meeting, and on the second day he
was third in. the Flying Welter, six
furlongs, and the New Year’s Gift, one
mile. Saddled up for his third race of
the afternoon, a mile welter, his previous
efforts told against him, and he ran
nowhere. Loch Marie won a Carrington
Stakes and, with only one race interven-
ing, a six furlongs welter, in which, with
11.9, she was ridden by W. Kelso.
E. Hush led the trainers in first
money in the Sydney area last season,
though not in number of winners. In
addition he had a good winner outside
the metropolis, Young Valais’s Cameron
Handicap at Newcastle being worth £650.
Hush has done well with Abspear, Dewar
and Young Valais, horses purchased
out of other stables. Abspear (five wins,
one second, two and a half thirds) con-
tributed £5867 10s. to Hush’s last sea-
son’s total; Dewar (two wins, one second,
one third), £1607 ; and Valais (two firsts,
one second, one third), apart from his
Newcastle win, £1094. Code won
£274.
* * * #
Though many racing men take it for
granted that Mayfowl will beat Flight
in the Hobartville Stakes, form does not
make that at all certain. At their first
meeting Flight gave Mayfowl 91b. and
a beating ; at their next, at seven fur-
longs, Mayfowl gave Flight 21b. and fin-
ished a head in front of her in the Sires’
Produce Stakes, Flight then won the
Champagne Stakes. In the Hobartville
Stakes Flight is in receipt of 51b. from
Mayfowl, and, while it is definite she is
really well, the latter may not be quite
so forward in condition, notwithstanding
that he is reported to be working parti-
cularly well at Rosehill. Flight may be
the better bet.
* * * *
Hard luck for owner J. C. Clark and
trainer F. McGrath that development of
lameness a few days ago puts Tidemark
out of action for the spring. A long
spell will be necessary, but as he is bred
to English time and was foaled in the
middle of February, 1939, Tidemark is
still six months short of being actually
five years old, and he has plenty of time in
which to do more racing when he recovers
from his present trouble.
* * * *
A.J.C. payments during the 1942-43
financial year included totalisator tax,
£98,668; Federal and State entertain-
ment taxes and one half the fees paid to
the club by bookmakers, £59,211. Other
items brought the club’s taxation pay-
ments up to £163,007. Sixty retired
trainers and jockeys received relief total-
ling £1895, and subsidies to country rac-
ing associations amounted to £lBO6.
Added money for 15 days’ racing during
the season was £79,590, sweepstakes in-
creasing the total distribution to £91,125.
The club’s total donations to patriotic
and war funds to the end of June totalled
£70,459 16s. sd. Profit for the last year
was £15,613 against the V.R.C.’s £14,691.
* * * $
The Queensland Combined Churches
Club refused a donation of £5O from
the Toowoomba Turf Club, which then
passed it along to the Salvation Army for
the benefit of troops in the front line.
*
Stipendiary control has cleansed rac-
ing in every country in which it has been
adopted. In Sydney some old-time
owners and trainers did with im-
punity things which few trainers of the
present day would scarcely dare con-
template, although some still take seem-
ingly greater risks than others and are
lucky. A friendly member of the
committee was a great asset in the
“good (?) old days.” It would be absurd
to suggest that racing is now absolutely
clean, but on the whole racegoers have
little cause for complaint, even though
some disappointed backers who have an
idea that horses should never vary their
form are always ready to declare they
“didn’t get a go.”
* * * *
The purchaser of Steadfast is evidently
not among those prejudiced against the
progeny of old mares, and in giving
2000gns. for that colt he has shown he
has no fears regarding the outlook of
racing in Australia. The colt’s first run
in his colors was disappointing, but he
may yet get a well-deserved return.
Some buyers are averse to young-
sters from dams over 13 years,
but Steadfast’s dam, Lady Constance,
was 17 when she threw him. Several
youngsters that won in Sydney during
the recent season are from compara-
tively old mares. High Ho was 15
when Clarion Call was foaled, Hero-
winkie 16 when she threw West Point
and Lambent 13 when Flight made her
appearance. Modiste II threw Mac-
Arthur at 15, and Gladioli foaled Bronze
Orchid at 14, at which age Chelone threw
Annie Laurie. On the other hand, Grey
Port was six when Mayfowl was foaled,
and Gneiss seven when she threw War
Eagle. Tennessee was thrown by My
Treasure when she was seven, and Code
was foaled when Heroic Belle was nine.
* * # *
Six-year-old gelding Rakanui (Hunting
Song-Golden Opportunity) is Maori-
land’s greatest earner this season, his
total of £4480 putting him £195 ahead of
Kindergarten. The Joker, engaged in
the Melbourne Cup, has won £4200, and
Maoriland’s leading three-year-old Lord
Chancellor (Mr. Standfast-Administra-
tion) £3300. His wins include the Great
Northern St. Leger (Auckland), and it
will interest those who believe in debar-
ring geldings from classic races to learn
that he is one of the unsexed division.
He is so described in “N.Z. Raceform,”
and no doubt that is correct. Reverting
to Rakanui he would appear to be next
to Kindergarten in Maoriland. In the
Parliamentary Handicap, 11 furlongs, at
Wellington last month he was weighted
at 10.12 (minimum 7.7) to the 9.9 of
Amorlad, who has 8.11 in the Melbourne
Cup. Neither started.
* * * «
The indications are that the “two
Cups” double will not be productive of
great interest in Sydney this year. En-
tries from this State for each race are
numerous, but doubt as to removal of the
ban on transport will spoil business.
It will be a case of betting on a treble —
the first leg being whether the selected
horse sees Melbourne.
* * M=
The tote turnover at Belmont Park
(New York) on May 31 (Suburban Han-
dicap day) was $2,699,153 (£A820,990),
a record for America. There was an
attendance of a little over 47,000. New
York State announced that it received
$1,876,987 (a little over £560,900) from
the 21 days’ meeting in tote taxes.
Miscellaneous
Over 50,000 turned out for the five
V.F.L. games in Melbourne on Satur-
day, about a third of them going to
Essendon to watch the leaders play their
most serious opponents, Fitzroy. The
’Dons bolted away in the third quarter,
slamming on a long tally of behinds to
win 11.24-8.8. Carlton beat Hawthorn,
13.19-10.15, in a rough finish, Collingwood
drubbed North Melbourne, 14.24-7.8,
“Sowth” did the same to Melbourne,
21.13 to 9.6, and the disappointing
Footscray was soundly beaten by Rich-
mond, 19.19-7.17. It looks as though
nothing short of a blitzkrieg can take the
pennant from Essendon.
V * * *
Manly avenged the only defeat in-
flicted on it in this season’s Rugby Union
when it routed University 19-6 on Satur-
day. University now drops into fifth
place ; Manly, East, Randwick and West
are at present “the four.” Other
matches:
East 27, Gordon 3; Randwick 24, North 14;
West 14, St. George 3 ; Drummoyne 28, Parra-
matta 20.
* * *
Matched with Max Cameron at Leich-
hardt Tommy Colteaux didn’t shape like
a middleweight champion. Cameron’s
clean punching and the more experienced
pug’s illegal work gave Cameron at least
eight of the 12 rounds. Weakening,
he was down in the ninth, as much
from a throw as a blow, and was floored
twice by right swings in the twelfth. But
he was still ahead on points, and there
were impassioned, though unavailing,
protests against the decision for Colteaux.
A victim of bad matchmaking, Jim
Fraser never had a chance against Bob
Fuller at the Sydney Stadium, and in the
seventh round a police inspector signi-
fied that he had seen enough. Fraser was
game, but Fuller bobbed away from
every solid blow shot at him, and Jim
seemed to be there only on sufferance
after the first round.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Domineer, 1 ;
Valiant Garde, 2 ; Kookaburra, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Den-
ton, 1 ; The Swell, 2 ; Kurranulla or
Steadfast, 3.
Flying Handicap: Martheus, 1 ;
Irish Sea, 2 ; Industry, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Neta Lin-
ette, I ; Salivant, 2; Jymjon, 3.
Hightweight Handicap: Tah-
moor, 1 ; Air Link, 2 ; Fervent or
Orderly, 3.
Brighton Handicap; Beau Timide,
1 ; Lord Neith, 2 ; Era or Kimbell,
3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
If this weren’t war-time the Town Hall
last Friday night would have gone com-
pletely gala. As it was, flags, a rainbow
of floodlighting across the organ loft and
immense bowls and pots of flowering
peach made a bright show. The occasion
was the concert of American music,
named on the programme “American
Rhapsody” and on the tickets “Symphony
in Blue.” The stage had a populated
look, because, in addition to 45 players
from the A.B.C. Symphony Orchestra,
there were 30 additional members.
There wasn’t an empty seat in the
house. The American colony, plus Aus-
tralian friends, seemed determined that
the new kitchen at the American Centre
will be super. That’s where the funds
are going. Allied and Australian service
men —240 of them—sat together in the
body of the hall. They were the guests
of the Centre.
In spite of the couponed era there was
the murmur of fine clothes in the atmo-
sphere. Fur coats were rich and not rare
(though, of course, most of them had
been bought before the war bolts fell).
Most of the frocks beneath them were
street-length afternoon frocks, but occa-
sionally the swish of long skirts was
heard.
The audience seemed to enjoy the con-
cert. After all, there is a brisk feeling
in now and then emerging from the dim
arcades of the classics and stepping into
the storm or sun of the street of today.
Leith Stevens, the conductor, received his
plaudits with a flashing smile, showing
good American teeth. Strella Wilson,
who had flown from Melbourne, wore
deep Madonna blues in contrast to
her fair coloring. Isador Goodman
was the pianist, Harold Williams
the baritone. Lord Wakehurst came
with daughter the Hon. Henrietta
Loder. The Consul-General for the
U.S.A., Ely Palmer, and his wife were
notables in the official party. Mrs. C. L.
Jones’s fur jacket and slim black frock
and Rada Penfold Hyland’s orchids won
comment.
Actor John Stacey, who has played so
many parts at the Minerva, chose St.
Mark’s at Darling Point when Amelita
Jorio became his bride. John, who
is a son of Dr. H. S. Stacey, of
Double Bay, was in the R.A.A.F. till
last year, when he was discharged as
medically unfit. Amelita is a Melbourne
girl, and, following the afternoon cere-
mony and the wedding party at the Her-
mitage in Angel-place, she and her
’groom faced the colder south without
a shudder. John is playing in “My Sister
Eileen” at the Comedy in the Victorian
capital. The E. J. Taits, the Bowdens,
Jane Connolly and Edwin Styles were a
few of the wedding guests. John will be
remembered as Marie Ney’s leading man
in “Ladies in Retirement” and as Banjo
in “The Man Who Came to Dinner.”
Bride contrasted an outsize in silver fox
muffs with a turquoise ensemble.
An America behind the America of the
movies and the glitter of Broadway
opened out when Mrs. H. V. Evatt, wife
of the Minister for External Affairs,
gave her broadcast on the war effort of
American women. Her words called up
a picture of women in uniform stead-
fastly and efficiently helping their various
services; of women on the industrial
and home fronts. Wives and mothers
there as well as those in England and
Australia are planning meals and trying
to make them as nourishing and appetis-
ing as ever without little luxuries once
deemed essential to the well-balanced
menu.
The civic treasure chest is to be un-
locked, and the complete outfit of new
flags which the Town Hall has ordered
will be handed over to the Red, White
and Blue Ball committee. They will
flutter around the Town Hall for the first
time, it is said, on October 22, and the
effect should be crisp, clean and colorful.
The first meeting at the Australia last
week got off to a good start with
the announcement that 250 tickets had
already been asked for. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax is the chairman, Mrs. Colin
Wyatt the secretary, Stella James the
treasurer and Mrs. G. Killen and Mrs.
Bernays the organisers. Mrs. J. W. Kidd,
in charge of the Ministry of Food at
the Y.W. Open House, will see to
the supper. Mrs. Frederick O’Gorman
Hughes is ticket secretary.
Secretly hugging hammer, chisel, string
and screwdriver, members of the selec-
tion committee of the Society of Artists’
show will descend on the Education De-
partment Galleries on August 11 and 12.
A lurking detective might almost be justi-
fied in arresting any one of them as a
potential Dr. Clitterhouse on burglary
bent. But this year, with no help obtain-
able, the committee has to hang the
entries—and there threatens to be almost
a record in numbers. Private-view day
is Friday, the 13th, but the opening skips
the dread date, and will be done by
Consul-General for the U.S. Ely Palmer
on the Saturday.
For the first time in the history of art
shows, four galleries will send directors
and representatives. Sydney, Melbourne,
Perth and Brisbane should find their
gallery walls the richer.
Airgraph mail a week or so ago included
a letter from Sydney’s old friend Margaret
Baxter, who with unfailing spirit writes
from her cottage in Surrey “We are all
well and thriving under Lord Woolton’s
provision for our daily needs.” Then
comes the item that is of intense interest
to every woman in England: “Our
chickens are providing us with the luxury
of new-laid eggs.”
While one half of the world is busy
spilling blood the other half is eagerly
offering its veins to be broached to even
things up a bit. In two years 44,000
donors have enrolled in the N.S.W. Red
Cross Blood Transfusion Service, and
have given 95,000 pints to the blood
bank. The gore of beauty, wealth and
power and of just the ordinary citizen
in serum form is then divided, accord-
ing to requirements, among the Army,
the Navy and the Air Force. Major R.
J. Walsh, director of this service, told
at last week’s R.C. Divisional Council
meeting that many hundreds of litres of
whole blood have been sent to New
Guinea. This reaches surgical units 24
hours after it has left the veins of the
givers.
Last Thursday morning in the ball-
room of Merioola Dutch dancers Darya
Collin and Edmee Monod held rehearsal
of the new dances they have arranged for
their recital in aid of the Red Cross.
New costumes for the dances have been
designed by artist Elaine Haxton, and
are very light and gay. Ballerina
Tchinarova fashioned them, and she and
Elaine are pleased with the results,
though tracking down the fabrics and
shades required amid depleted war-time
stocks had them now and then almost in
despair.
Of the four or five costumes designed
for Edmee that for “The Little Turk”
(music by Mozart) met the flashing gaze
of admiration last week. Its draped pink
trousers are topped by a black-and-white
jacket, the sleeves lined with lime-green.
Darya, who has a fine array of her
costumes from Paris, has only one new
creation. This is for her Danse Exotique
(Erik Satie), which will probably appear
on the programme as “The Flower
Dance.” It is inspired by a Sumatran
ceremonial in which native girls make
great play with candles. Darya replaces
the candles with two great and burning
hibiscus blossoms. The first performance
will be given on August 18 at the Con.
Lord and Lady Gowrie and Lord and
Lady Wakehurst will be in the audience.
Second performance at the same address
will be on August 26.
After these recitals the dancers will go
to Melbourne to open a season arranged
by J. C. Williamson. Audrey Barron,
Westralian pianist of 19 or so, will make
her first appearance in Sydney as the
team’s soloist and accompanist.
Once again Vaila Pender and Marion
Tennent will be associate artists with the
A.B C. Sydney Symphony Orchestra in a
performance of Saint Saens’s “Carnival
of Animals” at the children’s concert at
Sydney Town Hall. Bernard Heinze will
conduct the orchestra. These young
pianists are both pupils of Lawrence God-
frey Smith, and have given joint recitals
to entertain soldiers. Vaila Pender is
at present engaged in national service
work at Sydney University, and Marion
Tennent, daughter of Dr. Tennent, of
Killara, is teaching music at Kambala
School.
From Melbourne
Snatches of Keats’s “St. Agnes Eve,”
“ah, bitter chill it was,” rose last week
to the lips of travellers to the city, who
on reaching its confines beheld roofs
white with snow —or hail. In a few
minutes the vision had vanished. Quite
unmistakable snow was reported from
outer suburbs, and record hunters dug up
the fact that the last time snow fell here
was in 1899. Fur was the order of the
week for those who possessed such
garb, with woolly scarves and gloves in
the ascendant. The very young, sporting
Red Ridinghood peaked bonnets, looked
like a lot of Disney’s gnomes. However,
the bitter winds didn’t discourage the
blossom trees and primroses that are now
coming out everywhere.
Betty Gray (baptismally, Diana Mar-
garet), pictured here by Spencer Shier,
recently became engaged to Pilot-Officer
Bruce Bretherton, R.A.A.F. Her fiance
is abroad, so the “yes” went by cable.
Daughter of Captain and Mrs. T. L.
Gray, Pinehill, Hawthorn, Betty is in
training at Melbourne Hospital after see-
ing quite a bit of Europe before the out-
break of war. Pilot-Officer Bretherton,
son of Mrs. A. W. Bretherton, of this city,
and the late Dr. Bretherton, was a medi-
cal student at Melbourne Uni. before
joining the R.A.A.F.
Few wanderers in the region of the
Block can resist the urge to pop around
to see the latest salvage in the A.C.F.
Curiosity Shop in Manchester Unity
Arcade. Interest is stimulated by the fact
that coffee and home-made biscuits can
be absorbed while looking at the newest
exhibits. Beads and brooches, organisers
say, can always be relied on to go
quickly. Unusually attractive bedside
lamps are a feature of the shop, but have
to be snapped up pronto if spotted. A
coronation model, with crown-shaped
pottery base and royal insignia on the
shade, was among recent offerings in this
line. Supplies of goods for the shop keep
up in an amazing way, probably because
everyone gets tired in time of some of
their own possessions and can cheerfully
pack them off to do their bit for the war
effort.
Though it’s a common complaint that
Australia is unmindful of her own literary
lights, Ernestine Hill seems to have no
cause to grumble. Would-be buyers of
her novel My Love Must Wait, based on
the life of Matthew Flinders, are politely
told that stocks are sold out, but they
may put themselves on the list for the
next edition. It’s likely that the subject
has something to do with ii, as the young
midshipman-explorer is a decidedly
gallant figure, and a filling-out of the
portrait was long overdue.
A rather belated ceremony declared
the Y.M.C.A. and Comforts Fund Leave
Hostel, Meriden, officially open. The
deed was done by Lord Mayor Nettle-
fold with congratulatory words. The
hostel is an attractive pillar-fronted old
place with a honeycomb of rambling
passages and small cosy rooms inside,
ideally suited to the purpose, as the dor-
mitory idea can be avoided. Rather lavish
furnishings which were taken over with
the house are calculated to make service
women feel as far away from the sound
of the bugle as possible for their short
leaves. Inter-State girls are naturally the
most frequent visitors.
Women journalists who keep the
shelves of Air Force House library
stocked with readables found their num-
bers decidedly decreased when they met
last week, owing to war work and the
services taking so many of their members.
The good work still goes on, however,
and the supply of books is being kept up
to standard. Losses from the shelves are,
of course, heavy, particularly among the
more popular books, but that is expected.
It is realised that books spirited away to
distant stations are probably doing as
good a job as those that stay on the
shelves of Air Force House.
In pursuance of its mission to increase
the supply of Florence Nightingales the
Nursing Advisory Committee went into
solemn conclave with the Headmistresses’
Association last week. The committee
proposes that, with the co-operation of
headmistresses, schools should instruct
girls in the basic essentials of a nursing
career. If this is done it is thought that
not only will girls be easier to train if
they do take up nursing, but the school
course will create enthusiasm for the pro-
fession. From the schools’ angle there
is a feeling that the plan will help to
popularise domestic science courses,
which to date, in spite of expensively-
equipped kitchens, are not popular with
the average schoolgirl.
The woman with no particular skill at
guessing the weight of the prize bull or
the number of peas in a pint bottle finds
the scheme of selling vegetables by weight
somewhat confusing. There is a general
feeling among carrot buyers, for instance,
that they are doing rather badly by the
new system, as carrots are so darned
heavy. Apart from that, the buying-by-
the-pound system usually means being
forced to take more than is needed,
because bits can’t be chipped off cab-
bages or cauliflowers to make up a set
number of pounds.
Under the guidance of Harold Clapp’s
lady plans are well in hand for the presen-
tation of Dutch dancers Darya Collin
and Edmee Monod for the first time in
this city. Red Cross funds will reap the
financial rewards of the show, which will
be staged at the Comedy on September 7.
The two describe their sphere as “syn-
thetic ballet,” a term which has signi-
ficance in Europe but is new to local
balletomanes. Apparently the idea is a
blending of the classical and the modern.
Valerie Purves is attending to radio pub-
licity, and the Dutch community is giving
its help, too, under the leadership of the
Baroness von Aersen.
Netherlanders have an enviable reputa-
tion with organisers of aid for good
causes in this city. They still give en-
thusiastic support and show a great will-
ingness to put shoulders to the wheel on
behalf of any community effort, though
they have their own service men to think
of in these times. The Baroness von
Aersen, wife of the Netherlands Minister,
is a well-known figure at all patriotic-
cause gatherings and much in demand as
a speaker at social functions. Melbourne
will miss her when the Dutch Legation
takes up its quarters in Canberra.
The raising of the age of entrance to
Melbourne University and toughening up
of the requirements for embarking on the
scholastic life have met with general
approbation. Educationists seem to agree
that uni. life is better appreciated by the
more mature than by the young, which is
probably true. Headmistresses of girls’
schools pointed out that the difference
between 16 and 17 years of age is negli-
gible. The headmistress of Corowa
C.E.G.G.S. has complained that entrance
to the University was being narrowed
down to a small range of subjects,
students not being encouraged to widen
their cultural horizons.
Married at the Grammar School
Chapel, Corio, on Saturday, Gwen
Brown, baptismally Gwenllian Netta,
second daughter of the Charles Browns,
of Geelong, to Flight-Lieut. Geoffrey
Reeve, D.F.C., R.A.A.F. Bridegroom is
eldest son of Mrs. H. Reeve, of New-
town, and the late G. N. Reeve. Gwen,
who has been helping stem the staff short-
age by taking a job in the family firm,
had sister Heather, in the W.R.A.N. Ser-
vice, as bridesmaid. Her maternal uncle
is Air Vice-Marshal Adrian Cole, and
the family has other links with the Air
Force.
At the latest symphony concert women
members of the Philharmonic Society s
choir provided the voices of the sirens
in Debussy’s “Nocturne” with unusual
effect. The full choir sang in an excerpt
from Borodin’s “Prince Igor.” In the
last twelve months this city seems to have
been treated at orchestral concerts to
a great deal of choral music, in peace-
time days rarely heard outside small
societies’ performances and at the Easter
and Christmas festivals when Bach and
Handel were given an airing.


y
y
/
%
m
i
m
t
m<
m
m
V/
<^j
W-
\
im
/
y
\
T he Army’s Meals
are cooked in STEEL
Wherever they are, in spite of supply difficulties, in spite of enemy
action, regular meals must be cooked for the men who fight. That’s
the responsibility of the army cooks . . . and cheerfully they face it.
They’re helped, of course, by the army’s steel cooking gear—strong
enough to withstand the rigours of a campaign and keep always on
the job. CRMCO Steel sheets are used for these vital items of an
army’s equipment . . . the same steel which is used in tanks and
guns and bombers, in marine mines and aerial bombs and ammuni-
tion boxes. Those things are important, of course, but so are the
cooking gear, the dixies, the water-bottles, which serve less spectacu-
lar but equally vital purposes. Fighting and feeding . . . the army
relies on steel . . . CRMCO steel.
CnmumweaStii
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
CIS-4S
Obituary Notice.
HENDERSON—WILLIAM GRAHAM HEN-
DERSON, 79 years. Died at Atherton, North
Queensland. Beloved father of Mrs. F. J.
Maxwell, Mrs. J. C. Hough, Mrs. J. P. Mc-
Carthy, Miss Isa Henderson.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IF FLORRIE KEAN, a niece of GEORGE
PURVEY GELLEY, late of Buckland, in Tas-
mania, Farmer, deceased, will communicate
with the undersigned she will learn of some-
thing to her advantage.—TlNNlNG, PROP-
STING, MASTERS & SOLOMON, 158 Collins
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Solicitors to the
estate of the said deceased.
WOULD the person who drove an injured lady
from George Street, near Wynyard station, at
10.45 a.m. on Wednesday, the 17th March, 1943,
to the Wahroonga Sanitarium please communi-
cate with the undersigned.—TlETYENS, Mc-
LACHLAN & CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place,
Sydney. Telephone, BW 1358.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
BRANDAEJERS
fs
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a bxakdaube a 00, i**~ sixiuxohah. kh*
SMOKE-OH!
“After the last tax increase many men made
up their minds to give up smoking. What will
they do if there is another increase?” — “Truth.”
Make up their minds to give up smok-
ing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Joan’s mother had always impressed on her
that her dark hair looked most effective against
a light background.”— Magazine story.
And Joan remembered that tip until
the day she dyed.
4* 4- 4* 4>
“The patient had no appetite, and his scanty
meals were invariably followed by pain and dis-
comfort.” — Medical report.
We’ve lived in that sort of a boarding-
house, too!
Memory Training.
How to remember ’phone numbers:
You should begin by systematically en-
deavoring to recollect the number you
wish to remember. Suppose it is 881286.
You get the first B by thinking of the
landlord. That gives you a start. The
second B can be arrived at by saying the
alphabet back to front until you come to
the twenty-fifth letter. The 1 is, of course,
easy. Just think of half of 2. Then
think of the 2 without halving it. The
remaining 86 may be conjured up by
thinking of any number, adding 86, then
subtracting the number first thought of.
Simple, isn’t it?
Nat.
4* •{* 4* *l*
“W.A.A.A.F.’s Part in Air Offensive.”
— Woman’s paper.
Telling their husbands off?
. 4* 4* 4* 4*
No baths m many homes.” — “Daily Min or.”
Saturday nights don’t mean a thing
there!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Brilliance.
“Young pianist’s talent.” — “Sunday Sun.”
“Oh, yes, my young son’s very talented.
He plays the piano, you know.”
“Plays it well, eh?”
“No, as a matter of fact, he plays
mostly wrong notes, but”
“Oh, well, that’s to be expected in one
so young, I suppose.”
“Of course. And a kid as talented as
he is won’t give up easily”
“Doesn’t it get on your nerves at all?”
“Drives me nearly barmy. But he’s
the smartest kid in the world.”
“Just dying for him to be an accom-
plished pianist, eh?”
“Great Scott, no! I want him to be
an athlete. And this piano practice is
marvellous training. That kid can run
so fast that not one of our neighbors
has yet managed to hit him with any-
thin § ! ” O’Hell.
►l* v 4* 4*
“ ‘Look! What’s that?’ cried Daphne, clutch-
ing Cunningham’s arm.”— Short story.
Probably a two-and-elevenpenny cauli-
flower.
4* 4*
“Medical survey committee complains that
in one hospital seven nurses were housed in
a converted aviary.”
No wonder they complained of feeling
seedy.
Problem.
Since I am a Realist,
And you’re an Idealist,
And Joe is a Pragmatist,
Why do we three
Who are so much at strife
In our views upon life
All cherish hamburger
With eggs for our tea ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Not Included.
“Eighty thousand see football.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
I go exactly five feet three.
Some people’s silly size I blame.
For what with rushing, crushing.
Swearing, glaring.
Snapping, scrapping.
Getting damned, jammed and slammed,
All I could screw were a few
(Back view )
Of the eighty thousand who saw the
game.
LOOBY.
The New BUI Sikes.
“A young girl whom two London burglars
tied to a chair with their neckties and, when
she resisted, hit her with a lead pipe received
in hospital a telegram from them saying ‘Ter-
ribly sorry. It wasn’t intended but was inevit-
able when you made such a commotion.’ ”
As Plantaganet de Vere flicked a speck
of dust from his lavender spats with a
silk handkerchief, he bent a look of mild
reproach upon his partner in crime. “Ai
say, old egg,” he protested. “Ai wish
you would be more careful. The beastlay
dust from that jollay old drawer you’re
rummaging through is coming over heah
in a fraightful cloud.”
Algernon FitzMorency pushed his bell-
topper back from his forehead and
straightened up “Devastatingly sorray,
old fruit,” he replied ; “but Ai was quaite
carried away with enthusiasm. Ai
thought Ai had come upon the ducal
gems hidden heah, but they proved to be
onlay worthless geegaws and ballay what-
not. Quaite a beastlay fag this search-
ing, what?”
But Plantaganet was running his long,
slender, manicured fingers over the well-
filled bookcase. Then his eye gleamed
and he pulled out a vellum-bound book.
“Bai jove!” he exclaimed. “Jollay old
Ovid, what! Remembah when we had
to swot him in old Crowther’s sixth form
—‘then the omnipotent Fathah with his
thundah made Olympus tremble,’ and so
forth. Gad! Clevah old boy, Ovid,
though dash mai if Ai could evah make
out what he meant. Eheu, fugaces
labuntur anni!” He sighed. “Jollay old
times, eh, Algy? But let us to owah
muttons, as the ballay old French have
it. Ai have an ideah the wall safe is”
Algy held up a gloved hand elegantly.
“Hush,” he whispered. “Some blightah
approaches. Extinguish the laight, Plan-
taganet.”
As the two cracksmen stood silent in
the darkened room footsteps stopped at
the door. There was a click, and the
room was flooded with light. It was
Meadows, the butler. “ ’Go’s there?” he
asked hoarsely. Then, catching sight of
the two figures, “Ar, swell mobsmen,
eh? The police’ll”
It was Plantaganet who socked him
with the spiked club. As he fell Meadows
hit a pedestal, and the vase which stood
upon it crashed in pieces. As Plantaganet
straightened up after a swift examination
of the fallen disturber of their nefarious
work he looked at Algy. “Bai jove, Ai
shouldn’t have followed through with that
shot—it’s the old polo training. Ai’ve
settled him. Beastlay luck for the Duke
—Ai believe he was quaite attached to
the blightah in his own way. Gad, the
loss of that Sevres vase will distress him,
definitely. Ai think it would be good
form if we informed the old boy, what?
Ai saw by the papahs he’s staying with
the Van Stuyvings at Park-avenue whaile
he’s visiting Americah.”
Next morning the pair were early at
the cable office. The message they sent
read;
Your Grace: While engaged in pilfer-
ing your town residence last evening we
inadvertently caused your esteemed butler
to break your Sevres vase. We are deeply
grieved at its destruction and assure you
it was entirely fortuitous and in the circum-
stances unavoidable. Your butler’s station-
ary bean came in contact with a swiftly-
moving implement which we fear was
wielded with more muscular enthusiasm
than finesse, in consequence of which
Meadows is now non est. Frightfully sorry
and all that rot. We sincerely trust the
receipt of these tidings does not unduly
incommode you, nor spoil your, we trust,
pleasant vacation.
“Bai jove!” said Algy, “That comes
to £27 10s. and we got only a mouldy
£l2 for last naight’s work!”
For the second time Plantaganet turned
a reproachful look upon his partner in
crime. “Noblesse- oblige, Algy, old top,”
he said. “As old fellow-Harrovians it
would scarcely have been cricket not to
have informed the old boy, what?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Fractional Wages
The recent rise of 2s. a week in the
basic wage means, for a 44-hour week,
a rise of six-elevenths of a penny an hour
—another headache for timekeepers and
wages clerks, already battling with a com-
plex tangle of fractional hourly rates in-
volving elevenths, twenty-seconds and
forty-fourths.
Half the time spent in the compilation
of fortnightly paysheets could be saved
if “to the nearest farthing” were made
the accepted and lawful practice, no small
consideration in these days of man-power
shortage when man-hours are more
precious to the country than money.
The sums involved in adhering to these
fractional rates are small. Six-elevenths
of a penny an hour is a rise of 2s. a
week ; treated for practical purposes as
id. an hour the weekly increase would be
Is. 10d. —an annual sacrifice by the wage-
earner of Bs. Bd. ; treated as -Jd. an hour
(supposing we decide to work to the
nearest farthing upwards, to the workers’
benefit), the weekly rise becomes 2s. 9d.
—leaving the employer £1 19s. a year
worse off.
Is anyone prepared to swear that the
cost of living can be so accurately com-
puted that the rise is exactly represented
by 2s. a week and not by Is. lOd. or
2s. 9d.?
How many workers can be sure that
their wages are right when they receive
their pay envelopes every second Friday?
They might have a chance of checking
them if wage-rate fractions were confined
to simple farthings and ha’pennies. Only
a qualified man of figures can handle the
calculation of wages in these days, what
with fractional rates, income tax instal-
ments and what not.
All these considerations apart, whet
sort of pass have Capital and Labor come
to when hairs have to be split in assessing
the value of an honest servant’s toil?
Ethically, as well as practically, it is time
we took a tumble to ourselves and intro-
duced a little commonsense and humanity
into the wages business. —H. S. T.
(N.S.W.).
Jews in the Kimberleys
I am not discussing what Jews may
have done in Palestine, “WX5918” (B.
7/7/’43) or even in the U.S.S.R., but
this I do know about Australia. For
well over a hundred years the Jew has
had the freedom of this continent on
terms of absolute equality.
There has been no obstacle against his
buying land. City land he has
acquired in large quantities. But, though
1 have lived 60 years, I have yet to meet
an Australian Jewish farmer, or even to
hear of one. Nor have I ever met one
of the Chosen doing manual labor.
As a race the Jew is remarkably
clever, much too clever to enter into
primary production while other vastly
more lucrative callings are open to him.
Such callings are not open to him in
Palestine, so perforce, as he is there
largely as a refugee, he has to return to
the ways of his remote ancestors.
From the Kimberleys, however, he
would see spread across the horizon one
of the most moneyed communities on
earth, composed largely of “mugs.” What
would keep him there —triple barb-wire
fences and a chain of armed border
guards? We want nothing like that in
Australia.
Let the Jew come, to the limit of his
quota, but to “settle” 50,000 of him
in the north would mean the starting of
an anti-Semitic movement in Australia
that would prove a curse to this young
country.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Waste Australia
Another gloomy professor, this time
in Melbourne, has announced that Aus-
tralia can’t carry much more population
than it has at present because it is two-
fifths desert (B. 28/7/’43). Even around
Melbourne you have only to take a look
out of a railway carriage window to see
how fertile land is squandered. Italy
could give us a lesson in this direction.
In the districts around Naples, now the
focus of the Allied invasion, cultivation
is so thorough that even stony sea cliffs
round Sorrento have been terraced.
Olives, vines, every kind of fruit-tree
grow in profusion, in many cases on soil
that has been carted into position.
Around Melbourne there is no need to
go as far as that. There are miles of
river flat which carry a few cows and a
few old, pensioned-off draught horses, but
are capable of intense cultivation. There
are creeks along which millions of gallons
of water flow to join the Yarra on its
journey to Port Phillip which in more
restricted lands would have been dammed
or diverted and used for irrigation. The
land is held by people too old or too dis-
interested to do anything with it, or it has
been held for generations to get inflated
suburban values. In the meantime Gov-
ernments pour out money to open up
less attractive districts. This state of
affairs is reproduced in hundreds of
other places.
It is useless to expect a remedy at the
hands of boards and commissions
appointed by the people who produced
the problems that are to be solved. —
Bumpkin (Vic.).
Squalid Country Towns
Drabness and squalor seem to be the
principal characteristics of the average
Australian country town. Travelling by
train from Sydney out west or to Vic-
toria one cannot help but notice the
dreary monotone of the skimpy platforms
and shanty-like weatherboard structures
which comprise the railway stations. Un-
like American country centres, there is
little or no active competition among
rural towns —the sort of competition that
is one great incentive to promote pro-
gress and, subsequently, prosperity.
Railway stations which obscure almost
all of the township, such as it may be,
that lies to the rear are an eyesore, and
certainly no inducement for the traveller
“This short-cut will get us to the pub before the beer runs out.”
to explore farther than the railway gate.
No attempt is made to cultivate even a
small park or worth-while approach to
the town, despite the fact that thousands
of unoccupied acres lie in the surround-
ing four points of the compass.
In Sydney’s North Shore electric-line
stations Lindfield, Roseville, Pymble, with
their well-tended flower-beds, urban com-
munities have an excellent example of
correct “first impression.”—P. S. Irving
(N.S.W.).
Disappointed
Possibly the greatest disappointment I
have had in my fairly extensive reading
was when I settled down to the 1942
Coast to Coast. I missed the 1941 book,
but after reading the glowing review of
the 1942 edition in The Bulletin I
bought it. And then my disappointment
started.
Admitting the excellent construction
of most of the stories, why the introduc-
tion of definitely dirty matters in certain
of them? They make the book unsuit-
able for general reading. When I bought
it I intended to pass it on to my son,
aged 15, who is keenly interested in Aus-
tralian literature, but if he reads the thing
it won’t be my copy. Macßopus
(N.S.W.).
No Paper for Australian Books?
1 have just read the Red Page article
“Where Are the Novelists?”
Two of my books were out of print
about four months ago. The publisher
stated that he would reprint them, and
also asked for a new book. He accepted
the new book ; then, a few weeks later,
notified me that he could not use it —nor
reprint the others. Paper shortage!
But shortly after a printery turned out
7000 copies of an English novel which
will sell at 10s. 6d. Moreover, English
publishers are forwarding by air mail
quantities of MS. to be published here.
One firm recently was given permission
to use 12 tons of paper, having apparently
gone to printers who had some.
English firms are cabling their agents
here to grab all the paper they can get
and pay cash. The trouble as it affects
Australian publishers is that paper is
allotted by the authorities on the basis
of recent years’ turnovers. And natu-
rally the great English publishers get pref-
erence. I have seen jobs done for them
here —beautiful books, far better than the
English first editions —and all on good
Australian paper, made in Tasmania.
“Where are the novelists?” No, not
that, but where are the paper and the
printers and the patriots —and the poli-
ticians who permit this? — Will Lawson
(N.S.W.).
The Wattle in Verse
The poets of another generation nur-
tured love of the wattle in Australian
hearts (B. 28/7/’43). “Banjo” Patterson,
returning from England, found the flower
typifying home:
The wind is in the barley grass,
The wattles are in bloom,
The breezes greet us as they pass
With honey-sweet perfume.
To Adam Lindsay Gordon its blossom-
ing represented new hope and inspiration,
as well as the turn of the year:
In the spring, when the wattle gold trembles
Twixt shadow and shine,
When each dew-laden air draught resembles
A long draught of wine.
This poet, too, perpetuated its link to an
old Australian scene:
Hark! the bells of distant cattle
Waft across the range
Through the golden-tufted wattle
Music low and strange.
That he loved the wattles truly is evi-
denced in his plea:
Let me slumber in the hollow where the wattle
blossom waves
With never stone or rail to fence my bed.
Amy E. Mack, than whom few have
loved the Australian bushland better,
sang;
The wattle is a lady in her yellow satin gown.
But to Henry Lawson the wattle was a
symbol that this Commonwealth’s heart
was one of gold. He saw, too, with pro-
phet’s vision, the day of testing coming
for the men who loved the bushlands:
But whatever the quarrel, whatever her foes,
Let them come, let them come when they will!
Though the struggle be grim, ’tis Australia that
knows
That her children shall fight while the waratah
grows
And the wattle blooms out on the hill.
On the day that they bore Lawson’s
casket from St. Andrew’s Cathedral a
great wreath of golden wattle lay upon
the purple velvet pall.— John Weyman
(N.S.W.).
The Australian Short Story
David Ashway (B. 7/7/’43) indulges
in the usual lugubrious lament over the
un-Australianism of most of the short-
story material appearing in current
periodicals, and it must be conceded that
snappy stunts and unexpected endings,
apart from any special Australian flavor,
are the order of the day. But these are,
in themselves, quite good points and
great technique-builders, and are not to
be condemned because the subject matter
is not redolent of the Australian bush.
If such writers self-consciously forced
themselves to take such subjects as would
please your correspondent they would
probably fail dismally, and if their
stories possess merit and appeal, as they
must do, to readers of the medium in
which they appear in print, why should
they be condemned out of hand?
Mr. Ashway throws bouquets at The
Bulletin short stories. I myself am an
admirer of the paper, but to my way of
thinking its short stories are not short
stories at all. Call them sketches,
snippets from real life, elegant write-ups
of historical titbits, if you like, but they
are not stories. —J.A. C. (N.S.W.).
Brisbane’s Bread Delivery
It is about time that something definite
was done about Brisbane's bread de-
livery. Months ago zoning was intro-
duced and each suburb allotted to a
baker. Every housewife in each area
then transferred to that baker or made
her own arrangements.
The scheme was promising to work
reasonably well until the C.C.C. issued
call-up notices to breadcarters. Bakers
are now unable to find carters, with the
result that deliveries in some suburbs
have ceased altogether. The zoning
scheme is completely breaking down
through lack of man-power.
If it is not possible to continue de-
liveries to all suburbs, would it not be
belter to abandon the scheme altogether?
Meanwhile housewives fight for places
on overcrowded trams carrying a few
loaves of bread in addition to the
ordinary shopping.— Wholemeal (Q.).
Malaria Treatment
Malaria is still the greatest single cause
of morbidity in the world, and is pro-
tean enough in its manifestations with-
out adding the recurrent “one to three
days of unconsciousness” mentioned by
“Altera Merces” (B. 21/7/’43).
The causes of malaria and the methods
of being infected are indubitable, but
attacks become less frequent when living
away from an endemic area, for the
simple reason that reinfection is not tak-
ing place, and any malarial infection will
eventually die out, even if it does take
15 years or more.
The size of a spleen is not measurable
by X-rays; normally, it cannot be felt,
but does become palpable in certain
diseases, e.g., malaria, typhoid, syphilis,
etc.
Finally, malaria is not a tropical
disease per se, but, in common with
plague, smallpox, typhus, leprosy and
some others, is a disease of primitive
civilisations ; all these diseases were com-
mon in England at one time, and it was
not until the second agrarian revolution
that they started to decrease. In modern
civilisation there should be no place for
them.— Abi Tonus (N.S.W.).
A.B.C.
Further to The Bulletin’s criticisms
of A.B.C. My opinion is that A.B.C. has
at the top too many who have had no
broadcasting experience and too few who
have. There has been too much tripping
overseas to learn the things that broad-
casting executives should know before
they get jobs. Not that these comings
and goings are unnecessary—they are,
in fact, very necessary to keep abreast
of the latest ideas —but not as taxpayer-
financed elementary education.
Culture in a broadcasting executive is
a fine thing, but it is wrong that this
should be his only claim to a job. That,
to my mind, is why there is so much that
is gawky and ungainly in the A.B.C. pro-
grammes. Programmes that are designed
with lofty ideals behind them and little or
no regard for how they sound in the pub-
lic’s ear are bound to fail.
As for my right to enter this contro-
versy on A.B.C. and its executives I offer
the following; lam manager, announcer,
salesman, copywriter and programme-
director of a country broadcasting
station. I work a 38-hour office week ;
16i hours of night announcing; type all
my own announcements and scripts (and
sometimes part of my own correspon-
dence) ; plan programmes and sell them.
Until a few months ago I did all this for
£6 10s. a week; now I get £7 10s.
Would any A.B.C. executive like to swap
jobs with me? —R. H. A. (W.A.).
Radio for Scots
Considering the large number of people
in Australia who claim Scottish extraction
the radio stations should cater more fully
for them. Two stations in N.S.W. each
devote half an hour a week to a Scot-
tish programme. One is fairly good, but
the other seldom consists of more than
four items, the rest of the time being
taken up with advertisements.
Highland music is better than the rub-
bish called “swing” we hear nowadays,
and it is time we had some relief from
doleful crooners and hillbillies.—J. E. D.
(Q-).
Black Booze
People here are paying as much as 15s.
a bottle for draught wine of fair quality.
Whisky has been sold at up to £lO a
bottle, and £8 and £6 are not uncommon.
The underground wireless of Europe
has nothing on the underground liquor
business of Australia. Beer is 7d. a glass
and 4s. 6d. a bottle. The Income Tax
Commissioner might find out quite a lot
about these war-time developments if he
used his powers cannily.— Terrinjal
(Q-).


*•
m
• . •
V
if/nm
**
'OfU •. . LINCOLN
To-day Australia can not only defend
herself but can move into attack using arms
made on her own soil by Australian workers.
Long-term planning has made this country
independent of overseas steel supplies.
For nearly thirty years the constant policy
of the B.H.P. has been directed to the achieving
of this independence. In part as a result of
this unchanging policy, the sons of Australian
mothers were able to go into battle with better
arms than the Japanese.
Another result of this policy is that
workers now have a wide variety of jobs avail-
able to them in the land of their birth. Each
can choose the type of work in which he is
happiest from the making of raw steel to the
making or selling of the thousands of products
based on steel.
A third result of this policy is that those
who have invested their money in the B.H.P.
know that the Company’s varied activities give
assurance of the security of their investment.
' ■ '.. :v fci
■a
. , i v -.
'
IMP
••V.-: '
mmMmsi
ti
i
Before the war magnesium was a foreign
monopoly. B.H.P. has now broken the
monopoly—and it will stay broken.
34 munition factories and 178 annexes
are manufacturing guns, shells and bombs
from low priced Australian steel.
On Jan. 7, 1936, even before Germany started her series of attacks
on undefended countries, the B.H.P, associated its activities with
other companies to manufacture military planes in Australia.
Tanks for war and automobiles for peace will
come from the low priced steel produced here.
Steel ships in an ever-increasing number are sliding
down the ways in Australia’s big shipyards.
invented by the Australian. Owen, this gun is bein
made of Australian steel.
*
mm
Petrol lias to be delivered, but tankers
can t carry it overland. Drums of
B.H.P. steel deliver ii.
Germany used to control the manufac-
ture of this invaluable material. To-day
B.H.P. is making enough for Australia.
i
.
invaders were kept back and
the rats of Tobruk protected by
Australian-made steel wire.
Steel will win the war.
Largely by virtue of the enter-
prise of 8.H.P., Australia’s
7.000. people produce a fifth
as much steel as Japan’s
70.000. But our democratic
ally, America, is still the goal
to aim at. This year she will
produce 60 limes as much as
Australia. America’s population
is 136,000,000.
