

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’
VoL 64.—No* 3306
Wednesday, June 23, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
ELY, ‘THE LOVELY NORMAN LADY."
r JTIE mists of Cambridgeshire seem to invest the
great church at Ely with an air of fairy unreality,
but the Isle of Ely—or Eels, to give it the real
name—is real enough. Here on a hill is a little
town clustered round its venerable cathedral. H. V.
Morton says there is nothing in Ely but the
cathedral, and this, he says, is the only feminine
cathedral in England. “In fanciful mood,” he says,
“one might think of Ely as the wife of Durham;
Durham the grim Norman Knight, Ely the lovely
Norman lady.” Ely, delicately tinted, gracious
in its beauty, was, in fact, founded by a lady. In
the dim past age of saints it was to this windy
island that Etheldreda came more than 1300 years
ago to take refuge after her unhappy reign as
Queen of Northumbria. So she fled to her native
fens and founded on the island this church. Ethel-
dreda’s popular name was Saint Audrey, and
memory of her is preserved in the word “tawdry,”
after the name given to the neckcloths sold at St.
Audrey’s Fair—tawdries they were called.
The tower of Ely Cathedral was built by the monk
Alan of Walsingham, and how magnificently he
performed his work can be seen today.
Ely, too, means Hereward the Wake, who here
was betrayed by the monks of the Conquerors. The
cathedral authorities, as is related by Carlyle, seem
always to have been somewhat recalcitrant, and
who will blame them for the depredations of
fanatical image-breakers, which must have greatly
grieved them? But, even so, Ely cannot be robbed
of its peculiar charm nor of the evidence she still
bears of Alan of Walsingham, sacrist of the
monastery in the first half of the fourteenth century
and probably the most original of the English archi-
tects.


Storu Writing
v 3 UJI Vf at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."’
My Name
My Address
5.3. 243
AGE
The Red Page
GLIMPSES OF MaeARTHUR.
During the Great War General
Mac Arthur commanded the 42nd (Rain-
bow) Division. Here, quoted from
Mac Arthur on War (Bodley Head),
edited by Frank C. Waldrop, is the
opening of an address he made to the
division 17 years later:
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the
Rainbow: I thank you for the warmth of
your greeting. It moves me deeply. It was
with you I lived my greatest moments. It
is of you I have my greatest memories.
It was 17 years ago—those days of old
have vanished tone and tint: they have
gone glimmering through the dreams of
things that were. Their memory is a land
where flowers of wondrous beauty and
varied colors spring, watered by tears and
coaxed and caressed into fuller bloom by
the smiles of yesterday. Refrains no longer
rise and fall from that land of used-to-be.
We listen vainly but with thirsty ear for
the witching melodies of days that are
gone. Ghosts in olive drab and sky blue
and German grey pass before our eyes;
voices that have stolen away in the echoes
from the battlefields no more ring out.
The faint far whisper of forgotten songs no
longer floats through the air. Youth...
strength . . . aspirations . . . struggles . . .
triumphs . . . despairs. . . . wide winds
sweeping . . . beacons flashing across un-
charted depths . , . movements . . . vivid-
ness . . . radiance . . . shadows . . . faint
bugles sounding reveille ... far drums
beating the long roll ... the crash of
guns ... the rattle of musketry ... the
still, white crosses . . .
And now we are met to remember.
That in itself is sufficient to mark
MacArthur as an outstanding personality.
It is not every general who can make an
oration like a poem by Walt Whitman.
Here, also from the “Rainbow” speech,
is part of MacArthur’s tribute to the
soldier:—■
The soldier, above all other men, is re-
el uired to perform the highest act of re-
ligious teaching . .. sacrifice. In battle
and in the face of danger and death he dis-
closes those divine attributes which his
Maker gave him when he created man in
his own image. No physical courage and no
brute instincts can take the place of the
divine annunciation and spiritual uplift
which alone will sustain him. However
horrible the incidents of war may be, the
soldier who is called upon to offer and to
give his life for his country is the noblest
development of mankind.
On such an occasion as this my thoughts
go back to the men who went with us to
their last charge. In memory’s eye I can see
them now—forming grimly for the attack,
blue-lipped, covered with sludge and mud,
chilled by the rain and wind of the fox-
hole, driving home to their objective and
to the Judgment Scat of God. 1 do
not know the dignity of their birth, but
1 do know (he glory of their death. They
died unquestioning, uncomplaining, with
faith in their hearts and on their lips the
hope that wc would go on to victory.
Never again for them the staggering
columns, bending under soggy packs on
many a weary march from dripping dusk
to drizzling dawn. Never again will (hey
slug ankle-deep through the mud on shell-
shocked roads. Never again will they stop
cursing their luck long enough to whistle
through chapped lips a few bars as some
clear voice raises the lilt of “Madelon.”
Never again ghastly trenches with their
maze of tunnels, drifts, pits, dugouts—
never again. Gentlemen unafraid.
They have gone beyond the mists that
blind us here, and become part of that
beautiful thing we call the spirit of the un-
known soldier. In chambered temples of
silence the dust of their dauntless valor
sleeps, waiting, waiting in the Chancery of
Heaven the final reckoning of Judgment
Day. “Only (hose are fit to live who are
not afraid to die.”
From a literary point of view, one
could wish that MacArthur on War were
a collection of orations or a series of
essays on military matters written by
MacArthur as a work of literature and
intended for publication. An auto-
biography or a first-rate biography would
be welcome. But the present volume is
none of these.
Apart from Waldrop’s brief biographi-
cal introduction, the “Rainbow” oration
and a short summary of the Phillipines
campaign, the book is chiefly made up of
MacArthur’s annual reports to the U.S.
Government during the five years from
1930 to 1935 when he was Chief of Staff.
1 hese, carrying one back to the mad days
of disarmament and showing that
MacArthur fought vigorously to keep
the U.S. defence forces in as good trim
as the prevailing lunacy would allow him,
and showing, too, how the Chief of
Staff kept his eye on modern develop-
ments in warfare—“total” war, mechani-
sation and the air arm—are “regarded as
classic military texts.” They are histori-
cally important and should be illuminat-
ing even to the layman interested in war
and government. They have great
cautionary value: “The inescapable price
of liberty is an ability to preserve it from
destruction. Supineless sovereignty can-
not long exist; defenceless independence
is an anomalous combination of terms.”
But—naturally—they are not of the
same literary and personal interest as is
the “Rainbow” speech. It is only
occasionally, as in MacArthur’s analysis
of the tactics of Genghis Khan —an
astonishing piece of writing to find in the
“Annual Report of the Chief of Staff
for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30,
1935”—that the strong and original
personality breaks through:
Regardless of his destructiveness, his
cruelty, his savagery, he clearly understood
the unvarying necessities of war. It is
these conceptions that the modern soldier
seeks to separate from the details of the
Khan’s technique, tactics and organisation,
as well from the ghastly practices of his
butcheries, his barbarism and his ruthless-
ness. So winnowed from the chaff of
medieval custom and of all other inconse-
quential, they stand revealed as kernels
of eternal truth, as applicable today in our
effort to efficient army as they
were when, seven* centuries ago, the great
Mongol applied them to the discomfiture
and amazement of a terrified world. We
cannot violate these laws and still produce
and sustain the kind of army that alone
can insure the integrity of our country
and the permanency of our institutions if
ever again we face the grim realities of war.
All these and many other equally im-
portant considerations have been fully
weighed by the General Staff
Apart from MacArthur’s own writings,
Waldrop’s introduction also has its
moments of surprising vigor. He points
out—and proves by listing them —that
the U.S., supposed to be the most pacific
of nations, has engaged in no fewer than
101 wars in its short history: the majority
of the occasions were more or less trivial,
expeditions against the Indians and the
like, but it is still a fact that the U.S.
has taken up arms more than a hundred
times. “Once more we are at war,”
Waldrop writes. “Once more we hear
that this is to be the last great battle for
the world. Surely only the flightiest fool
can believe that.” Judging by his reports
General Mac Arthur would agree with
him; or at least he would say that the
only way to avoid war is always to be
prepared for it. When the disarmament
lunacy sweeps the world again after the
present war, Australia as well as the
U.S. should find some profit in this last,
irresistible quotation from the “Rainbow”
speech: —-
The United States is a pre-eminently
Christian and conservative nation. It is far
less militaristic than most nations. It is
not especially open to the charge of im-
perialism. Yet, one would fancy that
Americans were the most brutally blood-
thirsty people in the world, to judge by
the frantic efforts that are being made to
disarm them both physically and morally.
The public opinion of the United States is
being submerged by a deluge of organisa-
tions whose activities to prevent war would
be understandable were they distributed in
some degree among the armed nations of
Europe and Asia. The effect of all this
unabashed and unsound propaganda is not
so much to convert America to a holy
horror of war as it is to confuse the public
mind and lead to muddled thinking in inter-
national affairs.
A few intelligent groups who are vainly
trying to present the true facts to the world
are overwhelmed by the sentimentalist, the
emotionalist, the alarmist, who merely befog
the real issue, which is not the biological
necessity of war, but the biological character
of war. The springs of human conflict
cannot be eradicated through institutions
but only through the reform of the indi-
vidual human being. And that is a task
which has baffled the highest theologians
for two thousand years and more.
The "Swamping" of Australia.
Marjorie Barnard’s Australian Outline
(Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.) finishes just at the
point where it has begun to be interest-
ing:—
The old isolation is breached now.
Twelve thousand miles of sea is nothing.
Any night of the week you can hear not
only the words of some man in London
or Washington, but his indrawn breath or
casual cough. Communication has pooled
us all, pooled civilisation, swamped little
peoples. Australia had a breathing space,
a few years, as time goes, to grow in.
Now the future of all the world is upon
her. We cannot know if the years were
long enough and deep enough to consoli-
date that thing we call ourselves. Charac-
ter is not a given ingredient that will work
itself out; it is something a nation creates
as it goes along, and that, like democracy,
is always in danger.
Throughout Australian Outline —which
is a brief journey through Australian
history, well written, but saying essentially
no more than has been said in a hundred
novels and histories: that the Australian
has evolved a distinct national species—
the author is working up to that melan-
choly and menacing conclusion: we have
built a nation, but it may be “swamped.”
“The Australian people,” she says, “face
a chance, because their evolution has
been so accelerated, of being over-
whelmed.” Thus threatened so tersely
with eternal doom, no reader could help
being more interested in what Marjorie
Barnard has not written about the pos-
sible details of the future than in what
she has written about the past.
Arnold Haskell’s The Australians (A.
and C. Black, Ltd., London), identical in
purpose with Australian Outline —a quick
trip through the well-known events of our
history, designed to prove that we have
evolved a distinct national species—is
more interesting than Marjorie Barnard’s
book in that it does, though only very
briefly, get down to specific prophecies
about the future, based on present facts.
When the war is over there will be a
new England and a new Australia. A
truism, but the relationship between the
two countries is undergoing an enormous
change. Australian nationality became more
positive when the first Japanese bomb fell
on Australian soil. The threat to Aus-
tralia had supplied something hitherto lack-
ing in her history. After the war England
will still be Home, but Australia will be
more independent both in thought and
action.
Too long we have neglected American
history; today that is being righted. The
same must be done in the case of Australia.
Elsewhere, speaking of the White Aus-
tralia policy, Haskell says:
It is a long-sighted policy and not merely
one of race prejudice in spite of its un-
fortunate name. The colored laborer
would lower the high standard of living
acquired by Australians in the course of
their development, and overrun the
country more surely than by invasion
The white man has proved not only that
he can work but that he can grow into a
magnificent physical specimen in the Aus-
tralian tropics. The only solution lies in
assisted immigration, a subject for the
highly trained specialist, but the develop-
ment of air communication will make it
possible for women and children to live
in the interior in greater security than at
present, where the flying doctor summoned
by radio gallantly comes to the rescue in
his rickety ’plane.
And again:
Australian culture is British, European,
but she has given of her own freely and is
not content with what she receives from
outside. In painting she has a rich national
school, her poets are many, her novelists
are beginning to use the magnificent material
at their disposal. Her very isolation is
proving her strength. We must realise the
importance of this and be prepared to re-
ceive the flow of painting and literature that
will reach us from the Dominions. It is
as much a part of our own heritage as
any work produced in this country.
There is no suggestion from Haskell
that Australia may be “swamped.”
Rather, he believes the contrary: that
Australia itself, by exporting its culture
to England, will do a bit of swamping.
It’s to be hoped that Haskell is right.
The present commentator believes he is.
But Marjorie Barnard's viewpoint is
certainly worth considering.
Marjorie Barnard does not say that
the Australian culture will disappear;
only that it could, and may. She does
not mean that we are likely to be over-
whelmed by invasion. Nor, as far as one
can judge, does she mean that a flood of
immigrants will do the dreadful deed.
Should we get the immigrants we need
so badly, the experience of the United
States is reassuring. Despite the great
influx there from Europe, the original
pattern of American life, as laid down
and developed by the original British
stock, survived with no radical alteration.
The immigrants did not change America ;
America changed the immigrants. A
similar process (it is Marjorie Barnard’s
text) has happened in Australia. And it
seems more likely than not that it would
happen again.
It is neither invasion nor immigration
Marjorie Barnard fears, but “the pooling
of civilisation” which has “swamped little
peoples.” But what little peoples have in
fact been swamped?
Disregarding the temporary subjuga-
tion of Europe by the Germans, which
is not what Marjorie Barnard means,
there’s not a single people the present
commentator can call to mind as recently
having lost its national character. Instead
of destroying nationalism the war has
intensified it. Australia, newly awakened
to the Pacific, is likely to become more
Australian, not less Australian, than
before.
Are our arts to lose their national
character through the imitation of Euro-
pean or American movements? Here
there appears to be some danger. The most
popular “art,” the talkie, is almost exclu-
sively American. Hemingwayism and im-
ported Leftism have been fashionable in
literature. Groups of artists are doing
their best to see the Australian landscape
through the eyes of European painters
dead for twenty years.
But there is also definite evidence of a
reviving Australianism in the arts. Coast
to Coast and Australian Poetry are not
without their significance. Writers gener-
ally, as the recent Australian Writers Speak
showed, are increasingly becoming aware
of the importance of preserving and
developing the native tradition; and the
best of recent novels. Eve Langley’s The
Pea Pickers, was as wholeheartedly and
triumphantly Australian as that odd
masterpiece of what Marjorie Barnard
calls our “Elizabethan period,” Tom
Collins’s Such Is Life. It is surely a
ground for optimism that each of the
countries closest to England, the centre
of civilisation, has experienced not a
“swamping” but a nationalist revival in
literature in recent years; first the Irish,
then the Scots, and at present the wild,
wild Welsh. We can’t, as Marjorie
Barnard says, know we won’t be
swamped. But we could make a pretty
good guess.
“Character,” says Marjorie Barnard
correctly, “is something a nation creates
as it goes along,” The future, that is, is
being created now. Created by whom?
By all of us in a way. But chiefly by the
more vigorous of us. The real heart and
strength of the nation is in the A.1.F.,
and the A.I.F. is not fighting to see Aus-
tralia swamped. It has “discovered” our
own continent; discovered the islands to
the north; discovered the Pacific: we
have surely not come to an end but to
a great beginning. Marjorie Barnard has
been doing too much “global” thinking:
Australia, with her far-flung armies, has
insisted on being global.
The exact reverse is the truth: Aus-
tralia, with its conscripts forbidden to
pass the Equator and its volunteers re-
called for the defence of, its own shores,
has had to insist on not being “global.”
Arnold Haskell puts the position much
more accurately when he says “Australian
nationality became more positive when
the first bomb fell on Australian soil.”
Sundry Shows.
“Mac Hoots”: The only interest which
a stag takes in his male offspring, as far
as I have been able to observe, is to make
sure that the young upstart does not
become a rival for the patriarchy of the
herd. I do not wish to go any further
into the somewhat disappointing moral
behavior of the higher vegetarians ; but
this brief dissertation should indicate that
I found touching traces of sentimentality
in Walt Disney’s delightful “Bambi.” It
is a sad fact that the statuesque old stag
who takes such a fatherly interest in
young Bambi’s career would in real life
take the greatest of pleasure in pushing
him over a cliff. It is also a sad fact
that owls in real life do not resemble
kindly old American gentlemen, but
delight in tearing pretty little birds and
mice to pieces. I don’t greatly object to
these sentimentalities in themselves, but
I do object when they form the basis, of
a profoundly sentimental attack on Man
because he goes shooting. And that’s what
“Bambi” is.
Rex Beach’s “The Spoilers” (Sydney Vic-
tory) submits John Wayne, Randolph Scott
and Marlene Dietrich in a turbulent drarnmer
of Alaskan he-men. It is action all the way
for those as likes it, and the inevitable saloon
brawl is of a ferocity only to be rivalled by a
normal shopping-rush in Sydney. “Friendly
Enemies” (Plaza) is based on a play current
during the last war about the problems of two
German-Americans. Its sentimentality is offset
by the clowning of Charles Winninger and
Charlie Ruggles.
“Cauboy”: Looking in at that delight-
ful playhouse the Lyceum, in Bourke-
street, I was struck by the indifferent way
the most outspoken audience in Mel-
bourne reacted to the news films depict-
ing incredible deeds of daring by sol-
diers, airmen and sailors of the Allied
nations and the warm reception they gave
to the exploits of Tim Holt, the Bandit
Ranger. When Tim picked off half a
dozen dishonest officials with his trusty
six-shooter, saved the girl from a gang
of bad men and restored their stolen
property to the good settlers, a young
soldier alongside me jumped up and
down until he nearly hit the ceiling.
The explanation seems to be that
Mr. Holt depicts in romantic fashion
the individual side of human nature.
I don’t suppose even the most popu-
lar screen cowboy had so individual
a job as steering an aeroplane on a bomb-
ing raid on Essen, but the airman and the
soldier are part of a mass movement, and
mass movements never stir the pulses as
do individuals.
The loan memorial exhibition at
Sydney National Gallery of works by
J. S. Watkins, who taught painting in
Sydney for 40 years, includes “Watty’s”
very best efforts in oils, water-color and
pencil. He was an all-round painter,
dividing his time fairly equally between
landscape and portraiture. His mastery
of the technique of these fields is demon-
strated in such landscapes as “Oma-
ranai,” the self-portraits, the figure piece
“Neo Primitive” and such richly-decora-
tive essays as “Persian Shawl.” A sound
draughtsman, his pencil and charcoal
studies are not the least interesting part
of the exhibition. “Watty” painted Aus-
tralia and Australians as he saw them,
and his sincerity was both impressive and
infectious.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS
119 Years of Service
V
ru
:,s”
//
V<
and
FRAME: 22 inches, close built,
tapered lightweight weldless
steel, rust-proof.
FORKS: Tapered. Solid ends, front
and back.
STAYS: Tapered, exterior-brazed.
WHEELS: 27 x IViin.
TYRES: Australian, guaranteed six
months.
BRAKE: English cable calliper rear.
HUBS: Light. Back hub double
sided, with free wheel clutch.
CHAIN: Best English, V 2 x Vein.
HANDLE BARS: Best British racing
type, 2V£> inch outrigger.
FINISH: Best British five-coat
enamel. Hand lined and deco-
rated.
EQUIPMENT:
reflector.
Tools, Inflator
GENT'S LIGHT CLUB RACER, fitted with Clutch, and Rear Rim
Brake. Price £l3/2/6
With High Pressure Rims. Price £l3/7/-
TERMS: 20% Deposit. Balance, plus in Six Equal Monthly Payments.
Lady's "Challenger" Light Tourer
FRAME: Best steel, rustproofed.
WHEELS: Standard, 28in. x 13/ s inch.
RIMS: Best British.
TYRES: Australian, 28 x 1% inch.
PEDALS: Best English, rubber.
CHAIN: Best English l/ 2 x Vb inch.
CHAIN GUARD: Best detachable half chain
guard.
MUDGUARDS: Best English lightweight
steel, detachable.
FINISH: Best British five-coat enamel.
Hand lined and decorated.
EQUIPMENT: Tools, inflator and reflector.
LADY'S "CHALLENGER" LIGHT TOURER, fitted with Free Wheel
Clutch, and 1 Rim Brake, 6 month Tyres. Price £l3/1/-
TERMS: 20% Deposit. Balance, plus I\% in Six Equal Monthly Payments.
© Bicycles —Lower Ground Floor, Fill Street.
it is necessary to have an Essential User’s Certificate
before purchasing a Cycle with Tyres. The Form
may be had on application to our Cycle Department
Gent's Lightweight Roadster
FRAME: 22 inches. Best steel, rust-
proofed.
LUGS: All safety-pinned, inner
brazed.
WHEELS: Best British, 28 x l%in.
RIMS: Best British Standard.
TYRES: Australian, 28in. x P/gin.,
guaranteed.
BRAKE: Calliper Rim Brake.
HUBS: Best Plated.
CHAIN: Best English l/ 2 x Vain,
roller.
HANDLE BARS: Best British, rever-
sible, 2V2 inch outrigger.
FINISH: Best five-coat British
enamel. Hand lined and deco-
rated.
EQUIPMENT: Tools, Inflator and
reflector.
GENT'S "CHALLENGER" LIGHTWEIGHT ROADSTER.
fitted with Free Wheel Clutch, and 1 Rim Brake, 6 month
Tyres. Price £ll/16/6
TERMS: 20% Deposit. Balance, plus 2\% in Six Equal Monthly
Payments.
PAINTS
Protect your roof from corrosion by the weather,
for neglect brings decay and devaluation.
Anthony Horderns' Special Roof Paint in Red
colour is ideal for galvanised iron roofs and
gutterings. 1 gallon tin. Price v . 16/3
Taubman's Weatherproof Oil for preserving
weatherboards and hardwood fences, gates, all
exterior timber work, etc. Also suitable for brick
walls.
1 gallon tin. Price 20/8
\ gallon tin. Price 11/-
1 quart tin. Price 6/3
Paint Brush Cleaning Compound. Makes dry and
dirty brushes like new. Price, packet 6d.
• Paint Department—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
0(d /'ioCSJ
w
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE WHITE DAM
By JOHN K. EWERS.
I HAVE only to
close my eyes and
1 can see it as
clearly as the day
it happened although
it’s longer ago than I
care to think about. But I’ll never forget
the white dam if I live to be a hundred.
We started carting water earlier than
usual that summer, because a cyclone had
blown our old house down and the new
one wasn’t up in time to catch much
water for the tanks before the winter
rains ended. While Dad was still making
a daily trip to the siding on the wagon,
Grandpa looked after the water-carting,
and we kids helped. It was fun splash-
ing about in the water, but Mum used
to get mad with us tramping white marl
into the new house.
It was a tricky business backing the
dray with the square iron tank on it down
to the water’s edge. Grandpa would
hold old Baldy’s head and ease him
gently backwards till the dray was in
position, then Tommy and I would push
a heavy gimlet-pole behind the wheels
to prevent them from slipping back. I
was eleven at the time and Tommy two
years younger, though everyone used to
reckon he was still pretty much of a
baby.
As a rule, Grandpa stayed on the dray
and took the buckets from Tommy and
me. There was a ramp alongside the
dray, made of two long boards with
crosspieces every foot or so to give
foothold when the boards got slippery.
And - they did get slippery, too, after we’d
been paddling about in the mud and
water at the edge of the dam. If you
didn’t watch out your feet would shoot
out from under you and bring you a
cropper, bucket and all. That was why
Grandpa stayed on the dray. He was old
and he’d had one or two bad spills as it
was.
When Dad finished wheat-carting he
took over from Grandpa, and he
reckoned carrying water in buckets up
the slippery ramp was too heavy for
little kids like us, so he let us take turn
and turn about on the dray, while he
carried water all the time. All we had
to do was to take the bucket from him,
tip the water into the tank and hand
back the empty bucket.
I don’t rightly know what happened
even now. Old Baldy, who usually stood
so patiently, suddenly flung up his head
and began prancing about. I’ve an idea
Dad reckoned it was my fault, but I was
some yards away digging in the soft
white marl at the edge of the dam.
Maybe it was one of those yellow-striped
hornets that frightened Baldy ; they were
about the only thing I didn’t like about
the white dam. Anyway, I looked up
to see Tommy hanging on to the tank
looking scared and Dad running round
to the front crying “Whoa, there! Whoa
now, Baldy!”
He reached up, but Baldy jerked back
and the gimlet-pole we used for a chock
began to give under the pressure. The
dripping of water on the marl had made
it slippery, and once it started to slip
the weight of the dray and a tank three
parts full was too much for old Baldy.
Young Tommy was still clutching the
edge of the tank. Dad shouted at him
“Jump off! Quick! She’s slipping!”
I shouted, too. But Tommy just clung
there. Then the breeching-straps snapped
and the shafts shot up in the air. The
tank, with Tommy still hanging on like
grim death, slid over the end of the dray.
I don’t think Dad realised what had
happened. He managed to grab hold
of Baldy’s winkers with one hand while
with his free hand he unhooked the trace-
chains from the hames. Baldy struggled
a moment, his hind legs churning up
the mud at the edge of the dam as he
tried to get a footing, while Dad dragged
at his mouth.
By the time Baldy was free I was up
to my waist in the water, my eyes on the
spot where the tank had gone down and
taken Tommy with it. Dad came round
from the front of the tilted dray and
said “What are you doin’ in there?”
Then his voice changed, as if he suddenly
realised what had happened. “Where’s
Tommy?” he said. “Didn’t he jump?”
1 shook my head and pointed to the
water, which was turning milky white
with the marl stirred up from the bottom,
and said “The tank fell on him, I
think. He hasn’t come up yet! ”
“Christ! ” It was almost a scream the
way he said it. And it was all he did
say. He ran straight into the water, and
in two strides his feet lost the bottom
and he was thrashing wildly with his
arms. His hat floated away on the
widening eddies. He paddled over, his
knees knocked against the edge of the
tank, then he dived, his legs splashing
about on the surface.
He told me afterwards he found
Tommy’s hand and grabbed it and tried
to pull him free, but he couldn’t budge
him. He spoke to him under water
there: “Come on, son. Pull!” But the
water flooded his lungs and he had to
let go and come up to breathe. He
spluttered and coughed and waded in-
shore, where he stood looking at me in
a dazed kind of way, not knowing what
to do next.
Mum and Grandpa were halfway
down from the house then, Mum yelling
“What is it? What is it?”
Dad spat out water and mud and
pulled off his flannel shirt, then he waded
back again and dived in. It was left to
me to tell them what had happened.
Mum started to cry, and Grandpa stood,
at the water’s edge not saying anything.
When Dad’s head reappeared Mum
stopped crying and waited while he
waded out.
“Can’t you get him?” she said.
Dad shook his head. “He’s caught
under the tank. One leg.” Then he
turned to me.
“Go over to Bristowe’s an’ tell him
what’s happened. Ask him to come over
at once.”
| HURRIED out of the water. I didn’t
1 want to go. I wanted to stay and help.
But I ran over to the stables, wet and all
as I was, and flung the saddle on Ginger’s
back.
As I cantered away I looked back and
saw the three of them, Dad, Mum and
Grandpa, up to their waists in the water.
Dad and Grandpa had long poles in their
hands ; Mum was standing by ready to
help if she could. I dug my heels into
Ginger’s flanks and he went like the wind
along the track that wound for three
miles among wattle- and jam-trees be-
tween our place and Bristowe’s.
Mr. Bristowe was building a new pig-
sty, and I rode straight up to where he
was working. I didn’t get off the horse,
but sat and shouted at him: “Dad says
can you come over at once. There’s
been an accident. Young Tommy’s fell
in the dam. The tank’s on top of him.”
It didn’t take a second for Mr. Bris-
towe to realise what had happened. He
dropped his hammer like a hot brick.
“Hell!” he said.
He ran across to the stables, and I
swung Ginger round and followed.
“Go on up to the house,” he said.
“Tell Mrs. Bristowe to send the boy out
for Thompson.”
I did as he told me, and as I was tell-
ing Mrs. Bristowe I saw him ride away
down the track. She wanted me to stop
and have a drink of milk, but I wouldn’t.
I galloped off after Mr. Bristowe and
caught him.
WHEN we reached the dam Mum and
Grandpa were pressing down on a
pole. Dad was out of sight, but then
his head came up and he said “The tank
don’t move at all.”
Then he saw us and his face brightened
a bit. “Ben, get a hold of that pole, will
you?” he said. “The boy’s leg’s under
the tank. We’ve got to raise it somehow
before we can get him out.”
Mr. Bristowe strode into the water.
He took the pole and prodded until he
could feel the end of it wedged under
the tank and held firmly by the block
Dad and Grandpa had put there while
I was away. “Righto!” he said.
Mr. Bristowe and Mum and Grandpa
pushed with all their might on the pole,
while Dad dived again. I saw the bubbles
rise up to the surface, and then Dad’s
head shot up, and with it another; it
was Bristowe’s extra weight that had
done the trick.
The moment he saw that Dad had got
him, Bristowe dropped the pole and
waded deeper in towards them. He
reached out a hand and pulled Dad,
slipping and sliding, out of the water.
We crowded in to have a look at
Tommy. His hair was matted with mud.
There was mud all over his face and
mouth. The leg which had been trapped
under the tank was covered with mud,
except for a streak of bright red where
the tank had ripped it.
Mr Bristowe lifted him out of Dad’s
arms and turned to Mum.
“Get some hot water ready. And a
rug. I’ll bring him up.”
Mum flew off up to the house. I went
with Mr. Bristowe, and Grandpa stayed
behind to help Dad, who was just about
all in
BY the time we reached the verandah
Mum was waiting with hot water
and a rug. They laid Tommy face down
on the rug and Mr. Bristowe began press-
ing with both hands on the small of his
back. Thompson rode over from Bris-
towe’s while he was still working on him,
and stood by watching. He didn’t ask
any questions. Presently he said “Give
you a spell?”
“Not yet awhile,” said Bristowe, and
went on pressing and kneading for five
more minutes, when he handed over to
Thompson. He came over and stood
beside me and next to Dad, who wasn’t
Saying anything, just standing there
watching. Mum wasn’t saying anything,
either. She was kneeling beside Tommy,
wiping his mouth and sponging his
muddy body with
warm water. She
never took her eyes
off Tommy all the
while.
Mr. Bristowe took
over from Thompson after a while, and
every now and then they held ? a small
looking-glass m front of Tommy s mouth,
Not a flicker of breath frosted its surface.
It must have been close on to a couple
of hours after they d got Tommy out of
the dam that Mr. Bristowe stopped and
shook his head.
“I’m afraid” he said. 1 think he a
been afraid for some time, only he didn t
like to say so.
“Let me have a go,” said Dad. He
knelt down and piessed as Mr. Bristowe
had done. was on the other
side, rubbing Tommy s arms and legs,
Mum was crying now, and once between
her sobs I heard her say Well never
have another now.” She put out a hand
to touch me, but I backed away. I didn
want to start crying, and I knew 1 would
if Mum started petting me. _
Afterwards when we went inside and
sat in the cool dining-room drinking tea
Dad said suddenly Baldy was t e
quietest horse we had,” and his eyes
rested on me. There was no reproof or
accusation in his glance, and yet 1 think
I knew what he was thinking, and the
doubt hurt me more than anything he
might have said.
ROVER
By LES ROBINSON.
THE greengrocer wraps my vegetables
in pages torn at random from vari-
ous newspapers. They are old,
yellowed by age some of them, and
• 1 ■ y f u; e oonntpr from
seemingly journey to his counter from
all parts ot the Commonwea t .
They are far more interesting than any
of the papers that I buy from newsagents.
It was in one of those crumpled, dis-
colored and, as happens with exasperat-
ing frequency when one comes across an
account of some event a little out of the
ordinary, mutilated pages, smelling of
mint and shallots, that I read about the
dog that tied up men. Without embellish-
ments, the story was as follows:-
A wife whose husband had failed to
return home, after spending Saturday as
usual at the bowling club, rang the police,
A constable, assigned the task of finding
him, combed the district thoroughly, and
then came to the conclusion that he in-
tended to be missing, and, therefore, to
search for him further would not only
be fatiguing but cause inconvenience, per-
haps, to a man who may already have
had a great deal of it at home. He was
~ ° ■ . n . • . „ -i-
on the point of returning to the police
station when a large, tawny and unkemp
looking dog, with one end of a dirty piece
of rope in its mouth and the rest trailing
behind, rushed past in a manner that was
not only unseemly but prejudicial to the
welfare of pedestrians.
The traffic regulations cannot be flouted
with impunity. The dog had no right
to be tearing about like that, setting
a bad example to other and perhaps re-
spectable dogs. If it had an owner he
y &
must be warned. If it hadnt the
R,S.P.C.A. must be notified and i equeste
to rid the neighborhood of a pest.
The constable, having wasted the whole
day on an utterly futile quest, was in a
bad temper. He followed the dog, which,
seeming to realise that it was being fol-
lowed, darted down all the narrow lanes
and tortuous byways it could find. For
a while it disappeared by traversing a
stormwater channel. The constable, how-
~. . . „
ever, happened to know where the other
end ot the channel was and managed to
reach it in time to see his quarry emerge
and cross a lonely stretch of waste land,
used mainly for the dumping of garbage,
Then it disappeared from view again, this
time behind a hoarding. The vacant
allotment which that high hoarding en-
closed on three sides was admirably
suited for the leisurely perpetration of
all manner of offences and misdemeanors,
as the dog undoubtedly realised.
When the constable reached the allot-
ment the sight that met his gaze astounded
him. Down on their hands and knees
and most dejected-looking, some with
ropes tied round their necks, others weai -
ing dog-collars fastened to chains, were
several men—all of them elderly and, it
was ascertained later, missing husbands,
They were firmly attached to portion of
the lower framework of the hoarding,
Their only sustenance, in various utensils,
such as jamtins and discarded frying-pans,
was a little dirty water.
“How did the dog tie them up? the
constable was asked,
“fs there any mortal thing some dogs
can’t do?’ he replied and just m case
the questioner hadn t heard of their ex-
£ went Qn (Q (ell him about sheep
and p 0 j lcc do g S ; about the dogs that
smugg i ers use on the Spanish frontier and
a b out those the Russians have trained to
destroy German tanks,
A LTHOUGH the details were fewer
than might have been expected con-
smering how remarkable the occurrence
was, 1 thmk 1 know that dog. He
«« own
, awn (he other morning looking benevo .
lent _f ar too benevolent—as usual. There
wa§s too, that faraway look in his eyes
which I am positive is meant, like his
assumption of benevolence, to put his
prospective victims off their guard, for
he has a nasty habit of creeping stealthily
up behind people and, because he is a
misanthrope, of biting them when they
are n °f looking. To try to find out if
he really is Rover, the dog that hates
nten and treats them hke dogs for the
constable mentioned that Rover is the
name he followed known
j exclaimed “Rover! Rover!”
He was caught napping as it were, for,
as j am one G f those he has bitten (and
now even more than twice shy), he
expects nothing but a scowl from me. My
“Rover! Rover!” took him so com-
pletely by surprise that he turned his head
in my direction, only, however, to look
hurriedly away again as though, m an
effort to retrieve his blunder, to pretend
that , h <= wasn t Rover and had never
even heard of a dog with any such name,
Y es, he sits and lies, most of the day,
on p resuma bly unsuspecting owner’s
front steps or front lawn, looking the
picture of innocence. He wishes the
passer-by to think that he is dispirited,
lethargic, no longer interested in roving,
He is trying to look as he would if made
of iron, china, cement, stone or glass,
® ut to the unsuspecting! They are
a yitten.
. . ~a * 11 i? t m eres e ,- ia
trivialities. He has a mentality which
exc)udes th „ someo deceived by his
immobility and tbe faraway look in his
eyeSj might conceivably remark and, still
gaz ing earnestly at him, might add “I
think he’s a philosopher.”
He differs, certainly, from all the dogs
that are sane in the neighborhood,
I see him at dusk. There is no longer
a f a raway look in his eyes but a peculiar
glint instead. He is waiting, his patience
dwindling rapidly now, for the darkness
that will enable him to discard his day-
light pose with impunity and to expend
his pent-up dislike upon mankind,
By the flickering light of a street-lamp
I catch a fleeting glimpse of him—the
wolf that has discarded the sheep’s cloth-
ing—after dark as he rushes past. One
end of a dirty piece of rope is between
his teeth. The rest of it trails behind
him. There is still that strange, that
sinister glint in his eyes. What is he up
to? Perhaps some husband will fail to
arrive home when expected from a lodge-
meeting or the bowling club.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64. —No. 3306.
Wednesday, June 23, 1943.
LIAISON-OFFICER GARDEN CLEARS FOR ACTION.
"If you want war effort, Mrs. Cassidy, I’ll put you where you can get plenty—up to your neck in dirt.”
Mr. Ward’s liaison officer to non-unionist women who refused to “settle” a union strike by joining the union. He protests that he said “work,” not “dirt.”
"I'll fight any woman in the place!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane-
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
IN PRAISE OF BRITAIN.
“You’ve been a great people, but you’ve
grown soft.” So, ungratefully and un-
graciously, said Colonel Lindbergh leaving
hospitable England for his own country,
where his life had been made wretched
by reporters and rubbernecks who refused
to respect his private grief ; and the same
belief was expressed, often in grossly -
insulting terms, in thousands of Ameri-
can newspaper and magazine articles and
radio addresses. And, of course, it was
an article of faith with Hitler and Musso-
lini and their satellites and serfs. How
wrong they all were!
As the fourth year of the German war
draws to its close, Britain presents a
majestic picture of national unity and
military prowess. Three years ago it was
so near disaster that its friends through-
out the world —but not its associated
nations —abandoned hope. It had lost
nearly all its army equipment in France,
and would have lost the B.E.F. too but
for a marvel of improvisation and cool
courage unmatched in history. It stood
alone against a coalition whose predomi-
nant partnet was master of all Europe
west of Russia, and with Russia he had
an agreement which assured him of neu-
trality and supplies for as long as he
chose to respect it.
For protection of the Channel coast
there stood one fully-armed division, and
that was all there was throughout the
United Kingdom. In the skies above
France and Dunkirk the R.A.F. had suf-
fered terribly. In two months the Navy
had lost 47 warships, and half the de-
stroyer fleet was undergoing repairs in
yards. But the R.N. and the R.A.F. were
still capable of taking care of Hitler, if
he gave the order for a Channel cross-
ing ; and, like Napoleon, he never did.
During the next three months Britain
took a battering such as no nation had
ever endured before. While the
blitz lasted scarcely any man from
Land’s End to John o’ Groats could lie
down at night without the feeling that
morning might find him and his
family dead or dying in a fired or
bomb - wrecked home. Scores of thou-
sands of people were in fact killed
and maimed ; hundreds of thousands of
homes were destroyed and millions
damaged, and with them wharves, ware-
houses, factories, workshops, stores,
churches, hospitals, schools, monuments
and relics renowned for centuries. The
fury of the Luftwaffe spared neither
Court nor cottage. Bombs fell in Buck-
ingham Palace and part of Parliament
House was reduced to rubble. But in
combat after combat the clouds of bar-
barians met more than their match. From
the factories of Britain there had come
better machines; from the households of
the Empire, better men. Finally, on a
day which will never be forgotten, Fighter
Command shot down 187 of Goring s
vultures, and the rest trailed back to their
airfields beaten. Though days of horror
were to come, and will come again, the
supreme danger and agony were over.
There followed the victories in Africa,
won with forces so small and so deficient
in equipment that feinting had to be re-
sorted to on a scale very trying to the
troops, though with the humor which
never deserts soldiers of British stock they
entered into the spirit of the thing. With
a few obsolescent ’planes the imperish-
able defence of Malta was entered upon.
Meanwhile the Navy and the Merchant
Navy were doing a grand job at heavy
cost in ships and lives, and with unceas-
ing strain on all hands ; and the R.A.F.
was never idle.
Then days of defeat returned. The
most experienced part of the victorious
army of North Africa was withdrawn to
Greece, and the forces thus weakened
were driven back by Rommel, though
Tobruk defied all his efforts to take it.
The expedition to Greece, whose every
unit and field-piece were jotted down
by Germans as it disembarked, was a-
foredoomed failure. The fall of Crete
followed as a matter of course. Once
more the Navy did magnificent salvage
work, but lacking air support (the few
aircraft employed in Greece were soon
overwhelmed) it lost heavily.
Without warning Hitler tore up his
treaty with Stalin and invaded Russia.
A black crime, but during the summer
and autumn of 1941 it brought him
sweeping victories. Of these we were
not told at the time, newspaper and radio
accounts being that the Russians were
successfully pursuing a defensive strategy,
luring the invader into the heart of
Russia (in the process giving up vast and
productive territories and 40,000,000 or
50,000,000 people), so as to destroy
him as their ancestors destroyed
Napoleon. Left-wingers in all English-
speaking countries took up the parable
and represented the Russians as a race
of supermen led by military geniuses,
thanks to the magical properties of the
Revolution and the Communist system.
When the severest winter for generations
came down in Russia and the enemy
was beaten back from the gates of Mos-
cow, a London Sunday paper editor
wrote that Hitler was about to be en-
gulfed in the greatest military catastro-
phe of all time.
There was no one to present British
defeats as victories, and of defeats
Britain had another issue when Japan
came into the war. To the new enemy
it lost Malaya, Borneo and Burma, with
an imperial army, smaller land forces,
two great battleships, a number of
cruisers and destroyers and many mer-
chant ships and aircraft. Nevertheless it
strained its depleted resources to send
help to Russia, and the help delivered (at
the price of many more ships and sea-
men’s lives) was on the most generous scale.
Yet nothing could satisfy the Left-
wing brotherhood. They accused John
Bull of being niggardly with his arms
and blood. They ordered him to open
a Second Front in Europe immediately.
New reverses coming in North Africa,
they sneered at his generals and advised
him to get Russians, particularly Timo-
shenko styled by one Sydney radio
spouter, who mixes Sovietism with bed-
time stories, “the greatest general that
ever lived.” One young gentleman from
Australia, a non-combatant, even assailed
the British soldier, his theory being that
the British soldier failed as a fighting
man because he hadn’t been taught to
“hate Fascism.” Of the Russians, having
had this education, “you can expect im-
possibilities,” but the British soldier was
different;
He is not taught what Fascism is, where-
as the Russians hate Fascism passionately
and are constantly reminded what Fascism
means. Tell this to the Tommy and he
would get the speed and anger of hatred,
the virility of a new life, the toughness of a
man determined to destroy, if it means
winning the war.
And so it went on, with Sydney editors,
unmindful of their country’s peril and
the fate of its Eighth Division, joining
lustily in the cry for a- Second Front in
Europe, no matter how much British and
Canadian blood was shed, and with
Charlie Chaplin, in a fleeting farewell
to arms —female —beefing it out on the
Hollywood front.
It is not the least of Mr. Churchill’s
services to his country that he stood firm
against this agitation, which had the sup-
port of Lord Beaverbrook and his news-
papers and of other influences, as a rule
powerful, when to have yielded to it
would have brought disaster, perhaps
irretrievable. How to beat Germany
without involving Britain, with its severe
losses of manhood in two wars, its rela-
tively small population and its low
birthrate in part an effect of the
great effusion of blood in the last war—in
a vast Continental slogging match which,
though it might bring victory in two or
three years, might bring ruin in two or
three generations, remains a problem
which must torment even a man of his
ardent spirit and lofty courage. Before
1789 there were as many French as Ger-
mans. Mr. Churchill must realise that
the fall of France was the direct conse-
quence of its terrible Continental wars,
beginning with the wars of the Revolu-
tion, which ended by leaving France with
half the population of Germany. In their
ignorance or their callousness or both,
Second-Fronters are never restrained by
such considerations, and they never let
the Prime Minister alone.
However, circumstances have obliged
the most outrageous specimens to drop
their most insulting charges against the
British. Since the splendid culmination
of the war in North Africa, sneers at
British military organisation, generalship
and fighting quality' have disappeared
from the printed press and the micro-
phone. Indeed, with the shattering
demonstration that the war has thrown
up no abler generals than Alexander and
Montgomery and no stouter divisions
than the 51st (Highland) and the 50th
(Northumbrian), nor any finer example
of inventive genius allied to two-o’clock-
in-the-morning courage than the British
mastery of the minefield, as well as the
magnetic mine, a strange note of criti-
cism has crept in. Russians and Ameri-
cans are now taking delivery of some of
the slings and arrows which over a period
of two years were reserved for the British.
Ii was an Australian correspondent, previ-
ously conspicuous for Moscow-idolatry,
who, released from the restraints of the
censorship, mentioned “two occasions on
which Russian morale was not high.”
In October, 1941, whole Russian armies
were cut off and surrounded. Russian sol-
diers, trained on the line that the war
would be fought on enemy soil, were con-
fused and discouraged. And Russian fight-
ing morale failed at Rostov in July last
year, when the Germans routed troops ot
one of the national minorities and broke
through on the drive to Stalingrad.
The general in command of these
“national minority” soldiers and of other
and tougher warriors was Timoshenko.
Another young gentleman has written
that, though Timoshenko is still em-
ployed, he is not now in so elevated a
position, and that “all the old figure-
heads” have gone. And Hanson Baldwin,
in an extremely frank review of the
American, contribution to the campaign
in Tunisia, set down these remarkable
conclusions:
Administrative organisation was ponder-
ous and complicated. American troops
lacked drive, dynamic purpose and the rigid
training of the British and German armies.
Many officers are too old and too
cautious. A stiffening of the souls of both
the American people and the troops is
needed. The determination to do or die
has been lacking.
In North Africa, while the Tommy is
politically conscious in a high degree,
Americans are imbued with the idea of
getting away with anything. There is a
curious self-pity about many of them. They
write a lot of “poetry,” much of which
is self-pitying.
Overabundant supplies contribute to
softness. Medals and ribbons are handed
out so prodigally that they lose their mean-
ing. Stern discipline is needed and less
wastefulness; troops have often wasted,
lost or eaten three times the amount any
healthy soldier needs.
As for the air arm:
American air strength, like American
ground strength, was too greatly dispersed,
and was defeated in detail in the early
months of the campaign.
This critical phase will pass, as it
passed in the case of the British. We know
the Americans too well and we have seen
the Russians show too great qualities of
recovery to doubt for a moment the out-
come of the war. Meanwhile, in circles
subject to these caprices a kind of Anglo-
mania has been substituted for the kind
of Anglophobia that had so long an in-
nings. Almost everything British is praised
except the system, the system of “effete
capitalism,” “pluto-democracy” or free
enterprise, along with which go free in-
stitutions, free inquiry and free speech.
Under this system and its concomitants,
men have worked and fought and people
have endured privations and suffering so
magnificently that the Italians themselves,
the hour of retributive justice striking for
Mussolini, are exhorted to emulate them ;
and the nation has reached so lofty a
stature that exiles from all the occupied
and oppressed countries are drawn to
England for protection, comfort and
renewal of the strength of the spirit at
England’s “mighty heart.”
Could Emerson rise from his New Eng-
land grave and revisit Old England,
tried more terribly than by that commer-
cial crisis, he would not alter the judg-
ment he pronounced ninety years ago:
“The best of actual nations.”
Mr. Willkie Abroad.
A report by Mr. Wendell L. Willkie on his
Grand Tour has been selling in America
like bottled beer on the black market.
Mr. Willkie spent 49 days on his tour,
30 of these on the ground. Just
before he set out President Roose-
velt warned him that before he reached
Cairo it might be in German hands.
Europeans in the Egyptian capital were
packing their bags. The Eighth Army “was
widely believed to be preparing to evacuate
Egypt altogether, retiring to Palestine and
southward into the Sudan and Kenya.”
Mr. Willkie lays repeated emphasis on
the lowness of British stocks round the
Middle East at the time. General Mont-
gomery, it appears, told him that “a spirit
of defeatism permeated Egypt”; that
“successive British failures” had “led
many to believe that the Germans were
going to capture Egypt” ; that “because
of this Great Britain had lost prestige.” It
also appears that General Montgomery
suggested that a formal announcement
made by Mr. Willkie would be regarded
by Rommel as a sign that the British
contemplated aggressive action. To-
gether, Mr. Willkie reports, they cooked
up a statement which Mr. Willkie subse-
quently made to the war correspondents:
“Egypt is saved. Rommel is stopped,
and a beginning has been made on the
task of throwing the Nazis out of
Africa.”
This, Mr. Willkie declares, “was the
first good news from the British side
that these newspapermen had had in a
long time.” They had, he insists, “been
fooled many times, and were wary.” The
inference to be drawn is that Mr. Willkie
had but to say so and to these news-
hounds it would be gospel. More remark-
able, Rommel, too, would apparently so
accept it. Mr. Willkie seems to be con-
vinced that Mr. Willkie there played a
most important role.
A slight doubt is cast on the whole
episode by another of Mr. Willkie’s dis-
closures for this part of his tour. General
Maxwell, it seems, had already been in
complete charge of American forces in
the Middle East when Mr. Willkie turned
up. Yet General Montgomery, whose
passion for detail Mr. Willkie describes
as “amazing,” had never heard of him,
and had to ask Mr. Willkie “Who is
General Maxwell?” It all suggests that
association with the A.I.F. may have
contaminated General Montgomery into
practice of an art in which Australians
are held to be proficient.
Admiral Harwood (of Exeter v. Graf
Spec) had Mr. Willkie to dinner with
“ten of his compatriots in the naval,
diplomatic or Consular service in Alex-
andria.” Questioning these, what Mr.
Willkie got “was Rudyard Kipling, un-
tainted even with the liberalism of Cecil
Rhodes.” To Mr. Willkie “these men,
executing the policies made in London,
had no idea that the world was chang-
ing The Atlantic Charter most of
them had read about. That it might
affect their careers or their thinking had
never occurred to any of them.” This,
too, may be another instance of British
ideas of humor being incomprehensible
to Mr. Willkie.
Another solemn occasion in Mr.
Willkie’s travels was his meeting with
General de Gaulle, which Mr. Willkie
will “never forget.” Mr. Willkie was
met at a Syrian airport, received
by an elaborately uniformed “color
guard” and band, and whisked several
miles to the house where the general was
living—a great white structure surrounded
by elaborate and formal gardens, guards
saluting at every turn. Every corner,
every wall of the general’s private room
held “busts, statues and pictures of
Napoleon.” Frequently the general,
describing what Mr. Willkie calls “his
struggle of the moment with the British
as to whether he or they should domi-
nate Syria and the Lebanon,” would de-
clare dramatically “I cannot sacrifice or
compromise my principles.” To which
his aide would add : “Like Joan of Arc.”
Himself and his Fighting French,
General de Gaulle designated “the resi-
duary legatees of all of France and its
possessions.” Reminded that Syria was
a mandated area, he said: “But I hold
it in trust. I am perfectly willing
to sit with Winston Churchill and
Franklin Roosevelt and consider ways
and means by which French rights and
French territories can be momentarily
and temporarily used in order to help
drive the Germans and the collaborators
from the control of France.” Perhaps
Winston and Franklin will see to this.
Before quitting the Middle East Mr.
Willkie asked a Miss Henrietta Szold if
she thought it true that “certain foreign
Powers were deliberately stirring up
trouble between the Jew and , the Arab
to help sustain their own control,” to
which Miss Szold replied: “With a sad
heart I must tell you it is true.”
By his report, Mr. Willkie was enor-
mously impressed by Russia. Elsewhere
Mr. Willkie seems to move with the
sense of superiority of a colossus.
Russia dwarfs him. So, it appears, does
Stalin, despite Mr. Willkie’s estimate
that the Soviet leader is only five feet
four or five, and “gives the appearance
of slight stockiness.” Mr. Willkie further
reports that “Strange as it may seem,
Stalin dresses in light pastel shades. His
well-known tunic is apt to be of soft
green or a delicate pink ; his trousers a
light, tannish yellow.” Other Soviet leaders,
Mr. Willkie reports, “all dress simply.’
It does not at all shock Mr. Willkie
that “the Soviet Union covers an enor-
mous territory, bigger than the United
States, Canada and Central America
combined.” Apparently this does not
constitute empire, which Mr. Willkie finds
utterly anathema when prefixed by the
word British. Mr. Willkie has no objec-
tion whatever to the Soviet hanging on
to every acre of that vast area, much ot
which was conquered by Czarist troops
in the nineteenth century, and con-
trolling all of its many different races
and nationalities, speaking many lan-
guages. In fact, Mr. Willkie gives the im-
pression that if Russia incorporates the
Baltic States and a swag of Poland he
for one will not dissent.
The author’s outlook on the British is
always sharply critical. He can see no
merit whatever in what he describes as
Mr. Churchill’s “world-disturbing” re-
mark : “We mean to hold our own: I did
not become his Majesty’s first Minister
in order to preside over the liquidation
of the British Empire.” This “greatly
distressed” Mr. Willkie. Similarly Mr.
Willkie appears to frown on the idea ot
other countries Belgium, Holland,
Portugal—holding possessions far over-
seas. From which it may perhaps be in-
ferred that Mr. Willkie would be a candi-
date for presiding over the liquidation ot
America’s leased bases, to say nothing
of what must be Mr. Willkie’s attitude to-
wards the proposals freely made by lead-
ing Americans and accepted in principle
by Australians that Uncle Sam must
eventually lay claim to bases in the
Pacific right up to the fringes of Asia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
With Their Humble Duty.
A pre-election session of Parliament
and an A.C.T.U. conference coming on,
Mr Curtin asked for a preliminary meet-
ing of trade-union bosses, who are his
party’s masters and ours. A temporary
indisposition prevented his going to Mel-
bourne for the meeting, so he sent Mr.
Forde. With Mr. Forde were Mr. Beas-
ley and Mr. Ward, and each Minister was
in the humble spirit characteristic of him
in such company, Mr. Ward figuring also
as the Terror of the Wage-payer and the
“Scab.”
“J want to do a job for the workers
but Cabinet won’t let me,” said Mr.
Ward, whose idea of loyalty to Cabinet
is as unique as Mr. Curtin’s idea of
Ministerial responsibility to him as
PM.
Mr. Ward proceeded to say that he
had issued an order that all persons in
the Man-power Department should im-
mediately join unions, and that the order
was challenged by the Director-General,
Mr. Wurth, who was upheld by the Prime
Minister. Another remark attributed to
him was that “workshop committees
should keep union establishments operat-
ing and hold up non-unionist establish-
ments.” Whether he said it or not it is
in keeping with his professions and prac-
tice.
Having declared himself in favor
of preference to unionists in the most
outrageous form, giving union bosses un-
checked power to exact private taxes
from men and women as a condition of
their being permitted to earn their
bread and having denied that prescriptive
right to non-unionists, he said “There is
no need for a bill giving preference to
returned soldiers ; with every available
citizen doing what is expected of him,
there can be no preference to anybody.”
A proposition irreconcilable with prefer-
ence to unionists, but characteristic of
the Sydney-larrikin mentality. To Mr.
Ward a union boss is more than the
whole galaxy of Australian generals, and
a union mob is more than the A.I.F. and
the R.A.A.F. combined.
Mr. Forde, who on these occasions
always gives the impression that he is
washing his hands with invisible soap in
imperceptible water, pleaded with the
bosses to remind their larrikins (of course
he didn’t use that expression) that there
is a war on. “During the last six months,”
he said, “we have lost 770,000 tons of
coal through industrial disputes” (contra-
dicting Mr. Curtin, he blamed “a small
minority of employers and employees”),
“and since the outbreak of war 3,106,796
working days.” In agonised terms he
pointed out that industrial stoppages and
absenteeism might bring the Government
down. So did Mr. Beasley in even more
agonised terms. “I appeal to you to give
us a go,” Mr. Beasley bleated. “If we
are to win the elections strikes must stop.
Don’t give our opponents political propa-
ganda to flog us with.* Don’t help them
to beat us.”
Conscious of their power, the bosses
let these extraordinary Ministers give
their several exhibitions of humility with-
out saying much themselves. There were
a few demands for the dismissal of the
heads of the Allied Works Council and
of a N.S.W. Industrial Judge, but nothing
much else. Apparently there are to be
more of these unspeakably degraded ex-
hibitions of Ministerial servility, for “the
conference adjourned sine die.”
June Thoughts.
The past week marked the third anni-
versary of French acceptance of Ger-
many’s armistice terms (June 21), the
second anniversary of the invasion of
Russia (June 22) and the first anniversary
of the signing of the Anglo-Russian pact
(June 15). Rationing in Australia was a
year old on June 16, and it was a year
on June 18 since John Curtin declared:
It is possible for Australia to be lost.
The fate of the U.S.S.R. is in the balance,
and the Coral Sea, Midway and Aleutians
battles, though frustrating Japan, are far
from decisive. Our present shipping losses
are beyond our present replacement capa-
city.
He was feeling better on June 10 this
year:
I do not think the enemy can now
invade this country.
Taken generally, the past year has been
in our favor. The Russians won a great
winter campaign, North Africa is all
ours, the fight against the U-boat is
swinging our way, Italy’s domination of
the middle Mediterranean, if not Italy
itself, is finished, and to say the least the
Jap’s southward drive has been halted.
But a survey of the June anniversaries
should sober any tendency to wild opti-
mism, especially on the part of poli-
ticians. For Australia, no matter what
happens in Europe, the Jap is the main
enemy, and so far that enemy has not lost
greatly in men, ships or ’planes, nor has
any large slice of territory been recap-
lured from him. Men who "know New
Guinea as well as a Federal civil servant
knows Canberra say that getting the Jap
out of the islands on our north is going
to be a slow, toilsome, bloody task. That
Australia must take a leading share in
that task goes without saying.
These June anniversaries prompt other
thoughts, not the least of which is the
new discovery of Australia. Not alone
its discovery by America, which is a good
thing, but its discovery by Australians,
many of whom are now finding out what
it means to own a continent and what
that continent looks like. There are lads
in Papua and New Guinea and in North
Australia who will come out of the war
with an awareness of their country they
would not have come by otherwise.
Australians have found that they can
grow things and make things and invent
and improve to an extent they never
dreamed of. All this, coupled with the
making, of roads and aerodromes all over
the inland, is being done mostly by Aus-
tralians.
June, 1943, is fading. The latter half
of the year promises well for our cause.
Before homekeeping Australians stop
thinking over the June anniversaries and
their significance they could well dedicate
themselves to their country in their
fashion, as the fighting men have done in
theirs, and to the job of making it the
country it can and should be.
Pressmen and Politicians.
Written by a man who once tried to be
in both camps:
Though there are, as a rule, 40 newspaper-
men at Canberra when Parliament is sitting,
the proceedings of that institution are very
skimpily reported. For this the 40 newspaper-
men are not so much responsible as their
superiors in city offices, and they have had to
curtail all reporting. Nevertheless, Mr. Menzies
expressed a legitimate grievance when he said
that, whereas you once got a report of what
Smith, the member, said, the tendency nowadays
is to give you young Jones the reporter on
Smith’s speech and Smith; and there is more
in it than that
Nowadays journalism is unionised, except that
editors may, if they please, contract out of
membership: and in at least one Labor-ruled
State there are proposals for bringing editors
under control. Naturally enough, most of the
young fellows, as well as some of the older
ones, have strong Labor sympathies, leaning to
the Right or to the Left, according to per-
sonal taste and fancy. Like the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, the N.S.W. branch of the
A.J.A. has thrown in its lot with the Labor
Council, which is stiff with Communists, and,
without consulting the members, the A.J.A.
delegation to the Labor Council voted for
Labor “unity” with the Corns. “Unity” was
rejected at the A.L.P. conference, but as a
concession to the A.J.A., and doubtless in the
hope of favors to come, the Labor conference
“unanimously” urged -the Labor Government
to establish a Standing Committee on News-
paper Ethics, with power to punish newspapers
for being, say, unkind to Mr. Clive Evatt.
The N.S.W. branch of the AJ.A. has its own
ethics committee, which has expelled an editor
for being unkind to Mr. Ward.
Veteran journalists above the battle who re-
tain a sense of humor are amused at the
facility with which brisk young Labor writers
get Labor stuff into anti-Labor papers. Leftist
writers work Leftist stuff into Rightist papers,
too, though not to the same extent. The puffing
of Labor Ministers, with precious little warrant,
has become a regular thing, and it is often com-
bined in the same issue or screed with deprecia-
tion of Opposition worthies and performance,
with still Jess warrant. One signed-article artist
has an overpowering contempt lor Mr. Menzies
—which no Labor politician shares. Others
sneer at Mr. A. G. Cameron (that also is what
no Labor politician ever does) and his South
Australian “backwoodsmen,” three of whom
are university men. This kind of reporting has
other undesirable features, the motto seem-
ing to be “Never let the Tory dogs get the
better of it, and, if it is not expedient to damn
them, suppress them.”
It would be too much to expect Opposition
politicians and organisations 10 share the re-
tired newspapermen's view of this queer poli-
tical journalism, and they don’t. Those with
Sydney headquarters are dashed wild about it,
and have been for a long time. And their anger
has been sharpened by Sydney reporting of the
Victorian State elections, which conveyed the
impression that Labor had scored such an in-
crease of votes as to be sure of carrying Vic-
toria at the Commonwealth elections and thus
coming back with an increased majority, N. S.
Wales, Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania
being already Labor States. The probable effect
on tne sort of midway elector who likes to be on
the winning side may be judged by an escape
1 a .?H ° ck Alronworkers’
Association and Aid Russia Committee
notoriety, who, turning from a guttersnipe
tirade against non-unionists, shouted “The
U.A.P. has been tom to ribbons in Victoria.”
This is as false in its way as Tannock’s de-
scription of war-workers who refuse to support
Red-racket larrikinism disguised as unionism—
“loathsome toads,”
The U.A.P. contested 20 electorates and leads
in 14, in nearly ail cases by substantial major-
ities. The borderline electorate of Essendon was
wrested Horn it by a Labor man, but for this
failure it was prepared. Where it lost ground
was in normal U.A.P. strongholds like Caulfield,
Hawthorn and Nunawading, where Labor never
has a ghost of a chance and where on this
occasion teetotal and other influences were
strong. Even so, the U.A.P. polled upwards
of 2u0,000 votes, and could have substantially
increased the total by opposing C.P. members;
and its average per contested electorate was
higher than that of the Labor party and very
much higher than that of the Country party.
The Country party contested 32 electorates
and won 25. For reasons unconnected with
Labor politics (indicated by the fact that the
successful Labor man got only about three-
heip-GrenviHef SSIITSU “ SSr
of Agriculture, took over to the C.P. after
holding it as a Labor member (and part of the
time Premier) for many years, but it gained the
old Labor electorate of Port Fatry-Glenelg.
1 ire Labor party contested 40 seats and
won 22, a gam of one (1). It had talked gaily
of gaining 13 and forming a Labor Govern-
ment with a majority of three, the Speaker
included. True, the distribution of seats was
unfavorable to it, but it was even more un-
favorable to the U.A.P., as Mr. Cain generously
admitted. And as polling went Labor could
not have won outright had mathematically-equal
electorates obtained. Communists cut into the
party vote, but it was disappointing in elec-
torates where there was no Communist opposi-
tion. And so far from the figures ensuring
the return of the Federal Labor members, they
augur ill for Senators Keane and Don Cameron,
and the members for Ballarat and Wannon.
Indeed, Federal Ministers’ electioneering
efforts hurt rather than helped, and will be
remembered against their own crowd when it
comes up for judgment.
Mr. Holloway, speaking for the Labor
M.L.A. for Port Melbourne, and heedless of
his protestations, blithered that Victoria had
been “the worst-governed State m Australia for
many years.” The member's account was that
“Labor,” supporting the Dunstan Government
for seven of those years, had “secured legislation
of great benefit to the people.”
Mr. Ward, casting-up in Prahran, repeated
the Brisbane Lie with variations, and had the
face to allege to a community familiar with
Mr. Curtin’s scoldings of N.S.W. coalminers,
and with repeated warnings of the State Minis-
ter of Industry that stocks of N.S.W. coal for
Victorian services were dangerously low, that
90 per cent, of N.S.W. coal stoppages were
caused by employers. No wonder Prahran
decided to keep its shaky U.A.P. member..
Then Senator Keane swung into action. With
the Drys marshalling their forces and drawing
support for once from moderate drinkers,
sickened at the exploitation of service men by
t { ie lower forms ot the liquor traffic, and wi i
extension of rationing to household neces-
sities bitterly icsented, the good Senatoi
L.eane blurted out that beer production was on
no account to be reduced, man-power m the
brewery industry having been cut to bedrock.
It will take more than the combined exertions
°f l* l6 , corp 2 brisk young Labor writers em-
P^ yec * 9 n „! or y P a P eis to keep these clumsy
fellows in office.,
f_<C Aka C. m lia
1116 Way Oil ing OFlOKe*
THE president of the S.A. branch of the
Railwayraen’s Union can be taken as a
~ . * . e „ ,•
rair sample of ihe easygoing type of
Australian unionist vyho is ready to let
bygones be bygones and accept “unity”
.....l. rv.mmnnicic In n fpw remarks
Wlth Communists. In a tew remarks
concerning a branch decision tor a con-
ference with Adelaide Corns, (view.
“settling differences of policy”) he said:
While I have little sympathy with the
Communist party I can see no reason why
there should not be an exchange of ideas,
, w , , , , c • ,
Whatever the tone of Communist
offers, there can be no “exchange of
ideas” with Communists. To the Com-
■ f th : no suc u t ifine as to l er .
mumst mere is no suen in.ng as toiei
ance of other people s ideas, nor is there
a Communist in Australia who has given
the country an idea of the.slightest value
. A
to Australia. Communists invent noth-
build nothing and propose nothing
but class war and proletarian revolu-
tion.”
British Labor-unionists have had special
opportunities of studying the English,
speaking Communist at first hand, they
saw bow he behaved during the blitz, and
th me mory is ineradicable. At their
conference f ast week they dea lt with an-
ot|l r Communist application for affilia-
a
tion, supported this time by the COnten-
tion that British Communists would no
) on g e r receive orders from the Commu-
• , ;„ t „ rriQt i r . r> oi
nls i, international.
The result was the same as before,
except that the terms used were more
stineinn The Corns were rejected by a
“ £ vote of 1,951,000 to 712,000, 600,000
r , . , ’ r ’. . , , ’ ’ ’.
of which were furnished by one Olganisa-
tion, the miners.
j n recommending rejection, Mr.
George Ridley, M.P., a member of the
p ar ty executive, said that to receive Corns,
t f would bo to admit “a
within the party would he to
snake coiling itself with pretended attec-
tion around the body of its victim, suck-
j n g its lifeblood and nourishing itself on
j^ s victim at the same time.” A good
. ripr f prt i v onnlicahle to
Illustration, and perfectly applicable to
what Corns, have in mind m Australia.
THEY WON’T GIVE HIM A GO.
“The Federal elections are coming on—if we are to win, strikes must stop. I appeal to you to give us a go.”
Minister Beasley, to a Melbourne conference of trade-union bosses.


£3
wr \\ V
I '
C.S.R.HARDWAIL PIASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PL!
Specially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exception-
a 1 1y hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
THE COLONIAL' SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - • ADELAIDE . - PERTH
P. 1-43.
'THAT'
T H E
Why carry an
unnecessary burden?
If you are an executor of an estate there must be times when you feel the
strain of this extra and unnecessary burden. In these difficult times, the
responsibility of trusteeship is too often a handicap in the proper supervision
and control of your own affairs which should be having all your attention.
Why not be relieved of this extra burden? Let Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited take the load from your mind. This permanent institution, under
experienced and capable direction, has the advantage of combined knowledge
of finance, taxation, and investment which no individual executor could be
expected to have. The transfer of responsibility can be made simply and
promptly; and you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the estate will
be administered faithfully, efficiently, and in strict accord with the terms
of the, trust.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager —C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
$ BRIDGE STREET., SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Box 543 8, G.P.0., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Commonwealth Ministers having in all
humility appeared before the trade-union
hierarchy, the 16th Parliament of the
Commonwealth is in action again. It will
be a lively session and may be brief, for
Fadden straightway gave notice of a no-
confidence motion. In any case it should
be the last.
The N.S.W. Leg, Council having
thrown out the alleged Settlement Pro-
motion Bill, Premier McKell rose to
declare that the Council had shown
“contempt for the voters of N.S.W.”
Contempt for the McKell crowd’s
attempt to punish pastoralists for being
pastoralists is what the Council really
showed.
A. H. Bracks, an Old Digger in good
standing, is to oppose Curtin in Fre-
mantle. F. R. Lee, who gave the P.M.
such a fright in 1940, was willing to stand
again, though, knowing that Fremantle
would prefer a Fremantle man —he has
spent the last three years in Victoria —
he was not keen on it. The U.A.P. ought
to run him for Henty: Coles’s days as
Independent member are numbered. Or
lor the Senate against Don Cameron ;
both were Perth men before the last war.
The firm of Coles and McCall,
Ms.H.R., looks like dissolving partner-
ship. It was formed after McCall, a sort-
of-a-kind of U.A.P. member, threatened
to put the Menzies Government out and
Coles (Ind.) helped to vote out the
Fadden Government. Thereupon Curtin
put both on the Rationing Commission,
and they agreed to pair on divisions, an
arrangement especially convenient to
McCall, who doesn’t care for divisions
that may cost him votes. Now that young
gentleman has discovered that housewives
strongly object to the Rationing Commis-
sion ruling that housewives buying house
linen and the like “on the lay-by” must
hand in clothing coupons, and he says he
is against it. The Government doesn’t
care for it either, but with a no-confidence
motion fired at it it can’t afford to
alienate Coles.
Opposition from within, as well as
without, obliged the council of the N. S.
Wales Teachers’ Federation to withdraw
its boycott of the Workers’ Educational
Association, adopted in concert with
Communists and fellow-travellers on the
Sydney Labor Council because a W.E.A.
lecturer had given an honest opinion of
Sovietism, McGuinness, the president,
himself ate the leek, but so ungraciously
as to bring another snub from the W.E.A.
—“the payment of an affiliation fee is a
very minor issue compared with the de-
fence of our policy and our good name.”
The N.S.W.T.F. ought to get another
president. Its legitimate efforts to raise
the status of the teaching profession may
be thwarted if it permits the notion to
take root that McGuinness, an ill-condi-
tioned provincial full of vanity and in-
tolerance, is its best man.
One of Forde’s first acts as Minister
for the Army was to order the release
from an internment camp of two Commu-
nists who had received very light sen-
tences for carrying on an underground
campaign against “the war effort....
compulsory military training and con-
scription.” This he followed by authoris-
ing the internment of 16 N.S.W. citizens
alleged to be members of the Australia
First organisation, and holding them up
to execration in a Parliamentary speech,
though he never sent any of them to trial.
Last week one of the 16, a Gallipoli
Digger, who was not even a member of
the organisation, sued the Sydney “Sun”
for libel, it having reported Forde’s
speech and added comments. After the
writer of the article had testified that the
internment of the Gallipoli Digger was
senseless, the jury found for the news-
paper, with costs against the plaintiff.
They should be paid by Forde.
In some Queensland electorates the
Country party is taking its own course.
In Wide Bay it is putting up A. C. Head-
ing, a Digger of the last war and C.O.
of a V.D.C. battalion, against B. H.
Corser, now in England. Corser has held
the seat since 1928, when it fell to him
after the death of his father, against
whom Heading made a good showing in
1922.
From Warringah (N.S.W.) round to
Perth women predominate in urban
electorates, with very few exceptions,
and with women polling so strongly in
Melbourne suburbs, helped by war-time
influences (one is resentment at the per-
sistent rationing muddles), it seems more
than likely that the Commonwealth will
have its first skirted M.H.R. this year. In
Sydney Mrs. Glencross, president of the
Housewives, has heard the call to elec-
toral battle again. Long ago she came out
for Brighton (Vic.) and polled so well that
lan Macfarlan was glad when the thing
was over.
When the first lady members arrived in
Australia it looked as though one term
was a limit for their sex, Mrs. Cowan
(W.A.), Mrs. Longman (Q.) and Miss
Preston Stanley (N.S.W.) failed of re-
election, and Alick Peacock’s widow did
not go up again for Allandale (Vic.),
straightway lost to his party. The late
Miss Holman, of Westralia (1925-39),
was the first to beat the hoodoo. Mrs.
Cardell-Oliver (W.A.) is completing a
second term, and Mrs. Weber (Vic.) has
had a third success at the polls.
Premier Saracoglu on Turkey’s foreign
policy:
The Russians stretched out their hands
to us and we clasped them. Germany de-
scended on the Balkans and stretched out
her hand to us. We signed an agreement
of non-aggression and friendship which
has since proved that it ensures the real
needs of Germany and Turkey. We also
signed an alliance with Britain.
And presumably if a messenger from
Mars alighted at Ankara with an out-
thrust hand Mr. .Saracoglu would
“shake” in the same accommodating
spirit.
A Sydney man on N.E.S.-warden duty
during a blackout in February, 1942, was
run down by a military motor-cyclist and
a leg was broken in two places. He has
got a verdict for £590 damages against
the Commonwealth Government. The
fact that he had to bring an action for
damages will make a lot of other wardens
wonder just where they stand as to in-
juries or sickness resulting from N.E.S.
duties. That aspect of wardening in N. S.
Wales has never been clearly stated.
Prahran, which has often had a Labor
M.L.A., was high up on the list of Assem-
bly seats to be gained by Victorian Labor
(13). Labor hopes increased when it be-
came known that Ellis, the U.A.P. mem-
ber, was not going to appear on the plat-
form, In an inauspicious moment Ward
was roped in to clinch the advantage. He
made one of those speeches which go
down in Woolloomooloo and Padding-
ton, but are too strong for South Yarra
stomachs; and on other grounds it irri-
tated Communists, with whom Eddy, as
a Lang man, is temporarily out of favor.
Anyway 26 p.c. of Communist prefer-
ences went to the silent member, and he
was returned with a majority of a thou-
sand or so.
“Gentlemen of Ballarat and savages
of Bungaree!” was an old-time member’s
mode of address when Bungaree turned
against him ; and Bungaree, now part of
Warrenheip-Grenville, still influences the
course of local politics. It supported Ned
Hogan 30 years ago when Hogan, a
aTcS acres
on holiday, found himself the Labor can-
remained* 1 S
and tall as a Labor man and his rise
again as a C.P. Minister. But on elec-
tion night, when old hands learned that
Bungaree had polled nearly two to one
against the ex-Premier, they shook their
heads and said “Ned is sent for!” And
cn it
P ’
Melbourne “Age,” now thoroughly
wild with the Country party to which it
was so kind for so many years, noted
with asperity that not one Minister spoke
m Melbourne during the election cam-
pai f?-,u lf the wl ?oie crowd had spoken
m Melbourne, only Dunstan, Hogan and
one or two others would have been recog-
nised. Melbourne, with a good deal
more than half the electoral population
c c .„. . „ 1 1 „ •
of the State, has had no Minister in
either House since April, 1935. In the
days of Berry and Turner that couldn’t
possibly have happened, nor would Mel-
bourne people have tolerated a cock-
eyed arrangement of electoral boundaries
which gives a country vote three or four
times the value of a city vote. The
change has come about because of a
general impression, amounting in many
cases to a cynical conviction, that State
politics and Parliaments are perishing.
These should be halcyon times for
Australian Government railways, but as
revenue swells so does expenditure, and
the prospect of a real surplus is still
remote. It is different in Canada. There
the president of the National Railways,
reporting to the House of Commons,
announced a 1942 surplus of $25,063,268,
“a new record and an increase of
$21,046,942 over the 1941 surplus.” And
that was “after payment of taxes and
interest paid to the public and to the
Government.” Australians, so far from
receiving taxes from Government rail-
way administrations, have to find massive
taxes to make up their losses.
After Menvies resigned as P M he
After Menzies resigned as J .M. be
Curtin loan aS com
Curtm (it was a loan rally), ana com
mended him to the customers, saying
It John Curtin has occasion to attack
me I know all my wounds will be m
front.’ He has found out that he was
mistaken ~
For the first time in my recollection a
Prime Minister of a British country has
connived at a campaign designed to blacken
the reputation of his war-time predecessors
and to convict them of something very
nearly approaching cowardice or indiffer-
ence to their country. Odd as it may
seem 1 have a regard for my own repu-
tation and l I don’t propose to have it
selled by the Curtins or Wards. After
all, it will be the only real asset I shall
leave to my children, and I am not going
to have it smeared without a battle.
Well, no one can fairly say that Bob
hasn’t had cause to change.
An adaptation of the old “sweethearts
and wives” army toast would hit off the
situation in French North Africa: “Our
National Liberators, General Giraud and
General de Gaulle, and may they never
meet! ”
Premier Dunstan has had to warn
Victorians to expect a reduction in
train services and possible restrictions on
industrial output because of the coal
shortage. The Government Railways
have only a little more than a fortnight s
reserve of coal,
XT Strikes ar J d slopwork meetings on t e
SSties^are for the whole
position.
Ay, and so is a Canberra Government
that can stand shivering by while such
things be
One of
* oub £ ;„ ce the advent of
f ™~^at isfo
du ™ 8 the fl . rst qu % te J
make a “ ev ‘ l rec . ord ; a " d * atth i e n re Sf
” ore d ‘ s P utes , “ 194 . 2 * hi “ ” 1 d 94 1/
*ough dayslost " Z
Mo « ‘han 200 stoppages were recorded
m the first quarter of this year, com-
pared with 602 for the whole of 1942,
557 for 1941 and 350 for 1940. By any
but larrikin standards, shocking,
Premier Playford, invited along with
the other p rem i e r S to introduce stagger-
ing of hours to relieve the transport prob-
lem was COU rteous, but firm:-
The r given me is so hedged with
limitations that I fear I will not be able
to achieve the spread in the traffic that is
needed. I object to the suggestion in the
Prime Minister s letter that three Common-
wealth departments and the Trades and
Labor Council would have to be con-
suited 1 feel that it is not appropriate
S'lltor SKI fed ttoi
some Governments are too prone to take
instructions from the trade-union move-
ment, which today is largely governing the
countl T- . ,
Audited and found correct,
While counting of votes was going on
Premier Dunstan was heard complaining
that people who mentioned what other
countries had done in the mattei of
school medical and dental services were
serving no useful purpose ; it was easy
to suggest extensions and another thing
to ,P ut them into practice in war-time,
Thls proviso wasn t tacked on to a lot of
promises in his policy speech,
Spooner, M.H.R., trying to live up to
’S. ,M. Herald’s” high opinion of him
and to further his own ambitions, is
doing a lot of radio work. He is con-
vincing when he criticises bureaucratic
rule and the Government’s financial tom-
fooleries and puts the case for “pay-as-
you-go,” but not when he commends the
Women-for-Canberra movement and
pleads f ° r m ° re horse-racing—which
meam more gam bling. In view of the
B ood *«"*>» ™ da V « aaad "
d backed by a solid t.t. vote, in Vic-
. jt is im / ro bable that Eric would
lik ’ have h M Weber mst
him in Robertson ; and appeal s for more
racing wou)d co[^e m 0« appropriately
from the racing-mad element in the Syd-
Tnhor r* nci.c
ne y L.duor caucus.
Bernie Corser, now touring England
with a Parliamentary delegation, was in-
trnHii—rl tri Tj r ;r,cb r»f tnfor
traduced to the British Ministry Ot Inter
mation as a member of the United
Country party.” Quickly he corrected
the mistake: “I’m a member of the Coun-
. , ~ „ £ . .. c
f J y P ai ty» there ate no united partie
in Australia these days. Whereat, tis
reported, he “raise v d a laugh.” Nobody
in Australia can raise a laugh over it —
or if they do it’s a hollow sound.


LOOK Through These Glasses
at Everything You Buy!
0(81-42
ŵ
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
£xik BATTERIES
L.et this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Another of Australia’s great Spitfire
pilots has gone to his death in his own
country, like Keith Truscott in an acci-
dent : Flying-Officer Virgil Paul Brennan,
D.F.C., D.F.M. Brennan was a hero of
the defence of Malta. One of the first
Spitfire pilots to go there, he had downed
10 enemy ’planes when he got the D.F.C.
He, Pilot-Officer Ray Hesselyn, D.F.M.
and bar, and Henry Bateson collaborated
in the writing of Spitfires Over Malta,
now in its second edition. A Brisbane
lad, Brennan joined the R.A.A.F. late
in 1940, and got his air training ih Aus-
tralia before going to England. He was
only 23 when the blow fell.
The Bulletin had a special interest
in the fate of Pilot-Officer Philip
Mullens, accidentally killed in New
Guinea. Mullens, born in London of
Australian parents, came to Australia as
a boy and went into the R.A.A.F. under
the Empire Air Training scheme. Just
on seven months ago he sent The
Bulletin a story of bombing over
France (“Follow the Somme,” B.
23 /12/’42), explaining in a modest note
a week or so later that his credentials
included experience in “23 such opera-
tional sorties.” Twenty-eight at the
finish, the grand fellow leaves two little
daughters, fifth-generation Australians.
Charles Barrett, the naturalist, who has
done as much as anybody else to bring
the wonder and charm of this continent
CHARLES BARRETT.
and neighboring islands to the world’s
notice, is almost as shy as some of the
oddities he writes so well about; so
the capture of him for Frith’s collec-
tion was an achievement. Barrett’s Pacific
Wonderland looks like making many
editions, and is particularly relished by
Americans, many of whom when in Mel-
bourne call on Barrett and get him to
take them out to Sherwood Forest,
Heidelberg and similar places where the
lyrebird and the platypus do their stuff.
Nelson Johnson, Minister to Canberra,
is one of the Americans who are keen on
Australian bush creatures and natural his-
tory. Barrett has knocked about little-
known parts of our north —he was one
of the few whites who visited Wessel
Island before the war —and has a high
opinion of the abo. With R, H. Croll
he has combined to bring out Art of the
Australian Aboriginal. Now over 60,
Barrett wears the astonishingly youthful
look of the student of nature in far places.
New president of the Tasmanian
branch of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. is J. A.
Mitchell, a Hobart man who served in
1914-18 with the 41st Battalion. He was
grounded at St. Mary’s School, of which
his father was principal, and collected a
diploma of commerce from Hobart Uni.
After some years in the Commonwealth
Audit Office he became Official Receiver
for Tasmania. He chases par so well in
his spare time that Royal Hobart has
him for captain.
Lieut. L. Herrick, D.S.C., is the only
known Enzedder in command of a sub-
marine. A native of Hastings, Hawke’s
Bay, he joined the R.N, in 1936. Pro-
moted to lieutenant in 1940, he served
in Tigress, which, with its sister sub.
Trident, sank five enemy vessels in
Arctic waters and three more off the
English coast. Since then Lieut. Herrick
has served in five other subs., in four in
command. He is 25.
John Johns has been promoted to
Metropolitan Superintendent of Police in
Adelaide. Chief Traffic Inspector before
that, he began his service as a trooper on
patrol outback from Darwin. His elder
brother, W. F. Johns, is also a Superin-
tendent in Adelaide —of the mounted
police.
The career of Air-Marshal R, M.
Drummond, now a K.C.8., was an
inspiration to Group-Captain Allan
Walters, A.F.C., who was a boy in the
West when Drummond was “Peter” to
friends and foes alike on the Palestine
front. Walters graduated at Duntroon
in 1927. Transferring to the R.A.A.F.
in 1930, he graduated as a pilot from
Point Cook, completed a special course
at the R.A.F. Staff College at Andover
(England) in 1936, and was appointed to
command a R.A.A.F. squadron in 1937.
In 1938 he became C.O. of No. 3 squad-
ron, and in 1939 joined R.A.A.F. head-
quarters. Last year he was Director of
Operations at Allied headquarters, and
he now holds an operational command
in the North.
Dead in Melbourne, at 65, Leslie
Bradford, general manager of B.H.P.
since 1935. Born at Delhi (India),
the son of an Adelaide man, Brad-
ford was grounded in Adelaide, going
from the School of Mines to the
University, where he got his Dip.
in Mining and Metallurgy in 1896.
Joining B.H.P. three years later, he was
an assayer at the Pirie smelters. While
there he launched the experiments for
an ore-concentration process that earned
him world-wide note in his profession.
At the Newcastle steelworks from
the beginning, he left to form the
Bradford-Kendall steel foundry. Re-
turning to 8.H.P., he became super-
intendent and manager of the steel-
works, and was on the directorate of
several associated companies. Syd-
ney Tech. College awarded Brad-
ford an Hon. Fellowship for re-
search, he was a member and bronze
r- medallist of the Aust. Inst, of Mining
and Metallurgy, and a member of the
American Inst, of Mining and Metal-
lurgical Engineers and of the London Iron
and Steel Institute. A long illness pre-
ceded the death of this very able Aus-
tralian.
The stormy period of Samoa’s existence
under the Maoriland mandate is a thing
of the past, and Alfred Clarke Turnbull’s
contribution to the pacification as Act-
ing Administrator has been recognised by
Prime Minister Fraser in announcing that
Turnbull was to be Permanent Adminis-
trator. Turnbull joined N.Z.’s civil ser-
vice in 1899. He became chief account-
ant and inspector in Lands and Surveys
and secretary to the Public Service Com-
missioner.
From the northern political front:
Out of 16 aspirants the Queensland Country-
National Association has chosen two 1914-
18 Diggers to contest the Senate election,
the third selection being left to the C.P. Dr.
C. V. Watson-Brown, one of the two, was
among the first to enlist in 1914 and again in
1939. He is squadron-leader in charge of the
Air Force wing of the- 112th A.G.H. In the
Central District, where he has practised for
20 years, he established a claim to be the
world’s first flying doctor, and he was a founder
of the British Children’s Health Scheme. He
was M.L.A. for Gregory.
The second nominee is Lieut.-Colonel Paul
Goldenstedt, who won his commission at Lone
Pine, became second-in-command of the sth
A.L.H., and ended the war as one of the best-
known British political officers in the Middle
East. In the present war he joined up at the
outset, became A.Q.M.G. of the Northern Com-
mand, and commanded Redbank camp. He was
retired by a medical board at the end of 1941.
Jim McCarter, good pressman, fair
fiddler, lover of the outback and good
company, becomes editor of the Queens-
land “Worker” in place of Jack Hanlon,
transferred to the N.S.W. “Worker.” For
18 months McCarter has been press
liaison officer to Senator Don Cameron,
Minister for Aircraft Production, and he
had a lot to do with making Australia
aware of its leaping aircraft industry.
Jim has had a varied press career in city
and country, and has written books.
Arthur Peck, one of Melbourne’s
oldest architects, had an 88th birthday
last week, and he was at his office as
usual. Peck has been an architect for
65 years, and a yachtsman for nearly as
long. Commodore of Davey’s Bay Yacht
Club and a life member of the R.Y.C.
of Victoria, he’s also an honorary life
member of the Royal Victorian Institute
of Architects.
From Auckland “Star” Inky-Wayfaring
and later publicity-managing for Fuller-
Hayward in Wellington, A. R. Mcllwain
in 1939 crossed the pond to Sydney
“Telegraph,” was next appointed tempor-
arily to work for the Department of In-
formation, and last year, when the first
£100,000,000 loan was launched, was ap-
pointed Commonwealth Publicity Officer.
He lately edited The Job Australia Is
Doing, which is having a wide sale both
in Australia and M.L. His wife was for
two years editress of the Auckland “Ob-
server,” and is a very gifted artist as well.
Maoriland’s youngest bishop, Gerard,
of Waiapu, nowadays Lieut.-Colonel
Gerard, senior chaplain of M.L. forces,
was a soldier (lieutenant in the Buffs) in
the 1914-18 war before he became a
churchman. In this war he has added to
his military adventures by being captured
by Germans at Sidi Rezegh in late
November, 1941. A prisoner in Italy
till a few weeks back, when he was re-
leased on exchange, he was in the same
prison-camp as Brigadiers Miles and
Hargest (since escaped), and saw a smash-
ing R.A.F. raid on Spezzia. Maoriland-
born, Bishop Gerard is 45, and was 40
when he first put on a mitre.
Back in Adelaide, Frank F. Espie,
who was manager of the Burma Corpora-
tion. He had been 19 years in Burma
when the Jap arrived, and he took part
in a 150-mile trek through the jungle to
India, helped by friendly natives.
Wilfred R. Snow, a squadron-leader
in the A.T.C. and an Adelaide ore-buyer
in normal times, is Adelaide Rotary’s new
president. Snow collected a D.S.O. and
an M.C. and was twice mentioned in
dispatches while serving with the old
R.F.C. in 1914-18. He never lost his
interest in aviation, and took up A.T.C.
WILFRED R. SNOW.
work with his ears back. He has offered
£lOO to the first A.T.C. graduate from
his squadron to the R.A.A.F. who wins
a decoration for bravery, though whether
the R.A.A.F. will permit anybody to
accept the prize is another matter.
Among the distinguishing character-
istics of Lord Burghley, British Controller
of Aviation Repairs and Oversea Sup-
plies, are a respect for Australian pilots
and navigators—e nhan c e d on the
journey out when the Lancaster bomber
LORD BURGHLEY.
struck, among other things, an electric
storm in which the gigantic mechanical
bird was tossed about like a cork in a
pond—an athletic figure, a Roman nose
and a wide smile. Lord Burghley is here
to see what Australian aircraft-makers
are doing, and has expressed himself as
pleased and astonished. An old Olympic
Games champion athlete, he met another
sporting celebrity of his generation in
Frank Beaurepaire, ex-Lud Mayor of
Melbourne.
May Lahey, a former Queensland girl
(her father was one of the Lahey
Brothers, timber millers, of Canungra),
has long been Judge Lahey, of Cali-
fornia ; she is now Presiding Judge of
the Los Angeles Municipal Court. Going
to America with her mother and sister
when a girl, she studied law at Southern
California Uni. A vote of 20 fellow-
judges gave her her present appointment.
Into the silence:
In Coogee, Sydney, at 75, Jack McNeill,
general president and N.S.W. secretary of the
A.W.U., and one of a company of Australians
whose honesty of purpose and patriotism won
their union many friends among former an-
tagonists. A pioneer organiser in Victoria, he
was twice M.H.R. for Wannon (Vic.), and
was Scullin’s Minister for Health and Repat.
for 10 months (1931-32). He had a State
funeral, and, by virtue of a compact made long
ago with old mates Jack Barnes and Andy Mc-
Kissick, a Cootamundra wattle is to be planted
on the grave in Melbourne General Cemetery.
In Brisbane, at 57, Billy Sing, miner, shearer,
timber-getter, ’roo-shooter, A.W.U. man, Labor
enthusiast and soldier. He went overseas in
1914 with the sth Light Horse, and returned
with the 31st Battalion, a D.C.M. and the
C. de G. On Gallipoli he was a crack sniper.
He had 150 notches on his rifle, and, except
for a short walk every day, never left his
“possy” for seven months. Birdwood, doing his
rounds, came to know Billy well, and passed
him many a friendly word and cigar.
At Bendigo, at 78, Norman W. Kingdon, a
pioneer in the Australian and M.L. meat trade.
Born in M.L., he was first manager of the Vic-
torian Co-op. Freezing Co., and represented
Armours for a long time.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), Sidney George
Smith. Like his father, E.M. (“Hee Hem”),
he served Taranaki province in Parliament
and held portfolios in the Ward and Forbes
Governments. Three sons are overseas with
M.L. forces.
At 68, G. G. Hopkins, M.L.’s chief electoral
officer, who devised many improvements in
the electoral laws, including compulsory regis-
tration and postal voting.
In Westralia, at 70, W. R. P. (Billy) Marmion,
who was among those who humped their blueys
into Coolgardie from Southern Cross in ’95.
He was 50 years on the fields, for a long time
as manager of Kalgoorlie and Boulder Elec-
tricity Corporation. He was a son of the Mar-
mion who was Forrest’s Minister of Lands.
Robert Cotton, dead in Adelaide at 88, gave
all his life to the service of the National Bank.
He learned his job in S.A., was manager at
Fremantle and Perth 30 years back and in
London during the last war.
In Sydney, at 78, Melbourne-born C. N.
Baeyertz, who was responsible with the late
Frank Morton for the “Triad.” When the
magazine petered out Baeyertz remained in
Sydney as a teacher of languages and literary
critic, and did a bit of broadcasting —un-
commonly well.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Equatorial”: We’d been out on re-
connaissance not far from our jungle
h.q. After stumbling through much
tangled growth, interspersed with occa-
sional creeks, finding some fruit and
a pig-track (but no pig), we about-
turned. Then for a mile we pushed a
steady and strenuous way through ten-
foot kunai grass in the general direction
of camp, finally emerging at a bomb
crater. “Thank goodness,” quoth my
cobber. “Civilisation!”
* ■* * *
“Sartorus”: Attempts which have been
made in America to explain the origin
of zoot-suits (B. 16/6/’43) are not very
convincing. 1 don’t believe the strange
garb was derived either from the attire
of Southern gentlemen in the days of the
Civil War or from an old way of dress-
ing in Harlem. The knut or blade has
found tailors to cater to his naive con-
ceit in every age. The macaronis, the
Regency bucks, the Cockney costers, the
Oxford-bags brigade and the Australian
larrikins cut more of a swathe than most,
but young men, whenever or wherever
born, are subject to an urge for whimsical
sartorial self-expression. When I was
young and beautiful we went in for fancy
double-breasted waistcoats, cut so high
that only a vestige of tie was visible. The
double collar was the highest the neck
could bear—some giraffelike lads could
stand a three-incher—and our neckties
made up in brilliance of hue for what
they lacked in revealed area. D. H.
Souter made great play with the mode
for his decorative purposes. It never
occurred to us lads of the village in these
days to go around carving up people with
razors or starting jehads against the police
and the soldiery, though we had our
moments. Luckily we weren’t exposed to
the cult of the jitterbug.
* * * *
“Zake”: After an eclipse of some years
“Sauchihall” Jock Garden is again
making the Sydney welkin shudder. As
“liaison officer” between Ward and the
unions, the former leader of strikes which
were ah successful visited a factory
to persuade some non-unionists to listen
to “reason.” He was interviewed after
his effort by “Granny.” Said the Cale-
donian fighter, inter alia: “I said to the
women” , “I said that was a
pledge” , “I said if you are so anxious
to do war work” , “I said ‘work right
up to the neck.’ ” Then Jock, with that
exquisite naivete that marks all his best
oratorical efforts, wound up with: “Mrs.
Cassidy was doing all the talking.”
♦ * * V
“Floreat”: With the decline of the
classical education the art of the well-
turned phrase and the apt piece of
imagery has disappeared from public
utterances. There was a little renaissance
the other day in a Sydney court of law,
of all places, and from the Bench. Jus-
tice Herron had before him a young de-
serted wife, charged with concealment of
birth —a pitiable case, of a sort fairly
common in criminal court experience.
Usual judicial attitude is “Well, there’s
the law, and I’m here to administer it.”
Not so Herron, J. His charge to the jury
reported in the “Sunday Telegraph”
concluded with;
You are to determine this matter as a
British jury, guided by your intelligence
and not overwhelmed by your sympathy,
but I should be sorry, gentlemen, if the day
should ever come when the angels of mercy
cannot stand by the throne of justice, and,
with outstretched wings, shelter it from the
bitter winds of inhumanity.
The verdict was “Not guilty.”
* * 4: *
“C.Q.”: At least one individual went
to a polling booth during Melbourne’s
sleepiest election with a genuine interest.
It was an Allied soldier, who astounded
a returning officer by stepping briskly up
and asking for a ballot paper. “But you
can’t be an elector,” protested the r.o.
“I know that,” said the soldier. “I want
to send it back home as a souvenir for
the old folk.”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”; What is claimed as the
biggest salvage operation in Australian
history was brought to a successful con-
clusion in an Australian port with the
raising of a freighter, sent to the bottom
in a collision, with an enormous hole
in her hull. A steel patch was made
ashore and fixed over the orifice in three
“I've ordered a milking machine and a butter churner and expect to be in
full production next week.”
days. Then a cofferdam was built round
the hull, which was raised to the surface
in five weeks. She lay in 20ft. of mud
and 30ft. of water.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: The two Waaafs
were filling the compartment with high-
pitched conversation. “Where’s Smith?”
one asked. “Oh, he’s in the army,” said
the other. “I know that,” said the first,
“but where is he?” The carriage pricked
up its ears for a breach of the security
regulations. Replied the second, lowering
her voice a trifle: “He’s somewhere in
South Yarra.”
* * *
“Nork”: After a career of more than
13 years the Westralian radio station 6ML
has closed “until the end of the war or
at least until the staff can be replaced.”
When it began business there were only
3000 listeners within 50 miles of Perth
and only one national station. The chair-
man of W.A. Broadcasters, Ltd., an-
nouncing the closure, didn’t say whether
“My ole man knew something when he joined the permanent V.D.C.”
the staff had been lost through voluntary
enlistment or call-ups, but the incident is
a sidelight on the weight of Westralia’s
contribution to the war effort. No eastern
radio station~and heaven knows there's
plenty of them—has had to close down
through shortage of staff.
* * * *
“8.P.”: A San Diego (U.S.A.) report
claims that a child who had been in a
coma for 65 days as a result of sleeping
sickness woke up when her music teacher
played a familiar tune by the bedside.
I don’t doubt it. When our radio plays
some of the familiar tunes of the day I
not only wake up ; I get right up and go
far out into the cactus and stay there
until my rage subsides.
* * * *
“T.8.H.”; I can assure “Pawang” (B.
9/6/’43) that his farmer friend diagnosed
as tuberculous who lived happily ever
after did not have tuberculosis. A posi-
tive result from a tuberculosis test signi-
fies only that at some time the subject
has been infected, and not necessarily that
he is suffering from the active disease.
The majority of adults give a positive
reaction, but in most cases their resist-
ance has been sufficiently strong to over-
come the infection, and they are
none the worse for it. In a civilised
community it is preferable to have
a positive reaction, as it indicates
some degree of immunity. Under-
graduates would probably give a
higher percentage of positives than
most groups, because of the large
proportion of medical students
amongst them. Of the latter, one
in every 25 or 30 develops the
active disease during student days.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Zake’s” Soho diner
who utilised an accommodating dog
for a table napkin (B. 16/6/’43) had
an illustrious predecessor in this
form of enforced economy. Mac-
aulay relates that Dr. Johnson, in
the days of his bitter poverty, would
dine for fivepence in a cockloft or
beef a la mode shop, where “after
the meal he could wipe his hands
on the greasy back of a Newfound-
land dog.”
* * * *
“Loc”: Not even behind the
barbed-wire of an army outpost is
a man safe from female suspicions.
A Digger serving up north received
tidings from his wife that cakes,
biscuits and whatnots would soon
be on their way. He waited a
month, in vain ; then, always the gentle-
man, wrote praising the cakes and other
stuff as the best he’d ever sampled. By
the very next air mail there arrived a
bitter letter: the cakes and biscuits had
been burned and the whatnots hadn't
turned out well, so she had not for-
warded them ; and what creature had
been sending him cakes?
* * * *
“T. McN.”: It’s always been a pet
theory of mine that when anybody stays
long enough in the country Australia will
take hold of him. I’ve great hopes that
many of the Allied service men now with
us will want to stay after the war, and
I’m encouraged along that line by the
remarks of one Pete Vasalie, of Minne-
sota. Says Pete: “I have been over
Rabaul so many times that I now con-
sider that I know all that country thor-
oughly. I like the look of that country
round Rabaul and have made arrange-
ments to buy 100 acres of a privately-
owned plantation there.” He added that
he’d already bought shares in Qantas Air-
ways and other local projects, because
“you see I believe in this country.” Stay
as long as you like, Pete, and bring all
your mates!
“Bo” recalls a sartorial nightmare:
Decision of War Council to grant a free issue
of a civilian suit and hat to men discharged
from the A.M.F. will raise grins from the Dig-
gers of 25 years ago who remember receiving
similar gifts in similar circumstances. On the
theory that to a man long inured to khaki any
sort of civvies will look lovely, the authorities
(carefully counting the cost) selected a pepper-
and-saltish-hued material which was about as
poor quality as cloth could be and still hold to-
gether. The unlined suit I got must have been cut
out with a blunt scythe, and it was stitched with
thread so delicate in constitution that it dis-
solved in a humid atmosphere. The top button
of the vest was set so high that only a quarter
of tie-knot was visible; the peaks at the
bottom of the waistcoat, weighted with about a
pound of heavy-quality duck, banged against
my knees. Every time I raised my beer rny
right elbow caught in the shoulder-pad of the
coat; and the pants soon faded to the color of
underpants, so that I seemed to be considerably
in dishabilly. The hat looked the same put on
sidewise as any other way. Still, after a bit
I got that case-hardened that I could go out
and water the back lawn in the regalia. Of
course there’s not a dog’s chance the new issue
will be anything like that. Or is there?
THE JAM-MAKERS.
“A number of Brisbane racehorse-trainers and
bookmakers’ clerks, called up by the Man-power
authorities, will be employed at jam-making in a
local factory.” — News item.
Torn from their beats and jobs on equine
courses,
Translated, one may term it, or trepanned
From booking wagers and from schooling
horses,
We find them ranged among the busy band
Making munitions for the fighting forces,
These staunch defenders of our native land
Who need, for knocking out the Japs and Huns,
1 inned meat and jam as well as bombs and
guns.
No more for them the bays and browns and
dapple-
Greys that were erst the emblems of their
trade.
Instead, in fancy one may see them grapple
With the ingredients of marmalade,
And the intricacies of plum-and-apple,
Although 1 trust that less of that is made
Than when the old-time Digger's curses fell
On this particular comestible.
They’ll learn the values of no end of berries,
Straw-, rasp- and goose-, even the humble
black-,
Along with peaches, apricots and cherries,
For constituting palatable tack.
We cannot all be strafing Nips and Jerries,
Yet each of us can do his little whack
And help the schemes of Nazidom to damn
Alike by knitting nets and making jam.
1 see them lingering experiment’lly
Over a melon and a lemon brew,
And watching it asimmer as intently
As betting odds they used to keep in view.
And, being sports, I’d have them go more gently
With the inevitable pumpkin, too.
It fairly gets upon a fellow's nerves
lo get so much of this in his preserves.
Less gainful, possibly, their new vocation
Than in the pleasant fields where once they
wrought.
And yet there may, or should, be compensation
Engendered by the patriotic thought
That hardy warriors on some battle-station
When to the board their tasty product's
brought
Will down it with appreciative whoops
Attesting “That’s the stuff to give the troops.”
N.SAV.
T. THE R.
THE RACECOURSE MISANTHROPE.
“Disappointed punters, who are always ready to
declare ‘everything’s crook.’ ”
—Sporting Notions, 11.
You can pick him on sight-—or you could,
anyhow—-
By the snarl in his voice and the frown on his
brow.
And he'll tell, if you’ll listen, how cruel it is
To blew your good brass through some under-
hand biz.
It may be the jockey he blames for his loss
Or the owner, for “putting a schlenter across,”
But he’s done in his dough, you may guess by
his look,
The punter who reckons that “everything's
crook.”
It may be the judge, whom he labels a swab,
Too old or too blind for that onerous job;
It may be the stewards at whom he will froth
And pour on their doings the vials of his wrath;
It may be the starter, it may be the course;
Or even the palpably innocent horse
May share in the searing anathemas shook
From the nunter who’s certain that “everything's
crook.”
He’s a fount of resentment, a figure of woe.
Though what it has cost him you never will
know.
It may be a tenner, or merely a note.
That’s slipped from his grasp to the books or
the tote.
Yet ’tisn’t the boodle that’s caused him to
storm,
He’ll hint, but the folly of studying form.
When ramps are concocted the shrewdest to
rook.
He’s sate in assuming that “everything's crook.
So it’s likely he’ll lead the irascible shout,
Exhorting the heads to rub somebody out.
Those soortsmen from Darktown who wagered
their tin
On a wrong ’un are types of the mood that
he's in.
From the things he imputes you will doubtless
decide
That he’s hurt in his pocket as well as his pride,
The paramount grievance, unless I’m mistook.
Of the punter who bellows that “everything's
crook.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Spoke”: A rumor that Melbourne
people were buying soap by the hundred-
weight because of a belief that the stuff
was to be rationed impelled Customs
Minister Keane to inveigh against
whisperers and to recall that whispering
started a run on a bank in N.S.W. A
bank clerk started one in Melbourne
during the depression. People arriving at
the Collins-street bank branch where he
worked found the massive bronze doors
locked against them at ten in the morn-
ing, and everything looking silent and
deserted. Panic spread, and some of the
crowd that had collected even rushed
down the street to the bank’s head-
quarters, Police began to assemble, and
it looked as if a riot would be started
when a taxi tore up and a hot and
bothered clerk got out and unlocked the
portals. He had left the keys in his other
pants.
* * * *
“Tuart”: I see by the cables that no-
thing in Germany or Italy can stand up
to the R.A.F.’s explosive bombs. It’s a
wonder these Jerries and Ities don’t try
gumming strips of paper on the inside
of their shop-front and window glass.
It’s what we were advised to do in the
dark days of 1942, and we did it. And
on thousands of windowpanes in Syd-
ney, the city of my soul, these bomb-
neutralisers remain.
* * * . .* r
“Blowfly Creek”; Yes, quite a lot of
people in Melbourne believe that alcohol
is a poison (B. 9/6/’43), but I struck a
firm upholder of the opposite opinion in
a hard-working, tough dairy-farmer of
ray acquaintance. “Snubb’s a fine, strong
boy,” I remarked, referring to the hand
who had been working for him from boy-
hood. “Well, he ought to be,” replied
the farmer. “He spends enough money
on his health.” “Is that so?” I said.
“I didn’t know he had much to do
with the doctors.” “He doesn’t,”
said the cocky, swinging on the
teats. “But look at the amount of
beer he drunks!”
“Hamer”: It wasn’t Buckingham
Palace that was in mind when the craze
for “Palace Hotels” started in Australia
(B. 9/6/’43), but much mdre likely the
Crystal Palace, whose glories were fresh
in the memories of English migrants.
Also, in the days before publicans found
it profitable to dodge the terms upon
which their licenses were issued and
really wanted boarders, “Palace” was a
neat way of suggesting the last word in
comfort. In every case I can remember
the “Palace” was a roomy place with
plenty of accommodation to offer. The
Salvation Army even grabbed the name
for its People’s Palace. But I think you’ll
find that until the Crystal Palace reared
its twin towers in London’s Sydenham
there was nary a Palace pub anywhere
in the overseas Empire.
“C.Q.”: The address a publican in
Melbourne gives for his hostelry must be
a bit of a puzzle to visitors from abroad.
It is “Opposite Phar Lap’s Stable.” He’s
just across the street from the National
Museum.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: A. P. Herbert uses Aus-
tralian capital cities for staus in his pro-
posal for renaming the constellations.
Sydney and Melbourne are to be the up-
rights of the Southern Cross, Brisbane
and Perth the sides, Adelaide and Hobart
the “pointers.” Canberra comes in a bit
further east, with Auckland, Wellington
and Christchurch. The Great Bear of the
Northern Hemisphere goes to Shak-
speare, Caxton, Johnson and Pitt. Handel,
Wren and Reynolds form “the Plough’s”
handle. The three in Orion’s belt, vis-
ible from both north and south, become
Cook, Columbus and Cabot, the whole
heavens being mapped out in groups of
jesters, airmen, women and so on. Some
unexpected names are Finucane, Dosto-
evski, Caruso, Oates (not Titus, but the
“very gallant gentleman” of Scott’s.last
march in Antarctica), Paul Jones, Peter
Pan and Amy Johnson.
* * * *
“B. Hackshaw”: Treasurer Chifley is
proud of the fact that the Board of
Business Administration has standardised
buildings to such an extent that an
immense saving of time and money has
been effected. It may be a necessary
war-time measure but the prospect will
fill with horror people concerned with
more permanent values. I shudder to
contemplate a future when public build-
ings, schools, suburban villas and flats
will all be pre-fabricateff in factories and
be of the same pattern, and when indi-
viduality and craftsmanship will dis-
appear. A Melbourne artist has a book-
case that was made 100 years ago by
convicts in Tasmania under the super-
vision of a priest who wanted a copy of
one of the Pope’s bookcases in the
Vatican. It is as beautiful as the product
of the modern factory is ugly.
“Norther”; Amathea, by Henry G.
Lamond, the story of a horse, which
appeared serially in The Bulletin a few
years back and was published in book
form by Angus and Robertson, has been
accepted for publication in the U.S.A.
by the house of Morrow —one of the first
fruits of a new American interest in Aus-
tralia,
'* * * *
“Thistlebrook”: When “E.H.S.” (B.
9/6/’43) is in Melbourne he should drop
in at the Lands Department in Treasury-
place and inspect the original plans of
the parishes comprising the “Kelly
country proper” (the Benalla-Wanga-
ratta-Whitfield triangle: country farther
afield only became “Kelly country” when
the gang turned fugitive). The parishes
of Greta, Oxley, Moyhu, Laceby, Glen-
rowan, etc., were subdivided into areas
640 to 10 acres and less from 1856 on.
The three last-named had the theodolite
over them in 1865,* except for isolated
blocks surveyed as early as 1854. The
few “squatters” of the district were
merely large farmers, holders in most
cases of a Pre-emptive Right (640 acres)
and such extra land as they could acquire
per medium of “dummies” —servants and
others who selected land for them. The
total area rarely exceeded a couple of
thousand acres. Of the “runs” mentioned
by “E.H.S.” two only are in the “Kelly
country proper.” They are both miles
from the old Kelly home, and it is diffi-
cult to see how the brothers could have
come in conflict with the owners if the
Kellys had been minding their own
“Seein’ you're leaving, sir, the ship's company's taken round the hat to
buy you this swizzle-stick."
affairs. Admittedly the country about
Greta isn’t rich, but many a good man has
made a comfortable living from it since
the Kellys’ time. Greta, Glenrowan and
Lurg weren’t closely settled until the
’eighties, although surveyed and available
for selection, which goes to show that
Ned, Dan and their ilk could have had
land if they had wanted it.
* # * ♦
“A.J.S.”: In Sydney the retail sales of
butter during the week preceding the
announcement of rationing that com-
modity were 317,3001 b. above the nor-
mal —an increase of more than one-third.
They manage these things better in Eng-
land. There, some time ago, it was
decided to add another article to the
rationed list, but only the heads knew
what the item was. It was not disclosed
even in the departmental correspondence,
the word “nutmegs” being substituted.
There was no rush on the newly-rationed
article, but I daresay many a civil ser-
vant’s wife is stocked with six years’
supply of nutmegs.
* * * *
“Niloc”: The U.S. Supreme Court has
been considering whether it is possible to
have a proprietary interest in old-estab-
lished slang. It had before it a claim
that “specs” is' the exclusive property of
the Marvel Co., of Arcadia, Cal. The co.
further claimed that its empire extended
over all slang synonyms for spectacles,
and desired to restrain a firm making
beak and eye guards for fowls from using
the word “goggles.” A State Court had
already decided that these contentions
took in too much of the slang dictionary,
and the Federal Court, nodding concur-
rence, dismissed the appeal.
* * * *
“Waipiro”: I see a Melbourne butcher
has been in trouble with the police for
sly-grogging. I don’t recollect that trade
ever being used as a cover before in Aus-
tralia, though when I lived in Sydney’s
King’s Cross (ages ago) there were a
ham-an’-beef man, a greengrocer and an
“agent” from whom one might obtain a
couple of bottles of lager on a drouthy
night. Going ages further back, I lived
for a while in a dry town in M.L. where,
reputedly, every shop on the main street
could be made to yield a snifter or a
bottle if the password were given. I
didn’t need to try ’em all. My bloke
kept the music shop, and the memory of
him fishing bottles of Scotch out of an
old upright piano (which could stow a
case of the stuff in places not occupied
by its works) outlives all the rest of the
impressions of a very dull sojourn.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Rationing has its
bright side. It has willy-nilly destroyed
a lot of habits. Most people get into
habits. Like an old plough-horse they
tramp up and down furrows until their
dying day, and all the variety of life
escapes them. How many people have
suffered because they have to walk or
take a train instead of driving their own
cars? I now see aspects of the country-
side which I never knew existed when I
used to whiz past them at 40 m.p.h.
The rationing of beer has given a lot of
people a taste for Australian wine, and
the rationing of clothing has given them
a more intelligent interest in dress. But
so ingrained is habit that most people
think the world is going to come to an
end because there’s a check on butter
consumption. A correspondent of my
Melbourne morning daily writes to com-
plain that his child, who will reach his
ninth birthday 14 days after the date of
the ration issue, is debarred from receiv-
ing tea coupons for a whole year! That
doesn’t seem to me a very terrible mis-
fortune. In Shakspeare’s England the
whole family drank beer for breakfast.
* * * * *
“Spokeshave”: In the past we have had
the Wars of the Roses, the War of the
Spanish Succession, the Seven Years’
War, the Thirty Years’ War, the Hundred
Years’ War and many other wars with
nice dignified titles. Now President
Roosevelt has suggested a competition
to find the most suitable name for this
war. My entry is “The Lecturing War.”
There was never a war before when there
were so many lectures. Troops and civi-
lians are being lectured in camps, in halls,
in newspapers, over the air and by mail,
morning, noon and evening, and in any
capital city you can take your choice any
day of the week of subjects ranging from
astronomy to zoology. I attended one
such gathering the other evening and
found a globular man with a waistline
of about 72in.. lecturing on “The Neces-
sity for Physical Fitness”!
“Nakh”: One of the unexpected by-
products of this war is the passion that
has been qroused for education. Even
p.o.w. camps in Germany have become
classrooms for Australian universities.
Another instance is the long arm the
Australian Association of Accountants
has extended to draw in a candidate who
is serving as an aircraftman in London.
Sitting under the supervision of his wing-
commander, he answered the associa-
tion’s examination papers on 50 foolscap
pages. These were photographed on
miniature film, weighing less than an
ounce, which was posted to Australia.
The candidate passed with flying colors,
and is now sitting for his finals.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The first S.A. (and pos-
sibly first Australian) prosecution of a
non-trader for making undue profit on a
sale has resulted in a fine inflicted on a
private citizen. He had a refrigerator
which had cost not more than £BO, and
could not resist an offer a few months
later of £l3O. Somehow news of the
transaction reached the Law, which took
action.
Ji: * * *
“Wodgil”: MacArthur is so univer-
sally admired in America that it was
rather astonishing to come upon a note
of criticism in a literary column. The
carper carped at what he called the gen-
eral’s “rococo rhetoric.” Rhetoric may
be right; but I .admire it, as I admire
Churchill’s, and don’t find it a bit
“rococo.”
9K Jjf 5K #
“S.T.S.”: “Melbn’s” dictum (B.
19/5/’43) that “a female nude can hang
in an exhibition without anybody being
shocked, but a male nude must have an
allegorical setting” and, if sculptured, is
liable to get fig-leaved anyway, some-
how overlooked one vital distinction.
From the Greeks onwards, the female
figure has never been shown anatomically
correct, and this convention is now
matter of course ; though a male figure
similarly incorrect would be thought
simply comic. When I was last in Lon-
don, at a time fig-leaves were being re-
moved, a Bond-street dealer defended
truth to nature. I chaffed him about being
inconsistent; on which he did produce a
single female study fairly honest. The
retort was obvious: “Yes, and that one
you keep in a locked drawer in the base-
ment ! ” However, a much-prized Art
award has since been won, in an Ameri-
can exhibition, by a figure really true to
life, a photograph of which appears in
“Studio.”
* * * *
“Craiser”; Recent sales of “modernist”
paintings to Australian galleries make
me wonder how much of contemporary
painting, “modern” or otherwise, will
last as long as that of Titian and the other
Old Masters —Imean continue to exist, not
continue to be praised. Most painters of
today add terabine or some other drier
to their pigments. Paintings dry from
the outside inwards, and uneven pressure
caused by driers increases the tendency
to crack. The Old Masters used all sorts
of technical devices to prevent this.
Titian, for instance, preserved his work
by painstakingly applying as many as 20
coats of glaze. Now most artists are too
concerned about making an immediate
hit at exhibitions to bother about the
durability of their work. As so much of
it is done with the tongue in the cheek,
to comply with current crazy fashions,
perhaps all is for the best.
* * * *
“No. 412”; Maybe “looking like a
convict” to describe the close-cropped
bloke (B. 9/6/’43) will last for ever as a
phrase; but the factual basis of the
phrase has gone. Prison authorities in
all Australian States long ago abandoned
the close-to-the-scalp coiffure. It was in-
stituted for sanitary reasons, prisoners
being mainly lice-infested and the prisons
themselves lousy. A prisoner, under
regs., has a periodical haircut, but the
length is no shorter than he would get
outside.
* * *
“X.S.”: I can imagine how confused
foreigners become at the contrary usages
of “unbend” (B. 9/6/’43), remembering
my own puzzlement at Hamlet telling his
friends he would make frozen mutton of
“the villain that lets me.” “Let,” of
course, is a good old English word
which means to hinder, impede or
obstruct, as well as the antonym of
those terms. As “unbend” is derived
from archery, so “let” is derived from
fives or racquets, a popular pastime
in Shakspeare’s day. It survives in lawn
tennis, where, when a ball touches the net
in serving, the stroke is known as a “let” ;
also in legal phraseology, as in “without
let or hindrance.”
* # * *
“B. A. Ker”: Silent testimony to the
piety of our forebears is evident to the
observant inspector of St. Augustine
Church —a partial ruin standing in the
grounds of Newington State Hospital,
near Auburn (N.S.W.). Built in 1838 by
John Blaxland, the explorer, who owned
the original Newington building and
surrounding country (the stone lodge-
house still stands on the Parramatta-road,
a mile and a. half distant), the church was
probably intended only for the family and
menace, and could scaicely have Seated
more "’than a hundred at most; yet the
sandstone step under the left unit of the
double doors is worn down fully five
inches. Obviously both doors were opened
only on special occasions, as the right-
hand side of the step is hollowed a mere
inch or two. But the number of times
each member of that comparatively small
congregation passed through the lei t-
hand door must have run into four or
five figures.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Saffron Circle had no
pub, but it had just acquired a mounted
trooper and it eyed him speculatively as
he stood on the railway siding. In the
siding yard was a collection of cars,
buggies, sulkies and hacks, for the citi-
zens had gathered this hot summer after-
noon for a solemn occasion. They closed
round the guard’s van in silent respect as
the long, plain coffin was gently handed
out, and at a sign from Big Tom
Fleming they fell in behind as it
was carried to old McNulty’s flat-
topped wagon, tenderly placed there-
on and chocked into place. Then
McNulty climbed aboard, spoke
soberly to his team and the procession
moved off. The trooper, alone on the
platform, watched it go and then thought-
fully walked across to his new little office.
At the door he paused and looked again
at the cortege, winding slowly out of
sight round the hopbush belt on the
sandhill. Then something struck him
and he turned and went along to the post
office, full of urgent inquiry. He got
his answer, got his horse and got himself
after that procession, catching up with it
just as Big Tom ripped the lid off the
cotlin and the top off the first bottle.
The trooper eyed Tom, the crowd and
ffie array of refreshment in the box.
‘‘Vou might have told a bloke,” he com-
plained, reaching for the bottle and giving
it what it deserved. “If I hadn’t suddenly
noticed there was no women in your
bloomin’ funeral I might have been left
tonguein’ back there.” Thus did he
become an accepted citizen of Saffron C.
* * * *
“Louden”; We all thought “Chalkey,”
the driver, was a teetotaller ; but on the
sixth night out, having missed him for
several hours, we found him, full of grog
and fight, issuing challenges to the Wim-
mera town’s kindly policeman. It seems
he’d been drinking “Tiger’s milk,” as he
called it. We took him back to the pub
and left next morning for S.A. At Gor-
don’s Leap, Mt. Gambier, “Chalkey”
took his first look at the quiet blue water
far beneath him. Someone asked him
how he rated Gordon’s jump. “Chalkey”
thought it over. “A couple o’ Wimmera
wines under me waistband,” he said,
“and I’d repeat the leap on a cow.”
* * * «
“Ben S.”: “These flamin’ city coves
get me goat, fair dinkum! ” said old Rod
as he stretched his feet out to the big log
fire. “I was on the tramp up Woome-
lang way with a bloke just fresh from
the Smoke and as green as you find ’em.
The first night we camped in a clump of
scrub on a back road. We unslung the
knots, and I says T’m goin’ over to that
cocky’s place to get a bit of grub—you
ml the billies down at the dam.’ I gets
back with some sandwiches and meat,
and finds him sittin’ down smokin’
and the billies still empty. I got
a bit nettled at that, and says ‘Look,
bloke, you and me are mates, and
all that’s to be done we share
alike, see?’ ‘Take it easy,’ he says. T
tried to get water from the dam, like you
said, but I couldn’t cross the channel;
she’s running a banker! ’ ”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: After the 1917 flood on
our part of the Murray thistles (B.
16 / 61’43) started to spring up behind
the receding water. Within a few
weeks there was a wall of them
10ft. high and so thick the dogs
couldn’t bark in ’em. They fenced off
our waterhole with a barrier a chain
thick, and we were sadly contemplating
the necessity for hiring some Queensland
cane-cutters or a mallee roller when the
cattle solved the problem themselves.
They butted and squirmed through that
wall to the water, the horses and sheep
followed, and soon there was a series of
twisting tunnels through the barrage. It
was a sight to see the stock going to
water at night, little groups around each
tunnel waiting their turn to slip in behind
the next one. They never jammed, be-
cause after drinking the beasts turned
and came back through another tunnel.
How our stock would have laughed at
the city crowds which struggle through
railway barriers at peak hours!
t * * . * *
Dixit”: I don’t imagine I’m the only
one to have gone through it, but I’ll
wager that, in a single year I worked at
more different jobs than the everyday
Mallee cocky meets in a lifetime. On
New Year’s Day I began by bag-sewing ;
then driving the stripper, carting in hay
that had beep left out till after stripping,
and stack-building. Later on in the year
"Got your leave pass?”
"Cripes , you scared the life out of me! Thought you was goin' to ask
me for a match."
I did ploughing, seeding, stocking and
binder-driving. I drove, dagged and
crutched sheep, shore ’em and marked
the lambs. And then I did a turn at
scrub-rolling, fencing and wood-chop-
ping, and finished up at Christmas doing
the cooking for old Sandy Mac’s gang
for a few weeks.
* * * *
“Boxer”; “Narrin” might be a dead
shot on the Joe Blakes, but has he ever
got two with one bullet? I’ve done it
with ’roos, and they weren’t in line either
—by screwing the rifle as I fired and put-
ting a leg-break on the bullet,
“Gwan”: I’m with “Narrin” against
the lot of ye. It’s easy enough to drill
a tiger snake with a .22 when he’s swim-
ming, because, though the rest of him
wriggles like a politician evading an elec-
tion promise, his head steers a true course
and is a “sitter.”
* * *
“Dixit”: So the only mallee “The
0.D.” knows grows only a couple of
feet in 100 years (B. 2/6/’43). Where I
come from in Victoria the virgin scrub
is flattened with a scrub roller, a huge
revolving log drawn by horses or bul-
locks. If it’s neglected, saplings will
shoot from the old root and grow at
about the rate of five feet a year; fully-
grown, they’re from 15ft. to 25ft. The
sapling can be repeatedly cut or rolled
down, but after a few months will spring
up again. Every Mallee cocky on new
land knows it to his sorrow.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Put a man in a city and
he’s liable to all sorts of digestive upsets ;
yet in the desert he can gorge on salt
beef and damper, with strong black tea,
and not feel a twinge. A man short of food
almost to the point of starvation can eat
fish, flesh or fowl that’s practically putrid
without ill effects. The same applies to
water. One time we did a “perish” when
the two brumbies dropped and Long
Ned’s camel had been seven days without
a moistener. We met a buck and bribed
him to lead us to his well. There was
water in it, but the smaller fauna of the
neighborhood had evidently been run-
ning a suicide club. Afterwards we
strained it twice through a double thick-
ness of flannel, boiled it twice, then made
tea with it. But at the moment of dis-
covery it looked the best of water to us,
though the drought-stricken camel turned
up his nose at it. We suffered no harm,
though to a man full-flushed with liquid
it would probably have been almost as
deadly as arsenic.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: I liked “R. Ney’s”
description of the Scotch hobble (B.
19/5/’43), though it varies greatly from
the Scotch hobble we use in the West on
persistent strayers. We double-hobble
them fore and hind, then with a rope,
strap or chain, left barely slack, connect
both sets of hobbles. The nag can walk
around and feed without hindrance, but
the first attempt at a gallop brings it
down, and after that first disastrous
attempt it won’t try again. If it’s a camel
you’re hobbling be careful, for the oont
is very touchy about the hind feet and
can, and will, lash out in any direction.
* * * *
“Apthropo”: The aboriginal who in-
habited this continent so sparsely when
the white man came was short of most
of the things that make human existence
bearable, but he had one great boon—
fire. With fire he did much of his hunt-
ing, setting alight the grass during sum-
mer and autumn and driving game,
kangaroos and the rest, towards the line
of hunters armed with spear and waddy.
Even, today in the dry centre the tribes
burn the spinifex, driving out the
kangaroo rats, snakes and lizards. In the
winter, crouched in his mia-mia or
wurley, with rain pouring outside, the
abo. defied the cold, kept his tiny fire
going, and the whole family, with its
dogs, huddled together quite warm. When
the old warrior was dying and could no
longer keep up with the rest of the tribe
they made him a fire, leaving him also a
pile of sticks. When a woman felt the
approach of her labor they gave her a
fire and left her. She used the glowing tip
of a fire stick for the purpose for which
the white midwife uses the scissors.
* * * *
“Yokel”: If “Golly” (B. 19/5/’43) were
a professional poultry-slayer he’d find
quite a number of “hard-boiled” eggs
inside dead chooks during the course of
a year. That hen of his was merely egg-
bound, a recognised malady of the fowl-
yard, It happens mostly when hens get
too fat, the egg duct becoming too small
to permit of the egg’s being voided. Nature
sees to it that the shell and the white are
reabsorbed, though the yolk seems to be
beyond her.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Our Road Board foreman
has never relaxed his efficiency in 25
years’ service, but these times of man-
power shortage have brought him griev-
ous worries. Likewise the petrol short-
age. First it robbed him of the little
utility truck in which he raced the roads
from one gang to another, and later of
the motor-bike which replaced it. He
took to a nice new pushbike. Pedalling
around the outer edge the other day he
found the steam roller motionless* but
steaming when it rightly should have been
pressing the macadam. Leaving the bike,
he set out on a little sleuthing, and soon
came on a couple of pick-and-shovel men,
the roller-driver and a few bottles of beer
all lying in the near-by scrub. Promising
the lot a quick discharge when they
awoke, the foreman went back to the
roller, climbed into the cab, turned the
steam on to take the machine back to
the yard. There was a sort of shudder,
a grind, then a bump —his bike.
sp * * *
“O. Pip”: Mick was a be-
liever in patent medicines on the “try-
anything-once” principle, but his favorite
remedy was painkiller, which he used for
internal as well as external application,
especially after a bender. During one
recovery he reached out of his bunk,
grabbed one of the array of bottles on
a shelf and took a swig. Then he looked
at the label. To his horror he found he
had swallowed some hair-restorer. Sandy
was going into the township, and he
promised to “get something that’ll fix
you.” He returned with a bottle marked
“To remove superfluous hairs.” Mick
took a swig, turned over and contentedly
went to sleep.
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The big fellow’s chief
sport was Australian football; for all
others he entertained indifference or con-
tempt. We had a clearing contract in a
lonely part of the Vic. Mallee, and the
half-dozen or so energetic people about
the place amused themselves with tennis.
They pressed Mat and me to join in, but
the big bloke stood off for a while. In
the end he yielded sufficiently to come
and watch a set or two, and was finally
persuaded to take a racquet against a
little cove who offered to “show him a
few points.” To make it easy the little
cove served the balls straight at Mat, who
did his best to hit ’em back, the little
cove dodging and ducking and swiping
like a grasshopper boxing on with a bull-
dog ant. After a few Mat
walked up to the net, glared at his
opponent and roared “Whyinell don’t
you stand still?” A bit startled, the
little cove said “Why?” “Why!” roared
Mat. “Howinell do y’ think I can hit you
with the blasted ball if you keep jumpin’
about all over the place?”
Y * * a*
“Jemalong Jim”: There’s no worse
job than rooting out the clay for a bush
brick-kiln, and when the newchum arrived
looking for work that’s what he got. He
whaled into that clay for all he was
worth, a spectacle that aroused curiosity
in our local anti-capitalist, who addressed
the toiler thus: “Look, mate, you don’t
want to toil like that for any blasted
boss. You’re only heapin’ up his profits
with the sweat of your brow. He”
“Garn,” said the newchum, “who’s toil-
ing for the boss? This is a dirty job,
ain’t it? Nobody else wants it, do they?
Right-oh, the sooner I get all the con-
founded clay out of that hole the sooner
I’ll be done with it, won’t I?”
* * * *
“P.E.P.”; Most bulls and bullocks
which are petted a lot as calves (B.
2/ 6/ ’43) turn out vicious later on. And
white bulls and bullocks are notoriously
vicious.
* * * ♦
“D.E.”: Australia and Australians
were praised by Captain John C. O’Don-
nell, D.F.C., a 23-year-old U.S. Army
Air Force pilot with over a year’s service
in the South Pacific, in an interview with
an Office of War Information man in
Washington. “Among the most hospit-
able people in the world,” said the cap-
tain ; and that went for all groups. He
himself had been entertained in the
homes of farmers, workers in war indus-
tries and Sydney’s Lord Mayor, and he
had pleasant memories of visits to
“Foote’s station, a ranger’s home where
many American officers have spent their
furlough.” “There are a few differences,
of course,” he added. “Our slang is not
the same —sometimes the results of its
use are both confusing and amusing;
otherwise we are a great deal alike.
We like the same dance music, and
quite often the same girls.” As
for the pursuit of other interesting
creatures, “our boys like hunting and
fishing in Australia. Many of them shot
wallabies, but not many of them got
around to eating this strange animal.”
But surely some of the lads have been
introduced to tastier forms of marsupial
meat.
* $ * *
“Sheepo”: The Dirranbandi man who
counted 15,000 sheep in an hour (B.
9/6/’43) must have had extra-good run-
ning sheep. The quicker the jummies run
the easier for the competent counter, but
when poor and weak old eWes are coming
through and keep falling down and block-
ing the gateway anything up to 2000 an
hour is fast going. And it’s then the
most reliable of counters is apt to slip.
I’d prefer to back my count of strong
wethers running through at 10,000 to
1 12,000 an hour than of old ewes at a
fifth of that rate.
STOCKMEN’S RIVER.
With floating foam and floodwrack of debris
riding high,
Reaped where the rough Carnarvons lift peaks
toward the sky,
And whirlpools and brown wavelets that swirl
unceasingly,
The Dawson, Mother Dawson, rolls on toward
the sea.
Strange folk are they, her people, lean men
whose god’s the horse,
Who built a cattle empire along her winding
course;
Where every man’s a horseman and every girl’s
a belle
Who lives beside the river where love and beauty
dwell.
Still here is heard the jingle of bells and hobble-
chains,
And here are born those legends that garb
the creeks and plains;
Great feats of camp and muster that Ting to
clashing horns,
The echoes of the hoofbeats that wake the
crimson morns.
O Dawson, Mother Dawson, if speech were
only hers
She'd tell the horsemen’s stories, attuned to
tinkling spurs.
But while the foam is passing and while the
floodwrack spills
The tales of this brown river are lost among
the hills.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Wang”: “It was the hungriest stretch
of country I’d ever struck,” related Dan.
“We hadn’t been able t’ wangle a hand-
out fer two days, an’ me an’ me mate
were sittin’ on our swags cursin' the
mean-souled crowd what’d see a man
starve, when along comes a bloke drivin’
a baker’s cart. It’s one of them two-
wheeled affairs with the door at the back.
We sing out to him can he spare us a
loaf, but he’s a true son of that particu-
lar bit of soil, an’ yells back something
about not bein’ there to provide tucker
for a lot of loafers, an’ whips up his nag.
A hundred yards or so on one of the
wheels goes over a gibber; the door of
the turnout jerks open an’ half a dozen
loaves come peltin’ out. The bloke don’t
notice nothin’, an’ continues on. We wait
till he’s out of sight round a bend in the
road an’ then tear up an’ start gatherin’
the loaves.” “It just wanted a butcher’s
cart to come along and spill out a leg of
mutton and you’d have been set,” some-
one chipped in. Dan grinned. “Well, we
weren’t quite so lucky as that,” he said ;
“but me mate walked across to pick up
a loaf what was lyin’ in the grass on the
side of the road an’ I hear him give a
yell. Next thing he’s boldin’ up a rabbit.
The loaf had landed on top of it an’
knocked it out!”
* * * *
“C.E.”: Jim was sitting on the back
step cleaning his rifle when Dad Wilson
strolled up. “Been thinkin’ of joining
the V.D.C. meself,” announced the old
chap. “What do they teach a bloke?”
Jim dragged at his pull-through and
squinted down the barrel. “Well, first of
all,” he drawled presently, “a kid come
up, lectured us on discipline and ex-
plained the use of a rifle. Then they sent
another cove to teach us how to shoot.
After he’d gone they sent a chap from
the city to instruct us in bushlore. Took
us into that, patch of suckers behind the
pub an’ told us when we get lost any
time to look for a wallaby. A wallaby
sits with his back to the wind so’s he
can hear anythin’ from behind an’ see
anythin’ in front ; so when we find one
we’ve got to sneak on ’im, note carefully
his position an’ then work out the situa-
tion. See?” “No,” puzzled Dad, “I
can’t say I do. How’s all that goin’ to
help?” Jim’s grin was slow and sardonic.
“Why, you dope,” he exclaimed, “it
shows which way the wind’s blowin,
don’t it?”
* * * *
“Kanga”: We leased an out-of-the-way
farm which was hemmed in by Contrary
Charlie’s surrounding acres, and the only
way we had of getting on to the main
road was through his property. He
readily gave us permission to go through
a paddock, provided we cleared it of
logs and bracken. We did,
whereupon Charlie decided to
crop it. Of course, he offered
us another log- and bracken-
infested paddock. We praised
the Lord when our lease ended,
and often wonder how many
paddocks Charlie got cleared
free of charge by other mugs
who leased that farm.
“K.E.K.”: Joe McClelland had come
back on a visit to the district after an
absence of some years, and he and Dad
were soon settled on the tankstand at the
back talking things over. They weren t
there long before the afternoon quiet was
shattered by a bull-roar such as only
Dad could produce, and that only when
he was very annoyed. Rushing out we
found Joe sitting on the ground rubbing
a gory nose, with Dad standing over him.
We got it out of Dad when Joe had
mooched off. “He comes back here just
to poke borak at a bloke,” he said. “Him
and his reminiscences! First of all, the
cow drags up the time his sheep-dog beat
Kitty at the show. Then he remembers
the day I smashed up the new sulky, and
afterwards the time I bought that patent
sheepdip that didn’t work. Then to cap
it all the cow says ‘Yes, there’s a lot of
water flowed under the bridge since those
days.’ Stone the crows, I’ll bet the blank-
ard knows there hasn’t been more than
a trickle of water in the creek ever since
he talked me into buying that creek pad-
dock off him!”
? * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare, accompanied by
his barefooted youngster, went into the
bootshop and asked for a number nine
boot for the boy. “Nine! ” exclaimed the
shopman. “Why, he’d only take a five!
“Well, you see, boss,” said Henare. “Te
paper feller say ev’ryone now must go
fer te ’conomy. When te boy get tired
te wahine he wear ’em. When he get
tired I wear ’em. And the other boys
and girls they all wear ’em. So we make
it te merry-go-round wit’ te one pair of
boots. Kaipai te ’conomy!”
« * * •
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was washing his
hands at the tankstand when he saw the
swagman coming up the drive. As Bill
emptied the dish on to his wife’s flower
patch the knot-humper climbed through
the sliprails. “Goo’ day, boss,” he said.
Bill’s genial smile was a welcome sur-
prise. “Good day, mate,” replied Bill.
“Pleased to see you. How’s your tea ration
going? We’re just out of ours, but I guess
you’ve got plenty, seeing you get most oi
your drink an’ tucker on the nod.” The
swaggie stared in surprise. “Er —I —well,
you see, boss, I ain’t got a ration book.
Bill grunted. “H’m! No identity card,
either, I suppose? Ah, well! It’s none
of my business. But, as you’ve got a
pipe, I guess you’ve got some tobacco.
“Looks like Ben's landed an office job again."
“It won't be out of a tin tomorrow, Charlie."
I haven’t been able to get a smoke from
the store for a week. How about a fill?”
The swagman’s mouth fell open. “Gripes,
I was just goin’ to ask you for some.”
Bill sighed. “Ah, well, it can’t be helped.
I’ll have to go without. Now, how are
you off for sugar?” “Well, I” “You
see,” went on Bill evenly, “Mum’s very
short making jam. I expect you carry
a bit about with you.” The bagman
glared. “What sort of a bloke are you?”
he snarled. “I come here after a feed,
not to be stung. Roll your swag an’ do
your own bottin’!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The tall, dead gum stood
on the bank of the billabong, its butt in
a couple of feet of water. High on its
topmost stick sat a solitary crow, brood-
ing over his sins and inwardly cursing
the absence of defunct sheep and the pro-
tective covering over the farm fowl nests.
The day was still; not a leaf stirred. Then
came a crack like a double gunshot. The
crow jumped and peered all round; the
tree toppled slowly over and the crow
almost swallowed himself with excite-
ment as he rode it down. Next instant
he had risen on frantic wings, and as the
tree crashed into the billabong a black
dot disappeared in the direction of Maori-
land.
** s * #
“Ogosh”: Mac rode out in the morn-
ing on a flighty young chestnut. He
made a pancake landing on a stretch of
hard, gravelly road and arrived home that
night stiff as a crutch and with large blue
bruises. Mrs. Mac rang the doctor, a
hearty bushman with a profound respect
for good whisky and old-fashioned
remedies. He looked Mac over, left some
liniment for his stiff joints, and advised
Mrs. Mac to get a few leeches from the
creek; they were the best thing out for
bruises. Passing next day he inquired
how the liniment went. Yes, it was all
right—the stiffness had nearly all gone.
“And the bruises?” he asked. “Did the
leeches draw much blood?” Mrs. Mac
looked blank. “I don’t see how they
could,” she said. “I chopped them up
and fried them and he had them for his
tea!”
* * *
“Ophir”: You’re camped with cattle
on a windy night. By the flicker of a
flame from the fire a snake is seen to
enter an unrolled swag. The wind is
going to blow out matches as fast as
you strike them, and the bullocks are
going to hit the earth with a bang if you
shake the blankets out. In the darkness
there’s no telling where Joe is going.
There’s no other occasion when a snake
is quite so unwelcome.
s * * *
“Moyhu”: Blossom had damaged her
fetlock as. a foal, but Mooney kept her
out of sentiment. Occasionally he drove
her in the spring cart. She progressed
rocking-horse fashion, and on a warm
day Mooney often arrived in the town
sound asleep behind Blossom’s heaving
rump. Then came the new John, and,
eager to show his mettle, he grabbed
Mooney for “drunk in charge of a horse,
etc.” He climbed aboard, took charge of
the reins and set sail for the boob. An
hour later Mooney and the John were
discovered a few miles out of town, sound
asleep, while Blossom rocked steadily on.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Anthropo’s” asser-
tion (B. 9/6/’43) that when the white
man first came neither ’roos nor emus
were plentiful, as “the blacks kept all
wild life at a low ebb,” might have been
applicable to the sandhills of Botany
Bay or the barren sandstone gorges of
the Hawkesbury, but certainly not to the
interior. There when game is scarce the
reason is lack of water. I have
seen thousands of square miles of coun-
try practically without animal life, and
within two or three weeks of heavy rain-
fall the same country swarming with
native game. I was raised in a district
where kangaroo, wallaby and koala
existed in thousands, but because of the
indiscriminate slaughter for . their skins
by the white man they’ve disappeared,
and there are grown-up youngsters in that
district today who have never seen a
’roo or koala. ,
*. * * *
“Bo”: Old Josh Lamerton, who did
mixed farming on a small block back of
Horseshoe Ridge, was regarded by the
district as a man who never left anything
to chance. He ran true to form when,
his daughters drifting off to the city to
get among the big wages and leaving him
short-handed, he came to an arrange-
ment with a married couple who answered
his offer in the local rag for something
more attractive than the usual hired pay.
Josh, who had persuaded himself that the
odd gleanings he had picked up here and
there during his life more than com-
pensated for the extreme sketchiness of
his youthful “eddication,” insisted on
drawing up a document of agreement.
It ran:
Too HOO IT MITE CONSERN.
Where as the party of the furst part thats
me an the party of the seckund part thats
youse do hearbi agree that youse do a
proppa shair of the milkin (thats harf) od
jobs round the joynt (dito) to inclood
plowen, bur cutten, sowen, given the pigs
there tukka (weak a bout) carten warta
from the damm sawrin would an eny other
wurk the furst part (me) mite corl upon
youse to do as hear in too for menshund,
youse of seckund part is intytld to found
wich incloods muttn or beaf from the
carsk wichever is on an the rite to cny
rabit skins youse can trapp all so wolla-
bies an other gaim all so too qid a weak
if the prise of spuds keeps up as witnis my
seel yors fathfelly Josh Lamerton.
The newcomer signed. A few weeks
later there was a barney; the new bloke
threatened to toss it in and Josh counter-
threatened to hold him to the agreement
“by lor.” When the new hand, display-
ing a hitherto unsuspected gleam of
shrewdness, said the agreement wasn’t
worth the paper it was written on, as it
wasn’t stamped. Josh sneered. “D’ y’
think / didn’t think o’ that?” he de-
manded. “If y’d used y’r blasted eyes
y’d have seen that I wrote it on the back
of a envelope that come through the
post; see, smarty?”
« » * *
“Nipper”: Green, live trees, young or
old, always select cyclones, gales or
storms during which to come tumbling
down. Not so the dead stuff. It spreads
itself over the landscape only on days
when scarcely a zephyr disturbs the atmo-
sphere. Why?
* * * *
“Solitude”: The hares had been in-
creasing and multiplying, so we took to
carrying rifles on the rounds. “Trouble
with you blokes,” remarked Seventyfiver,
“you lose too many shots climbin’ off
your nags. If the moke will stand you’ll
pot twice as many by lettin’ fly from the
saddle. And if you don’t believe me keep
a track of my bag.” At dusk that night
I watched the strange object in the dis-
tance gradually develop into a cove
humping a saddle, and after a bit I recog-
nised the old bloke. He dragged slowly
nearer, bridle and rifle in his spare hand,
and one look at his dial decided me to be
diplomatic. “Get any hares?” I asked
mildly. There was no answer. “Gripes,
didn’t you even see any?” “ ’Course I
did. A sittin’ shot. An’ right in front.’
He slung his saddle on its peg and sur-
veyed it gravely. “Damn’ good old moke,
Judy was,” he mourned, shaking his head,
“ ’cept for that silly habit of throwin’ her
head up suddenlike.”
AT GONA.
Through fever-haunted forests
And jungle spawning pain, .
Through swamps and rugged mountains,
And rain . . . rain . . . rain,
They came and fought at Gona,
A green hell where the dead,
Cnburied, cried to comrades
“Oh, Christ! Look where you tread!
The stark, white, Withered faces,
So ghost-like in the gloom.
The shattered paths and palm-trees,
The cannons’ roar and boom,
All met them there at Gona,
A green hell where the foe
Had stayed to kill, to be killed,
In the battle’s ebb and flow.
They fought their way to Gona,
Where dead men marked the way
To foes through breathless darkness
Of jungle night or day,
Where corridors of calmness
In a flash became
Great caverns split with thunder
And flying searing flame.
They came and fought at Gona,
And in a green hell died
That we might live. Nor soon will
Their country’s tears be dried.
RICHARD HUMPHRIES.


mi
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most’ widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATES WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1383)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
FOR SALE
Large North Queensland
STATION PROPERTY
ONE of the largest and widely-known Cattle Station Properties in North Queensland,
known as “WROTHAM PARK,” is offered for sale on a walk-in-walk-out basis,
together with the butchering business known as “Wrotham Park Butchering Company,
situate in Cairns, including freehold land and buildings, with up-to-date butchering
plant erected thereon, and slaughter yards.
Full details of property, including purchase price, pastoral holdings, covering approxi-
mately three thousand square miles, with all improvements thereon, and livestock
and existing contracts, can be obtained by intending purchasers from
W. SMITH & CO.
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS, P.O. BOX 848, CAIRNS.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Preparations.
“J.R.D.”; Many things that are needed
when shearing comes round are un-
procurable or hard to get. Reports from
early sheds show that certain elements are
grabbing at any slight omission or short-
age as an excuse for a holdup. The
grazier who wants his sheep shorn as
quickly and as efficiently as possible
should ensure that he is carrying out
his side of the award contract.
Order replacements early. Check
kitchen requirements. In the shed itself
see that everything is in good order and
have a good supply of handpieces and
other duplicate parts on hand. Look
over driving belts for needed repairs. Belt
fasteners are pretty well off the market,
and you may have to fall back on the
old-fashioned lace. See that there are
oilcan, screwdriver and comb-brush for
each shearer and a water tin for „ combs
and cutters. If wool baskets need repair-
ing use greenhide or hardwood battens.
Spares for the wool press are a prob-
lem, and a spare set of ropes is a neces-
sity which, if not already on hand, will
take some time to obtain. If you cannot
buy the articles required try to borrow
enough to see you through.
Machinery repairs cannot be done with
the same speed as before the war. Before
sending anything to the city for repairs
write to find if it can be done and how
long it is going to take.
Milk Fever in Ewes.
“Myrr”; It may appear from six to
ten weeks after lambing. Avoid sudden
checks in feeding; don’t move ewes on
to lush, green feed except for short
periods each day and then only after they
have had some roughage. Road or rail
movement is risky, especially with the
older ewes. Affected ewes usually show
a proppy gait at first, then go down.
Robin, B.V.Sc., S.A. Government
vet., advises giving a subcutaneous injec-
tion of calcium borogluconate solution —
|oz. dissolved in (five tablespoons)
of rain water, boiled together to sterilise.
Cool to bloodheat and inject inside the
thigh or behind the shoulder. Massage
the site to hasten absorption.
If borogluconate is unobtainable in-
flate the udder with air. If you haven’t
a teat siphon use the metal valve from
a bike tube fitted to a pump. Sterilise
siphon or valve before use and wipe teats
with methylated spirits. There isn’t
any need to strip the udder before
inflating. While pumping, massage
the udder and don’t overdistend. After
inflation prevent escape of air by tying,
not tightly, with a piece of £in. tape.
If no marked improvement is shown in
one or two hours repeat either treatment.
Buffalo Fly.
“Mackay”: It’s a biting bloodsucker
{Lyperosia e'xiqua ) that lives on cattle,
horses and mules, and it’s closely related
to the horn fly {Lyperosia initans) that
caused such tremendous devastation in
North America and Hawaii. With
buffaloes it was imported into the N.T.
from Melville Island about 1825. Later
it turned up in the north of West Aus-
tralia, and in 1928 reached the Queens-
land border. Here the dry plains west
of Burketown and limited movements
of cattle along coastal stock routes that
favor the fly held it up. As one means
of control, stock were taken over the
high, open tableland country of the N.T.
and into Queensland south of Camoo-
weal. But in 1939 the fly got east past
Normanton, and by 1941 was as far north
as the Mitchell River, from where it
“ ’Ullo, Ma—where'd you pop up from?"
spread 100 to 300 miles inland. Accord-
ing to Max Henry, N.S.W. chief vet.,
it’s now making for the east of the con-
tinent.
Infestations are worst in hot and
humid temperatures. The female lays
its eggs in fresh dung. Cold, with drying
winds, checks the larvae growth. The fly
increases with spring storms, reaches the
maximum after summer rains and con-
tinues up to April or May. In some
districts infestation is a seasonal inci-
dence.
Cattle suffer most, and poor cattle
worst of all. By day the flies cover the
upper portions of the body, the shoulders
and around the eyes. By night they
scatter over the back and belly. Through
its adult life the fly leaves the animal only
to lay its eggs.
Loss of blood is considerable in heavy
attacks. Cattle can’t rest, go off their
feed, lose condition, mb figainst trees
and posts, so causing raw wounds which
attract both buffalo and bush fly. Heal-
ing is slow.
A spraying plant has been erected in
North Queensland at Kajabbi, terminus
of the main stock route from infested
areas. Sprays consists of three lines of
li-inch galvanised piping, one overhead,
two lateral, with jets at three-foot inter-
vals. Lateral pipes 20in. above floor-
level, with jets at an angle of 45deg. Jets
on the overhead pipe spray the fluid
straight down. The top spray saturates
backs and heads, and the lateral the
bellies and legs. Each beast is drenched
with two and a half gallons of solution
for approximately 45sec. They’re sprayed
again with hoses in the trucks. Buffalo
fly must be kepfbut of the dairy country.
Root Crop Seed.
“H.C.”: Treat root crops grown for
seed as biennials. Start in a small way
with a good strain of a recognised
variety. Avoid cross - pollination by
growing one type only. Soil for seed-
beds of carrots, parsnips, beet or swedes
should be deep, friable, well-drained and
non-acid. Plough deep in winter and
let it lie rough till spring. Then make
the beds fine, moist and firm. Rows of
carrots, parsnips and beet should be 12
to 28 inches apart, turnips 18 to 30
inches apart.
Sow carrot and parsnip seed from
August to November; on table-
lands. Any time during summer does
for beet so long as the roots are large
enough to transplant the following July
or August. Coastal swede crops should
be sown from February to March;
tableland crops between November and
January. If artificial fertiliser’s avail-
able broadcast and work it into the soil
with the seed. For carrots or parsnips,
use a mixture of 3-1-i (super., muriate
of potash and sulphate of ammonia) at
scwt. per acre. Beet requires 4cwt. and
swedes 2cwt. to 3cwt. of super, per acre.
Sow carrot seed at about 41b. and
parsnips at 61b. to 81b. an acre; beet
41b. to 51b., turnips 11b. to Half
an inch deep suits most soils. All crops
need inter-row cultivation as they
develop.
Rogue out off-types when plants are
almost fully grown. For carrots select
roots that are smooth, well formed, small
ifT tHe core and deep orange m color;
parsnips should show a broad crown and
taper evenly. Swedes or beet should
run true to type, be well shaped, smooth
and free of rootlets. Overmuch top
growth in any of the crops is bad.
Lift from the seedbed and trim the
leaves back level with the growing point.
To plant, open up furrows 3ft. apart,
drop some super, along the bottom and
press the plants into the sides of the
furrows every 18 to 24 inches. If a
plough is used to cover them the furrow
can be used for irrigation. Roots of
turnips should be about 2ft. apart in rows
3ft. apart. From one and a half to two
tons of carrot or parsnip roots and one
ton to one and a half tons of beet and
turnip roots plant an acre.
Harvest carrot seed as it ripens, pars-
nip seed when most of the heads are dry.
Beet needs cutting at the right time or
will shatter. Pick pods of turnips once
they turn papery.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: When drenching make sure the
dose is correct according to age. Slip
a piece of rubber tubing over the gun
nozzle to prevent injury to the mem-
branes of the mouth. The sheep should
be standing on all four feet, with the nose
held level with the eyes. Hold the head
in position with one hand, with the four
fingers under the - lower jaw and the
thumb over the nose, but don’t grip the
jaws tightly. Pass drenching gun through
the side of the mouth, over the tongue
and between the back teeth. Inject dose
slowly. Lower the head if the animal
begins to cough.
“Beefo”; Destroy all infected beasts
when pleuro-pneumonia breaks out; re-
covered cases, even after a lapse of two
or three years, can infect healthy beasts
and cause a fresh outbreak. If obtaining
virus for inoculation from a diseased
beast make sure that nothing thick or
bloodstained is used. After inoculation
keep inspecting the herd, and should any
beasts show symptoms of p.-p. destroy
them and inoculate the rest of the herd
again.
“Jindivick”: In a “dirty” paddock roll
the logs into a line around the wo/st
patches of bracken or blackberry. Turn
a few pigs loose within these pens and
let them do the cleaning. Shift the logs
and pigs as required. Scatter grass seed
or sub. clover behind the harrows on
the worked-over areas.
“Will C.”: The dog’s natural food is
raw meat. Bad meat is apparently harm-
less, but it will encourage the dog to eat
putrid material of all kinds. Dog biscuits
are good, and bones are absolutely neces-
sary. Bread and milk is good for young
puppies and ailing dogs.
“Outback”: The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has agreed to take the output of
mutton dehydration works in Queensland
for two years, and provisional directors
of the co-op. company have selected Win-
ton as the site. Graziers hope for similar
guarantees for other works. Sheepmen
along the north-west railway from Char-
ters Towers to Cloncurry and south-west
of Winton to Boulia will now have an
outlet for their ageing sheep. Recently
7000 wethers in Longreach district were
sold off shears for Is. a head, and hither-
to thousands of old sheep have died in
the paddocks each year because it did
not pay to rail them to Cannon Hill for
sale. Dehydration offers a means of
handling them.


Ruwolt
_ / Ir
v :- ’■
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
Ruwolt’s are Major Co-ordinating Contractors for Victoria,
who, together with many Sub-contractors, ore producing
these Guns.
Sn common with many good Australians we are now mainly
engaged on munition work.
Although so engaged we are also able to execute much of
the important requirements for the essential metal, paper
and rubber industries, hydraulic presses, crushing plants, etc.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we hove
done in the post.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, 1.1
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Ko*
v/B
'i'
w
oft
s*'!! rfiZ
f&H'
cA !Lpe*
w» e
s#•'
ft,*
6*l
sL>'
sHV
O*K
fU*
at*'
2!...
II g
M-.
yo l/
c :>3
rn &
ALERTS SOUND
WHEN YOU LEAST EXPECT
THEM ! CHECK THAT
FLASHLIGHT IMMEDIATELY.
IF IT NEEDS NEW
BATTERIES
ASK FOR
V:
TRADE-MARK
The Extra Long L/Ee Battery
WHEN YOU
CAN SEE - YOU 'RE SAFE
Freedom’s Teachers.
(“Saturday Evening Post ” comment.)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The idea of re-educating Germany,
Italy and Japan, as well as all their
satellites in Europe and Asia, seems to
exert a powerful fascination on the minds
of some Americans. Pondering the ,post-
war world, Mr. John Gunther, for
example, was quoted as saying:
“If we are to envisage the idea of
thousands of Americans acting as police
captains in Cologne or as customs
collectors or railway executives in Naples
and Kobe, it should not be so difficult
to imagine an international educating
force in each country. Because in every
country there are thousands of people as
eager to prevent new wars as we are.”
But who will teach whom? We go on
the safe assumption that the Axis tyran-
nies are loathsome to the great majority
of people who suffer under them. When
peace comes are they to sit submissively
in classrooms while someone expounds
the theory of what they already know by
bitter experience?
This does not make sense, as an anti-
Fascist pointed out in the Free Italian
newspaper “Nazioni Unite,” which is
published in New York. He wrote:
The average Italian, who has been under
the hated heel of the dictator longer than
anyone else m Europe, will emerge out of
the dark a professor of liberalism, not a
faint schoolgirl in her teens, longing for
something beautiful and utterly un-
known.... .The idea that ne may have to
school the people of Italy like a bunch of
little savages out of the woods until they
grow up is dangerous for our morale, for
it empties this war of its real meaning
and makes it appear as a quixotic adventure
in education, with no other advantage for
ourselves but the satisfaction of having
saved the world. The truth is that we are
after our own safety from dictatorship, we
are trying to learn, as has been said, with-
out going to school, and therefore all
those people who have gone to school are
going to be our teachers, not our pupils.
We would not be human if that final
suggestion that anyone can teach us
anything about the meaning of freedom
did not rouse resentment in our breast.
Perhaps this as as good a way as any to
measure the probable reaction in Europe
or Asia to any mass descent of school-
marms and library liberals bent on teach-
ing grandma to suck eggs.
Lend-Lease at Work.
{Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthly”
article by David L. Cohn.)
Lend-Lease is a two-way, world-wide
trade for war, rooted in stark necessity,
washed clean of moralistic sentiments,
and devoid of muddleheaded confusion.
Here there is no charity and no sugges-
tion of charity.
Lend-Lease is operative not only be-
tween the United States and other mem-
bers of the United Nations but also be-
tween the other members. Until the
spring of 1942, for example, Great
Britain, with one-third of America’s
population and industrial capacity, was
producing more armaments than Ameri-
cans were, and up to the end of 1942
had sent more weapons to fighting fronts
than America had, besides supplying
most of the arms required in the British
Isles. She sent Russia more than 2600
tanks and more than 2000 ’planes.
Let us see what a small country —New
Zealand —is doing.
All the meats, vegetables, eggs, fresh
fruits, butter and cheese eaten by U.S.
troops in New Zealand are furnished
without charge under Lend-Lease, while
the Government has just taken over
150,000 acres of land, to be put into
market-gardening. Last August after an
earthquake had hit Wellington damage was
left unrepaired and rubble remained in the
streets for weeks because the N.Z. Gov-
ernment refused to release workers em-
ployed on construction projects for U.S.
forces. Two large hospitals and many
hotels have been requisitioned for Ameri-
can troops, and American service men
are transported free of charge on N.Z.
railroads. New Zealand, incidentally, is
in the war up to the hilt; with a popu-
lation of only 1,640,000 she has made a
heavy contribution of man-power to the
war. Half the men in the age bracket
16 to 66 are under arms.
Australia began to aid America at
Bataan when she sent shiploads of v food
to beleaguered U.S. forces. Some of
these shipments got through and helped
to prolong resistance. Australia supplies
the greater part of the food rations of
US troops quartered there, and Aus-
tralians are going short of many things
in order to do it. They have little wrap-
ping paper and few qanned goods. Aus-
tralians have stopped practically all new
building construction in order to free
materials for Americans; they erect new
hospitals or turn over old ones; they
repair U.S. mechanical equipment; they
perform many of the innumerable ser-
vices essential to the U.S. fighting machine
in Australia. In this manner Australia
not only returns what she receives from
America under Lend-Lease but releases
an enormous quantity of shipping that
would otherwise be supplying forces over
a water route ten thousand miles long.
The American forces in New Cale-
donia are receiving reciprocal aid from
the Fighting French ; South Africa sup-
plies naval aid ; India manufactures um-
forms for U.S. troops ; Belgium aids
America in the Congo; China ships
America raw materials. The largest
amount of reciprocal aid that America
has received, however, has come from
Australia, New Zealand and the United
Kingdom.
Thousands of U.S. men and moun-
tains of supplies bound for Britain are
carried in British ships convoyed by the
British Navy. In many parts of the world
United States warships and merchant
ships in British ports are provided with
repairs, fuel, services and supplies with-
out payment
British-made arms requested by U.S.
forces are supplied without cost as
mutual aid. In addition to several hun-
dred Spitfire ’planes and many field guns
and howitzers, Britain has provided
Americans with 1,450,000 square yards
of portable airfield runways and is fur-
nishing several million more. Americans
have received such supplies as 15,000
bombs ranging from 250-pound incen-
diades to" 8 2000-pound block-busters ;
70 000 rounds of six-inch shells ; millions
of’ rounds of small-arms ammunition ;
more than 250,000 anti-tank mines ; elec-
trie batteries at the rate of 500,000 a
month; 500,000 hand grenades, and
more than 1000 parachutes. Seveial
score new hospitals of semi-permanent
construction with a bed capacity of
89,000 been provided,
Supplies other than construction
materials furnished to U.S. forces from
May to November, 1942, would have
taken 1,200,000 ship-tons if transported
from the United States. Already provid-
ing Americans with large quantities of
food, the British have agreed to supply in
1943 290,000,000 pounds of edibles,
Aid from Britain, moreover, has played
a par t even in America’s home defence.
Soon after Pearl Harbor she rushed bar-
rage balloons to the U.S. west coast for
defence against possible Japanese attack,
British anti-aircraft guns are ranged
alongside American in a number of U.S.
cities and at the Panama Canal. British-
built corvettes and other small craft,
manned by American crews, have assisted
j n anti-submarine warfare off the Atlantic
coast.
Perhaps Britain’s most precious posses-
sion. and one which she shares freely with
America by way of reciprocal aid, is the
knowledge that she bought with blood
in battles all around the earth; the les-
sons that she learned in combat on land,
at sea and in the air ; the instruments she
worked out when she faced Germany
alone. She had been at war for 26
months ' before America entered the
struggle; and since she faced an incom-
parably stronger enemy, she owed her
survival as much to her skill as to nei
courage. What she has learned-the
secret scientific instruments born of her
knowledge, and the manner m which they
function—may not be stated specifically,
But Great Britain has furnished America
with specifications for her system o. air-
craft detection developed during a long
period of bitter and widespread air war-
fare, together with much apparatus. In
addition there is a constant exchange of
full information on the development of
new and highly secret weapons; t e
office of Scientific Research and Develop-
ment in Washington and its counterpait


ii% "I i' v »
■ 0
; -
.fmm
'r ~ wsmgm
afe* ■mm
mm
111 > ”
s? t i
BOMBER SQUADRON
READY ON THE LINE!
The guns are loaded, the bombs in the
racks and the sleek and deadly giants, grim
in their war-paint, stand in wide-spaced
ranks before the hangars.
But before they set out on their mission,
the field must be ready. That vital con-
struction and maintenance job is capably
handled by “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors
and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Equipment, typified by the W. & J. No. 12
“Caterpillar” diesel-powered Motor
Grader, which is pictured below.
All new production is going to combat
forces, but hundreds of older civilian
machines are carrying the wartime load
until Victory comes.
i
U
\ TM
CATERPILLAR D/ESCI
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney — 'Phone: LA 3321; Marquis Street, Gunnedah — 'Phone:
Gunnedah 326; Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge Street, South Grafton;
Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie — 'Phone: Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid
Street, Wagga — 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane — 'Phone; J 1456; Rankin
Street, Innisfail — 'Phone: Innisfail 475
CT7-33-42
Beware
LUMBAGO
BACKACHE
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
SWOLLEN FEET
Kidneys must remove excess acids,
which are a danger signal.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
give quick relief and help you back to
health and strength. Buy a bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
in London mobilise for mutual aid hun-
dreds ol American and British scientists
an inventors whose findings are freely
poo ed. thus through Lend-Lease the
e ?l re iT U / CeS ’ m j e J ect T u T a l aiK * material,
of oth Bi itam and the United States are
broug t to bear against the Axis.
It is probable that America will deliver
more goods to others than they will
deliver to America. This is inevitable,
smce America has the world’s largest
mdustiy among the United Nations, as
well as a vast agriculture. But other
countries—notably Great Britain Russia
K - Us>Sld
enemies lonrr hefnrp e . co . m ® on
the battlefield America joined them
■"mended more dnU* -
(h ,f v . smiled ars than they have,
tlfr Russia re ?°e‘ *
manv are “wo th” f v^tori^ s .°^ er er ’
• tp f T V* United States
rhines° resists C se *Lend dollars Or
Chinese resistance against Japan? Or
the British naval and merchant marine
and air forces'?
It is to America’s credit that Americans
shall never attempt such an accounting •
the figures will be totted up solely for
internal statistical purposes
Germans a Trifle Changed.
(From an article by a N.Y. “World-Telegram”
representative in Portugal.)
Last May the Germans in their propa-
ganda picture were warriors—tough, re-
lentless killers, driving their tanks through
the subjugated territories in Africa and
Russia. You saw pictures of them in the
Rossio, the central square here in Lisbon,
mowing down everything that opposed
them. The Fiihrer and his generals—
trim, triumphant and confident—were
photographed at their eastern headquar-
ters or handing out iron crosses to the
unbeatable troops of the Reich. That
was the German nation last spring as
seen through Portuguese eyes,
inj ow t u- man w u n before the
■ n the man ho pauses bcio e t
windows where German propaganda is
displayed in the cities of Portugal sees
an entirely different exhibition. He sees
a different German nation and people.
fje sees pastoral views in Bavaria, with
kind-faced peasants going to mass at a
little white church. He sees pretty little
blond German frauleins skipping or en-
gaged in harmless domestic occupation.
%. .. .. , . -f. ~
° ne entire display in a fashionable
shopping district is given over to the Ger-
manS Olympic Games before the
, war - Th f Germans are not only mdus-
tri°,Uf? ° rdQT % an^ reli P,° U l ; th fV re
athletic as well. They like good clean
sport. Here are pictures of them run-
nin S> Jumping, swimming, wrestling and
throwing the javelin to prove it.
The idea that they were a warrior race
seems to have been a mistake. You don’t
see the picture of a single swastika now.
No more blood and cannons ; no devas-
tating air raids on English and Dutch
cities.
In other words, it is 1918 and 1919 and
1920 all over again.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
Congress, remembering the protests from .all
over the country last autumn when it was de-
bating a draft age reduction to a minimum of
18, shows little enthusiasm over suggestions
that the age now be*cut to 17. You can under-
stand this skittishness; but we cannot see how
the United States can hope to fight a long,
hard and man-eating war without drafting 17-
year-olds sooner or later. We think it had
better be sooner, in view of the fact that Selec-
tive Service is now drawing close to fathers
in the thirties. There is the economic aspect
of the matter, which means that it is not nearly
so hard on our home-front set-up to draft a
young, unmarried, unemployed boy of 17 than it
is to draft a man in his thirties who has a wife
and children to support and a job in which it
will be hard to replace him. — N.Y. ‘‘Daily
News.”
* * * #
At the White House, Mrs. Roosevelt was
chatting with Madame Chiang Kai-shek. Said
the First Lady of the U.S.: “I was offered
$l5OO to write an article giving my impressions
of. you.” Smiling, the First Lady of China re-
plied, “I was offered $3OOO to write an article
giving my impressions of you.” Both ladies
had declined. — N.Y. ‘‘Daily Mirror:”
* * * *
Establishment of the “Institute for British-
American Understanding” in London is
welcomed widely by the British press as likely
to provide a solid contribution toward real
understanding between the two nations, instead
of the vague, misleading hands-across-the-sea
sentiment. The British are badly in need ol
something to counteract their Hollywood con-
ception of American life, and Americans equally
are in need of weaning from the idea that the
British Commonwealth of Nations in any way
resembles the Colonial Empire from which they
revolted in 1775. — London correspondent,
Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Eire's neutrality is an anomalous thing.
De facto, Eire is in the war on the side of the
United Nations. Around 100,000 of her young
men are voluntarily serving in the British armed
forces, and about 180,000 of her laborers are
helping to operate factories and build military
installations in England. This is a fair show-
ing for a nation of less than 3,000,000 popula-
tion.—Jack Alexander, ‘‘Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
It took the combined efforts of Lord Hali-
fax, Rep. Claire Luce of Conn., the Lend-Lease
Administration and the British Board of Trade
to get one pair of shoes exported from England
to the U.S. recently. They were for a World
War veteran. It gives the lie to charges that
the British have been doing a big “export
business” in British-made articles, such as farm
implements, which we also ship to England
under lend-lease. The veteran, in Mrs. Luce’s
district, requires a special type of orthopaedic
shoe because of foot wounds. A firm in Edin-
burgh had been supplying him, but recently he
was informed it couldn’t sell him any more,
Britain had slapped a ban on export to us of
any articles it was getting by lend-lease. But
Mrs. Luce went to Lend-Lease officials, who
took it up with the British Embassy. Lord
Halifax addressed an urgent letter to the British
Board of Trade requesting, for “compassionate
reasons,” an exception. After some discussion,
the board issued a special export license for
the shoes.— -A 7 . Y. ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
* * * -
To return to the question of German activities
in Dakar and French West Africa under the
Vichy regime. Contrary to opinion expressed
m some quarters, I say without hesitation that
there were none. Furthermore, I atn confident
that I expose myself to no serious challenge
in taking this forthright position. Except for
lour or five Jewish refugees, there were no
Germans in Dakar while I was there. And
apart from certain specific German officials who
passed in transit through French West Africa
to and from neutral Portuguese Guinea, the
sovereign State of Liberia and colonies further
south, there were no Germans in all of West
Africa. No German submarines put into Dakar
or other French West African ports, and no
naval vessels based in French West Africa put
to sea to supply German submarines or raiders.
—Thomas C. Wasson, U.S. State Department,
who was sent to Dakar on Consular work in
September, 1940.
* * * *
“The modern German submarine can make
port in some instances after its entire conning
tower is shot away. It is constructed with a
double hull, with oil compartments placed be-
tween two hulls, so as to absorb the shock of
depth charges exploding outside 20ft. from the
null. Ihe fact that a depth charge brings up a
patch of oil is no longer incontrovertible evi-
dence that an enemy submarine has been
finished. Often these wounded submarines
simply limp back to port for repairs, and soon
are again at sea.”—Capt. Leland P. Lovett,
U.S. Director of Public Relations of the Navy.
* * * *
There is real friction between Japan and
Germany. The recent Soviet-Jap deal on Pacific
fisheries calls for payment in gold, but Berlin
ls ui? the Japs are really paying off in
rubber—more precious than gold. Also, while
German-controlled radio stations warn Europe
against the “red menace” same stations warn
Australians and others against the “yellow
peril.^ ’’—Washington correspondent, ‘‘Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * * .
Ihe planes and the tanks which America
sent the Russians before Pearl Harbor were a
factor in their successful resistance, and when
they repulsed the German attack on Moscow
m December, 1941, it became apparent that
the Russians fully deserved the confidence in
their fighting qualities which American and
British statesmen had displayed. It was this
confidence in Russia, more than any other
factor, which induced President Roosevelt
and some of his advisers to risk heavy stakes
upon our greatest gamble of the war. That
gamble was the decision to restrict ourselves
to a holding war in the Pacific, while we con-
centrated our principal war effort in Europe.
It was the decision, taken jointly with Great
Britain, to continue fortifying Russia with
armaments, even after both English-speaking
Powers were formally at war against Japan
as well as Germany—even after most of "the
U.S. fleet had been destroyed at Pearl Harbor.
It has been officially announced that the United
States and Britain, during 1941 and 1942, sent
to Russia 4600 ’planes, 5800 tanks, and vast
quantities, of other war materials. In order to
deliver these armaments, the United States and
Britain assigned to the Russian run a large
amount of shipping, and lost scores of loaded
ships, at a time when we ourselves were dan-
gerously short of ships, tanks and ’planes.—
Demaree Bess, in the ‘‘Saturday Evening Post.”


'be
' •" I
3
msm
. '!
iii
■
Bn
U \ >■€;■ iH
mmm
m
> ;v v*
*
l-_~-
r • /
?»■
-
/ - sr:MM : 0
ifip^y
4 ■'
L A f r -! *
> .'
i
V:; &
■
J
|W
» m
# %
■
4'.; : y
W- '-•-vi^i
rW
« *. i
m
■
«*s
*-
/%. >1r tt '
* • ■
ft & J
. r
fey
/f ’..
• r H
’ Ik 3
*
A f
1
N W
IF you saw that length of gas pipe
lying on the grass with the notice
“Danger Unexploded Shell” near it,
you would probably laugh. Someone
having a joke. But wait... it s not so
funny!
We are turning gas pipes into shells
every day.
We used to make gas pipes ■—
thousands, of feet of them. Your meals
are probably cooked with the help of
our gas pipes —made before the War.
Now, those gas pipes have been turned
into shells.
This is how it happened . . .
Remember 1934? Remember when
’Australia was just coming out of the
depression? When we needed new,
thriving industries? That was when the
plant of Stewarts and Lloyds went into
production in New South Wales.
That was also the year when Hitler
came into full power in Germany.
For us it was the beginning of what
we hoped would be years of reconstruc-
tion. Before long, Stewarts and Lloyds
were producing everything from gas
pipes to ships’ boiler tubes. Australian
Democracy was at work. But while we
worked from 1934 to 1939 we couldn t
shut our eyes to what was happening in
Europe. By 1939 it was quite obvious
that the War we had tried to hold back
was inevitable.
We decided to turn our gas pipes
into shells.
Without subsidy, we installed the
plant necessary for the forging and
rough machining of ammunition
shell bodies —from 25-pounders to 60-
pounders.
We worked fast and evolved a
process of shell making which cut out
the operation that has always been so
costly and lengthy. We produced shell
bodies in much the same way as weldless
tubes. We made the inside of the forg-
ing perfect for size, and so smooth that
it did not require boring
We had shifts at work at one end
of a new extension before the roof
was completed at the other end. Our
engineers worked miracles to change
over tube making machinery never
intended for shell-making. They had
to. We couldn’t wait for weeks or
months for special plant or equipment
from overseas.
By September 3rd, 1939, we were
eady. Ready to serve.
So it was that gas pipes became
deadly weapons of Democracy.
The day will come when the last
shell will pass along the production line,
and behind it will be a gas pipe.
Perhaps your gas pipe for that new
home you will be building. When that
day arrives, remember the men who
sweated at furnace heat to turn gas pipes
into shells . . . remember the men whose
foresight it was that made Stewarts and
Lloyds ready for action before War was
declared.
Stewarts and
Lloyds
(Australia) Pty* LM.


't,9/HSUO 3OOl/
s.i o imo am
>s
3lfl0«
ISSIMSHIVM MMOd
m
ii
;
I Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
TSEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
'
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
PC
V/S
HI
V>
*
K
f
m
i
i
i
iV«
i
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee,
WHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
" satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perienoe in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director, P- Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees ana others,
Aaniinistrator etc. •
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
, —* Dividends s Re- Re-
Feb,, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931 .. 25,911 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 . . 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 . . 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Share premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 . . "34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 . . 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 . . 53,104 8 „ 124 „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 124,, 37,391 16,397 201,796
1941 . . 58.286 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 13,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 124 p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 124 „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
The growth of £2678 in last term’s net
earnings was the result of good manage-
ment, including a tight hold upon out-
goings and shrewd buying. Despite a
steady rise in retail prices, rationing cut
into turnover, as it did everywhere. Con-
sider these figures, which show the per-
centage decrease or increase from the
corresponding month of the preceding
year for Sydney retail trade as a whole:
Bemune- Av. No.
Sales, ration Employ-
total. paid. ces.
Aug +5.7 8.5 —12.5,
Sept. . . . . 7.0 9.5 —13.3
Oct —17.3 —13.0 —15.1
Nov —16.3 —14.4 —18.9
Dee —23.1 —18.7 —24.5
+ increase. Decrease.
In the drapery trade the lines affected
most were dress piece-goods and women’s
and men’s and boys’ wear, all of which
figure prominently in McDowell’s sales.
The persistent climb in wage rates, which
follow the cost-of-living index, prevented
remuneration paid from falling in the
same ratio as the average number of
employees.
The contraction in McDowell’s gross
earnings (£354,850) was £21,525, which
suggests that the co. got its full share of
all trade offering. On the other hand,
exes. (£310,718, including provision of
£BO,OO0 —down £2OO0 —for the tax-
gatherer) were pulled back £24,203, not-
withstanding the volume of additional
work that rationing and price fixing gave
rise to and the growth in costs generally.
So the net result was £2678 stronger at
£44,101. This was enough to pay the
small pref. div. (£800) and show 14.7 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 13.8, 19.6, 18.1,
17.8, 14.1 and 11.6 p.c. back to 1937.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c. and the
special 2! p.c. bonus was repeated, mak-
ing P-c. for the year.
But trading conditions have changed
vastly since the close of accounts.
While rationing reduced both produc-
tion and • consumption for civilian
purposes in lines concerned, heavy
war expenditure, financed substan-
tially by central bank credit, put
a lot more money into circulation,
and taxes and loans failed to mop up
more than a small fraction of the sur-
plus in the wage-earning groups. In these
circumstances, existing controls were un-
able to prevent a rise in the cost of living,
and therefore, in money wages, each lift
defeated itself as soon as it was added
to costs. To stem the ugly “spiral” of
inflation of costs and wages thus set up,
and in the hope of avoiding serious
trouble later on, the Government brought
down its general stop-price plan on April
12 last.
Prices charged on that date are re-
garded as maximum or “ceiling” prices
for all goods, except certain perishable
primary products and services contracts
which are subject to specific price orders.
That is to say, an increase in costs cannot
now be passed on in an increase in sell-
ing prices. Instead, traders must either
absorb the increase in costs within the
business, “without damage to the enter-
prise,” or apply to the Government for
help by way of a subsidy, which will be
paid only on goods regarded as essential
Goods not in the subsidy or essential
class must be sold within “ceiling” prices.
As for imports, when actual landed cost
exceeds basic landed cost the difference
will be the amount of subsidy that can
be claimed. Payment will be subject to
(1) ability of the industry to absorb higher
costs and (2) the decision of W. 0.1, that
no further economies are immediately
possible by improved efficiency or ration-
alisation.
Application for subsidy is to be made
to the Prices Commissioner. Then W. 0.1.
comes into the picture and decides,
according to its wisdom, the questions of
efficiency (indeed!) and rationalisation.
After that payment will be approved or
otherwise by the Prices Stabilisation Com-
mittee. The plan is designed to protect
wage-earners, receivers of war-time sepa-
ration allowance, pensioners and other
recipients of fixed-money incomes. Most
of the burden is to be placed on the
shoulders of merchants and retailers, who,
according to Prices Commissioner Cop-
land, will act as agents for the Govern
ment on a “fixed” margin of profit.
How McDowell’s will fare remains
to be seen. More severe clothing and
drapery rationing came into force on
June 6. AH that can be said definitely
is that the co. is well equipped to earn
whatever profits are to be won in such
circumstances. Here are the co.’s balance-
sheet figures:—
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £302,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft .. 54,670 48,537 19,667 29,028
Sundry creditors 37,109 44,712 75,498 68,456
Tax reserve .. 41,614 55,055 111,496 150,401
.Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc. 390,945 375,448 406,385 411,420
Stocks.. .. 165,154 139,724 211,261 277,332
Book debts .. 81,490 82,346 83,544 59,421
Cash, etc. .. 6,777 7,654 9,052 10,005
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
Outstanding features last term were the
growth of £66,071 in stocks and a reduc-
tion of £24,123 in debtors’ balances. In-
cluding the tax reserve but not share-
holdings, which represent scrip in the
cash-order subsidiary, there was little
change in the more or less liquid surplus
(£48,873).
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
i— ——Dividends
Year, Pref. Towards De-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, flcit.f
£ £ £ £ £
Added intangibles, £846 •• •• 306,739
’39.-389,099 48,293 6 p.c.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12.947 . . 220,750
’4O-404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,118* 112,373 108,377
Added rights, etc., £163 .. . . 108,540
’4l-354,981 50,000 5 p.c.= 213,940* 91,041 17,499
Rights, etc., disappear, £lBO .. 17,319
Reserves.*
’42-376,788 50,000- 5 p.0.i=224,637* 102,151 84,832
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles. * Paid in scrip.
Capitalisation of £680,695 of ord. divs.
over the past three years reflects the
growing pains being experienced in pro-
viding the chemical sinews of war, which
basically are also those of peace, and so
a welcome addition to our industrial
equipment. At the outset in 1929 the co.
was concerned merely with distributing
the products of Imperial Chemical In-
dustries (Eng.). Today the Australian
organisation looks to its British parent
for little more than technical assistance,
while local investment has climbed from
less than one per cent, to more than a
third of the capital. Most of that incre-
ment was in respect of the public issue
in 1938 of a miflion 5 p.c. prefs. to
finance ammonia synthesis and alkali
plants in South Australia ; the rest re-
flects financial backing from such lead-
ing industrialists as the 8.H.P., A.C.1.,
the Barrier lead-zinc producers. Electro.
Zinc and Commonwealth Fertilisers.
1.C.1. and its subsidiaries, in their turn,
have holdings in some of these and a
string of other Australian shows to the
tune of £1,044,347 (book value).
Products indispensable to the whole
range of primary and secondary industry
comprise the output of the group and
its associated concerns, which include
Albright and Wilson, Newcastle Chemical
Co. and Commonwealth Aircraft Corp.
Just over a decade ago 1.C.1. investment
in plant and buildings was £258,000.
Compare that with the written-down
figure now:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £4,639,409 £5,278,793 £5,492,733
Outside interests*.. 15,825 15,692
Sundry creditors.. 271,271 999,551 1,138,689
Taxation & conting. 213,247 443,807 468,675
Freeholds, etc. .. 1 , „ 00 J 1,089,031 1,234,066
Plant etc. .. f I>adi 1 > adi5 ’ lbi | 1,529,781 1,644,358
Stocks .. .. 1,090,747 1,851,417 2,173,531
Debtors . . . . 511,987 1,132,155 1,075,563
Investments .. 857,859 1,062,828 1,158,098
Cash .. . . 1,106,483 277,533 148,533
* Including proportion reserves.
Extensions last year that can be men-
tioned were mainly in connection with
the manufacture of electrolytic caustic-
chlorine, etc., rubber chemicals, potas-
sium chlorate (for match-heads), medi-
cinal drugs and plastics, of which poly-
vinyl chloride (a rubber substitute for in-
sulating purposes) and formaldehyde will
be particularly useful varieties. And, of
course, much work was performed
directly related to war needs, while the
output of old and new annexes con-
structed and managed for the Ministry
of Munitions quickened its momentum.
The management’s success in speeding
Australian independence of vital chemi-
cals is modestly expressed in the state-
ment that “all requirements were met”
last year. In so doing, sales registered
their highest total yet; but profit margins
were slighter because of the predomi-
nance of defence orders. Still, expansion
of £21,807 in* the proportion of group
profit belonging to 1.C.1. was achieved
after £23,997 lighter provision for taxa-
tion (£300,003) and taking account in de-
preciation (£160,477, up £28,039) of the
heavier wear and tear on plant. Allow-
ing for the prefs., the surplus of £376,788
represented an earning rate of 7.2 p.c.
on ord. capital, against 7.1 p.c. in ’4l.
The 5 p.c. sent out in shares left £102,151
for reserves, lifting them £84,832 in ex-
cess of the value placed on rights, etc.
(£653,318), not treated as an asset in these
reckonings.
Because, in its field, 1.C.1. stands in a
similar relation to the war effort as the
8.H.P., normal profit considerations are
relegated to the background for the
present. The fund of technical know-
ledge being accumulated, however, will
assist a wide range of industry to play the
part expected of it in the solution of the
problems of reconstruction.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mur., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 10,213 10 p.c. = ' 9000 1213 50,501
1934 12 210 10 9000 7 2010 52 5U
Provident fund, £l2OO j
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 | , H9 o c 9 q
Provident’fund, £lOOO f ’
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 6Q,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 „ „ 9000 1 0717,1
Provident fund, £l2OO S ’
Tax suspense taken in, £3OOO .. 70,174
1940.. 14,286 10 p.c. = 9000 1 ~r 1
Provident fund, £835 f 4451 ,4 ’ 625
1941.. 13,484 10 p.c. = 9000 1
W/o freehold, £2650 .. - 930 75,555
Provident fund, £904 J
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 9000 )
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. J- 2087 77,642
Provident fund, £873 |
1943.. 13,447 10 p.c. = 9,000 )
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. 1877 79,519
Provident fund, £lO7O J
The increase in trusts put on the books
in the preceding term was by far the
largest yet recorded, so a small recession,
last year was nothing to worry about.
Actually the co. got more benefit from
the previous year’s expansion than it did
in that term, though increased adminis-
tration exes, and taxation offset the
growth in gross income. Between the
two opposing factors earnings maintained
a nice stability, and the 10 p.c. div.
looked just as safe as during any of the
several ticklish periods passed through
since the rate was instituted in 1919, nine
years after the co. first saw the light as
an offshoot of Elder, Smith and Co., the
big pastoral concern.
Last term’s trust and p. and 1. figures
are as follows;
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.5 „
1938.. 13,791,547 47,207 34,923 73.9 „
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 ~
1940.. 14,088,070 52,942 38,656 73.0 „
1941.. 13,958,748 51,321 37,837 73.7 ~
1942.. 16,234,719 53,746 40,286 74.9 „
1943.. 16,055,954 56,108 42,661 75.9 ~
There was a net drop of £178,765 in
the value of trusts in the co.’s care on
March 31, but total income rose by
£2362. There was a growth of £2287 in
management exes., and taxation was £330
higher at £4852 ; the amount written off
office fittings was £243 down at £298.
Net profit was thus written at £l3 lower,
but the board was quite happy to trans-
fer voluntarily £lO7O (up £197) to a staff
fund and to write a further £l5OO off
freehold. After paying 10 p.c. to share-
holders, there was still £1877 left for


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hasscl and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents,— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ~.
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
For Australia at War . . .
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Established 1920
ANTIMONIAL LEAD
Highest Purity
Any Desired Antimony Content
THE BROKEN HILL
ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
62 Brookman Buildings, ADELAIDE
Selling Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Alexandria, N.S.W.
’Phone, MX 1091.
QUEENSLAND:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Perry House, Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane. ’Phone, B 9301.
VICTORIA:
H. B. Harker, C/o The Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. ’Phone, M 4381.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. Noble and Son, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
’Phone, Cent. 2231.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
#
Pv
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save • or Slave. Pul
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
9 £9 OS
reserves, now £79,519. It is a snug posi-
tion, even though war and politics have
taken the cream off what might normally
have been expected to result from previ-
ous conservatism and prudent investment
of the co.’s own funds.
The Currie-street freehold and fittings
appear at the written-down figure of
£63,000. Then there is £103,960 (par
value) of Consols, in the books at £97,967,
probably worth more than par under
existing interest rates. Debtors total
£10,871, and there was £3275 of cash in
the bank on balance day. Creditors
appeared at only £24. Altogether a well-
managed, growing trustee co. and a snug
investment in its class.
The Australian sharemarkets, still sub-
ject to rigid Government price control,
are only a pale shadow of what they
would be in freer circumstances. Only
stocks, in the main, with debatable pros-
pects are now being dealt in, popular
issues being unprocurable at “highest”
limits. Jammed up at “high” levels are
most of the banks, Castlemaine Perkins,
Tooheys and Tooth’s Brewery, most of
the insurance cos., all shipping cos. except
Sydney Ferries, most trustee cos., 8.H.P.,
A. British Tobacco, Associated Pulp,
Australasian Paper, Bradford Cotton,
Davies Coop, H. B. Dickie (though not
Bonds), Yarra Falls, Burns Philp, Clifford
Love, Drug Houses, Edwards Dunlop,
Electrolytic Zinc, Mt. Lyell, New Broken
Hill, North and Zinc Corp. (though not
B. South), Felt and Textiles, General
Industries, Gibson and Howes (though
not Fairymead), Goldsbrough, Gordon
and Gotch, Howard Smith, Kandos
Cement, Masonite, Lustre Hosiery, Hole-
proof, Colonial Sugar and Millaquin,
Morris Hedstrom (but not W. R. Car-
penter), Peters’ Ice Cream, Taubmans,
Timbroi and Wunderlich. On the
other hand, G. J. Coles, Woolworths,
David Jones, Anthony Hordern,
Farmers, Myers and Buckley and
Nunn are all available. Occasionally
small parcels of stocks at limit prices
come on the market for special reasons,
but there is very little opportunity of buy-
ing first-class shares otherwise. The
majority of equities in manufacturing and
transport concerns are being held tightly
as protection against inflation. Govern-
ment control of share prices has uninten-
tionally given every inducement for the
creation of a black market, but so far
there has been no indication of such a
thing.
* He *
In New York Commonwealth bonds,
carrying 5 p.c., have risen to 90, yielding
£5 11s. per cent. One issue matures in
1955, another in 1957. A Canadian loan
lately floated in New York, maturing
about the same time, went off success-
fully at 3 p.c. The estimation of Canada’s
credit is clearly far higher than Aus-
tralia s in New York, even though
the 90 paid for our securities is a
big recovery on the quotes of last
year. Assuming that America takes
Mr. Curtin at his word when he says
Australia is now safe from invasion, it
would seem that the United States is not
so enamored of the Australian Treasury
administration as it is of that in Canada.
In this connection, owners of quite a bit
of the capital that flowed to Australia
from Britain during the first couple of
years of the war now hope that it will be
able to flow back again just as easily.
When wild men start to perform in Aus-
tralia, as they are doing now, money gets
itchy feet.
* * * *
On June 15 Kalgoorlie began its jubilee
celebrations with speeches and unveiling
of a tablet on the spot where Paddy
Hannan first specked gold, and concluded
with beer, cakes and more speeches in
the local hall. Among the visiting crowd
were Lieut.-Governor Jimmy Mitchell,
knight John Kirwan, State Minister Gray
and a number of local representatives
of both Houses, A few pioneers turned
up, mostly callow youngsters of 50 years
ago, now with or without grey beards.
Chamber of Mines president F. G. Brind-
sen came along and gave some facts and
figures about local goldmining. He said
that 48,000,000 tons of ore had been
treated for a yield of 26,172,5050 z., valued
at £110,000,000 at the standard price of
gold. Treatment of ore in the early days,
he said, was a problem, but it was not
long before experts came from all parts
of the world to assist in solving difficul-
ties. Oil flotation, developed by 8.H.P.,
was first used by Lake View and Star.
The Kalgoorlie School of Mines had since
proved that the flotation method was
applicable to Westralian gold ores. Brins-
den added that more than half the share-
holders in London-controlled Westralian
goldmines were in Australia,
» * ♦ «
Australian university professors are
given unusual jobs. One hurriedly visited
Kalgoorlie when the Jap menace was at
its worst, and asked the Chamber of
Mines what, in view of miners being
wanted for war work, was the smallest
number of men required to keep local
goldmining alive. Now another has been
telling the Golden Mile managers a dole-
ful tale about the future of gold, and in-
quiring as to what price the metal would
have to fall before the industry became
unpayable, assuming present costs didn’t
rise. Knight John Kirwan, an old gold-
fields pioneer, had this to say about gold
at Kalgoorlie’s recent jubilee celebra-
tions: “There are people who say that
gold will be valueless after the war. The
real origin of this view was propounded
by so-called philosophers and professors
in German universities as propaganda
before the war in the hope of bringing
chaos into the countries they hoped to
defeat. Germany is a non-gold-producing
country. There are certain simpletons
who have been led away by this propa-
ganda, and have gone about repeating the
statements. Those who think must realise
that gold will go on increasing in value.”
* * * *
Dividends from Westralian goldmining
in 1942 totalled £423,712 Australian, a
fall of £406,320 compared with the 1941
aggregate. Production was 856,8050 z.,
against 1,105,4380 z. Distribution for the
first four months of 1943 amounted to
£262,890, as against £64,176 for the cor-
responding period of 1942.
* * ¥ *
Coolgardie (W.A.) has feldspar as well
as gold. Deposit is near the early-
day Londonderry golden bonanza, and is
owned and operated by the Glass Com-
pany, which aims at big production.
Quality of the mineral is said to be tiptop.


«In the
\
'm
A
m
Since the fateful day when Australia “threw her hat
into the ring”, the resources of this fertile land have been forged
into one mighty machine of war. The texture of national life
has been re - woven into a grimmer pattern designed for war.
In this, as in all great undertakings, the motive power that
drives Australia’s war effort is money your money and ours.
A million and a half pounds a day must be found and we must
find it. As a free man, fighting with all you have in the cause
of national liberty and pride, buy National Savings Bonds and
War Savings Certificates, and buy them to-day!
This advertisement is inserted by the
3> D
(s£' y
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
Breks Trousers Sovereign Hats
I
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEL APPEIANCE CO.,
(Dept. a<), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
WANTED
Musical Instruments
/'"'GT tip to £lO cash for your used
Guitar or Banjo-Mandolin. We will
also give up to £4O cash for Piano
Accordions and Saxophones. We buy
instruments in any condition any-
where. Write for details of free
valuation to —
“SAMPSONS,” Dept. M., Box 4184 X
G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
How Much Longer?
People of a class who have had a great
deal to do with the development of Aus-
tralia from the time the blacks had it,
who have worked hard and fought hard
without squealing when the occasion de-
manded it, and who have conducted
themselves with good heart and temper
among their fellow-citizens—many of
these people view with dismay the future
of the Commonwealth under the present
type of administration. They ask: What
does the future hold, with its political
turmoil and favoritism, with Australian
institutions being trampled in the dirt?
Beset as Australia has been by a barbar-
ous enemy, these people have been
utterly bewildered by the behavior of the
Canberra Labor Government, its mys-
terious backing and filling, its refusal to
form a national Government, its kow-
towing to radicals and lawbreaking
strikers and the extraordinary conces-
sions to any political clamor, even where
the country’s industrial and economic
safety are jeopardised by the concessions.
The Prime Minister went to the trade-
unions before making a “decision” on the
area in which militiamen may serve, and
we have seen many cases where the in-
terests of service men have had to take
second place to utter selfishness and in-
discipline on the part of wharf-laborers
and other unionised workers, particularly
in N. S. Wales.
The future of Australia is going to
depend very much on whether a Govern-
ment of the present type is allowed to
continue on its feckless way. In many
respects it is squandering the inheritance
of Australians —the inheritance of demo-
cratic principles, of freedom of enterprise,
of thrift, of private ownership, of
freedom of speech and action, of
the right to decide how one may
work, for whom one may work and
the amount of work one may do.
Our inheritance of British justice is also
in danger, and the rights of minorities
are held in contempt, unless the minori-
ties happen to be organised, truculent
bodies with “push” as well as “pull.”
Among certain larrikin elements which
hold an extraordinary sway, a snaky dis-
like of the British way of living, of tradi-
tion, law and order is dragging Austra-
lians who are occupied with the fighting
of foreign enemies towards foreign forms
of government and control. Class hatred
and industrial friction are being gener-
ated by the snaky ones. We see such dis-
credited agitators as Jock Garden acting
lor the Government. We hear arrogance
and blackguarding from “spokesmen”
that is suggestive of nothing quite so
much as the cockiness of mobsmen who
have grabbed control for the moment
and who will tolerate no opinion or right
but their own.
Will the people continue to support the
present Federal Government, which has
been endeavoring to buy support for it-
self at enormous cost to Australia? The
trade - unionist himself is vitally con-
cerned. It is evident from the behavior
of a number of union bosses and their
1 fiends in the Government and the civil
service that they aim to “free” the workers
Irom “employers’ control” only to put
themselves in the position of industrial
despots parasites on industry, wage-
earners and the public. The home-loving,
skilled artisan who is not mob-minded
is in danger of being bashed or boy-
cotted if he dares to raise his voice in this
new freedom” which perverted unionism
has brought to the Commonwealth. He
has been stopped, by quotas and job con-
trol, from working as he would like in
many sections of the war effort. He is
coerced into joining a union by both
union organisations and the Government,
the latter favoring with defence contracts
employers who use only union labor. In
the civil service there are higher rewards
for unionists than non-unionists.
Another inheritance which the Govern-
ment is fast squandering is our economic
stability, built up painfully from 1932
onward after reckless forces had done their
worst in vital economic matters, especially
ir j. S- Wales. It has been the misfortune
ot this country to have Labor Govern-
meuts exercising a big sway both during
the last depression and now in the
present war. Clumsy hands and stupid
minds have had a lot to do with the
Taming of Labor s financial policy, and
both hands and minds have been fed by
ot ers outside the movement ’ with
cunning ideas that see through financial
revolution and disorder the possibility of
ot ei foims ot ievolution.
Labor has sent the national credit into
a spin We are assured of a legacy of
great debt when the war is over, the
national indebtedness being already
around £2OOO million. Excessive use of
bank credit has caused a rise in prices,
as well as, in conjunction with holdup
methods in regard to wages by some
unionists, a grave inflation in afl costs of
production. The N. S. Wales Labor
Government, by its land-tax policy aimed
at “breaking up the big estates,” almost
seems determined to cripple the wool in-
dustry in the State, an industry which
has stood firmly on its own feet up to
date because it has always been conducted
in a large-scale, efficient way, endeavor-
ing to avoid all Government “assistance”
and interference, whatever other diffi-
culties it might have to contend with..
It seemed, when it first took office, as
though the Federal Government really
believed it could finance the war by bank
credit and avoid any noticeable reduc-
tion in living standards. Though many
of its ideas in this direction were quickly
shattered, it is now more confused than
deliberate in its manner of financing the
war and distributing war’s burden. The
previous Government had advocated a
policy of pay-as-we-go, and during its
term of office the small increase in living
costs was commendable. Now we see a
22 p.c. inflation in living costs, with a
prices ceiling and numerous regulations
and subsidies desperately trying to keep
further inflation in check.
To what extent will attacks on,
and interference with, industry and
finance continue? Are we to see
our life assurance offices, which bear
favorable comparison with any in
the world, socialised and run like
the railways and State coalmines, etc.?
Life policies have already lost a fifth of
their value since war began, apart from
reductions in bonuses. Is B.H.P. to be
reduced to the state of futility we saw
at Cockatoo Dock before the Govern-
ment abandoned it to private people who
could run it? Are we to see continued
frustration of the trading banks in
attempts at co-operation in the war
effort, and read reports whitewashing the
Government put out by the Com-
monwealth Bank? Are we to see
further appointments to the Com-
monwealth Bank board based on
political color, instead of financial
or industrial knowledge? Is political
color to be allowed to dominate
the inner intricacies of vital economic
and industrial matters —matters which
only men of experience and specialised
ability know anything about?
In particular, are we to continue to
ignore the dangers of a political policy
which discourages greater production per
man and per unit of cost? The reference
is to production quotas, job control, engi-
neered overtime, etc. So long engaged in
trying to reduce output when working for
private employers, some union bosses —
N.S.W. again referred to in particular-
are carrying on the same old tactics in
Government factories, and doing an even
more injurious job. We all should know
that the greater our war-time output per
man or woman the easier it is going to
be for ourselves so far as our private
living requirements are concerned, and
the easier it is going to be for the fighting
soldier to do his job and for all of us to
return to stable peace-time conditions
after the war.
When the war is over, when lend-
lease and other war-time arrangements
dissolve, how will we be able to stand up
to the natural forces which have such an
influence in external trade? Will the
22 per cent, inflation in living costs,
already an embarrassment in many indus-
tries, go higher, and. force us so out of
step with the experience of other coun-
tries that we can only export at a loss?
We have to be able to export at a profit
in order to buy petrol, motor cars, tea,


YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
The Manufacture by Olympic of Australian-
made Cable and Field Telephone Wire has
proved one of Australia’s outstanding Indus-
trial Achievements ... an Industry, pioneered
in Australia by Olympic.
On the fighting and home fronts,
it has rendered, and is rendering,,
Distinguished Service to Australia ,
o/'
THE OLYMPIC TYRE ft RUBBER CO. LTD.
i.
JOHN LYS
(RVSTnaiIR) ITD.
SXDNfy • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • AD EL AIDE
B
cotton, picture films, etc. The less we
produce per man, and the more costly
production is, the smaller is our chance,
in the first place, of having a reasonable
amount of goods to export, and, in the
second, of being able to export at a profit.
We cannot continue long to export at a
loss. That sort of thing becomes an un-
bearable burden on our living standards.
How long will many Australians con-
tinue to ignore the fact that living stand-
ards depend on the amount of a country’s
production more than anything else, and
that, in turn, a nation’s production really
depends on the output of the individual?
Nobody except agitators who thrive on
misery and discontent are getting any-
where by the “go-slow” policy that has
been fought for in even the Arbitration
Court. Out of the sacrifices of the few,
through the imperilling of our economic
foundations and through waste in many
directions we have seen a great splash
made with tax money, loan money and
bank credit. Are we to see this money
turn to ashes in the hands and bank
accounts and life policies of its recipients
through the breaking-down of an eco-
nomic “programme” that is turning from
weak to vicious?
These questions, with many more, are
a source of deep concern to those who
have the interests of Australia as a whole
close to their hearts. It will not be long
now before an answer is forthcoming.
A Government cannot play the fool for
ever.
The total subsidy to the Common-
wealth dairying industry has been fixed
at £6,500,000 a year. Sales of dairy
lands are to be subject to control by the
Treasurer, designed to prevent inflation
in land values. The subsidy will be spread
over butter, cheese and milk delivered to
condenseries, and it will be retroactive
to April 1. Though the Prime Minister
has expressed the hope that the “whole
amount of the subsidy will be passed on
to producers,” almost simultaneously
the Arbitration Court brought in the first
award for employees on Australian dairy
farms, a dairy farm being classified as a
place keeping 10 cows or more. A wage
of £4 16s. a week was fixed for shed
hands, £6 Is. for leading hands. A shed
hand is one who milks cows, musters or
feeds stock or who cleans up.
* * * *
Spender, M.P., says that £72.2 million
of the £lty-8 million put up during the
Third Liberty Loan flotation was sub-
scribed by 915 persons and institutions,
and that £10.3 million was spread over
384,131 subscribers —an average of £27
a head. The remaining £19.3 million
came from 37,197 subscribers. As already
indicated in these pages, very little of the
money came out of the savings banks in
the shape of contributions by depositors.
* * * *
The rise in the cost of living in Aus-
tralia since war began has been 22 p.c.,
in Canada 17 p.c. There are a number
of reasons for the bigger increase in this
country, one being the greater difficulty
in obtaining cotton for clothing. But
Canada is not so well off for wool as
Australia, and it has other difficulties to
contend with as well. It can be said with
more point that the Commonwealth has
had its economy bent to a greater degree
by political opportunism and expediency
than Canada, and that inflation and wish-
ful thinking have ever been interlocked
with Labor principles of government. It
must have been a bitter thing for the
Labor party to ascend to office during a
period of total war in which the spoils-
to-the-victor tradition was embarrassed
by the necessity for fighting a ferocious
enemy on a tremendously costly scale.
For two short months Labor Minister
Ward was able to brag about his Gov-
ernment’s great record of “social legisla-
tion,” pension increases and the like;
then came the hard facts of war in the
Pacific, with shortages of man-power,
clothing, food and—at Canberra —money.
Hesitantly taxes were raised on wage-
earners after the higher incomes had been
slaughtered, but, despite appeals for
voluntary loans, the war-time Budget was
balanced only by the excessive use of
inflationary bank credit. The utter fallacy
of Labor economic “principles” has been
speedily revealed under the forcing con-
ditions of war. With the greatest powers
at its disposal ever allotted to any Aus-
tralian Government it has failed to pro-
duce anything but a costly, cumbersome
and inflationary war effort that threatens
the economic stability of the Common-
wealth at the same time as it threatens the
enemy. Private enterprise has had to
come to the rescue time and again.
Coupled with the Government’s adminis-
trative floundering there has been an
almost incredible amount of Ministerial
misrepresentation.
* * * *
Life assurance cos. continue to accept
full liabilities within Australia, and two
go as far away as New Guinea, or the
Australian part of it, in accepting war
risks. At one period about halfway
through 1942 there was talk of restrict-
ing war-time cover within the island con-
tinent of Australia itself, but the Allied
successes in the Solomons and New
Guinea have helped to lessen the danger
of anything but hit-run bombing raids on
the principal cities of Australia. The
high rate of taxes paid on many incomes
makes life assurance an attractive propo-
sition to those who get a deduction of
up to £lOO in respect of premiums paid
each year, and during the past 12 months
many people took advantage of this free-
dom from tax to increase their payments
up to the maximum allowed by the
department.
* * * *
In future a permit will be needed in
disposing of or acquiring a new motor-
car. Discretion will rest with either the
Land Transport or Road Transport
people. Police won’t register a new car
without a permit.
♦ * * *
An airlines president (United Airlines)
is responsible for the following state-
ment :
A single cargo ship carrying 6000 tons
of supplies 14,000 miles takes two months
and 425,000 gallons of fuel. To move the
same cargo the same distance by air would
take 1440 flights, and with ’planes making
ten trips each in a month it would mean
144 ’planes flying 20,000,000 miles and
using 18,000,000 gallons of fuel, 15,000,000
of which would have to be taken first to
intermediate stopping-points by tanker.
Apart from immediate war-time consider-
ations, this would seem to dispose of any
fears that, after the war, airlines will do
away with the cargo ship.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has
authorised the Division of Import Pro-
curement to “make necessary purchases
of oversea cotton. The division will issue
raw cotton to spinners at prices which,
it is expected, will at least maintain, and
possibly slightly decrease, prices of
cotton goods made from Australian-spun
or imported yarn at April 12.” Prices
Commissioner Copland has gazetted an
order determining maximum prices for
cotton yarn. Weavers’ prices are also
controlled. It is to be hoped that the
Government’s cotton-buying activities
are more successful than those in the
case of tea. It paid through the nose
when it first ventured into the tea
business.
**. * *
A very useful guide to a person’s
taxation liabilities is Rates of Taxation,
1943, by John M. White and William
Benjamin, published by the Taxpayers’
Association of N. S. Wales. It deals with
Commonwealth income tax, various com-
pany taxes, land tax, payroll tax, sales
tax, entertainment tax, gift duty, estate
and probate duties, gold tax, flour tax and
wool tax. It has tables for income tax and
ready-reckoners for land tax. In addition,
there is a digest of tax rates, etc., in
the United Kingdom, Canada, Maoriland,
South Africa, India and the United States.
The book represents a great amount of
work in a compact 208 pages, and is
priced at 7s. 6d., post free.


THE SERVICE MAIN
Air War in the Pacific.
“E.D.”: According to Tokyo reports,
Admiral Shimada, speaking at a special
meeting of the Diet, said “the decisive
stage of the war in the South-west
Pacific is approaching. Our forces are
carrying out large-scale operations” in
accordance with long-concerted plans.
The admiral gave a resume of relative
naval losses since December 7, 1941,
according to Tokyo’s “estimates”: —
Japan: Battleships, one; aircraft-carriers,
three; cruisers, three; destroyers, 19; sub-
marines, 11; other warships, 13 ; merchant
ships, nine; transports, one; total, 60.
U.S.A.: Battleships, 13; aircraft-carriers,
11; cruisers, 55; destroyers, 56; sub-
marines, 128; other warships, 69; merchant
ships, 369; total 701.
Actual American losses, Washington
announces, have been one battleship, four
aircraft-carriers, eight cruisers, 24 de-
stroyers, seven submarines, 31 other war-
ships, 18 merchant ships and seven trans-
ports.
The U.S. reckoning of Japanese ships
sunk is three battleships, six aircraft-
carriers, 42 cruisers, 81 destroyers, 33
submarines, 47 other warships, 256 mer-
chant ships and 119 transports. On the
basis of 1941 figures published in
Brassey’s Annual, this represents one-
third of the enemy’s battleships, two-
fifths of his carriers, seven more cruisers
than his listed total (no doubt under-
stated), two-thirds of his destroyers and
half his submarines.
Air Battle in the Solomons
On June 16 about 120 enemy air-
craft attacked Guadalcanal. The Ameri-
cans beat off the attack, and air-
craft and ack-ack gunners shot down
94 Jap ’planes for a loss of only six U.S.
machines, from which two pilots were
saved. New Zealanders had an honor-
able part in the victory ; eight N.Z. crews
flying American Army ’planes accounted
for five bombers. A vessel in harbor
was damaged.
A spokesman at South Pacific H.Q.
said “The result of the battle was a
major blow to Japanese air strength in
the Pacific.” He added that 146 enemy
aircraft had been shot down in June, and
that total enemy air losses in the South
Pacific since the landing of the Marines
on August 7 was 1414.
The Tokyo account of the defeat was
characteristic. A large formation of
Japanese naval air force bombers and
fighters had picked up a U.S. convoy near
Lunga (Guadalcanal) and dealt it “a
severe blow,” sinking a destroyer, four
large ships, two medium ships and one
small transport, besides damaging a large
vessel and shooting down 32 enemy
machines. The statement added:
“Twenty of our machines did not return
to their bases.” A very rare admission.
Mentioning the N.Z. part with proper
pride, Prime Minister Fraser announced
that N.Z. aircraft have now shot down
13 enemy machines in the Solomons.
Rabaul Heavily Attacked
On the four Rabaul aerodromes
on June 14 271 ’planes were spotted on
the ground. On June 16 reconnaissance
counted 254.
Night attacks on June 16 lasted two
hours. Bombs dropped totalled 23 tons,
which were concentrated on grounded
aircraft and dispersal areas. There was a
great searchlight blaze, with heavy flak.
As on three previous occasions, night
fighters tried interception, but all the
visitors made homeward, to look back on
several large fires which could be seen 60
miles away.
The attacks were renewed on June 19
with a raid in which 33 tons of fragmen-
tation and incendiary bombs were
dropped in \\ hour, and on June 20.
Damage was believed to be heavy.
Other raids and reconnaissances ranged
from the Buka passage (North Solomons),
where a single Fortress on reconnaissance
was reported to have fought off 15 “O”
fighters, to Kendari (Celebes). Dilli, Koe-
pang and all the usual New Guinea ob-
jectives from the north coast downwards
and many stations along New Britain had
lethal attention of some sort.
Spitfire s Prevail
At the week-end R.A.A.F. pilots in
Vultee Vengeance dive-bombers, visited
the Tanimbars, the only land held by the
enemy within 200 miles of the Australian
mainland, and, under Beaufighter cover,
dropped 5| tons of bombs on the villages
of Werain and Lingat from 2000 ft. This
is the first record of dive-bombers being
used by R.A.A.F. forces.
After the bombing of the Tanimbar
objectives the Beaus swept over and tore
up the remains with their guns.
On June 19 mention was made for the
first time of an Allied raid on Witu, the
remarkable all-enclosed and well-hidden
volcanic island harbor which lies to the
north of New Britain.
On June 20 Spitfires destroyed or
crippled 22 of a raiding force of 48 which
appeared before Darwin.
On June 14 it was reported that Gona
had been attacked for the first time by
three machines ; they did no damage. At
the week-end Buna area and Oro Bay
were lightly raided and Morobe Harbor
sprayed without effect.
Another attack was a raid by six
enemy bombers and six fighters on Kain-
antu and Aiyura villages, on the Ramu.
U.S. Liberators bombed Nauru with
good effect.
The Indian Command.
It was announced in London that Field-
Marshal Wavell, returned to civilian
status and to be raised to the peerage,
had been appointed Viceroy of India,
and that Lieut.-General Auchinleck,
formerly in command of the armies of
Egypt, had been named C.-in-C. in India.
These changes were combined with the
foreshadowed creation of a C.-in-C. to
supervise the whole of the Allied forces
operating in the Far Eastern area.
Guesses as to the likely identity of the;
appointee to this position ranged from
Marshal Chiang Kai-shek to General
Montgomery. It was suggested that
General MacArthur had been marked
down for the post.
Wavell’s position is not without prece-
dent. In John Company days the Gov-
ernor-General of India, like the Gover-
nors of the Presidencies, was sometimes
a soldier. Auchinleck belongs normally
to the Indian Army, not to the British
Army, and knows as much about Indian
troops and terrain and Indian tempera-
ment as any man living.
The changes may, however, be linked
with the Middle Eastern situation. There
great naval concentration by the R.N.
and great military concentration by both
sides are reported.
Tit for Tat in U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of the
week, when the Axis-Russian war was
just on two years old, there was still no
sign of a summer offensive on the grand
scale.
A series of stabs at the holding lines
in the German Kuban, bombing of Ger-
man communications and dump areas by
the Russians and of Russian communica-
tions and arms centres by the Germans
(with each side, as before, claiming
victories), and a little heavier fighting in
the south-central sector were all that was
reported last week. The capture of
Mtensk, 35 miles n.-e. of Orel, was
claimed by the Russians. According to
maps issued in April they then held
Mtensk and country 10 miles nearer Orel.
German propaganda has made great
play with the food position in Russia.
It is alleged that Nazi action is being
delayed because every hour adds to the
strain of hunger under which the
Russians are suffering, thus improving
the chances under a delayed attack.
The Russians depend almost entirely
on agriculture for their food supplies,
and so much of their grain lands has
been in enemy hands or trampled by the
surge of battle that there must be a thin
line between many of the devoted people
and starvation.
The difficulty involved in the feeding
of Russia or even the Red Army by
Britain and America is tremendous. The
million tons of food which Mr. Stettinius
recently announced had been sent to the
U.S.S.R. represents less than 191 b. per
head for the Russians not under the
German yoke.
By June 19 another tale had begun to
spread—that the German offensive had
been inhibited altogether, and that the
Germans were moving large bodies of
troops to the Balkans and to the west.
Hitler’s “Volkischer Beobachter” con-
firmed the reports of movements of Rus-
sian-front divisions to the Balkans.
Other and more trustworthy founts of
information made it clear that there were
heavy movements of Germans in France.
Like the yarn about hunger tactics, the
one about German withdrawals, originat-
ing in Berlin, was allowed to leak out
first through German-language Swiss
newspapers.
Bombers of Work.
“E.D.”: An interesting and signifi-
cant incident was King George’s arrival
in French North Africa. While his
Majesty was there a radio warning was
issued to the Italians: “Evacuate your
industrial cities before the rain of bombs
sets in.” The Italian Government, spurred
to celerity by the delivery of samples, set
civilian evacuation dates within the next
fortnight for most big cities —all Sar-
dinian towns by the end of this month ;
Sicily and Naples by July 10.
Sicily and Calabria formed the proving
ground for the Allied threats. Their aero-
dromes and ports —at the week-end Mes-
sina and Reggio on the mainland —were
heavily attacked, though not so heavily
as Pantellaria, which was a target for
3000 tons of explosive in its last week
as an Italian possession. It should be
instructive to those who are convinced
that bombing can prove decisive in war
that, at the end of this storm of explosive
levelled from the air against so limited
an objective, most of the garrison were
still alive. Even that was not a new les-
son, for Malta already had taught it.
Algiers Radio declared on June 18 that
in the Mediterranean 685 Axis ’planes had
been destroyed in combat and 250 on the
ground toother with 118 enemy ships,
since May 15.
In nortnern Europe weather was one
of the governing factors in restricting
raids. The R.A.F. went out against
Cologne and Le Creusot armament works
in great raids, but not as great as the
recent attacks on the Ruhr. The attackers
lost 14 bombers and a fighter at Cologne.
Fighter and medium bomber activity
over countries along the North Sea was
continuous. The Creusot works, 170 miles
from Paris, were attacked by 94 bombers
in October last year. Last week’s raid
was made in good weather, and was
officially described as “heavy,” Three
bombers were lost.
Uncle Sam’s Effort
The U.S. War Department stated on
June 16 that 18 raids had been made by
the U.S. Eighth Air Force located in Eng-
land, 11 since May 14.
Including raids over Cuxhaven,
Bremen, Wilhelmshaven and Kiel, in
which 34 machines were lost, the report
said 1600 single-aircraft sorties had been
made; and, apart from huge damage
done by high-altitude bombing to mili-
tary objectives, 571 German aircraft had
been shot down, 187 probably destroyed
and 231 damaged, against 106 U.S. air-
craft destroyed.
The commander of the formations
which visited Kiel and Bremen gave Ger-
man fighter casualties during the raid as
104, against 24 U.S- machines. The Ger-
mans asserted that on that day 29 four-
engined American bombers and 13 other
machines were shot down over north Ger-
many, They said nothing of their own
losses.
On the previous Friday, according to
the official report, only eight U.S. heavies
were lost out of the 200 which tackled
Cuxhaven and Wilhelmshaven submarine
bases; and, besides accomplishing their
bombing missions, they shot down 85
enemy fighters.
There were German nuisance raids on
Britain’s southern and s.-e. coastal mili-
tary zone. They caused some damage
and casualties.
A New “Tactical” Force
The R.A.F. has added to its formations
a new “tactical” force, commanded by
Air-Marshal Dalbiac, who has developed
the technique of the Mosquitoes. In
effect, the new air arm will be flying
artillery and m.-g. blocks attached to and
used by land formations.
With the impressive array of fighter-
bombers of the Mosquito, Beau and
similar types, the range of this kind of
fighting must have become almost un-
limited for all practical purposes in
Europe, and for the first time in history
it is possible for medium machines, with
considerable bomb-carrying capacity and
deadly cannon armament, to begin to
tear up German man-power and equip-
ment at the source.
Future battles in Europe will begin on
the barrack square and in the factories
and base food depots supplying the fight-
ing line.
The Battle for Europe.
“Ek Dum”: “Experts” are convinced
that the invasion of western Europe is
imminent, that the rehearsals are over
and the date set.
Plans for the invasion of Europe from
the west or south or south-east or some-
where certainly are in train, and have
been since 1940, but the timetable is an-
other matter. Tank-carrying ships have
been built —vessels which resemble the
whaling mother-ships, and whose sterns
open and spew out their deadly cargo—
tank-landing barges which have their own
mother-ships, and a hundred other
special devices.
Against all these, the enemy has devel-
oped his devices —and his scare propa-
ganda.
The attempt at attack on the Continent
is to be countered with t.-b.-ds., operating
in shallow waters as destroyers of land-
ing barges, bombing of embarkation
ports, minefields on sea and on land,
booby-traps galore, beach flame-thrower
systems, trip-wires, electric-wire barriers
and other horrible methods. G-r-r-r!
The Essentials of Victory
In assessing the essentials of victory,
it must not be forgotten that the
strategy of the war is global. Japanese
resources must be reckoned as part of
the battle equipment of Europe, just as
much as those of Germany and its satel-
lite nations must be considered as part
of that of the Pacific war.
If while beating Germany and its
European supporters the Allies allowed
their strength to dwindle, or their re-
sources to be depleted to the point at which
Japan had considerable ascendancy, they
might be defeated ultimately in Europe
as surely as if Germany had not fallen.
The materials of victory are, firstly,
sea-power. In effect, the power to
draw on the world at large for resources
and to keep the enemy confined and
blockaded so that he is on short rations
in food, clothing and munitions. Thus
hunger and cold join the Allies.
Superiority in sea-power is on the
Allies’ side ; but time plays a great part
in that factor, for the superiority is not
and cannot be absolute until the ability
of the enemy to destroy Allied shipping
is totally inhibited. The position in the
Atlantic is improving tremendously,
thanks largely to new submarine-predictor
systems. U-boats are being destroyed on
a grander scale than before. Nothing is
heard now from Berlin of wholesale sink-.
ing of Allied merchant ships, pie power
of the enemy to use his mercantile ship-
ping is strictly limited to sneak ships and
to coastwise traffic under the cover of his
guns. His power to build is being whittled
away by increasing wreckage of his har-
bors and bases, his armament and metal
works.
Japan’s Strength
This is not true to the same
extent of Japan. The British Gov-
ernment officially last week placed
the Japanese shipping position as fol-
lows: In 1938 Japanese trade with
the present “co-prosperity sphere” ab-
sorbed 4,250,000 gross tons. The
total Japanese merchant fleet available
in December, 1941, was 6,369,000 tons.
From this, according to U.S. naval figures
issued on March 18, 1,857,000 tons sunk
must be subtracted. Allowing for cap-
tures and building, Japanese shipping
totals 5,235,000 tons, of which a mini-
mum of 3,500,000 tons is tied up in mili-
tary service. Therefore, merchant ship-
ping import capacity is 1,735,000 tons —
only 41 per cent, of 1938 needs.
Before the war Japan built 400,000
tons of merchant shipping per annum
according to its own statistics, but any
estimate of present building is only guess-
work. The Japanese certainly are build-
ing wooden boats for ore carriage. Their
Asiatic and East Indian trade is mainly
coastwise except for a few short stretches
of open ocean. The vast fleets of little
ships and fishing boats which infest
Oriental coasts must be taken into
account. And it may be found that Japa-
nese turnover of new shipping is greater
than was expected.
As far back as 1923 a Nipponese ship-
yard held a world’s record for freighter-
construction —it had completed a 5000-
ton vessel in 28 days.
Japan’s position, moreover, is different
from that of European Axis countries in
one important respect. Germany (accord-
ing to British official statistics) is
only 83 per cent, self-sufficient in food,
and its output has a declining nutritional
value. Japan has become 100 per cent,
self-sufficient. From the fishing grounds
and bases leased from the U.S.S.R. a
substantial proportion of the Japanese
food supply is dredged.
Japan’s 13,000 ’Planes a Year
Touching production of the materials
of energy in battle, these are British offi-
cial statistics, issued June 5:
After three years Japan would have
produced the following: 200,000 tons of
hard coal (54 per cent, of German output
in two years); 30,000,000 tons of steel


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce
TO WILLIAM AARON LEATHAM late of
Islington. —TAKE NOTICE that MARIE
IRENE LEATHAM has filed a Petition lor
Divorce No. 1037 of 1943 on the ground ot
desertion without just cause or excuse for thiee
years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the Second day
of September 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO. Solicitors Assembly Hall 2
York Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HANCOCK, Frederick—Mr. Frederick Han-
cock, husband of Margaret Ethel Hancock, who
died in Perth in 1905, or any person having
knowledge of Frederick Hancock’s present
address is requested to communicate without
delay with THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON.
MR ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON, or any-
one having any information as to his present
address is kindly asked to communicate with
the undersigned, who has information to the
advantage of Mr. Heighten regarding the estate
of his aunt. Mr. Heighten, if living, will be
about 70 years of age, and was last seen by
his sister in Auckland in 1891. TRUSI
MANAGER, the New Zealand Insurance Con
pany, Limited, Queen Street, Auckland, Ne'
Zealand.
w
(60 per cent, of German output in two
years); 100 milliard watt hours of electric
power (69 per cent.)? 40,000 ’planes (67 per
cent.); tank output is unknown. the
maximum car and lorry capacity ol Japan,
225,000 in three years, gives her a ceiling
of 32 per cent, of Germany’s output loi
two years.
Thus, in the next two years, Japan and
Germany together—apart from accumu-
lated reserves—have a capacity to pro-
duce and transform into lethal energy or
sustenance for those who are fighting and
working (leaving out of consideration the
capacity of the United Nations to check
them by air-power and sea-power)
500.000. tons of hard coal and
70.000. tons of steel, with the appli-
cation of 240 milliard watt-hours of
electric power, and to produce 67,000
’planes and about 800,000 road vehicles.
Incidentally, it was on the basis of these
figures that Messrs. Churchill and Roose-
velt determined their “beat-Hitler-first
policy.”
The comparative Allied figures on pro-
duction, of course, make those of the
Axis seem small; but it must be
remembered that German figures are
supplemented by the vast loot of civilised
Europe.
German Aircraft Problems
Allied estimates of German aircraft
losses in the past year fall below esti-
mates of German production for the
same period, though actual numbers
give little criterion without knowledge of
categories.
An analysis of the knowledge which is
obtainable suggests that the bulk of the
losses have been of older and slower
types—Stukas Ju 52’s and obsolescent
types of Messerschmitt. Inroads into
the F.W. 190 classes and into new
heavy classes of bombers have been
comparatively small. Indeed, their
usage has been limited, and until
the recent attacks on Gorki, east of
Moscow, there had been no heavy Ger-
man bombing on any front since before
the winter. All this suggests either man-
power or fuel shortage or a deliberate
saving policy against future needs.
Whatever the cause, it is a policy which
means accumulation ; and enemy accre-
tions will be greater by the output of the
years when Britain’s building was dislo-
cated by attack and when American
building was well behind Europe’s in
quality and power and numbers.
Against attack from Britain the enemy
has the advantage in ’plane deploy-
ment. While Britain’s ’planes must work
off restricted aerodrome space and fly at
least 400 miles to reach any main enemy
industrial supply base, German bombers
operating from a front line along the
Channel are within five minutes of many
important British invasion ports and
within 20 minutes of the great Midlands
industrial centres and of London, which
is the pivot of English defence.
German industries have a greater
spread than those of Britain. And
restriction is placed on the usage of the
great outputs of Canada and U.S. air-
craft by the long voyages and submarine
attacks, and by man-power considera-
tions
Aircraft battle-power now is governed
not by bulk of ’planes available but by
the availability of crews ; and first-class
bomber pilots are a race by themselves,
limited in number, subject to heavy
attrition in major warfare. The number
of ’planes which can be kept in the air
is regulated always by the numbers
of ground-crew men — ; highly-skilled
mechanics —which can be put into ser-
vice. Ground crews shortage has always
put a heavy brake upon what otherwise
might be turned into an almost unlimited
air offensive.
The same factors apply in respect of
tanks and mechanised units, with some
variations. It is one thing to have them ;
another to man them, to convey them to
battle point, to protect them on the way,
to fuel them, to fight them, to feed and
reinforce and provide reserves for their
crews.
Where Germany can, if need be, move
a division by road or train to a fighting
point on the Continent, each British
division must have not only trains in
Britain, but 70,000 tons of shipping con-
tinually at its disposal, the seamen to man
it and the power to defend it on its
voyages and replace its losses.
The Greatest Element—Men
Lastly in the elements of battle comes
the greatest of all—man-power. Here
again the enemy on land has an
advantage, at least in trained num-
bers, and in the speed with which
others can be trained, in view of
his superiority in production of battle-
seasoned officers. And Britain and the
U.S. have a great drain placed upon them
by their unique transport and sea defence
responsibilities.
Germany alone, at the end of 1942,
was known to have 6,000,000 troops
mobilised. This number will have been
increased. To these must be added
2.250.000 Japanese troops at the begin-
ning of 1942, which have probably been
strengthened by addition of another
750.000 at least. Russia’s mobilisations
are unknown, but they have been placed
at 4,000,000 trained men apart from those
in training and the Far Eastern armies.
Of Germans, 190 divisions —roughly
3,000,000 men—are on the Eastern Front,
apart from ancillary troops and labor
corps. Satellite troops, including Finns,
Hungarians, Slovaks, Rumanians and 30
divisions of Bulgarians, number at least
another 70 divisions —say 1,000,000 men.
Italy is outside this estimate.
With these masses the Germans are
able to use concentration, and they also
are able to mobilise their maximum mili-
tary might because of their use of slave
peoples for industrial and agricultural
purposes.
The bulk of the German divisions,
whatever their quality, are battle-trained
troops under officer corps which always
include a proportion of veterans.
The Allies presently will be able to put
into the field vastly more men than they
were previously in a position to do. They
can feed them better, equip them better
and more lavishly, except upon the
Russian front, where there is a limitation
to the extent to which external transport
can deal with very marked shortages of
food and of some war materials.
But men can be trained only to battle
standards with the use of time and under
the discipline of experienced officers.
Britain’s tough armies were built up
round the experiences of France, Greece
and Africa.
The Americans have not been in the
war long enough to train large armies on
a European scale and with modern
weapons, and to toughen them as the best
British troops have been trained and
toughened. The deficiences of even the
small forces they put into the field in
Tunisia—-though much fine fighting was
done —have been frankly stated by their
own critics.
Therefore the bulk of the European
invasion task, if it comes this year, must
fall on British and Canadian soldiers,
backed by British air-power and safe-
guarded and supplied by the Allied, but
mainly by the British, navies. Next year
the Americans should have reached a
stage which should change the face of
things.
The British burden is added to by over-
seas commitments. According to the
same British official announcements
already quoted: “In the Near East the
Ninth and Tenth armies were indispen-
sable to cover Russia’s Caucasus flank and
to maintain the separation of Germany
and Japan.” The armies of Africa are still
needed, perhaps in greater strength than
before. For, independent of what action
may be taken against Italy, the one enem>
offensive drive which has to be guarded
against is attack on Turkey and the Dar-
danelles from the Balkans, where great
moves seem to be in the making.
Such a drive must be a tempta-
tion to Hitler and his generals, who
remember that it was in the rear of the
Reich that the lethal hole was driven m
the last war when Bulgaria and Turkey
collapsed.
Italy’s Isolation
It is a peculiar factor that Italy has
become an isolated problem. What an
attack upon it will prove like depends on
the will of the Italians to fight. They still
have considerable air-power, if it has not
been drained away to Germany. They
have seven battleships, three of war-
period vintage, still half a dozen
cruisers, about 80 torpedo boats and
destroyers, and a fairly substantial
number of submarines.
Their man-power is scarcely touched
by British comparative standards, but
their will to fight has seldom been in
evidence. All the moral factors are
against them. They entered the war in
disgraceful circumstances. They turned
on their fellow-Latins and friendly
neighbors, the French. They turned on
their traditional friends and defenders,
the British, with whom they had more
in common in art and science and asso-
ciation than with any other race in
Europe. And this in alliance with their
old oppressors, whom they hated for
generations before the present crop of
young Fascists sprang up.
At the moment the Italians are
taking their aerial beating lying down.
The Lancaster crew now visiting Aus-
tralia reports that Italian flak was
almost non-existent. Pictures of bomb-
ing of aerodromes and other objectives
seem to prove that Allied ’planes
manoeuvre into position at will without
opposition or with so little that it does
not matter —a very different story from
that of raiding over Germany.
Effects of Ruhr Bombing
The bombing of the Ruhr and the
crippling destruction of German rolling
stock and railway facilities and river
ports must all have their effect on Italy,
just as does the grim moral pressure of
the accretions of Italians in America
and other countries. Italy depends on
Germany for its coal, which means life to
its war industries, and for the rest of its
industries as well. Little coal can be
coming out of the Ruhr; less will come
if Germany has to fight in the West.
Italians can fight. Lloyd George
placed this testimony on record in his
1914-18 war memoirs, and Lieut.-General
Freyberg, V.C., back in Maoriland on
well-earned leave, said last week that in
Tunisia, whereas the Germans “just
chucked in their hands, the Italians
fought because they were defending their
homes: they regarded Tunisia as an out-
post of their homeland.” An extension
of this spirit could make an Allied
invasion a bloody adventure, and
caution dictates that attack upon Italian
shores shall be regarded as such until
facts prove otherwise. But whether the
Italians will prefer defeat under the
mild British and Americans to victory
under the heel of the Nazis, whom they
have seen commit the most terrible bar-
barities on the helpless peoples of west-
ern Europe, remains to be seen. The he
of the land will soon be apparent.
Mother Nature’s Part
One element which few commentators
on the European military situation take
account of is Nature. Mr. Churchill
last November declared:
The enemy has in France an army as
large as that in Britain, apart from the
Home Guard not so well equipped as
British and American troops, but including
many veterans He has ample weapons
of the latest type, and the aid of immense
fortifications erected along the Channel
and the North Sea coast. And there are
[for us], also, the extraordinary and peculiar
difficulties attendant on all landings across
the sea in the teeth of opposition—the
chances of the weather in this somewhat
variable northern climate, the difficulty ot
reconciling the tides and nrnons, of catching
at the one moment high visibility from the
air and smooth water for the landing
craft All these difficulties make the pro-
cess of moving an army across the Channel
[in the face of opposition] one which—
happily for us, it cuts both ways—has
never been solved in war.
These factors apply also in the Medi-
terranean, qualified there only by the
slighter chances of effective resistance.
Dunkirk would scarcely have been pos-
sible save for the miraculous calm which
fell over the waters as France fell to hits.
As for surprise, that is something
which is difficult to achieve. As Mr.
Churchill pointed out, such an adventure
as a cross-Channel invasion calls for
“enormous installations at all suitable
ports,” and vast preparations which can
scarcely have been concealed from enemy
aircraft. , , . .
So it is something not to be looked
forward to in any light-hearted spirit. It
will represent the point of heaviest crisis
in history’s greatest thunderstorm.
Freyberg Back.
The gallant Freyberg, V.C., whose long
service and many wounds have earned
him a respite, is back in Maoriland.
The General says that in the last stages
of the campaign in Tunisia the Germans
had few battle casualties. Ever since
Alamein they had wished to get out of
Africa altogether. They were very good
when they had a lot of equipment and
were winning, but could not stand up
against adversity.
Many of them had fought m Russia,
“which they did not like.”
The Allied equipment, General Frey-
berg proceeded, was better than the
enemy’s, and the Grant tank he himself
was the greatest exponent of its possi-
bilities—was the best in the desert.
There was now full Allied air superiority
in the Mediterranean.
The chances of a Tunisian Dunkirk
had been nil, because of the British
Navy’s command of the sea. The R.N.,
at the right moment, tore up minefields
which had been laid to rope off the
enemy’s road home, and the tired Axis
troops, when they reached the Bay of
Tunis, found divisions of British de-
stroyers lying across the line ol retreat.
ii is hoped that before he returns the
General may visit the Commonwealth.
Australia would give him a royal wel-
come.
The British Sea Effort.
Lord Winster, Parliamentary Under-
secretary to the Admiralty, told the
world last week that since the fall or
France 3,000,000 soldiers had been deliv-
ered to various destinations with a loss
of only 1348. , ,
Five million tons of Axis shipping hau
been sunk, 3,000,000 tons damaged and
two enemy battleships, four cruisers, 8/
destroyers and many submarines and
naval auxiliaries wiped out.
Italy had failed to sink a single British
warship. And not a ship or a man was
lost in two of the three great convoys
which took the Allies’ 500,000 men and
1.000. tons of stores to Africa in the
first four months of the African cam-
paign. ,
At any given moment 2000 merchant-
men and 600 warships were at sea, but
“losses in convoy protection had been
kept down to one-half of one per cent.,
while Merchant Navy ships, from the
Arctic to the tropics, brought into Britain
40.000. tons of stores annually.”
Shipyards in Britain had built 900 war-
ships since September, 1939, and by Sep-
tember, 1942, had replaced all naval
losses of the previous 2\ years, besides
repairing and putting back into service
140.000. gross tons of damaged mer-
chant shipping. ,
And that was not all. Captain Balt our,
Under-Secretary for Air, announced that,
“although the Germans made their big-
gest effort so far to halt our shipping,
losses in May were the lowest since
America’s entry into the war.”
But he admitted that this did not mean
that the battle of the Atlantic had been
decided or was drawing to a close. The
lull might be only temporary while the
enemy was regrouping his shatterec
forces.
In brief:
The Admiralty and Air Ministry jointly re-
port a long battle by the protective units o a
<*reat Allied convoy m the mid-Atlantic during
fast month, the heroine of which was one ot
the new miniature aircraft-carriers. The battle
ranged over hundreds of miles of ocean.
U-boats were sunk and three, probably more,
damaged; and barely 3 per cent, of the convoy
was lose # * *
The Japanese began a three-pronged drive
against Swatow, a port on the tropic of Cancel,
250 miles n.-e of Canton, on June 14. Fight-
ing was in progress at the week-end.
* * * *
New Delhi announces that in the last week
in May Gurkhas in the Chin Hills (Burma)
defeated 1000 Jap shock troops m a six-day
combat and killed 500, including a brigadier,
besides wounding a major-general. The on In-
action on the Burma front last week consisted
of widespread Allied air raids, mainly by
RAF medium bombers and Beauhghters.
* * * *
An American Associated Press correspondent
declares that the Japs have captured several
ships flying the Russian flag en route to
Siberian ports from America. Moscow and
Tokyo are silent.


I
■
M.
mm
iiliili
II
MW
mmm
m
jig
PHMS
;
ii
lIMPI
4 lii
S|
©*
;g|;;|s|||
Wmm
i\-
B
1 -
1
:*Xv:
r«»
Mi
«H
fe;% : : : *
M
.
wi
■
a
Sag
SS:
i:in,ii,i,,,,,;,,,,i, ,i,,,,,,,,,
| ‘. I .M.M.M.'. 11 mill inmfrWMWiW w minimi
*“"' 11 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 m.i i i.i.» 11 11 i 11 1Vnii 11 1> 11 11 1m
, V/ <. / ' ' , < / v :
‘ M 1 11 1 H I ■■ 11 1 11 11 nnmiini i
' - ,S V ' ' { ,
1 1
v,a,r
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the Estate of SUN KIEW (or SUN KEW),
late of Aitape in the Territory of New Guinea,
married woman, deceased, who died on the 27th
day of February, 1943. —NOTICE is hereby
given that an order to administer the above-
mentioned estate was granted to me on the 11th
day of June, 1943. All persons having claims
against the estate as creditors, next-of-kin or
otherwise should submit same, verified by
affidavit or statutory declaration, to me on or
before 11th August, 1943, after which date I
will proceed to distribute the said estate having
regard only to the claims of which I shall have
had notice in writing. All persons owing money
to or having knowledge or possession of a will
or property of the deceased should give notice
to me forthwith. —G. T. WELLS, for the
Curator of Intestate Estates, New Guinea,
Department of External Territories, Canberra,
A.C.T.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
r
riTJmmrn
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in uSe.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including 12|% Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency a n d
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified cl os e t
pan.
ft displaces puns
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
i iT^ e , big crowd patronised Rose-
iiJl, where two winning favorites did not
compensate backers for their losses on
most of the other races. Betting was
spirited with the books, and the tote
turnover was a little over £39,300.
Rex Felt (F. Sheanj, who had been
out of the winning list for over two and
a halt years, and during that period did
a stud season, returned to his earlier
form in the Flying Handicap. Third to
mad and Guild Hall into the straight
he won easily from the former and
Goose Boy, though it looked as if Hesi-
one should have run third. Her rider
did not persevere towards the finish
when he saw there was no chance of
winning. Faerie Queene never threatened
danger, but as Hesione’s rider, Mulley,
was suspended for a month for interfer-
ing with her it might be advisable to
discount her failure. Guild Hall was
jOurth, after being prominent through-
out form good enough to put him in
line for a win. Some of the unplaced
division ran in keeping with the way they
travelled in the betting market.
The Rosehill June Handicap requires
little description. War Bird (Allen) set
up a long lead after starting the back
stretch, and, though a furlong from home
there seemed a chance of Wellesley over-
hauling him, he won comfortably. There
was little between Windbrook and Lord
Valentine for third, and* Dewar and
Dashing Cavalier were beaten a long way
from home. The time was only a half-
second outside Silver Standard’s record
for the track.
When Cream Puff (Knox) was third-
last nearing the six-furlong post there
seemed little hope for her in the Bizerta
Handicap. She then made up her lee-
way in such great style that she was
sixth approaching the turn, and eventu-
ally scored by a half-head from Dick
Whittington, who settled Monaro and
Haridelle shortly after turning into the
straight. The last-mentioned two are im-
proving, and it was a rattling effort on
the part of Cream Puff, who looks like
making a stayer. Monaro had a useful
lead for the first five furlongs, but Dick
Whittington had his measure at the top
of the straight. Barrenjoey and Druce
are coming on again. Bred by her owner,
D. G. Tait, Cream Puff is by Chatham
from Brown Cream, by Doric.
Bronze Orchid’s (Cook) form of the
previous week pointed to her as the prob-
able winner of the Juvenile Handicap,
and, Starting favorite, she led from the
first hundred yards. Urgent Rate was
her nearest follower for half the distance,
but weakened after reaching the turn.
and the minor places went to Miss
Brueghel and Annie Laurie. The honors
of the race, however, were entirely with
Bronze Orchid, who is by Hall Mark
from Gladioli, Hua’s dam. Trained by
F. Dalton, Bronze Orchid is raced by her
breeders, H. S. Thompson and P. C.
Basche, who refused 280gns. for her at
auction as a yearling.
In the first division of the Juvenile
Handicap Star Gold’s lead at the
straight entrance made him look a
winner, but over the last half-furlong he
was outstayed by Swinton’s mount,
Tennessee (Spearfelt-My Treasure, by
Heroic). Joygiver’s third was a moderate
effort, and this time no excuse for him
was possible. He was in a good position
from barrier-rise. Caladin (by Mitsui),
Frontier and Red Bobby did best of the
remainder, and the first-mentioned colt
may prove useful. As a yearling Tennes-
see was bought privately for 500gns. by
F. W. Hughes.
Code (Willey) hung on well to beat Sir
Francis in the second division of the
Juvenile Handicap, and in the Carling-
ford Handicap Merrimba outstayed War
Trophy, who led after turning into the
straight.
Gay Invader enhanced his G.N. Hurdle
prospects by defeating Claudette and
Virile in the Ascot National Hurdle at
Mentone on Saturday. He led from the
first jump and survived a protest for
alleged interference toward the finish.
His form was a big improvement on his
display at Moonee Valley at his previous
start, but he started favorite. Gay Inva-
der has been penalised for the G.N.
Hurdle, but, having started over hurdles
only four times for two wins and a third,
further improvement is probable. He is a
stable-mate of the early G.N. favorite,
Anpapejo, who was injured at Fleming-
ton but, at latest, is a likely runner.
Claudette is from the same stable as
another G.N. Hurdle casualty, Saul. Lat-
ter injured a heel while travelling in a
float, and a National start for him is still
indefinite. Claudette may be a good sub-
stitute. She has raced over hurdles only
three times in all, and once since August
last year. Saturday’s experience will
benefit her. Isambard, although only a
poor fifth on Saturday, did not lose any
G.N. admirers. The track did not suit
him, and he will be a better proposition
at Flemington.
Jack Holt, once one of Australia’s fore-
most trainers, has lost none of his skill.
His present team totals three, and each
was a runner on Saturday. Two, Solon
and Distinction, were successful, while
Moonray finished an unlucky fourth in
the Tottenham Handicap, won by Mor
Veil. Emphasising the paucity of good
three-year-olds, Mor Veil is only the
second horse of that age to win in open
company in Melbourne this season.
Great Britain is the other.
On July 23, William Inglis and Son
will hold another sale of yearlings.
Drafts will be offered on behalf of H. S.
Thompson, Thompson and Basche, and
the St. Aubins Stud.
After paying high prices for yearlings
over a number of years. Miss D.
Paget has achieved her ambition of win-
ning an English Derby, and, what must
have added to her satisfaction, with one
of her own breeding. Her colt Straight
Deal (Solario-Good Deal) won from the
Aga Khan's colts Umiddad (second) and
Nasrullah (third) last week. Although the
winner started at 100 to 6, recognition of
his owner’s sportsmanship caused the win
to be well received. J. V. Ranks’s filly
Why Hurry (Precipitation-Cyblane), at
7 to 1, took the Oaks, with Ribbon and
Tropical Sun in the minor places. The
winner was also bred by her owner.
When A. Fawcett, the Jockey Club
handicapper issued his weights for the
Two-year-old Free Handicap at the end
of last season, last week’s place-getters
were rated as follows: Nasrullah 9.6,
Umiddad 9.5, Ribbon 9.3, Straight Deal
9.1, Why Hurry 8.5, and Tropical Sun
7.13. One of Miss Paget’s yearling pur-
chases at auction in 1936 was the Fair-
way-Golden Hair colt for whom she
gave 15,000gns. and who won her two
or three races of a little over £lOO each.
Though it cannot be claimed that race-
less Saturdays have accomplished much
in the way of financially furthering the
war effort, it is improbable that anything
will be gained by statements that
there are people willing to bet that within
a month all Saturdays will again be
available. In effect that is a challenge
to the Prime Minister to depart entirely
from his previous attitude towards rac-
ing, and, so far from having the result
desired, reports from Canberra point to
a strengthening of the Prime Minister’s
determination not to go further than he
has recently done in granting concessions.
It would be wise to avoid approaching
the Prime Minister in a manner that is
at all suggestive of bluff, bounce or lime-
lighting.
An opinion often expressed is that the
N.S.W. Government would get a tre-
mendous revenue if racecourse betting
were confined to the totalisator. The
big bets reported on some suburban
races go towards upholding the idea that
the combined turnover of merely a few
bookmakers exceeds that of the totalisa-
tor on any race. It would be interesting
to know the total amount handled by
the books on a big day at Randwick.
However, the dual system suits the pub-
lic, and while there is no fear of any
change during the continuance of the
war, it is probable that difficulty associ-
ated with securing the necessary machin-
ery and extension of building assures
safety for the bookmakers for a long
time after.
Doubt still attaches to Winterset being
a runner for the V.R.C. Grand National
Steeplechase. If he is withdrawn it is
probable L. Meenan will be on Highland
March, whose 11.9 is 91b. less than he
carried when he lost his rider last year.
On that occasion Meenan was on Win-
terset (12.7), who was third to Parentena
and Victory March. The last-mentioned
two are respectively up 101 b. and 71b.
Highland March is therefore well treated
by comparison with last year and, if at
his best, should play a prominent part.
He has won at Flemington with 12.6,
though at a shorter distance than that of
the Grand National.
Isambard was backed for the Ascot
National Hurdle at Mentone on Saturday,
and, though he did no better than run
fifth, must still be accounted a V.R.C.
National possibility with 11.5. Last year
he was second in that race with 10.13.
and then with 11.3 was beaten a neck by
David Spear in the Australian Hurdle,
also run at three miles. As he has not
recently done much racing, improvement
on his part is probable, especially as he
is not beyond an age at which that can
be expected of a hurdler. He is rising
seven.
Miscellaneous.
Overcoming Footscray on Saturday by
16.11 to 11.7, Fitzroy remained on top
with Hawthorn, which downed North
Melbourne by 20.16 to 13.17, and Essen-
don, untroubled to beat Collingwood,
15.13 to 8.14. Richmond disposed of
“Sowth,” 17.12-12.12, and Melbourne just
managed to get home against Carlton,
13.14-11.21.
Manly (29-9 against North on Satur-
day) got through the first round of the
Sydney Rugby Union competition with
only one loss; East (14-11 against West)
lost one match and drew one. They lead
the table, with Randwick next and West,
Uni. and Parramatta crowding each other
in fourth place. Other games:
Randwick 14, Uni. 11; Gordon 14. Parra-
matta 6; Drummoyne 11, St. George 6.
Ron Warner and Jim Fraser are well-
matched Sydney lightweights. They
fought at Leichhardt, and Fraser just won
on points. In the return bout Warner
got the decision, and more hoots were
heard than when Fraser had been
crowned. The referee’s hairline ruling in
each contest was correct, but it will take
a third bout to settle arguments. On
Thursday night Warner began and
finished faster than Fraser, and that in-
fluenced the adjudicator, though, as in
the earlier mill, a draw would have been
no particular injustice to either.
Bob Turner has only one ingredient in
the make-up of his uncle and namesake
-—gameness. Boxing Joe Delaney (12.8)
at the Sydney Stadium, the old-time
champion’s nephew was floored four times
in the first two rounds, but came up for
more, and was not far behind on points
at the end of the tenth. But he went
weak in the eleventh, and a right to the
chin dropped him for “nine.” Wallis
very properly refused to let the plucky
youngster go on.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap; Hau-
teur, 1 ; Davinia, 2 ; Sandman, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Steadfast,
1 ; Tennessee; 2 ; Sir Francis, 3.
Novice Handicap; Bomb or Zue,
1; Prince Buzzard, 2; Cape Hero,
3.
June Stakes: Hall Stand, 1 ;
Hesiorie, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Winter Stakes: Wellesley, 1 ;
Cream Puff, 2 ; Moondarewa, 3.
Exeter Handicap; Pinero, 1 ;
Felt Yet, 2; Valoroi or Brazen
Boy, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Stage and radio celebrities got together
over sherry and biscuits after the first
matinee of “Sister Eileen,” which seems
to be taking on here and is especially
popular with Allied service men, who like
the quick-fire dialogue. A convert to
radio from the co., Mary Ward, was
there to tell how much she is enjoying
broadcasting, though she says she intends
to go back to the stage when it escapes
the deteriorating effect of war conditions.
Her very deep and effective voice can
be heard over national stations, the price
of pigs and the latest fluctuations of the
fish market coming within her sphere.
Special guests were two Allied Red
Cross officers, Peggy Armstrong and
Mary Lou Hesketh, who have arrived to
take over from other Red Cross workers
who have gone back to their own land,
among them Olga Hashagen, so well
known and liked here. The new arrivals,
who were welcomed by Mrs. Dan Reddan
and Marjorie Gordon, should be as popu-
lar as their predecessors. Their special
interest is recreation for convalescent
patients, rehabilitation and hospital visit-
ing. Their country’s Red Cross makes a
point of giving war-zone experience (Mel-
bourne for this purpose being a war zone)
to as many of its workers as possible,
which accounts for the changes in per-
sonnel.
The collection of articles made for the
Comforts Fund auction sale brought
forth some amazing pieces of Victoriana
of the worst order, as well as the sort ot
things large crowds have to be held back
from. Among the latter were electric
shavers and delightful hand-painted china
in flower designs. A pair of convict’s leg
irons and some crystal-hung pink vases
were among the shuddersome items. A
fascinating collection of chairs met the
eye, particularly pleasing being a little
German peasant one with high back and
low seat ornamented with carving. The
sale had to be put on from the original
date as not enough stuff had come to
hand. The number of war-fund junk
shops now in existence and the frightful
shortage of tableware and furniture are
having their effect on the supply.
Like many other shows since war
began, the Australian Artists’ exhibition
at the Velasquez Galleries had a patriotic
object. This time the fund to be aided
was Red Cross, and many pictures were
lent from private collections to make the
show more comprehensive. Among in-
teresting things was a still-life of pink
geraniums by Percy Leason, better
known as a Bulletin cartoonist than as
a painter in oils. Most visitors stopped
longest in front of Hans Heysen s “Cen
traf Australia,” all sandstone red and
blue shadowed hills, which seem fated
to become a “Come to South Australia
poster after the war if the S.A. Tourist
Bureau has an eye for a good ad. Violet
Mclnnes’s “Japonicas” caught the eye
and was among the earliest pictures sold.
Inter-State service women who are
faced with the problem of trying to dis-
tinguish some landmark from the inky
blackness outside tram windows must
bless the old-fashioned glass doorway of
Meriden, the Y.W.C.A. and Comforts
Fund leave house for service women.
Situated midway along St. Kilda-road,
which is black as pitch these nights, the
doorway shows up like a good deed in a
naughty world, and the round-topped
Moorish windows seem to ' promise
warmth and comfort. The idea of taking
over stately old houses has much to
recommend it from many aspects. The
rooms may be a bit small and the ground
plan a bit mazy, but the atmosphere is
peaceful and gracious. Looking over an
old pillared balcony the service woman
on leave can feel for a moment she’s
Juliet.
Really luscious dressing was the major
feature of the National Theatre’s week of
ballet. Designed by Jean Alexander, cos-
tumes ranged from the ancient Egyptian’s
, brief garments (copied from tomb figures)
1 to Greek chitons and medieval high
pointed hats and full kirtles. The Egyp-
tian scene (Lugini’s “Ballet Egyptian”
provided the musical background) pro-
duced a very beautiful effect, the figures,
taken from the Book of the Dead, blend-
ing beautifully with a setting of patterned
walls and striped fans. Lights were used
very effectively in other ballets, particu-
larly in eerie scenes where a kind of green
twilight was very successful.
An interesting item in the week’s
musical gatherings was the small affair
at the Conservatorium at which a collec-
tion of Vera Buck’s compositions for
both piano and voice was presented.
Vocalists were Sybil Willey and Des-
mond Worthington, two promising young
singers, so it was a get-together of local
musical talent in three aspects, vocal,
instrumental and creative. Vera Buck
played her own composition for piano.
Sybil Willey is back again this year
from her native Queensland, and is
continuing her musical study in Mel-
bourne. She was Melba Scholarship
winner a few years past and has the
luck to combine a nice soprano voice
that has a suggestion of “mezzo” quality
in it, with a very engaging personality
and good looks.
This city is having a chance to meet
Miss Y, Y. Wu, attache to the Chinese
Legation in Canberra, who is staying
with the Consul for China and Mrs.
Wang. Beautifully turned out like all
Chinese ladies, she is slim and tall and
very vivacious. Finding out all there
is to know about Australia is her present
main interest. Unlike so many of China s
active women she pays homage to a
Chinese, not an American, Alma Mater,
having received her political science train-
ing in the University of Tientsin.
Among recruits to W.R.A.N.S, is
Elizabeth Corder, here pictured by
Austin-Murcott. She’s a daughter of the
F. J. Corders, and her father served as
Commissioner for Malta in Australia for
several years. Elizabeth was doing a law
course at Melb. Uni. while learning the
ropes in the family firm before the call
to back up the Navy caught her. Now
she knows what “Nelson’s Blood” is and
can read signal flags. Brother John
recently left studies at Xavier to join the
R.A.A.F.
The death of Mrs. Roberta Ward has
severed a link with history, both this
country’s and Irish. She was a grand-
daughter of John Mitchell of 48. Both
she and her daughter Mrs. Sheila Monks
carried on an interest in herbs which,
they averred, they derived from the
patriot. Since war started this lore has
been put to commissariat uses and has
greatly improved food supplied to the
services, particularly seagoing naval
personnel. Among many others interested
in John Mitchell’s later history were the
Irish bishops who visited this city for
the Eucharistic Congress some years ago.
Searching for some knowledgeable citizen
to guide them in the matter they were
put in touch with knight William Irvine,
onetime Victorian Chief Justice, and
were surprised to learn that he also could
claim descent from John Mitchell.
Phyllis Worley, who announced her
engagement last week, is a recent arrival
in this city. Daughter of Justice Worley
and Mrs. Worley, of Singapore, Phyllis,
with mother and younger sister, came
over here when women were urged to
leave Malaya, and spent a year at the
University in residence at Janet Clarke
Hall. Her family shares the anxiety of
so many others whose menfolk are
prisoners of war in Malaya, as her father
remained behind in Singapore till its fall.
Her betrothed is Captain Lynton White,
M.8.E., Royal Artillery, younger son of
Sir Dymoke White, Bart., and Lady
White, Havant, England.
News from Monica Starke, Red Cross
hospital visitor in New Guinea and
daughter of this city’s Justice Starke, tells
how the toy-making idea has caught on
among convalescent service men up there.
It’s apparently just raining toys, and no
other idea the rehabilitation people have
had has been half so popular. It’s sug-
gested that some new animal figure of
the Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck
variety with a world-wide appeal will
probably come out of N.G. hospitals
before long. Hospital visitors are amazed
at the cleverness of the imagination which
produces creatures that Noah never knew
but which are extraordinarily fetching.
From Sydney
When Lady Gowrie laughingly accused
Admiral Muirhead-Gould of piracy at
the Bush Book Club’s annual meeting
she wasn’t speaking in terms of the
Spanish Main but of the Inky Way. The
admiral, of course, is all for running
down cargoes of books and magazines
for the lads of the Navy and of the
Merchant Marine. But the Bush Book
Club, though acknowledging the claims
of the seamen, stands loyal to the men,
women and children of the outback.
They must be given food for the brain
and the imagination. Probably at no
time in her life has the mother in the
far-away corners of the State more
needed the solace of books.
The admiral, moving the adoption of
the report and balance sheet, spoke with
the understanding of a book-lover of the
good work of the 8.8. C. Actress Kath-
leen Robinson, who supported the
motion, told of her own book-appetite
when she was a small girl in an up-
country home. Ernest Watt moved the
vote of thanks to Lady Gowrie. The
widow of Lieut.-Governor Street pre-
sided. Secretary Beulah Bolton took the
count of the literature handed in. Truly
the wives of Australia’s Governors de-
serve all the thanks and posies that come
their way. It has been disclosed that on
one day Lady Gowrie attended no fewer
than eight meetings.
Next Monday afternoon the good work
of the Anti-tuberculosis Association will
be helped on its way by a musicale in
the vestibule of the Town Hall. Sydney’s
Mayoress, Mrs. R. J. Bartley, will be
the afternoon’s hostess, and that deft
programme-arranger Mrs. Hope Gibson
nas got together a group of artistic
singers and instrumentalists —Mrs. Rupeit
Scammell, Mrs. Harold Bott, Mary Charl-
ton, Peggy Dunbar, Connie Stuart and
Dorothy White.
Enith Clarke, so soon to be the wife
of pianist Alexander Sverjensky, her
former teacher, is herself known from
Rockhampton to the south and from
the east to the west of Australia as a
gifted pianist. As a young girl Enith had
lessons from Paderewski and Backhaus.
At thirteen she was runner-up for a
Royal Academy scholarship and com-
menced collecting prizes in Queensland
eisteddfods. She has been heard in con-
certos with the Sydney Symphony and
Sydney Conservatorium orchestras. Her
solo recitals always command attention,
and one thing of which she is justly
proud is that she was understudy for
Eric Landerer to play Schumann’s
“Paganini Caprices” when the Russian
Ballet was in Australia, Dorati conduct-
ing. Enith’s hobbies are riding and fly-
ing. After the war she hopes to own her
own ’plane.
The Pacific Islands Society had a re-
ception following its yearly meeting last
week, and re-elected president Alfred
Stephen has emerged with the reputation
of a first-class showman. The speaker
of the evening, R. J. Boyer, being at the
last moment unable to come, president
Stephen produced a series of colored
slides of scenes in China and Japan, and,
titling his talk “Allies and Enemies in
the North-west Pacific,” launched into a
vivid description of journeys in each
country. The slides showing the Great
Wall of China and the road to the Ming
tombs gripped the attention. On the
new committee are Major Swinburne,
formerly of the Gilbert Islands ; J. T.
Bensted, at one time of the Papuan Ad-
ministrative Service ; and C. Monckton,
of Fiji.
The hall of Christ Church St. Laur-
ence was nearly blown from its roots by
the gales of laughter that shook it last
Wednesday night. It was the third birth-
day of the Wednesday night dances for
service men, which are run by Mrs. Ben
Edye, organist Lilian Frost and pianist
Bort Fahy, “Relay Bangs” and “The
Weasel” were two roaring games between
the more gentle ballroom dancing and
the graceful solos of the leaders of the
Polish-Australian ballet. The Consul-
General for Poland, Mr. Gruszka, and his
wife were the guests of honor.
Some of the service men to enjoy
the club’s hospitality in its first year were
the Polish crew of the “singing ship” in
which the first English evacuee children
arrived. It got its name through the men
teaching their young charges many songs
and so helping to banish homesickness.
Now, whenever a Polish service man
is in Sydney he finds his way to the Wed-
nesday Nights. At last week’s celebration
the toast was given by an Australian
soldier who was a guest three years ago
at the second dance. Since then he has
seen service overseas, and nobody en-
joyed the birthday party more than he did.
Clement Hosking, now honorary direc-
tor of the Red Cross Musicale Unit, will
conduct a “Songs of the Nations” festival
in the Pitt-street Congregational Church
next Wednesday evening. Admission will
be free, but a collection will be taken up
for the Red Cross. The committee
arranging the festival expects the pro-
ceeds to equal those from a similar even-
ing some months ago, which came to
over £72. The programme will be blithe,
gay and patriotic, with the folk songs and
national anthems of 19 countries.
When Dr. lan Clunies Ross spoke ol
America at the Cumberland branch of
the C.W.A.’s International Day last week
it was like “The Star Spangled Banner” set
to orchestral accompaniment. The speech
set the spine tingling with appreciation
of our great and friendly ally. Every
year the Cumberland branch sets aside
one afternoon to the glory of some par-
ticular country. This year the United
States was the chosen land, and the only
flaw in the well-made plans of the after-
noon was the fact that, owing to duties
in Canberra, neither the Consul-General
for U.S.A. nor his wife was present. The
party was in George-street David Jones’s,
and again the members of this branch
showed themselves clear and concise
speakers.
President Miss Beatrice Gayfer was the
complete hostess. On the lapel of her
black suit she pinned a pink rose. An-
other bright splash of color suddenly flown
during the afternoon by many members
was made by coral-red camellias from the
garden of the Comtesse de Vilme-Haul-
mont. Mrs. Barber, a former president,
Mrs. A. E. Mclntosh, patroness and first
president, and vice-president Mrs. James
were others noted. Minnie Love, singing
Gracie Fields’s number “Hand me me
hat and muff, the party’s getting
rough,” set the note of the party to
laughter ; so did Audrey Davis with her
dentist’s-room sketch. Walter Kingsley
and Bertha Trikojus added the charm of
their singing, and Mrs. Arthur Bryant
was the accompanist.
A few weeks ago all personnel in the
Ark A.T.N.A. were going about their
duties busily and peacefully. Then came
a pecking at the porthole, and lo! a
messenger. But this was no dove with
an olive branch in its beak. The message
was a proposal by the Director-General of
Medical Services (Army) that A.A.M.W.S.
members who had done two years train-
ing in military hospitals should be en-
titled to enter civilian hospitals as third-
year nurses. Thereupon the Ark A.T.N.A.
became more like a T.N.I. magazine,
and a broadside from hitherto unsus-
pected guns was turned on the proposal.
The civilian hospital nurses met and
sent a protest to the Prime Minister. It
is generally believed by the nurses that
two years’ training in military hospitals
is not equal to the more diversified train-
ing in general hospitals, and that the new
development may lead to a lowering of
the standard of nursing. Then, again,
there are professional problems arising
out of “broken” training, and the feeling
that the better pay plus amenities offered
in the A.A.M.W.S. will lead to a short-
age of probationers seeking general
training. . .
The fine singing of baritone ArnoW
Matters was one of the features of Saturday
night’s symphony orchestral concert. He
sang lago’s Credo from “Otello” and
“Craze, Craze” from the “Mastersingers.
Works by Purcell, Delius and Sibelius
were on the programme. Bernard Heinze
conducted. The Town Hall was
Relinquishing a job as personal secie-
tary to knight Alfred Davidson, g.m. oi
the ’Wales, to run a home in the Dande-
nongs, Kathleen Russell was married at
St. Matthew’s, Manly, recently. I™
’groom is A. P. Sutherland, a Melbourne
engineer. Kathleen is a Westralian,
daught of Robert Russell, of Subiaco. At
the outbreak of war she helped to organ-
ise the ’Wales’s Staff Comforts Fund and
became the fund’s treasurer. Her / eU °^ r
officers gave her a farewell tea. A 001 : 11 ':
organisation that will be sorry to los
her to Victoria is the Sydney Business an
Professional Women’s Club. The Sut. e
lands will make their home at Belgrave,


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer .
\
\
■
Unwrap Carefully...
do not tear out of envelope ...
0 So carefully is the Gillette Blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper, as you will see by
holding it up to the light.
0 If you will take equal care in handling it, you
can get more shaves per blade.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Help by saving, save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates
Divorce Notice.
TO PATRICK JOHN SMITH formerly of
Newell Street Footscray Victoria and of Osborne
Park and Mount Lawley Perth West Australia
but now of parts unknown Horse Trainer. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife RUBY MAUD
SMITH has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the grounds of three years’ de-
sertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary's Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the Sixteenth day
of July 1943 the case may proceed your absence
notwithstanding and you may be ordered to pay
costs. —W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, 214
Nicholson Street, Footscray, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
TO ROBERT JOHN TOMLINSON formerly of
Howard Street Brunswick in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife VIOLET LILY TOM-
LINSON has instituted proceedings against you
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appeal -
ance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court Melbourne on or before the
7th day of July 1943 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs AND FURTHER if you intend to de-
fend the said suit you must cause an answer
to be filed in the said office on or before the
17th day of July 1943.—This advertisement is
inserted by C. M. S. POWER, of 283 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor for Victoria,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO GIUSEPPE (JOSEPH) MATARAZZO late
of Balmain New South Wales. — FAKE
NOTICE that ANGELA MATARAZZO has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1258 of 194_
on the ground of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street .Syd-
ney by the 2nd of August 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY Solicitor lb Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERNEST ALBERT BENNETTS also
known as HARRY NORDRUM late of 49
Regent Street Paddington in the State of New
South Wales Lithographic Artist.—TAKE
NOTICE that EDITH MARY BENNETTS has
field a Petition for Divorce No. 528 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years or upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Thirty-first day of
August 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from A. R. De COEK Solicitor
107 Liverpool Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
THERE’LL BE LOTS OF THINGS
TO DO WITH “SHORTS”
«■
9
w
C 9
Masonite “Shorts” handy sized off-cuts of
standard Masonite —have a thousand uses in the
home. New cupboards and shelves, useful pieces
of furniture, toys —all can be made by any handy
man from Masonite “Shorts.”
PLAN FOR THEM . . . SAVE FOR THEM*. . .
AND BUILD THEM WITH
ẅ
w
MASONITE PRESDWOOD.. .TEMPERED PRESDWOOD.. .TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . , . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
★invest your savings in war bonds for post-war use
MA26-43
SMOKE-OH!
“The man who beat J. T. Lang.”
I —“ Sunday Sun.”
J. T. Lang.
“My beauty problem is gooseflesh on the
legs. Can you help me?”— Woman’s paper.
No, dear. Consult a chef.
V -h -I-
“The musical broadcasts to jam and preserve
factories make the workers feel contented in
their jobs.”— Radio speaker.
Let them be happy while they can.
Marriage Lines.
There are two sides to every question
—the wife’s and the wrong one.
Wives always seek the advice of their
husbands as soon as they have decided
what they intend doing.
Rare indeed is the wife who doesn’t
talk for hours about the things that leave
her speechless.
P. O. M. C.
“She liked Ernest. He was a cashier and
was shy. — Woman’s paper.
Not in his cash, we hope.
»»£•
“Do you know how to wash a dress with
colored stripes?”— Woman’s paper.
Try soap and water.
ŵ
Point of Law.
“The wink has become legal evidence.
According to Judge Byron Walters, of Los
Angeles, it is capable of meaning so many
things that it deserves legal standing.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Though witnesses may now contort
Their faces thus before the Court,
The case for the defence, I think,
Will shun the evidential wink.
Whatever else• you might imply
By the occlusion of an eye
No Judge would deem it evidence
Of aught resembling innocence.
P. M. L.
The Compleat Angler.
“My husband, a debt-collector, spent nearly
all his spare time away from home —fishing, so
he said.” — Divorce report.
Pursuing debtors was his job,
And angling was his play;
At both he far excelled the mob —
Few ever got away.
B. B.
Heavenly.
“He declared that the only time he had a
respite from his wife’s nagging was when she
paid a visit to her father.” — Divorce item.
No doubt he shouted loud hurrahs
Whenever she went off to Pa’s;
But how he’d thank his lucky stars
If she’d been far away as Mars!
T. W. N.
ẁ
EVE.
Oats for Goats.
“The British were at first unable to take
Linosa because of the fierce goats which swarm
over the island. Finally, in desperation, a
British sailor was made to swim ashore,
smeared with goat-odor, and cut the throats
of the four-footed inhabitants as they slept.
In this manner the British occupied the island.”
—Rome Radio.
Confirmation of this has come from
the British Navy itself, and the full story
is told in his own words by William
Hawkins, an A.B. from Houndsditch,
who performed the task:
“Yus, we’re standin’ orf Linosa one
arternopn. It’s my watch orf an’ I’m
below decks playin’ darts just like in the
old Boar an’ Bristle w’en a message comes
down from ‘quarter —the Ole Man wants
t’ see me. I goes up.
“ ‘ ’Awkins,’ ses the skipper, ‘would y’
like to capture a Dago island tonight?’
“ ‘On me own, sir?’ I arsks.
“ ’E looks at me kind o’ disappointed.
T didn’t think a British tar, an’ espeshly
one from ’Oundsditch, ’d need ’elp or a
little job like that,’ ’e ses.
“ ‘I wasn’t thinkin’ o’ that, sir,’ I pipes
back. “I just thought as ’ow me mate
Joe ’Arris ’adn’t ’ad shore leave since we
was at Alex, two years ago come
Maundy Thursday. If ’e could’ve’
“ ‘But this ain’t a nohday jornt,’ ses
the Ole Man. ‘lt’s to capture this Eyetie
island.’
“ ‘Same thing, sir,’ I chips back.
“But the cap’n stood pat. ‘No,
’Awkins,’ ’e ses. ‘ ’Fraid ’e carn’t. I’ll
be wantin’ ’Arris to capture Sicily
shortly; there’s wild pigs there an’ ’e
used t’ work in the abattoirs. Remember,
you can ’ave a go at pinchin’ the main-
land if y’ make a good job o’ this.’
“’E tells me then o’ the risks —fe-
roshus goats wot’ll ’orn a bloke t’ death
if ’e ain’t axfixiated fust. I chucks ’im
a salute, ses it’s good as did, shoves a
table knife in me pocket an’ w’en it’s
dark drops overside an’ swims ashore,
landin’ on the wind’ard side.
“I scramble up some rocks, an’ just as
I’m passin’ a bunch of Eyeties wot’s
’uddled round some mortars an’ mug
guns there comes a ‘Ma-a-a-al’ from
away up the ’illside. Gorblime if
them garlick-chewers didn’t fair dive
down the dugout! I’m not ’arf narked,
though, for just then I remembers I for-
gets to bring the goat-odor wot the Ole
Man ses F'l want to rub on so’s to get
close up to ’em while they’s snoozin’
without suspectin’ me. I don’t feel like
swimmin’ back to the destroyer for some,
so I dives down the dugout, frowns, pulls
out me table knife and tells ’em Musso.
’as give the island to me Liza as a weddin’
present. There’s about 200 Eyeties there,
an’ they threaten to sing somethin’ from
‘lll Trovytory’ at me if I don’t take ’em
prisoner. I tells ’em they’ll ’ave to wait —
I got bigger game. Then I tells their O.C.
to parade before me, as ’e must be the
biggest goat on the island. W’en ’e comes
forward I rub meself up again ’im, ’ard.
“There ain’t much more t’ tell. I goes
out, puts on me gas mask, creeps up an’
slits the gizzards o’ 794 savage goats —at
least, they’d ’ave bin savage if they’d
known wot I wus doin’ to ’em. I milked
all the nannies fust while they was asleep.
Blime! Fresh milk an’ meat for me
shipmates wot’d been on condensed milk
an’ corned ’orse for munce!
“Yus, I’m lookin’ forward to the main-
land job. There’s a fat, baidy skunk
runnin’ loose there that I got t’ bleedin’
well beat up.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Art of Living
“People should be taught the science
of living,” says Dr. Fry, of Adelaide.
He proposes that social workers should
be appointed to instruct citizens how to
live. I agree. Unless people know how
to live, plans for a new era will prove
meaningless. Every year thousands fall
by the wayside because they have studied
every subject except the one necessary.
If schoolchildren were tutored in the art
of living the need for social workers
might be eliminated.
What social outcasts need is not pun-
ishment but instruction in the art of
living. Nobody gives it to them.
Mathematics and history will not check
the waywardness of the lawbreaker, nor
will literature help him reach self-re-
specting manhood. Gaols, hospitals and
asylums are a burden on the country.
Teaching how to live would transform
schools into children’s playgrounds. —
A. Daly (S.A.).
Better Education
The N.S.W, Minister for Education
recently announced that £5,250,000 had
been spent this year on education, and he
spoke in a voice of pride. Is it not
time there was an outcry against the cost
of our education, particularly in relation
to the quality of it?
It seems to me that we are having a
top-heavy structure of expensive second-
ary education built on to a very weak
primary foundation.
The State should provide an excellent
—not merely a good, but an excellent —
standard of primary education and then
make secondary education available to
those children who are particularly clever
or desirous of it. One only needs to live
for a time in the country districts to see
the difficulties children are faced with m
getting to the larger schools. When
trains are the medium used, pupils leave
home at anything from 6 a.m. and reach
home again up to 9 p.m., with two or
three hours’ wait between school and
home-train time, in empty, dark schools,
in the streets or on station platforms.
What book education is worth this risk
and strain?
The greater part of education expendi-
ture should go to providing more and
more primary schools and teachers, better
housing for these classes, better equip-
ment and methods, rather than to the
expensive high schools of which the edu-
cational authorities seem to be so proud.
The poor-speech, poor-reading and
poor-spelling standards of a large pro-
portion of our people are reflections on
our primary teaching. The prevailing
ignorance of the mother tongue is tragic.
— V. Bates (N.S.W.).
The Australian Outlook
Lauding a magazine of 50 years ago,
the “Antipodean,” David Ashway (B.
2/6/’43) invites a comparison between
its “lost horizon” and the outlook of
Australian writers of today.
Surely his focus is wrong. Fifty years
ago Australia had no big cities. Sydney
had a population under 100,000; and,
although Melbourne was larger (by the
blessing of a protection policy that helped
local manufacturers), the natural life of
the country was amongst the primary pro-
ducers, who were the main characters of
the stories.
Australia lost its old economic hori-
zon, the only misfortune about the change
being the centralisation of new conditions
in a few great cities rather than iq many
small towns. Still, the city workers are
as Australian as those in the country;
there is as much difference between the
Australian-bred and -reared factory-hand
and one in England as between the Aus-
tralian small or large farmer and the
yokel or yeoman of Britain.
It is natural that Australian writers
should write about the typical people of
the community. There are, of course,
journals which insist that, to be success-
ful in their columns, stories must be
modelled on foreign—nowadays chiefly
American —lines, which are padded and
false.
An education of the public taste which
would reject the material upon which
these managements insist is needed. That
should start in the schoolroom, where
little effort is being made now to create
an Australian outlook and check the in-
fluence of American films, which are
false in values and perspective.— Hamer
(N.S.W.),
No Room for Hate
We of today, like our fathers who
fought 25 years ago, want this war to be
the end of war. We want not only
Europe but the whole world to live on an
amicable basis, not waiting till one nation
weakens to pounce on it and then dis-
sect it.
Keeping this in mind, we 11 should
strongly oppose all “hate propaganda.”
Our enemies are using this weapon, but
it does not make their men fight more
bravely or their bullets bite more deeply.
The only effect this hate propaganda has
is to make peace—real, lasting peace—
very much further from our grasp.
If we descend to this childish level of
mud-throwing the situation will only be-
come worse. Let our maxim be “Fight
like the devil, but fight for a lasting
peace.” Hatred never yet brought peace.
—J. B. (N.S.W.).
Jewish Migration
Stephen Carley, in his attempt to con-
fute my arguments in favor of Jewish
settlers, confounds his own. He quotes
the shining example of the U.S.A. mak-
ing land available, with the resultant
industrial expansion, to the millions of
migrants that went to America. That is
precisely what I am advocating for our
own country. The actual system of land
distribution is a mere side issue. I have
yet to learn that the U.S. discriminated
against Jews. My impression is that,
within limits, it was a free-for-all busi-
ness as long as it suited national policy.
When it did not, the influx was effectively
restricted.
Surely Australia, with its pageant of
Parliaments, boards and commissions,
could do likewise. It should be possible
to control the activities of the new
arrivals, even to the extent of any undue
propensity for minding other people’s
business, supposing the other people
couldn’t look after their own affairs.
If Sir William Beveridge’s 87 p.c. of
unemployed were available and wanted
to settle here, it would be all to the good.
There’s room for them all, but 1 assume
the Beveridge figure includes the unem-
ployable, who would be excluded.
Certainly I would settle Jews in Aus-
tralia to feed unemployed in England (if
they elected to stay there) or the unem-
ployed of any other country that would
buy our produce. To me it all boils down
to this; a continuation of unreasoning
racial prejudice may, in the years to
come, mean that Australia will be hard
put to defend its White Australia policy.
— R. H. Parkes (Tas.).
Soldier’s Pay
“Bren Buster” (B. 28/4/’43) gives the
impression that he is well content with a
soldier’s pay. He quotes figures which
satisfy him that, with a wife and one
child, he gets the equivalent of £8 per week.
But has he heard of the payment of
£l2 per day to waterside workers
salvaging cargo? Does he consider
the soldier is well paid when he knows
that C.C.C. men and boys are getting
more money for unskilled work, which
entails no risks, than they would ever
get in peace-time? It is true that some
soldiers are getting more than they ever
earned before, but it is also true that a
great number are getting less.
The only way to adjust these anomalies
would be the regimentation of labor as
well as the military. Allow the former
the equivalent of the extras which “B.B.”
quotes, such as board, clothes, fares.
This, apart from risks, which the front-
line soldier takes, as well as being parted
from his loved ones for long periods,
would equalise matters, and would prob-
ably induce more eligible men to join
up—O. Pip (N.S.W.).
Pensions and Rank
Why the differentiation in the rates of
war pensions between officers and men?
On discharge from the Army and on ter-
mination of commission, there is no
distinction in rank, as there is no rank.
“Once an officer, always an officer” is
not true in Australia, as the old A.I.F.
commission has the word “temporary”
in large type stamped across one corner.
Logical discrimination in war-pension
rates demands a rate in inverse order to
the one now in application, for the ranker
has not the same ability to make provi-
sion for the future as the officer.
In a democratic army, drawn from the
commonalty, the system of granting high
pensions to high-ranking officers and
their dependants is an invidious one and
should get the axe.— MacFergus (Q.).
Hospital Nursing Staffs
While hospital boards are concerned
about a nursing-staff shortage, and Man-
power deplores that too few young women
are anxious to train for a nursing career,
a paradoxical condition exists in Queens-
land. When war came, the Government
reduced the training period for nurses
from four to three years, and now it
appears that this enactment has aggra-
vated the problem of adequately staffing
hospitals.
I was recently a surgical patient in a
Queensland hospital which has a daily
average exceeding 150 patients. The
board of management spoke of shortages
on the nursing staff, yet, paradoxically,
from nurses themselves I learned that an
appreciable number of them would be
leaving the institution within the next
few months, having completed the three
years’ period of training and having
passed their final examination. It is
strange that these trained young women
should be permitted to pass out when
there is a shortage of nurses and a dearth
of probationers, but apparently the Gov-
ernment enactment makes their exit man-
datory.
From nurses who are leaving the hos-
pital shortly I also learned that when
some of them sought positions on nursing
staffs of the services they were advised
that there were no vacancies. That is
peculiar, for quite recently press adver-
tisements called for nurses for the Army
and Navy. Maybe the recent compulsory
registration of nurses up to 60 years of
age will mean something more than a
mere register of names. It should be the
avenue through which hospitals and the
services can be adequately staffed.
Dearth of probationers is probably due
to the higher wages girls can earn in war-
effort employment.—Y So (Q.).
This Organisation
A Victorian butter factory short of fire-
wood is obliged to order coal from Mel-
bourne. Wood from this factory’s
locality is being cut and trucked to Mel-
bourne under regulation.
Meanwhile, a multitude of committees
and departments have got together and
decided that it is necessary to ration
butter. — Hackshaw (Vic.).
Powdered Milk
Why not explore the full possibilities of
powdered milk? Of course, the natural
milk must precede the powder, but there
is a vast difference in having to collect
and distribute fresh milk within restricted
time-limits and in putting it all into a
factory for processing, which can be done
at any hour.
An ingenious American, Fred Wood, and
his staff of the United Dairy Equipment Co.
have perfected a machine that is, briefly,
a cream separator working in reverse
gear. You simply feed milk powder, dis-
tilled water and sweetened butter in at
one end, and the machine delivers fresh
milk at the other. Increase the butter
content, and rich cream is forthcoming.
Whole milk with a butterfat percentage
of 3.5 can be obtained for a material
cost of nine cents a quart, and the bac-
teria count is 80. (Bacteria count of
natural milk is around 50,000.) Just what
this arrangement would mean to the
dairy industry and milk-delivery business
can be easily imagined.
To the butter-storage problem that may
plague us under rationing, an answer has
been given in the experiments of Dr.
George E, Holm, of U.S. Department of
Agriculture, who has developed a butter
oil capable of being stored indefinitely.
This is obtained by clarifying melted
butter and removing oxygen from it by
agitation in a high vacuum.
Such discoveries open up a wide field
for reform in matters of national nutri-
tion.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Gold and the Note Issue
I cannot agree with Mr. Traversi (B.
26/5/’43) that convertibility of currency
into gold can be regarded as “backing”
for the notes. The only backing that
notes have or require is the declaration
of the Government that they are legal
tender. This confers upon them the
traditional functions of money ; that is,
it enables them to act as a medium of
exchange and as a measure and store of
value.
Overissue of the notes can impair
these qualities, as Mr. Traversi’s histori-
cal examples show. But he spoils his
case by pointing out that “revolt against
limitation” has always been the reason
for departures from convertibility. How
then is convertibility a permanent barrier
to note expansion, when politicians have
the power to suspend it at will? If they
can’t be trusted to limit the note-issue
without a gold standard, neither can they
be trusted to stick to the standard itself.
—Arc (N.S.W.).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
Can the N. S. Wales Minister of Agriculture
commandeer tractors or other farm machinery ?
He has that power. To date it has not been
found necessary to use it, for such machinery
has been made available on the contract basis
without impressment, when requested, through a
District War Agricultural Committee.
* * * *
(1) Are water pipes of steel cheaper than cast-
iron ? (2) What is the life of steel and cast-iron
pipes respectively ? (3) Which is cheaper to
lay? (4) For large-diameter mains, what type
is used ? (5) Can steel and cast-iron piping
still be bought in quantities?
(1) Generally steel pipes are more expensive in
the smaller sizes where cenirifugally-spun cast-
iron pipes can be obtained. For diameters over
20in., steel pipes are cheaper. (2) The life of
pipes varies according to characteristics of the
water passed through, the nature of the soil in
which they are laid and coatings which are
given to prevent corrosion. If neither the water
nor soil is strongly corrosive and the pipes are
coated internally and externally they should
last for more than 50 years. Cast-iron pipes
have generally a longer life than steel pipes.
(3) Steel pipes can generally be laid more
cheaply than cast-iron pipes, since longer sec-
tions can be used and the number of joints
reduced. Also the weight of pipes to be trans-
ported is much less, and, if transport is im-
portant, this may appreciably affect the general
cost of the line. (4) Steel pipes are used ex-
tensively for large-diameter mains. (5) Refer-
ence should be made to pipe manufacturers;
it is likely that considerable difficulty would
be found in procuring steel pipes, but cast-iron
pipes might be available.
* * * *
(1) From whom could I buy a pure Saanen
buck and two does? (2) Price? (3) Are skins
or hair of commercial value? (4) Can goats be
mustered with a sheep-dog ? (5) Are the wethers
of the Saanen goat good for food? (6) Best
age for mating a Saanen doe?
(1) Pure Saanen goats are practically unpro-
curable. (2) Usual price charged for pure-
bred Saanen does is £1 per pound of milk;
a gallon milker would be worth £lO. (3) The
skins are of definite commercial value. Most
of the goatskins used in the trade in Australia
are imported from India. Goat hair is used
tor the making of mats and rugs, but insufficient
is available to commercialise its use. (4) and (5)
Yes. (6) Eighteen months.
Brief Answers.
E.J.: Senator Brand did not move that
amendment to the Repatriation 8i11... .R.R.:
No training is given by the Technical Educa-
tion branch in occupational therapy. Get in
touch with Miss Docker, of the Australian
Physiotherapy Association W.G.R.: Rebate
is not allowable in respect of a taxpayer’s wife
if her separate net income exceeds £5O per
annum... .W.T.C.: You might obtain second-
hand books on journalism from Tyrrell’s Book-
shop, 281 George-street, Sydney... .A.R.H.:
Best safeguard is, when mixing the glue, to
make no more than the amount required
G.E.T.: Mick Simmons, Sydney, can supply a
Dally M. case for 245.; no bladders in stock.
. ...D.0.W.: Get in touch with your local
branch of the N.R.M.A A.C.C.: Cement
should add lo tire durability of sun-dried bricks.
Mix with the dry components first C.L.: A
verbis ad verbera (Latin) means “from words
to blows” V.N.: Nadir is the opposite of
zenilh L. 8.: The expression “behind the
cighl-ball” comes from an American game of
snooker (played with numbered balls), and its
nearest Australian equivalent would be a snooker
behind the black... : Since tobacco-
making from leaf must be licensed, better apply to
(he N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, Farrcr-
place, Sydney, for particulars L.H.: There
is a biography of John Lewis Pedder, onetime
Chief Justice of Tasmania, in the Australian
Encyclopaedia... .A.J.G.; Halley’s comet was
last seen in 1910, being visible to the naked eye
from March 10 to the beginning of June. It
will next appear about 1985 T.H.: Make
a 2ft. trench on each side of the tree, 2ft. from
the trunk. Lill in 6in. with stones or rubbish,
then replace soil. This drainage may cure the
trouble. Do the job while the leaves are
off tree, and, if there is no improvement next
season, dig out the tree.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the M.S. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
S.D.:
After Hie fall of Pantellaria
Mussolini may well have become warier.
J.V.M.: —•
Said Hitler, “Mein Gott,
Mein Lor’,
Vot’s happened to
Mein Afrikakorps ?”
M.T.: —
When the war is over
And doves begin to coo,
What a lot of changes
There’ll be for me and you.
Waaafs and Wrung and Avvas —
How the eye will start
To see them dressed as humans
And females, too, my heart!
The miners and the wharfles
Have made their plans, I hear;
They’re going to celebrate the peace
By striking for a year.
. ...F.L.: For a start, learn to spell P.A.:
Nearly C.J.T.: But what does it add to the
original “Requiescat”? J.V.N.; Flashes of
the real thing; but the tearful doggie will weep
not here M.J.: Too many compounds, too
highfalutin and far too loose in form
8.M.: Keep at it M.R.D’O.: Try a
woman’s paper... .R.J.: The last stanza of the
merry little “Suicide” item has the right note.
K.P.McG.: Abuse the Government by all
means; but you also abuse the language
T.M.: “Bomber” merely circles R.C.P.;
Good idea —if you’d made more of it P.K.:
“My friends have advised me to send this.”
Send us your friends... .R. 8.: “What boots
it that I idle dote?” Frankly, we don’t think
anything boots it that you idle dote... .K.E.L.:
If she adds to her other virtues a taste for ex-
travagant compliments in execrable verse, you’re
a goner A.L.S.: The sword is mightier than
the pen M.A.K.; Pedestrian C.R.; To
us it’s without value.


TRAIN NOW FOR
POST-WAR JOB
What are \OU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after ♦
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you . . . the amount you can earn will depend on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
V
HtmiH
0A
%
Sss
>T=r—"
' ■
!
3 "";
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air—ambitious men with an
eye to the future are devoting part of their free hours for another
big offensive. They’re equipping themselves with training to do
their part in wining the peace as efficiently as today they are win-
ning the war.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN
YOU AS A DIESEL QPERATOR~In YOUR SPARE TIME,
WHEREVER YOU ARE.
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any high educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
course teaches you the whole subject in your own home, covering
both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over
Australia. Post the coupon below and full details will be sent you
by return-
DIESEL ENGI
HAVE
ERING
OVER
'
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate the service Diesel engines
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET.
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don t AC T ! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin”
just drop us a note!
ŵ
GOVERNMENT DIESEL ENGINE DRIVER'S CERTIFICATE
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate , . . over 90% of
passed in the examinations.
Government
our students
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME . .
ADDRESS
H. 23/6/1943.
G CO
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
