

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
VoL 64.—N0. 3305
Wednesday, June 16, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
CORFE CASTLE.
CASTLE is a town on the
Vw '' Isle of Furbeck, which is a peninsula
in Dorset lying between the river Fromc
and Poole Harbour and the English
Channel. The Isle of Purbeck is twelve
miles in length and eight miles in breadth,
and is crossed from east to west by a
range of chalk hills. The town of Corfe
Castle is in the centre and is close to the
famous Purbeck marble quarries, but the
main object of interest is the ruins of the
ancient castle. This stronghold guarded a
gap in the line of hills, and was evidently
of great importance in the Middle Ages.
Its ruins are extensive, dating from the
Norman period to the reign of Edward I,
with traces of earlier buildings. These
may be portion of the hunting lodge
which originally stood on the site of the
castle in 978.
It was at this hunting lodge that Edward
the Martyr was murdered by the com-
mand of his stepmother Elfrida, in order
that her son Ethelred the Unready should
succeed to the throne. Edward was
buried at Wareham, five miles away, but
in 980 his body was transferred to
Shaftesbury, and his tomb became a place
of pilgrimage.
In 1326 Corfe Castle was associated with
another English King who afterwards
came to a tragic end. This was the ill-
fated Edward 11. He was imprisoned
for some time at Corfe Castle after his
deposition in 1326, and was murdered at
Berkley Castle in 1327.
The strength of the castle is shown by the
fact that in 1643 it successfully withstood
a siege by the Parliamentary forces, and
its fall in 1646 was due to treachery.
The castle was then dismantled by the
Parliamentarians and was never rebuilt.


Learn
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Slew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write }or Profit, at
aiivertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AUE
The Red Page
YES OR NO FROM COAST
TO CO AST.
The 1942 Coast to Coast short stories
(Angus and Robertson) have arrived, and
I have been asked to review them. Before
opening the book I pause at a certain
uneasiness of mind:
For we may take these stories as
representing this country’s most sensitive
reaction to that spirit which accepts or
rejects the procedure we call Life. With
our whole national future suspended on
the threat and suspense of war, no prob-
lem can be more important than a state-
ment of that spirit which is prepared to
accept or reject the eternal threat and
suspense of life. It is not too much to
say that our whole movement into the
future depends on our present-moment
reaction to this most pressing of all
moral problems.
I hope it is understood that the
acceptance or rejection of life has nothing
to do with evangelistic outcries which
accept or reject, or that it deals in any
way with moralistic slogans of praise or
blame for the procedure under which we
exist. The statement is made by that
outlook on the spectacle of existence
which is either fascinated or horrified by
it. The subject-matter used to express
that outlook has nothing to do with the
state of mind exposed or revealed by it.
Hemingway and De Maupassant, for
instance, both cover aspects of life which
are, in the conventional idiom, brutal
and horrifying, but where Hemingway is
repelled and outraged by his own sub-
ject-matter De Maupassant is delighted
and fascinated by his. Again, where both
Aldous Huxley and Dickens are engrossed
with a sociological inspection of life,
Huxley can only spit disgust and loath-
ing for a spectacle which enchants
Dickens. It is hardly fair, perhaps, to
compare little men with great men, but
there is no other way of accenting the
significance that great men accept life
and little men reject it. And, once
again, on that acceptance or rejection of
life as reflected in art we may fairly
estimate a people’s courage to face
reality.
Very well, then, let us see what the
writers of the Coast to Coast stories have
got to say about it. I suppose that col-
lective statement can best be arrived at
by estimating the aesthetic quality of the
writing plus the spirit of each individual
writer . . .
"The Persimmon Tree,” by Marjorie
Barnard. A lovely piece of prose, lucent
and pastel-toned, like winter sunlight,
which takes for its theme that sudden
passionate nostalgia for life which
attacks us in convalescence; beautifully
symbolised here by the half-revealed
naked body of a woman behind lace
curtains.
“A South Wind,” by Olaf Ruhen. A
suspense motive, treated with the admir-
able good taste which inflicts suspense
on the characters of the story and not on
the reader. A writer who has a first-
hand knowledge of wind and sea and
sailors and can express it will always
fascinate our eternal fear and love of
the sea.
“Blow Carson, I Say,” by Alan
Marshall. Any word-picture that leaps
to the eye as a plastic image only wait-
ing to be copied, form for word, with a
pencil is a fine piece of writing, and
when the plastic image is of bulls, those
magnificent symbols of vitality and
fecundity, plastic gratification, for me,
anyway, is perfected.
“Trochus Island,” by Vance Palmer.
An acceptable story in an accepted
metier ; that is, the metier of the maga-
zine story based on the anti-climax of a
wow. Maybe there are noble-minded
half-caste abos. who return good for evil
—maybe . . .
“The Township,” by Myra Morris. In
the first Coast to Coast stories Myra
Morris startled us by the revelation of a
tormented parson’s frustrated desire for
a tough wench finding its release in an
outcry against the malevolence of God.
Once again she arrests and engrosses our
interest in the subtlety with which she
reveals the emotional reaction of the
overworked wife to the husband who
bludges on her for a living. It is a theme
which might so easily slip sideways into
the false sentiment of pity for a martyred
wife ; but which is magnificently restored
to reality and humor by affirming the
fundamental truth that wives, as well as
whores, have a tenderness for the man
who shamelessly lives on them.
“Two Women,” by A. C. Headley. A
story that one shift from a balanced
ironic outlook would ruin. That balance
is perfectly maintained.
“That Day at the Brown Lakes,” by
Gavin Casey. I’m not a fair judge of the
first-person colloquially-told story. We’ve
had such a glut of them since Heming-
way showed how the trick was done that
the mind refuses to find anything ade-
quate to say about them. An ironic
detachment from his subject-matter in
a writer must always be the first prin-
ciple of good taste in prose.
“The Woman from the Bend,” by
Don Edwards. A perfect example of the
story told by external action. The
author intrudes nowhere. Nothing is
explained and everything is revealed.
Only an austere command of a metier
can do this, especially when the theme is
the difficult one of the domination of
desire for a woman by rage against her,
or, from another angle, the perfect assur-
ance by which a woman uses her feminin-
ity to overcome male resistance to it. To
carry conviction of this motive, every-
thing depended on the vital projection
of the woman, and she is a truly vital
creature, sketched in with the sure,
precise brush strokes which convey her
direct to the mental retina, and stir in
the reader that very attraction by which
she dominates her male protagonist.
“Our New Properties,” by James Hack-
ston. A delightful portrait of a futile
parent.
“Night on the River,” by Edgar Bee.
The tragedy and triviality of frustrated
love balanced on a pinpoint. The theme
is mysteriously epitomised by a suicide
and the beauty of a river at night. The
beauty of the river is handled in such a
masterly piece of prose that it really does
become the compensating symbol for
human futility. One might quote every
line of it as an example of plastic visual-
isation by words.
“Halcrow Street,” by Margaret Trist. I
always grab a Margaret Trist story with
that pleasurable expectation which is
gusto for the spectacle of life, and “Hal-
crow Street” is one of her best. Just
the spectacle of a middle-class suburban
street from dawn to dusk, but an en-
chanting example of the great truth that
the commonplaces of daily life make the
best material for art. The art of prose,
anyway. Margaret Trist has a perfect
command over those swift and compact
visualisations which make either a milk-
bottle or a woman’s legs enchanting reali-
ties. Best of all, she has a gay spirit.
The antics and the idiosyncrasies of the
human biped fascinate her, and she com-
municates that fascination without effort
and without a hint of partisanship for
or against the creatures of her art.
“Once Break the Ice,” by J. C. Shelley.
A good piece of small-boy psychology
over an initial act of rebellion against
an autocratic father. The title leaves
one a little in doubt as to whether the
writer is not reprehending a most com-
mendable act of will in the small boy, on
that first principle of juvenile morality,
that fathers must be got rid of as soon
and as effectively as possible.
“The Book,” by Robert S. Close. I
refuse to concern myself over what
aesthetic qualities this story may have.
Disease is always wretched material for
art. Since fear of disease is a universal
infliction, the moment it is mentioned in
a story the reader’s private alarms are
invoked, and the writer has thereby
achieved an automatic emotional re-
sponse without any further effort. More-
over, the mere emphasis of disease in a
story overlays all other emotional issues,
which therefore go flat.
“The Totara Tree,” by Roderick Fin-
layson. Admirable. We want more of
these Maori stories. They are the first
revelations we have had of a fascinating
people, and a startling evidence of the
truth that no people can have reality in
being till they have been re-created in
art. And what better material for art can
one wish for than a people who produce
beautiful girls and splendid fighting men?
In any case, Douglas Stewart put the
Maori people permanently on the map of
art when he wrote his glorious verse play
“The Golden Lover.” In prose, A. P.
Gaskell had already whetted our appetite
for Maori humor and character in his
short story, “The Picture in the Paper,”
and now Roderick Finlayson gives us a
fuller and richer presentation of both in
his “Totara Tree.”
“Harvest,” by John K. Ewers. A grace-
ful story of war’s disruption on two
episodes of love, holding the reader’s sym-
pathy without putting any false stress on
the emotions. It should be taken as an
axiom that where an author demands
emotion from the reader he has confessed
that he is unable to convey it as a con-
tent of his subject-matter.
“The Perch,” by Dal Stivens. One of
those nature studies that Dal Stivens is
extremely good at when not overcome by
horror at the awful discovery that men
kill animals.
“Kaditcha,” by Henrietta Drake-Brock-
man. A good example of the dramatic
action story, where the action motivates
the characters rather than the characters
making the action inevitable.
“Two Worlds,” by Frank Sargeson. A
slight sketch of religious animosity, told
on the simplified idiom of narra-
tion by a small boy. I can’t say I care
much for the method, which allows the
writer to tell a story in outline without
any particular test of his ability to handle
prose.
“Transition,” by Frank Dalby Davi-
son. After the admirable character
analysis compacting the life story of the
character, which was Davison’s contri-
bution to last year’s C. to C. stories, I
am confounded to account for what he
means by the example in the present
volume. On the surface it appears to be
just such another character analysis, but
is not. We are told nothing about the
idiosyncratic emotional content of the
character or its destined effect on the
action of his life. All we get is an overdone
repetition of his political opinions, which
tell us nothing about the man himself.
At best, a character’s political fanati-
cism can be used only as the evi-
dence of emotional and intellectual
frustration elsewhere, but that can’t
be the intention here, for nothing is
said about whatever may be the basic
disruption of the character involved. If
the writer’s intention is not psychological
revelation, but political propaganda, then
his story is outside serious consideration
as a work of art.
“Portrait of a Girl with Red Hair,” by
Douglas Stewart, is of a significance that
goes beyond its intrinsic artistry. For one
thing, it is a perfect example of the long
short story; a form of art which Aus-
tralian short-story writers must study seri-
ously. Its other and greater significance is
that it is the full-length portrait of a girl
minutely studied in every facet of her
femininity, and that is the most difficult
achievement in any art. For every one
good feminine portrait in prose or paint
there are fifty good male ones. Up to
this Australian writers have funked the
feminine image. Lawson’s world is a
world of men, and he has set the key
for the average Australian writer. In
the present group of stories there are
only three women characters which tell
us all we need to know about their femi-
ninity ; Myra Morris’s deboshed wife,
Don Edwards’s Woman from the Bend
and Douglas Stewart’s Girl with Red
Hair.
There is no need to say that Douglas
Stewart, by the quality of his poetry, is
an inspired psychologist. But only a
practised knowledge of the metier of the
story-teller could have conquered the con-
struction problem of this story. Con-
sider its difficulties. Its time space covers
the period from adolescence to maturity
and maternity, yet there is no effect of
time compressed or its interludes skipped.
The girl grows year by year through the
complexities of experience and its con-
flict of personalities, all of which are
given full weight as episode and char-
acter without ever deflecting attention
from the central theme, which follows
the girl without faltering in its tortuous
sequence of aspiration and frustration till
it brings her to the final cry of enlighten-
ment over her new-born child.
One cannot stress too strongly the
importance of the long short story as a
test of artistry in construction, which is
the prime problem in all art. Though the
long short story must be just as stringent
as the short story in excluding all ex-
traneous matter from its central theme, it
gives enough space to build up character
life-size, and to add weight and color to
atmosphere and background. In effect,
it is the novel in miniature, stripped of
secondary motives and character groups.
Thin outline prose, in the modernistic
method, will never carry the long short
story, which, most of all, will test a
writer’s ability to handle prose as tone
and color and visibility. Conrad’s “Heart
of Darkness,” which I take to be one of
the most perfect long short stories ever
written, has for its theme a revelation of
the horrifying thing that the jungle has
done to the soul of Kurtz, but that revela-
tion would never be convincing if Conrad
had not built up his tremendous picture
of that pestilent African river flowing
away into the heart of darkness, which
is also the image of a lost human soul.
It is clear enough that several writers
in the present Coast to Coast stories
have a command of prose and character
draughtsmanship that will carry them
easily over into the long short story, or
to the richer form of the novel itself,
and I earnestly hope they will make a
conscious problem of tackling both. Myra
Morris, of course, has already made her
beginning.
As for the spirit and outlook of the
mass of these C. to C. stories, both are
admirable. In the simple formula they
are “for life.” They are all engrossed with
the fundamental passions of humanity,
and have, save in one instance, gallantly
ignored sociological outcries against the
process under which it exists. There is
nowhere in them a grouch against life
either as a monstrous imposition or a
bad joke.
And therein one must pay Beatrice
Davis a handsome tribute for the good
taste and editorial insight with which
she has selected these stories. She had
a difficult job, after Cecil Mann’s admir-
able selection of the first C. to C. stories,
and she has set a standard that must give
the next editor a severe test of compe-
tence. I daresay there have been the usual
crop of disgruntled and debunking stories
produced in Australia this last year, but
the present C. to C. selection is a defi-
nite statement that the brightest minds
in Australian prose accept life as a fas-
cinating adventure in art.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Sundry Shows.
“Red Hot and Blue,” Melbourne Tiv.’s
latest gift to the nation, starts off with
the avowed intention of painting the
town red. This pious enterprise is car-
ried out by compere Eddie Marcel, whose
wit has an ineffable refinement; the irre-
pressible Joe Lawman ; the Loretta Twins,
two clever acrobats whose act is unusual
since both are females ; Raymond Baird,
who justifies his title of America’s Musi-
cal Genius, except possibly in the higher
reaches ; the Tiv. ballet, more or less un-
dressed as usual; and that unresting
comedienne Jenny Howard
The really beautiful playing of the 15-
year-old Adelaide pianist Allison Nelson
was the brightest spot of the second
A.B.C. concert at Sydney Town Hall. The
vehicle was Saint-Saens’s G Minor Con-
certo, heartless as a wax doll, but most
elegantly dressed. Miss Nelson is the
born musician, with a freshness worth
more, in a way, than all that future years
of experience may teach her.
A show of paintings by two women
artists at Pakie’s Club, Sydney, had the
benefit of Frank Medworth’s blessing at
the opening. Selena Muller is a
“modernist” of the elephantiasis and post-
Picasso schools. Rosaleen Norton, whose
style has a strong tang of Beardsley,
produces large cartoons in colored chalks
and other media which appear to
represent visions. Her technique is
remarkable; her imagination still more
remarkable. She is a sort of pagan
William Blake, with no ascertainable
artistic inhibitions.
Isabel Mackenzie, who has taken to
straightforward landscape painting shows
her latest output at the Macquarie Gal-
leries. She paints cleverly and with feel-
ing. “Botany Bay,” “Westerly Wind,”
“Tall Timber” and “Old Shed, Castle
Hill” convey the painter’s impression
simply and succinctly.
“F.S.”: lan Bow, who has been hold-
ing a show of oils at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne, is a young artist with poten-
tialities and a long row to hoe. Every
here and there he hits off a landscape
with a nervous variety about it, as in No.
29, which is refreshing in view of the
stiffness of some of his still-life and
portraits.
At the talkies:
Steinbeck’s “Tortilla Flat,” the film version
of which is at Sydney St. James, deals with the
paisanos who live on a hill above Monterey
in California, and whose views on strenuous
toil have much in common with Australian
swaggies. The snoring and wine-bibbing of the
lotus-eaters are disturbed when a Portuguese
beauty steps insolently into their community.
The leader expresses his philosophy in a con-
temptuous “Bah! these Portuguese women think
only of marrying!” but the girl is attracted
to another man, and such is the power of
feminine appeal that he even thinks of woi k,
to the horror of the other lotus-suckers. The
climax is strong and feasible, with an ancient
hatter whose life revolves wholly around his
buried hoard of money, his collection of dogs
and his hero, St. Francis of Assisi —a grand
piece of character work this, by Frank Morgan
—giving Fate a helping hand. Spencer Tiacy
gives a splendid portrayal of a wily loafer out
of whom some furtive good is brought by a
near-tragedy; John Garfield and Hedy Laman
switch from cuddles to rows with amazing
aplomb, and Victor Fleming has made a fine
job of the direction.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ft'.'ft V\\\
V% s\
\V J
jkvi\\ Vv
( 3 IK 7
n
v— -,vV \K
-1
f '>r
LQ
■U f ,
V\, V .
ni'Sil
* • * I • 1 *
yjQrn
rft \ Vi A)v v \
n
*s^
sag
V VO\
/ / . y -/ //
i/ -4 '>:■
/ j
i*
//
/
r
jr
/S
•c
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
119 Years of Service
à
ANTHONY HORDERNS' PHARMACY
is complete with every Pharmaceutical
preparation and drag and offers these
timely suggestions.
two PHOSP* aI *
KESSBZS*' '
NEURO
PHOSPHATES
A palatable and
efficient tonic for all
cases of debility and
nervous disorders.
Price 5/6
VIADOL
A concentrated preparation of
Vitamins A and D. Recom-
mended for its infection resisting
properties* It builds your resist-
ance against colds. Price ... 4/6
%
f<PALATABtE
kOfUTtwiovS
H» «lU*<**
I
VIMALT
A combination of Malt Extract,
Halibut Liver Oil with Iron and
other mineral salts. Price ... 3/9
■W-V
*4
VIKELP
Concentrated Min-
eral-Vitamin Tablets.
Gives new energy
and vigour, corrects
blood and gland de-
ficiencies and builds
strong bodies.
Price 6/6
sr<£
ton. 's
iI V
SELMO
PHOSPHORISED
BLOOD, NERVE
AND BRAIN
TONIC
For Neuralgia,
Nervousness and
sundry ailments.
Price 2/6
till
W i
NTA-WUjJI
ABBOT'S
PENTA-
MULSION
Vitamins A, B, D, G,
and Citrus C in sweet-
ened orange-flavoured
emulsion base. Accept-
able to both children
and adults. Admir-
able for infants, prema-
ture infants, for adults
(specially nursing and
expectant mothers) and
for children with severe
Vitamin deficiency.
Price 3/6
(tOTABS
: :
CLOTABS
By Macleans of London. Halibut
Liver Oil Extract Tablets, rich in
vitamin content of A and D. A
pleasant, palatable form of a pure
concentration of the highest grade of
Halibut Liver Oil. Bottle of 100
tablets. Price „• 13/6
gUORINE
(0*
ENDRINE
NASAL COMPOUND
A soothing antiseptic compound for
the prompt relief of acute Coryza
(or head colds), Catarrh, Sinusitis,
Asthma, Bronchitis and Hay Fever.
Price 3/6
• Chemistry Department —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
Famous
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
Low Prices
Box 2712 C. G.P.0., Sydney


A GIRL ON WEDNESDAY
By OLIVER FILTER.
IF, as very nearly happened, a Court
of Inquiry had been convened “to in-
quire into, and report upon” the facts
leading up to the case, the first piece
of evidence would have been straight-
forward and documentary:-
x
° “A” Sqn
S i f) Regt ‘
I hereby make application for compas-
sionate leave to proceed to Sydney as
soon as possible, as my wife, who is
expecting a baby, is due to go into hospital
tomorrow. My address whilst on leave
will be No. 4 Flat, 27 Matilda-street,
Wolveriy (XZ1234).
, . pr ‘ e ow ’ '1
That application being nothing out of the
normal run of regimental events, its pas-
sage could have been traced through the
0.C., “A” Sqn., and the adjutant to the
production of a similarly straightforward
exhibit—a rail warrant and leave pass
granting Tpr. Broadfellow permission to
proceed to Sydney from 2359 hours on
13/3/*43 until 2359 hours on 27/3/’43.
From such simple documents, however,
the investigation would have had to
plunge into a tortuous welter of evidence,
beginning with a telegram dated
26/3/’43: —
Adjutant,
Regt.
A.1.F., Australia.
Still waiting. Request extension of leave.
, , Tpr ' Broadtellow -
answered by:-
Tpr.' Broadfellow.
Grant extension of leave one week
subject doctor’s recommendation.
H. Parker, Lieut.
Adi l RegL
and followed by a letter to one Ipr.
William Burroughs, also dated 26/3/’43:
Dear Bill,
Just a note to let you and the chaps
know how things are going.... m hospital
nearly a fortnight gnd still no sign of the
infant! Betty’s as fit as a fiddle, and it
seems that I’m the only one who’s at all
worried. They tell me I might have to
,
wait a week or more yet.
Jim isroadleiiow.
Letters from or about fellow-troopers
being commonly rated as regimental
news, they are passed from hand to hand
and tent to tent until no one need be
ignorant of current items of interest. Had
the course of Tpr. Broadfellow’s letter
been traced it would have been found
to include a comparative long stay in
the possession of Tpr. Sidney Ashtry ;
and had that trooper’s person been thor-
oughly investigated it would have re-
vealed—together with two worn Queen
Victoria pennies and a kip, a “put-and-
take” top and a set each of poker and
heads-and-tails dice-a much-thumbed
and -creased sheet of writing-paper bear-
ing the following legend:—
Boy or girl on Monday, Tuesday Wed-
nesday, Thursday, Friday,
100 tickets at 2s £lO
p r i ze £8
under which was a list of at least 20
names to provb that Tpr. Ashtry was a
fast worker and moving rapidly towards
his goal of 100 tickets.
IF the closest secrets of the ranks are not
* discussed in the sergeants’ mess within
the next twelve hours then the sergeants
are not doing their job. The vigor and
interest with which Tpr. Ashtry’s enter-
prise was debated in the mess that even-
ing indicated that the sergeants of his
regiment were remarkably efficient.
The legality or otherwise of the sweep
was not in question. The actual argument
was fairly summarised by the regimental
sergeant-major, who, after an involved
mathematical proof, roundly condemned
all sweeps as the ignorant foolishness of
office boys and typists, adding that if
Tpr. Ashtry had had any brains or initia-
tive he would have made a book and
therefore a useful profit. His statement
had about it the ring of an invitation and
a challenge, and when he retired to his
tent for the night he placed thirty shillings
in silver in a small tobacco tin, entered
in his little red notebook: -
Sgt. Lennox, 10s., 2-1 boy Wednesday.
Sgt. Oates, 55., 3-1 girl Saturday.
Sgt. Chivers, 55., 4-1 boy Monday.
Sgt. Thomas, 10s., 2-1 girl Friday.
and, with a smile that summed up the
foolishness of his fellow-men, muttered
“Covered already,” undressed and slipped
into bed.
By the end of the following day the
R.S.M. had the names of seventeen ser-
geants in his notebook and had trans-
ferred his mathematical calculations to
a sheet of neatly-ruled paper. Before a
further twenty-four hours had elapsed
more names, including those of two lieu-
tenants, had been added; and, since ser-
S eants abound in Q. Stores and orderly-
roon;s ' the , names . o£ * e r , a ,f )u i a ? t c“?
quartermaster were in the little red book
before another day had passed.
ON morn mg of 2/4/’43 another
V/ telegram was received at Regimental
Headquarters:
Still waiting. Request further extension
of i eaV e.
’ Tpr. Broadfellow.
The adjutant considered the telegram
thoughtfully, then closed the door of his
office, picked up the ’phone and asked
the switchboard t 0 get Sydney, XZ1234,
Tpr. Broadfellow. The switchboard
operator could verify that, after a good-
natured rebuke regarding the length of
the leave and the granting of a further
week, the adjutant inquired very kindly
after the health of Mrs. Broadfellow
(“Very well, thank you, sir ), and
f f * er th ® J°Pf and expectations of the
of comTe, would be only the un-
corroborated statement of the switch-
board operator, but to it could be added
the f ac t that a f ew hours later there ap-
peared in the R.S.M.’s little red book:
“Lt. Parker, 10s., 2-1 girl Tuesday.” It
could also be added that the entry “Sgt.
Dibble, 55., 3-1 boy Wednesday,” ap-
peared shortly after Sgt. Dibble had been
seen j n a long and earnest conversation
wit h an R.A.P corporal.
All of which evidence—if it can be
considered as such proves, among other
things, that the R.S.M. was a man of
considerable drive and business acumen.
i n his enthusiasm, however, he over-
looked the fact that news which travels
f rom the ranks to the sergeants’ mess
does not stop there.
cold reminder came in the form of
memo . to Regimental H.Q. from Bri-
rl T 4 n • °
gaoe rf.L>..
The Brigade Commander is extremely
£ sple i sed to have it brought to his notice
that the practice of betting has once more
broken out among the ranks, and that not
only a sweep being conducted, but it is
being conducted on a most improper sub-
ttS mSer, b and
appropriate disciplinary action must be
taken immediately.
The adjutant handed the memo, to the
R.S.M. and smiled maliciously. I think
y° u d better investigate this, Sergeant-
mamr. _ Mot.ce that it says among the
ran s '
"pHE R.S.M. made no pretence of “in-
I vestigating” ; he hurried direct to the
O.C. of “A” Sqn., who promptly sent for
Tpr. Ashtry.
Tpr. Ashtry came, waited outside the
orderly-room tent until called entered,
and stood at ease at the 0C s
“Tpr‘ Ashtry, do you remember a
recent instruction from B . H .Q. regarding
* „ £ betting?” the O.C. asked.
tt X eSSir ‘ , ,
Do you remember what was prom-
anyone caught betting?
. ,
Well, it has come to the brigade com-
mander s notice that —the O.C. quoted
from the paper m his hand — not only
is a sweep being conducted, but it is being
SP n<^u^ on a most ™ prc T er , su^,f ct '
that concern you, Tpr. Ashtry.
The R.S.M. saw the flicker that passed
° ver Tpr. Ashtry s face and recognise
F as a signal that the trooper had the
situation well in hand,
Concern me, sir.
Yes, you. I should say that the
™ a «<* °£, a sweep concerned you very
definitely.
Sweep, sir? Tpr Ashtry registered
f Perfect expression of bewilderment, fol-
J° wed b J ™ e , o£ dawmn S intelligence as
be added Un >!? s S™ m ? an * e subscnp-
[."l' 11 were getting up for Tpr. Broad-
eV°W' . . „„
bubscnpuon.
Yessir. Tpr. Broadfellow 11 be a
fa * e u r an 7 old time now, sir and were
all^ throwing in two bob a head,
Are you sure there s not an element
of 4 aiT^ lmg in it somewhere?
. Wel i> f ir T Ashtry llke£ L to kaVe
a loophole of retreat, no matter how
small—“l have promised to buy a couple
of schooners for the chap who can guess
the nipper’s birthday and whether it’ll
be a boy or a girl. But you’d hardly
call that gambling.”
“Pretty close to it, I’d say, but I sup-
pose it’ll pass. All right, you can go.”
Tpr. Ashtry saluted and went. The
0.C., whose own* name was in the
R.S.M.’s little red book, turned to the
latter with a grin and said “Go and tell
that to the brig.”
THE R.S.M. admired a good story, and
returned to R.H.Q. savoring Tpr.
Ashtry’s tale, and even adding expert
touches before relating it to a delighted
C.O. and adjutant for transmission to
B.H.Q. He opened the door to leave,
but promptly closed it and said “The old
man himself is heading this way; and
does he look fierce!”
Now, when the brigade commander
had his staff-captain send a memo, he
was indignant; when he had the staff-
captain telephone he was annoyed ; when
he telephoned personally he was furious ;
but when he slapped both hands hard on
his desk, stood up and barged from his
office he was like a fuse spitting and
sparking towards a barrel of gunpowder.
The C. 0., adjutant and R.S.M. had an
awful presentiment that they were sitting
right on top of the barrel. Before they
could consider their position the brig,
was at the door. The adjutant and the
R.S.M. stood up, the adjutant saying,
almost hopefully, “Excuse me, sir, the
R.S.M. and I will come back later,” but
a sharp “Don’t go ; this concerns you
both as well,” attached them to the office
furniture.
“Sit down, Major,” said the brig., im-
patiently waving what might have passed
for an answer to the C.O.’s salute. ‘‘Now,
did you get a memo, this morning re-
garding betting in your regiment?”
“Yes, sir,” replied the C.O. “I was
about to investigate the matter..”
“Well, before that, I want to know
why this —this plague of betting has ex-
tended to the sergeants and, I’m told,
even the officers?”
The C.O. wanted time to think. “I’m
sure I don’t know of any such betting, sir.”
“Nonsense” —the brig, was too hot on
the scent. “It’s all over the place. Some
wretched story about betting on the birth
of a child.”
The C.O. had committed himself to
ignorance, so he looked inquiringly to
his adjutant, who withered immediately
and sold out cheaply to the R.S.M.
“Haven’t heard of any betting, sir, unless
it’s this subscription thing the R.S.M.’s
dabbling in.”
The R.S.M. held his breath and
plunged. “Don’t know of any betting,
sir. Only thing unusual doing at the
moment is a subscription for one of the
men. His wife’s going to have a kiddie
—been in hospital three weeks already,
so there’ll be a pretty stiff hospital bill
to meet. The men are running a sub-
scription, and some of the sergeants have
asked me to handle donations from them.
One or two of the officers, too.”
The brig, was a soldier of two wars,
and, contrary to some commonly-held
opinions of the men who wear pips and
crowns, had reached and held his posi-
tion by being able to think and act one
jump ahead of those around him, and
by his ability to fasten on to the core
of a subject with remarkable speed and
accuracy. He now saw the gap in his
opponents’ defence and went straight for
it —although his acceptance of the
R.S.M.’s story was a shade too prompt
and complete to be classed as perfect
strategy. “I might have been misin-
formed,” he said, without anger or sus-
picion. “Are you certain that there’s no
gambling involved?”
“Well,” said the R.S.M., “I had prom-
ised a half-dozen of beer to anyone
who could guess the birthday of the
kiddie, and whether it will be a boy or
girl. But you’d hardly call that gambling,
sir. Merely an incentive.”
The brig, looked very mild. “Be all
right, I suppose,” he said. “Although you
know that gifts and donations are against
rules and regulations. You’d better
address the presentation to the wife or
the kiddie. 4 ’
“A very good idea,” said the adjutant.
“Yes,” said the brig, with what had
apparently dropped to casual interest.
“And just in case there are any reper-
cussions, Sergeant-major, you’d better let
me have a list of the subscribers and the
amounts.”
“I have part of the list in my tent,”
replied the R.S.M. “One of the men
in ‘A’ Squadron has the rest of it.”
“Be a good chap, then, and bring it up
to Brigade as soon as you can, will you?”
said the brig. .
THE malicious satisfaction the R.S.M.
obtained in extracting a list of “sub-
scribers” from Tpr. Ashtry was not suffi-
cient to lighten his steps towards Brigade
H.Q., but the brig, welcomed him
heartily. “Come in, Sergeant-major,” he
said ; “come in. Now let me see this list.”
He glanced down the names and ap-
proved; “Very good, very good indeed
Quite a substantial present. You’re in it,
I suppose, Sergeant-major?”
The R.S.M. winced. “Yes, of course,
sir,” he hurried. “I’m in for five shil-
lings. Forgot to put my own name
down.”
“Of course,” the brig, replied. He
scribbled his name to the list and slipped
it into the drawer, and then handed the
R.S.M. a pound note. “I suppose I can
be in it, too?” he said. “Don’t mention
it outside, of course.”
The R.S.M. said “Thank you very
much, sir,” saluted and turned to leave.
The brig, waited a moment. “And, Ser-
geant-major,” he called as the R.S.M.
reached the door.
“Yessir?”
“Make it a girl on Wednesday for
mine, will you?”
T F the Court of Inquiry which was very
1 nearly convened had managed to find
its devious way through the foregoing
evidence—documentary, circumstantial
and otherwise —and statements —corro-
borated and uncorroborated —its final
piece of documentary evidence would
have been an envelope containing
approximately £25 and a brief note: “A
gesture from the Regt. to Mrs. and
Miss James Broadfellow.” And a receipt,
signed by the brig, himself, for “a half-
dozen beer.”
Various Verse
The Shelter.
In this square box men call a house
My body hides, a frightened mouse
Snug in its close confining hole,
And would deny its questing soul;
But the black cat dark Infinity
Waits still outside to pounce on me.
Walls keep out more than cold. The sky
Has no warm boundaries; the eye
Leaps across space from star to star,
From Betelgeuse to Achernar.
Small talk’s inclined to fall away
When Space and Time have had their say,
Echoing among the worlds. Let’s hide
From these dark mysteries; come inside,
Shut, shut the door! Turn on the light,
The coward shield against the night,
And let us read, or talk, or sing—
How sensible is everything!
Keep the safe ceiling overhead;
Forget the questionings, the dread
Of depths unknown. Consider there
The simple couch, the friendly chair
And table. Stars are but lights that pass
Beyond the reflecting window-glass.
But this is false tranquillity;
I know some day that I shall see
Time’s hand reach up, switch off the light,
And let in all-pervading night;
Nor house nor body then shall be
A shield against Eternity.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
Science and Art.
1.
When I was young I made a god
Out of a lens, a meting rod,
A hope and a hypothesis—
I named it truth and worshipped this.
Time touched it with his acid claw —
It turned to rags and rotten straw.
Is there no truth, but someone’s heart
Must break to watch it fall apart?
2.
I made a little golden lie,
When I was young—l wonder why?—
Of thistledown and idle song,
Nor cared if it were right or wrong.
Today I heard its music swell
Like beaten iron deep in hell!
A lie it was I sang in youth—
But Time has hammered it to truth.
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Four Horses.
Four horses have all day long across the plain
Raced with a flowing mane;
Through long white summer grasses, and
Low clouds: wind-driven, four-in-hand,
Towards the sunset now, wide nostrils red
And hooves like fire-swept foothills spread.
And I who sat to watch them pass
Saw grey cloud-shadows o’er the grass
Race as those horses might have sped
To distant passes, stallion-led,
That bore them swinging down the years,
Fast meteors among the stars.
But cautioned by the night, alone,
The earth’s grey shadow on my own
Fell like the dust those horses raised;
Silvered the grasses time had grazed.
It seemed death drove behind those four:
Once in the mountains closed a door
When all had entered, from the sun
Freed and unharnessed every one.
For though upon that wind-swept plain
Three winters I have come again—
Still watching for that team, I stroll
I have but met that waif, my soul.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3305.
Wednesday, June 16, 1943.
“PRAISE THE WARD AND PASS THE AMMUNITION!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0. )„ Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place , 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
MR. CURTIN ALLEGES.
Since, of all people, the most notorious
anti-defence mouther in Parliament or
out started setting standards of contro-
versy on the defence question with the
elections in view, some staggering state-
ments have been made by a variety of
election starters. Passing over the notori-
ous mouther, who in political mendacity
is in a class by himself, the prize for the
finest quality exhibit of fictitious oats for
election-voting goats has been won by
the Prime Minister.
The charitable thing to think about Mr.
Curtin seems to be that the mouthings
of the notorious mouther have put the
P.M. in a false position. In trying to
extricate himself without altogether
throwing his reputation as a fair-dealer
to the winds, Mr. Curtin has made
blunder after blunder, from his (subse-
quently regretted) dragging of a splendid
soldier into the mess of nastiness by
name to his assertion at the Sydney
A.L.P. conference that the “home-
defence plan” of the Menzies and
Fadden Governments had been “defeat-
ist in outlook and preparation.”
In view of the actual facts —of the
Menzies and Fadden Governments’ ac-
complishments and of the past defence
record of the P.M. and his following—
that accusation will take beating as an
example of the ungenerous, not to call
it worse. One of Mr. Curtin’s very
strongest assets is a legend of fair deal-
ing that has been built around him.
Under the necessity of running in double
harness with such a muck-slinging team-
mate as the Minister for Labor, Mr.
Curtin is well on the way towards smash-
ing that legend long before election-day.
His accusation is grossly unfair, not only
in view of the facts, but because, as he
very well knows, the other side cannot
fully answer it without giving away infor-
mation that would be of value to the
enemy. This goes for the whole of the
Labor election battling on the sa*ne tack.
In any case, apart from the gross un-
fairness of such accusations when the
other side is gagged by a sense of respon-
sibility, that particular accusation by the
P.M. is untrue. It can be proved so by
one statement alone, from Mr. Curtin’s
own mouth. Opposing the Fadden Gov-
ernment’s proposal of compulsory loans
in the House on October 1, 1941 —on the
ground that the measure “introduced the
element of compulsion into Australian
life” (shades of the Curtin militia
bill!)—Mr. Curtin, as Opposition leader,
stated:
Without divulging numbers, there are
something approaching 400,000 men in the
fighting forces of Australia today.
When a Labor Government* which
Mr. Curtin supported had once done the
worst it could think up to Australia’s
defence, the country’s main and practi-
cally only fighting strength was a pos-
sible 15,000 militia, training 16 days a
year when money was found for camps.
The rot started by the only Labor Gov-
ernment that managed to scramble into
office in the Whole period between the
wars continued until 1936, when a move
was made to raise the militia strength to
35,000. By March, 1939, as a result of
the quaintest sort of recruiting ever
known outside Peru, the force had been
further raised to 70,000, wearing a variety
of fancy-dress uniforms. This was ac-
complished by “voluntary methods,” with
Mr. Curtin and following hovering on
the fringes whispering “conscription” and
other bogey-raising noises whenever they
thought they could thereby gather up a
few vote-adhering crumbs.
This was about the position when war
came, with the Menzies Government in
office, and Defence expenditure over
sample years reading: 1929-30,
£5,034,500; 1930-31, £3,859,069 ; 1936-37,
£8,065,142. Shortly before he was super-
seded by Mr. Fadden as Prime Minister,
Mr. Menzies gave out figures of the
then recent past and immediately in-
tended Defence expenditure: 1938-39:
£14,000,000; 1939-40, £50,000,000;
1940-41, £160,000,000; for 1941-42,
£260,000,000. Already—by virtue of the
A.I.F. measure which the then Labor
Opposition, Mr. Curtin leading, strenu-
ously opposed, and the reintroduction of
compulsory training—the number in the
services was 400,000, and 50,000 were
directly engaged making munitions.
Mr. Menzies was further able to give
out that the first two years of the 1914-
18 war cost Australia £65,000,000, com-
pared with £220,000,000 for-the two early
years of the present war. The war cost
for the year for which he was then plan-
ning would be more than that of the
whole of the last war, and plans were
already working for raising the munition-
workers total to 150,000, compared with
2700 in the earlier war. This, it needs
to be kept in mind, was months before
Japan came in. That is to say, it was a
result of determined, rather than of
event-dictated, policy.
In addition to this pretty fair founda-
tion laid in a minimum of time, Aus-
tralia’s part in the Empire Air Scheme
had long been started. As early as
February, 1940, Mr. Menzies, as Prime
Minister, announced arrangements to
raise the number of service aircraft in
Australia by 1242 machines, with an
R.A.A.F. recruiting programme aiming
at the personnel figure of 57,473, 28,500
to be in by June, 1941.
Also from scratch —or behind scratch
—the organisation of man-power re-
sources had been set functioning; by
June, 1941, 75 firms were engaged on
munitions where there had been five
before; a technical training scheme had
turned out 11,000 men, and was ap-
proaching an annual capacity of double
that; petrol consumption had been re-
duced by 10,000,000 gallons a month,
and was being reduced by a further
8,000,000 gallons a month ; control of
coastal shipping had been organised ; the
Prices Commission had long been at
work ; A.R.P. or N.E.S. had been well
established—in fact, Mr. Curtin and fol-
lowing wifi have their work cut out to
show any single achievement in which
they take special pride that does not
stem from what the Menzies Government
started. In a recent broadcast Mr. Men-
zies gave a broad and modest summing
up, declaring that, while tactics pursued
by Mr. Curtin and Mr. Ward might raise
a passing cheer from Left-wing audiences,
the general run of Australians, funda-
mentally honest and fair-minded,
will take a lot of persuading that the Labor
party ought to be given credit for the Aus-
tralian munitions organisation, for the
A.1.F., for the establishment of aircraft
manufacture, for the restoration of com-
pulsory military training and the conse-
quent vast militia force, and for the Empire
Training Scheme, to some of which they
were initially violently opposed and to all
of which they were at first at least indif-
ferent.
Instead of pathetically following his
mouthing Minister round the country,
reiterating pallid variations of that in-
comparable muck-vendor’s untruths, Mr.
Curtin should have at least the courage
to admit that the Governments imme-
diately preceding his own started rolling
the ball which, almost automatically, has
grown into what Australia’s defence is-
today. This is not, of course, a kind of
greatness that would be expected, or
asked, of a mouthing Minister, but a
Prime Minister ought to be equal to it.
Not, unfortunately, that Mr. Curtin gives
his now somewhat doubting admirers
among the general run of fair-minded
Australians any great reason for hope.
In his tactics of late he gives them some
reason for wry laughter. On 23/10/’39
Mr. Curtin was heard on the Menzies
Government’s proposal to reintroduce
universal training:
The Labor party will strenuously chal-
lenge the reintroduction of compulsory
military training. The party is irrevo-
cably and unequivocally opposed to any
departure from the voluntary system of
training the men of Australia.
Mr. Curtin further cried out:
Profits and interest are to be on a volun-
tary basis, but there is to be compulsion on
life.
This from the same voice which lately
alleged that the home-defence plan of
the Menzies and Fadden Governments
“had been defeatist in outlook and pre-
paration” ! There may have been funnier
accusations, but there has surely never
been one more specious and ungenerous.
Reported Funeral.
Notice of the obsequies was given in
words which had a world-wide circula-
tion: —
That the Comintern, as a directing centre
of international workers’ movements, be
disbanded, and that sections be freed from
the obligations of Comintern rules, regula-
tions and decisions.
While the body was, as it were, lying
in state, “it was announced at a meeting
of the Praesidium at Moscow that ali
sections of the Comintern which had been
.able to send in decisions had approved
of the proposal to dissolve it. Sections
included the Communist parties of Aus-
tralia, Canada, South Africa and Britain.”
Then the corpse was planted without
benefit of clergy.
Moscow Radio announced on June 10
that a statement signed by M. Dimitrov,
on behalf of the Praesidium, declares that
the Comintern is regarded as non-existent
from today.
While the mourners, if any, were assem-
bling it was sourly objected in British
Labor circles that it might be a case
of suspended animation. If the Comin-
tern was really dead—and the passing was
very sudden —couldn’t the Comintern be
resuscitated, recalled to life by the necro-
mancer who pronounced its dissolution?
The interment of an apparently dead
person, mouth, nose and ears plugged to
admit of resurrection as a going concern
when the coast is clear, has been held to
be an old Oriental custom. Be that as it
may, the death notice coincided with a
renewal of the Communist application for
admission to the British Labor party, and
it was supported this time by a Moscow
statement that the decease would put an
end to “the calumny of the adversaries
of Communism within the Labor move-
ment that the Communist parties in vari-
ous countries take their orders from out-
side.”
The reply was as usual, except for an
icy recommendation that the British Corns,
should do the dissolving act themselves.
The Labor executive rejects them every
few months, generally with vitriolic refer-
ences to the time when they tried to sabo-
tage the war effort, yelped for peace with
Hitler and muttered treason among poor
people sheltering from the blitz.
Dimitrov was the principal speaker at
the last (1935) Comintern Congress, where
he said that all Comintern tactics “are
directed to a single end —world revolu-
tion.” He has long been a liability on
other grounds, especially his anti-im-
perialist-war instructions, which, in the
customary servile spirit, were reproduced
and followed in English-speaking coun-
tries. In the present prickly state of
American opinion, which is increasingly
important, he was far too great a load to
cany.
For 18 months of the Nazi-Rus-
sian war American admiration for and
sympathy with the Russian people
dwarfed all political considerations ; but
recently there has been a change. Mos-
cow claims to the Baltic States and part
of Poland moved even the mild Raymond
Clapper (New York “Herald Tribune ’)
to point out that “we still recognise the
Baltic States, and they have regular lega-
tions operating here.” And the execution
of the two Polish Labor leaders Ehrlich
and Alter, admitted by Litvinov as having
taken place more than 12 months before
eminent Americans began launching
efforts to secure their liberation, not only
deeply shocked the powerful U.S. Jewish
community but led to a remarkable pro-
test meeting in New York.
On the platform were Mayor La
Guardia ; Senator Mead, the President’s
candidate for Governor ; William Green,
president of the American Federation of
Labor; James B. Carey, secretary-
treasurer of the C. 1.0.; and David
Dubinsky, head of the powerful Garment
Workers’ Union —a complete roster of
American Labor leadership. Mr. Green
called the executions “shameless and
wanton.” “This is Russia’s Sacco-Van-
zetti case,” said the Mayor; and Mr.
Carey declared that it had delivered a
“grave blow to our vision of world Labor
unity.” The C. 1.0. man added:
It is my considered opinion that the
activities of the Communist party in this
country, with its savage vilification of all
who refuse to follow the party line, with
its sudden reversals of policy and its
ideological twists and turns, with its totali-
tarian habits of mind and ways of action',
remain a major barrier to American-Rus-
sian understanding.
There were 2500 people, mostly trade-
unionists, in the hall and as many more
outside, unable to get in. Mention of
Litvinov’s name brought lusty hoots.
Browder, the passport-fraud criminal
who is secretary of the U.S. Communist
“party,” had the face to allege in full-
page advertisements that the two ill-fated
Jews were in the pay of “a group of
American conspirators against the Soviet
Union” to whom “Senator Mead, Mayor
La Guardia and several Labor leaders ’
had “loaned their names,” and that,
“though we do not know the evidence
upon which a Soviet Court condemned
Ehrlich and Alter,” they must have been
“as guilty as Benedict Arnold.” This
gross outrage made the feeling aroused by
the executions bitterer than ever; and
whether or not Stalin was informed of it in
the letter carried by ex- Ambassador Davies
from the White House to the Kremlin it
must have had an influence on the course
of events. The Praesidium’s announce-
ment about the Comintern was made
almost immediately after Mr. Roosevelt’s
letter had been delivered.
As was the case with the Molotov-
Ribbentrop agreement, the “Australian’
Communist “party’'’ was not immediately
taken into Moscow’s confidence. J. B.
Miles, the secretary, said he^ had receive
no information, but his party would
continue to baseitsefontiyea ing
° f and Lenin and on the further
w b e t °Pi^ ent „ mav be indeed from a
What 11118 eans P a l be JUCg , ,°P , d
Glossary of Marxist Terms issued at Syd-
ney j n January, 1943, by one Harry
Gould, editor of the “Tribune,” reissued
this month in a larger size than
when it extolled Molotov’s “definition of
the war” as “an imperialist war for world
domination” (November 3, 1939), with
Britain and France as the arch-criminals,
Definitions are appended:
Marxism: “The theory and practice of
the working class movement.”
Leninism: “Marxism in the epoch of
imperialism and of the proletarian revolu-
tion.” , p
o/tiie Proletarian Revolu-
tion „ y
imperialism: ‘“The highest, the last
stage 0 f cap it a iism ; the eve of the pro-
letariat revolution’ (Lenin) ; the period
when ‘the Socialist revolution becomes a
practical necessity (Stalm).
Proletarian Revolution: The seizure ot
P° Htical power by the working ckss ’ with
the establishment of Soviet government
as the governme nt form of the Dictator-
ship of the Proletariat. The workers then
proceed to build Socialist, and ultimately
Communist, society.”
In effect, Communism is essentially
revolutionary and essentially inter-
national. If it lost these qualities it
would cease to be Communism.
The Moore River Line.
“Until the Curtin Government came to
power, the defence plan of Australia pro-
vided for all of Australia north of a line
north of Brisbane, and following a
diagonal course to a point north of Adel-
aide, to be abandoned to the enemy.”
That was Mr. Ward in Perth on May 2 ;
and, after severe prodding by Mr.
Fadden, Mr. Curtin gave his version in a
letter published on May 28.
Sir Iven Mackay was appointed Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Home Forces by
the Menzies Government. On Japan com-
ing into the war the C.-in-C. Home Forces
submitted to the Minister of the Army
proposals relating to tire defence of Aus-
tralia the essence of which was concentra-
tion on the defence of the vital parts of
Australia.
This involved holding what is known as
the Brisbane line. This Government rejected
the submission and took steps to defend
the whole of the continent.
The Curtin Government was sworn in
on October 7, 1941. Japan came into
the war exactly two months later. On
September 23, 1942, Mr. Johnson, the
Labor member for Kalgoorlie, whose
huge electorate takes in all the West-
ralian points which have been bombed,
spoke in a Budget debate to which Mr.
Curtin and Mr. Ward made contribu-
tions before the House rose, which sug-
gest that the Johnson speech was
delivered in their presence.
The extract is from “Hansard” (Sep-
tember 23, 1942, p. 645), the familiar
claims to the miracles performed by “this
Government” being taken as read:
Mr. Johnson: Before leaving Canberra
in July last for Western Australia, I asked
the permission of my party to be absent
from the next sittings, so that I could visit
the north-western portion of that State,
which had already been attacked by the
enemy. When I told the Leader of the
Opposition (Mr. Fadden) of my intention,
he said that his party would grant me a
pair during my absence. However, when
I reached Western Australia and discussed
my proposed trip to the north-west with
Major-General Plant, who was in charge
of the defences of that State, I was aston-
ished to hear him say that it was no use
for me to go there, as instructions had
been received to abandon all the north-west
of the continent.
Mr. Marwick: When was that?
Mr. Johnson: In July last. From my
discussion with Major-General Plant, I
learned that the whole of the north-west
was to be abandoned. When I inquired
what area was included in the territory to
be abandoned, the General said that the
most northern defence line would be Moore
River, which is 65 miles north of Perth as
the crow flies. When I asked whether that
meant that the whole of the north-west of
the State, which includes Geraldton, with
its valuable harbor, and Mullewa, with its
important railway station, as well as all the
rich midlands, he replied, “That is the
position. With the forces and equipment
at my command, there is no alternative.
It was then that I advised the Government
of the position in Western Australia.
In effect, “the position” in Mr. Curtin s
own State at least nine months after he
became Prime Minister and at least seven
months after “this Government took
steps to defend the whole of the con-
tinent.” It involves no reproach to
Major-General Plant, nor could any
general be blamed if, when Japanese
invasion seemed imminent, there were
drawn up Hawkesbury, Goulburn Valley,
Port Adelaide and Swan River lines
or the like. But what have Mr.
Curtin and Mr. Ward to say about the
cat that Mr. Johnson let out of the bag.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Use for the V.D.C.
To those who were down in the dumps
it was cheering to read Mr. Churchill s
assurance to “our beloved Australia and
New Zealand” and what Mr. Curtin said
after his meeting with General Mac-
Arthur (“The holding war has been an
obligation which has been discharged ; I
do not think the enemy can now invade this
country”); but nothing is so certain as
that Mr. Curtin’s optimistic declaration
will have a damaging effect on further
enlistments for the V.D.C. It might well
have an adverse effect on existing V.D.C.
strength. •
The worst part of it (from this point
of view) is that the lately-launched drive
to raise additional V.D.C., or Home
Guard, strength for the manning of ack-
ack and heavy batteries had been pro-
ducing good results. As station com-
manding officers will agree, no troops
could be keener than those thus enlisted.
In a few months many of them have
become trained gunners fit to go straight
on to manning duty in the event of
attack.
Keenness of this sort is proportionate
to the enlisted man’s feeling regarding
the necessity of the job he is doing.
To be told that danger of invasion is
past will very largely wipe that feeling.
Many will probably feel that they could
be making better use of the days and
nights they now freely give towards get-
ting themselves trained.
The aim with these lately raised ack-
ack and heavy battery personnel has
been that presently they would more or
less take over the manning of home-
defence stations, thus relieving A.I.F. and
militia now doing the manning. This,
of course, provides any Home Guard
man who thinks of it with a sound justi-
fication for giving up practically all his
spare time, but naturally it can’t be so
personally inspiring as the feeling that
a man is training for a positive purpose
—that there might be attack, with the
consequent call into action.
Henceforth —if Mr. Curtin’s optimis-
tic statement is based on sounder
ground than the apparent alarmism of a
couple of months back, and is not merely
a cloak for some political dodge—the
Home Guard soldier will have to find
inspiration for continued enthusiasm in
realising that any measure of serving
which relieves A.I.F. and militia per-
sonnel for service elsewhere is actually
of very real importance.
A further justification for a Home
Guardsman’s continued keenness —with-
out which this organisation would go to
the dogs in no time —could be usefully
provided by lowering the Home Guard
enlisting age to 17. The Home Guard
could then act as an advance training
organisation for A.I.F. or militia. It
could be to the Army what the A.T.C.
is to the R.A.A.F. and the Sea Scouts’
training is to the Navy. It could provide
the Army with a continuing supply of
at least partly, and often very thoroughly,
trained personnel.
This would represent an enormous
saving in training time in the Army itself
and a consequent enormous saving in
training cost to the country. The Home
Guard or V.D.C. would give its services
—as it did in Australia’s darkest hour,
and has done from the beginning on-
wards —strictly on a loyalty basis, with-
out pay, and with little thanks from any-
body.
A Powerful Antagonist.
The housewife has a man to feed and
children to rear. If the wife of a ser-
vice man her problem is greater, since she
must manage on a service man’s pay in a
rising market.
Rightly or wrongly, the housewife
assumed that the basic idea behind
rationing was to ensure that she would
be able to buy sufficient food and cloth-
ing for the family. Food-board bungling
and buying orgies by people with money
to spare defeated her, but somehow she
managed to get through to the new
rationing period. Now the housewife
feels that she has been “had.” It is a
case, not of trickery, but of gross stupi-
dity, but the effect is the same. .
Appealed to by the Government not
to use what 1942-43 clothing coupons
were left most housewives answered the
appeal. Towards the close of the period
the appealers were suddenly silent, be-
cause those who could afford it rushed in
and cleaned the shops out of pretty well
everything. The new ration books were
issued, and the housewife was coolly
told that if she wanted new sheets, towels
or pillow-cases—and anyone with grow-
ing children is always short of them —
she would have to surrender clothing
coupons for them, even if she had ordered
the goods long ago on “the lay-by” and
had nearly finished paying for them.
Thus to her maddening food problems
is added the one of trying to keep her
children decently clad and at the same
time keep her house decently supplied
with linen. It’s no use telling her that
household linen and clothing are scarce.
She knows that only too well. But she
cannot, and neither can anyone else,
understand why the coupon system should
be used to force her to make the un-
pleasant decision between clothing and
household linen needs.
At the beginning of the week it was
expected that the Government, through
Mr. Dedman, Mr. Coles or somebody,
would go in for an appeasement policy.
Housewives have long memories, also
votes, which in the mass are very power-
ful.
Out of the Jungle.
Lieut.-Colonel Fleay and his Aus-
tralian Independent Companies have
written a record into Australian history
that will be read with pride when lesser
and noisier people are forgotten:
They were flown into the Bulolo valley
in March, 1942. The odds against them
were suicidal, but they kept the Japs out
of the valley and for a long time out of
Lae, Salamaua and Mubo. Because of
them the enemy never got to Wau. They
never surrendered a man, dead or alive.
They lost only 12 men killed or mortally
wounded. They soberly estimate that they
destroyed 500 Japs—there may have been
more. They could not check the number
they wounded.
Not much is known of any of them
except their leader, a 25-year-old com-
positor from a State, Westralia, with an
enviable record in producing such men.
Young Fleay’s part in the show outdoes
the most incredible hero Hollywood or
the fiction writers ever produced. He
could not have succeeded had not his
companies contained the same sort of
men. Which raises the question of how
many other Australians there are, gifted
with qualities like theirs, whose talents
are being wasted in humdrum jqbs in
normal times.
Would his country have ever heard of
Fleay without a war to bring him out?
Or of his men? To him and to them
the grim chance of war brought the
opportunity, and they rose to it.
Fleay and his companies went into the
jungle and sought out and beat a deadly
enemy. Other Australians are seeking out
and beating the enemy wherever they can
find him, from Murmansk to Moresby.
There is another jungle full of enemies,
sloth, selfishness, anarchy, here in Aus-
tralia. Courage and vision can beat these
enemies just as they beat the Germans
and Italians in North Africa and the
Japanese in Papua.
Mr. Falsfein's Commission.
Mr. Falstein (“Maxie”) has been given
a commission in the R.A.A.F.
Everybody will wish the member for
Watson the very best of good luck when,
his training over, he takes his commis-
sion into action, thereby demonstrating
a truth that occasional others have demon-
strated before him—that a man may say
things in the heat of debate which are
unworthy of him.
Meanwhile, in and out of the R.A.A.F.
—especially in it —men discuss the grant-
ing of a commission to Mr. Falstein, and
try to come at a satisfactory answer as to
how and why.
It has been put about, in the mysteri-
ous way that such things are put about,
that as A.C.2 Falstein and L.A.C. Fal-
stein the member for Watson consistently
topped all exams. Trainees who went
through the same courses with Mr. Fal-
stein declare this to be bunkum.
They assert, further, that in the course
of the training L.A.C. Falstein was
singled out for a temporary non-com.
rank which is customarily an acknow-
ledgment of specially good conduct and
a pointer to an eventual commission
when wings are given out. L.A.C. Fal-
stein, they aver, Was given this post on
the grounds of his admirable command,
his outstanding exam, results and his fine
record.
As to these special qualifications, they
assert that the word of command of
L.A.C. Falstein would be considered poor
in the W.A.A.A.F., that the exam, results
were certainly good, but not more so than
those of other candidates (specifically in
navigation), and that L.A.C. Falstein was
the only person present who had been
found guilty on an insubordination charge
and sentenced to 28 days at Holdsworthy,
which he duly served.
Having looked up the rules and regu-
lations these other chaps declare it to be
there laid down that no man who has
served up to 20 days in clink shall be
designated better than “good” in returns
on conduct, and that no man who has
served more than 20 days in clink shall
be designated better than “fair,” which
in the established grading is one above
“indifferent,” which comes last.
In view of these various circumstances,
these other chaps conclude that the surest
way of rising to a commission in the
R.A.A.F. is to become a member of the
party in office. Perhaps the Minister for
the Air would care to reassure or en-
lighten them, including in his explanation
a slight dissertation on the method of
translating “28 days” into “good con-
duct” and the merits of granting com-
missioned rank to anyone who has quali-
fied by doing “28 days,” while making
admirable young Australians lacking
that peculiar qualification common or
garden sergeants.
An ’’Overseas Territory."
It came in a cable on the day when Aus-
tralian newspapers carried reports of
Mr. Curtin’s speech alleging that the
Menzies-Fadden home-defence plan was
“defeatist in outlook and preparation.”
The Australian territory of Norfolk
Island is being garrisoned by New Zealand
troops.
Mr. Fraser announced that there were
New Zealand garrisons on Tonga and Nor-
folk, in addition to the forces stationed in
New Caledonia. New Zealanders also
were taking a prominent part in the de-
fence of Fiji.
Since Norfolk Island is beyond the
eastern limit for compulsory service speci-
fied in the Curtin Militia Hopscotch Bill,
the posting there of Maoriland soldiers,
all now compulsory-service men, might
be taken as a sequel to that measure. This
would be incorrect; but the fact, so
humilating to a Commonwealth with
times the population of its sister
Dominion, is in line with Mr. Ward’s
declared conviction of what the Com-
monwealth obligations should be.
The evidence is in “Hansard”:
Motion (by Mr. Curtin) agreed to —That
he have leave to bring in a biii for an Act
to amend the Defence Act, 1903-1939 (Sep-
tember 13, 1939; page 521).
Mr. Ward (taking over from Mr. Curtin):
Section 49 of the Defence Act reads:
“Members of the military forces shall not
be required, unless they voluntarily agree
to do so, to serve beyond the limits of the
Commonwealth or those of any territory
of the Commonwealth.” The Opposition
contends that the provision was only in-
tended to apply to those territories which
were administered by the Commonwealth
at the time the Act was passed, and not to
those territories which have since been
acquired. In other words, it applies only
to those territories... .within the confines
of the continent of Australia.
I say that when the defence legislation
was first passed through this Parliament 30-
odd years ago Australia had no external
territories.. s . Members of the Opposition
have no objection to the Government
having the power to raise forces in the
territories for local defence puiposes, but
we take very strong exception to its arro-
gating to itself the power to compel Aus-
tralian troops to go out of this country to
defend those particular territories—The
Opposition is submitting this bill in order
to t beyond doubt w hat we believe to
be the meaning of the Defence Act (Sep-
tember 20, 1939; pages 876-9).
Mr. Curtin: We say that there should
be no conscription of the Australian people
for the defence of Australia’s overseas ter-
ritories, which may be described as extra-
territorial to the continent. We say that
they ought to be defended by forces volun-
tarily recruited (September 21, 1939;
p ‘ 97 y' T , ... ... XT * „
In the Labor interpretation, Norfolk
Island one of those overseas teni-
tones. It did not come un ei Com-
monwealth control until 11 years after
the defence legislation was nrst passed
through this Parliament.” The popula-
tion at j une 30, 1940, was 896.
Stoce 1937 it has had for Administrator
one of the greatest or Australia s J - *irst
World War leaders, Major-General
Charles Rosenthal, of Gallipoli, the
Somme, Messines, Bullecourt, Passchen-
daele, Villers-Brettoneux and Mont St.
Quentin. Though he is getting up in
y ears it wouldn’t be safe to ask him what
he thinks of the idea that this Australian
territory should have" been placed beyond
t he legal limit for men called up in
Australia, though not for N.Z. citizen
soldiers.
The words in which Mr. Curtin at-
tacked the Menzies and Fadden Govern-
ments are equally applicable to the New
Zealand Labor Government. That Gov-
ernment recognised from the beginning,
t that “expeditionary forces to other
c , , / , , fl r u”
P arts of the world should come first
(that disgraceful sneer!), but that mem-
bership of the British Commonwealth
entailed obligations as w’ell 'as conferring
, . .x? t - j bic
advantages. So it sent x reyl erg an
men to North Africa, and kept them
there till the last Axis soldier had been
rounde d up It would do Mr. Curtin
, a a Ar-.-.0.r;
a nd Ml. Forde good to read what Amen-
can newspapers have been saying about
those grand fighters and their work on
h M th Line and bow they have
1 . ... \ t*
raised the credit ot their l.tuC nation. It
wouldn’t do Mr. Ward any good. The
on jy thing that could improve the poli-
tician with the Svdney-larrikin mentality
Z ! ei, I,lc
would be to kick him from his place.
WHO’S DOING ANY HINDERING?
“Our task is now to wage war with the utmost determination against the plutocratic
countries which have always been trying to hinder the ascent of the Italian people."
-Mussolinl, declaring war.


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting
a Simple Ailment
Any person takes serious chances in
negleeting a simple case of piles. The
safest remedy for Piles is DOAN’S
OINTMENT. Its healing qualities are
marvellous.
DOAN’S
OINTMENT
Sold by Chemists and
Storekeepers Everywhere.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
AH in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8VV1931 for particulars
POLITICAL POINTS
In the last Victorian Assembly the
Country party had 25 members, Labor 21
and the U.A.P. 16, and there were two
lndependents and one Ind.
Lab. In the next Assembly, though several
seats were in doubt at the beginning of
the week, the position will be much the
same. In effect, the party with the
smallest vote in the constituencies will
be the strongest in the House, and will
continue to hold office —unless Labor and
the U.A.P. combine to turn it out on
the redistribution issue.
Partly because the issues were so un-
inspiring, and partly because so many
Victorians are at battle stations (no pro-
vision was made for taking their votes),
Assembly polling was the smallest for
years. But the t.ts. were out in force,
throwing their support to Hollins in Haw-
thorn and Mrs. Weber in Nunawading
(both were re-elected) and polling a block
vote against Colonel Harold Cohen in
Caulfield, though it seemed likely on
Monday that preferences would save that
able warrior. Ladies, supported by t.ts.,
polled well in other electorates. And no
doubt indignation at the latest rationing
muddle helped them.
Though Victorian Labor scored in all
its contests with Corns., other results
achieved fell far short of ambitions.
Trades Hall talk was that the party would
gain 13 seats. On Monday it had defi-
nitely gained one (Essendon), but it had
lost Port Fairy-Glenelg, represented for
many years by Bond, who did not stand
again. If Assembly voting is repeated, the
party cannot hold Ballarat and Wannon
(Hollway would be a good thing for Bal-
larat if he decides, as he should, that
there is no future in State politics), or
any of the Senate seats ; and Ministers
Keane and Don Cameron have to go up
again.
Lang’s “Century” did not come out
last week. An issue was prepared for
publication, but it became necessary to
apply for Ministerial permission to draw
on “Century’s” next quarterly quota of
newsprint; and Ministerial permission
was refused. Sinfully paltry, in view of
the Ministerial concessions granted to
four Communist sheets and the Lang-
hating Labor “Standard,” of which a
great deal more should be heard when
Parliament meets.
“A stirring and masterly speech,” the
editor wrote ; and the star writer took
up the parable in a signed article:
An Australian political landmark which
may point to greatness for the party. As
a piece of hard-hitting, audience-compelling
oratory, his finest speaking effort, on the
height of the speech on the battle of the
Coral Sea but far more comprehensive and
longer sustained.... Speeches of yesterday’s
type are likely to swing thousands of votes
in every Australian capital.
Melboufne “Age” praising Menzies?
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” lauding Fadden?
No ; “S. M. Herald” in another of its
rhapsodies on the Curtin theme which
make Union Clubbers feel like cutting
their throats.
Unless the parties with far greater elec-
toral votes but smaller numbers of mem-
bers combine to heave the Government
out, Victoria is to have ,“a Ministry of
Decentralisation and Reconstruction, with
statutory powers to prohibit the establish-
ment of further industries in the metro-
politan area without approval.” If it
comes off it will be a daring minority-
party blow at Greater Melbourne, which,
with considerably more than half the
population of Victoria, has been without
a State Minister since April, 1935. Mel-
bourne may yet have to support union,
with provincial assemblies, on South
African lines as the only way of freeing
itself from sectional domination.
Before the war, by exercising—and
abusing—intra-State powers, provincial-
minded Governments shackled transport
in ways never dreamed of by the men
who put “absolute” freedom of trade,
commerce and “intercourse among the
States” into the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion. Prohibition of the “establishment of
further industries in the metropolitan,
area without approval” would be a re-
sumption of the march of provincialism
towards the conquest of nationalism. The
intention may be good but the proposed
method is rotten.
When old pals fall out they fight more
energetically than strangers, and so it was
with Dunstan and Cain during the Vic-
torian election campaign. Cain got in
the most effective counter-punch.
The Premier should talk about the de-
centralisation of printing! The official
organ of his Country party is printed in
Melbourne, and six of his Ministers live
in fashionable Melbourne suburbs.
But the gentlemen have been seen in
the country.
“Fitzjay”: It would be interesting to
know why precious shipping-space is
regularly available for the “Moscow
News” —about 80 bags, approximate
weight two tons, each shipment. Is it
done on the principle that Communism
is a protected industry?
While Curtin was telling his Labor
friends and unfriends in Sydney that his
predecessors’ home-defence plan was “de-
featist in outlook and preparation,”
Flight-Lieut. Isaacson, D.F.C., D.F.M.,
was piloting the Lancaster bomber from
Sydney to Melbourne. Arriving there, he
said it was two years to the day since
he had left his native city “under the
Empire air training scheme.” The Curtin
Government wasn’t thought of then, and
the only defeatist mob in the Common-
wealth was the Communist mob, now
high in the Curtin Government’s favor.
Corrigan, the Labor M.L.A. for Port
Melbourne:
My Communist opponent, Mr. Blake,
claims that he was in the army, and his
supporters are asking electors to vote for
“the Digger.” Actually, Mr. Blake served
in the army for 18 days.
Still, long enough for any Communist
agitator to qualify as an expert in killing
Hit. and Muss, with his mouth.
“Curtin Won’t Say Any More About
‘Line,’ ” runs a Sydney “D.T.” heading.
The electors will say a lot more.
There’s a dairy-workers’, draft award
now. It provides for a 56-hour week,
with 6d. an hour overtime and a fort-
night’s holiday on full pay. Wages:
£4 16s. a week for hands over 20, up to
£6 Is. for “leading hands,” £3 4s. for
women over 20—165. to 255. to be de-
ducted for keep according to sex and age.
So that farmers may pay these wages and
be properly grateful in polling booths,
the Government subsidy has been
increased to £6,500,000 a year.
Though described as a “breath of
spring” by one of its supporters, the
McKell government’s horse-racing bill
suffered drastic winter pruning in the Leg.
Council. Hacked off was the clause
giving a Government guarantee for funds
borrowed by the proposed club, and so
was one enabling the Treasurer to ad-
vance money to the “compensation fund.”
Mr. Badly, who has placed it on record
that “dog-racing is a good and useful
sport,” regards this despiteful treatment
as a felon blow to morale.
Fadden, addressing the National Ser-
vice League in Sydney, got in a good one.
He told his audience of how a war map
in Canberra or somewhere carried blue-
headed pins to mark our positions and
red-headed pins to mark the enemy posi-
tions. “Just like Australia,” he said.
“Too many red-headed pins in the north
and too many pin-headed Reds in the
south.”
Man-power Director Wurth on a thing
that has become necessary:
Placement of both men and women,
especially women, in part-time employ-
ment must be made in, thousands to re-
place and release full-time workers, -who in
turn will be placed in the services or in
essential industries. Yet, in spite of
appeals emphasising the urgent national
need for part-time labor, returns for four
States show that in four weeks fewer than
1000 persons were placed in part-time
work.
The reasons are not obscure. Among
them are the inability of people willing
to do part-time work to get any informa-
tion as where to apply and their objec-
tion to being forced to join unions, per-
haps Communist-controlled. And can
Mr. Wurth give an assurance that “mili-
tant” unions will permit part-time work
by volunteers while strikes are on?
Though Curtin, recently delivpred of
another issue of anti-strike regulations,
has heard from Arbitration Judge O’Mara
and the Sydney Trades Hall about the
anti-strike stand of non-unionists at a
Sydney war factory, nothing had been
heard from him when the strike entered
upon its fourth week. Union bosses and
strikers, bothered as never before, passed
from threats to pleas, all without avail.
The Eleven offered to join a union pro-
vided the union gave a written guarantee
that it would respect arbitration awards,
introduce the secret ballot and ban strikes
for the duration, but a flabbergasted
union boss muttered something about
being unable to do business on such
terms. Ten of the Dauntless Eleven are
women, and they are receiving sturdy sup-
port from men at battle stations.
“Sausage King” Anderson, launching
his “One Parliament for Australia party”
in Sydney Town Hall, sang a song that
was once comic and gave an imitation
that was meant to be humorous. He
should have known that people aren’t in
a mood for vaudeville—they’ve had too
much of it from Canberra. After Ander-
son had done his stuff a lady suggested
a collection. Then what was left of the
audience melted into the night.
By a thumping majority—764 to 297 —
the N.S.W. Secondary Teachers’ Asso-
ciation slapped down the Teachers’ Fed-
eration Council decision to support the
Left Wing “war” against the W.E.A.
Very sore, the Teachers’ Fed. bosses
excluded the press from the meeting that
followed. The press should now exclude
itself from any more meetings of this
show until it declares for the spirit of
free inquiry and free speech, as the
Secondary Teachers do.
For 11 months of 1942-43 the Sydney
Labor Government had a surplus of
£1,720,900. It could easily hand over
£2,000,000 to the hard-pressed Chifley, far
too generous to the N.S.W. and Queens-
land Labor Governments —though it
won’t.
In April, 1942, a N.S.W. wheatgrower
applied for a license to grow 200 acres
of wheat, about half his usual. While
waiting for a reply he sowed 100 acres.
He was stripping the produce of 100
acres when the reply came granting him
permission for 200 acres. He has now
applied for a license for his grandson,
aged two, so that permission may arrive
before the kid leaves school.
Thus Walter Murdoch, now Chancellor
of the Perth University, which had the
good luck to get Murdoch, Shann, Ross,
Woolnough and other able men as origi-
nal professors:
When I see a kindergarten system that
touches a jncre handful of our children, a
'cheap and nasty primary education, a
secondary education that begets intellectual
stagnation in most of its victims, and a
university touching another handful —above
all, when I see the bright, alert, nimble
minds of little children and remember how
much spiritual vitality our education sys-
tem robs them of; when I think of the
well-being of body and mind that we steal
from them by our lethargic refusal to give
them the best education possible, I feel like
saying to the community (including myself),
“You damned thief!”
It any of the six State Education Min-
isters or any of the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation bosses who helped Commu-
nists to declare the W.E.A. “black” feels
like replying to the indictment, he is wel-
come to try.
“C.Q.”: Sumner Welles, U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State, has announced six
cardinal principles on which world organ-
isation must be established if peace is to
be lasting,
(1) A combination of armed forces which
can be used regionally or on a more cosmic
scale.
(2) An international tribunal to which
controversies can be referred, and in which
world confidence can be placed.
(3) An international method for efficiently
outlawing certain kinds of armaments and
inspecting others.
(4) Technical organisations to advise on
economic and financial matters so that
individual Powers won’t follow anarchic
courses.
(5) Practical recognition of the principle
of equal sovereignty for all States,_ small
and great, and the principle of the right of
self-government for all.
(6) Abolition of the need for the use of
“that accursed term” racial and religious
minorities.
Like H. G. Wells’s blueprints for his
World State, they are mainly well-inten-
tioned generalisations which Woodrow
Wilson’s League was the nearest man-
kind got to implementing; and Mr.
Welles’s own country repudiated that one.
The League didn’t prevent wars, and
there is a shrewd suspicion that it helped
to start some.
An idea of what Man-power and Army
call-ups have done to some rural indus-
tries came out when the A.W.U. sought
a 44-hour week for orchard employees.
Fruitgrowers told Judge O’Mara of heavy
drops in yield because of labor shortage
and refusal of help by Man-power, which
caused the Judge to remark that some of
the orchards were evidently going to be
damaged beyond repair. On one Taylor
(Apple and Pear Growers) remarking that
there was no evidence of dissatisfaction,
among employees, Judge O’Mara neatly
replied “There appear to be no employees
to be dissatisfied.”
Ward turned up at an election meeting
in Prahran last week and was severely
heckled. Another mistake made by the
State Labor campaigners in Melbourne
was to take Holloway from his duties as
Federal Minister, whatever they are,
to whoop it Up in Port Melbourne.
Even “Port” must have found it hard
to swallow the old gentleman’s statement
that he had “not met anyone who desires
to see the Curtin Government defeated.”
Turning to local politics, the clumsy
ancient asserted that Victoria had for
“many years” been “the worst-governed
State in Australia.” This when the can-
didate was going about saying that
“Labor supported the Dunstan Govern-
ment for seven years, and during that time
secured legislation of great benefit to
the people.”
William Green, president of the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor, praises a wage-
payer :
Henry J. Kaiser is unquestionably qne
of the most decent employers in America.
He treats his employees and the trade-
unions that represent them with the utmost
fairness. Labor-management corporations
in the Kaiser shipyards represent one of
the outstanding achievements in progressive
industrial relations in this country. The
result has been record-breaking production,
the kind of production America needs to
win this war.
It may have inspired Makin to pay his
tribute to B.H.P.
Home Secretary Morrison, in a speech
to the Fabians, said that if Labor con-
centrated upon defence of its limited
vested interests it would become no more
than a permanent political hanger-on.
That is what it is doing in Australia, and
that is what may happen to it here.


ä
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEM
Harrowingly sad was the death of
Squadron-Leader R. W. Bungey, D.F.C.
He married an English girl, who came to
Australia to stay with Bungey’s parents.
On his return on leave he found her
dying. On Thursday evening he was
found on an Adelaide beach with a
bullet in his head and beside him his
infant son, near death from a bullet
wound. Bungey was commander of the
immortal first Australian Spitfire Squad-
ron in England, and was one of those to
whom Mr. Churchill referred when he
declared, after the Battle of Britain,
“never was so much owed by so many
to so few.” Among Bungey’s men were
Finucane, Truscott and Thorold-Smith.
Now all these gallant spirits are gone.
J. R. Lewis, the new sec. of the R.S.L.
in N.S.W., didn’t finish with narrow
escapes when he was passed out of the
old A.I.F. with a bad knock on the hip.
Undergoing 17 months of hospital treat-
ment before he was discharged he volun-
teered to serve with the British Red
Cross, and was in Mesopotamia when
the armistice came along. Once more
DICK LEWIS, R.S.L.
back in Australia, he took to his old job
of surveying, went to Mount Kembla
collieries in that capacity, obtained a
mine-manager’s certificate in 1923 and
soon after was made Government mines
inspector at Cessnock. In September,
1923, the Bellbird disaster happened, and,
helping in the rescue work, Lewis, with
three others, was trapped behind a brick
wall for nine hours. Cutting a way
through the wall with a pocket-knife and
deviating through the old workings to
dodge foul gases, they were eventually
rescued by a party sent down from the
surface. Since then Lewis has managed
other mines, and, being a foundation
member of the original R.S.L., which
later took the present alphabetical handle,
there’s mighty little he doesn’t know
about either Diggers or miners. His
eldest son, among the first in when the
Armored Div. was formed, is now a staff
cadet at Duntroon.
William Perry, the Wellington lawyer
who takes over Gordon Coates’s seat in
Maoriland’s War Cabinet, has been
chosen not for his political but for his
military affiliations. He has been a Legis-
lative Councillor for nine years and presi-
dent of the N.Z.R.S.A. since 1935. He
served with the Ist Wellington Rgt.,
N.Z.E.F., in the 1914-18 war, and was
wounded. Being a president is his hobby.
The Uni. Students’ Assoc., the Welling-
ton Law Society, the Navy League, the
Savage Club, the Wellington Bowling
Centre, the Eastbourne Bowling Club,
the English-Speaking Union and the
N.Z. Defence League have all elected
him to the place of honor at one time or
another. He’s 58, has been twice married
and is a good mixer. His law firm, Perry,
Perry and Pope, is one of the deep-rooted
institutions of the capital.
Knight David Gordon, President of the
S.A. Leg. Council, is retiring from poli-
tics. In the Council since 1913, he
succeeded Lancelot Stirling as President
in 1932. Gordon was a Parliamentary
reporter before becoming M.H.R. for
Booth by at a by-election in 1913. He
looked like making his mark in Common-
wealth politics, but, beaten by the Ger-
man-born Dankel in 1913, he decided that
the Adelaide Parliament would suit him.
Old sailormen rubbed their eyes and
sighed with delight when a spick-and-
span barque with towering spars and
everything in order made a landfall in
an Australian port recently. She was the
50-year-old Lawhill, owned by the S.
African Government, Captain Solderland
master. He sailed aboard her as an
A.B. and returned as captain when in
the current war his own ship was blown
from under him by a mine off the Dutch
coast. Though modernised with steam
heat and a sail-hoisting diesel engine,
radio and etceteras, Lawhill is still a
sight for eyes rendered sore by .steam
and motor. Finns, Danes, seven S’Afri-
can apprentices and Australians man
her. Bert Speight, the West Aus-
tralian who edits her bi-weekly paper,
and Boyd Thompson, the deckboy, are
among the Australians.
Awarded an M.B.E. in the Birthday
Honors, Lieut. - Commander George
Hermon Gill, R.A.N.V.R., who has car-
ried out the job of publicity censorship
liaison officer in Melbourne under diffi-
cult conditiqns. Mrs. Gill is Esther Pater-
son, whose artistic work is well-known to
Bulletin readers and who recently hung
a portrait of him in a Melbourne exhibi-
tion. Before the present outbreak Gill
wrote a humor column in the “Argus.”
Had a ninety-second birthday, Richard
Gee, whose sprightly figure can be seen
walking into or out of Hobart city any
fine day. He was 13 when his parents
brought him from Ireland, and he began
business as a bookseller in Launceston.
He bought the Gold Diggers’ Return
hotel in the Tamar city and there
launched the “Federalist,” a weekly paper
whose politics were indicated by its title.
Gee was an alderman and Mayor of
Launceston, owned a valuable slice of
the city and retired in 1907. He’s a living
example which reformers never overlook,
never having smoked or indulged in
liquor, a fact which prompted some nark
or other to remark “Well, what’s he want
t’ live to ninety f’r?”
Cornelius Van Brugge, radio officer
on the air liner which was shot down
while carrying Leslie Howard and others
from Spain to England, has a link with
Australia. He was senior wireless opera-
tor on the K.L.M.’s entry in the Mel-
bourne Centenary Air Race. When the
Dutch Douglas liner got bushed in wild
weather on the Vic.-N.S.W. border an
observer in Albury, hearing the whirr
of its motors, rushed to the electricity
department and got the official to spell
the town’s name in dots and dashes on
its electric light service. Awakened citi-
zens then hastened to the racecourse in
200 cars and focused their headlamps
on the arena. After a successful forced
landing the flying Dutchman took the
air again and landed in Melbourne second
in the race.
A. Noel Curphey, who has succeeded
P. C. Oake as secretary of the Vic.
Chamber of Manufactures, used to be
opening bat for Melbourne Uni. after
he’d moved on there from Camberwell
Grammar. Before joining the Chamber
of Manufactures, in which he’d been
assistant sec. for the past six months, he
was auditing with General Motors and
was assistant sec. of National Gas. He
makes time to be a member of the Com-
modities Board, hon. treasurer of
R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries and member of the
A.C.F. Appeals Committee.
Retired from active work with A.M.P.
after writing £3,149,562 worth of business
in 25 years, A. M. Lowenthal retired
once before, when he’d made a success
of being a commercial traveller and in
investments. Getting tired of inactivity,
he made a comeback in insurance. A
lot of his money earnings have gone in
charities; wards at R.P.A. Hospital and
the Children’s Hospital carry his name,
and he has insured his own life in favor
of a number of his pet philanthropies.
He’s a rarity in another field, too. He
has put up flats specially suitable for
families, providing children’s playgrounds
with them and giving preference to
tenants with youngsters.
How many Australians in a quiz con-
test could name the designer of the Aus-
tralian flag? He was a schoolboy named
Ivor Evans, whose design was chosen after
it had won a Government prize in 1901,
there having been over 30,000 entries.
Ivor Evans is now managing director of
the flag-making firm of Evan Evans,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. He has two
sons flying somewhere with the R.A.A.F.
A nephew, Sergeant Ivor Evans, 9th
Div., returned with a commendation for
gallant conduct signed by Morshead.
“Jachris”: That daily-paper cable (B.
26/5/’43) telling of “the heavy toll of
war” among the 1937 Springbok foot-
ballers—lB of the 28 “killed in action”
and “six permanently maimed” —moved
the N.S.W.R.U. to send a message of
sympathy to the South African R.U.
The reply was:
Sincerely appreciate your cable, but glad
that report of casualties is erroneous.
Although a big proportion of the team is
on active service, P. J. Lyster, slightly
wounded, is the only casualty hitherto.
Good news, for they were a grand lot of
fellows.
Known to his men as “Torpy,” Briga-
dier David Adie Whitehead won the
M.C. as a machine-gun batt. officer in the
last war, in the present scrap was C.O.
of a machine-gun batt. at Mersa Matruh,
and, given command of an infantry batt.,
won the D.S.O. when the batt. held El
Makhad Ridge from July 17 to July 22,
1942, in the El Alamein fight. Pte. Joe
Garvey, who did the accompanying
sketch of him, was in the same crowd,
and speaks of “Torpy” as always popular
with his men and “always in the thick
of the fray with a tommy-gun.” The
“ TORPY .”
bar to the D.S.O. was gained in October,
’42, at Tel el Eisa.
S. D. Marchant, who went from Botany
(Sydney) to the Adelaide suburb of Unley
as town clerk (B. 14/4/’43), seems to be
able to tackle anything from the differ-
ential calculus to song-composing. New-
castle-born, he was with the 2nd Divvy,
A.1.F., in the 1914-18 war, represented
the divvy on the Central Purchase
Board attached to the British Army and
came back an associate of the C.I.A.
and the C.I.S.E. Afterwards, he gathered
certificates as local-government auditor
and clerk in N.S.W. and S.A., Was some
time instructor in accountancy and secre-
tarial practice at the N.S.W. Railways
Institute and later became shire clerk,
health officer and valuer for the Talbra-
gar Shire, around Dubbo. In the Mac-
quarie River town he also served on the
hospital board and was vice-president
of the local male voice choir. He was
on the education committee and board
of management of the Sydney Legacy
Club.
Though 34, which is precocious youth
in politicians but getting on a bit for air-
men, Flight-Lieut. John Frederick Mason,
FLIGHT-LIEUT. MASON.
A.F.C., is well and truly on the job up
north. Recently he located Goldsmith,
D.F.C., D.F.M., when that pilot came
down in the sea 30 miles off Darwin.
Also, Mason was responsible for drop-
ping the first bombs on Langoei, in the
Kai Islands, and on Temoeka, on the
Dutch New Guinea coast. Originally
from Adelaide, Mason started flying at
22, got into the R.A.A.F. the day war
was declared, and now has 4000 hours to
his credit. For a while he did some
instructing in N.S.W., and five of those
he trained have since won the D.F.C.
Ftaydn Beck takes his masterly fiddle
from Adelaide to Melbourne. His musi-
cal history so far is: M.L.-born and
-taught, trained in London and in Brus-
sels, in Sydney from 1920 (first violin
under Verbrugghen, Russian ballet and
A.B.C. orchestra), in Adelaide from 1940
(principal violin-teacher at the Elder Con-
servatorium and leader of the A.B.C.
Orchestra), and now to be leader of the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 51, Colonel P. J. McCor-
mack, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., who served with
the field artillery in the last war and in the
Middle East in this one. An auditor' in the
Federal public service before the war, he was
a leading oarsman in his young days.
At 77, Wire Nehua, who, while being edu-
cated at Te Aute College, was chosen for the
1889 Maori Rugby team that toured M.L.,
Australia and England. Overseas he proved an
all-round in field sports, winning many events
in England. He was a descendant of the
famous Tamate Waaka Nene.
At 79, Frank Jackson, who became Sydney’s
fire chief in 1922. He enlisted in the first per-
manent nucleus back in 1887, when fire-fighting
was mostly a part-time volunteer effort.
Maoriland’s foremost racing writer, D. J.
Guiney, for 22 years sporting editor of Wel-
lington “Dominion.” He served for three
years in France and thereabouts in the last war
and was subsequently a broadcaster of racing
until appointed assistant-judge to the Welling-
ton Racing Club and judge for Manawatu and
Feilding. A son is in the Royal Navy.
At 75, knight Alfred Ransom, leading mem-
ber of the M.L. Opposition, and twice Acting-
Prime Minister. He was Ward’s Minister of
Public Works and Forbes’s Minister of Lands,
and had the Nationalists been returned to
power in 1935 he would have been their next
Premier. He collected a K.C.M.G. in 1935.
In Adelaide, at 85, George Paynter, a Meth-
odist preacher from the age of 19, and about
the first of them into Silverton and Broken
Hill “the Barrier rush” of 60 years back.
In Melbourne, at 88, Arthur Bonville Were,
former chairman of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance and once senior partner of J. B.
Were and Sons. He was at various times
Consul for Norway, Sweden, Greece and.
Liberia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: The rationing of Manchester
goods will make difficulties for restau-
rants which provide napery for diners,
but if the position becomes too acute
they can always fall back on the method
adopted by a Soho hashhouse into which
a cobber and I lobbed on a last funds-low
day of leave. Patrons were sitting at
table with their caps on in the traditional
East End manner, and a diner who had
just finished was assiduously wiping his
hands on the establishment’s large woolly
dog standing placidly by his table. Near
by another patron was holding up both
hands from which the grease of Irish
stew was still dripping. With a black look
bent on the other he barked: “ ’Urry up
with the bleedin’ servyet, carn’t y’?”
* * * *
“Jamwood”: I was not surprised to
read that the jitterbug craze had led to
the formation of jitterbug mobs, clad in
the hideous garments they call “zoot
suits,” and so in Los Angeles to attacks
on women which resulted in zoot coots
being cleaned up by service men. Jitter-
bugging is jungle dancing performed to
jungle music, and from such a cause vio-
lence in criminal forms is no very aston-
ishing effect. The horror is supposed to
have been introduced in Sydney by a
couple of colored pugs, one of whom
hung round until warned by Authority to
make himself scarce. He and his abomi-
nable innovation were “written up” admir-
ingly in a paper which likes a bit of
color. Later on a rag issued from the
same office came out with a series of
photographs of another colored man in
a zoot suit doing the jitterbug with what
appeared to be a white girl. One of the
pictures was an obscene outrage, and
this seems to have dawned on the party
responsible, for the series appeared only
in the first edition, disappearing in the
second. But if lam any judge of the re-
actions of Australians to such things,
the paper must have received scores of
protesting letters.
* * *
“King’s Pawn”: Recently a Sydney
coffee-room which in various buildings
has provided chess-players with tables,
boards and men for 50 years, and been
the birthplace of two strong clubs, showed
the players the door; but the chess-
players are coming again, having arranged
to open a cafe of their own on semi-
co-operative lines. Talking to one of the
members, a refugee, I said it was a
wonder Man-power had not visited the
old quarters, where groups of men could
be seen all day sitting over the chess-
boards. “Oh, dey deed,” the enthusiast
told me; “two men vrom de Man-power
deed gum down von day. Ve showed
dem how to blay; dey may pe bretty
goodt blayers effen. Dey deed nott leaf
dill der blace glosed.” I don’t believe
a word of it; but chess is a fascinating
game.
“Wodgil”: Two high honors have
come Sister Kenny’s way in the last few
weeks—an honorary degree at Rochester
(N.Y.) University and lunch at the White
House as the President’s guest. No Aus-
tralian woman, not even Melba (if such
a comparison may be made), has made
a greater name in America than the
modest First World War nurse who, as
she said in her moving Anzac Day broad-
cast, has 54 relations in this war. Her
method of treating infantile paralysis
has been established in many hospitals,
Hollywood has made a film in her honor
and one of the Hearst papers chose her
as “the greatest woman of the year.” As
in Australia, Sister Kenny encountered
a great deal of professional prejudice on
the other side of the Pacific, but for the
most part she has overcome it. It will
be remembered to the credit of the
Forgan Smith Government that it sup-
ported the brave woman to the extent
of giving her an opportunity to demon-
strate that her treatment was sound when
doctors were hostile. One, I recall, flatly
condemned *it in an article written, un-
invited, for a paper on which I had a job.
A few days afterwards two letters
arrived at the office. One was from
Sister Kenny, and was to the effect that
she would not reply to the medical critic
or any other: she asked only that her
treatment should be fairly tested; if it
failed she had philosophy enough to
accept scorn and obscurity. The other
was from the doctor enclosing his bill
for the article.
* * * *
“Bundy”: Palace hotels, is it (B.
9/6/’43)? I’ll guarantee that for every
Palace hotel in Australia you can find a
dozen Royals, from the cities to where
the outback fades away. Few of ’em
ever entertained royalty, and few of ’em
would ever attract it, but there’s scarcely
a town that hasn’t its Royal. Possibly
they arose through the old Australian
habit of describing a spree as a “royal
time.”
“Petermac”: The pub-name that sticks
in my mind as having the subtlest psycho-
"Now take six eggs, two pounds of butter and a gallon of milk and ”
logical appeal can be seen at Campbell-
town (N.S.W.). It’S “The Good Intent.”
# * * *
“Clooter”: “Music while you work”
might stimulate factory workers on
routine jobs, but no brain worker could
stand it. Any repetitive noise—and most
music is that—is likely to drive a brain
worker mad. There used to be a wander-
ing busker with a guitar and a good bari-
tone who did his stuff below our offices
till some maddened bloke trying to think
upended the waste-basket on him. But
music should go well with machines. Any
motorist knows the desire to sing when
the car is humming steadily along, and
who hasn’t made up singing rhymes to
the clickety-clack of train wheels?
* *• * * .
“T. McN.”: There are still plenty of
redheads about (B. 9/6/’43), but it
seems true that they seldom transmit
“Aw, come on, Tubby; the of man wants to go to sea!”
their full coloring to offspring. Few red-
heads marry redheads —in the only case
I ever knew the children were sandy—
and when a redhead marries a brunette
the brunette will dominate the children’s
hair coloring. One example was a black-
haired Scot who married a red-haired
Irishwoman. Their six children, all Aus-
tralian-born, had fair to brown hair. A
grandson was born with red hair, but in
two years it changed first to snowy and
then to dark-brown. There isn’t a red-
head among any of the first couple’s
descendants. The old rule that rufous
thatches come from the union of blonde
and brunette —“dark and fair breed red
hair” —seems to have been suspended in
recent decades.
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: In asserting that Australians
are taking to tobacco-chewing “Niloc”
(B. 9/ 6 / ’43) is as wide of the mark as in
saying that it had a vogue long ago. It
was never an Australian habit of
sufficient proportions to be called a
vogue. As for chewing present-day
tobacco, let “Niloc” try it if he wants to
find out why it can’t be made a habit.
* * * *
“J.E.D.”: When I read recently that a
“test-tube” baby had been born in the
U.S.A. I was surprised ; much more so
when I read later that the infant was one
of 9429, with 97 p.c. of healthy births.
In 3649 cases donors were members of
the New York Marriage Donors’ Clinic,
male college students who have passed
searching physical and psychological
tests. More boys than girls are born.
Russia was the pioneer of this kind of
work. As for me, I would rather have
the good old days.
* * * - *
“A Major”: Ignaz Friedman, the
pianist, has been giving an Adelaide in-
terviewer a gloomy account of musical
conditions in Australia. He says they
make him weep. He deplores the
methods of musical education, and says
Australia has no symphony orchestras.
He winds up with:
Music here is only a hobby. A man is
a lawyer or a plumber and thinks he is a
musician at night. It may be a pleasure
for him, but it is no pleasure for the audi-
ence. All musicians should be professional
musicians.
Of course, the catch about that is that if
music were left entirely to the profes-
sionals the professionals would have to
live by taking in each other’s washing.
A saner view was put forward by Bronis-
law Huberman in the U.S.A.:
Art, essentially a reflection of human
dreams and aspirations, is meant for the
people. And the amateurs who approach
it closely not merely as a passive audience
but as active participants are vitally neces-
s»ry to art and artists alike,
He went on to say that in the old days
in Vienna, if there was an audience ol:
five hundred at a concert, at least a hun-
flred could have played or sung the pro-
gramme themselves, and that that pro-
portion is very desirable in any country
that desires to keep its musical standards
high. In the magazine that contained the
Huberman interview Leopold Stokowski
has an article in praise of amateur orches-
tras. As to Australian methods of musi-
caj education, they seem to have pro-
duced far more notable musicians than
has any other national group of com-
parable size.
* * * •*
“Camsa”: Tell “B. Hackshaw” (B.
26/5/’43) that illiterates, more often than
not, make good soldiers. They take
instruction better than most owing to their
habit of relying on memory. There was a
lad we called Tubby in our unit. Though
he couldn’t read or write he could handle
a truck better than the college lads. He
wanted to be a tractor driver. After the
usual course you could not stump Tubby
with question or test, and before long he
was helping to teach the practical work.
A little while ago he was home on leave
after 17 months up north, and I was
delighted to see he had two stripes up.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Dymocks, the Sydney book-
sellers, deserve a handclap from Austra-
lian writers. They’ve launched out on
publishing Australian books, and with
their experience in the bookselling game
ought to make a fair fist of it. For the
opening venture they selected Outback
Occupations and The Warrumbungle
Mare, a collection of humorous articles
and of verse published in The Bulletin.
The publishers expect both to sell well.
“LABOR’S FIRST KNIGHT.”
The n] Sh ts of Labor in other days
Labelled themselves with a catchy phrase
That had naught to do with the hollow frauds
(Or so they deemed them) of King-made gauds,
the thought of handles before their names,
However much it might please their dames,
Would have sent a shudder through all their
frames.
But there’s seldom a rule, however sound
1° which exceptions may not be found:
And tne old disfavors grow dim and deaden
As we wake to the sound of the Sir in Shedden.
As a Knight Commander— not, if you please,
With the mere K.Bs. and the K.B.Es.—
By right prescriptive he’ll take his stand
Among the highest in all our land.
He can mount a Badge as a symbol swell,
Showing Archangel Michael
On one side giving Apollyon hell,
And on the other St. George so spruce
Employed in cooking the Dragon’s goose,
Below the motto, in letters wavy,
Auspicium melioris cevi,
Which means in this case, or should by rights,
He’ll not be the last of Labor’s knights.
He'll have a Star of his own, will Fred,
With rays of silver across it spread;
He’ll own a Collar with wondrous
Cavorting round it, like lions with wings;
And he’ll buy him a Ribbon of Saxon blue
To sport when he goes to a posh shivoo,
And a Mantle of scarlet satin, too.
And he’ll don some special sort of a hat
For Governors’ levees and shows like that,
Frills such as the age-old fashions forge
For Knight Commanders of Mike and George.
It proves one never can tell at all
Where spray from the honor fount may fall,
And chaps of merit and worth be sluiced
Even though Labor should rule the roost.
And I harbor a hope, I need hardly say,
To see him in all his brave array,
Dolled up to the nines on some future day.
What a treat for the girls ’twould surely be,
A glimpse of such pomp and ancientry!
So fill your glasses—it is but right—
And sink a bumper to Labor’s knight
With the name that a handle now bedecks
By grace of Curtin—and Georgius Rex.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
PRESCRIPTION FOR WAR
WORRIES.
“Mr. P. McGirr said that raceless Saturdays and
holidays should be abolished, to allow soldiers and
others to relax and forget their war worries on such
days.”— N.S.W. Leg. Council.
The thud of hoofbeats in the sort of setting
That tired eyes contentedly explore,
The animated crowds, the thrill of betting,
Even the sturdy books’ tumultuous roar,
Should all assist a fellow in forgetting
The dour anfractuosities of .war
And, momentarily at least, transfer
His thoughts to cheerier channels. Eh, McGirr?
The keen delight at watching some outsider
On whom you’ve resolutely planked your bit,
With some apprentice like as not astride her
(Or him), by sheer velocity and grit,
Backed by smart handling from the youthful
rider,
Outpacing in the straight the favorite,
How incontestably it shoos away
The cares and troubles that infest the day!
Or, if you’ve no such luck, think what a
blessing
To meet and mix again with old-time pals!
What other rendezvous is there possessing
The warmth and color of these carnivals?
Why, even ’glimpses at the dainty dressing
Of stately dames and captivating gals
Should stop one thinking of the boom of guns
And the iniquities of Japs and Huns.
No woe-disperser an'd dejection-skittler
Like, what is sometimes termed the Sport or
Kings.
It makes one’s worries with the war seem littler,
Helps us to bear with rationed-butter’s stings,
Keeps you from brooding overmuch on Hitler
And other dismally unpleasant things,
Provides a spell-oh from the stress and stir
Of martial obligations. Eh, McGirr?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Bo”: In pre-war days Sydneysiders
were used to the sight of pillar-box-red
and emerald-green sports roadsters, then
exteriors bristling with nickelled fittings
and their weirdly-shaped bumper bars
cluttered with club badges. The chario-
teers of these vehicles had left-eyelid
droops from winking at flappers. But
enlistments and call-ups have swept these
joy-waggons into limbo, so that it was a
shock to George-street ‘ lunch-hour
strollers to behold at the kerbside a very
miracle of automobiliousness. A big,
new roadster with stainless-steel bonnet,
chrome gadgets galore, amber lamps,
various redundant signalling devices and
a polychromatic interior decorative
scheme. It was a flapper-trap par excel-
lence, and a brace of featherbrains in
beanies and stilt heels fell for it at sight.
“Ooh! ” one squealed in delight. “I’ll bet
whoever owns that’s got a nice wad.
isn’t it lov-er-lyV ’ “Yes,” agreed her
friend. “You know, I saw one just like
it in a film mag. with Cesar Romero
standing beside it. It could be his —they
reckon there’s a few American film stars
out here now. Wouldn’t it be a thrill!
Let’s wait.” A few seconds later an
undistinguished-looking bloke in a 1933
suit, greasy hat and shineless boots
shuffled across the pavement, opened the
door, slid into the driver’s seat and
started up. The featherbrains were
speechless.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The cables announce that
one of the Balkan puppet Premiers
noticed that Hitler has acquired the habit
of biting his fingernails. From this I take
heart. Said Captain Ned Cuttle, in Dom-
bey and Son, to his young friend Walter:
“When you see Net! Cuttle bite his finger-
nails, Wal’er, then you know Ned Cuttle
is aground.”
* * * *
“Up Three”: It must be nearly 25
years since the question of whether
or not poker was illegal under the gaming
laws (some authorities holding that it
was a game of skill) was a live one in
Australia. Now the British Court of
Criminal Appeal has quashed convictions
imposed on persons found playing poker
in a London club, and it is joyfully an-
nounced that the game will be resumed
in clubs throughout Britain. Grounds
of the appeal were that the chairman of
the Sessions decided off his own bat that
poker was a game of chance and did not
leave the decision to the jury. The jury
would have had a pretty problem to
decide, for, though it can be maintained
that a hard-boiled poker player can win
on poorer cards than his opponents usu-
ally hold, he won’t have much chance
against the mug who gets a series of
remarkable hands. He can’t very long
continue scaring out the player who
holds fours or routine flushes. Of course,
some players are skilful. Our little school
struck one of those coves, but when we
discovered that we never knew whether
the cards were coming from top or bot-
tom on his deal we frog-marched him to
the door and booted him into the night.
* * * @
“Craiser”: Deddy’s publicity burblers
came out the other day with statistics to
the effect that bread zoning in Victoria
had brought about a saving of 385 men
and carts at £8 a week, 27 carters and
others at an average of £5 155., plus 108
stable-hands and others, making a total
weekly saving of £3759. They trium-
phantly figured that this amounted to
nearly a penny on each 41b. loaf. But
the housewife still pays lid. or lHd. a
loaf, save in districts where zoning doesn’t
apply. There the price is lower!
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: Pleasant Sunday Afternoons
(B. 19/5/’43) weren’t instituted without a
struggle. A sky-pilot called a meeting of
his flock and explained his project of a
series of Pleasant Sunday Afternoons for
the local youth. The discussion didn’t get
very far before an elderly dame, a hard-
ened Sabbath-observer, got up and, cast-
ing a look of withering scorn at the cleri-
cal innovator, snapped: “Indeed, there’ll
be no pleasant Sunday afternoons while
I am a member of this congregation!”
And there were none.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Do Government departments
waste their time fighting one another
even in these days? A friend of mine
got a peremptory order from the State
Bank to paint the house over which it
held the mortgage. He couldn’t get paint
and he couldn’t get painters, so he ignored
the order. Came a tart note threatening
legal proceedings. He replied: “Send me
the paint. You needn’t send me a painter.
My tenant will be only too glad to do
the painting.” The house is still un-
painted.
# * * *
“C.Q.”: Touching the report that Nazi
bombs unearthed alive the seeds of
plants common in London in Shak-
speare’s day but long since vanished,
something similar has come to pass in
Melbourne. Digging of air-raid shelters
has produced a crop of plants of a sort
which has been absent from Melbourne s
Domain since excavations were made for
the Shrine of Remembrance. Evidently
the seeds retained their vitality under-
ground for nearly 20 years.
* * * *
“Valet”: Add to the long list of people
electrocuted by electric irons, sweepers,
mixers, etc., an unfortunate R.A.A.F.
man in Perth (W.A.) who is probably
the first to be so served an electric
razor. Yes, it was in a bathroom, which
suggests water on the floor, always a
potential cause of such accidents.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Lud Mayor Nettlefold, of
Melbourne, wants every State to have its
own permanent orchestra, and has esti-
mated that a surcharge of three farthings
a week on all radio listeners’ fees would
give this benefit to the nation. No doubt
it would, but it is not more orchestras
that are needed but conductors capable
of inspiring orchestrions with devotion.
Under the present system orchestras are
taken in turn by a half dozen or so
different conductors, and they can’t all
be of the same calibre as the late Mar-
shall Hall, Verbrugghen or Beecham.
The result is that instrumentalists are
half asleep during most performances I
have listened to.
“From Man-power, eh? Well, duck over to Murphys quick—they re
expectin' .”
“Nakh”: American .and Australian
army authorities recently appealed to
their troops for suggestions for a “secu-
rity” poster, and the response was designs,
coming from every part of the S.-w-
Pacific, that outshone those seen in the
technical-school exhibitions of posters in
Melbourne and Sydney some time ago.
The soldiers, being more immediately
affected, could put in a degree of
feeling which the students couldn’t.
Some of the best suggestions were
crude pencil sketches by soldiers
with no training, and most of the
slogans submitted had a lively tang about
them. One of the best was a bar-room
scene labelled “A sip, a slip, a Nip, a
ship.” Another showed two men talk-
ing, a Japanese listening and a war ceme-
tery. The approved ideas will be handed
to recognised poster artists to put into
smoother shape—a mistake, in my
opinion. The original designs would
attract more attention than the prettier
pictures professionals will turn out.
* * * *
“Sow and Pigs” recalls one of the first
good “kitchen gardens” in Sydney:
Sir Henry Browne Hayes, builder of the
original Vaucluse House —part of it is sup-
posed to be incorporated in the later edifice —
who was transported from Ireland for the
attempted abduction of a Quaker heiress, tried
to make a good job of his garden. A manuscript
still in existence gives a list of “garden flowers
and pot herb seeds for Sir Henry B. Hayes.”
It includes “eight pottles early beans, eight
pottles early peas, one pound early York cab-
bage, one pound mustard, one pound leek,
half-pound prickly spinach, half-pound green-
leaved endive, and two pottles furze seed for
hedges.” The list of pot herbs has salsify,
sperrit, hyssop, yellow lupin, melon seeds, hya-
cinth roots, tulips and globe thistle. Under the
heading of “Seeds of trees” are one quart sweet
briar, one gallon oak, one gallon beech, one
quart anonymous, one quart laburnum. The
ancient English oaks and beeches that are such
a feature of the lovely gardens surrounding
the old mansion today had their origin in the
list just partly quoted. The Irish knight
wasn’t in residence long enough to enjoy them
in growth; it was W. C. Wentworth who knew
them as young and middle-aged trees.
“A.D.”: A big, well-built, well-fed
man entered the crowded bar at a quarter
to six. He surveyed the mob. “Wage
slaves!” he said dramatically. “Just
wage slaves! You want to go slow. Go
slow! Sharkey is going to be the next
Prime Minister.” As he put down his
sevenpence for a beer he advised the
barmaid to “go slow on your capitalist
boss, too.” Then he railed at the young
woman for not being quick enough with
his drink. That sort of pest seems
peculiar to Sydney. On my first day in
the place I was toying with tea, pie (pro-
nounced “poi”) and roll in a Pitt-street
caravanserai when into the next seat
plumped a bald-headed bloke smelling of
beer. “Storey Premier!” he bellowed,
looking at me but addressing all the tea-
poi-an’-roll-ers. “Know ’oo oughter be
Premier o’ this country? / oughter.” A
grim manageress paced up rapidly to our
table. “Out you go!” she hissed, and out
he went. If he hadn’t moved instantly
under his own power I’m sure the reso-
lute woman would have hauled him out
by the ear.
* * * *
“L. Kaye”: “Horseless Horseman”
(B. 26/5/’43) takes a fall when he says
that the Murray paddle-boats Ruby and
Gem were scrapped. Ruby has possibly
gone to the ship-breakers, but the Gem
was in good river-going order as lately as
last August, when she carried me and
49 other passengers from Morgan to Mil-
dura and back. In spite of her 80-odd
years of service, she looked good for
many more trips.. The Marion is younger
and smaller. She works when the river
is low, and Gem takes up the running in
the latter part of the year when there is
more water. Tyro, once well known on
the lower river, is now the permanent
home of her former skipper, Murray
Randell, and, slightly disguised with a few
pot-plants, lies at Murray Bridge wharf.
It is not only passenger traffic that has
revived recently. Cargo-carriers are
getting another chance. In May Captain
J. G. Arnold, of Mannum —he’s 83 —
brought Renmark and a barge into
Murray Bridge with 6000 bags of wheat.
It was the skipper’s first voyage for 16
years.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: There passed through Mel-
bourne on their way to a college in Mas-
sachusetts, Chandralekha and Nayantara,
young daughters of Pandit Nehru, chair-
man of the All-India Congress, now shar-
ing imprisonment with Gandhi. It was
Pandit Nehru who said “we are sick of
your mechanical civilisations,” so it is
difficult to understand why he seeks edu-
cation for his daughters in the country
where the mechanical civilisation he
objects to has been most efficiently de-
veloped.
* * * *
“Harborne”: Sir Richard Burton, who
“before he died could converse fluently
in 30 different languages” (B. 21/4/’43),
had a rival in Maorilander Harold
Williams, foreign editor of the “Times”
from 1922 till his death. His wife,
Ariadna Tyrkova-Williams, in her book
Cheerful Giver, says that at 11 he knew
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, German,
Maori and Italian. At the end of his
life he knew over fifty languages, about
half of which he spoke quite fluently.
Sir Samuel Hoare remarked of Williams
that a new language was a “sensation
that came to him as airs come to a
musician. He was permanently tuned-in
to the language waves of every con-
tinent.”
* * * *
“Spoke”: Further to the Australian
idiom (B. 26/5/’43). Two Dutchmen
with a rudimentary acquaintance with
our tongue were having a leisurely con-
versation with a soldier in Bourke-street.
Suddenly the warrior’s expression became
anxious. “What’s the time?” he asked.
“Fif before six,” said one of the Hol-
landers, consulting his timepiece. “I
must call at the dispensary for a tonic,”
hurriedly explained the Australian as he
made his escape. “Poor man, to be
taken ill so suddenly as that,” remarked
the Dutchman to his companion.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A wail has gone up from
Little Bourke-street which, if it falls on
deaf ears, will mean that the voice of
humanity is dead in White Australia.
Chinese cafe proprietors complain that
whites habitually depart with their chop-
sticks, the loss in one case being 25 pairs
a week and in another 1000 pairs annu-
ally, and their staff has to spend valuable
time watching to prevent these depreda-
tions. , The sticks, of bone or bamboo,
were imported from China and are now
irreplaceable. As the proprietor of the
Yin Bun Low bluntly put it: “We keep
an eye on all whites. They probably
take the chopsticks as souvenirs, but they
should remember their Chinese brethren
need them for eating.” They certainly
do. The average Chinaman without his
chopsticks is as embarrassed in front of
a dish of pork as the average white Aus-
tralian would be in Collins-street without
his trousers. Our Celestial friends deserve
a sympathetic hearing, for the Chinese
cafes in these difficult times have kept
up their standards of cooking and food
better than most other eating-houses in
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Avon”: While Australia is able to
boast (vide a recent speech by Darling,
of 8.H.P.) that she can produce steel more
cheaply than Britain or the U.S.A.,
Maoriland is finding it difficult to obtain
much-needed iron for her smelters. So
attention is being paid to the rusty old
wrecks of steamers that for decades have
stood as warnings to mariners off Fern-
land’s rocky coasts. The wreck of the
Waikouaiti, at Bluff, in the far south,
proved very well worth ransacking. She
had a cargo of railway rails and steel
billets. Westland is doing its bit by yield-
ing up iron pipelines, relics of old mining
booms. At Kumara such a line, 2} miles
long, laid down in 1876, has provided
over 2000 tons of scrap, which goes
through the Otira tunnel to keep eight
Canterbury foundries busy.
* * V *
“Feng-Shui”: Paying a tribute to
Christian missionaries Chiang Kai-shek
(a Methodist, by the way) declared the
other day that the abolition of unequal
treaties had freed the Christian Church
from all association with foreign im-
perialism and aggression. The remark is
a reminder that even before extra-terri-
toriality was abolished there were some
missionaries who lived in the interior on
an equal basis with the native and didn’t
rush for protection to a foreign gunboat
every time their prejudices were offended.
They had a greater ascendancy and
prestige than the ones who always made
the native feel that the missionary had
armed force behind him. Some of these
pushed this so far that their mission
houses were regarded as a sort of alien
fortress. In South China, where clan
fights were the order of the day, an en-
tire village would suddenly get an acute
consciousness of sin and offer itself for
baptism so that it would have foreign
support in its feud against a neighbor-
ing village.
* * * *
“Proton”: As “Cit” (B. 26/5/’43) says,
dynamite is considered poor stuff nowa-
days. But that isn’t because it is inferior
in rending force to more favored com-
pounds. The determining factors in com-
mercial use, and more so in warfare, are
safety of transportation, which connotes
ability to stand concussion, and good
keeping qualities. The most powerful ex-
plosive ever made is a mixture of liquid
oxygen and liquid hydrogen, but that is
utterly- impracticable because of its in-
stability. Liquid-oxygen mixtures have
been used* in mining, and, according,
to rumor, were employed in the Spanish
civil war. But the most-used explosives
are far weaker compounds, such as
T.N.T. and picric-acid mixtures, m
which some explosive force has been sao
rificed to other considerations.


ABORIGINALITIES
•P , *T* «I»
. “Greasy Bill”: That half-caste horse-
tailer who killed, skinned and dressed a
sheep, carved off two chops, cooked and
ate them inside 3min. 32sec. (B. 5/5/’43)
did well, but “Hungry” Halligan up on
the Fortescue River (W.A.) reckoned he
could better the time with a ’roo. He
got set for a fiver, then rushed out on
to the plains, caught a big buck on the
hop, skinned and dressed it with his last
safety-razor blade, lit a fire by sawing
two sticks —matches are rationed on the
station and he’d thoughtlessly used his
last one lighting the old briar during a
pause in the skinning—then carved off a
couple of steaks from the ’roo’s hind-
quarters, had them grilled and —no,
he wasn’t so greedy as that. Pausing half-
way through the second he offered the
boss a taste. “No, thanks,” said the
trump. “I always like my steak a trifle
underdone.” That bit of courtesy cost
Hungry his fiver, for just as he leisurely
swallowed the last mouthful the boss’s
stop-watch ticked over to 3min. 33sec.
» * * *
“Sou’-west”: The thing I most feared
when serving an apprenticeship to the
long seine net was neither sea-serpents nor
sharks, nor even cobblers, but those
totally immobile objects half-buried stones
covered with barnacles. One doesn’t wear
boots when handling an expensive net,
which gets damaged enough by legitimate
wear without its being trodden on by hard
leather, and the cups of the barnacles are
razor-sharp, yet as fragile as eggshell, so
that they break off in the cuts in your
feet. Old hands didn’t suffer, and I won-
dered why, quite suddenly, my feet ceased
getting cut, and I could tramp around the
estuary floor and not even nick them
once in a month.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Dan overtook old Bob and
his woollies by the creek crossing, and
reined in with the seasonal query.
“Yair,” replied Bob. “It’s on. And, cripes,
aren’t them crutchers cows to growl!
They growl if the sheep’s fat, if they're
poor, if they’re holler, an’ if they’re a
bit damp. I don’t know what this blanky
job’s cornin’ to.” “Well,” suggested Dan,
“I don’t see why three or four of us
couldn’t work together an’ do our own
crutching. What about it?” “That’s a
good idea, Dan.” “Right-oh. We’ll have
to get'Kelly an’ p’r’aps Mac to join in,”
Dan continued ; “then you an’ me can
crutch, an’ with them mustering an’ the
help of a couple of the kids we’ll
get through.” “Now, see here,” old Bob
interrupted testily, “I don’t mind a fair
thing, you know, but them big cross-
bred wethers of Mag’s ’d need a flamin’
block an’ tackle to shift ’em. Why,
they’re worse’n yours! An’ as for
Kelly’s, I wouldn’t crutch them wrinkled
merino culls ’e calls sheep if the blanky
things never got done.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A skinny kid ,6f about
eleven, he followed the play up and down
the side-line, barracking voice that
rose louder than the men’s. Presently he
got into holts with a youngster who was
supporting the rival hamlet, gave a ton of
cheek, drew comparisons as to sizes when
the visitor called him out, but sportingly
offered to “get a bloke your size.” The
bloke proved to be two sizes too big;
whereupon the enemy departed to “get a
feller to fix 7m.” Thus two youths of
about sixteen, for purely patriotic rea-
sons, proceeded to knock pieces off each
other. An older youth butted in; some-
body crowned him instanter, and just
as promptly somebody crowned the
Crowner. Then the riot started. Every-
body hit everybody else. The crowd
surged on to the field, the players joined
in, the ref. copped a couple of stray ’uns
and called it “no match” and fled. And
one small skinny kid saw the last blow
struck, an innocent bystander arrested
for assaulting the police, and sundry cuts
and bruises treated by the Zambuk;
and then wandered happily homeward.
“Skinny” Collief, you’d be thirty-odd
now; does your conscience ever prick
you?
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Though Maoriland is
within cooee of the Antarctic, geographi-
cally speaking, and in the early years of
colonisation seals and sea-lions were
often to be seen on the southern beaches,
these creatures now give the Dominion
a wide berth. The very rare visitors of
the sort that now arrive are almost in-
variably old and ill or desperately
wounded. A sick sea-lion recently called
at Petone (North Island), stayed a while
and departed. I remember such a visi-
tation at Timaru 40 years ago. A huge
bull sea-lion, bleeding from several
gashes, clambered up on a beach within
a stone’s-throw of a busy thoroughfare
just at dusk. A crowd of citizens, sepa-
rated from the beach by a two-rail fence,
gazed solemnly at the sea-lion, while a
“ You've got it Wrong , Bill. It says purl one , plain two.”
huge copper moon rose over the sea in
the background. The sea-lion gazed
solemnly back till some nipper threw a
pebble at him. Then the visitor reared
himself up, made a fearsome sound like
a whale barking and scuttled up the beach
towards the populace. A little later sea-
lion and moon had the field to them-
selves. In the morning the delegate from
Antarctica had shaken the sand of our
beach from his flappers.
* * * *
“Carmi”: Though an all-mouse or all-
rat diet makes a lean cat, there’s nothing
more miserable in appearance than the
kitten cat which gets the craze for grass-
hoppers. The unnatural diet breeds a
distaste for normal fare, and puss’s days
are numbered.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: An odd thing about the
parched interior of W.A. is its abundant
fertility should it get even a moderate
soaking with rain. Perhaps once in 20
years this happens, and vast shallow hol-
lows and narrow, winding courses, ordi-
narily regarded as spots where the willy-
willies gather an additional load of dust,
become lakes, fresh enough to drink,
rush-hedged, surrounded with grass and
filled with innumerable forms of small
aquatic life. Water-fowl, mostly duck,
arrive soon. But the most remarkable
change is in the earth itself. In ordinary
seasons this would be dry, bearing at best
saltbush, old-man spinifex and marrom
grass, but now a new grass appears.
Lushly green at first, it grows rapidly
until as fat as the eye can reach or a
man ride there will be one vast field of
waving tops two to three feet high; and sd
thick is this that when the strong winds
beat it flat one may walk miles over a
grassy carpet without the feet touching
the soil. Even far into the desert, where
drought and the winds have piled the
earth into sandhills one hundred or more
feet high, the soil still holds the elements
of fertility; given some rain the sand-
hills will bloom. What a glorious con-
tinent Australia must have been when
it had a 20in. rainfall everywhere!
.* * * *
“Esk D.”: A little scrawny chap with
a swag up pulled into Skinner’s and made
inquiries about a job. Skinner gave him
welcome. “You’re right on time,” he
said. “I had to take the hand to hospital
yesterday. He had a bit of an accident
with the cultivator over there on the
creek flat. Lucky the wife happened to
be watchin’ him with the field glasses at
the time to see how he was gettin’ on or
it might’ve bin worse.” The little chap
muttered something about having a few
moments of his own that he didn’t care
to share with a female spotter, picked up
his knot and mooched off.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: Couldn’t help smiling at
Scorfield’s drawing of a shoeing forge (B.
12/5/’43); two hefty smiths, a heavy
draught-horse, the broken anvil and, in-
stead of a good blacksmith’s hearth, a
boilermaker’s portable rivet forge. Ted
couldn’t make horseshoes on that. Where
I first swung a 121 b. sledge the hearth
was a solidly-built structure of brick 4ft.
square. The pole of the bellows that
swung above my head was 6ft. long. The
double-decker bellows which the pole
operated were again 6ft. over all. So
strong their blast, so fierce the heat raised,
that the air entrance into the hearth was
water-jacketed ; hence the steam-hissing
pipe and hot-water tub that stood along-
side the bellows at the back of the hearth.
We could raise big “heats” on that forge.
Horseshoes were mere pin-money. With
the fire banked up with coal and coke
.and the bellows blowing strong, we could
wefd broken battery shanks, 3in. shafts
of solid steel. Four-inch shafts weren’t
beyond us; yet the smith, at a pinch,
could make the nails with which he fast-
ened on the horse’s footwear. There was
no steam hammer, the whole of the
thumping being done by two hefty
strikers swinging 141 b. sledges. The boss
picked them right- and left-handed so
they could strike in and out alternately
without getting in each other’s way. Our
anvils were a good lift for two men.
Forged out of faggoted wrought iron,
faced with silver steel, with the horn part
left soft, they were unbreakable, though
I have seen horns broken off through
working iron too cold with too-powerful
a striker.
. * * * *
“Fivees”: Have never found aniseed
(B. 12/5/’43) an “irresistible lure for
fish,” but a few drops of it on your boots
and dogs, from poms to Alsatians, will
follow you for miles. Try some on the
thistle root next time you set out a poison
trail, but hurry back to camp before the
bunnies bowl you over.
•fc He •{•
“Bad Australian”: There was a time
when thistles (B. 19/5/’43) were almost
as great a plague in Victoria and the
Riverina as rabbits. The spiny curse
appeared immediately a clearing was
made, and the growth was particularly
dense on river flats and basaltic soil,
forming almost impenetrable beds of
vegetation 6ft. or Bft. high. When the
thistles were in seed these areas swarmed
with cockatoos, galahs, cockatoo parrots,
grass parrots, lories, rosellas, budgerigars
and other seed-.eaters, Bronzewing
pigeons and quail appeared in thousands
and disappeared as suddenly when the
seeds were done. The pot-hunter could
always depend on a good bag of plump,
seal-fat wonga pigeons.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: While gardening recently
I unearthed a harmless snake about 18
inches long. Joe glided off across the
dug ground with a butcher-bird hopping
along on his left flank eyeing him grimly.
Then down flopped a jackass on Joe’s
right flank and grabbed him. Jack
carried his victim up to a pandanus
branch; the butcher-bird followed and
settled near by, his eyes following every
move as Jack smashed Joe’s head
repeatedly against the branch. When the
slitherer was about done the camp-
robber dived straight at Jack from the
front. With a weird cry Jack dropped
the snake and almost fell off the branch.
When a few moments later his eyes stared
around in bewilderment there was no
sign of butcher-bird or snake.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Curyo Charlie, with
betting-bag, sweat-wheel, under-and-over-
seven cloth and sundry other implements
of his profession, set off in his buggy for
a round of the bush meetings, Charlie
had had a lean winter. His bank was
17s. 6d., there was no chaff for the nag
and he had one spare shirt. But the
morning was bright and Charlie sang.
Then a small golden butterfly came and
fluttered beside the outfit for a chain or
so. “Look at that, Barney,” said Charles
to his horse. “If that ain’t a sign of good
luck, I’m a Dutchman.” When he hit
Corack that night Charlie had a bag of
chaff in the buggy and a full stomach,
and when he found that the John had
been called 23 miles west to run down a
demented farmer who’d started a one-
man nudist colony, he took it as another
good omen. He separated the wiseheads.
from £4O odd and headed for Woome-
lang races. Johns were too plentiful for
illegitimate pastimes, so Curyo swung a
bag. But the punters took most of his
bank from him, and he stood up for
the fourth race with £7 in the bag, a
field of five and money coming for only
one of ’em at twos on. Up for a packet
and eyeing the large boots on the punt-
ing yeomanry, Charlie was just about
resigned to closing his book when a small
golden butterfly landed on his hat brim.
“That’ll do me,” he roared, and
lengthened the favorite to evens. The
coin cascaded in and the other two
bookies called him for everything.
Curyo went white as the favorite led into
the straight by four lengths and going
away, then he collapsed as it crossed its
legs and fell down. For years after that
you could see Curyo, with his buggy
decorated with yellow moths and a gold
moth on his chain, doing the bush
meetings.
4- * , * *
“Heresone”: One day in Syria one of
our trucks was attacked by 27 Anopheles
fighters. As they had only 30 bullets
left, the crew decided to run for it. As
they bounced over the mountains and
gorges of the Greater Lebanon, one of
them shot down all the attackers, one by
one, with a rifle. The truck arrived home
safe, with three rounds in hand, and the
hero was later decorated by the Pales-
tinian Government for his praiseworthy
economy of ammunition. His name had
slipped my memory until I was looking
through my April Bulletins the other
day. Of course, it was “Narrin,” the
marvel who learnt his trade shooting
moving snakes from a moving boat on
the Murray!
“Elwood”: St. Kilda (Vic.) seems to
go in for legends (B. 2/6/’43). Back in
my salad days there was one that a
child-bather had swallowed the egg of
an octopus, that the egg had hatched and
the fish was living on the child’s interior.
The daily press took it up, and all sorts
of secondary and tertiary legends
branched off it until some people believed
that the sea round St. Kilda was alive
with young octopi waiting to fasten on
to the unwary. My girl steadfastly re-
fused to dally on the sands with me at
night for that reason —or that’s the
reason she gave. I forget what happened
to the legend and the girl.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: How did the Australian
“cooee” originate? I’m venturing the
opinion that it was a native call adopted
by the whites. Evidence: On July 15,
1834, Sergeant Edward Barron, of the
63rd Regiment, rode out from Mandurah
(W.A.) in search of a blood mare that
had strayed. He had as company Private
Nesbit, of the 21st, and two Murray
natives who acted as guides. The search
came to an abrupt end with Nesbit fatally
speared and Barron, badly wounded, rid-
ing hard to barely escape with his life.
Barron testified that, as he and Nesbit
rode through the bush, their guides cooeed
a number of times, with the result that
others of their tribe joined the party, the
cooeeing bringing them in.
THE GREEN CITY.
When a roving foot was mine
And a heart with youth aglow,
To a city in the hills
Oft I journeyed long ago.
Proud and beautiful to see,
Built it was by no man’s hand,
Walled around by ancient cliffs
In a hidden, hollow land.
As I roamed its avenues,
Trod its ways with sprightly feet,
From its stately citizens
Grave acceptance did I meet.
Tall were they, those citizens,
Arms uplifted to the skies,
Ever musing, and it seemed
In their musing strangely wise.
Save when winds that ranged the heights
Swooped adown in madcap mood,
Filling night and noon with noise,
Mute and unperturbed they stood.
Music in that city reigned,
For at times one heard the calls
Of bright-costumed minstrels there,
And at times far waterfalls.
Vanished is that city now,
Gone like morning mist or smoke,
Vanished, too, its citizens,
Gum and pine and beech and oak.
Lofty, lovely, laid alow,
Brought to naught by axe and brand,
Seen no more through glow and gloom
Graced with greenery they stand.
N.S.W.
RODRIC QUINN.


“Bo”: Old “Tallong” Tim scorned all
assistance when he started putting up his
shack along by the bend of the river.
Working only with axe and adze, he
toiled for weeks, and a£ last the slab-and-
bark edifice was complete. Tim knocked
up a table and a few chairs, then invited
the boys from the station to the house-
warming. It was an uproarious gather-
ing, the piece de resistance an enormous
rabbit pie. When it was dished out Big
Jim Norton rose with a pepper-pot in his
hand, and beerily started on a speech.
As he warmed to his oratory he waved
the pot about. He looked queer a
few times, but recovered. Then he paused
in the middle of a sentence, drew his head
back, expanded his chest, and the roar
of his sneeze startled a pelican into flight
half a mile away. As the roof collapsed
and a side wall slowly caved in, the mob
dived under the table. Old “Tallong”
was too late ; as his whiskered dial thrust
up from several layers of the end wall
he look at Big Jim sitting amid the wreck-
age of the table. “A fine blankard you
are!” the old bloke snarled. “I invite
y’ ’ere an’ give y’ a feed, an’ y’ show
y’r gratitude by wreckin’ me joint!”
“Sarina”: I’m obliged* to “E.H.S.” (B.
25/5/’43) for pointing out that there are
no- pure Suffolk Punch hacks. That was
my error. I’ve just learned that the hacks
that have done so well at shows here-
abouts in N.Q. are only part Suffolk
Punch. But “E.H.S.” says also that
clean-limbed nags are as susceptib|e to
greasy-heel as hairy-legged Clydesdale
draughts. Why then did two Clydesdale
draught mares in my paddock suffer
severely from the disease while five
Suffolk Punches running on the same
marshy country had no such trouble?
# * * *
“Si lex”: Who told “H.W.S.” (B.
19/5/’43) that story about the Shannon
Rise? The trout don’t take a fortnight
to become “gut-shy” when the rise is
on —they are shy from the hatchery
cradles. The rising fish in the Shannon
—or anywhere else —are those which as
fry and yearlings were agile enough to
outwit their many enemies, including the
old cannibal trout which lie in wait for
them. The only trout taken on the fly
are those that “make a mistake.” And if
“H.W.S.” can lead me to the series of
lagoons “well stocked with brown and
rainbow trout up to 71b. in weight,” I’ll
even leifd him a favorite fly-rod. The
expert who can get his “limit bag (12 fish)
before breakfast” is undoubtedly the
dynamite expert.
* * * *
“Old Priller”: “Louden’s” par. (B.
9/6/’43) about the paralysed lamb ought
to remind some old hands of “Humpy,”
a merino wether that attained some fame
round Euston (N.S.W.) a score or so
years ago. Humpy’s mother had been
run over by a wagon while pregnant and
Humpy was born with his hindquarters
in a knot, which caused him to get along
in a manner that gave him his name. But
he lived longer than “Louden’s” lamb.
In the T 9 drought, when the sheep were
being constantly moved over bare tracks
and there were scrub-cutting and hard
work and fences festooned with the skins
of the lost, Humpy was always there,
coming in a day behind some mob, push-
ing off alone into some corner, turning
up when marked off as “missing, believed
dead.” He was still humping around
those parts when I humped my bluey
south.
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: Dusty Dan popped
it on a baker in Wellington (N.S.W.) for
a loaf of bread. “Righto,” said the baker,
“but you’ll have to cut a bit of wood
for it.” “That’s all right,” said Dan ;
“where’s your axe?” The baker laughed,
wrapped up a couple of loaves and
handed ’em over. “I was only tryin’ you
out,” he said. “I get all me wood ready
"I'll ’ave to get married, Bill; I cant get a ’ired ’and anywhere ."
cut from the mill. No willin’ bloke need
go short of a loaf if I know it.” Dan
thanked him and vanished. He hadn't
the heart to tell his benefactor he’d had
a good look at the yard before going
into the shop.
* * * *
“N.”: The young minah who has just
discovered our kero.-tin bird-bath spent
the entire morning making up his mind.
Time after time he flew to the rim of the
tin, eyed the water, looked up and around
and squawked vigorously for moral sup-
ports None forthcoming, he had a sip,
just to make sure it was water, and flew
off. At last, a little before noon, he
seemed to make up his mind to take the
plunge. This decision involved a vast
amount of squawking and ten minutes
of hopping and feather-shaking, at the
end of which he had ceased to look like
a bird and was only a fluffy ball of grey
feathers. Then, in awful silence, he bent
over the water, gave a horrified scream
at his reflection, teetered on the verge of
flight, remembered possibly his coura-
geous ancestors, fluffed himself up till
only a yellow bill and a tail identified him
—and pancaked in. He may have hit the
"No onion, thanks, Cook; I'm going out tonight .”
wetness, but the eye could trace only a
grey parabola from the surface up to the
rim on the opposite side. He alighted
with an ear-splitting screech, inspected
his plumage for any chance drop of
water and burst into screams of self-
praise. Then, with his feathers about his
ears and holding his breath, he dived
beak-first into the water. Grazing the
surface only he finished his dive on the
other side-rim. But his nerves could stand
the strain no longer; with one last
fiendish burst of screaming he hit for the
horizon. Nor has he returned.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: I could never find out
whether it was a grain of superstition,
a morbid interest in his own fate or the
poet in him, but Mat seldom passed a
cemetery without wandering among the
headstones and reading the inscriptions.
It was about the only time you’d find
him reverent. I’d take a bet that Mat had
wandered through more cemeteries than
anybody else between the Lachlan and
the Wimmera. At first I used to think
he was hunting for some lost relative ;
then when I got to know his capacity for
leg-pulling I got wary. Finally I gave
it up, and I’d wait in our camp or some
handy pub until he’d made his pilgrim-
age. Once, at Beulah (Vic.), he came
back looking a bit sick, muttered “Let’s
get out of here,” and we grabbed the
swags and got. I thought he’d found
some personal tragedy, but it was only
that a couple of young women had tried
to make up to him.
* % * *
“M.U.R.”: That par. (B. 9/6/’43) about
the bagman who didn’t need a swag be-
cause he’d come from myall country
where a man had to travel by night and
sleep by day isn’t as pointed as the
answer given by big Jack Doolan when
he joined us under the bridge at Wagga.
To the same query anent the absence
of a swag he said in astonishment “Didn’t
I tell y’ I bin in Gippsland workin’ on
a dairy farm?”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Charlie overcame the incon-
venience of a hole in his pants by pulling
another old pair on top, and after a week
or so added a third and last pair. When
the holes in all three eventually coincided
he darned them with tiewire, short ties
two inches apart making a pretty good job
of a busted side seam. It was about then
that brother Bill came up on holidays.
He looked at the wire entanglements and
said nothing ; but a week after he re-
turned to the city a large parcel arrived
at the hut. Charlie undid the wrapping
and held up a gay purple-mixture suit
in the latest style. For several stunned
moments he gaped at the thing, then, with
a face like a sunset, rammed the parcel
under his bunk. A few days later I
broached the subject. “Hey, Charlie,” I
asked, “what’d you do with that clobber
your brother sent?” “Shoved it in a log
up the gully,” said Charlie shortly.
“What! Ain’t you goin’ to wear ’em?”
Charlie knocked his pipe viciously on his
boot. “Don’t be a blasted fool!” he
growled. “Think a bloke’s got no self-
respect! I’d be the laughingstock of the
whole flaming district in them duds!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: So “Loc” (B. 9/6/’43)
believes that when timber is burnt it gives
out flames corresponding in color to the
colors of its native environment. I’m
glad of that, because it explains why the*
Irish brigalow you get up about Tiboo-
burra always throws out a bright green
flame. But has “Loc” ever burnt blue-
gum from Red Bend, on the road to
White Plains. The flames from that
timber would make ,any true patriot rise
up and cheer.
* * * *
“Zake”: The million-to-one chance
does turn up sometimes. After a recent
deluge Cowan Creek, a tributary of the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), was a bilious yel-
low instead of its usual bottle-green. Two
anglers fished it from a dinghy, using
rods and No. 3 gut. The rod of one of
the optimists suddenly bent. He started to
haul in; the catch came placidly half-
way to the surface and promptly sagged
to the bottom again ; he began reeling
in again, and again the same thing hap-
pened. After about the fourth time the
weight took the hook to the bottom and
held it there. The angler kept plugging
away on the reel. At last it came freely,
and soon a head with a very large bump
on it broke the murky surface, while a
little over 3ft. further along a big tail
gave a feeble splash ; the angler’s cobber
leaned over the dinghy, put his arms
around the catch and skull-dragged
it in a 221 b. snapper! The black-
fish hook was barely caught in the
bony part of the side of the jaw,
outside the mouth. Perhaps the fish was
befuddled by the great proportion of
fresh water and the murkiness. At all
events, it’s dinkum, and the catch was
only about 41b. lighter than the biggest
rediish caught on the eastern coast.
* * * *
“Norther”: Phlogopite, a mica that has
an exceedingly high resistance to elec-
tricity, is being got by the A.W.C. from,
the Strangways range, n.-e. of The Alice.
It’s the only known deposit in Australia,
though there are sheets of muscovite in
the Harts range and along the Plenty
River. A party looking for gold dropped
on to the phlogopite deposits back in 1931
but didn’t know their worth. About the
end of 1941 Hubert Owen, from the De-
partment of Mines in The Alice, recog-
nised it as the stuff urgently needed
for aviation spark plugs, and the A.W.C.
opened up the mine. It wasjough going
for the first parties, some of them miners
from the Westralian fields. Water had to
be carted from The Alice, tracks made
into motor roads and heavy machinery
manhandled up the mountain. Now
there’s a camp town with all the doings
2500 ft. up, and the men are finding that
the climate of The Centre is as pleasant
as you could get anywhere. One thing
about this war, it’s showing Australians
what their own country is really like, both
as to living conditions and mineral
wealth.
*** • ■
“ ’Longshore”: Of all the continents
Australia is peculiarly the producer of
hardwoods. I sometimes regret that she
came too late to take much part in the
age of wooden ships. From the Viking
galleys to colonial clippers such as Marco
Polo and Lightning, ships were built of
softwood, mostly pine. They were
bulky—below waterline their skins were
up to 24in. —light'enough when launched,
but gradually becoming waterlogged and
sluggish, subject to teredo and other
worms, and burning easily. The Aus-'
tralian hardwood could have filled the
gap between pine and iron. Perhaps the
two that work best into a ship are karri
and jarrah. Karri compares with ash or
hickory: its grain is a long staple. When
steamed it can be twisted like a length
of cane. Held until cold it retains the
bend. For sheathing, v a 3in. jarrah plank
is equal to a 9in. pine, ft, too, bends
well; planks hot from the steam-tube can
be brought up to the ribs like sheets of
whalebone, so a fine cutwater and a
cruiser stern can be moulded. The jarrah
forest also supplies ample natural bends,
which cunning axemanship moulds into
massive pieces for stem and stern. And
jarrah resists the sea-worm; leaving no
need for a costly sheeting of copper, so
necessary to the softwood ships of old.
A ship rising from such hardwoods is a
thing of grace and beauty and utility.
FOR A NEW ORDER.
“New order, eh?” quoth Kulkyne Kain;
“That’s what they say we’re fightin’ for—
A sort o’ paradise t’ gain
Fr’m all the bloomin’ mess o’ war.
Well, that’s ribuck an’ suits me fine,
Providin’ I can have me spoke
In what new order I’ll call mine.
But will it suit the other bloke?
“Now, what f’r me is tasty meat
Might give another B'arcoo rot,
An’ what another reckons sweet
Is apt t’ get me swearin’ hot.
I’ye often dreamed a ideel life
F’r me an’ me oF kelpie dog,
Where we’d be free of toil an’ strife,
With tons o’ tucker, time an’ grog.
“No work between me meals I’d do,
Me pay c’llect three times a week.
I'd shout f’r everybody, too,
An’ sack the boss if he gave cheek.
I’d ride the bound’ries in a car
An’ never touch a flamin’ sheep
Or dab a maggot’s nose with tar
F’r less than twenty quid an’ keep.
“A life like that,” said Kulkyne Kain,
“Would suit me till the cows come home.
But would it suit the King o’ Spain
Or do a Eskimo in Nome?
A ’Bidgee whaler wants t’ whale,
An’ if his dreams come true we’d see
Him fill the bends from here t’ Sale
With pubs where everythin’ was free.
“But who’ll bet that humanity
Would want t’ take up whalin’ then?
In fact, I’ll bet we’d darn soon see
A war t’ wipe out whalin’ men.
No, each man humps his swag o’ dreams
T’ some Utopya all his own:
What most blokes want ain’t airy schemes
But simply t’ be let alone.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIME.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery Qloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
a
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN' NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Murrawong”: Record prices bumped
averages higher. Two merino rams made
four figures—a Bundemar which topped
the sales at 1200gns. and a Koonoona
(S.A.) at 1125gns. The Bundemar ram was
a big, deep, densely-fleeced animal that
went to Milong stud ; the Koonoona ram,
big-framed and plain-bodied, its fleece
of extra strong quality, densely packed
on, returned to South. Australia. Rams
which made between 500-1000gns. came
from Bundemar (2), Wahwoon (3), Burra-
bogie (3), Boonoke, Uardry, Haddon Rig
and Mungadal.
Selected and flock rams sold fairly well,
but there was obvious lack of interest
in some flock rams that may have brought
better prices in their home paddocks.
There were faulty sheep for sale and, in
addition to some variation in type, a
decided drop in quality, sharply reflected
in the prices. Some studs with reputa-
tions as breeders of strong-wool rams
appear to be swinging toward a finer
wool, while others are trying to cater for
all tastes with unsatisfactory results. Fine
and superfine wool rams were not in
great demand.
Corriedales were sold at excellent
prices. Records were made —625gns. for
a Cullingral sold to Kahlua and 600gns.
tor a Wellwood to Bulgandramine—and
there were more three-figure sales than
ever before. It was a seller’s year. Some
well-known studs were missing ; the de-
mand for Corriedales is strong, and rams
are being sold in the paddock..
British breeds were almost entirely
Border Leicesters and Dorset Horns.
Most of the Borders came from Victoria,
lop price was 190gns. for a Kelso Park
ram, and the same stud sold several others
at lOOgns. and over. B.L. quality was
higher than usual, and the average
of prices more than 100 p.c. on any
previous year.
Dorsets sold fairly well; top price
75gns. for a South Australian. Only
other breeds in evidence were a few
Romneys, which met a poor demand,
and a solitary Southdown from S.A.
General demand is for dual-purpose
sheep, and fat-lamb breeders are not
interested in lightweight, quick-maturing
Downs lambs so much as those with a
good skin value and ewes which will cut
a good fleece. Long wools like Borders
and Corriedales are in high favor.
Digestive Troubles.
“Hux”: They mostly worry cows dur-
ing 'winter when there’s a change to
supplementary feeding ; often they can
be traced to mould and inferior hay.
Stock don’t relish poor feed unless they’re
hungry, and low-quality feed’s hard to
digest. Low nutritive value and high
fibre content of poor hay cause impac-
tion of the first stomach.
Balance the diet. Limit the intake of
hay and add roots or silage to the daily
feed, or spray the hay with molasses in
water, feed green roughage or provide
a salt lick. Roots or hay in excess will
upset digestion.
Impaction will cause a cow to stop
chewing the cud ; the cow grunts, her
nose is hot and eye dull.
Starve and give a purgative of lib. or
21b. of molasses in a quart of warm
water, with |lb. to 11b. Epsom salts and
a tablespoon of ground ginger. Provide
plenty of water. Don’t feed solids till
she starts chewing the cud. Follow the
drench with a stomach tonic of |oz. each
of gentian, ginger and ammonium car-
bonate dissolved in a quart of cold water.
Feed her two or three times daily till the
bowel action is regularised. While she’s
picking up she needs an oaten or bran
mash. Rug her and provide shelter from
wind and rain.
Red-water may follow the feeding of
too many roots. It starts with bad scour-
ing and there’s often heavy loss of blood.
Call off the ordinary diet and give the
same drench as for compaction. If this
doesn’t move the bowels, try a dose of
molasses in water —without the salts—for
a few days. Give plenty of water with a
little salt in it for a day or two to en-
courage them to drink. Cows will need
building up on laxative mashes.
Hand-rearing Foals.
“B.”: For the very young foal dissolve
a tablespoon of sugar in a little boiling
water ; add three to five tablespoons of
limewater and sufficient fresh whole
milk to make a pint. Feed i-pint at
blood heat every two hours for the first
“Take that porkypine away from y ’ cousin — y' know 'e puts everything
inter is mouth!”
two or three days. Then increase the
quantities. As the foal grows add more
milk and space out the meals, one to l{
pint four times daily. A foal that hasn’t
drunk from the dam needs a tablespoon
of castor oil in the first drink.
For foals orphaned at two or three
weeks mix 1-pint of cow’s milk, 1-pint
of limewater and loz. of sugar of milk.
Warm to blood heat and feed a pint
every three or four hours. Reduce the
water gradually each week. By the end
of the first month, feed whole milk only,
plus the sugar.
From five to six weeks the whole milk
can be replaced by warm skim-milk, and
up to two quarts fed three times a day.
Crushed or ground oats can be fed in
limited quantities from four weeks. In
either ration, choose a cow in the first
part of lactation and giving milk low in
fat.
Start the foal on a feeding bottle to
slow down the rate of intake. Next let it
drink from a shallow dish, and at three
months from a bucket. For constipation
add a little linseed-meal. If there’s
diarrhoea reduce the ration.
Pineapples.
“Sarina”: Scrub soil is ideal, but ordi-
nary forest soil can be made to grow
good pineapples. Plough ; sow cowpea
or Poona pea, then plough it in. Don't
apply lime to correct soil acidity, but
plough and cross-plough to a fine tilth.
Before planting the suckers dig contour
drains to let surplus stormwater run off.
If the land is very flat plant the suckers
along low ridges, never in shallow de-
pressions—most pineapple diseases are
caused by damp conditions. Close plant-
ing will result in the soil between plants
being shaded, which is as it should be.
Suckers should be put out in moist but
not excessively wet soil. Suckers are well
supplied with moisture and won’t die
even if roots are slow in taking hold.
Strip the lower leaves of the suckers to
facilitate rooting.
Get the suckers from a healthy plan-
tation and store in a dry place ; plant
only when dry. Keep weeds down by
diligent hoeing, but don’t cultivate deeply.
Give nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash
fertilisers as needed. Horse or fowl
manure or ammonium sulphate applied
regularly will maintain the necessary
acid condition of the soil; powdered sul-
phur is good.
Coastal Winter Vegetables.
“Pat Ater” : Put in swede turnips for
a quick run to mature with or earlier
than the early potatoes, for which they
are an excellent substitute. Many earlier
sowings of swedes have not realised
growers’ hopes, and potato demands will
exceed the yield. Swedes are not deep-
rooters, and added manure should be kept
in upper soil layers. A generous dress-
ing of super, fills the peculiar need of
swedes for phosphatic foods, which they
are unable to use unless in soluble form.
Don’t delay sowings; summer brings
aphis.
Where early peas have been flooded
or washed out, a second batch now will
produce quick results. Peas can be grown
into spring profitably. Try Gem, an
excellent variety of good flavor and well-
filled pods where the going is good, and
you can stake lightly. If you’re using
Greenfeast get selected seed. Don’t sow
too deeply ; from l|in. to 2in. is enough
in sandy or light soil, lin. in heavier.
Sow closely and in slightly staggered
rows. Peas like some humus in the soil,
lime dressing to counteract coastal acidity
and a ration of balanced fertiliser spread
bandlike along the rows turned over
and in.
Spring lettuce need rich soil, heavily
manured and well limed in a warm
corner. This grows them quickly and
ensures sweetness. Keep them watered.
There’s nothing better than Imperial
Black Seeded or Iceberg.
Cabbage of “early”—quick-maturing—
types, such as First Early Improved,
Golden Acre, Vanguard and Early Jersey
Wakefield, are good second bets, and can
be relied on if planted now. Onion seed-
lings (offering freely), leeks, broad beans
and carrots are all worth while.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”: As soon as lice are spotted
muster the sheep and dip. Without a
clean muster dipping may be nullified, as
one lousy sheep will soon reinfest the
whole flock. Dip again in from 10 days
to two weeks. Don’t dip shorn sheep
until shear cuts have healed, or arsenical
poisoning is likely. Dip the shornies
again as soon as there is sufficient wool
to hold the dip.
B.”: Cowpox is due to a virus that
spreads from one animal to another.
Rinse the hands in disinfectants between
milkings and use separate washing cloths.
When a machine’s used, milk infected
cows last and disinfect the cups. Avoid
injuries to sores by milking with the
whole hand ; don’t strip with linger and
thumb. Bathe affected parts with a weak
solution of dettol, dry and smear with
zinc ointment. Wet grass isn’t harmful,
but mud and dirt cause secondary infec-
tion and delay healing.
“Canbelego”: A good ration for a
dairy cow is 101 b. of oaten chaff, 101 b.
of lucerne chaff and 51b. of ground oats.
The grain can be varied by making it
2\\b. of crushed wheat and 2£lb. of oats,
but oats alone are best. Provide some
succulent feed like pumpkin or silage if
the cows aren’t on good pastures.
“L.C.”: Cows need plenty of clean
water, those lacking roots and pasture
especially. Large quantities don’t affect
the milk quality. Ponds spread diseases
(liver fluke and worms); fence them off
and supply clean water in tanks.
“Canbelego”: A crush for handling
bulls and young stock and an isolation
paddock for animals suspected of disease
are needed on any dairy farm.
“Jindivick”: In winter grub out
tussocks of sedge around the heads of
creeks and soaks. Pile them up and
burn at earliest opportunity. Scatter
strawberry or crimson clover seed where
the tussocks used to be. There’ll be
greenstuff there for the cows when the
rest of the hillsides are dried out.
“Myrrhee”: Pigs become predisposed
to disease if not fed properly—particu-
larly under intensive conditions —and not
let out to graze. ( Weigh litters when
weaned, and aim at a standard of 2501 b.
for the whole litter at eight weeks old.
A fair mark is 2001 b. liveweight for each
pig at 200 days. Feed a variety of foods ;
if there’s no grazing, clover or lucerne hay
is a good substitute.
“Will C.”: There’s no nourishment in
the stripped corncobs that accumulate
around pigsties, and grinding ’em won’t
put goodness into them. Gather them
into heaps, along with any old bones, and
set ’em alight. Stand by with a bucket
of water and extinguish the fire when
each heap is a mass of red coals. They
make good charcoal for the pigs that
way.
“Myr”: A common fault in draining a
line of sties is to run a continuous drain
through all of them. If there’s contagious
disease in a sty at the upper end the
germs will be carried to the other pens.
Run the drain from each sty into a com-
mon drain in front of them. The outside
drain can be disinfected without risk of
poisoning the pigs.
“Farmer Bill”: The rigid-tine scarifier
cuts the weeds and packs the sub-surface
quicker than the spring-tooth. With wide
points on —and lying flat on the seedbed
—the bottom of the fallow’s level and
ridgeless, the soil’s at a uniform depth
all over and better germination results.
Top fidges give water a better chance to
sink in. When the spring-tooth’s used
the seedbed is left uneven, because the
points rise on hard ground and sink too
low in loose patches.
“B-gar”: Don’t be tricked by lance-
wood, a timber that grows as straight as
a gun-barrel and often attains great
heights. It looks the ideal for yard rails,
but as soon as the sap’s out the borers
get busy.
“L.C.”: Use spirits of salts for solder-
ing galvanised iron and “killed” spirits
for lead, brass, copper and tinware. To
“kill,” place a little raw spirits in an old
cup and drop in some zinc clippings.
When the fizzing stops it’s ready for use.
To face the iron, heat to a dull red and
file the pointed end quickly on all four
sides for about an inch back. Rub on
sal-ammoniac and apply a little solder. A
cold iron ruins a job ; overheating one
removes the face.
“Agro”: When feeding rabbits to
fowls boil till the flesh falls to pieces.
The meat goes well with boiled wheat
or added to the mash, and it increases
their egg production.


For Australia at War . . .
X.
ESTABLISHED 1920
Ok w Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Co,
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
itt
6^
\\oVty
19
£actf** e
tu e
for
at* u
ett*
ptt*
tu e
lUe
ctV ul
at*
l\*cr
ce
; . B
at*
M r
less
Vrttt?
Navy
N^vy
c\* a _
m er
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radiola.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A sia) ltd.
Australia s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
fy gh> A
5*5?
hmpisS;
»;&-i
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for June or July, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Colorful Eighth Army.
(Condensed from a report by N.Y. “Sun”
corespondent in Tunisia, Gault MacGowan.)
Slim-legged, chocolate-hued Sikhs wear-
ing loincloths bathe in oasis pools, wash-
ing their long hair and combing beards
which religious custom obliges them to
wear.
Lithe, short Gurkha hiflmen in slouch
hats sharpen 'the fierce kukris knives
which have done such deadly execution.
They, like many Indian soldiers, take off
their boots for night battles because bare-
footed, rather than in clumsy army boots,
they feel they can move silently.
Then there are Highlanders, wearing
their kilts and practising their bagpiping.
The Scots have piped their troops into
battle all the way from Alamein. New
Zealand’s Maoris do their famous haka
war dance, and South Africa’s slouch-
hatted Cape Boys do a great job irrigat-
ing camp sites by widening streams. Two
Mauritius boys drove me from the air-
field, insisting that we visit their native
land next.
The English of the Eighth Army are
visible everywhere, mostly in short pants,
the officers often wearing Egyptian desert
shoes and tan corduroy slacks behind the
line. Some have on shaggy sheepskin
coats bought from Afghan traders on
India’s north-west frontier. Many told
me the best thing about Tripoli was find-
ing cabbages growing there. They are
the first fresh vegetables they have had
in months, yet only Englishmen go crazy
about cabbages.
English airmen are everywhere in the
sky, keeping an umbrella of ’planes
operating along the coast.
When the English cooks gave me a
meal a Kiplingesque corporal announced
it was “tiffin” (Hindustani for lunch).
There was authentic desert flavor in the
food.
Confidence oozes from this Axmy. It
believes it is the best in the world.
Unions Become Big Business.
("Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.)
One of the first audited reports on the
financial condition of a great labor
organisation has been issued by the
United Steelworkers of America, C. 1.0.,
to cover the period from May 1 to
November 30, 1942. The steelworkers’
organisation then had a membership of
about 725,000 distributed through 1800
local unions. The initiation fee is $3, and
the members pay dues of $1 a month, of
which a quarter is returned to the local
union. The union’s net income for the
seven months covered by the report was
$2,605,202.91, and its expenditures
amounted to $2,304,015.16. This gave
the United Steelworkers of America a
surplus of $301,187.75, bringing the
union’s “net worth” up to $1,774,905.19.
Compared to the finances of some of
the more secretive unions the transactions
of the Steelworkers of America are
ehicken feed. The Steelworkers’ affairs
are well conducted, and their income and
outgo carefully accounted for. This is
doubtless true of many other labor
organisations. But, honest or dubious,
the truth is that labor organising in the
United States has become big business.
Now that it is the policy of the Govern-
ment virtually to compel union member-
ship, in some cases providing for collec-
tion of dues by the employer, the money
rolls into the coffers of the union
organisations in a copious stream. The
dollar-a-month charge by the Steelworkers
is small compared to dues in many other
trades, small in comparison to what some
union organisers have been able to extort
for “work permits,” which graciously
allow a man to work but not to join the
union. One New Jersey union had an
initiation fee of $3OOO for apprentices!
What the total take may be is a matter
of guesswork.
Such labor difficulties as now exist
have little to do with the rank-and-file
worker,’ who is by and large like the rest
of the population: industrious, sober
and patriotic. The danger, as the popu-
lation as a whole is coming to appreciate,
comes from the startling improvement in
the economic status, not of the worker
himse if, bu t of the labor central organisa-
dea£ w
tbe sugges tion that Labor leaders and
organ i se rs are not so much nobler than
otber pe ople as to be immune from all
tbe temptations of sudden wealth! The
strong movements now afoot in Con-
gress and . in a number 0 f state Legisla-
tures to regulate labor organisations
re fl ect the popular suspicion that this
new i nCo me flowing into union head-
qUarters is “other people’s money” just
as mucb as were the savings which
millions of Americans used to turn over
to investment bankers—perhaps even
mores sinCe no Government agency ever
cornpe lled a citizen to “maintain mem-
bersb j p ” j n a stockbroker’s boardroom.
Too Much, Too Soon!
(From a N.Y. “Sun” article .)
“We find,” C. 1.0. president Philip
Murray has declared, “that we have pro-
duced far more war materials than the
United Nations can use and more than
the United States is able to transport.”
Citing a few specific instances, he
pointed to the aircraft factories, where,
he said, 75,000 workers would soon be
laid off because they are producing too
many of a certain type of ’plane. Like-
wise, the production of shells, small-
calibre guns and aerial bombs has so far
outstripped demands that some factories
engaged in this line of work have already
shut down.
As long ago as last December news-
papermen who were taken on a tour of
inspection of the great war plants in
Detroit learned that operations there
were being choked off in many cases
because, through short cuts and improved
production methods, the rate of output
had increased far beyond the ability of
the armed forces to absorb the materials.
This has been particularly true in the
field of automotive machinery, such as
jeeps, trucks and tanks, and also in con-
nection with the production of certain
types of ainti-aircraft guns.
A new method of manufacturing bombs
has increased the output of a single plant
so enormously as to make unnecessary
the production hitherto performed by a
number of other plants. In the field of
explosives the Du Pont Company alone
today produces more than the entire out-
put of the Allied Nations at the peak
of the first world war. .
Just how extensive this overproduction
really is, of course, cannot be learned be-
cause actual production figures are still
regarded as a military secret on the
ground that they might somehow give
aid and comfort to the enemy.
Axis in Ireland.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Jack, Alexander.')
An unidentified American was leaving
the Buttery, Dublin’s flossiest cocktail
lounge, when he saw two patrons seated
at a corner table whom he took to be
Japanese. He walked back to the table,
bumped their heads together smartly and
departed. No formal diplomatic protest
has been made, but when I was in Dublin
shortly afterward many citizens privately
were complaining that the impulsive
American was guilty of a breach of Eire s
neutrality, and there was much regretful
talk about it.
The Irish delight in debating abstruse
academic points such as this one, which
is made deliciously complicated by the
fact that none of the witnesses could say
for sure that the victims were actually
Japs. It is certainly possible after a few
Martinis to mistake any of the various
Oriental students enrolled at local col-
leges for Japs, and, if this is what hap-
pened, the supposed breach of neutrality
was just a social mistake.
On the other hand, there are exactly
two Japs in all of Eire. They both live
in Dublin, and they both like a drink
now and then. They are Consul Setsuya
Beppu and Vice-Consul Kazuo Ichihashi,
who is known about town as Mr. Itchy
Scratchy. What legitimate business they
can have here, with no nationals and no
commercial relationships to look after,
is one of the more tantalising mysteries
of Dublin in this year of grace.
The German legation group cuts quite
a social dash in Dublin. Minister Eduard
Hempel, a distinguished-looking man with
exquisite manners, is a popular dinner
guest. He makes a point of attending
exhibits of Irish paintings and of buying
the biggest canvases at fancy prices. His
press attache, Dr. Carl Heinz Petersen,
has married a member of the Lynch
family, a prominent County Galway clan,
which didn’t seem to mind when the
bridegroom’s Government insisted that
his bride prove that none of her grand-
parents was of Jewish blood. When it
developed that the needed records had
been lost by fire, Berlin broad-mindedly
granted a dispensation.
Gommendatore Vicenzo Berardis, the
Italian Minister, gives lectures on cul-
tural topics before local discussion clubs,
and is well liked.
The Japanese duo are the least popular
of the foreign colony, and they keen well
under wraps most of the time. Even the
Eish consider their presence odd, in view
of the fact that Tokyo didnt feel the
necessity of representation in Eire until
developments made London too hot for
Beppu and Ichihashi around June, 1940.
American Minister David Gray and his
legation staff enjoy the friendship for
Americans that is traditional with the
Irish, most of whom have at least one
relative living in the United States some-
where. The biggest problem faced by the
Americatis is a social one, and it is that
of avoiding dinners and teas at which
Axis officials are apt to be present. So
far, they have succeeded, but recently a
consular man had the misfortune to en-
counter one of the Japs in the street. The
Jap hissed hospitably and bowed, and


%
jSC
m
A
*5
à
“No More Air Raid Alerts!”
This is no time to let up on your precautions.
Keep prepared—the next "alert" might mean
business. Remember, Japs like to surprise you!
ALERTS SOUND
WHEN YOU LEAST
EXPECT THEM
MAKE SURE
YOUR BATTERY IS IN
GOOD ORDER TO-NI6HT
ALWAYS KEEP YOUR
FLASHLIGHT IN THE
SAME PLACE
- EASY TO REACH
ft*
WHEN BUYING BATTERIES
ASK FOR EVEREADY
eveREADy
trade-mark
The Extra Long Life Battery
is
MU
P*
Hr
zlz «>J 0?
11l *>J 01
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SOKE THROATS
A
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years' Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 e
the American ignored him. “I wouldn’t to
give that the time of day,” he said
afterwards.
Early in the war the charge was often
made in the British press that Eire was
being used by the Axis as a listening post
and funnel for espionage, and, although
it is impossible to prove this, it would be
surprising indeed if it were not true. Some
parts of the Eire coast are so wild, parti-
cularly in Galway, that it would be simple
for an Axis sympathiser in a fishing-boat
to make contact with a surfaced sub-
marine. The information might easily
reach him in conversational code by way
of a public telephone booth in Dublin.
Some Eire residents declare, with a feel-
ing of resentment, that they have heard
travellers bearing Irish names revert to
unmistakable German swear words when
in their cups, and if this experience is cor-
rectly reported it is no more than an-
other version of the old German tourist
racket that has bedevilled so many neutral
countries.
An Overrated “Art.”
“Saturday Evening Post" item by Charles
B. Roth.
The most overrated “art” that ever
came out of Japan is their national system
of self-defence known as jiu-jitsu. Every-
one knows what that is, or is supposed
be: a technique by which the little
guy can always lick the big guy, and
even a weak woman is more than a
match for a 2001 b. deckhand. That tradi-
tion has been built up carefully over half
a century by fake exhibitions and subtle
allegations. The fact is that a good
American wrestler can beat a jiu-jitsu
performer at will. After 25 years of close
acquaintance with wrestling and jiu-jitsu
I can’t find one authenticated case of a
top-flight American wrestler losing to a
Jap jiu-jitsu man. Many mixed matches
have been held. The American catch-
as-catch-can man always won.
Once, in Denver, around 1905, the late
Frank Gotch, heavyweight wrestling
champion of the world, met not one but
five Japs in a ring at one time. Gotch
disabled all five inside of ten minutes.
Farmer Burns, Gotch’s trainer, and him-
self a great wrestling virtuoso, told me
he had had more than 200 matches with
jiu-jitsu men.
“Ever lose one?” I asked.
“Never even lost a fall in one.”
“Are those Japs tough?”
“Tough for the man in the street; easy
for a trained wrestler,” was Burns's
opinion.
In this war considerable attention is
paid to giving American soldiers the
ments of wrestling and rough-and-tumble
fighting. A man trained in modem
methods of unarmed defence has nothing
to fear if he meets a jiu-jitsu man face to
face. He has the odds on his side, regard-
less of all you may have read about the
wonders of the “mysterious. Oriental
death art.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
According to John Mulholland, a well-known
professional magician, who is America’s lead-
ing authority on soothsayers, there are now some
80,000 full-time fortunetellers in the United
States. And this, says Mulholland, is a con-
servative estimate. To anyone who takes it for
granted that we are living in a scientific age,
this news comes as something of a shock. “At
least four out of ten people,” continues Mul-
holland sadly, “have a sneaking conviction that
‘there is something in it,’ and I should roughly
guess there must be about five million men and
women who go beyond this casual faith and
actually guide their daily lives according to how
an astrologer or a palmist says they should do
it.” The war and its train of baffling anxieties
have brought about the greatest boom in its
history to the prediction business. According
to estimates of the Better Business Bureau,
Americans are now spending almost $200,000,000
a year to know the future. — Maurice Zolotoum;
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
Ever since the British began to bomb the
Continent the R.A.F. has taken care in the
occupied countries, so far as possible, to hit
only factories, docks and other military objec-
tives. Now for the first time, German news
services are telling uncontradicted stories of
useless destruction and ghastly casualties which
resulted from American daylight bombing of
towns like Antwerp and Rouen, where thou-
sands of people who should be friends of the
Allies had been killed. These towns are not
even in the battle area. We do not believe this
is sane policy. It is a strange story to have to
tell after much propaganda about the perfect
precision of the American bomb-sight.— London
“New Statesman.”
* * * *
A few weeks ago a friend of mine returned
with a convoy which had been in Russia.
He told me that if the local Reds knew what
the Russian people think of them they wouldn’t
open their big mouths sb wide or so often.
He said the Russian people cannot understand
why, if these Reds love Russia so much, they
don’t come over and fight for it, instead of
staying in a safe place and talking about it.
—Steve Slovski; N.Y. “Daily News/’
•i' H*
Smokers in Britain now contribute a million
pounds a day toward the cost of the war,
and liquor consumers £750,000. — “Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
“He is a great general who is animated with
the same desire as myself to beat the Germans.
He knows what he wants, and when he wants
something he gets it. We will work well
together because we like to collaborate and
we have the same ends in view.” — General
Eisenhower, speaking of General Giraud.
* * * *
Stalin is a strong advocate of discipline. In
recent public statements he repeatedly stresses
its importance and exhorts the army strictly to
enforce it. Even in minor matters, deportment
and appearance—return of epaulets, for in-
stance, and the ban on unpressed uniforms
and wearing felt boots in theatres —the ten-
dency is to adopt whatever forms help to raise
the. prestige and dignity of the uniform. —
Edgar Snow; “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
Both General Giraud and General de Gaulle
agree that the French people should have the
chance to elect their own Government as soon
thereafter as possible, but both recognise that
this might be delayed for some time by internal
disorganisation. On this point it may be said
that General Giraud’s view is in closer harmony
with British and American ideas than is
General de Gaulle’s. The Fighting French
leader holds that in this period the council
should continue to operate on French soil,
while General Giraud accepts the thesis that
the council, being essentially colonial and
administrative, should not necessarily functmn
at this phase of the operations but that its
authority should be vested in the military Com-
mander-in-Chief. The Fighting French do not
like this idea at all. They have commitments
to the underground in France, not the least of
which is the Communists. — London corre-
spondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“One of the gravest doubts which exist in
the minds of our partners of the United Nations
today is the doubt as to what the policy of the
United States will be when the victory is won.”
— U.S. Under-Secretary of State Sumner
Welles.
* * * *
Churchill firmly rejected Mr. Emanuel Shin-
well’s suggestion that the party truce is stimu-
lating the growth of small political groups such
as “Common Wealth,” which Mr. Shinwell
maintains is one of the things which led to the
political breakdown in France. Mr. Churchill's
reply that when older parties once more
compete with each other new parties will dis-
appear only partly satisfies Labor, It fears that,
should the war last another two years, Common
Wealth might establish itself as a permanent
rival of the Labor party. The new party, with
no prospect of becoming an alternative Gov-
ernment, is able to offer realisation to all those
vague aspirations for a brave new world which
the older parties, with responsibilities for having
to put them into effect, must keep within
bounds. — London correspondent, “Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
Our tank warfare [in North Africa] has
shown two things—that many of our tanks
catch fire when badly hit, and that, although
the fire is all over the place in a few seconds,
the majority of the crews are able to get out
safely and struggle back to camp.— “ Worl-
d war correspondent Ernie Pyle.
* * * *
Air power is still only a valuable weapon
of war, which has in no way made land power
or sea power obsolete. The infantry is still
the decisive force in land warfare. The Allies
cannot win this war by magic. We can win
it only by superior land power—aided, of
course, by air power—brought to bear, on the
enemy’s land power somewhere in Europe and
somewhere in Asia. Nothing else, on the evi-
dence of this war to date, can break down
the enemy’s will to go on fighting; and that is
what you have to do in order to win a war. —•
N.Y. “Sunday New's.”
* * * *
A deep and growing sentiment in Congress is
lining up back of the idea that America is
making a mistake in concentrating first on a
German defeat instead of a Japanese defeat.
Military strategists insist, however, that it
would be fatal to divide U.S. military strength
at this stage. They favor naval warfare as
dominant in the Pacific for the time being.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
That the post-war era will see another global
war of gigantic dimensions against an invisible
army of countless billions of disease-carriers
against which defence measures must be under-
taken immediately was the keynote at the session
of the U.S. National Conference on Planning
for War and Post-war Medical Services.
Malaria was described as the outstanding
medical problem of the war and post-war
period, as troops are now spread over large
areas where this scourge is prevalent. A
number of diseases of the tropics are likely to
spread to other lands, the conferees were in-
formed by authorities in the field. From an-
other authority came the warning that an out-
break of influenza similar to that in 1918
was “a very definite possibility in 1943.” Mal-
nutrition in many lands will increase further
the danger of the spread of epidemic and other
diseases, because dietary deficiencies vastly in-
crease susceptibility to disease. — N.Y. “Times. 1 ’
* * * *
A badly damaged Halifax in a Canadian
bomber came safely back from the
last raid on Cologne although one propeller
was completely shot off; of the three other
engines, one barely worked, another had been
hit and damaged, and a third had its cowl-
ings shot off; flak had made holes in the
wings, ailerons and fuselage; the astrodome was
shot away; and the bomb doors would not
close. While over Cologne the four engines
all stopped at once when the Halifax was thrown
on its back and a parachute broke loose,
rolled against the control panel and turned on
all the lights. The flight engineer almost fell
through the shattered astrodome when the
Halifax was upside down. He was only kept
from falling because his shoulders were too
broad to go through the cowling. The doors
of the rear turret got jammed and the gunner
was trapped when the pilot gave the order to
bale out, and the navigator was almost out
of the escape hatch when the pilot told him
that there was no need to bale out after all.
—London “Times” report.
* * * *
Tire home of the French Foreign Legion was
a great and pleasant surprise. I expected it
to be a slovenly tent-camp out in an almost
unbelievable desert with dirty, cut-throat troops
and brutal-looking officers. Everything is just
the opposite. The headquarters is in a city of
60,000 people, with fine sidewalk-cafes and
paved streets and modern apartment houses.
It is not in the desert at all, but in rich farm-
ing country. The Legion buildings form a sort
of academy right in the heart of the city.
There are four-storeyed permanent barracks and
fine parks inside the walls, with many flowers
and extraordinarily clean grounds and build-
ings. There are museums and beautiful statues
arid monuments about the grounds. There are
nice homes for officers and non-coms, and
their families. — N.Y. “World-Telegram” war
correspondent.
* * * *
British colonial officers generally are honest
and just, if quite as stupid as other bureaucrats.
I have never heard of one lifting his hand
against a native, but again and again I have
seen Hindus and Egyptians lashed by their own
petty chiefs, and without complaint. No one
can have seen India through clear eyes without
understanding the chaos and catastrophe that
would follow independence.”— From “Harvest
of My Years,” by playwright Channing Pollock.


We complete
our j6th year
with another
wonderful record!
GRINNELL
FIRE
RECORD
Ist January—
31st December, 1942
This year 65 fires in Australia and New
Zealand were controlled by "Grinnell.”
Total amount of damage paid by the Insur-
ance Companies (covering fire, water, smoke,
etc.), amount to only £9,348.17.6 for fires
originating in "Grinnell” protected buildings.
Average loss per fire
for the 6j “saves” in 1942
£144 .0.0.
43 of these 65 fires were extinguished by
just one “Grinnell” head. In 25 of these
fires the damage was nil or so slight that
no claim was made on Insurance Compan-
ies. Further illustration of “Grinnell’s”
ability to put water just on the right spot
at the right moment.
But this record is due to far more than
an always-effective sprinkler head. Behind
it is the accumulated knowledge of more
than half a century spent in servicing
every type of fire risk. That knowledge
is applied and constantly applied : —to
your fire protection service by a sub-
stantial organisation.
WORM ALD BROS. PTY. LTD.
(Inc. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
Branches throughout Australia
and New Zealand
gp 1 jp ’-Kg
i:
Mllff
I
1
■HH
:
ffll
>-■ >5
IHI
* K :■
..
p ; ;
iKiliK£
Mwm
H
iHMEtf
Hi
■
n
if.. I
Me
■
I
5/
u
■
ffiMSfe;
mm
r
IMS
■
r I
—M
.
‘S
:
m m
;H . ,
■
~ r m I
.:•: :
■
t f
W rnm
m
m
. m
■
ME*?
w^T"'
i in
- IILIE!
mu
M&P £•> J || f,
m mm m
Hi
■
Sian*
: v
IS
■■nsSfe > c ....,
ill
H
r -K
/*
■
?W* MsM % <
I
*5,;
», :■ . -
■Hi Hi 1
i m
■ -
P:
-p:


No Man is
Entitled to Gamble
With His Family’s Security
et how many otherwise provident
men are doing this very thing 1
They would not dream of exposing
their business assets to needless
hazards, yet they jeopardise the
stable future to which their depen-
dants are entitled.
It is a gamble with life to neglect
to make a will.
It is a gamble with fortune to choose
an unsuitable executor one who,
however well disposed, lacks know-
ledge, lacks health, or is too fully
occupied iu other ways to be free to
give the requisite time to the affairs
of others.
The really provident man, having
made his will wisely, chooses a
trustee who will always be attentive
and who is experienced and com-
pletely reliable one whose daily
duty it is to make himself familiar
with all legal requirements, and with
the prudent investment of trust
funds.
Such an executor is the Union
Trustee Company, which provides
the pooled wisdom of experienced
administrators in all branches of
trusteeship, with a prestige proved
over two generations.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPAIYY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon.. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.;
James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
a
V
à
Sharpening the
Bulldog’s Teeth
Every day sees the British Bulldog with more
power to his bite —Every day sees new planes,
new tanks, new ships, new weapons of every
description roaring the death knell to aggres*
Sion.
In this inexorable march to Victory, the
Rootes Group is playing its part —for the entire
Organisation has long been concentrated solely
upon the forging of weapons for freedom.
In the days to come, closest industrial co-
operation within the British Commonwealth of
Nations will help to solve our mutual post-
war problems.
Resident Representative:
C. H. HORDERN. 472 Bourke Street. Melbourne
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber v Sunbeam-Talbot
Hillman
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer ♦ Karrier
á
a
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
Parent Co.
I Dividends —^
_ , T Pref. To Re- Deft-*
Feb., Loss. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, cit.
1932 125 Nil Nil & 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 169,878
1933 358 Nil ’ Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 4,946 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,649
1935 75,530 75,353§ 1 Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55.262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 12J „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12i ~ „ 79,646 904 8.607
1939 103,528 20,851 12J,, „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
General Industries and Subsidiaries. 1
Assets revaluation, £4882 179,249
1940 154,060 20,851 12ip.e.= 79,646 53,563 232,812
1941 112,206 20,851 124 „ „ 79,646 11.709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12| „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,505 *20,851 10 ~ ~ 63,717 14,937 270,348
* Less deduction of 1.62 d. a share as proportionate
share of War-time (Company) Tax. § Arrears from
S'ept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
Like the k.o. dealt home-building, on
which earnings normally mainly depend,
licensing of both production and retail
sale of heating and cooking apparatus
isn’t likely to affect adversely the General
Industries organisation, which was one
of the largest suppliers of stoves, gas-
heaters, enamel goods, builders’ hard-
ware, radiators and other electrical goods
in the Commonwealth. Activities have
long been directed principally towards
making things warm for the Axis; only
a fraction of plant output, and that
“drastically rationalised,” has been avail-
able for civilian purposes since the
danger from Japan quickened the speed
of industrial mobilisation.
General Industries itself is a holding
concern. The working cos. are the effi-
cient Metters, Ltd., which has factories
at Sydney, Adelaide and Perth, and
Metters K.F.B. Pty., the Melbourne sub-
sidiary. Trans-Tasman connections exist
through a holding in Metters (N.Z.),
paid capital £64,937. These working-co.
figures are the ones to which most atten-
tion should be directed in appraising de-
pression recovery and subsequent con-
solidation ; the opening table provides
an exact reflection of admitted group
earnings only since the end of 1938:
Metters, Ltd., and Metters K.F.B. Pty.
, To
Dee., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
.££ £ £
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,301 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,42S 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
Assets realisation res., £5023.. 253,627
1033.. 165,559 100,347 65,212 318,839
Unexplained additions, £5879.. ‘324,718
1939.. 152,847 100,347 52,500 377,218
Unexplained addition, £6lB .. 377,836
1940.. 111,090 131,612 357,314
Unexplained addition, £752 .. 358,066
1941.. 109,392 105,”293 4,099 362,165
Unexplained addition, £4BO . . 362,645
1942.. 97,989 85,347 12,642 375,287'
To what extent taxation and/or depreci-
ation have contributed to the war-time
reversal in net results isn’t evident from
the subsidiary accounts ; but the need
to provide for each has never been more
urgent. One thing clear is that nothing
more than a reasonable margin is being
received on the great and varied volume
of defence turnover.
The fall in consolidated earnings last
year was £ll,BBl. That left the net result
at 12.1 p.c., against 20.9 p.c. in the open-
ing year of war, on ord. capital after pro-
viding for the prefs.’ 7 p.c. Actually,
effective pref. div. was lowered to 6.4 p.c.,
the board exercising its right to pass on
portion of the War-time (Company)
Tax. The equity of this in view of the
10 p.c. handed the ords. appears to lie
in the fact that the ord. rate is worth
only 6.2 p.c. to those who lost 7s. 6d.
a share of their capital in the financial
spring-cleaning of 1934.
Substitution of Governmental for
widespread trade customers shows up in
accelerated settlement of accounts :
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1949. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £935,041
Creditors. .. 263,387* 132,808 170,160 82,165
Tax reserve .. 98,441 265,388 238,178
Staff fund .. 15,138 12,645 15,521 14,200
Freeholds .. 341,625 314,176 335,164 323,675
Plant, etc. .. 384,693 400,119 428,206 420,139
Stocks .. 412,767 485,047 593,438 519,949
Book debts .. 201,123 242,875 285,841 155,526
Shares other cos. 27,631 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash, etc. .. 753 837 32,453 170,156
* Including tax provision.
This released £130,315 of working capital
in debtors, and the big stocks item —
“as usual, conservatively valued” —saw
£73,489 of its war-time increment
whittled away, too. The board was thus
able to bite a hunk out of its own in-
debtedness and at the same time accumu-
late cash to meet an apparently double-
banker tax bill when it comes along.
The swing back from gun barrels to
stovepipes and unleashing of spending
power dammed up by building and other
controls will mean a busy reconstruction
period, when from the long view much
will depend on the level at which heavy
industry’s costs stabilise. Meantime,
defence margins and technical flexibility
in coping with a changing munitions pro-
gramme will be the chief determinants of
profits.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 7,910 3 p.c.= 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 2$ „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 n„ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
J 935.. 16,141 5 „ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 p.c. =14,195 2,205 71,615
Royalty rights disclosed, £4143 .. 67,472
1937.. 16,550 5$ p.c. =15,614 936 68,408
Goodwill, £19,026 49,382
Royalty rights disappear, £3033 .. 52,415
1938.. 17,049 6 p.c. = 17,034 15 52,430
Royalty rights disappear, £lllO .. 53,540
1939.. 12,837 4 J p.c. =12,776 61 53,601
Goodwill disappears, £42 .. .. 53,643
1940.. 6,410 Nil 6,410 60,053
Added goodwill, £1291 .. .. 58,762
Loss.
1941.. 12,474 Nil 46,288
Added goodwill, £1192 .. .. 45,096
Profit.
1942.. 4,82’0 Nil 4,820 49,916
The figures in the table seem to indicate
pretty clearly that traders—this metro-
politan milk distributing co. in particu-
lar —can stand up to anything but
Government control. For the last 13
years the Milk Board, set up by the
N.S.W. Government, has been endeavor-
ing by rough-and-ready methods to solve
Sydney’s milk problems. Results have
matched the methods.
In the present milk shortage, due
immediately to seasonal influences, the
board decided to cut deliveries by one-
third as from May 3, until such time as
nature solved the problem for it. And
there the matter stands. No attempt has
been made to solve the important ques-
tion of priorities—of ensuring an ade-
quate supply to infants, invalids and
others for whom milk is an essential item
of diet. The Milk Board blithely threw
the responsibility on to the shoulders of
vendor-distributors, which means that the
matter is left very largely to the milk-
boy. Fortunately for consumers, nature
has been kind, and supplies promise to
come forward in better quantity before
spring.
The affairs of Sydney’s milk distribu-
tors are subject to the control and super-
vision of the Milk Board, and have been
probed by half a dozen royal and other
commissions, etc., of recent years. In
1940 Judge de Baun said:
Almost all distributors, with the excep-
tion of the Dairy Farmers’ Co., which is
in a specially favored position, are operat-
ing on margins only sufficient for the
maintenance of their business. In most
cases profits are small
Heavy increases in taxation, wages and
other costs and man-power and other
problems have vastly complicated the
position since. Moreover, many dairy-
farmers on the rich alluvial river flats
of the N. S. Wales North Coast now find
it more profitable to turn to beef. It is
all a sad reflection on the efficacy of
Government control, as well as a re-
minder of what might happen to the
general standard of living if the present
wide range of controls continues too
long.
In 1941 costs over which the manage-
ment had little or no control ran £12,474
ahead of takings. Last year increased
sales of milk, bread, ice-cream and better
returns from the cold-storage and other
sections of the business assisted revenue,
while once-daily deliveries and zoning
helped to reduce costs. Gross earnings
(£437,471) were £2379 better. There was
a saving of £14,914 in exes. —£432,652,
including £15,617 (up £1103) for taxation
and £15,318 (up £2584) for depreciation.
Still, the profit (£4820) was only 1.7 p.c.
on capital, and for the third year in suc-
cession shareholders, who have had little
cream from the business, went without.
And with things as they are it is difficult
to say when the position is likely to im-
prove much.
Next table gives a bird’s-eye view of
the financial structure:
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £283,907 £283,907 £283,907 £283,90 1
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 163,814 181,248 192,846 180,072
Property . . 243,885 243,885 244,127 244,912
Plant.. .. 173,423 171,336 165,921 157,779
Bolling stock 38,589 39,277 35,286 31,692
Stocks .. 28,744 33,761 33,107 29,109
Cash, etc. .. 509 543 514 618
Book debts . . 73,278 86,021 85,584 87,963
Shares subsid. 13,156 13,156 13,156 13,106
Advances subsid. 33,995 37,228 45,346 48,765
When the books last closed the amount
coming to outsiders exceeded more or less
liquids, excluding shares in the subsi-
diary, by £113,717, an improvement of
£14,578 over the twelvemonth. The
amount of outside money invested in the
business was 16s. 9d. for every pound
of tangible assets belonging to share-
holders.
Moulded Products (Australasia)
, Dividends \ Towards
Pref. Re-
Dee., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Share-issue and removal exes., £5431.. 5,538
1939.. 5,448 7 p.c. = 3,597 1,851 3,687
Share-issue exes., £1251 .. • • 4,938
1940.. 8,455 451 8 p.c. =' 5,377 2,627 2,311
Share-issue exes., £lOOO .. . . 6 • • 3,311
Share premiums, £3OOO *.. •• •• 311
Reserves.
1941.. 8,368 1600 8 p.c. = 5,926' 842 531
7 p.c.
1942.. 8,128 1400 7 „ „ 6,308 420 951
Speculation in plastics provided one
of the few highlights of British share-
trading in 1942. The pre-war orientation
of these versatile modern products of
natural and synthetic resins from the
semi-luxury to the utility sphere has been
followed by their war-time application to
constructive uses where insulation, light-
ness and strength are valuable, and the
result has been to open up a field of use-
fulness which, given the right price,
promises an interesting post-war future
in the motor, aircraft, electrical engineer-
ing, building and other trades of sub-
stance. Ability to keep abreast of over-
seas developments will test the technical
efficiency of the embryo Australian
industry, which has barely scratched over
the field available; necessity has already
given a great impetus to research, par-
ticularly in the production of raw
materials formerly imported from
America.
Moulded Products, of Melbourne, has
munitions finance director Edwin Nixon


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and ‘Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notices^
I, SURA BAJLA SLOMOWICZ, of . Polish
nationality, born at Warsaw, Poland, and resi-
dent seven years in Australia, now residing at
137 Hall Street, Bondi, Sydney, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, ABRAHAM JUDA ROSENBAUM, of
Polish nationality, born at Rozniatow, Poland,
and resident five years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 40 Wunulla Road, Point Piper, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
m
sum
the everlasting valve.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHR'DGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
as chairman, and engineer Malcolm
Moore warms another seat on the board.
It was a minor Dunlops subsidiary till
the present co. took over in 1936 ; 41-
fold expansion in the share-register
illustrates the strides made since the pub-
lic came in a couple of years later:
Moulded
Products./ M.P. and Subsidiary N
1938. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £24,502 £66,384 £105,698 £110,598
Liabilities .. 47,524 52,506 63,985 45,061
Tax reserve. . 1,410 2,229 12,259 13,244
Freehold .. 5,339 29,945 45,122 46,976
Plant, etc. .. 24,670 34,167 39,995 46,649
Stock.. .. 28,906 31,795 73,367 06,325
Debtors, cash,
etc 13,553 23,815 23,974 19,758
Shares . . 967 *4,000 *4,000
* Modern Plastics (N.Z.).
Expansion continues, depreciation of
£6238 and apparently £6654 besides find-
ing its way back into plant in last year’s
almost complete switch to war produc-
tion. Chief other movement occurred in
stock (down £17,402), reflecting supply
difficulties. There was almost similar
reduction in the debt.
Profits have failed to keep pace with
the growth in capital, however. Largely
responsible appear to be the low margins
allowed by Government agencies and the
avaricious demands of the taxgatherer,
for whom £9778 was earmarked last term
where £1253 was considered adequate in
1939. As a result, earning power has
receded from 10.6 p.c. to 7.3 p.c. on
average capital over the past three years ;
ord. participation in the latest showing
was reduced from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c., and the
6-8 p.c. participating prefs. were cut to
the same rate.
All things considered, including the
absence of visible shock-absorbers and
the infancy of the industry, the board has
followed a liberal div. policy while the
hunt for capital was on. The “Wild
Cat” would now like to see evidence of
financial digging-in. New competition
will not always be legroped by invest-
ment controls, and big fellows already in
the field include Die Casters and A.C.I.
Kalgoorlie’s gold production now tops
26,000,0000 z. Bulk has come from the
Golden Mile, described again and again
by The Bulletin as the richest square
mile of country in the world. Pearce
and Brookman were the first prospectors
to locate ore-bodies along it, and, when,
the small Adelaide syndicate they repre-
sented had distributed nearly a million
pounds’ worth of shares and £3,421,000
in cash among its members, it found
itself, at the time of liquidation, with
shares in eight mines—including the Lake
View, Great Boulder and Ivanhoe —to
the value of £9,275,075. The biggest gold-
carrying ore-bodies on the “Mile” have
been Oroya-Brownhill, worked out years
ago, Lake View, Boundary-Horseshoe
Boundary, Ivanhoe East and Persever-
ance.
* * * *
Although No. 31 (bottom) level ore ex-
posures are good, and the rest of the
mine workings don’t give rise to any mis-
givings as to the future, the London
board of Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has
again said “No” to disgruntled local
shareholders’ request for the payment of
a dividend out of an estimated six-figure
cash surplus. The last distribution was
made in January, 1942.
* * * *
According to cables from London, Gt.
Boulder’s coalition new board, compris-
ing representatives of De Bernales and
supporters and those hitherto opposed
(in some cases bitterly opposed) to them,
has been formed. Its composition will, it
is stated, be announced shortly. At
present Westralian control of the co.’s
affairs is, and has been for some years
past, vested in Mines Management and
Secretariate, Ltd., a De Bernales con-
cern. Whether this arrangement will con-
tinue or be ended when the new board
takes over from the liquidator is what
local shareholders are wondering. Plant,
prospects and mine management, says
reports from the West, leave nothing to
be desired.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) is reported to be doing
better under new management. Value
of mill feed is stated to have risen, costs
to have fallen, losses converted into pro-
fits and the anxiety of creditors much
relieved. Co.’s debt to the State Govern-
ment for financial assistance is, however,
still considerable, and this, combined with
the millions of issued shares, makes
shareholders’ chance of getting dividends
for a long time very remote.
* * * *
While yields from other Westralian
goldmining centres have been falling
lately, that from Marble Bar, up north,
has been rising. Its May production was
3118 oz. Most of this return came from
the Comet, a hillside venture worked by
a De Bernales co., and one or two other
mines. The remainder represented dribs
and drabs from State battery, crushings.
Marble Bar is hotter and has less rain
than any other goldfield in Australia or,
in the opinion of those who claim to
know, in the world.
* * * fc
, Adelaide-bossed and Bewick-Moreing-
supervised Oroya Banda Amalgamated
(W.A.) struggles on. Headed by short-
age of labor, it has its full share of opera-
tional troubles, but manages to con-
tribute a few hundred ounces a month
to the State’s gold production. Its last
yield was worth about £2600. 0.8. A. is
one of the few Westralian regular com-
pany gold-producing midgets that have
been able to carry on despite man-power
restrictions. New Milano is another.
* * * *
From London: >
A combined copper committee has been
formed by U.S.A., Britain and Canada. Its
job is to assemble and review data relating
to the supply requirements, stocks and con-
sumption of the metal in order that the sup-
plies available in the three countries may be
used to the best advantage. The committee is
the second of such groups to be established.
At the end of 1942 a combined steel commit-
tee was appointed. Both work in Washington.
* * * *
“Q. 8.” looks back :
Pressmen in Coolgardie in George Williams’s
time (B. 28/4/’43) included others. They were,
on the “Miner”: Ridsdale —I have forgotten his
initials —previously an editor of the Sydney
“Sunday Times,” and Edward Newton Mc-
Culloch, later on the Perth “Sunday Times” and
last heard of in Queensland. “Tothersider”:
Walter O’Connor, afterwards editor of the
Kalgoorlie “Sun” and other Westralian news-
papers. Jack Cameron is a brother of Mary
Gilmore, and before the war was living, and
may be still living, in Switzerland. His mother
was the presswoman on the Perth “Morning
Herald.” She is buried in the West. George
Kingswell bought the Coolgardie “Miner” from
Billy Clare on bills, but he soon pulled out.
Kingswell, after considerable world-wandering,
finally settled in South Africa. He founded
the Johannesburg “Sunday Times,” married
money, and died exceedingly well off.
* * * *
Taxation paid by Younghusband, Ltd.,
a Victorian pastoral-agency concern, last
year was equal to £3 13s. per cent, on
capital, while the profit available for
shareholders was £3 Bs. 6d. per cent., the
chairman stated at the annual meeting.
Important Work for Defence
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS
An outline of the important part being played by tbe General Motors-Holdens,
Ltd., organisation in Australia’s defence work was given by the chairman (Mr. E. W.
Holden) in the annual report presented to shareholders on May 28.
In the presentation of this Annual Report
and Balance Sheet the occasion appears im-
portant enough to warrant a more lengthy and
comprehensive statement than usual for the
benefit of Shareholders and others of the con-
dition of the Company’s affairs.
The constitution of a Company such as
General Motors-Holdens Limited should be
briefly discussed, so that its position in the
industrial structure of the Commonwealth may
be viewed in its correct perspective. To some
the Company is perhaps a cold and impersonal
entity, but it is really a banding together of
some 9000 Australians and a large investment
of funds under a common banner bearing the
name General Motors-Holdens Ltd. Manage-
ment, executives, men and women employees
of all ranks, together with capital invested —
the savings of thousands of investors who
variously live in Great Britain, the U.S.A.,
Australia, and elsewhere —and lastly, but by
no means least, technique and experience are
the ingredients which make such an organisa-
tion workable.
MATERIALS DELIVERED —This organisa-
tion has delivered to the Government since this
war began approximately £19,000,000 worth of
materials and services. Of that amount very
nearly £5,000,000 was for guns, and approxi-
mately £3,000,000 represented aeroplane ma-
terials: our deliveries to the Government at
the present time in war materials and services
are at the rate of approximately £10,000,000 a
year. Although these figures represent the
final deliveries, to a marked degree they in-
clude the work and supplies from many
hundreds of sub-contractors and those associ-
ated with us in these projects.
The demands of war made upon us have
demonstrated the flexibility of our organisa-
tion and its adaptability to organising and
planning a diversity of war supplies. These
range from pontobns to shells, steel helmets,
machine-gun magazines to trench-mortar
carriers, guns to aerial bombs and aircraft
parts, and the output figures under each head-
ing have been considerable. At the same time
our knowledge gained before the war of motor
vehicle assembly aud production has been
applied to the production of thousands of
military vehicles which necessitated the build-
ing of over 200 different body types for the
various Service requirements. In all these
vehicles there are many problems from a
design point of view, and designs change so
frequently and constantly, with their attend-
ant production problems, that our peace-time
body production was a simple compact opera-
tion compared with the task involved in the
production of vehicles for war, but the experi-
ence thus gained will enable us to play our
part more effectively in the transport require-
ments of peace.
Our activities in the aircraft production pro-
gramme have been constantly expanding; it
is interesting to record that through the
excellent co-operation extended by our sub-
contractors we have already delivered the
thousandth Australian-built Gipsy Major Aero
engine which is used in the De Havilland Tiger
Moth Trainer aircraft by the R.A.A.F. In
addition a large spares has been
produced for local Service and overseas re-
quirements. We have been advised that this
has been a major contribution to the Empire
Air Training Scheme. Almost one-third of the
total parts of the Beaufort Medium Bomber
airframe being built by the Department of
Aircraft Production is made in our plants,
and we were recently gratified by the tribute
paid by that department in their Beaufort
Brochure to the assistance rendered by those
employed in this Company.
NATIONAL OUTLOOK
PROFITS SECONDARY.—The question of
profits has been a minor consideration in con-
nection with our war-time activities, and a
glance at the financial statement included in
this Report will reveal that profits during
this period are much less than in peace-time;
the main consideration of all concerned, mean-
ing investor, management, staff and workmen,
being to play their part and devote their
whole-hearted efforts to the prosecution of the
war. In 1938 we had an average monthly pay-
roll of 6000 people, and in 1942, in the year
just passed, the average was 9400, an increase
of more than 3000. In 1938, £1,500,000 was paid
out in salaries and wages as compared with
£3,200,000 in 1942.
ALL HAVE HELPED.—Our Service Depart-
ment contributed in the training of personnel
of the Fighting Services in motor vehicle
maintenance until the Army established its
own schools, and, in all, trained more than
1400 mechanics. A large number of textbooks
was produced for the training of mechanics
in the Services, while considerable data w r ere
despatched for the use of mechanics in the
New Zealand Army.
A large number of American tanks powered
with the General Motors’ Diesel engine is being
used by the Australian Army, and we have
assisted in the training of more than 200
mechanises for the Australian Armored Fight-
ing Division to enable them to handle
efficiently all types of Diesel engines.
At the request of the Australian Army our
Nasco Division, which handles our spare parts
business in normal times, took over the hand-
ling of all G.M.-H. spare parts for the Ser-
vices. A similar arrangement was followed
with the U.S. Army.
Apart from its direct war production, our
Manufacturing Division has also made its con-
tribution to the Government Training Plan
under the Munitions Programme by training
nearly 1400 shop operatives.
The Allison aero engine is the product of
General Motors in America, and is extensively
used in American fighter aircraft operating in
the South-West Pacific Zone. One of our
assembly plants was called upon to establish
an engine-servicing set-up to overhaul Allison
engines as quickly as possible in order that
the greatest number of fighting planes be
available for active service. A large number
of people are engaged in this essential work.
WITH THE FIGHTING SERVICES—In
addition to some 300 of our personnel who
have joined Government activities connected
with the war, 2000 of our organisation have
joined the Fighting Services. We shall do
everything in our power to ensure their re-
employment after the war.
EMPLOYEE WELFARE.—The question of
Employee Welfare has been given some keen
consideration, with the result that two benefit
plans have been introduced. An employee's
Group Life Assurance Plan has been inaugu-
rated which provides death and disablement
benefits to all personnel who enrol in the
scheme whilst employed by General Motors-
Holdens Ltd., which shares half the cost with
the employee, and thus reduces the employee’s
contribution to a relatively low cost.
A pension plan has also been arranged with
the National Mutual Life Association of Aus-
tralia Ltd., which provides retirement benefits
to salaried employees, and in which the com-
pany shares half the cost.
An important development is our endeavor
to develop suitable training schemes for the
employees. Technical education is supported
in the capital cities, and every effort is made
to encourage employees to improve their
knowledge and skill.
It is our constant policy to provide the best
possible working conditions for employees,
and all departments of this work are receiving
close attention.
POST-WAR CHALLENGE
POST-WAR PLANNING.—Our primary ob-
jective is to win the war, and no consideration
or preoccupation with anything else is
allowed to interfere with this primary pur-
pose. Nevertheless, some consideration must
be given to post-war planning, which, with
particular emphasis on that period immedi-
ately following the cessation of hostilities,
provides one of the most exciting challenges
that has ever come to Australia and Aus-
tralians.
Preparatory steps have already been taken
by the Company to explore ways and means
by which we can play our full part in the
change-over from a war-time to a peace-time
economy and render any assistance the Go-
vernment may require. There will be so
much to do and do quickly, not only in terms
of the need, but more particularly in terms of
providing immediate post-war employment.
One of the major contributions that could be
made at this time would be to have the ad-
vantage of the counselling of this Government
as to the direction in which we can now under-
take planning for this post-war period.
CONCLUSION. —The Directors would like to
place on record their appreciation of the
splendid co-operation extended by Officials of
the Services and Government Departments,
and by our hundreds of Suppliers and Sub-
contractors engaged with us in the -war-pro-
duction programme.
Excellent service has been rendered to the
community by our Dealer Organisation in
helping to maintain motor transport efficiency
throughout Australia, in addition to contri-
buting to the war-production programme. The
Government has recognised the importance of
maintaining motor transport by importing a
large number of commercial vehicles for re-
placement sales to essential users.
As we get more deeply into this condition of
war, there is the constant challenge of im-
provement, and we endeavor wherever possible
to search out where this improvement can be
brought about. Nevertheless, one of our most
serious problems, in which our employees
share our view’s, is to be able to economically
and efficiently plan our work, as a tremendous
strain is imposed on all concerned when pro-
jects keep stopping and re-starting. This
particularly applies to the men and _ women
engaged on the w’ork, who at one time are
asked to use all possible speed and
accelerate production and then are laid
off to be re-employed again shortly after-
wards on the same work. This, naturally,
leads to labor unrest. There seems to be room
for an improvement whereby joint planning
can take place between the Government, who
is requiring these materials, through its vari-
ous branches, and organisations, such as ours,
who are executing some of the w’ork. It is
not always appreciated that to re-start a pro-
ject or an item in manufacturing it takes
several months to get materials flowing again.
It is gratifying to record ’ that within the
organisation excellent relations have been
maintained with one another as between
management, operatives, technicians and
executives. All have worked in the true team
spirit, imbued with a common purpose—pro-
ducing more for Victory. From 1926 until the
end of 1942 —the year under review—we have
not lost a dav through industrial disturbances,
and this is indicative pf how everybody has
made his or her full contribution.
SALES REVENUE.
Turnover rnl
100.0% Total amount Billed for Goods and Services .. • • tll,o«u,o4U
% of From which the following amounts were paid as Cost
Turnover of Sales:
38.2% To Suppliers of Materials * non
23.0% „ Sub-Contractors for Work Performed o'-^oilvU
27.4% „ Employees for Wages and Salaries
2.0% „ Fixed Charges—Rent, Depreciation, Rates, etc. ..
3.1% „ Manufacturing Expenses .. .. • • •• •• roono
0.5% „ Utility Services (Gas, Electricity, Water, etc.) .. ob.iuu
0.8% „ Other Administration and Commercial Expense
(including Interest paid on Overdraft and Loans) ..
2.7% „ Taxes—Estimated, including Payroll Taxes .. • • oi~,ai i g 3g
2.3% Leaving Net Profit on Manufacturing and Trading .. .. •• £267,802
100.0%
To which is added: o mr.
Rents and Interest Received
Making Net Profit on Year’s Transactions £270,297
E.W. HOLDEN, Chairman.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Ibis Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
Directors.
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
F. W. HIXSON
CECIL H. DOYLE
JOHN EWING
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space with Compliments of
Makers of the Economy Sauce.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
aiOHOTJSOI
// ninth, nyl, >im 'irmf\4'"\'Vr xxvX v
3NIHSI 3NI S3WW
1399DN.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Post-war Homes
Since the war began Australians have
placed in the savings banks enough money
to build 92,000 homes costing £1000 each.
That is quite apart from the big money
that has also rolled into the trading banks,
which is not so definitely savings. In
the savings-bank figure alone there is food
for a great deal of thinking. At the
present time, partly because of a redistri-
bution of the population geographically
and partly because of a chronic shortage
of desirable housing in Australian cities,
there has developed a housing famine.
Just i)ow little can be done about it
because of the heavy drain on labor and
materials caused by war. Home-building
is down to about one per cent, of pre-war
averages in the capital-city areas. This
is only because of the difficulties placed in
the way of building. Immediately before
Government restrictions were placed on
building, activity in the suburbs of nearly
every capital was at a record level.
Of course, the war-time savings placed
in the banks are not in even deposits of
£1000. Instead of there being 92,000
such deposits there are several hundred
thousand at smaller, varying figures. But,
taken in with the £245 million that was
on deposit at the commencement of war,
the position has now undoubtedly arisen
where many tens of thousands of wage-
earning Australians are in a position to
put a substantial deposit on a house
in the £1000 class when the end of the
war releases the materials and man-
power necessary to carry out what they
want. Something of that kind at the right
time would be doing themselves and the
whole nation a good turn.
It is desirable for many reasons to
give every possible attention to the ques-
tion of housing. The ownership of a
house is an education in citizen rights
and responsibilities in itself. It has a
tendency to bring not only better national
government but better local government
as well. There is so much submersion
of the individual in the concentrated and
specialised industrial activity of the
present day that house-ownership or
something of the kind is a necessary
balance-weight in leading a rational life.
For the good of government the personal
stake in the country is invaluable. In-
flated rates and taxes, however wasteful
and unjustified, mean very little to the
occupier of a rented house ; he blames
the landlord for everything when rising
costs are passed on to him. And he is
encouraged by bad Government adminis-
trators to think that way. The ownership
of a house arouses a more intelligent in-
terest in public affairs.
It is along the lines of helping home-
building that many of those perturbed
about the present drift towards socialism
can do something to bring people back
to realities. Housing has many problems,
involving, as it does, either saving on the
part of the individual or his paying rent
all his life. He may like doing neither,
but, as capital is required to buy a house
or build one, the line of least resistance
is to pay rent, just as time-payment for
furniture and even clothes has found
many devotees, even though a costly way
to buy. Paying rent in the ordinary way
does not even bring eventual ownership.
But, with the assistance of preliminary
saving in the form of a reasonable de-
posit, a house may be paid off at little
more than a fair rent.
Building societies have been a great
help to home-hungry people in the past.
Prosaic institutions in themselves, with-
out much in the way of dividends to
shareholders, as a rule, many of them
have done a plain, simple job in economi-
cal finance that would be otherwise un-
available to the ordinary man. Such
societies have sometimes been assisted
by Governments, at other times greatly
hindered by Government mismanagement
of the national finances, while always
having to survive the effect of the doc-
trine of improvidence and thriftlessness as
preached by such as Labor Minister
Ward.
Before the present war started there
was a movement afoot, in N. S. Wales
and some other States, to provide money
for home-building, through the life offices
and some of the banks, under Govern-
ment guarantee. A great deal was done
by this means. When the war is over
there will be a further great rush to build,
and it is not too early to start preparing
for this now.
It may be that, apart from the return
of men from the battlefronts, there will
be another redistribution of population
as between city and country. Munition
workers may start on the trek back to
the dairy farms and the sheep stations, as
well as to those other rural occupations
that have either died out through the lack
of man-power or export markets or which
have been “rationalised” out of existence.
Thus the present housing shortage in cities
and towns may not be quite all it. seems.
But there will undoubtedly be a big
demand for modern cottages in the cities
resulting from definite pre-war shortages
and war-time and post-war marriages,
and the need to reconstruct old homes
will be accelerated by the present en-
forced neglect of such places resulting
from restrictions on expenditure and
shortage of suitable labor.
Post-war housing should be regarded
as a national matter —not as a political
plaything, but as a problem to which all
enterprise, public and private, should
devote some of its time. One aspect is
finance, which includes interest rates and
the use of war-time savings, which have
already reached inflationary proportions.
Another is local government, out of
which arises the matter of rates and taxes
to be paid by householders, as well as
some benefits to be received. A third
angle is building materials and building
methods, and in this regard big develop-
ments may be expected if various vested
interests are not allowed to stand in the
way. Concrete, properly handled, as in the
Dampney method, can reduce building
costs appreciably in the city and substan-
tially in country areas, where white-ants
are a menace to wooden houses. Gerald
Dampney at present is endeavoring to
organise his method on a national, non-
profit basis, and is looking for support
from the universities and the churches, as
well as other essential interests. Organ-
isation on non-profit lines is extremely
difficult, but Dampney’s effort represents
a challenge to those who have spoken
about the need for more and better hous-
ing without doing anything practical
about it.
Obviously, the walls of a house are not
the only cost; finishing it off and fur-
nishing it run off with money, too. Metals,
timber and, perhaps, plastics will have,
to be taken into consideration as well.
Labor, as always, will be a big item of
cost, and it will be just as much a vested
interest to cope with as any other.
But the possibilities, as well as the
problems, of housing after the war are
worth the fullest investigation. Inflation
in Australia has been partly controlled
by artificial means, but there is still a
great deal more inflation hanging fire,
ready to give evidence of itself as soon
as spending controls are released. Every
attraction should be given to the idea and
practice of putting banked-up war-time
savings into homes. Many of these sav-
ings are partly illusory by reason of the
increase in the national debt and inflation
in the price structure that has already
taken place, and it is therefore most
essential that post-war building be car-
ried out at the lowest possible cost. Help-
ing in this direction will be the present
comparatively low price of steel, cement,
lead, spelter and some other base metals.
It is wages and food and clothing prices
that have inflated most during this war.
Even if taxation be continued at a fairly
high level for some time after the war in
order to recover some of the stability lost
by present methods of war finance, a
nation-wide housing programme would
appear to have many recommendations
both as an employment-giver and an
absorber of released savings and new
spending power.
For the 11 months to May 31 war has
cost Australia £5Ol million, of which
£llß million has been paid for out of
revenue and the rest, £383 million, has
been met by borrowing and the use of
bank credit. The percentage paid for
out of revenue is 23.6 p.c., against a
Budget estimate of 28 p.c. for the full
year. It is possible, however, that by the
end of this month the Budget figure will
have been realised. Even so, it is a very
poor showing, this revenue percentage.
To finance war waste by borrowing to the
extent of upwards of 70 p.c. is not only
a disgrace but, as has been pointed out
here a hundred times, an exceedingly
grave danger not only to the war effort
now but to our future welfare, political
as well as economic. The £540 mfllion or
more that we shall have spent on war in
the year to the end of June represents
more than half the national income, and
there is another 10 p.c. or so of the
national income devoted to Federal civil
expenditure. Harnessed to this Govern-
ment control of our spending is Govern-
ment control of man-power and industry.
Chifley, Dedman, Ward and Forde are
the Ministers into whose hands most of
these powers Lave passed. Not one of
them has shown a full appreciation of
the responsibility that inevitably accom-
panies such great trusts.
* * * *
There is an almost frantic atmosphere
about the search for man- and woman-
power in Australia now. Questionnaires
and call-ups are going out to women, and
rigid regulations apply to the private
employment of even elderly people. The
making of lounge suites has been stopped
in the furniture trade, and engage-
ment rings were put on the prohibited
list. In the meantime great waste of man-
power is going on. It is happening in
many cases because administration is in
the hands of men who have got their
jobs through political influence or because
they have been a long time in a civil-
service job, often of a rubber-stamp or
stamp-licking type. There is lack of co-
ordination not only between departments
but also between sections of departments,
and between some departments there is
almost hostility. The basis on which most
Government departments operate is that
of fear, not efficiency or enterprise, and
with fear the guiding force it is almost
impossible to get anyone to accept
responsibility for matters not completely
in accord with some regulation or other.
There is a ponderous, futile attitude
about the operations of many Govern-
ment offices, and there is a great waste
of staff. It is a waste that lives on waste,
and daily more and more superfluous
man-power is being sucked into non-
productive jobs. In the meantime the
Government which is crying out for more
man-power is the one which supports (or
is the servant of) trade unions which
advocate limited production, impose
quotas on the amount of work a man
may. do, however capable and willing he
may be, and which call their workers out
on strike for the most trivial and petu-
lant reasons. There is altogether too
much sham, subterfuge and expediency
in the present Federal Administration
for there ever to be freedom from
deficiencies in matters of man-power,
money and production.
* * * *
Speaking in the Canadian Commons
on the SIOOO million gift to the Allied
Nations, Finance Minister Ilsley said:
“The first means by which we provided
dollars to Britain was that of paying our
debts before they were due. The next
was merely to allow pounds sterling to
accumulate to our credit. Later these
sterling balances were converted into a
loan to Britain, interest free for the dura-
tion of the war. Finally we provided a
free gift of a billion dollars, assuming
this as part of our share of the cost of
the war. This billion dollars has now
been exhausted. Other means must be
found to continue providing Britain with
the large volume of essential war supplies
she requires from Canada.” Saying that
the vital flow of arms to the fighting
fronts must not be diverted or obstructed
by financial considerations, Ilsley added:
“Nor should it give rise to huge war
debts between nations, debts which can-
not be liquidated without destroying
trade, debts whose very existence will
undermine international understanding
and goodwill.”
* * * *
Up to May 12, Bond’s Industries,
Sydney, allotted 353,000 prefs. and 67,300
ords., a total of 420,300 shares, in ex-
change for £420,300 of debentures
surrendered. The conversion offer was
one of 100 6 p.c. prefs. or 80 prefs. and
20 ords. in exchange for each debenture.
The debenture issue is £512,000, the un-
converted portion of which is to be paid
off as “soon as possible.” At the moment
a person converting a £IOO debenture
into 80 prefs. and 20 ords. could sell out
for about £ll4. The ords. are at 275.,
the prefs. at 225.


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
a
POT YO°R . |RS
SuSIHESS WJW RS
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
smimeovDELUco
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
STATE EXPRESS
®£umysp&ade i
/
m
i%es
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds,
1959 D-11 42
Part of our
Contribution to Unity
B.T.M. Rivets t of Cold-Drawn Precision Steel Tubes unite
Australian M aircraft components into tough, powerful,
warplanes. B.T.M. itself is symbolic of unity,
as it represents a combination of British and Australian
free united to serve the confederation
of all free people. When Victory is
won, B.T.M. will have much to
contribute % to a greater, more
prosperous \| Australia.
to.v
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A U S T.) P T Y. LTD.
ADELAIDE
' iKx-- i:
:
SAVINGS
BUY
WAR
CERTIFICATES
Gold Dumps and Taxation
The widow of A. M. Henderson, who
before his death was a metallurgist who
modified existing methods of treating
gold dumps, and adapted them to dumps
which he had tested and assayed, recently
took to the High Court a claim by the
Taxation Commissioner for tax on in-
come from a transaction in gold dumps.
The department contended that re-treat-
ment- of gold dumps was not mining,
that Henderson was not a prospector, and
that the sale of rights represented taxable
income. On Dudley Williams, J., finding
against the Commissioner, the department
appealed. The appeal was unanimously
dismissed by Latham, C.J., and Rich and
Starke, Js.
The Commissioner claimed tax on
£3900, representing the par value of
3900 out of 6000 fully-paid £1 shares
which Gold Dumps Pty., Ltd. (an off-
shoot of Placer Development), agreed to
allot to Henderson in return for his
interest in some dumps at Carisbrook
(Vic.). Henderson had previously paid
tax on 2100 of these shares. Tax wa§
also claimed in respect of £IOOO paid in
calls on other shares in Gold Dumps,
this sum having been previously allowed
as a deduction under the well-known con-
cession to investors in mining cos.
On behalf of the taxpayer it was con-
tended that the £6OOO was income derived
by a bona fide prospector from “the sale,
transfer or assignment of his rights to
mine for gold,” and was therefore
exempt, in accordance with Section 23
of the Act; alternatively, that the
£6OOO was not, income, in that the
property was not acquired for resale ;
and that the £IOOO paid in calls was an
allowable deduction, as the co. was carry-
ing on mining operations for gold. An-
other factor which entered into the case
was the statutory exemption of gold-
mining income from taxation.
Williams, J., found that Henderson
“acquired his share and interest in these
dumps with a view to testing them to
ascertain their gold content, and, if the
test proved satisfactory, to selling this
share and interest at a profit.” But he
also found that Henderson was a pros-
pector. Referring to the evidence of
V. T. Edquist, of Bewick, Moreing and
Cos., on the various treatment methods
in mining, he said the only difference
between the treatment of tailings, etc.,
in the ordinary way and that which took
place at Carisbrook was that the latter
occurred after an interval of 30 years
(the last material dumped was in 1906).
“I find that the sale of the share and
interest of the deceased in the dumps was
a sale of a right to mine in a particular
area, and that the co. at the time the
calls were made was carrying on mining
operations for gold.”
On appeal, Latham, C.J., pointing out
that the taxpayer had first of all assigned
his rights in the dumps to Clutha Develop-
ment for royalties, and had then trans-
ferred the rights to those royalties to
Gold Dumps for shares, said, “Instead of
selling out the enterprise of working the
dumps he stayed in that enterprise and,
instead of realising his rights in order to
make a profit, dealt with the property by
assisting the formation of a co. in order
to obtain the capital necessary to make
the royalty rights profitable and to en-
able him to derive income therefrom.”
The evidence did not show, in his
opinion, that Henderson acquired these
rights for the purpose of resale at a
profit. He had become director and
general manager of Gold Dumps. In
view of his finding on this count it be-
came unnecessary to decide whether
Henderson was a bona fide prospector
or not. On the question of whether the
co. was engaged in mining or not the
Chief Justice said:
Mr. Edquist agreed that if material such
as concentrates or tailings had been re-
moved from the place where it was pro-
duced and treated at some other place (for
example, if it were removed from Broken
Hill to Port Pirie) the treatment at the
latter place would not be described as a
mining operation, though the same process
at the place of origin would be described
as part of the mining operations. Wil-
liams, TANARUS, accepted this evidence, and I
agree that the work done by Gold Dumps
Pty. constituted a mining operation
In my opinion the appeal of the Taxation
Commissioner should be dismissed.
Rich, J., was “in substantial agree-
ment” with the Chief Justice.
Starke, J., agreed that Gold Dumps was
carrying on mining operations, and
found that “no doubt the acquisition of
the slum dumps was for a profit-making
purpose, not by way of sale but by way
of royalties or dividends on shares.” By
the sale to Gold Dumps Henderson simply
changed his right to royalties into rights
to dividends from shares, and in the
process became a director and general
manager of the new co. As to the ques-
tion of whether Henderson was a bona
fide prospector or not, “to call a person
who assays dumps for the purpose of
determining whether they are worth re-
treating by improved methods a pros-
pector is a novel use of the word, and
one, I am persuaded, quite contrary to
the accepted meaning of the word in
English and among mining men.”
* Summed up, Judge Williams found that
Henderson was a bona fide prospector
within the meaning of the Income Tax
Act, Judge Starke found that he was not,
the Chief Justice was able to give a de-
cision without touching on this point,
and Judge Rich “substantially agreed”
with the Chief Justice. As to whether
Henderson had acquired the property for
resale at a profit, Williams decided that
he had, Latham and Starke found that
he had not. All were agreed that Gold
Dumps Pty. was engaged in goldmining.
As to the 2100 shares on which Hen-
derson “for some reason” had paid tax,
Judge Williams said “it is a question for
the Commissioner and not this Court
whether a refund can and ought to be
made.” Judge Starke said “the Court is
powerless to correct that assessment in
these proceedings, but I should think the
Commissioner will himself make the
necessary correction when he learns the
assessment was contrary to law.” Others
besides Mr. Henderson’s widow will
await with interest the Commissioner’s
decision.


THE SERVICE MAN
Pantellaria and After.
“Ek Dum”: Pantellaria, until recently
an obscure island in the Sicilian Channel,
came into the news with a bang when
the Axis armies were crushed in Tunisia.
Tens of thousands of English-speaking
passengers had seen the islet and doubtless
forgotten it. It would fit into Sydney be-
tween the harbor and Botany Bay and
between Homebush and the sea.
Pantellaria appears with great sudden-
ness to those who see it for the first time
—camouflage artists might be able
to explain why. It does not melt out of
the distance. It rises quickly, soaring up
to 3000 feet or so.
In early morning a cloud halo hangs
round its peaks. Surf beats against its
black-lava cliffs. The north-western tip
is (or was) flatter than the rest, as if it
had been trodden on by a large cow. A
jetty sticks out into a quarter-circle bay
—or did. Little boats with reddish sails
heaved lazily on a skim-milk colored sea.
Before war came to it Pantellaria was
cultivated to its very summits. Not a
scrap of the scenery was wasted. The
little homesteads and orchards conveyed
an impression of solid green.
Ashore there were donkeys ; also fi£-
trees and vines. The donkeys were very
good ; so were the figs and raisins. There
seemed to be no birds. Perhaps Musso’s
subjects had eaten them all, as they eat
even the sparrows in some districts which
they frequent in Australia. High up in
a crystalline air you climbed and looked
down on the flatfish basin of a central
volcano.
There are two channels in the strait.
The north one, between Pantellaria and
Sicily, is one in which no slightly-sober
seaman should be abroad in a fog. Its
course is charted by banks named after
ships which have gone to rest on them—
Madrepore Bank, Terrible Bank, Adven-
ture Bank.
The southern channel is clear and is
much favored by skippers.
Unlike Malta, Pantellaria has no great
naval harbor and no terrain suitable
for large airfields. Its population was
only 7000 in normal times against
Malta’s 280,000. It is half the size
of Malta. It is closer to con-
quered Africa than to Italy. Indeed,
in Italian hands, it had no importance
save as an observation post which could
watch Allied shipping and as a port to
which submarines or small motor-boats
might slip from Sicily during the night
and grab an odd British freighter in the
African Channel.
As a jumping-off point for invasion of
Sicily, which lies, at the nearest point, 62
miles away from it, it would be about as
much use as a barrage balloon or as the
broken pencil point which it looks like
at a distance. Malta is much nearer Italy
and a far more logical starting point for
attack on northern Sicily.
The “New Gibraltar”
For six years, it has been asserted,
Pantellaria was forbidden ground to
prying strangers, because it was being
turned into a Gibraltar. How much of
a Gibraltar is shown by the fact that
British ships sidled up to within a few
hundred yards of the half-moon of town
and wharf when they bombarded them.
From the first week in May the island
had a bad doing. Its peaks were wreathed
in smoke. What guns it had were
silenced, and the green hillsides were
gashed by bombs and shells. It had to
be, because Pantellaria on each side com-
mands the two bottlenecks through the
Sicilian Strait, and command of the Medi-
terranean could not be complete with-
out control of the island.
Battered several times by ships of the
Royal Navy, hammered daily by Flying
Fortresses, Pantellaria was twice sum-
moned to surrender, but the garrison
would not give in. Finally Air Marshal
Tedder assembled every aircraft he could
command in lively assortment —about
1000 —and issued orders for an attack
which proved decisive.
About noon on June 11 a covey .of
Fortress crews saw a white cross on Pan-
tellaria’s ’drome and a white flag in the
hills. They flew back to Africa without
dropping their bombs. British troops
went ashore at the port on the sheltered
north-west of the island and received the’
surrender of the isolated garrison of
about 10,000, all Italians, including 3000
who were on their way to the Italian
mainland.
Those of the British force which waited
through the early morning to land in the
little port after the ’planes had done their
final deadly work found no town to land
in. The wharf area had been built into
a heap of dust; the main streets were
not there; the whole area back to the
hills was alternate crater and rubble
mound.
The watchers from the sea had had
their first sight of a 1943 bombardment
by heavies, and even the veterans of the
British First Division, which had fought
all the way from Flanders, were awed
by the terrible destruction.
After the surrender a few coveys of
German Stukas attacked the landing
parties fruitlessly.
Lampedusa and Lanosa
From Pantellaria the conquerors turned
to the little islands of Lampedusa and
Linosa, forming the Pelage group, 100
miles s.-w. of Malta. They were sur-
rendered Lampedusa had been beaten to
pieces from the air.
Rome alleged that the Luftwaffe, at-
tacking naval formations in the Sicilian
Straits, had sunk an 8000-ton transport
and seriously damaged three cruisers, 14
smaller naval vessels and six cargo ships.
But nobody paid much attention.
The Italian Approaches
The story of Pantellaria, like that of
Malta, should give food for thought to
amateur strategists. If so great a concen-
tration of fire was necessary before a
landing was attempted on a small isolated
isle in sight of great Allied bases,
with about a division in charge and
only one futile aerodrome, stern doings
are in the offing when Sicily and Sar-
dinia, Corsica and the toe of Italy have
to be assaulted and are seriously defended.
The approaches to the Italian main-
land are bad. They are centres of con-
gested population. Sicily is mountainous,
its peaks topped by white-capped Etna,
which rises nearby 10,000 feet above sea
level. Its 10,000 square miles hold
4,000,000 people—anything but an ad-
vantage to civilised invaders.
If the Sicilian route is followed before
the plunge to the mainland the invaders
must pack themselves past the slopes of
Etna into a narrow peninsula which holds
the end of the Nebrodici Range and the
city of Messina. From here their way
is across the straits of Messina to Reggio
and into the Calabrian toe of Italy. Here
they must force their way up a 150-mile-
long peninsula which has a rough back-
bone of ranges, is highly susceptible to
central defence and for the first 80 miles
is rarely more than 20 miles wide. Then
it widens out to nearly 60 miles. The
Italians have naval bases on each side,
great by Italian standards.
Even assuming success all along the
line, the advancing troops would need
frequent pauses for consolidations and
for the bringing up of supplies and
repair of aerodromes, so as to maintain
continuously the vitally necessary air
cover. Other approaches to Italy proper
are over 300 to 400 miles of sea.
Invasion Problems
A division of 12,000 to 15,000 moved
from shore bases needs six normal trains
to carry its men, two freight trains for
medical stores, food, etc., and 1216 10-
ton railway wagons to handle 179,000
packing-cases of fighting equipment. At
sea this mass has to be taken care of by
seven 10,000-ton ships, which must all
move together and be brought to land
under guard of a considerable sea and
air escort. Divisional equipment and
man-power are largely separate from air
co-operation units and subsidiaries.
An invasion of Italy by 40 divi-
sions, which would be a small force for
such a purpose, seeing that about half
that number were needed to conquer
Tunisia, would call for 280 10,000-ton
ships and the equivalent of 48,400 10-
ton railway trucks a string which
on rails would be over 200 miles long,
plus tractive units, plus fuel and drivers
and their ancillaries. These would have
to handle time and time again along the
route 7,160,000 packing-cases, some of
them weighing tons from base to base,
with all the incidental sea and land load-
ing and unloading.
In Eastern Europe the war has been
slowed down to a stalemate again and
again by the inability of either side to
handle these problems with decisive
expedition. In order to cover transport
needs both Germans and Russians have
resorted to old-fashioned carts and pony-
packs for short hauls.
The Axis, defending Italy, has the ad-
vantage in communications and trans-
port on its side, if it has supplies—and
stamina. To a hopeful A.B.C. “expert”
it seems likely that, the moment the
Allies land, Musso’s armies will retire
hastily halfway up the Italian peninsula,
establish defence lines across the Apen-
nines in the region of Florence and begin
a Fabian campaign of delaying actions.
The problem that Italy presents can
be left with confidence to the men who
wrecked the enemy in North Africa, and
that goes for invasion of other parts of
Europe from the south. They won’t rush
heedlessly into any such operation.
At the same time it is not at all certain
that Italy will be the main or the only
target. Every Axis island or port in the
Mediterranean has reason to tremble as
it views the fate of Pantellaria, though
the larger ones, such as Crete and
Rhodes, are more defendable.
A speech by President Inonu, of Tur-
key, during the week, followed by the
announcement that Admiral Sir John
Cunningham, British Naval C.-in-C. in
the Eastern Mediterranean, had arrived
in Ankara for staff talks, may have a
bearing on the venue for some early
Mediterranean clash of magnitude.
President Inonu said to the Parliament :
“We expect the Assembly to meet com-
ing events with steadfastness, and, if
necessity so orders, not to shrink from
taking all necessary measures for the
sake of our country. We shall go for-
ward with one goal before us —the pre-
servation of our homeland if and
when necessity arises it will be our duty
to make use of all our resources on land
and sea and in the air.”
The entry of Turkey as a belligerent
would alter the whole complexion of the
war. It would provide a land bridge
over which the Axis could be attacked,
and an all-weather sea route by which
Russia could be succored.
More Death from the Air.
“Ek Dum”: The transformation of
Europe’s war in the past few months has
been something to watch. First the kernel
of it was the Eighth Army with new
equipment, new methods and a new drive
and swiftness and neatness of execution
that transcended anything that Germany
had been able to show.
Then came the R.A.F. with a sky full
of bombers such as the world had never
seen. A year ago a leaven of machines
designed in the days of the “appeaser”
Chamberlain, with large numbers of
two-engined old faithfuls, showed
Cologne for the first time what mass
bombing meant.
Within the succeeding months there
was a giant replacement of machines.
When the raiding season came each new
set of raids was followed by a short re-
organisation period while new formations
were absorbed, new aerodromes were put
into work to hold the giants, the work of
•new ground crews and new Lancaster
and Stirling pilot crews was checked over
and battle drill was perfected. Those
who wonder why raids on the Dortmund,
Diisseldorf and Essen scale are not con-
tinued night by night have no conception
of the immensity of the preparations
needed for such blasts, of the need not
to overtax key men involved in every
raid, of the calls on reserves, the huge
checking and fuelling and overhaul jobs
required to keep major air units in con-
tinuous operation.
The task of sending several hundred
Lancasters into action is comparable with
the task of sending in several scores of
small destroyers. Limitation of aero-
drome space in a little country packed
with troops and the needs of trans-
port and rearrangement of fuel and
other supplies over chocked and
roaring roads and railways which,
as an . incidental task, are called
upon to move 1,000,000 troops each
week present enormous difficulties. And
there is a limit on the numbers of
machines which can be used in any case,
for skilled ground crews are still at a
premium. Every Lancaster which goes
out carries a crew of seven, trained as
never football sides were trained, and
leaves behind another crew of highly-
trained mechanical nurses several times
its own size. Every Spitfire which sails
into the sky has half a dozen personal
nurses on the ground.
As for space, to garage 1000 Lancas-
ters, Stirling or Halifaxes, noses, tails and
wings touching, calls for 160 acres at
least.
Each expedition to the Ruhr is com-
parable in organisation with a sizable
land battle, and the results are more
deadly than most battles.
On Every Front
The R.A.F.’s fighting during the last
few months has been worldwide. Last
week there were British ’planes fighting
the U-boat menace on all the Atlantic
approaches and right across the North
Sea. There were R.A.F. machines blast-
ing communications all over northern
France and the Lowlands, and playing
the same disruptive sort of game that
German fighters play over south-coast
towns of England. There were special
squadrons chasing along railways look-
ing for trains. There were hundreds of
machines out from Birmingham to Burma
on reconnaissance or guard duty. There
were photographer ’planes following up
most operations. Torpedo bombers
soared looking for ships. Squadrons of
fighters hung like leaves in the sky in a
dozen areas of the Channel and the
Mediterranean, above mixed offensive
outfits which served a double purpose both
as destroyers and bait. Hundreds more
long-distance craft picked up convoys
and saw them safely in, or saw them off
to Murmansk or Australia.
At the same time minefields off enemy
estuaries were repaired. The busy ferry
service from America shuttled its
machines forward to take their places in
the battle line, backward to the repair
and replacements shops of Canada and
U.S.A. Transport machines carried their
urgently-needed freight loads to North
Africa. Military passenger lines were
busy. All these activities call for space
and man-power.
Hundreds more aircraft were rolling
new off the construction lines ; hundreds
more were under repair or overhaul. The
trainers in Canada alone were making
10,000 flights per day. Thousands of
pilots were receiving their finishing
touches for active service.
These activities, employing perhaps a
couple of million men over a line from
Chittagong to the farther Atlantic and
the Russian north, are being carried on
side by side with immense naval effort
and the building and equipment of huge
armies.
And the American Air Force has
begun to swell the bombers’ chorus,
though it has only reached the threshold
of large-scale bombing and general
aggression compared with the R.A.F.
Back on the Ruhr
On June 11 the R.A.F. resumed its
heavy attacks on the Ruhr with a very
heavy raid on Diisseldorf, in which con-
siderably more than the previous record
of 2000 tons of bombs was dropped. A
smaller force attacked Munster, and
200 American heavy bombers raided
Wilhelmshaven and Cuxhaven ; they shot
down a number of German fighters and
losing eight machines.
The R.A.F. in its Ruhr-Miinster attacks
found its objectives heavily defended
and lost 43 bombers. But the damage
was fully in keeping with the bomb-load.
On the following night another heavy
force sowed death and destruction in
Bochum, which lies sandwiched between
devastated Essen and Dortmund. In the
last raid on Dortmund 160 acres of city
was blotted out, including sections of
great works. Bochum had absorbed 1000
tons of explosive and steel on May 13.
In the June 12 raid other targets in
the Ruhr were attacked. Twenty-four
bombers were lost.
U.S. heavies ranged to Bremen and
Kiel in force, and bombers and fighters
blasted Caen and Rouen. The Americans
lost 26 bombers and two fighters, but took
their toll of the enemy.
German raiding of southern English
towns goes on nearly every day. A ten-
mile defence strip fringing the narrowest
parts of the Channel, from the
Dorset coast eastward —in effect, Eng-
land’s front line —is the main target,
and the raiders come from ’dromes
in France, five minutes away. F.W.
190’s swoop to roof level, skip-bomb
and machine-gun the streets, and try to
return before the fighters can get at them.
The object of these raids is disorganisa-
tion. As a rule, a few men or women
are killed and a few houses or shops are
wrecked, but the effect on morale is nil.
In May 252 British bombers were lost
over Germany and western Europe. The
total for five months was 847. These
figures are official.
Australia's Northern War.
“Ek Dum”: Activity in the northern
area was confined last week to widespread
air attacks. They increased in scale and
quickened in tempo with improvements
in the weather, but the splendid fellows
engaged had still to deal with storms and
bad visibility in the New Guinea area.
In the darkness of the morning of
June 7 Fortresses.and Liberators started
fires at Madang, Lae and Wewak, and
a Liberator fired two out of three barges
caught off the Wewak coast. And there
was lively activity by light bombers in
the Mubo area.
Next day activity reached from
Kavieng, on the northern tip of New
Ireland, to Waingapoe, on Soemba, 600
miles north of Broome. It was from here
that Exmouth Gulf (W.A.) was raided
recently.
The Liberators made a 1600-mile round
trip to get at Waingapoe. They caught
a 5000-ton cargo vessel and two trans-
ports of between 3000 and 4000 tons and


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria,. Farmer. Son or
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anvone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
SS MESSRS. CLARKE & CAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria? ___
SHANAHAN, William. —Son of Michael Shana-
han and Mary Ann Ryan, formerly of Corsair
Street, Richmond, born about 1867, and last
heard of about 1902. He or his children
will hear something to advantage if he or
they communicate with NATIONA.L TRUSTEE
COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DENNIS S. WARWICK (Sandy), S.A., Royal
Navy; missing from Singapore in the S.o.
Anking, February, 1942. Any information
gratefully received by his mother, MRS.
WARWICK, 31 Shirehali Lane, Hfendon,
N.W.4, England.
SCOTT’. —Estate of WILLIAM SCOTT, late ot
Wellington (N.Z.), formerly a labourer, but lat-
erly a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in
noxing circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at
me time worked on the N S.W. railways and
he Woronora Dam). Would Jack or D Arcy
Scott, brothers of the abovenamed, or anyone
snowing their present whereabouts or anyone
claiming kinship with thedeceased.please coni;
municate with the DISTRICT PUBL
TRUSTEE, Wellington, N.Z.? „
ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON.
MR. ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON, or any-
me having any information as to his present
iddress, is kindly asked to communicate with
he undersigned, who has information to tne
advantage of Mr. Heighton regarding the estate
af his aunt. Mr. Heighton, if living, will be
about 70 years of age, and was last
hk sister in Auckland in 1891. —IKUor
MANAGER, the New Zealand Insurance Com-
pany, Limited, Queen Street, Auckland,
Zealand. . __—.
3SEN, John, formerly of Bendigo, last
ard of in Orange, New South Wales, who,
alive would be aged about 70 years. Son
Herman (or Gottfried) Rosen and Margaiet
asen Would he or his children (if any) or
yone knowing A °fhim or them please com-
nnicate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
LNY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
) EDWARD JAMES WILSON formerly
Balston Street North Melbourne in the -State
Victoria but now of parts unknown Laborer
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Agnes
-jrothy Wilson has instituted proceedings for
divorce on the ground ot de| rertron UNLESS
iu enter an appearance in fhe office °fth
othonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel
Sme on or before the Twenty-second day
Julv 1943 the case may proceed in your
tsence IF you intend to defend this suit you
ust also file an answer in the said offi« on
before tlie First day of August 1943 AJN u
JRTHER TAKE NOTICE that, the sealed
nv Petition and copy Citation in this sui
ay be inspected at the office of the Petitioner s
fficitor JOAN ROSANOVE 415 Bourke Street
elbourne Solicitor for the Petitioner.
CD
am
a gunboat in harbor. Damage was caused
to one of the ships below the waterline.
Off Kavieng another convoy of three
5000-ton ships, a freighter of 2000 to
4000 tons and two gunboats proceeding
towards Rabaul was spotted and at-
tacked.
On Wednesday a Liberator scored two
hits with 500-pounders at Nabire, on
Geelvink Bay. The explosions jarred the
aircraft at 12,000 feet. About 200 miles
further on, at Manokwari, on the north-
western mouth of the bay, nearly 1000
miles from Moresby, bombs were dropped
on the barracks area.
Thursday’s raid on Rabaul was carried
out at night with one of the largest forces
of heavies used for months. The attack
lasted 2\ hours, and nearly 40 tons of
bombs were dropped. Lieut.-General
Kenney remarked that the damage must
have been heavy.
These attacks were followed by the
heaviest raid so far undertaken in the
north-western sector. Fifteen Liberators
in an afternoon attack left targets in the
town, harbor and supply area broken and
blasted by the impact of a 42-ton load.
Eight fighters attacked the Liberators,
which shot down three without suffering
loss. Rabaul’s Vunakanau and Rapopo
aerodromes were attacked and wide dam-
age done in dispersal areas where 149
’planes were seen. There was great search-
light activity, and three night fighters
were seen.
On Saturday four Lightnings on patrol
off Madang had a 10-minute fight with
20 “Os.” They shot down one, and prob-
ably another, without loss..
Sunday’s raiding was confined to the
arc between Geelvink Bay and Koepang.
The largest damage was done in the Arus,
where R.A.A.F. Beaus caught a squad-
ron of float ’planes napping, shot one
down in the air and six on the water and
damaged two others.
The feature of the patrol reports
throughout the week was the number of
small ships seen at various points and
the obvious growth of enemy aerodrome
organisation without any corresponding
air activity.
There were many signs of preparation
for reawaking battle all through the South
Pacific, and events seem likely to move
on a greater scale in the Solomons and
elsewhere.
On June 13 25 “O” fighters were shot
down for a loss of six U.S. aircraft
in a furious battle near Russell Island in
which 40 to 50 enemy machines took part.
Eight more “Os” probably were de-
stroyed.
U.S. Naval Secretary Knox declared
on June 10 ’that on the Pacific front ‘.‘one
of the strongest American fleets” ever
assembled was in being.
But the action of the N.Z. Government
in arranging to hold elections in Sep-
tember does not suggest that Maoriland
expects the South Pacific to be involved
in tremendous movements for the next
three months.
Mr. Curtin and Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: A year ago, after the
Coral Sea battle, the Prime Minister in
a War Loan advertisement declared:
Every hour, every day Australia stands
in peril We are in a tight spot from
which we will escape only if we prove
ourselves worthy.
This has been the keynote of most of
the utterances of responsible Ministers
during the past year, though their out-
look varies with local events—the Japs
apparently respond in their nastiest
manner to the imminence of a loan cam-
paign, a new taxation proposal or the
meeting of Parliament.
At the beginning of August, 1942, Mr.
Curtin was less gloomy. He had just
agreed to the diversion of equipment to
Russia, and he explained that “Australia’s
obligations as a member of the fighting
nations” were “to share the perils of a
common cause, and not to ask for more
aeroplanes at the expense of China or
Russia or the Middle East than were
allocated by the decision of the combined
Chiefs of Staffs.” Their obligation was
“not to look at this or that theatre of
war but at the war in total.”
Ws must share the perils of this war; we
must share- in its shortages. We cannot
expect to be placed in a special sanctuary by
ourselves.
This was the last that was heard of
reassuring talk until a few days ago. The
enemy advanced over the Owen Stanleys.
Milne Bay was saved. Buna and Gona
were regained. But the cost was serious,
and so also was the cost of victory in
the Solomons; and our casualties in the
Papua campaign were nearly all suffered
by our best fighters, battlewise officers
and men from the Middle East.
Meanwhile between March 1 and June
7 the Allies found 49 fresh objectives
to bomb in the New Guinea and Aru
and Timor Sea areas. And Australian
Ministers kept on insisting that Australia
was in danger.
Mr. Curtin himself declared in April
that the Government “accepted global
strategy in so far as it conditioned Aus-
tralia’s employment as an offensive base
until Hitler was beaten,” but it “did not
accept a flow of materials, notably air-
craft, which does not measure up to the
requirement of a holding war.”
Dr. Evatt the U.S.A. that sup-
plies were so short that it had been “im-
possible to follow up victories. The
South-west Pacific Command had been
compelled to allow the enemy to recover
from blows which made him stagger.”
General MacArthur’s Warning
On April 15 a spokesman for General
MacArthur was heard:
A great Japanese offensive fleet is main-
tained at Truk, 800 miles from Rabaul, out
of range of Allied aerial attack. For several
months past 250,000 tons of merchant ship-
ping has been in and around Rabaul. The
Japanese bases on the southern arc, Palau
[l5OO miles from Darwin], Manila, Soura-
baya [lOOO miles from the Westralian
coast], are within easy concentration range
of the 2500-mile battle-line across North
Australia.
General Blarney’s estimate that there are
200,000 [enemy] troops and a powerful
force of combat troops in the archipelago
north of Australia is conservative. Except
for our submarine activities, which are
not to be discounted, the Japanese have
complete control of the sea lanes of the
western Pacific and of the outer approaches
to Australia. Control of such sea lanes no
longer depends primarily on naval power.
Our first line of defence is our bomber line.
Forde, then To jo
More than a fortnight later Mr. Forde
echoed these words, except that he spoke
of “more than 200,000 men” and “more
than 1500 aircraft.”
Then a Jap Imperial Information
Bureau spokesman held forth after a visit
of General To jo to the Philippines and
other occupied islands:
The establishment of great strategic bases
north and north-east of Australia, in the
East Indies, in Timor, in New Guinea and
in the Solomon Islands, is finished and will
pave the way for the unprecedented and
enormous operations of offensive which
are shortly to be carried out. In all
centres the counter-offensives of the enemy
have been crushed, and in the 3100-miles
war area over which Japan has established
her bases her offensive will begin. Aus-
tralia is in a nervous condition she fears
Japan’s might with good cause.
Overseas Irritation
Mr. Joseph Harsch, of the “Christian
Science Monitor,” reported in mid-April
that there were objections in high quar-
ters in Washington to; the Commonwealth
Government’s continued appeals, to the
restriction of the ambit of militia service
and to withdrawal of the Ninth Division
from the Middle East.
The Calcutta “Statesman,” edited by
Arthur Moore, a former “Times” man
who knows Australia, opened fire on
Sunday, April 18, in a leading article in
which it declared that “the cross-talk
between Sydney and Washington would
be laughable had it not its serious
side”:
Publicity methods in the s.-w. Pacific
have always been peculiar. Allied losses in
aircraft are seldom stated, and are not
given now. No other war theatre has fol-
lowed a comparable policy of secrecy about
air operations. It may have valid cause,
but this has not been publicly stated, and it
must necessarily cause public disquiet if,
as one recent statement suggests, Allied
combat forces are now outnumbered five
to one
Heavy bombers may be flown to Aus-
tralia from the U.S.A. in stages. But this
is impossible with fighters. If Australia
is short of fighters, her situation is likely
to be difficult despite the lemarkable ex-
ploits of the Flying Fortresses.. . .What-
ever may be Washington’s opinion of
Australia’s resources, present or future,
there can be no doubt that General Mac-
Arthur’s broad-term description of her
strategic problems [i.e., the statement
quoted about the Truk offensive fleet] was
sound.
“Mr. Curtin,” the article proceeded,
“insists that, in spite of activities else-
where, Japan has no other major theatre
of action than the Australian perimeter,
and that it would be an illusion to think
that the recent reverses she had suffered
had fundamentally changed her plans.”
It was mentioned also that Mr. Drake-
ford “talked in a similar strain”—which
he undoubtedly did at that time—and to
the Calcutta “Statesman” writer it seemed
“incredible that Japan will go on plug-
ging away at Australia for the same
small bitter rewards she has won hitherto:
Taking all statements at their face value,
a race seems to be in progress between
Japanese ships and U.S. aeroplanes. But
the statements so conflict, and have done
so over such a long period, that many
are now' tending to attach no credence
to either. This is bad. The race, if it is
on, will, we trust, be to the swift.
%
Within the next month, there was little
evidence that anybody felt assured that
the threat of invasion to Australia had
disappeared.
Washington officials said that a largely
increased number of aircraft would be
sent to the South Pacific, and Mr. Curtin
confirmed this and declared that Dr.
Evatt was negotiating for machines to
double the R.A.A.F. when personnel was
available. Mr. Drakeford said on June
1 that “blows by Japan are but precursors
of greater and more intense efforts that
will surely come... .Japan is steadily
building up her striking power in the
islands north of Australia” —this despite
the fact that “our balance sheet in the
Pacific shows a magnificent record on
the credit side.”
Sir Thomas Blarney on June 8 told
troops that “we must be steeled and
strong to save all we hold precious and
good from any attempt made by a race
of people nearer to the beast class than
anything we have met before.”
On June 6 at an A.L.P. conference in
Sydney, Mr. Curtin said:
As the result of representations by the
Government and General MacArthur, which
were supported by a mission to Washing-
ton, headed by General MacArthur’s Chief
of Staff, considerably increased assist- •
ance has been promised to the South-west
Pacific area. The defeat of Hitler first
precludes a full-scale offensive action for
the defeat of the Japanese. The aim must
be to pierce the arc of bases held by the
Japanese, to force their withdrawal, or to
isolate them in sections for later destruc-
tion.
On June 10 the P.M. issued another
statement:
I had a meeting with the Commander-in-
Chief in the South-w’est Pacific area, General
Douglas MacArthur, in Sydney on June 7.
It was a good day, and from the viewpoint
of Australia I feel that the pressure on this
country is to be thrown back on the
enemy The holding war imposed on us
under circumstances of great difficulty has
been an obligation under global strategy
which has been discharged.
As in the case of Britain, we htad a close
call at one stage. The Battle of the
Coral Sea was a deliverance, and the re-
turn of the A.I.F. enabled us to stop
the Japanese advance in New Guinea just
in time.
I do not think the enemy can now invade
this country. We have proved that, with
the resources we have had, together with
the command of the sea established by the
gallant United States Navy by decisive vic-
tories at Midway Island and in the Solo-
mon Islands. We are not yet immune from
marauding raids which may cause much
damage and loss. I believe, however, that
we can hold Australia as a base from
which to launch both limited and major
offensives against Japan. This conception
must be the pattern to govern the nature
and extent of Australia’s war effort as
part of the plan of the United Nations
of the Pacific.
Military officers appear to have read
this statement with astonishment.
Invasion of Australia would be a huge
task but, in the face of modern develop-
ments, it is unsafe to be cocksure. We
have a long coastline.
In Russia.
Russian airmen have adopted British
battle tactics in the brisk air war raging on
the eastern front. Both sides claim victories
after every raid or combat. In the west
R.A.F. and German reports of losses
suffered by our bombers tally remark-
ably, but there is'never any such corre-
spondence on the eastern front.
Russian reports have been claiming an
average of 160 ’planes per day, with
small Russian losses.
On the night of June 10, Moscow an-
nounced, bombs dropped by 700 Russian
heavies destroyed dumps and depots and
other objectives at a cost of 19 machines.
On the following night 600 tons of
bombs were aimed at German aero-
dromes, and at least 150 German ’planes
were destroyed on the ground and at
least another 10 shot down. The Ger-
mans claimed to have destroyed 62
Russian ’planes on Friday and to have
beaten off all air attacks with little loss
or damage.
Week-end reports from Berlin and
Vichy declared that full -scale fight-
ing had begun in the Orel sector, the
Russians having attacked in force and
made some penetrations. Official com-
muniques had nothing to say of this
operation.
Elsewhere along the eastern line pros-
pecting and prodding went on. But there
was an ominous feeling as if the storm
could not be long pent up.
In brief:
Mr. Churchill on June 10 gave fresh esti-
mates of enemy casualties in Tunisia: 50,000
killed, 43,000 prisoners before May 5 and
248,000 afterwards; total, 341,000. To these are
added another 15,000 or so from Pantellaria
and neighboring islands.
* * * *
Chinese reports speak of attacks in the Sung-
tze area of the Yangtze Valley in Hupeh
Province and the infliction of heavy casualties
on the Japs; besides the destruction of several
sections of the Canton-Hankow railway. It
was announced in Chungking at the week-end
that 14,290 Japs had been killed in the recent
Taiheng mountain battle, the Chinese losing
a third of an army corps —anything from 3000
to 5000 men.
* * * *
The Burma war is now confined almost
entirely to the air; the Arakan area is a sea
of water. U.S. Liberators in increasing numbers
are being infused into the bombing forces. A
squadron of them dropped several tons on
Mandalay railway station on June 12.
* * * *
Japanese Radio reports that the last rem-
nants of American troops holding out on Luzon,
in the Philippines, hav<y been captured. The
stout fighters had stood at bay for over a year.
$ * * *
Kiska was raided four times on June 11 by
U.S. forces. Gun emplacements and runways
were bombed and runways strafed. On Attu
66 Japanese were mopped up.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy reports the submarines
Grampus and Amberjack missing, each with
a complement of 60.
* * * *
A Norwegian tanker in convoy in the Atlantic
has destroyed a U-boat after it had sunk
another ship in the convoy. And the Polish
submarine Dzik fired on a tanker- in the Medi-
terranean and apparently sank it.
# * * *
On May 23 German raiders dropped bombs
on a coastal town in Southern England, causing
“damage and casualties.” Bournemouth was the
town, and a sad sequel to the report, published
in Australia on June 10, showed that six
R.A.A.F. sergeants were killed, there being
also “heavy civilian casualties.” The sergeants
were V. L. Pope (S.A.), J. F. McMahon (Vic.),
G. A. Mills, N. M. Gray, C. B. Crabbe and
R. F. Fenton (N.S.W.).
* * * * . ~
Indian civil casualties from Japanese air raids
from Dec. 7, 1941, to April 30, 1943, totalled
816 killed and 878 injured.


“FORRERS ”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
'
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks £.SonP^W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND .AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SfDNEY.
BRANDAUIR’N
mm
at*
:
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKAHDAPBK * (30. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Divorce Notices.
TO HECTOR GEORGE ROBINSON formerly
of Werribee in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife EILEEN CLARE ROBINSON has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of three years’ desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court of Victoria in
Melbourne on on before the Ist day of July
1943 the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay the costs. —J. R. A.
O’KEEFFE, Solicitor, 620 Victoria Street,
North Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK WILLIAMS late of Sydney New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA-
BETH HELEN WILLIAMS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 966 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Third
of September 1943 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. BIRNIE
JACKSON Solicitor 117 Pitt Street Sydney.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower *
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer,
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., liTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosebery had a thoroughly satisfac-
tory meeting at Rosehill. As usual at all
fixtures in Sydney nowadays there was
a large attendance. The tote turnover
was £36,443, and the books beat the
punters. Results of three races demon-
strated that a bad post position does not
render a horse’s chance hopeless at Rose-
hill. Steadfast drew 22, Monaro 27 and
Windbrook 20.
The feature races of the afternoon
were the Flying and Rosebery T.C.
Handicaps, and, after Bangster had led
into the straight in the former, John Hali-
fax (Cook), who was always well placed,
won comfortably from Irish Sea and St.
Elmo. Bangster was fourth, but though
he retains his two-year-old pace he cannot
stay. Winnipeg failed to play a promi-
nent part, but did not have the best of
luck; while Goose Boy, looking bright
after nearly eight months’ absence "from
racing, did well enough to suggest his
turn will not be long in coming at a
middle distance.
Heiron (Cook) had an easy win in the
Rosebery T.C. Handicap. Fourth to
Melody Charm, Brazen Boy and Easter
Time at the bend, he made short work
of that trio in the straight. Brazen Boy’s
second was a surprise, and Dashing
Cavalier’s third was his best form for
some time. Shining Night and Moon-
darewa made a poor showing, and, though
Merrimba ran fourth, he never looked
more than a possibility for a place. He
keeps his condition, but a holiday might
benefit him.
Steadfast’s (Mulley) price of 25 to 1
indicated that he surprised even his con-
nections when he won the Maiden
Nursery from Bronze Orchid, who made
a good bid to win all the way
and was beaten only in the last
two or three strides. Kingsford, who
was not favored by luck in run-
ning, was a close third, and then My
Anne. Frontier gave no trouble, nor did
Caspian, for whom there was backing.
The winner, who is trained by B. Payten
for H. S. Thompson (half-owner of
Bronze Orchid, one of F. Dalton’s team),
is a sturdy colt by Hall Mark from Lady
Constance, who was 17 when she threw
him.
Monaro (Hanley) led practically all the
way in the Novice Handicap, in which
the favorite, Prince Buzzard, though
third, after being in a fair position
throughout, never looked a winner.
Bomb beat him for second, Cape Hero
and Padalong made up ground over the
last couple of furlongs to finish fourth
and fifth respectively. Zue shaped fairly,
while, though Great Scot looked in excel-
lent condition, he was disappointing.
Despite her steadier of 9.0 Triad
(McMenamin) led soon after barrier-rise
in the Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap, and did not after give anything else
a chance. The minor-place getters, Boor-
chief and Easy Mark, were unequal to
troubling her in the least, and Jungle
King, who showed pace for five furlongs,
could not see it out. Chatham’s Choice,
Sand Fire and Dick Whittington were
nearest the place-getters, and the first-
named’s run makes him again worth
following. Davinia’s chance was settled
when she was squeezed out at the start.
Valoroi (Cook) was accounted un-
lucky when he was beaten by Vanity
Lady at Canterbury Park, and the style
in which he won the Trial Stakes with
31b. overweight proved there was sound
reason for that belief. Peter’s Pence was
his nearest follower for the first half-
mile, but he dropped out before reaching
the straight, and the minor places went
to Valiant Garde (always prominent) and
Bright Spot, with Hauteur, who started
from No. 28, at the head of the unplaced
division. Etching did not get near the
front at any stage. Valoroi is by Peter
Pan from Neon, by Gilt Edge from
Lightsome, a sister to Gloaming.
In winning the Lakes Welter after
being seventh at the turn, Windbrook
(Darke) was responsible for a good per-
formance. Still he was lucky to beat
Many Ways, who, after losing a lot of
ground when she blundered near the
half-mile post, led a furlong from home.
Felt Yet’s rider lost a stirrup-leather
after going a furlong, and, as despite that
disadvantage the horse was third, backers
are unlikely to neglect him at his next
start. Lo Dokes and Vanity Fair led
at the turn, where the latter not only
spoilt her own chance by running wide,
but interfered with Rylstone, who finished
fourth.
Winterset, carrying 13.2, injured a fet-
lock in a sensational race for the
Williamstown Steeple at Flemington on
Saturday. Starting favorite, he stumbled
after landing over the third fence, and
shot*his rider out of the saddle. At the
time of writing it was indefinite whether
he would be able to proceed with his
preparation for the G.N., for which he
was favorite. Brightello, place-getter in
two G.N. Steeples, broke a bone in a
shoulder and was destroyed. Lord Jev-
ington (second favorite) lost his rider
when in the lead at the six furlongs, and
later crashed through a dividing fence.
Trent Bridge improved on his form at
his previous start to win pulling up from
Victory March and West Haran. He has
been penalised for the G.N., but should
be hard to beat in that race.
Benghazi raced to G.N. Hurdle favor-
itism by outstaying Sligo and Merridale
in the Port Phillip Hurdle. Seven fur-
longs from home he was over 20 lengths
behind the leader. A four-year-old,
Benghazi impresses as sure to improve.
Anpapejo, G.N. favorite until Saturday,
lost favor because of his failure to do
better than fifth. He jumped indifferently,
but, as it was his first experience of Flem-
ington hurdles, it might be unwise to
condemn him. Saul and Isambard, other
G.N. fancies, showed a lot of pace in
the principal flat race* the C. F. Orr
Stakes. Saul led to the home-turn, but
lack of condition caused him to weaken.
The race will improve him.
Primavera won her seventh race at
Flemington by defeating Darraweit and
Stonecastle in the C. F. Orr Stakes. The
Oaks winner is better than ever, but she
is not a big mare and is assured of her
share of weight in the Cups. Aldgate,
15 to 1, purchased earlier in the week
for 625gn5., outstayed Nalong and Moon-
ray for the first Esplanade Welter. His
stable-mate Burrabil, starting second
favorite, finished a long way back.
Trustee ran up to his Valley form in
beating Cloudless half a head in the sec-
ond Esplanade Welter. Three Wheeler,
a filly by Manitoba-Tricycle, finished
brilliantly on the alleged “slow” side of
the track to win the Juvenile Handicap
from Solon and Night Link. Distinction
was untroubled to beat Leahero and Vale
in the Marine Handicap.
* * * *
A little while ago the B.A.T.C. (Bris-
bane) increased its prize-money from
£lOOO to £1175 a day, but racing is going
so well in the northern capital that, in
response to a petition from owners and
trainers, it has decided upon a further in-
crease. Commencing next month, the
distribution at ordinary Saturday meet-
ings at Albion Park will be £l5OO.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Derby again carries £5OOO
added money, but whether it is worth it
is a matter of opinion. It is usually con-
tested by a mediocre field., few of the
runners being up to the w.f.a. standard of
some older horses, and as an attraction or
a betting medium it never compares with
either the Epsom or Metropolitan, neither
of which is so liberally endowed. Natu-
rally breeders approve of valuable three-
year-old races, as they influence prices
at the yearling sales.
* * * *
As was generally anticipated, the A.J.C.
committee decided to adhere to the ballot
in preference to seniority in allotting
bookmakers’ positions at Randwick. The
idea of rails betting in the paddock was
negatived.
* * * #
Politicians must talk, but it is regret-
table some cannot refrain from express-
ing authoritative opinions on subjects of
which they seemingly know little. In the
N.S.W. Legislative Council last week one
member referred to racing as “an evil
and a canker,” and then went on to say
that “non-proprietary racing would make
the sport clean.” Something of a reflec-
tion on the stipendiary stewards who at
present control racing at Randwick as
well as at the proprietary meetings. Where
money is involved there is generally sus-
picion, and that member who talked of
the Government’s bill as “a breath of
spring” must have gleaned his know-
ledge of the conduct of racing from one
of those disappointed backers who are
always ready to declare “everything’s
crook.”
Miscellaneous
Essendon’s shooting boots saved the
side again on Saturday. The “Same
Old” had 27 shots for goal to Carlton’s
31, but scored 11.16 to 9.22. At Rich-
mond the Tigers, laced for three quarters
by Fitzroy, staged a desperate rally.
’Roy held on to win 14.11-12.17.
Footscray belted the once-mighty Mel-
bourne round the field (21.17 to 8.15),
and Coilingwood did the same to St.
Kilda (11.21-5.12). North and South
staged a rattling game of clean marking
and dazzling speed for North to get there
by a point, 14.7 to 12.18.
* * * *
The order of precedence in Sydney
Rugby Union football is Manly, East and
Randwick, with University, Parramatta
and West sharing the same rung. East
v. Uni. was a grand game, with East
prevailing over the last bit —21-16. Other
matches:
Manly 27, Drummoyne 3; Randwick 22,
St. George 11; Parramatta 19, West 13; North
21, Gordon 18.
* * * *
Billy Fletcher, who wants a match with
Vic Patrick, strengthened his claim at
Leichhardt by outclassing Joe Caldwell.
Caldwell’s style puzzled Fletcher for a
round, but two rights settled Caldwell in
the second. One floored him for “nine” ;
the second knocked him halfway through
the ropes, and he was counted out while
draped across the middle strand.
Substitute fights are rarely of any
account, and the one staged at Sydney
Stadium as a result of Alf Gallagher
being unable to meet Bob Turner was
rotten. Turner’s opponent was one Larry
Martin. The infliction was allowed to
last into the eighth, though Turner could
have won in a round.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Nursery Handicap (fillies) :
Bronze Orchid, 1 ; My Anne, 2 ;
Crumble, 3.
Bizerta Handicap: Cream Puff,
1 ; Cape Hero, 2; Monaro, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and
geldings): Joygiver, 1 ; Kingsford,
2 ; Steadfast or Sir Francis, 3.
Dundas Flying Handicap: Hesi-
one, 1 ; Faerie Queene, 2; St.
Elmo, 3.
Rosehill June Handicap: Welles-
ley, 1 ; Response, 2 ; Salivant, 3.
Carlingford Handicap: Brazen
Boy, 1 ; Vanity Lady, 2; Many
Ways, 3.


Women's Letter's
From Sydney
Monday was brave with flags flying
from the rising of the sun till the going
down thereof. For Monday was United
Nations’ Flag Day. It was one of Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s inspirations to ask last
year that the flags of all the nations allied
with America be unfurled together over
the cities, the prairie towns, the farm
lands, the industrial centres of his vast
country. This year over Great Britain
and Australia, too, the flags floated. Big
celebration of the day in Sydney was the
march of thousands of Australian and
Allied sailors, soldiers and airmen. In
march were a detachment of M.L. cadet
officers training at Duntroon. There were
eight bands. There were Army Nurses.
W.A.A.A.F.S., W.R.A.N.S., A.W.A.S.,
A.A.M.W.S. There was a guard of
honor for Lord Gowrie, who took the
salute at the Town Hall. Brigadier F. A.
Burrows led the march.
V.As. to the number of 1500 filled a
Y.M.C.A. army entertainment hut last
Sunday night. Their entertainment was
rather a busman’s holiday, since it
entirely concerned nursing. Three Allied
Army sisters were the speakers, and the
first part of the evening was spent listen-
ing to talks on the training of nurses in
an Allied country and the possibilities
for the nurse after her training. Dr.
Godsall next took the rostrum with a
prologue to the talkie he had leflft for the
occasion. This was a cheery short in
technicolor concerned with a skin-graft
operation—no detail omitted.
Every seat had been booked almost a
week before the opening night of “The
Magic Flute” at the Conservatorium.
Saturday night’s audience comprised
service men and service women, students
and others of the musicianly. Con-
stance Pickworth made an impres-
sion with her silvery notes and her
golden robes. Mother and father
were there to applaud. Lily Kolos drew
admiration as the much-tried heroine.
Con. Director Dr. Bainton was there with
his daughters Helen and Guenda and
Guenda’s soldier husband, Harold
Abbott. Singer Alice Prowse, Brenda
Bennett and Mrs. Roland Foster were
others keenly interested. At the final
curtain-call producer Hilda Mulligan ran
on to the stage and took a hand. And
didn’t High Priest Stanley Clarkson m
the sartorial grandeur of his black-and-
white robes look astonished to find in his
right hand a posy of violets that Hilda
popped there!
State Recruiting Officer for A.A.M.W.S.
Dorothy Wilby is pleased, as indeed all
the V.As. and A.A.M.W.S. are, over the
decision of the Army Medical Services
to introduce a course of hospital nursing
training. Many of the Voluntary Aids,
now members of the A.A.M.W.S., have
gained a good deal of hospital experi-
ence, some on the home front and some
overseas, and they feel that the two
years’ course will round off and give the
professional seal to their work. At the
end of the two years it is anticipated that
it will be possible to arrange a further
period of training in civil hospitals. At
the end of this further training candidates
will be eligible for registration as nurses.
Applications are invited from members
of the A.A.M.W.S. desiring to take the
training. Age limit —between 18 and 30.
First and second preferences go to
A.A.M.W.S. who have been Voluntary
Aids and have had overseas or home
service. Members of the A.A.M.W.S.
not previously Voluntary Aids follow.
Mrs. H. D. Mundell was first known
to Sydney as Aga La Hoska, whose
Carmen stirred grand-opera audiences at
the Royal in the days before the Axis
had ground its hatchet to striking edge.
She appeared with the Melba opera co.
which also featured Toti dal Monte. Aga
La Hoska was of Polish birth, and her
acting and singing of Carmen were so
successful that she was engaged to play
the role in Seville, Madrid, Barcelona
and throughout Spain. Mexico, too, has
applauded her interpretation of Bizet’s
heroine. When Miss La Hoska was jour-
neying from Australia she met and mar-
ried Mr. Mundell, an English lawyer
practising in Singapore, and there they
lived till the Japanese invasion. To be
exact, they were away on a holiday voyage
when’ disaster befell. NoW they live in
Australia, and Mrs. Mundell hopes to
settle in Sydney.
Packet lunches will be sold from one
of the Red Cross stalls in Martin-place
on Friday owing to the success of the
Walder lady’s appeal to friends for a
little butter, please. It is estimated
that 30 pounds of the precious stuff
will be consumed in the sandwiches.
The Fancy Fair holds out many
other attractions. The Kater lady s
Old and New stall will even dis-
play now unprocurable eiderdowns.
Hats, too, and artificial jewellery will be
in this display. A cocktail party at the
Australia on Thursday will provide a
preview of some of the hats and help to
enrich the general fund of Red Cross
Day. And those who prowl around the
Fair must not forget to call at the Sol-
diers’ stall. This has been stocked by
patients of a military hospital with goods
they have made while convalescing.
News of tenor Kenneth Neate comes
to Sydney friends by way of a French
-family in Canada. Ken was one of a
concert party from R.C.A.F. head-
quarters who gave a night’s entertain-
ment to a Bombing and Gunnery
School at Fingal (Canada). The Aus-
tralian has enrolled in the R.C.A.F. and
is now an A.C.2.
Of interest to students taking part in
the Conservatorium’s season of “The
Magic Flute” will be the news that the
Sydney tenor appeared in Bruno Walter’s
gala production of this work at the N.Y.
Metropolitan. It was then he attracted
the attention of Hollywood, and Univer-
sal Studios asked him for a screen test.
But Ken preferred to enrol in the R.C.A.F.
Moya Merrick, of Mosman, has indeed
qualified to take her part in the post-war
rebuilding of the world. She is the elder
daughter of the John Merricks (father
is Examiner of Titles), and had the degree
of Bachelor of Architecture conferred on
her recently. She also carried off the
John Sulman prize for design. In 1941
Moya got credit and was first in Town-
planning, and in the History of Painting
and Sculpture in 1942. During her course
at Sydney University she was a non-resi-
dent student of Sancta Sophia within the
Uni. Photograph by Noel Ruble.
The John Sulman Prize is the highest
awarded during the five years’ architec-
tural course. It was founded in 1929 by
a gift of £2OO from John Sulman, Lec-
turer in Architecture at the Uni. for 25
years (1887-1912), and it is given for the
study of the rational design of modern
structures. The award is a book or books
valued at £B, and it is given annually to
the fifth-year student who produces the
best design to a set programme. Judg-
ment is delivered by a committee that in-
cludes the Dean of the Faculty, a mem-
ber of the teaching staff of the School
of Architecture and a graduate in the
subject of not more than five years stand-
ing who has studied abroad.
If, as is now feared, disaster has
overtaken all the passengers in the
civil ’plane travelling between Portugal
and England, and never again will Leslie
Howard clothe with his genius stage or
screen character, let Australia say “fare-
well and thank you.” “The Petrified
Forest,” “Pygmalion” and “Forty-Ninth
Parallel” are screen joys that will remain
—treasure laid up in memory.
Army nurses of the hospital to which
she had been attached formed a guard
of honor outside St. Philip’s on Church
Hill when Sister Aileen Travers Burridge
came forth the wife of Major T. J.
Scrase, A.I-F. For some time Sister
Burridge, of the Australian Army Nurs-
ing Service, was a member of the plas-
tic surgery unit of the hospital. The
bride’s home is at Dundee, N.S.W.
Moonee Ponds, Vic., is the ’groom’s old
home address. Padre (Lieut.-Colonel)
Hugh Moir, A.1.F., was the matrimonial
welder. The ivory taffeta, tulle and
orange-blossom worn by the leading
lady were followed by the white velvet
and red roses of principal support Mrs.
W. A. Grainger. Captain Grainger was
best man.
The Leura Opportunity Shop, run for
patriotic purposes, gave the Lord
Mayor’s Fund a handsome present re-
cently. It was a canteen for the Salva-
tion Army and Australian Comforts Fund
with the 9th Division. Mrs. Alec Mcln-
tosh and Mrs. A. S. Macphail (two very
active workers) came down specially from
Leura to present the gift to Sydney s
Mayor.
From Melbourne
Rationing of household linen mean 9
that painful decisions must be made be-
tween the claims to replenishment
of the stores cupboard and the ward-
robe. If a special issue of coupons
had been made for linen and the
ration for clothing reduced no one
would have been surprised or greatly
upset; but the method pursued made the
Awful Choice the backlog worry of most
female minds last week. The difficulty
of obtaining linen and towelling in recent
months has made most households rather
short, and the more mechanically-minded
of the towelless are being driven to dis-
cussing the invention of “blowers’ and
suchlike drying devices. There are wild
tales of experiments with vacuum-
cleaners. Someone has suggested that the
method by which our ancestors blotted
their copybooks could be revived for
bathers who have access to plenty of dry
sand.
Stalwart of Melbourne’s fund-raisers
for purposes of war or peace is Mis.
Barry Thomson, here pictured. For more
years than she likes to count up, she has
been the power behind Santa Claus tor
children at the Alfred Hospital. Each
year a pile of the most desirable toys is
collected by her to pop on Children’s
Hospital beds on Christmas morning.
Now war funds are on the list, too, and
the Silver Wings Auxiliary is her special
interest. The auxiliary’s latest raffle bears
the tempting title “Three Things for 6d.
The three are a chest of linen, a dinner
service and a pair of pre-war standard
blankets, so the response should be every-
thing hoped for it. pbject is additional
equipment for a mobile X-ray unit.
With a shortage of the pins required
for involved coiffures considerable
thought is being given around these parts
to simple hair styles. Women writing
from England have long been ringing the
.praises of the short, easily-brushed curls
which service women and other war-
workers are wearing over there, and local
lasses are adopting this brief style in in-
creasing numbers. The long-tressed lady
of a year or so ago has vanished, and not
even the spate of. Veronica Lake films
that has come in the last few months
has been able to bring her back.
Midday concerts passed their first
birthday with acclamation. Those who
got things going at the start came in for
plenty of congratulations and thanks
from music-lovers who have popped along
to the Assembly Hall for concerts
throughout the year. The way in which
audiences have kept up their numbers
(the hall is always pretty full) is very
encouraging to the promoters. It is the
first real chance that has been given to
this city’s denizens to become familiar
with the best in music by hearing it
frequently. The lunch-hour, too, is . a
sensible choice of time in present cir-
cumstances. .
There are evidences of a musical
awakening around these parts. The
gramophone, which suffered rather an
eclipse when the radio first came in, is
in heavy demand again by the much-
increased band of classical-music lovers.
There are enthusiasts in all kinds of
jobs and places— businessgirls, students,
policemen or the ice-cream man may turn
out to be harboring a passion for Bach
or a hankering for Brahms. A general
sharing helps with the expense factor.
Jones goes to Smith s flat to hear Smith s
Beethoven symphonies and Smith pops
round to Jones’s the week after to revel
in Liszt rhapsodies. It’s said that a re-
appreciation of the good stuff started in
Oxford a few years back and has spread
all over the globe, especially among the
rather musically-backward Anglo-Saxons.
One of the groups of women always
on hand to help with social services is
the Alberta Club. Making a special
appeal each month for a different war
service or charity, the club manages to
bring nearly all such efforts within* its
scope. Just passing the two-and-a-half-
year mark the club, founded in the first
year of war, has raised over £l5OO for
various good causes. Members staff
several Red Shield canteens and keep an
eye on the comforts of men in a ward of
a military hospital, also raising funds for
surgical instruments. The upkeep of a
bed in the Royal Melb. Hospital is
another side of activities. June is Mer-
chant Navy month for the club, and funds
are being raised for sailormen’s needs. •
Name Alberta is second baptismal tag of
the club’s president, Mrs. Tutton.
The shortage both of fully qualified
nurses and recruits to the ranks of
trainees is causing Man-power and hos-
pital authorities perturbation. Preference
for women’s auxiliary services is one of
the difficulties in the way of increasing
the number of trainees, so it is said. A
drive to popularise the nursing service
which is under way should have results,
as this service makes a big appeal as a
really practical way of helping the war
effort and offers a profession when war
is over. One of the past difficulties in
the way of intending trainees was the
preference of some hospital authorities
for girls from the more expensive schools,
but the exigencies of war outrule such
considerations.
Means to make the Women’s Land
Army more attractive to active young
women were discussed at the conference
of State delefates last week. Hostels for
girls in spots where suitable accommoda-
tion is not at. present available were pro-
posed, and a more generous and uniform
supply of clothing. A special appeal was
made to country centres, and the good
offices of the C.W.A. invoked, to gain the
support and help of country women in
making the work of the Land Army
pleasanter by supplying the girls’ needs
locally. Delegates spoke of the willing-
ness of country women to help with this
work if a lead were given them from
Land Army headquarters.
It would seem that soon no one will
embark on anything except perhaps a
political career without a psychological
test. The idea has passed the stage of
being considered rather a joke, and has
been taken up seriously by many organ-
isations, including the social service
groups. It is being used a great dea. in
factories. At their conference the Land
Army delegates particularly urged that a
system of such tests should started at
W.L.A. recruiting centres, as it was felt
that this would eliminate even the small
percentage of failures so far experienced.
It was explained that some girls who telt
a strong enthusiasm for life on the land
found it all vanished away when they
were posted to a lonely farm. Precisely
what sort of psychological test would
reveal the fickle nature of such damsels
was not disclosed.
Sick Allied service men, or at least
those sufficiently convalescent to appreci-
ate it, were the recipients of the major
portion of the huge chocolate layer cake
which took pride of place at the tea-party
celebrating the 12th birthday of the
American Women’s Auxiliary of the
Children’s Hospital. The attractive uni-
form of the American Red Cross, worn
by many of the hostesses, came in tor
much admiration, and the double-oecker
cap (rather like Florence Nightingales
pork pie, but veilless) caught the eye as
being becoming to all types of faces.
President Mrs. James Clymer had news
of the popularity of the Mount Martha
leave-house. Apart from the pleasures
of country life the house offers dancing
every evening with youthful ‘'hostesses
from surrounding spots, and talkie films
brought up from the city two nights a
week. Plans for the July 4 ball, oi gan-
gers purred, were going fine.
Cementing Allied alliances with per-
sonal ones goes on apace. Latest to join
the ranks of Australian brides of Allied
nationals is Pat Charlton, whose wedding
to Cadet-Officer Joseph Zwalf (Royal
Netherlands Forces) took place at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Daughter of Capt.
and Mrs. O. R. Charlton (Mrs. Charlton
is the Air Force Locker Fund’s energetic
president), Pat is one of the most decora-
tive of this city’s younger fry, with a
dark petite prettiness that the Merry
Monarch would have admired. She
spent the last year at a war job after
finishing a B.A. honors course m history.
Cadet-Officer Zwalf is the son of Mi. and
Mrs. L. Zwalf, of Vesen, Holland. At
the reception following the ceremony
many fellow-Hollanders, including the
Netherlands Minister and Baroness Van
Aersen, were present to wish the coup
luck.


WANTED
Musical Instruments
ET up to £lO cash for your used
Guitar or Banjo-Mandolin. We will
also give up to £4O cash for I'iano
Accordions and Saxophones. We buy
instruments in any condition any-
where. Write for details of free
valuation to—
“SAMPSONS,” Dept. M„ Box 4184 X
G.P.0., Sydney.
VICTORY
VV
SERIES
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
CP
•uSm
H^ij
alread
works.
[y built and still to be built in the Ronaldson-Tippett
This machine varnishes 6-pounder and 25-pounder shells. It is
safe to say that many a shell which has passed through this and
similar machines has played its part in the defence of Australia.
Because we are engaged in fulfilling Army, Navy and Air Force
contracts, we are able to supply only a limited number of “outside”
orders. Our clients and prospective clients will understand our
preoccupation in this work so vital to the war effort.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY., LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Vic.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Ltd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty., Etd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Sf
ft
%
r
4
ts.
36
V
VA
a
7 IfX/
... it’s a small symbol of a big job!
BEHIND the flame and the clamour of
war, behind the smoke and the blood
and the agony, there are many factors,
seemingly small in themselves but great
in their significance and vital in their
indispensability. Water, for instance.
Without water, men perish. They may
survive the battle and the bombings, but
they cannot survive the lack of water.
Now you see how important this water
bottle is.
It is made in its entirety from CRMCO
Sheet Steel. Certainly, CRMCO steel is
used, too, in bombers and battle wag-
gons, in guns and in hand grenades, in
shells, in bombs, in cooking gear and in
innumerable other items of war equip-
ment and armament.
For these purposes you naturally accept
C 9-43 ,
steel as indispensable. So it is. And
thousands upon thousands of tons of
CRMCO steel are so used in Aus-
tralia’s war effort. But behind the
glamour of the guns and the pride of
the bombers, and the majesty of the
tanks, there’s the vital water bottle
. . . symbol of the universal need of
steel in war.
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION-
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
SMOKE-OH!
•I* *i* •f'
“How can I lengthen the life of a fur?”
— Correspondent, woman’s paper.
Leave it on the animal.
•I* *l* *1- 'l*
“Double-headed penny lands man in gaol.”
— -“Argus.”
He got a bad spin.
. *l* *t* *J*
“Baker's wife declares she has to be a human
alarm clock.”
Enough to make any woman go off.
•S* *i* ❖
“Wanted, suit, shirts, etc., fit man 43 chest,
44 waist, 30 legs, reas.”— “S. M. Herald.”
No suit without 14 extra pairs of
trousers need apply.
. •J’ *t* *l* *s*
“The chief of this ,savage tribe was so
annoyed with his garrulous wife that he had
her decapitated.”— Travel book.
Not the first woman to talk her head
off!
•Jo »J« •£• »|a
“He fixed three pound notes to the door of
the artist’s attic—a surprise for the genius on
his return.”— “D.T. V
Nobody would object to anyone
pounding on his door like tfiat.
-1’
Peacework.
“Domestic quarrels are often caused by
broken hours resulting from shift-work.”
— Woman’s paper.
Not in our household! As a matter
of fact, as far as Myrtle and I are con-
cerned, shift-work has changed chaos into
harmony. No longer do we argue each
other into a state of neurosis. Life has
become sweetly peaceful. We’ve both
got war jobs, and whenever I’m on night-
Shift Myrtle’s on day-shift, and vice versa.
T.W.N.
Topsy-turvy.
“Petitioner, whose maiden name was Hee,
said that her first husband was a German.”
— “Sun.”
No wonder matters went awry.
Could hope in such a union be ?
It seems that, topsy-turvy-lie,
She wed a Herr and he a Hee.
H.M.
Thrift?
An Oxford Judge has ruled that £lO3 which
a wife’s thrift saved from her housekeeping
■allowance belongs to her husband.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Now if (as this mans helpmate did)
My better-half somehow made shift
From my involuntary gift
To put away a hundred quid,
That would be sorcery—not thrift.
P.M.L.
A Slight Misunderstanding.
“General Arturo Rawson, who led the revo-
lution that overthrew the Castillo regime in
Argentine, resigned two days after establishing
a new Government.”
Grand High Admiral Angel de las
Flamingo y Stampedor, Navy Chief of
the republic of San Fairianne, paced the
deck of his flagship, the gunboat Manana,
and glanced agitatedly at his watch. If
all had gone according to plan the Gov-
ernment forces should by now have fallen
to his revolutionary army.
For seventeen years he had plotted for
this day. A paralysingly swift coup d’etat
would end the tyranny under which the
republic had so long groaned.
His strategy, he knew, had been sound.
He hadn’t yielded to the temptation to
strike during the midday siesta, which is
the traditional starting hour for South
American revolutions, for he knew that
then some of the Government guards
would be awake or at least half-awake.
Instead, he had issued a forged order
from the fort commandante for the entire
army to have their rifles pulled to pieces
for white-ant inspection at 3.30 p.m.,
half an hour after the midday siesta and
half an hour before the mid-afternoon one.
Suddenly the seadog noticed several
figures in a skiff 20 yards away making
for the gunboat. Intently he trained his
telescope on them, and at last snapped
it shut with a sigh of satisfaction.
A minute later his deputy plotter,
General Rissole, accompanied by the cap-
tured ex-President, Senor Spiggoty Eeng-
lish, saluted and dumped down a large,
heavy suitcase.
“Almirante mio,” he exclaimed excit-
edly, “the revoluzione was highly success-
ful. There was one casualty ; the deputy
commandante, in jumping from a win-
dow to escape our insurrectos, fell on his
face to save hurting his hands. We have
captured the post office and the peanut
bazaar. Here is the ex-President. We
caught him ratting the peter—there are
200,000 pesos in this bag.”
“So, por Dios!” exclaimed the admiral,
eyeing his ex-chief. “We change places,
senor, si! I, the grand admiral, am the
new President!”
The deposed one bowed. “Congratu-
laziones, almirante,” he said. “I tender
my resignation. You will, no doubt,
pursue a different foreign policy from
mine, no?”
“No . . . eh? What’s this about a
foreign policy? I haven’t thought about
any policy.”
“But, almirante, there are commit-
ments and entanglements, si! You will
not now subscribe to the Pan-Americano
Economic Adjustment Committee’s find-
ings, no?”
The new President looked bewildered.
“And,” pursued Senor Spiggoty Eeng-
lish, “Mira ! If you should not satisfy
the Geopolitical Survey the Estados Uni-
dos will send down a battleship. And
for the President who does not quickly
settle the boundary dispute with Hava-
banana there may be the calaboza or a
slit gizzard at the hands of the infuriated
caballeros and muchachos .”
But the Grand Admiral Y. Stampeda
was already shaken with sobs. “ Gracios,
senor, for informing me before it was
too late,” he muttered brokenly. “I here-
by abdicate in favor of you. I apologise,
senor, for the inconvenience. Valgame
Dios! Why did not someone tell me
about all this before?”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Production for Use
Production for profit is only half the
story. The real end is satisfaction of
demand, since without demand there
would be no sale of goods produced and
consequently no profit. In a socialist
State or in one in which there is a great
deal of regulation of economic affairs,
the exercise of demand is severely limited.
Authority will state what is to be pro-
duced and what is to be banned, and, no
matter how strong a demand there may
be for some article in the latter category,
the consumer must do without it. The
articles used will be only those which are
allowed to be produced.
We are experiencing a partial applica-
tion of this policy. We cannot have
houses ; we cannot have a hundred and
one things, because Authority says they
must not be produced. The need to con-
centrate on the war justifies this policy,
but after the war, if the dictate of
Authority and not consumers’ demand
is to be the mainspring of production,
people will have to continue to do with-
out many things they were once able to
buy.— Egypt (N.S.W.).
Security and Responsibility
Social security is an objective worth
working for, but what about social
responsibilities and obligations? Not
enough is heard about them. To make
life worth living in the post-war world,
or any world, courage, brains and energy
are needed. If the majority of people in
every class should become vitally con-
cerned about what they could contribute
to the success of their particular jobs,
and to the general welfare of their
country, and less interested in snatching
the maximum reward for themselves out
of the scramble, social security, plus a
general rise in the standard of living,
would be just round the corner—A. H. P.
Moline (Tas.).
A C.C.C. Road
Let me tell “Norther” his ballyhooing
of C.C.C. achievements (B. 19/5/’43)
cuts no ice with people living along that
much publicised road he writes of.
The job took seven months, not four,
and none of the stations in the vicinity
registered the rainfalls mentioned by
Fallon as a delaying influence.
Alec Williamson, a Queensland Mam
Roads foreman, with a gang of local
men, was building a similar road in the
same locality when the C.C.C. arrived.
Williamson’s road, before the C.C.C. took
over, was costing, according to a local
shire councillor, only 30 p.c. of what was
spent per mile on the Ballyhoo High-
way later, notwithstanding that William-
son had only a few tractors, graders and
trucks. t . .
It may be a coincidence, but it is a
fact that this district, which always over-
subscribed its quotas to the war loans in
1914-18, fell down on the job last time,
notwithstanding the added population of
over 1000 C.C.C. hands.
When you see a butcher draw eight
hours’ ordinary time and 16 hours’ over-
time in one day for killing one beast, and
an ex-bookmaker getting over £28 per
fortnight for waiting on eight pannikin
bosses in the mess, you can understand
where the A.W.C.’s £65,000,000 went.—
Waysider (Q.).
Reciprocal Pensions
Subject to the Federal Parliament pass-
ing the necessary bill, Australia and M.L.
are to have reciprocal pensions. Splendid
or i s it? M.L. passed the necessary
legislation away back in 1913.
Surely there can be little prospect of
international co-operation when it takes
a sister Dominion so long to reach agree-
ment with its closest blood relation Or
is M.L. regarded across the Tasman
merely as a poor sister?— Tinopai (M.L.).
Life Insurance
George Roberts (B. 2/6/’43) says he
took out a whole-life policy for £250
in 1924, paying £10 9s. lOd. a year, and
now, at nearly 70, has been offered a
paid-up policy of £110 or a cash sur-
render value of £69 19s. The figures
seem incredible to me. 1 took out two
policies in different major oflices, each
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others per line.
for £250, at a time, age and for pre-
miums close enough to the case of Mr.
Roberts to bear satisfactory comparison.
No. 1 office will pay me £l9B 10s. sd. now
in cash, or will give me a paid-up policy
for £255, participating in future bonuses.
No. 2’s figures are £169 10s. Id. and £258
(non-participating) respectively. In view
of the fact that either office might have
had to pay out £250, plus bonuses, in the
event of my death at any time over the
past 19 years, I am completely satisfied
with the “saving” aspect. —R. D. B.
(N.S.W.).
In what office did George Roberts
assure, and/or what did he do with
bonuses, if any? My policy, in one of the
leading offices, terms similar to the one
quoted will yield me an immediate cash
surrender of £166 or a paid-up participat-
ing policy, free of further premiums, for
£251. Nothing wrong with that!
Assured (Q.).
Had George Roberts died immedi-
ately after paying his first premium
his heir could have had the pleasure
of writing a letter expressing satisfaction
with life insurance as an investment
following the payment of £250 for an
outlay of £lO 9s. lOd.
In fairness to the insurance co. G.R.
should realise that every policy-holder is
not fortunate enough to live to 70 —or
perhaps he considers it unfortunate.
Even now, with bonuses added, no doubt
the co. would have to fork out about
£3OO for the £2OO contributed in the
event of death. — Actuary (Vic.).
The Militia and the R.S.L.
The argument that unless militiamen
who have served in New Guinea are
granted membership in the R.S.L. the
league should be disbanded is ridiculous.
The militia is not an Imperial Force,
and, with some exceptions, the personnel
are not volunteers.
When the A.I.F. returned from the
Middle East the majority were sent up
to New Guinea after a meagre seven
days’ leave. Many of them are still
there, and when the fight draws away
from our shores it will be the A.I.F. who
sail once again to foreign lands to fight,
while the militia stay back inside the
limit in comparative comfort.
That, perhaps, is a little hard on the
militia, because many of them would
want to sail also, but cannot. However,
the fact remains that the A.I.F. are all
volunteers who enlisted long before war
came to our shores. Surely they deserve
the best that we can give them and
should not be begrudged their one little
distinction exclusive membership in
the R.S.S.I.L.A. —J. E. D. (Q.).
The controversy about admitting
militiamen to the league is amusing to
me, because among my aquaintances are
(1) a man (26) rejected when he enlisted
for the A.1.F., classed B 2 and later called
up for militia ; (2) an A.I.F. officer who
spent 18 months in the Middle East,
admits he never heard a shot fired, and
is now on the permanent staff of a Vic-
torian camp; (3) a militiaman serving’
in New Guinea; (4) lots of jolly fine
men in both armies.
How on earth can any league, society
or club draw a fair line between the two
armies? Isn’t it a case for taking every
man separately and judging him on his
fighting merits? When it is all boiled
down, just what proportion of R.S.L.
members can honestly say they “were
right in the thick of it” in the 1914-18
scrap?— Fair’s Fair (S.A.).
Colonising the Kimberleys
The idea that Jews could form a
successful colony in the Kimberleys is
almost laughable. The Kimberleys is
tough country ; will be tamed only by a
people unmindful of a little hardship and
with a tradition of pioneering and agri-
culture behind them, such as Australians
themselves and their kinsfolk the Ameri-
cans.
Thousands of young Americans are
seeing Australia, and, if there is any
truth in what is hinted at in such books
as The Grapes of Wrath, that land is
getting scarce in North America, many
of them might be willing to stay. They
are the stuff we need —no language diffi-
culty, no visible difference in ways of
thought and life.
But before we can ask them or Aus-
tralians to go farming in the Kimberleys
much needs to be done. Rain and rivers
are there in sufficiency, but the water all
runs away to the sea. Nature has pro-
vided many gorges that might be
dammed, with countless millions of gal-
lons conserved, but that is work that must
first be done.
W.A. is already making a pass at the
matter —surveys are to be made of the
Ord River with a view to the possibility
of a great dam. Soil is to be tested. The
success of banana-growing at Carnar-
von, one of the most uninviting proposi-
tions ever attempted, proves that the Aus-
tralian can do it, and if the American
would like to join—well, there’s room
for plenty of him on this continent. —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Charcoal
Present condition of the charcoal market
seems to be chaotic, with uncertainty as
to what price can be obtained for best-
quality coal, and from whom. We burn
sound timber (wandoo), and coal costs
2s. 3d. at pit plus 6s. 6d. per dozen for
bags. Overall cost of carting, stacking
and double handling runs out at about
4d. per bag. Total cost f.o.r. 3s. l^d.;
if our bags are returned this is reduced
by Retail prices of charcoal in
Perth average 4s. to 4s. 6d. a bag. There
is no guarantee of good coal, and good
coal is scarce in my experience. Bad
coal does a lot of damage.
A central charcoal executive should be
established, composed of men who know
the game, to buy coal up to standard,
and retailers should buy from this execu-
tive. Factors such as weight, presence of
dirt (which means damaging clinker) and
age of timber burnt, as well as quality,
should all be under the supervision of
this body. Failing the establishment of
a central executive the price-level must
be jacked up so that good coal fetches
good prices.—R. H. Gordon (W.A.).
The Real Australia
Why does the life outback represent
things “wholly Australian,” as David
Ashway (B. 2/6/’43) suggests, any more
than, say, the life of a steelworker for
8.H.P., a coastal dairy-farmer or a clerk
in a city office? The outback may
have been the real Australia once, but
it is only part of it now, and things
“wholly Australian” can be drawn only
from the whole of Australia.
Take a mob of lads from the three
armed services and you won t be able to
pick what part of Australia they came
from until you ask them. With the spread
of settlement the outback has been pushed
further back, and with greater develop-
ment after the war it may even be pushed
right out of the picture.
The outback tradition is just part of
our history. It has been the chosen sub-
ject of most of our writers and has been
given an air of romance and adventure.
It is a tradition of which we can, and
should, be proud, but we have traditions
equally worthy of pride in the growth
of our great secondary industries and
stockbreeding enterprises and in the
development of closely-settled rural
communities.
If The Bulletin goes in for literary
competitions for the young these should
not be confined to the children of the
outback. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Nurses
Why all this comparison between
trained nurses and V.A.Ds. (those in the
services now being called A.A.M.W.S.)?
The trained nurse has given years of
hard work and study to nursing, whereas
the A.A.M.W.S. have only a few weeks
or months of training, and therefore can-
not expect to perform skilled work. They
really take the place of the domestic
staffs of military hospitals, and in doing
so perform very useful work.
Very few trained nurses have been
called up for the services in comparison
with the thousands of uniformed women
one sees about. Doctors have the power-
ful B.M.A. behind them; nurses have an
association with neither wealth nor spirit,
therefore constant long hours, drudgery
and poor living conditions have broken
down the health of many and driven
them to other occupations. The love of
the work is there, but there are not
enough saints to go round.
A typical example of Government
negligence towards the nursing profes-
sion is Sydney Hospital, our oldest and
most historical, which has had appalling
living conditions for years.
Also the sensationalisation by evening
newspapers of confidential information
given to Man-power about nurses’ present
occupations has about finished what was
once regarded as women’s finest profes-
sion.—Ex-Nurse (N.S.W.).
Comforts for Wharfies
Comforts for wharfies (often on strike)
to the extent of £125,000!
We bush folk ask simply “Why can’t
wharf workers take cut lunches, as the
station hand and boss have done since
the industry began?”— Olive Oyl (Q.).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy any number of special numbers of
“Art in Australia.”—33sl.
To buy Dyke’s Automobile Encyclopedia.
State price.—3352.
Information Sought.
Description of the mode of operation of the
Bichel pressure gauge, used in testing the power
of explosives ?
A sample of the explosive is placed on a
small tripod constructed of wire which is fixed
in the centre of the explosion chamber and the
explosive is ignited by an electric current of
sufficient voltage. The current is first passed
through a double pole switch, which is neces-
sary, since further on one pole is connected
to the explosion chamber and thus to
earth. For safety a red incandescent lamp
is included in the circuit to show whether
the current is switched on or not, this
serving also as a resistance. From the switch
both wires are carried to the explosion chamber,
one being connected to the body of the chamber
itself and the other to the insulated point on
the upper part of the recording drum and also
by means of the insulated terminal on the ex-
plosion chamber to the explosive. As so
arranged, it is possible for a current to pass
from the insulated point only through the con-
tact spring and holder to the explosion chamber
and back again.
(1) What is acetone composed of and what
are its uses ? (2) How can celluloid be dissolved
and reset into a solid?
(1) Acetone is a colorless and highly-inflam-
mable liquid formerly obtained by redistilla-
tion of wood, but now chiefly by fermentation.
It is used very extensively as a solvent in
lacquers, etc. (2) If celluloid is cut into small
pieces and stirred into a small amount of ace-
tone, it readily dissolves to form a jellylike
mass. This solution is an excellent adhesive
for some purposes, such as mending broken
“shell” spectacle frames.
Directions for making candles?
Clarify mutton fat by boiling it in water.
Allow to cool, cut out fat and scrape all dis-
coloration from underside, then boil again in
water. When hot, add to each lib. of clean
fat loz. powdered alum ; stir well and then use
for candles. Lacking alum, add jib. resin to
lib. fat, melting both together. Make moulds
by cutting strips of thick brown paper the
length of a candle, roll them round pipe or
cylinder the size of a candle and gum the edges.
Close one end of each with cardboard. Sus-
pend cotton wicks above moulds and fill with
the hot fat. A drop or two of kerosene will
improve the fat. Leave till cold. Best not
used for a week.
Brief Answers.
C.K.: Books on dehydration are not pro-
curable first-hand... .E.C.: Two of the officers
commanding the 36th Battalion, A.1.F., in the
1914-18 war were Lt.-Cols. J. A. Milne and
H. F. White J.T.: The chemical name for
alum is potassium aluminium sulphate; sugar
of lead is lead acetate... .P.S.: Lieut.-General
Bernard Law Montgomery, then a lieut.-col.,
commanded the Ist Battalion, Royal Warwick-
shire Regiment, 1931-34 R.V.: Bandicoots
destroy vermin, but infestation by ticks and
mites makes them carriers of scrub-itch and
tick-fever V.N.: When jetting full wools,
keep the pressure steady at about 1801 b
H.D.C.: To cure ringworm in calves, cut
the surrounding hair and paint with tincture
of iodine. Repeat in two or three days
N.D.F.: In 1912, during the war with turkey,
Italy occupied the Dodecanese islands. Turkey
formally ceded them to Italy under the Lau-
sanne Treaty which came into force on 6/8/’24.
Soldier: Information unobtainable....
E.G.D.: Get in touch with the High Commis-
sioner for the United Kingdom, Canberra ... •
G.C.: Weatherproof oil is on sale at most
stores and is still being made. If this is unob-
tainable, try raw linseed oil, alone or with a
10 p.c. addition of any good varnish
W.T.C.: The storekeeper can refuse to sell,
and you have no remedy, as the advertisement
is only an offer to treat for the goods, and
your offer to buy does not complete a con-
tract W.H.: Red, blue and green stains are
now unobtainable (unless from pre-war stock).
Experiments are being carried out, using the
leaves and roots of plants, for obtaining the
stains, and there is scope for such research
work A.C.C.: Get in touch with Dept.
Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney Auction
Solo: Official Rules of Card Games: Hoyle
Up to Date, published by the U.S. Playing Card
Co., is an accepted authority. In auction bridge,
if any player receives more or less than 13
cards a new deal is compulsory P R.: Fm
inf or [nation about Kikuyu grass seed, get in
touch with the Department of Agriculture and
Stock, Brisbane A.J.G.: The sex of guinea
fowls may be distinguished by the fact that the
male bird is larger, with larger wattles and
a shriller call.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the M.S. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be return,M unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
J. 8., “To the V.D.C.”:
Men who had to stay behind,
But the spirit is there, they are not blind
To the menace of German and rancorous Jap.
They don’t start strikes while we’re at war —-
Money won't be any use with a cobra at our door.
The militia and civvies used to laugh—
These men don’t care, they can take the chaff.
E M B.: Stock themes conventionally
treated.... T.G.T.: Good idea, but you’ve
taken it too easily.... A. 8.: Ihe last line’s peri-
lously close to unconscious humor G.J.:
Not quite D.H.R.: Pleasant enough, but
gets nowhere E.H.: Too exclamatory
R A.: The “little piece of verse’’ is just that.. • •
Tomo: “Dingo the Brumby” also ran 1.W.:
Take more time F.H.H.: Call again....
ES ' Bright, but patchy F.H.: Managed
to translate “If tuis riferm an iusty” into Tt
their rifles are rusty,” but the rest of the
masterpiece remains locked in its illegibility... •
E S H.: The last three stanzas are repetitive,.. ■
M J.: Still too slight, and the background's
literary E.M.S.: Try a woman’s paper
CPI • “Deception’s hydra-headed leers” are
about as far out of date as Deception’s hydra-
headed beers... .H.S.G. and 1.K..: Make them
into “Abo.” pars.


There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
1111
11111
BF*
iili
a
SsaM
fMs
k
5 S'!
i^sssS^'j;
111
-&is
.'!
ig
(•Ssg
H
m
■
ip
ig§
WM
m
wm
n
/*n*
n
l
Otftrx/
imnd
m
■"■;.T ~"X
'• - I
;<5 .
,
SS.'
1: -v>^
m& * " •"
.-V
HI
' XO-J- >;»:*:
H
\ -
~ ■ _ "*.T~. > ■
. _ v'-: \ ■.,» -- . .'.
»‘
. . ..T .'• ■■ -
-
B?'
jjS|l
SS
pl#p
sllll
s?*.
Its
"■• •-. “ 'I '* ’ 1 » TS
* > W
N, v * .. ■ i
- -
!*■
m>
T*\OWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency . . . National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
A f
Arnoffs racrory
a
a
It is better to plan victories than have
post-mortems on defeat buy War Savings
Certificates and National Savings Bonds.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR
GROCER
* ’
ARNOTTS
ARE
Bf
EVER”
