

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3292
Wednesday, March 17, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission fey Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BAMBURGH CASTLE.
FOR all time Bambufgh and Grace Darling will be associated.
The clean and pleasant village on the Northumbrian coast
has a green surrounded by trees; flowers in summertime wind
and creep over and around the cottage windows. The roads
and paths are neatly kept. On the summit of the sea-washed
promontory stands the grey Norman keep of its ancient castle
founded by King Ida in the sixth century, and captured by
William Rufus in 1095. In peace-time it would be difficult to
find a place more suitable for a quiet holiday. The castle hill
and terraces command a noble prospect of dark-green sea ;
the beach is broad, smooth and sandy. However, the village
churchyard makes the chief appeal. Among the graves is the
last resting-place of Grace Darling, one of the heroines of the
race. It lies at a short distance from the monumental tomb
erected to her memory in 1846. On this she is represented
recumbent at full length, her hands crossed, with an oar by her
side held by the right arm, suggestive of the heroic exploit
which made her —a lighthouse-keeper’s daughter —famous for all
time. All are familiar with the story of 1838 in which her name
is enshrined, and the small 300-ton steamer “Forfarshire,
engaged in the trade between Hull and Dundee, the disaster to
which led to Grace Darling earning immortal fame. That
Longstone Lighthouse on Fern Island, close by, the home of
this heroic young woman, belongs, and will belong long after
its material substance has passed, to people the world over who
love and honour the brave and unselfish. How appropriate aft
Wordsworths lines:— , t t dut • n
Firm and unflinching as the lighthouse reared
On the island rock, her lonely dwelling-place;
Or, like the invincible rock itself, that braves,
Age after age, the hostile elements,
As when it guarded holv Cuthbert’s cell."


Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without oUtygation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.'’
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA IN PAPUA.
Lewis Lett’s The Papuan Achievement
should sell as many copies in Australia
as the Melbourne University Press can
print. Serious in purpose—a general his-
tory of Papua with special emphasis on
the pacification and civilisation of the
natives under the Murray regime—yet
lightly told and packed with entertain-
ment and adventure, it would make an
ideal gift for any soldier heading north.
Here is the theme:
The administrative achievement in Papua
is remarkable for two principal reasons.
One is that for the' first time (in fact,
though not in theory) the government has
been carried on primarily in the interest of
the native race; and the second is that in
all its intricately simple details, in its un-
wavering aim, in its conception, control and
successful performance, it has been the
work of one man.
Soldiers coming back from Papua all
tell the same story of the natives: that
they’re doing a splendid job for Australia.
That alone is proof that Mr. Lett hasn’t
overpraised the Murray administration
and its policy of “peaceful penetration.”
Where he criticises the strong-arm
methods of the earlier days, he is sen-
sibly moderate. When, during a most
valuable survey of Papuan economic pos-
sibilities, he criticises the Australian Gov-
ernment for its short-sightedness, particu-
larly in regard to rubber, he is again
moderate. He hunts no heads except—
frequently and amusingly—those of cer-
tain unspecified anthropologists who have
advocated that the simple savage be
allowed to retain the simple joys of raid-
ing, sorcery, torture and cannibalism.
Mr. Lett is no sentimentalist:
With the best intentions in the world,
it is impossible to feel brotherly love for
the house servant who uses one’s tea towels
as dusters and dries the glasses with a floor-
cloth. Nor is Christian charity roused to
its highest pitch by evasion of routine
duties, by callous thefts of treasured
trifles of no possible use to themselves, or
by the discovery that dirty fingers have
torn several pages from a valued book to
make cigarettes of stolen tobacco. It is diffi-
cult to applaud the sturdy individualism
that prompts them, when guests are expected
to dinner, to push their employer’s food to
one side of the kitchen stove so that their
own rice may be boiled first.
But he retains his faith in the natives.
“Centuries behind the times in their cus-
toms and in their way of thought, they
are still imbued with every sensibility,
though often in cruder form, and with
every instinct that guides and controls
our own way of living.”
They have been quick to supplant the hit-
or-miss methods of navigation They
have proved themselves adept as mechanics,
as clerks and as sawmillers; and in the
native hospitals they are reliable as anaes-
thetists, and have performed with repeated
success the delicate operation of skin-
grafting. Their courage and loyalty have
been proved many times over in the police
force and in the service of miners and other
Europeans; and accounts of some of their
feats of endurance read like many of the
old Norse saga.
Papua, as Mr. Lett says, has been the
subject of many books. “But no book
has yet been published dealing with the
method of administration and written
by one who, while unconnected with any
Government, mission or science, has been
privileged to observe the progress of Aus-
tralian administration during 30 out of
the 32 years of its development.”
That’s the real importance of The
Papuan Achievement —its purvey of ex-
ploration, trade and agriculture, the ad-
ministration of justice and the develop-
ment of education among the natives.
Set in another country, it might be dull
reading ; but it would be hard to write a
dull book about Papua. The history of
the introduction of taxation necessarily
involves the comedy of the village which
felt insulted because it was left out of
the scheme. The problems of labor and
capital are enlivened by the story of the
native who, unable, like most Papuans,
to distinguish between dreams and
reality, left his job and travelled 160
miles to search for a beauty who, seen
in a dream, so enchanted him that “his
head was not his own.”
Examination of the administration of
justice necessitates a chapter on sorcery,
with an anecdote about a sorcerer who
would have made a fortune as a cross-
examiner at the Bar. Quoting from
W. N. Beaver’s Unexplored New Guinea ,
Mr. Lett tells of one Baii who was tried
for plotting the ambush of a police
patrol:
i s As each witness was brought in, Baii,
leaning carelessly on his stick, gave him
one look, cold and threatening, from under
his drooping lids. And that one glance
was enough. The witness, nervous already,
collapsed under this new threat, and fell to
the floor in a fit. Witness after witness
was led in, caught the famous sorcerer’s
eye, and dropped to the floor, to be car-
ried out by the attendant police. As the
strange proceedings went on, the inter-
preter began to show signs of collapse, and
even the police were affected; and in the
end the case had to be dismissed for want
of any shred of evidence against the
prisoner.
• Illustrating the language difficulty in
the courts, there’s the story of the gentle-
man from the wild country who had to
have question and answer conveyed
through four interpreters while the Judge
was trying to ascertain whether he had
or hadn’t killed and eaten a baby. And
when two natives were on trial for kill-
ing a man on the road from Port
Moresby to Buna and the Judge pointed
out that the road was the property of the
Government and that travellers on it
were under Government protection,
“The Judge says,” the interpreter trans-
lated solemnly, “you must not kill men on
the Government road. When you want to
kill a man, take him into the grass. Don’t
kill him on the road. The Government
doesn’t like it.”
The book ends with a brief chapter
on the effects of the war in Papua and
a plea, again moderate, for as little
interference as possible with tribal lands.
Near the defended centres, war necessity
has imposed upon small tribes hardships
that raised in them incredulous indignation
which at first found vent in noisy protest
and in the pitiful threat that they would,
with their clumsy wooden spears, fight for
their land to the death against all the ,
mechanised might of Australia’s armed
forces.
Through the earnest and persistent efforts
of the Papua Administration the position
was modified. But the danger is recurrent;
and it is a danger that strikes at the very
roots of the Papua policy, and all that it
stands for: “Your lands shall be secured
to you.”
The Australian Tradition.
Kangaroo, Kangaroo!
Thou spirit of Australia,
That redeems from utter failure,
From perfect desolation,
And warrants the creation
Of this fifth part of the earth
If it were only for the reprinting of
that gem of the Muse in an essay by
Marjorie Barnard, the Fellowship’s radio
talks on Australian literature, published
under the title Australian Writers Speak
(Angus and Robertson), would have been
worth putting in book form. But the
talks do more than that. Though some-
what haphazardly, they summarise the
Australian achievement in literature to
the present day: from, in effect, the
•kangaroo Marjorie Barnard found hop-
ping so amiably in Mr. Justice Field’s
First Fruits of Australian Poetry to
Robert Fitz Gerald’s Essay on Memory.
There are 14 contributors. All of them
turn, as to the tribal totems, to much
the same set of books for an understand-
ing and an affirmation of the Australian
tradition. In poetry, to Kendall, Pater-
son, O’Dowd, Brennan, Shaw Neilson,
McCrae, Furnley Maurice, Fitz Gerald.
In biographical or documentary writing
to We of the Never Never and to
C. E. W. Bean’s On the Wool Track ;
Marjorie Barnard does justice to lon
Idriess ; Evatt’s life of Holman, Austra-
lian Labor Leader, gets a hearing that
shows it has made a deep and wide im-
pression.
Among the fiction, For the Term of
His Natural Life and Robbery Under
Arms. It’s noticeable that Tom Collins
is being hailed as the best Australian of
them all; noticeable, too, that Steele
Rudd, after some years of comparative
neglect, is coming ever more prominently
into critical esteem. There’s Lawson, of
course ; and Henry Handel Richardson ;
Helen Simpson and Christina Stead ; All
That Swagger, Man Shy, Herbert’s
Capricornia, Vance Palmer’s The Passage,
Kylie Tennant’s The Battlers, Eleanor
Dark’s The Timeless Land. Three con-
tributors mention novels by Leonard
Mann and each one finds a different
novel to discuss — Flesh in Armor,
Human Drift and Mountain Flat. Eve
Langley’s The Pea Pickers, as richly,
sturdily and lovably Australian as Such
Is Life, begins to receive its share of
honor.
The lists are not complete. Nobody
mentions Jonah, for instance. Nobody
sets out to establish a canon of Austra-
lian classics. Yet, with an article by
Leslie Rees on Australian plays added
to what Frank Davison and the others
have said about poetry, fiction and belles
lettres, the book does amount roughly to
a survey of the whole field of Australian
writing. It points with reasoned pride
to a considerable body of Australian writ-
ing of genuine and enduring merit.
There is, too, an attempt clearly dis-
cernible in the book as a whole to assess
the national value of that body of writ-
ing. As Miles Franklin puts it:
My rock of Gibraltar regarding the
place of writers is that they are all the
voices of their country. Without their
ideas there would be no advanced poli-
tics ; there would still be only tribes roving
about goat crags or kangaroo runs.
, Bert and Dora Birtles make an inter-
esting analysis of the effect of the Aus-
tralian environment on Australian litera-
ture and—-nobody will ever be able to
decide which is the more important —the
effect of Australian literature on the
Australian environment. They find four
basic factors which, equally in life and
literature, give the Australian culture its
distinctive flavor: the convicts; bush-
ranging ; pioneering; democracy. And,
going on from that point to discuss
“Need Australian Writers Write About
Australia?” Norman Bartlett —in a talk
of outstanding quality—concludes that
they must do so, because:
The Australian is a distinct human species,
the product of a history and natural en-
vironment different from English history
and English natural environment. In mak-
ing that statement I am not praising or
blaming... .Our greatest danger today
is neglect of the fact that a great national
literature is conditioned by national or
racial experience that, in rebelling
against pioneering anti-intellectualism, Aus-
tralian writers will juggle with intellectual
counters and work out intricate patterns
from preconceived theories which have not
been tested up against the human facts
and realities in Australia.
Hitting here at the notion that im-
ported political theories can be fitted
without modification to the Australian
tradition, Mr. Bartlett later offers an
equally wise warning on the adoption of
alien modes of expression. That twofold
menace of imitation, vital though its
recognition is, is nowhere else empha-
sised among the talks in Australian
Writers Speak. One finds, on the con-
trary, Bert Birtles actually rejoicing that
“We are not out of step.”
Certainly, Mr. Birtles makes the asser-
tion blamelessly: “We are fortunate in
this. The best work of the present time
abroad is highly democratic. We are not
out of step.” But one would have liked
to see the statement amplified. If in
anything except democracy Australian
writers try to “keep in step” with Eng-
land and America, they will lose that
distinctive Australianism which they all
value so highly ; and democracy does not
mean quite the same thing in any two
countries. Even in a country as close
to Australia as New Zealand the political
background and the contemporary inter-
pretation of democracy are subtly differ-
ent from the Australian.
The great fault in recent Australian
fiction and criticism has been the intro-
duction of political propaganda, imitated
directly from England and America.
Deliberate political propaganda will mar
any novel; Dickens is great in spite of
—not because of —his relapses into senti-
mental humanism ; and that applies to
any variety of deliberate political pro-
paganda, Left or Right. In Australia
it has almost become established as a
principle that books must contain deli-
berate political propaganda; and that
the propaganda should be of one variety
—imitation Leftist. It has almost been
established that all novels should be about
the wrongs of the poor or the abos.; that
all plays should be about the Eureka
stockade ; that all poetry should follow
the O’Dowd theory of “Poetry Militant.”
How dangerous and how narrow such
a principle may become in application
is shown in Hartley Grattan’s repeated
onslaughts on Hugh McCrae. “In my
scale of values, his place is not high,” he
has said ; McCrae’s great outpouring of
the exultation of the human spirit is
“purely decorative.” When criticism be-
comes a tyranny of joylessness it is time
to fall out of step with it.
That narrowness is not, however, ap-
parent in Australian Writers Speak.
There is a tendency to value reformist
politics at the expense of creative achieve-
ment ; to applaud a good book such as
Kylie Tennant’s The Battlers for the
wrong reason —its reformism —instead of
for its picaresque richness. But there is
generosity to and an affirmation of any-
thing that’s good in Australian writing.
Frank Dalby Davison sums up sensibly
on the political question that propaganda
is legitimate so long as the advocate is
not permitted to come before the artist.
Katharine Prichard does McCrae and
Norman Lindsay this justice:
They used symbolism to counteract wow-
serism, I think —wanted to express their
exultation in the joy and beauty of life,
laugh at restrictions.
And Dora Birtles perceives and values
fully something else that completely
eluded Hartley Grattan in his recent In-
troducing Australia —
Our humor, our peculiar ironic humor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
To have made Australian Writers
Speak a more satisfactory review of the
creation of the nation through its arts,
a talk on painting could well have been
included. All the arts help to create the
national tradition. It’s a commonplace
of art criticism that the first painters, re-
flecting the state of mind of the first
settlers, couldn’t even see Australia: they
couldn’t see the gumtree as a gumtree,
but as an elm or an oak gone wrong ;
they distorted the landscape until it
looked as much like English landscape as
they could make it. Heysen, Gruner and
Streeton share with Tom Collins, Steele
Rudd, Lawson and Paterson the honor
of building a nation.
Norman Bartlett, offers these wise
words in an incidental reference to paint-
ing in his Australian Writers Speak talk
on “Need Australian Writers Write
About Australia?”:
The Australian writer should study the
work of Proust, Joyce, Eliot, Lawrence,
Huxley and the other representative figures
of the modern movement in letters. But
if he thinks he can write about Australia
by imitating these writers, as many Aus-
tralian painters imitate Picasso, Paul Klee,
Christopher Wood, Joan Miro and all the
rest, he is making a mistake, as the young
painters are making a mistake, and run-
ning the risk of producing vulgar, pre-
tentious work —vulgar because the writers
and artists imitated are the products of an
advanced, perhaps overripe civilisation and
culture, whereas the Australian reality is
an entirely different thing which should be
expressed in a different manner.
Mr. Bartlett sees (as “S. M. Herald”
doesn’t) that the most “daring” modern-
ists make the identical mistake of the
earliest landscapists seeing Australia
through alien spectacles.
Australia won’t be fully a nation until
it has a distinctive tradition in all the
arts. There is a tradition of Australian
poetry worth talking about; a tradition
of fiction, and a tradition of painting.
But from present indications it will be a
long time before there’s any quantity of
distinctively Australian music. Which,
when good music is obviously popular
(witness the A.B.C.’s Beethoven season),
is puzzling. But somebody in Austra-
lian Writers Speak might have mentioned
the national value, both to Australia and
New Zealand, of Alfred Hill’s composi-
tions.
Most Australian talkies have been un-
speakably bad—which may be one of
the reasons why Leslie Rees limited his
survey of the drama in Australian Writers
Speak to the stage and the radio. But,
however lamentably, the talkies have at
least made a beginning which is worth
a word or two. Australian playwriting
is ahead of Australian music to date, but
it lags far behind fiction, poetry and
painting. The chief reason is probably
that there hasn’t yet been an Australian
playwright skilled, persistent and vigorous
enough to force his work on to the stage.
But it’s also true, as Mr. Rees says, that
the commercial theatre has offered an
almost insuperable opposition to any-
thing Australian.
For the whole of our history, our pro-
fessional theatre has had one source only
for its plays—the latest successes of the
London or New York theatre, or revivals
of them. The Australian playwright has
been a poor relation in his own home.
The novel labored not long ago under
the same difficulties. But the energy of
the novelists awoke the public’s dormant
need for distinctively Australian writing
and publishers make plenty of money
out of it.
At the talkies:
Two war films, one English and one Ameri-
can, stand out among current Sydney releases.
“The Foreman Went to France” (Lyceum) is
founded on fact. Around May, 1940, when
the Germans were overrunning France, a fore-
man of an English munitions factory set out
to recover three aircraft-cannon -making
machines which had been sent experimentally
to the French. Expanded by J. B. Priestley
and made by British Empire Films with me
collaboration of the War Office, it’s an excit-
ing battle of wits, with plenty of Cockney
humor excellently put across by Tommy Min-
der “Ten Gentlemen from West Point (May
fair) shows the rise and struggle against
political opposition of the U.S. rmlitar
academy, and the tribulations of some ot
first students. Laird Cregar is a roaring Com-
mandant. Technicolor, making the big we
scenes dramatic, helps the otherwise undis-
tinguished “The Forest Rangers (State).
Geoffrey Collings, who has a show of
drawings and gouache paintings “depict-
ing the contemporary scene of War Zones
of North Australia” at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, has some ability as a
writer, as witness quite a vigorous piC'-'-
of description which appears in the cata-
logue. This, however, does not make
more credible Mr. Collings’s impression,
as an artist, that the northern J un §y
blazes with vermilion and yellow, n
has had some training as a draughtsman
and can sketch amusingly, but the s fly-
leaves an impression that its creator h
everything he sees in contempt and e
sion.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
] 19 Years of Service
READY-TO-WEAR
CORRECT IN
EVERY DETAIL
Ready to wear Military Officers’
Tunic and Slacks made from
Field Grey English Drill. Good
quality Cotton Drill. When
ordering please state height,
chest and waist measurements.
Necessary authorization must
accompany order. Coupon-free.
Price 90/-
-
nr
mm®
m
m§ ./
READY-TO-WEAR
KHAKI SHIRTING
Military Officers’ ‘Safari’ Jackets.
These jackets are made from
Khaki shirting in fast Khaki
shade, and have an open neck,
shoulder straps and military patch
pockets. Easy action sleeves
and armhole. Sizes are SM, M,
and OS to fit 35 to 43 inch chests.
No shirt or collar is worn under
this jacket. Price . 25/-
Coupon-free for Military Officers.
READY-TO-WEAR
ART SILK LINED
Officers’ Greatcoats in the
double breasted lancer
style. These are tailored and
ready to wear. 24 oz. proofed
greatcoating. Art silk lined
and finished with deep turned
back cuffs. Coupon - free.
Price £6/2/6
i m
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712C > GPO -’ SYDNEY


ÒUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Matthew Brady.
IN its earliest days Tasmania was
afflicted with an outbreak of bush-
ranging that was a lot more serious
and much more varied, both as to
the fellows who took part in it and their
exploits, than similar manifestations of
lawlessness and brigandage which afflicted
the mother colony during the same
period. For the most part the runaway
convicts in New South Wales were little
more than simple and more or less iso-
lated highwaymen, driven to robbery and
incidental murder as the only means by
which they could exist, but in Van Die-
men’s Land they were often large bands
of bloodthirsty ruffians who terrorised
the whole community and had the Gov-
ernment at its wit’s end as to how to
carry on the necessary war against them.
The island was for many years a dump-
ing-ground for the worst class of con-
victs, who had already made names for
themselves on the mainland, and when
they managed to escape their principal
motive was one of vengeance. Typical
of their kind was Matthew Brady.
Brady was what used to be spoken of
as “a gentleman convict,” meaning that
he was an educated man. He had been
transported for life in commutation of
a death sentence for forgery, but had got
into further trouble in Sydney for in-
subordinatioii and was retransported to
Van Diemen’s Land, He escaped from
Macquarie Harbor with a dozen other
prisoners in the middle of June, 1824.
They stole a whaleboat and navigated
it round the coast until they came to a
landing-place fairly convenient to the
settled districts on the Derwent, where
they were joined by a couple of other run-
aways, James Tierney and George Sax-
ton. Because of his superior intelligence
and physique, Brady became leader of
the gang and laid down pretty strict
rules for the conduct of its operations
—they mustn’t injure defenceless people
or molest women, but might put traitors
to death, avenge injuries, and loot from
the settlers anything they might find use-
ful.
They opened their career as a gang at
Clarence Plains, where they bailed up and
robbed a Mr. Patrick Brodie. Very soon
afterwards they procured arms and am-
munition by plundering the house of a
retired military officer, Lieutenant Gunn,
who immediately went after them and
succeeded in capturing half a dozen of
their number, four of whom were very
speedily hanged. The remainder, recruited
from time to time by other run-
away prisoners, continued to loot and rob
in defiance of all the soldiery that Lieu-
tenant-Governor Arthur sent out after
them.
In April, 1824, the Governor offered
a reward of £25 a head for any of the
gang, and a few days after the proclama-
tion had been circulated Brady replied to
it by posting on the door of the Royal
Oak Inn at Crossmarch a proclamation
of his own:
Mountain Home, April 20, 1825.
It has caused Matthew Brady much con-
cern that such a person known as Sir
George Arthur is at large. Twenty gal-
lons of rum will be given to any person
that will deliver his person unto me. I
also caution John Pries that I will hang
him for his ill-treatment of Mrs. Blackwell
at Newtown.
M. Brady.
ONE of Brady’s most famous exploits
was the capture of the gaol in Sorell
and the release of the prisoners.
Eight of the gang descended upon
the Pittwater district and looted it
pretty thoroughly. They put up for the
night at the farm of a man named
Bethune, making prisoners of the owner
and his servants, and, as the next day
was wet, they decided to remain where
they were. In the evening at dinner
Brady acted as host at the head of the
table, and calmly announced to his un-
willing guests that he would attack the
gaol at Sorell.
The eighteen captives were tied up and
marched off to the town about 10 o’clock
in the evening. They arrived at the gaol
when the soldiers, who had spent the day
in the rain-sodden bush looking for the
gang, were cleaning their wet muskets.
With a wild rush, the bushrangers took
the place, freed the prisoners and locked
up in the cells the soldiers and the cap-
tives they had made at Bethune’s place.
The gaoler escaped and ran to fetch the
doctor and the district magistrate, that
same Lieutenant Gunn with whom some
of the bandits had had dealings before.
When they came to the rescue the doctor
was captured without any trouble, but
Gunn was wounded in the arm, and they
were both locked up with the others.
This redoubtable feat made no end of
a stir in Hobart Town, and the Lieu-
tenant-Governor doubled the reward for
each member of the gang and offered
other inducements towards their capture.
The military turned out in force, and
special constables were enrolled to hunt
the bushrangers down. But they hadn’t
any luck, and Brady and his men retained
their liberty.
He was betrayed by a man in whose
hut he was sleeping, and two soldiers
succeeded in tying him up. He was very
cool about it and asked for a drink of
water. The soldiers, thinking him secure,
went out together to get the water, and
whilst they were away Brady held his
hands over the blazing fire, burned his
lashings through, and escaped back to the
gang. A few days afterwards he came
across the chap who’d betrayed him in
the hut of a certain Bill Windsor, near
Launceston.
“Ah, my brave boy,” Brady said to
him. “You’re the cove who was going
to be a witness against me. Well, you’ll
be a witness —of what I’m going to do
to you. I’ll give you while I have my
supper—that’s all. And then you’ll do
your witnessing.”
He finished his meal and then calmly
shot the unfortunate wretch dead.
O Y this time Brady had collected so
I—'much valuable loot that he turned
his attention towards getting it and his
comrades and himself out of the colony,
and made plans to seize a vessel at one of
the ports. The scheme fell through and
he went back to bushranging.
With characteristic audacity he sent a
letter to the Commandant at Launces-
ton, “with the bushrangers’ compliments,”
informing him that he proposed to rob
the house of a settler named Dry, who
lived about a mile outside the town, and
to attack the gaol the same evening.
Although the authorities regarded this
threat as a joke, Brady was in grim
earnest. Dry’s house was raided and its
occupants made prisoners, whilst the
place was ransacked for valuables —Brady
in the meantime entertaining the ladies
in the drawing-room with stories of his
adventures in the old country and Van
Diemen’s Land. He even treated them
to a song of his own composition, accom-
panying himself upon the piano.
Later the gang did make an attack on
the gaol in Launceston, but it was beaten
off.
The Lieutenant-Governor issued an-
other proclamation, offering another
reward of 300 guineas for any of the
gang, dead or alive.
IN the middle of 1825 a prisoner named
Cowan was purposely permitted to
escape from a chain-gang with broken
leg-irons. He put himself in the way
of being found by Brady’s men. They
immediately “rescued” him, took him
to a blacksmith and had the irons knocked
off his ankles. He became a recruit, and
more than once led them into fights with
the soldiers, out of which only the cour-
age and ability of their leader were able
to extricate them.
Cowan completely hoodwinked the
bushrangers, and at last was able to
betray their camp to Lieutenant Williams,
of the 40th Regiment. In April, 1826,
a fierce affray took place in which several
were killed on each side. Nine of the
bushrangers were made prisoners and
three killed, and the gang was effectually
broken up. But Brady himself had not
been taken, and still had some followers.
He began a furious campaign against the
settlers, who retaliated with reprisals
against such of the runaway convicts as
fell into their hands. A petition was
presented to Colonel Arthur praying that
the prisoners might be promptly executed
so that they might have no chance of
escaping from prison. So inflamed was
the public mind against the freebooters
that about this time as many as thirty-
seven prisoners were condemned to death
at one sitting of the Criminal Court.
An extract from the Van Diemen’s
Land Annual throws a lurid and curious
light upon the condition of the country
whilst the bushrangers were ravaging it:
On the night of the sth the bushrangers
set fire to and burned down the stockyard >
with all the wheat belonging to Mr. Abra-
ham Walker and Commissary Walker,
opposite Mr. Thomas Archer’s. The extent
of the damage is not yet ascertained.
The bushrangers were seen between the
punt and Mr. Gibson’s stockyard, and on
the 6th they sent word to Mr. Massey,
on the South Esk, Ben Lomond, that they
would hang him and burn his wheat. A
great fire was seen in the direction of his
house, but it is to be hoped that they have
not executed their threat.
The bushrangers have Mr. Dry’s two
white carriage horses with them. They
shot Thomas Kenton dead at the punt on
the South Esk; they called him out of his
house, and deliberately shot him.
Brady now wears Colonel Balfour’s cap,
which was knocked off at Dry’s.
Captain White, of the Duke of York,
and Captain Smith, of the Brutus, were
captured. The bushrangers made Captain
White go down upon his knees, and were
going to shoot him, but Captain Smith
interfered and saved his life, on represent-
ing to them the misery it would inflict on
his children.
In course of time, however, the band
was scattered, and the hunt centred itself
upon Brady. He was wounded in the
ankle but managed to make his escape.
And then John Batman, a native of Par-
ramatta —afterwards to become famous
as one of the founders of the Port Phillip
settlement—set out to hunt the bush-
rangers down amongst the wild ravines
of the Western Tiers. He eventually came
up with Brady alone, obviously suffering
from pain and privation and limping
through the bush with the aid of a stick,
and took him prisoner.
The news of the capture was received
with relief by the people of the colony
—nevertheless, there were hundreds who
sympathised with Brady. He was taken
to Hobart Town, tried and sentenced to
death. But petition after petition begged
for his reprieve. Settlers testified to his
forbearance, and women to his kindness
and consideration. His cell was besieged
with visitors, and he was loaded with
presents. There was a dense mass of
spectators at his execution, and he died
more like a patient martyr than a con-
demned murderer.
THE WAY H O ME
By R. H. CROLL.
CRIPES, didn’t it rain! Never a
let-up for days. The bags we
doubled over our shoulders when
we went for the cows were, wet
through before you could say “knife,”
and it was just wading to cross the flats
the two miles down to the post office.
“What’s the good of going in this pel-
ter?” I said to Jim, but he said we’d
better or the old man might put a stopper
on us getting over to Mallock’s that night.
The old man was a beggar to read and
he got a couple of weekly papers every
mail. He performed properly if he didn’t
have them the day they arrived.
I didn’t want to miss Mallock’s. May
and Lucy are bonzer girls and there’d
be singing and a dance. They had a
piano. I often wondered how they got it
up those hills and over the Seven Creeks
before the bridge was made.
It wasn’t much of a bridge even now ;
we found that out when at last we did
try for the mail. The bridge had gone.
Jackson’s wire fence crossed the creek a
bit higher up and we made for it. Jim
started across and yelled out to me to
come on. The wires were badly strained
and he was swaying about with his feet
on the second wire from the top, hang-
ing on for dear life to the top one, and
doubled up so that he was looking be-
tween his legs. He couldn’t straighten
up, and the way he wobbled about gave
me the willies. Anyway, I tried it.
“Never again,” I said when I got over.
“Well, how are you going to get back
home?” he asked. “And what about
Mallock’s tonight? We got to cross
somehow.”
But I wouldn’t face the wire and Jim
wasn’t too keen, so after we’d got the
mail we paddled all the way round by
Peter’s bridge and got growled at by the
old man because that track’s more than
four miles and we were late with his
blessed old papers and the cows were not
in (catch him going for them!) and he
said we’d never get the milking done be-
fore dark. But we did. We weren’t
going to miss Mallock’s. Not on your
life!
WE cleaned up after tea, and Jim got
the hurricane and we started out. It
was dark as pitch. We cut across the
cultivation and through the dog-leg on
the far side, and we headed for that log
over the creek at Scanlan’s.
“I wonder if Bill will be there tonight,”
I said to Jim. Bill was Jim’s brother.
His selection was a good way back, but
we knew he was sweet on Lucy. He’d
beaten a bit of a track from his hut to
Mallock’s.
I had to hang on to Jim crossing the
log. It wasn’t more than six inches higher
than the creek and she was racing. Bill
hadn’t turned up, but Belle Willis and
a few others had come along and we
had a good time.
It was pretty late when we left, but
the sky was clear and there were plenty
of stars. I was telling Jim what nice
eyes May has when we came to the creek
and found it had risen and the log was
right under water. We got as close as
we could, and Jim held the lamp up to
have a good look. Something turned in
the shallows at our feet. It was Bill.
We saw his face. He rolled slowly over
and seemed to look at us. Then the
current twisted him round, and we heard
him bump the log and get sucked under.
God! What a fright we got! Jim
dropped the lamp and it went out, and
I grabbed him just as he was going to
plunge in after Bill. He’d have been
drowned, too. We hung on to each
other. 1 hadn’t a kick left, and Jim was
shaking all over. At last I managed to
get hold of the hurricane. That face!
I didn’t want to be in the dark, so I got
a light going.
We tried to see if Bill was anywhere
about, but he must have gone down the
creek. So we set out to wade the long
fiats and go over on Jackson’s wire. It
was well after midnight by now. It was
only because Jim knew the country that
we could steer our way at all. That’s
the worst of a hurricane lamp. It shows
up what’s close to you all right but you
can’t see a thing outside its ring of light.
Jim was crying every now and then,
and on top of it all we had another
fright. The lamp was swinging between
the two of us, and without any warning
a long grey something sprang out of
the dark and leaped fair at us. It didn’t
touch us, and it was gone again like a
shot. It seemed about six feet long, but
it was only a hare, which must have
been dazzled by the light and jumped at
it. If it had knocked the lamp out I’m
afraid it would have settled me. We both
yelled.
That was enough for one night surely.
But we had to cross the creek on the wire
or walk that four miles from the
post office round by Peter’s bridge.
I couldn’t manage it; I was too
dog-tired. We sat on a log and had
a spell. I nearly went to sleep. We
were wet to the middle; you couldn’t
dodge the pools. When we came to the
fence we never said a word. Jim went
first and took the lamp. The wire sagged
under my feet and touched the water. We
swung about and we were bent up and
our feet pushed away from us, and we
were almost sitting down when we pulled
on the top wire. I felt as if I was sliding
along on nothing. I looked down into
the water rushing and foaming and roar-
ing just below me, and I had a sudden
horrible feeling that Bill might come
along and look up at me again. He was
picked up in the morning caught in that
very fence.
We got home all right after that.
used to sleep in the same bed. Jim tells
me he twisted and turned and couldm
sleep, but I went dead to the world till
daylight. Then I woke with somebody
grabbing me. I gave such a yell that i
frightened seven devils out of the old
man. He was shaking the two of us and
wanting to know if the cows were to wait
all day. He got a proper shock, hci
once I was glad to wake up.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3292.
Wednesday, March 17, 1943.
NO DINGOES THROUGH.
“Today marks the anniversary of Gen. Mac Arthur’s arrival in Australia.”
“Good on you, Mac.—you’re keeping ’em out!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
GENERAL MACARTHUR.
Twelve months ago today General
Douglas MacArthur, from the back-
ground of his heroic leadership in the
Philippines, came to Australia at the
request of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. If a vote were taken on it today
that would be rated one of the best things
an Australian Government has ever done.
Nobody here has ever become such a
dominant figure in such a brief time. Yet
nobody here who has ever become a lead-
ing public figure has less sought or stood
in the limelight.
The general is personally known even
now to only a comparative handful of
Australians —to the military and political
leaders who consult him and whom he
consults as part of the job he is doing,
and those front-line Diggers and airmen
whom he has visited in action, doing that
job under him in Papua and thereabouts
in the manner he prescribed for this cam-
paign that has been holding Australia
secure: “Always the fellow wins who
fights to the end, whose nerves do not go
back on him, who never thinks of any-
thing but the will to victory.”
Even if his military success since he
came to Australia had been less sure or
less spectacular, the general must have
to some extent captured the imagination
of Australians by the intellectual gifts and
force of character he has exhibited in
every utterance he has made. This rare
combination had been impressed on the
world in the campaign in the Philippines
which proved MacArthur second to none
among fighting generals. To the Presi-
dent of the United States he sent a birth-
day message from the “smoke-begrimed
men, covered with the marks of battle....
from the fox-holes of Bataan and the
batteries of Corregidor.” “From the fox-
holes of Bataan” —a line that should have
inspired a poet. And when the glorious
struggle was over “the Bataan force went
out as it would have wished, fighting to
the end its flickering, forlorn hope. No
army has ever done so much with so
little, and nothing became it mpre than
its last hour of trial and agony.”
Together those two qualities make the
man ; not overlooking the evidence of
deep religious feeling that invariably goes
with them, whether he is addressing a
tough bunch of fighting men or sending
a message to “the weeping mothers” of
their dead. Those qualities have won
for Douglas MacArthur a niche alone
in the Australian imagination from the
time he first spoke to Australians:
I have come as a soldier in a great
crusade of personal liberty as opposed to
perpetual slavery. My faith in our ulti-
mate victory is invincible, and I bring to
you tonight the unbreakable spirit of the
free man’s military code in support of our
just cause. That code has come down to
us from even before the days of knight-
hood and chivalry. It will -stand the test
of any ethics or philosophies that the
world has ever known. It embraces the
things that are right and condemns the
things that are wrong. Under its banners
the free men of the world are united to-
day. There can be no compromise. We
shall win or we shall die. And to this end
I pledge you the full resources of all the
mighty power of my country and all the
blood of my countrymen.
Australia, it must be said, had not till
then heard a voice of such strength and
conviction. No wonder MacArthur has
won Australians! Above all else, he has
remained the soldier he had already
proved himself before he came here. His
career is something for Australia’s poli-
tical leaders to think about. With the
past defence performance of most of
them —as they themselves should be ready
to admit —a record of bungling incom-
petence excusable only as ignorance, here,
in this country’s darkest hour, the rightly
dominant figure in Australian thoughts is
one who has all his life been a profes-
sional soldier.
It isn’t so long since that designation
would have evoked more sneers than
cheers among so-called statesmen and
many others of these parts. It isn’t so
long since men now desperately depen-
dent on a man of MacArthur’s qualities
and training were wrecking this country’s
whole defence establishment and thinking
themselves Solomons. It isn’t so long,
either, since newspapers of this country
—latterly alternating between ignorant
scolding and questioning of military
leadership (i.e., MacArthur and Blarney)
and ignorant advice on world strategy,
second fronts in Europe “to save Aus-
tralia” and suchlike imbecility—were
wholly in agreement with the politicians
stripping the country bare, and were ad-
vising the public to pin all faith on a
distant, hollow chatter-shop.
In view of this sorry past there is both
poetic justice in MacArthur’s dominant
position here today and (perhaps) some
guidance for the future. This man who,
by general agreement more than any
other individual, has saved this heritage
for Australians during the twelve months
since he came here took to soldiering as
a profession at his own country’s Dun-
troon —West Point. He passed through
there brilliantly: No. 1 in his class. In
the 1914-18 war he held the highest rank
for his age in the U.S. Army. Twice
wounded in France, he won the Distin-
guished Service Cross. After that war
he reached the highest position in his
country’s service, and when this second
world war was looming up he was sent
to command the defending of his coun-
try’s main Far East outpost.
MacArthur was already familiar with
the Philippines. Early in the century (he
is now 63) he served there as a second-
lieutenant under his father, General
Arthur MacArthur, a Civil War veteran,
in the Philippines as Military Governor.
What the later General MacArthur did
there was even greater than most report
indicates. It was as much a display of
individual character as of military leader-
ship—at a time when others may be felt to
have been revealing a sorry lack of both.
“Famous correspondents” had written
reams about Philippine impregnability.
The fact was that when MacArthur ar-
rived there the U.S. outpost was com-
paratively defenceless. As war neared,
reinforcements were sent. They brought
the garrison up to 14,000 U.S. troops,
along with about 10,000 Philippine sol-
diers under American officers. On the
near-by island of Formosa the Japs had
at least 150,000 men waiting ready to
strike. When this position was brought
home to America—no doubt by Mac-
Arthur —further reinforcements were sent,
but when the Japs struck these were still
at sea. Some of them came to Australia.
The exposition of the former “too late”
failing of the democracies had an even
more bitter twist. A transport carrying
pilots and ground crews for several
squadrons of dive-bombers and fighters
arrived at Manila the day after the Japs
broke loose, but the ’planes, shipped sepa-
rately, never got through. In all, it meant
that from the beginning MacArthur had
to fight on the proverbial shoestring that
he has had to make the best of ever since.
He is still fighting on those terms, though
there has been some improvement, with
more apparently promised by President
Roosevelt in his Address to Congress in
January.
Summing up on the victories in Papua,
General MacArthur largely credited suc-
cess to the “continuous, calculated appli-
cation of air power,” from which he de-
duced that it would never be necessary
to make the “dilatory and costly island-
to-island advance that some have assumed
to be necessary in a theatre where the
enemy’s far-flung strongholds are dis-
persed throughout a vast expanse of
archipelagos.” He knows from first-hand
experience what such a campaign would
mean, and he knows from bitter early
experience—as well as from most recent
Bismarck Sea success —how indispensable
and valuable superior air-power is in any
fighting today.
In the Bismarck Sea battle the Japs
still had the edge on him in numbers of
aircraft—lso fighters to 136 fighters and
bombers —but MacArthur nevertheless
had air superiority, the better force, as
the result most decisively proved —63
Japs destroyed, 39 others put out of
action, for a loss of three fighters and
one bomber shot down and others dam-
aged. In the Philippines MacArthur’s air
strength was pitifully inferior. Tripy
stories had been published of vast under-
ground airfields there ; the fact was that
such air-power as MacArthur had had no
shelter whatever. The Japs came over
in their swarms, and the defending ’planes
were sitting pigeons.
In the first Jap raid on Manila 60 per
cent, of MacArthur’s air-power was
destroyed, including Flying Fortresses
lined up for a raid on Formosa. “The
battle of the Philippines was thereupon
lost.” This, however, did not shake Mac-
Arthur. In less than a month’s fighting
the Japs took Manila. MacArthur re-
tired with his troops to Bataan, and
fought on. For three months, while the
Japs swarmed from success to success,
he still held out. The Japs swarmed into
the Netherlands East Indies, Sarawak,
Borneo, Celebes, through Thailand to
Burma, down to New Britain and New
Guinea. They invested Singapore ; took
over the oilfields of Sumatra. After a
two weeks’ siege Singapore fell. The
United Nations suffered an overwhelm-
ing defeat in the Battle of the Java Sea,
leaving the way open to the Jap invasion
of Java, In about three months the Japs
took some 1,000,000 square miles of ter-
ritory inhabited by more than f 00,000,000
people.
Despite all this MacArthur, isolated to
the north of it all, hung on and fought
on with his men in “the fox-holes of
Bataan.” A losing fight from the start,
it was near its end when, this time last
year, America agreed that its leading
fighting general should, at the Australian
Government’s urgent request, come here
as Commander-in-Chief.
For that generous response, as for
much that has happened since, Austra-
lians —including the best of Australians,
the fighting Diggers —have cause to be
everlastingly grateful to America and to
Americans. MacArthur’s coming here,
the manner of it and the manner, the
speech and the military leadership of the
man himself have all inspired Australia
over a time through which Australia
vitally needed inspiration. In these 12
months MacArthur, not by any flourish
in the limelight but by sheer sincerity,
force of character and ability, has come
to stand with Australians as a dominant
citizen among them and among Diggers
as an indomitable Digger.
Flapper Journalism at War.
Only the man who summed up fox-
hunting as “the unspeakable in pursuit
of the uneatable” could do justice to a
flapper paper, the “Daily Telegraph,”
which recently published a serial on what
it was pleased to call its “policy,” The
serial ran for four days, and, with digres-
sions and interruptions, was spread over
20 15-inch columns. Twenty columns of
the insignificant expounding the non-
existent !
The shaping spirit of the “policy” was
indicated in one artless sentence: “Pri-
marily the problem which faces a news-
paper editor is how he is going to sell
his paper,” And how can you get the
maximum of sales for flapper papers pub-
lished in Sydney? By, say, reserving a
column for writers of Australian verse?
By campaigning for national defence
when the public apd the politicians don’t
want to be bothered with it? By adopt-
ing any line at all that may become un-
popular? Don’t be silly!
Take it for granted that your public
has reached the mental age of 11 and give
it what you think it wants. Give it comic
strips and beach-girl competitions, with
as many close-to-the-knuckle photo-
graphs as the police will stand. Give it
vast expanses of printed mush about
Hollywood morons, “socialites,” Dashing
Bookmakers, Mammoth Punters (prefer-
ably from Poland or the Green Isle or
Lithuania) and all forms of professional
sport. On with the dances, the dogs and
the lotteries! And, since politics can’t be
neglected altogether, come out with
tickets of Outstanding Candidates who
are Friends of the Paper —if they spend
enough and if their luck is in they may
save their deposit. And at suitable
periods, with the war clouds lowering or
bursting, you may be as vicariously
valorous as the pre-war French draper
bred in the Napoleonic tradition who,
while comfortably toasting his toes with
Madame at the home fire, shed his blood
on every battlefield in Europe.
There are two axioms which this
flapper paper and other Sydney flapper
papers hold dear.
All young women with the normal equip-
ment of legs are beautiful and wonderful.
Revolutions are made by wonderful
people and make wonderful people of
people not born wonderful. This magical
property is independent of race, geography
and time.
Results of this teaching can be ob-
served by any person capable of observa-
tion, and he doesn’t need to look far or
hard.
It is no mere coincidence that the dis-
tricts in which these flapper papers circu-
late are the only parts of Australia in
which ugly war strikes and stoppages —•
started and continued in contempt alike
of Government appeals and threats, in-
dustrial awards, laws and undertakings
and the grave peril in which the nation
has stood since December 7, 1941—are
rampant. By its very nature flapper
journalism has fostered the spirit in which
strikers and go-slow artists practise their
knavish tricks, and by extending its
romantic notions of revolutions to the
persons of revolutionaries it has helped to
place Communists in control of trade-
unions with hundreds of thousands of
members. These Communists it has pre-
sented as persons of consequence with
richly-stored minds, whereas they are
merely coarse and insolent mob-leaders,
modern counterparts of the old “kings”
of the “pushes,” albeit with far greater
capacity for mischief and far more dan-
gerous ambitions. Of late some of
the mobs have turned on their leaders,
and one of the leaders has turned on
the “Daily Telegraph,” which had fawned
on him for years. But that is the way of
mobs and mob-leaders.
Other points of this flapper paper’s
“policy” since 1938, not recorded in the
serial:
Guided by an outworn Tory maxim (“no
intervention in Spain!”) and fearful of
alienating the Catholics of the Americas,
Chamberlain refused to buy into a beauti-
ful civil war in Spain on the “democratic”
(i.e., the Communist and anarchist) side.
Knowing that the Empire and France were
not prepared for war, and that'the French
tail was down, he refused to fight for
Czechoslovakia. Therefore he was half-
imbecile and half-coward.
Stalin, who signed up with Hitler eight
days before the thunderbolt fell on Poland,
and with the Japs ten weeks before Hitler
attacked him and eight months before
Pearl Harbor, is the greatest statesman of
the age and the greatest war leader of all
time—Timoshenko is the greatest general.
In The Air Defence of Britain, a
Penguin book published in October, 1938,
Lieut.-Commander Fletcher, M.P., writ-
ing just before Munich, said that Britain
then had “only a few Hurricanes and no
Spitfires in service.” At Munich
Chamberlain gained a year. That year
saw the production of most of the
machines and the training of most of the
heroes (as Dr. Evatt said in his recent
broadcast, “the best fighter ’planes in the
world, manned by some of the bravest
men that ever lived”) who provided air
cover for the miracle of Dunkirk and,
having saved the Army, saved the demo-
cratic world in the Battle of Britain.
Yet to this flapper paper Chamberlain
remains half-imbecile and half-coward,
and whenever it is stuck for a subject
it attacks his memory.
Some more points of the “policy,” also
unrecorded in the serial, with quotations:
“The one force that could really attack
Japan at home is the Russian air fleet at
Vladivostok. Real trouble with the Soviet
is the last thing Japan wants. It is this
that makes the extension of an Anglo-
Russian pact to Eastern Asia urgent.”
(July, 1939.)
“Britain, the U.S.A., France and Holland
buy more than 80 per cent, of Japan’s
total exports. With this market closed and
the supply of British, American and Dutch
oil cut off, Japan would soon be brought to
her senses.” (July, 1939.)
“Japan did much for the Empire and
for Australia during the [last] war. She
has long been one of Australia’s best cus-
tomers Mr. Menzies should frame a
definite policy for the Pacific that will
ensure good relations with Japan; the
opportunity should not be lost.” (August,
1939.)
“The Russo-German pact is likely to
relieve the Empire, and particularly Aus-
tralia, of a possible war in two hemi-
spheres.” (August, 1939.)
“It is essential that Australia should have
a representative at the Moscow conference
to offer Russia sufficient Australian airmen
to maintain 500 modern American bombers
and fighters at Vladivostok.” (August,
1941.)
“There isn’t one weak chink in our
armor, no little gap through which the
Tokyo militarists can push their war-weary
battalions. And how weary .they are!
Never a first-class Power, Japan has been
weakened by four and a half years of
inconclusive struggle in China. She is cut
off from essential war materials. Her oil
reserves may last for a few months. Japan
is still bluffing.” (November 29, 1941.)
“The Japs won’t attack the Dutch East
Indies. Not now anyhow. Let’s tell Tokyo
the game of bluff is over.” (December 2,
1941.)
“Fight for Australia in Java! The
troops we could concentrate there would
be infinitely more useful than the same
troops scattered thinly over this vast con-
tinent. We must do this .[fight for Aus-
tralia in Java] not only because of our
obligations to the Dutch. To save our-
selves we must help to save the N.E.I. That
should be the basic principle of our
strategy. Australian divisions in the N.E.1.,
fighting alongside the Dutch and the
Americans, might stop the Japanese....
That’s ,where our men should be, that’s
where we should be fighting the Battle of
Australia.” (February 17, 1942.)
During that hectic period the paper
was fond of explaining that the Japs'
air force would be “a pushover,” that if
they went to war with Britain Our Ally
Russia would forthwith make hideous
ruins of their paper cities, and that
British generals, scornfully dismissed as
“military pundits,” should be “learning
their job from the Russians.”
The Java project, for which “a few
divisions of Australian troops” were to
have been mustered, shipped and sup-
plied somehow, was an outcome of an
idea, developed in a special article, that,
while tactics might, in a charitable spirit,
be left to commanders, strategy was a
proper subject for the creative as well as
the critical energies of writing boys. The
paper’s present “strategy” is compounded
of two mutually destructive propositions:
(1) an all-out effort against Japan; U)
a Second Front in Europe Now.
The demand for a Second Front in
Europe Now was renewed after the Battle
of the Bismarck Sea. In that battle 136
’planes, dropping 226 tons of homos,
sank 22 ships crammed with 15,0 W
men whom the Japs were trying
to land on an unfortified coast. ror
a landing and maintenance of a
campaign in “fortress Europe there
would be needed at least seven million
tons of shipping and a million men, hav-
ing effective air cover throughout. At me
best —since, even if aerial supremacy
were achieved, enemy bombers couiun •
possibly be kept beyond range of so man)
targets all the time—the hazardous ven-
ture would mean serious losses ot me
and ships. At the worst it would brin*
a swift accumulation of horrors, closing
in a frightful catastrophe. Still, the con-
ductors of this flapper paper woman
in it. Their hides would be safe.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Not-so-merry Month.
In March, 1935, Hitler introduced con-
scription in Germany. In March, 1936,
the Nazis marched into the Rhineland ;
in March, 1938, into Austria ; in March,
1939, into Czechoslovakia. March had
come to mean something to humanity.
By March, 1940, the war was on. Ger-
many against Britain, France and Poland.
But, except for the overwhelming of
Poland, it seemed a tame sort of war to
some people—some Americans were call-
ing it “phony,” and Mr. Sumner Welles
that month was on a European “peace
tour.” Russia won its war against Fin-
land ; the first British civilian killed on
British soil fell during an air raid on the
Orkneys ; Maoriland’s first Labor Prime
Minister, Mr. Savage, died in harness ;
Mr. Dedman won the Corio seat.
In March, 1941 (France, Belgium, Hol-
land, Denmark and Norway having been
overrun), Germans marched into Bulgaria
and appeared in North Africa. Matsuoko
was busy in Europe. Mr. Menzies ex-
plained the sending of the A.I.F. to
Singapore: “Our contribution to insure
the British Empire against loss.” Mr.
Roosevelt said: “The British people and
their Grecian Allies need ships.... ’planes
... .f00d... .tanks... .guns, etc. From
America they will get them.” Kawaii,
Japanese Minister, arrived in Australia:
“Australia is regarded in Japan as a
nation destined to have a great future as
an industrial Power, while maintaining its
position as a producer of wool and
wheat.” In Bulgaria there was a bomb
outrage against the British Minister and
his staff.
By March, 1942, the Japs were closing
on Burma, Java, Timor. That month
Broome, Wyndham, Darwin and Moresby
were attacked by air. Major-General
Bennett reported on Malaya. Australia
“awaited the hour” of invasion.
But on March 17, 1942, General Mac-
Arthur arrived, and before the month
was out General Blarney and A.I.F. forces
got back from the Middle East. And
March this year sees the fourth year of
war halfway through, with Mr. Roosevelt
celebrating his tenth year as President;
Americans fighting all over the world ;
the enemy hold on Africa reduced to a
part of Tunisia ; enemy advances in the
Pacific stopped; territory regained by
the Russians and heavy losses inflicted
by them ; Yugoslavia fighting on; the
R.A.F. putting mighty fleets of raiders
over Germany. Other events of this
March, merry or otherwise: bureaucratic
control at its peak ; St. Patrick’s Day ;
anniversary of the naming and founding
of Canberra ; anniversary of the opening
of Sydney Harbor Bridge ; and Jack Lang
expelled from one of the N.S.W. Labor
parties.
The Senate Is Right.
Vigorously led by Senator McLeay, and
with the firm and experienced Latham
representing Westralia instead of the un-
fortunate Johnston, Opposition Senators
are trying to restore the prestige of their
Chamber, weakened by years of subservi-
ency to the other shop, which on many
occasions has scarcely troubled to con-
ceal its contempt for the Senate. In the
process they are doing a good job for
Australia, and they are in an unassail-
able position if Senator Crawford doesn’t
weaken.
Under Constitutional Section 53, the
Senate “may not amend proposed
laws imposing taxation” but “may
at any stage return to the House
any proposed law which the Senate
may not amend, requesting, by mes-
sage, the omission or amendment of
any items or provisions therein.” This
the Opposition Senators did, having out-
voted the Ministerialists, who cut a miser-
able figure, in respect of the Govern-
ment’s insupportable proposals to tax
service men’s deferred pay and hold over-
payments of tax by civilians against
future assessments. And the Government
gave in.
Constitutional Section 55 says: “Laws
imposing taxation shall deal only with
the imposition of taxation, and any pro-
visions therein dealing with any other
matter shall be of no effect.” This not-
withstanding, the Government tried to
tack its window-dressing National Wel-
fare Fund Bill, not yet passed by the
Senate, to its Income Tax Rates Bill.
The Senate sent that measure back with
a request for the omission of the tacking
clause. This being refused, the Senate
repeated its request. And that’s how the
position stood at the beginning of the
week.
Threats of a general election have been
heard. If decided upon it would have to
be a House election only. The Govern-
ment has done very foolish things in
almost every field, but this would be its
crowning folly.
The Umpteenth Coal Strike.
There has been another N.S.W. coal
strike—or perhaps it’s the same one —
despite all the threats, appeals, confer-
ences, agreements, mass meetings, prom-
ises, National Security Regulations,
protestations, affirmations and other
things.
It started at Corrimal early in Febru-
ary with a dispute over “yardage rates,”
and smouldered steadily until it burst into
flame last Wednesday. By the week-end
more than 9000 miners were out and
30,000 tons of coal a day wasn’t being
got. Several coke works that supply
munitions works were rendered idle.
Mr. Curtin confessed to “great dis-
tress and bitter disappointment”; the
Miners’ Federation expressed “alarm” ;
the secretary of a group of southern coal-
owners declared that “500 out of 3800
men had decided on the strike.” Sum-
monses were issued against 16 Corrimal
men on charges of absenteeism and there
was the usual debate at Canberra, with
Mr. Ward performing as usual.
Mr. Curtin told the House he “could
not say where the culpability lay,” but
this he did know:
There is a mystery about this business
that calls for examination Every facility
has been provided for every grievance to
be impartially adjudicated upon.... I have
no desire to stand here lecturing people
about their duty in time of war.
Mr. Curtin and his Government have
a duty in time of war —to come down
on work-stoppers of all kinds with a
loud thump. His Government has all
the powers it needs, and in its failure
to exercise them lies some of that “cul-
pability” which the Prime Minister can’t
locate.
A City Hall for Corns.
Tovarish Gilhooley writes:
Sydney’s City Council, which has become
notorious among city councils tor placing its
hall (With organ, if necessary) at the service of
Communists, is about to give shelter to the
annual conference of “the Communist party of
Australia.”
For president the conference is to have L. L.
Sharkey, “chairman of the central committee of
the Communist party of Australia and member
of the executive committee of the Communist
International,” and on the opening night 14
radio stations are to carry its message to a
people still in the gyves and fetters of capitalist
imperialism.
Instalments of the message have been given in
a paper called “Forward,” of which Comrade
Sharkey and union-bosses Thornton, Wells,
Healy and Wright constitute the “editorial and
advisory committee.” (Three of these bosses
are on the union panel which is to “advise,”
meaning issue orders to, the Government that
whitewashed the Corns.) Part of “Forward’s”
version of the message is that “the results of
British misrule in India are terrible.”
And by way of working up to the conference
Comrade Sharkey produced a pamphlet “The
Trade-Unions,” subtitled “Communist Theory
and Practice of Trade-Unionism.” Elegant
extracts are subjoined:—
Strikes, properly led and conducted and
properly timed, are a revolutionary weapon.
Strikes develop the Labor movement,
organise and unite workers and win the
intermediate social strata to the side of
revolution....
A number of strikes which we have led
or influenced have considerably strengthened
the Communist party. In North Queensland
the Communist party has polled its biggest
Parliamentary votes. This is largely due to
the great work of the Communists, J. C.
Henry and others, who led the strikes of
the canefields workers.
The author goes on to say that Lenin, in pre-
paring for the Russian Revolution, raised the
slogan of mass political strikes, which, he de-
clared, “may be of great importance at the
beginning and in the very process of insurrec-
tion.” He himself regards “political strikes,”
such as those for the release of the two sub-
versive Communists Ratliff and Thomas,
as “a higher form of struggle than economic
strikes” because political strikes “challenge
the Government, the State, the rule of the
capitalist class. One of our chief trade-union
tasks is the politicalisation of strikes.”
All this from the leader of a “party” which
pleaded for legalisation in the interests of
industrial peace! There is more queer stuff
in praise of shop committees. Mr. Mullens,
the Victorian M.L.A., has been saying forth-
right things about shop committees, but Mr.
Sharkey’s admiration for them is intense.
“Shop committees,” he writes, “play a most
important rble in the preparation and mobilisa-
tion of the workers for strike action. They
play an important role in leading the strike
and combating betrayal and reformist misleader-
ship. In a revolutionary situation the shop
committees would be one of the chief instru-
ments for drawing the whole of the working
class into the fight, into the street and into
the revolutionary struggle.”
Sydney’s City Council —and a lot of other
people with and without gaiters—should be
more careful about the company they keep
in dangerous times.
Timor Testimonial.
From a letter to The Bulletin by an
A.I.F. captain—one of the gallant band
in Timor:
I suppose commendations of your paper
from service men are rather a drug on the
market. Nevertheless, I should like to add my
little ant’s burden to the heap, for perhaps
the place from which it comes will give it a
little individuality and added value. The place
is Timor, where I managed to get hold of about
a dozen Bulletins from time to time.
Another captain, a fellow-Victorian, shared
this library with me, and I am certain that
no papers were ever read as those ones were.
We were both acknowledged Bulletin experts!
Up till our exile we had both been sporadic
readers of the paper for a matter of 15 years,
but never before had we classed ourselves as
really conscientious students. Two incidents
of our “student” days are particularly fresh
in my mind.
The first occurred some time after contact
by w/t had been established, when the first
parcels of equipment were got to us. Sortie
{Continued on page 8.)
AUSTRALIAN (CANBERRA) RULES.
“Since the war began Canberra has promulgated more than 820 statutory rules, embracing more than 2350 regulations.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young’ Streets, Sydney.
iJi
m
111
I*llll1 1]
ilfllilli
: ill
aiiiti :! ■k
R 11
111
Modern high-clrss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO POLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
genius had put a “Bully” in amongst a dozen
rifles, and I was the one who found it. You
may imagine what that was like after four
months in which I had read no English at all,
and had even been reduced to studying the
1910 statistics of Brazil, written in French.
The other incident occurred on the bead)
during another period of
A sailor gave me the cover of a. “Bully lor
a bit of native tobacco. He wasn't much inter-
ested in the Red Page, but I was!
POLITICAL POINTS
Chilley’s Income Tax Rates Bill con-
tains a clause reading “This Act shall
come into operation on a date to be
fixed by proclamation, not being earlier
than the date upon which the National
Welfare Fund Act comes into operation.”
Protesting that this is a clear infraction
of Constitutional Section 55 —as it is—the
Opposition Senators carried a motion
(Spicer’s) requesting the House to knock
out the reference to the Welfare Fund
Act —which isn’t an Act yet. The House
—/.<?., Labor plus Inds. —refusing, the
Opposition Senators repeated the request,
this time with blood in McLeay’s eye.
And he’s a nasty man to argue with when
in that condition.
Betting on the Deadlock Stakes at
Canberra on Monday: 5 to 1 on Com-
promise ; 5 to 1 against Election.
There was a House of Representatives
election (one only) in 1928, and there
was a double-dissolution election in 1914.
In each case the Government responsible
was routed.
A “S.M.H.” correspondent in Wash-
ington, in a review of what he calls
a Congress revolt against the Adminis-
tration, says that the latter is charged
“with having used its vast powers some-
times excessively, often confusedly, often
wastefully and not always impartially.”
There seems, to be a familiar ring about
that.
The mysterious Fairfax-Menzies feud
got an airing in the House during a dis-
cussion on the mysterious furnishing of
newsprint supplies for a Sydney Labor
paper, the “Standard,” brought out in
opposition to Lang’s. Somebody pointed
out that Sydney has no Labor daily.
“What about the Sydney ‘Morning
Herald’?” asked Bob.
Cosgrove, secretary of the N.S.W.
Police Association, must imagine he’s a
full-blown union boss. In a published
manifesto he made invidious mention of
the “police strike in Melbourne in 1919.”
There was no police strike in Melbourne
in 1919. There was a police mutiny in
1923 which resulted in rioting, looting
and wrecking in the city and suburbs,
with enormous damage to property. The
N.S.W. force may be discontented, and
may have something to be discontented
about, but it shouldn’t let anybody talk
strike on its behalf.
Some of Canberra’s war-time regula-
tions are having a bad time. The patent-
medicine one was knocked out, the N.S.W.
Chief Justice described the price-fixing
regs. as “intricate and obscurely
phrased,” also “as stable as shifting
sands,” when granting an appeal against
a conviction for an alleged breach of
them, Sydney Stock Exchange has “con-
demned” regs. applying to it, and N.S.W.,
Q. and Vic. real estate agents are appeal-
ing to Canberra for relief from their par-
ticular set of regs. And food, travel-
restriction and industrial-trouble regs. get
kicked in the neck every day.
In contempt of the Commonwealth
Government’s need for every pound
of war money it can rake together,
Tully, the N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
is trying to shove a land-tax bill
through the Sydney Parliament. It
purposes to start taxing land with
a u.c.v. of more than £5OOO, after
which the impost will rise steeply so as
to force the surrender of land worth
more than £200,000. If the Common-
wealth Government stands it, there will
be a double tax and the Commonwealth
Government will have shown that, where
punitive measures against land men are
proposed, it will stand anything.
The Sydney Minister for Labor, speak-
ing on his Industrial Arbitration Bill,
made great play with the necessity for
preference to unionists. If there Was a
word about preference to returned fight-
ing men, it wasn’t reported.
Deputy Premier Badly, of Sydney, is
in trouble again. He promised to get
fishermen more for their sea-food and
at the same time reduce prices to con-
sumers, and now a nasty Common-
wealth Prices Commissioner has inter-
fered with his plans. Mr. Badly com-
plains that the Commissioner didn’t seek
any information from officers of his de-
partment regarding fish prices. But
surely Mr. Badly’s officers have enough
to do “investigating” control of the tin-
hare industry without bothering about
whether mullet should be sold by the
yard or the gallon.
Knight, McKell’s Minister for Labor,
“explaining” why he hadn’t gone on with
“it is persistently rumored that Hitler is dead.”
“Stopp-a da kiddin’ an’ take-a da gruel like-a da me.”
the compulsory-unionism part of his arbi-
tration bill, pleaded that “under existing
conditions” legal enforcement was a Com-
monwealth responsibility. One of the
“existing conditions” was another big
coal strike ; while Knight was blithering
26 N.S.W. pits “employing more than
9000 men” were idle—because a wheeler
tripped over a root and bruised a shin or
something like that.
Reviewing what the Tommies in Malta
have done to preserve it from the fury
of Hitler, and premising that they have
guarded “every inch” of an island “thou-
sands of miles from friends and 60 miles
from enemies,” Gort gave a little list.
They have carried 100,000 tons of
masonry for aeroplane pens; built 30 miles
of dispersal tracks; constructed a new
aerodrome; filled in thousands of craters;
refuelled and serviced bombed aircraft;
and dug up playing-fields, now producing
vegetables for all fighting men based on
the island.
And they have unloaded 50 per cent, of
the cargoes. Once they handled 29,000
tons in five and a half days without
cranes.
And all without union tickets. Can’t
Healy, of the Waterside Workers, and
Thornton, of the Ironworkers, do some-
thing about it?
The Old Man has taken to Gallup
polls as to a new thrill. A recent one,
with Churchill as the subject, showed him
at the zenith of his popularity, with a
91 per cent, vote for him as P.M. ; and
that was before he fell ill. A Labor
member extolling him in the Com-
mons (Labor members do such things
in Britain) said that the fighting forces
were Churchillites almost to a man be-
cause they saw in him a fighter like
themselves. The speaker added that the
fighting forces have a measureless con-
tempt for “the fireside fusiliers who de-
mand a Second Front.”
Australia would feel better if it were
sitting as pretty as Canada —right under
the U.S. eagle’s wing. The ties there
are close. With war on, there’s a border
passport arrangement. Before the war
crossing either way was completely open
and will be again after the war. Com-
pared with the U.S.-Canadian border
arrangement Australia’s State border
regulations have made this a collection
of adjoining foreign countries. There
are other U.S.-Canada ties. Many
Canadians hold high U.S. executive posi-
tions; many Americans —among them
Munitions Minister Howe —hold high
posts in Canada. A brother of the new
Canadian High Commissioner in Aus-
tralia is an American citizen ; a brother
of his Canadian wife also. The two
peoples, in fact, are as good as inter-
changeable. Yet—and it’s a big “yet”
—Canada stays as close-linked with
Britain as do Australia and Maoriland.
Three issues of The Bulletin could be
filled with New York newspaper com-
ments on the Ed Flynn appointment that
didn’t come off. Nearly all unflattering
to Flynn, they were mostly complimen-
tary to this country, though one paper
did pronounce the Government at Can-
berra a “trouble-shooter.” And Ray-
mond Clapper (Scripps-Howard chain)
took the view that Ed, though all right
for the Bronx, would have “trouble find-
ing his way around in such a delicate and
complicated situation as exists in Aus-
tralia” :
Australia is a ticklish spot right now.
The Government there hangs on by a
majority of one. It is anti-Churchill.
Australian politicians play a game of com-
plaining frequently of inadequate aid from
the United States. There have ‘been
strikes and other instances where the co-
operation was not all that was wished.
General MacArthur has conducted him-
self with discretion in a most delicate
situation when it would have been so easy
for such a spectacular figure to stick his
neck out to the disadvantage of our mutual
interests.
The last sentence is right.
Sixpenn’orth of mystery, spread over a
week’s cables :
In a statement to pressmen at Moscow,
Admiral Standley, the U.S. Ambassador, pro-
tests that the Russians are being kept in igno-
rance of the help they are getting from the
U.S.A.
“A third world war appears inevitable unless
the western Democracies and Russia reach a
satisfactory understanding. It will be certain
if Prussia is permitted to rearm, and will be
probable if we doublecross Russia.”— Vice-
President Wallace.
.“Nothing can be more dangerous for the
world now than a campaign to show that Russia
is ‘the enemy.’ ” — Smuts.
Japan is allowing lend-lease shipments in
Russian vessels to cross the Pacific to Siberia
with the full knowledge of Japan, Washington
officials say. Japan is selling rubber to Russia,
who sells the surplus to the Allies. — A.A.P.
cable, with cable-editor’s note, published in
Sydney “Sun.”
Mr. Eden arrives in Washington to discuss
the war situation —and Russia.
Meantime the Moscow and Tokyo Gov-
ernments are supposed to be negotiating
about a fisheries agreement which expires
this month.
Having been “expelled” by the State
A.L.P. executive, Lang turned up as usual
in the party-room last week, and none
of the other 54 members suggested put-
ting him out. Instead they passed an
adjournment motion. The Big Fellow was
there when the 54 filed in again, but
presently he gathered up his papers and
walked out. At the week-end he and his
supporters recaptured control of the West
Sydney electorate council, which had de-
clared for Beasley by a very harrow
majority; and the return to the old
allegiance looks bad for Beasley. If may
be possible to persuade Owen Dixon that
the Washington climate doesn’t really suit
him, in which case
Queensland Labor is throwing every-
thing it has into the attempt to retain
Forgan-Smith’s old seat, Mackay,, in
Saturday’s by-election. Its man is F. D.
Graham and its fear is I. F. Barnes, of
Bundaberg, who, unable to dig up an-
other Barnes —Barnes brothers hold Bun-
daberg and Cairns —is backing J. M.
Mulherin (Ind. Lab.), and says “if Mul-
herin wins I’ll be Premier.” Anybody
singing the theme song of Treasure Island
in the Q.C.E.’s hearing is likely to be
shot.
The C.N.O. in Queensland is running
T. C. Kerr, a Sherwood accountant and
an old 31st Battalion man, for the Oxley
by-election, made necessary by Nimmo’s
death. Kerr lost a son in the R.A.F. and
another is with the R.A.A.F.
A new defender of the Scully wool-
appraisements - in - your - own - electorate
scheme has arisen in Senator Fraser, who
declares that “vital transport will be
saved by the establishment of - the
centres.” What transport authority said
it, and when? Vital transport is a clumsy
synonym for votes.
Beasley told a Brisbane meeting that
the Federal Government had had to
fight the Japanese, wage a diplomatic
battle for maximum war supplies for
Australia and meet many problems at
home. It is also determined to fight
work-stoppers and similar disrupters—
some time or other.


%
EXB4-42
Let’s Call a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things ... for long,
this way, you help Australia’s war effort.
a halt. Buy only
hard service. In
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
ţ
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Newly-appointed Bishop H. A. Skelton,
Lincoln (Eng.), has left warm memories
in S.A., where he had the Maitland
parish long ago. He had then the un-
usual hobby, for a parson, of quail-shoot-
ing ; said he had learned to handle a
sporting gun when private secretary to
Lord Rosebery.
In the Jerilderie (N.S.W.) Police Court
R. J. B. Ryan lately took up the attitude
in which Frith has here depicted him.
The chair collapsed. “Something wrong
with the chair, Mr. Ryan?” asked the
Bench. “This chair,” said the barrister,
“is obviously a legacy from Ned Kelly!”
The Court broke into smiles and the
barrister won his case. He thought it
significant, too, that the Jerilderie Bank
of N.S.W. had, only a day or so before
his own arrival there, been closed for
the first time since Ned closed it. Known
to every wig-wearer in Sydney by his
R. J. B. RYAN.
initials, R. J. B. Ryan came out of a
Sydney Grammar and Uni. education
with B.A. and three life ambitions: (1) to
play a piano on the Sydney Town Hall
stage ; (2) drive his own trotting horse at
Sydney Show; (3) become a barrister.
He accomplished the lot. He didn’t tickle
the ivories as a virtuoso, but, still, tickle
them he did —at a Town Hall concert.
He read for the Bar, and kicked off in
D. R. Hall’s office. Of all Frith's thou-
sands of victims, the only other to wear
the Ryan brand of glasses is F. R. Lee,
who nearly ditched John Curtin in Fre-
mantle.
Word has come to a Melbourne man
that G. B. Shaw is engaged on a new
play. It is just 51 years since the octo-
genarian—he will be 87 in July—saw his
first play, “Widowers’ Houses,” produced.
This must be just about a record for any
working playwright.
lan Morrison, whose Malayan Post-
script has been published in London, is
a son of “Chinese” Morrison, the Aus-
tralian who for many years acted as ad-
viser to the Celestial Government. Born
in Peking, lan has trod much the same
track as his father. He knew China in-
side out, also the overseas Chinese who
form the bulk of the Malayan popula-
tion, and he once held a university post
in Japan. In October, 1941, he went to
Singapore and was through most of the
sorry business. He’s now correspondent
for London “Times” in the south-west
Pacific. He has two brothers in China ;
two A.I.F. cousins are p.o.w. in Malaya.
For 50 years Charles McKenzie, of
Lismore (N.S.W.), and Percy Edward
Tighe, of close-handy Ballina, have been
selling legal advice and fighting the battles
of their clients in the law courts. Ad-
mitted as solicitors of the Supreme Court
on the same day—March 11, 1893 —
they’re still hale and hearty and still in
active practice. McKenzie was Mayor of
Lismore for several years and Tighe was
for several years Mayor of Ballina. Tighe
was also for some years president of
the Northern Rivers and Tablelands
Federated Chambers of Commerce and
he twice put up a good fight for the Rich-
mond seat in the House of Reps. He is
one of the few surviving members of the
United Federal Executive which, under
Barton’s presidency, fought for Federa-
tion.
Raymond Fehmel, organist of St.
Thomas’s, Essendon, Melbourne, himself
built the organ he plays on in his own
home, and he uses the same keyboard on
which he received his first lessons when
at St. Paul’s Cathedral. When that
church’s organ was rebuilt he bought the
two old keyboards and added 1000 pipes,
some imported and some made in his
own workshop. The job took him over
eight years.
“Coldfeet” on a dinkum trier:
In the 1914-18 scrap Laurie Cooper, 16,
put the clock on to get away. On embarka-
tion leave, he visited the Kalgoorlie High School
to say his farewells. Also visiting was
the local area officer, looking for absentees
from compulsory m.t. —among whom was
L.C. The headmaster, knowing this and being
a good sport, hid Cooper in a cupboard.
Cooper “boxed on” until 1918 and returned to
Australia a captain. Volunteering again when
Hitler was stricken with rabies, L.C.’s papers
showed him as being too old, so, working his
passage to England, he this time put back the
clock, and was accepted. Recently he was
reported p.0.w., but not before attaining rank
as lieut.-colonel.
On March 28 L. V. Biggs, until recently
editor of Melbourne “Age,” is billed to
broadcast on “Fifty Years of the Inky
Way.” The broadcast practically coin-
cides with his 70th birthday.
Pilot-Officer G. Eric Spencer, R.A.A.F.,
is credited with being first to land on the
Solomons in the first U.S. offensive
action against the Japs. For four years
before the war he was at Tulagi as clerk
of works with the Colonial Civil Service
and knew every inch of those parts. Get-
ting out when the Japs hove in sight
and joining the R.A.A.F., he was one
day summoned to h.q. and within a few
hours was promoted to pilot-officer, fully
equipped and„ with others familiar with
the Solomons, was sent to Sydney to
form a guide troop. From there they
joined the U.S. Marines, and Spencer
later led the first platoon ashore at
Haleta Point, where no opposition was
met. Thence he went to guide the land-
ing at Tanambogo, where the Marines
got a hot reception. Spencer came through
it safe, and later led Marine raiders
out of Tulagi into the jungle. When last
heard of he was in Australia awaiting a
new job.
Sydney, like Melbourne, is to have an
Ex-Service Men’s and Women’s Political
Association. The secretary is S. K.
Edgar, who fought in the Western Desert
and was recently exchanged by the
Italians as an incapacitated prisoner.
Miss Mabel Howard, elected for
Christchurch East (M.L.), was for 20
years her father’s organiser for Christ-
church South and has also been secretary
of the Laborers’ Union —the largest in-
dustrial union in M.L. Also, she organ-
ised the Canterbury Women’s Service
Auxiliary, and was for five years a mem-
ber of the Christchurch City Council.
There are three other women members
in the M.L. Parliament: Mrs. C. Stewart
(Lab., Wellington West), Mrs. M. Dreaver
(Lab., Waitemata), Mrs. M. Grigg (Nat.,
Mid-Canterbury).
Per Ardua ad Astra:
The R.A.F. motto applies with exceptional
aptness to Canada’s leading air ace, Pilot-Officer
George Beurling. Trying early in the piece to
get into Canada’s air force, Beurling was turned
down, not having the then necessary educational
qualifications —instead of sticking to school he’d
spent every dime he could rake up learning to
fly. Canada not wanting him, he worked his
passage to England on a merchantman in
convoy, to be told that, though the R.A.F.
would be glad to have him, he was still a boy
and would therefore have to bring along his
parents’ consent. He worked his way back
to Canada on a ship which was torpedoed but
managed to make port. Armed with consent, he
worked back to England on a munitions ship;
was accepted for the R.A.F.; brought down
two German ’planes over France; asked for
transfer to Malta, and there shot down 27 more
’planes before being shot down himself, land-
ing, per parachute, in the Mediterranean and
being rescued by a small British boat. He’d
by now gathered in turn a D.F.M. and bar,
DF.C. and D. 5.0., and, as he’d had a piece
of his left heel shot away in his last scrap, it
was decided to send him to Canada for a spell.
He joined a crowded Liberator which crashed
when taking off from the Rock and catapulted
into the sea. Sixteen passengers and crew were
killed, 11 seriously injured. Beurling reached
shore with a few bruises. Eventually he got to
England and thence to Canada, where he was
rushed from reception to reception, luncheon
to dinner, broadcast to broadcast. Part way
through this programme he collapsed in a
radio station, utterly worn out. It was then
agreed that he’d just about earned a spell,
and they let him go home.
Harold Holt, of the U.A.P., is to be
opposed for his Fawkner seat by Briga-
dier W. E. Crembr, a B.A. and Dip.EL
of Melbourne Uni., ex-Victorian school-
teacher, veteran of 1914-18 and soldier
of the present A.I.F. in Libya, Greece
and Crete in command of an artillery
regiment. A past president of Legacy,
he stands politically for a national Min-
istry and one army to serve anywhere.
Lieut. Glanville Hicks, drowned during
experimental exercises, was one of the
brilliant products of the architectural
school of Melbourne University. His
father, secretary of the Lord Mayor’s
Fund, is a poet and writer, and his sister
Peggy is one of the most promising com-
posers in England, a choral suite she
wrote being the first Australian work to
be selected for the International Festival
of Contemporary Music in London.
Lieut. Hicks went from Melb. Uni. to
London, where he designed important
buildings. Defence engaged him on Air
Force designing. Then he enlisted in the
A.I.F. Engineers.
Rev. R. J. Williams, the Ashfield (Syd-
ney) minister elected N.S.W. Methodist
president, knows how to talk over the
air, is an outstanding preacher, and has
held a lot of important posts in city and
country. Rev. R. P. Watkinson, the
Queensland-born Methodist who becomes
that State’s Methodist president, saw his
church vanish ip the cyclone that hit
Mackay in 1918. He travelled through
Queensland and other States collecting
the necessary and finally saw his church
re-erected.
The accompanying depiction of
R.A.A.F. Squadron-Leader “Bobby”
Gibbes, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and bar, has a
special point of interest. It comes from
Jack Lusby, who did scores of Bulletin
drawings before going with the R.A.A.F.
to the Middle East. There he’s been on
what the air force lingo of understate-
ment calls the “mail run” —that is, bomb-
“BOBBY” GIBBES, D.S.O., D.F.C.
and Bar.
ing across from Egypt to Tripoli—and
has thus had plenty of opportunity of
getting his Gibbes right. Gibbes, who
added the D.S.O. to his other decorations
in January, is 26, but looks a fair bit
older. Hailing from Manly (N.S.W.), he's
short and nuggety, the very opposite of
that Village’s Cutler, V.C. (who has just
turned in the secretaryship of the R.S.L.
in N.S.W., having, by report, political
intentions. Gibbes has been on the job
for 18 months, has been on upwards of
200 sorties (judged by what it actually
stands for, “sorties” must be easily the
mildest word in the language), and has
shot down nine enemy ’planes and dam-
aged many more.
Labor M.L.C. in South Aus., Kenneth
Edward Bardolph is credited with hav-
ing been responsible for stopping more
potential strikes than any other man ia
the State. He does the job of chairman
of the Man-power Advisory Committee
without taking a razoo for it. Son of a
sea captain, he was born 46 years ago
K. E. BARDOLPH.
in the Sydney suburb that proudly calls
itself The Village (Manly). With his
brother Doug, also a member of the
S.A. Parliament, he runs the “S.A.
Worker.”
South Australia’s knight Charlie
McCann is one Agent-General whose time
in London hasn’t been wasted. Austra-
lian beef growers and exporters received
from him regular written commentaries,
and where they themselves were to blame
McCann wasn’t afraid to use straight
talk. His reviews of the British import
trade should be on the bookshelf of every
meat board. McCann is now heading
back to London and will represent Aus-
tralian woolgrowers on the International
Wool Secretariat. He’ll also visit the
U.S.A. to look into the work of the
secretariat’s N’York office.
E. J. Fawcett, M.L. Director of Agri-
culture in succession to A. H. Cockayne,
retired, was farming when the 1914-18
war broke out, left early for the fighting
as second lieutenant, was wounded at
Passchendaele, won an M.C. and got back
to M.L. minus an arm and with the rank
of captain. Aiming to study agricultural
science and economics, he won a
Kitchener Memorial scholarship which
took him to Cambridge. An Expedi-
tionary Force scholarship enabled him to
stay on for an additional three years.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 75, g.o.m. of Australian
unionism Ted Grayndler (nobody ever called
him Edward to his face). A Bulletin con-
tributor once described him as Canadian-born.
This Ted emphatically denied. He protested
that he was all-out Australian, born at One
Tree Hill, Mount Victoria (N.S.W.). He was
Australian in another sense, too, being an in-
veterate punter on the horses. Early in the
piece he toiled all over the back country, was a
foundation member of the old Shearers’ Union
which gave birth to the A.W.U., and was gen.
sec. of the big union for 28 years. Between
times he served on the Repatriation Commis-
sion, went to America on an industrial mission
and was on the 1932 Wool Inquiry Committee.
With one break he was an M.L.C. for 20 years.
Old Diggers in the A.W.U. found him a loyal
friend.
In Melbourne, William D. McCallum, known
widely in the land and stock line. Born at
Melton (Vic.), he was educated at Wagga
(N.S.W.), was a classmate of General Blarney
and his brother, and lived on there for 25
years. Later he was for many years, in the
Broadmeadows Shire Council. Two sons. Jack
and Duncan, are R.A.A.F.
At Lawrence, Otago (M.L.), William Alloo,
84, old-time topnotch type handsetter who
won two competitions in his native Melbourne,
a rival on one occasion being J. C. Watson,
former Australian P.M.
In Adelaide, at 61, Capt. C. D. Matheson,
who came to Australia after service in the Royal
Navy during the last war, and, as Deputy
Director of Navigation, has been known in all
the States for the past 20 years.
In military hospital in Victoria, Colonel
Harold Newman, Director-General of Army
Transport. Born at Goulburn (N.S.W.) in
1889, he joined the railways in 1905, took his
transport knowledge to France in the last war
and for some time commanded railways opera-
tions in the Dunkirk-Dieppe sector. In 1930
he became secretary to the N-S.W. Railways
Commissioners.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pipe 3”: A youngster travelling to
northern parts of this continent on busi-
ness not unconnected with soldiering was
advised to keep a lookout for Bill. He
located Bill, and, thinking of the censor-
ship, wrote to his family: “Bill isn’t
where Dad said he was and he isn’t where
Sis thought he was. He’s about halfway
between Sis’s thought and Mum’s suppo-
sition.” The censor let it go.
* * * *
“Oi Yoy”: A cable note last week said
that Himmler’s secret police were seek-
ing buyers for vast stocks of diamonds
seized in Amsterdam and Antwerp and
valued at £29,000,000. It may or may
not be true, but all the same diamonds
are great property just now. They’re
being bought and stowed away by that
section of the community noted for its
business acumen and the shape of its
nose, and that’s better than a weather
forecast. Australia has a few old diamond
fields, notably about Bingera (N.S.W.),
and I shouldn’t be surprised if they’re
being fossicked over.
* * * *
“T.M.”; A long, long time ago I toiled
on a Murray River fruit establishment,
and, v/ith other lads, regarded the stone-
fruit season with distaste because it
brought to the place a crowd of women
and girls to pit and tray the peaches and
apricots. The womenfolk sat by their
heaps of trays all day and gossiped and
pitted for all they were worth, being on
piecework, what time the syrup covered
their faces and hands and the flies gath-
ered to the feast and the dust stuck to
them and they became about as interest-
ing as the machinery. It was an enor-
mous relief to go into the town on Satur-
days and look at girls who didn’t pit.
Well, the years marched me away to
other things, and along came the talkies
and the American magazines and the duti-
ful Australian flapper papers all burbling
enthusiastically about the “glamor goil,”
who was a person—so they said —of deli-
cate beauty, admirable aspirations and a
way to make in the world. Then came the
war, and the local flapper press turned on
the girl in uniform, gave her the rounds
of the camera and the reporter’s most
vivid style. In time, the uniformed girl
was overdone and stale, whereupon the
press sought and found a new “glamor
goil” in munitions works. Now she has
passed out and in her place—in Sydney,
anyhow—reigns the new queen, the pit-
teress of peaches.
i
“Pitt Sf.”: All I wanted was two little
objects that were obviously a pair though
each was priced separately. “One only
to each customer,” intoned the woman
behind the counter. I suggested buying
one, going out of the shop for ten minutes,
then returning and buying the other. She
firmly opposed any such skullduggery. I
said I would get a friend to buy the other.
This was received with horror. I made
a final attempt. She eyed me malevolently
and said crushingly “Don’t you realise
there’s a war on! ” I do, now —a war be-
tween absurdity and practicality, for the
objects were two small vases.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Does anybody know the real
idea of the popular song “Bless ’em
all”? Returned soldiers whom I enter-
tained in the billeting days last year
assured me that originally it was hope-
lessly improper—though they gave no de-
tails ; and other soldiers were at the same
period taken to court for bawling in the
street a version of it which the police said
was offensive. Reading it as harmless
doggerel in the cheap songbooks, one
fancies three-fourths of it must be later
additions, with sling-off at the sergeant,
the Waaafs, and so on. It could be
a sneer at cold-footers, with its “back to
the village they crawl” ; yet it certainly
started with “A troopship was leaving
Bombay,” and contains “You’ll get no
promotion this side of the ocean” (a
jolly jingle which has much to do with
its success in singing). Which side is
this —Bombay side? And why “the vil-
lage”? Was “Bless ’em” perhaps some-
thing quite different in the original ver-
sion? I hate to sing stuff I don’t know
the meaning of. Can’t we have the real
origins of it all sorted out, before it passes
into mere legend?
« V $
“Eheu”; Lawrence Binyon, dead at
74, is one of the little army of bards re-
membered by the general only for a
single fragment of their literary output.
Everyone remembers “They shall not
grow old,” but who cares that Binyon was
a great authority on Oriental art and wrote
close on 60 books as well as a number
of plays? In the same category now has
fallen Adam Lindsay Gordon. His col-
lected verse makes quite a fat volume,
but all that endures is the quatrain com-
mencing “Life is mostly froth and
bubble.” Also in the Australasian sphere
there is Tom Bracken, who wrote quite
a lot of poor-quality fustian but attained
“Sorry I'm late. I'd forgot me toothbrush !”
the world’s ear with one short set of
verses, “Not Understood.” In these, as
in other instances almost as easily
brought to mind, there seem to be some
overriding rules the surviving frag-
ment must express, forcibly and adroitly,
a simple sentiment. It must partake
almost of the character of an epigram ;
it must be easily memorable, and, most
importantly, it must be proof against
ridicule and cynicism.
* * * *
“Bo”: War has its compensations. No
longer on opening our daily are we con-
fronted with the fixed grin of Mrs. Pottie
Blurb, disporting in her swim suit at
Palm Beach, where she was the guest of
Mrs. Guffalot. Another minor horror of
peace was the pictorial presentation of a
politician champing his inevitable free
feed. With a forkful of fodder poised
an inch away from his face he unleashed
at the camera the smug grin of one who
knew someone else was paying for the
feed. This, alas! has been revived. On
“I'll meet you at eight bells, long. 144.9deg.
east, lat. 31.5deg. south."
opening my afternoon paper recently
what did I see but a whole gang of promi-
nent pussons tearing in to dehydrated
mutton, with trimmings. A breach of a
tacit understanding which I bitterly resent.
# * * *
“Zake”: “Craiser’s” leading chef (B.
10/3/’43) who was given a job by the
Man-power authorities making nuts and
bolts reminds me of the time when a
huge bullet-headed individual who walked
heavily on the backs of his heels
came out from the cookhouse at a road-
construction camp, chef’s cap on head
and ladle in hand, to where the mob were
leaning on their picks. He addressed a
rotund, sweating individual. “Eh, Claude —
you was a chef at one o’ them flash pubs
—’ow do y’ make them spuds ala Avignon
or somethin’ like y’ was tellin’ us about?”
“Exdig”: There is nothing surprising
about a man being made a clothing-rules
investigator because he was a good
pastrycook. The Army can be worse. A lot
of recruits newly arrived at “Siberia” (the
recruits’ depot), Liverpool Camp, during
the 1914-18 war brought up the “What
made you enlist?” issue. After several
had mentioned rows with their wives and
a few hopes of glory, one chap
announced that he hadn’t enlisted to
fight; as a bootmaker he reckoned he
was right for a job as regimental boot-
maker. “Don’t be a mug —they don’t do
things like that in the Army,” said a
re-enlisted old soldier. “If you are a
bootmaker they’ll make a cook of you!”
Nearly a year later I met Snob in France ;
and sure enough he was a cook.
* * *
“Geebung”: Don’t blame the kids,
“Frosty” (B. 3/ 3 / ’43). There are bans on
keeping of homing pigeons and the use
by boys of shanghai or air-gun. It’s a
punishable offence to chalk on footpaths.
Cord for skipping-ropes is frozen for the
war effort, and in addition harassed
parents have imposed a voluntary ban
on skipping and hopscotch because of
the wear and tear on footwear. The
riding of bikes, scooters or billycarts or
other conduct on a footpath calculated
to cause nuisance to other pedestrians
(the bowling of a hoop is classed in this
category) is also punishable. Retention
of tiddlers is an offence against the new
fisheries laws, and only one pet rabbit
may be kept. Wildflowers may not be
picked. Taking of apples (with or with-
out the owner’s consent) is an infringe-
ment of the Apple and Pear Board’s
regulations. A kite may not be flown
within umpteen yards of electric-light
wires. Rubber balls are no longer made.
It isn’t merely because it’s “easier” that
present-day kids become resigned to the
radio and the pictures!
* * * *
“Hamer”: Dehydrated beer had a spin
40 or 50 years ago when Sydney Domain
on a Sunday enjoyed a lot of latitude. A
Domain character of those days was a
ruddy-nosed chap who arrived in some-
thing like a “hokey-pokey” chariot and
dispensed powders in bottles which,
mixed with water, were alleged to make
alcoholic beverages. If you asked for
beer you got something that tasted like
beer, and what tasted like a veritable
whisky and soda was handed out if re-
quired—in either case for the standard
price of threepence a nip. But although
the taste was present the kick was left
out. The police regarded
the powder-vendor as a
nuisance, but were un-
able to prove any breach
of the law against him.
He disappeared from
City Council stiffened
public view when the
the by-laws about traf-
ficking in the Domain.
Another free Sunday*
show stopped by the
sterner by-laws was that
put up by “Cold Water”
Perry, M.L.A., who
solemnly every Sunday
used to burn copies of
The Bulletin there.
Perry was inclined to be
defiant; but after he had
been fined for “lighting
a bonfire” he gave up.
* * *
“Craiser”: The pre-
vailing obsession: A
Melbourne citizen asked
his next-door neighbor,
a passionate amateur
vegetable grower, if he
had seen the new show
at the Comedy. “You
mean ‘Arsenate of Lead
and Old Lace,’ ” said his
neighbor. “No, I
haven’t.”
* * *
“Niloc”: Strange that
one so well-backed by
them as a bus-conductor
could be worried by
regulations, but it actually happened.
On the back platform stood a man
well over six feet. This was all right
because tall persons may travel on
the back of the bus. The conductor’s
problem was the regulation which says
that, if there are any seats within,
no one cap travel outside. This was ex-
plained to the bloke but met with no
response. The conductor thought twice
and continued his rounds. However, as
at each successive stop a lofty passenger
boarded the bus and added to the popu-
lation at the rear, he became worried.
For yet another law (the one that says
“No more than six persons are allowed
to travel on the back platform”) was in
serious danger of being smashed. A
brain-wave on the part of the driver
saved the day. He cut out all the rest
of the stops, and we arrived at work early,
leaving a wake of offended citizens ask-
ing heaven why the damn’ bus hadn’t
stopped.
BARBAROUS.
“The cry of ‘barbarism’ from German propa-
gandists becomes increasingly piercing as the fury
of R.A.F. raids on Germany increases.” — Cable.
’Tvyas perfectly legitimate, it seems,
This new development in Kriegspiel schemes,
Mot to be reckoned inhumane a bit
As long as it was they who practised it;
A thing to be acclaimed exultantly
With yells of triumph and with whoops of glee
Until their cities came within the range
For grim reprisals. Then—how swift the
change!
Subjecting them to what they did to us
Is barbarous!
Wasn’t it Goebbels once we heard foretell,
For every bomb on Germany that fell
Britain would get a devastating score
To give her something to be sorry for?
The boastful prophecy that he rehearsed
Fields good no more—conditions are reversed.
Even the fuming Fiihrer, one conceives,
Grasps that it’s now “another pair of sleeves.”
Nathless, to treat his age-old cities thus
Is barbarous.
Death and destruction raining from the sky
On London, Liverpool and Coventry,
With full a score of other close-packed parts,
Were incidents to gladden Teuton hearts.
But when the same dour processes begin
On Munich and Cologne and ev’n Berlin,
How loud they squeal, how frenziedly they rave,
Those who are merely getting what they gave,
Denouncing it in accents querulous
As barbarous.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
PRESS PEPPER.
“In intention, estimable; in execution, disastrous.”
—Answers to Corr., B. 10/3/’43.
How many a bard, sanguine and spirited,
Has resolutely sat him down to try
To build some theme which came into his head
Into a masterpiece that those who read
Would not let lightly die.
The bright idea, the fancy that he caught,
Was one, he felt, if skilfully expressed,
Would win the approbation that he sought,
The rightful guerdon of a splendid thought
Poetically dressed.
The trouble is, the higher you aspire,
The less will homely platitudes suffice.
Think upon this, you chaps who smite the lyre:
The fairest female form in poor attire
Cuts precious little ice.
Cophetua’s beggar-maid a king could win
(Some doubter may object) in rags arrayed.
But that old legend’s worn a trifle thin.
Myself, I never put much credence in
Cophetua’s beggar-maid.
The nimblest fancy and the fairest tale
Will fall as flat as indices and surds;
The finest motif, as they term it, fail
To hit the spot and prove of no avail
Without alluring words.
I, too, once thought Parnassus’ heights to climb
And pluck a sprig of laurel for my brow
For lordly subjects couched in ringing rhyme.
But —let me thankfully record it —I’tfi
A darned lot wiser now.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pouniki”: In Otago (M.L.) there are
still hearts that beat quicker when Bonnie
Prince Charlie is mentioned. There s a
sprig of purple heather in flower in a
case in the Otago Museum (Dunedin)
which is regarded as a Link. It comes
from remote Campbell Island, south ot
M.L., where it was picked from a bush
growing on a woman’s lonely grave.
Many romantic stories have been told
of this woman, but that told in the
Government Survey of Campbell Island
will serve. It relates that the dead lady
was the illegitimate daughter of Prince
Charlie and Meg Wilkinshaw. Meg
accompanied the prince when he went
into exile in France. On her death Jaco-
bite plots found a centre in her daughter,
and in order to get rid of the girl a sea-
man named Stewart abducted her and
took her to M.L., where he handed her
over to another sailor, who marooned
her on Campbell Island, where she died.
There are as many holes in the yam as
there are in a lace curtain —principal
flaw the fact that Campbell Island wasn’t
discovered until 30 years after Miss Wil-
kinshaw-Stuart was allegedly buried
there. But Dunedin cherishes the sprig
of heather for a’ that and a’ that.
* * * *
“Tasser”: Hobart has had a man-
power raid which should live long in
legal annals. Seven men charged with
participation in a riot successfully chal-
lenged 38 jurymen and the Crown chal-
lenged another 26. The panel was ex-
hausted with the jury a man short, where-
upon Chief Justice Morris ordered a
search of “the highways and byways” for
“good and lawful men.” The Crown
Prosecutor had “prayed a tales” in an
effort to impress jurymen from by-
standers, but after 15 minutes withdrew
it and his challenge to summoned jurors,
whose names were returned to the box.
Meantime seven persons had been im-
pressed from the “highways and byways,”
three of them from a passing lorry.
* * * *
“Lou the Lumper”: I see by the papers
that a Sydney Rugby League team cap-
tain is strutting his stuff about his con-
tribution to the war effort. It seems that
he had three weeks’ holiday and went
wheat-lumping for a cocky, having got
a “few hints” from another Rugby
League “giant,” described as an ama-
teur wrestling champion and “one of the
strongest men in the State,” who “claims
to have carried 9001 b. of wheat on his
back.” The first cove admits his three
weeks’ lumping toughened him up for
the big fight ahead, and the wrestler is
to give up wrestling and concentrate on
that same fight. Japs? No, professional
football.
* * *
“Camsa”: Celebration of the for-
tieth anniversary of the opening of
Kalgoorlie’s water supply, which comes
through pipes from Mundaring, nearly
400 miles away, recalls that meter-
tickling is no new accomplishment.
Soon after Bigjohn Forrest turned on the
tap at the opening ceremony, mains were
laid and gardens began to flourish. The
town had to pay for its water supply, and
meters were installed. Very soon some-
one discovered that the type of meter
used could be temporarily put out of
action by inserting a short piece of wire
at a certain point in its anatomy. The
news spread rapidly. Flourishing gar-
dens where there was no other water
supply and where the meter-reading was
surprisingly small led to investigations,
and several Kalgoorlie citizens appeared
in court to explain matters.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Accidents will happen. In
the catalogue to an exhibition of Rus-
sian culture in Melbourne I read the
statement that there is in Russia “an
appreciation of the scientific approach to
problems of every kind which has not
been equalled in any other land.” If
the assertion had been made by a Com-
munist or a pink bishop I wouldn’t have
been surprised, but it brought me up all
standing when I read the signature of
David Rivett appended to it. However,
the chairman of the C.S.I.R. has since
explained in the “Argus” that what he
wrote was “in many other lands,” the
omission of two letters having converted
“a reasonable observation into an un-
fortunate exaggeration.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: Judge Foster got off what our
Allies would call “a fast one” when evi-
dence was being taken on the flax indus-
try before the Women’s Employment
Board the other day. “As we work as
well as men we should get equal pay for
equal work,” said Mrs. E. Kerr, of Hamil-
ton. “No, you should not,” said chair-
man Foster. “And why not, your
Honor?” “Because you do not have
to keep a wife and family.” “How do
you know I do not have to keep a hus-
band and family?” quoth the lady. “I
don’t know ” retorted Judge Foster with
a smile. “But I do know you do not
keep a wife and family.”
“Purnamoota”: Let me add to “Harold
Hardupp’s” list of steam trams that car-
ried on for decades after most Sydney
tram routes were electrified the con-
traptions that used to career around
Broken Hill until about 1927 ; likewise
the “de luxe” service that residents of
Maitland had to put up with for years.
Steam tramways (so-called) still run from
Yass Junction to Yass town and from
Goondah to Burrenjuck, and the Silver-
ton tramway still operates between
Broken Hill and the S.A. border, thence
on to Terowie (S.A.). In reality these
conveyances are trains, and it would be
interesting to discover why they are called
“trams.”
S * *
“Lord Luvus”: The suggestion made
at a Methodist conference in Perth that
beer-drinkers be licensed and rationed
in the same way as petrol-users amuses
me beyond measure. I suppose in a
democratic country attainment of voting
age will be the qualification for receiv-
ing a coupon issue, and as a lot of people
are non-drinkers people who like beer,
using the coupons of those that don’t,
will probably get more beer than ever.
If I have, say, four grown-up offspring,
it will be my bounden duty to drink up
their coupons to save them from tempta-
tion.
“Spasebo”: Rationing of liquor is no
new thing. In Stockholm a Swede in-
vited me to a cabaret and asked me what
I would have. “Whisky, thanks,” I said,
and then, observing a change in his ex-
“They tell me shell be worth her weight in gold after the war!"
pression, asked him why he looked so
crestfallen. He explained that he was a
spirits drinker and was almost at the end
of his coupons. It appeared that in
Sweden spirits (but not beer) were
rationed. I believe the experiment didn't
work and was subsequently abandoned.
* * * *
“C.A.M.”; Streaks of modernism have
crept into the style of Sydney s Granny
“Herald” and even her policy in recent
years. Witness her recent devotion of
several inches of leader-page space to
report the “stealing” of an 11-weeks-old
baby by two sisters, aged six and four,
who wanted a flesh-and-blood prop foi
their game of “mothers.” But the old
lady’s early-Victorian tradition cropped
out at the end of the story, where it is
primly recorded that the police did not
intend to take action against the kid-
nappers, leaving it to their parents to
punish them. Did I mention that the
average age of the pair of desperadoes
was five? Evidently crowded out was a
mention of what was to be done to t e
11-weeks-old infant for consorting.
* * * *■
“Chevroford”: Graphic description of
night life, from the pen of one H. S.
Gillespie, in Melb. “Age :
Last night I toured the city out of
curiosity, to see for myself. I had a Gov
eminent officer with me, and this is what I
saw In almost every dark shop door, hall,
lane or crevice wore young girls in the arms
of Allied soldiers, and, to my surprise, one
of our own girls in uniform m the arms
of a man in uniform in Degraves-street.
How long are we going to allow such
sights and such conduct to continue/
The Melbourne police say that love-
making in public is not an offence in the
eyes of the law and refuse to get worked
up about it.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: As wars are great destroyers
of old-established institutions I don’t ex-
pect the ancient Anglo-Indian institution
of everyone calling on everyone else in
white society will survive this war. In
Madras the system reached such great
heights of rigidity and irksomeness that
some ingenious individual devised a “call-
ing club.” You paid two rupees and
your name was put on a list and a copy
of the list was sent to every participating
member. When the circuit had been
completed you were presumed to have
called on every person on the list, and
they were presumed to have returned
your call. So you could lie in a long
chair in your club in the evenings sip-
ping your whisky soda with an un-
troubled social conscience. Of course, the
system didn’t apply to big noises like the
Governor, the Chief Justice and the
bishops.
* * * *
“X.SAccording to veteran James
Barrett, of the Victorian Bush Nursing
Association, higher salaries have proved
a washout as a method of getting
more nurses. Nursing, it would appear,
is still regarded, not as a job, but
as a vocation, and that is a good thing.
Man-power has muddled the issue by not
recognising the spiritual factor. Nurses
who quit and went into higher-paid
callings were the ones who didn’t
regard nursing as a vocation, and they
are better out of it. But the shortage
remains to be dealt with.
* * * *
“A Major”: Whatever they may think
of the detailed proposals of the Parlia-
mentary Standing Committee on Broad-
casting, I think all Australian music-
lovers will sympathise with the com-
mittee's idea that Australian composers
are due for some practical encourage-
ment. I know I shall be told that Schu-
bert was often hard put to it to stump
up his rent, that Beethoven, too, knew
the pinch of poverty, and that it didn’t
prevent their composing immortal music ;
but can it be proved that either of them
would have been one whit the less pro-
ductive or the less inspired if fortune
had been kinder? In what are regarded
as the golden days of musical develop-
ment, it was the rule rather than the
exception for the composer to have a
rich patron, and some of the composers,
such as Mendelssohn and Meyerbeer,
managed to climb to fame while enjoy-
ing all the comforts wealth could bestow.
Australians are justly proud of their bush
bards, but I don’t think our anthologies
would be one-tenth so rich had not a
certain red-covered weekly newspaper
extended reward and encouragement.
For one poet or composer who survives
misery and ill-fortune there are probably
ten who go under —and they might have
done work well worth while.
* * *
“F.S ”: It is not only infant pheno-
menons of music who have their little
day and are hailed as geniuses by the
critics, only to sink into oblivion and
be forgotten. It is the commonest
phenomenon in art for the student who
best pleases his professors and wins all
the scholarships, prizes and exhibitions in
sight to flop subsequently.. He finds it
harder than others not so successful to
develop originality because he doesn t
want to displease his teachers. Most ot
the winners of the Prix de Rome, the
highest musical prize in Europe, have
turned out to be duds.
“Rabbit”: Reading an article on how
to make one’s car last for the duration I
recalled the story of an elderly English
lady who used to buy a new Austin each
year. She had to, for the engine of her
car was invariably ruined after a year’s
use. A friendly garage proprietor finally
traced the cause. It seemed that every
time the old lady went shopping she
pulled out the choke as far as possible
and hung her shopping-basket on it.
-i* T
“C.P.R.”: The eldest, rising 11, has
been doing pretty well at school, but
his diction leaves much to be desired,
and his mother spoke to him about it. The
kid thought it over ; then he drawled “Aw,
well. Mum, if I still talk bad I can alius
git a job on the talkies. It don’t matter
how you talk on them.” Then the
missus turned on me and alleged that he’d
got that point of view from my continu-
ally sneering at the terrible enunciation
common in movie dialogue.
* * * »
“Prosetaster”: In an ode to Alfred
Austin when that gentleman was ap-
pointed Poet Laureate, Owen Seaman
conveyed much confidential advice, in-
cluding the unforgettable line: “English,
you will find, takes years to learn.” I
was reminded of that when re-reading the
foreword to Carlyle’s Cromwell, in which
old Tammas, with his love of the right
word, however unusual, refers to “tor-
pedo histories,” and, again, “torpedo
narratives” when condemning earlier
chroniclers of the Lord Protector and
his times as Dryasdusts. “Torpedo” to
me means something ex-
plosive; something to
arouse from slumber ,
inimical to all sloth
and dreariness. So I
consult old Noah Web-
ster. He gives first the
derivation: “Latin, from
torpere, to be stiff, numb
or torpid.” That clears up
what Carlyle was driving
at, but doesn’t endorse his
use of “torpedo” as an
adjective. “Torpedinous”
is the word Noah would
use, but almost undoubt-
edly the Chelsea sage
could have adduced an
older authority for his
own usage. “Torpedo” to
Webster is primarily a fish
which can give electric
shocks and numb those
who touch it.
.* * *
“Pawang”: “Loo” main-
tains in effect (B. 3/ 3 / ’43)
that words are not simply
symbols for associations
but that there is something
in them inherently painful
or funny. I disagree. The
fact that the word “gher-
kin” makes “Loo” laugh
is no evidence that the
word itself is funny.
“Communism” has a sig-
nificance to most Austra-
lians very different from its signifi-
cance to most Russians. “Democracy
conjures up one picture in the mind of a
German or an Italian and a very different
one in the mind of an Australian or an
American. The words are the same or
approximately the same, but the pictures
are entirely different.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A strange antique which
Nazi bombs have unearthed in London
is the “London Rocket,” a two-foot plant
with a white flower whose botanical
name is Sisymbrium irio. It flourished in
abundance up to 1666, being apparently
extinguished by the Great Fire. Shak-
speare may have sent bouquets of it to
the Dark Lady.
* * * *
“Ajax”: Dietitians would be the first
to admit that they still have much to learn
about food, but that is no reason for
“Strict Veg.” to dismiss them so con-
temptuously (B. 24/2/’43). Would he
refuse the ministrations of a doctor when
ill because medical science in general does
not claim to be complete, encyclopaedic
and infallible? The person who “eats
dry toast and drinks tea and bothers him-
self about vitamin content” must have
queer ideas about vitamins—not a dieti-
tian but a crank. The qualified dietitian
would have us eat a little less meat, more
green vegetables and fresh fruit and a
good deal more milk, but generally speak-
ing his recommended diet varies little
from that of the average Australian.
Which may be one reason why Austra-
lians are bigger and physically tougher
than the Japs. General health, of course,
depends on more factors than food, but
there are several unpleasant diseases
scurvy is one of them— directly attribut-
able to incorrect diet. Vitamin content
is no “scientific bogey.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: The stranger swung into
the shade where Seventyfiver was mend-
ing his stirrup-leather. “I suppose you
people call this hot,” he remarked, rub-
bing his handkerchief across his wet face,
“but it ain’t nuthin’ t’ where I come
from. We’re used t’ real heat.” The old
bloke went on banging his piece of fenc-
ing wire with a rock, and said nothing.
“Our animals are tough, too,” the new-
comer continued. “Not like these parlor-
fed specimens y’ve got round here. We
breed ’em hardy, an’ the climate rears
’em that way.” He paused to watch a
cloud of jiust that rose over the ridge
in the direction of the river. “Yair, in
our parts the stock thrives on a few
shrubs an’ tussocks, an’ when the rabbits
an’ such wants a drink they just licks off
the mornin’ dew, if there hapnens t’ be
any.” He stopped again as another large
willy-willy swirled behind the ridge.
“Hey,” he asked wonderingly, “what’s
all that dust over there?” Seventyfiver
glanced up. “Aw, nuthin’ much,” he
informed, returning to his job, “jus’ the
trout swimmin’ up the river bed.”
* * * t-
“Boxer”: Quartpot was listening to
the union organiser haranguing the
shearers about the “blacklegs” and
the “scabs” in the industry. “Do
you know what a ‘scab’ is?” the
picker-up asked Quartpot _
after the meeting. “Yair,”
replied the abo. “It’s a flamin’ loafer
that works overtime!”
* * 4- *
“B. 4”: As I poked along a chain of
detached waterholes one Sunday potting
snakes for amusement with a .410, I
noticed a fox dart over the bank and
make a flying tackle at an apparently
somnolent blue crane, whose leisurely
take-off was evidently understood by
Reynard. Scoring a close miss, the fox,
instead of sneaking along the sparsely-
covered bank, took a series of loops as
he made other approaches on the wary
water-fowl, at which he peered intently
after each miss. Hiding behind a bush
the intent but unseeing hunter dashed
past me on one of his rushes, and as he
turned to lope another loop he spotted
me and propped. Whilst the short-sighted
one stared, I fired a charge of dust shot
into his lamps and as he sprang about
secured a tail-hold on his rudder. I have
it still,
* * * *
More suggestions for an appropriate
name for the pew Australian cruiser tank
are to hand. A name is sought that is
soaked in the essence of Australianism.
Abo. words are popular, though it will
not necessarily be limited to those.
Elereunder is the latest batch:
W. 8.; “Jingie-Mia”—the jingie meaning,
in the Kimberley dialect, debbil-debbil.
Mrs. F.R.C.: “Waltzing Matilda” —
which would be an Australian variation of
the English Matildas.
F.G.8.: “Captain Cook” and “Southern
Cross.”
P.E.: “Bungaa”—abo. for champion
spear-thrower. Also “Chemun” (lightning),
“Buyaburra” (savage dingo), “Zigeroo”
(thunder) and “Goreen” (champion
boomerang-thrower).
[Councillors steeped in abo. lore and
those with a turn for the appropriate in
nomenclature are invited to roll ’em in—
the decision for a name caqnot be long
delayed.]
“Bad Australian”: When I was a nip-
per the small settler who tore a meagre
livelihood off our section of the wilderness
was called a “grass parrot” because, like
that bird, he had to do some hard scratch-
ing to provide food for himself and his
brood. The owner of a large holding,
being considered of more importance, was
called a “cockatoo.” After a time “grass
parrot” fell into disuse, and the term
“cockatoo” was applied to all farmers,
big or little. Incidentally, the “cocka-
too” fence was known to us as a “blank-
ard-in-a-hurry.”
* * * *
“Kenwood”: Eucalypts can, and do,
hybridise (B. 24/2/’43), as has been
proved in North African countries where
the Australian gum has been introduced.
J- H. Maiden, sometime Government
Botanist of N.S.W., listed about a dozen
of these natural hybrids from Mediter-
ranean countries, and the fact that one
is named algeriensis is sufficient proof.
Admittedly, in N.S.W. districts no cross-
pollination seems to have been observed,
but that is not to say that a species from
Queensland will not cross with a Vic-
torian native. As for the statement
that soil and climate can prevent
“propagated cuttings from reproduc-
ing original features,” “Esk D.”
seems to be bushed in a tangle of
unscientific guesswork. Assuming it is
possible to strike a cutting of, say, a
spotted gum, and having thus secured a
rooted, growing plant, transfer it to some
district where soil and climate are “un-
"Pleased to see you back , Larry. Put the kettle on and we'll have a
cup of tea.”
favorable.” Result will still be a spotted
gum, though its growth will be stunted.
Visitors to Canberra have probably noticed
extensive planting of Arizona cypress, a
broad-spreading species that looks as if
the whole tree had been dusted with
cement. This blue-grey appearance is
known in botanic jargon as glaucous.
Plant a seed, cutting or graft of this tree
in Sydney and, instead of a broad-spread-
ing specimen, you get a narrow, columnar
growth and a big decrease in glaucous
condition. Variations attributable to soil
or climate are not structurally botanical
differences from the normal type of the
species.
* * * »
“Anthropo”: “Curra - warra” (B.
10/2/’43) shouldn’t too harshly judge
that sable lady of the Trans, who, on
receipt of some sandwiches, applied the
butter to her hair and donated the bread
to her dog. She was merely practising
personal hygiene. For, just as the
modern poultry-farmer has learned that
an application of grease to the fowl’s head
is an excellent counter to the stickfast
flea, so the abo. ages ago discovered that
grease was sudden death to the vermin
likely to inhabit an uncombed and un-
washed scalp. Insects breathe, not by
means of bronchial tubes, but by spiracles
in various parts of their bodies; grease
chokes these up. As to the lady giving
the bread to her dog, I think it stands
to her credit that she remembered her
canine friend in the hour of her pros-
perity.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Take the smallest dinghy
available—-a seven-footer is a nice size—
and start off rowing with a couple of tailer
lines trailing over the stern. To bait the
hooks, which must be long-shanked and
fairly heavy, tie a small tassel of caulk-
ing cotton about an inch above the eye.
As this dances along the top of the water
it gives the illusion of a small fish far
more deceptive to the tailer’s eye than the
best nickel-plated “spinner” that ever
trailed behind launch or sailing-boat. No
great exertion is needed ; just easy pull-
ing. But the oars and rowlocks must be
lashed in, for when a tailer hooks itself
on it is necessary to drop the oars and
pull the line in just as quickly as possible,
otherwise the catch may run up on the
line and throw the hook. Often one gets
a fish on each line and then there’s some
real fun. The advantage of this lone-
handed small-boat trolling is that tailer
invariably travel in schools, often lie up
for a time in some favored spot; the
small boat, once the angler has made a
pass through the school, can be brought
around within a few yards, whereas larger
craft often take the best part of a mile to
execute a similar manoeuvre.
!)! * * *
“B. 4”: My fancy to beat “Ornit’s” bul-
buls (B. 24/2/’43), as well as all other
fowl, indigenous or imported, is the
übiquitous mickey. These active, lynx-
eyed sprites miss nothing strange. Imme-
diately a trespasser is spotted mickeys
assemble in its vicinity, their querulous
chiding attracting the maggies, butchers,
etc., which rush to the show and join in
the clamor. It may be nothing more than
a draggled pheasant or marauding dog or
cat, which forthwith retires in disgust.
But in the'case of a reptile the mickeys’
clamor assumes a different note, while
the butchers, and magpies make snapping
darts overhead. Thus the mickeys have
assisted in promoting the demise of many
a pest and menace. Being omnivorous
feeders, the little fellows occasionally
spoil a few grapes, the property maybe
of an outraged and incensed farmer who
prefers a riddled corpse to a cheerful
little friend that destroys his bugs and
denounces intruders.
=H * * *
“Mat's Mate”; The big fellow rounded
a patch of scrub at a turn of the road
and found a man having trouble with
a 14-horse team in a big German wagon
loaded with chaff. The neddies were
playing up and the cove was cursing, so
Mat went to the offside and called “You
do the near-siders, cobber, an’ I’ll fix
these cows.” But the confusion became
worse, and after a few minutes Mat him-
self was cursing vigorously. “Every
time I yoke up this offside shafter,”
he grunted, “that near-sider gets
loose.” The teamster’s voice came from
the leaders, “An’ every time I get
one blankard untangled another gets
tangled.” Whereupon he drew off and
danced and cursed himself to a standstill.
After which he and Mat took a cooler
view and discovered that while one had
been trying to unyoke the other had been
trying to yoke up.
* * * *
“Ray”: Also being something of a
boiler attendant (B. 10/3/’43), my theory
is that the “terrific explosion” beloved
of fictioneers and imaginative reporters
every time a steamer goes down is caused
by the rush of cold water on to the hot
plates, firebox and steam chests. In a
year when the Murray was in record
flood, our pumping station was below
flood level and protected by a levee bank.
One night a steamer making down-river
caused a wash that found a weakness in
the bank, and about a hundred tons of
river crashed through into the boiler-
room. There was a roar like the Last
Trump, a blinding cloud of steam and
ashes shot upwards and everybody
assumed ruin. But when we repaired
the bank and drained the place only slight
damage amounting to a buckled smoke-
box door and smashed gauge glasses had
been done. The fireman? He saw the
water coming and went up the bank like
a red-shank, pulling up when he fell
over a wheelbarrow some silly cow had
left lying about.
* * * *
“J.D.P.”: While a musk duck may be
fluked at 200 yards, that extreme
range precludes accurate shooting with any
.22 rifle or ammo, bar the Savage Hi-
power .22, which has a flat trajectory to
300 yards. Over 75 yards the .22 is not
reliable by reason of the decrease in
muzzle velocity and the consequent drop
in trajectory of the bullet as it approaches
the motus naturalis point. It might drop
on the target. The tendency of many
owners of these rifles is to exaggerate the
range, and 100 yards is regarded as 200
by the tyro. At that range Fd back
the duck against a crack shooting-gallery
artist, as the .22 has neither the accuracy
nor the penetration for the job even on the
calmest of days. Have often hit Toos
at about 150 yards with a .22, the only
result being to make them swat savagely
at the flies. Have seen many a good gun
ruined by reason of its being strained
in endeavoring to bring down game be-
yond its legitimate range.
* * ♦ *
“Bohemian”; Henare, paraded to his
C. 0., said his wahine was “expecting”
and that he wanted a week-end off, which
was granted. The next week he came
with the same request. When he came
the third time the CO. said “You’ll have
to get a note from the midwife or the
doctor, because I have my doubts as to
whether your wahine can be ‘expecting’
all this time.” “Oh, she ‘expectin’,’ aw-
right, boss,” said Henare. “She expectin’
me home ev’ry week-end, and unless I get
t’ere to have te korero she make te big
row!”
•fc * * *
“Yowker”: That effort on behalf of
the greyhound (B. 10/3/’43) is merited.
Out on farm or station the spidery tykes
are all right. But when they’re brought
into suburban life and fed and trained
and led around in bunches by hard-faced
individuals they’re a different proposition.
Quiet? You try living in a greyhound
suburb and see how quiet they are. But
the worst feature is their habits, as many
a maddened householder who tries to
keep his bit of street clean and many a
horrified mother who has taken the kids
for a romp in the park knows. The grey-
hound has its place, but that place isn’t
thickly-populated suburbs or racing
grounds which attract “the mob.”
* * * *
“J.D.P.”: “Basalt’s” dad (B. 24/2/’43)
is a lad after my own heart. In the
scrubber country, C.Q., we nippers had
the job of tailing-out the cattle which had
just been through the yards. Smarting
under the usual gibes we underwent re-
garding our frantic gallops up the rails
to evade mickeys and bulls, we made
previous preparations to get square. Jam-
and fruit-tins were annexed and converted
into bells by pinching nuts from the store-
room and fastening them to a short
length of wire inside. Strips of hide
served to fasten them later round bovine
necks. Branding completed, the mob
was left in our charge, with instructions
to steady them down for a few miles.
We filled the crush with the once-
boisterous bulls, and merely steadied the
rest into an adjacent scrub, whence we
returned pronto to our meat. Round
each scrubber’s neck we fastened
and wired another to a banged tail, i hen
we opened the crush gate and let em
rip. Where before they had charged
savagely and silently, the now half-
maddened, blood-bespattered brutes fled
bawling and bucking as if the devil him-
self, as well as the dogs, was at their
heels. We kept the circus going with
whips and yells, and could truthfully
assert later, when questioned, that we
had steadied them. Except for lolling
tongues and heaving flanks they were
steady enough to suit us when we settled
down to a steady canter.
*
“Loc”: You blokes never struck in-
sects like we had back at Bogbelly,
declared Harry. “When I lobbed there
first I wondered why they didn’t use dogs
to work the sheep. I found out that
night when me own dog, Terry, who s
dossin’ beside me bed, gives a terrible
yelp. I lights the candle, only to see the
poor cow disappearing through the door
with a horrified expression on his face.
It was the bloomin’ fleas abductin turn,
never saw him again. I chatted the boss
next day about some gauze tor the
winders, the mozzies were so bad; he
brings along some galvanised fowl nettm
and tells me to nail that across the winder
—reckoned they couldn’t get through i .
And, by cripes, he was right!”
BLUE QUEENSLAND DOGS.
The story of their coming perhaps some grey-
beard knows,
As through the years forgotten their line of
breeding goes;
But where the bushland saga in horsemen’s
gear is dressed,
The brave blue dogs of Queensland are
treasured east and west.
Scourge of the mountain scrubber, bane of the
mulish steer,
The terror of the wild dog who hunts the
homestead near.
The guardian of children; and when the day-
light wanes
The comrade of th© lone man who camps upon
the plains.
Not once or twice it happened that when a
good horse fell
And left a battered rider where he alone could
tell,
While staunch mates raked the ridges and
sought him far and wide,
A brave blue Queensland heeler kept vigil at
his side.
The good blue dogs of Queensland! The pals
of sunbrowned men
Who bring the range-run bullocks to yard and
trucking-pen.
And southward to the Murray and westward
out to Perth
They bless the great grey northland that gave
the blue dogs birth.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“There’s a fighter f’r you! Bin fightin' f’r a Second Front f’r two years."
“Old-timer”: Old Harry had been
giving us young fellows a talking to about
the future. We ought to save money,
study and so on, all of which we re-
ceived in the immemorial manner of
Youth that refuses to be lectured by Age.
Little Curl just about summed up our
feelings with: “Well, Harry, I reckon
y’ mean well, but what’s the good o’
toilin’ an’ sweatin’ an’ then stickin’ y’r
money away in a sock or sumpin’?”
Harry started to reply, but it was late
and we went to bunk. Just before dawn
all hell broke loose. There were a howl-
ing gale, thunder, green flashes of sticky
lightning. One corner of the hut roof
vanished with a shriek into the night.
We tumbled out and dressed and rolled
our things and eyed each other and the
shaking, thundering hut. Then an empty
200-gallon tank hit the wall outside with
a bang like the crack of doom, more of
the roof went and we bolted outside.
It was worse there. Timber was coming
down, sand was flying, in the half-
gloom we could hear confused roarings
and crashings, objects flew past on the
gale and lightning flashed all around.
Spitting and gasping, we struggled to-
wards the woolshed and got there just
as it collapsed. Up at the homestead
lights appeared. Lightning hit one of
the haystacks, and all five of them went
up in flames that lit the dying night and
the mad dawn with lurid light. Then the
sky opened and a trillion tons of water
fell down and swamped us. Bedraggled
and miserable, we crept into the home-
stead kitchen, and there, dry and happy,
was old Harry, enjoying hot tea and toast.
Y’ gotter be ready f’r the future,” he
chanted ; “that’s why I always kep’ sweet
with the cook.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Riding through the scrub I
tracked down three ewes that had evaded
the musterers for four or five years. Queer
shaggy specimens, their legs were hidden
in a length of staple that reached to, and
sometimes dragged on, the ground. A
fourth woolly I found dead. Evidently
she had lain down and been unable
to get up again—probably in wet weather.
The survivors were in good condition,
despite their loads of fleece that rose
and fell like emu plumes as they trotted
along. For possibly five years they’d
existed on the scanty herbage and fallen
box leaves found on the rocky slopes,
and without one drench, dip or inocula-
tion so necessary to their civilised sisters.
Put under the machines they yielded just
over 961 b. of wool.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: The merino evidently beats
the camel (B. 10/3/’43) at adapting itself
to hard times in the Australian inland.
Camels might turn their ugly noses up
at eucalypt; not so merinos. In dry
times they’ll eat gum leaves —sometimes
they’ll eat their way out of a new brush
yard made of mallee—and even in good
times they’re partial to the fresh, purplish
young leaves on box stumps.
H*
“Esk D.”: Old George spends a lot
of his time fossicking along the worked-
out terraces of Alluvial Creek, and he
gets an occasional few ’weights of gold
from the old tailings dumps with a ground
sluice. Recently he located a small pad-
dock of wash that had been missed out
for some reason, and, after sinking a test
hole, decided it was worth working. Then
the problem arose. The ground was
shallow but wet, and hardly promising
enough to warrant an engine-driven pump
or the long tail-race that would have been
necessary to drain it. George set to to work
it out his own way. Rigging an under-
shot water-wheel in a flow from the
creek, he coupled to it a California pump
made of coffee-tins fastened to an endless
canvas belt. The pumped water was
spilled in the race ahead of the wheel to
gain a shade more power, and below this
the water was diverted to a sluice close
by the workings. That crude bit of engi-
neering is helping George get a nice little
run of color. But even if the ground
wasn’t payable he’d be bound to work
it; he’s mighty proud of that machinery.
* * ❖ *
“N. Sylvester”: Touching this discus-
sion about the different methods of ris-
ing in the horse and the ox, the ox has
one advantage. It can lie down close to
a straight wall and get up again with-
out any trouble, but if a horse lies down
close to a wall it will remain there until
it perishes unless it receives assistance to
pull it bodily away. The reason is that
as a horse raises its hindquarters it makes
alternate heaves sideways. One of these
heaves will bring its rump sharply against
the wall and send it down again. That’s
why a properly-constructed sandpit for
a horse-roll always has its wall sloping
outwards at a good angle. The fear of
being trapped by lying down close to a
wall leads many horses to stand up all
night in the stable. Turned out on to an
open space the same horse will lie down
and enjoy it.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I couldn’t help feeling
amused at “Log’s” account of Dad try-
ing to fix up the steak so as to give the
new hand indigestion (B. 10 /2 / ’43).
Dipping the slab of ox into strong tea,
flavoring it with treacle and cinnamon
and then frying it in alleged goanna fat
—well, 1 wouldn’t mind a few such steaks
done the same way these days of beef
scarcity. The only real way to “murder”
a steak is to put it in a cold frying-pan
with a big lump of cold dripping and
place the lot to cook on a slow fire. But
even such a maltreated steak may have
no ill effects on a really strong stomach.
Now if “Loc” really wants a digestion
tester let him try fried shark liver; or,
failing that, the liver and roes of a big
groper. They are delicious beyond even
an epicure’s dreams, but loaded with a
subtle oil that starts 90 p.c. of par-
takers hunting for the soda bicarb, in
the middle of the night. And if you are
one of those fish-oil allergies you shudder
at the thought of a second feed. My
old skipper would let anyone take the
carcass of the fish ; all he wanted was
the head, the liver and the roes.
* « « «
“The 0.D.”; That Boomoonoomoo-
noomoona (B. 10/3 / ’43) once provided
an English magazine writer with a title
for a story about an Australian Digger
in the last war, only the English writer
put an h on the end of it. Anyhow, Til
bet it’s never given its full pronunciation
locally, being probably Booma or Bum-
muna or, seeing that the mysterious Foo
has likely reached those parts, what price
Boo?
“K.”; The Cabbage Gardeners must
bow to the Crow-eaters when it comes to
syllables. Cadibarrawirracanna, a small
lake near the Denison Range, has eight
syllables to Boomoonoomoonoomoona’s
seven, though it is a letter shorter. Then
there’s Tidnacoordooninna, beaten by a
long neck.
“Anthropo”: The ultimate syllable
“up” in Westralian abo. place-names is
the parallel to “bone” in the Ma State —it
means “place of.” When the white sur-
veyors went through the s.-e. portion of
the West and inquired of chance-met
natives as to the name of a particular
spot, they were told —well, it might be
Ballingup or Coolup or Jerramungerup,
and so on. The beginning part of the
name might mean “good water” or “big
tree” or even the name of the clan which
claimed special rights to that particular
spot.
-t * *
“Native Cat”: George and I were
in the boat and George’s dog Ivan on
the bank a bit further downstream.
When George flung the plug in his direc-
tion the tyke shot down in a flash and
caught it and started swallowing the plug.
It was then a case of hard rowing if Ivan
was not to blow up the whole boat, but
the faster we rowed the faster Ivan swam
to catch up. At the end of five perspir-
ing minutes, George decided that the
charge was not going off, and landed.
When the dog joined us George forced a
plug of tobacco down its throat, and the
charge arrived up, minus the fuse.
* * * He
“Balurga”: “Old-timer’s” escapologist
(B. 27 /1 / ’43) whom the boss planted in
the midst of a mob of sheep reminds me
of our horse-breaker, only his feat was
accidental and the stake was his life. The
bullock-muster was on. About a thou-
sand head were being held on “camp”
while the best of them were being cut
out to go on the road, and The Breaker
was on a youngster working on the “face”
of the camp. Suddenly the colt dropped
his head and bucked into the milling
mob of “hornies.” His rider jumped and
left him quick and lively, landing on a
bullock’s back. It didn’t take him long
to gel out of that deathtrap, but to us
blokes watching it seemed a devil of a
long time, and he appeared to run along
the packed mob’s backs. He came out
laughing.
* * * *
“Sapo Mollis”; There will be no rush
to patronise “Mulla-mooshengro’s” post-
war herbeautologist’s shoppe (B. 3/ 3 / ’43)
to try his dandelion-root remedy for hob-
nailed livers or the reduction of the cos-
metics bill. Dandelion root contains
a small quantity of a bitter crystalline
substance, taraxacin, and an acrid
principle. It is a simple, bitter and
mild laxative. Its use in the treat-
ment of skin eruptions would depend on
its action as such. But similar results
could be obtained by the universal
remedy Epsom salts, at much less than a
dollar a swig.
* * * *
“Basalt”: I can endorse “Edjudina’s”
statement (B. 20 /1 / ’43) re a close brush
with death turning a man’s hair white
An old mate of mine was droving a 1500
mob of store bullocks from the Territory
to South Australia when he was caught
in one of those storms peculiar to the
sandhill country of the border. It raged
all night and the bullocks went mad,
many that were crippled in the smash
being smothered by the sand. When the
storm abated all that was left were the
dead or crippled, comprising nearly half
the original mob. Three-quarters of the
plant-horses suffered the same fate, and
two men also forfeited their lives in the
night’s horror. My mate’s hair turned
white after that nightmare smash, and he
was then only in his twenties. He never
went down that stock-route again, or
ever willingly spoke of the disaster.
* I* * $
“Fitzjay”: Relative to “K.’s” statement
(B, 17/2/’43) that he had never known
a horse to buck while its tail was
stretched straight behind, it would seem
that it is a diciplinary appendage. If the
tail is drawn between a horse’s legs and
tied with a cord to the girth the worst
outlaw is reduced to docility.
« * * »
“B. A. Ker”: Mac and Stumpy are
cobbers and practical jokers, each making
the other a butt. Honors were fairly
even until Stumpy indiscreetly allowed
himself to be seen taking home from a
dance a girl who towered head and
shoulders above him. It was a major
error, and Mac made the most of it
before a delighted audience in the
township pub. With a brick for his
“props” he gave a highly imaginative per-
formance of Stumpy trying to get high
enough for a good-night kiss. First the
brick was placed flat-wise, stood upon
and with appropriate gestures found
wanting. A great show was made of
turning it on edge—still unavailingly.
Finally, with arms waving frantically in
exaggerated attempts to preserve equili-
brium, Mac balanced on the brick stood
on end, and made vigorous sucking
noises. For once Stumpy was subdued ;
but he had the last laugh. The entertain-
ment over, Mac did his bit of shopping ;
then, following his usual practice, carried
his portmanteau four miles —and didn’t
know until he arrived home that he’d
carried 91b. of excess weight: one brick.
$ H: * *
“M 8”: That swaggie with the lure (B.
10/3/’43) was wasting his time outback.
Any man who can make a lure that will
attract tins of sardines these times would
make a fortune in the suburbs. You can't
even attract them with pound notes, and
they constitute the greatest bait in the
world.
" Wonder if they’ll believe me THIS time."
GHOST TOWN.
The rails have rusted. Only a stray bar
Or rotting sleeper marks the grassy ridge
Where coalies used to jog along to town.
Beyond the ti-trees and the muddy creek
Great gums are standing silent, where the
ground
Is dark with bracken fronds that overlap
The cart-track, once a dusty, bustling road.
And now the only noises in this place,
Besides the movement of the wind in trees,
Come from a few slow drays, and in late
summer
From blackberry-pickers cycling through the
scrub.
And there below the hill the township lies,
With greyly drab dilapidated huts
Clustered about the store and the husk of a
pub.
And, here and there, a long-deserted shaft,
Lantana blossoming above its throat,
Where apparatus rusts into the earth.
The town’s a shell; its few inhabitants
Totter about verandahs while they yarn
Of other times and dream of booms to come.
They can remember rains that came there once
And flooded all the mines, the ominous clouds
Purple as blackberry juice across the sky
Above the dark tobacco-colored hills.
The closing of the mines, so long ago,
Brought stupor and stagnation to that place.
They passed upon the hillside, one by one,
With these few left to wait until the earth
Is ripped again in narrow six-foot pits.
And cattle still will trample ti-tree stalks
To matchwood lying squashy in the mud,
And blackberries grow luscious every summer.
N.S.W.
MARIE REAY.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to shaie in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please c o ™'
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
WHALLEY.—WouId STANLEY CUTHBERT
WHALLEY, formerly Motor Garage Proprie-
tor and Engineers’ Fitter, who left England m
1926 and for some time resided at Watsons
Bay, near Sydney, or anyone knowing ms
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
MESSRS. FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors,
70 King Street, Sydney?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce
TO MAGDALENE CAMILLAS CHAPMAN
late of 284 Anzac Parade Kensington near
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that FREDERICK
JOSEPH CHAPMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 436 of 1943 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce O.nce
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist
May 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from LIONEL DARE & B. P-
PURCELL 11c Castlereagh Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BYRON BEARD late of Tamworth.-
TAKE NOTICE that HELLIFRIED ISOBEL
BEARD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1266 of 1942 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an a PP ear '
ancc on or before the 31st day of March 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from J. J. LYONS Solicitor Tamworth or his
City Agent E. A. CLEARY & CO- 56 Hunter
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registr
in Divorce.
DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOEEE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Arsenic in Drenches.
“J.R.D.”: Arsenic has been used as
an ingredient of sheep drenches for many
years, but its actual function and value
in a drench are not clearly understood.
Arsenic is insoluble in water. It has
to be combined with washing soda or
caustic soda to form a solution known
as sodium arsenite. This is sold in
liquid and powder form and is used both
as a drench and in jetting sheep. Sodium
arsenite alone as a drench passes down
the gullet and is just as likely to enter the
paunch as to go on to the fourth stomach.
It becomes so diluted with the undigested
contents there that by the time it reaches
the fourth stomach, where the worms are,
it is practically useless.
That’s why sodium arsenite is used
with bluestone. The bluestone closes a
valve at the end of the gullet so that
liquids will be by-passed from the paunch
to the fourth stomach. It’s the same with
nicotine or tetrachlorethylene, but not
with carbon tetrachloride ; its function
is to enter the bloodstream and thus
poison the bloodsucking worms. Carb.
tet. will give equally good results in-
jected under the skin of the animal.
Arsenic is effective on one type of in-
ternal parasite only, the large stomach
worm, known as the barber’s-pole worm
(Contortus hcernonchus). It is found in
the fourth stomach and is probably the
commonest of all worm parasites. A
bloodsucker, its presence is shown by
pale skin and paleness of the eye mem-
branes. In extreme cases it produces the
symptom known as bottle jaw. Arsenic
has little or no effect on black scour or
any other worm found in the intestinal
tract. These worms affect young sheep
chiefly, and should be hit with blue-
stone and nicotine, though arsenic may
be used on grown sheep.
The present popularity of arsenic
drenches is due to a shortage of carb.
tet., which is being reserved for liver
fluke. Double-strength carb. tet. is
highly effective against both liver fluke
and large stomach worm, and single
strength is effective against liver fluke
but not stomach worms.
When making up arsenic drenches stick
closely to directions and do not exceed
the dose-rate laid down. Undissolved
arsenic should be strained off before use
or it will cause trouble when it gets into
the valves of the drenching-gun and some
sheep will get an overdose.
Canadian Wheat.
“8.C.”: Canada has not only restricted
wheat acreage, but the Canadian Wheat
Board will buy only a 14-bushel average
from that acreage—l4oo bushels from
100 acres. Payment is to be the same as
last year, 90 cents (about ss. Australian)
a bushel for the Canadian equivalent of
f.a.q. at any one of three terminals.
Under the new scheme, a Canadian
farmer can deliver old wheat to the
board, providedjt is within his 14-bushel
basis.
The average struck is a good deal
below the Canadian average yield of 17.9
bushels an acre in 1939 and below the
Australian average of 15.84 bushels for
that year, though the Australian average
over a period is nearer 13 bushels.
The C.W.B. may take 280,000,000
bushels of 1942-43 wheat; the new quota
means a substantial reduction on that.
The prairie wheat acreage for 1942 was
estimated at 20,653,000 and Trade
Minister J. A. MacKinnon is calling for
a 3,000,000-acre reduction. If acreage
reduction and the 14-bushel quota worked
exactly, the C.W.B. would be up for
something under 250,000,000 bushels.
Canada is aiming at more livestock and
to feed them wants a 12 p.c. increase in
oat acreage and an 11 p.c. increase in
barley, minimum prices being guaranteed.
The Ministry of Agriculture is seeking
Parliament’s agreement to a system of
paying wheatmen two dollars (about 12s.
Aust.) for every acre less sown to wheat
in 1943 than in 1940. That applies to
wheat land, of course. Nothing will be
paid for abandoned land.
Some sort of planning should be in
view in Australia, where a lot of wheat
is held and a new seeding drawing close.
This country, too, should be aiming at
increased meat production, and oats and
barley on former wheat land would cer-
tainly be one way of achieving it. So
far, no system has been applied here of
cereal farmers growing coarse grains for
transhipment to stock-raisers. It’s a
proposition worth investigation.
Organised Pig-breeding.
“Hux”: Main calving period in N.S.W.
is from end of July to end of August,
when the supply of skim-milk rises to a
maximum. Even where a big percent-
“What did you blow cookhouse for at this time ?”
"'Cos I'm hungry !”
age of the calves are reared, there’s lots
left over.
Plan the pig-breeding so that at least
one sow farrows in April. The young-
sters will then be demanding big quan-
tities of milk by the time the first cows
come in and can be got rid of as baconers
about the end of September. If the re-
mainder of the sows are mated to farrow
from end of June to end of August, in-
crease in piglets will fit in well with the
milk supply. The most forward of these
can be put off as porkers in November
and the balance as baconers at the end
of December.
Plans for the second annual litter of
all the sows should begin again with the
first sow. Her October brood should
be ready as baconers the following
March. Sows that dropped piglets from
June to July should drop a second litter
from December to January. If it’s not
possible to get rid of all the pigs before
the end of the dairying season, meatmeal
as well as grain will have to be substi-
tuted for the milk to carry them on to
bacon weights.
In districts where most cows come in
during July mating of sows must bring
farrowing earlier. Where calving be-
gins later, no difficulties arise about the
first litter of pigs. It’s the second litter
that’s hard to work in before the end of
the season. Try weaning the spring litter
at a month or six weeks. This means
that the sows will farrow again a fort-
night or month earlier.
Special attention will have to be paid
weaners. Creep-feed ’em on crushed
grain, pollard and skim-milk with lucerne,
rape or barley as green feeds. Slop feed
should be fed while sweet and doled out
warm after four hours’ steaming. Given
this care their growth shouldn’t register
any setback through early cutting off of
mother’s milk.
Cotton Irrigation.
“Mackay”: Canegrowers in the Bur-
dekin Delta who intend switching to
cotton should note that the textile crop
doesn’t need so much water. A single
overwatering’s enough to upset the whole
yield. Over and above the soaking before
planting, two irrigations are enough for
the ordinary crop, or three for one sown
in April. The soil then has sufficient
moisture to carry the crop along for two
months or more if cultivation isn’t
neglected.
The right time for the first irrigation
after planting is something to gauge care-
fully. It not only influences vegetative
growth and rooting habits, but the time
the crop will take to reach maturity.
Done too soon, the leaf growth is rank
and bushy, development of the root
system shallow and fruiting set back.
Plants of this type attract pests. Trying
to balance matters by withholding water
in the final stages of growth won’t induce
the bolls to set any earlier. It may even
affect the quality of the fibre. The
longer you can hold back this first irri-
gation, the smaller the plants and the
earlier the crop. Normally it should be
given about eight weeks after planting,
when the seedlings are squaring freely.
Treatment in the earlier stages deter-
mines the number of waterings in the
fruiting period. One or two are sufficient
to ensure high-quality fibre in the smaller
plants ; rank types will take more. Best
indications of when to time these water-
ings is given by the plants themselves.
Reddening of the topmost portions of
the stems or prolific flowering on the top
of the plants is a sure sign that the
moisture supply is giving out. Delayed
irrigation at this stage leads to heavy
shedding of the bolls and may throw the
crop back into rank vegetation.
Quantity of water required at each
irrigation varies according to the grade
of the land and condition of the soil.
Make the water furrows short and deep ;
runs over five chains in length don’t give
an even distribution to all parts of the
field. Usually six to eight inches of
water is required for the pre-planting
irrigation and three to four inches for
subsequent ones.
Hints for the Farm.
- ‘Hux”: As cow-feed pumpkins lack
essential proteins. A good ration should
include 101 b. lucerne chaff, 11b. linseed or
cottonseed meal and 61b. cornmeal. This
provides 1.721 b. protein and 9.721 b. carbo-
hydrates. Balance can be made up with
about 301 b. pumpkin.
“Mullengah”: You can make a good
mortar by mixing three parts of fine and
four of coarse, clean sand, one part of
recently-slaked quicklime and as little
water as possible. Reduce the lime and
sand to a paste. Mortars improve with
age.
“A.R.”; On a new fence around the
homestead use lengths of water-piping
for the top rail. Connected to an over-
head tank and fitted with taps at con-
venient points it makes watering of
flowers and vegetables an easy job.
“Myrrhee”: Use grafting wax or ordi-
nary white-lead paint to cover wounds
in fruit-trees. Either will keep fungi
out and help the wound to heal more
rapidly. Where the wood has rotted
away fill the cavity with cement.
“L.E.”: N.S.W. farmers who get super-
phosphate from N.S.W. firms are allowed
70 p.c. of their 1941-42 purchases this
year. But those who buy from Victorian
firms can get only 55 p.c. of the 1941-42
quota. This is because each State is
allowed to make its own plans with regard
to manure for non-priority crops.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to kill off green timber?
Green timber may be rapidly killed by frill
ringing and applying a 10 per cent, solution
of arsenic pentoxide to the freshly-cut surface.
Great care is necessary in the handling of
arsenic, and if tree is in a suburban area it
will be preferable to bore several holes with
a downward slope into base. Fill with the
poison solution, and plug with wood.
* * * *
Method of building a dingo-proof fence?
Use posts about 7jft. long, set with sft. pro-
truding and about live yards apart. Stretch
barbed wire along the ground, being careful
to grade all rises and depressions so that wire
is in constant contact. Three inches above this
place 36in. netting wire with a 4in. triangular
Mesh; sin. higher barbed wire; 6in. above
that another barbed wire, with yet another
7m. higher.
* * * •
Recipe for curing bacon ?
For 371 b. bacon take 51b. salt, 31b. brown
sugar, 2oz. saltpetre and loz. bicarb, soda.
Crush saltpetre very fine and sprinkle over meat
(flesh side up); rub well in. Use the soda ra
the same way, then put on a layer of sugar
and a thick layer of salt. At the end of each
day, for three days, drain off blood; after that
save the clean brine in a basin. At end of a
week turn bacon and rub in more salt and
sugar, mixing it with the clean brine. Turn
weekly for three weeks, repeating process.
Hang up to drain, wipe oft salt, dry for a
week, then smoke.


ms
LYS
£
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
r
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Submarine Warfare.
(Condensed from “United Stales News.”)
German submarines are interfering
seriously with the campaign of American
and British forces in North Africa. They
are sinking supplies needed urgently by
Allied troops fighting for Tunisia. They
are a barrier against shipments of Ameri-
can food for the starving population of
North Africa.
The big fact is that the answer to
Hitler’s submarines has not been found.
The sinkings of cargo ships in the
Western Atlantic last year exceeded 500.
Britain’s losses in three years, mostly to
submarines, are 1200 merchant ships and
warships.
The present submarine warfare is more
than a counter for the North African
campaign. It is an effort to choke off sup-
plies for all Allied offensives, present or
pending. It is backed by a fleet of 300
fast, long-range U-boats, 100 of which
are constantly at sea, and whose losses
are being replaced at a rate of 17 to 25
new vessels a month.
The present rate of sinkings, if con-
tinued, would limit severely the scope of
Allied action abroad in 1943, would
limit the movement of American troops
overseas. This submarine campaign is
regarded as Hitler’s supreme bid for a
stalemate.
The Americans and British will throw
more power than ever before into their
fight against submarines this year. The
construction programme for escort and
patrol ships, which has been lagging
badly, will hit its stride. Sinkings have
been falling behind the 1942 rate of mer-
chant-ship construction, which was
8,000,000 tons for the United States and
perhaps a fourth of that for the British
Empire. This year America alone will
build at least 16,000,000 tons, or double
the 1942 output of merchant ships. The
new route through the Mediterranean,
when open, will lessen the drain on ships.
So the Allies have a substantial basis for
their hopes for big gains against the sub-
marine.
Submarine war in the Pacific is the
Atlantic situation in reverse. Japan, like
England, is dependent on shipping for
imports to keep her war industries going.
Japan’s troops, in outposts along the vast
rim of her new empire, must have sup-
plies by ship to keep fighting. She is
vulnerable, and all of the submarine’s
offensive advantages that are so hard to
offset in the Atlantic work against her.
Japan’s merchant fleet of 6,000,000 tons
is only one-fifth or one-sixth that of the
Allies. American submarines already
have sent 100 of her ships to the bottom.
Her shipping losses are estimated at
more than 1,000,000 tons —more than
twice her rate of construction. And the
present American submarine campaign is
only a starter. The U.S. is building a
fleet of submarines bigger than Ger-
many’s. That fleet is to be sent against
Japan.
So, while the Allies expect to win the
Battle of the Atlantic, the submarine is
expected to win over Japan in the
Pacific.
Starvation Is Torture, Too.
(Condensed front a "Saturday Evening Post"
article by Joseph A hop .)
Every one of us—-3500 British, Ameri-
can and Dutch civilians and pretended
civilians interned in Stanley Camp, Hong
Kong—was preoccupied with the imme-
diate struggle to keep body and soul to-
gether. For, let there be no mistake
about it, the internees at Stanley were
being starved to death by slow stages.
Food obsessed us all nearly to the
point of insanity. Some individuals did,
in fact, go temporarily mad. There was,
for instance, the faded, carefully genteel
woman whose husband’s beri-beri was so
severe that the camp council set aside for
him the kidneys of the ration buffaloes.
The woman had always been a model
wife, yet after a couple of months it was
found that the kidneys which were issued
to her to take to the camp hospital were
not reaching her husband. She was eat-
ing them, raw, in her room.
There was also the eminent Hong Kong
barrister who used to spend a part of
every day near the door of the British
communal kitchen for the pleasure of
hissing “Thieves, you’re all thieves,” when
the cooks came out to take the air.
Once the Japanese surprisingly issued
a duck egg each to all the in-
ternees. In the British married quarters
excitement ran so high, and differences
over how to cook the duck eggs became
so angry, that a public meeting was held.
Even after prolonged debate, no agree-
ment could be reached. The final result
was a compromise, under which the fried-
egg bitter-enders signed up for fried eggs,
while the others took their eggs in chow
fan, a Chinese dish of fried rice, gar-
nished with bits of eggs and scraps of
meat and vegetables. When the morrow
came, the cooks put a few microscopic
scrapings of meat bones and slivers of
greenstuff into the chow fan, in order
to carry out the recipe. The sight of
these extras in the dishes of their neigh-
bors so enraged a party of the fried-
eggers that their leader, the perfectly
sound-minded mother of a large family,
physically assaulted the chairman of the
kitchen committee, beating him about the
head with an umbrella.
In the American community there was
the great garbage-pail scandal. This
occurred when three guardians of the
public morality—a businessman of some
importance, the wife of a distinguished
teacher and a female missionary—one
day peered into the communal garbage
pail to check up on possible wasteful-
ness by the communal cooks. They
found a number of fish-heads. The fish-
heads were no more meaty than the heads
and tails people leave on their plates when
served with whole trout or sole, yet they
were extracted from the garbage pail
with cries of triumph and accusation. By
scraping off the slivers of meat, boiling
the bones to make a sort of infusion, and
adding the results to rice, the fish-heads
were then transformed into the semblance
of a fish pilau, and the pilau, which would
not have made a meal for a three-year-
old child, was exhibited all over the
camp.
No person in the camp, no matter
how serene, intelligent and courageous,
could be trusted not to introduce the topic
of food into every conversation. Even
quite sensible and normal people tor-
tured themselves and others by remi-
niscing incessantly about great meals of
the past and planning the meals of the
future —the most popular being platefuls
of steak or ham and eggs, for hunger de-
stroys all taste for the finer points of
cookery.
One found oneself engaged in a per-
petual struggle not to yield to petty and
mean impulses, and I think few persons
who were there would claim to have won
the fight all the time. Old friends quar-
relled irremediably because one could not
bear the other’s habit of clearing his throat.
Roommates whose mattresses perforce
touched at night refused to speak all day.
Men and women who were leaders of
the community in the outer world wildly
and publicly accused each other of petty
pilfering. The most generous and sane
developed the habit of mouth watching,
as we used to call the envious glances
everyone cast at the food of others. In
the two daily ration line-ups every eye
followed each plate as it was brought
away from the rice bowl, as eyes follow
the ball in tennis matches.
Those who were left behind at Stanley
and those who are in other Japanese
internment camps all over the Far East
are still living the same life that now
seems a mere bad dream to me. They are
still eating the same food and living in
the same crowded rooms. And they are
still coming daily nearer to the moment
when the cumulative effects of under-
nourishment will be expressed in disease
and death.
Nice People, Japs!
(Condensed from a “Collier’s’'’ article by
Robert Bellaire, former U.S. United Press
manager in Japan.)
Squat, heavily bespectacled Inspector
Kikuchi, of the Metropolitan Police,
smiled broadly as he faced us in the
Tokyo concentration camp. This was the
first time we had seen him smile in more
than six months of our prison life.
“The Home Office,” he told us, “has
received reports that Japanese interned
in the United States —especially Japanese
newspapermen—are being well treated.
The Home Office is now trying to think
of some way to be nice to you.”
A few days later ten of us Americans
were driven from the concentration camp
to the Sanno Hotel under close police
guard. One of the Japanese addressed us
on Japanese-American friendship. We
looked at one another uneasily. When-
ever the Japanese had spoken of Japa-
nese-American friendship in the past, we
had learned to duck. Usually it meant
that something not quite in the friendly
tradition was brewing.
The spokesman assured us that Japan
had only the most friendly feelings for
us, this was a war between Governments,
not individuals. I thought of the frequent
instances in which Americans imprisoned
by the Japanese had been given the water
cure, beaten with rubber hoses, forced
to kneel for hours on iron bars and gener-
ally tormented until some had been driven
to suicide and others had suffered ner-
vous breakdowns and permanent physi-
cal injuries.
The spokesman said the first item on
the good-treatment programme would be
the showing of newsreels of the war.
Their primary purpose was to degrade
the white race. We saw British and
Dutch officers being slapped and having
their hair pulled by young Japanese offi-
cers during the formal negotiations for
surrender.
Halfway through the luncheon, the
spokesman rose and said the East Asia
War Relief Committee had arranged with
all newspapers under Japanese control in
the Far East to buy articles which we
newspapermen would write for them. The
money raised would be used to im-
prove the treatment of the Americans
remaining in Japan. Of course, the
articles would have to be pro-Japanese.
I replied for the correspondents, after
we had conferred among ourselves,
declining.
The Japanese chairman crushed out his
cigarette and jumped to his feet. His
eyes flashed angrily at me. He started
to raise one of his clenched fists in my
direction but dropped it when the head
of the police, standing off in a corner,
shouted an order at him.
After a few seconds of silence, the
stage smile returned to his face. Again
he recited the speech on Japanese-Ameri-
can friendship. “And now,” he con-
cluded, “I want to tell you of the high-
light of today’s programme. I know all
of you would like to take a good hot
tub bath.”
He was right. There was nothing we
wanted more than a good tub bath. For
six months the fifty of us in the Tokyo
concentration camp had been offered one
bath a week in a single tub of water
which had been used before us by thirty
policemen.
“At considerable expense,” the chair-
man continued, “we have arranged a
private room and bath here in the hotel
for each of you. You will please go to
those rooms now.”
He then detailed two policemen to
escort each of us to our private rooms.
Once in them, we heard no more of a
bath. In the room, there was a type-
writer and a stack of paper.
The chairman of the meeting came into
my room with the remark that he wanted
to “talk things over for your own good.”
“There is no use being smart,” the
spokesman said. “Japan already has de-
feated America. You are at our mercy.
Soon our troops will be in Washington.
I would advise you to write.”
I recalled for him the admission Kiku-
chi had made about the good treatment
being received by Japanese in the United
States.
“We don’t care about that,” he said.
“Naturally you Americans will treat our
people well because you know you have
lost the war and are afraid to treat us
otherwise.”
He then learned across the table and
began shaking his fist.
“Your refusal to write,” he shouted,
“has become a political issue! You are
trying to obstruct Japan’s plans for a
New Order in East Asia. We will have
to turn you over to the military police
for court-martial. You know what that
means—-the firing squad or the execu-
tioner’s block. Think of what that would
mean to your wife and children.”
I was left alone to think it over. In
two months, there had been sixteen
foreign suicides. The newspapers had
announced additional “natural deaths”
among imprisoned enemy nationals —one
of them in an insane asylum. The threat
was something to think about.
But after an hour I informed the chair-
man when he returned that I had decided
I would not write. He did not say a
word but left the room on the dead run.
In a few minutes he was back with the
head of the foreign section of the Home
Office —a shaven-headed, strong-arm type
of Japanese in an artificial khaki uniform.
“You will not leave this room until
you have written,” he shouted. “You
will not be allowed to sleep and you will
get no food.”
Calling for the room girl, he ordered
her to remove the bottle of water.
“And,” he added with a smile, “you
will get nothing to drink, either.”
The chairman then drew from his
pocket a handful of small slips of paper.
He handed one of them to me. It said
“Sino-Japanese Relations.” My name
had been written on it in pencil.
“1 don’t see why you have brought us
here and treated us in this way,” I told
him. “Why don’t you write anything you
like to and just sign our names to it?
Why torment us this way?”
“But that would not be honest,” he
said seriously.
The Home Office official, who obvi-
ously could not understand half of what
we were saying, suddenly lost patience
and went into a rage.
He started walking around the room,
swinging his fists wildly and yelling re-
peatedly “You’ll never leave Japan!
You’ll never leave Japan! lam going
to kill you! lam going to kill you! ”
Suddenly he grabbed me by the neck-
tie and jerked my head back so sharply
that I thought my neck would break. Still
clinging to my tie, he threw me against
the wall on the other side of the room.
When I started to get up he and the


romim
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL. NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including 12-J% Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
m
W-A
A*
m
ogm
C? 2
$2?
fcnqmmkinq
s&i Okhfu}
Normal overseas trading has long ceased, but our factories
and research departments are busier than ever Engineers,
Craftsmen, Management—all are working to capacity
backing up our gallant fighting men producing faster and
faster, weapons of the highest standards—essential for Victory
Although Motor manufacture is a highly specialised industry
invaluable experience has been gained from wartime pro-
duction—this will be of the utmost benefit to motorists when
shipments of • motor chassis once more flow freely from
England to Australia
Resident Representative: C. H. Hordern, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber « Hillman * Sunbeam-Talbot
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer * Harrier
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
1J4 ueaU*'iefMilaUont
N T
4^^
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £10
National Savings Bonds.
JO 6 3 3
spokesman slapped my face repeatedly.
Then they grabbed me and threw me into
the chair facing the typewriter.
“Are you going to write?” the Home
Office man shouted.
I did not reply. I felt his clammy
hands close around my throat. As haid
as I struggled, I could not prevent him
from cutting off* my breathing. Six
months on Japanese starvation fare had
weakened me more than I realised.
Everything went blank. The next thing I
knew I was being slapped violently, appar-
ently to bring me back to consciousness.
“You slapped the typewriter keys just
as you were passing out,” I heard the
chairman saying. “I have saved you by
telling this man that this indicated your
willingness to write. Now write! Or do
you prefer that we go ahead with what
we were doing to you a minute ago?”
I could not see any good coming to
anyone from continued resistance, but
it occurred to me that definite good might
come if I could survive this day and
return to America to relate what had
happened to us.
I said I would write. My plan was to
make my article so violently pro-Japa-
nese that anyone outside Japan who knew
me would readily realise that I had not
written it in ordinary circumstances. This
plan I carried out, using as many Japa-
nese cliches as I could recall —“sincerity,”
“the august virtue of his Imperial Majesty
the Emperor,” “co-operation with Japan.”
When the spokesman translated the
article into Japanese the chairman
beamed. “I am glad we do not have to
kill you,” he said.
Meanwhile, similar scenes were being
enacted in the other rooms where the
Americans were being held.
Joseph Dynan, of the Associated Press,
had gone from his room to the hotel
lobby when he was left alone to think
over the threat of execution. In the
crowded hotel lobby the Home Office
official stopped him and, without warn-
ing, struck him several severe blows in
the face, knocking out Dynan’s bridge-
work. He was then roughly hustled back
to his room. There he was given as
his writing topic “How Well I Have
Been Treated by the Japanese in War-
time.”
The Reverend Walser also was publicly
humiliated in the lobby by the police,
who cursed him violently before a large
crowd of Japanese. He was hustled back
to his room and forced to write an article
entitled “Japan, the Land of the Gods.”
Leo Chamberlain, manager for the
National City Bank in Japan, was com-
pelled to write an article recommending
“close economic co-operation between
Japan and the United States after the
war.”
When we were finally permitted to
leave our “private rooms with bath,” the
hotel clock said 5.30 p.m. We had arrived
at the hotel at 9 a.m. We were an
exhausted group as we gathered in the
lobby.
We were driven back to our concen-
tration camp for a dinner of half-rotten
whale-meat and bojled alfalfa.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
When serving under Gen. MacArthur in Aus-
tralia Capt. Charles Brewster, son of Senator
Brewster, of Maine, met Prime Minister Curtin.
As they shook hands someone remarked to
Curtin: “Capt. Brewster is the son of a Con-
gressman.” “Oh, no,” remarked the Australian
Prime Minister, “he’s the son of a Senator.
President Roosevelt is always telling me about
the Senate and how important it is. He says
he has to treat the Senate with great considera-
tion, and that is why he can’t do certain things
I have been trying to get him to do.”— N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.’''
* * ♦ *
Possibilities of this year include a meeting
of Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin, or their
representatives, in an attempt to get together
on peace aims. If they fail, look for more and
worse ideological troubles throughout Europe.
— Scripps-Haward Washington correspondent.
* * * *
Will F.D.R. seek a fourth term? The ques-
tion will be paramount through 1943. Vice-
President Wallace will be built up still more
as a Presidential possibility. On the Republi-
can side, look for some new and fresh figure
to appear, maybe a general, maybe a State
Governor not hitherto mentioned. — Scripps-
Howard Washington correspondent.
* * * *
Give Japan enough time, and it may be able
to make its Empire siegeproof—impregnable
against Allied attack in this war, and ready for
another stab at world conquest when the
Japanese military caste thinks the time is ripe.
We need air bases in Siberia. We cannot
have them without Russian permission. Russia
does not want to chance a war with Japan,
because Josef Stalin is a Russia-Firster. So
our boys fight like bobcats on Guadalcanal
and New Guinea, while Japan grows stronger.
— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
French North Africa, before General Eisen-
hower arrived, had a political top layer more
or less loyal to Vichy, but particularly to
Marshal Petain, and underlayers of assorted
types which were more pro-British than pro-
French. These appeared to fuse at but one
of the post-war ambitions of
General de Gaulle. — N.Y. “Times” Washington
correspondent.
* * % *
Soviet Ambassador Litvinov seemed to have
a pretty tough time deciding whether or not to
join in the applause elicited by at least two of
the passages in President Roosevelt’s address
to Congress. Dilemma No. 1 was presented
by the President’s expressed suspicion that
“Hitler and Tojo will find it difficult to ex-
plain to the German and Japanese people just
why it is that ‘decadent, inefficient democracy’
can produce such phenomenal quantities of
weapons and munitions —and fighting men.”
(Litvinov democrat applauded.) Dilemma
No. 2 was posed by the President’s prediction
that 1943 “will give to the United Nations
a very substantial advance along the roads that
lead to Berlin and Rome and Tokyo.” (Lit-
vinov—non-belligerent, as yet, against Japan—
didn’t applaud.)— Washington correspondent,
N.Y. “Post.”
* * * *
In the Llouse of Lords, Lord Winster said
that clinic figures showed that syphilis had in-
creased 50 per cent, among the civilian popu-
lation in Great Britain since the war started
If the military services were included the in-
crease would be about 70 per cent. “The matter
is of great urgency,” he said, “because of the
arrival of large numbers of service men and
women from the United States, Canada and
other Allied nations. I understand there
already have been complaints from American
and Canadian service chiefs, particularly about
London. ”-— London correspondent, N.Y ,
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
If Hitler, in a desperate attempt to stave off
the defeat that is beginning to stare him in the
face, starts using poison gas, the United States
Army is now ready at a moment’s notice to
give him an overdose of his own medicine. At
Edgewood Arsenal the command of Major-
General William N. Porter has established its
principal research bureau and is engaged in
brewing not only the familiar toxic gases of the
first world war, such as mustard gas (which
temporarily blinded Hitler shortly before the
armistice in 1918), Lewisite, phosgene and
chlorine, but also new and deadlier fumes so
that the United States will be prepared, if the
emergency arises, to pay the Nazi leader back
in his own coin. Vast quantities of poison
gas have been stored up. The best scientific
minds all over the nation, from universities,
colleges and industry, have been mobilised under
the direction of the National Defence Re-
search Committee, which is headed by Dr.
James B. Conant, president of Harvard Uni-
versity, and Dr. Roger Adams, head of the de-
partment of chemistry at the University of
Illinois. These two scholars, the nation’s fore-
most organic chemists, are devising new war
gases with which to saturate the enemy, if
need be.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report.
* * * *
Ten billion pounds of food will be dehydrated
this year. Except for a few soups and season-
ings, practically all will be shipped overseas.
More than 300 million pounds of dried eggs
will come from the processing plants; require-
ments for dehydrated pork, a newcomer in the
field, will total close to 60 million pounds.—
“Wall-street Journal.”
* v * *
About 250 to 300 Marines were a.w.l. just
before a recent Marine Division left for the
Solomons. Turning up at camp just after it
was too late to sail, there were too many to
lock up, and a lot slept outside under guard.
So far the penalty for desertion has not been
heavy until the third offence.— N.Y. “Daily
Mirror’ 1 ’ columnist Drew Pearson.
sk H; jjj *
Accidents killed 46,300 U.S. workers be-
tween the day of Pearl Harbor, Dec. 7, 1941,
and Dec. I, 1942 —7000 more deaths than were
caused by German bombers over Great Britain
in the entire course of the war. Six times as
many U.S. workers have been killed since Pearl
Harbor as U.S. armed forces have lost. In
addition, 4,000,000 have been injured, 165,000
of them permanently. This waste of time and
skill amounted to 450,000,000 man-days during
the most decisive year in American history,
and ran up dollar losses of several billions.”
— Wm. A. Irvin, president U.S. War Produc-
tion Fund to Conserve Man-power.
* * * *
Taking off from New York and flying in a
generally easterly direction around the world,
a traveller would find the Atlantic surface
waters under British and American control,
■and a stiff fight going on against the submarine;
American troops poised in Iceland, Ireland
and Britain ; the American flag flying in Africa
from the Belgian Congo north to the suburbs
of Tunis and east to Egypt and Ethiopia;
Americans in Palestine, Syria, Iraq and Iran:
Americans in India; American fliers and ground
forces in China; Americans in Australia and
New Zealand; Americans fighting in New
Guinea and the Solomons; Americans guard-
ing the string of islands between Australia.
New Caledonia and Hawaii. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The view that the war may last from two
to three years more is beginning to be held by
many well-informed persons in the nation’s
capital. The rosy estimates and optimistic
statements concerning our armament have led
the people to expect an early victory, but the
problems of tonnage and the maldistribution
of materials, together with the intensified sub-
marine activity of the enemy, make it necessary
to revise all previous estimates. — Washington
syndicate writer David Lawrence.
* * * *
To try Hitler, Mussolini, Tojo, Goring,
Goebbels, Himmler, Hess, Quisling, the leaders
of Gestapo and the war-lords of Japan and
Germany is to confess that we believe they
may not be guilty.—Benjamin de Casseres;
N.Y. “Journal-American.”


■v . .
Mi
ngfl
liii|«|i®sliiiiiii
| - mm. , i
ilisi
■1 liliSi^iili*
■l*llllllilll
iiiiiiia
B
-V
GrinneWs Record
in the
Battle for Britain
This advertisement is one of
a series based on verified
records of the performance
of Grinnell Automatic
Sprinklers in dealing with
fires caused by incendiary
and high explosive bombs
during Britain’s first two
years of war.
Six
Incendiaries
but Grinnell
extinguished them all!
THIS “multiple” save by Grinnell Auto-
matic Sprinklers, is recorded by a well
known British manufacturing firm. The
incident occurred during a heavy enemy
raid late in 1940. The official fire reports
read:
No. 1. Incendiary bomb started a fire near Cop-
persmith’s and Tinsmith’s shop and
ignited inflammable materials. Two
sprinklers extinguished the fire.
No. 2. Incendiary bomb started a fire in the Car
service department. The bomb brought
down I" pipe and sprinklers at end of
range and opened one other head; the
bomb ricochetled down a passage be-
tween racks and was put out, together
with the fire, by the flow of water along
the floor. (2 sprinklers opened.)
No. 3. Incendiary bomb started a fire in Engin-
eering service stores and was extinguished
by 2 sprinklers.
No. 4. Incendiary bomb started a fire in offices
near the main entrance. This was also
extinguished by 2 sprinklers.
No. 5. Two incendiary bombs started fires in
Machine Shop Stores. Fire started in the
racks was extinguished by sprinklers.
(33 sprinklers opened.)
Records based on a careful analysis of 250
incidents reveal SUCCESS AGAINST
■INCENDIARY BOMBS where premises were
fitted with GRINNELL AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLERS.
★ Of the 18% of cases where saves were not effected, two-thirds
of these were due to complete breakdown of water supplies,
while the remaining third Avas due to inadequate Avater supplies.
GRIMELL
Automatic
Sprinkler Systems
WORMALB BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorp in N.S.fF.)
FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
Naturally, the R.A.N., A.1.F., R.A.A.F.,
Defence Works and key industries have first
priority on our complete range of Fire
Protection equipment, but we are glad to
undertake essential Fire Protection work of
lower priority as conditions permit.


'VIMT
<0
T HE
let Sense, not Sentiment,
Choose your Executor
In making your Will, the problem of choosing your Executor must be faced.
The claims of friendship may dictate that an old friend should be asked to
undertake this arduous and responsible task. Frankly, it ijiay be a compliment,
but it is not a kindly act. And it is not even a wise one. With the best
intentions, your friend may not be equal to the task. He may even die before
the work is c.ompleted. So be wise. Let sense, not sentiment, dictate your
choice of an executor. Investigate the special service offered by Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited a permanent institution under experienced and
capable direction. It has the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and
investments which no individual executor could be expected to possess. Write
for an explanatory booklet, now.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
C O AV PANY LIMITED
■} BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 14-43
MULTIPLYING
the Nation’s Wealth
nr HERE is a good deal of loose talk about Security
in these days. Many people are beginning to think
of Security as if it were the mainspring of life,
whereas Opportunity, Enterprise, Energy and Cour-
age are the qualities that make the world go round
and provide such security as is good for us.
The A.M.P. Society exists solely to provide Security
for its members —on an average it helps one family
in every two in the Commonwealth to provide against
the risks of life and death —but it knows that before
there can be a general Security there must be a multi-
plying and conservation of the Nation’s wealth, and
not dividing of it. Before there can be Security
there must be Work and Production. The farmer
does not succeed by eating his seed corn but by going
out manfully to prepare the land for its increase.
To date the A.M.P. has put £50,000,000 of its
members' conserved earnings into Commonwealth
Loans . It is adding to this at the rate of £ 500,000
a month.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman, p
lon Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212) 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081) 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197) 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 . . 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514) 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937. . 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765) 946,439
Loss property, £1574 .. .. .. 944,865
1938.. 334,349 ’ 41,147 101,026 191,188) 1,136,053
Unexplained addition, £llB4 . . 1,137,237
1939.. 369,776 51,115 107,750 209,923) 1,347,160
Unexplained addition, £1852.. .. 1,349,012
1940. . 399,134 116,314 117,299 164,533) 1,513,545
Loss property, £124 .. .. .. 1,513,421
1941.. 429,941 105,993 123,892 200,056 1,713,477
Unexplained addition, £525.. .. 1,714,002
1942.. 437,430 186,011 114,336 135,978) 1,849,980
*Net funds apart from capital.
)After paying 7 p.e. on prefs. and ords.
) After paying 14 p.e. on prefs. and 3) p.e. on ords.
The war experience so far has been
very heartening ; the big jump of £BO,OlB
in claims last year was on account of
maturities (£145,299, up £90,828). It is
21 years since the co. set up, so an in-
crease in the number of policies running
out is to be expected as a natural course.
Actually, at its coming of age, the
A.C.A. can look back on the past with
the feeling of a job well done. Though
recent expansion has been rapid, careful
direction of affairs has always avoided
any attempt at forced growth, with con-
sequent moderate-for-age expense rate
and low lapse and satisfactory claims ex-
periences. One result was that healthy
bonuses began to flow from surpluses
well earned within a decade of inception,
and, though these have lately been re-
duced as a war precaution, that is a policy
adhered to by all conservative life offices.
Assuming future interest at p.e.,
actuary Dowd, the “Wild Cat” is in-
formed, calculated the co.’s liability under
policy contracts at June 30, 1942, as
£l,796,6so—Ordinary £317,753, Indus-
trial £1,478,897. The life fund at the
same date was £1,818,062, leaving a com-
bined surplus of £21,412 available for
division. Altogether policy-holders split
£9901, of which £lOO9 came from bonus
reserve (£4773), and shareholders —the
ords. were passed by in 1940 and received
only p.e. for 1941 —got £9BB, or 7 p.e.
all round. That left £11,533 to carry for-
ward against actuarial contingencies.
Policy-contract holders can see additional
protection for their contracts in £14,610
of paid capital and £30,737 of other
reserves.
Depletion of field staffs to write new
business (not stated) and the crop of
maturities arrested the growth of
premium income last year. O.D. collec-
tions amounted to £53,096, and I.D. ones
to £294,423 ; fire, etc., receipts brought
aggregate premiums to £350,449 (down
£2783). Expansion in interest and rent
earnings (£86,981, up £10,272) lifted total
income by £7489, as shown. After charg-
ing 1941 dividends, the excess of incom-
ings over outgoings was £135,978, making
funds £1,849,980, including £llBl for un-
expired fire risks. Encouraging features
are a further downswing of £13,466 in sur-
renders (£21,533) and a tight hold upon
exes. Deducting £1603 more for taxa-
tion (£11,240), these absorbed 29.4 p.e.
of all premium income, against 32.3 p.e.
the year before; a satisfactory figure
considering 85 p.e. of the premiums is in
respect of Industrial contracts. Six years
ago the cost ratio was 37.5 p.e.
Interest is the co.’s chief scoring point.
It has funds of £1,901,367 under its con-
trol, predominantly well-selected first
mortgages (49 p.e.) and city and other
property (35 p.e.):
1930. 1935. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 4,935 14,999 88,612 36,777
Mortgages.. .. 207,775 309,891 886,987 930.766
Freeholds . . . . 206,488 619,912 681,125
Govt, securities .. 26,716 131,408 95,302 115,506
Cash, etc 1,327 13,506 6,965 10,626
Debtors . . . . 1,788 2,008 4,378 4,843
Loans on policies 3,251 31,042 126,076 131,331
Equipment . . 4,696 4,668 15,431 15,498
Shares in other cos. 1,682 3,388 11,647 11,672
* Other than under policies.
As a result, prevailing Government finan-
cial policy has had less effect, despite
taxation, on earning capacity than on
offices whose front line of defence is Con-
sols. Indeed, last term’s net yield on
mean life funds was 4.42 p.e., against 4.32
p.e. in ’4l,
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends A To
Net Pref. Re- Be—
June, Profit., 10 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.. 11,273 5800 25-p.e. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 48.7* „ 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. . . 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 12i p.e. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 „ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33J „ ~16,666 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £25,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised, £75,000 . . 12,951
1938.. 81,452 6800 33) p.c.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Carreras and Subsidiary.
1939. .119,707 6800 33J p.c.=66,667 46,240 98,229
1940. .156,404 6800 52) „„ 105,000 44,604 142,833
Oct.,
1940) 54,369 2267 70.5 „ „ 47,000 5102 147,935
1941. .153,226 6800 71 ~,.142,000 4426 152,361
1942.. 99,536 6800 45 ~,, 90,000 2736 155,097
* 10 p.e. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined. ) Four months.
Opposition by Carreras had been build-
ing up so slickly and robustly that a
couple of years back British Tobacco,
which looks beyond today in these mat-
ters, decided it would be a lot more con-
genial to have the Craven A stripling in
its own household. It therefore breathed
hard and gave £1,463,335 of its own
shares for the £200,000 of ords., the
majority of which had passed into Eng-
lish hands at the turn of the ’thirties.
Recent results have to be considered
along with this development, as well as
war-time conditions. Direct local in-
terest remains in the 68,000 £1 10 p.e.
prefs., and after feeding these the balance
of last year’s earnings fell from 10 p.e.
to 6.3 p.e. on the purchase price. It is
not apparent how the deal is benefiting
B.T. in other ways.
For smokes manufacturers, restriction of
monthly retail deliveries last term to 75
p.e. of those for the year to Sept., 1940,
was made up for by service demands,
releases to the Red Cross (on which the
Government collects duty even when
dispatched to forward battle areas) and
issues to special classes of workers. Still,
the Prices Commission was slow in com-
ing to light with permission to pass on
the duty lift of November, 1941, and after
writing off £6OOO for depreciation net
takings of Carreras and its N.S.W. dis-
tributor fell from £153,226 to £99,536.
Of that, £31,257 was the result of finer
gross (£492,893) and £22,432 in respect of
higher outgoings (£393,357), including un-
stated taxation. Excise and import duties
at present represent 64 p.e. of the prices
at which Craven A and Turf cigarettes
retail.
Since these consolidated accounts were
ruled off, pressure on shipping space has
brought deterioration in the statistical
position of imported stocks, previously
used almost exclusively in “tailor-
mades”:—
f— —Parent Co. N , —Consolidated. —
June, June, Oct., Oct.,
1933. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £78,000 £268,000 £268,000 £268,000
Overdraft . . 13,083 | 36 10 8 170,814 176,644
Sundry creditors 134,773 j ’ ’
Taxation, etc. 23,703 37,894 128,175 129,172
Freehold , . 64,093 56,995 68,964 68,964
Plant, etc. . . 30,427 29,486 41,373 36,856
Stocks . . 137,242 190,019 395,536 417,209
Book debts . . 43,019 75,725 161,258 139,229
Cash, etc. . . 894 52,466 52,220 66,834
Subsidiary co. 20,000 20,000
Blended, Australian production is meet-
ing about a quarter of consumption, but,
despite a 20 p.c. price lift since 1941,
isn’t capable of making up all the defi-
ciency. Thus, service personnel were put
on reduced rations, and in February
shop deliveries were further reduced to
65 p.c. of base-year purchases and quotas
which certain munition workers enjoy
were cut from 3oz. to 2oz. per male
smoker a week. As an economy measure,
production has been concentrated into
the most popular lines, and to eke out the
leaf position a proportion of high-grade
tobaccos coming on to the market is now
to be replaced by cheaper varieties.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
To-Be- Be-
Sopt., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £,£,£>
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451 8,731
1934.. 23,150 3i „ „ 7,130 f B va7 ~„9
Bonuses to clients, £7233 5 ’ ’
1935. , 23,862 4 p.c, ~ 8,148 \ o -ion on noi
Bonuses to clients, £12,608 j 3 ’ 106 20 ’ 624
Unexplained addition, £4029 •• 24,653
1936.. 30,539 4 p.c. = 8.089 1 o ono 9» 046
Bonuses to clients, £19,057 j ’ ’
1937. . 40,741 4 p.c. = 8,144 ) 44 747 42 793
Bonuses to clients, £17,850 |
1938. . 47,655 4 p.c.= 8,320 t 45 521 58,314
Bonuses to clients. £23,814 )
1939.. 25,793 4 p.c. = 8,810 16,983 75,297
Unexplained addition, £15,418 .. 90,715
1940.. 29,077 4 p.c. = 8,861 20,216 110,931
1941.. 15,363 4 „ ~8,900 6,463 117,394
1942.. 17,301 4 „ „ 9,672 7,629 125,023
The P.D.S., as it is called, is one of the
biggest things of its kind and an im-
portant unit of the network of co-op.
selling organisations through which
dairy and other farm produce finds its
way to both local and British markets.
The aim is to sell in the best markets,
keep handling and other charges low and
settle accounts promptly. Nowadays the
only export outlet which matters is that
of the United Kingdom—extensive trade
connections previously existed with Asia.
After satisfying Commonwealth needs,
including those of our Allies, surplus
farm produce is passed to Australian
Producers’ Wholesale Co-op. Federation,
which consigns to affiliated co-ops. in the
U.K. The latter attend to distribution
but under British Government control. ’
Notwithstanding an adverse season,
P.D.S. turnover was a record in 1942.’
It lifted £661,416 to almost £7,500,000!
Here are the figures:
„ . i —Exes. p.e. o!—.
Commis- Com 1
Turnover, sion, etc. Kxes.* Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 p c
1932. .3,886,358 174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95 9
1934. .3,878,792 178,177 155,677 £4 0/3 87s”
1937. .4.605.814 230,795 190,054 £4/2/6 82’3 ”
1938. .5,716,562 261,617 213,962 £3/14/10 8l"s ”
1939. .6,565,035 277,068 251,275 £3/16/7 90V ”
1940. .6,759,794 318,630 289,554 £4/5/4 go's ”
1941. 355,412 340,049 £5/0/2 95 6 ”
1942. 413,018 394,718 £5/6/- 95.5",
* Including bonus rebates.
Nearly half the step-up in costs was on
account of doubled rebates of commis-
sion charges. At £44,000 (up £22,839),
these represented 40 p.e. on local butter
sales and 30 p.e. on other produce. The
net amount available for shareholders,
after deducting this and £lOOO for the
provident fund, was £1938 better at
£17,301. That equals 7.1 p.e, on capi-
tal, and compares with 6.9, 13.1, 11.7 and
15.7 p.e. back to 1938. As usual, 4 p.e.
was declared.
Buoyancy in turnover induced expan-
sion otherwise:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £203,715 £220,258 £222,509 £241,785
Share suspense 227
Overdraft . . 2,339 96,827 85,914 56,102
Other liabilities 220,864 303,542 450,159 637,281
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 62,014 96,033 122,309 134,835
Plant.. .. 30,515 40,859 56,460 67,389
Shares other cos. 26,690 28,721 44,144 44,044
Stocks . . 72,345 155,791 247,326 286,884
Book debts . . 259,604 354,299 367,161 496,119
Cash, etc. . . 17,129 29,257 47,478 41,591
The capital advance reflects payment of
the previous term’s rebate in f.-p. shares.
A net growth of £157,310 in liabilities
partly represents larger commitments to
consignors. However, the total of
£279,251 due under this head was less
than two weeks’ turnover. On the other
hand, trade debtors were less than three
weeks’ sales. When the books closed
more or less liquids, excluding shares in
other cos., exceeded all outside liabilities
by £131,211 (up £5319).
As for the current term, the dairying
season has been much better, and Britain
has contracted to take from Australia in
the 12 months ending June 70,000 tons
of choicest and first-grade butter and
10,000 tons of cheese. That compares
with 60,000 and 40,000 tons respectively
—46,800 and 6500 tons were actually
shipped—in 1941-42. Prices are now a


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 11 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * «
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 300 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
I
■
.
11l
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S. 160. 8.
iiM
******
mm
m
m
Is p „ |
A^w/a^vw>xSMMWWV‘ v
HR
»*
m
mm
■:■<■ -. :b»ai
SHOCKTROOPS.
, . . That’s the last name they’d call themselves, hut that’s what they
are. Shocktroops on the home front. Their every waking thought is
devoted to a husband and father who’s away on service—somewhere.
And they are doing a war job too. Not a penny is spent in this house-
hold except from real necessity. Every penny that can be saved is
invested in Liberty Bonds, This is the way to a quicker victory and
to Dad’s return home.
Liberty Bonds mean more guns and
equipment for our troops. They
mean more dead Japs, and bombs
at last over Tokio. They mean our
soldiers will be given a more than
even break with the enemy.
Get into the fight yourself. Lend
your money to back the chaps in
uniform and, remember when you
do, you do not give your money, you
lend it on the finest security the world
offers the whole resources of the
Commonwealth of Australia. But
the need is urgent —make your sub-
scription now.
QUICK FACTS ABOUT THE LOAN
1. Liberty Loan Bonds are the safest
place in the world for your savings.
2. Good interest is paid half-yearly.
If you invest your money for five
years the rate is 2J%, or for the
longer term lnterest starts
from the day of subscription.
3. You can pay cash for your bonds
or buy them on convenient instal-
ments over a period of ten months.
4. Arrange your subscription now
through any bank, savings bank,
money order post office or stock-
broker.
IBERTY LOAN
little better —1425. 9|d. per hundred-
weight, f.0.b., for choicest butter and
87s. 6d. per hundredweight for first-
quality cheese. Also, the Federal Gov-
ernment is subsidising dairy-farmers to
the extent of a parsimonious 6s. Bd.
per hundredweight for butter and 4s. per
hundredweight for cheese. Despite rising
costs, only a pound wholesale has
gone on to the price of butter since the
outbreak of war.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12.886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil L 261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22.374
Reserves.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. •• 4,78/
Assets written down, £4787 .. ..
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 t Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2.713
1937.. 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
1938.. 9,386 2500 21 p.c. = 6,111 775 5,522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. •• 6,257
1939.. 12,904 2500 2$ p.c. = 6,111 4293 10,550
Surplus sale shares, £312 . . • • 10,86-.
1940.. 16,636 2500 3 p.c. = 7,333 6803 17,665
1941.. 17,072 2500 3J ~ „ 8,556 6016 23,681
1942.. 10,005 2500 3* „ ~ 8,556 22,630
* Half-year, t includes arrears.
Results can hardly have been as sad as
that. Actually, the diamond jubilee of the
business produced the biggest turnover
ever, but very sensibly the board, which
has never kept much up its sleeve, gave
“consideration to contingencies which are
bound to arise during the years ahead
and established a provision for contin-
gencies as well as taxation.” The com-
bined amount came to £45,000, against
£21,813 the year before ; £3182 was con-
sidered sufficient for the taxgatherer in
1939. Depreciation of austerity styles
and fashions once controls are lifted is
One of the things that have to be guarded
against. Continuation of present conser-
vative policy, seeds of which appear to
have been planted two or three years
back, can be expected to result in better
prices than the 11s. 6d. now offered for
the 18s. ords. —2s. a share went over-
board to cover depression losses.
Part of the trouble in the past was
the doing of capricious Dame Fashion.
Bad stock has lately become almost un-
known, though coupons appear to have
bred a more discerning type of purchaser,
and supply difficulties seem to have
nibbled at the competition which pre-
viously came from the cluster of drapers
and chain stores in the co.’s Queen-
Adelaide-streets block. In the period
approximating to Allan and Stark’s latest
accounts, recorded Brisbane retail sales
advanced, 10 p.c., despite quantitative re-
strictions on turnover three-parts through.
Aided by its mail-order connection, A.
and S.’s gross earnings (£217,426, up
£22,256) improved at a better rate than
that, and after depreciation of £5069 pre-
tax earnings were shown at £55,005.
Chipping off the £45,000 previously men-
tioned, reserves were nominally drawn
on to repeat the p.c. ord. div. If a
round figure of £25,000 covers the tax
bill, 11.2 p.c. was actually available for
the ords. and reserves can be written
£20,000 greater than shown.
The health of finances benefited con-
siderably, £40,875 net being cut off the
outside debt, and that where it hurt most,
i.e., the interest-bearing section;
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £294,454 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 86,993 113,276 115,227 62,730
Sundry creditors 37,851* 55,025* 45,933 57,555
Tax reserve, etc. 21,000 46,080
Premises & plant 220,886 216,236 220,263 225,248
Stock.. .. 131,342 195,034 204,371 191,522
Shares other cos. 21,546 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments .. 550 50 50 50
Rook debts . . 41,727 54,968 62,780 53,359
Cash, etc. . . 6,803 1,168 1,090 1,529
* Including tax reserve.
The shareholding is the 52 p.c. interest
in Stuparts, Maryborough (paid capital,
£52,595), which, taking a leaf from its
parent’s copybook, showed profit of
£1827 last year after tax and other special
provisions amounting to £4300,
North Kalgurli’s belated report for
1941, just received from London, where
it was issued in December, shows net re-
ceipts at £159,355 stg., to which is added
£59 difference in exchange. London and
Australian tax reservations took £79,369 ;
advance development written off, £lO,OOO ;
depreciation, £14,805 ; interim and final
dividends (Is. 3d. a share), £46,979.
Positive ore, notwithstanding treatment
of 205,155 (up 51,935) tons, increased
from 1,008,949 tons (6.Bdwt.) to 1,025,405
tons (6.6dwt.). The latest figure includes
193,985 tons broken in the stopes. Prob-
able ore at 362,030 tons assaying s.Bdwt.
compares with 341,141* tons assaying
s.9dwt. Commending mine manager
Tyrrell’s work, chairman C. T. Ley told
the annual meeting that the policy of
pushing development further and further
northward in the main workings had been
fully justified and rewarded. Ore now
being opened up was expected to provide
a large increase in reserves and possibly
improve the average grade of the mine.
Closing down of the Croesus Prop, mill,
the co.’s second string, came at a time
when the plant had reached a high state
of efficiency, both mechanically and
metallurgically, and the little development
done since has added a few thousand tons
of ore to reserves here. A bright future
is predicted when operations are resumed.
* * * *
If chairman Wallace Smith’s expecta-
tions are realised, King Island Scheelite
will have its new 20,000-tons-a-month
mill ready for action at the end of the
year. The recent drilling campaign is
reckoned to have disclosed enough ore
to maintain that rate of treatment for
four or five years, and grade of 0.7 p.c.
WO3 is very close to the 0.8 p.c. now
being handled. The economies of large-
scale working will give the co. a better
chance of making a do of things when
tungsten reverts from £6 ss. a unit to its
normal price.


STATE EXPRESS
a&vuyspieude!
&
m
e hp;
' V
Money Buys Munitions.
COME ON, AUSTRALIA!
Let’s fill the THIRD LIBERTY LOAN.
19990-11 42
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys to fdter from the
blood Uric Acid Poisons, which cause
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and
other ailments caused by disordered
kidneys. They make you well and
keep you well.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney,
THE
II MITCH insurance
II Si I I £ SJ COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Austral,
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
ralian
ft. 0.
.‘Asst. <
Institution,
REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The U.S.A. and World Trade
From the other side of the Pacific
lately we have been hearing some
clamor that concerns dollars. The New
York “Daily News” protested that the
transfer of certain plants to Allied coun-
tries during the war will be followed by
their use in peace-time “for the benefit
of Australians, Russians and Indians,”
and to the detriment of post-war business
conditions in the U.S.A., apparently from
the export point of view. As two of the
three plants to be transferred to Aus
tralia were for food-canning, and as the
U.S.A. has a negligible peace - time
trade in canned foods with us, the
newspaper’s comment was wide of the
mark. Australians can take the actual
transfer of the plant to this country as
showing the true American spirit in
this matter, and the newspaper criticism
as something similar to the stuff we get
from a couple of our own Sydney dailies.
But there is quite a lot of this dollar-
struck talk coming from the United
States. It is perhaps from sectional in-
terests, but it can be mischievous. ‘ln-
formed observers” in Washington have
been talking about the probability of
“efforts being made so as to use Ameri-
can war aid as a bartering point for post-
war advantages for America.” It is all
rather reminiscent of the stuff we used
to get from Yorkshire and other manu-
facturing centres of Great Britain when
the Australian tariff was an infant. It
disregards the point that the basis of
trade is reciprocity, and that countries
cannot for long buy from the world any
more than they sell to it. The one-way
tendency in United States trade in pre-
war years was only made possible by the
export of the greater part of the world’s
gold reserves to New York. Reserves
can be exported only once. Once the
United States gets the lot there will be
no way of paying for sales to the world
by the U.S.A. in excess of purchases from
the world by the U.S.A. unless the U.S.A.
chooses to start buying-up investments in
the countries which owe it money. And
in time that outlet, too, might end in
futility.
In 1938 the United States sold the
world merchandise to the value of $3094
million and bought to the value of $1960
million —balance $1134 million to the
credit of the U.S.A. In 1939 the favor-
able balance was $859 million, and in
1940 (a full year of war in Europe and
cash-and-carry in full swing) $1396 mil-
lion. These were admittedly years of
exceptional exporting activity for Uncle
Sam. But over a long period the
United States has been building a
balance of trade so ponderously in its
favor that the exchange rates of other
countries depreciated and their gold
flowed to New York. During the greater
part of this time Great Britain experi-
enced an unfavorable balance of external
trade, and in some years even invest-
ment and shipping earnings failed to right
the position. During the present war
Britain has had to dispose of the major
part of its United States investments —the
huge Courtaulds interests went dirt-cheap
—and post-war investment income will
be only a shadow of its former self. Dur-
ing the war lend-lease looks after most
inter-Allied trading arrangements. Other-
wise Britain would most likely have been
bankrupt of overseas funds by now.
The war will probably end with Europe
in a state of disorganisation and partial
devastation. Instead of endeavoring to
take trade away from war-torn countries,
among which Britain must be included,
it will be in the interests of the United
States and the world generally to aim
at a universal improvement in living
standards. The U.S.A. is endowed with
natural wealth on a scale denied most
other countries. It is rich in that essential
of modern transport —petroleum—and it
has abundant hydro-electric energy, two
things that have tremendous economic
sway in the world today. It has vast
mineral, agricultural and manufacturing
resources, and with a large population
to cater for its surplus production can
be sold very cheaply in the world’s mar-
kets. Yet within itself it has not always
used its advantages with the greatest wis-
dom. In spite of its natural developed
and undeveloped wealth it had the worst
unemployment experience of the civil-
ised world during the depression. Its
problems were more those of politics and
financial management than of essential
poverty.
Internal political and economic prob-
lems of the United States are not going
to be solved in the post-war period by
obtaining external trading “advantages,”
if by that word is meant the placing of
other countries at a disadvantage. You
cannot improve your trade with other
countries by embarrassing them finan-
cially. The whole question of external
trade, let it be repeated, is one of reci-
procity, and if it is fundamentally impos-
sible for countries, under a certain set of
conditions, to do more business among
themselves than they are doing, the sooner
all concerned realise it the better. Except
where countries are naturally short of
raw materials or sources of power, most
of their trading difficulties arise from in-
ternal political causes. In fact, before the
most meagre benefits can be expected
from the operation of the Atlantic
Charter it will be necessary for each
country concerned to put its own political
house in order before it can co-operate in
any world-wide straightening-out of things
or even voice any responsible opinion.
International trade is a vital matter to
such countries as Britain, Italy and
Japan. None of them has much
in the way of iron ore, and Italy lacks
coal. Each has a large population for
its size, and each in peace-time draws a
great part of its basic food supplies from
overseas. To be able to buy from other
countries—in fact, to exist almost—these
countries, and many more on the Con-
tinent of Europe, have first of all to
have an export income, principally from
manufactures sold abroad. Around this
truth must be shaped any lasting post-
war trade policy, and in this connection
the United States and the British Empire
have particularly great responsibilities.
This problem generally is half-recognised
in Clause 4 of the Atlantic Charter, which
speaks of “access, on equal terms, to the
trade and to the raw materials of the
world.” Countries which produce raw
materials in abundance are usually very
willing to sell them. There isn’t much of
a problem in that. The problem is the
obtaining of the wherewithal, on the
buyer’s part, to pay.
A roof over one’s head is getting
almost as difficult to find as beer or to-
bacco. Building restrictions under the
National Security Regulations, introduced
to divert skilled man-power, materials
and money to the war effort, have caused
a big lag in the supply of housing in
relation to the demand. This is particu-
larly so in N. S. Wales, Queensland and
the Victorian metropolitan area. At
present, save for a £4OO type of house,
home-building in Australia is almost at
a standstill. Except with Treasury con-
sent, new houses cannot be erected within
25 miles of the Sydney G.P.0., and the
same rule applies in some other capi-
tals. During December the value of
new dwelling permits granted in the
six capital cities and their suburbs
totalled £lO,OOO, compared with £969,000
in the same month of the preceding year
and £2,022,000 in December, 1940.
Building activity throughout the Com-
monwealth is still high, but it is
principally on Government account, and
in the main hasn’t much to do with
civilian dwellings. Munition - factory
buildings and Allied Works Council acti-
vity figure largely in the unpublished
Government records. From the recovery
from slump until the outbreak of war
the average expenditure per month in the
capital cities and suburbs on cottages and
flats exceeded £1,250,000. In the first
year of war it rose to £1,440,000 a month,
and in 1940-41 reached the record figure
of £1,696,000. In order to buy a house
already built the purchaser must now
have all the money necessary unless he
has no home of his own. If he has no
home he may borrow at 5 p.c. or under,
provided immediate vacant possession is
offered. The transfer must also be
made at a “reasonable valuation” on the
basis of February, 1942, conditions.
* * * *
Holloway’s pills and ointments now
total 2334; that number of formulas
have been deposited with the Minister
for Health. He dissects them as includ-
ing 265 ointments, 225 cough mixtures,
195 tonics, 297 laxatives, 97 aspirin and
A.P.C. preparations and 92 antacid
powders, etc. The regulation under which
Mr. Holloway became the custodian of
the formulas of these sovereign remedies
has, of course, been disallowed by the
House of Representatives since.
• * « *
The Broken Hill mining dispute has
ended. Mining production and associated
activities were cut by 30 p.c. or more
following the action of the men in going
on to wages in place of the contract sys-
tem previously in force. The men were
working on contract again as from last
Wednesday, and all men put off have
been reinstated.
* * * *
War expenditure for the eight months
to February 28 totalled £360 million.
If it averages that rate for the remaining
four months of the financial year it will
reach the latest Treasury estimate of £5lO
million. Of the eight-months figure, £297
million was loan money (including bank
credit) and £63 million was revenue. The
ratio was 17| p.c. revenue to 82\- p.c.
borrowed funds. The urgent need of
more taxation income by the Govern-
ment is very clear from these figures.
The preponderant proportion of our war
outgo should be paid for out of taxation.
Instead, by far the greater part is being
met by borrowing. War expenditure is
poor security for borrowing. It is also a
poor base for credit expansion.
* * * *
At a conference of the Stock Exchanges
of Australia, held in Melbourne, the
National Security Regulations putting a
ceiling on share prices were condemned.
Apart from affecting war loans, it was
contended that the regulations were un-
just to ishareholders, the majority of whom
were now receiving reduced dividends in-
stead of cost-of-living compensation, and
who, under the system of “ceiling prices,”
can sell their stock only at a figure be-
low the real value. Inflation had taken
place in the price of most things, but
compensation had been denied in the
market for shares. In the taxation field,
too, in addition to the charging of tax at
the shareholder’s property rate, the com-
pany paid prior tax, and any rebate of
this tax was now not allowed. Notwith-
standing this conflict of opinion with the
Government in its economic administra-
tion, the conference decided to extend
where possible its already effective help
in the matter of raising war loans.
* * * *
It seems that Australia will be spending
overseas on war during the final six
months of this fiscal year a sum in excess
of previous anticipations for the whole
12. Mr. Chifley has put it this way:
To the end of December, oversea war
expenditure amounted to £2l million, com-
pared with the Budget estimate of £5O
million for the whole year. This estimate
represented the amount of London funds
which it was then contemplated would be
available, and it was stated in the Budget
speech that any expenditure in excess of
London funds available would be covered
by a special financial arrangement with
the British Government.
The latest estimate of our balance of pay-
ments indicates that we may be able to
finance about £BO million from our own
resources. However, our total liabilities
for the maintenance of our forces abroad
and for equipment, etc., are likely to exceed
this sum. This excess, which cannot be
forecast with any accuracy at this stage,
will be covered by the special financial
arrangement with the British Government.
We shall, however, have to provide
finance for £BO million oversea expenditure
instead of £5O million.
It is not clear from the above whether
the annual balance of payments looks
like increasing from £5O million to £BO
million, or whether the increase will
come from our slender London reserves.
What is clear is the great increase in our
projected overseas expenditure.


se^
LOTIOir*
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark® location,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROTJSSED APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SVDXEi.
ft
&s m '<'* 4 m
With over 90% of the World’s rubber
in Japanese hands a new driving tech-
nique becomes imperative in your
Country’s interests and your own.
Spare your tyres every possible impact
. . corner slowly , . brake sparingly . .
keep speeds down to 30 m.p.h. . . check
inflation pressures daily.
Rubber is far more precious than gold.
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO., LTD
Vo Better Investment —Third Liberty Loan.
t
FINISHED IN 4 DAYS
by unskilled labor!
m
a**
M
M
m
■ §
BMtt
*
%
mm
II
1.
IM
■:■■■
■
IS|
•
f I
.
ARMCO PREFABRICATED HUT
Here is a storage hut, 40ft. x 100 ft.,
which has been built by unskilled labor
in four days to serve the needs of the
army. All structural steel work is of
light gauge pressed metal, the covering
material is 24 gauge corrugated iron.
This hut was completely fabricated in
the Armco works at Sutherland, N.S.W.
Armco pre-fabricated huts are ideal for
storage purposes, when economy, ease
of erection, speed, and strength are of
vital consideration.
\wc'o
w
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTV. LTD.
SYDNEY , MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE
A People's Loan
The Third Liberty Loan is open for
subscriptions. Terms are the same as
last time. The amount (£lOO million)
asked is a record purely cash operation,
and every penny of it is required not
only to fight the war in the Pacific, but
also to preserve our credit now and in
post-war years. It is going to be largely
a people’s loan. Australians who have
never taken a war bond before are 5 asked
to take one now.
The Mortgage Bank Bill has been
passed in the Reps. The only amendment
was that of the Treasurer —the limit on
advances has been raised to 70 p.c. of
the security. Wilson, the cause of it ail,
wanted a limit of 3 p.c. placed on the
cost of farmers’ advances, with 2 p.c. in
the case of returned soldiers. This was
an indication of the financial intelligence
ol Mr. Wilson, who represents the Gov-
ernment’s majority. His motion was lost
by 44 votes to seven. Treasurer Chifley
said that he had already indicated that
the cost of advances would not be more
than 4 p.c. Loans may be made for
periods of from five to 41 years, with a
limit of £5OOO. The thing is to be an
offshoot of the Commonwealth Bank.
Capital, not to exceed £4,000,000, is to
be found largely from central bank re-
serves and profits and from advances
from this bank and the Commonwealth
Savings Bank. The eventual functioning
of the mortgage bank is hedged round
with qualifications, and it has been intro-
duced at a time when its need was never
less or its establishment more difficult.
Even Treasurer Chifley has mumbled
something about operations being
“severely restricted compared with the
contribution which it could have made
if it had been established when it was
first recommended by the Banking Com-
mission in 1936. At present the whole
national financial policy is directed
towards limiting new investment except
in connection with the war programme.”
* * H: * *
Archie Cameron made a neat point
during the debate on the Mortgage Bank
Bill:
I am rather astonished at the modesty
of some of my friends who favor a ceiling
of only 3 p.c. in respect of loans made by
the mortgage bank. That is not high
enough. A man would bump his head if
the ceiling were not high. I heard one
member on this side of the House say this
afternoon that the opportunity was here
presented for the use of national credit for
the provision of funds for this purpose.
Mr. Calwell: What is wrong with that?
I ask you what is right with it. If the
honorable members opposite rightly believe
that there can be such a thing as the re-
lease of national credit free of cost to this
country, they have no right to ask for
3 p.c.
As usual, whenever Labor members are
confronted with a practical issue of this
nature they prefer to shut up about “free
credit.” It is a subject far better handled
in generalities and from a soapbox than in
giving a practical demonstration. But in
any case “credit” enthusiasts who tell
mythical stories about how the transcon-
tinental railway was financed will now
find those stories a little more difficult to
peddle. Portion of the profit on the note
issue—the means by which some of the
cost of the transcontinental railway was
paid—is to be used to finance the mort-
gage bank. But it has its limitations ; it
isn’t a bottomless well of easy money.
The story of the financing of the East-
West railway is briefly given in Federal
“Hansard” of 18/5/’39:
Mr. Nock (Riverina): How much money
was provided by the Commonwealth Bank
for the construction of the East-West
railway?
Mr. Menzies; The Commonwealth Bank
was not directly concerned in financing
the construction of the East-West railway.
The total cost of construction of that rail-
way was £8,470,000. Of this £1,826,000
was provided from revenue and £6,644,000
from the Works Loan Fund. Of the
amount provided from the Works Loan
Fund approximately £5,300,000 was bor-
rowed from the Australian Notes Fund, the
balance being borrowed partly from other
Commonwealth funds and partly from the
public. The greater portion of the Notes-
Fund moneys loaned to the Treasury for
this purpose represented profits derived
from interest on investments. These trans-
actions took place before the note issue
was transferred to the Commonwealth Bank
in 1920.
Profits from the Australian Notes Fund,
and later from the note-issue department
of the Commonwealth Bank, are limited
to interest earnings on the loan of those
notes, through the banks, to the public,
and to interest from investments. While
there is a limit to the note issue—as in
sound finance there has to be —there must
be a limit to profits therefrom.
* * * *
By the Senate’s amendment, taxation
deductions in excess of assessment up to
March 31 will be refunded, but between
March 31 and June 30 any excess will
be applied towards meeting the next
assessment. There will be no period of
double deductions, but where instalments
fall short of the total assessment the
balance must be paid in cash, subject to
“hardship” considerations.
*
There is not a tittle of sense, of course,
in the weak-kneed idea of some poli-
ticians that the financial sins of the war
can be remedied easily enough when
peace comes. War represents a time
when there are ample money and employ-
ment, and inflation is a thing to be
avoided. Peace will bring unemployed,
a fall in Government spending and,
even if there is some deferred inflation
for a time, difficult business conditions.
The right measures to take now are de-
flationary—that is, the increasing of taxa-
tion. To try to do this after the war,
when the people will be clamoring for a
return to freedom in their way of life
and the throwing-off of war-time
burdens, will be far more difficult
than in the heat of the fight which we
know must be paid for.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japs Still Active.
“Ek Dum”: For the first time since
February 7 Japan attempted heavy raid-
ing of New Guinea goldfield bases last
week.
On March 9 26 twin-engined bombers,
escorted by 21 fighters, came over Wau
aerodrome from the n.-w. at 15,000 feet
and bombed the field. According to the
official report they caused light damage
and casualties only.
Allied air raiding and reconnaissance
continued over the whole of the northern
defence arc from Timor and the Celebes,
off the coast of which a cargo vessel was
left burning by raiders, to the Trobriands
and mandated territory.
In the communique of March 10 a
heavy raid on shipping at Wewak was
reported, one 5000-ton vessel at least
being severely damaged and another prob-
ably damaged. The warehouses ashore
were hit, buildings in general were
strafed and, in the face of heavy ack-ack
fire, all machines returned.
On March 11 the enemy came back
with a heavy raid on Oro Bay, about 15
miles from Endaiadere, in the old
Japanese positions. A force of 24
bombers, with an umbrella of 16 fighters,
was used. This was the second attack
on the area in four days.
Lightnings and Kittyhawks were ready.
In a short morning dogfight they sent the
attackers flying and brought down nine
bombers, while two fighters limped out
of the fight too damaged to continue it.
Our losses were described as light. One
small vessel was sunk. On Friday the
Lukanai ’drome at Rabaul was loaded
with hundreds of bombs of every variety.
The week wound up with another con-
voy action. On March 13 three destroyers
and five merchant ships were discovered
off Wewak, the enemy’s base on the north
New Guinea coast nearest his own
main Caroline bases, and 470 miles from
Moresby. The convoy, with another, had
been under observation since March 11,
when it was seen east of Manus in the
Admiralties.
Fortresses at noon picked up the ships,
and attacked them just before dusk, about
40 miles off Wewak. They scored a direct
hit on an 8000-ton transport, which was
left on fire, and another direct or near
hit on a 4000-ton ship. Distance from
bases and bad weather made sustained
attack impossible. Later the 8000-ton
ship exploded. Next day, a large de-
stroyer and a 7000-ton ship were hit by
bombs outside Wewak Harbor.
The main operation against land troops
was in the Mubo area, which was re-
peatedly strafed In one area sprayed by
Allied fighters 273 corpses were counted.
In the north-west enemy activity con-
tinues to grow along the southern fringe
of the N.E.I. and to creep ever nearer
to Australia. General MacArthur’s H.Q.
pointed this out on March 15, specifically
mentioning Ambon and Dobo (Am Is.).
In both the Kais, near the New Guinea
coast, and the Tanimbars, which are only
200 miles from the Arnhem coast, air
strips are being multiplied, and there is
activity at Ambon. There, during the
week, a 5001 b. bomb was dropped on
a 7000-ton cargo vessel in a fight
in which two “O” fighters were destroyed
and two more put out of action. A
single reconnaissance bomber venturing
over Darwin was torn to bits by Spitfires.
Fuiloro and shipping at Lautem
(Timor) were raided.
Meanwhile, General Kenney, the
Allies’ able air commander in the Aus-
tralian area, is in Washington on a mission.
The danger from Rabaul has not been
removed. After the Bismarck Sea battle
South-west Pacific H.Q. issued a photo-
graph showing 60 ships anchored in the
inner harbor inside the Beehives, includ-
ing merchant vessels and warships. And
there are still plenty of enemy ’planes in
New Britain.
The harrying of enemy-held bases in
the Solomons continued.
Losses
The U.S. Navy has issued a summary
of the losses suffered by both sides. In
the Nov. 13-15 battle off Savo two
battleships were on the list of ships sunk,
23 ships altogether. The enemy losses
from August 7 to February 7 are esti-
mated at two battleships, 12 cruisers, 26
destroyers and 24 non-combatant vessels
sunk or destroyed, and 81 warships and
27 non-combatant ships damaged.
An Imperial H.Q. message admitted
that from Feb. 16 to March 5, which
included the period of the Bismarck Sea
battle, the Japanese lost seven warships
in the Solomons and New Guinea areas.
It claimed that in the same period 113
Allied ’planes were destroyed in the air
and 11 on the ground and that four
Allied submarines were sunk. Another
communique from Tokyo gave Allied
casualties in the s.-w. Pacific during the
heat of the Buna battle at 25,000!
The S.-w. Pacific H.Q. final estimate
of enemy losses in the Bismarck Sea
affair is three light cruisers, seven de-
stroyers, 12 transports and 63 ’planes,
with another 39 probably destroyed. Two
large Jap destroyers were sunk in the
Solomons on March 5.
The Mediterranean Future.
“Ek Dum”: Last week Rommel con-
tinued to test the effect of his blows on
the First and Eighth Armies, and to a
lesser degree on the Americans in the
southern centre of the western Tunisian
line. Heavy weather put large-scale
operations on the Tabarca approaches
and the Mediterranean littoral road out
of the question and advertised that the
time had not arrived for all-in, all-sector
fighting.
Rommel’s attack on the Eighth Army
west of Medenine below the Mareth Line,
about 45-50 miles from Gabes, petered
out on March 7, after a shattering 24-
hour bombardment by British artillery,
and was renewed in milder form at in-
tervals. Between March 6 and March 9
the enemy lost 52 tanks on the Medenine
sector, together with 1000 Stormtroopers
on Saturday and Sunday (March 7).
Several thousand other Axis troops suf-
fered, notwithstanding that the German
spearheads were led by heavy Mark Vi’s
(52-tonners) carrying 88mm. guns.
Sandstorms hampered operations later
in the week, but detachments harried the
retreating Germans and Italians. The
flank advance by Allied troops on Gafsa
was slowed up by weather, as was air
activity all along the Tunisian line.
Despite the weight of Rommel’s drive
in the south —he himself was not present
—a statement by General Montgomery
issued on March 10 confirmed the opinion
that the German efforts were explora-
tory and delaying rather than main
strokes.
Said General Montgomery:
The enemy is advancing to attack us be-
cause he is caught like a rat in a trap.
He is hitting out in every direction and
trying to gain time and stave off his final
defeat. This is the very opportunity we
want. We are equipped with everything
we need and our morale is right on the
top line....We have plenty of tanks, and,
provided the defended localities hold firm,
we will smash the enemy and inflict crip-
pling casualties on him. It will then be
our turn to attack him. He will not be
able to stand up against our attack.
If any of the fierce thrusts of the Axis
should succeed in breaking through the
Allied holding lines, it would, of course,
be a different tale ; but that does not
look probable.
The Immensity of Supplies
British Ordnance has given figures
which illustrate several factors in the war.
In the pursuit of Rommel, the Eighth
Army needed 400 tons of supplies, plus
120 tons of water, per division per day.
This called for the use of 120,000 lorries,
1.000. gallons of petrol and 2000 new
tyres per day. Guns accounted for
50,000 tons transported, tanks and trans-
port parts 250,000 tons and clothing and
accessories 15,000 tons. A wonderful
feat of organisation.
It was computed that to send a single
division into action in North Africa —
not to maintain it there for long, how-
ever —called for 179,000 packing cases,
requiring 1200 railway wagons, 4200 lor-
ries and seven 10,000-ton freighters. As
a division in actual battle requires some-
thing like 1000 tons a day of supplies—
these figures are apart from Air Force
requirements—the immensity of the
operations can be grasped.
While the Eighth Army was driving
westward, 500,000 men were landed in
French North Africa by the use of nearly
7.000. tons of shipping and all the
immense and complicated gear associated
with the landing and assembly of heavy
armor and artillery.
It is certain that the Allies are not
laying down this immense organisation in
French North Africa and the other large
organisation in the Abyssinian and
Eritrean zones merely for the conquest
of Tunisia. The change in both the scale
of operations and in the situation since
this time in 1941 is little short of stagger-
ing-
The lonely tracks of Libya over which
the isolated and transport-short A.I.F.
battalions struggled across the El Regima
ridges into Tobruk have become roaring
supply trails. West African ports, not
to mention the Algerian ones and Tripoli
and Malta, are crammed with Allied war
loading.
The great Eritrean Allied supplies and
repair base is functioning. Basra hums
with endless activity of the cranes. Bag-
dad and the Turkish border are joined
to India by rail. The strategic railway
systems of Syria and Palestine have been
completed. Ports feeding these rail
systems are crammed with loading. No
longer do the gallant little M.T.Bs. race
up and down the Suez Canal risking their
existences in shattering delay-action
mines. No longer, indeed, is the Canal
bombed or visited except by stray enemy
machines. The Canal is open and func-
tioning.
Mediterranean a Main Cockpit
From India to the Atlantic the Axis
has begun to lose the game, and the storm
is certainly gathering for bigger things in
the Mediterranean. It is easy to suggest
two points where landings or even harry-
ings of Axis-held country would cause
the greatest embarrassment in Berlin. One
is in Sicily. Then a foothold round
Dedeagatch in Thracian Greece would
establish Allied forces within 200 miles of
Sofia and 250-odd of Bucharest. The
throwing of a 160-mile defence line across
the Thracian peninsula could shut Turkey
off from Axis aggression by land. But
the job, feasible with Turkey in the war,
would be difficult, if not impossible, with-
out that country’s help, unless Greece
were first conquered. Sicily or the Cata-
linian coast seems the natural point of
attack.
Mr. Churchill’s speech on Nov. 11
pointed the direction in which African
and Mediterranean affairs are turning: —-
We have come* into North Africa shoulder
to shoulder with our American friends and
allies for one purpose and one purpose
only—namely, to gain a vantage-ground
from which to open a new front against
Hitler and Hitlerism, to cleanse the shores
of Africa....to open the Mediterranean
to Allied sea power and air power, and
thus effect the liberation of the peoples
of Europe from the pit of misery into
which they have been passed... .These two
African undertakings east and west were
part of a single strategical conception.
And the verse from Byron —bard of
Grecian independence—may have had its
own significance as “fitting the event and
the theme.”
The Front Line Moves East.
“Ek Dum”: March 16 was the third
anniversary of the killing of a civilian
on British soil by a bomb —at Bridge of
Waith in Orkney. It was May 9, 1940,
before a bomb fell on the British main-
land near Canterbury, and June 18
before the London area heard its first ex-
plosion at Addington in Surrey, where
the Archbishop of Canterbury has a
country home, and where there are monu-
ments which reach back past the Norman
tower of Gundulf to the Ancient Stones
of the Britons. That was the day France
surrendered.
The Battle of Britain lasted exactly a
year to the day from the bombing near
Canterbury. It reached its first intensity
on Sept. 7, when 375 bombers began to
come over at five o’clock on a glorious
Saturday afternoon, to begin a series of
raids up and down the Thames from
Woolwich to Kensington. They killed 960
civilians, seriously wounded 2347, and
started nine vast conflagrations, one of
which alone, at Quaker Dock, was rated
30 times as large as any which the old
city had seen in modern times before the
dawn of Monday, September 9.
Fifty-seven Nights
The raiding went on without a com-
plete break in the London area for 57
days or nights; then it became inter-
mittent, but larger in scale. The
greatest attack was the blitz of Dec.
29, 1940, which left St. Paul’s standing,
almost untouched, in the midst of a vast
ruin which stretched from Fore-street
through the Guildhall region to New-
gate and Ludgate Circus and beyond.
Next largest and deadliest was the last
for many months. It came on the day
of Rudolph Hess’s flight, a year and a
day after the fall of the first Canterbury
bomb —a terrible farewell. The House
of Commons Chamber was destroyed.
Flames ringed the Lantern of West-
minster Abbey. The Law Courts, the
War Office, the Mint, the Mansion
Hpuse, the Tower were hit. Five halls
of ancient livery companies full of
treasures were destroyed.
Many city churches, too, were wrecked
in this last vicious visitation. Between
the ruined Temple Church and Austra-
lia House, the flaming tower of St.
Clements Danes made a beacon in the
sky.
In three months 36,000 bombs weigh-
ing 6600 tons were dropped, apart from
incendiaries; 12,896 Londoners were
killed and 20,000 seriously injured. Dur-
ing this terrible time London’s firemen
dealt with nearly 10,000 fires; on three
nights they had more than 1000 on their
hands; on that of December 29 there
were 1500.
Liverpool lost 4100 dead in 12 main
raids ; Clydeside, 1828 in four raids ; Bir-
mingham, 2162 in seven. Portsmouth had
65.000 out of 70,000 houses damaged or
destroyed. Four-fifths of Birming-
ham as populous as Melbourne —was
without mains water. Plymouth had
50.000 houses hit or otherwise placed in
need of repairs.
The R.A.F.’s Achievement
Yet under this blast, unprepared for,
the R.A.F. was built up until it had made
it unsafe for daylight raiders to come over
even on hit-run missions. It had blown
a terrible hole in the Luftwaffe and had
rendered that much-advertised force in-
capable of sparing the machines to do
to Moscow what it had tried to do to
London. It had established complete
fighter supremacy over the Channel and
had developed the Beau as a night-fighter,
so that an era of night protection had
begun which was likely to rule out the
attacks of darkness as well as the attacks
of day.
The enemy had accomplished only his
own defeat. The results had made a
grim jest of his boast over German Radio
on Sept. 10, 1940:
It is a question of time —a few short
weeks, then this conflagration will have
reached its natural end.
The Blitz Moves East
Less than a year after the end of the
Battle of Britain the front line in the
air began to move east. Then the Ger-
mans, locked in a deadly grip with the
Russians, learned what they really had
done to themselves. They had taught
the effete British the art of bombing by
practical examples. They had given them
a chance to analyse the causes of Ger-
man failure and to profit by their know-
ledge.
Any other people but the British would
have flung in everything they ‘had at the
retreating enemy to their own undoing.
The British concentrated their deliberate
minds and almost inhuman tenacity on
providing, after due delay and prepara-
tion, a demonstration for the enemy that
two can play the same game.
On the third anniversary of the first
blow of the Luftwaffe against England,
that demonstration is well in progress.
Its object is to ease the Russian front
position. Where the average bomb used
against Britain was about 5001 b., the
British are using up to 8000-pounders.
Where the most German bombers used
on a single night against Britain num-
bered about 400, the 1000- and even 1500-
bomber raid has arrived for Germany.
While the Luftwaffe, in the Battle for
Britain, flew far aloft, the Lancasters
and the Stirlings, Halifaxes and Man-
chesters roar along at tree-top height
carrying three times the loads of the big-
gest Dorniers.
Their low ceiling puts them out of
reach of high-altitude fighters; they can
defend themselves with the best and, as
a destructive force against ack-ack bat-
teries, their own fire is not to be sneezed
at.
The increase in the size of bombs has
brought the air war to the edge of an
era when nothing can save whole cities
if they are subjected to systematic atten-
tion. An 80001 b. bomb will, in favorable
circumstances, pull down or wreck a city
block. Any normal city building hit by
it ceases to exist. It is capable of crack-
ing walls, smashing windows or upset-
ting electrical and water installations five
miles away. A human being within half
a mile of its bursting points is lucky if
he survives the explosion unscathed.
Two Screams from Germany
At present it is difficult to distinguish
the anguished scream of bomb-torn Ger-
many from the shriek of the bombs
themselves. Britons, to the Nazi propa-
gandist, have ceased to become cannon
fodder and are now
ferocious beasts devoid of the first feel-
ings of a civilised human.... the deliberate
cold-blooded murderers of women and
children, the wanton destroyers of the
Reich’s precious historical monuments.
Air Minister Sinclair gave the reason
for this anguished fury on March 10.
British and U.S —but as yet chiefly British
—fighter superiority keeps half the Ger-
man fighter force in the west as against
one-quarter in Russia.
The bombing offensive, hour for hour,
is doing immeasurably greater damage
than the Luftwaffe’s antiquated efforts
against Britain, and proves how little
truth there is in the statement that Russia
is fighting the war alone.
Air Ministry figures;
In the first 10 days of the current
offensive 2000 German factories were
destroyed or damaged.
More than 1,000,000 Germans are
homeless as the result of R.A.F. raids.


Missing Friend.
ESTATE GEORGE EDWARD SCANTLE-
BURY, otherwise STANLEY, late of Selwyn,
Queensland. —Information is required regard-
ing the whereabouts of LESLIE SCANTLE-
BURY, son of the late Harry Ernest Scantle-
bury, who died at Wellington, N.S.W., on sth
June, 1920. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
kindly communicate with the LOCAL DEPUTY
PUBLIC CURATOR, Townsville, Queensland.
Something to his advantage.
) Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES -t-In Divorce.
TO MAXWELL VERNON GIFFORD late
of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that EMILY
ALICE GIFFORD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2785 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend yo,u
may enter an appearance on or before the
Twenty-first day of May One thousand nine
hundred and forty-three at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors 39
Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMPSON TROTT late qf
262 Albury Road Petersham, —TAKE NOTICE
that EMILY FRANCES TROTT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 577 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may ente> an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Friday the Thirtieth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from SHIPWAY & BERNE Solicitors 133 Pitt
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
I'
in the Saar and Ruhr steel production
has been reduced by 1,250,000 tons. _
The gutted or damaged areas in various
often-raided centres assessed in acreage
from photographs included: Wilhelms-
haven, 118 acres, including the arsenal;
Cologne, 600 acres; Diisseldorf, 380
acres ; Karlsruhe, 260 acres ; Liibeck, 200
acres ; Rostock, 130 acres.
The Air Ministry in Berlin was hit by
heavy bombs. And the Air Ministry is
Berlin’s pride, a vast block along the
verges of the Tiergarten.
“Heroes’ Week”
Germany failed to celebrate “Heroes’
Week” in its usual fashion, but the
R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. put on a continu-
ance of their fine fireworks display in
appropriate German centres.
On March 8 Nuremberg, Hitler’s
spiritual rallying-ground, was attacked in
strength by R.A.F. heavies —a previous
raid on Feb. 25 dropped 80001 b. and
40001 b. bombs on the important railway
and industrial centres of the city.
On March 9 Munich was the main
target and was left well lighted by bon-
fires. From that and other raids over
western Germany and mined waters that
day 11 bombers did not return. Berlin
Radio’s account was that Munich lost
a few citizens and suffered damage to
“residential districts and cultural monu-
ments” and that 12 raiders were
destroyed.
In the first ten days of March 4000
tons of bombs were dropped on Ger-
many and occupied countries ; but there
was no let-up. March 11 saw Stuttgart,
in the heart of the German Siegfried de-
fences, the scene of an attack which did
severe damage at a cost of 11 machines
—Berlin described the operation as “a
continuance of terror raids on Germany.”
Friday’s target was Essen. It was a
large attack which added 1000 tons of
bombs to the 1500 tons dropped on
March 5. These two raids were the
heaviest air attacks in all history; the
weight of bombs dropped was 13 times
as heavy as those dropped on Coventry
in the raid which destroyed the centre
of the city.
It is not difficult to believe that most
of the 800-1000 acres of Krupps’ works
suffered heavily, and that the loss of in-
dustrial skilled labor and materials and
stocks has been great. From this second
visit to Essen 23 bombers did not return,
but if Krupps are out of action the price
is worth while.
Seven March raids cost us 95 bombers.
How this compares with the average of
the past year cannot be estimated with-
out knowledge of the number of machines
involved and the types destroyed. Early
in the war it was reckoned that losses up
to 5 per cent, of bombers used against im-
portant objectives were worth while. But
the crashing of a Stirling or a Halifax,
with its large skilled crew, counts for
more than that of a Wellington or a
Blenheim ; though the doubling or treb-
ling of the weight capacity of heavy
bombers, their speed and fire-power en-
sures that, during an average lifetime,
the destruction wrought by the big
machines makes that of the older types
look like shotgun work. The greater
lengths of voyages over enemy territory
make for greater risks for every raider.
Duing the week the Luftwaffe carried
on ghostly reconnaissances and strafes
over Southern England and tried a day-
light raid over London by 24 machines
—l2 bombers and 12 fighters—on March
12. Damage was not heavy, though
bombing was supplemented by m.-g. fire
in one area and several Londoners were
killed. Some of the raiders came over
at rooftop level. Five were shot down
in the Thames Estuary,
Kharkov and Viazma.
“Ek Dum”: A lesson which all the
Allies should have learnt by this time is
that the German is most dangerous when
he is seemingly inactive or engaged in
retreat towards ground suitable for
heavy tank fighting.
A new and nasty situation is develop-
ing in the U.S.S.R. The Russians
have had a long series of advances, at
certain points almost unresisted. Again
and again they captured large cities
which they found occupied only by a
rearguard on the move and with little
booty left behind.
In each case, when the Germans
seemed to be on the run the pursuing
Russians have suddenly met with a re-
sistance which in some sectors has turned
from defensive into offensive.
At the Taman Peninsula, in the Kuban
region and at Novorossisk, Correspon-
dents after the fall of Krasnodar saw
250.000 demoralised Huns struggling to
escape while the Russian Black Sea Fleet
blocked their passage of the Kerch Strait.
A month later, with much of the area
flooded, the enemy still holds Novorossisk
and the Taman country, though the Rus-
sians in this region have still to be
reckoned with. On March 11 they
claimed a small advance and the capture
of the village of Krasnoarmeirskaya in
the swampy region east of Taman.
After Rostov, Voroshilovgrad, Kursk,
Kharkov, Slavyansk and a dozen more
towns had been won by the Russians in
a great series of very gallant swoops wish-
ful thinkers declared that the whole of
the enemy’s line was caving in, and that
300.000 to 500,000 Germans were in
danger of encirclement in the Donetz
towns, from Taganrog northward, “with
only one narrow passage through which
they may escape.”
The wild conjectures in this instance,
based on impossible feats of logistics, as
usual did very poor service to the hard-
fighting Russians. With all-too-limited
food supplies and transport facilities they
have been doing wonders over communi-
cation lines as long as from Melbourne
to Brisbane; but they cannot do the
impossible.
If there is one thing that fills the on-
looker with admiration for the Russians’
accomplishments it is their capacity for
mobilising and using the makeshift
transport which must be serving them in
lieu of the broken-down or regauged rail-
ways and the heavy trucks which cannot
buck the drifts and the slush.
Germans Take the Offensive
On February 21 the Germans opened
an offensive in the western Donetz to
drive north-east towards Kharkov and
Chuguev. According to a Moscow report,
they threw in 25 divisions of fresh troops
along a 120-mile front (this was extended
to 200 miles), employing 12 armored
divisions.
Within a week the enemy began to
report the recapture of big towns and the
gradual pushing back of the Russians,
lifting up the Donetz side of the bag-
mouth towards the Orel side. The re-
capture of Kramatorsk and Krasnoar-
meisk was announced ; then the recapture
of Losavaya, Barvenkova, Pavlograd,
Slavyansk and Lisichansk. The Russians
had fallen back to the environs of Khar-
kov, and the Germans were assailing it
from two sides with a hurricane of 88mm.
fire and at the same time trying to force
the strategic positions of the Donetz near
by. They also made claims to be operat-
ing offensively west of Kursk and to have
gained several towns, including Akhtyrka,
on the Vorsla River, south of Sumy.
The Donetz runs roughly n.-n.-w, east
of Kharkov, after it has made a bend
eastward, further south. The nearest
point in the river from the city is about
18 miles away. Here the railway to
Kupyansk, a junction for both Voronezh
and Stalingrad, crosses the Donetz at
Chuguev. Here also the Uda tributary
runs into the Donetz from Kharkov,
which lies on both its banks. Just as the
Uda enters the city on the north it carves
n.-w., and a mile or two east of its banks
the railway from Byelgorod, Kursk and
Orel and Moscow comes in; also the
line to Kharkov from Lgov (captured by
the Russians, B. 11/3/ ’43) and Bryansk.
By March 10 the Germans were fight-
ing to get across the Uda both north and
south of Kharkov. If they succeeded
the whole of the Russian forces which
had passed Kharkov and Kursk to the
westward, as far north as Orel, might be
imperilled by one of the dangerous door-
locking operations which have several
times proved fatal to Russian armies.
The Russians on March 8 admitted two
German advances, but averred that the
Germans had paid dearly—that between
February 28 and March 8 195 German
’planes, 650 tanks, 320 guns, more than
1500 lorries were destroyed, and 20,000
Germans killed. Such casualties were
insufficient to hamper the advance of
nearly 400,000 men.
On March 11 Stalin issued an Order
of the Day appealing to his Kharkov
troops to stand firm.
On March 13 the German High Com-
mand reported:
After the victorious conclusion of the
winter battle between the Dnieper and the
Donetz had shattered the Russians’ hopes •
of regaining the Ukraine, tanks and infantry
broke through the deeply-staggered enemy
defences outside Kharkov and burst into
the city on several sides. Violent street
fighting is continuing. Our divisions north
and north-west of the city pushed the
Russians towards the east and wiped out
their retiring columns near the Donetz.
On March 14, after five days’ fight-
ing in the environs and in the city itself,
a special German H.Q. communique
declared that Kharkov had fallen. This
Moscow denied. It reported that fierce
fighting was still raging, and added: “We
can and must hurl back the onslaught on
Kharkov and the Donetz, no matter
what the cost.”
From March 1 to March 10 on all
fronts the enemy claimed destruction or
capture of 773 Russian tanks. The Rus-
sians reported that in two days’ fighting
s,-w. of Voroshilovgrad they had de-
stroyed 52 German tanks and killed 2600
Germans.
The thaw had begun to reach Orel,
seasonably on time ; and, though fierce
fighting was reported there by both sides
on some days, German resistance seemed
to have stiffened very much or Russian
attack power to have fallen off. It was
suggested that the Russians were moving
units and artillery southward to try to
save Kharkov.
Viazma Falls
The German retreat near Lake Ilmen
had slowed down at last year's lines
at Staraya Russa; but from Rshev
to the south and west the whole upper
part of the enemy fist outstretched to-
wards Moscow was crumbling as fast as
troops could move out. South of Byeloi
and west from Gzhatsk and Borodino the
invaders were pulling in their formations
out of rough mountain positions towards
Smolensk at the rate of 10 miles or more
a day. The fighting, though sometimes
fierce during this withdrawal, was made
up entirely of rearguard actions. Rus-
sians in most places marched into de-
serted streets, though a few inhabitants
came out of the ruins.
March 12 brought the fall of Viazma,
the junction of the three railways con-
necting Moscow, Rshev and Bryansk
with Smolensk via the Moscow-Minsk
line. The Germans alleged that evacua-
tion had begun weeks ago according to
plan. To this a Moscow communique
replied that in the fighting for Viazma
over 9000 Germans had been killed and
that the booty included eight ’planes, 33
tanks, 69 guns and large quantities of
railway material. The military status of
Viazma is unknown, but it is important
as a rail link.
Back to a Battlefield
This sudden retreat has not thus far
become any matter for jubilation. Since
German losses are not heavy, it is pro-
ducing another wide bag in which the
occupying Russians will find themselves
largely in possession of swamp and boggy
ground in the northern part. In the
south, west of Viazma, they are emerg-
ing on to a good tank battle-ground,
another of the high moraines of which
the enemy has made such a close study
and on which his tactics were successful
in 1941. The German retreat has
here achieved concentration in exchange
for territory unless the troops and sup-
plies have been taken away altogether,
which is not likely.
The front from Moscow southward is
shaping itself into two huge tough Ger-
man claws formed along the Vitebsk-
Smolensk-Gomel-Bryansk-Orel railway
systems on top, and along the Taganrog-
Stalino-Kharkov-Kiev system below. The
directions in which these giant hands
stretch out are converging towards the
n.-e.
The direction of the lines of greatest
weight and of the communication sys-
tems might suggest a swinging into posi-
tion for a double drive at the Volga at
Saratov—22o miles north-east of Stalin-
grad. Saratov is about as far from both
Orel and Kharkov as Stalingrad—4oo
miles.
To reach it and drive northward a few
miles would mean the cutting off of the
Urals and Trans-Siberian railways and
waterways to all the fighting fronts.
Events will be determined by the relative
reserve power of the combatants, the ex-
tent and duration of the thaw and the
morale of German and Russian civilians.
About these subjects no outsider has
any real information. Both armies must
have suffered desperately during the
winter; both peoples even more.
Italian Losses.
It has been officially announced in
Rome that Italian losses in Russia have
been 60,000 dead and wounded and 40,000
missing (Moscow’s estimate is 175,000,
with 60,000 killed). A German spokes-
man in October placed the strength of
the Italians in Russia at “hundreds of
thousands,” and last week Rome reported
that the Eighth Italian Army of 10 divi-
sions had been withdrawn to rest and
to have its ranks refilled.
The loss of 100,000 in Russia is men-
tioned as having “caused such consterna-
tion that Mussolini had no alternative
but to stop the massacre.”
Actually, the Italians lost almost that
many in the advance to El Alamein and
the subsequent defeat, twice as many in
operations in Greece and in the early
African campaigns against British forces.
In brief:
German Radio reported—with anxiety—on
March 10 that a British convoy of 70 ships
had gone out of Gibraltar into the Atlantic,
escorted by many destroyers and patrol boats.
* * * *
It transpires that in the action off Guadal-
canal for which the U.S. Naval C.-in-C.
specially commended the officers and crews, two
Maoriland corvettes encountered a Jap sub-
marine more than twice their own individual
length and three times their tonnage. Cor-
vettes carry a light gun; the sub’s, gun was
much heavier. The two little vessels tackled the
enemy gamely and one rammed it and drove
it on to a reef on fire. There it was finished off.
# * * *
Canadian fighting men are well in the pic-
ture. Canadian aircraft destroyed a German
submarine off their own coast and damaged
three others. A Canadian corvette accounted
for an Italian sub. —the R.C.N.’s third this
year—in the Mediterranean and captured the
crew.
* % *
In a North Sea engagement between E-boats
a German E-boat was sunk and others were
scattered; the only British casualty was a grazed
wrist. In a midnight action off the Dutch
coast a German patrol craft was left
burning and another severely damaged. An
hour later, a large and strongly defended
German tanker was torpedoed and went up
in flames, the escorts being severely damaged by
gunfire. The R.N. lost one vessel. On March
10 a medium-sized enemy supply ship under
escort in the Dover Straits was torpedoed.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports as missing and prob-
ably lost H.M. submarine P3ll, whose com-
mander, R. D. Cayley (D.S.O. and two bars),
when in H.M.S. Utmost, sank 69,000 tons of
shipping in 15 months.
* * * *
British merchant ships controlled by the War
Transport Department carried 2,250,000 service
men and civilians last year. Over 1,000,000
tons of stores were landed by British ships in
North Africa apart from 500,000 men of the
Allied forces.
* * * *
Only raiding and skirmishing advertised the
continuance of the Burma campaign. Prome
railway yards formed one of the main targets
in the past few days.


ALL
in the
LIBERTY LOA
interest accrues from Date of Subscription
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
LL/I
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Denko, trained by Frank Godby, upset
a spectacular plunge on Burberry, trained
by his brother, in the Newmarket Han-
dicap at Flemington on Saturday. Bur-
berry, rumored early in the day to be
an unlikely starter, eased to 10 to 1 before
commissioners stepped in and backed him
down to favoritism at 4 to 1. Denko
himself was not neglected. Backed from
20 to 1 down to 10 to 1, he led practi-
cally all the way and won stylishly from
Burberry and Zonda.
Godby was forced to rush Denko’s
Newmarket preparation. He had visions
of Oakleigh Plate success after the geld-
ing had run away with a sprint at Moonee
Valley in January, but, dissatisfied with
his weight, scratched him and decided to
wait for the Newmarket. A break in his
preparation because of a minor skin
complaint meant that Denko put on more
condition than was desired, and Godby
was anxious to run him at Mentone two
weeks ago. Expectations in that respect
were shattered when Denko was balloted
out after acceptances, but two smart
gallops last week brought him to the
necessary fitness. He is a four-year-old
by Shakuni from Dignall, owned by
Mrs. E. M. Austin, of S.A., and adds to
Godby’s remarkable record with horses
owned in other States. Sanderson, who
rode the winner, is one of the lightest
and most competent apprentices in Mel-
bourne. He and Godby had been asso-
ciated in a successful plunge on Brazen
Jester in the March Nursery earlier in
the day.
Improving vastly on his form at Men-
tone two weeks earlier, Amazed just out-
stayed Illyrian in the St. Leger. His
owner, L. G. Macleod, intended scratch-
ing him after Mentone, but changed his
mind after the lightly-framed Excite-
ment-Frangapanni colt had worked
soundly last week. He stated, however,
that he cut his “investment” consider-
ably. Amazed and Illyrian ran almost
true to their form in the Victoria Derby,
in which they dead-heated for second
behind Great Britain. East End, Oaks
winner, and favorite for Saturday’s race,
finished a poor third. Evidently she was
still feeling the effects of an injury re-
ceived in a fall earlier in the week.
Amazed was a first acceptor for the
Australian Cup, and in the ordinary
course of events would have become a
popular fancy. His owner stated on
Saturday, however, that he was a defi-
nite non-runner. He is to have a spell
before he races again. With minor plac-
ings in the Derby and Leger, but still un-
able to win a race, Illyrian is one of the
unluckiest horses in training. Place-
money in those two races was worth
£ll5O to his owners, but many of his
Leger backers consider he would have
made the finish even closer than it was
had he not been left in front so far from
home.
Simmering, a 25-to-l chance, defeated
her stablemate Ben Butler, 2-to-l favor-
ite, out of a place in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Ben Butler looked to be going
easily in second place on the turn, but
failed to respond when asked for an
extra effort. Simmering, on the other
hand, was slowly away, moved up fourth
entering the straight, and cleared out to
win from Sirius and Scottish Maid, with
the pacemaker, Maemanto, fourth. Pre-
cept, who dropped a long way back early,
did not reveal the finishing dash ex-
pected of him, and ended a poor sixth.
Simmering is by Hellespont from Geyser,
raced in partnership by C. R. Nicholas
and A. G. Hunter, and trained by L.
Robertson. She showed good form last
spring, winning the Debutante Stakes.
Throttle, a stablemate of Simmering,
enhanced her Australian Cup prospects
by running away from Taramoa and Blue
Glide at the finish of the Flemington
Handicap (l|m.). She carried her original
Cup weight, 7.9, and, though little more
than a pony in stature, a 51b. penalty for
Saturday’s success still leaves her with a
good chance. Ballycummins, favorite,
disappointed, but Heart’s Desire, who
faded from the top of the straight, should
derive benefit from the race. She im-
proved with racing last spring, when
second in the Caulfield Cup and third in
the Melbourne Cup. Cellini (fourth) ran
well, and Throttle’s stablemate Mercury
Bay, who ran third in the Cup last year,
shaped encouragingly in fifth position.
An attendance of about 27,000 at
Canterbury was a record for that course.
Both enclosures were uncomfortably
crowded, and any intention of confining
betting to the totalisator on Sydney
courses will necessitate a tremendous im-
provement in facilities. That applies to
all. The turnover on Saturday was
£39,443, and* the amount would have
been much greater if would-be bettors
had been able to reach the issuing
windows.
The fact that his recent racing had
been at longer distances than seven fur-
longs did not tell against Tel Asur in
the Flying Handicap. Young Valais did
the pacemaking, with Usher nearest him,
and these two led into the straight from
Pel Asur and Sir Wyvern. At the leger
Usher’s chance appeared a winning one,
but then Tel Asur fairly ran over him,
Mannerheim and Magi were fourth and
fifth respectively, without ever being dan-
gerous, and, squeezed back to second-last
soon after barrier-rise. Valve never gave
his backers a look-in. A 71b. apprentice
allowance took Flying Shuttle down to a
pound below the advertised minimum,
but she was always among the tail-enders.
From the top of the straight the Can-
terbury Handicap gave plenty of thrills.
Cable Boy, Angus and Mortine were
first round the turn, but half a furlong
from home Lord Valentine looked a win-
ner. Then he gave place to Hieron, who
in the last few strides was cut down by
Abspear, on whom Munro rode a patient
race. Cable Boy, who did not benefit
by being one of the leaders half a mile
from home, finished fourth. Salivant was
never dangerous, and Colonel Post, who
struck trouble when running fourth after
passing the half-mile post, and went right
back, had no chance after.
Edigram went to the front at the start
of the Trial Stakes, and led throughout.
Karaset and Lady Hamilton were his
closest attendants most of the way, but
Puchong, with a good finishing run, got
within a head of him at the winning-post.
In running third Lady Hamilton did a
little better than in her recent races, but
did not act up to track form. Blankit,
though fourth, was not a winning possi-
bility over the final furlong.
Moorland’s Nursery Handicap win
said a lot for his chance of success in
one of the valuable two-year-old races at
the A.J.C. autumn meeting. Early in
the piece he took up the running from
Estborough, Cargeonel and Hecuba, and
won by five or six lengths from Castle
Frontenac (Genetout-Hawah), whose fin-
ishing run, however, was impressive. Un-
lucky Denton scored his fifth minor plac-
ing in six starts by narrowly beating
Moresby for third. As it was only the
latter’s second start he is sure to im-
prove and may yet prove worth the
lOOOgns. recently paid for him. Hecuba
stopped so badly over the last furlong
that it is difficult to write anything favor-
able of her. The only excuse possible is
that she was very wide out at the barrier.
Randwick form indicated Petruchio as
the probable winner of the first division
of the Highweight, and, though Mar-
coperi headed him at one stage, he had
the race won from the top of the straight.
War Spear, who was a fair second, is
likely to improve, while Triad made a
good showing under her big weight. Val-
lesano was prominent throughout, while
Babillard was again disappointing. Fairly
placed for the first half of the journey,
he dropped out in the straight. Miss
Pentheus was left at the post.
The betting market pointed to the
second division being little more than a
match between Irish Sea and Dundalk.
It was a correct summing-up, as, after
Dundalk had disposed of Royal Result
at the bend, he was tackled by Irish Sea
inside the last furlong, and the last-
named, finishing slightly the stronger,
won by a head. Many Ways, who would
have been better suited by a longer dis-
tance, did well to get third, and over the
last couple of furlongs Earlborough and
Diadem did best of the remainder,
Boorchiefs favoritism for the Ash-
bury Handicap was scarcely warranted
on recent form, and though third to
Article and Bel Oiseau entering the
straight the best he could do was to
dead-heat Linemond for third. A fast
run in the straight took Windbrook to
the front nearly half a furlong from
home, and though Glendower finished
gamely Windbrook scored a head win.
Little Gundi, Pannett and John Dory
headed the unplaced division. When
Windbrook moved up at the turn he was
alleged to have crowded some of the
runners, but a protest on Glendower’s
behalf was dismissed,
Bartle won on Moorland, Tel Asur and
Petruchio ; Mulley on Edigram and Irish
Sea ; Munro on Abspear, and Darke on
Windbrook.
* * * *
Weights for the Doncaster Handicap
and Sydney Cup will be declared on
Monday next, 22nd inst., and entries for
the Sires’ Produce Stakes and Cham-
pagne Stakes are due the following day.
* * * *
Rupert Greene, after starting at V.R.C.
meetings for over 25 years, was unable to
attend on Saturday, The announcement
of his probable absence was made early
in the week, and Norman Wood was
appointed starter for the meeting, with
F. Dempsey as deputy starter. In 1917
Dempsey won the Australian Cup on
Harriet Graham.
* * * *
Clem Hill’s resignation as V.A.T.C. han-
dicapper was a surprise in Sydney, if not
in Melbourne, and it is regrettable that
ill-health made that step necessary. As
a handicapper he was not influenced by
opinions of others, and though criticised
on occasions for his lenient treatment of
some horses results generally favored
him.
* * * *
H. Badger’s smash when his motor-car
overturned proved much worse than at
first believed. A broken leg seemed the
principal injury, but further examination
revealed several fractured ribs. A long
retirement from riding is certain, and even
when he fully recovers Victoria’s premier
horseman may not be keen upon making
another start.
V * * *
Prices realised on the first day of the
yearling sales in Melbourne were
remarkable and evidenced belief in the
future of racing. Seventy-seven yearlings
were sold for 28,655gn5. against 73
for 13,315gn5. on the corresponding
day last year. The highest price
was 1400gns. for the Enfield-Meteorical
colt; another colt by the same sire made
HOOgns., and the Kooba Stud (F. W.
Hughes Pty.) gave a similar amount for
East End’s sister. The St. Albans Stud
averaged 772£ for ten yearlings.
A fly in the ointment in connection
with the yearling sales in Melbourne was
the Minister for Transport’s announce-
ment at the end of last week that inter-
state transport could not be granted for
purchases. Buyers from other States will
consequently be forced to leave their
youngsters in Melbourne to be trained.
The same restriction will apply in Syd-
ney, and seems unnecessarily harsh.
* * * *
In Victoria bookmakers are still
banned as horse-owners. Recently the
Victorian Bookmakers’ Council’s request
for the removal of the ban was refused
by the V.R.C. committee. So book-
makers will have to continue shooting
from behind a hedge as owners. Prob-
ably satisfactory to some, but not to all.
» * * *
Brisbane’s Doomben Newmarket will
again be a £3OOO race this year and is
to be run in July at a date yet to be fixed.
* * * *
As showing the bearing the totalisator
turnover has on prize-money in Maori-
land the following rule is of interest: “No
totalisator club shall give a less sum in
stakes in any year than a sum equal to
90 per centum of the average yearly net
amount derived by such club from the
use of the totalisator during the imme-
diately preceding three years.” If the
totalisator turnover of various clubs
continues to increase to the same extent
as during the past year, prize-money in
Maoriland in 1946 will be on a very high
scale.
In what was to have been a 12-rounder
at Leichhardt, Allen Harry, a lightweight
from Adelaide, stopped Merv Torrens in
the sixth. He may be matched with
Billy Fletcher, who outpointed Jimmy
Pearce, in the process showing decided
promise.
Willing and plucky, but short of a
gallop, an American soldier-boxer,
Tommy Prince, went nine rounds against
Ern Clingan at the Sydney Stadium, and
wanted to go on, but a police inspector
said no. He had taken a lot of punish-
ment from the classier Sydney middle-
weight. The plaster for his wounds was
substantial—there must have been 10,000
spectators.
Eddie Miller, from Sydney, is now
entitled to call himself Victorian light-
weight champion, having skittled Ron
Coneybear in the second. He is a ver.
“light” lightweight, and presents no
danger to Patrick.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Farm Novice: Blue Cap, 1; Lady
Hamilton, 2 ; Melody Charm, 3.
Ingleburn Nursery: Sincerity, 1 ;
Falcon Knight, 2 ; Royal Peer, 3.
Berala Handicap: Modulation, 1;
Baroda, 2 ; Blankit, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: Panchio, 1 ;
Milanja, 2 ; Arahura or Triad, 3.
March Handicap: Colonel Post,
1 ; Abspear, 2 ; Cable Boy, 3.
Sunnybrook Welter: Response, 1;
Fearless, 2 ; Fearless Fox or Gold
Head, 3.
AUSTRALIAN CUP.
Azores 1
Mac Rob • 2
Throttle or Mercury Bay .... 3
AUSTRALIAN CUP SELECTION.
(By Our Melbourne Correspondent.)
Azores 1
Throttle 2
Heart’s Desire 3


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
No birthday within memory has been
celebrated with such enthusiasm as that
of the W.A.A.A.F. ' Preliminaries were
almost as exciting as the real thing. First
there was the baking of the cakes in cere-
monial style by four cooks, and then a
housewarming at Meriden, St. Kilda-
road, where A.C.F. and Y.W.C.A. joined
to give the girls in residence a real party
on Saturday night, with men guests from
the forces. Esprit de corps has benefited,
so authorities think, and certainly the
W.A.A.A.F. does seem to be a united
body. One of the latest recruits to this
arm of the services is A.S.O. Jean Lowe,
one of Melbourne’s most popular press-
women, who has joined up to do a job in
a northern area. Her friends of the Women
Journalists’ War Effort have given her a
cordial send-off, for she was a steady
worker at their library at Air Force
House.
Babies are either very much more num-
erous now or else they are getting about
more. One sees them going shopping with
mother or to the pictures or to hear the
band play, and getting themselves in the
news with the prams-on-trains contro-
versy. Soldiers on leave seem to get
special fun out of pushing the latest up
the street, and most prams have the family
dog in attendance, so it’s quite a cortege.
They are not dodging the Control-of-the-
Higher-Powers though, as plans for the
“Government pram” are well under way
and examples are being seen about. This
pram is low-slung, rather neat and baby-
Austinish in shape, with a waterproofed
hood instead of a wicker one, and small,
thick rubber wheels. Standing in a pic-
ture-theatre queue the other day a mother
was heard to remark to a soldier father
next to her as she indicated her pram,
“These new prams are small, aren’t
they?” looking at the soldier father’s
old-fashioned whopper. “Yes,” said the
soldier ; “mine’s a real General Grant,
isn’t she?”
Free Kindergarten committees are all
agog to find out just what Health Min-
ister Holloway and his department want
them to do. On first sight, a complete
turnover of the kindergartens, and pos-
sibly creches, to children of women doing
war work looks likely; but, though
Misses Heineg and Duncan are sitting to
plan a way, there is as yet no certainty
that any of the kindergartens will really
be forced to send home all children save
those whose mothers work at war efforts.
In the first announcement in a Melbourne
paper of the scheme, it was suggested that
the children of “middle-class” mothers,
who left them to the kindergarten’s care
while they went shopping, would no
longer be able to do so. There has been
no confirmation of this.
With Government pressure to leave un-
essential jobs for war work being con-
stantly applied by press and film propa-
ganda, many girls are thinking of joining
one of the services. Some, of course,
feel that they are already doing useful
work and will, if they join up, be given
merely routine work which does not suit
their abilities. Leaders of services, on
the other hand, say that they have a diffi-
cult time persuading recruits to do the
kind of work they have been used to,
and that excellent shorthand-typists, for
example, generally want to drive lorries
and cooks to do office work.
Music-lovers were wafted back to child-
hood days with the National Theatre’s
“Hansel and Gretel” with its sleepy sand-
man and gingerbread children and the
witch and her oven. The chocolate-
cream house with the Turkish-delight roof
looked the part ; and so did the rest of
the decor. The scene of the children’s
dream about the angels was particularly
attractive, the angels wearing white
gowns crossed with silver bands in Greek
style and shining haloes of spun glass.
Etta Bernard and Angela la Gruta were
very gay as the children, and the moment
when the quite terrifying old witch was
pushed in the oven was great fun. Some
minutes later, when clouds of smoke and
a strong smell of something being very
well roasted had been coming out, her
. remains were hauled out as gingerbread.
In memory of Alberto Zelman, who,
more than anyone else except Marshall
Hall, made Melbourne’s orchestras what
they are, the Musical Society made the
leaders of the string section of the Zel-
man Memorial Symphony Orchestra the
stars of its chamber concert on Saturday
night. As usual, when great music is
. played these days, the audience was large
and included many men and women in
uniform.
A comfy little bar nestling off the
foyer of the Comedy Theatre is evidence
of the touch of a woman’s hand in
theatrical management. In fact, two
women, as the hostesses of the bar’s
christening party were Mrs. Leili Potter
and Mrs. Esmond Lilies, publicity
managers of the Comedy. The idea is
that the cast can dash up after the show
and meet friends in the audience with a
minimum of inconvenience. Just out
of her old-lady make-up, Ethel Gabriel
and Madge Aubrey, who wore those
“tweedy tweeds” in “Susan and God,”
talked about the wonderful reception
“Arsenic and Old Lace” was having and
how the audience roared its head off and
showed no signs of being sensitive to
either the bodies in the cellar or the dot-
tiness of the old girls. Ethel Gabriel has
been welcoming back her soldier son Ben
from active service.
“What a handicap it is to be the
mother of the very young these days!”
is a general cry, and committees for
voluntary war work are always lament-
ing the able workers who have been
forced to give up because they have
young children who simply must
have whole-time attention. The Trinity
Women’s Society is having a crack at
the problem this year by asking members
to bring their small children along to the
annual meeting and Open Day at Janet
Clarke Hall on March 20. The provision
of means of keeping them amused is
causing some deep thought, the com-
mittee’s thoughts roving around slides
and treasure hunts and the like, with side
glances at that simple silencer a very
large bun.
A wedding is hardly a wedding at all
these days unless it is a frightful rush
at a few days’ notice to fit in with what-
ever the war or the military decide to
do. Among the many brides of the last
week Shirley Clements, pictured here by
Broothorn, managed to find the satin and
lace (a 200-year-old veil) for her marriage
with Bombardier John Whippell, of Potts
Point, Sydney, at Scotch College chapel,
though the wedding was at only two days’
notice. Shirley, who is well known for
her work behind the scenes in the broad-
casting world, is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. C. E. Clements, of Brighton.
Plans for settling down are being left
till after the war.
For Prisoners of War Funds the Old
Dutch, in Block Court, Coll ins-street, last
week opened again as a voluntarily-staffed
cafe. Norman Martin, M.L.A., did the
honors of the opening. President Mrs.
D. J. Reddan and committee had a
crowded week beforehand’, but everything
was ready in time. The idea of a purely
voluntary staff with the exception of
the Dutch chef is something of an experi-
ment, as most popular cafes and canteens
have a management and skeleton staff of
paid people. It may turn out well, as the
weight of the entire responsibility for
management should make voluntary
workers much more thoroughgoing. The
cafe will be open five days a week for
lunch, dinner and morning and afternoon
tea.
House-hunting is the big worry of Sue
Styles, since her wedding on Saturday
Mrs. Allen Hurley, as she is hoping for
a chance to start real housekeeping to
utilise the knowledge of that art gleaned
from two years at Invergowrie Home-
craft Hostel. The couple are hoping to
find a house, but even flats seem to be
unobtainable. Wedding at St. John’s,
Toorak, was all white, both the bride
and her ’maid, June Yencken, wearing
dinner frocks with full skirts, the bride
carrying a fragrant bouquet of gardenias
and tuberoses. The reception was at
Woorak, its highlight a wedding cake
made and given to the bride by Miss
Kirkhope, principal of Invergowrie. The
bride's family have lent their seaside cot-
tage for the brief honeymoon.
From Sydney
The W.A.A.A.F. is celebrating its
second birthday. Last Saturday the
doings commenced with an aquatic carni-
val at the Olympic Pool, North Sydney.
Lady Wakehurst, cool in the hot after-
noon in flowered silks, watched the con-
testing swimmers, and later handed out
the awards to the smiling winners. But
the really interesting point about the
W.A.A.A.F.’s birthday is the literary and
art competitions that embellish the cele-
brations. There are prizes for a short story,
a one-act play, black-and-white drawing,
water-color painting, a song or march
and a sonnet. This last is a very good
sign of the times. Soldiering and song-
making have always gone hand in hand.
Somehow it takes a war to make people
realise that there is nothing highfalutin or
exotic about poetry ; that it is not a dish
exclusively for the palate of intellectuals,
but the good bread of the common man
and woman. Entries must reach A.F.H.,
addressed to W.A.A.A.F. Anniversary
Committee, by March 21.
The Kirsova Ballet now giving its
second ballet season in the cause of
Legacy War Orphans has among its solo
dancers Helene Orlova of this photo-
graph. She is the “dowager hostess” of
the sprightly “Revolution of the Um-
brellas.” Another Kirsova ballet, “Hansel
and Gretel,” made its first appearance
last week, when it was greeted with loud
acclaim by a Conservatorium audience.
The present season continues to the 20th.
This afternoon there will be a matinee,
and (good news for the children) another
on Saturday afternoon.
The Children’s Library Movement is
stretching out these days. From its origi-
nal Surry Hills address it has advanced
its good work to Phillip Park, to Chats-
wood, Gordon, Beecroft, Katoomba and
Springwood. Now founder Mary Mathe-
son writes to say another branch is to
be opened at Hornsby. Of course money
is always needed, and on Saturday after-
noon, the 20th, the Polish-Australian
ballet, featuring Stephanie Edye as char-
acter dancer, will, in the sylvan setting of
the little Phillip Park, present Rus-
sian, Polish and Spanish dances to help
the movement. Marjorie Waddington will
be the afternoon’s pianist. Raissa Kouz-
netsova will be one of the principals.
The first of the Lunchtime Club’s 1943
concerts opened with Schubert’s “The
Shepherd on the Rock.” Eileen Price
played the clarinet, Marcel Lorber was
at the piano and Lily Kolos was the
soprano. The rest of the programme was
divided between Marcel and Lily. As in
the beginning, Margaret Gillespie is the
president, Mrs. Gordon Henty the vice-
president and Sydney de Vries the musi-
cal organiser.
A treasured address of the men in the
services is 44 Macleay-street. This is
the Australian and Allied Soldiers’
Club, which can put up 240 guests,
but often finds that it can put
up 280. On one of. those crowded
nights of glorious life the lads sleep on
mattresses placed in the lounge and in
the office. Sometimes they stretch out
on sofas and easy chairs. President A. J.
Williamson told this and the history of
the club to a group of nearly 100 women
and girls who lunched, one day last week,
at the club at the invitation of the
executive.
Forty-four Macleay-st,reet, before it
was established as a club for service men
by a group of Sydney businessmen who
felt that such a place of good cheer
was needed, was one of the city’s fashion-
able guest-houses. The change in clients
brought no change in the furnishings and
the touches that make for refinement.
Flower compositions and color schemes
are as carefully considered now as in pre-
war times. Last week’s guests included
women representing war fund groups in
banks, commercial houses and Govern-
ment offices. The club, which is run by
a skeleton staff, would be glad of more
voluntary women workers.
A cheque for £9OOO, gift of the Wool
Trade War Fund of N.S.W., has made it
possible for the War Veterans’ Home
board of management to commence build-
ing extensions at Legacy Park, Narra-
been. These comprise two dormitory
blocks to accommodate 40 men and a
wing to the present administrative block
which will include an occupational
therapy room, modern laundry and addi-
tional service rooms. The annual auc-
tion of a bale of yarn by the Wool Trade
War Fund to provide further funds for
this cause is now being arranged.
Wednesday of last week was a gilt-
edged dawning for Sydney’s Mayor, R. J.
Bartley. In the reception-rooms of the
Town Hall were gathered S. E. Parry,
chairman of the Sydney County Council,
the city’s Town Clerk Hendy, banker
Alfred Davidson and George Nathan,
representing Boys’ Town. Cheques for
£50,000 were handed to the Mayor
from the Sydney City Council and
Sydney County Council as an offering
to the Lord Mayor’s Fund. George
Nathan should have been rather pleased
with the cheque he also dropped into the
same fund. It was for £272 13s. —money
raised by a carnival at the Sports Ground
organised by Boys’ Town.
Housekeepers in England have in-
troduced to a new classification of egg.
It is the “shell egg” in contradistinction
to its dried brother. The sight of a shell
egg in the larder is as exhilarating as a
glass of champagne. Fuel, too, is a prob-
lem —the maker-up of the fire always
being torn between having a glorious
leaping fire and the necessity to keep re-
serves in the coal-cellar till spring has
made up its mind to settle down. In spite
of all these real austerities the English-
woman remains cheerful and cracks jokes
over her limitations in the kitchen.
For a fleeting moment All Saints’
Church, Woollahra, was reminiscent of
St. Mark’s in Venice (pre-war) when the
noonday bells clashed out. There the
doves and pigeons would whirr up, a
grey and opalescent cloud in motion. As
Mrs. James Alan Nock and her ’groom
stepped from All Saints’ 50 pigeons on
fluttering wing took to the air. The
bride, Joan Egerton, is a signalwoman
in the A.W.A.S., and army pigeons
had been released by members of
her unit. The bride herself sent one
of the carriers off with a message to her
C.O. at headquarters. The bride, who
was in white from natty turban to shoes,
is the daughter of the G. R. Egertons.
Lieut. Nock is of Bondi.
Mrs. Greg McGirr, just back from
Wagga, where she has been spending a
holiday with daughter Beatrice (Mrs.
Tom Bateman), reports that Beatrice and
her doctor husband are settled in as cosy
a cottage as you could wish to find, right
opposite the rose gardens. Wagga is a
pretty city with tree-lined streets and
many gardens. It is up-to-date, too. The
Batemans’ cottage is one of several sport-
ing the latest in plate-glass windows.
Six Rockingham dessert plates will be
one of the lots attracting buyers at the
Red Cross china and glass sale in May.
David Jones’s auditorium will be tbe
scene of thq display of some of the city's
finest old treasures. The goods will be
on show for a week, and those who love
good china and glass but who cannot
buy may view in exchange for a silver
coin. The sale will be held on May 18
and 19. Two of the organisers are Bar-
bara Knox and the Alexander Gordon
lady, who excel in arranging this type of
exhibition and sale. The Red Cross asks
the generous to do their part by sending
to the Auxiliary’s rooms, 39 Martin-place,
one or more good pieces.
In these days of war it is quite uplifting
to meet a bit of pleasant news. Mrs.
Sterling Levis, whose verse has many
times appeared in the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” received last week
two of her songs set to music by the
famed Roger Quilter.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite points out
that it’s a queer time to ration milk when
all the welfare workers are crying out
against the evils of strong drink. “And,”
says she, “why should the cow be told
to ‘go slow’ when every other worker is
urged to go full steam ahead?” A good
time, too, seems to be in store for the
baker, who presumably will be able to
lie abed through the worst of the winter
morns, as his loaves won’t have to be
delivered till two hours later. She sup-
poses that all these things are connected
in some inscrutable way with the war
effort. But, war or no war, no one, she
swears, will force her to have one of
these fish ceilings she has seen men-
tioned in the papers.


YOU COULD HAVE A BATHROOM
LIKE THIS
IHißSte
ill
II
SSs-
'SiJ
■BOS
wm
■a
ass
hi at-
Think of the improvements
which could be effected in your bathroom by Masonite
Temprtile . . . the board which resembles tiling but
which goes on the wall in sheets ... which takes any
finish, is waterproof and easy to keep clean. After the
war . . . this could be one of the things you can do
with your savings. Just now, of course, the Masonite
boards are only meeting Service requirements.
0
PLAN FOR 1T...
5A VE FOR IT*..
AND BUILD IT
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . . . PRESDWQDD
TEMPRTIIE.... QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
* INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
t
umk
FOR DOM BST,r V t LVBS
MORF tnn C RADIO
ORE for defencf
m W-yOUTnr
conserve yo^^ J
an/ Ur valv es but., I
, I
tßon I
o
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
radiotron
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
?2 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.
LTD.,
, Ltd.
SMOKE-OH!
“One hundred carpenters go north.”
— “Argus.”
By plane?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Camouflage Your Fences.” —Weekly paper.
But the next-door hens will soon get
over this.
4* 4* 4* 'l*
“Three times as much light is needed to read
a newspaper with the ease with which one reads
a well-printed book.” — “World’s News.’''
And several times as many grains of
salt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An extremist is a man who cracks his
breakfast egg with a hammer.
Chaser.
“Women digest more rapidly than men.”
— ‘World’s News.”
’Twas just a,s midnight’s murky hand
smacked twelve times at the clock that
home he came unsteadily, prepared to get
a shock. Yes, Trouble waited up tor
him. He looked at her, went pale, but
bravely started in to tell his slowly-
cooked-up tale.
Before he’d finished speaking she’d
digested what he said. It must have quite
upset her, for she then bit off his head.
O’Hell.
4* 4* 4* 4* ■
“Music not only warms the heart but it
also warms the blood.” — “S.M.H.”
Some of the stuff we hear over the
radio even boils the blood.
4* 4* 4* .4*
“The new taxation may be essential, but it
is certainly unpopular.”
Paradoxically, the demand for it has
never been so keen.
Conversation Piece.
“Isn’t Nancy just too ridiculous! You
know that hat she was wearing the other
day? Well, she’s going to throw it out
because it’s green—yes, in these days of
coupons, too! She really thinks it had
something to do with her boy friend
tossing her over for Myrtle! Isn’t it
too ludicrous for words! Some people
do let their superstitions get the better
of them!
“Poor Nancy! Of course, she never
had any brains at school! And it’s quite
useless trying to make her listen to
reason. I tried hard to convince her
that that shade of green wasn’t unlucky
at all, and it’s the darker shades you have
to beware of. But, No! She would cling
to her silly superstition!”
T. W. N.
He wrote a love story about a flea,
but it was the editor who jumped on him.
•J*
“How can I cure my little boy of chewing
his fingernails?”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
First, ask him not to do it. When he
refuses appeal to the child’s instinct of
self-preservation. Convince him that the
habit will spread so that he will shortly
be chewing in turn his fingers, hands,
arms. Then he will agree that the process,
if carried on indefinitely, will end in his
complete self-consumption.
,T, .1. .!•
“ ‘Camel-hair’ brushes are actually made
from the hair of a squirrel.” — ‘World’s News.”
Cuthbert Kanvas hadn’t always been
an artist. He was once quite respectable
and used to clean offices. In those days
his scrubbing-brush was made from the
toughest bristles possible, no doubt from
the hair of a porcupine. Later, as a
hairdresser’s assistant, he used a brush
made of softer bristles, probably from
the hair of a horse or something.
Finally, having a smack at art, he used
brushes made from the hair of a squirrel.
But the brush which really floored him
was the one he had with his wife. That
was made from the hair of a blonde
model. She found it on his coat.
Yair.
Paleological Item.
A mammoth and a mastodon were fight-
ing by the sea.
The former won, and forthwith had the
latter for its tea.
Just then a dreadful dinosaur from out
the jungle tore,
With jaws that were gigantic and a rather
hideous roar.
It swallowed up the mammoth then and
roared for further blood.
Till a brontosaurus fell on it and squashed
it in the mud.
And this went on and on, and kept on
going on.
Till now {except in Darlinghurst) the
whole damned lot are gone !
T. W. NATHAN.
Vicious Circle.
This minding baby’s not a joke!
To soothe my nerves I have to smoke,
Then ash gets into baby’s eyes,
And then, of course, the baby cries.
That wailing seems to rend
The air to fragments, then I find
I need more smokes to ease my mind;
The more I smoke, the more its eyes
Get ash in, then the more it cries !
’Struth ! Where’s this going to end ?
N.
Prior Claim.
“On the ground that he was ‘frightfully busy’
making wedding rings, a man was excused jury
service in the Melbourne Criminal Court.”
No urgent personal affair
Can extricate from service there
The pauper or the millionaire.
The moron or the man of letters.
This one, though, claimed priority
And had his claim allowed , for he
{The Bench itself had to agree )
Was busy forging sterner fetters.
P. M. L.
Qualifications Attained.
“A slender brunette of 18 is lecturing generals
and other army officers.” —“Sunday Sun.”
For deftly laying down the law
An aptitude she shows.
For hours to silent men she’ll jaw,
And what she voices goes.
Her rule’s not questioned or denied
By Tom, or Dick, or Harry.
In short, this lass has qualified
To settle down and marry !
PERCY.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
Details of the old warship Cerberus, brought
to Australia about 1870 ?
She was one of the earliest ironclad turret
ships, and was intended for English coast
defence. Gross tonnage, 1900 ; armament, four
lOin. muzzle-loaders. Her twin screws, driven
by two 250-h.p. engines (they developed
together a maximum of 1369 b.h.p.), gave her
a top speed of 9| knots. She averaged four
knots on the voyage from England, arriving in
Fremantle on March 18, 1871. She was sunk
at Port Phillip on September 2, 1925.
Solutions for preserving fish specimens?
One part commercial formalin to nine parts
fresh or salt water is quite a good medium,
though not very effective in the case of flathead.
If circumstances permit, these should be pre-
served by other means; spirit of wine is effec-
tive but expensive. Methylated spirit tends
to make the specimen hard and brittle. Strong
brine containing a little alum is used where
other preparations are not available.
Brief Answers.
G.McN.: If you can prove your descent
from the chieftains of Barra, you could obtain
a grant of the coat of arms by applying to Lord
Lyon, Railway-square, Edinburgh... .J.C.: The
Mt. Isa company approached the State and
Federal Governments with a view to the line
being built by them....U.L.: A review of
Modern Engineering appeared in The Bulletin
dated 24/2/’43 N.L.; Trafalgar ran second
to Comedy King in the Melbourne Cup of 1910.
J.A.F.: Formerly 150 members, reduced
to 90 D.L.; Silene pendula is a pink border
annual C.T.: Professor Hughes invented the
microphone in 1878.. . .A.F.: Cul-de-sac is
French, meaning “the bottom of the bag” (a
dead-end) M.W.: Any of denser hardwoods
are suitable for charcoal production... .J.E.S.:
(1) and (2) List of textbooks required for the
leaving certificate is given :n Courses of Study
for Secondary Schools. (3) English must be
presented by all candidates... .A. 1.: In German
names “fried” means “peace”.. . .C.M.D.:
Varnish diluted with water is spoilt for any
purpose D.S.: All such chemical supplies
are scarce in war-time. Try Elliott’s Australian
Drug, Ltd 0.L.: Next election of the
House of Representatives will be held no later
than 60 days after the proclamation of its dis-
solution or expiry of its present full term.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the. Editor.
The Muse aroused:
Jennifer:
Lured by greed, they went their way.
Attacking small countries every day.
They tortured in artful ways of sin,
Admiring their work with a relishing grin.
M.J.T.:
Man’s craze for power and mortal sway
Is neither old nor new 1 say.
And sure as night succeeds the day,
A fool is born every minute,
And milk is curdled still by rennet.
Such are the ways of Providence!
... .P.R.8.: No use imitating C. J. Dennis
S.K.C.: Send it to the bard.....T.5.: You
can’t rhyme “same” with “train” M.H.:
You’ll never get a crust from “the vast un-
buttered cities of the German Plain’
G.L.L.: “Sea Shanty” never leaves port....
V B.; A poem about a Beethoven symphony
should be as good as a Beethoven symphony.
. ...M.D.: Indistinguishable from any other
poem about the war... .A.A.R.: Music’s lovely
sister needs something better than that to assist
her “on her way to lasting fame” J.M.D. :
Like the winds, they’re variable M.M.:
Exact, but thin W.0.D.; Assumption (in-
correct. Puns excruciating F.H.R.: Its a
problem all right; but it’s extremely unlikely
that the winds are really “moaning” about it.
K.V.L.: Generally prosy; but there s a
glimmer M.P.T.: Try elsewhere.. . .F.L.S.:
It would need a road roller to smooth out the
bumps in it... . E.S.K.: Too many echoes and
archaisms... .S.S.S.: The “admirable kind abo.
lady” might make a par.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Currency Reform
Our currency is a glaring example of
an antiquated system which has survived
from the Dark Ages in defiance of the
march of progress.
The process of learning our currency
has caused our Allied friends a deal of
pain, and in many cases they have paid
for their tuition at the hands of dis-
honest tutors.
The metric system of coinage of
America, France and other countries is
undoubtedly the simplest form and would
certainly be adopted should there ever
be an international conference on coin-
age.
We are apt to imagine a changeover
from our present £ s. d. to a metric sys-
tem would entail a great deal of plan-
ning and cause a tremendous amount of
confusion. Such is not the case, as our
coinage in its present form is easily con-
verted.
Taking the crown (5s.) as a unit of
currency we could have a table of coin-
age as set out hereunder: —
id 1 cent | 2s 40 cents
Id 2 cents | 5s 100 cents
3d 5 cents | (=1 crown)
6d 10 cents | 10s 2 crowns
Is. .. .. 20 cents | £1 .. ..4 crowns
As it will be seen, the face value of
|d. and Id. has increased in ratio, but
this is of no importance, as the intrinsic
value of a coin fluctuates with the metal
market, although its face value remains
static.
Take as an example the sum of £17
14s. lid., made up of £17 in notes, 14s.
6d. in silver and 5d. in copper. Taking
10 pennies to the shilling this would be,
under the new system, equivalent to
£17 15s. Id. and would be written
£c71.2. I have written the £c as a sign
for the unit, dollar or crown, whatever
it would be called, as such a sign ca’n
be set up with existing type.
With the foregoing system our present
coinage could be used ; all new coinage
struck, of course, would bear the inscrip-
tion of its value in crowns and cents.
The inflation of copper leaves a loop-
hole for copper hoarders with an eye to
profit, and it might be advisable to strike
new copper coins before placing the sys-
tem in operation.— Randolph E. Bedford
(Q-).
Wages Taxation
A lot has been said about the low taxes
which wage-earners on the lower and
middle range of income have to pay. A
little thought will show that, in my range
of income at least, the limit has been
reached. I am racking my brains to
find a way to meet Mr. Chifley’s increases.
On £5 10s. I -and others like me pay:
Rent, £1 10s. ; fares, 4s, ; life assurance,
10s.; wife’s allowance for housekeeping,
clothes, etc., £2 5s.; staff provident fund,
4s.; electric light and power, 4s. ;■ in-
come-tax deductions, 9s. ; total, £5 6s.
This leaves me 4s. a week to clothe
myself and pay doctors’ and chemists’
bills, subscribe to patriotic causes, etc.,
But it seems Chifley wants that four bob.
—Hardup (S.A.).
Cent, per Cent, on Small Loans
The writer had occasion last year to
borrow £2 from a pawnbroker on articles
well worth £14. Interest of 3s. 4d. per
month was chargeable on the amount
borrowed. On two occasions the amount
owing was reduced by an instalment of
10s., and in each case a new ticket was
supplied, interest on the altered principal
being charged as from that date, despite
the fact that interest for the previous
amount had been paid several weeks in
advance. On finally redeeming the
articles a week or so ago, the writer took
stock of interest paid and found that £1
2s. 9d. had been paid for the loan of £2 for
six months, or at the rate of 112| p.c. p.a.
Some attempt should be made to check
this type of profiteering, for the unfortu-
nate victims are, in most cases, not in a
position to complain to the proper
authorities. —Peter (N.S.W.).
Does War Glorify a Nation?
In civil life, men will strike for more
money, even though they are getting five
times as much as a soldier. They are
selfish and shiftless, with not a thought
of anyone else, not even for the men
who are protecting them with their lives
and under conditions a civilian cannot
even imagine. And yet let those same
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2\d. per line.
apparently selfish individuals get into
uniform and they are ready to give all,
even their lives, for their fellow-men.
That is why I wonder if both Hitler
and Tojo were not right when they im-
plied that war glorifies a nation. — George
Washington (Tas.).
Civilians in Uniform
The average citizen is prepared to sur-
render his pre-war standards of living,
attire and pleasures provided that the
resultant economic gain is directed to
channels worthy of the cause. The same
average citizen would accept increased
and increasing taxation without demur if
he were certain the fighting man was
the beneficiary.
But is this the case? Grave doubts
enter the mind of the taxpayer when he
witnesses the building up of a huge army
of civilians dressed in the uniform of
the combatant with a clothing issue
superior to and more liberal than many
dinkum warriors know, but yet do no
soldiering. Majors, captains, lieuts. and
n.c.os. (all combatant ranks, mark you)
abound in this civilian army, with pay
and allowances exactly the same as the
fighting man in New Guinea and other
battle fronts. With the exception of old
“Can you see any of the mob? I'm ack willy!"
A.I.F. men, the members of this batten-
ing army are not soldiers, but they draw
officers’ pay, wear officers’ clobber and
get their military priorities and privi-
leges the same as if they were fighting
men.
Push these ersatz soldiers back into
civvies, tear the stars, stripes and crowns
off ’em, and substitute civilian status. —
Mac Fergus (Q.).
Lawson and His Ilk
From the time some of us could earn
odd pence to land the weekly copy of The
Bulletin, the verse it has published by
Australian poets has been something to
look for to stir the blood. We were not
concerned with standards, but we were
certainly alive to sentiments that could
keep before us the true make-up of our
Australia. America’s sentiment for its
earlier experiences still runs through its
main national weeklies ; the same Aus-
tralian sentiments were better expressed
by our verse-makers.
Why can’t The Bulletin reserve one
small corner a week to reprint some of
this stuff so that the lustre of these giants
—shed in the days when the world was
wide—can be spread anew to the Allied
nations? There’s another angle: every
copy of The Bulletin is read from cover
to cover by every man in every unit it
reaches. Wouldn’t a little campaign like
this prove a lifesaver to the men home-
sick at advanced battle stations? Take
“Banjo’s” verses of Clancy—‘Tie’s gone
up Queensland droving and we don’t
know where he are” ; or the same poet’s
“Geebung Polo Club” —“The horse was
never saddled that the Geebungs couldn’t
ride.” Isn’t that what the men want?
Was there ever anything more Australian
than Henry Lawson’s “Ballad of the
Drover” —“We’ve breasted bigger rivers
when the floods were at their height”?
And did women ever have greater hom-
age paid them than by Essex Evans—
“ The hearts that made the nation were
the women of the West”?
You can line up scores of others along-
side of these three. If The Bulletin called
for the Commonwealth’s opinion as to
whether it should reprint one such poem
a week for the duration, it would find the
army backing the proposition to a man.
—John Weyman (N.S.W.).
Civil Servants and the War
“One of Them” (B. 30/12 / ’421 refers
to junior§ in the Queensland Railway De-
partment being refused leave to join the
fighting services.
It is the same with all ranks in other
Government departments in this State.
From volunteers the services require a
release in writing from their department.
On applying for such a release, either
before or after completing all other en-
listment formalities, officers have received
replies from their head offices to the
effect that they have been granted exemp-
tion from military service, and the com-
munications are, in some cases, so worded
as to convey the impression that the
officer has applied for exemption, not a
release to enable him to join up.
In a few panic-stricken weeks after
Japan entered the war, almost anybody,
even the most highly-trained men, were
permitted to enlist. Apart from that
period, in many departments the only
ones to get away have been those who
adopted the policy of making a supreme
nuisance of themselves, so that eventu-
ally a release was granted, presumably to
get rid of them. But many, particularly
those with family responsibilities, gave up
hope before that stage was reached and
went quietly—back to their jobs. Even
now, with the call-up of more classes,
man-power comb-outs, etc., all sorts of
public servants are being granted exemp-
tion, often against their wish.
Yet Public Service Commissioner
McCracken, in his report covering the
year ended June 30, 1942, stated that “no
officer of the Queensland public service
has been denied the right to serve in his
Majesty’s forces, despite assertions to
the contrary by ill-informed critics.” A
lot of people would like to know how
he works that out. Apart from all other
aspects, many decent young chaps who
have strenuously attempted to enlist are
made to appear, in the light of this state-
ment, as liars and hypocrites to those not
in the know.
Most people would eventually become
reconciled to being kept out of the fight-
ing services if they thought that in their
civilian jobs they were doing something
worth while. Many Queensland public
servants would take a lot of convincing
on that point. In fact, decent public
servants belong to the most discontented
class in this State today. Frustrated, in
their attempt to do a decent job of work,
by rotten administration, by political in-
terference and by all the other curses
afflicting the service, and watching
the majority of the community reaping a
financial harvest as a result of the war
while their own none too magnificent
pay is being continually whittled away
by extra taxation, most would regard it
as a happy release to join the fighting ser-
vices, even as privates in the P. 8.1.—
Chen (Q.).
War Monuments
In discussions on the post-war world
the question of war memorials should
receive consideration. Monuments will
undoubtedly be erected to commemorate
the valorous deeds in this war as in pre-
vious wars, but let them be utilitarian in
character.
In practically every town in Australia
good money has been spent on bad art.
Tons of masonry, but for what purpose?
A memorial which does not serve some
practical end is not worth its space. —
A. Daly (S.A.)
Decentralise Repatriation
There seems to be a tendency towards
large repatriation schemes administered
from Canberra. This means centrali-
sation of administration, leading to
top-heaviness, extravagance and delay.
In getting our men back to peace-time
acitvities the responsibility should be
placed in the following order: (1) On
the individual himself. (2) On the family
of each man. (3) On the industry to
which he belongs. (4) On the small com-
munity—the local shire or municipality
—in which he lives.
In all efforts for patriotic purposes,
drives are made in streets and small com-
munities. All efforts are decentralised
with good results, and it should be the
same in post-war times. Federal taxes
will continue high for paying interest on
the public debt which will increase still
further if big Federal schemes are ppt
forward. Each industry should be made
responsible for the well-being of its mem-
bers and help in sickness, unemploy-
ment and old age. Large individual busi-
ness concerns, such as banks and other
institutions, now look after their own em-
ployees in these respects, and there is no
reason why the various industries should
not be organised to look after their mem-
bers in a similar way. In cases where
community help is called for, let it be
given by the local authority. Supervision
would be keener, results more easily
observed and all-round satisfaction more
generally obtained. Huge Federal schemes
will almost certainly be cumbersome and
expensive failures.— Student (W.A.).
Turk’s-caps and Textbooks
An amateur farmer’s testimony:
When the food drive started I decided to
have ago at raising vegetables. The first
immediately available bit of land was half an
acre of steep, stony hillside which, however,
could be easily watered as there was a large
swimming pool above it. The professors of
horticulture who were raging over the air left me
completely bewildered, so I bought a textbook.
After poring over it for some days I came to
the conclusion that the only thing the barren,
arid patch was fit for was field peas, a crop
that nobody wanted. However, there was a
friendly market gardener on the creek adjacent
and he offered to come and have a look at my
bit of sloping desert. “Why not try pumpkins?”
he suggested. “You mean, the cucurbits?” I
said, airing my bit of textbook knowledge. “I
don’t know what they are,” he said, “but
you could take a heap of watermelons, marrows,
squashes, cucumbers, rock melons and things
of that sort off this patch.” Whereupon he
advised me how to do it.
We first ploughed the miserable herbage under
and left it. Then we ploughed furrows as deep
as they would go, which wasn’t more than a
few inches, every 10 feet across the hillside.
Then, with mattocks and much perspiration,
we dug holes into the clay three feet apart along
the rows, filled each hole with half a barrowful
of fowl manure and then threw back the meagre
topsoil. Then we planted our seed and seedlings.
After a month of hand-watering—a heart-
breaking struggle it was —to our amazement
the darned things got going. They must have
got their teeth into the rich cake we had pro-
vided because their growth was most sur-
prising. By opening a cock it was a simple
matter to flood the trenches, and now our once-
barren hillside is waving with verdure and looks
like a lush landscape in the tropics, while the
melons and pumpkins grow daily more and
more indecently prodigious.
The market gardener is delighted and prophe-
sies that we will get a better crop from our
hillside than he will from his deep, rich flat
at the creekside. He gives as the reason sun
and ventilation, water, good drainage and the
fact that we carefully followed his admonition
never to sow seed when the moon was waning.
Next year, he says, we can plant tomatoes.
The textbook talked of rich, loamy soil,
at least two spits deep, whatever that means.
If we had followed 'its advice we wouldn’t have
grown anything. The thousands of abandoned
suburban vegetable plots round Melbourne are
perhaps memorials to textbook education.
— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Bureaucracy in Being
A man in my district applied to Man-
power for hands. He was told that there
was none of the required type of labor
available in the land. So he advertised.
He got 270 replies. He took what he
wanted and send the addresses to Man-
power, with his compliments.— L. L.
(Vic.).
Improvising Lamp Wicks
“Grasshopper’s” worries regarding the
shortage of lamp wicks (B. 27 /1 / ’43) have
ended, if he has an old felt hat to spare.
Simply cut a strip from the brim or the
crown equal in width to an ordinary
wick and about as long. Soak thoroughly
in kerosene a few hours before use, and
the result will be a smooth, clear light.—-
Brite-lite (Q.).


i
'N.
'F/tKT* 9
sr«
m
YS
lb
/
A
TtoJ.
A
li
M*
rv» vn,
\
Ml
A
XT
y
W;
/
S*l
v
m
WT
sfe
J
sn
fg
s
omethinq
look forv
in
VES, you and yours have something to look
forward to . . . The gladsome news of peace
—permanent, stress-free—a new home worthy
of the name ... a steady job in which a man may
realise ambition . . . go-as-you-please freedom cleft
of wartime’s cramping shackles, freedom of thought,
action and leisure, to be enjoyed as your way of life
prescribes.
All these joys are of the future . . . held in
abeyance by war’s cruel demands.
But certainly they’ll come, and so much faster
because war’s impelling circumstances have forged
a resolute partnership ... of those who
furnish the weapons and the men who
fight with them.
You and yours are in this partner-
ship, you share its toils and you’ll share
the profits, the happier life that waits
on victory.
Australia has the will to win. Our
fighting forces have proved this, and our
armies in overalls have buttressed such
proof by their amazing production of
war-winning munitions.
No. 1 production army comprises
the men of the steel industry. They’re
the shock troops of the munition front.
Theirs is the task of winning the metals —Iron and
steel—that will win the war!
They needed little specialised training for their
wartime posts. War found them prepared, effi-
ciently manned and equipped so that in the switch
to wartime conditions no dislocation of output
occurred and Australia’s steel industry continued to
make great tonnages of steel available at prices
which even in peacetime were the lowest in the
world.
Chief contributor to Australia’s preparedness in
steel is The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Through this company’s enterprise, Australia
obtains the steel which enables the construction of
■
3.7 anti-aircraft guns and the 25-pounder gun
howitzers. Its metallurgists gave the nation bullet-
proof armour-plate, and enabled tank production
in Australia to become a reality.
For the whole gamut of munition production
from shells to ships, anti-tank guns to aeroplanes,
B.H.P. Steel forms the all-essential material. The
steel industry which assures its supply gives Austra-
lia the fighting chance . . . the speeding victory.
It does more than that. The steel industry gives
Australia’s working thousands the promise of
something to look forward to, that happy age when
steel’s versatility is devoted to the peacetime welfare
of you and yours.
M
WP M . , Jllillil*,' i
. wJMmp i
rl
I--"
1 '-•
:l
■SB
The Bra
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Shipbuilding and Blast Furnace Plant, Whyalla, S.A.
B.H.P. Steel
gives our Rghtin {
B.H.P. Steel will provide the
men
, ,
maten
weapons needed t
• , I
to win the peace.
