

sdf
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 64.—N0. 3302
Wednesday, May 26, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CLOVELLY.
LOVELLY is a village and holiday
resort in Devonshire, and is situated
on |Barnstapleii Bay 4
WSW. of Bideford. The names of
Clovelly and Bideford bring to us a
breath of the romance of those spacious
Elizabethan days; of Sir Francis Drake
and the Spanish Armada; and of Sir
Richard Grenvil and the “Revenge.” It
will be remembered that many of the
earlier scenes of Charles Kingsley’s
romance “Westward Ho” are set in the
country surrounding these two places. It
was at Bideford that Sir Richard Grenvil
was born, and Will Cary, lieutenant to
Amyas Leigh on his adventurous voyage
in the good ship “Rose,” was heir to
Clovelly Court, to which Kingsley devotes
a chapter of description.
Clovelly has been called a quaintly pretty
place, and its main street is formed by a
series of steps which rise to a height of
400 feet and effectually prevent the use
of motor-cars in the village itself. As
Charles Dickens said of Clovelly in A
Message from the Sea”: “There was no
road in it; there was not a level yard in it.”
The fame and beauty of Clovelly have
attracted a large tourist traffic, and on
holidays charabancs deliver crowds of
trippers at the village, with the result that
an element of commercialism has spoilt
some of its charm and quaintness. On
these holidays the donkeys which are used
to transport trippers up the steep slopes
are badly overworked. Two of these
hardworking animals are to be seen in
the foreground of the illustration.
Clovelly has two old-world inns, the Red
Lion and the New Inn, which is seen on
the left-hand side of the street. It also
has a notable old church, All Saints,
which was built in late Norman times and
was restored in 1866.


Ttorg Writing
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243 .
AGE
The Red Page
Rock Carving.
The lines grow slack in our hands at full high-
water.
The midnight rears in the sky; and beneath the
boat
Another midnight, dwarfing the flare of a match
Or flare of a mind, expands and deepens. We
float
Abandoned as driftwood on a tide that drowns
all speech,
Where movement of hand or keel can make no
mark
That will stand in space or endure one moment
in time.
Flashing in shallows or hiding in murderous dark,
The fish live out their lives in weeds and silence;
And, locked like them in some alien struggle or
peace,
No business of ours, from the moon to the
water’s edge,
Looming above us, tower the gigantic trees.
Among those rocks where time has ravaged the
ridge,
In all that pattern cold and inhuman as the tide’s,
Where shall the mind make camp? How in that
darkness
Shall the mind ride tranquil with light as the
high moon rides?
Shine the torch on the rock; we are not the first
Alone and lost in this world of water and stone.
See, though the maker’s life has vanished like a
leaf’s.
The carvings living a hard, strange life of
their own
Above the water, beneath the tormented cliffs!
They glow with immortal being, as though the
stone fish
May flap and slither to the tide, as though
the great ’roo
May bound from the rock and crash away
through the bush.
The moon lights a thousand candles upon the
water.
But none for the carver of stone; and nobody
comes
Of his own long-scattered tribe to remember him
With dance and song and firelight under the
gums;
But he walks again for me at the water’s rim
And works at his rock, and a light begins to glow
Clear for his sake among the dark of my mind
Where the branches reach and the silent waters
flow.
I watch him working through a summer after-
noon.
Patient as the stone itself while his tribesmen
sleep;
The children jostle, the girls cry out in the sun,
And first the fish and then the great ’roo takes
shape.
The work is crude, and he knows it; but now
it is done;
And whoever laughs is a little afraid in the end,
For here is a swimmer in stone, and a Too that
leaps
Nowhere for ever, and both can be touched with
the hand.
1 could have sat down with that man and
talked about fishing.
How the bream are fish of the night, and they
take the bait
With a run before you are ready; of the fabu-
lous catches
For which we always got there a week too late;
And of how a man in the lonely midnight watches
Becomes himself a part of night and the tide
And, lost in the darkness, has need of a wife
or a dog
Or a blackfellow’s ghost to sit in peace by his
side!
Centuries dead perhaps. But night and the water,
And a Too and a fish on a rock have brought
us together,
Fishermen both, and carvers both, old man!
I know as you how the work goes naked to
the weather,
How we cut our thought into stone as best we
can, »
Laugh at our pain, and leave it to take its chance.
Maybe it’s all for nothing, for the sky to look at,
Or maybe for us the distant candles dance.
The boat tugs at the kellick as it feels the ebb.
Good-bye, old wraith, and good luck! You did
what you could
To leave your mark upon stone like a mark on
time,
That the sky in the mind and the midnight sea
in the blood
Should be less of a desolation for the men to
come;
And who can do more than you? Gone, you
are gone;
But, dark a moment in the moonlight, your
hand hovers.
And moves like the shadow of a bird across
the stone.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
RIPENESS IS ALL.
Of both Margaret Trist’s In the Sun
(published by the author) and Roderick
Finlayson’s Sweet Beulah Land (Griffin
Press, Auckland) it can be said that they
are worth serious criticism. Neither is
a “great” book ; Finlayson, on his show-
ing in this volume, is not a Saroyan ;
Margaret Trist is not —so far —an H. E.
Bates; but Saroyan would have been
pleased to have written some of Finlay-
son’s stories, Bates some of Margaret
Trist’s. Both of the collections of short
stories can be recommended to the audi-
ence to which one would recommend a
new Saroyan or Bates collection, or,
among Australian and New Zealand
writers, a new Casey and a new Sargeson.
And that, since Margaret Trist (most
of her stories were first published in The
Bulletin) is an Australian and Finlay-
son a New Zealander, is a very pleasant
thing to be able to say about them. Both
these writers—and, with Finlayson, Frank
Sargeson and the contributors to New
Zealand New Writing : a group who,
with all their faults, have brought life to
literature and literature to life across the
Tasman —should have been excepted
from the Red Page’s recent complaint
about the lack of energy in short-story
writing in Australia. A prolific writer
(who seems, incidentally, steadily to be
moving towards the greater adventure of
the novel), Margaret Trist has shown by
the publication of this collection at her
own expense that she has that faith in
her work and impatience to see it be-
tween book covers which is one of the
surest indications of a genuine talent.
The Red Page understands that a second
collection has been accepted for publi-
cation by Angus and Robertson.
Although he has published other books,
Finlayson seems less sure of himself as
a writer than does Margaret Trist.
Uncertainty is evident in style, in form,
in his lapses from irony into bitterness
and in his inability to subdue the propa-
gandist in him to the artist. Many of
his stories are scrappy and some (such
as “Poor Ma Pastry,” which begins to
be a story about a musician who didn’t
go to the last war and ends as a story
about someone else) disconcertingly
change direction halfway through.
Unity of theme —if {be contemporary
story does not intend to be always
inferior to the formal perfection of De
Maupassant—is as important in the short
story as it is in the sonnet. A “slice of
life” is no more a work of art —the
essence of which is constructed form—
than a side of mutton is a sheep.
Why is it that, despite its many faults,
from most of which Margaret Trist’s
stories are free, Sweet Beulah Land
leaves on the whole a stronger impres-
sion on the mind than In the Sunl
Part of the reason may be that Fin-
layson’s prose is deliberately “tough,”
that he uses the slang of the day, which,
even if one disapproves of it aesthetically,
is likely to shock the reader into atten-
tion ; part of the reason may be that his
experiments in form, even if one regards
them as an evasion of the artist’s essen-
tial labor of construction, are likely to
surprise and startle; part of the reason
may be that his propaganda—for the
poor and against the middle-classes and
the rich, as in “The Big Bright City”—
forces attention even though one believes
that, so crudely expressed, propaganda
is the destruction of art.
But those cannot be the whole reason
for the impression of power which his
book makes. Beside Hemingway’s or
Sargeson’s, the prose is only mildly col-
loquial ; beside Saroyan’s, the experiments
in form are only mildly interesting; be-
side the propaganda for the poor of any
of the contributors to the “Penguin” New
Writing series, Finlayson’s is not start-
ling.
What makes his stories “interesting”
is that he widens the range of fiction. In
Margaret Trist’s book one finds Sydney,
the neighboring countryside and the Blue
Mountains charmingly described, and —
though one certainly does not demand
that a short story should have the quality
of an article in the “National Geo-
graphic Magazine”—it is nevertheless
interesting to have Finlayson describing
places and people unknown in literature
not only to Australians but to most New
Zealanders. He has a group of stories,
mostly gloomy, about Maoris working
for Chinese market-gardeners, and prob-
ably, even among New Zealanders, only
those living around Auckland would
know that this has been the practice.
And then, too, Finlayson widens the
range of propaganda. During her rare
aberrations from art into propaganda,
Margaret Trist has the usual picture of
an aboriginal girl made unhappy by
snobbish whites, and a glimpse of a
poverty-stricken woman catching a train
in Sydney and cursing the universe; and
—though again this is not a call for
Margaret Trist to give us something
about the woes of Patagonians or porcu-
pines—propaganda about the Maoris is
newer in fiction than propaganda about
the aboriginals. Moreover, though he
also sermonises in the familiar way
'about the poor, Finlayson has one most
unusual axe to grind: he hates milking
machines.
It’s impossible to tell from Sweet
Beulah Land what Finlayson’s politics
are. The extremely sentimental “Big
Bright City” could indicate the ordinary
fashionable Leftism. But his abhorrence
of milking machines, telegraph poles,
gravel roads, bungalows, tractors, cow-
sheds that “stink of burnt oil and ben-
zine,” dairy factories, cars, machinery
salesmen, standardised butter and all
other symptoms and symbols of the
machine-age seems rather to be in line
with Eric Gill’s medievalism. At any
rate it is interesting. The present com-
mentator didn’t know that Maoris around
Auckland worked for the Chinese; and,
though many a cowspanker has been
heard to curse the bad old days when
there were no milking machines, this
seems to be the first time anyone has
cursed the machines. Moreover, even if
cowsheds retain more of their immemo-
rial fragrance than Finlayson will admit,
it’s a fact that home-made butter was
better. Perhaps in the longest of long
runs it will be “very bad for our
country” if people don’t understand why
the “I” in ope of his stories broke the
butterdish.
But the experiments in form and style
give Sweet Beulah Land only a mild
“kick,” and his widening of the range of
literature and propaganda gives only in-
terest to the book; and its real merit is
its power.
Power is a quality of mind. Here, as
in all literature, it is really the mind be-
hind the work, the power that speaks
through the work, that charms or fas-
cinates or moves the reader, disturbs or
shakes or repels. Granted the technical
ability to convey what is in the author’s
mind with adequate clarity and force,
literature is a communication between
mind and mind. The writer conveys to
the reader his personal and unique vision
of the universe ; or, if he has not yet
come to a full realisation of his vision,
his gropings towards it.
In Margaret Trist’s stories, taken as a
group, there is conveyed the feeling of
a fully-matured vision. The mind that
works behind and through her sketches
of family life, her descriptions of old
men and little girls, her yarns of fire and
flood in the outback seems as serene and
broad and mellow as the sunlight that
lies so attractively over all her lovely
landscapes of suburb and country. It is
not, as far as In the Sun reveals, a
“great” vision ; it soars to no mountains,
descends no abysses. It is the vision of
“Halcrow-street” where the milkman
calls, the children go to school, the hus-
band goes to the office and the women—
seen in a light of warm and kindly satire
—gossip eternally of men, babies and
scandal. A street midway between har-
bor and sky, midway between slum and
mansion, midway between tragedy and
delight, midway between insufferably
prosaic existence and intolerable poetry;
a small world, the arena of everyday life,
warm in the sun.
The vision of In the Sun does not
blaze with lyrical delight as does “The
Tempest” ; it does not perceive to the
utmost those moments of terror and de-
spair when life is “a tale told by an idiot,
full of sound and fury, signifying
nothing” ; the emotional range is limited.
And yet, because they spring from a mind
that has seen all of life within its range
and made its decision about life and has
, decided unconsciously, perhaps to
accept life, these stories have a sunlit
serenity that is in accord with Shak-
speare’s final wisdom —“Men must accept
their going hence, even as their coming
hither ; ripeness is all.” “Ripeness” is the
very word for the spirit of In the Sun :
She went to the kitchen and watched
Grandfather snoring for a while, then took
herself to the side verandah. The after-
noon was sunny and the sunshine made
everything look yellow and dreamy. There
was a pepperina tree in the corner of the
adjacent yard and a fat old horse stood
under it lazily swishing its tail. It looked
as if it would like to go to sleep, but that
it couldn’t be put to so much bother.
The character “Grandfather” who
appears from time to time throughout
Margaret Trist’s book is, clearly, a sym-
bol of ripeness and completion. And
he’s “ripe” not only when he gets comi-
cally and uproariously drunk, but when,
confronted with the disasters of flood
and bushfire, his chief emotion is delight.
He is like a child, to whom the spectacle
of life is everything. And through him
the author’s vision declares that, even in
tragedy, men delight in the spectacle of
life ; ripeness is all.
That is the vision of the great artists —
Shakspeare, Fielding, Balzac and, de-
spite his lapses into sentimentality,
Dickens. And in so far as he is able to
apprehend and convey that vision an
artist approaches greatness. Greatness is
the complete vision, the acceptance and
the representation of the ultimate heights
and the ultimate depths of human experi-
ence.
While Margaret Trist’s quiet strength
and serenity spring from a complete
though limited vision—a little circle, as
it were, within the great circle of experi-
ence —Finlayson’s angry power is the
expression of an incomplete vision: one-
sided, lopsided. He has greater depth
than Margaret Trist; he should also
reach greater heights.
Moving in its stories of the distresses
of landless Maoris, macabre in its most
powerful story of a madman whose horse
had to be destroyed, striking in its rage
against the machine age. Sweet Beulah
Land is a rough “Hamlet,” one might
say a fragmentary “Lear” or “Mac-
beth” ; but where is Finlayson’s “The
Tempest,” where’s his Falstaff? There
are flashes of delight and touches of
humor to show that he is capable of a
fuller vision, and in the story of the
madman and the horse he achieves a
detachment from his theme and charac-
ters which allows him to present a
balanced picture; but the book as a
whole has only one season —winter. The
solitary genuine comedy, a slight sketch
of neighbors quarrelling at Christmas, has
the bitter, Saroyanish title “Peace on
Earth.”
Hammering and hammering on the
mind its themes of gloom and anger,
Sweet Beulah Land leaves the reader
interested, disturbed but dissatisfied. In
so far as these two books can be taken
as an indication of their authors’ capa-
bilities (they cannot be taken as final)
Margaret Trist knows exactly what she
wants to say about life and, within her
limits, says it successfully ; but Finlay-
son has yet to find himself. It’s an
interesting and significant thought that
Finlayson, who appears to be far more
“politically conscious” than the Austra-
lian author, is clearly less mature as an
artist. Margaret Trist probably doesn’t
know whether she hates milking machines
or not; but she does, unconsciously it
may be, know that she accepts and de-
lights in the whole spectacle of life. And
that is all the politics an artist needs.
Perhaps women writers are luckier than
men, in that the feminine mind is usually
able to understand life very thoroughly
without having to see it in the terms of a
political or philosophical theory. Luckier
and unluckier, because from the adven-
turing male mind comes a more powerful
drama.
To a far greater extent than Margaret
Trist (though her stories are certainly
“contemporary” and though at times she
slips into sketchiness or, instead of pre-
senting characters to be remembered,
offers an anonymous “old man,” “old
woman,” “little girl” or an anonymous
and irritating “You” which is worse than
the non-existent “I” of Saroyan and
Sargeson), Finlayson has been harmed
by the prevailing fashions in the short
story. Experiment is undoubtedly neces-
sary ; but experiment undoubtedly can
fail. Fashion makes him write a rough
colloquialism (“Patu got fed up”) that,
whatever can be claimed for it, cannot
compare as art with the carefully con-
structed prose of Conrad ; cannot com-
pare with Margaret Trist’s always
pleasant prose. Fashion makes him offer
sketches which, whatever can be claimed
for them, cannot compare as art with the
carefully-constructed short stories of De
Maupassant. Fashion makes him offer
gloom, rage and propaganda instead of
the complete statement in which joy,
laughter and beauty must also be given
their place.
Fashion, it seems very likely, makes
him submit in this book not his own
mind, not his own vision, but only part
of his vision. Why else should a man
who obviously loves New Zealand write
as if he hated it?
Because Margaret Trist has been able
largely to ignore fashion, In the Sun is
radiant with her love for Australia. Be-
cause Finlayson surrenders to fashion,
Sweet Beulah Land seethes with hate. The
characters hate everything so much that
they have to express themselves in the
image of violence; they break the
butterdish. And yet it’s extremely prob-
able that, if it weren’t for fashion. Sweet
Beulah Land would be simply a more
powerful In the Sun. For Finlayson,
like Margaret Trist, is chiefly moved by
the beauty of the earth. It is not
primarily social indignation that makes
him write about market gardens and
farms ; it is love for the New Zealand
earth and for the “creatures” of the New
Zealand earth, Chinese, Maoris and
farmers. And to the ruthless pantheism
of the type of artist to which Finlayson
essentially belongs it is of no more conse-
quence that social “evils” are perpetrated
on the land than it is to the naturalist
that his favorite bird eats his favorite
worm and is eaten in turn by his favorite
hawk. It is a matter of interest, that is
all. Let the reader, when the facts are
laid before him, be indignant if he
pleases ; the artist’s job is to present the
facts—as dramatically as he can, but
always detachedly. Ripeness is all in
art; tragedy is only half; and propa-
ganda has no place in it.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS
119 Years of Service
"THE SENIOR- STORE"
I
/
/
/ ' '#
/ /
I /
/
•X4C&Z
/
/ /'
/
/
i
//
'V-
m
mmol
•MR A
TflS
VAt
'*‘TC‘*X*A
WINTER
/
//'
FOR ALL THE FAMILY
VIBRONA MEDICATED WINE TONIC. A
tonic stimulant containing Hydro-bromic
extract of Cinchona. Recommended for
Neuralgia, Insomnia and Convalescents.
Price 5/6
PULMOKOL. An English product
for the relief and cure of Colds,
etc. This preparation has great
value for the treatment of respira-
tory diseases. Price 2/6
AMERICAN PEPPERMINT
COMPOUND. For all Coughs
and Colds. Suitable for both
adults and infants. Price, 1/6
PALACE NASAL DROPS
with Ephedrine. Relieves
Nasal Congestion, Hay Fever,
Cold in the Head and
Catarrh. Price 1/11
V
yfy/y
S'///
%y
ANTHONY HORDERNS' IN-
FLUENZA MIXTURE. Made
to our own approved for-
mula. Has given relief to
countless users. Price .. 2/6
sm
BALtf
*mm
C , - *''' j
,/U.^'
«,•*-*->* ♦♦*«*♦ *■
&:•: . • *•*
ANALGESIC BALM. Under war-time
pack only obtained in jars. The pre-
paration allays all Neurit's, Head-
aches, Neuralgia, Rheumatism, etc.
Price 1/6
PALACE RUBBING BALM. To be used
either for rubbing or as an inhalant.
Suitable for all types of inflammation
and congestion. Price 1/8
• Chemistry Department —Ground Floor, Pitt Street
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401. DAY AND NIGHT BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE WELL
By BRIAN JAMES.
There was drought all along the
coast. Wiseman from the next farm
went down to the camp one morn-
ing to offer advice. He was gener-
osity itself in giving advice. Jack and
Tom were sitting under the lean-to for
a spell from the bullocking work of
clearing.
• “Where’re you getting your water
from?” asked Wiseman, glancing at some
very murky stuff in the kerosene-tin.
“From the dam,” said Jack.
“You boil it, of course?”
“No, she seems pretty decent.”
Wiseman spat earnestly in the dust.
“A pity, boys!” He spat again. “A
damned pity!”
“What’s wrong with it?”
Wiseman made as if to spit once more,
changed his mind and swallowed hard.
“She’s full of hydatids, that dam.” He
paused impressively. “All the dogs swim
in it. Bound to be full of hydatids.
Couldn’t be anything else.” When the
contemplation of hydatids was complete
he went on: “Why don’t you put down
a well?”
“On top of a ridge like this?” said
Jack.
“Why not? If there’s water you’ll
get it.”
It didn’t seem that anyone else had
wells round about, but Wiseman said that
didn’t prove a thing.
No, he admitted, he couldn’t make the
twigs work at all, but the wife’s uncle
had been a marvel with the rod. Pity he
died, Wiseman said. Never saw his equal
at finding water ; a marvel all right.
Jack and Tom were interested, and
Wiseman remembered that Sam Hender-
son was a pretty good dowser, though not
in the wife’s uncle’s class.
CAM lived at Halfway. He was a
most important little old man with
a remarkably clear skin through which
glowed virtue and devotion. He had deep
blue eyes that carried benevolence and
righteous reproof in about equal quanti-
ties. And he was a man of parts. He
grew the best passionfruit and lemons in
the district; kept a very profitable apiary;
knew the Bible practically by heart; was
the most expert pigsticker for miles
round ; was a forceful lay preacher; had
recently been appointed a Justice of the
Peace; and, theoretically and practically,
he was the complete dowser.
He came in response to a message, and
Jack and Tom felt not a little honored
at the visit of all this wisdom and recti-
tude. Mr, Henderson sat down in the
lean-to near the hut, and his blue eyes
fixed on two possum-skins pegged out on
sheets of stringy bark. Tom and Jack fol-
lowed the gaze and silently cursed each
other for being so careless in leaving the
guilty skins on view. But Mr. Henderson
said nothing about the skins —neither
then nor subsequently. He drank some
tea with a deliberation that clearly indi-
cated that he could now say nothing
about those skins ; but his oath of office
would remain inviolate in the knowledge
that Jack and Tom would never again
peg out any more skins.
That awkward though silent situation
disposed of, Mr. Henderson sketched the
history of dowsing from Biblical times
to the present. Scientists, he said, could
give no explanation of the powers pos-
sessed by the diviner ; and so Mr. Hen-
derson gently brushed the scientists aside.
The Almighty had given him the power,
and it was idle to question why. With
equal ease he could discover water or
minerals. For minerals he used hooped
wire and held in his right hand a piece
of the metal he was seeking; for water
he held either wire or the forked twig.
He set to work. In the course of a few
hundred yards his forked stick bent a
dozen times. Some of the streams, he
said, were quite small, but they were
there. At length he selected the largest
and most convenient, and determined its
depth by the simple method of stretching
a wire from flow centre, and at right
angles to it, and then walking on this
wire till the twig rose. There was some-
thing weird about it all, an effect much
heightened by the beatific look on Mr.
Henderson’s face. Jack and Tom felt
awed, as they might feel in the presence
of a prophet.
“And that,” said Mr. Henderson, “is
the exact depth to water.”
Jack measured it carefully. It was just
12| feet. It seemed too good to be true.
Mr. Henderson promised plenty of water,
though he made it clear that he could
not guarantee its quality. No, he would
not take anything for so great a service,
and without another glance at the pos-
sum-skins he went back to Halfway.
THE boys began the well that evening as
a spare-time job. At first it was easy
and progress was rapid through the few
feet of sandy loam and clay subsoil. That
brought them to a level floor of sand-
stone, innocent stuff, coarsely granular,
but flaky, too. This responded to hammer
and gad. There was a foot of it, and
below it was a very thin band of fine
gravel and coarse sand. It looked like
an easy job.
Wiseman’s interest was intense. At all
manner of times he peered over the edge
and threw down scant words of commen-
dation and perfect spates of advice that
almost amounted to instructions. Also
he predicted much harder rock, and criti-
cised the shaping of the well and its ten-
dency to slope and batter. He was sooth-
ing, too, in his trust in old Sam and his
dowsing, though he was very sure that
the wife’s uncle would have done better
in some way or other.
At six feet or so a stratum of reddish
sandstone was encountered that for hard-
ness and disinclination to split might as
well have been granite. Tom was sent
up to Wiseman’s for the long drill, and
brought it and Wiseman back with him.
Wiseman gave much tutoring and re-
peated it many times, referring frequently
to a cousin of his who had had once on
a time some big rock-chopping contracts
round Balmain.
When a painful hole a few feet deep
was produced Wiseman brought along a
small arsenal of gelignite and coils of
fuse and bright caps. He’d' J take nothing
for them. Reckoned it was really dan-
gerous to keep them in the shed, and it
worried the wife something awful.
Wiseman prepared the first shot—
largely on account of the experience of
the Balmain cousin—and dropped two
plugs down the drillhole, tamped in the
charge and lit the fuse. It was a fine
explosion, but a very inadequate jagged
hole was the result. They’d get a much
bigger blast, Wiseman said, with four
plugs, but they’d injure the walls of the
well.
Jack and Tom removed the broken
rock, gadzed out any stuff that seemed
inclined to move and put in more shots
and shifted more broken stuff and cursed
Wiseman (in his not-over-frequent
absences) and old Sam Henderson and
drills and sledge-hammers and mulish red
sandstone. But the hole got slowly
deeper and more irregular-looking. At
last they got through the red stratum - a
good two feet of it—and came to a band
of gravel and sand, slightly damp, with
a perfect filigree of fine fibre roots on
the floor below it. There was something
heartening about this fine gravel. Even-
tually they would come to such a band
with the cold, clear water flowing through
it. Jack and Tom agreed on that, and
went off to the lean-to for their tea. Also
they agreed that they were fed-up with
Wiseman, but as he appeared at that very
moment out of the scrub they couldn’t
pursue the topic further.
The next few feet were decent going,
and then came a band of pipeclay that
could be scooped out; then more gravel
just damp, and with plenty of hair roots
below it. Hard stuff again after that,
though not so bad as the red sandstone,
but tough enough, too, and every bit of
it to be blasted. At twelve feet hopes ran
high, and a drillhole of two feet was
punched, with the expectation every
second of water gushing forth. It didn’t.
The well reached nearly fourteen feet
with further blasting, but there was still
no water, only bands of damp gravel.
Jack thought that Sam must have made
some mistake in his calculations, but Tom
gave it as his opinion that Henderson was
a wizened humbug. He threw a huge
chunk of rock down the well to prove
it. Still they agreed that the water must
be there all right, and they’d keep going.
They went on to eighteen feet, and put
down the drill four feet beyond that.
There was no water. That finished them.
They lost heart. In any case, the job was
becoming too difficult without proper
gear. Also Frank Tubman, scientist,
scoffer and cynic, happened in.
Frank was an old friend of Jack’s, and
when he heard the whole story he gave
a brilliant exposition of the damnable
fraud of dowsing. He was armed with
Australian and American statistics to
prove that dowsing was much less success-
ful in finding water than was a sensible
following of surface indications. Then
he lectured the two of them on their
credulity. He snorted in a not unkindly
fashion, and left them to think it over.
Wiseman appeared just then to help in
this process, Tom, who was quite un-
reasonable at times, said his intention was
to put the rest of the jelly and fuses and
caps and drill and hammer and the short
ladder, and, if he could but lay hands
on him, Sam Henderson, right down the
hole and fill the blasted thing in. Jack
said nothing and smoked gloomily. Wise-
man sucked in air through the place
where an eyetooth had been. “Now. the
wife’s uncle” he commenced at last.
Tom made suggestions for treatment of
all dowsers —not excluding the wife’s
uncle, though no names were mentioned
—and of these suggestions frizzling in
hell, though painful and prolonged, in-
volved far less loss of dignity than the
recommendations concerning a blunt drill
and much gelignite. Then Tom mooched
off to the hut and lay down.
Wiseman cited the wife’s uncle again,
without bringing anything new to light,
and finished up significantly by say-
ing that he had often wondered about
that Sam Henderson. As far as the hole
was concerned, however, it wasn’t waste
work at all. Not it. “Look at the beau-
tiful underground tank you’ve got!” He
told Jack that when he put up his house he
could run all the roof water into the well,
put a pump on it and “there you are!”
Jack thought there might be a lot in
it, but when he told Tom Tom refused
to be comforted or cajoled.
A FEW days later the drought broke.
It rained for days and days. Feet
of it. Although there was no surface run
into the well it filled to the brim with
clear water; every band of gravel sent a
silver cascade into it. Jack and Tom
watched the marvel. It could be a real
well, after all. Wiseman came and looked
at it, and remembered that something of
the sort once happened to the wife’s uncle.
In fact, Wiseman had something of the
sort in his own mind all along. Then he
worked out by a peculiar method of his
own the number of thousands of gallons
the well contained.
The rain stopped, and at the end of a
week the well was empty again. The
water had run out through the bands of
gravel. It was a dud, after all! Wise-
man agreed that filling in was the best
thing to do. The only thing in fact. He
said he’d do it himself —in his own time,
of course. He took back the balance of
the gelignite, fuse and caps, and said the
wife needn’t know. He took the drills
and hammer and spoon, too.
WISEMAN took his time over the fill-
ing in. In fact, he took two years
over it, and found the well a very useful
receptacle for many unwanted things.
First he tipped in some drayloads of old
tins, bottles and other rubbish that had
littered his place for years. Then he used
it to dispose of windfall and fly-infested
fruit. Drayloads of oranges and man-
darins were tipped in. When Dandie
died he tipped in that faithful old plough-
horse, too. At long last, he could dump
no more, and only a rough cairn of
broken rock wasl left to show where the
well had been.
Jack and Tom went on using hydatid
water till they put up a shed and added
a big round tank as a water supply. They
never had any further communication
with Sam Henderson, nor did they have
any other dowser on the place. In fact,
water-divining was a rather touchy matter
with them. Wiseman agreed with them
in a general way—it was what he had
always said. “But I will say this —that,
as far as the wife’s uncle concerned, I
will maintain, and as I was saying to you
before that”
“WOUNDED IN ACTION”
By F/O L. W. CARROLL.
THE two sergeant gunners helped
load him on the jeep at the
entrance to the big, square tent
where casualties came every hour
from the jungle. The raw tang of trampled
kunai grass mingled with the scent of
ether in his nostrils. Perched on each
side of his stretcher they steadied him
against the first jerk of the gears. Bill
slipped off his hat and dropped it over
his face, and the fierce beat of the after-
noon sun on his eyelids gave place to a
greenish gloom.
By squinting down his nose he could
see the, white trunks at the side of the
track passing by in steady procession to
the growl of the jeep’s exhaust.
Bill spoke to his ear: “How’re you
taking it, Tom; all right?”
“Goodoh, thanks.” He was breathing
carefully, tensed for the jar that would
rack his shoulder and leg. His head
swam a little now and then.
The trees ended, and suddenly he was
looking across a wide swathe of yellow
grass; they were travelling along the
edge of the cleared strip where the trans-
ports roared in and out all day long.
They had been damned lucky. He
had heard Bob’s shout, half drowned by
the racket of the turret guns, and seen
a red stream of tracer pouring into the
port motor all in the same instant. Then
the treetops had been rushing up at him.
He’d lifted the nose so that they swirled
past underneath, and from then on
everything had happened with the merci-
less precision of a crash sequence on
the films. A clearing below him, a swift
jab on the rudder to avoid a liana-hung
trunk, ignition cut and that last desperate
heaving back and back on a stick
suddenly weighted far beyond his
strength. The smash, when it came, was
strangely impersonal, a soundless explo-
sion of green jungle and black earth.
Pressure on his shoulder, the sudden
tighter grip of Bob’s hand on his good
leg, brought him awake ; the jeep slipped
under a broad wing and the hat was
lifted from his eyes.
Bill leant over him. “The Douglas,
Tom. One more lift and you’re on the
way south ; back to the beer and women.
Feel all right?”
He nodded. “Good as gold, Bill;
pour me in, then grab a lift on the first
kite you can and report to the C. 0.”
They looked in at him as he lay on
his back in the domed cabin, heads
framed in the square of bright blue.
“Cheeroh, Tom.”
“Cheeroh, boys. Be back soon.”
The door clicked shut.
HIS thoughts were in the cockpit now.
Trims, mixtures, “Clear port!” and
the floor came alive to the rolling sound
of first one, then two motors, his ears
searching in the daily habit of three
years for any momentary break in their
rhythm. Turning now into wind; a
slight check on one wheel as the pilot
ironed out a swing, a rising scream from
the screws, tail coming up now. His
closed eyes watched the jungle wall rush
to meet them, fall away down and past
the nose as the horizon opened up before
him in that first breath-taking surge to
the sky—once a pilot never a passenger.
His grin twisted as he became aware
of his wounds again. Well, he’d had it;
up and down the islands he’d had it —
Rabaul, Salamaua, Moresby ; losing men
and aircraft every step of the way. Long,
grinding patrols high in an empty blue
bowl of sky, or scudding, like a scared
sea-bird, through squalls where rain and
spray mingled at fifty feet. Bitter coffee
before dawn ; lunch from a tin far out
over the Pacific ; quinine, a brief sleep,
then dawn and the glare off the water
again; never-endingly alert with the tags
of the training-days always in his ears,
“See them first,” “Keep looking,” “The
Hun in the sun.”
He shivered a little under the grey
blanket. They were at ten thousand now,
crossing the ranges. No one would blame
him if this time he stayed south. He
could get a ground job. Not through
injuries, of course, but if he said he had
lost confidence; nerves were something
no doctor could analyse. He’d have a
permanent address for the first time in
three years on some station where you
slept between sheets, woke at seven for
a hot shower and breakfast in a cheerful
mess; brick walls round him, carpets
underfoot, instead of grass huts and
canvas. He could bring Sue over and
settle down, and still be doing a decent
job. He didn’t want to fly again.
The beat of the motors had faded to
a murmur, then it rose in his ears to the
familiar roar—going down, going down.
The transport lifted a wing and wheeled
on to the approach to the field a mile
ahead. He felt the sudden sinking as the
throttles came back and wheels and flaps
ran down ; then the power came on again
and they were boring steadily downwards
on the long slant to earth. A treetop
flashed past; the nose came up, they
floated a little, then the tyres whined,
lifted, whined again and settled to a
steady rumble as they slowed.
HE was awakened early next morning
in time to see the last of the fighter
flight race across the narrow strip of
pearly sky between the edge of the tent
roof and the rim of the valley. He lay
thinking, pleasantly conscious of clean
sheets and the satisfying support of fresh
badages. Bill and Bob —they ought to
be reporting in today. They’d have to fly
with young Jenkins for a while. A good
lad, but fresh from training. Well, they d
give him the experience. Shorty would
take his own flight while he was away.
They’d have to send south for spares.
Quite suddenly, as he drowsed again
in that cool, clear dawn, he knew he
would fight to get back.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3302.
Wednesday, May 26, 1943.
A LONG WAY AFTER NOAH.
“‘And he sent forth a raven, also he sent forth a dove’—Hermann, you’ve mucked it up!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P• H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THEY CALLED THE TUNE.
Practically every day and night of the
present year the Nazi leaders, and the
German people with them, have been
given fearful cause for regretting not
only having launched war at all but hav-
ing waged it from the start with a
ferocity and ruthlessness that might be
matched but cannot be outdone by the
worst acts of savagery recorded in
history.
They called the tune, and certainly
they have been paying for it. In the
widespread devastation caused by the
almost ceaseless R.A.F. bombing they
have been made to feel what the British
were feeling when Mr. Churchill’s public
appearances were being greeted with
cries everywhere of “Give it to them
back!” The Luftwaffe’s bombing of
Britain—with heavy civilian casualties,
with helpless women machine-gunned to
death in the streets, with hospitals packed
with the sick and schools crowded with
children blown to atoms —was carried on
without thought of mercy. From the
Nazi viewpoint that was the idea. The
aim was to smash Britain’s still com-
paratively weak war-power, but also at
the same time the bombing was deliber-
ately designed to terrorise the people.
Under that onslaught the British
suffered terribly but heroically. They
showed they could take it; and the Ger-
man understanding of the stubborn
British spirit was never more astray than
when Nazi radio propagandists were let
loose over the air to give vent to exulta-
tion. Said one of these voices of the
day (August 8, 1940):
The skies over England are darkened by
■ German squadrons. They spew death and
destruction without ceasing, and the German
people watch this just punishment with
deepest satisfaction.
The bombing war went Germany’s
way for more than a year after that. At
times —especially in the terrible raids on
London —it seemed to outsiders that no
people on earth could endure such an
onslaught. There were times when many
Americans, let alone Europeans of the
countries conquered by the same resort
to terror, firmly believed that at last the
nation that had led the world for
hundreds of years was done for, Ger-
mans and Italians believed it, even up
to mid-1942, when Alexandria looked to
them—and to others —certain of capture,
and when —after the destructive Luft-
waffe raid on Norwich in May that year
—the Nazi radio propagandist Joseph
Kreutz deputised for his master,
Goebbels:
The German pilots have been very par-
ticular in their choice of targets. They
pick out buildings which so far have
escaped damage, and more houses are
transformed into heaps of bricks and
mortar. It will be days until the last
victims are got from the ruins.
Actually, it was weeks. No wonder
that British workmen, digging in such
ruins, cried to Mr. Churchill to give it
to them back, or that the Prime Minister
promised that they would get it back
with interest, as has now been happening,
with almost daily increasing weight and
devastating effect.
In the first three months of this year
the R.A.F. dropped 22,000 tons of bombs
on Germany alone. At the time,
January’s raids seemed severe. They
were mild in comparison with what has
happened since. In February 10,000
tons of bombs-more than twice the
January total —rained down on targets in
Germany. In ten raids alone in April
this same crushing weight of bombs was
dropped on German targets, nearly 1500
tons in one raid on Duisburg. The month
which has seen the most crushing of all
blows struck at German industry—the
blowing up of the great Mohne and Eder
dams —began ominously for the Germans
with nearly 1500 tons of bombs falling
on Dortmund.
This year Essen has been further
advanced in its unenviable title of the
most-bombed city in the world. In these
past few months it has suffered some of
its heaviest raids, bringing the total
weight of bombs dropped on it up to
10,000 tons. Such figures take on mean-
ing when it is said that the 900 tons of
bombs dropped on Berlin on the night
of March 27 represented twice the weight
of bombs dropped by the Luftwaffe in
the heaviest raid on London.
Add the rapidly-increasing striking
power of the American Air Force based
in Britain, and the sum of destruction
inside Germany, reaching its highest peak
to date in the blowing up of the dams —
a feat so spectacular that in general
imagination it has dwarfed the far more
deadly blow to the Axis struck in Africa
—is certain to go on mounting and
spreading and so become a prime factor,
at least, in the eventual Axis collapse.
As feats such as the bombing of the dams
bring that day appreciably closer, the
Nazis, who in the first place let the genii
of destruction and terror loose, must view
the (by them) most unimagined outcome
with dismay in what they choose to call
their souls.
As well as the crippling blows being
struck on German industry by the
bombers, R.A.F. fighters have this year
redoubled their destructive raids on Axis
transport. In January nearly 100 loco-
motives were thus put out of action on
the Continent; the rate has since
increased to about 150 a month. Addi-
tionally, through all these raids the
R.A.F. is pinning down in Western
Europe about 60 per cent, of the entire
German fighter strength. It has been
officially stated that 80 per cent, of
Germany’s twin-engined fighters are in
Western Europe. Thus —though the
Corns, and the harebrained second-
fronters would be the last to admit it —
the R.A.F. is actually waging a second-
front war on Germany of the most effec-
tive kind, and at the same time prevent-
ing the use against the Russians of a
total Luftwaffe strength which could well
be decisive in the summer fighting.
, The same harebrained people, who
always take a special pride in black-
guarding John Bull, would also be the
last to admit that, almost up to now,
the practical business of waging this war
on the Allied side has been most largely
borne on J.B.’s shoulders. Confounding
his detractors he has gone on gaining
stature not only in the eyes of the world
but more and more solidly on his own
bit of turf. The reason that the great
bomber raids on Germany—with the
heavy losses of huge ’planes and their
gallant crews—can be kept up day and
night is that J.B.’s home-front effort
approximates 100 per cent. As an
example, in February this year J.B. was
producing four times as many heavy
bombers as he was turning out a year
earlier, when his production was so good
that it was thought to be near its limit.
Even so, raids (ahd losses) on this
present year’s scale would represent a
definite gamble if it were not for the
huge backing of American production,
now starting to take real effect. The Japs,
in this as in other things, remain an un-
known quantity, but it is believed that
the present Allied air strength of 900
combat squadrons equals that of the
Axis. America is now forging strongly
towards creating an additional 900
squadrons on its own account. What
J. Bull, with supplementary assistance
(direct and indirect), has been able to do
suggests what will be happening to the
Axis when this colossal force swings into
action.
On the most recent samples what is
cooking up for the Axis countries looks
like grim chaos, such as no country at
any time has yet passed through. A
forethought of it lately brought from the
British Labor member Mr, R. Stokes an
appeal in the Commons “in the name of
humanity against merciless destruction of
women and children.” This brought in
turn from the London Labor “Daily
Herald” the question of what alternative
Mr. Stokes prdposed. It asked whether
Mr. Stokes would leave military and
industrial targets alone for fear of hitting
innocents. If so, it said, “In the name of
humanity we would help the Nazis to
enslave humanity.”
Certainly there has been little enough
thought of humanity in Axis war
methods, from the bombing of Warsaw
and Rotterdam, all the way through to
the Jap execution of American airmen
and sinking of the hospital ship Centaur
off Brisbane. Nonetheless many will no
doubt feel that there could be worse
pointers for hope in the ultimate future
than that same somewhat illogical and
out-of-tune appeal in the British Com-
mons, though anything whatever that may
happen to Germans or Japs could be no
more than a repayment in kind, the
limits to their methods being in the past
—as no doubt they will be henceforth —
measurable only by their opportunities.
In the Month of May.
It is curious that Mr. Ward should have
chosen May as the month in which to
launch his campaign for the “nationali-
sation” of banking and insurance, in con-
tempt of Mr. Curtin’s declaration that his
Government would not employ its war-
time powers for any such purpose. May,
in which so many memorable events have
occurred in this war, was the month in
which Mr. Lang, to whom Mr. Ward was
then devoted, made his last desperate
throw as Premier of N. S. Wales. His
object was, not to “nationalise” banking
and insurance but to cripple them, so
far as it could be done by a wild man in
a tight corner who had the most obse-
quious lot of followers ever assembled in
a single party.
There had been a “nationalised” bank
in N. S. Wales, but, as a result of Mr.
Lang’s performances, it had gone bung.
Trying to erect interest-default into a
system in repudiation of the Financial
Agreement, which had become part of
the Commonwealth Constitution, Mr.
Lang had been checked by the Financial
Agreements Enforcement Act, which em-
powered the Commonwealth Government
to commandeer State Government
revenues and apply them to the payment
of State Government debts. The validity
of this measure having been upheld by
the High Court, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment had taken possession of State
Government bank balances and was con-
certing plans to secure other State Gov-
ernment funds in spite of Mr. Lang’s re-
sistance.
This was the position when Mr. Lang,
now the complete demagogue, as wild as
a hawk and as predatory, introduced his
Mortgages Taxation Bill, The date was
May 11, 1932, and, as “Hansard” records,
“Standing Orders” were “suspended to
permit of the bill being passed through
afl its stages in one sitting.”
“The bill,” its author said, “proposes
a tax of 10 p.c. upon every mortgage
upon land or any estate or interest
therein. It is a tax on any of those in-
terests existing at the date of the com-
mencement of the Act. The tax is to be
paid within 14 days or within such
further time as the Commissioner of
Taxation may, with the consent of the
Colonial Treasurer [Mr. Lang], allow in
any particular case or any class of cases
or generally. Where the tax is not paid
by the due date an additional tax at
the rate of 10 p.c. per annum will be im-
posed, and in the event of a person liable
to the tax being absent from the State for
the period of 14 days the attorney or agent
of such person shall be personally liable
to pay such tax.
“The tax,” its inventor proceeded, “is
made a first charge upon a mortgage.
If it be not paid by the due date the
mortgage shall vest in the Crown, abso-
lutely freed and discharged from all
charges, liens, dealings, interests and con-
tracts.”
Here there was a passionate cry of
“Robbers! ” and the offender was called
to order. Invective and innuendo being
privileged, Mr. Lang went on to attack
the Commonwealth Ministers and the
High Court Bench, particularly Justice
Dixon, now the Australian representative
at Washington, and another Justice who
had been one of his own Ministers for
two years. This gentleman he traduced
in a shocking fashion without giving
the name. It was given, in an angry
shout, by Mr. Badly, then, as now,
Minister of Mines, but not then absorbed
in dog-racing and horse-racing problems
—though dog-racing, together with the
lot’ry, had been introduced as a depres-
sion measure, with the assistance of a
Mr, Swindell.
The bill was championed by, among
other Labor members, Mr. C. E. Martin
and Mr. Heffron. In later years Mr. Hef-
fron led a revolt against Mr. Lang’s
leadership, and he was recently a party
to excluding Mr. Lang from Caucus, but
on May 11, 1932, Mr. Lang, to Mr. Hef-
fron, was “the greatest Premier the State
has ever had —a first-class statesman and
a man with the soul of a great Australian.”
In fact, some of Mr, Heffron’s remarks
were worthy of Mr. Lang himself. “The
Lang Plan,” he boomed, “will prove itself,
and will put Australia back on its proper
footing.”
I would rather take my chance with a
tribe of savages in New Guinea than with
those who represent the Opposition in this
House. They talk about the sanctity of
contract! What did Britain think of the
sanctity of her contracts? Notwith-
standing the solemn contract of this nation
that boasts so much of the sanctity of
contract, from 1919 to 1922 she did not
pay America one penny of interest. That
was done by repudiation. It was done
under the same arrangement as is followed
by the man who holds you up on your
way home at night.
As for the High Court judgment:
The action of the High Court in doing
what it has done is on the same low level
, as the action of a Judge who would endorse
the action of a sneak-thief who robbed the
poorbox in a church.
This was vomited forth in answer to
Daniel Levy, who, speaking as a lawyer-
member for 31 years, said he had never
heard such “degrading remarks” as the
“blackguardly attack on the Judges of
the High Court.” Mr. Levy referred
mordantly to the list of exemptions from
the tax that was to be paid within 14
days as “a first charge upon a mortgage” ;
penalty, confiscation.
(a) The Crown; ( b ) hospitals; (c)
friendly societies; ( d ) trade-unions; (e)
the Workers’ Compensation Commission.
He pointed out that “the bill does
not apply to moneylenders or to people
like the Premier who lend money on
debentures and contract themselves out
of the Moratorium Act.” Mr. Lang, he
added, had “lent £13,500 to the ‘Labor
Daily’ on debentures over stock and
plant,” and had in effect exempted this
transaction from his tax, whereas a
widow who had lent £5OO on mortgage
would have to pay £5O into the Treasury
within 14 days, although under the mora-
torium she might not be drawing interest.
The same obligation would be imposed
on trustee companies administering small
estates. And Mr. Stevens glanced at the
effect on insurance societies holding the
savings of the thrifty, as well as on the
banks. He mentioned two insurance com-
panies, one with the bulk of its invest-
ments in Commonwealth stock, which
were not to be touched, and the other
drawing three-fifths of its income from
mortgages ; this company, he said, would
be required to pay nearly half a million
in cash within a fortnight and would be
obliged to raise it by selling securities
on a depressed market.
But all such representations were useless.
Presented at twelve minutes to three, and
with a dinner interval intervening, the bill
was through the House by 10.45, with
40 clauses passed in a block. One of them
gave “any person authorised by” Mr.
Lang power to “enter by force and search
any place, building, premises or receptacle
which such person may reasonably sus-
pect to contain any title or other docu-
ment relating to a mortgage.” Others
made any offender “against this Act”
liable on summary conviction to a fine
of £lOOO or imprisonment for three years,
or both, liability in the case of a corpora-
tion extending to “every director or
member of the governing body or execu-
tive officer or person acting as such.”
The voting in the main was 48 to 26.
Among the Ayes were 11 members of the
present Labor Ministry—Messrs. Badde-
ley, J. J. Cahill, Dunn, Heffron, Kelly,
Knight, C. C. Lazzarini, McGirr, Martin,
O’Sullivan and Tully, together with Mr.
Clyne and Mr. Booth, now respectively
Speaker and Chairman of Committees.
Other Ayes who figure in the present
House were Messrs. Cameron, Davidson,
Davies, Horsington, Landa, Shannon and
Tonge. Mr. McKell was not present, nor
was his absence explained.
On May 12, in an atmosphere flavored
with alcohol (one elder statesman reeled
in with a bottle of rum sticking out of
a pocket), the bill was whirled through
the Upper House with additions, exclud-
ing charitable and religious bodies and
Starr-Bowkett societies, which Mr. Lang
graciously accepted. On May 13 Prime
Minister Lyons, saying that “all the States
are involved in this plan of destruction,”
and that Australians everywhere would
be robbed, with disastrous consequences
to the nation, if it were not stopped, in-
troduced a bill to stop it.
Mr. Ward opposed this measure at
every stage. “The desperate position of
the [Lyons] Ministry,” he said, “is indi-
cated by this panic legislation. The Com-
monwealth Ministry may continue its vin-
dictive and panicky attack upon the Labor
Government of New South Wales, but its
every move will be forestalled by Mr.
Lang. Because Mr. Lang has endeavored
to give effect to the promises he made
to the people an anti-Labor Government
occupying the Federal Treasury Bench is
determined, at all costs, to get rid of him.”
Actually Mr. Lang had said in his
policy speech, “Of this the people can be
assured: the Labor movement would not
permit for one moment any of its leaders
to be associated with a policy of repudia-
tion ; Labor abhors repudiation.” With-
out, of course, mentioning this, Mr. Ward
went on to say that “Mr. Lang’s pro-
posal is to tax that section of the com-
munity which does not live by the sweat
of its brow. This Government proposes
to endeavor to prevent the Labor Gov-
ernment of New South Wales from gov-
erning as the people of that State desire
to be governed.”
This Financial Emergency (State Legis-
lation) Bill never reached the Statute
Book. Even while it was being debated
the necessity for it ceased.
The chief accountant in the N.S.W.
Lands Department, conforming to the
Commonwealth law upheld by the High
Court, had ordered his subordinates to
pay State Government funds in their pos-
session to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. For this he was suspended by Mr.
Tully, who was Mr. Lang’s Minister of
Lands, as he is Mr. McKell’s, and who
is now trying to get legislative authority
for a confiscatory tax at the expense of
pastoralists. State Governor Game had
been following Mr. Lang’s proceedings
with astonishing patience, but the removal
of the chief accountant was the last straw.
On that May 13, explaining that “it is
impossible for me to put the Crown in
the position of being a party to illegal
action,” he demanded the return of Mr.
Lang’s commission ; and the Lang Gov-
ernment ceased to exist.
When the blow fell Mr. Lang had 54
tame supporters in the Assembly; as Mr.
Ward complacently put it, “the largest
following that any Government has ever


had in New South Wales.” The ensuing
election left him with 23, five of his ten
Assembly Ministers having disappeared in
the rout. After he lost two other elections
many of his former creatures turned on
him, and the Crowning humiliation came
when, under instructions from the State
A.L.P. executive, they asked him, albeit
timorously, to leave the party-room. But
some of his ideas still ferment in undis-
ciplined minds, and he pointedly exempts
Mr. Ward from his vendetta against his
latest lot of internal enemies, whom he
hopes to beat at the State Labor confer-
ence next month, with a Federal seat and
Lang-Ward domination of the Labor
party to follow.
Impossible? Nothing in the way of
despoiling “the capitalists” is impossible,
not even “the nationalisation of banking
and insurance” as a second edition of the
Lang Plan, should power be placed in the
hands of Mr. Lang and Mr. Ward.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Spirit of the Centaur.
Tierney and Morris, greasers, got to the
deck in all the horror of the sinking
hospital ship, shook hands and jumped
overboard in the darkness. Morris found
a raft. He pulled somebody on to it.
“Dr. Livingstone, I presume,” said
Tierney’s voice.
“That,” said Morris, after both were
safe ashore, “is the sort of mate I like
to have on a shipwreck.” And that,
recounted by the Sydney “Telegraph,”
makes one wonder how the enemy, to
whatever depths his barbarities may
descend, can hope to beat such men.
Stories told by other survivors of the
murdered Centaur, like stories told of
other terrible experiences shared by Aus-
tralians, make it pretty clear that the Aus-
tralian is the sort of mate to have on a
shipwreck. For all the noise made by
a blatant minority of work-stoppers and
demagogues, there isn’t very much wrong
with our people.
This fact has been proven again and
again in this war, at home and abroad.
From Bardia to where the Centaur went
down Australians have taken it and stood
ready to take more, their spirit expressed
in the words of the youngest member of
the Centaur’s crew, aged 15; “I have
been at sea nine months, and this is not
going to stop me going to sea again.”
That is the real Australia, anxious to
get on with the job and willing to bear
what comes. It doesn’t get the publicity
given to the noisy element, but in the end
it will pull the nation through. The
courage of Sister Savage and the humor
of Grdaser Tierney are typical of our
race. And the poet that lies in most of us
came out in John Stutter, steward,
describing how the castaways committed
to the deep the body of a man to whom
death was a mercy, for his agony was
great:—
We gathered round to give him as
reverent a burial as we could, everyone
saying a prayer as we gently swung his
body out on the swell. It drifted away
in the dawn, gradually sinking, while the
rain pattered on the sea.
Then they huddled together on their
raft and protected the injured and joined
with the nurse in reciting the rosary, keep-
ing their spirits up with singing, while
the sea sparkled in the morning. And
after many hours they were rescued, as
the spirit that is in them will rescue their
country from whatever perils lie before it.
Our White Continent.
Though he protested that his Govern-
ment “had no starry-eyed dreams of a
new world,” Treasurer Chifley’s latest
scenario for the future must seem pretty
starry to all those who expect to share in
the schedule of “benefits,” particularly
pensions and unemployment payments,
non-contributory—except by the tax-
payers. However, nobody will deny that
farming must be “rehabilitated” and that
housing will be a “clamorous necessity,”
along with most of the other things Mr.
Chifley mentioned.
Two words were missing from the
script, words that always seem to be
missing or mislaid or gagged or some-
thing every time Federal Labor talks
about the future. One word is “immi-
gration” and the other “defence.”
All the work that Australia will need
to do after the war —and God knows
there’s plenty of it! —will go for nothing
unless Australia acquires pretty quickly
a population numerous and vigorous
enough to defend it. As The Bulletin’s
C. A. Jeffries wrote:
The dream of a nation "holding a whole
continent is almost achieved. It is as
splendid as it is unique Men of imagi-
nation would be spurred by the ambition
of achieving so great a result, so unique
a work, to act with all speed lest the oppor-
tunity pass to other hands The wardens
of Australia’s future procrastinate, wasting
in useless, sordid wrangle the precious time
that should be used to safeguard the
country from invasion and the perpetual
shame of racial degradation The country
is in danger of a catastrophe which has not
happened to the white race since the days
when the Mongol hordes rolled into
Europe.
It was written in 1909, but it strikes
home today.
Reds and Rackets.
Another chapter of a short history:—
Victorian Labor-member Mullens having
disconcerting remarks, preserved in “Han-
sard, ’ on the Communist-blessed amalgama-
te 11 • ■ le Federated Ironworkers and the
Munition Workers, with particular reference
to Ironworker finance, Thornton, the Iron-
workers’ Communist boss, had to reply in the
monthly he controls. At first he tried to
bluster his way out:
It is not Thornton’s job to produce
balance sheets. The balance sheets for the
union are produced by independent char-
tered accountants for every union branch
and for the Ironworkers’ Federal Council.
That was accompanied by an everything-is-in-
oroei-and-apologise-at-once letter addressed
io Mulleng, M.L.A., “as secretary of the
bydney A’ branch,” by Tannock, a Sydney
M.L.C. the same Tannock who, as one of
the secretaries of the N.S.W. Aid Russia Com-
mittee, certified that in six months £2lOO-odd
had been spent on administration, travelling
r^S e ? ses V. propaganc * a anc * “functions,” leaving
£lB for Russian Aid.
This Thornton stuff, with the Tannock ad-
dition did not go down, and next month Thorn-
ton tried again. This time, “to show how false
have been these balance-sheet charges, and to
what depths the enemies of progressive union-
ism are prepared to descend,” he published
a series of auditors’ certificates, which showed
°ttty, and that in terms very different from
those employed by company auditors, that
the gentlemen had done what Thornton’s con-
cern had employed them to do. -No balance
sheet was published, but in a footnote it was
stated that “the union expects the complete
financial statement from the auditors for last
year in the next few days.” And there was a
reference to “a cash statement for the nine
months ending December 31, 1942,” having
been dealt with “at a meeting of the Federal
Council of the union on January 27,” at which
meeting “adjustments” suggested by the auditor
of the Sydney branch and the auditor of the
federal Council “in regard to the allocation of
income received from branches” were adopted.
If any member of the union looked for the
publication of “the complete financial state-
ment for last year” in the May “Ironworker” he
was disappointed.” Instead it was “explained”
that “compilation of the balance sheet” had
been “delayed by hold-up in the receipt of
balance sheet from the recently reorganised
Queensland branch.” It was “explained” also
that “the National Executive Council of the
Amalgamated Ironworkers and Munition
Workers’ Union” had “had before it at its
recent meeting the auditors’ report, statement
of accounts and balance sheet of the Federal
Council of the Ironworkers’ Union for the
nine months ended December, 1942,” and that
this “National Executive Council” was “com-
pletely satisfied.”
“Some figures from the balance sheet” were
given “in pictorial form.” There was a cut
of two moneybags, on and below which
appeared the words “£20,297 3s. 6d., Total
Income,” and alongside the figure of a dummy
(presumably an ironworker) holding out the
letters O.K. South of the moneybags was a
circle with the inscription “Total Expenditure
£9269 17s. 4d.,” and south-west of that were
two more moneybags, symbols of “£11,027
6s. 2d., Excess Funds.” Other cuts were of a
hardy toiler shaking his fist at a loathsome
capitalist (Dispute Payments to Members,
£2305 19s. 6d.), of an office man sitting at a
desk (Administration, £3617 10s.) and of a
bound copy of the “Ironworker” (Total Ex-
pendffure, £lB6B 17s. 4d.). And others indi-
cated that £lOO3 had been paid out in mor-
tality claims and £lO5O invested in war loans.
Income (shillings and pence omitted), £20,297;
expenditure, £9269! And out of that £2305
£?Lo dls P utes ’. 7 for administration and
£lB6B lor the “Ironworker,” which is all
class-war stuff and glorification
of Thornton and his crowd! And this only in
respect of the Red Racket’s G.H.Q. No
reference to the transactions of the Sydney ‘A’
branch, with 20,000 members; of the Balmain
branch, with 1500 “unfinancials” in March, or
any branch in N. S. Wales, Victoria or any
other State. And as an “argument” for con-
cealment impudence is dragged in.
There are obvious reasons why the com-
plete balance sheet is not published in the
“Ironworker.” The funds of the union are
fighting funds; they are raised for the specific
purpose of fighting employers and other
opponents of union members. The union
has no intention of informing these people
of the financial strength of the organisa-
tion. The presentation of the balance
sheet to the National Executive Council
is in conformity with the rules and the
practice observed by the union. This, with
auditors’ certificates published in the last
issue of the “Ironworker,” is the best
answer to those slanderers and saboteurs
outside the union who have been scream-
ing for information to which they are
not entitled and, incidentally, which they
are not going to get.
It is no answer at all. No company
secretary would dare to take up such an
attitude unless he was courting trouble. Of
a piece with it is the statement of the
three M.W.U. members of this precious
Executive Council, who, in no way respon-
sible to the ironworkers for the expenditure of
ironworkers’ money, have the face to “declare
publicly our appreciation of the methods used
to handle finances and of the large amount
of c.etailed information supplied by the auditors
and the union staff.”
. These persons would be much better occu-
pied in answering the objections of munition
workers to the amalgamation with Thornton’s
Red Racket and the methods by whibh it has
been taken to the point of a gazettal notice
—it is by no means in operation yet. Protests
of munition workers have appeared in Mel-
bourne dailies. One drewf a reply from
Sharpley, who is opposing Mullens as a Com-
munist, asserting that “the amalgamation has
been settled according to the constitution of
the union: the overwhelming majority of
members have voted in favor.”
The general meeting of the union [places
and dates not given] instructed its delegates
to support the amalgamation. The Federal
Council, on instructions from the rank and
file in Victoria, N. S. Wales, South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania (representing some
30,000 members), took the necessary steps
to negotiate with the Ironworkers’ Union.
Only the Queensland delegates were
opposed, and they represented fewer than
1500 members.
The amalgamation has been endorsed by
special meetings of shop stewards [it would
be!], a special mass general meeting of the
union [in five States?] and by many mass
meetings in the factories [where?]. In all
more than 10,000 members voted in favor.
“More than 10,000 in favor,” and on this
Communist’s showing there are 31,000-odd in
the union. And this Communist has the face
to claim the “more than 10,000” (without
saying who counted them and how the vote
was taken) as an “overwhelming majority”!
It all demonstrates the necessity for com-
plete legal protection of trade-unionists against
union bosses and mobs. Nothing can be ex-
pected of this Commonwealth Government, but
the Opposition should put high on its election
programme a law which will require, under
substantial penalties, the preparation and publi-
cation of union balance sheets and secret ballots
in all case where strikes and amalgamations
are proposed. *
In a Labor State.
#
Tasmanian ladies interested in good
works are making an embarrassing fuss
about a report to the State Health De-
partment, the work of Dr. A. J. Cahill,
designated school medical officer, on a
1942 survey of 5000 children in Govern-
ment schools.
Dr. Cahill was “astonished to find that
not one of the important area schools I
visited had been visited by a school medi-
cal officer since they were established'’ ;
and in other cases there Had been no call
from a doctor for seven, eight, even ten
years. He found other things:
More than 60 cases of scabies and im-
petigo, serious and contagious skin infec-
tions, in the area school at Sheffield. A
prevalence of “many serious defects such
as anaemia, dental caries, enlarged tonsils
and adenoids, defective vision and goitre”—
in the Huon “the incidence of goitre was
unusually high.” Above all there was mal-
nutrition—“fully half the children examined
were suffering from it in varying degrees,
and in many outback schools as high as 75
per cent.” In schools visited annually “the
percentage was much less, and the general
health much better.”
The chief cause of malnutrition was
“wrong diet.” Too much tea and soft
stuff and not epough milk; too many
biscuits and sweets, and not enough dairy
produce, fresh fruit and uncooked vege-
tables ; a general substitution of ‘‘white
devitalised bread for. nourishing whole-
meal” and an “inordinate consumption
of meatpies and pasties and all kinds of
cakes and pastry.” All “unsuitable food
for schoolchildren” ; but “in the domestic-
science rooms at most schools senior
girls are taught to make meatpies, pasties,
scones, cakes and all kinds of pastry with
white flour and white sugar.”
And there was a devastating absence
of canteens and tuckshops where children
could get the Oslo lunch.
In only one school, that at Hadley, did
the doctor find “wholemeal bread, brown
sugar or honey used in a domestic-science
class.” At Hadley, “every child was given
a large glass of warm milk or a cup of
cocoa each winter morning, and in the
hot weather a glass of cold milk flavored
with fruit juices” ; charge, a penny. And
the Hadley children were “outstanding,
mentally and physically, compared with
children in other schools.”
All this in a State in which milk and
fruit are plentiful, and which has had
a Labor Government since June,
Nor can the Labor Government blame
“the capitalists” or Canberra; when it
levied income tax it hit the capitalists as
hard as it could without driving them to
the mainland. And from Canberra since
it took office it has received £5,000,000
or so of easy money in so-called special
grants alone
MR. McKELL AND MR. BADLY GO TO A NIGHT CLUB.
"Night clubs are being used by enemy agents to inform the enemy of every move of ships and troops. Women who frequent
on e o f these places s pend time with Allied service men and are met outside by foreigners who take them away in cabs.”
N.S.W. Premier McKell inthrojuicin' a bill.”


19
• Mi
C. S. B. KABDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PL{I§SER
Specially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exception-
a 11y hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
COMPANY LTD.
ADELAIDE • - PERTH
M
The
WHAT IS YOUR
TIME WORTH?
One of the major problems to-day is to find time to give proper attention to
one's personal financial affairs —time which must be spent, very often, at the
expense of earning capacity. And not only time, but worry and nervous
strain. In these particularly anxious times, with all their complications and
problems, it would be a very great advantage to you to be relieved of the
necessity for worrying about your personal financial affairs. ! Let Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited relieve you of the details of administration of your
estate. During your lifetime and afterwards, this Company will give unin-
terrupted, faithful, and efficient service.
If you are interested in learning details of the service which this Company
can render to those anxious to be relieved of the burden of administration of
their affairs or estate, two special books will be sent on request. Write
for them now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
g BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 13-43
POLITICAL POINTS
It was a proud moment for Churchill
when he stood up to address Congress, no
longer in the shadow of the “utterly un-
expected” defeat at Tobruk, but in the
sunlight of • success—ltaly’s African
empire “torn to tatters,” his appointments
of Alexander and Montgomery brilliantly
justified, and scarcely less so his steady
support for Eisenhower when British and
American Left-Wingers were storming at
that fine character. Congressmen who
had been criticising the “Beat Hitler First”
strategy joined in the cheers which fol-
lowed every glowing sentence. News-
papers which had been pointedly asking
whether Anglo-American policy, if not
altered, would not end by making the
U.S.S.R. supreme in Europe and in Asia
-—there, without the loss of a Russian
grenadier—extolled the speech and the
man. In neither case, apparently, was
there any weakening, but all agreed that
it was Churchill’s greatest hour.
It is clear already that Chifley was far
too liberal in his distribution of income-
tax money among the State Governments,
the three big ones especially, which his
Administration has relieved of huge
spending departments. McKell expects
a surplus of a million. Lang will no
doubt say, as he did last year, that it
could be a lot more.
Sydney’s Labor Government won’t
know its Industrial Arbitration (Amend-
ment !) Bill when the Leg, Council is
done with the thing. In its job of re-
pairing errors and omissions, all de-
liberate, the Council inserted a service-
man-preference clause. Frightfully em-
barrassing to the preference-to-unionists
party, especially as there will be Com-
monwealth and State elections within
a twelvemonth.
The council of the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation has endorsed the action of
its Labor Council delegates, who
supported the ban on the Workers’ Edu- ■
national Association because a W.E.A.
lecturer reviewed Soviet policy without
going on his knees and rubbing his head
on the floor. About 1450 teachers are
in the fighting services to defend the free-
dom of thought and expression for which
their council has no use.
Announced over the air that Federal
Cabinet was calling another conference of
trade-unions —the third. All the country
got out of the other two —apart from
more strikes and more union bullying—
could be packed in a jamtin. But con-
ference and compromise seem to be about
this Federal Government’s limits.
Maxie Falstein, Federal Labor’s one
contribution to the fighting forces, has
become a pilot-officer. When he got his
wings Maxie said he had been “very
happy in the R.A.A.F.” and had made
“many splendid friends,” also> that he had
found training in the air and on the
ground in keeping with that “magnificent
conception the Empire Air Training
Scheme.” Excellent, and, as the poet puts
it, the “past is now a nothing past.”
Here’s hoping that Maxie will bring down
a hundred times his weight in Japs!
Discussing the food situation, F. J. S.
Wise, Westralian Labor’s Lands Minister,
found it necessary to warn Canberra that
enlistments and call-ups had taken so
much labor from Westralian farms that
he was “seriously concerned as to the
prospects for shearing, lamb-killing,
potato-digging” and the like. He re-
ferred to a Commonwealth survey show-
ing that only 40 per cent, of the pre-war
average was left, a figure so much below
the figures for other States that the
return of 2400 men would be needed to
reach the same level. Wise does not seem
to share Curtin’s exalted opinion of
Ward apd Scully.
From the “Wall-street Journal”;
American troops stationed in foreign
countries with “sound money” are paid in
the local currency. The conversion is at
the official exchange rate In Britain
soldiers are paid in English pounds; the
official exchange rate is $4.03 to the pound.
In Australia they are paid in Australian
pounds at the rate of $3.28 to the pound.
That answers many arguments and
satisfies a lot of curiosity, not all idle.
Back from Westralia, the Prime Min-
ister assured the nation that Cabinet was
about to meet and issue a “formula” to
stop strikes once and for all. Cabinet met,
and its “formula” turned out to be a threat
to strikers that they’d be called up for
military service or, if medically unfit for
that, for A.W.C works. Which seems
to demonstrate that Labor looks on
military service as a punishment for bad
boys, not as a privilege and a duty for the
nation’s manhood. What fighting men
will say to strikers compelled to join
their ranks isn’t stated, but perhaps that
needn’t be worried about.
The threat of military call-up has been
held over strikers before. It didn’t stop
them striking, and when striking miners
were fined their mines were held up by
strikes against the fines. Maybe the next
strike will be one against military
service.
Fadden and his Opposition executive
(harmony apparently restored) are chasing
Curtin with demands for an explanation
of why Warracknabeal, in “Wheat,
Wheat” Wilson’s electorate, was chosen
for a wheat-distillery site. They declare
that Swan Hill, Bendigo, Ballarat, Shep-
parton and Yarrawonga were listed by
the Victorian Government, that Dim-
boola was chosen and recommended and
that Warracknabeal wasn’t mentioned.
They further allege that a Federal com-
mittee selected Bendigo first, and others
in preference to Warracknabeal; and,
“failing a satisfactory explanation,” they
reserve the right to take whatever action
is deemed necessary. Unless they can
prove that Dirnboola had a raw deal they
ought to forget it. Warracknabeal is a
wheat town like Dirnboola. None of the
others could be called that, and a wheat
town is the place for a wheat distillery.
Westralian Labor has no illusions
about Communists. Its State executive
and Metropolitan Council knocked back
attempts to have the ban on the Medical
Aid to Russia Committee removed and
Labor-Corn, “unity” established to “pro-
cure the return of the Curtin Govt.”
Curtin’s W.A. supporters know what
affiliation with Corns, would do to him
in Fremantle.
N. S. Wales has a National Youth Asso-
ciation with a constitution drafted by the
Government-sponsored National Fitness
Council. When Col. Maughan, of the
Boy Scouts, regretted that there was no
preamble to the constitution expressing
“in a simple form loyalty to God and
the King,” he was informed that it “had
been difficult to find a suitable formula
for a preamble to cover the varying asso-
ciations which would be members.” No
loyal Australian youth ever found diffi-
culty in expressing his or her loyalty.
Fallon, of the A.W.U. and the Federal
A.L.P. executive, has denounced the
Sydney Labor Council’s “unity” motion
“uniting” McKell Labor, “State Labor”
and Communists as unauthorised and
impudent. Of “State Labor” he said
scornfully “it has degenerated so badly
that it is now known as the rump of the
Communist party,” No doubt an apt
anatomical illustration, but does the
A.W.U. really put it that way?
There is a significant rush of candi-
dates for the U.A.P. nomination against
Dedman in Corio. One is to be chosen
at a convention in Geelong tomorrow,
and it is expected that 150 delegates will
sift the claims. At the Victorian Labor
conference Deddy put up for election as
a Federal A.L.P. delegate and was “lost”
by Calwell, M.H.R., and Clarey, M.L.C.
In introspective moments it must gloomily
occur to him that he is an unappreciated
genius.
Zionists in Australia are divided into
groups of moderates and extremists. The
moderates accept British policy in Pales-
tine, recognising that it is inspired by
goodwill, and allowing for one great and
obvious difficulty. The extremists are for
unlimited Jewish immigration to Pales-
tine regardless. On “S. M. Herald” evi-
dence, one of them is Abram Landa,
M.L.A. for Bondi, Sydney.
Jewish people have earned the right to
Palestine, and every Jewish man, woman
and child in Europe who can get there
should be allowed to get there.
That would mean war with the Arabs,
It’s a long way from Bondi to Palestine,
and Landa, though bursting with martial
ardor, might find it impossible to “get
there.”
Colin Clark, director of the Queens-
land State Bureau of Statistics, galloped
up to Cairns the other week and told all
who gathered to listen that after the war
a good time would be had by all.
I can see farmers enjoying a greatly im-
proved standard of living. I foresee a
rapid increase in population in Cairns and
other northern. cities.
With that he announced that he had
granted permission for extensions to
Cairns brewery.
Wanting day work, the Perth union
bakers agreed to forgo 10s. a week
granted to them for night work. This
was made part of a State Arbitration
Court judgment, but before it was em-
bodied in the award Ward intervened
with a characteristic bit of Wardism:
The decision of the Court could doubt-
less be promulgated without including a
provision for reducing the wages, and the
Minister trusts that the Court may see its
way to promulgate its finding in the form
he suggests.
Said the justly-indignant Dwyer, J.:
Perhaps we should not be too exacting
these days, when arbitration systems have
become the playthings of politicians; but it
might be construed as contempt of Court.
He was a Labor member himself long
ago, but nothing like Ward.
What Victorians think of their State
elections was shown on nomination day,
when 13 Councillors (out of 17) and 14
Assemblymen (out of 65) were re-elected
unopposed. Seven of the 14 Assembly-
men are Labor (party-leader Cain, Mos-
cow Minister Slater, A. E. Cook, Jewell,
Holland, McKenzie and Mrs. Brownbill),
and six are C.P. (Ministers Maekrell,
Lind and Martin, J. G. B. McDonald,
Lamb and Kirton); the other is Kent
Hughes (U.A.P.). He and Lamb are
prisoners of war. '
W. C. Haworth, back from Tobruk and
neighboring parts, has a Trades Hall
“socialist” opponent in Albert Park (Vic.).
Labor decided to give that electorate a
miss, but it is running a man against
U.A.P. leader Hollway in Ballarat, though
Hollway is in the R.A.A.F. A precedent
that will be remembered against the
A.L.P. when Maxie Falstein goes up
again for Watson (N.S.W.).
It came out at a coroner’s inquest
into the disappearance of a young Bris-
bane woman that police had questioned
“about 40 suspected or reputed abor-
tionists.” This in a country crying out
for population and concerned about
maternal mortality! “Questioned” them!
Queensland’s Labor Premier Cooper
joyfully announces that on April 30 his
State had a cash credit of £5,246,550, “one
of the greatest in the State’s history,”
largely made up of a surplus of
£4,036,272, “an all-time record for the
first ten months of the financial year,”
Cooper can thank Chifley for it —Chifley,
at his wit’s end to find war money. Unifi-
cation of income tax was necessary, and
on that score there are no regrets; but
it was a dreadful mistake to be philan-
thropic to the undeserving.
Legislation to prohibit the establish-
ment of further industries in the metro-
polis without the approval of a Minister
for Decentralisation was the highlight of
Dunstan’s policy speech at Eaglehawk. If
nothing else comes out of it, at least the
metropolis will have another Government
department.
A slow starter in all his wars. Uncle
Sam is a swift mover when he gets fairly
into his stride. Six months ago he was
alarmed at the rubber position as re-
viewed by the Baruch Committee (Baruch
is the G.O.M. of American industry),
and with ample warrant, for it contained
these words:
Rubber presents the greatest threat to
the safety of our nation and the success
of the Allied cause. If we fail to secure
quickly a large new rubber supply, our war
effort and our domestic economy both will
collapse.
Last week Jeffers, the Rubber Director,
revealed that the rubber problem, though
not yet solved, had been attacked so
resolutely that 27 units for the manufac-
ture of synthetic rubber are operating or
about to operate, 54 more will be .operat-
ing this year, and 1944 output is expected
to reach 750,000 crude tons. All this
while prodigies of production are being
achieved in shipyards, aircraft and tank
factories.
Hundred - per - cent, Americans have
been enjoying a laugh at expense of
the “Daily Worker,” which is not even
.000001 per cent. American. The Aus-
tralian-born Bridges is under sentence of
deportation as a Communist, but has
staved off execution by appealing to the
Courts. Reporting another case of its
kind, that of one Schneiderman, a Ger-
man, and naming two men who had testi-
fied against Schneiderman, the “Daily
Worker” mentioned in big type that
“both were amongst the star witnesses
against Harry Bridges, West Coast Com-
munist leader.” Eleven thousand copies
were printed before the “mistake” was
discovered, and most of them have fallen
into the hands of Americans who hale
Communists like poison.


m
EXBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. W. H. Hill, refugee medical mis-
sionary from Manchuria, told the N.S.W.
Presbyterian Assembly of the aversion
shown by Jap officials to foreign flags.
For years he hoisted a flag over his mis-
sion hospital on days when Chinese out-
patients might attend for treatment.
British and Australian flags being
tabooed, he used the Red Cross flag. This,
too, was objected to, and Dr. Hill, who is
an Irishman, ran up the ancient flag of
St. Patrick. The Japs eyed it suspiciously
but allowed it to remain. Nobody de-
murred at the hoisting of St. Pat’s flag
on a Presbyterian hospital.
Herewith the purposeful facade which
houses the cheerful personality of Frank
Harold Beard, M.A., Superintendent of
the N.S.W. Far West Children’s Health
Scheme in succession to Stanley Drum-
F. H. BEARD.
mond. The new super, is deputy head
of Newcastle Technical High School; it
was while holding a similar post at
Broken Hill High that he and the
F.W.C.H.S. met, his wife becoming
secretary of the local executive. Beard
deputised for Drummond on many occa-
sions, and has travelled the N.S.W. Far
West fairly thoroughly. A native of the
Crookwell-Young district, Beard has been
English master at Sydney Tech. High,
Sub-Registrar at Bathurst Technical
College, and a lecturer to the W.E.A.
Add to the outstanding victories of
this war the election of J. R. Lewis as
R.S.L. secretary in N.S.W. An old 18th
Batt. private, Lewis licked in the election
two colonels, two lieut.-colonels and a
captain, not to mention a trio of other
ranks as well. Papers chronicling the
event mentioned three points of fact con-
cerning the new sec.: (1) he was wounded
on Gallipoli; (2) he lost a leg ; (3) he
had been assistant sec. for some years.
All correct, except that he was wounded
at Hill 60 ; he didn’t lose a leg ; he hasn’t
been assistant sec. for some years. He
became assistant sec. when A. R. Cutler,
V.C., became sec. Now succeeding the
lofty artilleryman, Lewis is no midget
himself. He touches about 6ft., and is
large with it. The knock that put him
out of the war was a bad one on the
hip; he has to carry a stick and he
swings a leg, which no doubt misled the
scribes. Before coming to the R.S.L. he
was a South Coast mine manager. Cut-
ler, V.C., has also got a new job—
N.S.W. Deputy-Director for Security.
When Captain Joe Foss .bent forward
the other day to be personally decorated
by President Roosevelt with America’s
highest award for war service, the Con-
gressional Medal of Honor, the President
had a close-up of one of the strongest
and toughest-looking dials in or out of
uniform. It was a familiar sight round
The Bulletin office during Joe’s brief
leave in Sydney, and it left an impression
akin to that left by another topnotch
fighter-pilot, Clive Caldwell, now a wing-
commander of Spitfires v. Zeros, Haps
and suchlike. Remarkable it might seem
to anyone forming an idea of such men
from sensation-press reports, but both
Foss and Caldwell' are print-shy coves,
personally modest and matter-of-fact.
They’re both, as flapper sheets would put
it, good-looking—in an ironbark sort of
style. Joe has had his boko broken
almost as often as he has brought down
Japs, and his Jap tally is 26, all bagged
round about the Solomons. Clive Cald-
well’s total is now 24j, mostly Fritzes,
with four Japs in the bag.
Springboks’ heavy losses:
Granny “Herald’s” London correspondent
Alf King (brother of Syd, who represented
Australia at Rugby Union) cabled an account
last week of shocking war»toli on the Spring-
boks who were out here in 1937 —as fine a lot of
fellows as ever toured. Philip Nel died in 1938,
and of the remaining 28 no fewer than 18
have been killed in action and six permanently
maimed. The Louw brothers, infantry privates,
were killed in the same battle last June. Ptes.
Howard- Watt and G. P. Lochner and Sgt.
Pierre de Villiers were killed in Abyssinia in
1941. Lieut. J. White, M.C., was killed when
Tobruk fell. Capt. Ferdie Bergh (tanks) and
Sgt. L. Strachan (artillery) were killed in the
Middle East in 1941. Others killed (all in the
South African Air Force) include Major D. H.
Craven ; Major Ben du Toit, D.F.C.; Capt.
H. Martin; Lieut. Cyril Jennings; Major W. E.
Bastard; Major G. Brand, D.S.O. (who had
shot down. 23 enemy ’planes); Lieut. Johnnie
Bester, D.F.C. (his score was 17 enemy ’planes);
Lieut. A. D. Lawton, D.F.C.; and Lieut.
Owen Williams. Capt. A. T. Harris was shot
down, seriously wounded, and had a leg ampu-
tated in Italy and an artificial arm fitted; he’s
since been repatriated from Italy. He won the
first D.S.O. gained by a South African in this
war, and has also won the D.F.C. Capt. L.
Babrow, Lieut. F. Lotz, Pte. A. R. Sheriff and
Lieut. George van Reenen have all been
seriously wounded.
Professor Lyndhurst Falkiner Giblin,
D. 5.0., M.C., who caused some pained
surprise among Canberra civil servants
when he endorsed the Beveridge Plan
proposal to postpone the age qualifying
a person for pension and grant a higher
pension for every extra year an old war-
horse remains in harness,, certainly makes
practice follow precept. Born in 1872,
the son of a onetime Tasmanian Judge
and Premier, he received an orthodox
education, finishing at King’s College,
Cambridge. But he has sailed before the
mast, mined ip Alaska, grown fruit in
his home State, served in the A.I.F.
(finishing with wounds and the rank of
major), learnt economics in his spare
time, been the Speck’s Government
Statistician, Ritchie Professor of Eco-
nomics at Melbourne University, a direc-
tor of the Commonwealth Bank and
chairman of the Commonwealth Finan-
cial and Economic Committee. Clad in
the blue shirt, red tie and lapelless coat
which have been the outward badges of
a radicalism he acquired in his youth, he
walks annually in Anzac marches.
Margaret McKay, daughter of an
Adelaide doctor deceased, was already a
Master of Science when she left the Uni.
there four years ago, to study bacteri-
ology at Cambridge with the great
Drury, now director of the Lister Insti-
tute. Research in blood-transfusion has
been her main line. It has now earned
her Cambridge’s rare honor of Ph.D.
Moderator Sydney Richardson, of the
N.S.W. Presbyterian Church, is a native
of Woodside on the Manning. When 19
he gave up a job in the Kyogle butter
factory to study for the ministry, matri-
culated as a private student and graduated
M.A. (1914) and B.D. (1916). His
charges have been Condobolin (N.S.W.),
Broome (under the A.1.M.) and Claremont
(W.A.), Corowa (N.S.W.) and, since 1930,
Pymble (N.S.W.). Popular with his con-
gregation, his brother ministers and the
convalescent soldiers of the Lady Gowrie
Home at Gordon, where he’s a frequent
visitor, he has two sons in the forces,
F.O. Observer J. A. Richardson and
Lieut. W. J. Richardson (missing in
Malaya).
After 14 years as chief dairy instructor
on the Richmond, Frank Wilkinson has
moved on and up to the position of chief
butter-grader in N. S. Wales. Wilkinson
kicked off as an apprentice in the Casino
butter factory; midnight study passed
him into Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege and later into the Department of
Agriculture. He improved his name in
the State as a dairy expert by acting as
district and championship judge for rural
newspaper “Farmer and Settler” dairy-
farm championships.
From “Zedco”:
It is fortunately incorrect that Captain
Tennant, of the R.N., was unable to share with
General Alexander the satisfaction of knowing
that no Axis troops were able to stage a
Dunkirk (B. 19/5/’43). He survived the loss
of H.M.S. Repulse, and is now a rear-admiral,
with a seagoing command. Where he is at
present I know not, but he may well have had
a finger in the Tunisian pie after all. Inci-
dentally, Rear-Admiral Tennant was, and still
is, something of an idol to a group of Aus-
tralian midshipmen who were with him in
Repulse to the end.
Resuming private practice in Perth
after long service as Deputy-Director of
Medical Services for W.A., Brigadier D.
M. McWhae retires with a fair list of
distinctions. On Gallipoli, where he lost
an eye, he was Assistant-Director of
Medical Services. Before he was through
he had gathered a C.M.G., a C.8.E., a
V.D. and was admitted to the French
Legion of Honor. He is a King’s Honor-
ary Physician.
“Uramao”: In Maoriland’s first capital,
Russell, in the north, has stood for a
century the ancient edifice of Bishop Pom-
pallier, M.L.’s first R.C. bishop. Pom-
pallier, a Frenchman, spent strenuous
days of missionary effort in M.L. and
adjacent islands. He returned to France
and died there. His house of earth walls,
with the woodwork in good state and
articles of furniture originally installed
in it, has been carefully tended by the
present owner, Henry Stephenson. Fear
that it might pass into hands with little
reverence for historical relics has deter-
mined the M.L. Government to buy it
and convert it into a show place.
A show put on by the U.S. Army at
Melbourne Town Hall—and a pretty
good one, too, its all-male talent includ-
ing magicians, hillbilly comedians, talk-
ing violinists and other virtuosi —had for
its troupe manager Stan Kavanagh, an
American from Wangaratta (Vic,). Stan
has been one of America’s leading
comedy jugglers for many years. %
The Y.M.C.A. in Adelaide now has for
its president Reginald Joseph Coombe,
magistrate of the S.A. Juvenile Court.
Now 43, he started on his way to the
Bench by winning two Government
scholarships and making good use of
them. He was “admitted” in 1923, and
practised for 11 years before being
appointed S.M. in the Children’s Court.
At the expense of the Carnegie Corpora-
tion he went to America and Britain in
Y.M.C.A. PRESIDENT.
1939 to study latest methods of dealing
with child delinquency, and has since
made many improving suggestions to the
S.A. Government.
“El V.”: Senator Philip Albert Martin
Mcßride is among the few men who ever left
the House of Reps, for the Senate. He is one
of the S. Australian group of members whom
sections of the Sydney press are pleased to call
“hillbillies”—a group which includes the eru-
dite Grenfell Price, McLeay, A. G. Cameron
and Duncan-Hughes, about the best-edu-
cated and best-read coterie from any State.
Mcßride is an old Prince Alfred College boy,
and, like his friend and colleague George
McLeay, he is a firm believer in the future
of the Second Chamber. The Senate suits his
temperament, capacity and type of debating
ability. Before he had been there two years
he was Assistant Minister to the then Minister
for Commerce, A. G. Cameron. He was pro-
moted to the War Cabinet and to the Ministry
of Supply and Development, and under his rule
most of the foundations of the war production
of today were laid. First contact with the
Senator would not produce much evidence of
Frith’s pictorial summary of his character; but
in debate he does not belie his inquiring nose
and firm mouth and jaw. He does not speak as
often as others, but when he does he is incisive
SENATOR McBRIDE.
and effective. Opponents respect and fear him
—the more because he does not indulge in per-
sonalities and his weapon is a hard-shelled
commonsense which is often bitter medicine
to take, A pilot-officer son was killed in Libya;
another son is on service with the A.I.F.
Into the silence:
At 84, at Levin (MX.), Major H. H. S.
Addington, second son of the third Viscount
Sidmouth. Educated at Winchester and Sand-
hurst, he was in the Afghan War of 1879-80,
took part in Lord Roberts’s march from Kabul
and Kandahar and retired from the Army as
long ago as 1893, though he was recalled on
the outbreak of the Boer War and stationed
at Malta. In 1910 he bought the valuable
Pakiho estate in the Otaki district. An enthu-
siastic botanist, his collection of native flora
was one of the finest in MX.
In Melbourne, Dora Lush, martyr to science.
She was conducting research work into bush
typhus at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
when a syringe slipped and she was infected.
She knew she must die, but insisted that speci-
mens of her blood should be taken until she
succumbed. No serum is so far known for
bush typhus, which has been affecting troops
in New Guinea. A brilliant graduate of Mel-
bourne University, Miss Lush was sent by the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute to study influenza
at the National Institute of Medical Research
in London. Dr. Burnet, of the Melbourne
institute, regarded her as the finest bacteriolo-
gist he had ever worked with.
In Melbourne, at 71, John Hennessy, who
made for himself a niche in the art world
similar to that of medieval artists. Specialising
in church work, he studied Celtic, Greek and
Roman art and languages and Christian sym-
bolism and heraldry. One of his most important
works was the Stations of the Cross in St.
George’s, Carlton. Sometimes his secular work
appeared in one-man exhibitions, and he also
painted the quaint allegorical pictures decorat-
ing many of the early Eight-hour Day procession
banners. He was trained by Sigismondo Zacutti
and at the National Gallery school, where he
twice missed the Travelling Scholarship by a
hairbreadth.
At Tauranga (MX.), Sidney Kirkcaldie (70),
former chairman of directors of the Kirkcaldie
and Stains drapery concern, Wellington. During
last war he was an adviser to the Munitions and
Supplies Board, charged with buying the whole
equipment for Maoriland’s troops, and saved
the Government millions of pounds, according
to those who should know. For this service
he refused payment as well as declining any
honors he was deemed by Authority to have
earned.
In Vancouver, at 65, William Aberhart, whose
Social Credit experiments as Premier of Alberta
(Canada) stirred up world-wide controversy
(most of it violent) a few years back. He had
been Alberta’s Premier since 1935.
In Sydney, at 73, H. D. Christison, for more
than 50 years an accountant of the Thomas
Playfair exporting firm.
In Sydney, Claude Hamilton, architect and
inventor. Among widespread building activi-
ties, he designed and constructed a large num-
ber of King’s Cross flats.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nakh”: The Australian idiom, is it?
A little Indonesian sailor was exchang-
ing courtesies with a tall Australian
soldier in Melbourne’s Collins-street who
was showing signs of distress. “Is your
stomach upset?” asked the sympathetic
native.” “No, nothing wrong with me
stomach,” exclaimed the Australian.
“It’s me guts is crook.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: In view of the urgent
necessities of Man-power, nothing affords
me less gratification than the reflec-
tion that nine (9) clerks are per-
manently employed in recording facts
about me which have been known for
years to the electoral-roll people and the
State and Federal taxation crew. Not
counting the A.I.F. and A.M.F. recorders,
to whom I have three times given all the
pitiful facts of my existence, I recall that
I told everything about myself to the
clerk who looked after the first national
register ; when that was lost or sabotaged
or something, I gave the details again to
the clerk who supplied my identity card ;
I gave them again when I joined the
N.E.S.; I gave them again when Man-
power sent a questionnaire to my em-
ployer ; again when I received a small
cheque from A.B.C. and, consequently,
was required to establish that 1 was
not a German or a Japanese; again
when Man-power sent a questionnaire to
my landlady; again when Man-power
sent me a form at my home address ;
again when, the very next day, Man-
power sent an identical form ; ,and again
three weeks later when Man-power sent
the identical form for the third time. I
presume that no one clerk would want
the same facts nine times, or even twice ;
therefore it takes nine clerks to keep one
patriotic civilian adequately pestered. I
forgot—the new national register makes
it 10.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Those field-unit talks from
Papua are far and away the best things
A.B.C. is doing. Yet for some mysteri-
ous reason they are put on at a time (9.15
on Sunday morning) when the wireless
is silent in probably 95 per cent, of
homes, choice periods being reserved for,
war commentators of unknown qualifi-
cations, except that they read the papers,
and for a very self-satisfied young Leftist
gentleman who reviews books. To listen
to these field-unit talks is to be proud of
being kin to the men who fought and .
won that wonderful campaign against a
wily and fanatical enemy, to beat whom
Nature in its worst manifestations of
climate and terrain had itself to bt
beaten. And how modest the narrators
are, how. clearly they describe deeds
of cool daring and with what manly
pride they refer to their mates and their
units! Just as the Australian looks his
best in uniform (when it is a uniform,
not something which suggests a soogee-
bag hacked out with a tomahawk and
sewn with pieces of twine), so he shows
his highest qualities in desperate emer-
gencies, such as those, fights in the sago
swamps and along the Sanananda trail
and the sinking of the hospital ship Cen-
taur. JEven those coalminers whose mad
pranks anger and perplex us so much
become real heroes when galleries cave
in and there is life to be saved at deadly
risk,
* * * *
“T-brand”: A complaint among
Diggers returned to Australia from Africa
and similar parts is that a lot of people
here immediately stop writing them
letters in the mistaken belief that since
they’re back in Australia they don’t need
letters any more. They do. A lot of
them are in New Guinea and a lot in
camps in the country. They still need
mail and plenty of it to break the
monotony of their job.
* * * *
“Norther”: A Brisbane coroner’s in-
quest has been opened into the disappear-
ance of a young woman employed in
the Premier’s Department who vanished
five years ago. Although the police have
combed over 500 square miles of country,
investigating all burials and cremations
within 50 miles of Brisbane, opening new
graves, probing wells, shafts, construction
jobs and searching ships and ’planes and
trains, not a trace of the missing fair has
“But I bought a button two years ago!"
been found. All hospitals have been
double-checked, doctors’ grounds dug up,
“strange smells and odors” investigated
and about 40 “suspected or reputed abor-
tionists” questioned. Four searchers lost
their lives in a ’plane crash. About all
that is known is that the lady drew £3O
from a bank on the day she vanished
and gave four people three conflicting
explanations of where she was going and
why. “Bundaberg” Barnes, M.L.A., has
been striking a he-could-an-he-would
attitude in the House. He now gets his
chance.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An incident which might
have been suggested by the “Boy
Gang” pictures has occurred in
Melbourne. Police got information
“On occasions like this , John , trousers are very unsatisfactory."
of an extensive epidemic of larceny
in one of the outer suburbs, coupled
with a report that several boys
were missing from the parental rooftree.
Combing the scrub surrounding Spring-
vale a strong detachment with volunteer
reinforcements came on a camp of five
boys engaged in dividing up jewellery,
money, cooking utensils, blankets and
clothing to the value of £7O. They art-
lessly explained that the booty was merely
the wherewithal for obtaining the rabbit-
ing equipment which would enable them
to come in on the present high price of
skins and get in on some really big
money.
****
•Talcum”: A drawback of the talkies
MikeTe SaSo“»J
cannot do an audience the courtesy of
waiting till it gets over its laughs. The
result is that many a wisecrack has been
lost to the multitude by being drowned in
the clamor evoked by the joke that imme-
diately preceded it. The Hollywood direc-
tor, whose global strategy takes in the
absolute certainty that his opus will be
performed in such places as Aberdeen and
Paisley, where the choicest American
humor may produce no more than a dry
sniff, cannot introduce laugh pauses with-
out making the whole effect incurably
stagy—and staginess is the bite noire of
the fillum director/ But the pause for
applause is (very, very rarely I admit)
being employed sometimes in these
stirring days. It occurs, for instance, in
“Remember Pearl Harbor,” after a men-
tion of General MacArthur.
* * * *
“Clooter”: When a woman in an Allied
country told a Man-power tribunal that
her war work was affected by lovesickness
and that her fiance in a distant part was
suffering the same malaise the tribunal ac-
cepted it as a valid reason for permitting
her to transfer to her man’s locality.
Romance was ever a winner in that Allied
country, I can see this exposition 01 a
surrender to its power being seized upon
by wives and sweethearts in this country
.7 j octr m/ C'a nhprru’c plahnrntp ukases
to destroy Canberra s elaborate ukase.
regarding rail travel between the States.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Decided by Muirhead, an
Adplm’Hp P M that the service of a
‘ c , ■ .-1, it j
summons on a Sunday is still null and
void. He ruled that the Sabbath Observ-
ance Act of that most pious monarch
Charles II was still in force in England in
1836, was therefore automatically brought
to S.A. then by the earliest settlers, and
has never been repealed. Charge dis-
mic<;pd nn thp ornund that the defendant
missed, on me ground tnai me uetenua i
had not, legally, received any notice of it.
* * * *.
“Specker”; Hobart City Council is to
buy six trolley buses, which will prob-
ably cost it about £35,000. The buses
had been made originally for Canton, but
the Japs took hold there before the
vehicles could be delivered. One alder-
man said he thought it was a queer t'me
to be buying expensive vehicles and dis-
carding existing tram routes, but the
other aldermen fell on him like a ton of
bricks. What Hobart citizens want to
know now is whether the six buses will
arrive by post or come under their own
power.
**. * *
“V. Cluse”: The six-year-old son of a
resident of one of Sydney s poshest
subbubs went outside just on dusk and
found a huge animal grazing on the back
lawn. With a howl of panic he rushed
inside and his mother went to the door,
She’d never met such a beast at close
quarters before, and she promptly re-
tired, slammed and bolted all doors and
windows, gathered her offspring to her
and sat palpitatingly expecting the wall to
come crashing in from the infuriated
monster’s charge. Then, mustering up
all her courage, she tottered to the tele-
phone and called the police. A some-
what sarcastic constable appeared, but he,
suddenly faced with the fact that he
couldn’t arrest, warn, carry or tow
the intruder off the premises, was flum-
moxed. At that moment the man of
the house arrived, looked upon the
scene, opened the side gate and booted
the terror into the street. The force re-
tired, the family circle regrouped itself
and the general harmony of things re-
turned. The stray cow wandered along
the street, browsing on hedges and things,
until a youth and two dogs appeared and
abducted her into the night.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; The breaching of the
Mohne, Eder and Sorpe dams in Ger-
many recalls the reports a year or so ago
that the Japanese were trying to breach,
the artificial banks of the Yellow River.
If they had succeeded the effects would
have been even more striking. The
Yellow River is an immense flood of
water which drains the melted snows of
the central spine of Asia into the Yellow
Sea, miles wide and several yards
above the surrounding plain in places.
It originally flowed into the ocean a thou-
sand miles further south than it does at
present. When it changed its mind it
flooded half a dozen cities and whole
provinces were inundated, the numbers
drowned being stated in terms of tens of
millions —Chinese vital statistics were
largely guesswork in those days. The
Japanese failed because the raised banks
are miles wide and took centuries to build,
and you can’t destroy that kind of earth-
work in a few minutes, even with high
explosives.
HORSE AND HOUND.
“Premier McKell has come out with the old,
old excuse —his Government is forming the new
racing club to improve the breed of horses. Pre-
sumably Badly is trying to improve the breed of
dogs With his tin-hare plan.”— U. ID/o/’iS.
Old —as the pleasant practice known as punting,
Old —as the pastime termed “The Sport of
Kings”
(A phrase more properly applied to hunting);
Dating from when patrician gatherings
At Newmarket, the first of British courses,
For loss of time and money were consoled
By feeling they’d improved the breed of horses.
Too right, it’s pretty old.
King’s Plates (and Queen’s) are old-time insti-
tutions,
Clear proofs that monarchs recognised the
need
To help a worthy cause with contributions
Designed for bettering the equine breed.
An English trait, it may be rightly reckoned,
A link across the centuries as well
Between that Merry Monarch Charles the
Second
And Premier McKell.
He looks ahead. One visions him discerning
In years to come, as adverts, for our race,
Another—p’r’aps a greater—Carbine -earning
Blue ribbons for his gameness and his pace;
Another galloping-machine to blazon
■ Our fame, whose heart (preserved in spirits)
chaps
Will flock with proper reverence to gaze on,
Same as good old Phar Lap’s.
Ah, well, there isn’t cause to carp or bicker.
There must be few who aren't doing their bit
To make our neddies speedier and slicker,
Though doubtless often unaware of it.
The crowds upon the courses totewards moving,
The backers, and the books with bulging bags,
All, incidentally, may be improving
The quality of nags.
And when the busts of Mac and his lieutenant
Appear, in some memorial hall enshrined,
’Mong Labor stalwarts who have won the
pennant
For staunch and faithful service to their kind,
We’ll look for some inscription that enforces
Their claims to eminence, upon the grounds
That one of them improved the breed of horses,
The other that of hounds.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE BALLADE.
“Scorn not the sonnet,” William Wordsworth
told
His little world a century ago.
I never have or will. Its manifold
Merits should‘always bring a quid pro quo.
In other words a fair return in dough,
To any properly attested bard.
But 1 suspect my Pegasus will show
His paces better in the French ballade.
Observe the syllable wherewith it’s soled.
Not this the loosely-labelled ballad, no,
The minstrelsy that ranges uncontrolled
Through metres long or short, and fast or
slow,
As arbitrary as the winds that blow.
Three rhymes, and only three, are on the card,
Through full three stanzas and a half to flow,
For him who’d try his hand at a ballade.
New forms of verse —or none —edge out the old.
The tripping triolet, the blithe rondeau,
No longei by our sons of song are trolled,
Settings in which rare gems were made to
glow , ,
By craftsmen that our fathers used to know.
Whose measures by no wastes of words were
marred.
Top-hamper is a thing one may not stow
W'ithin the compass of the French ballade.
Envoy.
Pith and precision count the most. I trow
Most of our modernists would find it hard
A fraction of. their profuse strains to throw
Into the framework of the old ballade.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


' “Tuart”: I was interested in the adven-
ture of those two American salts who
cast aside the restraints of discipline in
Swanland. In one newspaper narrative they
“took to the bush at Guildford,” which
would be a matter of some difficulty,
Guildford being a staid Swanside suburb
noted for its roses and for its grammar-
school chapel, perhaps the most beauti-
ful in Australia —gift of an anonymous
Englishman. From Guildford they made
tracks to “Ginginio,” presumably Gin-
gin v which has given a V.C., Gordon, to
this war. In or about “Ginginio” they
were nabbed on the fourth day. Gingin,
as I remember it, is a pretty place, and
I don’t wonder that the wanderers tarried
in the neighborhood, particularly if, as
I suppose, they struck Muchea, on the
Midlands railway. I did that long ago,
after a dreadful sulky ride from Perth,
leaving the pleasant vistas of the Upper
Swan to navigate a harrowing wilder-
ness of scrub and sand. Outlined against
the galvanised-iron station building stood
an elderly and dispirited railwayman.
“Muchea?” he snorted in answer to my
inquiry as to accommodation and ameni-
ties: “Mister, you’ve come to the last
place God made.” Apropos, the West
has never had an effective bushranger.
In the “bond-or-free” days it gloried
mildly in a certain Moondyne or Moon-
dyne Joe, whose exploits interested Boyle
O’Reilly, the transported poet and novel-
ist (afterwards a literary figure of some
note in Boston), sufficiently for O’Reilly
to make him the hero of a work of
fiction ; but, compared with Ward, Hall,
Morgan and the Kellys, Moondyne was
a peaceful character.
♦ * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: One inter-
state liner is steaming along regardless
of blackouts and under ordinary ship-
board routine. And though she steers
a winding course, it isn’t because of sub-
marines: it’s merely to humor the snags
and bends of the Murray River, for the
vessel is the gum-tree liner Marion. This
old three-decked, wood-burning paddle-
wheeler now not only frightens kanga-
roos daily along a gum-tree lined course
between Mildura (Vic.), Wentworth
(N.S.W.) and Morgan (S.A.) but her
passenger accommmodation is booked
out for six months ahead —a strange
reversal of form. Before the war, despite
the locking of the Murray to Mildura,
lack of trade caused the scrapping of the
steamers Ruby and Gem, leaving the
Marion to cater for the few tourists
chasing the winter’s sunshine. Some sea-
sons she made only two trips. Then the
S.A. Government, to revive river travel,
proposed building an air-conditioned,
diesel-driven, luxury showboat, complete,
with swimming-pool and dance-hall, but
investigation showed that trade didn’t
warrant it. Except for the advent of
electric light, Murray liners haven’t
changed since their inception 87 years
ago, surely a record for Australian travel.
*-* * *
“Pawang”; Dr. John Dale, Mel-
bourne’s tall city health officer, started
off the Federal Government’s £20,000
anti-v.d. campaign in Victoria with a
public lecture, and a better man could
not have been chosen. His main thesis
was that shame prevented many sufferers
from seeking treatment by doctors, and
many became the prey of quacks. When
he opened his address the total attendance
was three reporters. It was not until a
few stragglers turned up that the affair
changed from a press interview to a
lecture. How significant! The authori-
ties go through motions of concern
every time there is a v.d. scare, but the
moment they can decently or indecently
do so they drop the subject. Obviously
they feel it to be an improper subject to
discuss, a view shared by an uninstructed
public.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: According to the cables
a mass christening of British boy babies
as Alexander has followed recent events
in North Africa. History again repeats
itself. When Alexander the Great
marched on Palestine the Jews were flut-
tered about how they were likely to be
treated by the new conqueror. The chief
priests and rabbis went out to meet him,
and secured good terms. In gratitude it
was decreed that every Jewish male born
within 12 months was to be named after
the conqueror. Alex, was tickled pink
and handed out a bunch of additional
concessions. To this day Alexander is a
favorite Jewish name.
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”; Latter-day historians
hold that the Kelly country in the ’seven-
ties was “wild bush,” held by voracious
landowners who carried out endless
“high-spirited feuds” with the small man.
A lady reviewer of recently published
Kellyana says: “Reared in wild bush
country, Ned Kelly was brought up
with a grudge against the landowner who,
not satisfied with picking the eyes out
of the country, would impound any poor
man’s Stock found outside his paddock.”
The font® are that the ronntrv ranned
Ihe facts are that me country rangea
by the Kellys had been fenced, grazed
and tilled by the small farmer tor almost
a generation before the Kellys drew a
bead on a police tunic. The Squatter
period had ended well before the Kelly
brood was brought to the district (Ned
was born at Wallan, 40 miles from Mel-
bourne, in 1854), and when the family did
come to Greta land would have been
available to the brothers if they had
chosen to remain law-abiding citizens.
The first sale of subdivided land in the
district was held in 1855, before Ned had
cut a tooth. Then came the selection pur-
chase lease (available to this day for
whatever Crown land remains), which
limited each selector to 640 acres of first-
class land at 20s. per acre, free of interest,
The total amount wa® navahle over a
o^° Unt Wa l payable ° V£r a
period of 20 years, when Crown grant
issued if conditions of the lease (fenc-
ins rent and cultivation) had been com-
pifed
ground for big landowners who, in com-
pany with the peaceful inhabitants and
the Kellys, are accused of taking part in
a “cheerful rag-tag frontier life.”
* * * *
“Inglegar”: A bit more about the
burying place of James Ruse, first land
grantee and pioneer wheatgrower, who
lies in old St. John’s R.C. burying ground,
near Campbelltown (N.S.W.) The first
St. John’s was completed by Father
Therry in 1835 Elizabeth, wife of Ruse,
Home Lord 1837.” This church has now
been converted into a girls’ college, and
the new St. John’s is nearer Campbell-
town township and the Anglican Church
"You praise the Lord , George , and I'll get the ammunition."
of St. Peter. St. Peter’s cemetery, too,
has its celebrities —Parson Reddall, one-
time tutor to Governor Macquarie’s son
Lachlan; Frederick Fisher, whose ghost
once caused such a to-do, and millionaire
Jimmy Tyson, son of a local constable,
rest with a goodly company of Anglicans.
* * * *
“Bagus Skali”: It doesn’t need humans
having nightmares to produce strange
noises in the Malayan jungle (B.
12/5/’43). There is the bird variously
known as tukang kayu, carpenter or
coffin-maker. Its note is a persistent
hammering that grows more and more
maddening until the listener feels that the
nail it is hitting on the head with such
insane persistence is buried in his own
skull-case. Then there is the brain-fever
bird, which sings three bars of a
familiar waltz tune correctly and goes
flat in the middle of the fourth one. The
honk of the hornbill can also be depress-
ing. But it is the unidentified noises (of
which there are myriads) which have the
strongest effect on the imagination. It
is these unidentified noises and the
general strangeness of the tropics which
probably account for the group-neurosis
reported to have occurred amongst
marines at Guadalcanal, as much as the
alleged Machiavellian skill of the
Japanese in timing raids and bombing
to prevent sleep. Londoners suffered
less, not more, neurosis during the blitz.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l’s” tribute to a warden
of the coast:
A strange hobby is that of grazier Jack
Cleeland, at Wollomai homestead (under the
cape of that name on Phillip Island (Vic.). He’s
nearing 80 now, and has never been to sea, but
for 60 years he has kept watch to seaward
for shipping and, at his own expense, tele-
graphed to Melbourne reports of all coasters
and crayfishing ketches sheltering in front of
his home or passing on through the tide-whipped
Narrows forming the eastern entrance to
Westernport. To improve the port he had
leading-lights erected, the maintenance of which
he attends to himself without pay. He has
seen more wrecks than any man in Victoria.
Forty-two years ago through his telescope he
saw the American barque Artisan blown ashore
14 miles away at Cape Patterson, and for his
rescue work he was decorated by the Royal
Humane Society. In 1906 he bought the wreck
of the Speke, the largest full-rigged ship ever
launched, which foundered on the island, and
some years afterwards refloated the stranded
ketch Pearl. Coasting seamen and fishermen
have shown their regard for Jack by bringing
him nautical presents (including Cape Barren
geese from Flinders Island way to run in his
garden), so that his homestead, where once
the Melbourne Cup winner Wollomai was
trained by his father, is a maritime museum.
In recent years, through the continued use of the
telescope, the sight of one of his eyes has been
impaired, but the completion of a suspension
bridge from the mainland at San Remo to the
island by his home has blocked shipping enter-
ing Westernport by that entrance, and his long-
watch has ended.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Daryl Lindsay is on dangerous
ground when he quotes monetary values
(B. 5/5/’43) as evidence of the superior
worth of Rembrandt’s and Gains-
borough’s oils as against their water-
colors. Would he say that the vast Tie-
polo canvas, for which the Felton Bequest
paid £32,000, was a better picture than
the Rembrandt self-portrait, which cost
less? Would he say that the Alma
Tadema replica was artistically in the
same class as the “Bent Tree” of Corot
because they cost about the same
amount? On Mr. Lindsay’s argument
the Rembrandt self-portrait, for which
the Felton Bequest trustees paid £25,000,
was artistically worthless when it was
painted, because its author probably
didn’t get the price of a square meal from
the Dutch burghers for it.
» * * ♦
“Strict Veg.”: These conferences of the
unco guid—they have just had two in
successive weeks in Melbourne —which
solemnly pledge themselves to save youth
from the devil make me tired. I know
a lady of 83 who has started brewing
beer herself because she can’t buy it at
the corner pub any longer.
* * * *
“Grafter” rejoices that trees still have
their uses:
News that the tremendously successful new
British Mosquito ’plane is a wooden job
came to me (and I should think to most others
whose experience embraces both carpentry
and metalwork) as a great pleasure. It was
like hearing that an old friend, long buffeted
by ill-fortune, had become prosperous again.
Kipling touches on the sentiment in his story
of a ship’s crew that repaired fearfully dam-
aged engines. After days of superhuman toil
straightening the propellor-shaft, they were
given the job of cutting timbers to shore up the
cylinder-pillars, and thanked God “for even
half-a-day’s work on gentle, kindly wood
instead of the iron that had entered into their
souls.” When I was in a technical school
forty years ago, a controversy raged as to
whether for some structural purposes wood
wasn’t better than metal. We had a testing
machine at work for weeks, and the woodites,
of whom I was one, were able to demonstrate
several uses for which wood was just as good
as any metal and a lot cheaper. Since then
the metallurgists have dosed steel with vana-
dium and chromium and even with lead, and
have produced magnesium alloys half the
weight of aluminium, and the chemists have
mucked around with rubber and gum and
resin and wax to produce plastics that can do
everything but talk. Jt looked as if poor old
wood was good for nothing any more beyond
providing paper for the daily press. The
R.A.F.’s new “flying furniture” is a magnifi-
cent comeback on the part of a good old
friend. I hope that as a result retired air
marshals a few years hence will go around
planting acorns, as one of Nelson’s colleagues
did in the early days of last century.
* * * *
“B. Hackshaw”: Some Melbourne
people are dreadfully upset at the dis-
covery that there are 150 illiterates in
the Australian Army. Prof. G. S.
Browne, Dean of the Faculty of Educa-
tion at the University of Melbourne, says
that the situation is “alarming, but not
unduly alarming”; J. V. Stout, the
Trades Hall secretary, thinks it is “appal-
ling,” and J. A. Seitz, State Director of
Education, wants to know what the tru-
ancy officials in their districts were doing
to miss the school-dodgers. Nobody
seems to have thought to ask whether the
illiterate ones are less or more intelligent
than some of their fellow-countrymen
who have had the advantages of State,
private and university education. G. B.
Shaw considers that the luckiest thing
that happened to him was his parents
were so poor that he escaped a university
education —and nobody would say he
was lacking in intelligence.
* * * *
“Hamfat”; Britain in the midst of the
war has got its first national theatre, the
Royal at Bristol; Government pays the
salaries of the mummers through the
Council for the Encouragement of Music
and Arts. This theatre, which escaped the
blitz but narrowly missed being turned
into a warehouse, is the oldest in England,
dating back to 1706. It was the
first theatre in Britain to sport
semicircular galleries, rising tier
by tier above the pit. Many
great mummers of former days
acted on its stage. Once during
a presentation there of Byron’s
“Mazeppa” a hitch occurred
when, after the hero had been
bound to “the untamed fiery
steed,” the animal refused to
budge. The audience was
giggling when a stage-hand re-
membered that the nag had been
a bus-horse. He banged a stick
against a wall to simulate the
closing of a door and cried
“Re-ight! ” hearing which the
untamed fiery one lumbered into
action.
♦ * *
“Jaman”: Reference to “The
Murder in the Red Barn” (B.
12/5/’43) recalls that the skin
of Corder, the murderer, was
used to bind a book which is,
or was before the war, in the
Athenaeum Library, Bury St.
Edmunds. Apparently that sort
of bookbinding was all the rage
200 years ago. Witches and
murderers seem to have been
favorite sources of skins, and
numerous examples are still pre-
served. Another instance is that
of a beautiful countess who be-
queathed her skin to an admirer.
He took advantage of this
legacy, and had one of his books
on astronomy bound with it. Human
skin, tanned, is very like similarly-treated
calfskin.
* * * SfC
“Adelaide”: One of this city’s leading
hotels has been fined £2 for “not removing
a youth aged 15 years eight months from
licensed premises.” Boys under 16 are
not allowed in billiard-saloons, and this
one was playing * snooker after (it was
alleged) telling the lessee that he was 16.
It was the first case of its kind in S.A.;
but others have quickly followed.
* * * *
“Cit”; Whenever I hear of hundreds
and thousands of tons of h.e. being rained
on German and Italian cities I recall the
horror with which as a child I heard of
South Africa’s “Great Dynamite Disas-
ter” in the late ’nineties. On a railway
siding at Braafontein lay seven trucks
containing 20 tons of dynamite and one
truck filled with detonators. These re-
mained in the yards for days awaiting
delivery (regulations were that explosives
be delivered the day after arrival), with
the result that the heat of the sun caused
the nitroglycerin to leak, and concus-
sion during shunting caused the stuff to
explode. There was left a trench 250 ft. by
60ft., 30ft. deep, with the earth banked
up evenly on both sides. Fragments
the trucks, of mules and of hundreds
of human beings splattered the earth.
Houses near by, occupied by natives,
were razed to the ground and the in-
mates buried underneath. And all that
was done with 20 tons of an explosive
that is considered poor stuff in these
days!


ABORIGINALITIES
sneak into me ears and ring bells!”
Denny stopped and, glancing furtively
towards the house, whispered “But don’t
tell the missus I’ve got this knife —she’s
never liked me having anything sharp
since the little men cut the dog’s throat.”
The big car was on its way before dinner-
time.
* * * *
“B.B.”; “A checkle-faced cow” (B.
28/4/’43)! I’ve never heard ’em called
that. “Broken-faced,” “spotted-faced,”
“mottled-faced,” “speckled-faced,” yes,
but usually just “broken bally.”
* * * *
“Korongah”: Getting sheep across
streams, is it (B. 12/5/’43)? In 1939,
floodwaters having cut the embank-
ment across the creek on a Riverina run,
6000 full-woolled ewes and their lambs
—with the exception of ope old ewe that
' was drowned—swam 25 yards across 10
feet of water. The boss, his men and
their dogs and all the shearers and shed
hands packed the mob on the water at a
suitable spot. Then the boss peeled off
and swam the creek with a rope, the
other end of which was fastened round
a jumbuck’s horns. Full pressure was
then put op the mob, and the roped sheep
was drawn into the water and kept mov-
ing. The rest followed without a hitch.
“Byramine”: Next time they have to
cross sheep over a river tell those Pitt-
“Tile 0.D.”: On show night the visit-
ing dramatic company staged an Austra-
lian play. The opening scene depicted
the struggling selector leaning on his axe
soliloquising about the grand Australian
bush and its grand opportunities, the
wheat he was to grow and the girl he was
to marry. It was wfell done and the audi-
ence paid it the tribute of silent attention.
Then the selector made a final declama-
tory statement and shouldered his axe
to walk off the stage, whereupon the
entire audience collapsed with laughter,
for on the waistband of his pants, evi-
dently bought that day, was the well-
known red-and-white price ticket of the
town’s main store.
♦ * * *
“Essie”: Was looking for cattle along
the creek and came suddenly upon a
wood-duck, the proud mother of 14. The
tyke, a fiery half-bred kelpie, ignoring my
“Come behind, y’ cow! ” rushed to attack,*
only to be foiled by the lame-duck act.
The old duck made off, running, flapping
and beating the ground with her wings in
a drunken, crazy fashion, but always
keeping just out of reach. Cunningly she
led the mong. for about a quarter of a
mile, then flew in a wide semicircle to
return and gather her scattered brood
together again. I rerdembered how as
a kid a bronze-winged pigeon pulled the
same trick on me.
* « * *
“A.D.”: “Monty” wandered through
the S.A. Murray districts for years, but
never carried a swag. “It’s a mug’s
game,” he’d say. “When I knock on a
door I nearly always crack it for a doss
as well as a feed. You couldn’t do that
with Matilda up.”
* * * *
“Curator”: Sydney’s Technological
Museum has been working on the ques-
tion of the economics of Huon pine
essential oil (B. 12/5/’43) for over 20
years. The oil is sold under the proprie-
tary name of Megenol, and is used in the
treatment of tinea. It is an excellent
deterrent of white-ants and borers, and
makes up with other substances into a
fly-repellent. Just now it has defence
uses ; unfortunately the demand exceeds
the supply. Chips and sawdust from
mature trees contain a great deal of oil,
varying from 3 p.c. to 5 p.c.
=p * * *
“B. A. Ker”; The creek was sft. deep
over the ford near Denny’s place when
the big car braked at the edge. Denny,
who has two sons in New Guinea, nurses
very definite views concerning able-
bodied young foreigners jaunting around
the country in flash cars, but his genero-
sity overcame them. He took the stran-
gers up to the house. Three days later
the water went on downstream, but the
guests stayed on, rising at ten, whaling
into the cream, milk and none too plenti-
ful eggs, and riding, fishing and shooting
at leisure. On the tenth day Denny re-
quested “a hand to turn the grindstone,”
and somewhat reluctantly the younger of
the two visitors complied. “Got to get
this carvin’-knife sharp for t’night,”
Denny confided. “Goin’ to kill them
little men.” The guest looked startled.
“What men?” he asked. “The little men
-—the ones that hide me tobacco and
pinch me matches; them that pull the
clothes off me feet in bed; the ones that
“Are you one of those Tobruk Rats ?”
street drovers to tie a rope round a
wether’s horns and lead him across on
horseback, at the same time reciting in a
loud.voice “Baa, baa, black sheep,” with
special emphasis on the first two words,
If this fails, the only thing is to dig a
trench upstream and diyert the river
round behind the mob.
* * * *
“90 Mile”: “Narrin” (B. 19/5/’43)
seems to be floundering a bit when he
tells a yarn about somebody racing up
alongside kangaroos and downing ’em
with .32 automatic pistols as proof that
he finds no trouble in potting snakes
with a .22 rifle. Mug that I am, I ride
up beside my Toos and knock ’em with
a stirrup-iron, thus saving the cost of the
pistol, ammo, and pistol license. What
began all this was a claim by “Narrin”
to have shot a musk duck at 200 yards
with a .22. Then a lady entered a yam
about shooting fish under water, and
remarked that “anyone who has seen the
tiger swimming or leaping into action
when disturbed among rocks will appreci-
ate the difficulty of killing it with a .22
(without a rest) from a moving dinghy,”
whereupon “Narrin” asserted that potting
Blakes under such handicaps was no
trouble to his own wife. It begins to
look as though the part of the Murray
which “Narrin” inhabits must share
with Eire the fame of owning a man who
scared all the serpents out of it—one
with holy invocation, the other with a
.22.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; For the first 50 years
or so most public buildings in Australia
were roofed with V.D.L. shingles (B.
21/4/’43). The Swan River settlement
was only five months old when a Derwent
River barque, the Euphemia, dropped
anchor off Fremantle. She had for sale
25,000 shingles at 40s. the 1000, 50,000
feet of sawn timber, boards, battens,
quarterings, of stringy bark or blue gum,
at sid. the super, foot, and V.D.L. bricks
at 90s. per 1000. After supplying Captain
Stirling’s wants, the Euphemia sailed on
to Timor, and thence through the Torres
Strait and down the east coast of the
continent for her home port of Hobart
Town. In those spacious days this con-
tinent was circumnavigated several times
a year by cockleshells and tubs ranging
in size from 20 to 200 tons.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Try powdered nutmeg
for dressing cuts and wounds (B.
31/3/ ’43). Our Chinese cook dusted it
on the palms of my hands pretty liber-
ally one time I’d cut them falling off a
bike. The bleeding stopped immediately,
and the wounds healed up in a couple of
days.
“C.M.N.”; Add the ash from freshly-
burnt brown paper to the list of things
for stopping bleeding. It works.
* * * *
“8.A.”: The bark of the peppermint
(B. 12/5/’43) is so brittle that it is diffi-
cult to remove a sheet without breaking
it, and when it does come off in one
piece it must be well “fired” on the
under or sap side before it’s flattened out,
otherwise it will split from end to end.
Red, blue and white gum and white, red
and yellow box and ironbark are just as
bad. The fibrous-barked eucalypts, such
as mountain ash, turpentine, messmate
and stringybark, will give good, pliable
and fairly durable bark sheets, but none
of the “gums” is worth the trouble of
stripping.
“Aragun”; Don’t know about the time
taken to kill, skin and dress a sheep (B.
5/5/’43), but at South Grafton (N.S.W.)
in the ’nineties Jack Slack backed his
brother Mick to peel and dress a station
bullock (8001 b. average) in under five
minutes. Mick did the job at Ramornie
meatworks, and the Ramornie men were
on him to a man. The hide had to be
taken off cleanly without cut or blemish,
and Slack had the bullock on the baulks
in 4rain. 28sec. Mick was a fine athlete ;
he won the Australian amateur sculling
championship in ’92, ’96 and 1900, turn-
ing out only when the event was held in
Queensland.
t • , * * *
Old-timer : It was Sunday morning
on the station, hot and drowsy. Dusty
Sal stood under a box-tree and swished
her tail idly, her lower lip clopping gently
at a persistent fly. About then the jew
lizard half-asleep in the fork above Sal
awoke to see a brown hawk coming at
90 m.p.h. The jewy tried to slip round
the underside of the fork, lost its grip
and landed on Sal’s broad back. The
hawk changed the direction of its dive,
missed the lizard, momentarily touched
Sal with a flurry of talons and wings and
then zoomed upward past her head. Sal
came awake with two bucks and a squeal
and trotted twice round the tree, lashing
out. Under all the other trees all thl
other horses woke up, pricked their ears
at Sal and galloped up to her with in-
quiring looks. The drowsing dogs also
woke up, galloped along to see what was
doing and added to the general uproar,
Then a young colt led the nags off in a
wild gallop up the paddock, with the dogs
in pursuit. The boss, asleep on the home-
stead verandah, awoke, jumped up and
rushed to the gate, yelling at the hounds,
His missus rushed out, yelling at the boss,
The hands, down in the hut, looked out
and judiciously withdrew. About then a
sewing-machine traveller in a buggy
drawn by two horses came round the
woolshed corner. His pair sighted the
galloping mob, laid their ears back and
did some galloping on their own, leaving
the traveller and his buggy draped un-
gracefully over a corner of the sheep-
yards. Boss, hands, traveller, dogs and
horses spent the next hour sorting them-
selves out; then the traveller gave the dis-
tant hawk a bitter look. “Come down
here, y’ blankard,” he muttered, “an’ I’ll
show what I think of the bird-lovers’
league.”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Whenever I come across
white-ants while doing an hour or so
on the woodheap I dump the split pieces
on to a big black-ant heap near by. The
way those blackies tear around and grab
soft morsels to carry down to their larder
is worth seeing.' The other day, instead
of the usual soft, plump, creamy-white
termites, I found a smaller brown-and-
cream edition, thousands of ’em. I
carried this special treat to black brother
and saw the biter bit. Each black ant
grabbed his prey, then suddenly let go as
if he had been stung. He wouldn’t come
back for more, either. Now I’ve got a
nest of brown-and-cream escapees in my
fence posts, and they’re going to take
dislodging.
* * * »
“Dixit”: Old Rod had been trying to
grow wheat in the Mallee, but the scrub
always got the better of him. Found
him up a sapling fumbling with a line
of wire stretched from tree to tree
through the scrub. “Putting up a tele-
phone line?” I asked'. “Telephone line,
be blowed!” he exclaimed. “When I
came here a few years ago these trees
were just short scrub come up after the
roller. I ran a wire about three feet high
from sapjin’ to saplin’ an’ made a kinda
fence to keep me nags in. Now”—he
paused and cut a wire—“a man’s got to
bring the darned thing down or run
giraffes.”
“Louden”: He got off the train at
Grong Grong and tramped south. Late
that afternoon he struck the ’Bidgee
at a bend below Berembed weir.
Beneath him a boat lay moored to
a sapling ; a station across the river
showed through the gums. It was
June and a full river, and as he
pushed off a dense fog slid down
on him. He had reached mid-cur-
rent when the old Wagga Wagga
shot around the bend and came straight
at him. He took one startled look at the
huge, strange shape and, diving over-
board, struck out for the southern bank.
A few minutes later he was telling his
story to the station hands. They got him
a stiff whisky and a change of clothes,
; and the joker of the mob told him he
must have encountered the “Murrum-
bidgee Monster.” Bfefore dark one of the
hands found the abandoned boat against
a fallen gum not far away and returned
with the stranger’s swag. He seemed
more contented then and looked like
staying for the job offered him. That
night, however, a screech-owl in the
vicinity did its stuff. Next morning the
city youth breakfasted hurriedly, shoul-
dered his swag and made off along the
track to Narrandera.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: The old Murray steamer
Invincible was feeling her way down-
stream in a thick, white Murray fog. The
skipper stood in the wheelhouse anxiously
trying to see the timber line and to “feel”
the current, his vision limited to a few
yards. Then the inevitable happened.
There was a slither, a violent jerk, a
thrashing of paddles and the boat was
aground. The skipper picked himself up,
rang down “Stop” to the stokehold and
peered at the mud under the fog. On it
appeared a whiskered individual. “Hey,
where are we, mate?” hailed the skipper.
Whiskers grinned. “Y’ needn’t worry,
y’re on land,” he answered. “I know that,
y’ goat,” came back the skipper; “but is
it Victoria or New South Wales?”
« * * *
“Raeside Soak”: It certainly wasn’t
Nicholas, of Nullagine (W.A.), who intro-
duced the camel to Australia (B.
21/4/’43). In 1907 he was well behind
the hunt. In 1875 Sir Thomas Elder, of
S. Australia, equipped Ernest Giles with
a few, and they carried him successfully
on his third attempt to cross the interior
desert to the coast of Westralia. Those
were the first camels Perth saw, and in
compliment the town band welcomed
them with “The Campbells Are Coming.”
Even earlier Australian tracks knew the
pad of the oont’s splay feet. In 1860
24 camels were imported for the Burke
and Wills expedition. The head camelier
was a Pathan, Bullok Knight, so possiol>
to him belongs the honor of introducing
the brutes.
FRIENDLY STARS.
Warward has the stockman gone,
Gone from inland route and run,
Gone from lonesome moving on,
On and on, till, daylight done.
Round him reigned the peace of stars.
Breathes he now beneath their light
Air made fresh by cleansing dew?
Nay, for far-off are tonight
All the campfires that he knew
On his long lone journeyings.
Did he leave the stars behind
When he quested oversea,
Foes to foil or death to find?
Nay, for they, a company
Brave and true, cleave close to him.
Rich with memories of the past,
Calm above the rage of war,
Wheresoe’er his lot be cast
There they march, for evermore
Seen by him in happy dreams.
Pain he knows and battle-scars.
Yet that faithful galaxy,
Nightly ousting alien stars.
Shows again for him to see
Mulga ridge and saltbush plain.
Heartened by his shining friends,
He shall dare and do, and then,
When his fateful journey ends,
Homeward troop with them again
To the land he loved so well.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Jemalong Jim”: Things were fairly
quiet in the bar when the dusty bloke
with the burrs in his whiskers dropped in.
“S’ot,” he mumbled faintly, wiped a
trembling hand across his brow and
slithered to the floor in a dead faint. The
three customers gave him a startled look
and one called to Bung “Gimme a brandy,
quick.” Bung shook his head, winked
and signalled them to watch. Time passed,
and then the dusty bloke sat up, looking
a bit puzzled. “I used to have the pub
at Long Stretch, ’way up north,” said
Bung, “It was bad luck you should pick
my pub out of the 10 in this town for
your faintin’ fit, Fred.” Whereupon
Freddie the Fainter picked himself up,
morosely dusted himself, bitterly re-
marked “There ought to be a law makin’
publicans stay where they’re put,” and
departed in search of a fresh, and inno-
cent, audience.
& * ♦ *
“NX7—l”: How paradoxical are
tropical countries! New Guinea is the
strangest of all. The parched Moresby
area musters a bare 30in. rainfall a
year. In most other parts of the island
rainfall runs into hundreds of inches.
The 16,000 ft. Cordilleras —7000 ft. at
their lowest crossing—are snowcapped
the year round. Early mornings and
evenings in tropical countries, unless you
are caught out in the usual shower, are
invariably lovely; coloring of the sky
and landscape is soft and diffused. Yet
most other characteristics of these
countries are harsh and violent.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: It was a quiet morning
at the big bridge that spans Peel Inlet,
Mandurah (W.A.). Joe Cooper anchored
his 16ft. dinghy a little way down and
tossed out a kingfish line. At once a
fish snapped. One feel of the line and
Joe knew he had a big ’up. Easing out
the line with one hand, he got up the
anchor with the other, then began to put
the brake on his capture. That fish pulled
the dinghy round a circle of several hun-
dred yards before it was hoisted in, yet
it weighed a mere 481 b.
* * *
“Nigel D.”: Arnold wooden wreck is
always a boarding-house for fish (B.
21/4/’43). Barnacles grow there by the
million, and among them shrimps,
worms and a thousand other tiny fwrms
of marine life for the fish to feed on.
Even an iron wreck attracts a few fish,
since there is usually wood in the deck-
houses and superstructure. Next to
wood in the list of desirable localities
for fish comes rock, though rock tends
more to the growth of weeds than bar-
nacles. A common cause of fish disappear-
ing from their regular feeding grounds
is the undersea drift of sand, caused by
a change of ocean currents. Square
miles of rocky, weedy seabed may be
buried and all the food killed off.
m * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a bleak and
bitter night. We dropped our drums on
the outskirts of the town and a
dredge of our pockets assayed 2s. 4d.
“Look,” Mat suggested, “you book a
bed in a pub an’ later on I’ll get in some-
how and we’ll both doss in the one room.
It’s too flamin’ cold to camp under a
wire fence tonight.” I got a single room
upstairs for 25., and after a while I
opened the window. There was a street
below, and I knew Mat was in it some-
where, but I couldn’t yell or strike a
light because that street was far too
thickly populated. Then I heard a willie
wagtail, and was still worrying about Mat
when it suddenly struck me that Willie
doesn’t sing on a black night, only in
moonlight. I answered with a curlew
whistle. Five minutes later Mat was in
the room. “How did you know it was
me?” I asked. He grinned. “No blanky
curlew ever sounded like that,” he said.
W St! * *
“Naturala”: In the honey country in
the hills east from Perth I saw one apiary
where more than a dozen hives of Italians
had gone west. The floors were clut-
tered with dead bees, the combs black
and filthy, without one drop of honey.
Empty miller moth cocoons and web
were everywhere. Famine was the funda-
mental cause ; the jarrahs on which the
bees depended to carry them through the
summer had failed to flower. Starving
bees, be they Italian, black or Carniolan,
can’t keep the moth ouj. Well-fed
Italians cans; but even they will fail if
the hive is badly constructed —with too
wide an entrance, and inaccessible nooks
“I've run out of ammo."
where the moth can lay her eggs and the
grubs hatch out so that the bees are un-
able to capture them before they burrow
into the comb. Once the grub is inside
the comb the bees appear helpless, for
the grubs spin a web curtain over the
face of the comb which defies the bees.
They have a horror of tangling their legs
in any sort of web.
* * ♦ *
“Bren Buster”: My sense of direction
(B. 12/5/’43) stood me in good stead in
Tobruk. The footsloggers were motor-
ised in June, 1941, One black, moonless
night we transport drivers took rested
troops out to the front line in the El
Adem sector, and brought the relieved
battalion out. One small section of the
convoy finished up on the escarpment
above Fort Pilistrino, where we dumped
our tired troops at Company H.Q. I
was at the tail-end of five trucks, and as
I crawled after the others through the
gloom I cursed and muttered in my
beard as the convoy twisted and turned,
halted, started off afresh in a new direc-
tion, then came back on its tracks. The
country was fairly level, and quite bare
of scrub and timber; the front line was
quiet and there were no flares or Very
lights, tracers or mortar-bursts to show
where the perimeter lay. When the
trucks stopped again I jumped out and
strode wrathfully to the front, where some
sort of conference was going on. “Who’s
supposed to be in charge of this blasted
convoy?” I demanded. “I am,” said
Corporal Bill Cowan belligerently. “Well,
I’ve had enough of this ring-a-rosy stuff,”
I announced. “I’m going home.” I re-
turned to my truck, started up and roared
off to the left through the gloom straight
on to the Acroma road. When I looked
back, going down the escarpment, the
other trucks were behind me, head to tail.
“Old-timer”: I wasn’t “defending” the
sense of direction, “N.” (B. 19/5/’43), as
it isn’t on trial. Nor did I claim that it’s
exclusive to bushmen. All I said was that
either you have it or you haven’t. One
who admits that he hasn’t can no more
argue about it than can a man argue
about horses who admits he doesn’t
“know” ’em. By the same token, it’s
just as hopeless for one possessing a
sense of direction to argue about it with
one who doesn’t. As a lad of 18 I was
bushed with Jimmy the Guv’nor and
tried to persuade him our way lay south-
east, whereas he, claiming to know that
country backwards, insisted it lay southl-
west, and kept me, sullen and mutinous,
in the scrub for two days until the
searchers came from the south-east.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Old Woolbale tried his
hand at a bit of dowsing. The twig per-
formed in great style. “It’s there all
right,” Woolbale exclaimed, “and plenty
of it. I’ll start ’em boring straight
away.” Water was struck and found to
be as salty as the sea. Woolbale was
philosophic. “It serves me right,” he said.
“I should have used a piece of willow
instead of saltbush—l ought to have
known saltbush would do that.”
* * * *
“Jabiru”: We had been dipping and
branding. Most of the cattle had gone
and we were cutting out strays when a
cow got annoyed. After chasing all
hands out of two yards she tore through
the dip, leapt at the gate of the draining
pen, smashed it, picked herself up,
busted two panels of fencing and got
away. Nothing much in that, but the
next evening I read about the Gyppo
shirt (B. 21/4/’43), and thought how
“convenient” it would have been to step
on the front of a flaming thing like that
when I was making for the top rail.
* * * *
“Ben C.”: Once again Russian scien-
tists have discovered perennial wheat.
They’ve been doing it at regular intervals
for the past ten years or so. This time
the information was cabled to the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Science
by the “Soviet Scientists’ Anti-Fascist
Committee,” which claims that the peren-
nial will yield three harvests a year for
two years without replanting. I’m a bit
sceptical, but, then, so is old Mrs. Nature,
and I’m dead sure she won’t believe that
anybody can make a plant yield its fruit
more than once a year until she decides
to change the seasons. I know that pears
and prunes sometimes carry a second
crop, but if they do the grower pays for
it in the following season.
* !f * *
“Quien Sabe”: There should be more
appreciation of the humble microbe. We
“Not THE. MacArthur?”
depend on its work in the soil for our
very existence. As the average microbe
is about one 2,500,000,000 th of an inch
in length, they must necessarily hunt in
packs. Millions of them work in the soil
by breaking up dead animal and vege-
table matter ready for reabsprption into
living plants. Without them the plants
would starve. Bacteria also perform
work of a more visible kind. Yeast and
the various kinds of mould are familiar
to everyone.
* * * •£
“E.H.S.”: 111 standing up for the Per-
cheron, I offered no criticism of the Suf-
folk Punch, Agree with “Sarina” (B.
21/4/’43) that the Punch is a good
general-purpose horse, but I won’t accept
him as a saddle hack. The Punch shares
many good points with the Percheron,
and if his pedigree were traced far enough
back it would probably be found to origi-
nate in the same old Flemish or Norman
stock, but without the dash of Arab
blood that has done so much for the
Percheron. Any objection to the Clydes-
dale on the ground of its alleged sus-
ceptibility to greasy heels, owing to the
hairiness of the legs, is as untenable as
the contention that the ailment does not
bother the clean-legged horse. Greasy
heel is caused by insanitary and dirty
conditions, and the clean-limbed hack is
just as liable to it as the hairy-legged
draught. The disease seldom attacks
animals running in the open except where
they are confined to marshy ground.
* # * *
“Jindivick”: Joe had a large suburban
garden, a lawn-tennis court, and no time
to look after it nor chance of huing a
gardener, so he bought three sheep.
Since the tennis court required much
more attention than the remainder of the
garden, Joe found it necessary to confine
the mutton to that area, and it looked
as if he’d have to find labor and material
to fence in the fourth side of the court.
Then he heard that an electric wire would
suffice to confine the wildest of beasts,
so with a single copper strand, an old
Ford coil with a pendulum attached to
the vibrator and a battery Joe got to
work. The fence was a success from the
start. The woollies doubled up and
bounced backwards as soon as their noses
touched the wire. After a week Joe took
the wire away; he wanted to play tennis.
Then the real fun started. Joe didn’t
play tennis at all that week. He put in
all the week-end building a gate into the
far end of the court and rigging a couple
of hurdles for drafting purposes. Nothing
Joe knew would persuade the mutton to
pass that other side, wire or no wire.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Met a veteran who
reckoned he could remember when sheep
were washed before shearing. He saw it
on the Avon, a threadlike stream that
meanders through York and Northam
(W.A.) and finally becomes the Swan.
At York tire stream was just right for the
bath —narrow, not too deep and with suf-
ficient flow to carry the oil and dirt away.
An open palisade was built across, with
a duckboard of planks topping the down-
stream side and with yards and races on
both banks. The sheep were pushed into
the water, and along the duckboard walked
the washers, armed with long-handled
mops, with which they pushed the hap-
less mutton under. On the other side the
sheep were pushed in again and well
ducked on their struggle back to the
starting point. With fleeces thoroughly
wet, and minus a lot of dirt, they were
herded for the night into sweat houses
built of slabs or stone, with a thatched
roof. With the sheep packed in until
there was no longer standing room, the
temperature ran pretty high ; it prevented
the sheep taking a chill, and also
brought the yolk up to the surface of
the fleece. They were shorn next day.
Washed wool brought up to Is. 9d. the
pound 75 years ago.
* * * *
“Ned”: The blokes with the grader
got the old man’s goat with their skite
about Boulia toads and Maranoa kan-
garoos. “No,” he told them, “we don’t
see many now; but that big bush-
fire what starts on Simpson’s Desert last
autumn stampeded the biggest mob of
Toos ever known out west. They were
pretty famished when they reached here,
and when they sighted the 30-acre lagoon
in me home paddock they hopped straight
in and half emptied her before they
turned to and ate all me grass and
willow-trees. Feelin’ fit agin, they started
a swimmin’ club then and made the car-
nival so willin’ that in two days all that
was left in the lagoon was dead eels and
a few sick-lookin’ redbiils. Then the
’roos hopped it, headin’ for the Hunter
River lucerne flats. You might’ve read
about what happened there in the papers.
Anyhow, you know why 1 give you
blokes the contract to scoop out a few
miles of catchment drains? So I can
have a drink of water for me poor old
milkers.”
DRAFTING.
Dainty little sheepkins
Passin’ through the race,
Baulkin’ very timidly
At the gateman’s face.
With their limpid optics
And their fleecy coats.
If a man had any sense
He’d cut their flamin’ throats.
Clever little doggies
Racin’ in and out,
Blockin’ up the force yard,
Answerin’ each shout.
With their eager barkin’,
Listen, “Bow, wow-wow.”
If a man had any sense
He’d shoot the blankers now.
Pretty little dust-clouds
Dancin’ o’er the scene.
Handsome little blowflies
In their shinin’ green.
Smell of yolk and footrot,
Makin’ up a rhyme.
If a man had any sense
He’d snatch his blanky time.
N.S.W.
BILL CORRTEDALE.


-
df
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
% \
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
iron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTROM
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
For Sale.
WELL-BRED THOROUGHBRED STALLION,
good-looker, 17 hands, suit station or remounts,
cheap—FRANK TAVERNA, 45 Bunnerong
Road, Kingsford.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH. Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY", MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Hogget Management.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Kiwi”: As a step to flock improve-
ment culling of ewe hoggets can be
largely a waste of effort, says Canterbury
Agricultural College (M.L.). It’s better
to concentrate on the points that will
bring higher immediate returns from the
sheep kept; the future standard of the
flock can be left to the ram.
Judge the ewes on lamb production,
fleece and sale value. Discard those with
deformities or constitutional defects;
they won’t raise healthy lambs and de-
formities are often passed on. Looking
to carcass conformation is hardly worth
while if it’s likely to affect the wool
produced. Select those ewes that will rear
the most lambs; twin hoggets and large
ewes swell the lambing percentages.
Give twin hoggets a distinguishing mark.
Large ewes being heavier milkers produce
better lambs than ewes of average size.
The hogget fleece is a fair guide to the
quality and quantity of wool that the
ewe will produce during the rest of her
life. In Maoriland it has been found
that on the best sheep country where rain-
fall is heavy and stock have all the grass
they want the Leicester type Romney
wool of 40/44’s count gives the heaviest
weight per ewe. On medium-class
country where summer and winter feed is
inclined to slip down scale, Romney-
type fleeces of 44/46’s to 48/50’s give
the highest return per sheep at the
present time. Counts finer than 48/50’s
invariably show a drop in fleece weight.
On poorer types of country where rainfall
is light, the half-bred type of wool is
the most profitable. Cull the Down- and
carpet-type fleeces, which weigh lighter
than Romney or Leicester types of the
same count. Most hogget fleeces are one
count finer than those of subsequent
years.
Look to the relationship between the
size of sheep and fleece weight and count.
It’s necessary to reduce production cQsts
and increase fleece weight, and the two
main factors are carrying capacity per
acre and wool clip per sheep per acre.
Pulpy Kidney.
“Bungaree”: It has spread consider-
ably during recent years ; losses are often
blamed on worms. Sheep may die from
pulpy kidney on natural pastures, even
where feed is dry and not very abundant,
provided the sheep are in good con-
dition. It is not confined to lambs,
though they are the worst sufferers.
There are practically no symptoms,
sheep usually being found dead without
any signs of struggling. The stomach
cavity will contain a fair amount of clear,
golden-yellow fluid ; the small intestine
may be inflamed and will appear thin and
papery, most likely empty of foot} and
containing a soupy, yellowish fluid. Chief
signs will be found in the kidneys. In
a newly-dead animal there is little sign
except an abnormal red color, but after
an hour or two the kidneys will have a
pulpy, jellylike appearance.
Gorrectly, of course, the disease is
entero-toxaemia. There is no cure, but it
may be prevented by vaccination. When
deaths have occurred the survivors should
be inoculated with entero-toxasmia vac-
cine. This won’t save those already
affected, as the vaccine takes 10-14 days
to give protection. There are two types
of vaccine—the old type, which requires
two or more doses, and alum-precipitated
vaccine, which may be sufficient in one
dose.
Inoculate where the skin is normally
loose —in fat lambs in a part where a
blemish will not affect the carcass, usually
on the inside of the thigh. To prevent
losses of lambs till marking, inoculate
the ewes before lambing.
The dose is 5 c.c. for lambs or adult
sheep. For ewes before lambing give two
"It’s some fool game Dais picked up orf the kids.”
doses—the first (5 c.c.) any time be-
tween mating and six weeks before lamb-
ing, the second (10 c.c. alum precipi-
tated) about ten days before lambing. If
the ewes were vaccinated the previous year
the dose of 10 c.c. before lambing should
be sufficient.
These days it may be best to vaccinate
and drench at the same time. It can be
done without turning the sheep up. The
slack skin high up on the ribs is the best
place. Insert the point of the needle at
the base of the fold, taking care not to
pierce the flesh underneath the skin.
Change the needle after about 20 sheep
and place it in a reliable disinfectant,
not methylated spirits.
Beating ' the Rabbit.
“Jindivick”: Not for many years has
the rabbit been such a menace.
With shortage of material and man-
power, the only salient in which progress
in the rabbit war may be made is
against their lines of communications.
Net off the waterholes. Burn off any
cover in the creeks and fumigate all
warrens. Get two or three dozen traps
(skins at 10s. per pound will soon recoup
the outlay) and set them regularly wher-
ever they gather to feed and play. Harry
them until they change their quarters.
Block up the old burrows and then attack
in their new location.
Keep up the warfare until the bunnies
give up and go away; they will if you’re
sufficiently inhospitable. It’s no use
relying on trappers—skin prices are
high, and will be so high before this
season is out that trappers who are
out will pick over the ground and pass
on without completing the job.
“R.N.”: Keep the fumigator going.
Supplies of cyanogas can still be had and
some pumps are available. After rain
is the best time, as the ground is closed
up by the moisture and the gas can’t get
away through cracks. Make certain that
every main burrow and pophole is closed
in before turning the gas on.
After a warren has been treated, have
another look at it in a few days’ time,
and if there are signs of rabbit life
about give it another dose. In tough
country, where rocks and stones make
it hard to close up the burrows properly
for gas, cart old bagging and rubbish
up and ram it down the holes.
You’ve got to keep after the pest all the
time.
Irrigation.
“Jindivick”: Watch out for water-
logging in the vicinity of head ditches,
reticulation channels and difficult ground
where the water runs slowly on orchards
and vineyards in irrigation areas.
Now is the time to get a stand of
lucerne well rooted in so that it will be
strong and active in the spring when the
watering season recommences. Dig in
roots taken from an established stand or
loosen the surface and scatter seed. A
deep-rooted plant and about the thirsti-
est, the amount of surplus moisture
drawn from the soil by lucerne is amaz-
ing. It will help, too, to bind the banks
of head ditches, preventing erosion of
the sides, and will provide a handy pas-
turage for the house cow.
A row of almonds -or olives along
reticulation channels will absorb much
water that would otherwise be a menace,
provide a windbreak and turn in a hand-
some harvest for little trouble. Jordan
almonds are as good as any.
Potatoes.
“Farmer Bill”: Rotation, certified
seed, dipping and spraying increase the
yield.
You can’t get disease-free crops from
infected land. Keep the soil free of
fungi by planting potatoes once only in
every four years. If this isn’t possible,
let the land lie fallow a year.
Faulty seed often produces virus
disease. Rolling, crinkling, mottling of
leaves or dwarfing of plants indicates
virus. Insects spread it to healthy plants.
Virus won’t persist in the soil but is
carried in the tubers. Certified seed gives
a 25 p.c. greater yield and reduces
fusarium wilt and other foliage troubles.
Dip seed in cold formalin or corrosive
sublimate to prevent rhizoctonia scab
and collar rot. For potatoes that have
not sprouted and are uncut, add 11b.
formalin to 20gal. water ; for cut or
sprouted tubers, lib. formalin to every
30gal.
To treat a ton of seed with corrosive
sublimate you’ll need a barrel that will
hold 25gak of water. Mix 4oz. of the
sublimate and two pints of concentrated
hydrochloric acid in an earthenware jar.
This solution is first good for 10 dippings
of 10 minutes each ; after that for five
dippings of 15 minutes each. Do the job
before there’s any sprouting and some
months before planting. Handle the
sublimate carefully. It’s poisonous to
humans and animals. /
Spraying won’t cure late or Irish
blight, but it protects the plants against
infection and stops the disease spreading.
Dissolve 81b. bluestone in 20gal. water,
and, in another vessel, 101 b. washing soda
in 20gal. water. Pour the two solu-
tions together and spray on to the
potato tops when about 6in. high, and
again at flowering time.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”; Travelling sheep, though
thirsty, will often refuse to drink at
strange watering place. Best dodge is to
drive them away and come back to the
water from another direction. It rarely
fails.
“Jindivick”: Where bracken fern i
thick get the initial cutting done and lay
the hook right down to ground level
Rake up and burn the fronds as soon as
they’re dry; when the new growth
appears crush down with a log or clod-
crusher. A light set of harrows hooker
on behind the crusher will keep it wel
down on the ground, air the ground anc
collect any rubbish. The method saves
days of slogging with the hook.
“M.”: Handfeed sows when their
litters are weaned to improve their con-
dition rapidly. Continue the improve-
ment during early pregnancy and then
steady it down so that the sows are in good
condition, but not inactive or clumsy,
by the end of pregnancy. Grade dry sows
into groups according to condition. In-
clude separated milk or meatmeal and
some grain in the diet of pregnant sows,
and some pasture, greed food or lucerne
hay or chaff. Give them a lick of four
parts ground limestone and one part of
salt. Pre-natal attention gives young
pigs a good start.
“Mullengah”: Don’t crush grain too
finely for pigs, and don’t soak the grain
when it is crushed.
“B.”: Foals»do better if provided with
a creep yard with grain trough. Make
it with a gate and an opening that will
let the foals in and keep the mares out.
Leave the gate open and let the mares
lead the foals in and munch the grain
for the first two or three days. After
that, shut the gate and place a lump of
rock salt outside the fence to keep the
mares handy.
“Kirk”: agree that turpentine
and Stockholm tar are no good as dress-
ings for castrated pigs (B. 31/3/ ’43). Dur-
ing 50 years I’ve seen countless other
antiseptic dressings come and go. For
fresh wounds I’ve found real turpentine
—not mineral turps—best; once there is
suppuration, carbolic oil. When castrating
lambs I use a mixture of equal parts of
Stockholm tar and turpentine. Dettol
may be as good, but its price would pro-
hibit its general use on animals.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. I. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine exporting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.


I'lis *» vlW^
\G\ c® oker
Cook with an AGA, and the fuel,
man-power and food you save, day
by day, will keep household bills
well down and help Australia,
too. AGA Cookers use Coke, a
low-priced by-product requiring no
additional man-power, and burn
amazingly little in a whole year of
service. For instance. Model CS,
for city or country homes, is
guaranteed not to consume more
than £4/7/6 worth of fuel a year,
with coke at 35/- a ton, in the
city. (Freight increases price of
fuel in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing
economy is possible anywhere in
Australia.) The AGA Cooker ope-
rates on the scientific heat-storage
principle .... the most efficient
cooking method ever discovered.
Shrinkage of meat and _ other
foods is minimised. Nourishing
juices and appetising flavors are
retained.
Your AGA will burn continuously;
is heavily insulated; finished with
a sparkling, easily-cleaned vit-
reous enamelled surface, and needs
only a few minutes’ attention
daily. The AGA Cooker is made
in Great Britain. Over 40,000 are
in use in the British Empire. AGA
Cookers are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship
for a period of ten (10) years.
We will gladly show you how
simple an AGA Cooker is for any-
one to use. Or, if you cannot
call, illustrated AGA Catalogue K 5
will be sent on request.
LEVIN & CO, f LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.)
(Estab. 1852)
45 KING STREET, SYDNEY ;
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents: Colton, Palmer
& Preston, Ltd., Adelaide. Western
Australian Agents: Malloch Bros., Ltd.,
Perth. Queensland Agents: Queensland
Primary Producers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., Brisbane. Tasmanian
Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
(,R£OD. TRADE HARK)
7/ieOriamlMeat Sima
COOKER
made in a mniN
c Mr
W
o
m
Ruwolt
ill
mm
m mmm
M|
rnrnmmmsf
mm
ill
mmm
rnmmm
mmm
mm.
mm
111*111
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
Ruwolt’s are Major Co-ordinating Contractors for Victoria,
who, together with many Sub-contractors, are producing
these Guns.
In common with many good Australians we ore now mainly
engaged on munition work.
Although so engaged we are also able to execute much of
the important requirements for the essential metal, paper
and rubber industries, hydraulic presses, crushing plants, etc.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
. Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Russia’s Claims and Aims.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post"
article by Dcmaree Bess.)
■ J V . . .... y
Many Americans assume Russia will
help fight Japan after Germany is de-
feated. Some assume Russia will accept
American blueprints for the post-war
world. These assumptions are danger-
ous, because there is little in the known
facts to justify them.
The prime fact is that the Soviet Gov-
ernment today is the most completely
independent Government in the world.
The Russians have made no specific com-
mitments to anyone which might hamper
their freedom of action, either in the
war in Asia or in post-war Europe. Their
adherence to the vague and generalised
provisions of the Atlantic Charter was
a gracious gesture, not a pledge. Even
when their military position was blackest,
Russian leaders refused to bind them-
selves in any respect in return for the
help they accepted from the United States
and Britain.
On the contrary, the Russians asked
for concessions from Great Britain soon
after Hitler invaded their country. They
requested an acknowledgment of their
claims to the three Baltic States and to
portions of Finland and Rumania. They
insisted that the frontiers of Poland be
left open for future settlement. In other
words, they sought from Great Britain
very much the same concessions which
they had exacted from Hitler in 1939.
The British Government was disposed
to concede these Russian claims. Sir
Stafford Cripps, even after he became a
member of the British Cabinet, publicly
advocated their acceptance, and so did
London “Times.” It was Washington’s
influence which persuaded both the Brit-
ish and the Russians to omit any refer-
ence to Russia’s territorial claims from
the Soviet-British treaty of June, 1942.
However, the Russians have never
abandoned these claims. Since they have
made their desires so clear, in negotia-
tions first with the Germans and later
with the British, nobody has any right
to be surprised if the Russians move
again into all the territories which they
occupied in 1939 and 1940, and incor-
porate them into the Soviet Union.
From the Russian standpoint, these
territorial claims are modest. They merely,
restore the strategic frontiers of the
Czarist empire in Europe, eliminating
the buffer States which the Treaty of
Versailles erected between Russia and
the rest of Europe. It is useful to recall
that Russia, as well as Germany, de-
nounced the portions of the Treaty of Ver-
sailles which dealt with Eastern Europe.
Rivalry between the Slavs and the Ger-
mans has been for centuries one of the
profoundest conflicts in Europe. With
the exception of the Bulgars and the
Slovaks, the Nazis have offered nothing
except permanent inferiority to any Slavs
—to Czechs, Poles, Serbs and to the Rus-
sians themselves. The result of this con-
tempt and the brutality which the Nazis
have practised in Slav countries is that
the Slavs today are closer together than
ever before, and are looking to Russia
for deliverance. During a tour of the
Balkans in the spring of 1941 I saw how
widely Russia was arousing sympathy
among the conquered Slavs in Czecho-
slovakia, in Yugoslavia, and even in anti-
Russian Poland and in Germany’s ally
Bulgaria. As victor in this war, it is
inevitable that Russia will exert more
influence in all these countries than the
Anglo-American combination can hope
to wield.
This tendency has proceeded in spite
of, and not because of, Bolshevism. Pan-
Slavism is now attracting millions of
middle-class Eastern Europeans who
were repelled by international Com-
munism. It may be true, as some Ameri-
can official observers in Russia have
recently reported, that Stalin and his
associates are less interested now in
international Communism than in nation-
alist Russia. At any rate, the more
nationalistic Russia becomes, the more
Russian leaders will be concerned with
consolidating Russian influence in those
areas of Europe which adjoin their own
borders.
This, then, is a prospect for post-war
Europe which Anglo-American peace
planners often naively ignore. The as-
sumption that the Anglo-American com-
bination, in consultation with all the
little Governrrients-in-exile in London,
can decide in advance what will happen
in Europe is quite unjustified by the facts.
Post-war Europe this time will be very
different from the Europe which existed
at the end of the last war. Consider how
vast are the differences. France and Italy
have ceased to be Great Powers. The
French have lost their fleet, and years
under German rule have dissipated much
of their spirit. Italy not only is being
defeated but wrecked. And victory m
Europe this time will not mean the end
of battle for Americans and Britons, for
they will then have to turn in earnest to
their war against Japan.
It appears almost certain that, unless ‘
Japan deliberately invades Russia’s Pacific
provinces, Russia will be at peace while
the United States and Great Britain are
thus still at war. Is it likely, in these
circumstances, that the Russians will go
out of their way to join in the war against
Japan? That question suggests a counter-
question; Why should they?
Russia is not only a Great Power in
Europe—and potentially the greatest of
all European Powers—she is also an
Asiatic Power. Russia’s Asiatic terri-
tories are more than twice the size of
the whole of Europe, and Russia’s in-
terests in Asia are far larger than Ameri-
can and British interests combined. It
is true that the Russians have as much
to gain as Americans by the destruction
of the Japanese menace ; the Russians
probably have even more to gain. But
that does not necessarily mean that the
Russians will help the United States and
Britain to fight Japan. Stalin showed, in
1939, that he does not involve his coun-
try in unnecessary wars. He was still
“appeasing” Hitler up to the moment
when German armies smashed into Russia
in the early summer of 1941.
Russian leaders have steadfastly re-
fused to make any promises whatever
regarding the war in the Pacific or even
to discuss the matter. They have put us
off by saying that they are contributing
far more than any other country to the
war against Germany, in a struggle which
is so titanic that they cannot do anything
which might risk involving them in an-
other war in Asia.
But what do the Russians actually
have in mind? We must presume that
they are being as realistic about the war
in the Pacific as they have been about the
war in Europe. By their deal with Hitler
in 1939, the Russians induced the Ger-
mans to turn first against France and
Britain and the other countries of West-
ern Europe, and to expend some of their
striking power there. Meanwhile, the
Russians bought 22 months of time and
much additional territory to prepare for
the war with Germany which eventually
struck them.
The Russians have pursued much of
the same strategy in the Far East. Several
weeks before Hitler invaded their coun-
try, they concluded a non-aggression
treaty with Japan—a treaty which freed
Japan’s hands to deal with the United
States and Britain and China, as well as
Russia’s hands to deal with Germany,
That non-aggression treaty—if it survives
until the end of the war in Euiope—is
not hkely to be violated by Russia. For
jhe Russians Know that Americans must
keep on fighting until Japan has been
completely defeated, and they know that
Great Britain is committed to help
America in that war, not only because
pledged word of her Prime Min-
ister but also because of hei special in-
Nrest in India and Burma and Malaya,
and . the geographical ,ocatlon Aus-
traha and New Zealand,
Russia’s position is therefore almost
perfect in this Pacific war. If she can
continue to hold off the Japanese, she
need not get into that war at all. If the
Japanese attack her first she can rely
upon all the help we can possibly give
her, knowing that we have the same
selfish reasons to help her against Japan
that we had to help her against Germany,
The Russians can depend upon us to
fight out the Pacific war to a decisive
conclusion, whether or not we get any
help from Russia. And if the Russians


Shortages of supplies cannot
be avoided. The nation’s needs must
come first. So take EXTRA care
of your Feltex, and it will serve you
well for many years to come, and
leave you free to invest in National
Savings Bonds.
FELT & TEXTILES of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
FLOOR COVERINGS
Ff. 32,10
:--,r
■
?V
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.— ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5063 3
shoUid decide that it is advisable to
round out their strategic frontiers in the
Far East, as they have already arranged
to do in Europe, then they can come
into the war in Asia whenever they like,
and take over whatever territories they
desire as their share of the spoils.
Cornered Japs.
(From on article by F. H. Bartholomew, vice-
president of the U.S. United Press.)
We had a Jap force solidly contained
between our two lines over in the Buna
area,” General E. F. Herring, an Aus-
tralian commander of Allied ground
forces in New Guinea, told me on my
recent trip to the Pacific front.
“Finally I was ordered to move in and
wipe him out, because he was impeding
the general advance. But just before we
started to move in, he started to move out..
“Not to fight his way out, mind you,
but simply to try to march through our
lines with a staggering load of field
equipment and cooking pots on each
man’s back. Apparently he expected us
to step aside and open a pathway for
him. He didn’t offer to surrender, so we
killed every Jap there.”
I asked Herring about the mental and
physical make-up of the individual
Japanese soldier, and he replied; —
“He is a strong, stupid little beast. He
has no imagination and does exactly
what he is told.
“But nobody has told him what to do
when he finds he cannot advance, when
he is faced with a choice of death or sur-
render.
“The Japanese command takes the very
simple position-that an officer or soldier
should never get into such a situation.”
An Australian colopel told me that
material outranks men in the eyes of
the Japanese military leaders.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The fact that Dutch Harbor, the U.S. Navy’s
Alaskan stronghold, did not suffer a Japanese
surprise attack such as hit Pearl Harbor was
due in considerable measure to the creation of
two fake salmon packing companies. These
firms had no entity as the salmon canneries
they purported to be But they were very real
covers for one of the Alaska Defence Com-
mand’s most remarkable achievements—the
secret construction of two airfields to guard
Dutch Harbor from just the sort of attack
Japan tried to make upon it last June 3. The
camouflage worked perfectly. The enemy’s
approach to the naval base met wth com-
pletely unexpected aerial opposition.— N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Captain Duncan Sandys, Parliamentary Sec-
retary of the Ministry of Supply, has stated
that Britain’s anti-aircraft gunners were now
shooting down eight enemy ’planes with the
same number of shots required to down one
German aircraft in the autumn of 1940. He
said that the difference had been achieved
through a new mechanical fuse in anti-aircraft
shells that is twice as accurate as the old-type
powder fuse. “As a result,” he said, “shells
can now be made to burst accurately at heights
half again as great as could be done at the
beginning of the war.”— N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent.
* * * *
To keep Britain’s munitions plants running
24 hours daily, bank and other clerical workers
take on four-hour shifts at local munitions
plants twice weekly. They are paid at lowest
trade-union rates. — British official statement.
* * * *
It takes ten tons of equipment to land one
American soldier in North Africa and a ton
and a half a month to keep him going.— N.Y.
“Times” North African correspondent.
♦ * * *
On busy days the Allied air forces use up to
1.500.000 gallons of high-octane gasoline, every
drop of which must be shipped by tankers. —
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
General MacArthur has renounced all poli-
tical ambitions. His only desire is to secure
the South Pacific against further invasion and
conquest, and then to reclaim the Philippines
and other American possessions, the Japanese
have occupied, and after that to attack, reduce
and destroy the Japanese military power in its
homeland. Wherefore, if it is political consid-
eration that is withholding adequate air power
Irom General MacArthur, it is unwarranted.
Ot course the American Government should
not play politics at the expense of American
lives and at the risk of American defeat. But
since General MacArthur is not in politics,
even the politicians should be willing to supply
and support him. — N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
“Alarming” increase in crime and delinquency
among women and girls in 1942 and a rise of
/.2 per cent, in the number of “crimes against
the person” by all offenders as compared with
the pre-war years 1939-41 was reported by J.
Edgar Hoover, director of the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation. Arrests of girls under
21 years of age increased from 9675 in 1941 to
15,068 last year, or 55.7 per cent., Mr. Hoover
said. For the same group, arrests for prosti-
tution increased 64.8 per cent.; other sex
offences, 104.7; vagrancy, 124.3; disorderly
conduct, 69.6, and drunkenness, 39.9.— N.Y.
“Times.” •
* * % * *
British boys are clamoring by the thousands
to go to sea despite the U-boat menace. The
merchant navy’s training school has a waiting
list of 1000 boys under 16, and thousands have
already passed through the school. Many
come from seafaring families and have lost
their fathers or brothers at sea. — London
correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
When 1 was in London last autumn, a signi-
ficant conversation occurred which illustrates
the strength of Russia’s political position and
the weakness of our own. At that time, an
exiled European statesman was engaged in
negotiations with the Soviet embassy there, and
one of our diplomats, learning about these
negotiations, remarked, “You do not seem to
be satisfied with the support of the United
States and Great Britain. It appears that you
are also seeking the support of Soviet Russia.”
The European statesman replied: “Americans
and Britons are very fine people, and I do not
doubt that they have good intentions, but
your democratic Governments change frequently,
and your foreign policies often change with
them. On the other hand, the one-party Gov-
ernment in Russia never changes, and we small
European countries have learned by bitter ex-
perience that we dare riot entrust our destinies
to nations whose policies waver according to the
whims of the party in power.”— Demaree Bess,
in the “Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The British Governments policy for the
training of craftsmen in the building industry,
announced in a White Paper, is based on the
assumption that a post-war reconstruction
programme designed for 10 or 12 years will
require the building up of a labor force of the
industry, over a period, to about 1,250,000
men.— London “Times.”
* « $ *
At a press conference Lord Gort, Governor
of Malta, had nothing but praise for Malta’s
heroism. But he paid tributes to some who
have not always been singled out; to Miss
Mabel Strickland, whose “Times of Malta”
and the vernacular “II Berka” have not yet
missed a single issue, and to the British
infantrymen stationed in Malta. Some of
these men have not seen their families for
eight years. Their deeds have been over-
shadowed by those of the anti-aircraft gunners,
the Air Force and the Navy, but they have
watched the coastline, guarded aerodromes
and installations, filled in bomb craters, built
pens and aerodromes, and cleared roads, ser-
viced aircraft, carried and set up 100,000 tons
of masonry, and with Maltese help unloaded
29.000 tons of cargo in five and a half days
in docks battered by bombing and without
cranes. “They are the finest infantry in the
world,” said Lord Goiri, himself an infantry-
man, “a model of what the British soldier
should be.” Lord Gort, again like others
from Malta, said that the deepest hate in the
island was for the Italians. He told a story
of one enemy airman baling out and holding
up his hands as he landed, calling out agita-
tedly that he was a German. The Maltese
are delighted that there is so little love between
Germans and Italians that prisoners of the two
nationalities cannot be put into the same
room. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * n=
Rear-Admiral Yates Stirling estimates, that
to date German industrial production may have
suffered a 20 per cent, loss to Allied air attacks.
And the New York “Times” points out in an
authoritative article that Nazi war production
suffers not alone from lack of man-power,
but from the inability to replace worn-out
machines. The overburdening factor against the
Fiihrer is the weight of U.S. production.
Against the mightiest free economy in the
world, which can supply its own civilian and
military needs and still send to Russia 2600
airplanes, 81,000 trucks, “jeeps” and other
motor vehicles, and 3200 tanks; which can re-
place its own worn-out machines and build
enough additional to increase production, the
circumscribed economy of Germany must in-
evitably come out at the short end of the
equation. The convulsions of the Fiihrer, as
he realises this truth with increasing clarity,
will be pleasant to contemplate.— N.Y. “Daily
Mirror.”
« $ 3C *
The U.S. Navy is convinced it has found
the answer to the U-boat menace in the so-
called escort vessel. The escort vessel is be-
ginning to come into mass production in the
many shipyards concentrated around Boston.
In the course of the next year scores of them
will be turned out. In some yards the construc-
tion of destroyers is being suspended entirely
in order to accelerate the production of the
escort vessels, which in appearance resemble
greatly the latest type of 2100-ton destroyers,
but cost less than half as much to build —
—53,000,000 against $7,000,000. These escort
vessels are able to turn like a top in their
tracks, thus making it exceedingly difficult for
the submarine to avoid their deadly depth
charges.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The kind of “holding” strategy forced on
General MacArthur and Admiral Halsey by
the small strength available in the South Pacific
can be much more expensive in the long run
than a properly directed offensive. If a slight
increase in Allied strength now could win us
Rabaul, the chief enemy base in the South
Pacific, that would be cheaper than providing
the larger Allied defensive force required to
meet a major Jap offensive later. As it is, the
enemy with his small advantage is able to tie
up Allied forces at many points because we
lack the edge to take the initiative. —N.Y.
“W orld-T elegram
* * # *
“The casualty lists are mounting. Make no
mistake about it, by spring these lists will
appal us and we shall begin to realise how
serious the war has become. Then the entire
nation will be ready to go all out for victory
and right then we shall start to win the war.”
-—JBrig-Gen. Waitt, U.S. Chemical Warfare
Service.
* * * *
The Royal Army Ordnance Corps, which is
responsible for all war stores, handles about
500,000 different items. Guns, with their com-
ponents and accessories, account for 50,000,
wireless sets and parts for 50,000, tank parts
and transport parts for 250,000, and clothing
for 14,000. The four main sheds of the largest
Ordnance clothing depot in England cover more
than 32 acres. There are many smaller sheds,
and more are being erected. All the clothing
for the British armies passes through this
central depot. The weekly average turnover
is 3500 tons. The value of stores handled
each week approximates to £2,000,000 at army
prices—which is about half the real sale value.
At all times there is something like £17,000,000'
worth of stock in the sheds. It is impossible
to enumerate even a small part of the items
stored, but every conceivable thing, large and
small, that a man or a woman can need in any
part of the world is housed there. There
are >27 different sizes of boots, 14 different
sizes of battle dress. There are shirts, socks,
hats, knives, tooth brushes, button brushes,
boot brushes, clothes brushes, braces, pants,
thick and thin, housewives —everything from
“hats, Gurkha” to “boots, Arctic.” No article
of clothing or the means to mend it has ever
been asked for in vain at this depot. Millions
of pairs of boots have gone from here to
Russia. Native troops in Africa have been
similarly equipped. They take size 13, with a
sole about six inches across. The fact that
they have never applied for “grindery,” the
name for mending materials, suggests that they
still wear them round their necks as they have
done from the days that boots were first issued
to them years and years ago. Rush jobs never
worry this depot; in four days they baled,
pressed, and dispatched 1000 miles of over-
coat cloth to Russia. — London “Times.”


GO
H
>.v
MI
Hi
Sh
CD
' • '\ :••
: i.
'
~ . . ’ r' -
- .. - .•
V-L
•V’
r •
I?
CJ»
o
o
o
■ !
; &-
I
. f •; - -
inner
It’s a shell ... a fury of death and des-
truction. But it used to cook your dinner.
There was a time when that shell would
have been a length of gas pipe. But that
was before September 3rd, 1939.
How did it become a shell?
We go back to 1934, when the plant of
Stewarts and Lloyds first went into produc-
tion. That was at the end of the depression,
when Australia needed, and began to build
thriving new industries.
Soon Stewarts and Lloyds were producing
everything from gas pipes to ship’s boiler
tubes.
So we worked through 1934—’35 —’36—
’37—38 and into ’39. So we worked,
through those years when our Empire and
Allies struggled desperately to avert the
disasters of War. Through the years when
Germany and Japan were building the
greatest war machine ever known.
But we saw the inevitable. In 1939 we
changed our production from gas pipes to
shell bodies.
You can’t win a War with gas pipes. . . .
Without subsidy, we installed the plant
necessary for the forging and rough machin-
ing of ammunition shell bodies.
We evolved a process of shell-making
which cut out the operation that has always
been so costly and lengthy. We produced
shell bodies in very much the same way as
weldless tubes. We made the inside of the
forging perfect for size, and so smooth that
it did not require boring.
We were ready. And that was in 1939
—before September 3rd.
So it is that shells once cooked your
dinner —in the form of gas pipes. Gas pipes
into shells. Soon, we hope, shells back into
gas pipes.
And when that day comes, give a thought
to the men who helped to make it possible
, . , the men of Democracy who fired and
made the shells that brought glorious, lasting
peace.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


Since the dawn of history, man has settled and raised his
family as near water as possible. To him it has meant
life, and to his children a source of innocent pleasure.
People had no means of realising that the same waters from
which they drew their life brought also death, killing them
in their thousands because they or their families polluted
them with the bacteria of typhoid, dysentery, cholera and
other plague-causing diseases. Even in Australia, amid
amenities of peace-time civilisation, river and stream waters
may threaten the lives of millions of dwellers in the country
and the great cities. Fearful epidemics may be caused by
infected drinking water or by the pollution of foodstuffs.
Diseases may be spread by contaminated swimming baths.
More than ever to-day, under the shadow of war, do these
dangers threaten the health of man. Fortunately, the chemist
has developed weapons with which to meet them, particu-
larly in the use of chlorine for sterilisation purposes. Credit
for its first systematic use for the sterilisation of water is
due to the late Sir Alexander Houston, who employed hypo-
chlorite, a compound of chlorine, during a severe epidemic
of typhoid at Lincoln, England, in 1904. His successful
treatment of the water supplies attracted world-wide atten-
tion. Later chlorine gas for this purpose in place of
hypochlorite solutions was developed, and this method is
mostly favoured nowadays. Chlorination is particularly
valuable for troops in the field. It is of immense importance
in safeguarding the purity of milk and other foodstuffs and
is being manufactured in Australia in quantities adequate
for all these essential needs. Even so, chemists arc con-
stantly at work improving methods for maintaining national
health by ensuring with even greater certainty that water
and food supplies arc safe.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICIANZI
The Greater
Your Estate
The Greater Your Responsibility
Those who carry the responsibility
of property ownership owe it to
themselves as well as to their depen-
dants to share that responsibility
with others worthy of their trust.
They should draw upon the pooled
wisdom and advice of experienced
men to guide them while they live;
they should so make their disposi-
tions and appoint their executors to
ensure that their intentions will be
correctly and faithfully interpreted.
The Union Trustee Company, after
over 50 years of trusted service, and
the handling of tens of millions of
pounds worth of assets, completely
meets all these requirements.
The Union Trustee is a manager who
knows by mature and varied experi-
ence, an executor who dies nor
grows old nor weary, who is always
independent and favours none, yet is
friendly and approachable.
The greater your estate the greater
your responsibility, and the greater
your need of expert and permanentlv
dependable service.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE;
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.;
James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
fs
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r — Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 7J p.c Ord. serves, selves.
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil ~ 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal) £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. • • 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 . Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. •• 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,920
29 p.c,
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. .. 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
74 p.c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
Commonwealth - steel production is now
more than double the 1935 tonnage.
Exactly how much more is not publicly
known, nor is the extent to which Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, in which B.H.P.
bought all the ords. (and therefore con-
trol) in 1935, has contributed to the dupli-
cation. It is clear enough from plant
additions, however, that A. I. and S. has
provided a great part of our expanding
steel requirements. A seventh open-
hearth furnace began operating in June,
1941, and prior to that modernisation of
the works included the installation of a
new 1000-ton-a-day blast furnace and ».
new coke-ovens battery. In respect of
the past term the board says: “The large
capital expenditure over the last few
years has enabled increased steel pro-
duction to be maintained. The co.’s
policy of assisting to the fullest degree
the supply of war materials and equip-
ment has necessitated further additions
and extensions during the year.”
Though both the co. and Australia are
fortunate that production capacity was
stepped up prior to the present great test
of Australian industries, economics and
fighting spirit, it is one thing to have a
fine plant and another to keep it sup-
plied with iron ore. Because of shipping
difficulties the S.A. ore available is not
enough, and a number of N. S. Wales
deposits have been developed. This ore
is dearer to transport, is lower in quality
and harder to treat, and is of interest
only as a war-time measure. Since war
began wages have risen by 22 p.c., and
other costs, including taxation and wear
and tear on plant worked under emer-
gency conditions, have also increased.
Hence the heavy faff in profits over the
two years to November last. Up to
October the price of Australian steel had
remained unchanged since the outbreak
of war. Just before the close of this
co.’s last accounts prices were lifted by
£1 15s. a ton for pig-iron (making it
£5 155.), and steel went up £2 10s., mak-
ing merchant steel bars £l2 12s. Bd. They
are still the lowest prices in the world.
The Government gets its munitions steel
at cost price, a fact which has recently
evoked high praise from Munitions
Minister Makin.
Last term A. I. and S., after providing
£766,560 (up £97,160) for depreciation
and charging back £43,207 of taxation
underprovided in the previous term,
showed net earnings £51,957 higher at
£87,391. The 7i p.c. to the prefs. was
repeated, with something to spare. The
depreciation provision was equal to 10.8
p.c. on the book value of fixed assets,
compared with 8.9 p.c. in the preceding
year, and this is something not to be
overlooked by shareholders in 8.H.P.,
who so far have had nothing out of the
amalgamation. At the same time special
depreciation allowance now is of great
importance to Australian post-war indus-
tries. Huge quantities of munitions are
being made, and a high rate of obso-
lescence and wear and tear is inevitable.
A substantially heavier incidence in the
immediate future is expected by chair-
man H. G. Darling.
B.H.P. influences are apparent not only
in the plant itself but also in the
finances:
1935. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors * 649,937 3,453,271 8,423,394
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 7,504,938 7,094,188
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,497 386,498
Stocks .. .. 269,009 1,034,830 1,132,878
Book debts .. 317,722 1,151,746 1,405,532
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 26,100 24,321
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
A successful manufacturing enterprise
needs to keep its plant efficient and up
to date and its asset valuations on the
keen side. In the case of steel, the basic
manufacturing element, there is a
national demand for a sound technical
and financial foundation in the industry.
It would be a tragedy, for instance, to
see steel go the way of coal in this
country. In spite of its expanding activi-
ties and the general inflation in costs,
A. I. and S. has managed to keep the value
of its undertaking at a moderate figure,
though in present circumstances earnings
of these assets are extremely modest.
Since 1935 more has been laid out on
plant than was spent in the previous
seven years of the co.’s life. B.H.P.
money has been largely responsible—the
parent took £2,000,000 in shares to
replace that much on loan, and much of
the £3,423,394 now owing is due to
B. Last year’s plant outlay, and
more, was met from the depreciation
charge, and finances showed an improve-
ment all round. The co.’s activities and
affairs are not yet a duplication of
B.H.P.’s, but, under peace-time condi-
tions, with sane national economics and
government, there are big things ahead.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 10,640 8 p.c. = 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ ~ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9' „ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 „ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 „ „ 7000 7,253 97,013
1940.. 14,366 10 „ ~ 7000 7,366 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO .. 99,879
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 7000 )
Staff fund, £lOOO .. }- 810 108,543
To tax reserve, £3OOO J
Headquarters are in Sydney and activi-
ties are confined to the Commonwealth.
So Japan’s invasion of Eastern and South-
ern Asia and the near-by Indies has de-
prived the co. of neither assets nor reve-
nue. Still, there was a contraction of
£7519 in gross premium income
(£122,442) last term, due apparently to
the shrinkage in motor-car business, to
the Federal Government’s action in tak-
ing over war-risk insurance on the Aus-
tralian coast, to competition from the
recently-set-up State Government insur-
ance office in N. S. Wales, and to slack-
ness in the building trade, except for
war purposes. There has been, however,
a continued lengthening of payrolls, and
merchandise and other stocks have con-
tinued high.
Underwriting performances since the
co. began to deal direct with the public
show this trend:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 60.2 41.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1936.. 78,511 37,029’ 35,767 47.1 45.5
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
1941.. 99,469 44,213 47,934 44.4 48.1
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51.2
Of last year’s drop in gross premiums
£3223 was taken up in reinsurances
(£27,269), leaving a shrinkage in net pre-
miums of £4296. Claims made off with
about 30s, p.c. less than for the previous
term, the experience being one of the
best yet. But the taxgatherer got away
with more (exact amount not disclosed)
and costs generally continued to climb,
making the expense rate £3 2s. p.c.
heavier than in 1941.
The underwriting surplus (£5526) was
7.9 p.c. on the share register. Net re-
turn from interest and rents (£6284) was
another 8.9 p.c. on capital (£70,000).
which has the support and assistance of
£108,543 of reserves. The net return
from all sources (down £3544) was thus
16.8 p.c. on capital as against 21.9, 20.5,
20.3, 23.4 and 19.4 p.c. back to 1937.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., £lOOO was
sent to the staff fund and £3OOO was put
in the cupboard to appease any sudden
growth in the taxgatherer’s appetite, leav-
ing £BlO to toss into the general lay-by.
Outstanding feature of finances is the
co.’s contribution to the war effort by
purchase of Government stock, to which
£48,000 has been added since 1939,
£20,000 of the increase being in respect of
last term. Public securities —claimed to
be worth more than their book value
now make up 58.6 p.c. of the balance
sheet total: —
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital ~ £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities .. 21,635 28,936 31,120 31,960
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 44,543 41,738 38,469 34,/41
Debentures .. 9,000 9,000 7,700
Public securities 76,542 91,988 119,488 139,958
Book debts .. 8,687 • 8,869 8,888 7,418
Cash, etc. . . 40,705 53,854 50,807 46,956
When the books closed net assets were
equal to 187 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered a satisfactory state of affairs.
Policy-holders, therefore, were well pro-
tected.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
( Dividends. \ Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Oct, Profit. B,p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ - £ £ £
1932. . 1,065 Nil Nil Nil 1,065 23,061
1933.. 9,296 Nil Nil Nil 9,296 32,357
1934.. 25.131 Nil Nil Nil 25,131 57,488
1935.. 38.413 4.0 p.c. Nil 8,399 30,014 87,502
1936. .43,233 11.8*p.c. Nil 24,879 18,354 105,856
1937. .52,402 37.2 „ Nil 78,353 79,905
1938. 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 29,082 24,558 104,463
1939.. 54.097 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,758 1,339 105,802
1940.. 52.883 6.2 ~ 6.2 „ 52,758 125 105,927
1941.-44,572 7.1 „ 5.6 ~ 50,818 99,681
1942.. 28.362 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,2>80 88,763
* Subject to unspecified rights.
Five N.S.W. cement-producers each
working only half-time or thereabouts
being a luxury a war economy can’t
afford, the Charbon works of Standard
Cement shut down in October, and
Standard now draws its supplies from
Southern Portland’s Berrima plant, an
arrangement declared to be working
“satisfactorily.” So Southern is now
operating nearer to its rated 160,000-ton-
p.a. capacity than ever, and that has had
beneficial effects upon unit costs at a
most helpful period. Another producer
is also to close, and either Kandos or
Commonwealth Portland —the State’s two
heaviest cement-makers —has been men-
tioned.
’ N.S.W. kilns were busiest in 1938,
when production reached 460,700 tons.
The figure had fallen to around 380,000
tons in 1941. Assisted by export ship-
ments early in the piece, Southern Port-
land reports little-changed demand for
its latest term. However, a further sharp
fall (£16,210) in net earnings reflects the
changed direction of demand —with pri-
vate construction in a strait-jacket, now
almost entirely on Government account
—and the growing burden of costs, in-
cluding taxation. Also, following the
general 35.-a-ton price cut around the
outbreak of war, the special rates at
which Governments are supplied were re-
duced another Is. 6d. a ton last April.
Still, the board waived its right to apply


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Aovt.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
M 1 "
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROES SEE APPLIANCE CO
SOMERSET HOUSE, 9 MARTIN PLACE
(next Commonwealth Bank), SYDNEY.
Is Your Rest
Disturbed?
Correct the cause of sleepless nights;
davs of misery, discomfort, and incon-
venience by taking a course of
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don’t delay—neglect is dangerous.
Doan’s Pills will soon put you right.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Public Notice.
STUDY for POST WAR
HOW TO SELL
Cars. Refrigerators, Real Estate, Machinery,
Fire Protection, Printing and other payable
propositions. Full Course, 20/-. First
Lesson Posted Free. H. Douglas, 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Bluestone
gives BETTER YIELDS
by
CONTROL cf PLANT DISEASES
V
N
JUST as we have, by an increasing army of man-power, to
produce more guns, more planes, more tanks, more ships
and all the other impedimenta of war, so must we endeavour,
with a decreasing field of employment, to produce greater quanti-
ties of foodstuffs to meet the urgent needs of the Fighting Forces
and the basic requirements of civilians.
This calls for greater individual effort; for more enlightened,
scientific methods of growing and preparation. The need is so
urgent that production must be stepped up to the absolute limit.
It may be necessary to increase output twofold, even threefold, or
possibly more still. In consequence, the farmer, the orchardist
and agriculturists generally have a national duty in the improve-
ment of their yields, by controlling plant diseases. This can best
be done by using ESA Bluestone.
ESA BLUESTONE
GUARANTEED 99% PURITY.
For Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines.
For Treatment of Footrot in Sheep.
For Wheat Pickling.
Our Informative Booklet, “Better Yields by Spraying,”
is of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists. Copies
gladly sent on request.
Agents in all States: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.
Write to our: —
Registered Office: 25 O'CONNELL ST.. SYDNEY. 86371.
Melbourne Office: 360 COLLINS ST. M 4381.
Works: PORT KEMBLA. N.S.W. 'Phone Port Kemblo 72.
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING
and SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PIY. LTD.
PORT KEMBLA, NEW SOUTH WALES.
the provisions of the N.S.W. Interest Re-
duction Act to the £210,000 of 8 p.c.
participating pref. money, ai )d, though a
couple of points were chipped oil the oiu.
div., the full distribution again called tor
more than the profit shown.
Depreciation allowances, however,
aren’t being skimped. Last term s £47,230
brought the tally for the past seven years
to £385,000-odd, with this transforma-
tion in finances after upkeeping and im-
proving the efficiency of the working
assets:
1933. 1937. 1911. 1942.
Paid capital.. £849,889 £850,940 £850,940 £850,940
Overdraft .. 210,953
•Creditors . . 54,492 80,556 118,204 111,321
Fixed assets,
rights, etc. ( 19fl nnfi j 916,926 727.648 692,548
Stocks ) 1,1-0,008 39,476 70,778 103,659
Book debts.. 27,564 85,653 59,970 53,846
Cash .. 119 2,060 226,425 235,199
* Including taxation.
Consols comprise all but £199 of the last
line there. The management is thus in a
position to pay off all the prefs., a drag
on the ords. to date, if it later desires.
Public interest is chiefly indirect through
Howard Smith and Australian Iron and
Steel, which own £96,600 of paid pref.
capital apiece and roughly £250,000 and
£327,000 of the ords. respectively.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
The manner of payment in the event of
the purchase of City Electric Light’s
undertaking (B. 5/5/’43) by the Governor
in Council in 1954 or thereafter is gov-
erned by this clause in the agreement:
The purchase price payable by the
Governor in Council for the undertaking
of the Company shall be satisfied by a
payment in cash or its equivalent, and such
payment shall, unless otherwise agreed be-
tween the Commission and the Company,
be made forthwith upon the date of
acquisition. Forthwith after notice has
been given by the Governor in Council
of his intention to acquire the undertak-
ing of the Company the Commission and
the Company shall confer with a view to
arranging that two-thirds of the purchase
price shall be satisfied by the issue of
debentures on terms to be mutually agreed
upon between the Company and the Com-
mission, but unless the Company and the
Commission shall agree that such portion
of the purchase price shall be so satis-
fied and agree upon the terms upon which
such debentures shall be issued the whole
of the purchase price shall be payable in
cash.
The co.’s own debenture issues at present
are £500,000, carrying 4\ p.c., and
£412,000, carrying 3f p.c.
Barrier Mines and Taxation
Broken Hill South has written to share-
holders along the following lines:
Shareholders will have gathered that it was
firmly believed by the board that Sections 23a
and 44 of the Income Tax Assessment Act,
amended in October, would be applicable to
this co. and its shareholders in order to help
meet the wasting-asset position by providing
some compensation for the heavy depletion of
the mine’s ore reserves during the present period
of abnormally high taxation.
Section 23a of the Act indicated that 20 p.c.
of the net income derived by a co. (or indi-
vidual) carrying on mining in Australia (other
than coalmining) for a purpose which includes
the production of any mineral or metal specified
in the regulations “as required for use in or
in connection with the prosecution of the
present war” shall be exempt from income tax.
Section 44 of the Act, as amended, pro-
vided that the exempt income, when distributed
to shareholders as dividends, should be free of
tax in their hands, and also that 20 p.c. of
all dividends paid during the year ended June
30, 1942, by a co. to which Section 23a applied,
and whoso principal business was mining,
shmOd be deemed to be exempt and be free
of tax.
a .ater amendment limited the taxation ex-
emption to the net assessable income derived
from the production of a specified metal or
metals and rare minerals, thus excluding a co.’s
other income.
As all the saleable metals and rare minerals
comprising the mixed ores mined by the silver-
lead-zinc companies, viz., lead, zinc, copper,
antimony, cadmium, silver and sulphur, are un-
questionably “required for use in or in connec-
tion with the prosecution of the present war,”
all the assessable income derived from the
mining operations of these cos. should, it is
claimed, qualify for the taxation exemption
mentioned. >
In the Regulations specifying, for the pur-
poses of Section 23a of the Act, the base metals
and rare minerals “required for use in or in con-
nection with the prosecution of the present
war," neither lead, zinc, silver nor the other
metals and minerals mentioned (excepting
copper) have been included in the scheduled
list of 26 metals and minerals.
The consequence of this non-inclusion is
that Australia’s silver-lead-zinc mining com-
panies—all the metal products of which are
in unsatisfied demand for meeting the war
needs of the Allied Nations —are deprived of
the benefits of the Act, and so also are the
shareholders in these cos.
Representations are being made to the
Government to have an obvious injustice
rectified. The Barrier mines are selling
their products to the Commonwealth at
an extremely low figure by comparison
with world prices and inflated Australian
wage rates, but this decency is not even
acknowledged by the Government to the
extent of offering justice in return. Con-
tempt and trickery have been tendered
instead,
Kalgoorlie is celebrating its jubilee “at
minimum expense” on June 15. The
three local governing bodies, Kalgoorlie (
and Boulder councils and the Roads
Board, are arranging for a roll-up of all •
comers and some speech-making at the
spot beyond the east end of the town
where Paddy Hannan first picked up
gold. Later an obelisk inscribed with
information respecting the field will be
unveiled at Boulder Block business area
adjacent to the big mines. There is at
present a weather-beaten metal figure of
Hannan with waterbag and pick outside
the Kalgoorlie Town Hall.
# * *
North Kalgurli and Paringa, two ad-
joining Kalgoorlie Golden Mile north-
enders, continue to furnish cheerful
developmental reports. Latest from
North Kal. mentions payable and highly
payable values over good widths at
various points in the North Kalgurli and
Kalgurli sections, and disclose that, in
one part of the No. 8 level of the North
Kalgurli, ore of 43.8dwt. grade has been'
stripped over a width of 10ft. and a length
of 43ft. from the east wall of the main
lode. Driving on the Australia east lode
at the No. 2 level of the Kalgurli work-
ings has opened up ore assaying 21.7dwt.
over 60in., and in another place on the
same level a crosscut has intersected ore
of 17.2dwt. value over Bft. Paringa’s
latest report concerning developments on
the rich pipe struck some time ago states
that the drive off the winze at 57ft. be-
low the 520 ft. level has been extended in
ore assaying IHdwt. over 52in., and that
“the present face is in high-grade ore
showing free gold and telluride.”
* * * *
Yilgarn, second oldest and so far one
of the most productive Westralian gold-
fields, has been officially wiped off the
list. It is now part of Coolgardie. Yil-
garn’s best mines have been Fraser’s,
Bullfinch, Edna May and Yellowdine.
Fraser’s, after a brief De Bernales
resurrection, is back in a waterlogged
grave; Bullfinch is now split up among
several parties; Edna May is being worked
by an Adelaide and Yellowdine by a
London (De Bernales) co. Scores and
scores of smaller shows are being worked,
and the majority are proving payable,
* * * *
Latest report from Hill 50, N.L.
(W.A.), states that, owing to two
scheduled holidays, last month’s mining
and treatment operations were somewhat
contracted. Conditions generally, in view
of limited labor supply, are described as
very satisfactory ; but because of shortage
of men it has been found necessary to
stop important developmental and ex-
ploratory work in order to get feed
to the mill. The main shaft is being
sunk from the three to four level,
where drives will be extended to winzes
that have proved the downward continua-
tion of “profitable lenses of ore.”


“Pass the hat for
your credits sake
A
m*
i
m
mm
i
mm
-m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
In war, as in sport, it is teamwork
that counts. Production, transport, armed forces and
the mighty pattern of modern war organisation form
a whole that works to one end — maximum striking
power ! All these factors have one thing in common —
their cost comes high, particularly when seven million
people wage a full scale war. It’s up to each one of us
to see that it is met. It’s our job and our privilege
to buy National Savings Bonds and War Savings Cer-
tificates— so fill the hat for your credit’s sake, and
lend, lend, lend!
This advertisement is inserted by the
D
proprietors of Top Dog Men's Wear
Breks Trousers Sovereign Hats
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Do Australians Want Socialism?
In the Federal Ministry and among
other members of the Government Aus-
tralia has several open advocates of
socialism. The Oxford Dictionary de-
scribes socialism as “a theory or policy
of social organisation which advocates
the ownership and control of the means
of production, capital, land, property, etc.,
by the community as a whole, and their
administration or distribution in the inter-
ests of all.” Messrs. Ward, Dedman,
Forde and Senator Cameron have all
been open advocates of socialism within
this definition, even if one or more have
been obsessed principally with the idea
of socialising one or two industries. Not
quite sure of what he would like but at
all times ready to kick up a row about
the need for nationalising credit is Sena-
tor Darcey. The word “nationalise” has
become popular as a substitute for
“socialise,” socialists never having got
very far politically in this Empire, even if
some socialistic principles have been
mended with, or have become a barnacle
on, democratic ones.
The question of whether Australia
v/ants socialism or not is very important
at this minute. Great decisions rest with
a few people. In times of national
crisis it is necessary to marshal a coun-
try’s material and man-power resources
for the common good, and democracy has
always acknowledged this, even to the
provision for martial law in extreme
cases. Because of the acute danger with
which Australia was threatened in this
total war, it became necessary, in order
to preserve the free way of life to which
we have become accustomed in peace-
time, to pass legislation giving the Gov-
ernment, in the words of R. G. Menzies,
then Prime Minister, (a) an unlimited
power to tax, (h) an unlimited power to
take property, (c) an unlimited power to
direct employers what to do, (d) an un-
limited power to direct employees what
to do, and ( e ) an unlimited power to call
up and train our man-power for the de-
fence of Australia. It will be seen that
within these powers a Government so
inclined may, by regulation, introduce
socialistic principles under the pretext of
“securing the public safety, the defence
of the realm, the maintenance of public
order, or the efficient conduct of any war
in which his Majesty may be engaged, or
for maintaining supplies or services essen-
tial to the life of the community.” And,
ironically, it may all be done in the name
of the King.
The National Security Regulations have,
in fact, been availed of extensively, if
not always intelligently or in the interests
of the war effort. From the trading banks
nearly all their discretionary powers were
taken by compulsion, though they are far
more skilled in matters of finance than
the Treasury, and they offered much
voluntarily, as they continue to do. Under
his power as Minister for Labor, Mr.
Ward has been high-handed and in-
tolerant towards employers, though
almost fantastically ingratiating in his
dealings with strikers and similar law-
breakers under the very National Secu-
rity. Regulations which he is so keen on
enforcing in other directions. It was the
utter irresponsibility of socialist Ward
that caused the breakdown of the Indus-
trial Relations Council. In the case of
Mr. Dedman we have a fair idea of what
his ideas of socialism amount to,
having already had a sort of preview in
his administration of rationalisation—in
clothes matters, clumsy, involved, waste-
ful and unrealistic. The Minister for
War Organisation of Industry in par-
ticular has dealt with the trading banks.
He has shown great alacrity in disclaim-
ing responsibility for any consequences
affecting the public welfare.
In general two things stand out in the
Government’s enforcement of the
National Security Act—its readiness to
overload with the war’s burdens any voting
minority and its never-ending concern for
the voting majority, however badly sec-
tions of it may be behaving. In the over-
loaded class we have almost all kinds of
employers, industrialists, finance direc-
tors and the.thrifty, as well as men who
work the land. In the other class we
have wage-earners who must belong to
unions, the most arrogant specimens of
which are Communist-controlled.
Under socialism the authority of
bureaucrats would be greatly increased.
In Australia already, as a result of the
passing of control to the Government in
many activities, we have an enormous
growth in the civil service. Some de-
partments are clogged and cluttered ufc
with staff whose main significance is on
the public payroll, not as producers, effi-
cient executives or administrators. The
confusion and red-tape that exist or are
created in Government offices at the
present time are astounding to those who
are doing a really effective job in fight-
ing this war. Costs of production and
waste in Government undertakings are
equally astonishing. In contrast, a Min-
ister of the Government —Makin, of
Munitions and the Navy —has publicly
praised a private enterprise, for
its efficiency, co-operation and the low
cost at which it supplies the Government
with its , steel requirements. It is the
cheapest steel in the world. Yet B.H.P.
has been an object of envy and dislike
for years by politicians from Ward to
Forde, who desire to interfere with its
present obviously able management and
control and “nationalise” it.
The Australian experience of boards
and bureaucrats has been one of waste,'
inconvenience and high cost to the con-
sumer, often with poor returns to the
producer. Instead of decreasing the cost
of distribution and administration,
boards, etc., increase it. The producer
and the consumer have to bend the knee
to the bureaucrats, from among whom
we sometimes see rise petty dictators.
Overgovernment and an overloaded
civil service have been curses in this
country for years past. They are grow-
ing worse at present, and under open
socialism they would undoubtedly become
worse still.
The introduction of socialistic prin-
ciples by backdoor methods now
can be done only at the' expense of the
war effort. Federal Ministers have quite
enough to do in looking after the war-
time tasks entrusted to them —if they do
them properly—away from planning a
large-scale political revolution within the
country. The Government has no man-
date whatsoever to interfere with the
fundamental rights of Australian citizens,
as modified by the National Security Act,
or to overregulate their way of living,
especially as the type of Government we
see is exacting legal obedience only from
those willing to be governed, in respect
of whom the law is quite often unfair.
Do we, then, want socialism? If not,
then much Government activity and
propaganda, as well as a lot of other
unofficial but nevertheless tolerated
activity, is taking us halfway along the
road to nowhere. This at a time when
every national-minded, self-sacrificing
Australian knows that the road we should
be travelling along leads unswervingly to
the efficient and speedy prosecution of the
war with equality of sacrifice, a minimum
of waste and realistic finance that does
not pretend to leave us richer or poorer
than the cost of war must inevitably
leave us. It is necessary for us, in order
to do the best we can in the present
stress of circumstances, to know whether
we are fighting for the Australia that we
knew or for a kind of Australia that Mr.
Dedman, Mr. Ward or Comrade Thorn-
ton, of the Ironworkers’ Union, would
select for us to live in when the blood
shed by thousands of individual, volun-
teer Australians, as well as militiamen,
eventually saves this country from the
enemies outside its shores. The advo-
cates of socialism have poor records
themselves as any kind of administrator.
The lives of Ward and Thornton <»have
been associated with the stirring-up
of envy and industrial strife rather than
production and smooth economic
running.
The future of a country depends
a great deal upon the spirit of its
people and its capacity to produce. It
gets nowhere by everlasting political
manoeuvring or by robbing one class to
give to another. So far as the distribution
of the national income is concerned in
the Commonwealth, excepting perhaps
New Zealand, there is no country in the
world in which rewards are so evenly
shared out, and there is already a danger
that interference with the right of a man
or men to earn money through mental
or physical skill or effort is dragging down
the general standard of living.
Australia is a young, undeveloped
country, and as such it should cherish
and reward enterprise and initiative.
They are qualities with which many Aus-
tralians are endowed, though they are
threatened by compulsory unionism and
other such political engineering. What-
ever excesses we have seen in the past on
the part of either Capital or Labor would
be a fleabite compared with what the
country would have to go through if it
fell for the socialism racket. of its
sponsors see socialism not in the “pure
(even if impracticable) light of its diction-
ary definition, but as a means to power
or profit for themselves. And let it
be remembered that, tagging along with
socialisation and its advocates, we almost
invariably see inflation, repudiation,
strikes, go-slow, stagnation of industry


Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
Ty/HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company's
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.; E. R. Knox;
H. Nonnan Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W, Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverlna District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw. 140 Lord’* Place. Orange.
:AnS
- s k^ s *e /
*
Exacting military standards
Bren Gun Tripod Legs be strong,
to be easily portable.
mediately suggested
Precision Seamless Steely
be accurately tapered,,
cording to
difficulties to B.T.M’s.,
ness
in building Bren,
ing forces.
free enterprise.
required that
and rigid enough
and strength im-
use of Cold-Drawn
Tubes, if these could
mitred and finished ac-
The problem presented no
skilled craftsmen and busi-
B.T.M- is proud to co-operate
Guns...proud to serve our fight-
to demonstrate that Australian
can rise to every occasion.
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A U S I.) P T Y. LTD.
ADELAIDE
A u
buy war savings certificates
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
19580-11 42
through bureaucratic control and, quite
frequently, disloyalty to the Throne,
Britain, the mother of democracy, has
been sneered at thousands of times by
.socialists and their kind as “decadent.”
But, engaged in total, bloody war with
various brands of socialism-mad coun-
tries, never has she appeared more
splendid or more fundamentally sound in
her way of living.
Red Cross Taxed as Civilians
“Red X” (New Guinea): A handful
of people in the forward areas seem to
have been singled out for income taxa-
tion at civilian rates. These are the
representatives of the Red Cross, the
Salvation Army and the Y.M.C.A., all
of whom have volunteered to serve
wherever required. Although there are
only a few of them, these volunteers all
do big, necessary jobs. Some have been
killed, others have been wounded, and
others still are prisoners of war. They are
not, strictly, members of the Army, but
they are attached to it and share its dis-
comforts and its risks. They are
formally accepted by the Army for ser-
vice and are subject to military law and
discipline.
The amount of money subscribed to
these organisations shows the recogni-
tion by the public of the value of their
work. This work, their representatives’
pay and the goods supplied by them
cost the Government nothing. However,
some bush lawyer in the Taxation Dept,
has discovered that the representatives
are serving with the Army, not in it.
Officers of the fighting forces serving
in barracks in the capital cities and en-
joying comforts of civilians and home
life pay income tax at special army
rates, *but members of the Red Cross,
Salvarmy and Y.M.C.A. serving even in
the most forward areas pay tax at civilian
rates.
One example will suffice to illustrate.
If he has a wife and two children depen-
dent on him a lieutenant in the Army
serving, say, in Melbourne pays 7s. 7d,
tax per week, but a Red Cross lieutenant
in a forward area on the same pay and
allowances pays 345. per week. The
work and supplies of the Red Cross have
been such that the Army Minister
recently announced recognition of that
body as an auxiliary of the Army, but
the Treasurer has remained strangely
silent on the taxation aspect. The cost
to the Government of rectifying the
anomaly would be negligible. However,
it may take a general election and the
inclusion of taxation justice in the policy
of one of the contending parties to wake
the Canberra conscience.
Professor Copland, at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) Rotary, stated that Australia
needed more economic controls. He
added: “I have yet to learn that you can
win a war with money. If you try to
make money supersede everything else
you will get an excess of money, with
disastrous consequences of inflation.” He
claimed that taxation in Australia
already exceeded taxation and compul-
sory loans in the United States and
Canada and equalled taxation and com-
pulsory loans in Great Britain and New
Zealand. Some of what the Prices Com-
missioner says will pass muster; some
won’t. Although the Commonwealth
Bank has recently published graphs pur-
porting to show that Australian taxation
is the heaviest in the world, this is only
unqualifiedly true of the higher incomes,
which have long been savagely taxed by
comparison With the under-£B-a-week
class. And it is only within the past
couple of months that taxation of the
lower incomes has been at all reasonable
in relation to the present tremendous
cost of war to the nation as a whole. We
have had 18 months of severe budgetary
inflation that has been one of the several
grave dangers the country has had to con-
tend with. Which goes to show that.
even if you can’t win a war with money
—a statement undeniably true —you can
at least greatly hinder your war effort by
unwise monetary control.
* * * *
Federal Cabinet has approved the
introduction of legislation to enable the
payment of pensions to eligible New
Zealanders resident in Australia in re-
turn for reciprocal treatment to Com-
monwealth citizens resident in the
Dominion. Each country will bear the
expense as it falls, without adjustment.
* * » *
Shareholders in Union Theatres In-
vestments, Ltd., last week approved,
though not without some dissent, of the
proposed guaranteed 6 p.c. to pref.
shareholders in lieu of the present 5 p.c.
with participation rights. Greater Union,
lessee of the State Theatre, has a con-
siderable say in the affairs of the lessor
co., U.T. Investments. In future Greater
Union will benefit from any prosperity
of U.T. Investments, but pref. share-
holders in U.T. Investments, of course,
aren’t entitled to anything out of increased
income in the hands of Greater Union.
Picture-houses are packed at present.
* * * *
William Jeffers, United States Rubber
Director,*has disclosed that 27 synthetic-
rubber plants are already operating or
are ready to operate, while another 54
units will be working before the end of
1943. In 1944 synthetic rubber produc-
tion is forecast at 750,000 tons, but any-
thing up to 30 p.c, of natural rubber will
have to be mixed with the synthetic in
order to produce heavy-duty tyres, and
rayon tyre-cord must be used instead of
cotton. The synthetic product by itself
lacks elasticity.
* * * *
“Avon”: N.Z, Forest Products, Ltd.,
offspring of the N.Z. Perpetual Forests
adventure, has beerj having a barney
with M.L. Minister of Commerce, Dan
Sullivan. Products, now eight years old
(the parent co. dates from 1923),
has established insulating board and
timber mills at a cost of over £400,000,
and these are operating successfully, but
it wishes also to embark on paper manu-
facture. In 1936 it bought a full outfit
of machinery in the U.S.A., but was re-
fused a license to import the plant to
M.L. The stuff was held in storage till
three years ago, when it was sold in
America at a loss of £25,000. Just re-
cently Products has been circularising its
20,000 M.L. shareholders asking them to
send personal letters to Priminister
Fraser in support of the application for
a license. Sullivan’s comeback is that a
similar application from the State Forests
Department, which holds 400,000 acres of
softwoods as against Products’ 170,000
acres, has priority, both in time and on
the score of public interest. The depart-
ment’s interest in paper manufacture,
goes back to 1925, when the Coates
Ministry instituted inquiries and re-
searches that - extended over two years.
M.L. softwoods were sent to America
for testing and their commercial uses
were defined. But it was not until re-
cently that M.L. forests, both State-
owned and otherwise, were equal to keep-
ing a big modern paper plant going. And
there the matter stands at time of writing,
most probably to be shelved, like so many
other such projects, until after the war.
♦ * * ♦
Australian Paper Manufacturers reports
that all its mills have been active, with
demand equal to the supply. The pulp
mill at Maryvale has operated satisfac-
torily—a fact interesting to record for
post-war purposes. The pulp mill has
been run-in in favorable economic cir-
cumstances ; for materials in short supply
there are at present scarcely any
economic obstacles, only technical
ones. The Australian paper industry has
an interesting future. There are two
major interests in the field at present —
A.P.M. and Associated Pulp, which is
making printing and writing papers in
Tasmania.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia, Burma, Attu.
Ek Dum”: The war in the South-
west Pacific was relatively quiet last week.
The Japanese are working hard in New
Guinea, but there is less sign of immi-
nent large-scale operations than at any
time since the Coral Sea battle.
Phis does not necessarily mean that
the enemy intends to abandon the front.
Indeed, the direction of his substantive
moves in New Guinea proper suggests
that the plan there tends more towards
the one predicted here as possible several
times —a pincer move on the island from
Dutch New Guinea via the Fly River on
one side and the northern coastal littoral
on the other, followed by the occupation
of the central plateau. If he could estab-
lish himself there it would be difficult
to dislodge him.
From Wau to W.A.
The main Japanese efforts were in the
way of defensive measures designed to
remove the dangerous Allied concentra-
tions adjacent to Salamaua and Lae. On
May 17 22 bombers, covered by 21
fighters, made another raid on Wau aero-
drome and caused slight damage and
casualties before they flew off. Next
day 25 “O” fighters arrived over Wau,
dropped a few bombs, dived to 50 feet
and threw some bursts of m.-g. fire at
the ’drome. They were driven off by
ack-ack fire without doing more than
slight harm to man or equipment.
A feature of all the recent raids on
Wau has been that there has been no
Allied interception.
Friday’s communique reported that
nine bombers had dropped bombs in the
bush or water adjacent to Oro Bay base,
and that 12 ’planes destroyed a small
Allied lugger and damaged another, caus-
ing light casualties at Cape Ward Hunt.
That day three enemy ’planes aimed a
few bombs at Moresby—harmlessly ; at
dusk four ’planes dropped six bombs in
the Milne Bay bush. The same night and
the next three more bombers on the
other side of Australia carried out the
farthest-south raid on the continent by
attacking an unspecified objective in the
Exmouth Gulf (W.A.). Only one bomb
fell—on the Indian Ocean. They were
back there the next night at midnight, but
again their bombs (nine) fell into the sea
when the flak batteries took after them.
These raids can only be accounted
armed reconnaissances. There is no evi-
dence as to the nature of the ’planes
used. They may have come from a
carrier or submarines, but possibly were
from Java or Soemba.
Allied raiding was on the usual com-
prehensive scale. On May 18 there were
three raids on three Timor objectives, on
one in the Kai Islands and two in New
Guinea. On May 19 General Mac-
Arthur’s H.Q. reported four raids on New
Britain, one on Kavieng (New Ireland),
one on Lorengau (Admiralties) and one
each on Finschhafen and Lae.
Beaus Lost
Next day the R.A.A.F. attacked Pen-
foel aerodrome (Koepang) at treetop
height, destroying three enemy fighters
and a bomber on the ground. The
raiders were assailed by “O” fighters, and
dogfights continued for 100 miles out
to sea. Three Beaus did not return home.
The cause of this unusual loss has not
been named. The Beau has plenty of
range to get to Koepang and back with
an ample margin for dogfights and
strafes, and it is a pretty good “O” fighter
which can match it.
Liberator bombers which followed the
Beaus to Java claimed three “Os” which
attacked them, and possibly two others.
May 21 brought a heavy raid, in which
18 tons of bombs were dropped on
Rabaul aerodromes. Gasmata, which
has become the aerial focus of New
Britain, suffered another attack,
Yamamoto and Homma
Tokyo Radio made the peculiar an-
nouncement that Admiral Yamamoto,
C.-in-C. of Combined Naval Operations,
had been killed in an air combat in April
“in the very front lines of the south.”
Another announcement added that “he
met a gallant death while in a warplane,”
and that his successor, Admiral Koga,
was already in command.
No air battle of. any note was recorded
in April. Newspaper writers jumped to
the conclusion that Yamamoto had com-
mitted hara-kiri. This was said of
General Homma, who commanded in the
Philippines, but Homma afterwards
turned up in Manchuria. It is best to be
wary of this wily Oriental enemy when he
seems ingenuous.
Battle in Attu
The U.S. invasion of Attu in the
was characterised by the same
sort of grim fighting by heavily en-
trenched Japanese as took place at Buna.
The weather was bad. After prelimi-
nary bombing—some of the first aircraft
hit a mountain —U.S. forces landed at
two points, Holtz and Massacre Bay, at
the north and south ends of the little
island. The landings were made under
cover of heavy naval fire, supported by
bombers. The Japanese, helped by the
weather, fought stubbornly for position
after position. By May 19 the two U.S.
forces had converged and pushed the
enemy into the Chagocof area in one
corner, and bottled them up by the cap-
ture of the Sarana Pass.
On May 20 Vichy Radio declared that
the Japs were beginning to evacuate their
forces. Tokyo said they were still fight-
ing “heroically” against “ overwhelming
forces. Washington was content with a
brief statement that everything was “pro-
ceeding satisfactorily,” and with a mid-
week assurance from Mr. Stimson, the
Secretary for War, that, though difficult
conditions, including cold, had to be
faced, large quantities of equipment and
supplies had been captured and U.S.
casualties were comparatively light. At
the week-end Colonel Knox, Secretary
for the Navy, declared that only mop-
ping up remained to be done.
In Washington
The P.M- gave an assurance that Casa-
blanca strategy did not mean “Hitler
first, and then Japan,” but “Hitler and
Japan together, with emphasis on one or
the other as the tide of battle turns.” He
said that Britain had at least as great an
interest as the U.S.A. in the defence of
Australia and New Zealand against in-
vasion, and repeated that the threat to
these Dominions seemed to him “far
greater when Singapore fell than now.”
He stressed the need for quickly helping
China. Later in the week he said the
war would be a long one.
The opening of the Mediterranean has
completely reoriented the war in Asia.
It has quadrupled the value of every ship
needed for carriage of goods to India and
southern Russia.
Work in Burma
Meanwhile, despite concentration on
the tiny 12-mile front of the Maungdaw
sector, it becomes more and more evi-
dent that General Wavell and his armies
have done a useful preparatory job along
the Indian defensive front. Mention of
place-names suggests that approach roads
in the Manipur region have been built
and dumps and aerodromes arranged for,
the enemy , often receding appreciably be-
fore these preparations. Troops have
been trained and specially equipped for
Burmese warfare, and much done to-
wards opening a workable northern
supply route to China.
The Wingates Come Again
Nobody recalled the legendary history
of tough Sir Reginald Wingate (still
active at 82), who was a figure of
greater stature in the Middle East than
Lawrence, when young Brigadier Win-
gate’s exploits with his “Chindit” force
were described the other day. But it was
easy to see where the younger man got
his inspiration and experience.
In Burma, following the dictum of
Marshal Saxe that a small detachment
can always live in enemy country if it
keeps moving, Wingate steered a detach-
ment, fed and reinforced by air, across
the Manipur or Naga Hills and across
the great Chindwin and its tributaries,
and cut the Mandalay-Myitkyina railway
far on the opposite side of Burma —the
line is about 400 miles long—in 70 places.
Wingate and his adventurers pene-
trated even beyond the Irrawaddy, upset
Japanese pressure plans all along the
Assam border, as well as those against
the Chinese on the eastern front, and for
ten weeks carried destruction and dismay
into Burma. They left only when they
had eaten most of their 1000 mules and
a goodly number of the native fauna.
The force consisted of British (includ-
ing some A.I.F. specialists), Burman,
Gurkha and other Indian troops,
specially trained for the job.
A Horror of the Sees.
“Ek Dum”: A thrill of horror ran
through Australia at the news, issued on
May 18, that on the previous Friday a
Japanese submarine had sunk the Aus-
tralian hospital ship Centaur, 3000 tons,
on her maiden voyage under the Red
Cross, and that 268 lives had been lost
and only 64 persons rescued.
Out of 12 nurses on board only one,
Sister Eleanor Savage, was rescued, to-
gether with a single medical officer,
Lieut.-Colonel Leslie Outridge, a Queens-
lander, out of 18.
The rest of those saved included 30
members of the mercantile marine—4s
of the crew were lost and Captain G. A.
Murray went down with his ship. There
were 32 other survivors, nearly all of
the military medical personnel.
The dead included Lieut.-Colonel C. P.
Manson, senior medical officer on board,
who had served with casualties from all
Australian battlefields during the present
war; Major L. L. Holland, who prac-
tised with his wife, Dr. Lorna Beveridge,
in Mosman (Sydney); Major C. E.
Thelander, of a well-known Queensland
medical family ; Major Geoffrey Cooley,
a rising young surgeon, married only last
year; Major Sender, of Chatswood, Syd-
ney ; Major G. R. Jones, of # Grafton
(N.S.W.); Captain Hindmarsh, of Macks-
ville (N.S.W.); and Dr. S. D. Foley, who
had been married only five weeks. The
chaplain, an Anglican padre, Captain
Ernest Laverick, was lost with the rest.
The sinking was described by General
MacArthur as “a limitless act of savag-
ery,” and so it was.
All Non-combatants
All the staff personnel on board were
non-combatants, serving the cause of
mercy, unarmed and, if captured, sub-
ject to exchange as “protected personnel,”
But in a shark-infested sea the unarmed
vessel was hideously torpedoed and no
attempt was made at succor.
In the rules of war to which civilised
nations conform every attempt is made
to protect hospital ships. They are lighted
and carry signs which cannot be mistaken,
both by day and by night. Certain safe-
guarding regulations are observed under
international convention —each side in a
war usually knows the whereabouts of its
foe’s hospital units and respects them.
During the early part of the war the
Japanese observed the convention. At
Darwin, when a harborful of ships were
attacked in the first great raid, the only
damage done on a hospital ship in harbor
was apparently accidental, a result of
the proximity of other vessels which were
being attacked. At Manila the enemy
allowed a Red Cross ship to leave for
Australia with about 200 wounded
aboard. At Milne Bay he respected a
hospital ship which he could have
destroyed.
However, during the battle for Papua
the enemy’s attitude appeared to change,
and an Australian hospital was bombed.
The present incident more than wiped
out the credit of any past humanity.
The Centaur was travelling northward
along the Queensland coast at four
o’clock on a bitterly cold morning when
the attack was made. Her Neon red
crosses were alight and she was other-
wise fully illuminated —something which
in itself was enough to identify her even
had there been no Red Cross signs. Visi-
bility was perfect.
The torpedo was fired from a sub-
merged submarine, though some sur-
vivors declared that they saw the mur-
derer surface after the torpedo' had been
fired. Since there were no patients on
board the staff were mostly in their
' bunks. They had no chance. Fire burst
all over the vessel, and soon she had sunk.
There was no time to launch any boats
—indeed, no boats to launch; the
only one found intact afterwards was
holed.
The fire came so quickly that it made
the chance of those who were not in-
stantly on deck hopeless. Many of those
who were rescued were severely burnt,
including the one surviving doctor and
Captain R. M. Salt, a Torres Strait pilot,
who saved himself by dashing through a
wall of flame enveloped in a wet blanket.
It was Captain Salt’s second rescue from
the flames—a year ago he was badly
burned when he escaped from a ship
sunk by Japanese shellfire at Milne Bay.
After the ship had dived the water was
dotted with figures struggling in the oil
film —because of the suddenness with
which the flaming vessel went down, it
did not catch fire. Some of these sur-
vivors were killed when large junks of
debris broke away from the vessel and
under pressure were driven to the sur-
face. The remainder found themselves
divided into small groups on rafts and
wreckage.
It soon began to rain heavily, and con-
tinued raining for most of the 36 hours
which elapsed before they were rescued.
Even the best off were clad only in
thin night clothes, including the one brave
nurse who was saved. She had seen her
best friend disappear and her cabin mate
killed by a falling beam when they
jumped overboard together, but she did
not lose her courage. Indeed she lived
up to the traditions of her calling, for-
getting herself in her anxiety to help and
cheer others,
A few of the castaways were com-
pletely naked, the suction of the ship
having pulled their clothing off them.
In the intervals of sunshine these un-
fortunate people were badly burnt.
Sharks cruised round in schools. One
put his nose through a raft. Once a man
screamed and disappeared from a baulk
of timber.
Drifting to Sea
To add to the strain and misery the
survivors caught sight of several air-
craft ; but the thickness of the weather
prevented their flares and smoke candles
from being effective. The swell was so
heavy that a plan for sending a small
raft to row to land was out of the ques-
tion. All that could be done was to
endeavor to keep the pitiful convoy .of
rafts and near-rafts together.
The largest of these managed to raise
a tattered tarpaulin for a sail. Enough
rope was found to tie the others together.
Hungry and thirsty, fire-burnt and sun-
burnt, but game, those who were left
steadily drifted out to sea as darkness
fell on them.
An Enemy Arrives
The night filled them with hope, for
in the darkness they believed their flares
might be seen. But after the moon had
risen a new terror fell upon them.' Out
of the sea, not far away, a large sub-
marine came to the surface and lay there,
silhouetted for half an hour, seemingly
charging her batteries.
No more flares were lighted. At dawn,
miles further from land, they buried, as
reverently as they might, a badly-burned
man who had just died, his four mates
upon a raft, all men of the merchant
marine, saying a short prayer as they
passed him out into a rain-swept sea.
On the Saturday afternoon an aircraft
sighted them and signalled a naval rescue
ship.
From then onward the atmosphere was
typically Australian. There was much
singing and the inevitable sweepstake on
the length of time the rescuers would
take.
Protests, but
Strong protests have already been made
to the Japanese Government both by the
Australian Government and the Inter-
national Red Cross. They are likely to
avail little with the men who executed
airmen captured in Brigadier-General
Doolittle’s raid on Japan.
Up to the week-end Japan had not
mentioned the sinking of the Centaur.
But on May 19 a Japanese spokesman
accused Britain and America of similar
sinkings.
This was followed on May 20 by the
reading of an official Imperial Head-
quarters communique which alleged
that nine illegal attacks had been made
on seven Japanese Red Cross ships, add-
ing that two —named —had been damaged
and had casualties. “These attacks,”
Tokyo added smugly, “not only violated
international law but were totally con-
trary to the laws of humanity.”
Tokyo seems to know about as much
about humanity as the average black
snake.
Balances in Tunisia.
“Ek Dum”: Balance sheets struck in
Tunisia show that the results have been
appalling for the enemy.
Up to the retreat to Alamein Britain
(with a handful of Allies) never had many
more than 90,000 troops engaged in the
fighting in Africa at any one time.
From November, 1942, onwards com-
paratively small forces were employed in
wet-season campaigning, apart from the
Eighth Army.
It was not till the final couple of
months that there was a whole army
group arrayed against the enemy—the
First and Eighth British armies ; a corps
or two of French, and three infantry divi-
sions and one armored division of Ameri-
cans —about 63,000.
At times the tiny British forces con-
fronted Axis armies five to one their
strength.
Yet the results to the enemy were com-
parable with those of the recent Russian
winter campaign in point of loss.
From November to February 23,
according to Stalin, the Axis lost —in
battles which stretched over a 1500-mile
front and involved many millions of men
—700,000 killed and 300,000 taken
prisoner. These included Hungarians,
Rumanians and Italians.
Between the opening of the attach on
the Mareth Line (March 21) and May
19, 267,000 prisoners were taken in
Tunisia, 224,000 in the last fortnight. It
makes a curious contrast that, whereas
in Russia, on the Soviet’s figures, it
needed 700,000 deaths to persuade
300.000 of the enemy to surrender, only
30.000 Axis troops were killed and 27,000
seriously wounded in the crucial final


Public Notices.
I, SALVATORE BUTTA, known as Sam
BUTT, of Italian nationality, born at Leni,
province of Messina, Italy, and resident 33
years in Australia, now residing at 59 Marl-
borough Road, Willoughby, New South Wales,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PER OLOF RYDVALL, of Swedish nation-
ality, born at Mdnsterds, Sweden, and resident
55 years in Australia, now residing at 125 Aber-
crombie Street, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, JOHN THEODORE ARONEY, of Greek
nationality, born at Cerigo, Greece, and resident
43 years in Australia, now residing at Pasa-
dena Flats, Cross Street, Double Bay, Sydney,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
tne Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friend.
HANNAFORD—BROWN—WiII SelinaHanna-
ford, Ida Brown (formerly of Prospect Street,
Leichhardt, N.S.W.), John, William or Charles
Brown (cousins of the late Miss Mary Walter
Oxenhara, of Tavistock, England), or anyone
knowing the whereabouts of any of them, com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED), Box 4172 X, G.P.0., Syd-
ney?
cftoyal cßujil# cftuci
battles in Tunisia before the huge bags
of prisoners were secured. _
To the captures of Tunisia must be
added 33,315 German and 284 776
Italian prisoners in British hands before
March 21, . .
German casualties for Africa total
227.000 and Italian 400,000 —apart from
less seriously wounded.
These figures do not include heavy
naval and air force losses and losses of
army and supply personnel at sea, Mr.
Churchill placed the total cost of the
African campaigns to the enemy at
950.000 men, 2,400,000 tons gross of ship-
ping sunk—over 300 ships, including 54
warships—62oo guns, 2550 tanks and
70.000 trucks.
The cost to the British Empire since
Italy entered the war was 220,000 men
killed, wounded or taken prisoner or
missing. These figures included those for
Greece,
Australia’s Heavy Price
Australia’s share of the price was not
small:
First Libyan campaign: Killed and died,
264; wounded, 932; missing and prisoners,
33; total, 1229.
Tobruk campaign: Killed, 726; wounded,
2057; missing and prisoners, 1012; total,
3795.
Second Libyan campaign: Killed, 50;
wounded, 55; missing and prisoners, 7;
total, 112. Only a few units took part.
Greece and Crete: Killed and died, 518;
wounded, 494; missing, 174; prisoners,
5033; total, 6219.
Syria: Killed and died, 411; wounded,
1144; missing, 2; total, 1557.
El Alamein: Killed and died, 1177;
wounded, 3629; missing, 193; prisoners,
795 ; total, 5794.
Seven men were killed or wounded in
Palestine.
Totals for all campaigns:
Killed 3,147
Wounded . . .. 8,317
Missing.. . . .. 443
Prisoners .. .. 6,806
18,713
With three divisions abroad (two
of them there far from the whole time
and the third only a skeleton during part
of its time), and with never more (except
during the Greece-Crete-Tobruk retreat
period) than the full strength of a divi-
sion in action at one and the same time,
the A.I.F. had casualties equal to more
than one-third its actual divisional fight-
ing strength. #
Our men came, back with a proud
record ; with no task set in which they
failed even when the odds were over-
whelmingly against them. And they won
six V.Cs. —only three, alas! returned to
wear their ribbons —and 2082 other deco-
rations.
Operations in Russia.
Last week they were mainly confined
to air fighting. There were reports every
day of enemy losses of machines run-
ning into three figures, and of destruction
of rolling stock and men in rear areas.
After an enemy raid on Kursk Moscow
claimed 65 German aircraft, 56 downed,
in air combat.
In land fighting the Russians reported
the improving of their bridgeheads at
Lisichansk and elsewhere in the Donetz
and the breaching of the outer defences
of Novorossisk in the Kuban area.
Berlin’s Trans-ocean radio service stated
on May 23 that all was quiet in the
Kuban area, but declared that a heavy
Russian attack had been beaten back at
Sokolniki, near Velikiye Luki, with
“huge slaughter.” It was asserted that
the “Russian divisions were unable even
to reach the German defence lines before
they were wiped out.”
Great German masses are being accu-
mulated against the southern part of the
Russian centre. Both sides are evidently
waiting for the end of the later Don
floods, which begin in the upper reaches
of the river and finish with this month.
Desolation in the Ruhr.
“Ek Dum”: Named from its river,
it lies east and west along a break of
country where the mountains of the
Sauerland end and the northern coastal
plain of Germany, as flat as a Communist
tea party, begins. The region is cut off
on the west by the Rhine, which here-
abouts is round a quarter of a mile wide.
It is on a great bed of coal and other
minerals, and through it, pacing with
the mountain formation* runs the Ruhr
River, on which huge industrial cities are
strung like beads in a necklace, most of
them so close together that they merge
almost into one community with about
5,000,000 or more people—Dortmund,
Bochum, Gelsenkirchen, Elberfeld-Bar-
men, Dusseldorf, Kaiserwerk, Ober-
hausen, Millheim and Essen and Duis-
burg.
All the Ruhr cities from Dortmund to
Duisburg have acre upon acre of black-
ened waste to show as souvenirs of the
R.A.F.’s doses of thunder and apoplexy.
The Mohne and Eder
The range of hills which lies to the
south of the Ruhr slips off into the forests
and is a fine rain-catcher. Its name is
the Rothaar (Red Hair) Range. It forms
the catchment area both for the Ruhr
and for the Valley of Hesse on the other
side. There are several reservoirs round
these regions. The main ones are the
Mohne in the upper Ruhr on the north,
feeding the whole of that industrial area,
and the Eder, which has been built across
the Eder River on the opposite side of
the range.
The Eder flows on down to the Fulda
Valley and on to Cassel and the Weser,
and its waters then pass Minden, of
glorious memory.
The dams are vast structures, set in
not very wide gorges, and therefore were
very thick and very high, as they needed
to be to hold back 340,000,000 tons of
water. At the toe each would consist
of over 100 feet thick of masonry. The
outside height of the Eder Dam, which is
about a third of a mile across, must be
close to 300 feet, say from the top of
Sydney Harbor .Bridge towers to the
water of Sydney Harbor.
Between these two great sheets of very
deep water is a third supplementary reser-
voir in the. Waldeck region called the
Sorpe; All these the R.A.F. attacked last
week, at a moment when their destruc-
tion would cause most confusion.
Why Dams Are Not Bombed
Dams have always been a temptation
and a legend to air forces; but dam-
smashing is easier to think of than to do.
The thought of attacking the Eder
Dam, and at night, would be enough to
make the stoutest heart turn over. It
sounds like plain suicide. Such attacks
have to be made at low level with
tremendous loads.
The attacking ’planes cannot come in
in mass, because they must fly right into
the gorge, straight across the dam wall
and into a converging barrage which
comes from three directions —from the
defence lines along the dam itself and
from both sides of the high banks enclos-
ing the waters.
Moreover, there must be a very heavy
load of explosives to do the damage, and
it must be dropped at exactly the, point
at which there is greatest horizontal and
lifting stress against the dam wall.
However, when the explosive charge
is placed at the right spot its effects in
proportion to the explosion are likely to
be terrible. A dam wall is always
under tremendous strain, sufficiently
great in this type of reservoir to shift the
point of greatest strain about 20 per
cent, through the masonry towards the
toe when the dam fills.
The attacks, therefore, called for care-
ful planning as to the type of destroying
agent and exact shooting. The R.A.F.
solved the problem by using a projectile
which would be relatively self-aiming and
which would explode on contact. In-
geniously, 15001 b. mines were used which
could be sucked into the sluice valves
and overflow outlets and blow up from
friction possibly inside the masonry.
These had to be dropped between the
dam and adjacent torpedo nets.
The difficulties were probably added
to by the fact that for this purpose the
size of the projectiles necessarily would
be limited.
Secrecy and Training
The success of the project would de-
pend on complete secrecy, because, in
view of the restriction of the space in
which the attackers would have to oper-
ate, any whisper reaching the enemy
would enable him to develop concen-
trated defence, spelling disaster to the
expedition, which would have to go out
minus fighter cover.
A prepared enemy with the Eder
gorge defences on the alert and with
fighters up would have all the chances
with him, and it was unlikely that
any attacker would come out alive or
even reach his objective.
Indeed, success depended almost en-
tirely on the enemy’s confidence that only
a madman would attempt such an adven-
ture in any case. The Germans, though
the fact has been established on the Con-
tinent for centuries that all the English
are mad, have again and again failed to
benefit by this knowledge.
The plans were laid with meticulous
care and long conned over. The
material used was special.
To command the squadrons the Air
Ministry chose Wing-Commander G. P.
Gibson, D.S.O. and bar and D.F.C. and
bar. His crews were carefully picked—
-133 choice specimens from all over the
Empire.
Australia was well represented: Flight-
Lieutenants Leggo (Lake Macquarie,
N.S.W.) and R. F. Hay (S.A.); Pilot-
Officers F. M. Spafford (Wayville, (S.A.),
B. T. Foxlee (Q.), D. J. Shannon (V.), L.
G. Knight (V.), C. L. Howard (S.A.);
Flight-Sergeants R. G. Kellow (New-
castle) and T. D. Simpson (T.). All these
are members of the R.A.A.F. Flight-
Lieutenant H. B. Martin (Sydney), who
is in the R.A.F., was also among the
party. As instruments these choice
spirits had 19 Lancasters, largest and
fastest of bombers, capable of carrying
between them about 150 tons of bombs.
They went into training in solitude like
rowing eights, rehearsing their work
probably over some of the great English
or central Welsh waterworks.
Then came a patient wait for a still,
light, moonlit night. They found it on
May 16. In the early morning of the
17th, Norway’s national day, there was
a whirr of wings over the low, flat lands
which lead from the North Sea coast to
the Ruhr.
The Fight
There has been no full account of the
details —to give one would be to pass
valuable information to the enemy—but
at Mohne Wing-Commander Gibson
came in leading a single file of aircraft
into a vortex of fire and dropped the
first bombs. His rear gunner saw a 300 ft.
waterspout rise presently behind them
as the second ’plane shrieked its way
along the gorge. For the rest of the fight
Gibson flew round drawing the enemy’s
fire from his squadron. The effect from
the dam wall of each ’plane’s charge
must have been something like the
approach of a demented whirlwind,
since the aircraft made their attacks
from 100 feet, at which height the large
machines literally could just about have
touched the dam with their tails.
Another and another attacker swooped
in. Each time the load was well placed.
At the fourth explosion the curved dam
wall gave way and over 100,000,000 tons
of water began to roar down to Neheim
and Dortmund and the cities of the
Ruhr, bursting out in huge waterfalls.
The Eder Dam was breached at its
overflow outlets about 30 feet below the
top of the wall and at one of the great
sluices near the bottom.
Its damage was finally tom by the
weight of the water into a huge rent
180 feet wide at the top and 100 feet at
the bottom.
The Sorpe Dam was not broken open
but it was badly cracked.
And' the Cost
The extent of the catastrophe is hard
to measure. On the Ruhr side the land
quickly spreads out from the river into
the North Sea plain, and the water would
in time dissipate. But on its way to the
plain the actual immediate damage would
be tremendous.
The great blackened cities which lie
along the Ruhr were in parts knee-deep
in water within a few hours. The whole
of the transport works of the cities as
far as the Rhine and Munster would be
disorganised, apart from damage done
in them. These include the vast
marshalling-yard centre of Hamm, rail-
way-clearing station for all Westphalia.
The great inland canal system—the Dort-
mund-Ems Canal and the Weser Canals,
which carry large loads of goods to
the North Sea ports and the Baltic —must
certainly be put out of action, since the
dams controlled its water level.
The railway and tramway systems of
the nearer cities, too, would be immobi-
lised on the Ruhr side, also the local
water supply and food supply ; and, be-
cause of the more confined nature of the
route of flood, there must have been
great actual immediate damage in the
Eder Valley right down to the military
city of Cassel, 35 miles from the dam, and
beyond.
Every airfield of the Ruhr must be
under water and much air-defence
equipment lost, and great stocks of stores
in warehouses would be ruined. R.A.F.
pictures by May 19 showed 56 towns and
flooded villages, and at least 50,000 per-
sons were homeless. Berlin the same
evening said that 370 persons were dead
and 36 missing, “excluding prisoners *of
war,” since guards had warned people in
time. Other sources suggested a heavy
loss of life.
Many mines would be flooded through-
out wide expanses of country. Iron and
steel works would be compelled to stop
work for want of necessary water, and
that for long periods. Those industries
which depend on hydro-electric power
would be immobilised. Those that de-
pend for their raw materials on canal and
railways would be equally held up. The
telephone and lighting systems would
cease to function.
It is not too much to say that a
countryside as large as Belgium and as
intensely organised and with a popula-
tion larger than Australia was put out of
action in its busiest parts and seriously
dislocated in the balance. The effects
must be felt for months on every Axis
front in Europe, including Italy.
Greater than Tunisia
The direct material effects on Ger-
many will be greater even than the de-
feat in Tunisia. Berlin seemed stunned
by the disaster. A state of siege was pro-
claimed.
An iron censorship was clamped down
on the news, but not before Berlin Radio
had quoted the reliable “Deutsche Allg>
meine Zeitung”:
The R.A.F. has converted the districts
between the Rhine and the Ruhr into a
theatre of war by continuous battering.
There is absolute silence and total de-
struction in the whole area.
Out of the gallant 130-odd men who
carried out the last brilliant adventure
well on towards half, in eight of the 19
Lancasters, did not return.
In brief; —■
The R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. continued their air
war on Germany and Italy. Berlin was raided
by the long-ranging Mosquitoes six times in
nine days up to May 23, and Berlin allowed
that U.S. Fortresses did heavy damage to
Emden naval base, though the enemy claimed
to have shot down 17 of the attackers. Uncle
Sam admitted loss of 12 bombers and three
fighters in all operations. On most nights
during the week there were alerts in London,
but relatively few ’planes came over, and Berlin
admitted that the raids were mainly directed
at British nerves. A number of enemy machines
were destroyed.
* * * *
The Mediterranean air war has developed
into a serious attempt by Allied air forces to
blow the toe off Italy and to remove Sicily and
Sardinian cities and Pantellaria Island bodily.
It was claimed that 285 enemy aircraft had been
destroyed in three days, mostly by U.S. bombers
on the ground, and that the Allied loss had
been only 12 machines.
$ * * *
British regiments involved in Tunisian fighting
included the Brigade of Guards, Lancashire
Fusiliers, Hampshires, King’s Own Yorkshire
L.I. —all “men who fought at. Minden” —Royal
West Kents, Argylls and Sutherlands, Black
Watch, Gordons, the Seaforth, the Buffs, Lin-
colnshires, Green Howards, Royal Irish Rifles,
London Irish Rifles, Northamptonshires,
Cameron Highlanders, East Surreys, Yorks and
Lancasters, Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers, R.A.,
R.E. and the Royal Armored Corps, including
several county Yeomanry units now mechan-
ised.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports that a British sub-
marine has sunk an Italian destroyer and a
supply ship; another badly damaged a supply
ship in a running fight. Coastal Command
Hampdens early in the week torpedoed at
least eight ships in a convoy off the Dutch
coast. Two were left sinking. Beaus the
same afternoon torpedoed two merchant ships
in the same region and left three escort vessels
on fire.


m
V.G.10
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VERONICA KATHLEEN REID late of
Belmore Street Rozelle.—TAKE NOTICE that
JAMES DIONYSIUS REID has filed a Petition
No 695 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 30th
June 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. C. CATHELS & CO.
Solicitors of 28 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN * THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HUGH MCDONALD formerly of New-
castle.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY MC-
DONALD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
358 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you desire to defend the case you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or be-
fore the 2nd August 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street
Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO lAN MacGGREGOR CAMPBELL late
of Wollongong N.S.W. and Springvale Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE EVELYN
CAMPBELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1246 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
of July 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN AND MAGUIRE Solicitors 38
Martin Place Sydney N.S.W. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROLAND WILLIAM RAWNSLEY late
of 69 Campbell Street Wollongong. —TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY MAY RAWNSLEY
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 2680 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an ap-
pearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney not later than nineteenth
July 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from W. lAN SHORT Solicitor
74 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
, Space with Compliments of
Makers of the Economy Sauce.
SPORTING NOTINOS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It takes more than the possibility of a
wet afternoon to keep people away from
races in Sydney these days, and the
Moorefield meeting at Canterbury drew
the customary large attendance. The
tote turnover exceeded £27,000. The
going was decidedly soft, the time for
the Moorefield Handicap being 19fsec.
worse than the course record for 11 fur-
longs, and that for the seven and a quar-
ter furlongs Flying Handicap
Therefore it is probable that on a dry
track some of the beaten runners will
prove Saturday’s form quite wrong.
In the Flying Handicap Young Valais
quickly took the lead, and when at the
three furlongs he drew further away
from Guild Hall and Milanja he seemed
to have the race won. However, he
weakened slightly after starting upon the
last furlong, and Winnipeg, with a well-
sustained run, and strongly ridden by
W. Fellows, defeated him a length. John
Halifax, in fourth place, came home
fairly, but, apart from the place-
getters and Guild Hall, nothing was
ever doing quite well enough to
look a possible winner. Their big
weights, in conjunction with the heavy
track, had Rimveil and Flying Knight
settled at a very early stage.
Red Pete, who tried for an all-the-way
win in the Moorefield Handicap, first of
all shook off Easter Time and then Jym-
jon approaching the home turn, but
Hieron (Mulley), who was always going
Well and was .never further away than a
close fourth, was a little too good in a
tussle down the straight. Excuses were
made for Red Pete on the score that he
was inclined to hang in, and also
stumbled slightly, but Hieron was hold-
ing him 50 yards from home. Dewar,
after being last most of the way, moved
up at the three furlongs, |put could not
sustain his effort, which, considering the
heavy track and his 9.4, was not surprising.
Urgent Rate, favorite for the Nursery
Handicap, was second to Montano
(Nuffield-Desdemona) at the turn, where
Code and Craglia were also conspicuous,
but, though a furlong from home three
or four looked winning possibilities,
Yarras (Allen), with a good finishing run,
scored narrowly from Kingsford (by
Double Remove) and Joygiver. The last-
named drew an outside position at the
post and, like the winner, was not well
placed at the turn. Yarras, who cost
300gns. as a yearling, is by Midstream
from Valferre, whose winners include
Pandion and The Jilt. Yarras is trained
by F. McGrath for F. G. Spurway, who
in 1922 won the Caulfield Guineas with
Soorak.
In the first division of the Highweight
Nobleman again ran just well enough
to disappoint. He had every chance,
leading Irish Sea at the straight entrance,
but Marcoperi ran him down over the
last half-furlong, giving apprentice Swin-
ton his second successive win on that
mare, and he handled her well. Irish Sea,
though third, was troubled by the adverse
conditions, and weakened over the last
furlong. Merry Warrah ran well enough
to suggest an early return to form, and
the most that can be said of the majority
of the remainder is that they started.
Aquatic, a very early tip for the second
division of the Highweight, was second
to Valaroi early in the piece, but was
only fourth at the winning post. Valaroi
had a lead that made him look a winner
entering the straight* Mastery being
nearest him. Inside the last furlong a
stroke from the whip caused Valaroi to
attempt to buck, and, losing ground, he
was decisively beaten by Vanity Lady
(Mulley), a Cistercian mare. Three-year-
old Chatamore, in third place, ran sur-
prisingly well, and St. Elmo, Mastery and
War Spear, without being really danger-
ous, shaped fairly. Dundalk, prominent
for the first three furlongs, stopped badly
in the straight. The time was a half-
second faster than the first division.
* * * *
Imported Scarlet Toi just lasted long
enough to win the Ascot Thousand, of
£lOOO, at Mentone on Saturday. Darraweit
put in a good run in the straight, but
failed by a half-head to reach Scarlet
Toi, who is owned by J. Wren. Scarlet
Toi’s previous wins included the Too-
ronga and Bourke handicaps, but this
was his first success for two years. Tea
Cake, who was heavily backed for the
Winchester Handicap at Mentone and
won, had been out of the winning list
since the Caulfield Guineas, nearly 19
months ago.
* * * *
There will be a £lOOO hurdle race at
Ascot (Melbourne) a fortnight before
the Grand National is run at Flemington.
The result should be something of a
guide for the more important race, even
though the distance is only two miles 20
yards.
* * * *
Few men who have had long experi-
ence of track work are keen on reversal-
of-form inquiries. They have repeatedly
seen horses gallop brilliantly on a Tues-
day, badly on Thursday, and then, with
their chances discounted by their trainers,
win easily on Saturday. We know that
horses are not always sent out to do their
best, and when a horse is badly beaten
at long odds one week and heavily
backed the next that undoubtedly
leaves room for the stewards to ask
“Why?”
Still, bad luck in running is often re-
sponsible for seeming marked reversal of
form. A horse may get behind the lead-
ing bunch and, with a horse or two out-
side and others at its heels, it is impos-
sible for it to get through, out or back
until a race is practically over, and then,
with its chance hopeless, its rider does
not persevere.
Another thing—if there is anything
doubtful about the running of a horse,
the day it happens is the time to deal with
it. Stewards are paid as experts, and if
they miss something it reflects on them
if they play the “after game.” A horse
may be “dead” in a race, but, in view
of the improvement possible in, say, three
weeks, the stewards cannot fairly take
action if an owner does not run it again
for that period. Genuine training-track
reversals in a week are possible, and it is
the same in races. A section of the public
will always howl when a horse runs well
one Saturday after shaping indifferently
a week earlier, but stewards are wise not
to be hurried into action by such demon-
strations.
* * * *
If some trainers and jockeys could
write as graphically as they can tell a
tale to a potential punter, Australia
would have some wonderful novelists.
And this comment is not restricted to the
smaller fry of either section. There are
still very many people who believe that a
tip from a trainer or jockey puts them
on the certain road to wealth.
* * * *
It was not special consideration for
breeders, owners or trainers that brought
proprietary racing clubs into being in
Sydney. After the A.J.C. had raised
racing to a high standard, and assured its
popularity, some keen businessmen said
“There’s money in this,” and went into
racecourse-owning as an investment. A
profitable one it proved for various clubs
over a long period, and, though later there
was a slump, increased attendances and
tote turnover of recent months have so
greatly improved matters that it is im-
probable shareholders in some clubs will
be displeased if the proposed Sydney
Turf Club does not function.
Miscellaneous.
A sort of stunned silence prevailed in
Melbourne on Saturday night. Not only
had Hawthorn (yes. Hawthorn!) downed
the mighty Melbourne side, but it “kicked
the sweep” in doing it —made highest
score for the day; 17.15 to 10.12. At
Fitzroy, the Maroons and South Mel-
bourne had a kicking feast, ’Roy 16.17,
“Sowth” 16.16. The conquering Essen-
don was slightly scared when North Mel-
bourne came and got to within two goals
of the “Same Old,” 11.12-9.11. Rich-
mond, 17.12, made hacks of the Saints,
8.15; and Footscray, 12.16, got home
against Collingwood, 11.14.
* * * *
St. George, composed mainly of young-
sters, with a couple of useful veterans,
played good Union football against
Manly, but at the end it was Manly
once more — 8-nil, and still unbeaten.
Parramatta notched its first win, 13-3,
over University. Other matches:
East 9, Drummoyne 6 (all goals); Randwick
6, North 3; West 11, Gordon 5.
* * * *
Like Day v. Petersen, at the Stadium,
Rivers v. Cook, at Leichhardt, was over
in the third round, with police in the ring
and the crowd yelling like mad. The
only difference was that the Leichhardt
offender, Rivers, jobbed the referee.
It is unusual for heavyweights to go
the distance. This was done by Alf Gal-
lagher and Bob Turner —nephew of the
old-time lightweight champion of that
name —and it was by no means a bad
fight. Gallagher did most of the work,
but a late Turner finish influenced Joe
Wallis into giving it a draw. The original
Turner had the Handiest left in the busi-
ness. It hasn’t been transmitted to young
Bob, who relies mainly on the right.
FOR ASCOT.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptance.)
By “PILOT."
Nursery Handicap: Joygiver, 1 ;
Rebekah Degree, 2 ; Yarras, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Etching, 1 ;
Padalong, 2 ; Cape Hero, 3.
Flying Handicap: Hesione, 1 ,
All Love, 2 ; Irish Sea, 3.
Ascot Turf Club Handicap: Shin-
ing Night, 1; Haridelle, 2; Red
Pete, 3.
Bunnerong Three-year-old Handi-
cap : Hauteur, 1 ; San Sebastian, 2 ;
Sandman or Mastery, 3.
Mascot Handicap: St. Elmo, 1 ;
Faerie Queen, 2; Marcoperi or
Usher, 3.
Botany Welter Handicap : Wind-
brook, 1 ; Response, 2; Many
Ways, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
With the surrender of the ration-book
in sight the city scene last week was
reminiscent of the good old “battle for
Bourke-street” days, though it’s a much
smaller foray this time, as there are
limits on coupon-capacity.' Since ration-
ing came in the central shopping spots
have looked quite funereal, especially in
coat and frock departments, which de-
mand a fair outlay of coupons. For
some reason, though, shoe stores have
always been packed. Now a look into
any big store brings back to the mind
the pre-war days of winter sales, the
shop being so full of women trying on
things and grabbing articles from under
one another’s noses. Shops are limiting
daily sales to hold off the rush, and
“quota-sold” notices are to be seen again
in clothing departments.
Toting a bag heavy with pennies and
halfpennies, four small boys trotted up
Government House steps last week to
take tea with its chatelaine. Representa-
tives of the Newsboys’ Society, they had
brought the collection, made among boy
members, quite on their own initiative,
to be given to the Lady Huntingfield
Memorial Fund. The leader of the party
had contributed a specially generous sum
of his own saving because he had once
shaken hands with Lord Huntingfield, a
nice little tribute to the Australian popu-
larity of the Huntingfields and their
active interest in a variety of good works.
Norway’s Independence Day was cele-
brated in true national style by the Nor-
wegian Club, and hospitality extended to
all compatriots passing through this city.
Supper was calculated to make voyaging
sons feel very much at home. Fish
dishes, in which Scandinavian cooks ex-
cel, figured largely on the menu, with
sandwiches, northern style, made of rye
bread. It was discovered that little pastry
cookies and waffles are the usual fare at
Norwegian supper parties, too. Songs
were sung which were copies of those cir-
culated throughout Norway to hearten
patriots against German invaders. A book
of these songs translated by the club’s
president is to be sold to raise money so
that the Norwegian Government may get
back the advances it made to found the
club here.
It’s interesting to see the attraction
Australian opal has for Allied service
men. Most Australians rate the gem as
inferior to others, which have to be im-
ported from overseas, and there’s a
superstition dating from Grandma’s day
that it is unlucky which still finds some
adherent*. Our Allies don’t seem to share
either sentiment. In any jeweller’s shop
in Melbourne at any hour of the day
there can be seen service men or nurses
from overseas buying opal to send home.
The small, smoky-pink ones are particu-
larly prized as gifts for small-girl rela-
tives. People from overseas have always
shown a great deal more interest in opals
than Australians do. Lady Greenwood,
wife of Viscount Hamar Greenwood,
British M.P., had a magnificent collec-
tion, to which she added when she visited
Australia, and the Royal family has
bought the gems extensively.
On Sunday night, after their usual
show, the South Yarra Club’s Hospitality
Fund promoters took a little time off to
say “best wishes for another year” to
one another, as they’ve reached their first
birthday and have a fine year’s record
of making Sunday brighter for lonely
soldiers. Every Sunday the club opens .
its doors all day to service men and
women. Squash, billiards and other
games are there for those who like exer-
cise, and a reading-room for those who
don’t. Milk bar and soft drinks are on
hand during the day, and a buffet tea
that the club really prides itself on is
provided at six. In the evening a variety
show is put on, with both professional
and amateur entertainers. And every-
thing’s buckshee.
Red Cross P.O.W. Fund organisers
believe that the baby is a No. 1 money-
making proposition, in view of the great
success attained with “popular baby”
competitions in other States. So now
Victoria is to be asked to support the
fund through a baby-appeal. Babies to
represent various groups have already
been chosen in some cases, and private
persons are just as eligible to nominate
them. At a meeting to discuss the matter
were the Dean of Trinity College (Mel-
bourne University),4)r, H. C. Corben and
his American-born wife (their baby is to
represent the U.S.A.), and also the parents
of Maoriland’s entry and of an infant
put forward by the Dutch.
Soon blood-donors’ badges will take
their place alongside those of service
men’s relatives, the numbers of girl
munition workers and other distinguish-
ing marks of close co-operation with the
war effort. So far 116 members of the
Red Cross Voluntary Blood Donors
group have qualified for badges—the tally
must be 12 transfusions. When the
badge idea was first mooted most donors
were very scornful, but other people feel
that such valuable service should not go
unrecognised. This State can claim with
pride that the Australian forces’ serum
supply for 1940 and half of ’41 came en-
tirely from Victoria.
National Theatre movement members
are taking heart from the packed houses
they’ve had lately to play “Night Must
Fall” for a week instead of the custom-
ary two or three nights. They should
have no difficulty in filling up their little
theatre for the week, for they can usually
book themselves out twice over and have
to turn away would-be ticket buyers.
Small shows like this are becoming
known to service men, too, and nowadays
there is a group of them at each per-
formance. Popularity of “little” theatres
gives hope for a dramatic renaissance.
But of course Melbourne always gets a
bit “cultural” in the winter.
Lots of jolly and original ideas in the
way of fund-raising shops have been seen
lately, but the “Cactus Shop” Mrs.
F. C. Kimpton has arranged for the
Brotherhood of St. Lawrence merits the
palm among oddities. Shop will help
the Brotherhood’s reconstruction fund,
which is being built up until after the
war, when it is proposed to do something
really big in the way of slum reclamation.
Salespeople are friends of the mission,
and the cacti were garnered from far and
near in response to radio appeals. Inci-
dentally, promoters say that little sprigs
of prickly pear make up a lot of the most
interesting cacti. Baby ones are most
popular, and the shop has no truck with
the really big Texan variety.
The fact that it wasn’t entirely unex-
pected didn’t dim her many friends’ in-
terest in April Macintosh’s engagement
to Captain Dick Hamer, of the Ninth.
Before the war Captain Hamer did a law
course at the University, and April her-
self graduated B.A. with honors, finish-
ing her course a year ago. Since then
she’s been in a war job. Wedding will
take place during Dick’s next leave, but
only the powers that be know when that
is to be. April is the younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. N. R. Macintosh,
Toorak-road, Toorak, and her fiance is
the eldest son of the H. R. Hamers, of
Evans Court, in the same subbub.
Jeanne Gautier, appropriately, will be
the soloist at next Saturday afternoon’s
concert for the Fighting French and Mili-
tary Camp Wireless Sets funds. Music,
too, will be French —Berlioz, Debussy,
Saint-Saens —a treat for those who ad-
mire these composers and don’t get much
chance of hearing the Symphony Orches-
tra playing them in the ordinary course
of concerts. Wireless Sets Fund (there’s
terrific need for radios, especially in small
out-of-the-way camps) will get 20 p.c.
of proceeds and the balance will go to pro-
viding comforts for French service men.
The Lady Mayoress has always been
received particularly warmly by groups
of service wives and mothers because she
shares with so many of them the
anxieties of the mother of a soldier-son
posted “missing.” Last week she was
made happy by the news that her son
lives and is in a P.O.W. camp in northern
Japan.
Married lately, Major Joseph Post,
sometime conductor of the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra and an energetic
figure in the musical life of this city,
though Sydney is his home Bride
was Nancy Tucker, of Geelong, and the
wedding was celebrated at St. Patrick’s,
with a reception afterwards at the
Oriental.
From Sydney
All the bits of china and glass which
had temporary harborage in David
Jones’s auditorium were dispersed last
week by the efforts of auctioneer Max
Lawson, alternately cajoling and chivvy-
ing prospective bidders to higher and
nobler efforts. Now the Limoges, Sevres,
Rockingham, the Waterford decanters,
the crystal chandelier have been given
newer homes, and may find themselves
in a room restless with the untrammelled
taste of the futuristic decorator or angu-
lar with modern furniture. This may
bewilder them, but they will comfort
themselves with the thought that through
them has been achieved a notable war
effort.
Through this sale the Red Cross has
netted well over £4OOO. The first day
brought the big prices, though actually
some of the treasures went at far below
their value. A nineteenth - century
Bohemian opal vase was cheap at 27
guineas, a Catherine of Russia plate
brought in 10 guineas, and a set of
Venetian glass 50. Henry Parkes’s dinner
set brought a spate of bids, and finally
was knocked down, but not too hard,
for 21 guineas; a cider jug from the
same old statesman’s sideboard made the
work of Red Cross easier by six and a
half guineas.
Courage and self-sacrifice were shown
by Sister Eleanor Savage, heroine of the
torpedoed hospital ship Centaur. Sister
Savage was the only one of the 12
nursing sisters on board to be saved.
Clad only in thin silk pyjamas, clasping
her rosary in her hand, she rushed on
deck when the explosion came, searching
vainly for her friend Sister King, whom
she had promised to look after if a sink-
ing should occur. Then she jumped over-
board and managed to clamber on to a
deckhouse roof with the 15-year-old
cabin, boy Bobby Westwood, whom she
made her special care all through the
following 36 hours Of ordeal. When the
two reached the raft on which were a
large number of survivors, Sister Savage,
in spite of three broken ribs, recited
some prayers for one of the men who
was dying, and helped Lieut.-Col. Outridge,
the medical officer, by taking charge of
the food and water on the raft and
rationing them. The true heroic make-
up; a cool head and a warm heart!
Howard Harris photograph.
Groups of girls in uniform, groups in
white frocks beneath their black gowns,
young men, hundreds of mothers, fathers
and friends packed the Great Hall of the
University to capacity last Saturday
morning. About 200 students were hav-
ing their degrees conferred upon them
with benefit of Chancellor and a galaxy
of other learned doctors. The Governor’s
address to the graduates was listened to
with deep attention by parents as well as
youth. Applauded was Lord Wakehurst’s
hope that the University graduates of
today would take their part in the leader-
ship of Australia’s future. Mrs. John
Murray (who was Rania Single) was a
good-looker among the B.As. Rosemary
Goldie was among the M.As. Attractive
Margaret Salenger plucked her 8.A., and
is looking forward to taking a war job.
Pat Carpenter, Judith Shortland, Pat-
ricia Morris, Betty King, Marion Fer-
guson were others noted. Between
his morning and afternoon duties as wed-
ding-welder Canon Barder and his wife
came to see a clever daughter receive her
science degree.
Lady Gowrie went to St. Mark’s, Dar-
ling Point, to the wedding which made
Pamela Osborne, of Benangaroo, Jugiong,
the wife of Lieut.-Col. Maurice Hope,
Royal Artillery. A long afternoon frock,
the blue of pale delphinium, a cap and
short veil of matching tulle and white
camellias composed the wedding outfit.
The bride had no ’maids, and was given
away by her uncle, Henry Charles
Osborne. The bridegroom, only son of
Admiral Sir George Hope and Lady
Hope, of Common House, Plaistow,
Sussex, England, had for his support
General Dewing. There was a great
assembling of Osbornes later at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club.
The Australian Art Society is holding
its seventeenth exhibition in the Blaxland
Galleries. When the president of the
American Society, F. H. Carlson, made
the opening speech the galleries were
comfortably filled. Great interest was
taken in the Jerrold Nathan portrait of
Mrs. Scott-Waine, very graceful in black
lace. Mrs. Jerrold Nathan was among
those who listened to the speeches and
gazed at the pictures. Her topcoat held
the green of pine-trees. President of the
society W. M. Whitney, whose “Poplar
Avenue at Tumut” was among the
admired, and his wife had a group of
friends with them. Mrs. Clif Peir was
there in person and in picture. She is
the “Girl Sewing” in her husband’s vivid
painting.
Nobody there was more delighted than
beginning artist Thea Rutledge. This was
the first time she had ever exhibited, and
her study of a soldier sleeping was one
of the first pictures sold. Howard Hinton
bought it. Lance-Bombardier John
Magrath’s “Yacht in New Guinea
Waters” looks a ship of dreams. This
year there are many entries by women
artists, Elaine Coghlan, Dora Toovey,
Lesbia Thorpe and Jean Cowtan among
them. Other councillors of the society
are Garrett Kingsley, John Salvana, Alan
Grieve and Walter Rayment, the last-
named also bearing the burden of exhi-
bition secretary.
Started in 1940, the Women’s Navy
Auxiliary of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron at Kirribilli continues to knit
and work for the navy and for all sea-
men. Every second Saturday its members
meet in the pleasant drawing-room of the
yacht club and knit and discuss ways of
raising funds for the cause they have at
heart. In between meetings their knitting
needles don’t go on strike, as witnessed by
the hundreds of articles they have made
for the comfort of seamen. These articles
are big and closely knit —pullovers with
turtle necks, stockings that look about
thigh-high, mufflers that can shout defi-
ance to the coldest wind. Entertainments
and fairs for the navy are constantly
being staged at the clubhouse. Mrs. Mar -
riott is the present and Mrs. Don Taylor
was the first president of the auxiliary. A
play-reading by the Independents on an
afternoon towards the end of June is the
next money-raiser planned.
To give her first recital in Sydney this
month is June Epstein, a Westralian
pianist who claims the distinction of being
the first Australian to win the Overseas
Scholarship of Trinity College of Music.
During her three years in London she
won the medal awarded every three years
by the Worshipful Company of Musi-
cians to the best all-round student at the
College. Since returning to Australia she
has filled several engagements with the
A.8.C., and is now teaching at Frensham.
Her Sydney recital is a Conservatorium
Hall booking for May 27. She will give
profits to the fund for the relief of student
war victims.
New show at the Independents’
theatre in North Sydney is Saroyan’s
“Time of Your Life.” Somebody said
that it was almost impossible to escape
reading Saroyan—he crops up every-
where. This author has published hun-
dreds of stories, ten books, seven stage
plays and one for the screen. “The Time
of Your Life” is the first play to have
won both the Pulitzer Prize and the New
York Critics’ Circle award. It was con-
sidered the outstanding play of 1939-40.
Doris Fitton is the producer,
Jean Bellette’s show was opened last
week. By half-past one the galleries
where the artist’s paintings (subjects are
mixed ancient and modern) are hung held
an assemblage of friends who listened to
Dr. McDonald’s learned prologue and
admired the pictures.
Mrs. Lucy Mitchell, writing from
Grafton, of the ttee-lined streets, tells
of daughter Esther, who is established as
an actress in U.S.A. For more than
eighteen months the Australian has been
associated with Ethel Barrymore. In the
cast of Emlyn Williams’s “The Corn Is
Green,” which had a long season in New
York, Esther took the role of Miss Ron-
berry, the unwilling spinster. Then the
company went on tour —a 30,000-mile
trek. One alluring address from which
Esther wrote home was “Peachtree-
street and Ponce de Leon-avenue,
Atlanta, Georgia.” That sounds as
though Grafton hasn’t it all its own way
in tree-planting. By now the co. should
be reopening in New York.


For Australia at War . . .
Established 1920
We
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WAITER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman c-*n instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2200 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd Telephone 81052,
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12J% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct from «* or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States,
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
FORD TRANSPORT CONSERVATION SERIES—No. 5
o
C
mm
■zs
The clutch pedal seems a delightful place for truck
and car drivers to rest the foot. But it’s definitely not a
practice to be recommended. The weight of your leg
partially disengages it, causing rapid destruction of the
friction linings—AND a high priority ball-bearing.
AND THEY WON'T BITE, EITHER!
When we do change gears, those of us who “ride the
clutch’’ generally treat the clutch pedal as though it
were going to bite our foot off.
The function of the clutch is to provide a smooth
and gradual engagement between the engine and the
driving wheels Given a chance, it will do this. BUT if
you race your engine and let the clutch up suddenly,
the power of the engine is applied in a violent wrench.
This “strains the works’’ right through the transmission
system to the rear axles.
By the same token , after coasting downhill, avoid
shock tactics when you re-engage the clutch The
thing is to synchronise the engine speed with that of the
car and let the clutch pedal up gently.
The moral: If you want to make your clutch
plates, crown wheel and pinion, and rear axle last
longer, (1) don’t use the clutch pedal as a foot-rest;
(2) when you change gears, be firm but gentle. At all
times let the clutch connect the drive smoothly.
sd
Issued by Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve trucks, utilities
and cars—vital national assets.
BUY WAR BONDS AND HASTEN VICTORY
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.)
SMOKE-OH!
“Can a photograph lie?” —Magazine article.
The answer is in the negative.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Australia has 225 cough mixtures.”
—News item.
By the time they’ve all been tried the
cough ought to be better.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Applications are invited for the position of
assistant music mistress. Salary £l7O-£2OO,
plus cost-of-loving allowance.”
—Auckland “Weekly News.”
Presumably, with time off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The crowd came on, expressing its opinions
of the welshers in no uncertain terms, and
arming itself with sticks and stones.”—“Sun.”
What the papers call “a cross section
of society”?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I couldn’t switch on the radio and listen
to a favorite pianist without my husband sneak-
ing off to the hotel.” —Divorce report.
“A substance has been discovered which
repels sharks.”— Cable.
I’m drifting on the stormy sea of cold
and stark economy. Ehgulfed by waves
of rising prices and dashed by other sharp
devices. Swept willy-nilly by the tide,
man-eating sharks on ev’ry side. But
stay! If it’s no fairy tale invented by
some story-teller. I’ll fear the brutes that
me assail no more than Jonah funked the
whale —at last they’ve found a shark-
i epeller!
P. M.
4> 4* 4* 4*
“She married a peer, but, in spite of her
many charms, he proved unfaithful, and she
divorced him a year later.” —Biographical item.
Another peerless beauty?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Funny the way an old goat can be
just like a kid!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Piecemeal.
“Bit by bit, she felt she was giving herself
to him.”— Story.
That’s the usual process. First she
gives him the glad eye, then she gives ear
to him and gives him her lips. And then
he gets her hand and her heart.
The man thinks that she has given her-
self utterly, but he finds there is more
to come. He gets the cold shoulder and
a piece of her mind —or what she calls
her mind—later.
H. M.
“Sydney boot-repairer wants pay in advance.”
—News item.
Is he on his uppers?
4* *p 4» ■ 4*
As soon as she entered her husband’s
workshop he attacked her with a drill.”
—Divorce item.
This only made her feel a bit bored.
•I* ■ 4* 4* 4*
“As he stood on the bridge, a sudden faint-
ness assailed him.” — “Sun."
He took a turn at the wheel.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A bride may regard her husband as a hero;
but romance fades when she discovers that
he snores.”— “D.T.”
That is when she wakes up to him.
Foolosophy.
If I, O worthy sage, accept as true
That you’re created by the mind of Me,
Whatever you say, I say. While to you
’Tis clear whatever I say, you say — see?
But if what you say I say isn’t quite
What I say you say, why then should
we not
Inquire what Harry says? For then we
might
Arrive at this conclusion: Who says
what ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Tinkle, tinkle, little star,
Charm the missus with each bar;
Hold her spellbound with your rot
While I slip off and down a pot!
BRIAN BUREAU.
A New Industry.
The Italian Cabinet was in session.
Signor Carlo Ackwilli, Minister for
Bambino Training, had complained that
the Treasury had held up the appoint-
ment of 25 Finnish Olympic runners as
trainers for the Young Bersaglieri; also,
the acute financial position had prevented
the manufacture of spiked shoes. Great
quantities had been lost in North Africa,
in addition to tens of thousands re-
quisitioned by the Afrikakorps under
a Lease-Pinch agreement with Germany.
Baron Accordini, Minister for Water-
ways, said shortage of funds had com-
pelled his department to cease supplying
mandolin strings to the Corps di Gondo-
lieri. The gondoliers, having to sing un-
accompanied, had gone flat, and so con-
sequently had their business, with a result-
ant fall in income-tax receipts.
Signor Splinta, Minister for Ex-
Colonies, said it was a disgrace that the
Tripolitanian Colonisation College’s im-
portant works should be held up because
of the shortage of a few million lire.
Count Emtibelli, Minister for Substi-
tute Foods, said that, with no money to
buy paraffin oil with which to flavor it,
the success of the new spaghetti made
from coconut fibre, horsehair juice and
kapok husks was threatened.
The Minister for War, Navy, Air,
Defeat Explanations, Works, Impropa-
ganda. Scuttling, Morale, Heavy Industry,
II Duce Cheering, Home Security and
German Order Taking then arose, struck
a hamfat attitude, thrust the famous
chin out at an aggressively acute angle,
took a deep breath and flew clean off
the handle.
“Donner und blitzkrieg!” he bellowed
in the best manner of his herrenvolk
overlords. “Does-a da Cabinet dare-a
to theenk I, da great II Duce, cannot
get-a da mon’? All-aretty I have work-a
out da grand scheme for make-a plenty
da mon’! Leesten, you-a da mugs!
“Da 8.8. C. she broadcast and-a say dat
da captured General von Arnim have to be
paid-a 2094 ker-vid p.a. by da Breedish
under da Geneva Convent’! For di
Diablel I seemply make-a da 127,000
colonels into da generals by proclama-
tion, raise-a da screw of all generals to
20,000 lire da mont’, send-a all generals
to Sicily and-a Sardinia and-a make da
white flag da standard equipment. Da
invasion come, and-a Italy she make-a
da forch’l Keep on make-a da generals,
put-a dem to face-a da Allies, plenty da
mandolin string, plenty da good-a
spaghett’, plenty college for da colonisa-
tion, plenty mon’ for all-a Italiano.”
Bo.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
D ... , , . ,
.By soldier far from home, words of “The
Wild Colonial Boy. —3343.
1° buy pure Saanen goats.—3344.
io buy Plato s Republic. State price.—334s.
To buy William de Morgan’s Alice for Short,
State price.—3346.
o„„„Lt
... it/; lnror ™ a “ on Sought.
UI What are the educational requirements to
become a diplomatic cadet? (2) What salary
is paid cadets ? (3) To whom should appli-
cation be made for appointment?
(1) Applicants must at least have matricu-
lated or hold the leaving certificate and be not
under 17 on January 1, 1943. A university
degree in Arts, Law, Commerce or Economics
is desirable, but not essential. Applicants must,
however, show a general aptitude to understand
international and constitutional affairs from
l h nnwL“f ralia ? asp ' ct> and . ha r ve - a c r ,pe,ent
knowledge of an approved foreign language
and a capacity for English composition. Appli-
cants should indicate whether they have been
passed as fit for military service. Those who have
combat service in the present war will
hrst consideration. G) Minors receive
£137 to £lB5, according to age, while adults
receive £268 to £556. A special allowance will
be granted in the case of minors until reaching
21 years of age. (3) The Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs, Canberra.
Brief Answers
t-t ,r „ . . , , . ,
F.L.: Yell is an island of the Shetland group,
off the north coast of Scotland. It is 17 miles
10ng....P.L. and A.A.F.: Information on its
way A. 8.: (1) Troopship movements, past,
present or future, cannot be disclosed. (2)
A.I.F. men returned from the Middle East may
not transfer to the R.A.A.F., except in special
circumstances P.G.C.: The Beveridge Report
on Social Insurance and Allied Services is on
sale at main Sydney bookshops (price about
3s. 7d.) R.M.S.: Spray the tree with “Nicko-
teen” or “Black Leaf 40,” both trade prepara-
tions ; directions on label... .8.A.8.: Soaking
the lines in cold tea has been recommended....
M.C.: Apply to. Oxford University Press, 346
Little Collins-street, Melbourne... .A.8.M.:
Try Swain’s, Pitt-street, or Tyas, George-street,
Sydney....J.H.: Not Only in Stone will be
reviewed in the near future H.M.8.:
Singapore is the recognised capital of Malaya.
C.W.A.: Information at present unobtain-
able C.J.W.: For valuation of old coins
get in touch w jth J. R. Tyrrell, 281 George-
Street, Sydney... .H.L.K.: See that the arsenic
j s com pletely dissolved. Use only white arsenic,
boiling it for at least 45 minutes with an equal
amount of soda ash. Boil the arsenic in small
quantities to suit the tank on the plant, and
use plenty of water H.K.: Powdered agar
dissolves with far less heating than strip agar.
J.D.: You can obtain Jack Read’s book,
containing a list of Bennell’s fights, from this
office (price Is. Bd.) Y.C.: Bulldog ants and
jumpers all belong to the genus Myrmecia....
g.C.W. : Get in touch with the secretary,
Banana Growers’ Federation, Murwillumbah.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
A.D.:
In her fifth broadcast since August in 1941
A Queen has spoken to women to thank them for
what they have done.
Said she, “You have filled the places of men who
have gone to fight;
I would just like to thank you kindly on this April
Sunday night.”
G.B.: —
Abroad my schemes once caused comment,
A bit of news that pleased me greatly.
But now the only thing that’s said
Is, “Where is poor old Musso. lately?”
C.McE.: You haven’t made it clear whether
you’re writing about a bird or a soldier
A.S.: “I think of the good old days.” Ah,
who doesn’t? J.G.W.: Brother Bill would
have done poetry a service if he had let you
sleep G.D.F.: That rhymed prose is so
astoundingly bad that it holds a faint, grue-
some fascination C.G.S.: “The Kookaburra
Laughs” would make a cat weep M.F.:
Machine-made J.E.C.: Begins well, but it’s
too much a “magazine” story R.B.McD.:
Feeble W.L.K.: We never like our “Ace
Investigators” to wear biscuit-colored felt
hats A.W.C.: It’s a well-tilled field.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Economic Controls
It has become almost a commonplace
that the essential problem of waging war
is physical rather than financial. Unfor-
tunately the inference, for many, is that
finance hardly matters at all. Prof. Cop-
land, for instance, recently appeared to
lend his authority to this view. “Given
the full development of economic con-
trols,” he stated, “the financial problem
of the war does, in fact, solve itself.”
With all respect, it does not. The
object of economic controls is to make
it impossible for people to buy other
than essential goods. This sets free a
vast quantity of resources for war pro-
duction. At the same time it leaves in
public hands a correspondingly vast
amount of spending power, which is just
sufficient to cover war expenditure.
The Government’s financial problem,
then, is to get hold of this money. This
it can do by taxing and/or borrowing it.
If the public does not voluntarily lend
the balance which taxation fails to take,
what is the Government to do to square
its accounts? In saying that the finan-
cial problem solves itself. Prof. Copland
ignores this question.
The answer, of course, is that it resorts
to bank credit. New money is “created”
to take the place of the “old” money
left with the public, which, unfortunately,
feels the urge to get rid of it somehow.
This it does through the black market,
luxury spending, breaches of price regu-
lations and hoarding of goods. Even
“the full development of, economic con-
trols” (which means a whole Gestapo of
officials) could not entirely stamp out
these practices.
Nobody believes that we can do with-
out controls altogether. The most scien-
tific system of taxation and even com-
pulsory lending could not equitably
gather the last pound of surplus money.
But our present methods of extraction
leave literally hundreds of millions un-
collected. This is the result of relying
upon economic controls, not as a supple-
ment to but as a substitute for financial
rigor. While the financial problem is
“solving itself,” whole divisions of man-
power are toiling in Government offices
instead of in uniform. Ellis D.
(N.S.W.).
Inconvertible Paper and Gold
A question is asked by “Arc” (B.
12/5/’43) as to ray meaning (B. 28/4/’43).
The reply is that a paper currency is
either convertible (or redeemable) into,
say, gold or it is not. If convertible,
as in the late century or in China from
a.d. 807 to a.d, 1076, it is stable; if
inconvertible, as in China from 1076,
France, Germany, U.S.S.R., U.S.A. and
elsewhere', at different times, it has
always run down to zero. The American
“continental” currency proverbially be-
came “not worth a continental,”
Last century was a golden age for life
assurance, because policies were payable
in paper expressed to be convertible on
demand into gold. Now our policies are
payable in inconvertible paper very
portentously certified to be legal tender,
the words “no matter how little it may
come to be worth,” though understood,
being omitted.
At the present moment, and pre-
cisely when almost every nation has gone
off gold, or rather when gold has gone
off from them, we are giving £2 10s. for
a sovereign. This marks both the degra-
dation of our currency and the value of
gold.
Convertibility into gold did much more
than impose a limit upon paper issue, as
“Arc” suggests. For example, it com-
pelled Treasurers to balance their
Budgets. With an inconvertible paper
currency the Treasurer can demand of
the bank that it make good the deficiency
by issuing more notes.
“Arc” suggests that “due limitation of
its quantity” will maintain an inconvert-
ible paper currency stable. Does he
really believe that politicians can be
trusted to effect such limitation, espe-
cially seeing that the revolt against limi-
tation is the very fount and origin of an
inconvertible paper currency, and in face
of psychology and historical experience?
The great upsurge of issues of gold
bonds and other gold securities in U.S.A.
a few generations ago is very eloquent
as to the weakness of inconvertible paper
as a foundation for long-dated contracts;
but such a method is not possible in life
assurance, since premiums are payable
in currency.
I smile at “Arc’s” joke about a life
assurance company maintaining a gold
reserve of its own. I agree with him that
there is no such thing as a “basis” or a
“backing” for a currency, that is, other
than convertibility. A. T. Traversi
(N.S.W.).
V.A.Ds. and Glamor
Let me reply to “Med.” (B. 5/5/’43).
My sister has been a V.A.D. for about a
year. I have listened a lot lately
to her and other V.A.D. friends of hers
talking. It’s always “Army” talk—c.os.,
m.os., matrons, nurses, patients, a lot of
unpleasant duties I must leave out, dish-
washing (and what a lot of dish-
washing!), sisters’ quarters (where
V.A.Ds, turn into dear little housemaids),
sisters’ mess (where, like the chameleon,
thfey emerge as cute little waitresses).
Any of these things sound particularly
glamorous to you, “Med.”?—M. F. (Q.).
“I hope it's only a twenty-fom-hour strike, Bill.”
Registration of Nurses
So nurses to the age of 60 years have
been called on to register for service!
In ray opinion this is nothing short of
victimisation.
What other profession has been so
singled out? Look around anywhere, and
there will be seen dozens of able-bodied
men who are holding “cushy” office posi-
tions and carrying on businesses.
In many cases the nurses are married
to men in the services—men who enlisted
thinking that their wives would be able
to keep the home together until they re-
turned,
I am one of this profession, having
devoted to it nine years of hard labor,
frequent night duty and wearying and, in
some respects, humiliating conditions, to-
gether with poor food. For this I was
paid at rates ranging from 11s. to (as a
sister) £2 ss. weekly.
To my mind, the whole system of nurs-
ing administration is woefully antiquated,
and the time is long overdue when it
should be put on the basis of other occu-
pations, with a regular schedule of work-
ing hours and good living-out conditions.
That this was not done years ago is
no reason for singling nurses out for
war-time persecution. —A. W. A. (Q.).
Soldiers and Wharfies
“Bren Buster” is right in saying (B.
28/4/’43) that the soldiers in effect
get much more than 6s. a day, but, what-
ever the rate, it is fixed and cannot be
increased.
Let’s take a real incident. After a hard
day’s road-building we got word about
6 p.m. that the enemy was approaching.
Our job was ammo, supply, and by
3 a.m. we had delivered about 17 tons
to our guns. Often the lorry would
bog and have to be unloaded, pulled
out and reloaded several times on
one trip.
Then we turned in, sleeping in the
mud with only a blanket to keep the
rain off till daylight, when another eight
tons had to go out. Then our job was
merely to replenish stocks as they were
used (up to 12 tons a day), move stocks
already supplied whenever the guns
moved, deliver food for the gunners,
petrol for their tractors and anything
else they needed, and, of course, pull out
our trucks when they stuck. All this in
mud ankle-deep to knee-deep, in rain
that never really stopped, day or night,
and almost in sight of the enemy.
If such a job could be done at all under
an award, a couple of weeks of it would
set the men up for life, what with over-
time, wet-weather pay, northern parity,
living-out allowance, danger money for
handling explosives, etc. A few months
earlier we had seen wharfies demand
danger money for handling our ammo.,
3000 miles from the nearest Jap.—Six
Bob a Day (Q.).
In Praise of W.A.
The main reason why Westralia rises
to practically 100 per cent, effort in any
Empire crisis is that, as a beginning, the
old Groper blood is good. W.A. began
as a free settlement. Settlers paid their
own passage-money ; provided their own
means of transport. From time to time
the colony received accretions of soldier
blood ; reservists from British regiments
were encouraged to emigrate to the
Swan, forming a Pensioner Guard,
finally retiring on imperial pension.
But the richest accretion arrived in the
’nineties. All Australian blood should
be good, for, apart from the earliest
“assisted immigrants,” those who came
flocking, to the gold rushes of the ’fifties
had to be men and women of initiative,
capable of somehow raising the passage-
money and lifting themselves out of the
slough of industrial European life. From
these again a further cream was selected.
When the bank smashes of the ’nineties
brought almost universal ruin, mitigated
only by gold discoveries in W.A., it
again required individualism and initia-
tive for a man to raise the fare and lift
himself out of the depression of the east.
In tens of thousands such men and
women went west. Thus W.A. today
possesses a people who decline to regard
themselves as whipped underdogs to
whom (by current Communist jargon)
“a change of masters means little.” In-
stead they regard themselves as citizens
of no mean State: a country well worth
fighting for—W.C.C. (W.A.).
A Cry for Lamps
Many people outside the range of gas
supplies and electric power are suffer-
ing home-grown brownouts owing to the
apparent impossibility of getting hold of
iampware. This lack of decent light in
country homes, already feeling the pinch
of war in dozens of ways unknown to
city-dwellers, is an added burden which
could be removed by the exercise of a
little good management on the part of
some one or other of the many boards
that now decide our fate.
Country folk have invested many thou-
sands of pounds in one particular make
of lamp, for which one cannot get re-
placement parts, thus rendering the light
useless. Irritation brought about by bad
lights, guttering candles, etc., or even
no light at all other than the fire in many
bush camps, and the consequent eye-
strain and general dislocation of activity
during the hours of darkness are all
factors tending to damage morale and
increase justifiable grumbling. —R. H
Gordon (W.A.).
Sydney’s Milk Supply
The remedy for Sydney’s lack of milk
is simple. Disband the present Milk
Board and hand over control of the
supply to the city south of the harbor
to the Dairy Farmers’ Milk Co. and that
for the northern suburbs to Norco.
The myth that milk cannot be trans-
ported from the lower rivers like the
Macleay is one that both Australian and
American experience has exploded years
ago. It may interest the Sydney Milk
Board to know that Mt. Isa draws the
whole of its supply from Ingham, 673
miles away, and that not a gallon has
gone bad in 12 years, though travelling
conditions in the tropical heat of a N.Q.
summer are infinitely worse than any-
thing that the S.M.B. has ever had to
contend with. In spite of the long haul-
age, Mt. Isa gets its milk at Bd. per
quart in sealed bottles. The Ingham sup-
pliers are quite satisfied with the price
they receive, and it is nowhere near the
Is. 4d. below which Sydney’s suppliers
allege they cannot exist.
Also, students of Erdman’s The Mar-
keting of Whole Milk will know that
New York City draws 27 p.c, of its total
supply a distance of over 700 miles, some
even coming from Canada. While N.Y.
has a cold winter, it has a dashed hot
summer.
The fact is that political influence has
limited the Sydney milk zone to roughly
120 miles round the city. The result has
been (a) artificial land values in the
supplying areas; (h) a swarm of super-
fluous officials; (c) chronic shortages
every winter.
Give the farmers an open go ; invite
the most successful dairy co. in Australia
to assist; remove the present arbitrary
boundaries ; then shortages will disappear
and the to consumers probably
drop.— Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Dry-cleaning Restrictions
When Tmbby joined the army a year
ago I went through my wardrobe,
an “atisterity job” by converting
evening-wear into day-wear, undies, etc.
Then, having a fur fabric coatee, rather
greasy around the neck and soiled
generally, I sent it to be dry-cleaned,
thinking by doing so I’d be able to keep
it free from moths for the duration.
Back it came uncleaned (freight, 1/6)
and marked “non-essential.”
The situation is absurd, because I have
54 H coupons left (in fact, 244 coupons
among my two children and myself)
and 1 could replace that coat several
times over if I wanted to. So what is
gained by banning cleaning?
Fortunately, headache tablets are not
rationed. — Mrs. Jock (S.A.).
Tobacco
With imported tobacco scarce, the
shortcomings of Australian leaf become
all too evident.
Nearly all other countries produce
tobacco whose reputation stands high
with Australian smokers. Why shouldn’t
Australia? We have the right type of
soil and climate.
Certainly something is wrong at
present, as witness the wry faces of
camp smokers when the canteen offers
Australian brands and no others. —
A. S. B. (Tas.).
Travel Restrictions
They cause much hardship to men
serving in places far distant from their
homes.
In the past such men were able to
have their wives and families live in the
area to which they were posted, and were
thus able to retain some vestige of home
life. That made better and more con-
scientious soldiers of them, for the near-
ness of their families undoubtedly influ-
enced their conduct and outlook. There
was always somewhere to go, something
definite to do, when off duty. Under
current conditions the spectacle of numer-
ous service men strolling about the streets
and hotels for want of something better
to do is common. —A. H. T. (Q.).


■
~
|||||||^
- " (
- I
| 1
:
=s=r-
--■ -■■—■' 111
*W2r
JK~~
- ■
IPs
:i
4
-■•■=•
,9
1M15855
- **** ,—■
r 6A
f
-SSSSSSS-^;
ir
§
n
■
i
li
tM}
»»««
»~ia~
n
■
HP
»
ski
£10 National Savings Bonds
a/ia HY/r Savings Certificates
o v
A Part of
Australia’s
War Effort
A.W.A.’s extensive organisation is
to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy,
Army, Air Force and Merchant Navy.
AMALGAMATED
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
(A/SIA) LTD.
WIRELESS
ORGANISATI ON
