

f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3293
Wednesday, March 24, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
SANDRINGHAM HOUSE.
HERE is the delightful, not palatial, home of an English
county gentleman, His Majesty King George VI. It was
formerly the rural residence of the Prince of Wales, when Heir to
the Throne. It lies in the warm, sheltered hollow behind the range
of low wooded bluffs that line the southern margin of the Wash.
From the low-lying railway station at Wolferton the road to
Sandringham gradually ascends through a region the natural
bleakness and barrenness of which has yielded to long and per-
sistent energy of taste and skill. Close to the house rises the
hoary square tower of quaint little Sandringham Church, where
King and peasant worship together, and in the modest God’s
Acre surrounding it rest, side by side in “the sleep that knows
no waking,” Blood Royal and humble farm worker. Sandring-
ham, as already intimated, is no stately palace, where comfort
is a secondary consideration to splendour, where sumptuous
suites of apartments bear the chilling impress of being unin-
habited and likewise uninhabitable, but a veritable English home,
designed not for show, but to be lived in—every detail eloquent
of unostentatious taste and of refined domesticity. The keynote
to the theme of Sandringham, dulce domum, is struck on the
threshold. The home savour of Sandringham begins from the
very doorstep, for there is no formal entrance hall, the vestibule
being simply part and parcel of the great saloon, which may
be called the family parlour of the house. On the inner wall of
the vestibule, above the hall door, is set a tablet bearing this
inscription in old English characters:-
“This house was built by Albert Edward, Prince ol Wales,
and Alexandra, his wile, in the year of our l ord 1870.”


gf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
The Red Page
THREE ON MALAYA .
Until the war is over and all the facts
can be ascertained and told, no better
book is likely to be written on the Singa-
pore tragedy than lan Morrison’s
Malayan Postscript. Among three that
have recently been published—the others
are Cecil Brown’s Suez to Singapore and
O. D. Gallagher’s Retreat in the East —
Morrison’s is the only one that makes an
attempt to deliver a calm, reasoned,
judicial summing-up on the campaign as
a whole. It is, too, the only one with
a style that raises itself above journalese.
A son of “Chinese” Morrison, lan
Morrison was London “Times” corre-
spondent ; staying until the Japs had
landed on Singapore island, he is the
only one of the three able to give a first-
hand account of the last act of the
tragedy, A page of Gallagher’s narrative
(he was London “Daily Express” corre-
spondent) may give the impression that
he saw the whole campaign:
The end came quickly... .The Japanese
were soon upon the city of Singapore itself.
1 can report for the first time that,
though ordered to cease firing and with-
draw, some considerable number of troops
from Great Britain refused to do so I
left for Burma.
But Singapore fell on Feb. 15; and
Cecil Brown records in an extract from
his diary dated December 18:
Gallagher left by ’plane for Rangoon to-
night. He thinks the invasion of Burma
is going to be extremely important, and he
wants to cover his paper on that.
If Brown’s dates are correct, one
would naturally prefer Morrison’s ac-
count of the last days to Gallagher’s. And,
in any case, Morrison recommends him-
self by his patient search for the causes
of actions which both Gallagher and
Brown hastily condemn. On the blowing
up of the causeway, for instance, Gal-
lagher adds nothing to what is already
known and makes no attempt to find
any explanations:
Was a thorough job of demolition done
on the causeway? Was it so destroyed that
it could not be of the slightest use to the
enemy? No. The only section destroyed
was at the Japanese end of the causeway,
and that was a small wooden section that
could be elevated to allow the passage of
small ships. The rupture in the causeway
was bridged by Japanese sappers within
three hours of its destruction.
But here is Morrison’s account;
Many people have asked why the cause-
way was not properly destroyed. The truth
is that the causeway was not a particu-
larly easy thing to destroy. It was not a
bridge or a viaduct. It was a long, straight
stretch of concrete road (1100 yards long
and 40 yards broad) built on a foundation
of enormous boulders weighing five and ten
tons. It had taken several years to build
and had cost £4,000,000. To blow up the
entire length of such a massive structure
would have required several tons of dyna-
mite. In any case I think the argument
is somewhat irrelevant. The Japanese had
not only landed on the north-western coast,
but had already occupied the western half
of the island, before they began to repair
the breach in the causeway. If they had
wanted to do so, they could quite easily
have landed their tanks from barges, as
they have done sometimes in the war in
China.
Correspondents such as Brown (he’s a
fire-eating U.S. radio reporter) and Gal-
lagher did a good job while the Malayan
campaign was in progress; and they’d
have done a still better job of attacking
civilian and military complacency if the
censors had allowed them more freedom.
Their books are still of value in their
attack-actual in Brown’s, by implica-
tion in Gallagher’s—on complacency and
inefficiency in Australia. But a calm,
lucid and exhaustive summary such as
Morrison’s is infinitely more valuable.
Unless one likes a diet of wild vitupera-
tion, there’s no longer much profitable
nourishment in Brown’s blazingly indis-
creet personalities, nor in such flapper-
fodder as Gallagher’s denunciation of
Malayan civilians:
We passed through the lounge, and I saw
one of the ugliest sights of my life. There
lay the Tuans Besar, in two rows of low
chairs. Attached to the arms of each chair
were two leg-rests, which were swung out
so that the sitter could lie flat out with his
legs held up at a comfortable angle for
him Dark-red mouths opened and closed
as they blew out great gusts of curry-
spice-laden breath. The bloated bellies
heaved The Tuans Besar were recover-
ing from their midday gluttony.
In the long run as severe a critic as
Gallagher, Morrison is able to exercise
some control over his emotions at the
spectacle of plump and elderly gentle-
men taking a nap after lunch and con-
tinuing to breathe as they do so. He
says that he left Singapore in an “angry,
tempestuous mood,” feeling that “the
virtue had gone out of the British.”
“Time softened this mood” ; campaigns
elsewhere showed that the qualities of
greatness were not lost. His final judg-
ment on the officials and civilians is:
The strata of the population of Great
Britain who had been administering our
colonial empire for the past 20 years had
been found gravely wanting in the very
qualities that gained us an empire in
vigor, in ruthlessness, in aggressiveness.
Where Brown’s criticisms are fiery and
Gallagher’s furious, Morrison’s are cool
and exact. His comments on local com-
placency in Malaya are tempered by the
realisation that
the world wanted to be sold Singapore. It
wanted to believe that Singapore was an
impregnable fortress, a bulwark against
Japanese aggression in the Pacific. Gradu-
ally the transference was made from poten-
tial to actual We had come to believe
our own propaganda.
“Gloomy prophets like Brown,” says
Morrison, tried gallantly to warn Malaya ;
but:
Brown’s forebodings had less effect on the
public than they might have had. People
were never quite sure how far they were
based on a balanced and dispassionate
estimate of the situation, how far they were
the product of a bilious and habitually
critical temper.
Somewhere in Suez to Singapore Brown
rages at the failure of the British to
“scorch” the Malayan earth. Morrison
points out:
As far as the rubber was concerned, the
policy was enforced by burning the stocks
of latex and by destroying machinery. But
it was not possible to dispose of the mil-
lions of trees on the rubber estates. They
were too green to burn, and it would
have taken several years to cut them all
down.
Brown finds it “ironic” that the Ad-
ministration, until late in the day, was
arresting Chinese and Malayan Commu-
nists for alleged subversion, Morrison
explains that the party had been “com-
pletely suppressed the previous year as a
result of an attempt to organise a general
strike throughout Malaya.” When the
ban was lifted, says Morrison, the Com-
munists became extremely active at once,
plastering the city with anti-Japanese and
anti-Fascist slogans.
While doubtless sincere in their motives,
the Chinese Communists perceived that
they were also gaining another end. They
had a magnificent opportunity to tighten
their hold upon the Chinese working
classes. Later, when that hold had been
established, they would be able to revert to
their former platforms with great effect.
Morrison has a most illuminating sur-
vey of the native problem generally.
Like everyone else, he wishes that more
use had been made of the Chinese and
the Malays; but he has much greater
knowledge than most other commenta-
tors of the difficulties that were involved.
There was not one simple “native ques-
tion” —relations between the British and
the Malays; it was many-sided and
deeply complicated;
There were more Chinese than Malays
in Malaya The Malays felt that they
were being swamped by the Chinese
This was a cardinal factor in deciding
the attitude of the Malay population
towards the conflict. Their hostility to-
wards the Chinese made them, if not sympa-
thetic, then at any rate indifferent, to-
wards the Japanese. The same thing hap-
pened in Burma. Fear of the Chinese,
even more than dislike of the British,
has made many sections of Burma’s popu-
lation side actively with the Japanese. In
Malaya, there seemed to exist an unspoken
alliance between the British and the
Chinese Many Malays felt that the
British had sold their country out to the
Chinese.
It’s typical of Morrison’s range of
knowledge and sense of justice that he
should add:
But it is worth noting, for those who
feel that the Malays have been given a raw
deal by the British, that the Malays them-
selves are comparative newcomers to their
country. They dispossessed still earlier
aboriginal inhabitants, who are still to be
found in little settlements, chiefly on the
west coast.
Pointing out that the British did not
conquer but bought their original foot-
holds in Malaya and that extension of
British influence was gradual, Morrison
attempts to “dispel the myth that the
bold, bad British imperialists simply went
and took Malaya at the point of a gun.”
He recalls that Malayan history before
the British came was “a long record of
warfare and conflict between petty poten-
tates” ; and “British administration gave
to the peninsula nearly a century of
peace.”
Saner and more informative than either
Gallagher or Brown on the political and
administrative aspects of the debacle,
Morrison is again far more impres-
sive than the others in his review
of the military campaign. He believes.
as everyone must, that Singapore should
not have passed from our control “in quite
such a humiliating manner”; but his
criticisms of General Percival and others,
contrasting with Brown’s and Gallagher’s
wild slang-whanging, are reasoned and
moderate, tempered always by the know-
ledge that the full facts are not yet avail-
able, by the realisation that “the situa-
tion in Malaya had so many ingredients
of calamity that only calamity could have
resulted” and by the belief that the
remedy did not altogether lie in the hands
of the local command:
If we had had 250 fighter ’planes in
Malaya there never would have been any
campaign at all, for the enemy would never
have been able to set foot on Kota Bahru.
Malayan Postscript is devoted exclu-
sively to the Malayan campaign. Brown
ranges over all the fronts implied in his
title of Suez to Singapore, and drops in
on Australia (where the heads of censors,
Cabinet Ministers and such small deer
roll at the rate of one a paragraph). Gal-
lagher has some interesting notes on the
Burma campaign. Brown and Gallagher
were the two journalists on the Repulse
when she was sunk with the Prince of
Wales and both give lively descriptions
of the attack by the Jap bombers and
torpedo-carriers—Brown’s, written in the
Hemingway manner, much the more vivid
of the two.
Suez to Singapore, published by Ran-
dom House, New York, is probably not
on sale in Australia. If an Australian
edition is ever published, the appropriate
title would be World War II; or. The
Battle for Cecil Brown. Copies of
Retreat in the East (Harrap) are about
in the bookshops. The Red Page’s copy
of Malayan Postscript comes from Faber ;
an Australian edition is to be published
by Angus and Robertson.
The Magazines.
Brisbane “Meanjin Papers,” which
originally was chiefly a medium for
Queensland poets and versifiers, has
grown with each issue until it’s now be-
ginning to rank as a national magazine.
Robert D. Fitz Gerald and Norma Davis
are among the verse contributors to No.
12, and Nettie Palmer and Miles Frank-
lin contribute critical articles.
Flexmore Hudson’s “Poetry” (No. 5)
continues to publish an interesting selec-
tion of Australian and New Zealand
verse, some reprinted from books or
other publications.
It’s a great pity that this literary
energy (which also breaks out in the
English Association’s “Southerly”) can’t
be coalesced into one big magazine, a
quarterly or half-yearly. There’s a long
history of disaster for literary magazines
in Australia. Even in England, London
“Mercury” and the “Criterion” eventu-
ally went west. But it’s always worth
trying. The Commonwealth Fund, the
Fellowship, the universities —somewhere
among these three there should be suffi-
cient money and energy to get going a
magazine which would represent the re-
awakening Australian culture and which
would pay for contributions.
The historians with their “Historical
Studies, Australia and New Zealand”
(published by Melbourne University
Press—C. E. W. Bean and J. C. Beagle-
hole are among the contributors to No.
6),' are far better served by this one siz-
able, authoritative half-yearly publica-
tion than Australian literature ever can
be served by its small, dispersed maga-
zines, valuable as they are in the absence
of something more solid.
“Meanjin Papers” is to appear this year
as a quarterly; also to have more “direc-
tive force and unity of design.” If it does
that, continues its gallant stand against
political bias and finds for itself the
financial backing to pay for contribu-
tions (the offering of prizes isn’t enough),
it could become just what Australian
literature needs.
Mood Music : Graham Murray Har-
ding (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd., Sydney):
Collection of short poems, beautifully
produced. The verses are slight and
vague; the forms uncertain. Still, it’s a
first book, and the atmosphere if not
the crystallisation of poetry is in it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It was a lucky chance for the cultural
life of Sydney that landed Helene Kir-
sova on the salubrious shores of our
’Arbor. Two ballets of her own com-
position, staged at the Con., made a
pleasant change from the usual run of
entertainments; and the shoes that
squeaked and shuffled across the stage,
reviving memories of Baronova and Ria-
bouchinska, were nearly all inhabited by
Australians. Peggy Sager danced the
“Revolution of the Umbrellas” with a
dramatic fire that deserved a weightier
theme; and in the second ballet, the
“world premiere” of “Hansel and
Gretel,” all the principals were more than
equal to their jobs—Strelsa Heckelman,
Miss Sager again, Barbara MacdonnelL
Rachel Cameron, Edouard Sobishevsky
and Mischa Burlakov. “Revolution of
the Umbrellas” was not the present com-
mentator’s cup of tea. Both Helene Kir-
sova’s choreography and Henry Krips’s
music seemed to strain for tragic effect
on a theme too slight to stand it. Unless
it has been one’s own property, and was
inherited from dear old Uncle Tobias, it
is difficult to feel sublime and sombre
about a lost umbrella. 1 But “Hansel and
Gretel,” danced in a spirit of light comedy
to Humperdinck’s gay melodies, was
wholly delightful.
Now that Helene Kirsova is estab-
lished in Australia, has an Australian
company and is gallantly composing her
own ballets, it would be pleasing to see
her tackle some Australian themes. Isn’t
there some aboriginal legend that would
be less remote than “Hansel and Gretel”?
Or, if the dancers couldn’t retain their
charm when made up as blackfellows,
what’s wrong with the bushfire for a
dramatic theme; the lyrebird or the
brolgas for some sort of Australian
“Swan Lake” ; the colored fish of the
Barrier Reef for something pretty with a
suggestion of undersea terror? And for
the comic folk-tales, couldn’t anything be
done with the übiquitous and eternal Dad
and Dave? If themes such as these were
attempted, they might help to create an
Australian tradition in music, and artists
called in for the decor might be diverted
from the imitation of evanescent
European fashions.
te Sydney Tiv.’s 1943 exhibition of
“Artists and Models” reveals undeniable
progress in the figure; there has been a
notable improvement in the quality of
the dressing, and an even more notable
decline in quantity ; mounting and fram-
ing merit special mention. The work of
a comparative newcomer, Marjorie Lou,
reveals, among other things, much prom-
ise. Lily Moore submits a hugely-divert-
ing period piece about a strip-tease artist
of the ’nineties. George Hurd juggles his
ill-assorted pieces as artistically and dex-
terously as ever ; he is continually adopt-
ing new tricks. Bob Dyer shows another
large collection of sketches executed with
characteristic gusto, and “Mo” is always
“Mo.”
Anybody trying to sum up Noel
Coward’s output would be faced with the
most astonishing mixture. Musical
comedy, bedroom fripperies, squalid
domestic dramas such as “Point Valaine”;
that immensely serious and somewhat
sentimental talkie about the man who
couldn’t find anybody to say a kind word
for him—“ The Scouncjrel”,; (the patriotic
“Cavalcade” ; and now another patriotic
film—and again a good one —“In Which
We SerVe.” This latest is the simple
story of a destroyer, from keel-laying to
destruction by a Nazi torpedo. The
Torrin is a symbol of all the little ships
that have battled Atlantic gales and
crashed through “Bomb Alley” to get a
convoy to Malta ; that have served at
Dunkirk and Crete and shepherded muni-
tion ships to North Africa. It’s a heroic
theme, and it’s produced with the vigor
it deserves. Except for Coward and John
Mills, the cast has no well-known names,
but the acting throughout is excellent.
Humor is strong, sentiment played down.
At one point in “In Which We Serve'
there are scenes which recall a highlight
of Typhoon. Conrad got an effect of
great drama by flashing back, in the midst
of the storm, to a glimpse of the captain’s
wife placidly reading his letters, and
being bored by them, in the snug security
of her cottage. Coward uses the same
trick when some of the crew are
clinging to a float, awaiting rescue.
Events focus the camera in turn on the
captain, “Navs,” bos’n’s mate and A.B.
Then the scene is washed by waves and
reverts to shore incidents and domestic
scenes related to each individual. These
are lively and convincing, and have the
same effect as the domestic interval in
Typhoon of emphasising the drama of the
men at sea.
“Meet John Doe” (Sydney Regent) is
an unusual film in which Robert Riskin
analyses his fellow-Americans: their lo\e
for the holding of conventions; their
awareness of the power of the great god
Hooey; their tendency to mass emotion-
alism. A newspaper story, its theme is
the latent power in the “small” people ot
the community who are voiceless except
at election time. There’s plenty of power
in the mass scenes which Frank Capra
delights in projecting, and, until the enu
—which is banal and melodramatic-- a
nice balance between cynicism and idea -
ism. Gary Cooper and Barbara Stan-
wyck do good work. Sinclair Lewis i
a good job for the Americans when ne
started them thinking about themselves.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
r ■
"TV
4
3>
/ATE
w&
Sx='~-
\
s'AJ
SM7
■J
w
' ~/~?
**-s■l C S-
mm
ft*
V
E>
fW
czj
=w /
Reliable Disinfectants are so essential if the home is to be kept
clean and healthy always . . . and cleanliness in the home is of
paramount importance. A little of these disinfectants used
frequently will act as a safeguard to the health of the family. These
disinfectants may be used on the floors or when the clothes are
laundered. Suitable for homes, hospitals and schools.
'X
m
■
SSfCLEANf^
iili
W
a
OF
C t F/6
ftp
m
sss
ssssro^^
CLEAHf
of
C
H
\V/;y A< yi
✓
/ " v 'w
I:
M
n v i
cW
iL
“S'
WmSmmm
Vs»S
i $r
Ss&SS
—rri
.
ga^wsas
“KLENSO”
EUCALYPTUS LIQUID SOAP
Specially prepared antiseptic soap. Non-
injurious and germicidal, it does not
roughen the hands. It is an effective
deodorant when used in the bath, and in
the wash. Renders the clothes spotlessly
clean, and also makes them free from all
infections. In 320 z. screw top jars. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 1/9
Also in 2 gallon tins. Price 10/6
Also packed in 4 gallon tins and 45 gallon
drums for use in hospitals, schools, etc.
“PUMISOL”
A SPECIAL ANTISEPTIC
You'll find many uses for
Pumisol in the home. It re-
moves grease and paint
from the hands, rendering
them soft and clean. Ex-
cellent also for cleaning
baths, sinks, etc. In 220 z. jars.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
jar 1/6
Also in 2 gallon tins. Price,
tin 9/6
• Chemistry — Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.O., Sydney


“GOING THROUGH"
By A. C. HEADLEY.
A WEEK ago he had been fierce with
determination about going, but
now it was just like boiling water
that had had long enough to go
cold—the intensity of it had gone,
but there remained the fact that he had
been telling the boys that he was “going
through.” He thought of it now as a
kind of obligation. He had been so
emphatic about going in those first few
days that now he knew there was no pull-
ing out. He sat on his palliasse, thinking
about it and waiting for the darkness.
A couple of the boys drifted into the
tent.
“Well,” he said, “I’m off tonight. I’m
‘going through.’ ”
It was something to talk about. Im-
mediately they began to discuss the pros-
pects.
“You’ve got no chance paydays. It’s
the time they expect all the ‘ack willies.’
They’ve got provosts everywhere. You’ve
got no chance of getting past Milburn.
They’ll pick you up there for certain.
Last time I was on leave they must have
got about twenty, and there’s dozens of
provosts at Gawrie on pay nights.”
Somehow, because of the opposition
to going that night, he was conscious of
a desperate bravado. “Look,” he said, “1
said I was going tonight and I’m going
tonight, and no provosts are going to
stop me.” He stood up so that his head
pressed the top of the tent out. He
shoved his hat on the side of his head at
as rakish an angle as was possible. “Well,”
he said, “I’m on my way. I’ll be seein’
y’.”
IT was easy to get out of the camp, that
was one thing. All you had to do was
walk through the gates. There was always
a truck going into Gawrie, and it was
easy to get a lift. Bui they were few
tonight, and he’d walked almost a couple
of miles before he heard one behind him.
The truck slid to a stop, and he was in
the front seat in a second. “I thought
I’d be walkin’ to town the way things
were going,” he said.
He felt a return of confidence when
they were moving along the dusty road.
In a quarter of an hour they would be
in town. That would give him about
four hours to train time; it was plenty
of time to make his plans.
At the corner near the station the truck
came to a halt and he climbed out of
the cabin and thanked the driver. He
thought he’d walk up to the station to
make certain of the train time. But at
the station his eyes went past the time-
table on the wall near the booking-office
to the two provosts with the telltale
bands around their arms. From the look
of them he knew that they were there
for the night, and that they would want
to see the leave passes of all the men in
uniform who were around the station
at train time. There was no chance of
dodging them. Even if he waited in the
darkness on the other side of the line
and tried to board the train from there
he could count on a few of them patrol-
ling the line on the other side.
There was only one other thing for it:
go back to Dantry; it was way back
past the camp, but the boys said
there were never any provosts there.
He made up his mind and turned away
from the station. If he was lucky he
would get a lift back to the camp, and
then the station was only about three
miles on the other side.
He turned off the asphalt on to the red-
dust road, but there was still no sign of
a truck, and he kept on walking. The
night was warm, and he could feel the
trickle of sweat running down the middle
of his chest. There was sweat on his
face, and he took off his hat. He undid
his tunic, but the chill of it made him
cold too quickly, and he buttoned it up
again.
It took him about two hours back to
the camp. He felt almost ashamed of
himself when he passed the guard, and
he made right around the camp to skirt
the place where his tent was. He didn’t
want any of them to know that he had
come back again.
Once out the other side of the camp
and moving through the paddock he
felt thistles tearing at his legs; he
felt tired and his legs were aching.
It was dark, and he could not see the
ground beneath him, but he kept going,
walking into patches of thistles and stum-
bling into holes. He would have liked to
lie down and go to sleep.
There was no one in sight near the
station, and he walked on to the plat-
form. He still had an hour to wait, and
he went along to a dark part of the plat-
form and lay down on a seat. He was
afraid to sleep in case the train should
come and go. He told himself that it
was impossible with the noise the train
made, but, all the same, he didn’t want
to take any chances. Lying there he
began to feel sorry for himself and to
think of the excuses he could have made
had he gone back to camp. He could
have told them about the provosts on
the station. They couldn’t have expected
him to get past them. But he knew that
he would have had to go the next night
just to show them. He felt he hated the
boys in the tent. It was as though they
had forced him into it. He almost con-
vinced himself that he hadn’t ever wanted
*o go.
'"P HE train came at last, and keeping
* out of sight of the stationmaster he
climbed into one of the carriages. He
made sure it was a corridor car —that
was important, according to the boys—
and when he saw the guard coming he
rumpled his hair and dug his knuckles
into his eyes to make it look as though
he had been asleep. When the train
started moving he went into one of the
carriages and sat down.
Gawrie was the next stop, but there
was never any trouble with the provosts
there once you were on the train. Never-
theless he sat there tense and nervous
until the train was moving again ; then
he leaned back with a queer sense of
satisfaction and rolled himself a cigar-
ette. But his satisfaction did not last long,
and soon he was thinking of Milburn.
Milburn was the test. That was where
most of the “ack willies” were picked up.
Lots of the boys had been stopped there
and shoved into the boob before being
sent back to face up to the orderly-room
and a red line in their paybooks. The
provosts always came through the train,
shaking sleeping soldiers and examining
their leave passes. If you got past Mil-
burn you were right.
Someone had switched the lights off,
and in the darkness he was conscious of
a feeling of loneliness. There was a
queer kind of fear in his heart. He began
to be worried about going to sleep. He
was tired, and he knew that sleep was
not far away, but he couldn’t afford to
go to sleep. He propped his eyes open
and the hours passed. At last Milburn
was the next stop. He still hadn’t thought
what he would do. There was no room
to get under the seat. And then the train
was pulling into the station, and sitting
back in the carriage he could see the
group of provosts on the platform. In
a few minutes they would be moving
along the line of carriages.
He thought of getting out of the win-
dow on the other side and crouching on
the rail beneath it until the train cleared
the station, but they would be patrolling
that side. Suddenly he remembered what
one of the boys had told him. It came
as a swift relief. He got up and moved
along the corridor until he came to the
ladies’ lavatory. It was empty, and he
went inside and pushed the bolt across.
It seemed as though he was there for
hours, but the train was moving at last
and he came out and went back along
the corridor. The train had cleared the
station, and he went to the window and
looked back. In the light from the
station he could see the provosts with
about half a dozen of the boys. He went
back to his seat in the carriage. He had
said he was “going through” and now he
was as good as through. He could leave
the train when it was near the city, catch
a suburban one and he was safe.
TEN days later he came back to the
camp and reported to the orderly-
room, then he went down the slope to his
tent. There was dust on his blankets and
he banged it off with his hand. The boys
were out working somewhere, and there
was nothing for him to do but sit down
and wait for lunch.
Now it was over he realised that the
few days hadn’t been worth it. There
would be a trial and he would be fined.
That would mean that he’d be living on
seven shillings a week for quite a while.
He’d be lucky, too, if it didn’t mean a
spell in the boob. He was still thinking
miserably of it all when the boys came
in for lunch.
They gathered round him excitedly to
learn how he’d got through.
“Did y’ strike any provosts at Gawrie?”
At the station his eyes went past
the timetable on the wall near the book-
ing office to the two provosts with the
telltale bands around their arms. ...
There was only one other thing for it:
go back to Dantry... .The night was
warm, and he could feel the trickle of
sweat running down the middle of his
chest... .he felt the thistles tearing at his
legs, and he felt tired and his legs were
aching.
“Provosts,” he said disparagingly—
“they didn’t trouble me.”
“But what about Milburn? They’re
always waiting at Milburn.”
Milburn was the next stop ... .There
was no room to get under the seat... .He
could see the group of provosts on the
platform. In a few minutes they would
be moving along the line of the car-
riages. He though of getting out of the
window on the other side and crouching
on the rail beneath it until the train
cleared the station. .. .Suddenly he re-
membered what one of the boys had
told him .... the ladies’ lavatory. It was
empty, and he went inside and pushed
the holt across... .It seemed as though
he was there for hours, but the train was
moving at last.
“I fooled ’em properly at Milburn,”
he said. And when he had said it sud-
denly all the fear and panic of the train
journey and of those days in the city
when he had been frightened to turn a
corner in case there was a provost around
it was gone. “It was a lolly,” he said.
One of the boys said “I’ve been think-
ing of going through myself.”
He grinned. “Come to me when you
make up your mind,” he said. “I’ll give
you a few hints.”
The Jacaranda.
There is some sweetness not to be seen in air
Not to be trapped in rain, not to be found ’
In earth, that made this sky of blossoms flare
In blue and sparkling daylight out of the
ground;
Some struggle of more than earth is in triumph
here,
In that gesture of joy and fulfilment lifted on
high.
Where, dancing with pale blue fire, the branches
rear
And the dark twigs hold the sky up to the sky.
Touch the tree with your hand : it is only wood,
A pillar of rain and earth; and what will you
find
But rain and earth in its flowers or curious
blood?
Yet you cannot hold this tree in a hand of the
mind.
Its roots in the earth where some blaze of
midnight is lost,
Its boughs in the light wherein more than the
stars is concealed,
The jacaranda flames on the air like a ghost,
Like a purer sky some door in the sky has
revealed.
While the blue shade falls like a blessing on
grass and stone,
I feel the Presence who waited all winter with
me
And worked unseen while I watched, with rain
and sun
And earth in her hands to make of a simple tree
The loveliest mask that beauty wears on earth.
Is it her banner and symbol the branches bear,
Or the living spirit herself come down to birth,
Glowing in a flesh of blossoms upon the air?
There was a day when the mountain lories came
Through the creekside gums in such a red flash
of grace
That a whole mountainside was turned to flame;
I have seen the glory glow white in a woman’s
face;
But never more clearly than here on this deli-
cate pyre
Where the petals fall as the flames of sacrifice
climb
Have I seen that manifold Presence, that
triumph of fire
That flashes from nowhere down into space and
time.
All things move in time as they move in dream:
Abrupt, symbolic, like mountains seen through
a rift,
They tower and vanish. I watched the wavering
gleam
As the branches paled in the blue sky s darken-
ing drift,
And more than a tree before me ebbed and
returned.
While I could hold it, before I was dazed and
blind,
The jacaranda sprang in the sky and burned
And the flare of it lit an endless sky in my
mind.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
A LETTER TO CURLY
By GEORGE WATSON.
IT’S just on midnight and I’m about
to start. There is a hot wind blow-
ing. You know the type. It sets
the red dust whirling and spiralling
across the plains and gets into every-
thing. It will be a lonely trip, just as it
has; been every trip for the last twelve
months or so. The truck is still running
at its best, but things aren’t the same
when vou’re on your own the whole
ti me "
n ’ t
Do you remember the first time I went
with you, Curly? It was cold that night,
just the opposite to what it is tonight.
1 was a frightened apd inexperienced kid
then. You maybe didn’t notice it, but
I know I fidgeted about a lot that night,
You said how quiet I was. That was
the excitement working in me. It was a
great adventure for me then, Curly.
Do you remember that first bump we
hit at the crossroads? You laughed
sheepishly and made an excuse about the
lights, but I knew it was the beer you’d
had during the afternoon. I didn’t blame
you, though. I could have forgiven you
for anything that night. That was the
first mishap. Then there was the station
gate that we broke through. We must
have both gone to sleep, for I remem-
ber waking up to see the huge iron gate
rushing towards us in the glare of the
headlights. It was too late to veer off
and I held on grimly as the truck
crashed through. 1 laughed when it was
all over, but it was only nerves really.
I looked on you as a hero then ; there
are a number of other people do that
now.
We decided to sleep at the gate. That
tot of rum you gave me burnt all the
way down, but 1 didn’t mind. I woke
just at dawn and felt stiff and sore. That
was nothing, for it was the first time I
had ever slept in the bush. I’ve done it
hundreds of times since, but the novelty
never seems to wear off. The sight of the
gum-trees standing white and solitary in
the dim morning light grows on you. I’ll
bet you’d give a lot to see them again.
Next day I got a kick out of running
alongside those young emus. They must
have been doing about twenty-five miles
an hour when they turned off towards
the fences. There are still plenty of ’roos
about. You know those big, cheeky, red
fellows that sit up on their tails and
watch the truck go by. I haven t seen
any shooters about lately; they must be
ad U P north with the Army, I suppose,
D° yon remember, too, that first meal
we had at the boundary-rider s hut. e
was a queer old chap, squatting on nis
heels with that tame galah sitting on his
shoulder That bottle 0 f rum made his
sparkle> and I think he would have
given anything for a swig if you hadn’t
gj ven b im tbe i o t. He was dis-
appointed to see us go so soon. He’s not
there now. Someone told me that he had
gone blind and was sent to a home.
We came across Old Ted just on sunset.
He sat his horse as if he was part of it.
He’s still on the job, carrying the mail.
and I generally run into him round about
the same place and just on sundown, e
alwa ys reminds me of those ihustratea
™ a S a T e COV T X th That
houetted against the se g •
ZIV IwTLT ?mvefied outside Aus-
trali but l can > t imagine anything so
beautiful as a sunset in the winter months,
The way it fades so quickly and then the
s t a rs come out. I don’t suppose you see
the stars too often where you are now,
Curly. They tell me that wintertime
in Europe isn’t pleasant,
There was a rat plague on at the time,
Remember how they used to scramble
along the tracks in the glow of the head-
lamps and then scamper off into the tufts
of grass? Their beady eyes used to show
for a moment and then the reflection was
gone. It was dry, too, and bushfires were
raging further out. The sky was all
aglow with the reflection of the flames,
I suppose you’ve seen things since then
that make bushfires seem small,
j often think of you, Curl/, and more
so now s i nC e we got the news you were
j n a prison camp, but what I most!}
think about is that first trip you took
me on. We’ll do it again sometime,
C urly, and what we all hope is that it
will be soon.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0, 3293.
Wednesday, March 24, 1943.
HOME-BREAKERS, BEWARE!
I did not become Prime Minister to preside over the liquidation of the Empire. . . .The administration of the British colonies must continue to be the sole responsibility
of Great Britain.”—Churchill.
“They’re all mine, and they’ll stay mine!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
SECRET DIPLOMACY.
Officially described as neither a “White
Book” nor a “White Paper” but “just a
book published by the State Depart-
ment,” the revealing document dealing
with U.S. foreign policy over the fateful
decade 1931-41 might profitably be mads
compulsory reading at Canberra. Also
among aspirants to Canberra now gird-
ing up their loins. It could beneficially
be made compulsory general reading, too,
sinca in this democracy, as in the U.S.A.,
public and politicians must by the nature
of things always share the blame some-
where about equally for defects in
national policy over any extended period.
The decade began and ended with
violent action by Japan. Throughout the
period Germany, Italy and Japan ruth-
lessly prepared for war. Two years after
Japan set the fuse going by invading Man-
churia Germany withdrew from the Dis-
armament Conference and began rearm-
ing. A year later Japan started tearing up
the Washington Treaty, which limited
navy-building. Another year and Italy in-
vaded Abyssinia. One year more and
Hitler tore up the Locarno Treaty and
fortified the Rhineland. Next year (1937)
Japan renewed attack on China. In 1938
Hitler marched into Austria and dismem-
bered Czechoslovakia.
In 1939 the fuse burnt to explosion.
In turn, Hitler completed the destruction
of Czechoslovakia; Italy invaded
Albania ; Hitler struck at Poland ; and,
one by one, almost all the countries of
Europe were subsequently dragged in.
Long prepared for just such an oppor-
tunity, Japan marched into French Indo-
china after France fell in 1940, and late
next year made the attack on the United
States at Pearl Harbor which started the
war in the Pacific.
In the course of this unexampled
decade of yearly treaty-breaking, acts of
violence and open warfare, sound warn-
ings on Axis developments were sent
home to Washington by U.S. ambassa-
dors abroad. As early as August, 1932,
Ambassador Grew reported to Secretary
Stimson the growing dangers in the then
existing situation in Japan. The ambas-
sador mentioned “the deliberate building-
up of public animosity against foreign
nations in general and the United States
in particular.” He stated that the Japa-
nese military machine had been “built for
war,” felt ready for war and would “wel-
come war” ; that Japan had never yet been
beaten and possessed unlimited confidence.
Almost as early in the piece U.S.
Consul-General Messersmith, at Berlin,
reported that, while Germany would
“make constant professions of a will for
peace and a desire to co-operate,” it would
go on rearming. He informed his Wash-
ington chiefs that those who held the
highest positions in Germany were “cap-
able of actions which really outlaw them
from ordinary intercourse.” Some of
the men running the German Govern-
ment were “psychopathic cases” ; others
“were in a state of exaltation and in a
frame of mind that knew no reason.”
What they were really about, he reported,
was making Germany “the most capable
instrument of war that has ever existed.”
These and other like findings were sup-
ported at the time in a report by Mr.
Douglas Miller, U.S. Attache in Berlin.
Thus early, Washington was informed fay
Mr. Miller that the Nazi programme was
racial and territorial expansion, until
Germany would constitute “the largest
and most powerful nation in the world.”
The Nazi leaders’ programme, he said,
was “not so much love of their own
country as dislike of other countries.”
They were already building “a tremen-
dous military machine,” which was in the
hands of “narrow, ignorant and unscru-
pulous adventurers who have been slightly
touched with madness from brooding over
Germany’s real or imagined wrongs.”
The fateful decade was still young
when (1934) Ambassador Grew reported
on Japan with remarkable accuracy and
foresight. He said that the aim of ele-
ments in the Army and Navy, the patrio-
tic societies and the intense nationalists
throughout the country was “to obtain
trade control and eventually predominant
political influence in China, the Philip-
pines, the Straits Settlements, Siam and
the Dutch East Indies, the Maritime Pro-
vinces and Vladivostok, one step at a
time.... pausing intermittently to con-
solidate and then continuing as soon as
the intervening obstacles can be over-
come by diplomacy or force.” He in-
sisted that it would be “reprehensibly
somnolent” if America trusted to the
security of treaties and suchlike “safe-
guards.” The best possible way to ward
off eventual war with Japan, he advised,
was to make adequate preparation.
Preparedness is a cold fact which even
the chauvinists, the military, the patriots
and the ultra-nationalists in Japan, for all
their bluster concerning “provocative
measures” in the United States, can grasp
and understand.
From time to time reports on similar
fines reached Washington from Germany
and Italy, as well as more from Japan.
Nearing the end of the decade Ambas-
sador Grew reported that there could be
no doubt that military and other elements
saw in the then (1940) world situation
a “golden opportunity.” The German
victories had gone to their heads ; they
believed implicitly that Britain would be
defeated. Mr. Grew advised Washing-
ton that United States interests in the
Pacific were definitely threatened by
Japan’s policy of southward expansion.
A month or two later, in early 1941,
almost a full year before the event proved
him correct, he warned his superiors,
on the strength of “reports from many
sources, including a Japanese source,”
that Japanese military forces planned “a
surprise mass attack at Pearl Harbor in
case of ‘trouble’ with the United States.”
It is easy enough to say now that if
all these secret reports had been made
public as they were sent in the public
would have responded on the right fines.
The cold truth is that such reports, made
in such circumstances, could not, and
never could, be generally broadcast.
Secrecy is essential to gathering such in-
formation, and much of the information
thus gathered only time can prove right
or otherwise. The U.S. document does
not list the messages of representatives
abroad who were wrong about any of
this or wrong about other like doings.
There are countless other reasons,
tangled up with the conduct of world
affairs, why such diplomatic reports
cannot be made public until events have
proved them right beyond doubt. They
are the reports of individuals, and indi-
viduals —even when trained and picked
men, and on the spot —are not infallible.
Publication of, say, the first of Mr.
Grew’s reports early in the decade would
naturally have meant Japan’s instant in-
sistence on his removal from his post;
and the same would go for any other
country on earth.
There is no certainty, either, that the
public in general like its individuals,
always very wise after the event —would
accept such a first, or second, or third
report and be prepared to act to the
limits of its prospective possibilities.
Odds of a thousand to one could safely
be laid against either the American or
the Australian public acting adequately
if any of Mr. Grew’s warnings had been
published at the time.
As it happened, it was the U.S. policy
over the period, and that also of the
British Empire, to work by every means
possible towards an improvement of inter-
national relations and thus towards pre-
vention of a breakdown of world-peace,
and this policy had the very strongest
public approval in the countries con-
cerned, above all in the U.S.A. Through-
out the period the U.S.A. was isolation-
ist ; very strongly so for most of the
time, and still so by majority even after
Britain and Germany came to grips. This
continued until the Japs rounded off the
fateful decade they had launched in
violence by concluding it in violence at
Pearl Harbor. At any earlier time dur-
ing the decade publication of Mr. Grew’s
warnings would have been considered not
only in Japan but in America as blun-
dering provocation. In fact, if they
had been published before Japan
struck, all that has since happened could
have happened, with the single difference
that Japan would then have had a reason-
able case against America as the provok-
ing party. The Japs are trying despe-
rately hard to “prove” this as it is.
What actually happened between the
wars in the U.S.A., in Britain and in like-
minded countries was that public-
approved policy of striving at all cost for
peace had to override the disheartening
reports coming in in secret from repre-
sentatives abroad. Those with the job
of implementing public-approved policy
had to regard the reported conditions in
the other countries as obstacles —a chal-
lenge to statesmanship, but not necessarily
insurmountable. That policy failed ; but
all but the most embittered cynics or the
most ardent Fireside Fusiliers must have
favored it at one time, however faith in
it must have dropped away towards the
end of the decade. So strongly was the
policy favored right up to the end in the
U.S.A. that President Roosevelt, who
once spoke of being able to “baby” Japan
along for three months (when Mr.
Churchill was in favor of sending an ulti-
matum to Tokyo), had also to “baby” his
own nation along as well, and may not
have completely succeeded if the Japs in
their rashness hadn’t done the job for
him at Pearl Harbor.
Unless the busy planners of a new
world have some unimaginable scheme up
their sleeves for realising the hitherto
empty dream of “open diplomacy openly
arrived at,” it looks on the evidence as
if secret reports from representatives
abroad will have to continue, with, in
democracies, each country’s leaders act-
ing on them as best they can and the
public hearing their contents anything up
to a decade or more afterwards. Aus-
tralia in this set-up would seem to have
one safe fine of national policy already
laid down—to keep its own defence
machinery as adequate as possible. This
will henceforth be more necessary than
ever before. Now that this country has
once been involved in war emanating
from Asia, it must always be at the ready
for a repetition—and that will still hold
if Tojo and the rest of his Nipponese
gang are wiped out. There is a lot more
of Asia besides Japan, and by the time
Japan is crushed —at the present rate of
going—a great deal of that Asia will
have been militarised.
With these millions above it, Australia
will need as much of the right sort of
additional population as it can hold. That
is for the future. What can and should
be done now is to see to it that, whatever
the population, it will always be ready
and have the means to spring instantly
to this country’s defence. It is something
for Diggers to bring about. They could
do worse than make it an individual and
collective aim to ensure Australia an
adequate defence establishment to begin
with, and then make any interference
with this a matter for the people as a
whole, not, as defence has hitherto been,
a toy for temporary politicians.
Unionism and Ruffianism.
In his indictment of Communist bosses of
the Ironworkers and Munition Workers,
then in process of being amalgamated by
methods to which there have been strenu-
ous but unavailing objections, Labor-
member Mullens (Footscray) referred to
the huge funds involved in the amalga-
mation (“a revenue of £85,000 per
annum,” really an understatement), and,
in effect, dared Thornton, the Iron-
workers’ boss, to publish a balance sheet.
Such a challenge having been made in
the Parliament of a State in which there
is a large proportion of union members,
there could be only one effective reply—
publication of a balance sheet in the
next “Ironworker.” This would have
merely meant dispensing with some of
the rancid stuff in which that Red print
specialises—in the March issue there were
40 14-inch columns, some of which were
given over to attacks on the Yugoslavs’
fighting leader Michailovich (“the Soviet
Union certainly does not recognise this
Fascist traitor”), and on “the British
authorities in India,” who don’t treat the
Congress party and the Communists right.
But that is not Thornton’s way ; and the
“Ironworker” said as much in its clumsy
fashion:
It is not Thornton’s job to produce
balance sheets. The balance sheets for the
union are produced by independent char-
tered accountants for every union branch
and for the Ironworkers’ Federal Council.
Actually these gentlemen are employed
to prepare balance sheets on information
furnished by their employers, the union
bosses; production or publication is
a matter for their employers. If they
are members of the Federal Insti-
tute of Accountants they must have
smiled wintrily at the “Ironworker’s”
bluster. There are 6000 members of
the Institute, and for a guinea a
year —very much less than the male
ironworker has to pay for a union ticket
—each member gets a free copy of a
monthly much more interesting than the
“Ironworker,” and a copy of the annual
report and balance sheet. Should his
copy go astray he can read the report
and balance sheet in the monthly.
Enter one C. Tannock, presumably
as an authority on balance sheets. Self-
described as “secretary of the N.S.W. (A)
branch of the union for 16 years and a
trustee of the Federal Council,” Tannock
is also a Sydney M.L.C., and is or was
one of the secretaries of the N.S.W. Aid
Russia Committee, which has changed its
name. When it was the N.S.W. Aid
Russia Committee Tannock was a
party to the preparation of a list of ex-
penses for six months which showed a
total of £2132, out of which Russia
apparently received a whole £lB in direct
aid. Items of expenditure, with notes:
Salaries, £333; stamps and telegrams,
£269; telephone, £57; rent, £BS; 500
Christmas cards (cost and destination not
stated); travelling expenses, £B3 ; literature
and propaganda, £IOSO. . , . .
Literature and propaganda included
35,000 copies of “Christian Aid for the
Soviet Union,” £32 55.; 20,000 copies of
“Sport in Russia,” £llO (“a racehorse for
every Russian” was the pious aspiration of
one of the writers), and 100,000 copies of
“Invade Europe!” (a non-starter’s master-
piece), £212. .
Also listed were losses on functions :
For Soviet Crew, £23; Women’s Rally, £8;
Week-end School, £10; Congress for
National Unity, £7; Citizens’ Lunch, £l2;
Red Army Day Dinner, £l6; and Physical
Culture Demonstration, £lB.
Tannock, M.L.C., to Mullens, M.L.A.;
I am in a position to completely refute
your charges, if you have been correctly re-
ported 1 know that the finances of the
organisation are handled with scrupulous
care and honesty by Mr. Thornton, and, as
a trustee, of course your remarks are a
reflection on me. I think they are also a
reflection on our party. In view of my state-
ment, I suggest that you take the first
opportunity of withdrawing publicly in the
House the statements you made originally.
Whereupon the “Ironworker”:
Did this have any effect on Mr. Mullens?
Of course not. He didn’t reply.
Why should he? C. Tannock may
be as honest a Second-Fronter as ever
urged the sending of other men into
battle at a distance of 12,000 miles, com-
fortably resigned to the shedding of their
blood. But his say-so on union finance
in which he is personally interested is
no mom entitled to acceptance without
the evidence of figures than if he were
a company official giving an equivalent
assurance to a critic.
Trade-union law is due for drastic
amendment in Australia. Some of these
unions have revenues that many a com-
pany might envy, but the members have
no such legal protection as company share-
holders enjoy. Complaisant or cowardly
Governments permit them to be taxed by
private persons, sometimes excessively, as
the price of getting and keeping a job,
and they can be pushed round, fined, boy-
cotted and dragged into strikes, in these
days all lawless and wicked, at the
pleasure of union bosses practising in-
timidation through mobs or, in the case
of recent strikes, by the mobs themselves.
And, although the vast majority of them
are loyal and steadygoing Australians,
part of the money extorted from them
can be and has been spent on disloyal
propaganda.
At all these points trade-union law
should protect them, but it doesn't
Failing provision for the publication in
recognised organs of full and precise
balance sheets, for secret ballots in all
instances where strikes and mergers are
proposed, and for appeals to industrial
courts against arbitrary fines, expulsions,
threats of physical assault and persecution
extended to families and improper use of
union funds, together with strict en-
forcement of the law thus amended (one
is as necessary as the other), the indi-
vidual unionist will be increasingly driven
to accept the lesser of two loyalties, and
unionism of the kind with which Com-
munists are identified will increasingly
take on the appearance of a vast and
dangerous racket.
Reporting to the Federal Council of
his Red racket in June, 1942, Thornton
described the last war as. “a struggle
between two capitalist nations for
supremacy in world trade,” and this war,
until Hitler turned on the other party to
the Molotov-Ribbentrop treaty, hav-
ing “the same imperialist character.” He
enlarged on the congenial theme:
At our previous Ironworkers’ Federal
Council we characterised the war that was
then on as an imperialist war, and we then
declared in favor of a democratic peace.
Our delegation to the 1941 A.C.T.U. Con-
gress supported a resolution demanding the
negotiation of a democratic peace.
In other words, a peace with the master
of the Continent which would have
placed blitzed Britain at his mercy and
left Japan free to attack the Empire.
Continuing, this Communist, who was
bom in Britain but has no feeling for that
country or Australia, denounced people,
“the most backward section in Australian
life,” who “say ‘put Australia first,
and insisted that “the voice of Australia
must be raised in a demand that, while
out Soviet brethren are laying down their
lives in thousands and tens of thousands,
4,000,000 men shall no longer remain idle
in Britain.” He bragged that his Red
racket had become “the leading union in
Australia,” and insolently recalled that it
had “deliberately and in a planned way
been involved in more strikes than other
unions in the last few years not just
the sporadic strikes typical of the coal-
fields, but planned strikes, because we
made strikes our business.” And all as
part of “the class struggle,” and with
the object of giving Australia a Gov-
ernment of a similar character to that ot
the Soviet Government.”
We did not declare for a democratic
peace at the 1941 council meeting because
we are pacifists. No worker can atior
be a pacifist... .Arms were used by work-
ing men in the most important historical
struggle that this country has known, the
struggle at the Eureka Stockade, and
will B probably be used by the workers m
this country again.
Meanwhile, planned strikes had been
suspended (interval for bitter laughter)
so that “we” might “play our part in the
struggle to end Fascism abroad.
And in the gaining of peace we will face
the final fights with capitalism here, an
will play our part, with honor I am sure,
the struggle for a socialist State.
And in the March “Communist
Review” he boasted that nU1 ( !“
Marxism-Leninism” is triumphing o
“reformism” in “the trade-unions ot


Australia,” and that with “a correct
application of Marxist-Leninist teachings”
the “unionists of Australia... .will be in
a position after victory to march shoulder
to shoulder with our comrades in other
lands to that Socialist goal.”
There is nothing sacrosanct about
trade-unionism. It is an institution which
is on its trial, and in the supreme test
of war it will rise or fall according to
whether it proves itself useful and law-
abiding or useless and dangerous. For
unionism of the kind that wages private
wars on the public in the form of
coal and bread strikes, and the sort im-
personated by Thornton, who threatens
the living and insults the dead, there is
no tolerable future. It will have to be
brought within strict legal bounds or
smashed, lest it smash Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH
From the Fighters.
Some of the best broadcasts of the war
are coming from the A.B.C. field record-
ing units every Sunday morning. The
men in charge of them have kept close
up to the fighting with Australian troops
wherever they have been and have got
from the troops themselves vivid per-
sonal narratives that reveal not only the
nature of the fighting but the splendid
type of fighting man the Australian is.
Though they don’t set out with any
deliberate intention of doing so, these
fighters of ours paint pictures of cour-
age and endurance under dreadful con-
ditions that should strike to the heart of
every Australian safe at home —safe
from a fanatic alien horde so long as Aus-
tralians of the Anzac breed can be found
to face the foe, no matter what the odds
nor what the conditions. In New Guinea
our men, with their American allies, fight
over a terrain and in a climate and
against an enemy that white troops have
never before had to face. Listen to a
tank officer telling Dudley Leggatt, of
the field recording unit, about it:
They [the tanks] were literally pushing
a wave of slimy mud in front of them.
They’d go forward a few yards, then back
and move a few yards in another direc-
tion, and so on until they could find a way
through... .The battalions with us are a
hundred per cent. No praise is too high for
the way they went on and attacked the pill-
boxes through fire coming from all sides.
... .A tommy-gunner ran up to one of the
biggest pillboxes and put a burst into it.
Then he jumped up on top of it....rolled
a cigarette, had a few puffs... .jumped
down and put a few more bursts
in....then got on top of it again and had
a rest and a smoke.
There are other stories, told by the
men themselves, of desperate and pro-
longed struggles in the mud, heat and
tangled undergrowth ; of men fighting an
hour, resting an hour, fighting an hour
and so on ; of deeds of individual daring
which make the listener proud of belong-
ing to the English-speaking race. These
recordings should be preserved as material
for history. They should be put in print.
They should be played over to work-
stoppers and moaners and loud-mouthed
agitators and —yes —to politicians.
Fighters and Strikers.
Coal strikes all over the place, a bread
strike in Sydney which denied that city’s
inhabitants the main staple of life for
days and other like doings up and down
the land brought a protest from Senator
Wilson at Canberra. It was punctuated
by the usual striker-coddling yelps from
the Labor side.
Set against what has been going on in
Australia for some time, the protest was
mild. Senator Wilson could profitably
have taken a lesson from the American
airman Captain Rickenbacker. Lost in
a rubber dinghy at sea in the course of
the Solomons operations. Captain Ricken-
backer was eventually rescued. Return-
ing home, he went along to Detroit and
had a few words to say on Senator Wil-
son’s theme:
Our soldiers are living in mud and
disease-ridden areas, fighting to retain
democracy. If necessary to make us
appreciate our duties, let’s bring back the
troops from the hellholes of the world
and place them in factories. Then take the
war-workers and place them in the fox-
holes with the vermin, diarrhoea, malaria
and Japanese. 1 will guarantee you that
production will be increased —and much of
it doubled —within 30 days.
Captain Rickenbacker added a bit
more which also doesn’t go only for
Americans:
The war in the Pacific is being fought by
American soldiers with too little. They
don’t like to hear of strikes or slowdowns.
When they do they get pretty mad. If they
knew the true facts they’d get even madder.
No doubt strike sympathisers in Can-
berra and Macquarie-street, Sydney,
would regard talk of that straight sort as
outrageous ; but if they care to listen to
returned A.I.F. men they’ll hear as good,
and better.
Gandhi.
India has produced many gifted journa-
lists, and one, T. A. Raman, has written
an excellent study of the Indian problem
for the Oxford University Press. Gandhi
is, of course, the central figure, and,
though the author doesn’t care for the
Mahatma’s politics, and has no use for
the odd idea of “free” India organising
“non-violent resistance” to the Japs, he
has an enormous admiration for the man.
“Gandhi’s immense appeal,” Mr.
Raman writes, “derives from the fact that
he conforms in his personal life so
closely to the ancient Hindu ideal of
austere selflessness. His place in the
heart of India cannot.be shaken by any
number of political mistakes he makes.”
Frailest of men in physique ; Gandhi
showed physical courage in South Africa,
where he served with an ambulance unit
in the Boer War, and his moral courage
has been exhibited many times, never
more than when he took up the cause
of the 51,000,000 untouchables.
He has inveighed mercilessly against un-
touchability. He adopted an untouchable
child, lives surrounded by untouchables
and has repeatedly staked his political
authority on their behalf.
And Englishmen, as well as Indians,
have felt the influence of his persuasive
eloquence. He actually “persuaded the
Viceroy into sending a message to the
War Cabinet advising it to surrender
armed defence and to organise passive
resistance —a message which served only
to pain and puzzle the British people,
then enduring the worst air raids.”
Previously the Viceroy had issued a
declaration of India’s belligerency with-
out consultation with leaders of Indian
opinion—styled “a blunder.” There fol-
lowed “the famous and ill-fated declara-
tion of August 8, 1940,” in which the
British Government promised a confer-
ence to devise the framework of a new
Constitution securing for India “free and
equal partnership in the British Com-
monwealth with the least delay after the
war.”
In 1922, when his passive-resistance
movement, decided upon in 1920, had
flared into furious violence (in one out-
rage 21 police officers were murdered by
a mob), Gandhi was sentenced to six
years’ imprisonment. Two years later,
when apparently at the point of death,
he was operated on by a British sur-
geon for appendicitis, and on his re-
covery was released. Before long he had
begun a “fast unto death” as a protest
against separate representation for un-
touchables, who had been promised the
vote under the India Act. Hindu and
Untouchable leaders “met in frenzied
conversations, and on the seventh day of
the fast a compromise was reached which
the Secretary for India accepted.”
On February 9, being under arrest
once more, and having reached his 73rd
year, the Mahatma began fasting again.
As he grew weaker, appeals for
unconditional release came from all sec-
tions of Indian opinion, except the Mos-
lem League, and from all parts of the
English-speaking world, the A.C.T.U.
being well up in the procession. No
Government carrying on a war was ever
before placed in such a predicament. It
was decided to “wait and see” ; and for
once this Asquithian policy was justified.
On a May morning in Rouen 502 years
ago an unknown English soldier said to
his mates “We are lost; we have burned
a saint.” The English have not yet learned
how to deal with saints to the satisfac-
tion of all parties ; but then there is no
satisfying some parties.
Dreams and Reality.
“Pawang's” survey:
A few weeks ago a mild epidemic of halluci-
naiions broke out in Melbourne. The new Lud
Mayor started it when he announced, after his
ascension to his high office, that he had had a
dream, a dream of a new, nobler and more
splendid city after the war. Sundry other
officials had hallucinations. Architects took a
hand and drew up plans and specifications, each
one differing from the other, which gave paper
and paste, if not concrete reality, to the Lud
Mayor’s imaginations. The inevitable com-
mittee was formed to go into the matter, and
everybody was settling down to snore again
when the worst epidemic of typhoid Victoria
has had for many a year gave them a rude
awakening by inconsiderately breaking out in
one of the outer suburbs.
Within 24 hours 45 cases were reported; the
total a few days later was 112. There were the
usual panic and complaints of lack of hospital
accommodation. The army came to the rescue
by promptly releasing doctors and nurses to
deal with the situation.
Milk came under suspicion—whether rightly
or wrongly in this instance remains to be
proved. Generally speaking, there are palpable
defects in the milk supply of the million city.
No effective machinery exists for policing the
handling of the stuff, as any suburbanite knows
who has seen milkos ladling milk into their
cans, refilling and recapping bottles in the
streets or pouring milk into billycans and jugs
at the backdoors of squalid tenements. What
with shortages of man-power and the inefficiency
due to the half-baked compromise achieved by
zoning, Melbourne’s milk supply is surrounded
with regulations that are evaded every day under
officialdom’s dreaming noses.
Under the Milk and Dairying Supervision Act
a municipality is empowered to establish muni-
cipal milk depots, purchase milk from farmers,
manufacture ice, sell the milk, wholesale or
retail, and buy all land and appurtenances
necessary for such a depot. The Lud Mayor
could do something about that. He can’t do
anything about »his dream city of the future,
and in hjs franker moments he probably
knows it.
HER LETTER TO HER SOLDIER.
“Milk’s rationed, meat’s dear, I can’t buy fruit or fruit and the bakers are on strike. Wish we were with you!”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., L.TD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria ; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting
a Simple Ailment
Any person takes serious chances in
neglecting a simple case of piles. The
safest remedy for Piles is DOAN’S
OINTMENT. Its healing qualities are
marvellous.
DOAN’S
OINTMENT
Sold by Chemists and
Storekeepers Everywhere.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
The “crisis” at Canberra petered out.
After (1) a meeting of Opposition
Senators, (2) an exchange of letters be-
tween Curtin and Fadden, (3) a meeting
of the Opposition parties and (4) a meet-
ing of party managers, the House, at
Curtin’s instance, “accepted the Senate’s
request for amendments of the Income
Tax Rates Bill,” and, the tacking clause
withdrawn, the bill was whisked through.
Throughout, McLeay and his associates
steadfastly maintained the rights and
privileges of the Senate, and they have
put it in the way of regaining its old
prestige and authority. In the first
ten years of Federation it commanded
respect, and deserved it.
“Hang out the calico election signs,”
said Conelan when his Government was
about to climb down to the Senate for
the second time. Archie Cameron noted
the remark, and when the surrender was
complete he said in his wounding way
that “the Government had a sufficient
supply of white calico to make a white
flag, which it hoisted when the pressure
was put on. There is this to be noted
about white flags: they may also be
used as shrouds for those who do not
survive the battle.” Conelan is member
for Griffith (Q.), a very shaky seat.
The National Welfare Fund Bill found
Senators Foil and Crawford of the same
mind at last. When the vote was taken
both were far away. So were other
Senators, and after some juggling with
pairs the bill survived the third reading
and will be available for election pur-
poses. To Keane it is “the first instal-
ment of the New Order.” Along with
the Income Tax Rates Bill it led to very
considerable disorder in the Opposition
parties, and Fadden bitterly reminded
them that he was their leader. As if
any of the South Australians believed it!
Not a rich man —no English-speaking
professional soldier ever is—General
MacArthur celebrated the anniversary of
his arrival in Australia by putting an-
other £5OO into war loan:
To show, in some small way, my grati-
tude for the warmth of hospitality accorded
me in this great land, my admiration for
the magnificent war effort this nation has
made in the past year and my reverence for
those immortal men who have suffered and
died that Australia might live and prosper.
That puts it up to the financial slackers
among the two million Australians who
have not subscribed to war loans.
For most of last week Sydney people
had to go without bread because the
bakers were on strike in contempt of
their award. These bakers support a
State Labor Government, and when the
union played the dingo at the expense of
its own people the Government was en-
acting a preference-to-unionists bill.
A Melbourne businessman, visiting
Sydney by ’plane for a brief time, “took
the precaution to bring a loaf of bread
with him.” Nothing Sydney could ever
say about Melbourne equals that.
After “settling” the bakers’ strike
McKell gave it out that “the sly-grog
traffic has been almost entirely abolished
in Sydney.” He believes in fairies.
Federal leader of Lang’s Labor group
and of Lang’s anti-Communist Labor
group for ten years altogether, Beas-
ley is now getting from the Big
Fellow what Loughlin, Mutch, Cann and
many others have got since 1925, In
Lang’s “Century” the other Jack is
warned that “he should remember the
fate of those Labor men who have taken
the wrong turning—they have never
come back.” What he remembers is that
Lang didn’t.
Calwell talks too much, and often
foolishly, but in his role of candid friend
he sometimes extracts useful information.
He has contrived to have it placed on
record that in the three complete war
years there were 138 sittings of the House
in Canberra (43, 50, 45), 146 of the one
at Wellington (49, 62, 35), 613 of the one
at Washington (199, 209, 205), 290 of
the Canadian House of Commons (83,
83, 124) and 362 of the British House
of Commons (129, 119, 114). But in
Australia, of course, as a substitute for
Parliamentary government, we get heaps
of government by regulation.
Coles has admirers among the writing
boys, and one has persuaded himself that
Henty is devoted to his idol. To the
enthusiast the promised delivery of the
Labor vote to Coles makes that worthy’s
re-election a certainty. “Vote for Coles
and Labor” —and that in Henty, where
Harry Gullett’s majorities over Labor
were two and even three to one! The
cry, if heard, will be music in the ears
of the U.A.P. man —probably F. R. Lee,
who nearly unseated Curtin in Fremantle,
and, going to Kalgoorlie, got the great-
est vote ever given there to a non-Labor
man.
Frost got his Repat. Bill through the
House, with' improvements, mostly sug-
“Only now have I been able to leave with a calm conscience the place where I have been working
for many months.”— Hitler, back in circulation and speaking on “Heroes’ Day.”
“Duck, mein Führer, or you vill be vun of der departed heroes. Here come der
bombers.”
gested by Francis and Hughes, though
efforts to have service pensions in-
creased by more than the 20 per
cent, recommended by a committee
of service members, and adopted by
the Government, failed. Spender asked
for 50 per cent., but had only seven
supporters. Ten voted for making
it 33j p.c. In each case Maurice Black-
burn was with the minority. He is the
only real Independent in the House.
The “flooding” of Victoria with “lot-
tery propaganda, printed in attractive and
costly colors,” while a war loan is on
the market has drawn a just protest from
Dunstan, who pointedly added that he
cannot understand why lottery prizes go
untaxed by the Government floating the
war loan. By letting lotteries compete
with war loans the Government is doing
the country a disservice. Lottery pro-
moters and bookmakers, all varieties,
should be removed from circulation while
war loans are being raised, and a special
12i p.c. war tax should be clapped on
the tote.
Dr. Evatt in one of his uncommonly
interesting broadcasts:
The Japanese Minister in Australia until
the outbreak of war was Mr. Kawai.
Whether the military extremists in Japan
kept their diplomats abroad informed of
the imminence of Japanese aggression I do
not know'. Those who knew him well were
convinced that Kawai was distressed and
shaken when the final event came. Later
he expressed his appreciation at the
reverent and dignified manner in which
Australia had honored the mortal remains
of the Japanese seamen who lost their lives
in the submarine attack on Sydney.
It took moral courage to say that.
Apt illustration from an admirable
Fadden argument for pay-as-you-go:
Take the case of a worker who dies on
June 30, 1943. Throughout the financial
year 1942-43 instalments of income tax
have been deducted from his wages. These
instalments will cover only his tax lia-
bility to the end of June, 1942. His estate
will be liable for the whole of the taxa-
tion which will subsequently be assessed on
his earnings during the financial year
1942-43.
In effect, his dependants will be robbed
in cold blood under forms of law. But
to Chifley, that champion of the workers,
pay-as-you-go is merely a method of
dodging payment of what you owe.
In the U.S.A. two months ago thou-
sands of coalminers struck because John
L. Lewis, boss of the United Mine
Workers, had raised their union dues from
a dollar a month to a dollar and a half.
The strike didn’t shake his despotic
authority ; last week he was re-elected
boss for the twelfth time, and he cele-
brated the occasion by demanding that the
Government should dish its anti-inflation
policy so that his serfs might get an-
other two dollars a day. One of his
opponents in the union told the War
Labor Board that John L. has “more than
$6,000,000” in what he calls his “inter-
national treasury,” and has contributed
as much as $500,000 to a New Deal
campaign fund.
March rushes to its close and the
wheatgrower, knowing that seeding must
begin next month, that the country is
chock-full of wheat and that he won’t get
the full price for more than 3000 bushels,
is waiting for some plan from the Federal
Government about acreage restriction
and substitute crops. If the pattern of
former years is followed, he should get
some advice about next August, long past
sowing time.
A lot has been said about cuts (since
cancelled) in a Soviet film, very little
about the person who imported it. His
name is Zygmund Bacheisen, and he
applied for military exemption on the
ground that he had £346 invested in the
film and £lOOO in other films, and that if
he were called up his business would go
west. Counsel will proceed:
Bacheisen came to Australia in 1941.
In the Polish army when Poland was in-
vaded, he escaped to Russia and was there
a year, and then obtained permission to go
to Japan and finally to come to Australia.
Man-power testified that the interesting
immigrant had been classed 82. Appli-
cation for exemption -adjourned till the
end of March.
From “Norther”:
The Mackay Assembly by-election was lively.
Graham (Lab.) won the seat, which Forgan
Smith had held for 27 years. Is Barnes, of
Bundaberg, daunted? Not on your life! He's
going to nominate “my sister -Eileen” for
Oxley.
Flaving discovered that absenteeism in
war factories (“rampant,” the sober
Wurth said recently) is caused by the
nefarious wage-payer, Ward is out with
a statement that because Anzac Day falls
on a Sunday this year it doesn’t follow
that workers may not claim compensation
for the loss of a holiday. The men who
wrote Anzac into history with their blood
never thought of holidays or compensa-
tion. It would be some return for their
sacrifices on the part of Australians who
have never been in action to make the
day a gift to the nation. Who’s willing
to give the “compensation” money to
war funds?
Two members of Lang’s “Century”
board of directors, both Ms.L.C., have
resigned in obedience to the State A.L.P-
and the Big Fellow, who tells them
they can “fight conscription more effec-
tively from within the party than from
outside.” The question is whether it’s
better to be on the inside looking out than
on the outside looking in.
Now it’s the A.W.U., of all unions,
which is “advising Queensland members
not to work under the Federal arbitra-
tion award fixing wages for the Civil
Construction Corps.” Another nail in
the coffin of industrial arbitration. The
N.S.W. coalminers, bakers and slaughter-
men, the Sydney Government, the Com-
munists and Ward, with his Women’s
Employment and Harvest Work boards,
have been hammering them in at a
furious rate.
A Washington correspondent has
written that Litvinov, a social lion for a
twelvemonth, has renounced that char-
acter, being nowadays rarely seen. Pos-
sibly it is an effect of Madame Litvinov
talking too much. A sob-sister (N.Y.
“Post”) interviewed the lady and was
charmed with her.
She’s English. She says “Russia smells
sweeter than any other country in the
world.” At our fabulously successful
luncheon Dean Virginia Gildersleeve, of
Barnard, said something about Soviet Russia
being the country of Madame Litvinov’s
adoption. Madame said it was just the
other way round, and how grateful she was
that Soviet Russia had adopted her—“l
was an English subject; I am a Soviet citi-
zen.” At the Economic Conference m
London, a gentleman said to her “Wasn’t
the King’s speech good?” Replied Madame
Litvinov, “Not bad, for a King.”
To the sob-sister, whose paper leans
heavily to the Left, that was won-der-ful-


f
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
For the first time in Australian history
an aboriginal will find his name in the
dedication of an art book shortly to be
published in Melbourne. The work is
a survey of aboriginal art compiled by
naturalist Charles Barrett and R. H.
Croll, with a foreword by Professor A.
P. Elkin, anthropologist of Sydney Uni-
versity. To be published by the Bread
and Cheese Club, the vol. will be dedi-
cated to Albert Namatjira, the full-
blooded Binghi whom artist Rex Batter-
bee got for a camel boy and pupil when
he was painting in the “Dead Heart.”
Albert prospered so well under his
master that subsequently a show of his
works was held at the Fine Arts, Mel-
bourne, and was sold out so quickly that
the sponsors telegraphed the painter for
fresh supplies.
C. A. Berendsen, back in his native
Sydney (b. 1890) as M.L. High Com-
missioner in Australia, won his LL.M.
at Victoria College, Wellington, and was
in M.L.’s first force when the blast of
war blew in 1914 —the force that went to
Samoa and exchanged the flags there.
Chief clerk of M.L.’s Labor Department
in 1917, later sec. of the Dept, of Exter-
nal Affairs, and after that permanent
head of the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, he collected a C.M.G. in 1936.
Met personally in Sydney, film come-
dian Joe E. Brown left the impression of
being, like pretty well all comedians, a very
serious-minded chap, though the wide
grin comes easily ; and the impromptu
wit isn’t forced. Formality fits Joe as
badly as a head waiter’s dinner suit, and
the four-gat guard that escorts him about,
if it irks him, at least enhances the comic
touch. The friendliest fellow imaginable,
Joe has as his guiding principle of humor
that the fun he makes mustn’t be hurtful,
especially to those with physical or men-
“ CAREFUL , DARLING!”
tal infirmities —he’s extra-strong on that.
Joe was on the boards at nine years of
age, and got a sound stage training before
taking to films. He has made his war-
time job entertaining troops, and has
already given scores of shows, which he
arranges himself. He also helps local war
effort by broadcasting: in one half-hour
burst in Canada he and fellow-artists
extracted 116 million dollars from list-
eners. The day The Bulletin had a yarn
with him he was off to entertain the chaps
in two military hospitals that afternoon.
Melbourne’s two new County Court
Judges both fought in the last war —
C. H. Book with the 23rd Battalion and
J H. Moore with the 38th. Moore, who
was severely wounded, is the son of a
grazier and was born at Appin (Vic.)
in 1892. Book was born in 1895 at
Liverpool (Eng.) and came to Australia
young. Both learnt the legal business at
Melbourne University. Moore played
football for Melbourne and Essendon for
two years ; Book plays the organ, and
once, when a church organist was sick,
played three happy couples out of the
church precincts. For the last 12 months
Moore has been Judge Advocate of
courts-martial. Book has been Crown
Prosecutor in Melbourne since 1926.
He has a reputation for eloquence spiced
with forensic wit and a disconcerting
ability to handle facts.
Contemporaries at Sydney ’Varsity and
forwards in its Rugby Union XV were
Raymond Thorold-Smith and the Hut-
chinson brothers, Eric and Frank. Grand
footballers and great fellows, they joined
up as airmen; and darkness has de-
scended on all three. Eric died on active
service, Frank did not return after an
RA.F. raid, and Raymond was reported
missing after the fight with the Zeros
over Darwin. A Manly boy, son of a
Sydney dentist, he was with Finucane in
the first of the Australian Spitfire squad-
rons, taking part in many famous fights.
He returned to Australia with the D.F.C.
and the rank of squadron-leader, and
was adding to his reputation and that of
the Spitfires when fate struck him down.
“S.”: William Leitch (B. 10/3/’43), who
has worked 70 years with the Henry Jones
jam people at Hobart, should be flown
to Melbourne to pay homage to Thomas
Hogg, who has made ropes with Miller
and Co. for just on 73 years. He tied
up with the co. when he was 13 and is
now managing director. Rotarians and
bowlers krjow him.
Private advice has reached M.L. of
the death of Lieut. D. A. R. Moloney,
former M.L. cricket captain. Moloney
went to England with the 1937 team, and
was classified by Hammond as an “N.Z.
Bradman.”
Cardinal Hinsley,
late Archbishop of
Westminster, was a
Yorkshireman, born
in 1865 and educated
at Ushaw and the
English College in
Rome. Subsequently
he was a professor at
Ushaw, head of St.
Bede’s, Bradford, pas-
tor of Sydenham, rec-
tor of his old college
at Rome, Apostolic
Delegate in Africa and
canon of St. Peter’s,
Rome. He became
Archbishop of West-
minster in 1935 and a
cardinal two years
later, and on his re-
turn from the investi-
ture told the welcom-
ing crowd, “I regard
this honor not so
much as a personal
one as one for Eng-
land.” He died con-
vinced that Britain
was fighting for all
the best things in
modem civilisation.
His “Sword of the
Spirit” movement
dedicates Catholics in Britain to the ad-
vancement of the British cause.
Wonthaggi, the Victorian coalmining
hamlet, has provided the A.I.F. with two
padres, Revs. Rex Dakers and Frank
Hartley. Rev. Rex, the first padre en-
listed in Victoria, soldiered in the Wavell
Libyan campaigns. Going to Greece, he
was captured while attending to the
wounded —he could have escaped, but
preferred to stick to the hurt Diggers.
He’s now p.o.w. in Germany. Rev.
Frank lately had some extremely narrow
escapes at Sanananda while delivering
amenities to the troops under fire. When
last heard from he was convalescing
from malaria in Moresby. He’s a son of
Wonthaggi tailor Frank Hartley.
Appointed business adviser to Army
Minister Forde in succession to the late
A. E. Kelso, Colonel Alfred Newcombe
Kemsley had to be released from his mili-
tary job as director of organisation in the
Adjutant-General’s branch at army H.Q.
in Melbourne. Unquenchably active,
Col. Kemsley was born at Prospect, Adel-
aide, and started as a clerk in the S.A.
Lands and Survey Department. From
1915 to 1919 he was in the A.I.F. abroad,
and rose from private to staff captain. In
1934 he became general manager of 3UZ
and is vice-president of the Australian
Federation of Commercial Broadcasting
Stations. His pet for 20 years has been
Melbourne Legacy, wherein he has been
president and held every other office.
Alan Currie, who was chairman of the
V.R.C. and owner of Ercildoune station,
Burrumbeet (Vic.), cut up for £123,768.
Ercildoune, where royalty frequently so-
journed, has yet to come under the
hammer, and there are assets in South
Australia.
Ivan Hare, posthumously awarded the
Military Cross in Egypt, had 10 years on
the staff of St. Peter’s School, Adelaide,
before enlisting in the A.I.F. The widow
and children live in Ballarat.
The 1942 Australasian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy medal for the
outstanding contribution to metallurgical
science went to Dr, George Kenneth Wil-
liams, acting general superintendent of
Broken Hill Associated Smelters. Lead
metallurgy the world over uses the
method of continuous refining which Dr.
Williams developed over long years in
the firm’s laboratories. It led to the
complete remodelling of the plant at
Port Pirie. Dr. Williams saw his first
sunrise at Tarnagulla (Vic.), was edu-
cated at Wesley, Melbourne, passed
through Melbourne University like a
comet, gathering letters after his name
and other distinctions, and entered the
great works at Port Pirie in 1920.
When Squadron-Leader Anthony John
Edward Howey, R.A.F., was killed while
flying on active service in England, a
link with early and present-day Mel-
bourne was severed. The first Howey
was one of two Victorian settlers who
attended Melbourne’s first land sale. He
bought a block for £l5O. His friend
believed that Williamstown was destined
to be the commercial hub of Melbourne,
and subsequently bought a block there
for twice that money. The Williamstown
block is still worth £3OO ; the value of
the Melbourne one can be estimated only
at thousands of pounds a foot, and there
are hundreds of thousands of pounds’
worth of bricks and mortar and marble
on it, including the Manchester Unity
building. The Howey estate descended to
Major J. E. W. Howey. He was drowned
at sea. Principal beneficiary then be-
came his grandson, and he became
Squadron-Leader Howey. Educated in
England, A. J. E. Howey paid frequent
visits to the site of his immense fortune
and intended to retire here when the war
was over. A lot of his flying was done
from the deck of the carrier Glorious.
His father, Captain J. E. P. Howey, who
survives him, was a pilot in the last war
and one of Britain’s leading speed
motorists.
R. G. Clark, who will become Chief
Warden, City of Sydney, on March 31,
has been right through the N.E.S. mill.
This, of course, isn’t a very difficult
achievement for anyone prepared to give
long hours and enthusiasm to a volun-
tary organisation ; but Clark is still popu-
lar with all hands, and, N.E.S. being
N.E.S., that makes his performance one
out of the box. Now 42, Clark knows
what h.e. sounds, smells and looks like.
He landed in France with the R.F.A. in
1915 and was a bombardier at 16, one of
the youngest fighters on the Allied side —
extraordinarily young to be an artillery
n.c.o. After a spell in newspaper work
he took on commercial life, and lately
has been in company management.
Rev. R. C. Firebrace (here pictured
by Frith), who has announced himself
a Federal election starter, isn’t at all the
sort of chap his former dabbling 'in
prophecy might have suggested. He tops
six feet, goes about 13st., and would pass
for a not-long-retired footballer. Born
in England, he shares with Churchill
and The Bulletin’s “Bungaree Boat-
man” a personal pride in Harrow. (Inci-
dentally, a U.S. scribe in England lately
reported Churchill as being “strictly old
school tie” and added that the P.M. still
delights to go up to Harrow and sit with
the headmaster, singing “Auld Lang
Syne” and “When Raleigh Rose to Fight
the Foe.”) In the 1914-18 war Rev. Fire-
brace was a gunner, later second lieut.,
in the R.F.A. He did a bit of globe-
trotting after that, and finally settled
down as rector at Sydney’s North Shore
suburb of Wahroonga. A suggestion
that he might give East Sydney a fly he
rejected on the emphatic grounds that
REV. FIREBRACE.
“Not even the Archangel Gabriel could
beat Ward there.” He reckons it’s a fair
enough test tackling Stewart’s Parra-
matta.
Into the silence:
Missing for some time and found by a search
party as one of the victims of a ’plane crash in
the North, Brigadier J. W. Crawford, D. 5.0.,
who took over from Morshead at Tobruk. An
outstanding A.I.F. man, Brig. Crawford was
three times mentioned in dispatches.
At Hobart Military Hospital, at 61, Lieut.-
Col. Leslie Miltiades Mullen, C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V. for many years governor of Hobart
Gaol and Controller of Prisons. Bom at Liver-
pool (Eng.), and educated in Victoria, he served
in the Boer War and then took a leading part
in voluntary soldiering in Tasmania. He com-
manded the 9th Batt., A.1.F., in 1914-18, and
subsequently twice represented the Tas. R.S.L.
at Empire conferences. For the past year he’d
commanded the V.D.C.
In Adelaide, at 47, Dr. H. R. Pomroy, locally
born and trained, but with years of experience
in London, where he acquired the F.R.C.S.
Latterly he was an expert in orthopoedic sur-
gery at Royal Adelaide, also in military camps
with the rank of lieut.-col.
Gerald Hayward, 77, who was one of Adel-
aide’s best-known doctors in spite of a heavy
disability: when he came from England as a
young man long ago to join his brother, Dr.
W. T. Hayward, he had lost an arm in the
hunting-field. Tall and handsome, he’d been
one of Adelaide’s leading social figures for half
a century.
At Invercargill (M.L.), at 72, Frank Mussen,
sporting writer (“Sir Modred”), with 60 years’
association with newspapers of the Southland
capital. A dandy footballer in his day, he
later coached young Maorilanders in the game.
Knight Gerald Mussen, director of Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills, Melbourne, is a brother.
At Black Rock (Vic.), at 70, Joseph Francis
Hannan, former Labor stalwart of both Vic.
and Federal Parliaments. Returned for Fawk-
ner in 1913, he changed to State politics after
losing his seat in the 1917 conscription election.
He had another try for Federal Parliament in
1919, but lost. An extraordinary vacancy
occurring in the Senate, the State appointed
him to fill it.
In Perth, at 87, Richard Hamilton, a link
with old Kalgoorlie. He managed the Great
Boulder mine for many years, and after his
retirement to a Midlands farm remained presi-
dent of the Chamber of Mines. Williamstown
(Vic.) was his birthplace, and he not only had
an international reputation in the mining world
but was a man of sterling character for whom
everybody had a good word.
At Adelaide, at 70, William Laidlaw Toshach,
known as “The Singing Evangelist.” A good
Scot, and a good Australian also for many
years, he was widely known in other States.
In Melbourne, aged 78, Rev. James Worboys,
Baptist churchman for more than half a cen-
tury. He toured Australia and the U.S.A. (four
times) as an evangelist. His eldest son, a
Doctor of Philosophy, London University, is
a Baptist minister in New Jersey, U.S.A. Two
other sons are with the fighting forces.
In Melbourne, at 62, A. B. Humphrey, sales
and advertising manager for Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins. With that firm since 1895, he
was widely known for his work in the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association, of which he
was a former president. He was also chairman
of the C.Ts.’ paper, the “Australian Traveller.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zake” : It was in the train that shuttles
between our subbub and Sydney. The
woman in the next seat opened her after-
noon paper. “Ooh!” she exclaimed de-
lightedly to her friend, “that Mr.
McKell says he’s settled the bread
strike and the bakers’ll start again
tomorrow!” My mind flew back to
the time when a big fire broke out in
the bush near my home town in the
N.S.W. nor’-west. After a strenuous
five-hour fight the brigade got the con-
flagration under control. Then back to
his own township across the river tore
soot-blackened Jim Blamire and breath-
lessly gasped out the glad news. Jim had
been strictly neutral and non-interven-
tionist at that fire, but the mob turned on
the beer for him and treated him like a
hero.
* * * s.
“V. Cluse”; The Sydney bread strike
gave the last shove to the tottering edifice
of our suburb’s exclusiveness. The war,
blackouts, formations of wardens, re-
fugees, call-ups, etc., had started it, and
last week housewives, already sans cooks,
maids, laundresses and other things, found
themselves sans bread. Groups of the
bereft assembled to discuss their loss and
swap recipes for scones, pancakes and the
plebeian “puffta” just as they do in the
’Loo or the Tils. Then it was discovered
that part of the place was in the zone of
a bakery not affected by the strike, and
that bakery’s customers suddenly found
themselves being called upon by most
superior pussons. But, alas! the carters
had orders not to increase supplies even
to regulars, and the defeated battalions
withdrew, having broken the ice and com-
mitted themselves to future acquaintance-
ships for nothing.
* * Hi *
“Oxmead”: Surely some words are
harsh-sounding in themselves, apart from
any associations they convey, and others
pleasantly musical (B. 17/3/’43). “Beer ’
is an instance of the former, and the best
proof of this is that front-rank poets have
fought shy of it. “Ale,” on the other
hand, has always struck me as exceed-
ingly mellifluous. Jovial old Bishop Still
sang its praises in the sixteenth century ;
Tennyson’s “Northern Farmer” insisted
Git ma my aale, I tell tha, and if I mun
doy I mun doy.
“Cider,” albeit it represents no less homely
a beverage than the nut-brown article, is
another word with a beauty the bards
have been quick to appreciate. Keats
introduces a cider-press in his ode “To
Autumn” ; Tennyson’s Francis in “Aud-
ley Court” supplements a picnic lunch
with
A flask of cider from his father’s vats,
Prime, which I knew.
I suppose one might find instances of
the word “beer” used in serious poetry,
bet none occurs to me.
* * ale *
“Baldy”: A romantic idea hit a retired
Westralian lawyer when he sighted
a face in a picture of a group of London
showgirls. The owner of the face was
suddenly the recipient of letters from
Australia complimenting her on her
beauty and talking about loneliness and
sympathy. It soon developed into an
offer, spread over letters and cables, and
with vouchers of integrity, of a trip to
Australia. Fares, clothing, accommoda-
tion, pocket-money were guaranteed, no
quid pro quo was demanded, marriage
was slightly hinted at (though the party of
the first part was already married) and
mention was made of the distance of
Australia from blitzes and other war
worries as experienced in London. The
young woman bit, and was soon in Aus-
tralia, where the contract was carried out
for a while without a hint of impropriety.
Then, it is alleged, “due to a fit of temper
“Well, I'll want something to put me souvenirs in, won't I?"
when he Was angered by her aloofness,”
her protector burst into the girl's hotel
room and destroyed her clothes and a
railway ticket, leaving her with
Is. lOd. He apologised soon afterwards,
and offered compensation, but the
girl sued for damages. The Judge, re-
marking that it was one of the most un-
usual cases he’d ever run across, non-
suited plaintiff on breach of contract, but
told the jury to consider whether the
possibility of marriage had induced her
to come and whether damages should be
awarded for the hotel room episode. The
jury awarded £530, to be added to £2OO,
return passage money, paid into court.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Australia’s classic strike ex-
cuse of the pit-pony afflicted with hali-
tosis has a runner-up in Britain. Four
hundred hands of the Midland Scottish
Railway Co. downed tools because the
co. ceased to send out “waker-ups,” em-
ployed to get the men awake and to
work on time. Employees said that, what
with the effete alarm clocks of these
degenerate days, to arise of his own
accord was too much for anyone. The
strike ended and all were happy once
more when eight new “waker-ups”
appeared on the scene.
* * * *
“Avon”: The case of a Melbourne
pawnbroker, sentenced to three months’
gaol because his assistant asked 50s. for
a Westclox alarm clock which Prof. Cop-
land has decreed shall be sold at not
higher than 15s. 6d., reminds me that it
was one of the Westclox products, “Big
Ben,” which was concerned in putting the
kibosh on price-fixing in Maoriland dur-
ing the 1914-18 war. The prices con-
troller had fixed Benjamin’s ceiling at
12s. 6d. His principal importers, Brown
and Bureau, considered that price in-
sufficient and refused to supply retailers
unless they undertook to sell at a higher
figure. There were a prosecution, con-
viction and fine, and then the case went
to appeal. The upshot was a judg-
ment to the general effect that, while Par-
liament could pass what laws it liked,
regulations made under those laws could
be very easily found to be invalid if they
restricted or denied the common law
rights of traders. The Government, which
was finding price-fixing a much more
difficult and thankless job than it ever
expected, took the tip and let the regu-
lations slide. The public sense of humor
was tickled by all that fuss over an alarm
clock, there being much more im-
portant things to think about in a world
at war.
* * * *
“Taxee”: For centuries it has been
the practice of civilised taxing authori-
ties to levy tax after deducting ex-
empted amounts. If a man had an
income of £4OO and was allowed
£lOO rebate on a wife, and the
tax rate on £3OO was 2s. 6d. in the £, he
paid on £300—£37 10s. But now the
taxer, with a cruel smile, says; “Your in-
come is £4OO, and tax on £4OO is 3s. in the
£ (or whatever the rate is). This comes
to £6O. Now we’ll deduct your wife,
£lOO at 35., £l5 ; and your little bill is
£45.” Perhaps the fact that legislators
fix their own remuneration has something
to do with their stony indifference to the
woes of other people.
¥ * * *
“Uramao”: A thorough lot are the men
who carry out Maoriland’s Emergency
Precaution Scheme. They had a field day
in a North Island town, which was laid
out in zones wherein small fires were
started. It was the duty of the E.P.S.
chaps to find the fires and extinguish
them. Two watchers dashed up a street,
saw smoke, congratulated themselves on
locating a fire so promptly, rushed into
a backyard and extinguished a promising
blaze. An infuriated old man with bristling
whiskers came at them brandishing his
fist. “What d’you mean interferin’ with
me rubbish fire? After me spending half
an hour gettin’ it started and using some
of me valuable rationed petrol. What’s
the game?” and the irate citizen pursued
them on to the street threatening them
with the Law.
* % *
“Spoke”; It happened to be mentioned
in the first-class compartment that the
King had taken up part-time munitions
work in England. “1 suppose he wants
to keep out of the call-up,” snapped the
old lady in the corner.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to a dispatch
from London, British, American and
Chinese medical officers, with civilian
specialists, are meeting in Calcutta to
open a campaign against what is described
as the Allies’ deadliest enemy—malaria.
Malaria is practically endemic in most
low-lying parts of Asia, where its inherited
effects are seen in the swollen bellies of the
children. In the N.E.I. natives often de-
feated well-armed Dutch levies without
firing a blowpipe because long exposure
to infection had immunised the indi-
genous population to the worst variety
of the disease, while European soldiers
who had never previously been exposed
died in shoals. In some campaigns 90
p.c. of casualties were caused by malaria
and less than 10 p.c. by spears or bullets. I
remember an Englishman in Malaya who
attributed his immunity for 20 years to
his habit of using mercurial soap in his
daily bath. Possibly the mercury pre-
vented the infection from taking root.
Anyhow, he and another, also a convert
•to the mercurial treatment, were the only
whites in that district who escaped re-
curring epidemics.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I read that Churchill, con-
valescing after his illness, found relaxa-
tion in painting. The P.M., who took up
painting from pure love of an interesting
occupation, has produced landscapes of
great interest and merit. Hitler also used
to do a bit of painting. I have sometimes
wished that the war could be settled by
a painting competition between them. The
idea sounds fantastic, but it wouldn’t have
seemed so in the so-called Dark Ages,
when knights sometimes settled their
differences by verse-writing competitions,
or in the remoter parts of Malaya, where
rivals for the same damsel frequently
transferred their struggle for the lady
from the physical to the intellectual
sphere by composing impromptu pan-
toums.
* * * *
“Rusticus” explains a seeming cruelty:
Let me assure “Pawang” (B. 3/3/’43) that
restriction of visitors to children’s hospitals
is felt more by parents than their offspring. As
an R.M.0., part of whose already crowded
working day is spent in convincing mothers
that little Johnny will not die without them, or
that little Billy does not cry day and night
while in hospital, or that Sister can put Mary
to sleep almost as well as Mother (all of which
is, of course, so much waste of breath), and
whose scanty sleeping hours are passed immedi-
ately over the wards, 1 am always' staggered by
the rapidity with which even the most spoilt
children settle down in hospital. Children are
the world’s greatest realists. After an initial
yell (especially if Dad is still in the environs
signing admission forms, etc.) which proves
fruitless, 95 per cent, of kids do not fret again
—until the sorrowing parents loom up on the
horizon on visiting day. In view of evidence
of misery before their own eyes every time they
see their child, parents receive any statement
to the contrary in a state of mind varying from
polite incredulity to cold, white fury. Assault
by people in the latter frame of mind is one
of the minor risks of my job. It is proverbial
in children’s hospitals that after visiting hours
the wards are bedlam with crying children, ele-
vated temperatures and relapses. • As a pater-
familias my heart bleeds for the harried, hollow-
eyed throng of adults that I interview daily,
but I cannot help but reflect that their young
hopefuls in the wards are for the most part
thoroughly enjoying a novel experience. But
for the sake of Allah let no one say that by
this 1 advocate the institutional rearing of
children. Heaven forbid!
* * * *
“Filmo”: The “March of Time”
people, after much pleading on their
bended knees, were finally allowed to
include the words “hell” and “damn” in
one of their newsreel scenes. Film cos.
are kept in order, in such cases, by the
guiding influence of the Hays office. Its
director declared that words like “hell’
and “damn” would find it hard going in
future, and that any stronger language
would have no chance whatever. But he
added that this did not interfere with
the use of the words provided that their
true sense was implied. As the effort
under discussion was entitled “We Are
the Marines” there could have been little
doubt as to the sense in which the words
were used.
* * * *
“Niloc”: The homing-pigeon, perhaps
the oldest bearer of war news, is still
going strong, carrying messages in cir-
cumstances in which wireless cannot be
used, from reconnaissance ’planes back
to their bases. A handicap on this sphere
of usefulness is the inability of the pigeon
to fly higher than 10,000 ft., which is low
compared with the altitudes reached on
reconnaissance.
UNIONISTS BEFORE SOLDIERS.
“While our men are fighting for their lives and
for this country, the N.S.W. Government is giving
absolute preference to unionists. The soldier isn’t
in it.” — Mr. Bruxner, U.C.P. leader.
They’re grateful to our fighting men, there’s not
a bit of doubt,
The soldiers we rely upon to keep the Nippies
out;
They never spare them compliments about the
way they feel,
They’re lavish of encomiums on patriotic zeal.
But there’s a section nearer home in which
more faith they pin,
The crowd whose votes avail to put—and keep
—their party in.
They’re perfectly prepared to give the service
men their due,
But the union bosses’ orders must be first
attended to.
Some qualms they still may feel about con-
scripting men outright
For war, but none about duress to wage a fac-
tion fight.
Old Horace’s assertion, one assumes, they’d not
deny
That dulce et decorum est pro patria mori.
But battling for a class they hold —or so I
understand —
Is even more commendable than for your native
land.
They’re grateful to our service men, by land or
sea or air,
But chaps with union tickets must remain their
primal care.
They’ll whoop at Victory rallies and their whack
of war bonds buy,
’Twould be unjustifiable to fault their loyalty.
But to legislative duties when their minds and
hands they turn
You’ll note it’s not the Diggers constitute their
chief concern,
Not the men in blue or khaki who our far-flung
shores defend,
Not the men their lives who’re risking keeping
up Australia’s end,
Not those whose peril touches many a heart
with poignant throbs,
But the chaps intent on getting firmer grips on
peace-time jobs.
Preference forced by union bosses—stalwarts
with the tongue and pen—
Not a hint of pref’rence for a sturdier sort
of fighting men!
Many such when war is over, if its trials they
surmount,
May discover union tickets are the only things
that count.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A NEW WAR WEAPON.
“There was laughter in the House of Commons
when the Minister for Air was asked if Vesuvius
could be bombed into activity.”— Cable.
Something like bunging soap into a geyser
To set it going was meant presumably.
The question, clearly something of a teaser,
Won no direct reply.
It might—who knows? —be many times as easy
And practical in scientific eyes _
As harnessing Niagara or Zambesi
For peaceful enterprise.
But such Italians who had to stick it
That is, whate’er the mountain might eject
Would doubtless grumble that it “wasnt
cricket,”
Or words to that effect.
And then, again, the airmen lion-hearted
Who bombs into the crater’s mouth would
Might, when their job was finished, find theyd
started
Something they couldn’t stop;
Some blazing fury that the wisest cranium
Could find no way to curb or hold m checK,
Worse than when Pompeii and Herculaneum
Acquired it in the neck.
“Let sleeping dogs lie.” ’Tis beyond forgetting,
That homely adage, and, if Td to choose,
I should unquestionably favor letting
Dormant volcanoes snooze.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“R. Volt”: London “Electrical Times”
has been pointing out that a considerable
saving of ink, paper and time would be
made by the adoption of the word “lex”
for the five-syllable “electricity,” which
is printed millions of times a year. Much
more economy could be achieved by the
adoption by dailies of cable-ese in print-
ing war news. Cable-ese is a special lan-
guage evolved out of necessity —very dire
necessity—when cable rates from London
to Australia were three shillings a word.
A fair specimen of cable-ese I remember
from the days when I handled thousands
of words of it daily was “Delhiwarding
Georges ovationed band Godsaved.” As
the cable emanated from Bombay the
cable editor would automatically trans-
late this into “Their Majesties King
George and Queen Mary arrived here to-
day on their way to attend the Durbar
at Delhi. They received a tremendous
ovation, a band playing the National
Anthem.” At first sight the form is dis-
turbing, but not more so than the first
sight of a poem by T. S. Eliot or one of
those coves, and after one gets used to
it cable-ese has a distinctly poetic effect.
I remember I got the first news of the
sinking of the Titanic from a press ac-
count that passed through a Far Eastern
cable office. Its brevity moved me much
more than the subsequent padded version
in the morning paper.
* * *
“Tuart”: For what the claim may be
worth, I claim to have been the first
man to read Binyon’s lines “For the
Fallen” in Australia. They appeared in
the London “Times” towards the end of
1914, and a copy of the issue came by
the first English mail —there were no Ü-
boat interruptions then—to my office in
Perth. The four lines which have since
gone round the world made such an im-
pression on me that I quoted them in an
article—a poor thing, no doubt, but I
was thanked for it by a soldier’s mother.
Apropos, three of our Great Dailies
quoted them when they learned of Bin-
yon’s death. Two got two lines wrong,
and the other substituted a “shall” for
a “will.” Julian Grenfell’s lovely “Into
Battle” also appeared in the “Thunderer.”
It must have thrilled Kingsley Fairbridge,
then in the West and himself a poet and
a devoted reader of the “Times”—in it
he advertised ineffectually for an in-
eligible to take his place as head of the
Fairbridge Farm School so that he might
enlist in the British Army. He and Gren-
fell, kindred souls and good friends, had
boxed in the final of the ’Varsity middle-
weights.
* * ♦
“Bumpkin”: The unveiling of a head-
stone subscribed for by schoolchildren
over the grave of Jane Duff at Hor-
sham (Vic.) recalls an incident of 79
years ago which brought Horsham
world attention and drew a public com-
pliment from Queen Victoria. Jane Duff
was a girl of nine who, with her two
smaller brothers, wandered off into the
thick scrub near Mount Arapiles. For
eight days and nights she guarded them
and kept them covered until a search
party discovered them. The bush heroine
died in 1932 at 76.
* * * *
“M.J.D.”: The congestion in Mel-
bourne cafes (B. 3/ 3 / ’43) is due not only
to higher wages but to the fact that
many Melbourne boarding-houses, be-
cause of shortages of staff, food and fuel,
refuse to provide a hot evening meal.
This means that hundreds of people are
compelled to revert to the commando
tactics that getting an evening meal in
Melbourne entails. They don’t order
“costly dishes” —indeed people who pre-
viously obtained board at 255. to 355. a
week are not now being adequately
nourished because of the additional ex-
pense of dining out. The sooner the
Government steps in and establishes can-
teens on the lines suggested by “Strict
Veg.” the better.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I can’t stand this current
craze for using “to warn” as an intransi-
tive verb. General Smuts “warns,” Presi-
dent Roosevelt “warns that,” Vice-Presi-
dent Wallace “warns of,” “it is warned”
—ghastly, I call it. It was quite a pleasure
to read the other day that Fadden, honest
man, had “issued a warning,” and that
good old Gurtin had “warned the Aus-
tralian people” that their honor and grati-
tude, as well as their interest, were con-
cerned in the filling of the loan. Our
P.M. may lack Churchill’s gift for phrase-
making, but there are never any flies on
his English.
* * * *
“Pawang”: If lectures will win a war
this one is already won. There was never
a conflict in history in which more lec-
turing was done. Graduates from tech-
nical schools and universities are
descending in swarms on the soldiers,
the sailors and the airmen and lecturing
them on every subject, from biology to
the Marxist dialectic. Radio professors
are lecturing on history and economics,
and if and when two or more civilians can
be gathered together there is a lecturer
ready to pounce upon them to discourse
on psychology, democracy, post-war re-
construction or metaphysics. The aver-
“Take her under my wing, madam! Gad, d'you think I'm an old chook?”
age length of these lectures is round
20 minutes. I asked an analytical
chemist who had fitted himself for
his profession by years of hard study
whether he could teach anybody any-
thing about chemistry in 20 minutes. He
laughed.
* * * *
“Yair”: Two special police were
ahead of us. The burnt-up blonde be-
side us looked at their armbands, on
which were the letters S.P. “Isn’t it
disgusting?” said the blonde. “You get
fined for s.p. betting in private life, but
in the army they can even advertise their
bookies.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the casualties of this
war is the traditional pavement artist in
Melbourne, whose art never rose above
a certain level, and who never ex-
pected to sell his pictures. In his
place comes an artist who has obvi-
ously had some training, who props
his work up against a city building, and
who challenges the connoisseur by stat-
ing his prices in guineas. If his prece-
dent becomes the fashion, no doubt in
due course the critics will be invited to
inspect and Lud Mayors to open pave-
ment artists’ exhibitions.
* * * H=
“Ear Punisher”: Reported from Los
Angeles, home of wonders, that Betty
“Come on, Mr. Mayor—I won't tell your wife!”
Phillips, 17, is seeking a divorce from
her husband, Byron Phillips, 18, on the
ground that he is too fond of his pet
lion. Byron buys food for his lion and
forgets about his wife, and on one occa-
sion when he had to take his beast to
a veterinary hospital to have an operation
on its claws he paced the floor all night
worrying about his lion and let her walk
home alone. Byron is probably trying
to live up to the reputation of his name-
sake, the poet. One of his friends has
recorded that when Byron kept house in
Pisa he filled it not only with beautiful
women, but with lions, tigers, snakes,
baboons and peacocks, and you never
knew, when you sat down in a darkened
drawing-room, whether you weren’t keep-
ing company with a panther. It is not
reported that any of his women left him
on that account, however.
* * * *
“Blue P.”; It was a tale about a husky
fourth engineer of a 8.1. boat who met
another fourth engineer. They got pally,
and one agreed to carry a letter to a dis-
tant address. It turned out to be part of a
spy plot. So far, so bad, but what stag-
gered me was the conversation when they
first met. “Do you mind if I join you?
I do so dislike dining alone.” And the
other chap dignifiedly said; “Do so.” I
thought of all the fourth engineers I had
met and couldn’t fathom it until I
looked at the author’s name. Yes, ’twas
a female.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Different races, different
food values. Some Australians think
the limit will be reached when they
have to do without beer. Tea is the
limit with others, and Sydney house-
wives have learned in bitterness that
shortage of bread, consequence of a
bakers’ strike, can be a calamity. In
Italy the worst news would be that
coffee was off the menu. The normal
diet of a Chinese coolie would be re-
garded as next door to starvation in
Australia, but it looks as if things are
getting pretty bad in Chungking when
pork is forbidden for four days out of
seven. Charles Lamb had good warrant
for his essay—a Chinaman would burn
a house down to roast a pig if there were
no other means available. The staple
industry of Hindu Bali before the Jap
invasion was the breeding of pigs for ex-
port to the Chinese population of Java,
where pigs could not be raised because
of the Moslem prejudice against them.
The pigs were packed in wicker jackets
and piled ten deep on top of one another,
in order to alleviate the sufferings of the
lower strata the native crews of the
steamers that transported them some-
times gave the louder squealers opium
injections.
» * « m
“Spasebo”: One of the illusions the
fighting in Russia has shattered is that
something extraordinarily new and
unique was going on in that country in
the realm of architecture, as well as in
economics. When the newspapers started
printing photographs of Russian cities
which had been bombed and blasted by
the Germans, they looked so similar to
bits of Melbourne and Sydney, and even
Perth and Adelaide, built any time during
the last two decades that perfectly respect-
able journals were suspected of having
faked the Russian titles. Yet for years
Australian Communists had been telling
us that Russia had been producing some-
thing so revolutionary in architecture that
the capitalist countries had become com-
pletely outmoded.
« * * *
“Strict Veg.”: I know a Melbourne
man, an immigrant from Europe, who
firmly believes that water causes indiges-
tion. On hot days he and his whole
family have been known to wander
round the house with their tongues hang-
ing out while the youngest hopeful ran
to the nearest store or pub for some
beverage which wasn’t unadulterated'
H 2 O. He came from a part of the Con-
tinent in which the water supply was
bad and where to drink water could be
dangerous. He had forgotten the origin
of his belief, but the prejudice persisted,
and no amount of argument to prove the
purity of Yan Yean water could shake
his belief that if he drank a glass from
the kitchen tap he would get an acute
attack of stomach trouble.
* * * SJC
“F.S.”; Percy Everett, the Victorian
State architect, has produced a plan
for a great divic centre. Carrying
out of this would involve the shift-
ing of the Town Hall from its
present crowded site to the eminence
in front of the old Exhibition build-
ing. From its faqade three great
commemorative arterial avenues will
spread like rays through Little Lon.
and Little Bourke down to Russell-street,
Swanston-street and Flinders-street, and
the central ray will cross the Yarra on
a handsome bridge to join up with the.
southern suburbs. Waves of crescent
streets will wash into the slums fronting
the Exhibition, and there will have to be
wholesale demolition and a general dis-
integration of Melbourne’s famous chess-
board pattern. From the practical and
economic aspect it looks like a good
plan, poor though its chances may be of
fulfilment.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Going under the hammer on
April 16, Ercildoune, in the Western Dis-
trict of Victoria, which was the home
of Alan Currie. The old house, built of
granite quarried on the estate, dates from
1847, When the Learmonth family settled
in the district. The next owner was
Samuel Wilson, the Currie tenure dating
from 1920. Ercildoune has always been
considered one of the few country homes
in the State to which royalty could be
fittingly invited.
* * *
“Hamer’s” tale of a woeful Odyssey:
My friend Mugkins commenced his Saturday
afternoon excursion in search of beer at the
north end of Sydney’s Bridge, reaching each
of the hops-emporiums there just in time to
hear a potman proclaim that the mug he was
serving would be the last till Tuesday—the
beer was off. Mugkins boarded a tram with
others of a hopeful crowd reciting the slogan
“There’ll still be some up at Crow’s Nest.”
There was none at “the Nest”; and Mugkins
didn’t leave the tram —a companion had clutched
his arm and told him there was sure to be hop-
juice still at Chatswood. There was, but it was
being shared amongst packed bars of cus-
tomers and was not sufficient to provide a
quota for late arrivals. Disasters create friend-
ships; Mugkins’s newly-made friend introduced
him to another —N.E.S., with a car. In this
three thirsty souls scooted across country to a
western suburbs pub which the N.E.S. man
reckoned was so far out of the hurly-burly as
to be unaffected by the beer rush of the city.
The last customers were being ejected from the
last door to be closed. N.E.S. gave up after
a rush to another village, where they certainly
managed to get inside but as quickly went out
again, for there, too, the beer had just dried
up. The other two caught a train, resolved to see
what Strathfield could do. “If you had been
two minutes earlier” the last barmaid said.
They got so near to beer at Burwood (after
dashes to each of the drinkeries) for the man
next to Mugkins at the counter to be served.
“And that’s the last—we couldn’t squeeze out
another wineglassful,” said the server. At this
point Mugkins’s casual pal threw m the towel;
and M. himself took his way homeward. Pass-
ing along George-street, city, he noticed the
doors of a pub he patronises during weekdays
wide open. “A schooner, Mr. Mugkins?”
echoed the servitor, who knew him. “Come in
on Monday and we’ll give it to you. The last
has gone.” Mugkins will probably never be the
same man again.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: After 40 years of booz-
ing and baching, big Jack astounded the
township by marrying a frosty spinster
and joining the Band of Hope. Just
three months’ sober bliss reigned, then
Jack returned to his first love. The
tongue-bashing he received after the
breaking of the drought was an epic,
considering that the lady was confined
to respectable language. But the next
Saturday he was drunk again—and the
next and next. After the tenth week of
constant nagging had proven abortive his
wife decided to try other tactics. “Jack,”
she cooed, “why don’t you drink milk-
shakes? I’ve read that doctors agree it
is the best” “The best!” exclaimed
Jack. “Didn’t you tell me that I’ve made
your life a misery; I’m nothin’ but an
animal, and I’ve got no self-respect?
Then who am Ito have the best? No ;
I’ll have to be content with beer —it’s all
I’m worth.”
* * t *
“Betcha”: When it conies to remem-
bering cattle, my shirt goes on old Jim.
That bloke knows cattle as a rabbit
knows the holes in a fence, and if he
notes a bunch today he’ll recognise the
beasts six months hence, wherever he
finds them. He can describe every stray
he has happened on for months past,
giving color, markings, brand and ear-
mark, condition and approximate age.
He was droving a mixed mob of about
a hundred head down country for several
different owners when I met up with
him, and as it was getting dark I gave
him a hand to count them. Both of us
were peering shortsightedly before we
were through. “Two short” was his ver-
dict. “Now, I wonder what beasts they’ll
be! Ain’t got a box o’ matches', have
y’?” I tossed over the lucifers, and the
old drover rode through the herd striking
a light here and there and bending low
to get a close-up. “Yair, a baldy steer
missin’,” he announced as he rejoined me,
“an’ a checkle-faced cow.” Next morn-
ing we rode back, and in a scrubby gully
about four miles away we came on the
strays —a baldy steer and a checkle-
faced cow.
■* * * *
“Esk D.”: Old Dan stamped into the
sanctum of the editor of the Bunglebobba
“Gazette.” “I want y’ to put an ad. in
for me this week, Joe,” he said. “The
missus lost that tortoiseshell half-
Persian of hers. Better make it a fiver
reward. That oughter please the ol’ girl.”
“Hey!” yelled the editor. “Is that din-
kum, Dan? Five quid’s a lot of money
for a cat. You could get a couple of
dozen for that.” “Oh, that’s all right,”
replied Dan cheerfully as he started off.
“Y’ see, I drowned the flamin’ thing a
couple of days ago.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Please assure “D. 0.” (B.
3 1 3 1 ’43) that I considered it unnecessary to
mention such an elemental fact as that the
O.C. had provided a copper handle at-
tached to a graduated dial for the patient
to grip before completing the circuit with
one or other of his gadgets. Can also
testify that the lubras of those days wore
no ornaments and mighty few garments,
their occasional “two-bobs” precluding,
such extravagances. The principal deco-
ration favored was a short pipe, broken
off at the stem, so that the maximum en-
joyment and solace could be gleaned from
the “terbaccer.” Noses spread over the
glowing bowls, they smoked, sniffed,
tasted and inhaled with an epicurean
delight and relish impossible to us. I
am afraid the degrees of vitality men-
tioned by “D. 0.” were either unknown
or ignored. Things were rather in the
raw and experimental stage at the date
of the electrical disturbance.
' * * * *
“Pine Creek”: As dusk approached in
the dark avenue of a mountain scrub a
small animal lumbered across the dark-
ling road with the gait of a bear. He
had just gained the tangle of vine and
brush as 1 recovered from my incredu-
lous stare and swooped on him. As the
spines on his overcoat penetrated my
clutching palms I realised his identity.
Smashing a sapling, I rooted and dug,
eventually dragging out the largest
echidna I ever saw. It stood nearly a
foot high when rolling along, and weighed
151 b. Carrying him home by a hind leg,
I met a yard of tiger snake on the prowl,
and, dropping Porky, who promptly
rolled up, pushed him towards Blake to
see if he would bash his nose on the
prickly armor. But that serpent was no
mug, and as I poked and pushed the
spiky one nearer the brute sprang at me
over the offering, only to be woodened
with the sapling as I leapt aside. I put
Porky in a tub, intending to eat him on
Sunday, but the little Samson had other
ideas ; he escaped that night by levering
up a board cover weighted with a hefty
billet.
* * * ♦
“N.”: Fail to understand what’s under
“90-Mile’s” shirt (B. 24/2/’43). If
“So you're out of the army?”
"Yes; how did you know?”
there’s anything extraordinary in shoot-
ing snakes from a dinghy—and the missus
was one ahead of me last year up till the
time the stork prevented her continuing
the good work —how does he imagine
people hit kangaroos at 300 yards?
Everybody, even “90-Mile,” knows that
they do when they can’t get closer. Any-
way, here in S.A. shooting fish is illegal,
for the sufficient reason that it’s too easy
and the victims are often lost when a
mug shoots ’em over deep water.
* * *
“Propalong Cassidy”: When I loped in
off the prairie thisyere mornin’ an’ the
wife handed me The Bully I was
sure tickled pink t’ see that me oT saddle-
pard “Old-timer” (B. 3/ 3 / ”43) had got
himself wrapped round the real gen-u-
-wine nomenclature an’ was referrin’ to
pitchin’ bronchos instead of talkin’ in
that there sissified Australian way about
rootin’ horses. I was real edified t’ get
the lowdown on thisyere broncho-bustin’
layout but I was plumb mystified about
some o’ the cyards in the deck. Like,
fer instance, that “bored individual on
the pitchin’ colt.” Well, sirree, when me
an’ Johnny an’ Red’ve gotter fork a mean
cayuse we may feel blamed uncomfort-
able in spots, but bored —no, sir ! Y’see,
t’ keep on settin’ pretty y’ gotter watch
that there bronch’s head. Yes, sir. An’
they don’t noways pervide periscopes t’
do it with. That there li’T optical exer-
cise alone is sure enough guaranteed t’
keep me from the abysmal depths o’
boredom. 1 don’t crave fer no excite-
ment. ’Specially when I’m forkin’ young
stuff. Why, sir, be-lieve me, the last
remuda of colts I was sorta implicated
with —my buddy George was the
wrangler —averaged risin’ seven, an’ their
brands was all fresh an’ small. They was
some high times in the ol’ corral, but
not one o’ them cay uses pitched or sun-
fished. Maybe we wasn’t bored enough
or somethin’ when we han’led ’em. That s
what it’d be, I reckon.
* * * *
“Wingella”: That Australian short
story of which “8.P.” complains (B.
24/2/’43) would be technically quite cor-
rect if its setting was North Australia,
for there many native trees do lose their
leaves in the autumn, and one can see a
“riot of red gum-leaves along the dusty
bush track.” Australia is a bigger
country than some southerners realise.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was a
source of concern to the cocky’s daughter,
who seemed to have ideas that he might
be persuaded to become a permanent resi-
dent with family responsibilities. Mat,
never a conceited bloke, accepted her
modest attentions without a suspicion,
and everything was all right until he’d been
there about a month. We met in the town
and duly celebrated. Somewhere about
sundown that Saturday, pretty merry, we
were making our way along the street
when we ran into the young woman. She
didn’t say anything, but I could see what
had happened to her by the sad way she
looked at Matthew when he wasn’t look-
ing. After she’d gone I said “There y’
go, breakin’ another innocent heart.” It
made him thoughtful Two days later
he turned up at my job. “Yairs,” he said,
“I snatched it. Y’ see, that girl was pretty
serious. You know what she said to me?
She said she wanted me t’ give up drinkin’
f’r her sake, and when any female starts
thinkin’ I’m drinkin’ f’r her sake it’s time
I got.” 1 left it at that.
* * * *
“Casey”; It was only a small mining-
camp, but big enough to support fre-
quent ped. meetings, at which big money
changed hands. One bookie rang in an
even-timer from Kalgoorlie, and set
about laying every other competitor at
fancy prices. Among these supposedly
no-chancers was Nurra, a spindle-legged
abo. brought in and backed by the
manager of a near-by station. After
Nurra had cleaned up his heat in easy
style, the fielder got the breeze up and
presented the nig. with a fiver to put the
brakes on. Nurra promptly carried story
and fiver to his sponsor, who solved the
problem by putting the fiver on his boy.
Nurra won by yards. When approached
after the race by an enraged bookie he
said “I couldn’t stop meself, boss —I just
bolted!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Every time I hear any-
one skiting about a pull put up by a team
it reminds me of old Peter Westgard and
another kind of pull—between a river
steamer and a bridge. The bridge was
over the Little Murray, near Swan Hill
(Vic.), an affair of pine logs and slabs
shoved together by bush carpenters back
about the ’sixties. Those bushmen knew
their job. They bedded immense gum
logs in the stream, and they strutted and
stayed 18in. pine logs into ’em. When
it was decided to pull it down they gave
the job to Westgard and his steamer The
Maggie. He tied a rope to the bridge,
dropped downstream till it tightened, then
gave The Maggie the works. The boat
stood on her tail and stopped dead. Eye-
ing the bridge malevolently, Peter hooked
on again, let a bit of slack lie and clapped
on all steam. The old boat’s paddles
threshed, gallons of the Murray flew
about, there was a rattle and clang, but
the bridge stayed put, and once more
the boat stood on her tail. Old Peter
went up to that bridge and examined
it carefully, no longer swearing and no
longer believing it ramshackle. Then he
tied his tow-rope to a loose pile and it
gave. Thus having found a weakness it
was easy to pull the bridge down bit by
bit. The Maggie snorting and threshing
triumphantly and her skipper tooting the
whistle. Old Peter is dead these many
years, and The Maggie’s bones rust some-
where in the mud, but her battle with the
bridge is still recalled when ancient river
i earners meet.
♦ * * *
Who told “M.U.R.” (B.
24/2/’43) that stringy bark and messmate
are the same vegetable? The stringy bark
is usually found on the lower ranges,
associated with box and ironbark, and
rarely exceeds 60ft. or 70ft. in height.
Its outer bark is not nearly so fine and
pliable as that of the messmate, its
timber is much darker in color and some-
what heavier, its leaves are generally
shorter and broader. The messmate is
confined to the higher levels and table-
lands, associated with the mountain pep-
permint, blue gum, white gum and occa-
sionally mountain ash. Mature speci-
mens of the messmate and these trees
seldom measure less than 150 ft.
* * * *
“Lanki”: When living in the suburban
districts of Manchester (Eng.) some 70
years ago, I and other children often
played a game in which one of the party
stood on a small mound or other marked
position whilst the others circled around
singing in unison “Cocky, cocky farmer,
you can’t catch me.” This makes me
think that the term “cocky” was prob-
ably an importation by early settlers.
* * * *
“Tappy Ted”: We landed a 781 b. cod
from the river and, having cut off the
head as a souvenir, whacked the fish up
among the mob and stowed the head in
cold storage. About a week later old
“Frying-pan” Ferguson pitched camp in
our bend, and just on dusk we saw him
sitting on the bank, half-asleep, holding
a line. A short conspiring conference was
followed by Little Curl dodging silently
into the water about a chain upstream
from the dim figure of “Frying-pan.” In
about two minutes “Frying-pan” came
flying up the bank. “Get a gun,” he
yelled; “there’s a flamin’ great dogfish
down there.” “A dogfish?” “Yup, a
flamin’ dogfish. Got a head on it as big
as a man’s an’ stuck itself out o’ the
river an’ flamin ’ well barked at me.
Barked, I tell y’!” Solemnly we got a
gun and followed “Frying-pan” to the
river, but by that time Curl and the 781 b.
cod’s head were out of sight. “Frying-
pan’s” yarn of the barking dogfish be-
came a legend on that part of the river.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Tell “Padflogger” (B.
17/2/’43) that probably the pandanus
leaves of which the bag was woven were
responsible for the abo. upset. Once
my kiddies came home from a bush
walk with some pink pandanus apples.
Later, investigating an unusual silence
in the room in which they were play-
ing, I found all five sound asleep on
the floor. Breathing, pulse and tempera-
ture were natural, but no shaking could
rouse the sleepers. 1 was miles from
my nearest neighbor and 200 miles from
a doctor, and had no one I could send
for help. I put the sleepers in their bunks,
made up a big fire and spent a sleepless
night watching over them. In the morn-
ing all awoke, perfectly normal, and with
no idea of anything out of the ordinary
having happened.
* ♦ ♦ *
“B. 4”: Interesting to note the tech-
nique employed by snake-killing dogs.
Uttering a peculiar whine, one tyke 1
owned, attacking from the rear, seized the
snake’s rudder as it commenced to crawl
away, and commenced a violent shaking
of the reptile. The grip would be gradu-
ally worked up until the neck was
reached and chewed in two. This tyke
then consumed a portion of the victim,
and, though bitten several times, pros-
pered on the game till a brown gentle-
man kissed her on the lip. She had
scored seventy before being skittled.
Another nondescript would prance
round and, with a lightning rush, grab
Joe’s switch and heave him into the air.
following up smartly. Several quicL
tackles and falls would be registered
before the dazed reptile realised it had
lost its head completely.
THE BAMBOO FLUTE.
He made a flute of green bamboo,
And strange it was to hear
Through vine and palm-tree, eerily,
Those liquid notes draw near.
I hear them still; I see the dank,
Drear jungle where he lies.
1 know the message they would sing
Each time I close my eyes.
1 close my eyes. The whispering leaves are still.
The angry streamlet and the throaty bird
Are silent. From the green-enfolded hill
the mellow notes come back.
I seldom heard
A flute in days gone past but knowledge fed
Ihe strong desire to hear it at its best:
Not in a hall, by bounds dispirited,
But in the open, sounding sweet and clear.
Under the sun, I knew that I should hear
Its music call with all its ancient zest.
Enduring dream and fairy-gift requital,
To give so much, yet take so much away.
1 close my eyes . . . and hear the falling rain,
The rustling leaves, and those clear notes again.
A.I.F.
Eric IRVIN.


“If you want me in an emergency , ring Government House.”
“Arev”: Mrs. Jupp wanted the last
fowl killed. Bill said he would do it, but
the days went by, and still the hen
strutted around the poultry yard. Then
the hen got out and scratched up all Mrs.
Jupp’s early peas, and Bill declared he
would go over that very evening and
sharpen the tomahawk on Joe Todd’s
grindstone. But just before tea he re-
membered that he’d promised to attend
a meeting in the township. “Never mind,
Mum,” he said, “I’ll kill it tomorrow for
Sunday’s dinner.” “All right,” said Mrs.
Jupp. “I won’t order any meat from the
butcher.” Next morning Bill went over
to Todd’s, put in half an hour on the
grindstone and another couple of hours
yarning to Joe. As he came through his
own gate he saw Mrs. Jupp coming up
from the fowlyard holding a shotgun.
“Cripes, Mum,” he said, “you are im-
patient. I told you I’d kill it today. Y’
haven’t been shootin’ it, have y’? The
damn’ thing’ll be full o’ pellets!” “No,
Bill, I haven’t been shooting the fowl,”
said Mrs. Jupp. “I had a crack at the
fox that just got away with it, and I
missed him!”
* >i: * *
“The 0.D.”: 1 believe a horse won't
buck while its tail is stretched straight
behind (B. 17/2/’43), and I’ve always
believed myself safe from flying heels
when working round the rump so long
as I had the noddy’s tail pushed up and
to one side.
* * =*= *
“Boxer”; Was travelling with sheep
between Cobar and Shuttleton (N.S.W.)
and noticed some worms trying to crawl
around on the dusty ground, in spite
of the fact that it was HOdeg. in the
shade. That night saw the breaking of
the drought with over three inches of
rain. If they’d had any I’d be inclined
to believe that the worms felt the change
coming in their bones.
* * * *
“Bo”; “I s’pose y’ might say it’s a
gift,” said old Ted, “like bein’ able to
handle a jib or pick a good bullick at a
glance. Anyway, the fine workin’ of
timber come as easy to me as it did to
me old rpan, an’ his old man, just as it
has to me son Alby. Ar, he’s a wizard,
that feller. Made his bedroom an’ dinin’-
room furnicher out o’ the timber on his
block down on the Monaro. An’, would
y’ believe it, he never had a lesson in
cabinet-makin’ an’ ain’t even got a plane!”
“Yes, I’ve heard of adzemen who could
true up a bit of pine so that you’d
scarcely know it hadn’t been done with
a plane,” I remarked. “Alby ain’t got a
adze on his place,” went on Ted. “Well,”
I came back, “I suppose a man who is
clever with a fine handsaw and a
scraper” “He ain’t even got a
saw, to my knowledge,” went on
Ted evenly. “Only tool I ever see
him use when he was makin’ his
furnicher was a Kelly.” “Now look
here,” I protested. “Do you mean to
say he made a bedroom and a dining-
room suite using just an axe ?” “That’s
right,” agreed the old man. “An’ what
a judge o’ timber to use he is! Why, I
was down at his place on’y a few munce
back, an’, do y’ know, the bed he made
when he got married is as good as when
he first put it together. Why, the bark
ain’t even come off the bedposts yet!”
* * * *
“G.M.A.D.”: The mail contractor at
our little W.A. township had been cele-
brating. Disdaining advice to get in some
sleep first, he left late at night and drove
steadily until the grey dawn showed him
that, taking the wrong turning out of
town, he had been driving round and
round the racecourse all night.
* * * *
“R.8.R.”: I met him where Tasmania’s
wind-swept north-west merges into the
sodden west. He was prospector, drover
and woodcutter, and his home the tradi-
tional bark hut, wherein I was an honored
guest for one night. He confessed to a
weakness for a “bit o’ moosic,” and
showed me proudly an outsize in gramo-
phones which, having no dray, he had
manhandled the last three miles of its
journey. Apparently the question of ac-
cessories had him puzzled for some time,
but at length, enlightened by a friend, he
bought a box of steel needles and ordered
“Land of Hope and Glory.” Politely I
expressed a burning desire to hear this
masterpiece, the only one he possessed.
“I’m a bit set in me ways,” said the old
chap apologetically. “I ’as three eggs and
a couple o’ strips o’ bacon for me break-
fast. For the last five years I’ve boiled
me eggs by ’er.” So I restrained my im-
patience until the following morn, when
Essie Ackland proclaimed for the
eighteen-hundredth time the pious hope
that God would make us mightier yet.
The effect is impossible to describe. The
record was naturally worn out, and I
should think the needle—the last of its
litter —had accompanied Essie on most of
her excursions. “Beaut, bit o’ singin’,”
said my host as he gathered up the eggs.
“What’s on the other side?” 1 asked. “I
dunno,” he replied. “Never tried ’er.”
* * * *
“T.P.M.”: Of all the men who played
a part in pioneering the outback the tank-
sinker seems to have gained the greatest
measure of immortality. Every tank
perpetuates the name of the man who
first made the excavation, though more
than half a century may have passed.
* ♦ * *
“Adzok”; A Congregational minister,
preaching in one of the Sydney suburbs,
said of Hitler that “he exhibits cruelty
similar to that seen in a cat that plays
with its terrified victim.” It raised my
hackles. Cats play with mice, true, but
without hatred or malice. And I have
known dogs, and horses, too, who, if
they hadn’t a sense of justice and com-
passion, behaved very much as if they
had. The conception of nature “red in
tooth and claw” is only one small aspect
of the animal kingdom, neglecting its
vast amount of peaceful industry as prac-
tised by birds, insects, beavers and other
good creatures, and their not infrequent
kindnesses one to another.
“Zake”: When the flood rains caused
the river to rise over 20 feet and burst
its banks, the Thompsons’ farm on the
river flats was quickly submerged, and
as the water continued to rise Mum and
the girls took to the high ground along
the ridge up from the western paddock.
Dad Thompson had been last seen going
after some cows that had been swept
through a broken fence. Dave and the
hand had performed prodigious feats of
rescue and salvage in an old boat. They
had just taken a couple of Jersey calves
to safety and were cruising among the
moving logs and debris on the lookout
for some missing pigs when the hand,
who was at the oars, gave a shout and
started pulling furiously for a distant tree,
on a branch of which, awash, a figure,
with arms wildly waving a greeting, clung
precariously. Suddenly Dave, who was
standing up gazing intently at something
moving in the distant yellow waters,
pointed. “There he is—get to him,
quick. No, not the direction you’re
rowin’, Aleck —over here ; it’s Tommy,
the prize Berkshire boar. We’ve got
to get him.” “But there’s Dad over
there,” argued the hand, “and—-be cripes,
he’s just fallen in!” “Now, look,” said
Dave calmly, “the old man can swim—
do you think there’s any danger of him
cuttin’ his throat while he’s swimmin’?”
“No, I don’t suppose so,” said the hand.
“Well, there is with Tommy. Come on ;
we’ll grab him first and then pick the
old man up on the way back!”
* # * *
“Eureka”: Andy was friendly with a
tobacconist and managed to get a good
supply when the other blokes on the farm
were short. Anticipating that they would
“bite” him when their smokes ran out
and he was still able to raise a puff, Andy
said “You blokes want to make your
tobacco spin out like I do. As soon as
I get me supply I mix with it some
chopped-up stringybark leaves, horsehair
and rabbits’ fur.” Andy smoked his pure
tobacco in peace.
* * w *
“Nor’-west”; Let me introduce the
earth’s biggest spider. One has to go to
the semi-desert of the W.A. central
plateau to find her: grey in color, four
inches from toe to toe, abdomen the size
of the ball of a man’s thumb, with
thorax to match. The web, thrown
eight and even twelve feet from tree to
tree, is strong enough to pull a hat off.
The suspension cables are coarse enough
to be wound on a stick and unwound
again; I have seen an ingenious bushie,
stuck for a bit of sewing thread,
gather a few and get on with the
patching and the buttons. As strong as
silk, such cables, three and four together,
spin readily between a moist palm and
a human thigh, as abo. women have spun
thread and string for unknown ages. But
for all its size this giant arachnid is timid
enough; at the breaking of its web it
takes refuge in the nearest tree, the ex-
pected savage bite never materialising.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: I’ve had many drinks
from fountains in the deserts of upper
and central W.A., and a bit across the
Territory. Always after one had reluc-
tantly swallowed a few nauseous mouth-
fuls the cobber, or perhaps a chance visi-
tor, would give the encouragement that
“there’s better water a bit further on.”
But when that drink was reached it
would be much the same, though it
might turn the tea a different color.
For no one in his right mind ever drank
the stuff straight. Making it into tea
was the salvation, though it was always
blackish. Had one mate who argued that
the blacker the tea the healthier it was.
Reckoned that it indicated the presence
of sulphate of iron, which, combining
with the tannin of the tea, formed tan-
nate of iron, one of the constituents of
writing ink ; “and a drop of ink won’t
hurt your insides.” This was hearten-
ing until another derelict scientist demon-
strated that a touch of cyanide also
turned the pekoe inky. Yet another, a
bush naturalist, contended that an in-
fusion of dead dingo would produce the
same result.
♦ * * *
“Wang”: I worked fer a cocky once
up at Yellowbox,” related Dan, “and
they held the district picnic in one of me
boss’s paddicks. Among other sportin’
events they had a tug-of-war, married
men an’ bachelors, in a long-grassed,
cleared place among the trees. The anchor-
man of the married men’s team wus a great
fat chap, an’ he slipped the loop of the
rope down around him. At the startin’
signal the married blokes give a sudden
heave, an’ yanked the others a coupla
feet. They hung on grimlike to their
two-foot gain, an’ their anchorman lay
flat on his back, pullin’ the most agon-
ised faces I’ve ever seen. Not one inch
could the bachelors shift them, but not
another inch did the other crowd gain.
That anchorman looked t’ be all out
when the pull wus over, an’ seemed t’
have trouble in gettin’ the loop of the
rope off him. At last he rose an’ stag-
gered off, rubbin’ himself vigorous. A
few rninutes later, quite be accident, 1
happened t’ stroll across the spot where
he’d been squattin’ an’ nearly broke me
flamin’ toe on a tree root hidden there
in the grass. He had slipped the loop
of the rope over it, an’ squatted on top
of it all through the pull.”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: As to blowfish. Along
the south-west W.A. coast we have two
kinds, a small fish that is a perfect pest
to anglers, and a larger variety, very
sluggish and with a spotted skin, which
carries a double set of barred teeth cap-
able of nipping a light fishhook in two.
Knew one economical angler who, hav-
ing made a good catch of blowies, took
them home and tossed them into the
kero.-tin that his thrifty wife kept almost
constantly on the boil cooking fowl feed.
Next day there were a lot of dead fowls
lying around. But as his catch included
both kinds of blowies we are still at a
loss as to whether it was the large or the
small variety that devastated the chooks.
And as his wife declines to sacrifice any
more of her Leghorns on the altar of
knowledge our only hope now is that the
C.S.I.R. will oblige.
* * * ♦
“Pick”; By the estimate of bush toilers
the red-brown quarter-inch meat-ant
ranks as upper-grader among bush nui-
sances because of his habit of building a
home mound on any cleared space, camp
site or household plot, which is ruined by
his swarming presence. Really his worst
work is his occupation of bush roads,
whereon in wet weather wagons and
jinkers become bogged in the mounds
that spread across the track.
% * * *
“Niloc”: Dad, always a good listener,
had been enlightened regarding a really
good method of cleansing the works of
a car, and decided to try it on his own
death-trap. The art consisted of drain-
ing the oil (which in Dad’s case had done
service in the old “TVs” innards for five
years), flushing the works with warm
kerosene and filling up with oil again.
So the old boy brushed aside the
cobwebs underneath the chassis, let the
tacky fluid out, and prepared for the next
operation. Worming his way under still
further, he ordered young Toe to fill her
up with kero. This done, Dad, with his
free hand and for no apparent reason,
tried the oil-tap. A few moments later, a
passing sulky bolted at the sight (and
sound) of a weird creature with inky
visage emerging from beneath the car.
The old bloke was last seen pouring back
the original mess.
“I think I have located that stoppage , sir.”
THE DAM.
Birds gather round the drying dam, and pass
Panting, with parched beaks thirstily agape;
Yet on all sides the vines and the swelling grape,
Flaunting their live green to the withered grass.
Stretch to the hard horizon’s blue. With fear
In their shadowy voices, the little waxbills come,
Pause, whisper: leave the shadow of the gum
And hop through the drying mud. No longer
clear,
The dwindling pool, like a surrounded force,
Holds off the advancing mud, establishing
A line of emerald spears, a dauntless ring
Of green. As though he would defy the course
Of summer, and the dying pool defend,
A blue crane stands on slender legs and feet,
Poised like a slim grey challenge to the heat,
The drought, and the inevitable end.
s.a.
NANCY CATO.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
DAVIS
1
r
t
40z., Boz., 16cz., 1-gallon sizes
Hardware and general stor
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. urnpFF
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. ■
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Food Position.
“8.C.”: Shorn of its political aspects,
what Earle Page had to say in Canberra
about the food position ought to be
studied by every man on the land. He
pointed out that piecemeal efforts to solve
the problem only create further prob-
lems ; the real difficulty is the absence
of an organisation to ensure civilian food
at reasonable prices and in reasonably
continuous supply. Other points he made
are worth noting:
England has 3+ million men under arms. In
the past three years she has made the greatest
production of munitions and ships the world
has ever seen, and for part of that time carried
on the war alone. Yet England has increased
her agricultural production by 50 per cent,
and saved her people from worrying about food.
In Britain the consumption of milk has
steadily increased to five pints a head a week,
mainly sold at 2d. a pint. There is a free-
milk scheme for expectant mothers and schools.
In the third year of the war 300,000,000 more
gallons of whole milk were consumed than in
the last pre-war year. In Australia, though
butter export has declined, milk consumption
remains at roughly 3£ pints a head a week,
and the price has increased in some places to
4|d. a pint.
"Britain’s potato acreage has increased from
700.000 to 1,000,000 and by using fertiliser she
has doubled the total crop. Her vegetable
acreage has increased from 2,500,000 to
4,000,000. Double the quantity of vegetables
is available at the old prices. Australian
vegetable production this year is falling
roughly 40 per cent. Potatoes might be slightly
increased. Vegetable prices have fluctuated very
widely.
Britain carefully divided her man-power
among fighting, munitions and food production.
There are 25,000 Land Army women, and
10.000 troops a day are made available for
farming operations. Her farm-tractor force
has increased from 45,000 to 100,000, and an
“incredible quantity” of labor-saving farm
machinery, especially from Australia, has been
imported. The British Food Ministry has estab-
lished an equal priority for food as for muni-
tions, and this applies to man-power and farm
machinery. In Australia man-power was taken
from the land last year without any definite
plan. A great many country men volunteered
for service or took on munitions. Machines
were taken from the land for military use, and
fuel and oil for farm use was cut down. Farm
equipment has a comparatively low priority,
largely because “the control of priorities has
been under very many hands, which has driven
makers and installers of farm labor-saving
machinery to despair.”
The cost of living has not moved in Britain
in the last 18 months. In Australia it has
increased 15 per cent.
Britain has a single Ministry of Food, with
as full power over man-power, equipment,
transport and policy as have service Ministers.
This Ministry works out the food policy for
fighting services and civilians alike, then estab-
lishes its priorities. In Australia the Ministry
for Supply functions only for service needs.
Some examples of divided control in
Australia;
Last spring hundreds of N.S.W. and Queens-
land growers were refused potato seed. The Aus-
tralian Food Council ordered 1000 milking
machines each for Victoria, N.S.W. and Queens-
land. The makers couldn’t get priorities for
the parts, W. 0.1. wouldn’t release men to install
and service the machines, Munitions wouldn’t
supply the motors. In the end the Supply
Minister managed to co-ordinate them all, but
the machines won’t be ready for another four
months.
An irrigation-area grower got a large con-
tract for vegetables. He needed to extend his
irrigation system to fulfil it. Munitions wouldn’t
allow it. Supply had to step in and order it.
Potatoes grown under contract at Grafton had
to rot because there was no transport for them.
Thousands of bags of vegetables were dumped
on Christmas Eve because there was nobody to
order their drying, cold-storage or canning. At
least one in every five dairy farms has closed
up in the last 18 months.
Queensland Fodder,
“Mackay”: Where there’s a fair winter
rainfall on coastal areas, wheat, oats,
barley or rye can be planted up to the
end of May. If the rain is late sowings
can be made up to the end of July,
though this means a short grazing period.
Combination with a legume —field peas
or vetches —increases the value and
variety of the fodder.
If a drill isn’t available, turn the legume
under and then broadcast the cereal and
harrow it in. Best wheats are Florence,
Warren and Warchief; oats, Sunrise, Belah
and Algerian ; barley, Skinless. Thirty
pounds of Florence and 201 b. of Dun-
field peas an acre make a good early-
maturing crop. So do 301 b. of Algerian
oats and 201 b. of vetches, though these
take longer to mature.
For early oat crops sow Belah or Sun-
rise with field peas. Rates of seeding
for individual crops average: Wheat,
601 b.; barley, oats or rye, 501 b.; field
peas, 401 b.; vetches, 301 b. Cut and feed
direct to stock; grazing means waste
through tramping.
Rape makes succulent feed for sheep
and pigs in winter. Keep dairy cattle
off it, as it taints milk and may cause
“By gum, she'll move quick if thee lights fire under 'er!“
bloat. Sow any time from early May.
Broadleaf dwarf Essex is the best type,
and 41b. to 51b. of seed per acre is
enough. Mangels, sugar beet, swede tur-
nips and kohlrabi can be planted on
well-prepared land. Space the rows
apart. Later, thin out the plants to 12in.
intervals. Seeding rate per acre; Mangels
and sugar beet 51b. to 71b., swede tur-
nips 21b. to 31b. and kohlrabi 21b.
Cowpeas.
“Gip”: Cowpeas are a profitable side-
line with tobacco. They grow well in
the Mareeba (Q.) tobacco area, in the
Cairns hinterland, and should do well
in any district of fairly low rainfall.
Almost any soil suits them, and shortage
of water is no handicap, as they grow in
the wettest months of the year in North
Queensland —February to May.
A kind of bean and a good table vege-
table, they have a bulbous root which,
when the crop is picked, remains in the
ground and sprouts again without rain.
They make wonderful feed for horses and
cattle in a dry time, and stock love ’em.
Seed is £2 a bushel, which plants ten
acres. Cowpeas now fetch 375. 6d. to £2
per bushel, which would mean a net
return of approximately £4OO for a three-
months’ crop. The only outlay would
be in employing pickers—boys are paid
255. a week for the work. Where water
is no problem, a second crop can be sown
in October.
“ ’Flu” in Horses.
“Sarina”: It generally appears in a
cold, rainy season, is very contagious and
often fatal. Sypnptoms are high fever, loss
of appetite, difficulty in moving owing
to bodily stiffness, watery eyes, shivering
and general sickness. There may be
either constipation or diarrhoea, stomach
pain is common, there’s a nasal discharge,
sometimes a cough and sore throat.
Isolate the affected horse immediately
—a quiet, well-ventilated stable is the best
place—and rug it. If the trouble seems
to be confined to the head and air pas-
sages, give a dose of raw linseed oil or
Epsom salts. A useful medicine is made
from 2oz. powdered liquorice and loz.
soda salicylate mixed with honey. This
makes a day’s supply. Put a little of the
mixture on the nag’s tongue at frequent
intervals. If the throat is sore rub with
mustard and vinegar or apply hot
foments.
If there is stomach pain a laxative will
aggravate it. Rubbing the flanks with a
mild embrocation or mustard and vinegar
may lessen the pain. Symptoms should
be closely watched, for dangerous com-
plications can arise. Keep the nostrils
clear by wiping with disinfected rag or
cotton-wool. If breathing is difficult the
patient may be made to inhale steam
from hot water in which there’s a little
friar’s balsam.
Influenza may last from a week to
three; most cases last about 12 days,
Plenty of clean water should be always
within reach. Gruel is the best food for
a sick or recovering horse ; if it will take
milk give it plenty. Poor condition may
follow the attack for months. If a cough
persists try the mustard-vinegar mixture
rubbed on the throat and the soda-
liquorice-honey mixture on the tongue.
Grow Onions.
“Plane Creek”: The main drawback
with onions is that, being slow growers,
they are soon smothered by weeds in
ordinary soil. Grow them in newly-
cleared land where stacked rubbish has
been burned or send a fire through a long-
established clump of lantana ; few weed
seeds will survive, and when what remains
of the lantana has been grubbed out the
ground will be ready for ploughing or
digging.
Deep cultivation is not necessary.
Break the soil up thoroughly and mix
in well-decayed horse or fowl manure.
Seedlings are best grown in a bed of
burned soil in a shady spot. Move them
at 3in. high into rows 12in. apart, allow-
ing 4in. between plants. Don’t bury any
of the stem, but only the fibrous roots
of the seedlings.
Pickling onions can be got by planting
seed of a white variety in a seedbed and
leaving the seedlings to mature in the
bed. Not thinned out they will make
small onions.
Sow onions in autumn and early winter
in temperate climates and in spring in
cool climates. Good varieties include
Early Barletta, White Spanish, Hunter-
River Early Brown and Brown Spanish.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: When crutching pregnant
ewes, handle them carefully, drive quietly
and do not force through gateways. Walk
them from pens to crutching board, sit
them down gently and avoid leaning on
them during crutching.
“8.A.”: Buckwheat is a good reno-
vator of soils considered too poor to pro-
duce other crops, as it utilises mineral
phosphates to better advantage than other
cereals. It grows readily on the poorest
land and provides a valuable green-
manure crop, rendering plant food avail-
able and furnishing humus to the soil.
Blue lupins and cowpeas also succeed on
poor, sour soils. The lupin crop should
be rolled before it is ploughed under,
otherwise much of it may remain un-
covered, Good results have been got with
rye as a green manure for potatoes.
“Sarina”: Peanuts need a fairly well-
drained soil, preferably on the stiff side,
and thorough shallow cultivation. They’ll
not succeed in land cultivated to a depth
of more than a foot. If the soil is sandy
tramp or roll it down firmly after sow-
ing. Sow seed 3in. deep, 18 inches apart,
in rows 18in. apart. A light mulch of
dry stable manure is valuable. Keep the
ground well worked. The vines will die
off when the nuts are ready for digging.
Fork them out and stack in heaps in a
dry spot. When the peanuts are quite
dry remove them from the vines.
“Mackay”: Trashing the banana crop
in autumn lets in air and sunshine, forces
sucker growth and reduces black end and
anthracnose. A young plantation making
slow growth can be speeded up by apply-
ing lylb. super., 11b. sulphate of ammonia
and to 11b. muriate of potash per
stool; mix well in the soil. Fertilising of
older plantations is unprofitable. If the
plantation’s in an exposed position bag
the fruit as autumn sets in. Quicker
maturity and higher-grade fruit result.
“Sarina”: To transplant fruit-tree
seedlings safely bore a few holes in the
bottoms of some jam-tins and cut down
the sides in four places, quartering them.
Grow the seedlings in the tins in light
sandy soil, and when large enough simply
bend the quarters apart and lift plant
and soil. There’ll be no failures, and
the same tins will serve again.
“Queen’s Chamberlain”: Don’t take
honey from the hive until at least three-
quarters of the combs have been sealed
by the bees. At that stage the honey is
ripe and fit for market; before it is likely
to ferment.
“Mullengah”: M. J. Heffernan, of
Gunning (N.S.W.), has increased the
carrying capacity of his 2000-acre prop-
erty and his wool cut with subterranean
clover. His unimproved areas are top-
dressed with lewt. of super, per acre.
“Jindivick”: Re my par. on locai
primary industries (B. 3/ 3 / ’43). Victoria
has no rice-growing industry —that is
established on the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion area in N.S.W. But it was in Vic-
toria, at Swan Hill during the last war,
that a Japanese produced the first rea
promise of success with a crop ot more
than a ton of rice from a small private
plot. The Jap’s success led to the early
experiments in the M.I.A.


l/k
■W~>pr
ass
ri
ITT:
MSjBB
aI'BEISIS
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for March or April, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Troop Carrier Command.
(Condensed from N.Y. “Daily News.”)
The First Troop Carrier Command,
youngest member of Uncle Sam’s rapidly
growing air force family, likes what
General Douglas MacArthur had to say
about the testing of “a new form of
campaign,” which points the way to the
ultimate defeat of the Japs in the Pacific.
Because the First Troop Carrier fur-
nished the ’planes and trained the pilots
that did most of the job in question.
Out here on the outskirts of Indian-
apolis, they know what MacArthur was
talking about when he described their
achievements: “For months on end air
transport, with constant fighter coverage,
moved complete infantry regiments and
artillery battalions across the almost im-
penetrable mountains and jungles of
Papua and the reaches of the sea, trans-
ported field hospitals and other base
installations to the front, supplied the
troops and evacuated casualties,”
A similar tribute came from Lieut-
General Dwight D. Eisenhower for work
in North Africa.
The Troop Carrier Command was
created only seven months ago. It
is assigned to transporting by air
parachutists, infantry combat teams,
glider-borne troops and equipment,
evacuating wounded by air, and training
and making available troop carrier units
to meet requirements in theatres of war.
It is organised in wings, each of which
contains four groups, with four squad-
rons to a group. At present every
squadron consists of 13 Douglas DC-3
type ships—the familiar commercial
craft of the transport lines, which the
Army calls C-47S or C-53S —plus a total
of 39 gliders.
The occasion required it in New
Guinea, when one squadron carried a
large number of men across the Owen
Stanley mountains in 24 hours —and did
it in ships which are virtually unarmed
and unarmored. (The Command volun-
tarily flies in weaponless, naked ’planes in
order to reduce the weight, so that it can
carry more men and supplies. It relies
on low-flying, hedge-hopping tactics to
avoid enemy attention.)
In flying the wounded to safety army
nurses and medical technicians >accom-
pany each ’plane to the front, quickly
convert it to a flying ambulance and
bring it back with a minimum load of 18
patients per ship. The girls who wear
the caduceus —and draw flying pay as
flight nurses —actually go into action
under fire, but the Army thinks it worth
the risk because of the psychological
effect on a wounded man, who finds a
woman taking care of him before he is
yet out of range of enemy bullets. And
so the Command sees to it that no ship
is wasted —that none comes back empty,
as long as there is a wounded man who
needs the care of a hospital back behind
the lines. The smiling flight nurses go
right along.
The pilots who fly the ’planes are
mostly youngsters, supervised by a group
of veteran airline skippers. “They’re the
best-quality pilots,” observes General
Borum, their flying chief. “They have to
be in order to perform the missions
assigned to them. And their morale is
simply beyond comprehension. I’m pretty
proud of my gang.”
He certainly has a right to be—judg-
ing by the results so far attained. And
they are continuing to get results.
’Planes v. Rail and Ships.
(From a N.Y. “Journal-American” report.)
Because the cargo-transport ’plane is
performing prodigies in the war, predic-
tions have been made that virtually all
long-distance travel and trade will be
earned on by air in the post-war world.
According to this view, the railroad and
the steamship will become obsolete and
vanish, just as the sailing vessel and the
ox cart were extinguished by power-
driven vessels and locomotives.
An entirely different prospectus of
post-war transportation has been pre-
sented by one of America’s foremost avia-
tion executives, Mr. W. A. Patterson,
president of the United Air Lines.
Figures compiled by Mr. Patterson’s co.
show that an “average freight train” mak-
ing two round trips a month between
Chicago and San Francisco could deliver
1560 tons of freight each way. Fifty-
seven airplanes would be required for the
same job. The freight train would con-
sume 170,000 gallons of fuel at a cost
of $3400, while the ’planes would burn
up 1,500,000 gallons of gasoline costing
$200,000. The ’planes would need 400
pilots, receiving $200,000 in pay, but only
20 “crew members” would keep the
freight train moving at a payroll cost of
only $5OOO.
“Based on recorded experience,” Mr.
Patterson comments, “the total operating
costs of the 57 airplanes would amount
to $1,750,000 during the month, while
the freight train costs would total
$50,000. The airplane operation would
therefore cost 35 times as much as the
freight-train operation.”
Similarly, a 13,000-ton freight vessel
would transport 6400 short tons of cargo
each way between San Francisco and
Australia at a cost of $120,000, whereas
144 airplanes would be required for the
same service.
“These airplanes,” Mr. Paterson notes,
“would consume about 18,000,000 gal-
lons of gasoline, while the boat was burn-
ing less than half a million gallons of
fuel oil. The cost of this gasoline would
be $2,250,000 compared to $9OOO for the
ship’s fuel. Total airplane operating costs,
based on present figures, would reach an
aggregate of $29,000,000 —250 times the
surface freighter’s round trip cost of
$120,000.”
In addition, Mr. Patterson points out,
the airplanes would require the fuelling
service of three tankers “to do the job
that could be accomplished by one ocean-
going freighter in the first place.”
Value of Darlan Deal.
[Condensed from an American “Mercury”
article by Kingsbury Smith, “a veteran Wash-
ington correspondent who has been covering
the State Department for many years.”]
Let’s put it bluntly: the war policy of
the United States Government is to win,
as cheaply and as quickly as possible.
The desired military end is the destruc-
tion of the German and Japanese war
machines; and the men who are direct-
ing our effort are not disposed to waste
American lives and time attempting to
settle European political quarrels in the
midst of the conflict. Before our armies
made our first offensive move into North
Africa, Lieut.-Gen. Mark Clark went
ahead to treat with anybody who wanted
to fight on our side. As far as I can
determine in Washington, this is the plan
to be followed in the future, with one
important qualification.
Our Government dealt with Darlan
for France and its Empire. There are
most likely to be deals with other Dar-
lans in the other conquered and Axis-
dominated countries. The only time our
policy is likely to be qualified is when
we reach Germany. In Germany we will
refuse to deal with any member of the
Hitler gang, but we will deal at any time
with any responsible element ready to
overthrow the Nazis and to disarm the
German Army. We will treat with the
Prussian Junkers, for instance, if and
when they are ready, but no deal will be
made which will leave arms in German
hands.
Winning the war —and winning it at
the least possible cost in American lives
—is the first objective of Washington
strategy.
There has been much criticism of the
Darlan affair and the general policy of
expediency. The criticism probably will
mount in fury as further deals develop.
We already have dealt with the Turkish
dictatorship and are sending lend-lease
goods into that fence-straddling country.
We were one of the first Governments to
recognise the Franco regime in Spain ,
we are sending food into Spain now , and
we probably will deal with Franco even
further if conditions permit. In Italy,
we stand ready to deal with any leader
—other than Mussolini —who will help
open the gates to our armies, and the
same goes for Hungary and the Balkan
countries. A number of people with
political histories no more edifying than
Darlan’s may have to be used to hasten
the collapse of Axis resistance, and the
U.S. Government will not be too
squeamish in using them where the stakes,
in lives and time, warrant it.
The spectacle of an American army
advancing with gold in one hand and the
sword in the other, and using the sword
only when gold and realistic diplomacy
are ineffective, is not one to horrify the
moulders of U.S. war policy. We aie
quite willing to use American gold in
every place where it will save American
blood. ~
The Darlan deal will serve as a predi-
cate for further deals. The purely mili-
tary aspects of it are of first importance.
Our pre-invasion dealings had been
with General Henri Giraud. He was the
officer who was going to try to open the
gates. • But General Giraud had his han-
dicaps. He had no official power and
had to rely only upon the high esteem
in which he was held by other French
officers. His most serious handicap was
that he did not have control of French
communications in North Africa. When
General Eisenhower and our troops
arrived, they made two quick discoveries.
They had met much stronger resistance
than had been expected ; and they found
Admiral Darlan visiting his stricken son
in Algiers.
Nowhere in Washington is it believed
that Darlan’s being in Algiers was any-
thing more than a .most fortunate acci-
dent. The deal with Darlan had not
been planned ; it was made on the spot
by General Eisenhower for the very
practical purpose of eliminating a resist-
ance which threatened the success of the
entire African enterprise. Darlan had
the authority. He had been named pub-
licly by Marshal Petain as his successor.
And, most important of all, Darlan had
control of the communications, and could
halt the blood-letting with a word. In
such a spot, General Eisenhower did not
hesitate to deal with the man who had
the power to deliver.
The proof of Eisenhower’s judgment
is in cold figures. Thousands of Ameri-
can boys who were marked down as ex-
pendable casualties for the expedition are
alive and fighting. Native Moroccan
troops who fight to the death and know
no law except the command of their
French officers are saluting those Ameri-
can boys instead of pouring lead into
them from behind some sand dune. A
French African Army two hundred thou-
sand strong is being mobilised to support
us. Vital French African bases are avail-
able to us. Most of the French Fleet is
sunk and safe from German hands, and
the remaining units of the fleet are being
readied to join our forces.
Had it not been for Darlan’s co-opera-
tion, our high command believes we
might still be fighting a desert war with
the French. Military estimates of the
casualties we would have suffered had
the French continued to resist run as high
as 50,000. Some authorities contend that
our whole expedition might have been
thrown back into the sea had the resist-
ance been all-out. It is estimated that
it would have cost us 15,000 casualties
alone to have taken the strongly fortified
naval base at Dakar, which, with Dar-
lan’s help, was placed at our disposal
without shedding a drop of blood.
Landing of troops on a hostile shore
is the most difficult of all military opera-
tions, and the American troops who
forced the landings at Oran, Casablanca
and Algiers are thankful that the resist-
ance was no stronger. It is a certainty
that those troops are the firmest sup-
porters of our Darlan policy.
U.S. View of Japs.
(From N.Y. “Journal-American.”)
America must realise that Japan is our
greatest menace. It is a menace not only
politically and militarily, but a racial
menace, a menace to our civilisation and
religion, a menace to our social organ-
isation and to our standards of living.
The war in the Orient is of a totally
different character from the war in
Europe. Bad as the situation is in
Europe, the war there is between Euro-
pean Occidental nations, between white
races. Antagonisms, hatreds and jeal-
ousies, no matter how violent, cannot
obscure the fact that the warring nations
of Europe stem from common racial,
cultural, linguistic and social roots. It
is a family fight, in which the possibility
of ultimate agreement and constructive
harmony has not been dismissed even by
the most determined opponents.
Whatever side wins—and it is obvious
that our forces are going to win—Occi-
dental civilisation is going to be main-
tained and will still progress.
But in Japan we have an enemy who
shares nothing with us. An enemy of
whom we have not the slightest trace or
influence in speech, language, culture, reli-
gion or blood. An enemy of unexampled
ferocity and greed. An enemy who
detests us and everything about us with
fanatical passion. An enemy, further-
more, who so far has been completely
successful, and whose avowed intention
is to destroy us, literally and completely.
If Japan wins this war in the Pacific —
and we survive—there will be perpetual
war between Oriental ideals and Occi-
dental ideals. It will be a war between
ruthless aggressors in command of more
soldiers, more resources, better positions
and an inextinguishable savagery and
Occidental peoples of inferior numbers
and resources weakened by years of frat-
ricidal conflict.
It is clearly our duty as Americans
to establish as far as we can the Pacific
Ocean as an American sea, and not allow
it to become a Japanese sea, dominated
by Japan and with Oriental influences
reaching to our very doors.
We are not doing this now. Our forces
in the Pacific are small, scattered and
badly supplied. We are even taking away
soldiers and equipment from Australia,
New Zealand and the western United
States and shipping them to the Euro-
pean front. We are inviting possible dis-
aster, and we are certainly guaranteeing
the prolongation of an arduous and costly
struggle.
Smuts on Empire.
[Condensed from a “Life” (U.S.A.) article
by South African Prime Minister Field-Marshal
Smuts.]
The name of the British Empire stirs
up memories of George 111 in Ameri-
cans, while in a Boer like myself it may
conjure up visions of a dark page in
British history. The fact, however, is
that when today we talk about the British
Empire it is not the same thing as the
British Empire of bygone times.
That old Empire is dead. It died at
the end of the nineteenth century. It
found its grave in the Boer War. The
Boers thus rendered the British people
a priceless service, which they repaid
by the return service of restoring free self-
governing institutions to the conquered
people within a few years after the Brit-
ish victory, and within eight years there-
after South Africa was a united country
with full self-government and in due
course with sovereign status in the world.
This surely does not look like the old
British Empire but like an entirely new
thing animated by a new attitude toward
human liberty. And indeed today it is
the widest system of organised human
freedom which has ever existed in his-
tory.
The idea that the British colonial sys-
tem is based on keeping people in sub-
jection and exploiting them for Britain
is wildly and demonstrably preposterous.
But, it is retorted, what about India?
Why is India not given her freedom?


The Elements
OF
Victory
"Our army ftiust be equipped, trained,
and perfected into a strong, keen offensive
weapon; and, above all, our Air Force
must add superiority of numbers to that
superiority of quality which, in machines,
and still more in manhood, they have so
signally displayed. We are straining every
nerve to accelerate our production, guided
by science and improving organisation."
—The Rt, Hon. Winston Churchill.
The turn of the tide must find us
irresistible in every element of victory —
SO LET US FILL
THIRD LIBERTY LOAN
Inserted by
William Arnott Pty. Limited
Homebush
BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
dan
Stable
oor
K'St :
TEN T N 02176
2^J >L '»\Fa
Cattle
i |wp*»D AWK'S
P |R<I emt n ? 1 176 .
t
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
&B
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Why is she kept in political subjection
against the wish of her peoples if it were
not for British Imperialism? The answer
is even simpler than the question. India,
if she wills, can be free in the same way
and hv thf> samp means as Canada Aus-
ana oy tne same means as canaaa, A
traha and New Zealand are today tree
sovereign States. In all these States their
peoples, through their representatives,
came together, worked out a Constitution
for themselves and asked Britain to ratify
the result, and in no case in vain. In
,2, i y~i . -r, ,
Canada French Canadians and British
Canadians, in South Africa Dutch and
English, after a century of struggle came
, .i , . ~ j
together and made those grand compro-
mises which are always the expression of
the highest political wisdom.
T i, a „„„ ■ T „ j- if
The same course is open to India it
the peoples of India will agree about the
terms of a free Constitution. Hitherto, it
has been the bitter misfortune of India
~ , , , ~ . * , ... ,
that her peoples or their leaders will not
agree to do the thing which is their own
clear responsibility and nobody else’s.
They cannot or will not make the grand
compromise or national pact which will
give them their freedom and secure their
future, and they blame their failure on
Britain. Freedom is not a thing that can
imttncprl without Tt ran nnlv
be imposed from without. It can only
be created from within. Its very essence
is that it is a free self-creation. It must
be the free expression of India’s own
wicp nnlifir-al cnnl
wise political soul.
Next to the winning of the war, the
emancipation of India without internal
disruption is today perhaps the greatest
prize in the world. God give that India s
peoples and their leaders may win this
prize. God grant wisdom to experienced
British statesmanship to help India out
. .... . . . „ „
in this almost too heavy task before her.
But in the last resort it is India s job and
India’s responsibility to herself and her
future
_ * . , , , ,
I have also heard the fall of Singapore
given as an instance of the failure of the
British colonial policy. But how so? Did
. c . ■ r,, J ..
not Siam, in full possession of nationa
sovereignty, also succumb to Japan ; did
not Indo-China, a French colony, also
succumb ; did not the Dutch East Indies
under the exemplary colonial government
j, t. t ~ i j i cn ® t L , „ii
of the Netherlands also fall as they all
fell, because France fell, and Japan thus
slipped through Indo-China, the defence-
less back door of that world, and all the
rest followed by the remorseless logic of
war? Didn t the Philippines also fall in
spite of their freedom and American pro-
tection? To use all this series of dis-
asters as an argument against British or
. t? u
Dutch or French colonial policy is quite
absurd.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“Any Republican nominee in 1944 can win.
If the Republicans nominate General Douglas
MacArthur, to give us a leader competent to
win the war, which will then be still in progress,
the New Deal ticket will be beaten in at least
40 of the 48 States, including Texas.” —Frank
Putnam, in the N.Y. “Times.”
* v * *
How the captain of a Nazi U-boat which
sank a British merchantman sent the crew on
its way in two lifeboats with a supply of water,
black bread and ersatz fats was told by the
master of the freighter. The British ship, a
medium-sized merchantman, was struck by two
torpedoes in mid-December in the Atlantic,
almost on the Equator, 350 miles off the coast
of South America. The captain said the entire
crew of 41 escaped in two lifeboats. “The sub-
marine surfaced after our ship sank,” he said,
“and I was Ordered aboard for questioning.
My men told me I’d never come back, but the
sub. captain offered apologies for sinking us.
He said it was a pity that his country and mine
were at war.” The British captain added that
the submarine commander ordered his crew
to place food and water in the lifeboats, and
gave him his position and explicit sailing direc-
tions. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Restrictions imposed by the Government on
the movements of German aliens in the U.S.
will be eased some time in the next month or
so. Last October the Department of Justice
removed all Italian nationals in this country
front the enemy-alien classification, automati-
cally restoring full civil rights to some 600,000
persons. The German nationals would be
divided into two categories. Those who have
close relatives serving in the U.S. armed forces
and the Stateless Germans whose citizenship
has been revoked by the Nazis would be freed
from all restrictions, including those on travel
and the possession of firearms, cameras and
radios. Other German aliens would be re-
quired to prove their loyalty and harmlessness
before alien hearing boards in order to receive
similar consideration. — N.Y. “Post.’’’
f * * m
“The deadly accuracy of firing by one of
our battleships which destroyed the 35,000-ton
French battleship Jean Bart at Casablanca
was made possible by radio communication.
As the first blast from our big guns, 26 miles
away, struck the resisting French battleship,
an observation ’plane flashed back the word of
a direct hit on the deck, a damaging but not
a fatal blow. A slight change in elevation was
signalled for. The next salvo struck the side of
the ship at the waterline, smashing her hull
beyond repair. Radio directed and reported
the destruction.” — U.S. Rear-Admiral Stanford
C. Hooper.
* * *
Women up to the age of 45, including
mothers with children over 14, will in future be
ordered by the British Government to perform
part-time work in war factories. —London cor-
respondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
• » * *
Lend-lease food shipments to Russia in De-
cember were larger than the combined ship-
ments to the United Kingdom and other
British destinations. — U.S. Secretary of Agri-
culture Claude R. Wickard.
* * * *
The U-boat campaign, the greatest in world
history, has had a success so unprecedented
and so sweeping that the final defeat of the
Axis already has been deferred by wholesale
ship sinkings. If ship sinkings continue at the
1942 rate, or at an accelerated tempo, not only
will the war be prolonged, but the Axis may
avert defeat. In no previous year in world
history have the Germans had as much success
in sinking ships as they did in 1942. The
losses in many, many months of the year ex-
ceeded the combined replacement capacity of
the United Nations, and German submarines
were built far more rapidly than we were
able to destroy them. In one of the last
months of the year, the Nazis are estimated to
have constructed in thirty days perhaps as
many as 17 times the number of German sub-
marines that the United Nations were able,
beyond a doubt, to sink. The German sub-
marine fleet today is estimated at not much
less than 375 and perhaps as many as 425. —
Hanson W. Baldwin, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * «
Combined Anglo-American shipbuilding in
1943 will substantially exceed 20,000,000 dead
weight tons —a colossal total which represents
twice the mercantile tonnage controlled by
the United States before the war. American
production will include a higher proportion
of faster vessels. —British Minister of Produc-
tion Oliver Lyttelton.
* * * *
British blondes, both natural and ersatz, are
in short supply, according to complaints of
motion-picture directors. This is due partly to
drafting by the services and partly to shortage
of chemicals. —London correspondent, “Wall-
street Journal:”
* * * *
There is a curious passage about English
pluck in Firedrake: the Destroyer That
Wouldn’t Give In, by A. D. Divine. The
British Fleet met the Italians south of Sar-
dinia. Finding himself outnumbered both by
ships and weight of tonnage, the British captain
of the Firedrake remarked dubiously to Divine,
“I don’t suppose they’ll stay.” And so used
were the men to the Italians turning tail and
refusing to fight that they were morose about
the prospects. But when they learned that the
Italians had two big battleships against the
one battle cruiser of the British, more cruisers
and more submarines “there was a change in
the men. We were outnumbered. The enemy
had every advantage of nearness to its bases,
of numbers and of speed. ‘Perhaps he will
stay now,’ said the men; ‘he bloody well ought
to, anyway.’ ” But he didn’t. — U.S. book re-
view.
* * * *
For four years Miss Margaret Woodrow
Wilson, daughter of the late President, has
been a sadhak or follower of Sri Aurobindo,
India’s most prominent mystic, at Pondicherry.
In a sense it is renunciation of the world, but
she is just the same Miss Wilson, in the same
type of dress and with that same smile that
gives her such a startling resemblance to her
father. —India correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”
♦ * * 4'
Flying records of every sort have gone by the
board since Pearl Harbor. Some of them,
made in the routine of war-time necessity,
are astounding. Captain R. O. D. Sullivan,
who only a few years ago pioneered ocean
flying routes which were regarded then as feats
of the first magnitude, lately made his 100th
transatlantic journey at the controls of a big
flying boat. In three and a half years Sullivan
has flown more miles over the Atlantic than
all the ocean pioneers, including the mass
flights of Balbo, in the 20 years from the cross-
ing of Alcock and Brown to the start of regu-
lar service. His latest flight brought the record
of transatlantic crossings by the Clippers to
1219, or 6,600,000 miles, over the world’s
worst ocean, safely carrying more than 44,000
passengers, 115,000,000 letters and 3,000,000
pounds of freight.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The American and British Governments
having consistently refused to permit the set-
ting up of a system of food relief for civilians
of the occupied countries, the death toll in
Europe may be tremendous. It could con-
ceivably reach 100,000,000, in the absence of
an early Allied victory.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
The mass-production methods for which
American automobile factories have long been
famous cannot be used to turn out airplanes
for war. An automobile model is standardised
for an entire year, so that once the tools and
dies are prepared continuous and interrupted
production is possible and the conveyor
assembly can turn out a completed car every
minute. Aircraft models must be changed con-
stantly in the light of combat experience,
and it would be highly inefficient and wasteful
to prepare tools and dies that may well be-
come obsolete before they are completed.
— U.S. “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
From Hong Kong and Shanghai, China’s two
richest pre-war maritime markets, come re-
liable reports that the greatest anxiety of the
Japanese authorities is to get the masses of un-
employed to move out into the hinterland be-
fore they starve to death. Conditions in Hong
Kong seem to be worse than in Shanghai.
On the mainland the Japanese control little
but the former British-leased territory, a narrow
railway zone to Canton and the immediate en-
virons of that city. If the Japanese were
generous masters and were to buy up all the
surplus food and raw materials of this limited
sphere to feed and employ the populations of
Hong Kong and Canton, there would still be
masses of starving unemployed. They are not
reckless enough yet of Chinese opinion else-
where to exterminate the poor, and the impor-
tation of food would employ shipping that
cannot be spared; so the eviction of the hungry
is the only possible policy.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
There is the Aleutian route to Japan via
Siberia, if we would only throw the Japs out
of the Aleutians, and if Russia would then loan
us a few square miles of real estate for us to
improve with bomber bases. Up to now Russia
refuses to co-operate to this extent, fearing that
to do so would drag it into a war with Japan.
It might; but with Japan spread out so far
already wouldn’t this help the Allied cause?
And couldn’t U.S. bombers in sufficient quan-
tity wreak such havoc on Japan’s industrial
centres as to keep the Russo-Japanese fight
from being any serious threat to Russia’s effort
against Germany in the West? — N.Y. “Daily
News.”
* * * *
A curious story of what can happen on the
snow-swept Russian front is related by General
Kharitonov. The incident occurred during a
snowstorm, “Our detachments, not finding
the enemy ahead, lined up in a marching
column, and, singing, began to move forward.
To one side, about 200 yards away and parallel
to the road, was another column. This was a
Fascist battalion retreating to a new line, not
suspecting there were Soviet tanks already to
their rear. The columns were marching to
the west, almost side by side. Therefore, they
were not paying attention to each other. Neither
column was apprehensive. Suddenly our guards
found the enemy alongside. When a soldier
reported to his commander the latter decid%d
the best thing to do was to conceal the situa-
tion until the head of the column reached the
crossroads which would lead to the enemy bat-
talion. Then it would be possible to take it
without a single shot. But at the same time the
Fascists found that their neighbors were of the
Red Army. They spread out and attacked.
Strong firing began. The commander of our
column ordered his fighters to dig ip and fire.
As soon as the Germans took their first steps
in the direction of our fighters they heard an-
other Russian detachment in their rear. The
battalion was surrounded. Half an hour later
the German column was moving, not to the
west, but to the east, on its last military road.”
—Moscow correspondent, N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”


w
i m
9
■
.
ill
111
m
ii
WmSmm
m mm
.
::
_*y
wm
. f
m
;f: C
m
»
#■?: , :
! I
eP'.
TW
**• $ v j. *, « ■
- y
$ ■<: w **,
*w?
S* V
i
T> %
* >
in
* 3
& *
' :
Hr
■P%nf
K 7,
IS
W
w
*>•• M
fv I #
.
1
y%i^ m w h ■■•,
is :f
I
c i* 4
c
IF you saw that length of gas pipe
lying on the grass with the notice
“Danger Unexploded Shell” near it,
you would probably laugh. Someone
having a joke. But wait .. . it’s not so
funny!
We are turning gas pipes into shells
every day.
We used to make gas pipes
thousands of feet of them. Your meals
are probably cooked with the help of
our gas pipes —made before the War.
Now, those gas pipes have been turned
into shells.
This is how it happened . . .
Remember 1934? Remember when
Australia was just coming out of the
depression? When we needed new,
thriving industries? That was when the
plant of Stewarts and Lloyds went into
production in New South Wales.
That was also the year when Hitler
came into full power in Germany.
For us it was the beginning of what
we hoped would be years of reconstruc-
tion. Before long, Stewarts and Lloyds
were producing everything from gas
pipes to ships’ boiler tubes. Australian
Democracy was at work. But while we
worked from 1934 to 1939 we couldn’t
shut our eyes to what was happening in
Europe. By 1939 it was quite obvious
that the War we had tried to hold back
was inevitable.
We decided to turn our gas pipes
into shells.
Without subsidy, we installed the
plant necessary for the forging and
rough machining of ammunition
shell bodies —from 25-pounders to 60-
pounders.
We worked fast and evolved a
process of shell making which cut out
the operation that has always been so
costly and lengthy. We produced shell
bodies in much the same way as weldless
tubes. We made the inside of the forg-
ing perfect for size, and so smooth that
it did not require boring.
Stewarts and
(Australia) Pty.
Lloyds
We had shifts at work at one end
of a new extension before the roof
was completed at the other end. Our
engineers worked miracles to change
over tube making machinery never
intended for shell-making. They had
to. We couldn’t wait for weeks or
months for special plant or equipment
from overseas.
By September 3rd, 1939, we were
ready. Ready to serve.
So it was that gas pipes became
deadly weapons of Democracy.
The day will come when the last
shell will pass along the production line,
and behind it will be a gas pipe.
Perhaps your gas pipe for that new
home you will be building. When that
day arrives, remember the men who
sweated at furnace heat to turn gas pipes
into shells . . . remember the men whose
foresight it was that made Stewarts and
Lloyds ready for action before War was
declared .


ran you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee —he may die before completing his
duties —age may sap his wisdom —misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and . . . the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon:
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G,;
Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
K.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
uen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughey
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
g
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a batteries,
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,.including stamp bauenes,
amalgamating tables magnetic ore separators, ag 1 d * accessories .
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all otner expiosi
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N-S.^
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 1 62 2,994
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ) 1 0 61,746
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,009 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,16!.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 4/4,689 1 619,208
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,780 2,995,222 520,563 1,(22,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 . . I 1,568,603
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 )
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3.448,244 550,359 1,932.541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626,703 529,996 1,919,328
Unexplained addition Invest. Res., ~£13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 • • 1 2 ,185,393
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,362 523,701 ) ’
Unexplained reduction Invest. Res., £1419.
1942.. 6,301,785 3,690,127 523,701 2,087,907
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Principal short-term problem of life
offices, among which the National ranks
as the Commonwealth’s second-weightiest,
is that of war mortality ; the long-term
one, the future of interest rates. War-
financing has created a surplus of in-
vestible funds and ushered in an era of
cheap money that most belligerents have
declared will be a feature of the peace.
Indeed, easy financial conditions and bor-
rowing terms, partly through the influ-
ence interest exerts on the direction of
investment and the price level, are prob-
ably essential to that full employment of
resources implied in the term reconstruc-
tion. A teaser confronting assurance
managements at the conclusion of hostili-
ties will therefore be whether funds, if
any, now retained against and not needed
for war claims should be all utilised to
make good reduced bonus additions to
policies or partially applied to strengthen-
ing the bases of valuation, thereby pro-
tecting bonus-paying capacity in the
future. The latter course would seem to
commend itself strongly.
So far, because of wide overseas in-
terests and extension of war to Australian
territories, the National’s war claims have
amounted to £500,000. But they have
been mostly on lives against which sub-
stantial policy reserves have had time
to accumulate, while the total uncovered
risk on Singapore and Hong Kong agency
business is declared less than £lOO,OOO.
Still, war mortality will be delayed in its
complete action, and more young Aus-
tralian troops are now in the fray. So
with characteristic conservatism the
board decided not to anticipate the tri-
ennial valuation to be made this Sep-
tember and suspended annual interim
bonuses, except on policies becoming
claims. Meanwhile, policy-holders can
see greater protection than ever. Assur-
ance funds total £51,674,322, supporting
which is an investment reserve of
£1,862,539. There are no shareholders
to participate in things.
Depletion of field staffs and building
and real-estate restrictions —home-pur-
chase policies are a prominent feature of
the society’s prospectus —haven’t assisted
new-business figures. Only Ordinary
contracts are written, and cover is ob-
tainable at low cost:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Policies .. 28,382 23,248 20,029
Amount ..£10,158,497 £8,575,711 £7,540,883
Av. per policy 357 368 3/o
First premiums 332,922 312,563 271,208
Net renewals . . 3,657,380 3,835,488 3,929,540
Single premiums 30,622 42,984 20,0(0
Annuities .. 86,853 233,299 130,272
Net interest, etc. 1,830,367 1,915,123 1,950,695
While net premium and annuity receipts
(£4,351,090) were lower by £73,244 last
year, interest and rents (£1,950,695)
turned in £35,472 more, despite heavier
Government bleeding thereof (£237,186,
up £22,724). Disregarding an unexplained
contraction of £1419 in investment re-
serve, the addition to funds was little
below the previous term’s at £2,087,957.
Administrative exes, were unchanged to
the pound. Excluding A.R.P. and war-
damage insurance of £ll,lll, they
amounted to 12.1 p.c. of the net pre-
miums, however, against 12.4 p.c. in
1941. That is on the general assump-
tion that single premiums and annuities
cost respectively 5 p.c. and 3 p.c. to
gather. -
Nearly all the revenue surplus again
found its way into war loans in the Corn-
monwealth, Maoriland, Great Britain or
S’Africa;
1941 ( 19 42
r p.c. P- c -
Freeholds .. ..£1,650,281 3.1 £1,655,486 3.1
Public securities .. 28,272,505 53.9 30,843,718 56.2
Mortgages . . . . 10,971,170 20.9 10,984,073 20.0
Foreclosures .. 222,739 0.4 181.501 0.3
Loans on policies .. 5,190,471 9.9 “>087,82
Other assets . . 6,159,513 11.8 6,084,743 11.1
These low-yielding investments, combined
with the tax slug, have reduced the earn-
ing power of the whole portfolio. On
the mean assurance fund the yield last
year was a good-looking £4 Bs. Id. p.c.
gross and £3 18s. 7d. (down 25.) p.c. net.
As policy liabilities are calculated on a
£3 p.c. basis, there is thus still a handy
margin. Members recently granted wider
investment powers to the management.
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Loss. Ords. Def.* Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Establishment and formation, £20,426.. 20,426
Forfeited shares reserve, £250 . . - • 20,176
19391- 1,188 Nil Nil 21,364
Profit.
1940.. 10,429 Nil Nil 10,429 10,935
8 p.c. 52 p.c.
1941.. 30,530 20,000 6,515 4,015 6,920
37.6 p.c.
1942.. 26,904 26,000 4,702 2,202 4,718
* Including undistributed equity in profits.
f 61 months.
Divs. on deferred shares, as shown, in-
clude actual amounts declared payable,
plus a total of £l7 in left-over bits. The
deferreds are entitled each year to 50
p.c. of net profits after 7 p.c. has been
paid to the ords., and any balance of the
50 p.c. not distributed remains at de-
ferreds’ credit. Existence of the deferreds
therefore detracts from the investment
possibilities of the scrip. They have three
representatives in a board of seven,
present nominee directors including W. J.
and A. E. Smith, of Australian Consoli-
dated Industries.
The co. is a cousin of sorts of Mason-
ite Corporation (U.S.A.). The latter, in
return for the right to pay in cash for
100,000 deferred shares of 2s. 6d. each,
granted Australian and Maoriland rights
to secret processes, formulae, trade-marks
and so on for the manufacture of mason-
ite pressed-wood building and insulat-
ing materials. Local capital was
gathered in ordinary shares, and plant
with an annual capacity of 17,000,000 sq.
ft. of board installed at Raymond Ter-
race, near Newcastle. Pre-tax profits of
£136,000 annually were spoken of as a
possibility after a few years.
Profits appeared fairly promptly,
though sales were a bit sticky till war
came along. Last year’s reversal was
more apparent than real, tax taking
£29,201, including £4807 short-reserved in
1941. After chipping off depreciation
of £11,177, the net result was figured at
£26,904 (down £3626). Of that, ords.
were entitled to £22,202 and deferreds to
£4702. Share of the ords. equalled 8.8
p.c. on their capital, compared with 9.6
p.c. in 1941, and 8 p.c. was again distri-
buted. Div. policy is liberal, seeing that
establishment exes, of £20,426 aren’t yet
all offset by reserves.
Expansion is continuing. Last year a
subsidiary sawmilling co. was launched
to ensure continuity of supplies of timber.
Also, tempering plant is being extended
to give three times the output of tem-
pered board originally planned. A
modern research laboratory has been
built and equipped, and warehousing
space enlarged. These activities, plus
the job of “maintaining plant and build-
ings in good condition,” have not dented
finances. Here are the figures:
1939'. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £262,470 £262,507 £262,507 £262,507
Creditors .. 11,245 10,884 6,741 10,700
Tax reserve . . 2,506 19,500 23,500
Freehold and
buildings . . 59,447 59,028 60,356 64,180
Machinery, plant
& fittings .. 155,574 139,799 133,544 127,295
Stocks.. .. 33,231 38,774 45,308 41,042
Debtors . . 4,430 12,317 18,670 16,918
Cash & investments 419 15,038 41,715 46,255
Subsid. co. . . - 12,266
Counting stocks, but not the £12,266 in
the subsidiary, the surplus of more or
less liquids over trade liabilities is £93,515
(down £5437).
The undertaking has been declared
“protected,” production, directly and in-
directly, being mostly for defence re-
quirements. Prices here are on the aver-
age lower than ordinary trade returns.
On the other hand, costs have risen
materially both for labor and materials.
Every effort to achieve more economical
and efficient working is being made,
assures chairman E. S. Wolfenden, who
predicts good results when normal trad-
ing is again established. Colonial Sugar,
which also produces its own insulating
fibre board, acts for the co. as distri-
butor.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
, Dividends ,
A Pref. B Pref.
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 511 Nil 38,689
1933.. 12,214 11,723 Nil Nil 38,198
Loss Launceston freehold, £2020 .. 40,218
1934.. 23,951 11,723 8,611 Nil 36.601
14 p.c.
1935.. 29,546 11,723 17,222 Nil 36,000
7 p.c.
1936.. 60,835 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 12,245 7,744
Reserves.*
1937.. 63,563 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 12,245 23,240
Reserves capitalised, £8164 .. .. 15,076
1938.. 65,597 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 16,276 44,063
1939.. 60,567 11,723 8,611 15 „ ~ 27,782 56,514
Loss sale Perth business, £ll5O .. 55,364
1940.. 61,084 11,723 8,611 12* p.c.= 30,813 65,301
1941.. 59,913 11,723 8,611 JO' „ „ 28,286 70,594
1942.. 53,206 11,724 8,610 10 „ „ 28,287 81,177
* Goodwill not treated as an asset herein.
This co. trades in clothing, drapery and
furniture. It operates from headquarters
in Melbourne, and has 43 other branches
scattered throughout all States except
Queensland, Special attention has been
given to t.-p. and mail-order trade.
Development has taken place at a
vigorous rate. Starting at Fitzroy (Vic.),
the business quickly spread to Adelaide
and Launceston, and later became three
operating concerns controlled by a hold-
ing co. Additional capital was obtained
and a short string of glittering 20 p.c
dividends was turned out. Progress al
that stage was lively indeed. However
slump hit particularly hard, and in 1931
a loss of £12,025 showed up. Holders oi
the ords. then experienced four hungrt
periods.
In a reorganisation in 1932 the foui
separate cos. were welded into one. Out-
side debt, which had expanded in pre-
slump days, was worked down, and more
capital was gathered to stabilise things.
Further branches were then established,
and good profits came along, accom-
panied by substantial ord. divs. goins
out.
Results last year were affected by quota
systems, rationing and other war-time re-
strictions ; also by war-damage insurance
premiums and A.R.P. expenditure, items
which bear heavily on a chain organisa-
tion. Further, taxation is no light bur-
den, and £40,000 (up £17,613 and
nearly as much as net earnings) was
set aside. After charging £B3O short-
provided for tax back to 1941, profit of
£53,206 (down £6707) covered pref. divs.
with £32,042 to spare. That equals 11.3
p.c. on the £282,868 of ord. capital, which
is in ss. shares, and compares with 13.9,
16.6, 21.7, 41.8, 53 and 49.6 p.c. back
to 1936.
Finances improved. Book debts came
down by £lOl,OO0 —a universal experi-
ence —and the reduction there facilitated
a drop of £104,700 in the overdraft.
Stocks —difficult to maintain these days,
but never high—are much the same:
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £372,126 £492,539 £573,358 £573,358
Overdraft . . 36,023 117,704 106,906 2,230
Mortgages, etc. 94,027 116,952 106,400 106,400
Other creditors 11,482 14,265 29,249 18,13 1
Tax reserve . . 18,000 21,000 31,000 40,000
Premises, etc. 123,161 204,116 198,193 196,966
Plant, etc. .. 32,016 54,233 48,622 46,800
Stocks . . 71,916 103,494 198,724 199,934
Debtors ~ 345,995 480,276 495,538 394,2-^
Cash, etc. .. 2,641 2,174 7,568 7,680
Staff problems are acute. Of male em-
ployees, 61 p.c. have joined the forces or
are engaged in war industries. Spread
over the 44 stores, that has caused a
headache or two in the process of re
adjustment, and, according to chairman


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
SSass
i
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
SmiTOOVDILUCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
No Man is
Entitled to Gamble
With His Family’s Security
how many otherwise provident
men are doing this very thing?
They would not dream of exposing
their business assets to needless
hazards, yet they jeopardise the
stable future to which their depen-
dants are entitled.
It is a gamble with life to neglect
to make a will.
It is a gamble with fortune to choose
an unsuitable executor one who,
however well disposed, lacks know-
ledge, lacks health, or is too fully
occupied in other ways to be free to
give the requisite time to the affairs
of others.
The really provident man, having
made his will wisely, chooses a
trustee who will always he attentive
and who is experienced and com-
pletely reliable one whose daily
duty it is to make himself familiar
with all legal requirements, and with
the prudent investment of trust
funds.
Such an executor is the Union
Trustee Company, which provides
the pooled wisdom of experienced
administrators in all branches of
trusteeship, with a prestige proved
over two generations.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.,
Tames Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
A
IT
fOIH/EK miHSM
OQBLEM
p
Illustrating
the LUDOWXCI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUO 0 Wl C IS
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY
★
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
m
LUDOWICIS
PftUUVP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
It
V-
-1
HADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
I
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
#■4
Money that goes to war is
money that is not wasted.
Work! Lend! for Liberty.
Support the Third Liberty Loan.
5066 6
Walker, further losses of staff may mean
the closing of some branches. Rural
populations have been considerably de-
pleted by enlistments and the drift city-
wards, and this part of the co.’s business
is also missing the special clothing issues
and reduced coupon ratings made certain
industrial workers.
Wentworth Hotel (Sydney)
Towards Re-
Juiie, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 7,670 Nil 4,057
1933.. 4,394 Nil 8,451
1934.. 1,133 Nil 9,584
Profit.
1935.. 3,982 Nil 3,982 5,602
1936.. 2,172 Nil 2,172 3,430
1937.. 3,030 Nil 3,030 400
Reserves.
1938. . 5,931 24 p.c. = 1,250 4,681 4,281
1939.. 6,540 31 „ „ 1,750 4,790 9,071
Tax written back, £BOO . . . . 9,871
1940.. 5,197 5 p.c. = 2,500 2,697 12,568
1941.. 5,039 8 „ „ 4,000 1,039 13,607
1942.. 6,611 10 „ ~ 5,000 1,611 15,218
The Wentworth is practically in the
heart of the city, yet outside the hurly-
burly, on the slope of Church Hill. For
a long while after 1928 the former social
rendezvous was unable to make a fist of
things, and losses aggregating £30,254
showed up in a period of seven years.
Then the tide abruptly turned, and, aided
by a new residential wing and popularity
of the ballroom, results have lately
stepped along nicely, even if tax has kept
them below their old corpulence. A 2\
p.c. div. appeared, after a decade’s
drought, in 1938, and the rate had climbed
to 10 p.c. last year, when the expansion
in both the dividend and profit—£l6B7
underprovided for taxation has been
charged back to ’4l here —was at pleas-
ing variance with the experience of most
city pubs.
Since the return to profit-earning,
£38,502 has been netted and only £14,500
paid out to shareholders. The 10 p.c.
was therefore not so liberal as might
appear in the circumstances, including
the reduction in last year’s 13.2 p.c. earn-
ing rate the chairman sees in the offing.
Certainly, austerity restrictions can leave
little, if any, margin in the excellent din-
ing-room facilities offered, liquor takings
have been drastically curtailed, and the
cost of food, drink and most services
mounts almost daily. The other side of
the shield,is the overwhelming Sydney de-
mand for accommodation, which recent
extensions have well equipped the Went-
worth to cater for. Still, there have been
times when some managements have had
to leave rooms idle through lack of the
staff to service them.
A 10-year review of finances discloses
that £34,671 net has been spent on the
freehold, the additions equipped and fur-
nishings maintained with only moderate
expansion in the debt:
1932. 1937. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Mortgages, etc. 40,700 54,917 47,388 45,424
Sundry creditors 3,817 4,067 9,839 9,847
Freehold .. 72,301 91,592 106,972 106,972
Fittings, etc.. . 13,458 10,628 12,084 10,700
Stocks . . 2,129 1,521 2,457 3,462
Cash, debtors, etc. 2,572 4,843 3,509 2,856
The outside liability, however, is a con-
siderable factor, and continuation of the
consolidation which accompanied depres-
sion recovery will produce the best divi-
dends in the long run.
Westralian gold cos. holding idle funds
pending resumption of full-scale mining
operations were prominent first-day sub-
scribers to the third Liberty loan. Gold
Exploration and Finance weighed in with
£50,000, Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
£25,000, Gold Mines of Australia £20,000
and Central Norseman £lO,OOO ; all are
controlled from the one address in Mel-
bourne’s Collins-street. Wiluna’s record,
however, isn’t likely to be chal-
lenged. It followed up a quarter-million
contribution to the first Liberty loan with
one of £50,000 to the second, and more
is likely.
* * * *
Westralian monthly gold yields still
shrink and are now little more than half
what they were two or three years ago.
Otitput for 1943 may not exceed half a
million ounces, compared with 848,1800 z.
in 1942 and 1,109,0000 z. in 1941. Addi-
tional men are being taken from the in-
dustry for work described as more essen-
tial to the war effort, although the
Federal man-power authorities said they
wouldn’t.
J $ * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) says that partially-de-
veloped ore that can’t be fully developed
in present conditions was excluded from
the 835,000 tons of 3.3dwt. material re-
serves were last estimated to bulk. Other-
wise ore reserves would have exceeded
those for the previous year instead of
being 280,000 tons down. Extension of
the Mt. Charlotte option period has been
obtained.
* * * *
From London:
In Throgmorton-street a fusion of South
Kalgurli and Boulder Perseverance (B. 3/3/’43)
is considered most unlikely. South Kalgurli,
however, wants its ore treated at the mill
operated by Kalgoorlie Ore Treatment Co.,
jointly owned by Boulder Perseverance and
North Kalgurli. It is understood that the latter
is not agreeable.
* * * *
On top of recent Colombian (S. Ameri-
can) financial measures, Placer Develop-
ment’s div, possibilities have become even
more hazy because of the difficulty of
obtaining dredge supplies and stores for
its chief remaining working offshoots,
Pato and Asnazu. Pato in November shut
down two of its five dredges, but hopes
to offset this by handling richer gravels
with the rest. Asnazu, still in the throes
of debt-redemption, reckons stores on
hand will last its two dredges a year.
Meantime, it expects both yardages and
values to improve now No. 1 plant is
clear of the bouldery ground in the upper
end of the property.
* * * #
Dick Hamilton, the most outstanding
figure among old Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
mining men, is dead at a month short of
88. Born at Williamstown, Victoria, he
went through the Bendigo School of
Mines, and one of his first jobs was work-
ing alongside Jack Scantlebury on a bat-
tery on that field. He had a lifelong
association with mining, not only in
Australia, but in India, U.S.A. and else-
where abroad. He became general
manager of Gt. Boulder Prop, in 1896
and retired in 1927, when the co. ex-
pressed its appreciation of his service to
and wide knowledge of the industry by
appointing him its local director. He was
for 43 years president of the Kalgoorlie
Chamber of Mines and a former presi-
dent of the Australian Institute of Min-
ing and Metallurgy. Dick Hamilton was
immensely liked and respected. Many
a lame dog he helped over financial
stiles.


Commando!
Commando: A soldier condi-
tioned fo Victory by vigorous
training and rigid self-discipline.
And there are Commandos, too, on
the home front. Here is one, her
every waking hour devoted to the
needs of the war. For her, there
is no careless spending on non-
essentials. She has disciplined her-
self to save, and now her savings
are invested in the Third Liberty
Loan, to back up her man In uniform.
Follow her example, work, save and
lend every penny you can spare to
Australia. Help win Victory.
Shorten the war. Hasten the
peace.
THINGS YOU WANT TO KNOW
ABOUT THE LOAN
1. Liberty Loan Bonds are the
safest place in the world for your
savings.
2. Good interest is paid half-
yearly. If you invest your
'money for the longer
term, the rate is 35%.
or for five years 2^%.
Interest starts from
the day of subscription.
3. You can pay cash for
your bonds or buy them
on convenient instalments
over a period of nine months.
4. Arrange your subscription now through
any bank, savings bank, money order post
office or stockbroker
COME ON
AUSTRALIA-
LET’S FILL THE
m
"LIBERTY LOAN
1L.71.19
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Inflation and Unemployment
Australia, we are now being told on
all sides, has got inflation into its eco-
nomy, like a wooden bridge with white-
ants in it. That is largely true. Such is
t u„ 5 v, ..
the way we have managed our war-tune
airs that money has lost much of its
uymg power, and the loss of more
seems only too likely. Not all the
loss to date has been owing to factors
over which we have control. Australia,
for instance, can’t do much about the
increased overseas transport costs result-
ing from the sea war or about the in-
flation that has taken place in the cost
of goods we import from other coun-
tries. But overseas inflation should be
among the least of our worries. So far
as our export trade is concerned, inflation
in other countries helps to offset the in-
flation in our production costs here. The
really dangerous inflation is that which
we have created amongst ourselves. In-
stability in the buying power of money,
whether caused by inflation or deflation,
is an obstacle to trade and employment,
as well as being a robber of value or
livelihood from innocent people.
Inflation arises from the spending of
more money than the value received for
the expenditure, and from the spending
of loan money (as opposed to taxation)
on war waste or wasteful Government
“works,” etc. It can also arise from de-
liberate currency debasement, but that is
more in the nature of a criminal attack
on the credit of a country, whereas the
most common type of inflation is a
largely-preventable disease. Especially
during war-time, the germs of this infla-
tion are ever-present and vigorous. The
preventives are commonsense and honesty
in political and financial administration,
especially the acknowledgment that
somebody has to pay for everything, and
that money spent wastefully is real waste
and a burden on the community. There
is a school of wishful thought which
takes the view that money spent extra-
vagantly by a Government is not waste
at all, as it passes on to someone else
and that its ver y circulation afterwards is
P roof of its integrity all through The
point overlooked in this befuddled though
perhaps , ch “J f ul outlook is that the Gov-
ernment, before it wasted the money,
either overtaxed the community , 0 ,he
ex t e nt of the waste or else loaded itself
w ith excessive debt. Excessive debt is
inflation.
At the present time? and in many
cases for two or three years past, a very
large proportion of Australians have had
more money in their pockets than ever
before. They have been getting good
pay for doing work that has been
created by the war. Their unions in
some cases have pressed for a shorter
working week and higher pay, and in the
instance of the maritime workers they
have got it. Rates of pay for overtime
have been kept at penalty height, and a
great deal of overtime has been worked,
In cases which are talked of every-
where, unionism has had the effect of
keeping the tempo of work down and the
amount of overtime worked up. The
attractions of the munitions industries
have taken away workers from civil jobs,
and the abundance of pay being received
by hundreds of thousands of workers,
coupled with the increasing costs that the
abundant pay has brought about, has
resulted in inflation in the price of nearly
everything in spite of control imposed
on manufacturers and others by the Prices
Commissioner. This control has often
resulted in less profit to the manufacturer
than pre-war, notwithstanding increased
turnover. The comparatively few con-
trollers of industry and investments are
nearly all out of pocket even before in-
creased taxation and the growing cost of
living are taken into account. But the
minimum income of wage-earners has
been increased at least 22\ p.c., and in
some cases their total earnings have been
doubled or trebled,
Wages enter prominently into the cost
of everything we use. In the manufac-
turing industries wages and salaries repre-
sent over 50 p.c. of what is termed the
value of production—the amount added
to the value of the raw materials pro-
cessed. Profit margins for proprietors
are not nearly as prominent an item in
eventual selling prices as wages ; in any
case profits during this war have been
eaten away to a great or small degree by
wages inflation and other cost increases,
the Prices Commissioner not being so
benevolent to businessmen as industrial
awards are to wage-earners. Apart from
the 50 p.c. or so at which direct wages
figure in manufacturing costs, indirect
wages paid to the producers and trans-
porters of raw materials, as well as the
suppliers of fuel and power, are in them-
selves a large item in the cost of most
production.
In the case of selling prices there has
been a definite attempt by Professor Cop-
land to prevent inflation, and his efforts
have been effective within their limited
range ; but wage-control has at all times
been half-hearted, and quite frequently
it has been something between the comic
and tragic. The wage-earner is anyhow
guaranteed maintenance of a living wage
irrespective of inflation in living costs, but
wage-payers on the whole have already
suffered from inflation, and, furthermore,
have generally borne far more taxation
than those persons in their employ.
In addition to what are in many cases
excessive rates of pay, there is another
factor directly concerning the wage-
earner that is inflationary. It was esti-
mated for the 1941-42 year that incomes
of under £8 a week represented 70 p.c. of
all personal incomes, and actually aggre-
gated £590 millio'n ; but the taxation on
these incomes has been exceptionally
light. The small monetary help that
these income-earners have so far given
the war effort in taxation, and smaller
still in war loans, has meant that the
Government had to use “bank credit”
excessively to make up for this shortage
of money from one particular source.
Thus another error is beginning to figure
largely in our economic affairs: men who
are actually making money out of this
war have not been charged back their
fair share of war’s cost. Other people
haven’t enough income to make up the
default of the rest, so we have an ex-
cessive issue of credit, which in this case
is another word for debt.
The excess of new bank money in the
hands of wage-earners as individuals, and
the consequent excess of debt placed on
the shoulders of the people as a whole,
has so far not made its full effect felt in
living costs. All sorts of controls on
spending, prices and profits have been
imposed. And if, as a result of excessive
pay for work done, an Australian-made
machine costs £40,000 as against £25,000
or less for a similar British machine,
the effect is not immediately visible to
the public eye, however much it may
slow down the war effort and place a
further inflationary strain on inflationary
budgeting. But the day cannot be per-
manently deferred when inflation will hit
back with a kick against the very ones
who have been “benefiting” from it. The
financial errors of the war will in the
peace hurt hardest the spoiled children
of the war. But others also suffer in the
deflation that follows inflation.
Higher wages without higher produc-
tion mean higher costs. The other kinds
of inflation mentioned also mean swollen
costs. In their turn higher costs mean
more expensive production, and that is
followed by higher selling prices in order
to cover the greater costs. When Aus-
tralia, after the war, turns to the outside
world again to buy petrol and a hundred
other things necessary to restore pre-war
living standards it will find that it will
need more income from abroad in order
to pay. To get this income it will have
to export wool and other things, and
whether such exports are to be profitable
will depend on the prices we get abroad
and the costs of production at home.
Costs will certainly be up ; we cannot
predict what prices will be, but if infla-
tion in Australia has been more exces-
sive than in other countries we may
assume Australian costs will have in-
creased more than other countries’ prices.
When costs make prices unprofitable
we can expect industries to start con-
tracting their activities and putting off
staff. That results in unemployment in
other trades. Depression means miser-
able, unemployed conditions for many
and an unstable outlook for all. And
when we start cutting down costs in
order to combat the inflation of a pre-
vious period many injustices are done to
people who did not participate in the
selfishness of the earlier period.
Exchange-rate devaluation in order to
encourage the vital external trade un-
fairly penalises people wishing to travel
or send money away from this country.
All of the remedies which have to be
taken against inflation breed discontent,
uncertainty and, for a time, additional
unemployment. But the trouble always
has its roots in a time like the present,
when a Government with great powers
but little sense of responsibility is paying
too much for the war effort, and not
charging enough of the cost back to
wage-earners.
The W. 0.1. has prohibited the manu-
facture of gas-producer units except
under Government permit. It is esti-
mated that there are enough units to
meet the demand for the next 12 months.
At the same time the Production Execu-
tive of Cabinet has decided that W.0.1.’s
ban on the making of double-breasted
suits is to go overboard, and trousers
with cuffs are to be allowed. This sets
up a little question for Mr. Dedman and
his menagerie of untamed economists and
“advisers”: Assuming that all the vest
lengths “saved” by the ban (now re-
moved) on vestless s.-b. suits were turned
into boys’ trousers and sold at 30s. or
more a pair, by how much (if anything)
will the amount of material “saved” in
the making of Victory suits exceed the
waste of cloth in out-of-date Victory
suits which now cannot be sold? That
is assuming that all the unsaleable Vic-
tory suits are not palmed off on soldiers
discharged from the army. Second-hand
clothing gentlemen are protesting pite-
ously that they are “loothing money”
when they give a pound or thirty bob to
an ex-soldier for these Victory suits.


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer
Never touch the
edges...
..hold Blade
at the end..
e Wash your face first and lather twice as long
as usual.
• Wipe away all moisture from the blade to prevent
rust forming. Reasonable care will double the
life of your blades.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
B LADES
means safety, waste means disaster—Buy Savings Bonds or Certificates
“For cutting Australian wood,
you’ll save by using
DISSTON
Solid Tooth Circular Saws"
■
* ■
DISSTON SOLID TOOTH CIRCULAR SAWS
make accurate cuts, saw faster, stay sharp longer, are made of tough, uniform
Disston Steel, are correctly hardened and tempered and are easy to refit when
necessary. Turn out better lumber, increase your production on any kind of
wood —hard or soft.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made in a wide variety of styles of teeth
and range in diameter from 4in. to 78in.
For full pariiculars, see your dealer or wrife fo:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON, SYDNEY
BOX 47. CHIPPENDALE P.O.
New Blood Wanted
The Commonwealth in its great need
for money to finance this war is asking
for £lOO million cash on loan now. In
order for this loan to be a success people
who have never subscribed to a war loan
before will have to give their country
help. It is claimed officially that two
million Australian income-earners have
never put a penny into a war loan, and it
is a fact that, up to the present, these
very people have received the greatest
consideration in the matter of war-time
taxation. Consistent supporters of previ-
ous loans are just about played out,
with the exception of life-assurance con-
cerns, which are in a specially favorable
position to help. But those also have
their limitations, and only a spirited public
response will make the Third Liberty
Loan a success. The last (Austerity)
loan was filled by 451,957 subscribers;
this time we want closer to a million,
even if the majority take only £lO to £5O.
Australia’s investing class requires new
blood in it —new blood from the hun-
dreds of thousands in industry and civil
Government jobs who cannot in any cir-
cumstances cry poor mouth with their
present pay and conditions. The econo-
mic side of Australia’s war effort is
second only to the actual fighting. The
need for loan money now is no Govern-
ment humbug ; it is a matter of national
urgency.
It appears that Canada, apple of the
Empire’s eye as regards paying for the
costs of war as they fall due, is finding
complications arising out of an appar-
ently straightforward and clear-cut propo-
sition. In presenting his new Budget,
Finance Minister J. L. Ilsley announced,
according to the cables, “a decision to
cancel 50 p.c. of the 1942 income tax
and also the adoption of an instalment
plan for payment of 1943 taxes.” Al-
though at first sight that might be taken
to mean a cut in tax rates by half, it
more probably means the wiping-out of
six months’ liability for tax, possibly
along lines suggested in Australia in
connection with the “lag year,” but not
accepted by the Canberra Government.
Following a brave showing in previous
years, Mr. Ilsley expressed regret for the
extent to which bank credit was now
appearing in Canadian public accounts.
This was because of a poorer response to
loan appeals, and to the fact that re-
demption of war-savings certificates was
now exceeding, sales. The Budget “gap”
in 1942-43 had been $2362 million,
and for 1943-44 expenditure has been
estimated at $4470 million and revenue
at $2208 million, leaving a gap of
$2262 million, of which public borrow-
ing is expected to look after $ll6O mil-
lion. Direct taxes on incomes and profits
are said by Mr. Ilsley to be “overwhelm-
ingly the largest source of revenue, yield-
ing two-thirds of the total.” Company taxes
alone last year amounted to $BO5 million.
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber’s profits for the year
to June 30, 1942, were about half the
preceding term’s at £3504. There is no
div. on this occasion. The estates were
taken over by the military on April 25,
and rubber produced up to that date has
been paid for, but there has been no
plantation income since. At present
there is discussion by planters on the
matter of terms on which the Army may
eventually hand plantations back to
owners. Native labor may be a problem,
and there appear to be snags of an offi-
cial and legal kind as well, with
plenty of red-tape to boot. Rubber
is urgently needed for the war, and
plantations in Papua are vital things
—that is, those plantations that have
been established by men who know
rubber and cos. that have been able to
show results to their shareholders. But
there are other “plantations” in Papua
that are more in the nature of wildcats.
Some such have been overloaded with
establishment and scrip-selling exes, at the
start, while others have been laid down
in the “grass” country instead of the tim-
ber areas that have been found suitable
for rubber-growing. An awful lot of
eyewash has been put over by Sydney
company promoters peddling “rubber
acres.” The Bulletin pointed out that
in the case of several pre-war “bond”-
financed concerns it was far cheaper to
buy shares in Koitaki. It is a pity that
badly-financed concerns have been
allowed to enter the Papuan rubber in-
dustry. Results from them may even-
tually discourage more sober investment.
* * * *
The Government’s national welfare
proposal is in substance humbug, and
dangerous humbug. It is humbug inas-
much as the funds to be raised during
the war are going to be spent during the
war on war. Even if there is to be a
book-entry somewhere in the Common-
wealth accounts showing that the war
funds owe the welfare fund a huge sum
of money, the fact remains that the
money has gone, and that the Common-
wealth Government would have been no
worse off if it had never earmarked a
penny for “welfare” purposes until after
the war, and then just imagined that it
had such a fund. Financially, that is all
there is to it. But politically it is an-
other matter. Machinery of a sort is
being set up to provide pensions and the
like, and a proportion of future taxation
is to be earmarked for this function. If
previously-spent funds are to be “used”
again for pension purposes, we have a
further inflationary force at work. The
Government, in its own peculiar way,
says that the welfare fund is to be
financed out of taxation. After the war
this may be true enough. Even then,
obviously the idea is to make a few pay
for the pensions of many. The lower in-
comes will pay their first substantial tax-
ation on April 1, under the new tax scale.
Last into the economic side of this war,
they are likely to be first out of it when
the fought-for lightening of economic
burdens comes afterwards. At least, on
the political record of this Government,
that is a fair deduction. The Govern-
ment has debased economic fairplay and
financial stability to the level of tartshop
politics right through.
-k * Jk *
Shortage of hotel accommodation for
the services and others in Sydney has
reached the intelligence of Canberra. It
was revealed that one pub with 163 rooms
has been making only 106 rooms avail-
able because of staff shortage. Hotel ac-
commodation is not the only shortage in
Sydney and other important areas ; hous-
ing of any kind is becoming a great prob-
lem, and we may yet see some relaxation
of the budding restrictions before the war
is over. With the end of the war may come
a flow of war workers away from the
city and an easing of the urban housing
problem. But in Sydney, anyway, there
has long been a shortage of cottages, and
with the war-time increase in births
houses are more likely to be in demand
than flats.


THE SERVICE MAN
Air War Reaches Crescendo.
“Ek Dum”: General MacArthur cele-
brated the anniversary of his arrival in
Australia by holding one of his rare press
conferences, and, replying to Air Chief
Marshal Portal’s congratulations on the
Bismarck Sea victory, he set down wise
words:
The infinite possibilities of the strategical
application of air power have not yet been
fully understood. In proper co-ordination,
they open up horizons of application not
yet explored. Therein lies the way to
victory if we have sufficient imagination
to seize the opportunity.
As a mile-post, the anniversary had its
bright side, but, although the enemy ad-
vance has been stopped dead on the New
Guinea-Solomons line, a grim fact re-
mains. Despite heavy sacrifices in men,
ships, ’planes and materials, despite the
growing power of the Allies and of Com-
monwealth defence in particular, the
enemy holds more territory in the Aus-
tralian zone than he did when General
MacArthur arrived, and that with increas-
ing strength from Koepang to Munda and
beyond. He has bases, which he had not
then, 200 to 600 miles from the North
Australian coastline, in the Tanimbars
and Ambon, and his air power is still
capable of delivering strong blows.
Moreover, while battles such as the
Battle of the Bismarck Sea are great suc-
cesses, they are apt to produce false
optimism. If the weather had not
changed favorably to the Allies after the
convoy was discovered, it might have
got through to the N.G. coast. And it
might conceivably have been one of
three or four strongly-guarded con-
voys making for Australian territory
at points 1000 miles apart. The
immediate question is not whether, by
concentration, air-power can handle one
convoy in constricted seas, but whether it
and its naval and land support can deal
with a first-class Japanese attempt at in-
vasion. From footholds which they have
from along the whole length of the North
Australian coast, the Japanese are in a
position to advance against actual Com-
monwealth territory all the way from
their bases, under long-distance fighter
cover.
The war in the north at present con-
sists of a punching match by the air
forces. On the Allied side, it takes the
form of an aerial siege of Japanese-held
outposts in New Guinea and the Solo-
mons, as well as in the north-west.
The Lesson of Darwin
The two Japanese raids on Darwin
were obviously experimental, aimed in
particular at testing the power and
number of the Spitfires, a factor impor-
tant for the enemy to know as part of
the preparation for attack on Australia.
The kernel of this preparation is the
steady gathering of mercantile and naval
shipping, which presently may have to
brave the voyage southward under fighter
cover, behind the bombers.
The test force sent over on March 15
consisted of 25 medium bombers and 24
“O” fighters, mostly apparently flown by
crack “Division A” pilots. At a cost, they
found out what they wanted to know. The
bombers left early, but two of them were
shot down and two limped out over the
historic bit of Timor Sea which saw
the shadows of all the first aeroplanes to
fly in and out of Australia. The Jap
wrecks seemed to have no hope of mak-
ing their bases.
The “O” fighters, too, learnt what
there was to be learnt. Half their
number were shot out of action, and three
were so badly damaged that they had
little hope of seeing home. But four
Spitfires were lost. Two of the pilots
were saved, but the gallant leader of the
squadron, Thorold-Smith, veteran of
much overseas fighting, was reported
missing.
The Japanese version was characteris-
tic of Tokyo reports. It alleged that
heavy military damage had been done,
that the Jap loss was only one ’plane and
that of the R.A.A.F. “between 16 and
30 machines.”
Reports from the north-west uniformly
lay stress on the massing of enemy
power in that region. The communique
of March 15 mentioned “a growing con-
centration of enemy transports and cargo
ships in the Ambon-Dobo (Arus) region,”
where airfields were “being reinforced
and new airfields constructed.”
Off Dutch New Guinea (it was re-
ported on March 16) a small enemy vessel
was bombed at Kaimana, and three
enemy medium ships were plastered by
the heavies off Cape van der Bosch. Re-
connaissances were not able to discover
a convoy which Lockheed Hudsons had
seen just before nightfall on March 15,
ships steaming one behind the other in
the Arus.
Dobo was raked over thoroughly with
satisfying damage, including the sinking
of three enemy luggers. Next day there
were reports of the strafing of three
enemy vessels in McCluer Gulf (far
to the north-west of the island opposite
Ceram) and of two luggers in the Kai
Islands, and of the blasting of facilities
and of wharfage at Langoer (Kai Islands).
On Saturday a 10,000-ton ship was hit
by bombs and strafed off Cape van der
Bosch, and Hudsons set another on fire
in Kaimana Bay.
Salamaua’s Fires
In the New Guinea area the week was
decidedly lively.
On March 16 Bostons started a series
of fires round Salamaua, some of them
300 yards by 100 yards, which presently
merged in a heartening blaze. Wing-
Commander Keith Hampshire (Perth,
W.A.) described it as the biggest fire he
had ever seen. Bill Newton (Melbourne)
dived through a wall of ack-ack to lay the
first torch and came out looking as if his
machine had been through a mangle, with
both engines hit by h.-e. Wau, seeing
the red-shot smoke column rising 8000
feet into the air, must have thought for
a while that somebody had towed Vulcan
down the coast and set it in eruption.
Another force co-operated across the bay
at Lae in spite of heavy ack-ack fire, and
at Übili, in New Britain, a twin-engined
bomber was shot down into the sea in
flames as relish to the pounding of the
building area.
On March 18 392 bombs were dropped
after dusk on the runways and dispersal
areas of Rapopo ’drome (Rabaul). Ex-
plosions and fires suggested that aircraft
were popping all off the place. Only two
night fighters nosed up. They were driven
off, and all the raiders returned to base.
Übili was bombed thoroughly for the
second time.
Catalinas and Beaus
Next day’s communique mentioned 14
efforts which covered the whole of the
Mandated Territory—Buka (Solomons),
Kavieng (capital of New Ireland), Loren-
gau (H.Q. of the Admiralties), Gasmata,
Talasea, Cape Gloucester (New Britain);
and there was mentioned for the first
time an attack on Witu —a magnificent
hidden island harbor in the crater of an
old volcano 60 miles n.-w. of Talasea
(Willaumez Peninsula, New Britain).
There “enemy installations and barges”
were hit.
On mainland New Guinea beautiful
Madang was shaken by 38 tons of bombs
dropped on an area 1500 by 1000
yards and a “thorough strafing,” without
loss of an Allied machine—this in spite
of heavy ground defence. The town was
left “engulfed in smoke and flame visible
for 60 miles.”
On the way home the bombers and
fighters called at Alexishafen, and a
couple of R.A.A.F. Beaufighter men set
fire to enemy H.Q. and various buildings
and installations. Attack ’planes over
Salamaua came down to within 50 feet
of the ground to continue the deadly
work of a few days earlier.
The Buka attack was made by Cata-
linas, some of which were 5| hours over
the area, single units being detached to
attack Kieta and Kahili.
On Friday night a submarine was
caught unloading at Lae. It was hit
from low level by 15 bombs out of 33
aimed at it, and blew up. The sinking
was a joint enterprise —U.S. pilot and
R.A.A.F. co-pilot.
In week-end attacks off New Guinea
a bomber crippled a large destroyer and
a 500-ton ship.
Small ground operations are still in
progress in the Mubo area below Wau.
The Campaign in Papua
The last of the enemy having been
cleared out of the Mambare estuary
country just across the Mandated Terri-
tory border in Papua, the defences erected
there by the enemy have been examined.
They were on a large scale and elaborate.
They included prepared positions, pill-
boxes, a hospital and installations gener-
ally for a big force. General Mac-
Arthur’s H.Q. reported:
Signs of recent and hasty evacuation
indicate the decisive blow dealt to the
enemy on the north front by the destruc-
tion of the convoy in the Bismarck Sea
battle, these positions no doubt having been
built in preparation for its coming for a
probable future offensive.
Lae and Salamaua will soon be in a
bad way if the enemy cannot reinforce
them and resupply them. He is bound
to make another attempt; and in defence
at any rate he has not yet done with
Papua.
On the night of March 19 he sent 18
bombers under escort of 32 fighters to
attack the Allied base at Porlock Har-
bor, on the western side of Cape Nelson
Peninsula, about 50 miles from Buna and
180 miles from Lae. In the raid, made
shortly after noon, 70 bombs were
dropped, a wharf damaged. There were
no casualties.
The Japanese Navy claims to have sunk
six Allied submarines between March 3
and 6, but admits the loss of two mer-
chantmen.
The Eighth Army Moves.
“Ek Bum”: The rainy season having
begun to clear off, and the Allied forces
having got themselves into position and
warded off all the dangerous thrusts of
the enemy, Mr. Churchill announced in
his speech on March 21:
I have just received a message from
General Montgomery that the Eighth Army
is on the move, and that he is satisfied with
its progress.
General Montgomery, in a message
to General Eisenhower, expressed the
belief that the Eighth Army would join
up with the U.S. forces “shortly,” and
that “then between us we shall finish
off the position very quickly.”
The First Army had begun the week
with a display of apparent weakness. It
tempted Von Armm to push forward
a claw which dented the British line
along the coastal road, and against the
French a little further north of Tamera.
The attacks at first did not get beyond
the feeler stage. General Anderson
smacked Von Arnim’s clawing hand hard,
and the enemy drew back as if he had
been stung by a greenhead ant. This
was followed by an Allied fighting with-
drawal which brought the Germans
within shelling distance of the north-
south road, core of the Allied line. The
retreat looked strategical, as did the
enemy feint, though Rome —yes, Rome —
claimed 1600 prisoners and 70 tanks.
Meanwhile, above the northern flank
of the Mareth Line, where rain had held
up progress, General Patton’s Fifth Army
Americans and their allies moved for-
ward towards Gafsa. Into that town they
fiercely drove their spearhead on the
morning of March 17, as the rumble of
guns began to shake the debris from the
valley and escarpment walls further south,
and the crump of bombs to the east and
north-east was succeeded by spurts of
black smoke columning into the upper air
—markers for the positions in which the
R.A.F. was busily cutting the Sfax-
Gabes railway, plastering Axis aero-
dromes and communications and gener-
ally playing hob.
As the intensive bombing rolled south-
ward, it assumed characteristics familiar
to Rommel’s observers. On “German
Heroes’ Day,” the Afrikakorps had all too
good reason to remember the heroes of
El Alamein.
On St. Patrick’s Day Berlin an-
nounced with trepidation that the 51st
(Highland) Division (our Ninth A.I.F.
Division’s stablemates in Egypt), with its
armored brigade, held a van position
opposite the Mareth defences, with the
50th British and 2nd N.Z. Divisions and
a reserve tank- division behind.
On the evening of March 18 Berlin
said that the Eighth Army had appar-
ently completed its deployment.
The Highlanders already had been tap-
ping hard at the Mareth front, though
theirs obviously was not the main assault.
It was probably designed to hold the
enemy well in place to enjoy the
drumfire, medium and heavy bombs and
other luxuries which were being lav-
ished upon him, and to keep his mind off
the unhealthy position in the western rear
of his flank, where the Americans were
dashing ahead.
Here the enemy obviously was pre-
pared for an advance against the line on
which the Yankees overran themselves
earlier in the campaign, when they were
flung back from beyond Maknassi on
the Mahares-Sfax road. But General
Patton took a more southerly course, to
begin with. He feinted along the road
against the Djerid swamp to the south-
ward, took El Guettar and secured his
southern flank while at the same time
jostling part of Rommel’s screens out of
position. Then he flung north-eastward
along the main highway and took Seaed
on the way to Maknassi.
This brought his spearhead within 64
miles of Sfax. But he was facing newly-
flooded wadis—it began again to rain-
on the fringes of the main Axis defences.
General Eisenhower, General Alexander,
operational commander of all land forces,
and General Giraud watched the Gafsa
operations, in which some British units
took part, so they were obviously re-
garded as important.
Then General Montgomery came into
action. He was reported by Berlin to
be trying to roll in the Axis right by
a north-easterly blow from Ksar Rilane.
The Air Forces, long inhibited by
mud, ran off the aerodromes west of
the Axis lines in increasing clouds, not
only to blast every objective in sight in
Tunisia, but to redouble the harrying of
enemy convoys and link with the Malta
forces of Air Marshal Douglas, which
were holding joyous picnics both over
the sea —they hit a large ship and a large
destroyer in one convoy operation and
damaged another convoy—and over
Sicily. In one battle, the Tunisian Allied
forces shot down 11 enemy ’planes and
lost five.
Axis air operations took a back seat,
though two successive raids were made
on Tripoli, in which nine Junkers were
shot down.
The Glorious Ninth.
“Ek Bum”: It includes men from all
States and the Northern Territory. Its
history began with the appearance of
Rommel in front of its almost completely
unsupplied and all-too-few battalions just
before the Greek campaign. Its retreat
from Benghazi and El Regima is history;
its part in the defence of Tobruk was an
epic which will rank with Gallipoli in
Australian legend.
When the Eighth Army had to give
up Tobruk the Ninth was scattered in
Syria as far afield as the Turkish border,
just recovered and renewed after the
Tobruk adventure. Overnight, it was on
its way to Egypt. It was assigned for
the moment to defend Cairo, then Alex-
andria, but almost at once transferred to
the El Alamein fighting line, where Wes-
tralians and Victorians won eternal glory
in the first defensive battle round the
blood-soaked Hill of Jesus.
In the second battle, Oct.. 23 onwards,
the Ninth held the pivot position; and
without its unfaltering gallantry in the
face of everything that Rommel could
throw at it the battle may not have been
won.
It had an open flank on the sea side
and a peculiarly difficult direction of ad-
vance in country in which its movements
were fully observable from the slightest
eminence the highest mound on the
battlefield was only 100 ft. high. Its task
was about the most difficult set to any
part of the Eighth Army.
With its ranks filled to cover its loss
of more than 2000 killed and wounded
on the right open flank at El Alamein
where it first bored into and then sliced
off the enemy’s seaward formations —the
Ninth was reviewed by General Alex-
ander in Palestine. That was one of its
proud days.
U-boats Have First Priority.
“Ek Bum”: April should see the be-
ginning of a sea struggle the outcome of
which will be more important than any-
thing which happens on a land front—
that is, if it has not begun already. The
Germans boasted at the week-end of hav-
ing sunk 32 ships in an Atlantic convoy.
News of the concentration of a major
German surface force in northern Nor-
wegian waters foreshadows an all-out
enemy attempt to cut off convoy supplies
from Murmansk, and perhaps to attack
some of the intermediate North Sea
island bases from which the convoys
work. Elsewhere the wolf packs are
on the prowl, their range extended by
the building of new types, the more
general adoption of oxygen engines m
place of the cumbersome battery elec-
trics, and the deployment of undersea
tankers and mother ships as far abroa
as the Mexican Gulf. These latter yesseh
contain not only facilities for replems. -
ing supplies, but workshop plants.
That the U-boat war is to be an all-out
war, to the exclusion of all other types
of naval operation, is proved by the re-
placement of Admiral Raeder by Admiral
Doenitz, the Reichsmarine’s U-boat ex-
pert, as naval C.-in-C.
The Allies, with their vastly growing
strength in patrol aircraft and small anti-
submarine craft, will no doubt deal suc-
cessfully with the matter m the end, but
growing operations call for growi =
escorts, and particularly for balloom


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EVELYN CLAIR late of Susan Street
Scone.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS
JAMES CLAIR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 585 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and asking for the Court to
exercise its discretion under Section 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 30th April 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
FRANK W. LEE & SLEEMAN Solicitors 133
Pitt Street Sydney. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
Mmle ffhm
numbers of trained seamen, who do not
grow on trees.
Mr. Churchill pointed out before
Christmas that every convoy to Russia
had been “an important fleet operation,
because the enemy’s main fleet was close
at hand,” and that the latest one had
required the use of 77 ships of war,
apart from supply vessels.
Berlin Radio declared on March 16
that Doenitz had launched the new cam-
paign, and that 410,000 tons of Allied
shipping already had been sunk, includ-
ing a “large Canadian liner in use as a
transport.” This vessel afterwards was
named as the 21,500-ton Empress of
Canada. The Axis had sunk it twice or
thrice before.
Lord Cranbourne hinted strongly that
the wolf packs have restricted supplies to
North Africa. Agricultural Minister
Hudson, in a warning to British farmers,
described the shipping position as “more
serious than at any other time since the
outbreak of war.”
General Smuts, on the other hand, said
“on the highest authority” that “recent
reports from the Seven Seas have been
the most encouraging since the outbreak
of war”:
Fewer Allied merchantmen are being
sunk and more U-boats are being de-
stroyed. But the menace remains.
According to the New York “Times”
Hitler has 400 to 500 U-boats in reserve
for use on the widest possible scale in
a desperate attempt to cripple the Allies
before the Axis situation in the East and
in Africa deteriorates seriously. The
Allies, however, are building a new type
of escort vessel which will assure that the
struggle will not be one-sided.
Mr. Churchill, for his part, declared
that “the task of overcoming the U-boats”
had been given “first priority in all Allied
plans.” The destruction of U-boat bases
on the French coast, as exemplified by
the recent attacks on Lorient, Brest and
St. Nazaire, were an essential part of the
strategy.
No day goes by without some incident
endangering the lives of merchant sea-
men on the great trade routes of the
Atlantic, in the north of which a U.S.
coastguard cutter attacked five U-boats
and rammed and sank a sixth within 12
hours.
British naval forces are not idle. On
March 14 R.N. light vessels manned by
Norwegians visited a fiord 80 miles
north of Bergen, and under the fire of
shore batteries cheekily torpedoed and
sank two German supply ships. On
March 16 two more were destroyed in
a convoy off Terschelling (Netherlands),
and of the R.N. vessels which did the
sinking only one was “superficially dam-
aged.” Small ships are still being sunk with
great regularity in the Mediterranean.
On March 19 the Admiralty reported
that in 10 days two of H.M.’s subs, had
sank four large and two small supply
ships, a medium-sized tanker and a naval
auxiliary vessel.
Colonel Knox places Japanese mer-
chant shipping losses at about 1,857,000
tons, or one-third of total tonnage. He
allows that the Japs have replaced half
the losses by construction and seizure of
foreign ships.
Campaign in Burma.
In Burma, on the Arakan front, there has
been more activity than for weeks, and a
fight for control of the Mayu Peninsula
north-west of Akyab is in progress in
a see-saw sort of way.
The Japs have taken the offensive along
the northern flanks of the British advance
on some scale, and are infiltrating the
British positions with small forces. They
are also using such an air force as to
make it clear that they have begun to
take the Arakan front very seriously.
They need to —R.A.F. bombing practice
is beginning to have its effect not only
on Akyab, which is already a tattered
town, but on bases in the Irrawaddy
region.
The main British coastal spearhead
near Donbaik on March 20 seemed to be
holding its own, and has naval support.
On March 21 it was reported that most
of the troops cast of the Mayu River
were withdrawing about 10 miles towards
Taungmaw.
After Kharkov.
“Ek Dum”: The thaw in Russia
reached the central front about March
15 and passed up to Lake Ilmen, There,
and further north, in the Leningrad area,
it will be most severely felt.
Russian success in the Leningrad area,
though very welcome, was only partial.
The Germans were pushed off the frozen
Neva swamp marges and the ice-covered
bog country of the Volkhov. The way
was thus made clear to bring fresh troops
and supplies into the northern city,
where, unfortunately, every man immo-
bilised takes away from the strength of
the active fighting fronts in the south
and centre.
At the same time, the Russians, despite
heroic efforts in cold and darkness, were
unable to recover those parts of the
Moscow-Leningrad main line which were
said to have fallen into their hands in
the 1941-42 campaign.
Schlusselburg, at the Ladoga end of
the Neva, is in their grip, however,
which it was not last winter, and that is a
decided advantage, especially if the Ger-
mans should attempt to make any further
drives eastward towards Lake Onega.
German policy seems to be more and
more concentration on one front and the
merging of great sectors. This may be
due to heavy losses of man-power ; but
it is more likely in pursuance of a policy
arrived at long ago, the implementing of
which depended on the completion of
new railway systems behind the holding
lines, and of the extension of the great
autobahn direct roads from German
manufacturing centres through Poland
into the German rear.
The abandonment as main bases of
Kharkov, Kursk, Viazma and Rshev, ac-
companied by the ruthless and almost
total destruction of every facility in them
beyond quick repair, favored the theory
that the enemy proposed to pile up his
resources in one or two great centres in-
stead of dispersing them among a
number of hedgehogs.
A winter campaign is necessarily
severe on both sides. It is wishful think-
ing to believe that the Russian casualties
have not been heavy—“stupendous” is
the word used by a London correspon-
dent, though that may be excessive.
Berlin Radio on March 16 claimed that
1.500.000 Russians had been killed,
wounded or taken prisoner since Nov,
19, and that the Red Army had lost
12.000 tanks. This is not confirmed by
Hitler’s H.Q., which, contrary to prac-
tice, did not issue lists of prisoners dur-
ing the winter until recently.
The enemy protests that his own losses
have been nothing like the figures quoted
by the Russians —Stalin placed the
number of divisions routed up to Feb-
ruary 23 at 112 and casualties at 700,000
killed and 300,000 taken prisoner. Berlin
has produced no figures, but Hitler, back
from his mysterious retirement and vocal
at the week-end, gave the number of Ger-
mans “so far lost in the Second World
War” as 542,000. Previous lists placed
losses at 162,314 killed, 577,000 wounded
and 33,324 missing to Dec. 7, 1941 ; and
271,612 killed, 700,000 wounded and
465,730 missing to June 22, 1942.
An official Berlin spokesman has
asserted that Stalingrad cost the Red
Army 300,000 men, “infinitely more than
the Wehrmacht ever had at Stalingrad”
(“infinitely” is ridiculous), and the Hun-
garians’ reply to a claim that their 13
divisions had been “smashed” was a state-
ment alleging that Hungary had not sent
more than 120,000 troops to Russia, and
that Hungarian losses from August 20 to
Dec. 31 had been 2256 officers and men
killed, 9017 wounded and 2059 missing-
even at this the rate was heavier than in
most of the fighting in the last war. By
Dec. 31 the Hungarians had done most of
the winter fighting in the retreat from
the Don.
Early-season Battles
Whatever blows the enemy suffered in
man-power and materials, he is far from
defeated, and the light snowfall which
aided the Russians in their long advance
has now turned to the advantage of the
enemy by producing a light thaw.
Fighting proceeding in the Ukraine and
Kursk regions is on a scale and of a
nature which were not possible before the
latter part of May last year. The rate
at which the Germans have pushed for-
ward on a 350-miles front from Lisi-
chansk to north-west of Kursk cannot
have been the result of any enemy im-
provisation to meet a desperate situa-
tion. The advance is too widespread,
too uniform and too concerted in its
sector operations to be anything but a
major move long prepared for.
It has stopped the heavy fighting for
Orel, the capture of which would have
given the Red Army direct rail com-
munication between Moscow and Kursk.
It has so placed the Russian forces which
drove westward towards Konotop and
the Desna in the crook of a muscular
German elbow that they are in danger
of being cut off if the front gives way in
the Byelgorod region halfway from
Kursk to Kharkov. It has mopped up
about 5000 square miles of country s.-w.,
s.-e. and n.-w, of Kharkov. The Ger-
mans at the week-end claimed the cap-
ture of Byelgorod. Moscow admits it.
The Russians admitted the loss of the
ruins of Kharkov—at a cost of 66,000
German dead. The advance brought the
enemy front line to the Donetz from
Lisichank north-westward.
A German official military spokesman
on March 16 declared that fighting on the
southern front as a whole had “developed
into a battle of encirclement as a result
of a bold, far-flung movement by German
tank and infantry formations,” and that
“large Soviet forces” were “tightly en-
veloped east and s.-e. of Kharkov.” Also
that “neither desperate Soviet flanking
manoeuvres nor diversionary attacks on
the northern and central fronts are able
to prevent an extension of the German
operations between the upper Donetz and
the Byelgorod area.” The capture of
Syevsk (80 miles s.-w. of Orel) was later
claimed.
Said Moscow:
Our forces in the northern part of the
Central Donetz engaged in fierce battles.
We destroyed nine tanks and 18 lorries
carrying infantry.
On March 17 the Germans asserted
that all but a fragment of the Russian
troops s.-e. of Kharkov had been “wiped
out” and that the German armies were
advancing all along the line from Kursk
to the Donetz in heavy fighting. From
Feb. 13 to March 20 the enemy claimed
to have killed over 50,000 Russians and
taken 19,594 prisoners, with considerable
booty, between the Donetz and Dnieper.
Moscow said Kharkov had been
only “lightly held.” It announced
that the enemy was concentrating on
Chuguev, the crossing point of the
main rail to Kupyansk, via which there
is a three-rail linkage to Moscow,
and the Don from Kharkov, but
that a counter-attack had driven back
the attackers and resulted in the capture
of “a large inhabited place.” Later the
Germans crossed the Donetz in some
force near Chuguev.
The Chuguev-Isyum sector, the joint of
the Russian Donetz positions, is the most
vital spot which is being fought for. A
break across the river at either of the
towns must threaten the whole of the
Russian rear and its main communica-
tion lines. But the Russians up to the
evening of March 20 claimed to be hold-
ing their own and a little more. They
have certainly shown the greatest stub-
bornness in defence.
The Central Retreat
Moscow, indeed, laid the greatest
stress on the fighting on the central
front, where the German lines continued
to shrink toward the Smolensk defences
and the Smolensk-Bryansk-Orel line. But
this withdrawal seems to be part of the
German plan of reorientation. Moscow
put a heavy damper on optimists who
had been ready for days to celebrate the
fall of Smolensk.
Much of the Russian advance n.-e. of
Smolensk is being made through swamps
already half-unfrozen by the thaw ; much
through forests in which the snow has
piled up for three months, and which the
thaw will reach long after the rest of the
countryside has begun to dry up. Reuter’s
Moscow man reported the terrible con-
ditions under which the advance is being
made:
The strain of the fighting is terrific.
Huge fires light up the night sky all along
the front. The Germans are setting fire
to all villages and townships, and are dyna-
miting what they cannot burn. They are
also thickly mining the wake of their re-
treat. One Russian unit cleaned up 2000
mines in a day.
The whole position, especially in view
of the hunger which the Russian civil
population has suffered through the
winter, is not to be taken lightly.
The Luftwaffe, almost invisible after
Rostov was recaptured, is operating on
an almost full-summer scale.
The Germans hold more territory than
they did at the beginning of June, 1942.
Their footholds on the Kuban coast and
on the Donetz and their possession of the
Crimea place them strategically and tac-
tically at a great advantage compared
with the position then —their southern
flank is clear. They were active on a
large scale two months earlier than in
1942, when they declared winter at an
end on April 15 and struck (at Kerch) on
May 4.
In 1942 the Russians had assembled a
large force in the Kharkov region which,
though the campaign ended badly, was
able to go on the offensive. It delayed
the German programme, and this prob-
ably had a great effect on the Volga
campaign.
The Russians this time will meet any
German offensive at the end of the bitter
winter struggle, which was far more ex-
tensive than the previous winter, and with
communications inferior to those of 1942.
Some of their biggest intermediate depots,
such as Stalingrad, have been reduced to
piles of ruins, and there has been no
time to clean up Don battlefields and
fully repair roads and bridges along the
eastward supply route.
Reserves and Supplies
The outcome of the campaign will
depend on trained reserves and supplies,
decisive factors in every campaign. The
Russians have been carrying the winter
war in the far north towards Petsamo in
Finland, under dreadful Arctic condi-
tions. Petsamo is a nickel town ; but it
also is important in relation to the Arctic
supply route, for the land portion of
which, in Russian hands, it would form
a shield.
Convoys again will be pouring a fresh
output of British and U.S. war material
through Murmansk so soon as the seas
are open.
In brief:
Though there was a lull in the heavy British
raids over Germany last week —perhaps due
to a projected shift of raiding venues which calls
for a move to a new set of- ’dromes —there
was no lack of action.
On March 18 a Mosquito was lost in a dan-
gerous daylight attack on Padenborn, 60 miles
s.-w. of Hanover, during which the raiders were
over German-occupied territory for 500 miles.
Bombs were left in the centre of the railway
workships.
On March 18 U.S. bombers —Liberators and
Flying Fortresses —blasted the U-boat yards at
Vegesack (Bremen area) in daylight under heavy
ack-ack fire. Many hits were made. Two
bombers did not return, but the enemy suffered
the loss of “at least” 25 fighters.
The Luftwaffe carried out several nuisance
raids on the south and east coasts of England
and claimed heavy damage to Grimsby and
Sunderland. Four German bombers were shot
down along the n.-e. coast on March 15.
Including 1200 4000-pounders, 10,000 tons
of bombs were dropped by the Bomber Com-
mand in February, and up to March 17
bombing squadrons were abroad on 38 out of
45 nights. At times more than 100 aerodromes
were sending up streams of aircraft, and in
both raids on Essen crews of 3000 were in-
volved, and the explosive power delivered was
equal to that of 250,000 field artillery shells.
The Ruhr —about the size of the Sydney area
from Hornsby to Cronulla and the Heads to
Prospect—has more than 1000 heavy ack-ack
guns and 500 searchlights, besides several hun-
dred defending fighters. Essen alone has (or
had) 300 heavy and 600 light guns.
* * * *
The Carpathian Brigade of the Polish Army,
fellow-defenders of Tobruk, have presented our
Ninth Division with a collection of trophies
and with two of the highest Polish military
decorations —the Virtuti Militari and the Gal-
lantry Cross. The gift will be appreciated. All
our veterans of the Middle East have a great
opinion of the Poles as soldiers and men.
* * * *
Chungking reports the collapse of a Japanese
offensive in Hunan which began on March 8,
the Chinese having counter-attacked and taken
27 towns and inflicted heavy casualties on the
20,000 of the enemy said to be involved. Evi-
dently a typical heavy Japanese hit-run raid.
* * * #
Axis naval losses were given in the Lords
on March 17 as including three battleships, one
pocket battleship, six aircraft-carriers, 31
cruisers, 157 destroyers and t.bs., four raiders
and 184 miscellaneous vessels, including mine-
sweepers. Japan’s losses head the lists: Two
battleships, 17 cruisers and 70 destroyers —131
was the total number of destroyers on the Jap
naval list in 1941. Germany lost one battleship
(Bismarck), one pocket battleship (Graf Spec),
four cruisers, 39 destroyers and t.bs. and 69
miscellaneous craft.


BRANDAIiERA
m.
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BEANBAOEE A CO, hUL, BIEMINOHAM. ENG
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTON'S
A KOLA TON 1C
Product of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Missing Friend.
ESTATE GEORGE EDWARD SCANTLE-
BURY, otherwise STANLEY, late of Selwyn,
Queensland—lnformation is required regara-
ing the whereabouts of LESLIE SCANTLE
BEJRY, son of the late Harry Ernest Scantic
bury, who died at Wellington, N.SW., on -
June, 1920. Anyone knowing his whereabout,
kindly communicate with the LOCAL DtrU
PUBLIC CURATOR, Townsville, Queensland.
Something to his advantage.
eye lotion'
F "s , s fl A rae E d v E /Kv , w”iE E r E lid> j
H. A. Rose & Co. Ptv. Ltd.. King St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Taramoa’s defeat of Pandini and Frill
King in the Australian Cup on Saturday
was a bad result for doubles bookmakers.
They laid him for substantial sums with
the Newmarket winner Denko. The
result could have been much worse for
straight-out operators. Rumors that he
was not quite as fit as could be wished,
combined with a plunge on Mercury
Bay, caused Taramoa’s price to ease
from sevens to tens.
Taramoa is owned in Maoriland by
his breeder, W. T. Hazlett, who had had
little luck with the many horses he had
raced in Victoria. Sir Simper was his
best before Taramoa, whose only suc-
cess prior to Saturday was in restricted
company at Mentone. His second to
Throttle in the Flemington Handicap in-
dicated first-class Cup prospects, but that
race could have meant disaster. He
ricked a foreleg slightly and lost some
skin in a scrimmage. Heat developed in
the affected leg, but the trouble re-
sponded to cold-water treatment. Tara-
moa was ridden 31b. overweight by H.
Morris, and, experiencing a good run
throughout, was just too solid for his
rivals. He defeated a record field and
won the first Australian Cup run over
two miles one and a half furlongs. The
distance was reduced by half a furlong
to avoid eliminations after acceptances.
N. Percival, rider of the 25-to-l chance
Pandini, considers his mount would have
beaten Taramoa had he escaped trouble
at the turn. It was Percival’s fifth second
in the Australian Cup, a race he has
never won. Mercury Bay, backed from
eights to favoritism at 9 to 2, was never
dangerous, and finished a long way
behind his stablemate Throttle, who
eased from 7 to 1 to 12 to 1 and ran on
nicely in sixth position. Wise Counsel
weakened to finish seventh, but it was
asking a lot of him to win the Cup for
the second successive year without a race
between.
Decision by the stewards to award
Scottish Maid the Ascot Vale Stakes on
protest from Pharisee aroused consider-
able comment. W. Beresford, rider of
Pharisee, admitted that his mount acci-
dentally interfered with Scottish Maid,
whose jockey, R. Heather, alleged that
Pharisee crossed him when only half a
length in front. The interference
occurred about two furlongs from home,
but Scottish Maid had her chance subse-
quently, and was not doing as well as
Pharisee on the post. Pharisee wound up
with a length to spare, and it is improb-
able the interference made any difference
to the result. Pharisee was doubly un-
fortunate. Shortly after the start he was
involved in a scrimmage which resulted
in J. Neale, rider of Crow’s Nest, being
suspended for two months. Scottish
Maid, who won two races in the spring,
is by Gay Lothario from Ellen Douglas.
Tranquil Star increased her earnings
to £17,700 when she made an exhibition
of the C. M. Lloyd Stakes field. She
cleared away to a lead of seven or eight
lengths early, was given a breather later,
and then bounded away again at the top
of the straight to win as she liked by
six lengths from Sun Valley, with Illyrian
third. High Road kicked Tranquil Star
and Sun Valley at the barrier and has
been banned from racing in the suburban
area.
* * * *
Apart from service men, there was an
attendance of 33,000 at Randwick on
Saturday and a tote turnover of £87,745
10s., well on the way to three times as
much as for the corresponding day last
year.
Outpacing Flying Knight soon after the
start of the Glenfield Handicap, Trim-
mer was clear of Hall Stand at the top
of the straight, with Flying Knight, Guild
Hall, St. Elmo and Milanja heading the
remainder. A hundred yards from the
judge’s box Milanja looked a winner, but
could not stall off Panchio (Hughes), who
was in the middle of the field at the home
turn. Nobleman surprised by running
third, and Trimmer and St. Elmo led the
others. Flying Knight and Hall Stand
dropped out in the straight, but neither
was knocked about when there was no
hope of winning. Despite dissatisfaction
expressed as to his weight, Hall Stand s
heavy backing pointed to his haying
shown his connections something particu-
larly good, but, though bright, it is prob-
able he needed a race. Rimveil did not
look wound up and did no better than
his appearance suggested probable.
Salivant (F. Smith), who had not shown
form of much account since winning the
Peter Moore Cup in January, was behind
Cadger, Angus and Pannett turning for
home in the Warwick March Handicap,
but ran on so well that he scored com-
fortably* from Linemond, who also did
good work in the straight. Moondarewa’s
third said a lot for his prospects during
the next few weeks. Katanga’s price of
2 to 1 was absurdly short in view of any-
thing he had shown recently. However,
he did not get a chance of a run through
when the horses bunched ahead of him
in the straight, and may do better next
time.
In the Farm Novice Handicap Lady
Hamilton (J. Thompson) did all that had
been expected of her at Rosehill, when
she could only get third. Fourth to Hau-
teur, Bomb and Blue Cap into the straight,
she was a winner shortly after starting
upon the last furlong, and it should not be
long before she scores in better company
and at a middle distance. Submission,
who was not prominent at the turn, did
well to run second, and it was only at the
end Gryphon, in getting fourth, showed
up. Blue Cap, second at the half-mile,
tired badly, and of the unplaced lot Bomb
may be best worth keeping in mind.
The style in which Modulation (Bartle)
won the Berala Handicap proved him
even better than previously supposed.
Sixth at the half-mile, where Young
Valais led by fully ten lengths from
Angel, with Boorchief, Flying Shuttle and
Main Topic next, he took charge half-
way down the straight and scored easily
from Baroda, who made up a lot of lee-
way after being second-last at the five
furlongs. He was not an easy mount for
his light rider. Flying Shuttle was third,
but, even allowing for meeting with a
little interference, her easy defeat dis-
posed of the idea that she was really a
filly of class. Karaset ran fairly, while
Angel’s fifth did not enhance her repu-
tation. Main Topic was a complete
failure, finishing last, and on that form
is seemingly so far from his best that the
interval, between last Saturday and the
commencement of the A.J.C. autumn
meeting on April 17 will need to do a
lot for him to enable him to repeat his
three-year-old superiority of last spring.
Star Gold did the pacemaking in the
first division of the Ingleburn Nursery,
but MacArthur, with an impressive finish-
ing run, won by a neck from Goya, who,
though not one of the leading division
in the early part, had a slight advantage
in the straight before MacArthur (Munro)
put in his claim. Mintage (by Hall
Mark) made a promising showing, and
Bulancer spoilt a place chance by run-
ning greenly after turning for home.
Moresby did not do as well as at Rose-
hill.
From a time and weight standpoint,
Clarion Call (Cook), in winning the
second division of the Ingleburn Nursery,
put MacArthur’s effort in the shade. He
carried 81b. more, and made a second
and a quarter faster time. John Willie
turned for home ahead of Clarion Call
and Warlock, but the last-mentioned two
had the race to themselves over the last
furlong. Clarion Call squeezed home by
half a head from Warlock, while Falcon
Knight, who was hopelessly placed at the
half-mile, cut John Willie out of third
money. It is unfortunate that the fact
of being a gelding debars Clarion Call
from the Sires’ Produce Stakes, but, at
the 70gns. he cost as a yearling, a return
of £1666 in prize-money up to the present
is decidedly satisfactory.
Enderby (Duncombe) upset calcula-
tions in the Sunnybrook Welter by dis-
posing of Fearless Fox after the latter
looked to have the race won half a fur-
long from home. There was merit in
Gold Head’s third, as he was a long way
back when the field settled down. Easter
Time was a place possibility in the
straight, but just missed, while Miss Pen-
theus and Petruchio, who led at the turn,
found the last furlong one too many, and
Ron Rico and Rathlin were always
among the tail-enders. There may still be
hope for St. Constant, who was sixth ;
while it is certain that two or three
horses that were not in demand, and
were never near the front, will shortly
show improvement.
* * * *
It has appeared in print that some
trainers who patronised Newcastle last
year and this found it an unpayable ven-
ture, and will be content again to do their
racing elsewhere. Expenses were heavier
than they anticipated, races hard to win,
and, amusing to relate, it is alleged that
another drawback was that they found
big punters non-existent. Well, so far
as the last portion of their complaint—
if it really was made —is concerned, it is
difficult to believe that any owner or
trainer would select Newcastle as a good
place in 'which to dig up liberal punters.
In fact, it would now be difficult to find
them in Sydney. Most of those indi-
viduals who received much publicity
under fancy names a few years ago have
dropped out. They were reputed to be
taking thousands out of the ring in Syd-
ney and Melbourne every week, but, while
they have disappeared, the “books” are
still with us. For punters the Turf is a
great leveller.
* * * *
Owners and trainers made a fuss
about the extra 10s. charged by Rosehill
in the way of nomination fee, but some
can still afford enough for sweepstakes
to train their horses in public. Not half
as many horses are “dead” as people
believe, but there is no doubt there are
occasions on which a win would be an
accident, disturbing alike to the owner
and trainer.
* * * *
B. Payten was slow off the mark in
scoring with his two-year-olds, but West
Point and MacArthur have put him on
his right leg, and Van Eyck is another
winning possibility. It should be the
same with Mustang. General opinion
favors MacArthur as being the best of
Payten’s lot, but that colt’s form at
Randwick was not better than that shown
by West Point at Rosehill. Payten’s colts
are good, but, with Moorland and May-
fowl standing in the way, success for any
of them in the Sires’ Produce Stakes will
be difficult.
* * H=
The increase in the totalisator turn-
over at Sydney meetings during the past
year has been pronounced. The Don-
caster and Cup meeting was held at Rose-
hill last April. On the first day £30,040
went through the machines, and on the
second day £30,844. There was no com-
parison between the importance of the
fixtures, but at the recent Canterbury
Park meeting the turnover was nearly
£40,000 for the single day. That em-
phasises the increased popularity of the
tote, as well as the fact that there was
never more ready money for racing in
Sydney than at present. If the weather
is favorable machine betting at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting should, taking last week's
£87,745 as a guide, be a record for
two days at Randwick. However, tote
betting is not worrying the books. They
are getting their share of the additional
money, and the difficulty of at present
improving the machines and buildings
in order to cope with extra business, as
well as the possible lack of tote clerks
and other assistants, makes their position
safe during the war, and probably for a
long time after.
* * *
Recently the Brisbane A.T.C. (Albion
Park) refused free admission to merchant-
service men and discharged soldiers in
civilian clothes. Brisbane clubs differ as
to whether soldiers in uniform should
pay, members of some favoring a small
charge, which would be devoted to war
purposes. Bearing on Brisbane activities,
the Q.T.C. has reduced its nomination
fees to 10s. for all but special races. Bris-
bane, by the way, does not lack book-
makers. Ninety-nine fielded in the leger
at a recent Albion Park meeting.
* * * *
England’s largest racing teams, let alone
those of Australia, are insignificant by
comparison with that of the Indian
owner the Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior.
For the 1942-43 Bombay racing season
Captain H. P. Jadhav, who trains for the
Maharaja, paid training fees for 147 dif-
ferent horses. Most were either Indian-
bred or Arabs, but, while there were a
fair number of English horses, the team
included only seven Australians. One of
these was Lucrative. At the Bombay
meeting on Jan. 1 the Maharaja won
three races, but he would occasionally
need to win the whole programme to pay
training expenses. Lucrative, by the way,
ran in three races in Bombay in De-
cember and January without getting a
place.
* * * *
Melbourne yearling sales concluded
last Friday, when the top price was
1250gns. for a colt by Manitoba from
Taurica. He is a brother to Blue Valley.
On the two days 156 yearlings were sold
for 46,810gn5., an average of a little over
300gns. It was the most successful sale
held in Melbourne for several years.
* * * •
As usual more yearlings are catalogued
from Kia-Ora (P. Miller) than from any
other stud for the coming sales at Rand-
wick. The Kia-Ora total is 43. The St.
Aubins Stud has 26, H. Thompson 24,
F. W. Hughes Pty. 18, E. A. Haley Pty.
17, and A. W. Thompson and Co. Pty. 16.
Eighteen breeders are represented by one
yearling each.
* * * *
The highest-priced yearling sold in
England last season was a colt by
Hyperion out of Eclair, by Ethnarch. He
made 8200gns. Hyperion averaged
3783gns. for a colt and two fillies; Fair-
way’s average was 2233gn5. for three,
and that of Blue Peter 2180gns. for four.
Thirty yearlings were sold for prices
ranging from 8200gns. down to lOOOgns.
Only two by Nearco were sold, and they
realised 8700gns.
“The bigger they are, the harder they
fall,” said Bob Fitzsimmons. Leichhardt's
version is “The bigger Hockey Bennell s
opponents the easier meat they are for
him.” Matched with the 171 b. heavier Al
Walker, Bennell won all 12 rounds. He
finished with a badly gashed eyebrow,
but it hadn’t affected his marksmanship
or speed.
Fuller v. Warner, at Sydney Stadium,
was an eleventh-hour substitute for Pat-
rick v. McLaughlin. It wasn’t bad for
five rounds ; then Warner emerged from
a mix-up with blood pouring from his
nose, damaged before the bout. He
turned it up at “corners.”
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Zue or Bomb
(stablemates), 1 ; Submission, 2;
Earlborough, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Mayfowl, 1 ;
Sincerity, 2; Flight, 3.
Rawson Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ; Mil-
dura, 2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Railway Handicap; Hesione, 1 ;
Arahura, 2 ; Triad, 3.
Autumn Handicap: Colonel Post,
1 ; Wellesley, 2 ; Cadger, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Noble-
man, 1 ; Young Valais, 2 ; Hauteur,
3.
Parramatta Handicap: Gold
Head, 1 ; Fearless Fox, 2 ; Mortine,
3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Sydney housewife knows all about
a war of nerves. What with last week’s
argument as to whether the baker and
therefore her loaves should rise, a fore-
boding that her milk supply would at any
moment be rationed and the madden-
ingly high prices of vegetables and fruit,
her sensory filaments felt as though they
were being sandpapered. There should
be some very glittering decoration de-
vised by the Government for wives and
mothers who spread protective wings be-
tween their fledglings and the upsets
caused by striking males. In last week’s
bread strike mothers baked tons of
damper, scones and nutty loaves so that
children’s appetites might be satisfied.
They didn’t add to the confusion by say-
ing; “Oh, well, we are overworked and
overtired, too —let the family do with-
out. ’ As is usual in times of stress on
the home front, Mum emerged with flying
colors.
V.As. collected silver coins from a
long procession of visitors to the Exhi-
bition of Art by Australians in the Ser-
vices. The pictures bring the burning
blues of the sea and sky, the emerald
fires of tree and jungle of our Far North
and New Guinea to the walls of the
Education Department’s galleries. To
the gazers on the torrid opening day the
idea of the suffocating heat under which
our soldiers defend this land was driven
home. Not that there’s anything con-
sciously heroic about these sketches and
paintings. All the entries are by men of
the services, and there’s a good deal of
humor as well as talent around the walls.
Lord Wakehurst opened the show, and
the observant ones pointed out that, while
his coat was double-breasted, his trou-
sers were minus cuffs. His speech held
the interest, because, being by nature a
writer, his phrases have a real thought
behind them. Sydney Ure Smith, one
of the chiefs of the War Art Coun-
cil, was the afternoon’s host. His grey
suit was also double-breasted, and so
dated pre-Dedman. On the platform
also were Windeyer, K.C., and Major
B. Jones. The Alexander Gordon lady, on
behalf of the Red Cross, which benefits
by the show, thanked the Governor, and
invited every one to clap hands for him.
There were crowds of well-known
women, all dressed in flower-patferned
silks or non-breeze-resisting cottons of
gay design. Distinctive were Mrs. C. L.
Jones and Mrs. Hector Clayton. Both
wore small white hats above their mid-
summer frocks.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, Evelyn Tildes-
ley and Mrs. Bernard Muscio were a
trio of Women’s Movement workers
noted. Mrs. Magrath, graceful in blue
apd white, was glimpsed standing beside
a panel of husband L.-Bdr. John
Magrath’s delicate water-colors. Mrs.
Reg Blaxland was one of the day’s active
workers.
Autumn leaves drifting or eddying
down in rhythmic spirals were seasonal
accompaniment to the dancers in Phillip
Park last Saturday. Traditional white
ballet skirts had given place to flulfiness
as palely pink and blue as sunset tones,
and as they twirled or languished on the
platform between green sward and green
trees there was a stilly attention on the
part of the packed audience. Not only
the audience occupying the chairs was
muted, but so were lines of small boys
gazing from perches on the fence. The
Polish-Australian Ballet, performing for
the benefit of the Children’s Library
Movement, had the ideal audience.
Jean Edward’s Joan of Arc combined
pathos and dignity, and had the music
of Mozart for background. Stephanie
Edye, in white satin billowing to many
frills around the ankle, expressed the
classic and the more vivacious dances of
Spain, and later, with Raissa Kouznet-
sova, V. Shaievsky and Edouard Sobi-
chevsky, presented a traditional Polish
dance.
From a recent season of ballet Helene
Kirsova handed in almost £lOOO to the
Legacy Club’s War Orphans’ Fund. Last
week she launched another season at the
Conservatorium, again featuring Rachel
Cameron, Peggy Sager, Helene Orlova,
Strelsa Heckelman and other established
favorites among these very young bal-
lerinas. The friends of Legacy again
made trek to the Macquarie-street music
box, and found that, on further ac-
quaintance, Anna, the wistful small-girl
heroine of Kirsova’s “Revolution of the
Umbrellas,” was as appealing as at first
sight. Indeed, this ballet with the Barrie-
like flavor looks as though it might be-
come a Christmas-holiday perennial.
“Hansel and Gretel,” another of Helene’s
offerings, had Mischa Burlakov for its
Father Peter. Henry Krips and Richard
Farrell were the pianists.
The W.A.A.A.F. celebrated its second
birthday in no grudging spirit. In fact, the
girls made a week of it. Dinners were
spread (one was a rather plush affair of
eight courses, and the girls were waited
on by R.A.A.F. men). Who cared if
there was a bread shortage when there
were imposing birthday cakes glittering
in the rays of two candles? At one of
the parties W.A.A.A.F. officers waited on
the other ranks and did the washing-up
afterwards. And if that’s not sisterly love
and charity, what is?
Through the board room of the
National Gallery last Saturday morning
ran a thrill of anticipation. For the first
time in its history a woman trustee was
to enter its portals. Every male trustee
who could manage it was there to greet
Mrs. H. V. Evatt, the new comrade in
art. The reception was a happy and
informal affair, garnished with a tea-
drinking. Chairman of the board of trus-
tees B. J. Waterhouse welcomed Mrs.
Evatt, who made a very neat speech in
reply. Mrs. Evatt, who is the wife of
Dr. H. V. Evatt, Attorney-General, first
studied art at the Fizelle-Crowley school.
She has also studied overseas. On her
recent visit to the U.S.A. she spent many
hours amid the almost fabulously valu-
able collections of art. The Mellon col-
lection in Washington was one of her
great joys. Canberra, where she and her
husband spend so much time, makes
great appeal to her with the peaceful,
Corot-like quality of its scenery. Mrs.
Evatt, pictured here, hopes to help to
make the painting of murals on public
buildings more widespread.
Lieut. John Norris, whose father,
Lieut.-Col. Norris, was a soldier of the
1914-18 war, married his Betty Evans at
St. Canice’s, Roslyn Gardens (where his
mother and father were married), one
morning last week. Capt. John Sullivan,
M.C., served the Nuptial Mass, and Sergt.
John O’Neill was best man. Betty, who
made a radiant-looking bride, is only
child of the J.B. Evans couple, of Macleay
Regis, Potts Point. John Lane Mullins,
M.L.C. of honored memory, was the
’groom’s grandfather. A family reception,
very happy and matey, was held at the
home of the bride’s parents. Betty, all in
white, had two very blue-blooded orchids
pinned to her white handbag. Mrs. Nor-
ris, John’s mother, was smart in navy
blue and a neat crop of gardenias.
Hopewood House, once de luxe home
of Lebby Hordern and more recently one
of Sydney’s most fashionable finishing
schools, directed by Nancy Jobson, has,
in the way of nearly all Sydney’s large old
houses, been taken by the Army. For
the future it will house 100 W.A.A.A.Fs.
The house has a ballroom with a specially
prepared floor. The woodwork through-
out is polished to satin smoothness. The
entrance hall is the ideal background for
a hostess receiving guests. The
W.A.A.A.Fs. in residence should be
happy in these spacious surroundings.
The chapel of Riverview College, where
the bridegroom, Sergt. Colin O’Donnell,
was educated, blessed the marriage vows
he exchanged with June Bate. Both are
of Mosman, the bride the youngest
daughter of the Harold Bate couple,
Colin the eldest son of the Thomas
O’Donnells. Father McLaughlin per-
formed the ceremony. Bettie Bate, sister
of June, ’maided, and Gerard, brother
of the ’groom, was best man. After the
ceremony the guests were invited to the
reception rooms of the college for toasts.
Reception was afterwards held at the
Mosman home of the Harold Bates. The
bride wore the time-honored ivory satin
and tulle and the bridesmaid allied daffo-
dil taffeta and Talisman roses.
Australia greeted C. A. Berendsen,
Maoriland’s first High Commissioner for
this continent, with smiles and fair
weather. With Mr. Berendsen came his
wife and his mother, aged 82. Also in
the group are the High Commissioner’s
secretary, C. A. Clark, and Mrs. Clark.
Already the Enzedders have sped to Can-
berra. According to Mrs. Berendsen,
war-time Maoriland for women is geared
much the same as war-time Australia is
for us. Camouflage-netting, canteen
work and packing parcels for soldiers
have kept her very busy, and she looks
forward to being just as busy in soldier
causes on this side of the Tasman.
From Melbourne
What with the A.W.A.S. conference,
the V/.A.A.A.F. birthday and the general
activities which Victoria’s Indian summer
invites last week was crowded in almost
pre-war style. The A.W.A.S. debated
education, being conscious that the prob-
lem before most of its girls was what
to do when peace comes. The
W.A.A.A.F. used its celebrations partly
to stimulate recruiting, partly just to re-
call past history. A figure in the celebra-
tions who caught and held the eye was
Flight-Officer Bell, who, as wife of an
R.A.A.F. squadron-leader, pioneered the
first move towards womanly preparedness
for the fray in Queensland before the
war began. Mrs. Bell, after being out
for a while, is now back with the
W.A.A.A.F., and was one of those who
gathered for the pioneers’ official dinner
last Wednesday.
The Garden Army celebrated its first
birthday on a somewhat strenuous note
on Saturday. The planned party at the
Rockingham Convalescent Home, Kew,
was postponed, and would-be celebrators
were invited instead to a working bee
on the land surrounding the home, be-
ginning at 2.30 ; any helpers were wel-
come. There will be a festive party,
however, in the not-too-far-distant future,
and members will enjoy seeing one an-
other digging into something other than
hard earth, to wit, afternoon-tea, talking
about the year’s crops, and groaning,
farmer-wise, about the weather and the
slugs.
Dorothy Neill-Stevens, pictured here
by Jack Cato, bids fair to be one of
Melbourne’s most versatile musicians
when she has completed her studies. She
is only 16, but she has won a 20-guinea
bursary to the University Conservatorium
as a violin student (her teacher was J. B.
North), and she also plays the piano and
has a voice which gives promise of great
things. But music isn’t all her life. She
has a good seat on a horse, and she has
developed skill in photographic retouch-
ing and coloring. She commenced win-
ning scholarships in her first year at the
P.L.C. at the age of six and a half.
Friends in Melbourne and in the Goul-
burn Valley will watch her career with
interest.
Clothing the young on a large scale is
becoming a bit of a problem, involving
visits to the rationing commission and the
rounding up of willing workers who can
do the job and have no delusions such
as that cutting out pyjamas is child’s-
play. The Knitbees, a group of needle-
women and fund-raisers that is on hand
for any needy cause, are busy with clothes
for a large Salvation Army home which
has found normal buying and making im-
possible under present conditions. The
R.A.A.F. Welfare House, which is open-
ing next month, has also been up against
difficulties in getting together the clothing,
especially warm woollies and under-
clothes, which it will be part of the ser-
vice of the house to supply to all children
staying there. The Emily MacPherson
School of Domestic Economy and Mrs.
Podger, of South Yarra, who has put her
skill and enthusiasm into many move-
ments on behalf of children, have come
to the rescue by undertaking to provide
basic needs, but the committee hopes that
interest in R.A.A.F. Welfare will pro-
duce lots of supplementary gifts of
children’s clothes, blankets and toys.
Speeches at the annual recording of
the Tweddle Baby Hospital Committee
revealed that there exist persons who do
not sufficiently appreciate the nurses, so
rare in the community at the moment,
who look after babies. Cases of under-
payment and overwork were cited.
Matron Graham pointed out that these
nurses had no appeal to the Nurses’
Board, and she suggested that they should
form an organisation of their own. Plans
were put forward to raise funds for the
hospital. The value of the training given
Tweddle nurses is becoming very much
evident now that domestic help is fast
vanishing, as they are a wonderful help
to the young mother.
The musical education of the young is
taken very seriously by even the most
unmusical educationists nowadays, so
it is natural that the British Music
Society should be paying some attention
to the younger generation. Children of
members and any they might want to
bring along had first-call on seats at the
children’s concert in the Assembly Hall
on Saturday, and other children were
welcomed while space remained. The
choice of the morning for a children’s
concert was wise, as it claimed the young
at their most receptive hour and didn’t
conflict with the movies—a competition
that might have proved very unwise.
Conferring of degrees on newly-gradu-
ated medicoes brings as usual a crop of
engagements and wedding plans afoot.
Engagements announced include Pat
Flight to Dr. John Cloke. Pat was a
massage graduate last year. Engagement
is of country interest, as Pat is the only
daughter of F. Flight, of Glenleigh
station, Swan Hill, and Dr. Cloke is the
only son of P. J. Cloke, Ascot Hills, Cos-
grove. Announced also this week en-
gagement of Dr. Phillip Stretton to
Patricia Gibbs. Patricia is the daughter
of M. H. Gibbs, of Caulfield, and Dr.
Stretton the son of Judge and Mrs.
L. E. B. Stretton. Dr. Stretton is well
known among the sporting, as he played
hockey and skied with the University
team.
Another engagement of University in-
terest is that of Mildred Rome to Captain
Albert Piper, A.A.M.C. Daughter of the
T. J. Romes, of Murweh, Warnambool,
Mildred is a Bachelor of Science and
does research work at the Baker Institute.
She counts a hockey blue among her Uni-
versity laurels. Brother Major Ronald
Rome, well known to this city, was mar-
ried in Sydney recently. Captain Piper,
also a Melbourne University graduate, is
the elder son of the R. P. Pipers, of Mori-
dale, Mt. Moriac.
The elevation of erstwhile Crown Pro-
secutor Clifford Book to the Bench as a
County Court Judge has brought many
congratulations, not only to him and his
wife, but also to his mother, one of Mel-
bourne’s most sincere philanthropic
workers. For many years it has been
possible, on annual meeting days of mis-
sion enterprises in which Mrs. Book has
had a leading part, to see mother and
son on the platform together. The late
A. D. Book, the Judge’s father, was a
linguist of parts. He had lectured at the
Liverpool Institute before coming to Vic-
toria, and here he was associated with
Scotch College and Melbourne Univer-
sity before his retirement from active
work. The new Judge himself is an
accomplished speaker, and his interest in
social missions has extended over many
years.
On her way to Portsea for a break
before commencing her new training
course was Miss Freda Irving when met
last week-end. After doing good service
with the Red Cross since the war began
she has decided to give up publicity for
an Army job, and is to train with that in
view. Freda and sister Sybil (Colonel
Irving, Controller of the A.W.A.S.) are
daughters of Major-General Irving, an
Australian commander in the 1914-18
war, and their only brother, Ronald, is a
senior officer in the present one. Like
many other women engaged in press-
publicity work, Miss Irving is a jour-
nalist. She was social editress of Mel-
bourne “Sun-Pic.” when she went to the
Red Cross.
Another Red Cross worker to seek
fresh fields is Monica Starke, daughter
of Justice Starke, of the High Court, and
Mrs. Starke, who was a daughter of legal
light John Gavan Duffy. Miss Starke,
who will become a hospital visitor, has
worked at Red Cross headquarters for a
long time, and should appreciate most of
the possibilities of the new job without
any coaching.


1*
;
.
'
MM
WiMf
n
%ji I Wm
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS
IN THE NEW £100,000,000
LIBERTY LOAN
LEND TO DEFEND
SOKE-OH!
“German magistrates drafted into war
work.” — “Daily Mirroi'.”
Now they’ll do hard labor themselves
for a change.
•J. *1* *1*
“A grown man sleeps on an average not quite
seven hours in the 24.”—' “Sun.”
Then what do fully-matured civil ser-
vants do after office hours?
•J*
“Girls from all walks of life, you might say,
are working here. I had a society woman in
my bay for a while.” — Woman’s paper.
But there was no gulf between them.
•h 4* 4*
“There’s Nigel Bruce, for example, who has
to squire his lovely wife.” — Film blurb.
He’s lucky. Other men have to square
theirs.
d- *1* *1* *1*
“Snoods for Safety.”— “Sunday Sun.”
A snood, it appears, is a kind of a
net that the girls keep the back of their
hair in. It is also a net, we must never
forget, that a boy friend they hope they
will snare in.
But the writer who said that, for safety,
a snood is the very best thing you could
own must have written that down in
satirical mood, for the dangers of snoods
are here shown;
Mr. Gayboy went out, and he came
home again. Then his jaw was punched
out of its socket. An accident caused it
—and that happened when she discovered
a snood in his pocket.
O’Hell.
Suspicious.
“For a birthday present he gave Ursula a
beautiful canary.”— Story, womans paper.
He thought she’d be delighted with the
gift, but he was slighted, and for women
now he’s got a nasty word. For the lady,
quite contrary, snapped on sighting the
canary: “Huh! Is this your way of
giving me the bird?”
Eve.
“Hall Stand Impresses at RandwickA
—Sporting paper.
Also at home if you bump it in the
dark.
“Physical Jerks for Bat.” — “D.T.” heading.
To keep it willowy?
Half-hose.
“New Sock Pattern.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The heel is one huge darn with a knot
cunningly concealed where it will inflict
the highest degree of torture when the
wearer walks. The toe is ventilated with
a large hole through which protrude
an ingrowing nail, two corns and, in
winter, one chilblain. The sole seems to
have been starched or scientifically
treated to resemble in substance an aged
rat which has been ironed by a steam-
roller and left in the sun to air for several
weeks. The leg, originally designed to
extend well up the calf, after the first
wash covers the ankle snugly and fre-
quently disappears like magic into the
shoe when the wearer chases a tram.
These socks should be pulled on gently ;
like bootlaces, when tugged hurriedly
they’re apt to snap in the middle.
On second thoughts, though, socks of
this pattern aren’t new ; I’ve been wearing
’em for years.
P. O. M. C.
“Our Music Not Liked by Samurai.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
They’ll like it better when they have
to dance to our tune.
•b 4* 4* 4*
“Too many adventurous souls get oft the
beaten track and make the mistake of drinking
from a crystal-clear, running brook.”
— Woman’s paper.
It’s, the sudden shock to the system that
knocks them up.
4* 4* 4*
“We live in stirring times,” says a writer.
Probably explains why we’re a bit
mixed.
Home-front Tactics.
When for new clothes I have a shot,
And tears I have to try,
Like men of old I trust in God
And keep my powder dry.
Mrs. P.
Guy-rope.
“The wise girl realises that men must be
given some rope.”— “Woman-”
Young lady, don’t abandon hope.
We strongly recommend that you
Just give your man sufficient rope
And you will find the luckless dope
Will make a splice he can’t undo !
P. O. M. C.
Strategic Move.
I’m pretty sure that Mary Rose
Will answer “Yes” if I propose :
In consequence, I think I shall
Be wise to get another gal.
T. W. N.
Not So Sweet.
“Alice , who was charged with assault,
admitted bashing a man over the head with a
roofing tile. He had smiled at her, she alleged.”
—Court case.
Sweet Alice, who blushed with delight
at your smile,
And who trembled with fear at your
frown,
Makes way for the Alice who, armed
with a tile,
Bashes smile-givers fair on the crown.
BRIAN BUREAU
Filling a Want.
Are you a Regulation Puzzler-over ?
Do you droop in the bottled-beer
queue ?
Can you snappily backchat a red-tape
hound?
If you are, you do or you can’t; if
you feel that you are insufficiently
equipped for all the emergencies which
blustering officialdom or an essential-com-
modity shortage may force upon you,
join our Tutorial Classes! !
Bedlam Business Schools, Ltd., take
pleasure in announcing the extension of
their tutorial system to include Special
Civilian Toughness Training Classes.
These will fit the meeker type of civilian
for participation in the coming great
Battles of Distribution so that he may
compete with hardheads on something
better than even terms.
The curriculum covers every known
war-time civilian problem, from the easiest
warden’s method of tracing a gas-ieak to a
King’s Cross blonde’s flat during a black-
out to the right way to carry, unwrapped,
71b. of potatoes, four library books, a
pineapple, a bunch of roses, a repaired
electric iron, a bag of blood and bone,
21b. of grapes, a broom-handle and a
birdcage and force your way on to a
packed double-decker without squashing
the iron.
What, after all, does the average civi-
lian know of the potentialities of a
stealthily-uncorked bottle of sulphuretted
hydrogen for weeding out a Wynyard
ramp queue he is standing in? Does he
realise that the well-placed banging of
a penny on a long elastic lead will enable
an agile tobacco-queue stander to jump
seven places while heads are turned seek-
ing to get a coin on the grouter? No!
Here is the unsolicited testimonial of
one of the most successful pupils turned
out by 8.8.5., Ltd.:
Dear Sir,
I would like you to know that recently
I lined up at the end of a queue 70 yards
long outside the bottle department of a city
hotel, carrying an empty ship’s trunk.
Within 3min. 17sec., thanks to your won-
derful system of tuition, I was leaving by
the front saloon door with the trunk as full
as myself.
Yours gratefully,
I Mabute.
For those queue-liners-up whose ad-
vanced age may preclude them from
tricking their way quickly to the front,
a retired civil servant is available to teach
them how to sleep while standing motion-
less, moving along slowly, or even while
conducting a conversation with the man
behind.
And what would you do if you received
a call-up for the A.W.C.? Go up and
innocently blurt out that you were an
insurance clerk, fondly hoping to get a
clerical position? You wouldn’t know
that these would already be filled by
laborers, and that your destiny would
be toiling on the end of a pick! We’ve
got better notions to give to you than
that! Claim, for instance, to be a union-
organiser’s laborer. Or say you swing a
bag in the leger. That’s only a couple that
our tutors would put you wise to. There
are plenty more where they came from.
And have you considered how you
would get on if, as is always the possi-
bility, the poor tired slaughtermen and
butchers strike for a 14-hour, £l4 week,
and at the same time all tinned meat is
frozen? Could you, for instance, dis-
patch quietly and quickly the fat terrier
three doors away? Can you fillet a
cat? These and countless other war-time
problems we can teach you to surmount.
So don’t delay!
Join our classes immediately! !
PROFESSOR BO.
Service Department
Wants.
To buy Cooper and Dyer’s Dispensing for
Pharmacy Students. —333B.
Information Sought.
(1) When at\d at what theatre was the first
pantomime produced in Sydney ? (2) First in
Australia ?
(1) On December 26, 1851, at the Victoria
Theatre, Pitt-street. It was entitled “Cinderella,
or Harlequin and the Little Glass Slipper.”
(2) On May 13, 1850, at the Queen’s Theatre,
Melbourne, at a benefit performance for the
actor Charles Young. The piece, written for
the occasion by Young, was entitled “The
Goblin of the Gold Coast, or Harlequinna and
the Melbournites in California.”
In late years many valuable bulbs have been
destroyed by mites or worms under the soil.
What treatment is necessary to control the pests?
Dip the bulbs in a mixture of strong per-
manganate of potash or Paris green (according
to formula), and lay them in the sun to dry
out thoroughly. When planting put a handful
of sand around each bulb. Water with some
of the dipping mixture for a few weeks after
planting the bulbs. If germination of the bulbs
is slow lift them and you may find some of the
pests which have missed the poison. A bucket
of boiling water will make the final clean-up.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: Orson Welles... .H.S.; Yes... .D.V.:
“R.1.P.” are initial letters for the Latin phrase
recjuicscat in pace... .5.0.: Sept. 9, 1942, and
Oct. 14, same year... .M.K.: Jackson in his
prime weighed 13st. 121 b.; Slavin, 13st. 61b.;
Goddard, 13st W.R.: Material fpr gas-
proofing may be tested by blowing cigarette-
smoke against it. If smoke breaks through, the
material should be moistened... .M.H.: In the
1938 Test season Bradman made a century in
every match in which he batted... .0.P.L.;
Make cement by baking Canada balsam in an
oven till it becomes brittle on being left to
cool. Then warm it again and apply.. . .L.G.;
The cruiser Canberra was sunk in action on
August 9, 1942 T.M.: The twelve-wired bird
of paradise is so named because of distinguish-
ing wirelike plumes... .W.M.: Get in touch
with the Secretary, Lands Department, Soldiers
Settlement Division... .8.M.: Consignment
note is a form requiring to be filled in for the
dispatching of goods by rail, etc A.P.:
Albion was the mythical son of Neptune; sup-
posedly founded Britain and introduced astro-
nomy and shipbuilding... .L.D.: Obviously the
sinker is taking the strain; try attaching hooks
higher 1.C.: Always ready to consider
readers’ contributions... .P.S.; Unobtainable.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
R.W.K.:
As baneful bombs and guns did burst and boom,
In doleful deep the Japs met dreary doom.
M.A.T.;
The Fuzzy Wuzzies will be thanked,
They’ll take a place in our hearts for ever,
As we gaze upon the photo, of the Fuzzy Wuzzies,
Who are so gentle, affectionate and clever.
. .V.1.V.: You’ve a long way to go L.H.:
“Conquest of the Sea” is an ancient manner.
M.C.: “Bondi” the nearest C.E.H.:
Pleasant; but that’s not enough C.A.P.:
Adds nothing to what’s already been said....
M.F.G.; “Home” would be a happier place
without those 13 exclamation marks D. 8.:
Not a hope J.H.: “I am sending these few
verses composed as I pedal to and from work.
If you must have music, what about ringing
the" bell continuously? L.T.L.; Eight lines
laboriously comparing the world war to a
cricket match? Out... .E.H.H.: It’s a notable
collection of nautical terms, but it doesn t seem
to be anything else Teacher: Keats and
water... .B.B.; Get somebody to eradicate
“Ants” as quickly as possible H.M :To the
devil with the devil... .8.C.: English poetry
has seen more sonorous lines than “In Maicn
of Nineteen-Forty-Three”... .H.T.8.: Forwaid,
Barcoo: — . . „
There is a quaint old village named Barcoo
With churches many and alehouses few.
Although one time it was a place of fame,
. Now you may seldom even hear its name.
MS.F.: Harrowing F.R.C.: Goats
anaemic... .T.C.A.: That’s Shelley’s trumpet
L.W.: Close M.E.W.: “Them’ doesn t
rhyme with “men” J.M.S.: Thanks
W G W.: Why not tackle a theme of your
own? J.McC.: Your rhyme scheme’s be-
trayed you into doggerel.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tut, Tut, Mr. Tully i
Like Egypt, Western N.S.W. has its visi-
tations —droughts, grasshoppers, flies and
Ministers of Lands. The results of the
first-named three plagues are immediately
evident; the last may have a delayed,
but none the less devastating, effect.
Mr. Tully being the latest of the bold
Parliamentary explorers to “discover”
the West, the locals have awaited his re-
actions with a cynicism born of past ex-
perience. The State Land Tax Bill being
in the offing, the usual cry of “burst up
the large estates” was outmoded, on the
principle of the uselessness of flogging a
dying horse. What then?
The answer came over the Corowa
radio. Mr. Tully has discovered a
man who made £3OOO from carrots and
tomatoes off a five-acre block ; and “The
Government should be able to see that
land for such purposes is available at
reasonable prices after the war.”
The picture of, say, a million acres
of carrots and tomatoes will doubtless
intrigue vegetable-starved city-dwellers.
The vision of all State members dining
on carrots —not perhaps as their natural
fodder, but merely to stimulate State
carrot consumption—will lighten the
heart of the saltbush, and the dream of
surplus overripe tomatoes as election
munitions should appeal to every thought-
ful voter.
A wonderful hallucination, but as a
sound contribution to economic post-war
reconstruction —tut, tut, Mr. Tully!
Seedy (Western N.S.W.).
Service Men and Politics
It is only natural that the men who
have fought to save their country from
dictatorship and make it safe for democ-
racy shoifld wish to safeguard their
future, and ensure that they are not for-
gotten when peace is finally restored.
Yet the agonised yelps of “2nd Divvy”
(B. 13/1/’43), accusing N.S.W. trade-
unionists of a “brutal and callous dis- ‘
regard for all other sections of the com-
munity,” and forecasting “an absolute
disregard for past military service by the
class of men now dominating the affairs
of this country,” seem very far from the
truth, and not at all justified in the light
of past events.
If military service is to qualify a man
for a political career, then I, for one,
pray that there will be no more wars.
For most certainly there would be no
peace so long as the reins of govern-
ment were in the hands of men with the
distorted ideas of “2nd Diwy.”
It takes a great deal of courage to re-
linquish the sword for the plough and
entrust one’s future without question to
those who have been chosen by the
people to govern the country. Yet that
is what democracy means, and if Aus-
tralia is worth fighting for surely this is
not too much to ask from those who have
made her existence safe.
Therefore, unless “2qd Divvy” is fight-
ing, not for his country, but for what
he can get, let him trust his country,
and not a band of intemperate diehards,
to see him through when the time comes.
—Victor James (Vic.).
Women in the Fighting Services
The article by “M.C.M.” (B. 10/3/’43)
calls for an immediate answer.
I have some knowledge of a camp
where army officers and n.c.os. are given
courses of training. In this camp are 89
members of the A.W.A.S., including one
officer and eight n.c.os., who are em-
ployed as cooks, mess orderlies, clerks
and truck-drivers.
During the last fortnight three have
been in hospital and two n.c.os. at
schools, all the remainder being available,
as “M.C.M.” calls it, “for parade.” The
fact that on any day some are having rest
day and some are on leave does not come
into the question. As all have one rest
day per week, and two days’ leave per
month, they thus work five and a half
days per week, as do girls in industry.
“M.C.M.” does not realise apparently
that ‘.‘on parade” does not mean on the
parade ground. When these girls are on
parade they are scrubbing floors, peeling
potatoes, cooking for hundreds with the
temperature over the hundred, greasing
cars and doing many other jobs that
would otherwise have to be done by men
capable of serving in the front line.
Their day starts before 6 a.m. and does
The contributor placed first is paid
4 J’d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
not finish before 9 p.m., and, although
possibly some girls in industry work
equally long hours, I doubt whether they
do so for £1 10s. 4d. per week.
The implied suggestion that n.c.os. do
not work is almost too stupid to warrant
answer, but “M.C.M.” can be assured
that they work as hard as other
rankers. There is one officer, and where
in industry can “M.C.M.” find one
woman controlling 88 others, 24 hours
a day, seven days a week, for £4 7s. 6d.?
The members of the A.W.A.S. are
volunteers, who are prepared to serve
anywhere, and they are doing a magni-
ficent job in freeing men for front-line
service. I am sure that the members
of the forces must be very proud of
these, their sisters in uniform, who have
sacrificed home, money, glamor and the
opportunity to take part in strikes that
they may serve their country. Pro
Patria (N.S.W.).
The Fuzzy-Wuzzies
The magnificent behavior of the natives
during the recent military operations in
Papua has produced a wave of grati-
tude in the Australian nation, and by
way of return it is proposed to send edu-
cation to their islands —a committee
has already been formed in Melbourne.
Before the educationists start on their
philanthropic missiop they ought to ask
themselves whether they are in a position
to give the natives something or take
something from them. A visit to the
National Museum in Melbourne is in-
structive in this connection.
In the entrance there is a fresco,
allegedly based on aboriginal motives,
“You're making a mistake , young man. I'm a member of the Volunteer
Air Observers' Corps!”
which was executed by pupils of an art
school associated with a leading technical
college. It is a miserable, conventional,
academic imitation, and the contrast be-
tween it and the real aboriginal art inside
is startling. The primitive artists have
decorated their spears, shields, dillybags
and mats with such spontaneous good
taste in form and color that only an in-
dividual blinded by his education would
want to change them or imagine he could
teach thenj anything in the way of artistic
expression.
The whole history of European com-
merce with the South Sea Islands is that
it has tended to destroy the native cus-
toms, and with the customs have gone
their arts and crafts, which were inextric-
ably linked up even with their tribal war-
fare. With the disappearance of these
modes of self-expression have come
despair, disillusionment, tuberculosis and
depopulation. It was the same with their
ethics. The sexual life of the Trobri-
anders was considered so sound by Mali-
nowski, the distinguished savant, that he
wrote a book about it, and one of his
observations was that the neuroses that
are so common in Western societies were
conspicuous by their absence.
What are the educationists going to
give the natives —vacuum cleaners and
tramcars? It would be a tough reward
for risking their lives bringing sick and
wounded soldiers over the passes of the
Owen Stanleys.—F. S. (Vic.).
A Job for Advisers
If I were a millionaire I would,
after this war is over, employ some
of those hundreds of “economic advisers,”
who will (I hope) be no longer needed in
war-time departments, in compiling, not an
“economic” treatise, but a plain business
history of this war and the one that
preceded it —an account, particularly, of
the cost to the aggressors in currency, in
diverted industrial effort, in man-power
and in depleted birthrate of their con-
quests, or attempted conquests, and on
the other side of the ledger the value of
the loot.
To savages, of course, there are certain
imponderables, such as the.joys of sack-
ing conquered cities, bombing schools
and sinking merchant ships in mid-ocean,
that can’t be assessed in money; but,
even so, a plain balance sheet should be
instructive. It should prove not so much
what everybody knows, that a war of
aggression is an awful waste of life and
wealth if it doesn’t succeed, but that
even if it attains everything aimed at it
does so at a cost that would have pur-
chased the same benefits three or four
times over if applied to the arts of peace.
—Ang. (N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Powers
I venture to predict that if the Com-
monwealth Powers Bill becomes law and
is challenged it will be found, without a
referendum, to be invalid for one or two
reasons:
(1) The opening para, of S. 51 includes
the words “subject to this Constitution.”
Because of this the “Trade and Com-
merce” (placitum i) legislative powers of
Parliament are restricted by S. 92 and
99. For the same reason the “Taxation”
(placitum ii) legislative powers of Parlia-
ment are restricted by S. 55. Dr. Evatt
admits that reference matters under S. 51
(xxxvii) are subject to S. 105 a. It follows
that matters referred to which would
alter the Constitution are subject to that
section of it which deals with alterations,
namely, S. 128. That means a referen-
dum.
(2) The powers asked for are in many
instances (if not in every instance) en-
tirely or largely “residuary,” such as
“employment and unemployment” and
“the people of the aboriginal race” as
such fall within the provisions of S. 107,
and consequently can be obtained only
through a referendum. — J. R. L. Brink-
ley (W.A.).
Been There
The civil service in Australia is over-
loaded, cumbersome, slow and bogged
down in routine.
Issuing challenges to critics to match
examples of civil-service efficiency with
examples from private enterprise invites
a deluge on the challenger. Most of
us in private life have occasionally
run across samples of civil - service
efficiency that have evoked our appre-
ciation, but it remains an unanswerable
truth that the average private person
often accepts small injustices and penal-
ties simply because he is afraid of getting
into departmental toils.
A recent howl about suffering a
salary cut in the depression years didn’t
squeeze tears from my eyes. I know too
many good men who had no job at all
in those years and who’d have rushed
a civil-service job with its security of
tenure and superannuation provisions,
cut or no cut.
Lastly, I was a civil servant in Vic-
toria. I lasted seven months, by which
time I was so heartily fed up with being
paid to perpetuate blunders and waste
public time that I got out of my own
volition.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Women’s Wear
Why is it that after three years of war
drapers’ shops flourish exceedingly? Is
it the inability of our womenfolk to heed
the lesson of Singapore? Frocks consist-
ing of 30s. worth of material are ticketed
eight and ten guineas. Hats, a mere patch
of felt with a quill or scrap of ribbon,
sell for 40s. to 60s. if labelled with the
magic word “model.” Shoes show little
tendency to conform to a more service-
able type, whilst undies (except for the
elastics) are as fragile as ever.
Rationing has failed to stop the un-
necessary spending of money on luxury
goods. Women with cash to spend seem
able to find coupons aplenty in spite
of Mr. Dedman’s efforts. Service women
the world over amply demonstrate the
attractiveness of sound, serviceable attire.
They are issued with replacements only
when the old garments are turned in to
headquarters.
How many women could truly say that
discarded coats, dresses and hats were
worn out? Wake up, Australian sweet-
hearts, wives and mothers! Last year’s
coat may not be the latest, but it takes
man- or woman-power to create every
new style or whim, and at present that
power is urgently needed to back up our
splendid soldiers, sailors and airmen.—
Margaret Ross (Tas.).
Rubber from Fig-trees
The northern enemy has about 94 p.c.
of the world’s rubber. We have talked
about using dandelions and even milk
thistles to try to overcome our shortage,
yet we appear to have quite ignored a
very likely source —the Moreton Bay fig.
A relative, previously resident in the
F.M.S. and India, on reaching Australia,
remarked “I did not know that you had
rubber-trees here. Why don’t you make
use of them?”
Whether the well-known latex of the
Moreton Bay fig will stand up to the
everyday demands made on rubber can
quite easily be ascertained by our
chemists. — Bishop Mange (W.A.).
No Water for Dogs
Some years ago a Sydney dog-lover left
a considerable amount in her will for
the erection of water-troughs for dogs.
When the time came to choose the sites
municipal councils barred the develop-
ment on the ground that no stray dogs
should be on the streets. This attitude
places Sydney in the position of being
one of the few cities of the world where
no water provision is made for lost dogs.
In Melbourne dogs’ water-dishes are to
be seen outside a big percentage of shops.
Admittedly, the main reason is a sanitary
one —but it serves a dual purpose. And
why should not Sydney be as" clean a city
as Melbourne?
Today every main city throughout
America has installed scores of water-
troughs for dogs. In Philadelphia alone
there are 22 fountains —erected by indi-
vidual donations—and over 600 wood,
iron and stone troughs. In the beginning
the Humane Society made experiments to
discover which type of troughs would be
most serviceable, economical and simple
in construction. In all designs sanitation
is provided by the water entering the
basin day and night. In the majority of
cases cost of the erection of the ordinary
troughs is borne by the local councils
or Government and the cost of the water
by the water boards.
The first water-dish for London dogs
was placed in the streets in 1841. Sydney
proper hasn’t reached that stage yet.
According to the N.S.W. Cruelty to
Animals Act, “Proof of pain and suffer-
ing caused to an animal by an act of
omission or neglect may be sufficient to
establish the offence of cruelly ill-treating
an animal.” Don’t that apply?— David
Ashway (N.S.W.).
From Canada
An all-Australian course of pilots re-
cently graduated “somewhere in Canada.”
We decided to prepare a souvenir pro-
gramme for the “Wings” dinner, and
looked round for a suitable quotation.
This we found in some Bulletin verses,
“The Roads,” by Roderic Quinn;
For what she is and has been
And what she yet shall be,
From bush and town we muster
To keep Australia free.
Who seek to shame and chain her,
Not lightly shall they fare
On her Wheel Roads and her Keel Roads
And her Wing Roads of the air.
We therefore took the liberty of includ-
ing the lines on our programme (copy
enclosed), and on behalf of the course
I am writing to acknowledge our in-
debtedness to your paper and to Mr.
Quinn. —R. H. M.
[A kindly thought, a capital programme
and from the Fresh Seafood Cocktail to
the Meringue Glace Melba, with Roast
Stuffed Turkey and Cranberry Sauce in
between, an excellent dinner. All the
best to the boys from the paper and the
poet—its oldest in years, though never
in spirit.]


IN PEACE-
I N WAR
SERVING THE REQUIREMENTS OF
THE NATION WITH EVER-INCREASING PRODUCTION
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., specializes in the manufacture
of
Sheet and Strip Copper, Brass, Gilding Metal, Phosphor Bronze and
Nickel Silver; Copper Rods and Bars, Busbar and Commutator Bars for
Electrical Work; Manganese Bronze in Rods and Bars; Muntz’s Metal,
Naval Brass, Copper and Brass in Round, Square, Hexagon and Special
Sections; Copper Plates, Rolled Copper Anodes; Gunmetal; Manganese
Copper and Manganese Bronze Ingots; Muntz’s Metal and Naval Brass
Condenser Plates; Muntz’s Metal, Naval Brass and Special Copper
Sheathing from Australian metals for
Defence, National Service and
’
Commercial Requirements.
ft
mm
*£:•.
s .
>vyv.
\
*m*-y
'***A
mm
fi
■
W
■ "-x.
*5
CSI
«.'x
v. X, ■ -
SV ™“' X ' : Nh*i ' f -
v**
X
: a
X X
?■; x
fftl
L "A
•»s,
xr.
P?-v.
gm \: s-
■ v Vks. x xx -x '- ,*.y lbs. x.
'•
» '■ 4 ?x •.'Jr-' ';•'-j*
Xx.
'X,
/ sj' ~
‘ K..
fciVv - •. - < x
-X. - ‘ -.., V
V.- x\.,
S 6
ki
'■■>„
X-J-
--X-s
s
1. AB, 4
AUSTRAL BRONZE COMPANY PTY. LTD
Branch Offices: Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth.
Works: Alexandria, Sydney.
