

HI
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/'
VoL 64.—N0. 3324
Wednesday, October 27, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
■— - - nn- II I I I .11.1.11
Seppelts
DALQUHARRAN.
AYRSHIRE’S KEEP BY GIRVAN’S GENTLE STREAM.
NOTABLE among the ancient castles of Scotland is this edifice
at the bend of the Girvan Water, about six miles from the
mouth of the river, best known of Ayrshire’s streams. Historical
records show that the lands of “Delchorane” are confirmed to the
Abbey of Crosragual by Edward Bruce, Earl of Garrick, in 1324,
and the first laird of whom mention occurs is none other than
Gilbert Kennedy (1747). The family history of the Kennedies
must early have been associated with Dalquharran, for in an ambry
on the first floor are still to be found the arms of the Kennedies
of Culzean, although, at a later stage in its history, Dalquharran
was owned by the Kennedies of Girvan Mains, a branch of the
Cassillis stock. In his writings towards the end of the seventeenth
century, William Abercrummie, referring to this structure, said:
“The stately castle of Dalquharran, the building
whereof is much improved by the additions lately
made thereto, make it by far the best house in all
that country ; surrounded by vast enclosures of
wood that the country is not able to consume it
by their building.”
Dalquharran’s exterior is said by architectural authorities to be
remarkable. An early describer says “the corbelling is of a
description very unusual in Scotland, being enriched with a small
ogee arch over the space between the corbells and very much more
ornate than the straight lintel, recalling English rather than Scot-
tish practice.” There still remain distinct indications that the
castle had a moat fed by the Girvan and that its grounds were
laid out with gardens, bowling greens and other ornamental devices
of the period. This ancient structure is still surrounded with fine
woods as in Abercrummie’s day.


"Storu Writing
v 3 W* V) at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AG K
The Red Page
SWAGMAN'S NOTEBOOK.
Dozens of people since the war began
have written books and pamphlets tell-
ing us everything that is wrong with Aus-
tralia. Dozens have written books and
pamphlets telling us what Australia ought
to be. Three people—and maybe more
—have tried to write books telling us
what Australia is: Marjorie Barnard in
A ustralian Outline, Arnold Haskell in The
Australians and Charles Barrett in
Around Australia.
All these writers, it is more than likely,
are responding to a great public need.
Australian service men are fighting for
Australia, and everybody would find it
stimulating to be given a clarification of
the mental image of Australia, to be told
exactly what “Australia” is.
There should have been little need for
any of the books on the subject, “Aus-
tralia” is what Australian creative writers
have said it is, and any visitor or any
Australian could have learned far more
about the spirit and meaning of the
country from Lawson, Paterson, Tom
Collins, Steele Rudd or Eve Langley’s
The Pea Pickers than from any textbook.
But a journey through Australian litera-
ture takes time. And many of the classics
are out of print. The solution was an
anthology of Australian prose and verse,
selections from those writers who, though
not necessarily the country’s finest
creative artists, most faithfully repre-
sented the Australian spirit.
That anthology—the definition of “Aus-
tralia” for which everyone has been wait-
ing—has been printed. Charles Barrett
selected it; United Press, Melbourne,
published it; and the title is The Swag-
man’s Notebook.
It’s an unpretentious little book, rather
like a “digest” in make-up and contents.
Like all anthologies, whoever makes them,
it has in those who ought not to be in and
leaves out those who ought not to be out.
There’s nothing from Steele Rudd, for
instance. Though there’s a good deal
of Furnley Maurice, there’s nothing of
Robert Fitzgerald, Brian Vrepont or
Kenneth Slessor. Even though—on the
surface —he is not distinctively Austra-
lian, one would have liked to see some-
thing of Hugh McCrae’s. Extracts from
Norman Lindsay’s The Magic Pudding
and from Frank Davison’s Man-Shy
would have been appropriate. And some-
thting from The Pea Pickers about Gipps-
land. And—though there is plenty of
Paterson—some of The Animals Noah
Forgot could well have found a corner.
Although Mary Gilmore’s “No Foe
Shall Gather Our Harvest,” one of the
strongest poems of this war, is included,
the book conveys an impression that
Charles Barrett has not explored recent
writing as thoroughly as he has that of
the past. Leon Gellert could have had
something to say about the last war;
Maurice Biggs’s “Battle Dress” would
have strengthened the picture of Aus-
tralia in this war A glance through Coast
to Coast and Australian Poetry would
have given Barrett valuable material.
Yet, on the whole, the effect is one of
completeness. Space was limited, and
much had to be left out. But much is
in—and how rich it all is!
“The Man from Snowy River,” of
course; that’s almost the first essential
in any anthology that tries to convey the
spirit of Australia. “The Sick Stock-
rider” ; Jack Moses’s “Nine Miles from
Gundagai” ; O’Dowd’s “Australia” son-
net ; Dorothea Mackellar’s “My Coun-
try” ; extracts from The Sentimental
Bloke ; verses by Kendall; Lawson’s
“Sliprails and Spur” and other pieces;
and, another of Paterson’s inevitabilities,
“Black Swans.”
Charles Barrett was the ideal man to
do the prose selections, for nobody but
a naturalist and a bushman would have
thought of including an essay on the
kookaburra from Australia’s Wonder
Animals-, a couple of paragraphs about
“The Magpie’s Chorus” from Louisa
Anne Meredith’s Over the Strait; a pane-
gyric on Sydney sandstone by Alec
Chisholm ; some improbable facts about
the caterpillars of the Centre by Robert
/£roll; a chapter ort “Brumbies and
#
’ note on moomerarigs S. Kenyon ;
lon Idriess on a hatter ; the description
of a bushfire from Bernard O’Reilly’s
Green Mountains: and all these items —
together with the notes on kangaroos,
koalas, flying squirrels, buffaloes in the
north and even Jersey cows in Gippsland
(by Barrett ipse ) —are certainly funda-
mentals in the picture of Australia.
Australian Outline, Arnold Haskell’s
book and Barrett’s Around Australia
gave the geographical and historical facts
about Australia; this little book gives
pictures. Blacks, convicts, “wild white
men,” bushrangers, the discovery of gold,
the introduction of sheep—all these basic
elements of our culture are dealt with;
but not as cold facts—as living scenes
out of living writing. Though the note
on the Kellys is poor, merely a collection
of facts, Barrett quotes an interview by
a journalist with the bushranger Power,
and the' bushranging period as a whole
comes to life in a quotation from Rolf
Boldrewood’s Robbery Under Arms.
Instead of just hearing the cold state-
ment that Hargraves discovered gold in
Australia, we see him discovering it —in
a quotation from his own writings.
And so this unassuming little Swag-
mans Notebook paper-covered and
pocket size—really is the picture of Aus-
tralia that everybody has been waiting
for. It’s for highbrow and lowbrow;
every U.S. visitor and every Australian
service man. As an editor, Charles Bar-
rett has shown not only that he knows
Australia and Australian writing, but
that he has met the spirit of Australia on
one of his walkabouts.
False Suspense.
Not long ago there was reviewed here
a good novel by James Gould Cozzens
which, owing to an unusual method of
construction, only just escaped being a
failure. The central theme was a murder
trial, and during the hearing of the trial
Cozzens told the history of everyone in
any way concerned in it, not only the
criminals, but the lawyers, the Judges,
the court officials and all their families
and friends, gradually building a picture
of the whole community of an American
small town.
It was a pleasing and convincing pic-
ture ; but the making of it so interrupted
the story of the trial that the book nearly
lost all suspense.
Ethel Vance’s Reprisal (Collins ; Angus
and Robertson) is a novel built by a
similar method, and in this case the
irrelevances clogging the central narra-
tive destroy it. This is a murder and
man-hunt story, interrupted by an analysis
of the fall of France and by a love story
told as reminiscence.
A German is killed in a French town
occupied by the Nazis. Suspicion falls
principally on the son of a politician.
The Germans take a number of hostages
and say they will shoot them if the
assassin does not give himself up. Thus
the central theme of the book is: Will the
politician’s son confess or will the hos-
tages be shot?
It is never made certain whether or not
the politician’s son is really the man who
did the shooting, so that there is a detec-
tive-story interest in whodunit. Also,
the youth has made plans for an escape,
and there is the additional tension of
whether or not he will succeed.
Essentially a strong drama, the story
of the shooting and its consequences is
weakened by the intrusion of the detec-
tive-novel element. There, might be less
crossword-puzzle interest if the author
revealed from the beginning who did the
shooting—it turns out not to have been
the original suspect —but there’d have
been far greater human interest.
Mysterious comings and goings, plot-
tings and conferences occur throughout
the book, and the reader is never, until
right at the end, let into the secret of
what it’s all about. That is false sus-
pense. A novel of genuine suspense
would have been based on the assassin’s
problem of conscience—will he or won’t
he give himself up?
A further great weakness is that none
of the hostages is described as a charac-
ter nor shown suspended between life and
death in the Nazi prison. It’s impossible
for the reader to feel dramatically in-
volved in their fate when they are mere
shadows in the background.
Even allowing for these flaws the book
might have made a passable thriller —if
not a genuine novel—had it not been for
the padding. But of all the tricks of
false suspense, none is worse than the
interruption of the action by masses of
irrelevances.
The military and political history of
the fall of France has very little
to do with the central theme of this
book —whether or not the hostages will
be shot. The love story of the sister of
the suspect—how she fell in love with an
American before the collapse and lost
track of him afterwards —has nothing
whatever to do with the central theme.
Yet between one scene and the next of
the drama of the hostages there are pages
and pages of these reminiscences.
There is good stuff in the novel, in-
cluding a very fine portrait of the man
who did do the shooting. A Laval-like
politician who collaborates with the
Germans is drawn with excellent under-
standing. Occasional flaws in the prose,
such as the use of the verb “to retro-
grade,” are comparatively unimportant.
The calamitous use of false suspense is
surprising, for Ethel Vance’s Escape,
about refugees fleeing from Germany,
was a minor masterpiece of genuine
suspense.
The Significance of Bilge-
water.
Doris; Well, this chap, he’s an air-
man, and his wife’s down there with him,
and in comes this chap and
Rufus: In comes which chap?
Doris: Oh, darling, what utter bilge!
This other chap I’m telling you about.
Well, he’s been living with his wife
before he married her, and when he
walks in
Rufus: Who has been living with
whom, and who walks whither?
Doris : This chap walks into this hotel.
Well, anyhow, he wants her to go back
to him in spite of her being married and
she’s going to do it, too, but then Teddy
has to go off suddenly and bomb Ger-
many.
Rufus : Which of them is Teddy?
Doris: Oh, darling, don’t be an utter
clot! The husband, of course. Well,
anyhow, they have a terrible time over
Germany, but they get back all right, all
except the Count, and then when he gets
back there’s this chap still there with
Patricia.
Rufus: Which chap?
Doris : This actor chap.
Rufus : Doris, my beloved clot, I can’t
stand plays about actors. They always
say things such as: “Patricia (bitterly):
How did you visualise the scene after
that? Was it like your last film, when
you let Spencer Tracy knock you down,
and saved each other’s lives just before
the fadeout?”
Doris: Well, I believe Patricia does
say something like that because she used
to be an actress, too, before she married
Teddy. But, anyhow, there’s this chap
trying to get Patricia to come away with
him, and Patricia thinks it was all a mis-
take marrying Teddy because she really
loves this other chap, but then she finds
out that Teddy gets terribly frightened
when he goes on bombing raids, so she
feels she has to stay with him, and then
she finds she really loves him after all,
so everything’s all right, and the Count
comes back too in the end.
Rufus: Doris, my bucket of bilge-
water, who the deuce is the Count?
Doris : The chap that’s married to
Maudie.
Rufus: Comic foreigner?
Doris : And there’s another chap
called Dusty.
Rufus : Comic underling or batman ?
Doris: And then there’s the landlady.
Rufus: Comic landlady? I seem to
have read this play before.
Doris: But you can’t have read it. I
borrowed it from Angus and Robertson,
and it’s called Flare Path, by Terence
Rattigan, published by Hamish Hamilton.
Terence Rattigan wrote French Without
Tears.
Rufus: French Without Tears was
good fun, but I don’t think I like Flare
Path very much. I don’t think I like any
plays in which the hero is called Teddy.
Doris: Oh, darling, what utter bilge!
Rufus; Lady, they who use lightly
the beautiful word “bilge” shall not
lightly be forgiven. Bilge is a substance
associated with the lower portions of
ships. Murders are committed in bilge.
Heroic deads are performed in it. It has
the flavor of Drake and Nelson. It is a
word to be used seriously and dramati-
cally by Conrad.
Doris: Oh, darling, don’t be an utter
clot!
Rufus: That goes for “clot,” too.
Where did you pick up this hideous
jargon?
Doris: Oh, that’s what Teddy keeps
saying.
Rufus: Teddy may have said such
things, but the author is very unwise to
repeat them. If Teddy is a hero let
Teddy not talk like a schoolgirl. Flare
Path may be a competent reshuffling of
the conventional characters of the modern
stage ; it may play well; the Count and
Maudie, Dusty and his wife and the land-
lady may be pleasant people ; but I have
read Shakspeare and I do not think that
Flare Path is quite my cup of bilge-
water.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Curtin Raiser”: How unreal “real”
war pictures are! I saw “Desert Victory”
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne ; and the
audience showed far less emotion than
it does at an ordinary cowboy picture.
Ihe hundreds of aeroplanes dropping
bombs with more explosive in any one
than was fired off at Trafalgar, the scores
plunging to destruction, the thousands of
guns discharging, the tanks blowing up
or charging over the desert like regiments
of Dinosauria, were far less awe-inspiring
than a single gunman pitting his skill
against a posse of policemen in a crook
drama. There were hundreds of thousands
of actors in the dreadful drama, but it
was as impossible for the spectator to
identify himself with them as it is for
an Australian to identify himself with a
million famine sufferers in China. This
is where art has the advantage over
factual presentation. The battles of “All
Quiet on the Western Front” may have
been studio manufactures, but Remarque
made you recognise the existence of
human beings in his opus. Some authors
make us feel without knowing, others
make us know without feeling. “Desert
Victory” is in the impersonal category of
the latter.
An exhibition of works by women
artists at Sydney Macquarie Galleries is
contributed to by 31 painters and
two sculptors. Margaret Coen, Mary
Edwards, Vida Lahey, Dora Jarret, Thea
Proctor, Muriel Medworth and Margaret
Preston are characteristically represented
by pictures of universal appeal. Hilda
Rex Nicholas’s charming and graceful
“Molonglo River” and Freda Robert-
shaw’s soundly-painted still-life deserve
special mention. Olive Long’s “Italian
Jug” appeals as a decorative color piece,
and Dahl Collins’s “Elaine” is an excel-
lent impression. Isabel Mackenzie shows
love of the bush in her pleasant “Sep-
tember Afternoon.” A fine piece of work
is Daphne Mayo’s sculptured head of
John Young, so long the presiding
genius of the Macquarie Galleries, the
kindliest and most discerning of con-
noisseurs. It lives.
“F.S.”: There is a lack of adventurous-
ness about the 34th exhibition of the Mel-
bourne Society of Women Painters at the
Athenaeum. Lina Bryans has a nice bit
of work in “Villa by the Sea,” and her
portrait of John Eldershaw is less con-
ventional than the “Admiral Crutchlcy,
V.C.,” of Esther Paterson. Polly Hurry’s
still-lifes and Winifred McCubbin’s sketch
of Louis McCubbin are well done.
At the talkies:
As producer, director and actor the late
Leslie Howard was a fine artist. His production
of “Pygmalion” and his own quizzical portrayal
of the leading role drew high praise from Shaw.
Howard’s last assignment was “First of the
Few” (Sydney Embassy), which tells the story
of the lifework of R. J. Mitchell, creator
of the Spitfire. It is a gripping tale, told with
delicate humor and not a little pathos; a
study of a man whose supermarine won the
Schneider Cup outright for England and whose
sole thought, after a later visit to Germany,
where he saw what the Nazis were intent upon,
was to create a fighter capable of smashing any
aerial attack on England. Howard is excellent
as the ’plane designer, and David Niven gives
good support as Crisp, his test pilot.
The screen has learned from the stage that
the appeal to the eye is even more important
than to the ear in musical comedies; dancing
sequences in particular must be gorgeously
mounted if the dressing is to be shown to the
best advantage. In “Marriage on Ice” (Plaza),
“Pardon My Sarong” (State) and ‘My Gal
Sal” (Regent) the ballets start with this great
advantage; the first has the glitter of ice and
Sonja Henie’s poetry of motion; Abbott and
Costello wisecrack and slapstick their way
through the second; and the third is a bio-
graphical sketch of Paul Dresser, the song-
writer, from the pen of Theodore Dreiser, the
gal Sal being the talented Rita Hayworth. It
is a far cry from An American Tragedy to
this, but Dreiser has bridged the gulf success-
fully. „ .
In “Seven Days’ Leave” (Mayfair) ballroom
dancing is yoked to slapstick in a clever sequence
by Lynn, Royce and Vanya. There’s an amus-
ing super radio quiz scene. “The Amazing
Mrs. Holliday” (Lyceum) has Deanna Durbin
singing and Arthur Treacher giving an exhibi-
tion of the perfect butler.
“Journey for Margaret” (St. James), screen
version of a novel by William L. White, offers
two delightfully natural children, who bring
life to the charming story of the adoption ot
these orphans of London bomb-victims by an
American newspaper correspondent and his
“Are Husbands Necessary?” (Victory) has the
featherbrained wife of a big businessman as
the basis for a polished domestic comedy in
the Arthur Wing Pinero tradition.
Sydney Tiv.’s confident asseveration
“You’ll Be Surprised” —is hereby con-
firmed. Not that the Tiv. would go so
far as to offer instead of curves, a
superfluity of raiment or the sort of jokes
entirely suitable for children under the
age of two. The Tiv. management has
requested anonymity regarding the vari-
ous performers, but it is probably safe
to mention Mr. Momus, a fellow of in-
finitely broad jest, and the highly inflam-
mable Misses Terpsichore, who are kept
on the hop throughout the proceedings.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS
120th Year of Service
DOUBLE BREASTED REEFER
SUIT. Form fitting, double
breasted Coat with Trousers.
Tailored from all wool summer
weight Worsted. Mid Grey with
chalk stripes. Art silk lined. Regu-
lar, long, stout sizes available. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, £6/2/6
■ ' ■ 34 coupons.
"DIPLOMAT" Super Grade
Shoes for men. Made in full
and half sizes. Black or Brown
Kid, also Black Box Calf. E
and F fittings. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, pair .. 45/6
12 coupons.
• Men’s Wear —Ground
This London tailored
Raincoat is in Raglan
style, and is in a
choice of two fabrics.
Proofed Cotton Gabar-
dine. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price . £5/15/-
40 coupons.
Also in Proofed Wool-
len Gabardine. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Price £6/15/ —
40 coupons.
OFFICERS' BOOTS. In Tan or
Black. Unlined. Light sewn
soles. Full and half sizes avail-
able. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, pair 24/6*
6 coupons.
Floor } George Street.
MEN'S SHIRTS. White
Poplin Tennis Shirts with
collar attached and
pocket. Button wrists.
Sizes 14-£ to 18-in. neck.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Prices 10/6, 12/6
12 coupons.
ẁ
f ir**]
//h
Ki
>
/v'iiigs
sl^\
W ¥\
V%
X"
SHOWERPROOF GOLF
JACKETS. Made of Fawn
English Cotton Gabar-
dine. "Velan" proofed.
Tailored collar and two
pockets. Adjustable waist.
Sizes range from 34 to
46-in chests. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price .. 41/6
12 coupons.
ẃ
HORDERNS
/„,i te-i
5
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night)
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


FIRST FURROW
By BRIAN JAMES.
JACK and Tom
gazed over the
clearing with the
pride of achieve-
ment. The job was
finished now —or
near enough to be reckoned so —though
there was still the plough to be followed
for roots and stumps and floaters.
The last of the fires smouldered under
a small heap of blackened, knotty roots
and stubborn clumps of grass-tree. But
the job was, to all intents and purposes,
done. They were waiting for the plough-
man.
The clearing was a ragged space of a
few acres on top of a high ridge—typi-
cal sandstone country. An irregular wall
of green scrub lined it on three sides, and
on the fourth was a sparse setting of
stringybarks, bloodwoods, white gums
and ironwoods.
None of it looked hard to clear, but
that low scrub had been the very devil.
The botanist said it was a species of
angophora; locally it was called dwarf
apple or more commonly bungally.
Jack and Tom had other names for it.
It was pretty enough in its own way
with its apple-green leaves stiffly crisping
in the light breeze, and with its great
creamy sprays of blossom —happy haunts
of the big jewel-beetle. But its short,
brittle top gave no leverage to the thick,
hard, disproportioned roots that clung to
the soil. It was bullocking work getting
out those roots with mattock, spud-bar
and lever, and it demanded skill as well
as brawn. It was well to be done with it.
Bill Bray, the ploughman, arrived. He
had two rather unenthusiastic horses, two
ploughs, one with an American beam,
and a quantity of doubtful-looking gear.
Bill was a short, thin man, very youth-
ful in profile. He had a slight cast in
his weak eyes, and his thick-lensed glasses
gave him an almost grotesque appear-
ance.
He fiddled about a long time with his
defective gear, chatting affably the while
about passion vines, citrus, the weather
and local infamy. Bill was an authority
on all these, especially the last. He
seemed, however, a mild little man to be
in charge of two big horses.
But when all was ready at last he spoke
to Kate and Baldy firmly and blasphe-
mously. They seemed to understand, and
the first furrow commenced.
IT was exciting—that first furrow —
to Jack and Tom. It was the crowning
defeat of the bungally, and a promise
of reward from that thin, hungry soil.
The yellow-grey sandy loam turned back
from the mouldboard and lay half-
broken on the solid ground.
Kate and Baldy, strongly exhorted,
put their shoulders into the collars, the
share bit into the virgin earth, the wheel
cried out for grease, and Bill, holding
tight, was tossed to and fro as though
he were walking a very unsteady deck.
Great long, lithe roots of stringybark
were torn from their beds, thick bungally
roots were churned out, and then a hidden
knob of grass-tree halted Kate and Baldy
and broke a swinglebar.
Although Bill had foreseen this, to the
extent of having several others in his
spring dray, he spoke rather bitterly to
Providence about it, inviting It to strike
him blue and pink and dead, and, at the
same time, to stone the unspeakably in-
decent crows.
With fresh swinglebar fixed, the plough
jolted and squealed on its way.
Down the slope, in another jagged hole
in the scrub, was Davie —clearing on com
tract. A great worker, but with a weak-
ness for ants. Davie always had a pickle
bottle for staging heroic contests between
red-joes and black-joes—or either of these
against twice their number of road ants.
Now he left his patch and his pickle
bottle to watch the excitement of the first
ploughing.
He came up at the turn of the furrow
and spoke soothingly to Baldy and Kate
—and obscenely to Bill* Bill grinned
appreciatively, and' his eyes shone like
bubbles through the thick glasses. And
he answered in kind. Then Davie fol-
lowed on the return furrow.
WISEMAN from the next farm had
come over.
He gazed keenly and critically at that
first furrow, and spoke sadly about it to
Jack and Tom. It was bad ploughing.
Too shallow. Wouldn’t have ploughing
like that on his mind, he said. A first
ploughing must be deep. Anyway, Bill
was no| a ploughman’s bootlace, if it
came to" that. Wouldn’t have Bill on his
place. And for other reasons besides
ploughing.
Wiseman spoke with dark and sinister
hint. The inference seemed to be that
Bill’s bad ploughing was due to grave
moral defects.
When Bill came to the turn, however,
he and Wiseman greeted each other
affably. Just like old friends. Then
. Wiseman spoke more critically still of the
next furrow—when Bill was out of hear-
ing.
Tom went off with his mattock to
follow the plough and attack the obstacles
that came in its way. Jack and Davie
stayed with Wiseman on the headland.
“As far as that Bray is concerned,”
said Wiseman, “I will say this”
A snapping and jangling announced a
sudden halt of operations in the furrow.
Wiseman paused. The plough had
struck another grass-tree and stopped
and jerked back slightly. Baldy went on,
and levered Kate back till she sat on the
American beam. Bill Bray spoke to the
horses, just once; and they stood
trembling. Then he rapidly summed up
the damage to harness and gear, and
raised his voice and gave a comprehensive
survey of the situation.
“Hear that?” said Wiseman. “Just
what I always said about Bray. And
listen to that!”. . .
Bill was repairing damage with No.
10 wire. Baldy fidgeted, perhaps unneces-
sarily, and was kicked in the ribs. Baldy
grunted and stood still again. There fol-
lowed periods of silence, periods of tap-
ping and hammering, periods of vocal
outburst.
Tom attacked the grass-tree and cut
its thin roots, and bashed it off low down.
Wiseman said no more, and let the moral
soak in.
'T'HEN the plough squealed on.
1 Wiseman returned to the iniquities
of Bill Bray. “Only last week I spoke
to him about that bull of his, I said
‘That bull of yours broke two of my
fences.’ ”
“Do you mean that half-Jersey bull?”
asked Davie, who knew well enough.
“Of course I mean the half-Jersey.
That’s the only bull in this part of the
district.”
Davie nodded.
“It galloped through the peas and
smashed the fence into Gawthorne’s
place. Gawthorne has a cow and a heifer,
you know. And what do you think Bray
said when I told him?”
No one knew,
“He said ‘Aw, you can’t blame the
poor bloody bull; it’s only human nature
after all! ’ ”
“And I said ‘lf you don’t know any
better, at least your bull ought to.’ ”
Wiseman went on to make compari-
sons between Bill and his bull. Bill
didn’t come out of the comparisons
well at all. “And I guess his wife doesn’t
know half. But then again,” Wiseman
added bitterly, “perhaps she does.”
Davie hurried off while the memory
was fresh and gave Bill a verbatim report
of what Wiseman had said. Bill was
mending the eternal harness at the other
end and listened thoughtfully. He then
declared that Wiseman was an interfer-
ing cow (heavily qualified), and that he
would, you see if he didn’t, kick him so
hard and skilfully in his cowardly retreat
that his nose would bleed copiously.
But at the turn Bill and Wiseman ex-
changed pleasantries, more friendly than
ever. Davie went back to his ants.
THE mark out had turned into an
irregular ridge and the land widened.
Occasionally a root or floater bumped
out the plough for a yard or two before
the share bit again.
“Look at that!”
Wiseman was horrified. “Does he pull
back for the ground he’s missed? Not
he! That’s Bray all over. Cover it with
next furrow. Anything good enough!”
Jack made a billy of tea and spread
bread, butter and a c£ke his sister had
sent by the carrier on a sheet of news-
paper.
“You’ll have a mug of tea?” he asked
Wiseman.
“Like to, but not with that Bray.”
Also, it seemed that Wiseman was a
very busy man: had a bed of lemons
to attend to. No end of work on a place
like his. And the prices for fruit were
a disgrace. Must be going. Pity about
the ploughing, though. A first ploughing
should be deep and thorough. But you
never got that from Bray. So long!
Bill drew his team into the scant shade
of a stringybark. Kate and Baldy, sweat-
ing and heaving, settled patiently into the
welcome respite. Bill gulped hot tea
and wolfed into bread and cake.
With mouth full he ejaculated chaste
stories of the district and the doings of
his boon companion Jock McGregor and
himself. As to Wise-
man, he wouldn’t
tear the guts out of
his horses to please
any spying and pry-
ing neighbor. But
ploughing new ground was different from
scratching in an orchard. That was all
some people knew about ploughing.
AT the end of the third day Bill finished
the job. He gathered his gear, broken
bits and all, put Baldy into the shafts,
tied Kate to the back of the spring dray
and departed.
Jack and Tom walked over the plough-
land. It was rough and hummocky ; dry-
ing roots protruded everywhere and
looked like withered arms ; floaters large
and small were scattered around. But
still it was ploughland and something to
be proud of.
They would put in a crop of melons
or perhaps spuds to loosen the ground
and help sweeten it. Then passions and
lemons. In prospect they could see the
long rows of passions, dark green,
healthy, luxuriant, with fruit in abun-
dance on the hangers. And young lemon-
trees thrusting their soft ruddy tips be-
yond the level of the passions. It was
pleasing to picture it so.
But then . . . Clearing the stubborn
scrub had been great work. Any con-
quest of the wilderness is great work —
the satisfying toil of real men.
And that phase was done now. Grow-
ing things was routine—the little man
can do that; and often it makes men
little. It often ties one down to some sort
of drudgery, a kind of slavery . . .
The sun set behind far Mt. Wilson,
and blue and purple Hay and King
George began to darken. Jack and Tom
put their mattocks on the headland and
turned towards camp.
Wiseman appeared. “A great pity,
boys, you didn’t have a good ploughman.
It’s the first ploughing that counts. Can’t
make up for it properly afterwards.”
“Well, it’s done now,” said Jack
wearily.
“Not deep enough—that’s Bray all
over. Now I could tell you”
Over the bungally floated the rich un-
trained voice of Davie as he began a
disgraceful parody of a popular song.
Then darkness closed in, and the
scrub and fringing bloodwoods and
stringies melted into the night.
Raid to Kihili
By JOHN BRENNAN.
KIHILI airfield sits square on the
southern end of Bougainville
Island, the strip running inland
from the water’s edge at right
angles to the sea. It has been cut from
the plantation, and the dispersal areas
are on each side beneath the palm-trees.
They, and the tree-covered slopes at the
far end of the field, are laced with anti-
aircraft positions.
Kihili is the most important Japanese
airbase in the Solomons. Thence come
the heavy bombers for the enemy’s
mostly-abortive raids on Munda and as
far south as Tulagi and Guadalcanal.
About fifteen miles south of Kihili, in
the Shortlands, a fighter strip bisects the
tiny island of Ballale. It, too, has strong
anti-aircraft defences.
And Kihili is one of the most import-
ant targets for the American bombers
based in the South Pacific. They run
there from Guadalcanal and from the
growing base at Munda and from other
bases in the area. Liberators and
Mitchells, Douglas dive-bombers and
torpedo bombers maintain a regular
schedule over all the area about Kihili
and to the south. They drop their bomb
loads and they and the fighter ’planes
strafe ground installations and barge
traffic in Bougainville Strait. Scarcely a
day passes without a “strike” being listed
for Kihili, and at night the far-ranging
night bombers add their quota of destruc-
tion.
This afternoon the Liberators are to
plaster the dispersal areas and ground
positions with a hail of lightweight in-
cendiaries and anti-personnel bombs. All
day long, since early morning, other
’planes have been over Kihili each hour,
each group with its own carefully-defined
objective. The Liberators are going in
force to complete the work for the day.
There is no hurry. Everything goes
with the well-ordered precision of a
theatrical show which has enjoyed a long
run. There is no longer any need for
rehearsal, and the actors are so accus-
tomed to their parts that they have be-
come part of the normal routine of their
lives.
The leading characters are little more
than schoolboys who, before the war,
would have been considered scarcely
competent to handle a high-priced motor-
car, At the controls of the £70,000
bombers they’re steady, methodical and
confident, their capabilities unquestion-
able. Pilots, navigators, wireless men and
gunners, they set about their tasks with
a seeming nonchalance, but every man
has a‘careful and critical eye for his
equipment—his guns or his controls, his
life-jacket and oxygen mask, his gloves
and heavy flying suit. Cold, numbed
fingers could mean disaster.
The ’planes are monstrous, heavy,
lumbering as they taxi to the runway ;
once in the air they’re graceful and alive
and beautiful with power. The slow
circling over the rendezvous while gradu-
ally they move into their positions in
the formation is seemingly interminable,
but eventually, still climbing slightly, the
lead ’plane swings away and to the north,
and the others follow like the wake of
some great ship spreading wide across
the sky.
Their shadows on the thick white
cloud keep pace with them. The ’planes
are floodlit with bright tropic sunlight,
and it gleams from the glassed turrets
and scintillates from the arcs of the pro-
peller blades. It is cold and growing
colder. .
The clouds roll out ahead, shadowed
themselves in valleys and declivities like
some great snow-capped mountain range.
They break and the ’planes’ shadows drop
thousands of feet to the dark-blue sur-
face of the water, then climb again to
cross along the jungle treetops of a
small island.
There, by the edge of the lagoon, is
another airfield, the white coralled run-
way seeming to be painted on the green
tops of the palm-trees. The fighters
follow each other closely from its sur-
face like large, black butterflies with the
white star markings on their wings.
Already the high cover is up above the
bombers, weaving and slipping and
circling in the sun. Below, the fighters
cross back and forth, changing their
positions beneath the formation. As the
field passes away behind the flight there
are ’planes scouting on each side.
Kolombangara, Jap-held—its bomb-
blasted Vila field, inoperative now, pre-
senting a picture of desolation —is passed
away to one side. On Vella Lavella the
fight still flames and dies and flames
again in the jungle as the Japanese are
driven northward and further north.
The course is dead ahead now, and
there is no deviation.
The dark contour of Bougainville rises
above the host of small islands that
fringe the southern edge of Bougainville
Strait. It comes slowly nearer and
clearer. There, bright and calm and
peaceful, is the target.
The bombers make a wide, slow sweep
to run out over each side of the field.
The first vicious black puffs of ack-ack
fire burst ahead, and down among the
trees there show the bright, quick flashes
of the guns. From opened bomb-bays
the small, yellow-painted bombs begin to
rain away in clusters falling down and
behind. The formation is tighter now
and there is no waver.
As the second line of ’planes comes
over the target the bombs are already
bursting through the trees. The ack-ack
is thicker, bursting above and below and
around the flight. Surprisingly, it carries
little hint of menace. Away to the west
a dozen or so Zeros manoeuvre in close
formation trying to lure the protective
screen of fighters away from their
charges. One comes in as if to make a
run at the bombers, and waist and tail
gunners spatter tracers in its direction.
It breaks, veers out of range.
Away to the side one ’of the fighters
with the large white star markings turns
for a few brief moments to chase another
Zero, then comes back to its position.
Kahili is behind. There are bursts of
ack-ack fire from Ballale, but they are
well away and to the side of the flight.
The bombers fly in steady formation-
southward. The course is dead ahead,
and there is no deviation. Above and
below and to the sides the fighters slip
and cross and turn, climb sharply and
slide away. Ahead, the thick white
clouds, pink-tinted in the setting sun, roll
away to the south. The bombers fly
homewards through the peaceful tropic
afternoon.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3324.
Wednesday, October 27, 1943.
AND WE’RE ONLY ASKED TO LEND TO AUSTRALIA AT INTEREST!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:.
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp,
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
DR. EVATT LOOKS AHEAD.
Dr. Evatt envisages for Australia an
increasingly important place in the future
scheme of things, particularly in the
Pacific, but also in Europe and the world
at large. Though only an outline, leaving
much to be filled in and explained, his
statement to Parliament on that future
showed breadth of vision and construc-
tive thinking in strong contrast to the
usual Canberra level and in amazing con-
trast to the general past outlook and per-
formance of Dr, Evatt’s own party.
After the late electioneering implica-
tions and open charges that the Menzies-
Fadden Governments had done Australia
a criminal wrong by sending Australians
away*to fight on “distant battlefields,”
Dr. Evatt’s views on Empire co-operation
and on Australia’s vital interest in the
state of European affairs are as surprising
as, spoken in behalf of the present Labor
Government, they are refreshing. Dr.
Evatt admits, in effect, that the much-
condemned previous non-Labor Govern-
ments were right in this —as anybody in
his senses, despite all the Canberra and
election claptrap, knows very well they
were right.
For a long time, said Dr. Evatt —mean-
ing, by his context, from when Hitler,
with the connivance of his then friends,
started the war —the cardinal principle
of Australia’s foreign policy has been
to take every diplomatic or political step
“calculated to end hostilities so decisively
that the establishment of the post-war
world order will not involve any bargain-
ing or compromise with our enemies.”
That overriding principle “has been ob-
served by Australia from the very out-
break of the war with Germany.” In
other words, when Mr. Menzies, at the
earliest possible opportunity, made com-
mon cause for Australia with Britain, and
followed it up by raising and dispatching
the Second A.I.F. to the “distant” or
“foreign” battlefields of the Middle East,
Mr. Menzies was the statesman and those
howling at him opposite were provincial-
ists of the narrowest variety.
Certainly it is a change to hear Dr.
Evatt, for the Government that has
sprung out of that then Opposition,
declare that wherever Australians have
fought in this war “they have been fight-
ing not only for the security of Australia
but for the preservation of the democratic
way of life which is the characteristic of
the British Commonwealth of Nations.”
Speaking, it needs to be emphasised, for
the Government, Dr. Evatt admits that
Australia “cannot safely limit her in-
terests even to the gigantic area of the
Pacific.” With Britain twice vitally in-
volved in war in Europe, “so at once
were we.” This actually is Dr. Evatt’s
ground for claiming that Australia must
have some say in taking steps to prevent
wars in Europe and in changing the con-
ditions which are likely to cause wars
there. “In short, we cannot contract out
of Europe.”
To the suggestion that the right to take
part in the post-war European settlement
should be restricted to those nations that
are prepared to “police” that settlement
—“whatever that may mean” —Dr. Evatt
answers that “Australia has done its fair
share in putting out the fire which was
kindled in Europe and spread through
the whole world. Our right to take a
full and active part in the planning of the
peace—not merely to be heard —should
be assured to us as a result of what Aus-
tralians have done towards winning the
war.” Yes ; but if Australia admits to
supporting the thesis that all battlefields
other than specifically limited Pacific
battlefields are “foreign,” and that it has
too much on its hands here to be other
than theoretically interested in Europe,
what then? Acceptance of this strongly-
urged fallacy played a considerable part
in returning to office the party to which
Dr. Evatt belongs.
Also, if the 1939 howlers had been
hearkened to, and no A.I.F. had been sent
away to “foreign” battlefields, what say
then would Australia have in the settle-
ment of Europe, the peace, order and
good government of which, Dr. Evatt
admits, “are vital to us”? In fact, the
more closely this section of Dr. Evatt’s
large-visioned statement is examined,
the more evident it is that in September,
1939, Mr. Menzies placed Australia’s
vital interest first. And his measures
didn’t go far enough for Mr. Cameron.
No doubt largely influenced by per-
sonal meetings with its creators, Dr.
Evatt has become a confirmed supporter
of the Atlantic Charter —“something
greater” than a treaty; “a noble expres-
sion of our objectives.” Reverting to
Australia’s vital interest in Europe
through the link with Britain: “Unless we
do our utmost to see them [the Charter
objectives] translated into actuality in
Europe we will have little hope, of doing
so in the Pacific.” Good ; provided the
mere high-sounding expressions of the
Charter are not accepted as achieved
actualities, as the equally high-sounding
expressions of aspiration of the League of
Nations were accepted. There may be
some danger of this, since Dr. Evatt,
though he admits the need for “clarifica-
tion and amendment” of some important
League provisions, is a League enthusiast.
Dr. Evatt holds no brief for the re-
cently emerged notion of a post-war
settlement made exclusively by the British
Commonwealth, America and Russia,
with, perhaps, China added later, as it
becomes a great State —the proposal set
forth in America by Walter Lippmann
and swallowed whole by a host of Ameri-
can post-war planners and limelighters.
This proposal, however, does not, as Dr.
Evatt seems to interpret, reject a wider
association. That could come later.
What it mainly seeks to avoid is the
hopeless babble and confusion of a world
organisation with eyery ragtag and bob-
tail “nation” sitting in from the begin-
ning with a voice and a vote.
“Nothing,” Dr. Evatt said, “has been
more unfair or superficial than the stream
of criticism to the effect that the League of
Nations failed because it did not prevent
the outbreak of the present war.” De-
cidedly “superficial,” wherever it was that
Dr. Evatt encountered any such stream.
“Some critics,” he added, “speak of the
doctrine of collective security as though
it were something outside the purview of
the League.” Again, most extraordinary
criticism, wherever it was Dr. Evatt en-
countered it. The real case against the
League of Nations he does not touch on.
It has to do precisely with that very
“doctrine of collective security,” which,
so far from being considered by any-
body in his senses as “outside the pur-
view of the League,” is actually in practi-
cally everybody’s mind a synonym for
the League itself, and is the one single
feature by which the League is com-
monly remembered.
Why, “collective security” through the
League was the “cornerstone of our
foreign policy” for more than a decade!
The Prime Minister whose lady ably per-
petuates his name in the present Parlia-
ment was, with his party, returned at
election after election on that and related
slogans. The real criticism of the League
is that by its existence and by that catch-
cry the democratic countries belonging
to it were gulled into false security. It
is a weak defence to say that this was
the fault of those various countries and
not of the League, just as it is a weak
defence to say, as Dr. Evatt, quoting Mr.
Churchill with approval, has said; “It
was not a case of the League of Nations
failing the Governments of the world,
but the Governments of the world failing
the League.” That is, there were those,
like America, who wouldn’t touch the
concern with a bargepole; there Were
those, like Japan, who got into it for
what its mugs were prepared to hand
over, and then got out laughing loudly;
there were backsliders in plenty who
sabotaged its one palsied attempt to en-
force its “collective security.”
But these things are of no importance
whatever. The League never was a
League of World Nations, and only as
such could it ever have been effective.
The fact is that it failed dismally. That
wouldn’t matter, either; failure is no bad
epitaph if the aims were worthy, and the
League’s aims certainly were. But the
League was an imposing fa<?ade of
fantasy, which, till the harsh force of
events tore it down, intruded between
wishful-thinking democracies and the
reality of their position. It’s very
presence and pretences led them to
weaken themselves, while at the same
time it obscured from their clear vision
the preparations of the Axis. It substi-
tuted lush sentimentality for the com-
monsense reality on which the democra-
cies had grown and become great, and it
came, in a word, as near as anything ever
had done, to being the end of them.
The great strength in Dr, Evatt’s state-
ment was his exposition of Australia’s
future role —in the Pacific in particular.
Here he mapped out a zone of future
vital interest somewhat larger than the
militia hopscotch boundaries. The “ex-
tended Australian zone” he visualises
embraces the Solomons, New Hebrides,
New Caledonia, Timor and the Nether-
lands Indies, with increased interest in
the future of Papua and New Guinea
both Australian and Dutch —and with
yet closer collaboration with New Zea-
land. For all this zone he outlined plans
in which the Commonwealth will take a
leading part in problems of security,
post-war development and native affairs.
With regard to New Zealand, that
Dominion made the first move by
appointing a High Commissioner to
Canberra ; at an early date Australia will
reciprocate. Arrangements are being
made for a frank exchange of views be-
tween the Commonwealth —which should
mean Dr. Evatt himself—and representa-
tives of the various Governments in-
terested in the south-east Pacific and in
beating the Japs back from this region
to where they belong.
Since the statement —though, com-
pared with the much more familiar
narrow provincialism usually emanating
from occupants of Canberra, vast in the
extended and noble future it points out
for Australia —is still only an outline, a
general basis for future action rather
than a practical plan, it could not be
expected to give details of such an aspect
as Australia’s continued contribution to
the defending of the “extended zone”
against whatever comers. In view of
much of the past performance of his
party, it should be enough for a start
that Dr. Evatt, speaking in the whole of
this statement explicitly for the Govern-
ment, insists that “measures should be
concerted for the permanent defence of
this area as one of the zones of security
within the international system that must
be created.” Such “zones .of security,”
originated by Mr. Churchill, may per-
haps be the grand solution of world
settlement in the long run; and, as well,
speaking earlier and for himself, Dr.
Evatt had laid down as necessary to Aus-
tralia’s future here the continuation of
an adequate army, navy and air force.
This whole scheme of things, of course,
depends on the war continuing to pro-
gress favorably—which, though there
will probably be reverses, now seems
assured —and on the Allied Nations con-
tinuing in peace at least as harmoniously
as they progress in war, though how this
will pan out is as, yet a matter for inspired
prophets and crystal-gazers.
An Old Man Eloquent.
Because the South African Prime Min-
ister enjoys Mr. Churchill’s full confi-
dence, and because of his exceptional
qualities of mind and his unique history
and position, a Smuts speech is an event,
and at least once in this war it has been
a precursor of great events.
Summoned to London in October,
1942, the old Field-Marshal addressed
the members at Westminster in the third
week of a month big with the fate of
nations. His masterly oration was broad-
cast to the peoples of the Empire, and in
the most significant part he prepared
them for what was about to happen in
Egypt. As his words rolled round the
world, Montgomery was writing his
order-of-the-day to the Eighth Army:
“Destroy Rommel and his army! ” Within
24 hours the Imperial forces had entered
upon their task, so grandly completed, of
driving the Axis out of Africa and Italy
out of the war.
In London once more, exactly twelve
months later, Smuts spoke of El Alamein
and of the wonderful series of victories
of which it Vas the beginning. Again
he had the peoples of the Empire for
audience, but his words were meant also
for the gentlemen assembled at Moscow
for the Three-Power conference. Stalin-
grad and El Alamein he described as “the
real turning points of the war,” and for
its effect on the fortunes of the struggle
in both hemispheres he gave the palm to
El Alamein.
v The Russian' contribution to the war has
been immense, and our gratitude and
admiration are unbounded, but in justice
it should be said that there has been no
greater event during the war than the suc-
cess of Allied strategy in the Mediter-
ranean. I say with all emphasis that no-
thing comparable or of greater importance
has been achieved in this war, and it is
proper and necessary for a fair perspective
of the war as a whole that these things
should be said and borne in mind.
Then came a sharp reminder to the
Second-Front-in-Western Europe gang:
To this must be added our continuous
bombing campaign on Germany and Ger-
man-occupied countries, against which
probably about 2,000,000 men are continu-
ously employed on anti-aircraft and other
duties. Our bombing offensive has had, and
is having, the dimensions and effects of a
large-scale additional front.
It had been given out that an imme-
diate landing in Western Europe, de-
signed to draw 60 German divisions from
Russia, would be demanded at the Mos-
cow conference, and there had been a
renewed outbreak of Second-Front-Now
propaganda in English-speaking countries,
accompanied in N. S. Wales by in-
famous and, in the circumstances, highly
suspicious strikes. If in any quarter there
were expectations that the agitation would
be successful they were shattered by a
few pithy Smuts sentences.
We have climbed out from the depths
and moved far forward, and may conse-
quently reckon on further events, especially
in southern and south-eastern Europe.
We shall by the coming winter have closed
in against Hitler’s central fortress of Europe
and be making our dispositions for a grand
assault by all arms next year.
Next year, not this year; and our dis-
positions will be made by the Anglo-
American leaders without interference
from any quarter. They also will decide
where “the grand assault,” to which the
French may be expected to contribute in
southern Europe, will be launched, and
when.
That assault will be our first priority.
We shall, while it goes on, be increasing
our pressure in the Far East* taking all
preparatory steps against Japan, which is
our second priority. The fall 'of Hitler will
have far-reaching repercussions in the Far
East and probably facilitate and hasten the
fall of Japan; indeed the collapse of Ger-
many may mark the beginning of a cata-
clysmic turn of events in the Far East and
the early ending of the war.
To the “Beat Hitler First” strategy, as
thus interpreted, no Australian can object.
Objections would be unavailing in any
case, for “the general lines of our stra-
tegy are agreed on and settled.” And
time, it is recognised, is the essence of
the contract.
Every moment counts, as already the
moral and physical conditions in occupied
countries are indescribable —far worse than
at the end of the last war. If Europe is
to be saved from immeasurable disaster we
must look on the earliest ending of the war
as of the first importance. The longer this
agony lasts the worse it becomes, and the
more difficult, if not impossible, will it be
to restore the Continent to normal con-
ditions.
Hitler, to carry on the war, is draining
occupied Europe of all resources. The
enslaved populations are being reduced
to destitution and despair—They are
moved about like dumb cattle, shot on the
least show of resistance, shot as hostages
even without any allegation of guilt, while
Jews and other sections of the population
are being systematically exterminated.
The author of these, crimes “is no
longer fighting for victory, but for time
—for something to happen, for the acci-
dent which so often upsets the run of
events.”
His only hope now is to prolong the war
on the offchance of something happening,
some new weapon, perhaps some difference
among the Allies, war weariness, some un-
foreseen development coming to his assist-
ance, and producing a stalemate or a
compromise peace. The answer to all that
should be our relentless, ever-increasing
pressure, without rest or pause, until the
crack occurs in his defences- and the whole
imposing structure begins to topple. A
policy of continuous pressure should be
prosecuted ceaselessly, so that the final
decision can be forced as soon as possible
in 1944 Our race must win the last
battle in the West or die.
Referring, not obscurely, to ungenerous
remarks of some Americans and some
Russians, Smuts described the demands
upon the British Commonwealth as “ex-
cessive,” and insisted that it was laboring
under an “intense and prolonged strain.
As the “latest, freshest and most potent
newcomer to the field,” the United States
“may have to play the decisive part in
the concluding act of the great war
drama.” American man-power is, in
effect, “our grand strategic reserve in the
West for the final moves in the war.
Such a role will also be the best justifica-
tion for the all-important part America
is likely to play in the peace, and in the
building up of a new world thereafter.
For no nation in history has so great and
honorable a destiny been marked out by tne
course of events. None has ever had so
high a mission of good and goodwill, and
on none have such high hopes been built.
A great speech, admirably timed and
spoken by a leader of proved wisdom in
war and peace. If fears or doubts are
engendered Americans by the
words “intense and prolonged sham an
“excessive demands” the old man
eloquent could allay them, and may per-
haps do so at a suitable time. Before
he left South Africa one of his Ministers,
Mr. Sturrock, made the authorised an-
nouncement that “South Africas war
effort is now directed chiefly against
Japan.” Americans themselves have re-
corded that the thousands of Canadian
soldiers who formed part of the force that
occupied Kiska landed on the island with
the cry “Remember Hong Kong! Ana
they know well what the men of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand are doing in,
about and above the South Pacific islands.
They can rest assured that, although
there is political weakness in Australia,
and although larrikinism disguised as
unionism is being exploited by Com-
munists for evil purposes, every part of
the British Commonwealth will right full-
armed and “without rest or pause until
the Japanese are beaten to their knees.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Call to Spring.
Sydney people are wondering what hap-
pened to Spring this year. She came
when her appointment was due, but after
one brief glance grabbed her hat and
departed, being last seen heading in the
direction of Dubbo, with an outraged
look on her face.
Since then her relatives, Summer,
Winter and Autumn, have descended on
the place and, their tempers being appar-
ently somewhat deranged, have subjected
it to various indignities ranging from
flooding the cellars to breaking the furni-
ture. All of which was bad enough. The
feelings of the citizenry who have had
to endure this sort of thing and who now
find themselves placed upon their honor
to cut down their use of gas and electric
light by one-fifth because coalminers,
similarly placed on their honor to mine
coal at high wages, not only don’t mine
but even escape the necessity of paying
fines inflicted by the law can well be
imagined.
Housewives are bitterly asking each
other why anyone supposes that they ever
used more gas than was strictly necessary,
and having bets with each other as to
whether, if they do cut their consumption
by one-fifth, their bills will be any the
less. A sort of dumb awe has fallen on
the suburban gardener, who has been
informed by officialdom that, though the
dams are bursting with water, the garden
may have to go short because there isn’t
enough coal to pump it, and the nightly
battle for seats on country trains, book-
ings having been abolished for some mys-
terious reason and trains having been
reduced to aid the great coal-saving cam-
paign, has to be seen to be believed.
Australia’s greatest city has succes-
sively, concurrently and cumulatively en-
dured many shortages since the Big
Argument began, and has endured most
of them cheerfully, aware that you can’t
fight a war and have your cake, too.
Whether it will put up with fuel- and
light-rationing simply because won’t-
works are permitted to go on defying the
nation, the Government and the law re-
mains to be seen. It probably will, being
inhabited largely by the most easygoing
people in the world, a people, moreover,
so used to being pushed around by
strikers, union bosses and Jacks-in-
office that it really looks as though
they’ve come to regard it as part of their
predestined lot.
Strikes and Other Rackets.
One week of home-front war:
It was a chequered week for Communists
and fellow-travellers. For one thing, the three
weeks’ strike of 3800 N.S.W. defence-“project”
workers, who were called out because two “job
stewards” had been shifted from one part of
the “project” to another, was called off, amid
shouts of baffled rage on the part of the guilty
and ill-conditioned blatherskites responsible.
On the other hand, “union officials called
on employees of the two biggest steelworks in
Australia to leave their jobs for 24 hours to
attend stopwork meetings.” They obeyed the
stopwork edict, but only 20 p.c. or so were
at the meetings. The Newcastle men were
told by a Trades Hall Council boss that it was
“an historic day for Newcastle —the first time
for many years that work at B.H.P. has been
brought to a complete standstill.” At Port
Kembla Comrade McPhillips, of the Red
Racket, said that “unless an early reply is
received to our demands” (the dismissal of
Justice Cantor, 14 days’ annual leave and
double pay for Sunday and holiday work)
“t'sere will be another stopwork meeting and
probably a proposal for a continued strike.”
But, going to an A.T.C.U. conference in
Melbourne, Thornton and other Communists
and fellow-travellers were severely snubbed.
The majority decided against Allied Works
Council strikes in principle, and resolved to
set up “machinery” that would “outlaw all
unauthorised strikes and prevent all sectional
and grievance strikes.” And, turning to the
Second-Front-in-Western-Europe agitation, and
referring particularly to a cabled demand sent
by Thornton, his gang and other Communists
and fellow-travellers and a dupe or two to the
British Trade-union Congress, via a Russian
gentleman (they claimed to represent the views
of “400,000 Australian unionists”), themajority
decided to inform the British Trade-union Con-
gress and Russian trade-union organisations
that the cable was unauthorised, and that only
the A.C.T.U. could speak for the Australian
trade-union movement in such matters. Going
further, the majority resolved that the A.C.T.U.
would not be officially represented at meetings
of Friends of the Soviet and the like.
In arriving at these resolutions some of the
gentlemen may possibly have been influenced
by a study of a Red Racket balance sheet, so-
called, wrung from the Thornton gang after
many months of prodding, and published with
the yelping admission that “it finally became
clear that we could not afford to ignore any,
longer these slanders, as they were injuring
the whole trade-union movement.” As might
have been expected, it is not a full statement
of Red Racket income and expenditure. It
refers only to the operations of Thornton’s
“Federal Council,” and not for the 1942 year
(though in April it was announced that “the
complete financial statement for last year” was
expected “in the next few days”), but merely
for six months to June 30, 1943, together with
a statement of assets and liabilities at that date.
Branch balance sheets remain unpublished,
though it is the branches that collect union
fees and levies. _ Even in 1938 the N.S.W.
branch had an income of £27,975, members
of the branch numbering 15,356 —only a frac-
tion of the present membership in all States.
Income of the “Federal Council” for the six
months to June 30, 1943, is stated at £16,582
(shillings and pence here omitted), £8773 rep-
resenting contributions to an “emergency fund,”
“emergency” undefined. On the list of assets
are “Loan, ‘lronworker’ fund, £1349; library,
books and stationery, £210; motor-cars, £553 ;
furniture, fittings and plant, £553” also. Total
expenditure for the halt-year is figured at £9945,
and, with the “Ironworker” fund showing a
loss of £234, there was an “aggregate surplus”
of. £6637. to which the “emergency fund,”
after £3459 of undetailed expenditure had been
debited, contributed £5398. Salaries ate up
£l3Ol, fares and expenses £BB4 (running ex-
penses of cars absorbed £131), so evidently
Thornton does things in style. Indeed, the fact
that there was a surplus of £6637 on an income
of £16,582 shows that this Thornton establish-
ment is a grossly excessive charge on members
of the union. For “Ironworker” printing and
wrappers, etc., they had to find £912, and for
office printing and stationery £630. This £630
was £4 more than the whole of the mortality
payments, though the mortality payments were
spread over eight branches; N.S.W. “A,” Bal-
main, Newcastle, Port Kembla, Victoria,
Queensland, Newcastle and Port Pirie.
Thornton and his gang are now engaged in
a mortal struggle with members of the union
who are not Communists and who stand for the
“rank and file control” of which Thornton and
his gang themselves professed to be champions
until it became a threat to their overweening
power. In particular, these unionists want to be
informed of the extent of Red Racket expendi-
ture on Communist propaganda. They are not
at all likely to get it Until the preparation and
publication of full and precise union balance
sheets are required by Commonwealth industrial
law and the requirement is strictly enforced.
So far from industrial law controlling Com-
munist union bosses they can apparently invoke
it, as well as the spirit of larrikinism, to crush
objectors to their tyranny.
The Lodestar Continent.
All the talking and planning about post-
war reconstruction in Australia will go
for nothing unless the reconstructionists
aim, first and foremost, at a rapid in-
crease of population.
The lodestar that drew the first rush
of people to Australia was gold. In
the ten years before the gold discoveries,
the population increased by 214,948 ; in
the first 10 years afterwards, by 740,229.
In the 20 years 1860-80 it jumped from
1,100,000 to 2,200,000; in the 40 years
1860-1900 it trebled itself. If only some
lodestar as strong as gold could be found.
Australia could have over 20,000,000
people by 1980.
Is there such a lodestar? Those who
love it, those who know it, believe that
Australia itself is a lodestar, only wait-
ing to be uncovered to the seeking eyes of
white people, Europeans and Ameri-
cans.
Two shining points of the lodestar are
safety and freedom, and they should
shine pretty brightly for eyes long
dimmed by blackouts, blockade and the
dust of collapsing cities. There is so
much waiting here for war-orphans, for
war-racked people and for ourselves.
There is so much work to be done and
there is so much urgency about doing it
that, if the country is organised for popu-
lation as it has been organised for war,
it will be in a position to accommodate
newcomers as fast as they arrive. If they
don’t arrive, and that in large numbers,
all the directors and sub-directors of post-
war reconstruction departments might as
well resign tomorrow for all the good
they’ll be able to do. You can’t build a
nation without people.
Service Candidates and
Members.
K. C. Wilson, the only Senator who has
served in this war, was defeated in South
Australia, though he is entitled to sit to
the end of June. A. M. Blain, the only
serving M.H.R., had six opponents, Mr.
Curtin’s plea for him as a prisoner of
war being ignored. Fortunately many
of his fellow-Territorians and most of
those in the services rallied to him, and
he was re-elected. In Maoriland while
this was going on Labor announced that
it would not run candidates against the
Nationalists Brigadier Hargest (Awarua)
and Captain Macdonald (Mataura), who
served in the Middle East, where the
brigadier was taken prisoner, and are
veterans of the last war.
One or two of the new members at
Canberra have had war service. Many
candidates with good records in this war
or in the last or in both stood in Common-
wealth electorates as Independents or as
members of new groups. All were de-
feated, and many lost their deposits.
Equally severe was Maoriland’s rejection
of J. A. Lee’s Democratic Labor
group, which had a lot of service candi-
dates. It was natural for the defeated
warriors to feel bitter, but in both cases
they came up 'against the feeling that the
country didn’t want any new parties or
any more Independents. Moreover, the
Lee group offended Maoriland’s Scotch
traditions by coming out for a wild-cat
financial policy and for the restriction of
compulsory service to the Pacific, plus
the withdrawal of Freyberg’s men from
the European theatre of war.
That there is no feeling in Maoriland
against service or ex-service members of
established parties was shown by the
election results.
Among the Nationalist members, as
well as Brigadier Hargest and Captain
Macdonald, there are E. P. Aderman
(New Plymouth), now an army chaplain ;
G. F. Sim (Rotorua), who is convalescing
from serious enemy shell wounds ; W. H.
Gillespie (Hurunui), S. G. Holland
(Christchurch North, the leader), C. G. E.
Barker (Waipawa), H. G. Morton (Waite-
mata), J. A. Roy (Clutha), S. W. Smith
(Bay of Islands), all last-war veterans,
and A. S. Sutherland (Hauraki), who
served in the South African War. Ex-
service men among the Laborites are W.
P. Anderton (Eden), E. L. Cullen (Hawkes
Bay), Peter Carr (Auckland West), F.
Hackett (Grey Lynn—he defeated Mr.
Lee), L. G. Lowry (Otaki), E. P. Meachen
(Wairau) and C. F. Skinner (Motueka ;
the Minister of Rehabilitation), who re-
turned from the Middle East a major
with the M.C.
Of the Maori members, all Laborites,
Jack Omana (he defeated Sir Apirana
Ngata), H. T. Ratana and E. T. Tiri-
katene (member of the Executive Council)
were all last-war soldiers, and T. P.
Paikea, who is only 23, is a thrice-rejected
volunteer for this war.
So on neither side of the House will
service men lack champions who know
what war is, and what it means to men
who have fought and suffered, and to
widows and orphans.
JUSTICE IS BROKE!
“Fines imposed on workstoppers for breaches of National Security regulations have not been enforced... Union bosses
demand the dismissal of Justices Drake-Brockman and Cantor... Apropos of a lawless Sydney slaughtermen’s strike, Justice
Taylor, president of the Industrial Commission, said, ‘The illegal action appears to have been made legal by force of overriding
Commonwealth law,’ and ‘the report of the State Minister of Health is apparently to be binding on this tribunal.’”


AROM AT 1C
m
Agents;
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd,,
SYDNEY.
iT-
fjl
Wl
C. S.B. HARDWALL FLUSTER
Packed in Jute Bags
pl|§^:r
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division), nroTU
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - ' p ™ IH
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
POLITICAL POINTS
October 22 was the fourteenth anni-
versary of the swearing-in of the Scullin
Labor Government. It commanded 46
votes in the House and a December by-
election gave it 47. By March 3, 1931,
there had to be a reconstruction, Lyons
and Fenton having left to form the
U.A.P. and Beasley to form another
Labor “party,” while Anstey was
dropped. On November 25, 1931, the
Government was defeated on a Beasley
motion, and on December 19, 1931, the
electors reduced the party that had been
47 strong to a Scullin faction of 14 and
a Beasley faction of four. What’s the
betting that the present mob will last
three years without splitting and recon-
structing?
Though it must have known that drastic
coal cuts were coming, the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department blithely ran 24 special
holiday trains on Monday, October 4,
chiefly to take herds of noisy knuts and
flappers to the country. When the cuts
were announced the department lost its
head and abolished seat bookings ; result,
unholy scrambles and brawls. O’Sulli-
van, the superfluous N.S.W. Minister of
Transport, blamed the Commonwealth
Land Transport Board, whereupon Clapp
drily .observed that the C.L.T.B. had had
nothing to do with the thing, and flatly
condemned it. The ban was promptly
modified —with respect to inter-city trains.
Bitterly disappointed at the few thou-
sand people who went to see the Lan-
caster bomber at Mascot (Sydney) over
the week-end and the poor response to
his appeal for the Fourth Liberty Loan,
Flight-Lieut. Peter Isaacson, captain of
the bomber, compared both with the
enormous race crowd and record betting
at Randwick, adding that “Australians
apparently are unaware that there is a
war on.” Pity he wasn’t authorised to
land the Lancaster at Randwick and
refuse to budge unless the crowd sub-
scribed £20,000. It looks as if all horse-
and dog-racing and lotteries will have
to be ruled out when a war loan is on
the market, but the Government still
persists in believing that people can eat
their cake and have it, too,
“Deaf and blind to the food position,”
was Dr. Page’s description of the Can-
berra Government, given in support of
Anthony’s allegation that ships were leav-
ing with empty refrigerator space because
there was nothing to put in it. Whereupon
Dedman sprang up afire with indignation
and demanded a withdrawal. Said the
man from the Clarence:
In deference I shall withdraw the actual
statement, but in two seconds I shall prove
it by actual figures Local consumption
of meat rose from 618,000 tons in 1939-40
to 813,000 tons in 1942-43, but export
dropped from 310,000 tons to 214,000 tons.
Local consumption of butter increased by
600,000 boxes in the same period, but
export dropped 2,228,000 boxes and pro-
duction fell 1,600,000 boxes.
Whereupon, it can be assumed, Dedman
fell into a thoughtful silence.
While it was being announced in one
quarter that 330 summonses for absentee-
ism had been issued against members of
the Ship Painters and Dockers’ Union,
and in another that Commonwealth
investigation officers had left for the no-
coal belt to seek out more offenders, Dr.
Evatt had to reveal that fines imposed on
similar offenders as long ago as last
April had never been collected, and that
his Government was considering enforce-
ment of fines by deductions from pay
envelopes. It’ll be interesting to see how
people who strike against butter ration-
ing, daylight saving, practical jokes and
the shape of a foreman’s nose will take that.
The C.C.C. strike in a “major defence
project” fizzled out after three weeks,
the' strikers returning on a promise
of a Government inquiry into the
transfer of two job stewards. Kelly,
M.L.C., of the Sydney Labor Council,
advising them to return, got this off:
I Wish we could bring the lot out and
paralyse the whole of industry for one day,
but we cannot... .You should go back to
work, and if you are not satisfied with the
result of the inquiry you can come out
again.
Presumably he will now receive one of
Curtin’s summonses for urging men to
MR. WARWICK-THE-KINGMAKER FAIRFAX TO THE RESCUE.
“S. M. Herald,” “because of the extraordinary interest aroused,” has republished the
election articles in which it urged support for Labor, U.A.P., U.C.P., Liberal Democrat
and Independent candidates and demanded the crushing defeat of the Labor Senate ticket....
“Mr. Menzies recently conferred with the committee appointed to reorganise the U.A.P., but
has not given any indication of his views.” — “S.M.H.”
“The very thing you want, Mr. Menzies!
absent themselves from war work. Or
will he?
One doctor on another;
Dr. Page: I welcome another medical
colleague, the hon. member for Denison, to
this Parliament, and express the hope that
the habit he formed, as leader, deputy
leader, Minister, Whip and party in the
Tasmanian Legislative Council, of disagree-
ing with himself and his party will be
maintained in this Parliament, because it
will undoubtedly assist our entertainment.
Members grinned, for Dr. Gaha began
rather like that.
Maxie Falstein —as member, not as
flying-officer:
I do not intend to rest until both Mr.
Theodore and Mr. Packer are dismissed
from the positions which they now hold.
But won’t he have to get permanent leave
from the R.A.A.F.?
With four State elections coming on
four State “post-war reconstruction”
schemes are being improvised. Playford
has got off the mark first with a road
programme —* 3000 miles, to cost
£3,385,000. He claims that “it is unlike
many post-war projects which are to be
investigated by royal commissions and
Parliamentary committees,” that it will
be financed out of motor taxes, and “that,
if the Commonwealth assists with
£500,000 a year, it will be possible to
employ 1800 men for three years.” To give
Playford his due, he doesn’t belong to
the joyful brotherhood who see a post-
war new order of no work between meals
and beer with the porridge on Sundays.
Admitting that fines imposed on N.S.W.
workstoppers had not been collected,
Dr. Evatt said that before going abroad
he had issued orders that they should be.
Downing, the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
“explained” that non-gollection had been
enjoined on Clerks of Petty Sessions by
a Commonwealth regulation dating from
1934 which had never been revoked ; in-
deed a special instruction that this pro-
cedure should be continued had been
received on April 20. The Attorney-
General replied that the special instruc-
tion had been issued in his absence, but
didn’t say who was responsible, nor did,,
his substitute Beasley, now “S. M.
Herald’s” special pet. Collection of fines
is now to be imposed oh the loathsome
capitalist, which will doubtless mean a
lot more strikes. •
The matter before the Court was refusal
to do overtime or shift work unless holi-
days were granted. “It’s only in Sydney
that we seem to have this continual hub-
bub about holidays,” remarked Common-
wealth Arbitration Judge O’Mara. It’s
only in Sydney that the old larrikinism
has been introduced into the new union-
ism, with Communist trimmings.
In 1812 Austria and Prussia were allies
of France, and to curry favor with
Napoleon they declared war on Russia
and contributed contingents to his army
of invasion, though the contingents did
scarcely any fighting. When the army
of invasion dissolved into wretched bands
of fugitives, the Russians, history records,
did not pursue them into Prussian terri-
tory. When the Free Germany move-
ment arrived in Moscow, with the bless-
ing of the Government press, people with
a historical bent began to wonder
whether pursuit into Prussian territory
was intended this time.
Major-General Kirk, Surgeon-General
of the United States Army, said this for
publication in July;
In the South-west Pacific area malaria is
our biggest problem. Some 14,000 army
casualties were flown out to base hospitals
in Australia and the larger islands, while
others were evacuated by sea. For every
wounded man evacuated there were two
cases of malaria.
He added, however, that, “despite the
large number of malaria cases, only 16
deaths occurred,” atabrine being “almost
as effective as quinine.” In fact, malaria,
though “prevalent,” could be considered
“under control,” though draining of
swamps and screening of barracks were
necessary to ensure prevention.
That many people are doing very well
out of the war has been shown by recent
tote figures at Randwick and Flemington,
which have broken all records, and by
gloating reports of the operations of Big
Punters who bet in hundreds and thou-
sands. And the lordly Randwick book-
maker, it seems, has refused wagers of
less than £2. Also doing famously is the
Government at Brisbane. Its Premier-
Treasurer complacently remarked in his
Budget that “State revenues for 1942-43
allowed of the appropriation of
£5,250,000 for post-war works” and that
in the same year £2,345,500 of “State
funds” had been invested in war loans,
while “£1,500,000 was also placed at fixed
deposit with the Commonwealth Bank.”
To the current war loan another
£2,900,000 has been subscribed out of
“State funds.” These are all matters for
Canberra’s attention, since Canberra has
distributed nearly all the easy money
while itself hard pressed for funds. But
Canberra doesn’t seem to be interested.
From a London correspondent’s review
of Traveller from Tokyo, by Professor
John Morris, “the only Englishman in
Japan who was not interned after the out-
break of war”;
Before the war the Japanese deliberately
staged for foreign observers a series of
great military and aerial displays in which
the weapons and machines used were all
obsolescent. Immediately Japan entered the
war the professor saw the most amazing
array of modern armaments, the Japanese
saying it was no longer necessary to con-
ceal them.
Among the foreign observers, and the
most gullible of the lot, were newspaper
correspondents, at least one of them from
Sydney, Hence those “top-heavy war-
ships” and the “pushover” air force.
Maoriland took a licensing poll on
election-day. The Wellington “Dominion”
notes that, with nearly 155,000 fewer
people voting than in 1938, continuance
and prohibition both show decreases, pro-
hibition receiving “a. smaller total vote
than on any occasion in the last 30 years.”
By contrast, the support for State control
was the strongest yet recorded, advancing
from 96,131 in 1938 to 102,939.
The paper infers that “a large number
of people voted State control as the only
means at their disposal of indicating that,
on the one hand, they were opposed to
prohibition and, on the other hand, con-
vinced of the need for an overhaul of
the existing licensing legislation.”
Apropos, “nationalisation of the liquor
traffic” used to be Australian Labor
policy, but for years it has been seldom
heard of except when some Labor
member or other fell out with Bung or
the brewery.


EXB4-42
Let’s Call a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . , for long, hard service. In
this way, you help Australia’s war effort.
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Posthumously awarded the V.C., with
a citation exceptionally stirring even for
that great honor, Flight-Lieutenant Wil-
liam Ellis Newton made the third to win
the decoration in New Guinea, the
twelfth Australian, eleventh member of
the Australian forces, third Australian
airman and second Victorian to win it in
this war. The one outside the Australian
forces is Westralia’s Wing-Commander
Edwards, V.C., who’s with the R.A.F.
Flight-Lieut. Newton, V.C., son of a
former Spring-street, Melbourne, dentist
and Mrs. M, Newton, of St. Kilda, was
an old boy of Melbourne Grammar, and
subsequently played cricket in the St.
Kilda team with Ross Gregory and
Stuart King, both also since killed on
active service. With the Flinders-lane
firm of Makower, Mcßeath when the
war started, Newton enlisted on the first
day, soon became an outstanding flier,
and was instructing in N.S.W. for two
years before going north to show the
quality of his courage and leadership
with a bomber squadron.
The citation accompanying Newton’s
V.C. stated that 90 per cent, of his total
strikes were carried out under heavy fire ;
that on three occasions he dived through
intense anti-aircraft fire to drop his
bombs. In one typical attack his ’plane
suffered four direct hits which punctured'
the petrol tanks and caused considerable
damage to both main-planes and engine.
Yet, not only did he fly back 180 miles
and land his crew safely, but next day,
though well aware of the danger, without
hesitation “repeated this magnificent act.”
On his last run he went down very low
through heavy and accurate anti-aircraft
fire to make sure of getting his objective.
This accomplished, his ’plane burst into
flames, yet he executed an excellent land-
ing in the water, and “members of the
crew were observed swimming to the
shore.” “The story of his brave deeds,”
the citation added, “will become a legend
in the Royal Australian Air Force, and
will be read with pride by those who
serve in that force in the years to come.”
S. C. Lu, Sydney agent for the Bank
of China, admits to “being optimistic
about the war but rather pessimistic
about the peace.” Having, since his
escape from Singapore, become settled in
Sydney, he regards the place with affec-
tion, and has the Paul of Tarsus feeling
of being “a citizen of no mean city.”
A Chinese Government scholarship en-
abled Mr. Lu to be educated in the
S. C. LU
U.S.A., at the Phillips High School in
Andover (Mass.), one of the oldest and
most exclusive in the U.S., at Ohio Wes-
leyan and at Illinois State University,
from which he graduated in 1919.
Thence he entered banking in China,
served a few years in Singapore and re-
turned there in 1936 as secretary of the
Bank of China. He left Singapore with
a suitcase when the Japanese were within
three miles of his office on two sides,
and the ship he caught came through no
fewer than 16 bombing attacks. And
so to Fremantle. These experiences, in-
cluding the loss of his home and posses-
sions in Singapore, failed to destroy his
sense of humor or his belief that the
Japanese must lose, not only by military
defeat, but because of their poor quali-
ties as colonists. His idea of the future
for China is that it could well be left
to work out its own destiny, and that the
rest of the world would have nothing to
fear, since at no time has China ever
sought conquest.
Hobart police magistrate F. N. Stops
has probably handled more lower-court
cases than anyone else in Tasmania. The
only part of Tassie in which he hasn’t
sat on the Bench is Bruny Island.
Retiring at the end of this year after
45 years’ service, he matriculated from
Hobart Scotch College, was admitted
as a solicitor in 1896, and two years
later became a court registrar. In
the Attorney-General’s Department in
1901, he drafted the Licensing Bill which
helped to bring down a Government,
though when it became operative it was
acclaimed by all hands. He took his
LL.B. in 1912, helped reorganise the
Public Service Association, then held his
magisterial posts all over the island.
The only surprise about the awarding
of the D.S.O. to Wing-Commander Clive
Caldwell was that it should have been so
long in coming. On his record, both in
the Middle East and up north leading a
Spitfire squadron against the Japs, he
would appear to have won it over and
over. He already had the D.F.C. and bar
and the Polish Cross of Valor when he
was brought back to Australia to help
stonker the Japs, and he wasn’t long
adding a number of Zeros to his bag, as
well as giving his crowd a leadership
which makes its members swear by him.
What his lot up there have thought of
him is indicated by the fact that different
ones of them have either dropped in at
?52 George-street to collect, or have
written for, batches of copies of The
Bulletin containing a full-page account
of Caldwell’s Middle £ast performance,
along with Frith’s model of him. Inci-
dentally, the citation let out the hitherto
little-known intelligence that Caldwell
has a middle name, Robertson.
To succeed the late Dr. R. S. Hay as
Anglican Bishop of Tasmania, Rev.
Geoffrey F. Cranswick is a brother of
former Gippsland Bishop George Har-
vard Cranswick, now chairman of the
Australian Board of Missions. Their
father was Rev. Canon E. G. Cranswick,
onetime of Sydney. Tasmania’s new
bishop has latterly been organising sec-
retary of the Church Missionary Society
in Canterbury, Chichester and Rochester
(Eng.). He took his B.A. at Sydney Uni.
in 1916.
Stripped to the waist, New England’s
Country party member Abbott —“young
Joe”, to brother Jack, being only 52 —
ignored the strong advice of the old
bar-room bellow and went down the
mine at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) one
day last week to see for himself
what the game was like. While
there he did a bit for the war effort,
helping miners shovel coal into the skips
and operating a drill. The experiment
shattered all his beliefs “about the grim
conditions under which miners worked.”
Instead of his layman idea of them crawl-
ing through tunnels and lying on their
backs chipping the coal down on
top of their chests, he found “wide,
roomy tunnels and comfortable working
conditions.” He reckoned the game dead
easy compared with other physical
yakka he’s done, such as loading and
unloading hay and sinking postholes.
S.A. Jockey Club’s new racing judge,
succeeding Phil Gillen, retired, is to be
Noel Fisher, grazier, a committeeman of
Gawler, and with experience as judge at
various country meetings. He is a son
of Harold Fisher, president till his death
of S.A. Cricket Association (after
Mostyn Evan and before Scrymgour).
The new judge has been accepted also
by Adelaide Racing Club and other
metropolitan bodies. He is to have as
assistant Harold Howie, who has been
away acting as a stipendiary steward in
S’Africa.
Resuming as lecturer in geology and
mineralogy at Adelaide Uni., Dr. C. T.
Madigan knows more about Centralia
than most men, having led several expedi-
tions, the last to the Simpson Desert in
1939, scientific reports of which will be
published by the Royal Society of S.A.
Latterly he’s been in charge of the field
wing of the Army School of Engineering
in N. S. Wales. A Rhodes scholar,
now 54, he went to the Pole with
Mawson.
Diggers, doggies, etc.:
Over the past year or two there has been a
regular flow of books of reprints of Bulletin
black-and-white drawings, published by or for
the artists —Lusby (now R.A.A.F.), Such (now
A.1.F.), Unk White, Lock, Joliffe. A fresh col-
lection of Joliffe’s Andy drawings only just
lately came from the printer, but the young
A.I.F, infantryman to whom this page’s copy
was sent has already reported that his unit so
thoroughly perused it that all he got back was
the wire staples that had held it together.
Now The Bulletin has published a collection
of drawings which the artists here named
and all others will hail as the most outstanding
black-and-white event for many years. This
is the Scorfield selection of his own humorous
sketches, with Digger and animal themes pre-
dominating, some of them —including some of
his four-footed cobbers and a two-legged
Tobruk Rat as striking as anything he has ever
TED SCORFIELD.
done in the Digger line —here published for
the first time. The Digs, are conclusive evi-
dence that Ted Scorfield was looking about
him as well as doing a tough bit when he was in
Egypt and with the Royal Engineers at Helles.
Later he was scrapping up amongst the Bulgars
before The Bulletin eventually induced him
to come from his native Yorkshire to Aus-
tralia, since when he has lost nothing of a
Geordie accent that would be recognisable in
the din of an Alamein barrage, but is nonethe-
less the daddy of all black-and-white delinea-
tors of the Diggers, and in their rigout would
readily pass for one himself, an outsize com-
mando specimen at that. His animal themes
are similarly drawn from strong personal
preference The doggies—there’s a central
two pages of absolute snifters—are from
general observation and the long string
of tykes he has himself owned: his taste
in hounds is like Sam Weller’s knowledge of
London. As for the other animals depicted,
one of the brightest moments in Ted’s life
was when he learned the particular call —un-
known to the public—which makes the animals
at Taronga Zoo come forth from their shelters
and caverns. A yet brighter moment was when
he gave the call to the hippo, and out the old
boy waddled dripping from his well, puffing
and blowing the Wet from his lips.
A gunner on a Dutch tanker last
November, Able Seaman Bertrand Alfred
George Hammond sank a 10,000-ton
enemy raider in the Indian Ocean, get-
ting it at about five miles with a 4in.
quick-firing gun. His fifth shot did the
trick. Later it was the tanker’s turn,
another enemy raider scoring a hit with
a torpedo. After Hammond and others
of the crew had been two and a half
hours in the sea the tanker was still afloat,
so they got aboard again and brought her
safely to port. For the whole perform-
ance Hammond, who belongs to Glanville
(S.A.), was awarded the D.S.M. and the
Able Seaman HAMMOND, who bagged
a raider.
Netherlands Bronze Cross and bar. Ham-
mond had an earlier taste of lively doings
as a dispatch rider in London during the
blitz. Before the war he was one of
Adelaide’s small band of Rugby players,
and a particularly solid one. A younger
brother is with the A.I.F. in New Guinea.
“S.T.S.” on a humorist and artist:
We in Adelaide didn’t know M. J. McNally
till he was elderly. His best days were in Mel-
bourne, where his studio on tire top floor-of
Oxford Chambers was a great meeting-place for
writers and painters. R. H. Croll, in his
book of recollections, tells a pleasant story of
McNally, from that lofty lookout, seeing an
unknown businessman kissing a typist; he
studied the lettering on the window, then the
telephone-book, and rang up the astonished
stranger to ask what the deuce he meant by it.
In Adelaide McNally was immensely popular
as both an art critic and a graceful writer
on almost any subject. But perhaps he was
at his very best as a guide-lecturer at the
National Gallery. He could make paintings
really interesting to the casual crowd. For
instance, when Melbourne lent us “The Bent
Tree,” the guide added to the usual talk about
price, execution and so on this personal
touch: “I had the great good fortune to be
there in the woods at Barbizon when Corot
was painting it; and I had the cheek to go up
to him and say ‘Master, would you mind telling
me just how you get this effect?’ And he very
kindly did so.” Appreciative silence; during
which I went away and consulted books of
reference. They said: McNally born 1875;
Corot, died 1875. Then I recalled Croll’s quite
friendly summing-up: “Realising how much
more intimate and interesting is the first-hand
narrative, he invariably told it as happening to
himself, or in his presence; and his great gifts
as raconteur carried it over and made it be-
lievable, if only for the moment.”
Into the ;
In Adelaide, at 72, Thomas Butterfield,
farmer, M.H.A. (Labor) from 1915 to 1933,
and a Minister of Crown Lands and Afforesta-
tion (of which last he made a special feature,
notably with Firms insignis ). He was born at
Ellerslie (Vic.).
In Melbourne, at 89, knight George Fair-
bairn, not the least distinguished member of a
famous family. He had pastoral interests in
Queensland/ Victoria and N. S. Wales; repre-
sented Fawkner, 1906-13; was a Senator, 1917-
23; Victorian A.-G. in London, 1924-27; a
Dalgety, A.M.P. and Union Trustee director;
and a member of the “Argus” and “Austral-
asian” board.
At 66, Admiral of the Fleet Sir Dudley
Pound. First Sea Lord since 1939, he per-
formed, as First Lord of the Admiralty Alex-
ander said in his tribute, a “great service to the
nation... .wonderful management of the inade-
quate fleet with which he had to perform
miracles.” He had spent a lifetime in the Navy,
from his training days in the old Britannia to
command of the Colossus at Jutland and on
to the highest positions at sea and on staff.
Though a sick man for some time, he accom-
panied Churchill to Quebec, became worse be-
fore that trip was over, and had to retire from
his high post only a few weeks before he died.
In Melbourne, at 53, Theodore Anthony
Lennox-Bigger, Chamber of Commerce secretary
since 1935. One of a South Ireland Plymouth
Brethren family, he served with a British regi-
ment in the last war, and was for a time a
captain in India before transferring to Victoria
under a soldier-immigration scheme. One of
his daughters, with the A.A.M.W.S., served
two years in the Middle East and is now up
north.
In Sydney, Dr. Andrew McKenzie Meldrum,
who gave up the presidency of the Church of
Christ University in America to become an
anthropologist, had to leave his work in that
line in New Guinea when the Japs started, and
in Sydney resumed ministry with the Church
of Christ, first at Marrickville, then Enmore.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; Corporal Adolf Hitler, master
of intuition, take one pace to the rear!
Private Johannes Hitler, take one pace for-
ward ! Johannes, “a mild man,” conscript
from Alsace, thought he’d be safer with
the British than defending the Volturno
line for Fritz. So he, according to the cor-
respondent of an English paper, deserted,
swimming the river naked. Announc-
ing his name as Hitler, the ex-goose-
stepper naturally got a rude raspberry
from the Tommy to whom he gave him-
self up. There was quite a barney about
it, Johannes insisting that his name was
Hitler, to which T. Atkins replied that
he was the Mikado. Whereupon Johannes,
standing there in his birthday suit, “pulled
out his paybook,” and lo! his claim was
verified. Private Johannes Hitler, master
of prestidigitation, take two more paces
forward and receive a handsomely-
engraved diploma from the Professional
Magicians’ Association!
“T.McN.”: One of the things we males
may have to prepare ourselves’ - for is the
doctrine that Jill’s as good as Jack in any
“... .And, in addition, disturbin' the peace an' resistin' arrest!"
sphere. Girls who’ve been tram- and bus-
conducting, truck-driving, working on
heavy machines in factory and so forth,
not to "mention standing up in the bars
with their workmates, aren’t going to be
pushed back into the kitchen when peace
comes. A lot of us stand a chance of
finding ourselves taking orders from
some "iron-jawed female with a glassy
eye and efficiency sticking out all over
her. I’m doing my best to prepare my-
self, but cannot face without shrinking
the vision of myself, slightly ambrosial,
being run in by a Johanna Hop.
* * * *
“Norther”: Over 7001 b. of shark was
sold in the Brisbane fish market in a
week and brought up to Is. sd. a pound.
Personally, I’d no more think of eating
shark than of dining off horse or crow,
and there’s a lot more like me. The
assertion of a member of the Fish Board
that “man-eating” sharks—tigers, grey
nurses and hammerheads —aren’t accepted
at the markets leaves me cold. I once
tackled swordfish, bought at 6d. a pound
from a butcher; it reminded me of the
stringy corned beef we used to get out-
back in drought times. It seems ridiculous
that a people with a coastline over 12,000
miles long, facing three oceans literally
teeming with fish, should be reduced to
shark-eating.
* * * *
“Flagoner”: It is an article of faith
with prohibitionists that the Demon
Alcohol sweeps away moral inhibitions,
but that generalisation has no sure basis
in the experience of publicans and
sinners. Liquor takes different men
different ways. O. Henry (who knew
all about it) wrote a yarn about a chap
who, whenever be got well lit up, became
a rabid temperance orator. And I’ve
known many a good easy fellow (When
sober) who developed a puritanical turn
of mind after sufficient lubrication. One
of these turned up in Young and Jack-
son’s, Melbourne, and, perceiving through
an alcoholic haze that Le Febvre’s
“Chloe” was scandalously undraped,
threw his mug at her, busting glass and
canvas. After that, says a newspaper:
Service men and civilians tried to seize
the vandal, but he broke away, and, ‘racing
out of the door, dragging one of the staff
who had caught his coat, he escaped
through the crowd in Swanston-street and
leapt on to a tram.
“Chloe,” a medal-winner in the Paris
Salon of 1886, was bought by the Young
and Jackson management. When Le
Febvre was fashionable she was reputed
to be worth £3500. Another soused purist
threw bjper at her in 1928.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A professor “fully aware of
his own importance,” is it (B. 6/10/’43)?
In my time at Cambridge, Oscar Brown-
ing of King’s, who had a wide acquaint-
ance with great people and was fond of
talking about them, was reputed to have
described one potentate as “really the
very nicest Emperor I have ever met.”
* * * *
“Testro”: Digger concert-party artists
under the leadership of Brig. Harold
Cohen are storing up experiences as
colorful as those of the Anzac Coves, the
Kangaroos and other troupes who enter-
tained the troops in “Tipperary” days.
Lieut. Kelly’s Middle Easters, Lieut.
Harry Crowe’s New Guinea Party, W.O.
Ron Morris’s A.I.F. Party and Lieut,
Bill Young’s Aussies on Parade, who
went through the Greece and Crete cam-
paigns, have all stuck by the Thespian
maxim “The show must go on,” even
during air raids. The Middle Easters
cherish the memory of an English girl
who sang to a mixed ground-sitting
audience of Aussies, Tommies and
Scotties behind El Alamein. The singer
had barely got under way when the guns
opened up, flashes lit the sky, and things
appeared to be warming up most un-
pleasantly. The audience began to get
restless. Anxious eyes wandered to the
horizon. The girl stopped dead in the
middle of her song, “Look here, boys,”
she said, “are you going to listen to me
or to them ?” They decided to listen to
her, and gave her a cheer. The show
went on.
* „ * . * . * T t,
“Petermac”: Despite what the Johns
think about it, running a two-up school
is a “lawful occupation’ for taxation
purposes. This definition was given by a
taxgatherer when the boss of a flourish-
ing Sydney joint who had amassed over
£5OOO was fined £lOO for failure to
weigh in with an income-tax return. He
will have to cough up a further £l5OO,
or else. I wonder if black-marketeers
are included in the list of “lawful occu-
pations”? S.p. bookies are.
“What heaven did you fall from , bashful?”
“Oxmead”: An English paper with
philological leanings—“ John o’ London’s”
—speculates on the origin of “the Aus-
tralianism ‘cobber,’ which dates appar-
ently from the end of last century.”
Chronologically that seems accurate; I
can’t remember hearing the term before
the late ’nineties. But the surmises about
its derivation aren’t particularly convinc-
ing. One regards it as a mild corruption
of “cobba,” a Cornish word signifying
originally a simpleton, and then being
promoted to mean a good-hearted fellow.
Another conjecture finds its genesis in
the Suffolk verb “to cob,” which means
“to take a liking to” or “to chum up
with.” The commentator finally point's
out that “chaber” is the Hebrew word for
comrade. I don’t find any of these ex-
planations satisfying, though there may
be some force in the second one.
* * * #
“Ike Hollar”; The “Commonwealth
Government Gazette” gives me a thrill
as the -long lists of persons who by
naturalisation have been made my brother
(or sister) Australians is perused. Spiritu-
ally I greet, and in the relative cases
embrace (wondering in most cases how
the hell the names are pronounced),
Jakow Szrajbman, Josip Fus, Szymon
Mordechelewicz, Pavel Federovitch Sere-
briakoff, Constantine Cagiapostolie, Sakik
Yaup, Zorgzi Roshani, Elie Kyrlazacos,
Xherit Xhafer, loannis Dimitri Anasta-
sakis, Ferit Ymer, Seit Emin and all the
rest, including Grgo (how the dickens is
that spoken?) Ukick. But not all these
cognomens are alien and queer. Regard
you August Rudolph Kiwi and Pasas-
kinolji Dinkum. There was also a
“Bosker” in a recent list.
# * * *
“Pitt St.”: I’ve been struck lately by
the increase in the number of talking
drunks about Sydney. Almost any day
you can inspect a sozzled citizen weaving
along the street, waving his arms and de-
livering himself of vocal fountains. One
whose course preceded my own line of
march talked continuously from the
Quay end of Pitt-street to a pub in
Market-street and was still full of oratory
when he disappeared therein. I’ve seen
one talking-drunk female and on Wyn-
yard ramp an obviously pickled colored
man wearing a fez. I always thought
Mohammedans were teetotal.
* * * *
“Zake”; Provincial politicians must fill
in their time somehow, and to combat a
public belief that they are completely
useless they sometimes endeavor not only
to get themselves photographed among
toilers, but to be shown taking part in
the toil. So we see Blobb, Minister for
State Blowholes, smilingly operating a
turret lathe, and next day Snooks, Min-
ister for State Waterwheels, will be shown
smilingly ministering to a steam-hammer.
Always smilingly. Genial fellows all —
and why shouldn’t they be? I suggest
that each provincial hot-air factory
should appoint yet another board. It
would have the full-time job of recover-
ing all the material that has been messed
up by these publicity hunters, who in the
course of their hunting must spoil enough
stuff to equip an armored division.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: As to place-
names (B. 29/9/’43) let me add to “The
O.D.’s” list Cattle Chosen in the jarrah
country (so called because the pioneer’s
cattle strayed to grass there, thereby
choosing the location for a run them-
selves), Burnt Yards and Black Gate
station on the Darling, Slab
Hut Bend and O’Neil’s Mis-
take on the Murray, The
Eagle’s Nest, a rocklike
island off Cape Patterson
(Vic.), and the Valley of
Lagoons station in the
Cairns hinterland (N.Q.). If
you want any more there
are Starvation Boatharbor
in the Bight, Mt. Misery,
that desolate, grey granite-
topped peak at Port Davey
(Tas.), Jumping Sandhills
Well (near Booligal, N.S.W.)
and The Graveyard on the
Madman’s Track between
Broome and Derby (W.A.)
—so called because of the
countless miles of anthills on
a bare plain resembling
tombstones.
* * *
“Bo” mourns over a
monarch retired from busi-
ness :
A crool blow has been dealt
to Sydney’s sob-sister press. For
years Tilly Devine has been the
answer to the news editor’s
prayer. Did a belted earl visit
us and, after three days’ brows-
ing among Bondi surf lovelies
and the wallabies at Taronga
Zoo, make derogatory speeches
he might get half a stickful be-
tween the astrologer’s daily
guess and a Hollywood star’s
divorce announcement. A cable
that the Yangtze had flooded and drowned
a million Chinese might get half an inch on
the back page. But Tilly, whenever she made
an appearance at court, was always good for a
double-column screamer on the main news page,
with blocks of herself and consort “at their neat
Maroubra cottage.” When there was a dearth
of double murders or centenarians with vitriolic
views on the new generation, the n.e. could
always fall back on an interview with the
“Queen of the Underworld,” complete with
pictures giving intimate glimpses of the Devine
menage. In the end the lady was convicted,
for the umpteenth time, and an S.M. handed
her six months on each of two charges, cumu-
lative. On appeal, a Judge not only made the
sentences concurrent, but released the prisoner
on a two years’ good-behavior bond, with a
stipulation that she should not venture during
that time south of “Nelson’s Bay, north of
Newcastle.” Within a fortnight it was noised
abroad that the lady was not to be found in
the place assigned to her. She prefers Long
Bay to Nelson’s Bay.
ANY AGE.
"Countly nurse, 22, would like to meet a doctor
(any age).”— “S. M. Herald” view mat. ad.
She wants a sailing mate for an excursion,
A voyage into matrimonial seas,
And quite as obviously no aspersion
Can rest on her of being hard to please.
She’ll be content with any modem version
Of /Esculapius or Hippocrates.
In answer to her shy and tender call
One needs must be a doctor —that is all.
Her springtime fancy isn’t lightly turning
To any of the faculty’s elite;
It isn’t men renowned for skill and learning
She necessarily “would like to meet.”
The fashionable specialist who’s earning
A princely income in Macquarie-street
Holds, it would seem, no more appeal for her
Than any general practitioner.
For those she’s beckoning to wedlock’s fetters
There’s nothing in the artless ad. to tell
That those supremely satisfying letters
L.R.C.P. are indispensable.
If bets were laid, I’d be among the bettors
A mere M.R.C.S. would do as well.
A doc.’s a doc., you’ll probably agree,
Whether by right or common courtesy.
There’s none of any calling that she’d care to
Climb, with her hand in his, up life’s long
hill
Save one who knows the ills that flesh is
S heir to
And combats them with lancet or with pill.
Of all the sheltering arms she might repair to
Only a Galen’s pair will fill the bill.
Provided that the healing art’s his biz
It’s immaterial how old he is.
He may be somewhat past the mark for
mating,
A septuagenarian or worse,
This Dr. Right she’s dimly contemplating—
It doesn’t signify a tinker’s curse.
The simple fact remains there’s somewhere,
waiting
But to be wooed and won, a country nurse
Who’s ready the affections to engage
Of any medico —of any age.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
GLAD TIDINGS.
“Two or three years ago, most Australian verse-
writers didn’t get published, and nobody read them
if they did. Now their books are being printed,
bought and read.” — R.P., 20/9/'i3.
Great news, you lads who cultivate the Muses
And build, or strive to build, the lofty rhyme.
Here’s evidence which nobody refuses
You’re booked for a distinctly rosier time.
The depths of chill neglect you’ve long been
plumbing,
Struggled for recognition all in vain.
Rejoice, you lasses, too! You re
coming
Into your own again.
Straws ever show the way the wind is blowing,
Events ahead their shadows cast before.
Soon you may be collecting what is owing
To you in kudos and in cash —or more.
And, following the change of heart depicted
In the new value set on winged words,
Our land may yet become, as once predicted,
A nest of singing-birds.
Hearts up, you sonneteers and lyric-lovers!
Time was it would have seemed too much to
ask
That verse were marketable, bound in covers,
The same as beer, in bottle or in cask.
All that is changed now publishers are fanning
There’s brisk demand for your collected lays
And that admiring crowds may yet be binding
About your brows the bays.
Great news, you sons and daughters of Apollo,
To add new zest to your melodious gran .
Fresh bursts of minstrelsy should surely follow
The knowledge that it grows a gainful craft.
Some day—who knows? —your tuneful contri-
butions , , . , . .
May bring you more than legislators get
For framing laws and passing resolutions
But not. I think, just yet.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“S.”: Joynton Smith was a friend in
need to many politicians, and for that
matter, perhaps, to more than one party.
In 1913 Holman had just succeeded to
the leadership of N.S.W. Labor party
and the elections were due. Funds were
low, and Holman had a champagne style
of doing everything. Joynton rendered
first aid by guaranteeing a £2OOO over-
draft with the old City Bank, afterwards
taken over by the Australian Bank of
Commerce. Had the party lost he could
have whistled for it, but it won and the
o. was made good by all Ministers and
other placemen agreeing to a levy of 20
p. of emoluments in excess of £5OO a
year—the then salary. Since those days
Labor members have grown more indi-
vidualistic.
sjc Jfc H*
“Enel”: For the protection of readers
some comment on the legal impli-
cations of “Form XB234’s” par. (B.
13/10/’43) may not be amiss. The law
says that if two or more receipts are
given for the same sum of money each
form of receipt must bear the appropriate
duty stamp. In this case, the Government
department pointed out (as was its duty)
that the firm in question had failed to
stamp a form of receipt on a cheque. I
am inclined to think that, instead of
receiving the penny for which it is
so hopefully waiting, it is more likely to
receive a demand from the collector of
stamp duty for a payment of £5 os. 4d.,
double the amount of the neglected
duty plus a fine of £5 for evasion
of the Act. If one doesn’t wish to
give two receipts in such circumstances
as this, the solution is, of course, to en-
dorse the cheque in sijch a way that the
signature does not constitute part of the
receipt form.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Widely varied and bizarre
are the forms of gambling one strikes
in our land, particularly outback. I’ve
seen big money won and lost on snail
races and the beer-splashed penny that
attracts the first fly. The kids’ game of
“knifey” I once saw adapted, in prin-
ciple, by a gang of navvies—each back-
ing his ability to send a pick spinning
into the air so that it landed point first.
“Gramophone roulette” was tl)e inven-
tion of a genius in a flood-bound camp
minus a pack of cards. Each player
wrote his name on a cigarette-paper,
which was placed on the turntable of
an ancient gramophone. The machine
was started and the last paper swept off
won the sweepstake. But the most ex-
pensive game I ever struck was ludo—
yes, ludo! Some bright brain conceived
the idea of making a levy of two bob
to start each counter and threepence per
throw of the dice. It built up to a
jackpot that made tiger-pot look like
beggar-my-neighbor!
❖ % * H*
“Tuart”; I see that “the distinguished
anti-Fascist Dr. Benedetto Croce,” aged 77,
is “raising a volunteer corps in Naples,”
to be cased in “British battle dress with
a distinguishing badge.” After reading
a London “Times” man’s account of the
invasion of Sicily I don’t exactly expect
the Croce corps to perform miracles. The
“Times” man noted that here and there
in Africa the Italians shaped well; in
particular “the Folgore Division fought
admirably at Alamein and Takrouna.”
In Sicily it was different;
The Italians scarcely fought at all. After
a few days it was not thought worth while
to mark their location on General Mont-
gomery’s map. They did not even explode
their prepared demolition charges, and the
Germans gave orders that afi remaining
demolitions in the area still unoccupied by
us were to be taken over from the Italians
by Germans.
Fritz, it is stated, “fought well,” and,
though “three days after our first
landing he had no hope of saving Sicily,”
his two divisions held tip the conquest for
38 days, in the end making “a cool,
soldierly retreat.” It is to be noticed that
no “Tithes” man has joined the band of
Fireside Fusiliers , who protest that thei
invasion of Italy, where the Hun is in
immeasurably greater force than he was
in Sicily, should be a military promenade.
* * * *
“Plum”: Ominous news' for Australia
as a marketer of “primary products”
(ghastly expression, but I’ve seen
it in the “Thunderer”) is a report
of the achievement of a group of
scientists at Lausanne, Switzerland.
Spurred by the dislocation of imports
they prepared and cooked a synthetic
three-course meal, and not only that —
they ate it. The hors-d’oeuvres consisted
of chemically-treated cellulose flavored
with coal-tar by-products. “Meat” com-
pounded of wood-pulp, with synthetic
gravy, was the piece de resistance. The
vegetables spoiled the record by being
the genuine article. The was
flavored with vanillin, prepared from coal-
tar, and garnished with cream made from
the same sort of cellulose as the hors-
d’oeuvres. No ill-effects were reported
among the diners, who went so far as to
claim that the nutritive properties of the
meal were as good as those of the real
viands and the cost considerably lower.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Recent events have under-
lined a reference on this page lately to
the decline in the fame of Marie Corelli.
Marie tied herself up with Shakspeare by
boosting his memorials in Stratford ; she
went to live there, and when she died
she provided that Masoncroft, her home,
should be kept going as a shrine. After
visitors had worshipped at .Williams
birthplace and tomb and at Ann Hath-
away’s cottage, they could drop in and
give Marie’s memory a little adoration
too. But Masoncroft and its contents have
been , sold by order of a Court yvhich
ruled that the bequest was invalid, as
there were no funds -to keep it going.
Marie had provided that royalties on her
books should provide the funds, but there
are now no royalties.
*** ■ *
“Hamer”: It may comfort the old men
in that institution where one of the com-
plaints was the coldness of the food by
the time “hot meals” reached the in-
mates to learn that King George has
suffered much the same sort of trouble.
Buckingham Palace was a great deal
more badly damaged in the blitzes than
was at first revealed. As matters stand
service quarters &re cut off from the royal
dining table to an extent that makes it
very difficult to deliver hot soup to the
Royal family. But it has been promised
that after the war the palace will have
something it never had before—a hot-
water service right through the building
In recent years King George and Queen
“You can't fool me —I know you always go to Melbourne for the Cup!”
Elizabeth must often have reflected that
if they were private citizens they could
put up at a flash pub. And, let’s see —
how many courses were spread before
(1) Beaverbrook, (2) Willkie and (3)
Churchill at Moscow?
“Friday Island”: Noel Coward’s “In
Which We Serve” had the benefit of close
naval supervision, and should have been
technically flawless, but mistakes will
creep in. When the navigator leaves the
bridge on a wet night he enters the ward-
room and keeps his cap On whilst chat-
ting with his fellow-officers. It isn’t done.
I remember a rumpus caused over this
when a ship I was in carried two R.A.F.
officers and several mechanics, the latter
messing in the lower deck. An indignant
complaint was made by the seamen be-
cause the R.A.F. officers entered the sea-
men’s mess at meals and kept their caps
on. It was pointed out that the officers,
paying a routine visit to their mechanics
at meals, were observing the traditions
of their service. This explanation didn’t
appease the navy ratings, and our wise
old skipper had a canvas screen put round
the mechanics’ tables.
* * *
“O’Hell”: The Allied service men
looked dubiously at the gifts-for-friends-
abroad department of a Sydney catch-
the-eye shop. The stock was dreadful.
The shell-covered boxes were moulting,
the boomerangs looked so old and
feeble it was no wonder they were bent,
and the sprays of artificial wattle were
brown with dust. A service man
grinned ; “Australian souvenirs, eh?” he
said to the bored shopgirl. The girl
shrugged. “Were,” she said succinctly.
“Now they’re relics.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I’m afraid that Dr.
Coombs, the young university graduate
who has taken op the colossal job of
directing Post-war Reconstruction, will
strike a few snags if his duties include
attempts to stabilise the occupational ten-
dencies of Australians. Not only are
many ordinary blokes nomads by in-
stinct, but there is also the problem of
the artist. I was dining with three artists
and a sculptor. It turned out that one of
the artists had been a farmer, a fisher-
man, a waiter in New York and a free-
lance in London ; another had been an
orchard boy,, an apple-grower in Tas-
mania and a drover ; and the third, among
other things, had been “Mr. Clerk” on a
pearling lugger. The sculptor was the
most astounding. He had been a horse-
breaker and a buckjump .rider, and must
have been a good one as he had been
one of Skuthorpe’s best pupils. Anyone
presuming to tell fellows of that sort
what they are best suited to do might be
very apt to make a wrong gubss.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: A thrill of horror
shattered the normal stupor of a Govern-
ment department when it was discovered
that letters had gone out signed “I am,
sir, your obedient servant.” That was
the signatory conclusion of all Govern-
mental letters in the old days, with sub-
stitution of “humble” for “obedient” in
some cases and a coupling of humbleness
and obedience in others, with, for extra
big pots, a full and flowing “Your very
humble and obedient servant.” The
abolition of the phrasing was one of
the first acts of the first N.S.W.
Labor Administration. In the dis-
turbed department a “temporary,” had
arrived whose last taste of civil service
had been as'a boy of 18.
“Pat Ater”: Not only should some-
thing be slung into the tarpaulin for Aus-
tralian writers when dead men’s works
are dramatised (B. 13/10/’43) but there
should be an excise duty of £5 an instal-
ment on every imported comic strip and
of £5O on each overseas syndicated
story printed. Especially heavy should
be the impost on those war-stories
(machine-made by writers in Hoboken,
N.J., or Chicago, 111.) about the
desperate doings of guerrilla fighters
in every country of Europe. The Aus-
tralians, the English and —yes —the
Americans are being given every oppor-
tunity to develop an inferiority complex.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket”: A Sydney taxi-driver
(he said he had been driving, for 15 years),
told that I wanted to get to “The Block,”
was puzzled. He had never heard the
name. Many the appointment that was
made for “The Block” in the old days when
Sydneyites used to enjoy a Friday night
and Saturday noon parade round the King-
street, George-street, Martin-place and Pitt-
street circuit. A Sydney newspaper ran a
“Round the Block” column. Before the
taxis came any of the old cabbies would
have no hesitation at all if asked to de-
liver a passenger to “Pneumonia Lane”
(Rowe-street), “the Gluepot” (a pub
where men dropped in for for one and
stayed for many), “the Hole in the Wall,”
“the Great Australian Bight” (the wid-
ened area of George-street, opposite the
Town Hall, noted for its cadgers), “Shark
Chambers” (the Commonwealth Bank
stands on the old site), “the New Jeru-
,salem” (Bathurst-street), or “Mugs’ Alley”
(near the Central railway station). The
old custom of nicknaming parts of the
city seems to have gone, however ; except
for “The Cross” and “the Dirty Half
Mile” pet names for localities have en-
tirely disappeared. Even residents of the
southern precincts of the harbor bridge
don’t seem to realise today that they are
living on “The Rocks.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne artists have been
demanding more practising painters on
gallery committees, but experience is
against them. Artist judges have been no
more successful in selecting pictures than
have laymen. Indeed, it has more often
been the layman who has been sympa-
thetic to the new artist whose work is
not understood by his fellow-painters.
Many great artists and composers have
failed to recognise the merits of other
great men who have been doing the same
thing. Cezanne didn’t like Manet and
Manet reciprocated with interest. Wagner
hated Brahms’s music and Brahms hated
Wagner’s. These differences of opinion
can be explained psychologically.
* * * *
“M. 8”: Since Sydney has become a
sort of bazaar of the nations, there’s
something in an idea of Jack Moses’s
that, instead of (or in addition to) the
somewhat tawdry rostrum standing in the
city’s Martin-placp, there ought to be a
permanent exhibition of the country’s
wealth in the shape of wheat, wool, fruit,
butter, cheese and the like, renewed and
added to in season. Moses being the
most modest of bush bards I suggest also
a replica of the “Dog on the Tucker
Box,” with a slot into which the patriotic
could drop a coin or two for the Red
Cross.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A leading U.S.A. journal
has come out with its blueprint of the
post-war world. In the post-war house
rooms will be warmed by a concealed
system of hot-air pipes; result, no dust,
draughts or temperature varia-
tions. Acoustical tiles will
absorb noise; wash-basins
flush with counters will serve
as bath tubs /or the baby;
spacious kitchens will be
equipped with pedal-controlled
taps, mechanical dish-washers,
sterilisers and vertical broilers
which will broil steaks on both
sides simultaneously ; refrigera-
tors will contain violet-ray
compartments to “tenderise”
meat; eyestrain will be dimin-
ished by concealed fluorescent
lamps and walls will be mov-
able so that a married couple
can make room for their first-
born by incorporating part of
the living-room in the bed-
room, while in hot weather the
living-room can be merged with
the garden.
$ w * #
“En Extra”: IT “Pip” (B.
22/9/’43) had spent any time
in Egypt or Palestine he would
not be puzzled over the deriva-
tion of the A.I.F. word for
food. “Munger” is an abbre-
vation of Gyppo “mungeree”
and has taken the place of
“grub,” “scran” and “tucker”
since our chaps came back,
from the Middle East. “Moya”
(water) is also in use, though
less extensively. “Bashing the spine” as
a descriptive phrase for taking it easy is
correct army usage ; “bashing the lug”
or “ear-bashing” is pastime of the
overgarrulous. “Bludging,” shorn of its
sinister connotation, is now harmless
slang, meaning floating or swinging the
lead. A chap with an easy job is said
to be “on a good bludge,” though he him-
self probably describes his soft cop as
a “curl-the-mo” job. To my mind “going
through” is the most picturesque piece
of slang the war has produced. To “go
through” is to go ack-willy, to take
French leave.
“Pagoda”: As an antidote to Mrs.
Roosevelt’s boost for the way of the
Doughboy with the Australian girl this is
what I heard one Aussie sheilah say to
another: “Y’ know, Lola, after a month
or two of this ‘what-beautiful-eyes-you-
have-darling, when-do-we-marry’ line y’
long for the sort of bloke who strolls up
just after you’ve spent 30 bob on a new
hair-do and says ‘Hey, whatever you’ve
done to your hair it looks rotten.”
* * * *
“Hamer” relates a distressing personal
experience:
That morning of the year when my cold
shower ceases to be a stern duty and becomes the
joy it should be has been for years a red-letter
morning for me. Exultation comes with the feel-
ing that one can dawdle without physical dis-
comfort, and I inevitably break into song—“ Let
Me Like a Soldier Fall” for a start and any-
thing that comes into my head later. Recently
that morning arrived, and was duly enjoyed;
but when I got home in the evening notice to
get out was waiting for me. It appears that
I had wakened “at an unearthly hour” every-
body in the house and some people next door
(whence a complaint was alleged to have
come), and kept a chain of people with as much
right to use the bathroom as myself waiting
outside the door. I am making no attempt to
bargain for the right to stay; a scurrilous refer-
ence to “the noise you may have supposed was
singing” has made that impossible.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Moyhu”; “I wouldn’t have cared if
he’d been a good-lookin’ feller,” lamented
Bill, “but an ugly-lookin’ cow like that
heatin’ a man to a sheilah” He
paused, unable to go on. “There’s no tell-
ing with women,” I comforted. Bill
looked up with a puzzled expression.
“What I can’t understand is how the
devil he’s goin’ to keep her. Took him
all his time to tucker himself.” “And
the new home isn’t what you’d call a
palace,” I supported, observing the emo-
tional working of Bill’s rugged visage.
“Yair, that’s right,” he burst out. “Takin’
a good woman like her to live in an ordi-
nary lookin’ farmhouse like he’s got.”
He scratched his head meditatively. “But
what I can’t make out is her gain’. It
ain’t as if she wasn’t used to somethin’
better.” As we talked we came in sight
of Bill’s ramshackle, stringy bark kipsey
standing sentinel-like on an arid, treeless
rise. “Now if she’d ’a’ had me,” Bill
went on, “I would have planted a little
orchard, an’ put a couple more rooms on
the back when the kids came along, an’
got a couple of cows, an’ put in a bit of
crop, an’ made a nice little home of me
place. But now,” he concluded tragi-
cally, “the whole damn’ place can go to
the dogs!”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “Aw, I’ll give it to y’,”
Mullins said when Skinner asked him how
much he’d take for the remains of an old
springcart. “But it’s worth somethin’,”
Skinner protested. “Say ten bob, eh?”
Finally Mullins agreed to accept the ten
shillings, which Skinner promised to send
over at the first opportunity. Months
went by and the debt wasn’t paid. Then
we struck Mullins coming away from
the dividing fence with a gory nose and
a light of satisfaction in his eyes. “That’ll
teach him,” he growled. “After a bloke
wantin’ to give him the old cart for
nuthin’; an’ then the cow turns round
an’ does me outa ten bob!”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: I was watching Oscar
from the milking yards rounding up some
cleanskins-—in from the bush runs —
and cutting out a refractory steer with
long horns and a wild eye. Time and
again the steer charged straight at the
blood horse, on which Oscar calmly sat
until the untamed beast was almost on
him. Then with a deft turn he wheeled
his mount just out of the line of attack,
while he wielded a big stockwhip to good
effect around the cleanskin’s hind
quarters. It was on a stony hillside, and
down and across that the tide of battle
ebbed and flowed, requiring masterly
horsemanship and a split-second timing
of eye and arm. Soon the beast was
corralled and subdued. Then our friend
dismounted and joined us —an entirely
different bloke on foot, slow of gait and
humor and leisurely of mien. He had
gone to the city only 10 days before on
his honeymoon-jaunt to spend a gay three
weeks around the bright lights. I asked
why this early return and sudden
“harnessing-up.” “Oh, a man never gets
a chance of a rest down there, Pat,” he
bellowed ; “and with all them trams, cars
and buses about a bloke takes his life in
his hands.”
“Put this zack in the Fourth Liberty Loan for me, Ronny."
“Kikori”: As one who has been bitten
by thousands of mosquitoes I cannot help
having a go at Frith (B. 6/10/’43). The
mossie of the genus Anopheles (and who
would worry how many of the harmless
non-fever-transmitting culexes bit him?)
couldn’t broadcast standing flat-footed on
four hind legs, for he rests on vertical
surfaces for preference, and on his four
front legs, waving the hind pair in the
air. He’d need the “mike” set into a
wall!
* * * *
“Contractor”: Concerning this rever-
ence for departed bushrangers (B.
6/10/’43). The biscuit-tin on Thunder-
bolt’s grave at Uralla (NiS.W.) when I
saw it in ’37 still received its quota of
sloppy messages to “Fred.” For years
the pub at Collector housed, in a glass
case, a riding boot of distinctly feminine
proportions, reputedly worn by Gilbert.
Many made the trip from Goulburn ex-
pressly to see it, rarely bestowing even a
glance at the monument to Trooper
Nelson, whom Gilbert murdered, though
in Gilbert’s case “Banjo” Paterson had
it correctly:
There’s never a stone at the sleeper’s head,
There’s never a fence beside,
And the wandering stock on the grave may tread
. Unnoticed and undenied.
The late Lucien Faithfull, of Spring-
fields, put a commemorative inscription
on the trunk of a tree that houses some
slugs intended for himself and . his
brothers, and fired at them by Ben Hall
and his gang. Two members of my own
family were shot by the bushrangers for
merely defending their property near
Gunning. Ned Kelly’s armor, of course,
perpetuates his name. Thunderbolt’s
name and fame are established ; but I’ll
bet not one Australian in 10,000 could
name the man who rid their country of
the ruffian.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “P.A.” (B.
13/10/’43) is right as to the rapidity
with which the kangaroo-rat gets off the
mark and into the nearest hollow log.
The rat appears to know every hollow
log in the vicinity of his nest, and when
disturbed he is never in doubt as to his
immediate objective; but when he is
intercepted and forced to make a run for
it he is easy meat for any fairly fast dog.
When I was a nipper I hunted kangaroo-
rats and bandicoots with a cattle-dog, and
I never knew one to escape him except
by “logging.” The rock wallaby is as
fast off the mark as the rat and much
faster on a straight run. My nomination
for the fastest native animal is the three-
year-old “flying doe” kangaroo. It takes
a mighty fast kangaroo-dog or greyhound
to overtake her.
% Jfc * #
“B. A. Ker”: “Commo,” the big red
bull, was dangerous. Anyone taking a
short-cut through his paddock was ask-
ing for excitement —and generally got it.
George was the only man on the farm
who wasn’t secretly a bit breezy of the
brute, and he it was who pleaded for
the defence when the boss reckoned such
a savage bull wasn’t safe to keep on the
place. But the missus had the casting
vote; “Commo” went. * The new bull
arrived; George inspected him closely,
and resigned. “Why,” the boss protested,
“that bull’s as quiet as a lamb!” “That’s
the trouble,” George declared. “Wild
bulls hurt nobody—because nobody takes
liberties with ’em. But Wouldn’t a bloke
look a fool taking precautions with that
overgrown poddy! And quiet bulls have
killed more men than unloaded guns
have!”
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: “Walkabout” (B.
29/9/’43) is in the main correct in attri-
buting to the eradication of pear in
Queensland the easier mustering of
scrubber cattle. The prickly curse cer-
tainly provided them with strongholds
that were difficult of invasion, but he
errs in saying that “no horse could be
forced to enter the pear even at a walk”
and that the scrub riders could do nothing
in it. On the contrary, they did a great
deal in it. Apart from the Upper Dawson
(Q.), where practically all the brigalow
and wilga scrubs became pear-infested,
and yet the scrub horses and riders ran
down and tied the scrubbers in the heart
of the cactus-choked scrubs, there were
such well-known performers in the pear
as the Wormwell family of the Moonie,
who, with their horses, were born and
reared in country that was all brigalow
and pear and scrubbers. In their case the
scrubbers were cleaned out before the
pear was. The pear-fattened bullocks
“W.” refers to were the Womblebank
bullocks that were sold at the height of
the great drought of ’O2. They, as many
other cattle have done, fattened because
they had no water. Water causes a white
scour with pear-chewers that reduces
them to walking skeletons, though im-
munity is achieved in many cases.
* * * *
“M. 8”: Old Bob, a hero of the tong
days, was amused over that par. about
big sheds (B. 20/10/’43). “Gripes,” he
said, “it reminds me of the biggest cheque
1 ever earned. Me an’ Long Tom Taylor
had booked pens at Big Burrawantagong,
an' the manager writes back an’ says he
has a couple o’ good contracts waitin’ for
us before shearin’. So we grease the swag
straps, load up an’ toddle up there. It’s
about six weeks before shearin’ starts, an’
we get a job diggin’ a tunnel under the
homestead tank an’ fittin’ it up with flues
an’ everythin’; when that’s finished we
get a second contrac’ layin’ a two-foot
strip of jarrah planks along the shearin’
board. Yairs, we knocked out fifty notes
apiece before we put a tong inter a jum-
buck.” He broke off and sucked thought-
fully at his pipe. “Gosh,” somebody
said, “that puttin’ a tunnel under the tank
was a good idea for a cellar. Reckon
they had a lot o’ tucker t’ keep cool in
a big shed like that.” “Don’t be silly,”
said Bob; “that was a fireplace so the
cook could boil the plum-puddin’s in the
tank.” Silence. Then an awed voice
whispered, “But why did they have t’
strengthen the board with jarrah?” Old
Bob stood up and stretched. “Strengthen!
Me boy, that was a track fr the boss o’
the board. Y’ see, he had t’ ride a motor-
bike so he could get from one end t’ the
other between runs. Well, I reckon I’ll
turn in.” Then a sort of silent fury de-
scended on our camp.
* * * *
“Mt. Bryan”: Those fellows discussing
methods of dealing with jibbing horses
(B. 13/10/’43) couldn’t have heard of
the South Australian method, which is
to take hold of the jib’s offside ear and
bite it hard near the base. Be careful
when doing it to have a tight hold on the
reins or you’ll need someone to bite your
offside ear so you can catch the nag. ■
* * * *
“lan J.”: Bushfires can start in wholly
unexpected ways. One very hot day
Bill took his horses out of the plough
and started for the stable. Looking up
from where I was mending a fence a
chain away, I saw smoke rising from a
bag on the plough seat. It puzzled us
at first, as Bill, being out of tobacco,
hadn’t been using matches. It wasn’t
until a corner of the bag began to
smoulder after the water billy had doused
the flames that we found what caused
it —the polished disc of the plough was
focusing s the sun’s rays on the bag. It
had even started to set the wooden seat
alight, so intense was the reflection.
* * * *
“Pine Creek”: “Old-timer’s” thrilling
experiences with ophidians (B. 15/9/’43)
urge me to mention this. After a smash
in the Cape Peninsula, I was driving down
a ridge with one refractory leader haltered
to the offside of the buckboard, which
was nearly capsized again as the wild-
eyed, snorting prad bucked back and
wrenched in panic. Looking round, I
glimpsed the origin of his terror in a
10ft. brown taipan squirming after us in
top gear. A few hefty cuts with the four-
in-hand whip wheeled him into the spear-
grass. Braking the team, I grabbed a .22
automatic and, running beside him,
fired at the wriggler. Immediately he
bounded above the grass, stretched rigid
and straight as a sliprail. As the grass
again writhed to his passage, a second
shot produced a repetition of the vault,
but on landing the taipan shot up his
head to glare, only to receive a pellet
behind the ear that knocked him. Exami-
nation showed where a passing wheel had
bruised his tail and temper. Each of the
bullets had chipped a streak out of his
slaty belly. I nearly fainted on finding
that the last cartridge in the mag. had
done the trick, and felt worse when the
boss mentioned he wouldn’t have tackled
it that close with a shotgun.
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was coming home
from the township when he saw the dead
snake lying on the ground. He dragged
it home by the tail and hid it until the
land girls had gone in for afternoon tea;
then he laid it carefully across the garden
path. All through the meal Bill turned
the conversation to snakes, and told of
various hair-raising escapes he had had,
all of them in the vicinity of the farm.
The girls were visibly impressed. The meal
over, the land girls went to finish a job
in the shed. Bill sat reading his paper
before resuming work, and waited for
their squeals, but after ten silent
minutes he got up and went to the door.
The snake was on the path; apparently
the girls had not seen it. Bill thought he
had better place it in a more conspicuous
position. As he stooped down to pick it
up by the tail the snake glided off. Bill
stood too dumbfounded to move until a
squeal behind him made him jump. “Oh,
Mr. Jupp, another snake! Don’t let it
get away.” But the reptile had disap-
peared beneath a clump of bushes. “Did
—did you see qnother snake—a dead
one?” he asked Jean. She nodded. “Yes,
Betty‘found it first. She’s over in the
shed skinning it to make a belt. I wanted
one, too. tjjpw did you come to let that
snake get away? You weren’t afraid of
it, were you?”
RESURRECTION.
Sometimes on nights when I feel glum
Out of the lights Old Bill will come,
Walking -along with his agile stride.
Humming a song; and, side by side,
We go round the Battery, up the lane
In moonlight scattery and round again
Where the Neptune Inn and the Rodney stand
And Bill the Whaler grips my hand.
“What’s the matter, with you,” he says,
“Is too much patter and skite, these days—
Too much death and too much dough.
You want to get back to the things you know.
You’d be better afloat, like the times we clung
To a stove-in boat while the rough ice stung —
Best boat-steerer of all were you,
Best old ‘beer-er’ and fighter, too!”
And he dumps me into the Rodney bar
And thumps me and shouts lor a big cigar.
He heaves a sigh as he sinks his beer
And he winks an eye and he says “Look here,
Your homebound hat’s laid flat aback,
Your pockets are fat till their linings crack,
From the pay you won in the Waterwitch ...
Or is it all gone on that painted bitch
That clewed y’r gaffs when you came ashore?”
And Old Bill laughs in a hearty roar.
“Didn’t you kill eight whales, you swine?”
He turns to fill his glass and mine.
“Now toss that down; we’ve got to go
To pubs uptown that you ought to know.
By the Mariner’s Compass we’ll steer,” he said,
“And we’ll wake the pump at the rough Nag’s
head,
An’ the Do Drop Inn an’ the Hole-in-the-Wall,
Where gin and sin were the life of all.
An’ we’ll meet the men from a hundred ships,”
Bill says to me as he wipes his lips.
Into the past of Hobart Town,
Walking, fast, he leads me down,
Leads me down where the memories pull—
Bill, Old Bill, it’s wonderful
To hear you talk and grip your hand!
And your quick, light walk! No man on land
Can walk like that, so fast and free,
Or talk like that, so happily . . .
The time flies past and the night grows old,
Till the dawn skies cast their hint of gold.
“Pull your hat-brim down. We’re broke,” Bill
says,
“An’ come down town where the office lays.”
He leads me then to an office dim
Wherein are men who welcome him
And sign us on for a whaling trip
In the Jane and John or some such ship;
Give us some quids, all blue and fat;
, And the brims of our ‘lids’ we shove right back
To indicate we are outward bound;
And the girls will wait when you’ve got five
pound.
“Now look you here,” Bill says to me;
“It’s all as clear as it can be
That you are dead —aye, dead and gone.
You’ll heave the lead no more, my son,
Like a rocket across the tops’l yard—
I reckon that was your winning card.
Dead you are, old mate!” His grin
Brightened the old White Pheasant Inn.
“I am the last man left,” he sighed,
“Of all that passed by the Derwent’s tide” . ..
In dreams like these, which I often know,
Bill’s arm I squeeze when he must go
Back to the town where he abides.
He says it’s down where the morning tides
Sweep to the chase on the whaling-grounds—
A queer old place to me it sounds . ..
1 grip his arm to hold him back,
Lest he come to harm on his lonely track.
But Bill insists, and he shakes his head
As v'e grip our fists, that it’s I that’s dead!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Nepean”: The queerest cobber I’ve
ever had was a little Cape York Penin-
sula alligator lizard called Herb. * His
tapering seven inches of slate-grey, be-
speckled body sported two big black eyes
and was a perfect miniature of his big
saurian relative even down to his insect-
crushing jaws. Every night he was on
the wall beside me as I lay on my bunk
playing tennis with innumerable insects —
after all, up there you had to put in the
time somehow or else life would get on
your nerves. Herb would anticipate a
smashing volley by a dart forward, and
no victim was too large for his ravenous
appetite. Sometimes, sitting on my coat
sleeve while I’ve stroked and talked to
him, he stared at me for hours. Then I
discovered he was cockeyed —but that’s
no reflection on his character. He never
seemed to have matrimonial troubles, or
nights out, or even a home, as all through
the dark hours he was always with me ;
so when eventually I left to come south
it was like leaving an old friend. But it
wasn’t for long. At Cairns post office
three days later I pulled out my top
handkerchief ; then a postal official whis-
pered inquiringly; “Excuse me, there’s
something on your coat pocket.” I
looked down,. dreading what to expect —
and there was Herb!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Kelly and me and Jack
were camped on Cobran Veil. One evening
two visitors dropped in, a lady called Molly
and a flashy young fellow called Lanky.
Before long Jack was making up to Molly
and was getting black looks from her
escort. Kelly and I watched the proceed-
ings with some amusement, though pri-
vately we thought Jack should have had
more sense. Lanky made several efforts
to get Molly to leave, but she _seemed
taken with Jack, and sat there giving him
coy glances and wriggling demurely. In
the end Kelly and I got sick of it and
retired to bunk. We’d hardly got in when
the fight started. We heard a squeal
from Molly, then Jack and Lanky hurling
language at each other, and presently the
sound of violent conflict. They fought
all round the fire, then fell into our tent
and fought all round it, over and under
the bunks, kicking up a dust and bring-
ing down our ramshackle camp tables
and dressers. We arose, seized clubs and
belted the belligerents out into the dark-
ness. They faded away into the scrub,
still battling grimly. We gave them a (
curseful farewell and got back to bunk.l
“I should get fully a pound and a half of potatoes this year.”
Next morning. there was no sign of the
contenders or the cause. We break-
fasted, grabbed our axes and wgnt up on
the ridge to work, and there, hidden in
a clump of scrub, were Jack and the lady,
while away on the plain we could see
Lanky searching. “It just shows y’,” said
Kelly, spitting on his handfc before rais-
ing Douglas, “that dawgs ain’t much dif-
ferent from men. Them hounds could
be any two blokes we know.”
“Murrawong”: Here is a crutching
record that will take some beating. At
Wingadee station, N.S.W., in Septem-
ber, ten crutchers doing a full crutch on
ewes with a, proportion of weaners aver-
aged 597 per man per day for seven
days. The slowest man in the team
would have been a gun in most other
company, but the two guns of this team
were indisputable crutching champions.
R. Dixon, of Coonamble, had a daily
average of 872 sheep per day for the
seven days, while his best daily tally was
1000. The boss of the board reported
that the quality of Dixon’s work could
not be faulted, so whpever sets out to
beat this tally will have his work cut out.
The seven days referred to included two
half-days, and in the two runs on Satur-
day morning Dixon crutched 508 ewes.
This works out at better than two per
minute. The next man on the board,
J. West, put up excellent figures also
with 911 for one day’s tally, and on two
other days he exceeded 800 a day. It is
a safe bet that the penner-up at that
crutching must have wished he was being
paid by contract instead of by the week.
* * * *
“P.A.”; That “brain-fever bird” has
been at it again. I wouldn’t mind his
tremulous consistency if he didn’t choose
a dead tree outside my window to pour
forth those long-trilling postman-whistle
notes hour by hour on these spring nights.
The fantail —like all cuckoos —is a para-
sitic nester, and it was with this fact in
mind, and goaded to desperation, that I
sallied forth with a spotlight torch and
an old 12-gauge double-barrel to end his
protestations. Still, right in the search-
light beam he sat there, pouring out his
mating call and his story of loneliness.
Hesitation saved him. At that moment I
recalled a little scene when a party of
naturalists, accompanied by Sir Philip
Game, then Governor of N.S.W., were
silent witnesses of the beginning eviction
of some recently-born warblers by a
baby pallid cuckoo. Asked to decide
whether they should dispatch the young
cuckoo or not interfere, Sir Philip agreed
to “let nature take its course.” With
that in mind and a last-season memory
of these cuckoos gorging on a hairy-
caterpillar-infested row of vines near by,
I weakened and shooed him off with a
well-directed stone, then returned to bed
and warmth.
“Yacko”: Can any Aboliar identify
this bird? It is the size of a sparrow,
but speckled grey, always only one
bird visible; and it has an eerie
screech, allegedly foretelling death.
Among descendants of early sealers
it is known as Sally Walker’s Ghost.
Sal was the sable consort of the
English sealer William Walker. The sole
survivor of a boat crew returning from
Cape Jervis in a strong northerly blow,
Sal was washed up unconscious on
American Beach, Kangaroo Island. Ac-
cording to legend, Walker found her
body, made a huge fire, scooped out a
hole, placed Sal in, covering her to the
neck with hot sand, and so revived his
lubra. How the bird came to be asso-
dated with her I haven’t been able to
discover, even from Kangaroo Islanders,
* * *
“Mats Mate’: It was a town some-
where between Horsham (Vic.) and the
Murray, and we’d prospected it thor-
oughly. I had nothing to show , Mat had
a solitary, butterless hunk of bread and
a hit of ancient mutton wrapped in news-
paper. We sat on our swags, hungry and
disgusted, and|yMat sadly bisected the
“Hey, retract your undercarriage!”
miserable handout. Then, as we chewed,
he idly read the bit of newspaper. “Strike
me blue,” he said suddenly, “look at
that.” It was the local paper and the
item was a bit of local boost. It referred
glowingly to the progress of the place,
the amount of goods that came and went
from the railway station, the prosperous
state of business, the civic pride and the
fact that “visitors to our town never fail
to express gratified astonishment at the
extent and freedom of our hospitality.”
Mat grabbed the uneaten part of my
share of the tucker, wrapped it with his
own in the newspaper after marking the
quoted passage heavily with a pencil and
said ‘.‘Come on.” He led the way to
that newspaper office, called for the editor
and, planking the bread and meat and
the paper down on the counter, said in
a terrible voice: “Look what your lousy
six-be-eight apology for a town handed
out to the two most important visitors
it ever had. Me and my mate are tramp-
in’ Australia; we know more about
towns than anybody. People in distant
parts ask us what we thought of this
place or that. By cripes, dicken your
town won’t stink from here t’ the Queens-
land border!” Three hours later, stomachs
and nosebags full and jingling silver in
our pockets, we headed north.
* * * *
solitude” : “There’s a bloke here,” I
said, folding the newspaper, “who thinks
the war will be over inside two years.”
Seventyfiver looked up, keenly interested,
“Yair? Then folks’ll be "able t’ get all
the petrol they want again?” “Sure
thing,” I replied cheerfully. “And we’ll
be able to get our fencing wire, some
more super, for the home paddocks and
iron for the shed roof.” “Huh! An’
they’ll be back, I s’pose!” “You bet,”
I agreed, thinking of the blokes away at
the'war. “Be good to see ’em around
again, won’t it?” “Good!” The old
cove’s emphasis spilt tobacco into the
stew pot. “Y’re barmy!” he gasped.
“Clean barmy!” We stared stupidly at
each other. “Gorblime,” he went on,
“this here war’s given a man the first
taste o’ peace he’s had in a lifetime o’
strife. But there”—he shook his head
resignedly—“l reckon the petrol shortage
can’t last for ever. Then back they’ll
come, them hordes o’ damn’ pesterin’
hawkers, agents, travellin’ ragshops an’
campin’ tourists.”
* * * *
“Wang”: “That new bloke y’ve taken
on is a grumpy sorta coot,” Dave com-
plained to Dad one morning. “All y’
can get outa him is yes or no.” “Yes,”
conceded Dad, “I’ve noticed that meself.
But that ain’t worryin’ me ; he does his
work, an’ that’s all I’m concerned about.”
“That’s all right fer you,” protested
Dave; “but I hate graftin’ with a
surly cow that can’t think of anythin’
t’ say fer himself.” Dad laughed nastily,
“Hurts, don’t it?” he jeered. “Anyway,
I’ve engaged him t’ work here, not t’ be
an entertainer fer you.” A few days later
Dave came up to the house ; sneaking
furtively towards his room holding a
bleeding nose and trying to hide a rapidly
blackening eye, he ran against Dad.
“Hullo,” cried Dad, “what’s happened?”
“That flamin’ yes-no merchant of yours
landed me before I knew what wus hap-
penin’,” said Dave angrily, “jest becos
I” “I know,” interrupted Dad ;
“pickin’ at him, eh? Well, serves y’
right. In future he can work be him-
self.” Some weeks later the hand said
to Dad he would be leaving in a week's
time. “Why?” asked Dad, a bit annoyed ;
“fed up with the job?” “Not at all, Mr.
Gumbough,” said the hand smilingly,
“but my complaint is cured now. You
see, I was suffering from throat trouble,
and my doctor advised me to get away
for a few weeks, and above all to avoid
using my voice. - Tell Dave I’m sorry
I hit him that day; but he was inclined
to interfere with the progress of my
recovery.” Dad reddened with embar-
rassment, “An’ y’ ain’t the dumb cluck
we all reckoned you were then?” he re-
marked, apologetically. The hand laughed
heartily, “Very much the opposite, I’m
afraid, Mr. Gumbough,” he said. “I’m
an auctioneer.”
* * * »
x “Waratah”: The vampire fig and the
giant stinging-tree have attained notoriety,
but other equally interesting phenomena
in our bushland flora claim notice. That
remarkable tree the satinwood (Daph-
nandra micrantka) sheds its branches in-
stead of foliage, leaving a smooth and
beautifully moulded socket in place,
nicely grained and satiny in texture.
Coastal brush forests are the home of
both the climbing orchid, a ground
species, and the subterranean orchid,
which does all its work of growth under-
ground and bears flowers at surface level.
In Westralia the flaming Christmas-tree
(Nutsyia ftoribimda ) has arm-thick
branches that will crack like a carrot
under a child’s weight; it is the cause of
many accidents. Really a large mistletoe
in tree form, the “wood” is, fibreless, and
though separated from the mistletoe by
botanists it has all the parasitical ten-
dencies *of its cousins, preying on the
roots of other plants, mainly banksias.
When these are scarce it isn’t above in-
vading gardens for sustenance from
carrots and beet, and doesn’t even despise
grass roots.
* * H= *
“Sou’-west”: During the height of the
summer season there was often more
money to be made out of transporting
picnic parties than by catching fish. Up
the vast estuary the old 30-footer would
be moored to the bank while the pic-
nickers went ashore to lunch and to
hunt. Lured by the fishy smell of the
old craft tens of thousands of ants
would climb aboard along the mooring-
rope. There being always unavoidable
scraps of fish and bait in odd corners,
these intruders increased until they be-
came a pest. Then the skipper took
action. On the next voyage out to sea
he placed several tins that he’d partly
filled with fresh water along the thwarts.
There was always a fair amount of bilge
water along the keel, but those ants
seemed to be yearning for a drop of
fresh water. As soon as a tin was covered
with them he’d pick it up with a pair of
pliers and toss it overhead. On the next
day’s run out he’d repeat the operation ;
there was never any need for a third.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Struck a stockman down
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) riding along with
his stockinged feet in the stirrups. I
thought he must have passed his trilbies
over the bar at the pub as hostages for
the beer he’d mustered. But it was a
pair of thick woollen socks he wore over
his boots. He reckoned that in very cold
weather this extra pair of socks worn
thus while riding kept his feet warm.
THE SOLDIERS.
We have grown weary young. We have lost
touch
With the old stories and the old delight.
The wine of life has cloyed our tongue too much
And water lost its sweetness. Day and night
Have lost their old distinction, and we pitch
Our tents of Reason on the shifting sand
Of changing laws; but though our deeds enrich
A nation’s saga, and we join the band
Of ancient heroes —though we break with
swords
A great oppression and a greater wrong
Stumbling along uncertain paths towards
A time when laws are just and peace is strong
Though we give freedom to the race of men,
Yet who shall give us back Ourselves again?
A.I.F.
ALEXANDER TURNER.


IM.
f&fi
but civilian requirements of
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used
types are available, but if the particular
valve you want is not obtainable, con-
sult your Radiotron dealer regarding
an alternative type.
RADIOTROM
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTV. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager MORTTF
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOKEE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. Liu.
,? QUICK and DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
CVanogaS
with
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No
and safely destroys rabbits and all
waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Unpayable Ewes.
“Sheepo”: In setting out to improve
their flocks with a view to uniformity for
the express purpose of getting maximum
returns per head, sheepmen should know
the ewe that is a liability and not worth
the grass she eats. In culling it’s not so
much what constitutes a good ewe as
being able to determine faulty ewes.
The following types should be culled
out of every flock: (1) Ewes of weak
constitution or undersized. (2) Ewes
dipped in the back and inclined to be
leggy. (3) Bad-woolled ewes, especially
light-cutters, those bare of belly wool or
the strip at the points. Any ewes showing
kemp in the fleece. (4) Barren ewes and
any that cannot rear lambs through in-
juries caused at shearing. (5) All aged
ewes that are past their serviceable life,
and any, no matter how young, whose
jaws are either undershot or overshot.
The foregoing and other minor faults
must be worn under the hat of every
breeder, big or small, if he aims to bring
about some degree of standardisation in his
flock. And one culling is practically use-
less , culling must be an annual affair.
Ground Limestone.
“Bungaree”: A C.S.I.R. experiment
was designed to find out what would
happen if sheep were fed solely on a
cereal diet. A mixed lot of freshly-
weaned lambs, hoggets and grown
sheep was used. They got a ration of
wheaten chaff 44 parts, oats 25, bran 25,
linseed meal five and salt one part.
Earliest results in the lambs were re-
tarded growth, low calcium content in
the blood, lack of appetite, bone and
dental formations seriously affected. Teeth
were slow to come, and were thin, brittle
and malformed. Before long §ll the
lambs were dead. Although the blood
showed lack of calcium, magnesium and
phosphate content was above average ;
thus in such circumstances inclusion
of phosphates in a lick would be useless.
One per cent, of finely-ground lime-
stone added to the ration was sufficient
to arrest the symptoms of deficiency but
too late to cure the sufferers. It was
striking evidence of the need for calcium
where sheep are being fed on a dry
cereal diet. The inclusion of salt alone
was insufficient, and the importance of
calcium for young and growing sheep
was emphasised. Lack of it affects not
only their bone and general conforma-
tion, but results in a stunting from which
the animal never recovers.
Slaked lime should not be used, as an
additional experiment showed that it was
ineffective, but finely-ground limestone
(calcium carbonate) is both cheap and
effective, and should be mixed with the
dry ration if possible; failing that, it
should be made available mixe*d with
salt as a lick. This can be given in the
proportions of equal parts salt and lime-
stone as a lick concentrate or, if plenty
of salt is available, one part limestone
to four parts salt may be used.
The Wheat Industry.
“Ben Cubbin”: During the session that
ended on 15/10/’43 Mr. Cameron asked
the Minister for Agriculture how much
wheat was delivered to the 1942-43 pool
and was told 142,764,000 bushels. This
is below the Department of Information’s
figure of 155,728,000 bushels. If Mr.
Scully’s figure is right and the depart-
ment’s acreage figure of 9,280,000 acres
is right, then the average acre-yield was
about 15i bushels on Mr. Scully’s harvest
but nearly 17 bushels on the department’s
harvest. Further to Mr. Cameron’s ques-
tion, Mr. Scully said that 4s. a bushel
bagged basis was paid for 99,433,000
bushels and 2s. bagged basis for
43,140,000 bushels. I’m not sure what
“Stay and ’ave a bite t’ eat with us; Ma's gettin' the dinner ready now.”
these figures prove, except that there seem
to be 12,000,000 bushels 'unaccounted for.
According to the D.I. the 1938-39 har-
vest was 155,369,000 bushels from
14,346,000 acres, or an average of nearly
11 bushels, slightly below the previous
10-year average of 12} bushels. Thus,
though the 1942-43 crop area was cut by
nearly 6,000,000 acres under the war-
time restriction scheme, the average yield
was high enough to bring in a crop bigger
on departmental figures than the 1938-39
crop. Which shows what can happen
when Nature asserts herself against man's
schemes. This year’s acreage is probably
not much over 8,000,000, and nobody
seems willing to estimate the crop from
it at this stage, which is perhaps just as
well, since the harvest is practically on
us and no practical effort has been made
to release labor for it.
South Australia and Westralia, whose
economy is largely based on wheat, are
getting a bit worried about restriction.
S.A. recently had the company of J.
Thomson, general manager of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board, who said that the
only way to deal with the 1942-43 surplus
was to build fumigating silos at Port
Lincoln and Wallaroo and then put it up
to the locals to say whether the silos
should be temporary or permanent. Mr.
Thomson had to admit that the A.W.B.
wheat-sale contracts with overseas coun-
tries called for 1942-43 and 1943-44
wheat, which suggests little hope of get-
ting rid of the residue from earlier pools.
He expected S.A. to add possibly
12,000,000 bushels to its carryover this
season.
In Westralia the Minister for Agricul-
ture (Mr. Wise) said in a debate that
Canberra would have to realise the im-
portance of wheat to his State and the
unsoundness of continuing acreage restric-
tion there. He hinted that the Common-
wealth may yet find it necessary to stimu-
late wheat production “in at least two
States where it has endeavored to restrict
production.”
For what it is worth, it seems reason-
able to estimate an Australian crop of
just over 100,000,000 bushels in the com-
ing harvest. Local consumption can’t
account for more than about 60,000,000
bushels, and it looks as though the coun-
try will have to add another 40,000,000
bushels to its stores. So far, in all the
talk about post-war reconstruction, little
has been said about our second-greatest
land industry.
Kurrajongs on the Farm.
“Liss”: They stand alone for planting
in rows, avenues, plantations or as single
specimens, and the amount of good stock
feed provided by a well-grown tree is
amazing. They are unsurpassed for
beauty and can easily be raised from
seed. I have heard it said that they’re
worth £1 per tree, but I value mine at
far more than that. They are not the
slow growers some people believe them to
be if properly managed in the nursery.
In any case no quick-growing tree lasts
long, and for that reason is not worth
spending much time on as a farm tree.
Gather fresh seed from kurrajong in
autumn and plant in a seedbed in Sep-
tember. Bed should be composed of
old rotted leaves (preferably from under
a kurrajong) and sand, and the seed
sown thickly in rows 4in. apart. Thin
the plants out to 3 in. apart as soon as
they appear, transferring the surplus to
another bed. Twelve months later trans-
fer them to the nursery where they are
to remain for six or seven years. Dig
down to spade depth, cutting a little off
the taproot, and cut the trunk through
cleanly about 4in. from the ground ; this
forces the growth. Space them 4ft. apart
in both directions in the nursery. Water
well. They will require little more water-
ing unless the weather is very dry, but
will need inter-row cultivation.
One such acre contains over 3000
trees, a fine objective. Trees may be
left in the nursery indefinitely, but are
generally ready for transplantation to
their permanent sites at about seven
years. Select trees with a trunk 4in.
through 6ft. from the ground and saw
them through cleanly at this point. Dig
down around the roots, chop the lower
end of the tap off cleanly and plant in
holes, much like putting in a fence post.
By establishing young trees in this way
no protection from stock is needed and
growth is forced.
Those who wish to raise a limited
number of trees in pots or tins should
mix fresh seed in a bag with damp saw-
dust, .keeping it damp but not wet until
the seeds germinate. They are then trans-
ferred to the pots, but they should be
moved again in twelve months to a
plantation as stated. Every farmer should
have a kurrajong to the acre.
Hints for the Farm.
“Springfield”: When scabby mouth hit
the sheep in our district (Bendigo, Vic.)
we treated them with kerosene, swabbing
each affected lamb with a cloth fully
saturated. Results were 100 p.c. perma-
nent cure, mostly within a week. The
worst cases took about 10 days. We
treated them only once.
“B.”: Scabs that form quickly on
heifers’ teats, cover the points and are
difficult to get rid of may be black pox.
A soil organism is the cause. Use medi-
cated teat bougies to keep the passage
open. To relieve the scab, dress after
milking with 3 p.c. solution of salicylic
acid in glycerine. A f mixture of two
drams salicylic acid, one dram benzoic
acid, six drams lanoline and loz. petro-
leum is healing. Milk affected cows last.
Wash the hands before and. after milking
in a weak antiseptic solution.
“L.C.”: Lactic acid in whey will de-
stroy concrete tanks, troughs, floors or
drains. Store it in a galvanised-iron tank.
Use iron or wooden feeding troughs.
Galvanised-iron pipelines for conveying
whey from factory to piggery stand up
against corrosion fairly well when wash
water’s pumped through after the whey.
Don’t use milkcans for carting whey; it
destroys the tinning and causes rust.
“Sarina”: Soft, oily baconer carcasses
follow improper feeding. Seeds such as
peanuts are rich in liquid fats or oils,
and are totally unsuitable for baconers
because of their high fattening qualities.
Linseed and cottonseed meals contain less
fat and may be fed sparingly to baconers
to within a month or six weeks of killing;
Seedcakes and -meals low in fats may
be fed with safety. Molasses, pumpkins,
etc., are likely to cause discoloration and
a characteristic flavor of the flesh if fed
to excess.
“Plane Creek”: Lettuces growing in
summer can’t stand heat or lack of mois-
ture. A semi-shaded spot must be found
or the rows protected by hessian. De-
cayed stable manure is the best, but
nitrate of soda watered in is equally
beneficial when the plants are well estab-
lished. Don’t transplant. Water three
times a day.
“M.L.W.”: In hacksawing a deep cut,
rub a little oil on the blade above the
teeth to reduce friction. On no account
oil the teeth ; they have to grip, not slide.
To minimise the chance of breakage, pull
the blade taut in the frame. Cut slowly
and release pressure on the back stroke
to avoid heating and drawing the temper
of the fine tooth points.


EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Got B
minute
listen to
\
m
CAh
m
V:
\A
Sfcft
“Forget about the wound it’ll soon
heal, and I’ll be back in action In an-
other few weeks.
Where did I get it? In the jungle of
New Guinea a sniper got me. My job
is and believe me it is some-
times pretty tough.
But what I wanted to tell you people
about was this. We’ve got a great bunch
of fellows here, and we’re on the
attack hitting the little .......
where it hurts! Don’t worry about the
boys you can bet on them all doing
their bit. But there’s plenty YOU can
do too we’ll need more machines,
planes and guns, ammunition and sup-
plies. How much have you really given
up so far to help get these things?
Are you honestly doing ALL you can?
How about dropping a few more pleas-
ures and socking a few more pounds into
War Loan Bonds and War Savings
Certificates? They’re an investment in
our country and remember it won’t
be OUR country unless we win this
war.
CONTRIBUTED TO THE NATIONAL EFFORT BY THE MAKERS
Mobiloil
THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
SERVING THE NATION ON LAND, SEA, AND IN THE AIR
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia)
VACUUM
OUAllir PRODUCT
4
MTS
LYS
tk
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
s' // /.XwS
-'—■■■—•■
•,....:• .... <4 W •
iL;:
m
■ i
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. War Aims.
(Questioned by leading Republican Senator
Robert A. Taft.)
“I do not believe that we went to war
to establish the Four Freedoms or any
other freedoms throughout the world, and
I do not believe we went to war for all
the purposes stated in the Atlantic
Charter.
“We did not go .to war to establish
liberty throughout the world, except as
such a world condition might result from
the insurance of our own liberty.
“I don’t believe we are engaged in any
crusade for the Four Freedoms. The
first two, freedom of expression and free-
dom of religion, have to do with the indi-
vidual citizens of each country and with
their relations with their own Govern-
ment.
“Certainly we are not going to under-
take to interfere with the internal Gov-
ernment of every country in the world
because they may fail to grant freedom
of expression or freedom of religion.
“We would not only have to defeat
our enemies and establish Governments
in the Axis countries with American con-
stitutions, but we would have to interfere
with the Governments of our Allies.
“This is no war of democracies against
dictatorships.
“There is no freedom of religion or
freedom of speech in Russia. There are
benevolent dictators in Brazil, in Cuba
and in China. There was a dictator in
Poland.
“In Greece, which made one of the
most magpificent defences against aggres-
sion that have been seen in this war, the
people were governed under a dictator,
Metaxas, who was so benighted as to pro-
hibit in Greece the reading of The
Republic of Plato.
“Surely we are not going to interfere
with the internal Governments of Russia
and China and other nations in order to
insist upon all of their citizens enjoying
freedom of expression and freedom of
religion.
“If we are, we will have to have a
permanent army a good deal larger than
eleven million men, and we will have to
suspend for a long time any renewal of
freedom in the United States.”
Russia Always Right?
( N.Y. “Times” editorial comment.)
There is no justification for charging
Mr. Roosevelt with a desire to revive the
dead-as-a-dodo policy of the cordon sani-
taire merely because he remains faithful
to the support of the rights of little
nations which he and Mr. Churchill ex-
pressed in the Atlantic Charter.
Not the least remarkable fact about
this criticism of the President is the ease
with which his critics assume that if there
are any flaws in our present relations with
Russia the fault must all be ours, and
none of it can possibly be Russia’s.
A great deal o*f recent history is
brushed airily aside, in order to arrive at
this conclusion. The Stalin-Hitler pact
of 1939, which really gave the signal for
the beginning of the war, is explained as
a necessary move pn Stalin’s part, in
order to gain time ; but no similar charity
is granted to Mr. Chamberlain and M.
Daladier for their performance at
,
IVIUmCn.
The failure to consult Moscow regard-
ffig k es j medlod Q f achieving a foot?
hold Qn the coast of North A f r j ca j s
criticised as an affront to Russia ;
no mention is made of the consistent
failure of Russia to give her western
Allies the slightest information about her
military resources or of the use she is
making of the weapons that have been
““^s^
..-M- is y —; itut
q£ ..p ree Ger .. policy of
Russia . if anything is said? it is ex-
plaiiled that this is a natural and entirely
j ust if} ed Russian retaliation for the policy
we have followed in North Africa and
Sicily, though that policy has been strictly
military and the “Free Germany” policy
is unmistakably political.
w/ a nr, u/icb tn pmnhasise or to
We have no wish to empnasise or w
aggravate the points or actual or p
tial disagreement between Russia and her
Western Allies. On the contrary, we
believe that the only thing that matters
now is the closest possible co-operation
that can be achieved from this point for-
ward between Russia, Britain and the
United States, in complete good faith,
both for the winning of the war and the
safeguarding of the peace. But to this
end we do not think that the present
wave of indiscriminate and almost hys-
terical criticism directed against Mr.
Roosevelt, and Mr. Churchill as well, is
helpful. It is encouraging the myth that
Russia and Russia alone is always right,
whatever the point at issue. Much more
serious, it builds distrust in the purposes
of our own Government.
Britain and Jews,
[Here condensed from N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
is a reply by Eric Underwood to a campaign
us Jewish interests, which has
included sensational full-page in
leading American newspapers, with much im-
plied and other criticism of Britain.]
England is the only country whose
Government has voted funds to aid
refugees from Axis-ridden countries; yet
England is being made the scapegoat in
some quarters for the difficulties of the
refugee problem.
One repeated' criticism is that 200,000
Palestinians and Stateless Jews could be
mobilised against the Axis if only Britain
would create a Jewish army. The fact is
that Palestinian Jews are free to volun-
teer for the Jewish battalions of the
Palestine regiment and for various other
armed forces under the Crown. No Jews
who are fit and want to serve are pre-
vented. They not only can serve, but


Bnwolt
r f.
■
m
Hii
■
m
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
k\R MAP *
v^« E mrui/j
WINNIPEG t
\/ NEW YORK
S 'CHICAGO A'i:-
VANCOUVER
SAN FRANCISCO
PEKIN
Manila ix-;;*
JMA / / , S „
SI/, .'■>,- / >*"£*VA~ fo« Motcstr'
Colombo w rfa*/ ;
'<.;. ■■ <-,-rS'bAWiN Sr\\M//>AX : >-rt
( SYf^ NE x' r
WELLINGTON
■>[ V\J>: DUNEDIN
‘vCll
;CT I
GAIKO* ZANZ i6AR
•A VALPARAISO (\<LA
y 6uenos / \ I\ 0
• AIRES \/ V:S
••-V\
x .-/RIO DE JANEIRO^
690 j
%/?S£ S7o^\\v#
Waters of
Plotted by W. H. Maze
Copyright
QANTAS, pioneers in Australian aviation, offer a new
concept of global geography from the Australian
view point.
With the advent of peace the Air Age will begin, and
the geography of the future has-been reshaped by
Air Transport.
The new map shows great circle courses (shortest
distances by air) as lines radiating through Sydney.
The concentrics give equal distances from Sydney in
statute miles.
Qan
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
XP **
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE *</isTtV l|ll,Cf *-* v
do. Out of a total Jewish population in
Palestine of about 500,000 about 30,000
are serving in the various armed forces.
This is equivalent to an enlistment of
8,000,000 in the United States.
It is further argued that Britain is keep-
ing down the Jewish population of
Palestine by the policy agreed on in 1939
that only 75,000 Jews may immigrate
into Palestine, after which no more will
be admitted “without Arab acqui-
escence.”
Palestine is not a British colony, but
a mandated territory. Under the man-
date Britain is bound to facilitate Jewish
immigration “while ensuring that the
rights of other sections of the population
are not prejudiced.” Between 1922 and
1938 the Jewish population of Palestine
rose from 83,790 to 399,808. As a pro-
portion of the total population this was
an increase from 11 per cent, to 29 per
cent. The decision to limit Jewish immi-
gration was arrived at after most serious
deliberation following the Arab outbreaks
of 1936-39. In the opinion of experts
an “open-door” policy could only lead
to armed disturbances, with the prob-
ability of extensive repercussions through-
out the Orient.
This peace-time policy, confirmed in
war, gave evidence of British good faith
to the Arab world and made it possible
for the Allies to wage war against the
Axis in a critical period in many Eastern
lands from Morocco to Burma.
It is frequently suggested that this
restriction of immigration prevents the
Jews being rescued from Nazi Europe.
Most of the '300,000 Jews who have
moved into Palestine since 1933 went as
refugees. About 38,000 permanent
Jewish immigrants have been admitted
since the war, as well as 4000 war refu-
gees, on a temporary basis. Under the
limitations 29,000 more can be admitted
before March, 1944. That there is still
this margin is not the consequence of
any obstructive regulations, but solely the
difficulty of getting even 29,000 out of
Axis-controlled countries.
Britain has taken the lead in the en-
deavor to rescue Jews from the Nazis.
Despite prolonged negotiation with Axis
Governments Britain has been unable to
get even a few thousand Jewish children
out of Bulgaria. It is grossly untrue to
suggest, as has been done in large adver-
tisements in newspapers, that millions of
Jews could be handed over by the Axis
to the United Nations if only Britain
did not stand in the way.
Every decent person in Britain is as
horrified at the Nazi persecution of the
Jews as are the decent people in other
countries. No country has treated her
Jews better than England.
Many of the statements in the adver-
tisements are grotesque distortions of
fact. If they succeed in persuading people
to apply even a partial blame to the
British Government, it will be an import-
ant victory for Germany.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
In the swampy coastal plains [New Guinea]
there were stretches of country where men
waded through sago swamps up to their arm-
pits for days, pulling themselves into trees
like monkeys for food and rest. — Australian
officer, quoted by Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
One hundred years ago the perils of the
Dover road were romantic holdups by the last
of the highwaymen and the perils of the Dover
beaches were pistol-and-cutlass clashes between
the Revenue men and the smugglers. Today
the omnibuses which run by day and night on
the Dover road face a far greater peril than the
horse pistols and blunderbusses of a century
ago. Fourteen or fifteen omnibus conductors
and conductresses have already been killed and
thrice as many wounded by shellfire, bombs,
and machine-gun on the roads traversed by the
East Kent Road Car Company’s vehicles. That
is why the stretch of rich farms, watered
valleys and windy downlands between Margate,
Dover, Folkestone and Canterbury is some-
times called “The Busman’s Malta London
“Times.’ 1 ’
* * * *
“More and more over the centuries the world
has developed the art and method of making
war. But the world has never developed an
art and method of making peace. More and
more the methods of peace have resulted
in wider-spread catastrophe.”— Former U.S.
President Hoover.
* * * *
The ammunition shortage was so acute in
August, 1941, that we [Americans] could not
spare the Netherlands East Indies enough to
hold its army together. It was finally necessary
to strip our own troops of 7,000,000 rounds.
Now, in one of our plants alone, that 'many
rounds are turned out in a day. — U.S. Chief of
Staff General Marshall.
* * * *
The Soviet Union, with a wealth of natural
resources, needs a lengthy period of peace in
which to develop, a period in which aggressors
are not given a chance to become sufficiently
powerful to make trouble. Were Germany
and Japan allowed to escape with a negoti-
ated peace such a period could not possibly
exist in the world. Obviously, therefore, it is
in the interest of the Soviet Union to stay in
the fight until the Axis ceases to be. — N.Y.
“Sun” correspondent, interpreting official
Washington views.
\
A conclusive objection to the policy of u„-
conditional surrender when applied not to a
particular Government but to a whole nation,
whether great or small, is that the nation thus
reduced to servitude, and having, in no way
consented to the transaction, will feel not at
all bound to observe the terms which put an
end to its freedom and independence. A second
objection is that the victors will be * compelled,
in order to keep down the nations they have
vanquished, to occupy them by military force
and establish over them a military and police
system which, being foreign, is certain to be
odious to the inhabitants, however thankful they
would otherwise have been to be liberated
from Fascism and Nazism. A third objection is
that the victorious States would hardly be able
f-f ter a sc Pf ace to resume their own free
hfe. They would remain bureaucratic police
States, weighed down by the oppressive burdens
of militarism and deprived of the personal free-
dom which Great Britain has always associated
with democracy Manchester “Guardian”
Tetter aetnoC acy ‘ uuaratan
' .j. *
, ~ ... „
Germany has cost the world in a quarter of
a century tsomething like three times the popu-
lation of Germany, and no nation on earth
is worth a fraction of that. With a few honor-
able and important exceptions the nation has
trained itself into a nation of scientific savages
and has brought misery in its train ."-Lord
ansl a # ... #
“When we hear of strikes we feel that the
’planes over there ought to be dropping bombs
over hbr e.”—Returned U.S. Sergeant McAlister,
addressing home-front workers.
# * *
a -v xt • • , T ~. • ...
After the Nazis are driven out, Lithuania will
prefer to base her future relations with t
Soviet Union on the Moscow Treaty of July
12, 1920, by which Russia voluntarily and for
ever renounced all rights of sovereignty over
Lithuania in favor of the Lithuanian nation.
Surely the liberty-loving Soviet Union will not
deny the same liberty and independence to her
smaller neighbors. —Minister of Lithuania P.
Zadeikis; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Congress has shown that it is ready to put
the United States by the side of the rest of the
United Nations to maintain a just peace, but
it has been reluctant to commit the Govern-
ment in advance, sight unseen. Last June the
House Foreign Affairs Committee unani-
mously approved the Fulbright resolution
“favoring the creation of appropriate inter-
national machinery with power to maintain a
just and lasting peace among the nations of the
world and as favoring participation by the United
States therein.” There is reason to believe that
at least four out of every five Congressmen are
willing to go that far, at a minimum. Many,
probably an overwhelming majority, would
BkeTo §° further. But there is every reason to
doubt that they will do so unless the European
j ias keen Turther clarified, especially
* ae of Russia. Russia has adhered to
tle Atlantic Charter. She has signed a 20-
year treaty with England. Both of these docu-
S SSJSSffiSWfSSTi&fSS
she intends to have her way in East ern Europe
and the Balkans, or else. She proposes to take
over Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and parts
of Finland, Poland and Rumania. On both
sides of the Atlantic there are some who say
this is necessary for Russian security. If that
is what she wants, they add, we must not
object. This thesis is debatable, of course, but
if true—if Russia is to fix frontiers to suit
herself and change the status, of peoples, without
consultation—then almost certainly American
collaboration with Europe’s post-war setup is
out of the window.- —Washington correspondent,
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
We must have done with the idea that we
j iave to hang our heads in shame because we
are gghting the kind of war we are best suited
6 Th • nothing embarrassing and
£ I™!tuLf“? g JL„
not ur *p to apologise for. In fact there is ev y
ground and reason for pride, and we shall get
Qn wi[h the war bettcr> and also with the
Russians, if we assert our right to believe in
the great enterprise which we are carrying out.
s i iad deal best with the Russians as allies,
as self-respecting Powers, and not as cringing
apologists for a military effort which requires
no apologising. Walter Lippmann; N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
# *
The Japanese have had more than a year to
build up air and land power on the edges of
their seagoing empire, to exploit the rich re-
? OL V'? es ° 11 co |N uered glands, and to
buddy up to the natives. Whether the Japs
hav . e thus made their empire impregnable re-
mains to be seen. It seems a certainty that
they have at least made it a far stronger fort-
reJ than it was when they first m * ved in
e see no re ason for kidding ourselves that
th wifh Tanfln is eoine anv ton well
Ny-DailvNewf” S Y
' y
*** * ■ ,
Last December the youngest son of Lord
Halifax, Lieutenant Richard Frederick Wood,
of the British Eighth Army, was blasted by a
bomb in Tripoli, and lost both legs,above the
knees. When he came out of the hospital he
was brought to Washington to stay with his
parents in the British Embassy. One day Lady
Halifax heard of a Pittsburgh businessman who
had lost both legs but walked without crutches
on artificial legs. He had taught many other
legless people to walk again. Would he come
and talk with her son? Gladly. Could he do
anything to help? He could—and did. In
May, only a few weeks later, Lieutenant Wood
stood up on a pair of artificial legs and walked
across the room! — J. P. McEvoy; “Hygeia."


Cadbury's
COCOA
■m
mmm
W^m
■
Wmm&
i
mmm
y .•
mmm
iiiiii
MADE BY CADBURY—MAKERS OF DAIRY MILK CHOCOLATE AND ENERGY CHOCOLATE
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HADE SPECIALLY TO
FSETENI SOEE THROATS
BACK THE ATTACK
Subscribe all you can
to the 4th Liberty Loan
Carreras Ltd.— 154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5066 8
Answers to Correspondents
Fame and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no US. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
• _____
The Muse aroused:
Q.8.D.:
Must the man who had some schooling
Listen to the slapstick fooling
That is humor to the semi-adult mind?
For the man of education
Why not broadcast from one station
Entertainment of an educated kind?
W.P.:
Now the Allies hopping on
Like fleas up Italy’s leg
Will no force relinquish
Till peace the Germans beg.
. ...0.5.: Roses intolerably sentimental....
G.M.: “Small” it i5....0.P.: That cliche
makes a feeble conclusion T.J.;
I think of her throughout the day
And in the night I languish.
Can you suggest the words that may
Express to her my anguish?
Send her the poem and she’ll share it... •
C.G.: Nothing but echoes... .C.H.W.: Heavy
traffic on an old road S.D.: There are
so many dogs called Rover; and they all die the
same old death... .S.V.L.: You spoil it by
ejaculations such as “Begone, dull care! Exult,
■my brimming soul!” W.J.P.: Mary is
much too like Poe’s Annabel Lee R.H.:
End’s far too abrupt M. 8.: Sounds a good
idea, but there’s nothing we can do about it.
B.H.: Try again M.P.: “Bubbles” a
pleasant lightweight; “Fantasy” turgid and
archaic S.D.G.: Real feeling, but they read
as if they were written a hundred years ag0....
J.G.: Little interested in fallen id 015....
W.E.S.: Too glum A.L.C.: Neat enough,
but slight K.A.: Impossible J.C.: Send
“A Queer Girl” to a woman’s paper R.R.:
And “A Queer Volcanic Island” to a daily
L.T.S.: “One of Those Queer Blokes”
doesn’t belong anywhere J.W.8.: Stodgy.
E.N.D.: A fair cow.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Journalist, returned Second A.1.F., competent
to write on land topics, requires position on
country paper, north-west N. S. Wales' pre-
ferred. Refs. —3389.
To buy Soil, by Hill, fourth edition, for
soldier. —3396.
Information Sought.
(1) Does any Christian sect give definite de-
tails, such as size, etc., concerning angels ? (2)
Is any treatise available concerning them ?
(1) None of the main divisions of the
Christian faith does so authoritatively. (2) Not
in English. There are some in French and Latin.
Figures of soldiers' conscription voting in
last war ?
For. Against. Informal.
October, 1916 .. 72.399 58,894 2520
December, 1917 .. 103,789 93,910 1978
Can a widow with six children under 16
get State aid and endowment for children as
well as a widow’s pension?
If otherwise qualified, yes.
Recipe for rosewater?
A still is necessary. Gather fragrant rose
petals (thick, fleshy petals, such as Etoile de
Hollande, are best) from full-blown roses on
a dry day and ‘place jn still, adding half-cup
of water to each well-packed quart of petals.
Method of making a 32-volt cutout for a
wind-driven generator? Size and quantity of
wire for the winding (core being a piece of
soft iron -}in. diameter and 2in. long)?
Satisfactory results will be obtained with a
six-volt. cutout, Delco-Remy, as fitted to
Chevrolet cars up to 1934, or Australian-made
equivalent. Connect a resistance of 120 ohms
in series with the voltage coil of cutout; that
is, in return circuit between cutout frame and
generator. Resistance might consist of 10ft.
of insulated Eureka resistance wire, 34 S.W.G.,
or you could buy a 120-ohra, five-watt resistor.
(1) What Australian championships did Jack
Green win? (2) From whom did he win them,
and who won them from him ?
(1) First flyweight champion of Australia
1916, bantamweight 1920, featherweight 1920.
(2) George Mendies defeated him for the fly-
weight title in 1917. He won the bantam-
weight championship from Vince Blackburn,
but relinquished it on account of outgrowing
division. He outpointed Sid Godfrey for the
featherweight championship, and lost it to
Bert Spargo the following year.
(1) Often when I tan fur-skins the fur comes
away from the skin. Cause and treatment for
this fault? (2) How to treat greasy foxskins?
(1) It is due to putrefactive bacteria capable
of decomposing or breaking up that portion of
skin structure which holds the hair fibre in its
fixed position. Sometimes this damage is done
before the skin is dried, but it is difficult to
detect it until the skin is placed in water.
May be avoided by reducing as much as pos-
sible the time required for soaking, replacing
water containing blood, etc., with fresh water,
soaking in salt solutions and the use of.
sterilising agents, etc., which destroy bacteria or
retard their destructive action on the pelt.
(2) Foxskins covered with a layer of fat should
be scraped to remove it from fleshing before
soaking. Such greasy skins are brushed on
the flesh side with a solution containing 11b.
washing soda per gallon. This solution can be
used at a temperature of lOOdeg. F. After
the skins are brushed vigorously they are washed
with soap on both sides and soaked as stated.
To produce soft leather, the pelt must be soft
before it enters the tan liquor.
Ri4p>f Answm
Drier answers. _
W.8.H.: Original area of Nindooinbah
station was about 6000 acres. On the death
of the owner. W. Collins, the property was
■ , ’ , t'.ivj/- in
divided up among relatives .... D.M G. In-
formation is not obtainable G.R.: You
would not be a member of the A.I.F
L.R.C.: Red Cross will communicate with you.
. ...J.E.D.: Some Bulletin Reciters are avail-
able at E. Smith’s bookshop, 115 b Bathurst-
street, Sydney; 25., plus postage M.K.:
Lawson contributed to M.L. newspapers while
living in that country, but there is no record
of him being a reporter Baf: Tax would be
about £l4; exact figure cannot be given as you
do not give amount of Commonwealth Loan
bonds from which you receive interest....
. You have a chance; apply to the
Shipping Superintendent of any big Australian
line, such as B.p. or A.U.S.N R.H.W,;
Tennyson wrote “Enoch Arden”... .J.W.E.:
Your answer will be published next week.


THE ASSOCIATED
STOCK EXCHANGES
of Australia
recommend ——
THE FOURTH
LIBERTY LOAN
Il is the function of Stockbrokers to give expert
advice to the investor. Their experience and know-
ledge of investment values qualify them to give such
advice.
To-day, Stockbrokers unhesitatingly recommend THE
FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN as the best investment
available.
Your investment in War Loan expresses your faith in
your country and your pride in assisting it to win the
War.
But, in addition, the Loan offers: —
1. SECURITY— There is no investment more secure than
War Loan. It has the backing of your country,
whose estimated wealth is £6,000,000,000, which
is growing every year.
2. REGULAR INCOME— lnterest at the rate of 3|% per
annum for 16 years, or per annum for 5
years, is payable half-yearly. Where can you do
as well in a safe security?
3. NEGOTIABILITY —Any Member of a Stock Exchange
will convert your War Bond into cash at any
time during the currency of the Loan.
4. TAXATION —Under the Uniform Tax plan, a tax rebate
of 2/- in the £ is allowed on income from War
Loan interest.
Invest in national security for to-day and personal
security for to-morrow.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
INVEST IN THE 4th LIBERTY LOAN
4L41.2&
that
A
'6
£he.
Estate Administration
demands specialized
knowledge
V
Friendship is not a qualification for executorship. With the best intentions
in the world, your friends are not necessarily the most competent P eo P eto
be entrusted with the administration of your affairs in the best interests o
your beneficiaries. Do not burden them with unfamiliar tasks. Place the
responsibility where it belongs—in the hands of Burns Philp Trust ompa y
Limited, where your estate will have the advantage of the cumulative expen
ence and specialized experience of competent directors and capable
executives. Ask for particulars of the service we offer.
DIRECTORS—James Burns ■ Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY
limited
7 BR I D <^E
PHONE: B 7901.
STREET, SYDNEY
Box 543 B, G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP 41-43
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ .
1935.. 13,945 GJ p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34.017 10 „* „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 65,259 12i „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13§ „ „ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 Hi „ ~ 55,580 42,640 128,1^3
1940.. 75,152 141 „ „ 59,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 13| „ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 111 „ „ 70,121 23,782 166,778
1943.. 90,284 111 ~ „ 74,948 15,336 182,114
The synthetic rubber programme of
America, where Olympic’s C. S. Grainger
is at present studying developments for
the industry and the Commonwealth, is
expected to reach 850,000 tons p.a. next
year—sufficient to ensure Australia of
essential requirements “if supplies of
natural rubber are ever exhausted.”
Utilisation of Buna S and other syn-
thetics, however, isn’t all plain sailing.
For example, tyres of 10-ply and larger
construction still require 30 p.c. or more
of the plantation product, a serious dis-
ability when most output is for heavy
transport vehicles and aeroplanes, while
factory output has in some cases fallen
as much as 40 p.c. Moreover, experi-
ence so far has been that synthetic tyres
aren’t so tough as their cheer-leaders
assert, and must be driven at lower speeds-
and with more care than the natural-
rubber variety.
Olympic kicked off in the tyre busi-
ness amid the unpromising circumstances
of a decade ago, and under keen and
enterprising management some twelve-
fold expansion in turnover has been
achieved since 1935. No less than three-
fourths of it has taken place in the war
period, special mention being due for
pioneering the local manufacture of
rubber-insulated cables. Expansion of
£260,000 in capital since 1939, however,
has been accompanied by a recession of
£7936 in earning-power ; this because of
the low margins on which defence orders
are executed, a war-time (company) tax
that is particularly harsh on concerns like
Olympic which haven’t had time to hus-
band really substantial reserves, and the
necessity to provide increasing sums to
counter war’s toll of plant.
Features of the latest 12 months were
(1) the appointment of general-manager
Butt as Commonwealth Controller of
Tyres and (2) the rationalisation of the
tyre-distributing business by division of
the rationed civilian market between the
Sydney Goodyear and Dunlop organisa-
tions in N.S.W. and Queensland and be-
tween the Melbourne factories of Olym-
pic aAd Dunlop in other States. Diver-
sion of activities into mechanical arid
moulded lines was temporarily abandoned
and energies concentrated on the basic
task of increasing the output of reclaim
and the varieties of cables and ’plane
tyres. Still, sales went further ahead,
the reduction from 15.4 p.c. to 13.8 p.c.
in the earning power of average capital
arising primarily from the charging of
£52,230 more for depreciation (£102,026).
The \l\ p.c. div. was maintained, as
usual, without neglecting reserves. Over
the past eight years the visible heap has
benefited by a mean £22,500 p.a., and
that after average divs. of 12} p.c.
Reduction of £343,721 in inventories
isn’t a true indicator of the general raw-
material position, substantial Govern-
ment purchases being available to the
industry;
1935. 1939. 1912. 1913.
Paid capital.. £173,313 £392,500 £619,099£652,500
Overdraft .. 15,592 953,299 603,096
Sundry creditors* 16,560 107,929 301,670 213,576
Premises .. 18,669 78,119 201,160 196,698
Plant, etc. . . 59,218 115,707 313,562 320,983
Stocks .. 81,099 211,359 1,331,669 990,918
Debtors, etc.. . 55,612 215,118 229,336 211,807
* Including tax reserve.
The contraction was the main factor in
wiping off £411,297 of debt, and as the
stock-pile is further liquidated so will
be the overdraft which financed it. All
but £27,041 of the depreciation charge
was taken up in further additions to
fixed assets. A basis of depreciation
which contemplates little more than three
years’ usefulness from plant is extremely
conservative ; still, under present condi-
tions, capital equipment is being de-
stroye4 as relentlessly by overwork as by
actual bombing, while many war-time
additions will have doubtful “terminat-
ing” value, more will probably be
rendered obsolescent by technical change
and the peace costs of conversion rnay
not be light. ....
A huge banked-up demand will facili-
tate reconstruction, however, when much
will depend on the ease with which the
co. can re-enter evacuated N.S.W. and
Queensland markets and capitalise ex-
panded opportunities in others. Mean-
time, though its composition may change,
output can be expected to be maintained
at the maximum of available material and
labor.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
f- ——Dividends \ Nominal
Pref. R -
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.)
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 p.c. = 23,350 167,317
1935 . . 28,614 1980 6£ „ „ 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 6| „ „ 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 . . 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 . . 35,802 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,206
1940 . . 35,080 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,616
1941 . . 37,497 1980 74 ~ „ 35,025 155,108
1942 . . 37,008 1980 74 „ „ 35,025 155,111
1943 . . 49,852 1980 8 ~ „ 37,360 165,623
fSubject to goodwill ( £25,000) and excluding
depreciation reserve ( £80,000).
A surprisingly good result, all things
considered. Nearly every avenue of hotel
earnings has been subject to limiting con-
trols of one kind and another. Inter-
national visitors, for which the Aus-
tralia —it is one of the largest and most
fashionable hotels in the Common-
wealth —specially catered, ceased follow-
ing the outbreak of war in 1939. Then
priorities in rail travel reduced the num-
ber of inter-State and country visitors to
the city, while civilian beer consumption
has been sealed since March, 1942, at
two-thirds of the level for the two pre-
ceding months, and the price of the stuff
has been fixed, too. Spirits are scarcer
and dearer, and wine, more of which
ought to be drunk in Australia, is also
on the rationed list and costs more. Army
and other call-ups have complicated
staffing and service problems, and the
austerity cut in meals reduced the num-
ber of courses to three and set the upper
level of prices at 3s. breakfast, 4s. lunch
and ss. dinner. Thus many luxury foods
that used to be very profitable to vendors
disappeared from menus, and manage-
ments had to recast carefully budgets for
volume,'variety and cost of kitchen out-
puts in order to keep dining-rooms profit-
able. Beveries, grill-rooms, etc., where
cheaper meals had been served, continued
to do brisk business.
There have been compensating factors,
of course. As war expenditure, financed
largely by central bank credit, increased,
so did employment, the volume of
currency and the length of payrolls.
Wages up with the cost-of-living
index, and the presence of Allied troops
contributed largely to the volume of
spending, especially in the hotel business.
So, despite the difficulties, the co. was
able to write net earnings for the 12
months to June 30 last at £49,852 (up
£12,844), or at what looks like the best
showing since the boom of the 1920’s
burst and the co. went a bit into debt to
help finance extension of the property
into Martin-place. That was the profit
after setting aside an extra £19,000 for
the taxgatherer (£44,000) and £1172 less
for depreciation (£8828), but includes
£lO,OOO visibly earmarked for the first
time for renewals. Since actual expendi-
ture on renewals, etc. —always a hungry
item in a fashionable hotel —is now
limited by Government regulation and
availability of material and man-power,
outlay on this item is likely to be sub-
stantial at a later date. So, although the
£49,852 was enough to cover pref. re-
quirements and show 10.2 p.c. on the
£467,003 of ord. capital as against 7.5,
7.6, 7.2 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1938, only
half a point was added to the div., mak-
ing it 8 p.c.
Here is the co.’s financial structure in
tabloid form:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Stock.. .. £8,499 £23,172 £16,454 £8,945
Book debts,
etc 6,399 5,9'82 5,807 4,870
Cash, etc. .. 22,663 15,628 36,141 81,150
Liquid assets. . £37,561 £44,780 £58,402 £94,965
Mortgage . . 275,000 250,000 250,000 250,000
Creditors* . . 37,517 49,965 67,188
Excess \
liabilities .. £265,973 £242,737 £241,563 £222,223
Property and
equipment. . 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital.. 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
including tax provision.
Most pleasing feature there is the con-
tinued growth in cash, etc., up £45,009
last term —the etcetera is Government
securities and shares in other cos.
(£43,274, up £28,274). The amount com-
ing to trade creditors (up £17,223) in-
cludes an unspecified sum earmarked for
the taxgatherer. The property item re-
mains unchanged ; hence the importance
of the allowance for renewals and of the
amount the co. has been able to actually
spend op maintenance, etc., and charge
against earnings.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £> & &
1933.. 20,924 7 p.c. = 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
5i p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136,640
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
At £44 million, excise brought the Com-
monwealth in 10 p.c. more than the
Budget estimates in 1942-43, and the
figures above seem to indicate the quartet
from which some of the Treasury wind-
fall came. The North is buzzing with
activity these days, and obviously brewers
are by no means the drones of the hive,
excise of 4s. 7d. a gallon notwithstanding.
A year ago, with civilian consumption
pegged at two-thirds the Jan.-Feb. level,
cost factors looked like getting the upper
hand in p. and 1. The prompt quashing
of that tendency primarily reflects the
manner in which service demand, which
falls outside the public rationing scheme*
has swollen Bananaland’s collective
thirst; also possibly production conces-
sions in cognisance of population shifts,
as well as the elimination of territory-
poaching by southern brewers following
the ban on inter-State freighting of ale
and stout.
Though it doesn’t exhibit quite the
stature or earning power of the rival
Castlemaine Perkins organisation, Queens-
land Brewery is sturdily entrenched in
the dairying south and the pastoral west.
Pre-war days produced keen combat be-
tween the two camps for control of hotel
properties in order to tie down the market
for their products. Queensland’s share-
holders tumbled over themselves to quad-
ruple capital in the half-dozen years to
war’s outbreak, while over the longer
period of a decade nearly half a million
was gathered from outsiders in addition.
War-time controls have tied the co.’s
hand in this respect;
Paid 1932. 1937. 1942. 1943;
capital. . £298,851 £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 97,379 514,478 540,435 497,190
Fixed assets 286,433 1,181,013 1,670 789' 1,651,202
Stocks .. 77,055 104,567 W 6 J>
Book debts 167,862 127,261 121,452 103.358
Cash, etc... 8,265 12.586 32,831 38,832
Last year, indeed, saw a net reduction
of £19,587 in the book value of fixed


STOPvoußßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement ot recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This Ola Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many
rolieyo nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Y °ur kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or alters which strain tho waste and acids
Xrorn the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays In the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
Is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
used successfully the world over by millions!
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get J)OAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS* e
■ V
' :
•A
lU u
jdamhu/fl
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and:
fresh . . . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
ẃ
ẅ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents Trade Marks.— -Advt,
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ill lli
111
I Hill
Hi
it
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —■
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables arid Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
On land, sea, and in the air ... Olympic
Tyres and Rubber Insulated Cables
are rendering Front Line Service to
Australia.
Additionally, on Australia’s Home Front,
wherever there is a difficult haulage or
transport job Olympic Tyres are pulling
their weight.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
T&M
[tedJ)
-ESJ
INSULATED
CABLES
flicnliLC&OTt' v/
“Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
Make y out money fight. Invest in the 4th Liberty Loa
How to make Gillette Blades last longer ...
—<«ass
Hold the Blade
at the ends...
,N
•' i
mmmtx
rZ
.. rinse carefully... dry
on a smooth towel . . .
Never leave your blades in a steamy atmosphere. The
microscopic beginnings of rust on that fine edge will
rob you of many a good shave. You can double the
life of every Gillette Blade by exercising care.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Turn your pounds into planes with War Loan Bonds
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
assets, and opportunity was taken of the
breathing-space in capital outgo to whip
£43,245 off the debt, of which £394,276
is secured.
Feature of the latest accounts is not
only the sharp improvement in earnings
but the board’s acknowledgment of the
fact —previously, by accident or design,
disclosed profits had done little more than
keep abreast of the expanding div.
charge. The betterment was more sub-
stantial than it looks, too, £15,340 of
capitalised A.R.P. expenditure being
written off in addition to ordinary de-
preciation (£17,377, down £444). On the
other hand, rationed labor and materials
make it impossible to uphold the old
standard of asset maintenance. Still,
things of this nature are no doubt looked
after in the allowance for contingencies
regularly chipped off before writing pro-
fits, and the declared surplus of 7.9 p.c.
on ord. capital can be taken as well
earned. Ords., which have £199,234 of
p.c, pref. money working for them,
again got 6 p.c., and the mounting scale
of Pacific operations suggests the rate
will be at least maintained. One of the few
flies in the ointment is the malt position.
A. H. Telfer, Westralian Under-Secre-
tary for Mines, broadcasts that among
the publications issued by that depart-
ment last year was a geological bulletin
by J. S. Foxall on the economic import-
ance of the much-advertised blue asbes- (
tos deposits in the Hamersley Range —a
kangaroo - emu-fox-rabbit - wild - turkey-
and python-infested region some 200
miles east of the port of Roeburne.
Several, on the side of the cliffs, are
being mined by the Colonial Sugar Co.,
Claude de Bernales and others, Telfer
also speaks of inspections made of vari-
ous mineral deposits in other parts, prin-
cipally by the Government geologist, and
of the reorganisation and bringing up to
date of the geological survey, rock and
mineral collection and its accompanying
card-index system,
* * * *
Financial aid under the Westralian
Mine Development Act amounted to
£10,413 last year, of which advances for
mining and equipment took £3210, and
for providing means of transport, susten-
ance, etc., £6347. Receipts exclusive of
interest payments totalled £3871, and in-
cluded refund of advances £2144 and
prospecting refunds £1535.
North Kalgurli, Ltd. (W.A.),
is a big loser by the death of Harry Tyr-
rell, joint manager and underground
expert. A Victorian, he had been asso-
ciated with the co. for 15 years, and
during that time had a big hand in the
making of a good mine out of a despised
derelict. He was quiet, and did his job
in a quiet way. He served in World War
I with the A.I.F, Tyrrell is the third of
prominent Golden Mile mine managers
to pass on in the last year or two, the
other two being Vic Mathers, of the
Western Mining Corporation, and Jack
Bell, of Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie.
He qc
New Milano reports a final clean-up
at its Leslie mine on the “all-die-young”
Mt. Monger field (W.A.). It got
from 20 tons. Management proposes
(that is, if the Commonwealth machinery-
grabbing people will consent) to sell
various units of the plant to “avoid de-
terioration and pilfering.”
* * * *
Gt. Boulders are being sought in Lon-
don at around 6s. l\d. stg., but ceiling
is still 6s. 3d. Australian in this country,
and the Federal Treasurer won’t lift it.
Australian shareholders forced for finan-
cial reasons to sell are the sufferers. The
market grabs all offering at the ceiling
price and clamors for. more. On London
parity, shares should be priced at about
Bs. 3d. in Australian money.
* * * *
Westralian 1943 gold dividends seem
likely to aggregate double the amount
paid in 1942. Those distributed in the
Jan.-August period totalled £411,736,
against £239,516 in the first eight months
of 1942. Boulder Perseverance hands out
one, the first interim for 1943, of 10 p.c.
stg. (4 4-5 d.), less U.K. income tax of
10s. in the pound, on Nov. 13, and Lake
View and Star’s second payment, prob-
ably of Is. stg., less tax, for the year
to June 30 last (the first, of 6d., was dis-
tributed last June) is due at the end of
the year. North Kalgurli and possibly Sons
of Gwalia might also give something.
* * * *
Walter E, Skinner, the London com-
piler of Mining Year Book, has this to
say regarding the gold industry. During
the past year the war affected mining
operations throughout the world to an
even greater extent than previously,
American and British cos. were com-
pletely cut off by the Japanese in the East
and New Guinea. Elsewhere—especially
in the United States, Canada, West Africa
and Australia—goldmining was severely
handicapped by growing shortage of
man-power and essential materials. On the
Transvaal goldfields the need to econo-
mise man-power and materials led to the
restriction, from the opening of 1942, of
new development to the minimum re-
quired to maintain adequate ore reserves.
In most cases the tonnages crushed last
year have been replaced by new develop-
ment, but, as a rule, the reserves are still
several years ahead of the capacity of
the treatment plants. The gold output,
which had expanded annually ever since
the end of 1934, experienced a setback.
The Union Budget of 1942 raised the
special war contribution of the goldmines
to 20 p.c. (against 16 p.c.) of the gross
profits, but left unaltered the 5 p.c, tax
on dividends paid by cos. to non-resi-
dents. The heavy scale of taxation en-
titled U.K. shareholders in most of the
mines to maximum Dominion tax relief
—namely, half their “appropriate” tax on
grossed-up dividends. A novel “lend-
lease” departure on the Rand has been
the Western Reef’s agreement to hand
over two of its hoists “for the duration”
to the Springs and West Springs Mines
in order to enable them to sink a new
joint shaft to open up the southern part
of each property. Only one new mine,
Vlakfontein, started normal production
on the Rand last year. Its admirers
expect it to pay dividends before long.
Higher costs and supply shortages seri-
ously hampered mineowners throughout
the world.


A SPECIAL MESSAGE
PROTECTED
INDUSTRIES
The R.A.A.F. needs thousands of young men for
immediate enlistment as air crew trainees. It is
appreciated that until now, you have been refused
permission to join this fighting service, owing to
the national importance of the work you are doing.
Whilst the particular work you are doing may
still make release impossible, applications are now
invited from men in protected industries, and,
where it is possible, release will be granted.
It is recognised that no man can render more
valuable service to his country than in an Air
Crew. R.A.A.F. AIR CREWS serve in the following ,
categories:
PILOTS ...... 18 to 37 years
NAVIGATORS ]
WIRELESS OPERATOR-AIR b 18 fo 32 years
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest R.A.A.F.
Recruiting Centre or local R.A.A.F. Committee,
to men in
GUNNERS
J
JOIN THE
JOIN THE ' —M
OHAAr
~ AID no C\Y
AIR CREW
ar
m
P'.'yr'i,
%
m
-.-
%
V-
Jf,,
THE
DE HAVILLAM)
WORLD FORMATION
Great Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, South Africa
on
Jin the attacl to-day
the trade routed of the future
DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT
DE HAVILLAND ENGINES
DE HAVILLAND PROPELLERS
Inserted by DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
D.H. 10
Back the Attack Invest in the 4th Liberty Loan
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Obstructive State Governments
The last available figures (for the June
quarter) showed unemployment through-
out the Commonwealth to be down to
1.1 p.c., the lowest on record. It
compared with 10.2 p.c. for the period
ended September, 1939. In every
State there was a shortage of man-
power and materials, even to the
extent that goldmining, a staple in-
dustry in the West, had in , many in-
stances been put on a “care-and-main-
tenance” basis. There has been no short-
age of cash in the hands of the people
in any State, and all the facilities pro-
vided for feeding, clothing, carrying and
amusing the people' have been taxed to
capacity. Even the N. S. Wales State
coalmine might have been a paying
proposition had the men done a steady
job of work (in 1942 16 mine-days were
lost through “industrial disputes”), and
because of strikes and absenteeism the
N. S. Wales coal output has been in-
adequate to meet essential demands.
The butter output of all States has
been short of the increased require-
ments caused by growing home consump-
tion and Britain’s needs, and, though
Queensland’s sugar crop has been reduced
owing to shortage of man-power, the
income of that State from all sources has
never been greater. ■
State “business undertakings” have
been having a perfect picnic. In particu-
lar, railways, those of N. S. Wales and
Queensland especially, have been groan-
ing under the weight of freight and
human material hauled over them. But
the revenue —up 70 p.c. in N. S. Wales
since war started and 122 p.c. in Queens-
land has been worth the groan-
ing. It has been unnecessary to build
new lines to swell revenue, and quite
superfluous to exhort people to “go by
train.” Until recently passenger and
freight traffic was limited only by the
rolling-stock and man-power available.
The restrictions imposed in some States
because of fuel shortage have now
become general. •
The metamorphosis which has taken
place in State Government affairs over
the past few has been a result
of the total-war responsibilities that the
Commonwealth has shouldered since
Japan entered the conflict. State
Treasuries (that of Tasmania excepted)
are fattening on the national effort. The
Commonwealth Government has had to
put over 800,000 men under arms, pay
them and keep them. It has become the
biggest constructional agent, the biggest
manufacturer, the biggest customer of
other manufacturers, the biggest em-
ployer, the biggest user of transport and
the biggest borrower, taxer and spender
in the country. It has taken upon itself
responsibility for the collection and allo-
cation of well over half the national in-
come. Its Budget has increased seven-
fold since war began—from under £lOO
million to over £7OO million a year.
But in its trials it has not cramped the
revenue-collecting capacity of the States.
A weakness in the Commonwealth
Government’s financial methods has been
that it has not chosen to charge to the
majority of the people a reasonable part
of the cost of the war. It is trying to wage
a total war without enforcing a total
sharing of responsibilities. This uneven
spread of responsibilities is nowhere
more evident than in the escape of State
Governments from a fair share of the
restrictions and obligations that the
nation as a whole has had to
carry. They have even been relieved of
obligations such as child endowment and
widows’ pensions.
State Government revenue bears no
Commonwealth war tax. Such revenue
has increased by 35 p.c. since the war
started. Some of the growth has
gone out again in increased cost of
running essential services, in some cases
because of the greater activity of those
services, but where there have been rises
in running costs they have not nearly
measured up to the £43.7 million increase
in State revenues generally (totalling £l6B
million in 1942-43) since 1939.
Although there is not the slightest need
at present for State Government expendi-
ture merely for the sake of creating em-
ployment and much State taxation
represents unemployed-relief tax, even
though now collected through the agency
of the Commonwealth —the majority of
the States still manage to spend their
bloated war-time revenues. But N. S.
Wales and Queensland had such a boost
to their income last year that they were
caught flat-footed at the end with sur-
pluses which they hurriedly attempted to
disguise.
In the case of N. S. Wales, where rail-
way revenue rose by £6.4 million to
£34.1 million because of Commonwealth
patronage, an extraordinary provision of
£4.9 million was made for “accruing
maintenance of track, rolling-stock,
equipment and remodelling accommoda-
tion,” making total provisions under this
head £6.2 million. On this matter the
Auditor-General remarks: “There can
be no doubt that maintenance expendi-
ture is, perforce, standing over for atten-
tion at a later stage, but I am unable to
express an opinion as to whether the
amounts provided for the purpose are
fair and proper. The fact is, however,
that, in the present state of the law, it is
not competent for the Department of
Railways to set aside reserves.” It has
taken a war and strained Commonwealth
finances to put the N. S. Wales railways
in a financial position to make reserves,
illegal or otherwise. In addition to the
£4.9 million, working exes, in 1942-43
include “£519,484 spent on improve-
ments and betterments which, in normal
times, could be considered a charge to
the loan votes and added to the capital
account of the railways,”
N. S. Wales railways, even after allow-
ing for the extraordinary charges, showed
a surplus of £774,542, and the State’s
accounts as a whole were to the good by
£1,115,000. Yet unblushingly £426,696 was
accepted from the Commonwealth “to-
wards expenditure by the State on war
precautions and National Emergency
Services.” This during a period in which
the Commonwealth accounts were £403
million to the bad and in which recourse
was had to the use of £179 million of
bank credit in a desperate attempt to pay
for an ever-growing war bill.
In Queensland, where a “surplus” of
£102,000 was exhibited, no less than £5.2
million was set aside during the year to
provide for “post-war works.” Most of
this State’s additional revenue came from
its railways, the chief user again being
the Commonwealth Government. Rail-
way income rose by £6.5 million, reach-
ing £16.9 million, and the surplus of the
department for the year was £5.9 million.
The appropriation of over £5 million
for post-war reconstruction, largely at the
expense of the Commonwealth, is en-
tirely out of line with national planning.
The Commonwealth is obviously the
authority to control the general outline
that post-war economic development is
to take, and no doubt when States have
spent all the funds they have been able
to .accumulate out of their war-time
profits they will be as reluctant to under-
take post-war financial responsibilities as
they have been to co-operate with the
Commonwealth in its war-time hours
of monetary need. The Queensland
Bureau of Industry has recently been
extremely sceptical in the matter of Com-
monwealth powers and unificationism. It
has offered justifiable criticism of the
Commonwealth bureaucracy without,
however, so much as mentioning the exist-
ence of State bureaucrats.
Whatever the argument around the
subject of greater powers for the Com-
monwealth, it is clear that under present
arrangements two States, Queensland and
N. S. Wales, are at a great advantage
compared with other parts of the Com-
monwealth. Under uniform taxation they
have given proportionately less to the
Commonwealth than other States, one of
which, Victoria, had a lower tax-scale
than they. And they have been in the
thick of Commonwealth war expenditure,
State undertakings in particular benefit-
ing. Victoria has not missed out on this
score ; it has been a centre of munitions
activity, and has harvested a substantial
amount of extra railway revenue.
Last year the gross revenue of
the Queensland Government was 51.8
p.c. higher than in 1938-39. For
N. S. Wales the increase was 37.7 p.c.
on the same basis, for Victoria 35.2 n.c.,
for South Australia 24 p.c. and for West-
ralia 19 p.c., while Tasmania has shown
little rise in Government income over
the four years. Altogether, an entirely in-
equitable position as between the Com-
monwealth and States and between the
States themselves. And whereas last year


For Australia at War . . .
Ote
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
oTOO^
5r
■5
o
o
LZ.
cc
QC
O
Q
\0
p EA&
FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
£125,000,000
BACK THE ATTACK
O © •
SPACE WITH COMPLIMENTS
' SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
/ \
Would you want
HIM to know you
said...“l can’t
afford to invest
in the LIBERTY
LOAN?”
c '
£
m
7i
What Is your share of the war? Doing your daily job—in factory, in office,
in home? Fine! Australia needs men and women who work for victory in
countless ways. But how does your job compare with that of the digger in
the jungle, the airman, the sailor? Yours is more pleasant and more
profitable. Nothing you can do can measure up with his difficult task ...
no sacrifice of yours can compare with what he is freely offering. It’s up to
y OU to deny yourself so that you can afford to invest in the Liberty Loan.
TSnck ike Aftfob!
INVEST TO YOUR UTMOST IN THE
LIBERTY LOAH
I I
Subscriptions may be made in any of four ways (a) Payment in one sum; (b) Deposit of 10%, balance by Ist
Feb., 1944; (c) Deposit of 10%, balance in three equal monthly instalments commencing Ist Dec.; (d) Deposit
of 20%. balance in four equal monthly instalments commencing on Ist Dec.
Applications will be received by any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker. )g
the Commonwealth handed the States £27
million as income- and entertainments-tax
reimbursement, this year the figure is
expected to rise to £33 million. At a
meeting of the Loan Council in July a
“borrowing programme of £9.5 million
for State works was approved, most of
which is directly or indirectly related to
the war effort.” With State revenues on
their present buoyant basis it would
seem little enough for the Govern-
ments concerned to have made a
present to the Commonwealth of this
“direct or indirect” war work and kept
the loan market clear for Commonwealth
borrowing. Not that the States have been
incurring much in the way of debt as a
result of the war; on the contrary, be-
cause of the operation of the sinking
fund, the net increase in State debts since
war began has been almost nothing. On
the other hand, the Commonwealth debt
has rocketed by £7lO million net.
The States as a whole are selfish and
obstructive in the nation’s war effort.
They are partly responsible for the small
amount of taxation that is available for
the payment of war waste —28 p.c. is all
that Australia has been able to meet out
of current revenue, representing the most
inflationary budgetary position in the
British Empire. Obviously their “business
undertakings” are not subject to the close
control of the Prices Branch that is seen
in private industry, and generally they
are getting away with behavior which
suggests that State politics are the most
protected of all “protected industries.”
Many State activities are costly, wasteful
and duplicated, when not entirely useless.
The Loan
Up to the week-end £75 million of the
asked-for £125 million had been obtained
from 210,000 subscribers to the Fourth
Liberty Loan. That is an average of £358
per subscriber, which suggests that a few
very large subscriptions represent the
main body of support so far.
The Prime Minister, speaking over the
air on Sunday, emphasised that the
Government’s target is 750,000 contribu-
tors and an oversubscription. If less than
that number of Australians contribute it
would not be a total war effort. Should
the target not be reached, “the Govern-
ment cannot continue to countenance
the things that retard a total war effort.
The alternatives are far more drastic than
what is involved by voluntary contribu-
tion to the loan effected by self-imposed
sacrifice.”
Not nearly enough war-time wages are
going into the loan. Among too many
Australians the spirit of “fair-go” has
disappeared. The fact that a phony
philosophy sold to the people by the
political party now in Federal office is
largely responsible cannot be taken as an
excuse for this lack of war-time co-opera-
tion and reluctance to share national
obligations. If the people do not respond
adequately to this loan they will not be
able to avoid the consequences —conse-
quences which, as the Prime Minister
says, will be far worse than voluntary
contribution.
Although the cost-of-living index (“C”
series) continued to rise in the lune
quarter of this year, during the Sep-
tember quarter there was apparently a
recession, due largely to the pre-election
cut in the price of tea and potatoes. Fol-
lowing an increase of from Is. to 2s. a
week in the capital cities in August, the
basic wage was last week reduced by a
shilling a week in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane, with no change in the other
capitals. The weighted average for the
six capitals falls by Is., to 975. This
represents the first reduction in the Com-
monwealth basic wage since war began.
It follows the introduction of a price-
ceiling on April 12. It may not turn out
to be all that it seems,
H= * * *
C. R. McKerihan, Australia’s most
remarkable bank (Rural Bank) chair-
man, last week made his most re-
markable statement. He expressed the
view that there would not be any
inflation in Australia “to the detri-
ment of the community” or any
depression after the war. The Federal
Government, he said, had exercised a very
sound control over war-time finance, “a
control which has not been bettered in
any comparable country in the war.”
The fact is that Australia has inflation —
so much of it that desperate arbitrary
measures have been taken to try to con-
trol it, such as the subsidising of tea and
potatoes so that they may be sold below
cost price. As we already have inflation,
with the threat of more from the same
source as the rest came from, natural
ultimate reaction, deflation however
long it may be delayed—is something
that prudent people should prepare for,
not dismiss as “a fear complex.” As for
the bouquet to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s financial management, even
Mr, Chifley wifi scarcely be able to
believe his ears. For the present there
are no vacancies offering on the Com-
monwealth Bank Board.
* * * *
The urban population of Australia is
close on 3,400,000. The Government is
imposing hardship in the way of fuel re-
strictions on these millions because it is
unable to persuade a few thousand coal-
miners to do a decent thing in the way of
work.
* sfc s|e
Australian average metal prices for
September, supplied by Frank Hambridge
Pty., Ltd.;
Copper, per ton—
Producer’s price .. .. £lOO 0 0
Refinery’s price .. .. 105 0 0
Zinc, per ton .. .. .. 22 0 0
Lead, per ton 22 0 0
Tin, per ton —
Producer’s basic price .. 371 0 0
High-cost producer’s price .. 376 0 0
Gold, per fine ounce .. .. 10 9 0
Silver, per ounce .. .. 2 7.5 d.
The gougers’ bonus of £5 per ton on
copper was maintained throughout the
month.
* * * *
Rev. Alan Walker, of Cessnock
(N.S.W.) Methodist Church, is reported
as having said the Beveridge plan merely
makes the dole more respectable by re-
naming it. “The plan estimates finances
on the basis of 500,000 unemployed in
Britain after the war, and it is essentially
selfish, as it will add nothing to the
total wealth of the world and do nothing
to lift the pitiable living standards in
other countries, an essential to world
security.” At the same “Religion and
Life Week” convention Mr. Colin Clark,
Queensland Government Statistician and
writer in “Economic News,” said that be-
fore the present war 75 p.c. of British
children Were undernourished. If what
Mr. Clark says is right, then it would
appear that Rev. Walker is in a bit of a
hurry in condemning the Beveridge plan
as “selfish.” After all, it is not much
use in trying to raise the “pitiable living
standards in other countries” until those
in your own country have been attended
to. One has to set one’s own house in
order before trying to instruct others how
to do so. And that will be a fundamental
principle to be observed in any post-war
developments along the lines of the
Atlantic Charter.
Colin Clark has said that in 1938
11 p.c. of Britain’s people were in acute
poverty, and another 21 p.c. in want,
adding that in 1932 29 p.c. of Australia’s
working population was unemployed,
’“Only a world in which imagination had
become stagnant and pity had died could
allow such suffering.” Workers in one
country (Australia) at the present time
have such a lively pity for themselves
in making their demands on a war-
stricken nation (and in denying adequate
support to the Fourth Liberty Loan) that
they are building up further unemploy-
ment and disaster for themselves when
the conflict is over,
* * * *
Employment of males in retail stores
throughout Australia has fallen 30 p.c.
since July, 1941, while there has been a
drop of 4 p.c. in the number of women
employed. Total employment in retail
concerns has fallen 20 p.c. since Japan
entered the war.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japs Counter-attack
“Ek Dum”: On October 3 the South-
west Pacific communique reported:
Our ground forces have captured Finsch-
hafen. All organised enemy resistance
has been overcome and the entire area is
in our hands.
Next day H.Q. issued another commu-
nique;—
The capture of Finschhafen ensures our
complete control of the Huon Gulf. The
simultaneous air-ground movement of 200
miles up the Markham Valley through the
centre of New Guinea gives us control of
the Huon Peninsula. It has outflanked
and contained all enemy centres between
Finschhafen and Madang, and has rendered
practically useless his numerous positions
and installations along the coast.
This summary of the position was dis-
puted by the enemy last week.
Round the Huon Edges
The Huon Peninsula is a tumble of
mountains as high as any in a similar
triangle of the land in the world. The
southern side of the peninsula had fallen
into our hands in actual fighting, and
round the corner of the eastern apex,
in rough, tumbling cliff country falling
down to the sea, Finschhafen had been
taken after a stern struggle.
The party which had proceeded up the
Markham had followed the Madang track
and, according to the current commu-
nique (Oct. 3), had “reached the Ramu
River, seven miles north of Marawasa,”
and “ambushed a party of 100 enemy
troops near Kesawai, killing and wounding
many.” Marawasa is 60-odd miles by crow-
fly from the mouth of the Markham River
to Marawasa, and there the Ramu Valley
begins. The New Guinea Director of
Agriculture in a report (20/4/’3B) spoke
of “the Markham Valley from the sea
to its headwaters, a distance of about
95 miles,” a figure which squares with
map measurement.
Reaching the Ramu, the Australian
inland spearhead had achieved half the
crossing of the peninsula. The Allied
forces, therefore, had traversed roughly
60 miles of coast out of 220 miles on
the two sea sides of the peninsula and
60 out of 120 miles of the crow-fly route
across its land base. The whole north-
eastern coast of New Guinea from
Finschhafen to the Dutch border was still
in enemy hands, with 60 miles of the
Ramu route.
From Marawasa on the edges of
the Ramu jump-over from the Markham
towards Bogadjim, the sturdy Australian
force had had to fight its way through
valley, bush, cliff and scaur across the
foothills of the Finisterre, and three
weeks later it had not yet made the sea
in that direction. It was “across an
enemy communication line.” To try to
make the control of the long Maclay
coast real, regular bombing throughout
the period of its march was necessary.
The first impression conveyed by news-
paper descriptions of the fighting at
Finschhafen that the enemy had been
wiped out in that region proved
erroneous. In fact, the A.I.F. was try-
ing with its accustomed vigor to winkle a
substantial party of the foe out of the
lairs to which he retired on Sattelberg, a
3000 ft. hill, only six miles from the near-
est point on the coast which overlooks
the Song River area in which the A.I.F.
landed. To this stronghold a large pro-
portion of the Finschhafen garrison seems
to have retired when the fall of that
station seemed imminent. There, he seems
to have been reinforced overland from Sio.
On October 18 the Allied communique
said:
Sharp ground fighting has developed
north of Finschhafen, with the enemy
attempting to bring up reinforcements by
barge. Troops attempting to land before
dawn near the mouth of the Song River
[just south of the beach on which the Ninth
Division made its landing] were largely
destroyed by our fire, Our forces repulsed
two enemy counter-attacks in the Ziwe-
waneg [which is between Sattelberg and
the coast in the northern environs of Finsch-
hafen] position. Our medium and attack
air units in direct support of our ground
forces bombed and strafed enemy instal-
lations in the Sattelberg area.
One of the attacks had come from the
foothills in the region of Sattelberg itself.
The other stabbed at Katika, near the
mouth of the Song River. Both were
concerted with the attempt to land from
the sea which resulted in all the enemy
involved in it being wiped out.
Attack from Sattelberg
The Sattelberg garrisons appeared to
be bent on forcing their way to the sea,
perhaps to make contact with other
forces. Fighting with them had been so
fierce between October 2 and 21 that they
had suffered 600 casualties —more than
were inflicted on them in the ground opera-
tion of taking Lae itself. Their wounded
would be heavy. However, the combined
assaults of the A.I.F. and Allied air forces
had not dislodged them or deprived them
of Their power to counter-attack.
One correspondent wiring befqre the
week-end declared that 2000 men were
involved in the fighting for Sattelberg.
In the actual immediate, fighting, it was
reported on October 21, the enemy in
several sharp attacks had left 200 dead
on* Australian hands. And 60 miles up
the coast at Sio, round the north-east coast
of the Huon Peninsula towards Bogad-
jim and Saidor, the enemy was still able
to maintain bases which were worth the
regular attention of Allied heavy-bomber
units. The “bivouac area” on Teliata
Point near Sio was mentioned in the
communique of October 21 as having
been bombed.
It seems to be true that throughout the
week beginning October 16, when they
attacked across the Sattelberg-Finschhafen
track, before turning northward to fasten
on the Australian flank, the Japanese at
Sattelberg made bold and fierce attempts
at close quarters to capture A.I.F. guns
along the northern holding line of Finsch-
hafen.
The communique of October 21 re-
ported intermittent ground fighting in the
vicinity of Kitika, a mile or so from the
sea and a couple of miles to the north of
Finschhafen. Allied bombers gave sup-
port by bombing villages and near-by
trails serving the area. The enemy was
not inactive in the air. He raided our rear
areas during the night, causing “minor
damage and casualties.” And our fighters
intercepted a formation of six escorted
bombers raiding in daylight, shooting
down four and losing only one fighter,
whose pilot was saved.
Later, however, the enemy captured
Katika. It was now reported that in the
area round Finschhafen he was several
thousand strong.
“Attempt to Escape”
An Allied H.Q. spokesman declared
before the week-end that the enemy
operations from Sattelberg could not be
considered as an attempt to recapture
Finschhafen. It was primarily an attempt
by the isolated enemy to escape. *
Throughout the war the A.I.F. has
never been called on in vain. Over the
week-end A.I.F. officers and men flung
the enemy back from the Katika
village towards his original positions
at Sattelberg, the Allied air forces
having pounded the Sattelberg positions
with the greatest weight of bombs ever
used in a land operation in New Guinea
—221 tons. On October 24, however, the
enemy still held posts a mile from Katika
and six miles north-west of Finschhafen.
A communique on October 25 said that
the Japanese attempt to break through to
the sea had terminated and that his forces
were now “weak in numbers and of little
significance.”
There was no news of progress by
other A.I.F. forces on the Ramu,
but its artillery late in the week
was pounding positions in the terrible
hills along the Faria River. Bomb-
ing of the Bogadjim-Madang communica-
tions was frequent, and some bridges had
been wrecked.
Bombing of objectives all round the
South-western Pacific perimeter continued,
especially in the New Guinea area, where,
apart from damage to aerodromes and
shipping installations, a heavy score in air
fighting and against enemy machines on
the ground was reported —the dates are
those of the communiques:
Enemy • Allies.
Destroyed. Prob. Dest. Destroyed.
Oct. 18 .. 103 43 2
„ 19 .. 43 6 4
„ 20 .. 62 6 3
„ 21 .. 17
„ 22 .. 14 4 1
„ 23 11 ’3
„ 24 1
„ 25 .. 23 3 4
274 62 17
Some Allied ’planes \Vere reported
damaged and two pilots were saved. The
bombing extended to the extreme point
of Kavieng, where a light cruiser was
damaged, and to Halmahera and Ternate,
north of the Equator.
Enemy Retreat in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: The two ends of the Eighth
Army of Alamein were both involved in
fighting on the first anniversary of the
turn of the tide in Africa. Australia’s
grand Ninth Division was still engaged at
Finschhafen in New Guinea. Its next-
door neighbors of the Battle of El Ala-
mein—the Scottish 51st, the Seventh Brit-
ish Armored, the Indians and the gallant
rest —were breaking down barriers in
Italy, 2500 miles by road from where
they were a year ago.
As on October 23, 1942, they were
entering on historic battles which would
affect the course of the war and the
morale of the whole fighting world.
By October 18 the first stage of their
splendid bit of work in the drive from
Termoli to the important Vinchiaturo
road junction, halfway across Italy, had
so threatened the German flank that the
Germans were drawing themselves north-
wards. At that time the Anglo-American
Fifth Army, under General Mark Clark,
had not made junction with the Eighth,
A gap of about 20 miles separated the
two forces. But General Montgomery’s
performance had greatly eased the task
of the western force, which soon was in
the throes of negotiating the first river
obstacle which has come in the way of
the western Allies during their progress
from Tunisia towards Berlin.
By October 19 it was reported that the
Fifth Army had left the Volturno line
behind, while the spearhead of the Eighth
was fighting its way to the next road junc-
tion on the way to Rome —Isernia, 20
miles onward from Vinchiaturo.
The Fifth had managed its own move-
ment round a flank by landing at Can-
cello, north of the Volturno. Its progress
was not easy at any point, and on
October 17 the enemy had made strong
attempts to break the Allied attempt to
progress on the three main western routes
towards the capital.
Thus he attacked at Cancello on the
west coast, at Morrone, just across the
Volturno from Caserta, and at Ruviano,
commanding the way up the Volturno
from the point where it bends to run
northward parallel with the mountains,
and where it joins the Galore. These
attacks, though fierce, were not success-
ful, but they were unpleasant enough,
for the incessant rain had turned the
country into a bog, with ditches, sunken
roads and rivulets overflowing and the
rivers racing to the sea over their banks.
By October 20 the Fifth Army was
from 10 to 15 miles beyond Capua, still
contending with a highly tenacious rear-
guard. The fighting on the east was be-
ginning to enter very difficult country as
it approached the narrow coastal strip
between the Lepini mountains and the
sea, on the west, and the Sacco Valley
and the tough and turbulent country
along the sides of Mt. Miletto, nearer
the centre of the peninsular
The German tactics were based on
ferocious counter-attacks, mostly with
armor, along the great variety of valley
and hill routes available to them.
They tried some of these assaults on
the Eighth Army as the week began.
The! net result was that, apart from
securing control of the central peninsula
road systems, Montgomery’s men had
made a new advance to take Petacciato,
10 miles north of Termoli, on the
Adriatic coast, and thence over the Trigno
River another four miles —a difficult
crossing.
Measured in terms of straight lines,
this meant that the Eighth Army advance
guard was well up on the flank of the
enemy still with more favorable country
for an advance in front of it than from
Vinchiaturo in the centre.
This success by the Eighth set the Ger-
mans in concerted backward motion for
a second stage of their retreat from the
Volturno. They obviously had under-
estimated the possibilities of attack on the
Adriatic side —despite lessons driven
home all the way from Alamein—and
the attackers pushed five to eight miles
forward in the central drive towards
Isernia, and had dominating positions all
round the strategic centre of the German
pivotal defences in the Volturno region.
The enemy was still fighting in the
Capua country eight miles or so to the
west, blocking a junction between the
Eighth and Fifth Armies, but his retreat
was becoming more real every few hours
and Berlin spokesmen showed growing
fear of further Allied landings along the
west coast, near Rome.
The Fifth Army on October 24 had
pushed 24 miles from Capua up the
inland valley of the Volturno. This
advance added to the dangers of the
enemy left flank, so much in peril from
the Eighth Army’s operations beyond
and in the Apennines. The enemy was
being cleared from the western slopes of
the central mountain chain.
The outlook for any but a determined
enemy would be more than bleak. But
the Huns are showing savage determina-
tion, and both on east and west, though
forced to retreat, they are in control of
their movements, as has happened in
Russia.
So far in Italy the Allies have had
15,000 casualties: 9000 British and Im-
perial troops and 6000 Americans.
The way up the peninsula will be
drenched with blood. Not an inch has
so far been given away by the enemy
since the Salerno landing, save at a price.
Melitopol Taken.
“Ek Dum”: Three weeks of war on
the Russian front, served up in news-
paper stories, with radio echoes:
September 30: Russians Storm Big Dnieper
City—Tank Forces Cross River —Whole Nazi
Line Threatened. Powerful Russian assault
forces are swarming across the Dnieper into
Dnepropetrovsk... .The Russians have gained
control of two railway bridges across the
Dnieper, north of the town. Crack armored
forces are crossing the bridges. Observers be-
lieve that Dnepropetrovsk will fall within a few
hours, cracking open the German Dnieper line.
Goring’s newspaper says: “The German armies
along the Dnieper are threatened with a fate
a thousandfold worse than Stalingrad. The
Russian plan is to surround and destroy
several German armies.” The elaborate defences
at Gomel are crumbling. The Russians are
submitting Kiev to a terrific bombardment to
soften up German defences for a full-scale
assault by powerful forces massed on the river
immediately opposite the city.
October 3: The Russians have smashed the
new German defence-line in White Russia.
Strong mechanised forces are pouring through
the gap and racing towards Mogilev. New
gains yesterday suggest that the German line
is crumbling both north and south of Mogilev.
October 5: Rain and stiffening resistance have
slowed down the Russian advance. The Ger-
mans are throwing in everything in a desperate
effort to halt the Russians before the German
bases of Vitebsk, Mogilev and Gomel. A
fierce tank battle is reported in the outskirts
of Gomel
October 6: The fate of a large section of
White Russia is being decided by a great
tank battle... .Gomel is being attacked on three
sides and the Russians have reached the city
outskirts.
October 8: The Russians have launched a big
offensive from Leningrad. •
October 9: Swinging dramatically back to
the offensive after a 10-day lull, the Red Army
has pierced the German defences in at least
five places. Tremendous quantities of men
and equipment are being poured across the
Dnieper at these points The whole German
position south of Dnepropetrovsk is now
jeopardised Morley Richards says the Ger-
mans will begin a long retreat from the Dnieper
to the Bug. Gomel and Vitebsk are threatened.
Kiev is threatened with encirclement,
October 11: Eight Russian divisions have
fought their way across the bridgeheads on the
Dnieper established last week. The Russians
captured Lesno, 25 miles east of Vitebsk.
October 12: The Russians have smashed the
German defence-line north of Kiev. The Ger-
mans are beginning the evacuation of Kiev and
carrying off the civilian population. A guerrilla
army is moving on Kiev from the west. Sixty
miles south of Neval the German defence-line
shows signs of cracking.
October 13: The position of the German
armies defending Kiev has become critical.
German demolition squads have begun de-
stroying the city. Russian divisions north of
Kiev have now broken through to the city’s
inner defences. Dnepropetrovsk is in a similar
plight to Kiev: Russian forces are attacking it
frontally across the river while other divisions
are moving southward along the west bank
to encircle the city Ten Russian armored
divisions have launched an offensive across the
Nogaisk steppes to cut the Crimea-Zaporozhe
railway and bottle up the Crimea garrison.
October 14: At Dnepropetrovsk, Kiev and
Gomel the Russians have fought their way
into the inner defences. Gomel is in flames;
Moscow correspondents say the Germans are
about to flee the city. Fighting on the west
bank of the Dnieper on the 400-mile front from
Kiev to Zaporozhe is on a scale equal to that
at Stalingrad [January, 1943] and Smolensk
[September, 1941]. Crack troops from Eastern
Russia and Siberia are leading the assault on
Kiev perched on the heights on the west bank
of the river. Dnepropetrovsk is threatened with
encirclement. From their bridgeheads to the
north the Russians are flinging in great forces
which threaten to take the city in the rear.
October 15: German armies are pouring
out of the Crimea to escape the Red Army trap.
After a four-day battle the Russians have cut
the only railway from the Crimea at Melitopol,
20 miles north of the Sea of Azov. In Melito-
pol there is desperate fighting. The Red Army
has fought its way into Kiev and Gomel;
announcement of the fall of both is expected
within hours. The German move from the
Crimea and the crushing of the Dnieper and
White Russian lines have convinced London
observers that the Germans have decided to fall
back to a new line from Odessa to Riga. Kiev
is a city of the dead practically deserted.
with only a screen of troops to try to hold
the Russians back; the only people seen in the
city are German military policemen standing at.
street intersections like scarecrows. For a 20-
mile radius round the city houses, parks and
even orchards have been razed. The Germans
are withdrawing the remains of their air. force
from the eastern front, Russian observers say.
October 16: Following quickly on the cap-
ture of Zaporozhe—“the Dnieper Bend bastion’
—the Russians have pushed across the Dnieper.
The new crossing threatens to trap big German
forces at Dnepropetrovsk, already threatened
from the north. The Russians are forcing a
hasty German withdrawal from the Crimea.
It will be surprising if any of them escape.
The Germans are being cleared out of Melito-
pol street by street and house by house. The
Russians have captured the outer defences of
Kiev. Terrific battles are raging round the
city and its fall is expected hourly. Giant air
combats are taking place above the city.
October 18: In the last week the Russians
have smashed 259 German counter-attacks along
the Middle Dnieper. There has been an ad-
vance of seven miles towards Dnepropetrovsk,
which is under violent drumfire from the north-
west From Neval the Russians have advanced
to the outer defences of Polotsk. The Germans
send back bombers loaded with incendiaries
and destroy towns which in their hasty retreat
they failed to destroy in lunatic frenzy before
evacuating them. .
October 19: Red Army divisions are pouring
through the great breach forced in the German
lines at the Dnieper Bend. The break-through
was made yesterday over a front of 27 miles
on the west bank of the Dnieper south of
Kremenchug. Driving through the breach the
Russians already have advanced 15 miles
and stand 40 miles from Dnepropetrovsk,
which is practically isolated. The Russians
have swept behind Gomel to a depth of seven
miles over a front of 18 miles. Encirclement
of all Germans in the Kiev area is now a
definite possibility. After five days of street


Missing Friends.
KRAMER WALTER. —Miguel Kramer Walter (or
Miguel Walter), or anyone knowing of his where-
abouts or of his death, is asked to communicate with
the Public TRUST OFFICE, Tauranga, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARY IRENE MAY VOUGHT late of Lithgow
and Sydney New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
ROBERT ‘VOUGHT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No 2864 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and, upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 3rd of December 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from J. BIRNIE
JACKSON Solicitor 117 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PERCIVAL CONWELL late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH CONWELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 753 of 1943 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th December
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY Solicitor 81 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
SUPPORT
th
4
LIB E RTY
Am lif Am Bml 1
Announcement made by :
ICKERB
GIN
CD
am
fighting the Russians have reached the centre
of Melitopol.
October 20: A vast Russian plan of encircle-
ment is rapidly developing in southern Russia.
The divisions which crossed the Dnieper south
of Kremenchug have pushed on against dis-
organised but bitter resistance for 20 miles in
two days. German defences at Kiev and Gomel
at last show signs of cracking. Moscow re-
ports the capture of Vishgorod, a strongly-
fortified centre six miles north of Kiev’s
outskirts. This victory has broken wide open
the defences north of Kiev. Gomel is being
reduced yard by yard.... Six more German divi-
sions are reported to have entered northern Italy,
bringing the total enemy strength there to 30
divisions; many of the new troops are from
France and were originally intended for the
Russian front. Melitopol has become a huge
graveyard. The Germans there have been
ordered to stand firm at any cost to cover
major German withdrawals. The Luftwaffe is
being used on the greatest scale since the Kursk
battle in July.
October 21: Germany’s 600-mile defence-
line is on the verge of complete collapse. The
Red Army has smashed through the line at the
three main points—Gomel, Kiev and Dnepro-
petrovsk. Huge Russian reserves are ready to
deal a decisive blow at the first sign of a general
German retreat. Kiev and Gomel are practi-
cally surrounded. Dnepropetrovsk has been
isolated. The armies driving down from Kremen-
chug have cut the main railway to the west and
are pouring through a 30-mile breach. They
have advanced 40 miles and have less than 65
miles to go before reaching the southern arm
of the Dnieper Bend. Booty captured by the
Russians includes 15 troop trains, 30 tanks,
172 guns, 600 machine-guns, 1300 lorries and
1800 prisoners. The Germans appear to be on
the eve of a major disaster.
October 22: The Red Armies are halfway
across the Dnieper Bend, having advanced 60
miles in four days. They have still 60 miles to
go to complete the encirclement of the Germans
reaching the southern arm of the Dnieper Bend.
Morley Richards says that between the Dnieper
Bend and the Crimea 750,000 to 1,000,000 Ger-
mans hre in danger of being trapped by the
Russian drive. There is tension in the Berlin
atmosphere, and a Ruhr newspaper says there
is a wave of defeatism in Germany. German
industrialists are talking of bringing about a
negotiated peace with Russia “as a last resort.”
The Germans in the Dnieper Bend are in
“more” deadly peril than at Stalingrad.
October 23: The German people are being
prepared for the collapse of the entire Nazi
front in South Russia. The Russians are
believed to have moved 30 divisions (450,000
men) across the Dnieper and have advanced 65
miles in four days. The Germans now hold
only the northern part of Melitopol. A military
correspondent says that between the Pripet
Marshes around Kiev and the Sea of Azov the
Germans have between 70 and 90 divisions,
representing between 1,000,000 and 1,125,000
men. They are losing at least 10,000 men a
day in attempts to fling back the Russians from
the Dnieper Bend, some reports say. Others
have it that there is a surprising absence of
infantry in Melitopol, the Germans relying
mainly on armor to hold off the Russians.
October 24: The Russians have captured
Melitopol after nine days of violent street fight-
ing. Its capture has broken Nazi resistance to
the southern arm of the vast Russian double
drive which threatens to trap an estimated
750,000 Russians in the Dnieper Fend and the
Crimea. Only 125 miles of open plains lie
between Melitopol and Kherson, the key to
the area in which the Germans are trapped.
“Liberator,” of London “Observer,”' says the
plight of the German armies in south Russia
is as desperate as that of the British and French
armies in France in May, 1940, but the German
can have no Dunkirk London “Sunday
Pictorial” says the Russians may not care any
more about a second front, since they are well
on the way to winning this war in their own
way and may regard all our threats and
promises with sublime indifference.
An Interpreted Version
For well over a month the Russians
hammered at the gates of the five Ger-
man keystone defence points on the
eastern front—Mogilev, Gomel, Kiev,
Dnepropetrovsk and Melitopol. As
always, these efforts were characterised
by great courage and determination, but
at the week-end they had been successful
only at Melitopol, the German story
being that “we withdrew to a position
on the western fringe of the town.”
Meanwhile, the enemy had been forced
to abandon lines and points along the
Dnieper where, because of natural
obstacles and lack of bridges, crossings
must be slow and difficult, and pursuit
could not be attempted without leaving
flanks open to attack from the five key
points.
The Germans began an evacuation of
the Dnieper Bend. According to a Mos-
cow report of October 20 they drove the
civil population before them, and —as
they had done east of the Dnieper—razed
every town and village to the ground.
Utterly brutal, and thus in keeping with
German practice in two wars, but indi-
cative of being in control of the time
factors of a retreat which in its ghastly
way had been orderly from the beginning.
A Russian spearhead, necessarily thin
in composition, bowling along at 15
miles a day, cannot close off a
force of 750,000 to a million men who
have 70 miles to go at furthest to avoid
their drive and a 100-mile-wide escape
corridor to pass through. Corralling of
large bodies of heavily-armed troops in
this way occurs only in the imaginations of
“experts” like Morley Richards. And even
if such a column drove to the Black Sea
it would be at the risk of being over-
whelmed by the retreating German
avalanche, if the avalanche is as heavy as
correspondents suggest. In any case, it
could not progress at the rate of 15 miles a
day, save against rearguards or completely
beaten and demoralised troops who are
flinging down their arms and running.
Certainly it could' not do so against the
kind of forces which held Mogilev,
Gomel, Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk and Meli-
topol through the past six weeks.
In each of those towns the Germans
might well sacrifice comparatively small
forces, and, ruthless as they are, they
might consider that it would pay them to
sacrifice several divisions, to hold rear
communications and delay main Russian
forces while the retreat and devastation
of the Ukraine were carried out. The
devastation has been such and so timed
that, for the third year, the Russians will
get no Ukraine wheat. What this will
mean, politically and in other ways, only
time will tell, but it is certain that there
will have to be a diversion of Allied
shipping to carry food supplies to the
much-enduring Russian people.
At the week-end the enemy seemed still
in control of his movements and able to
decide the time and order of his evacua-
tion of other Dnieper-defence cities. Most
of his forces probably are out of the
south Dnieper area. If they are not, they
have been endangered by sheer blunder-
ing, since the enemy has known all along
what was happening to the east, and six
weeks ago had made withdrawals which
assured that he must fall back from the
Dnieper Bend at least to the Bug, pos-
sibly to the Dniester or further.
It is not without interest that what
seemed to be the normal development of
an ordered retreat suddenly became, in
the eyes of Moscow correspondents
(though not on the strength of official
communiques), an unparalleled German
disaster just when the Moscow Three-
Power Conference was beginning. Neither
is it surprising that Berlin is itself trying
to produce the impression—outside Ger-
many only—that it is a disaster.
The weaker the Huns can make the
world believe they are the better they
seem to like it at present. Their propa-
ganda tactics resemble those of late-1939
and early-1940.
The German Version
The German version—for what it is
worth —was given by a Berlin Radio
spokesman on October 24 at some
length:
The spokesman said that a battle was in
being all the way from Smolensk to Melitopol.
For most of the distance it was not very fierce,
consisting mainly of attempts by the Russians
to test the strength of the line. The centre of
gravity had been the western bank of the
Dnieper, where there was extremely heavy fight-
ing. Otherwise, except in the Chernigov sector,
nortK of Kiev, there was little action. At Kiev
itself there was a lull.
The Dnieper Bend operations by the Russians
could be considered as a supreme effort to keep
afloat the offensive which they began in July,
and never had they used so much man-power
or material in a battle.
Before the battle they massed huge reserves,
after which they made their outstanding effort to
cross the Dnieper. In the crossing they had to
sacrifice' many divisions.
However, because of their readiness to sacri-
fice immense forces, they were able to establish
a bridgehead, but’ only after terrifying losses.
In the bridgehead they were able to concen-
trate a veritable steamroller, which began to
move forward behind a powerful spearhead of
massed tanks and artillery.
German policy throughout the campaign had
been based on the principle of saving man-
power for a period when there would come the
supreme test to prove which side could throw
in decisive reserves in a crucial battle. The Rus-
sians had vast reserves, but had expended them
lavishly, and the wisdom of the German plan
of shortening lines and losing as few men as
possible for the important moment had justi-
fied itself.
The moment had now come. The Russians
had failed to break the German lines between
the Sea of Azov in bitter fighting on October
23. Although they had gained ground in the
drive from Kremenchug and from north of
Zaporozhe [on October 25 they were reported
within six miles of Krivoi Rog] it had been
done in bitter and costly fighting and they had
been compelled to call heavily on reserves to
ease the pressure on their flanks.
The battle was important, but not the de-
cisive battle of Russia.
"Queenie."
“Ek D.”: Young Peter Isaacson’s
“Queenie,” the Lancaster on show in
Sydney last week, is something new in
’planes. It is easy to believe that she
can be built with less man-power than
any comparable machine. In the air she
looks more cleanlined than any other
monster and with the tremendous power
at her disposal behaves with all the
abandon of a young seal at play.
In actual overall dimensions she is
about - the sister of the Flying Fortress
—with 21 inches less wingspread and 18
inches more length. But she weighs
empty 35,0001 b. against the Fortress’s
31,1501 b., and, loaded, she is 60,0001 b.
(63,0001 b. overloaded) against the For-
tress at 47,5001 b.
“Queenie” carries up to nine tons of
bombs at a pinch. Her speed is a secret;
but a Lancaster can get about.
Last Monday, it was planned, she was
to circle the city of Sydney at 9.35 a.m.
At 9.50 she was to be over Katoomba,
which is 68 miles away by road; 10
minutes later Lithgow was to have its
view ; Bathurst, 137 miles from Sydney,
10 minutes later again. By 11.30 a.m.
Newcastle, Singleton and Gunnedah were
to have had a look at her, and she was
to land at Tamworth at 12.15.
And next morning’s schedule was a
circuit to include the country between
Tamworth and Moree, Tenterfield, Graf-
ton, Lismore and Evans Head between
9.30 and 12.20.
If 700 Queenies with bombs produce
700 times the effect on Berlin that one
appeared to have in Sydney’s atmosphere
even without dropping a bomb, Ger-
many must be in a bad way.
In brief:
Bombing of German Europe last week was
heavy, though intermittent. In raids of heavies
on Hanover and on Berlin/by Mosquitoes, cloud
prevented observation of results ; 17 bombers
were lost. Next day Spitfires destroyed nine
enemy fighters in France for a loss of two.
Fortresses under Thunderbolt and Spitfire escort
made daylight attacks on Druen (near Cologne)
and s.-w. Holland. The enemy lost 11 ’planes
—nine to the fighter escorts—and eight Fort-
resses did not return. The Spitfire bag for one
midweek day in all quarters was 12 to none.
Leipzig had its first R.A.F. attack since
23 /11 / ’4O; 17 bombers were lost. German
sources reported British attacks on Nish, Sofia
and Vienna. At the week-end a heavy raid on
Kassel and lesser raids on Cologne and Frank-
furt cost 44 R.A.F. machines. The weather
throughout the week was unfavorable for bomb-
ing,
* * * *
London had eight consecutive alerts on
eight consecutive days up to October 24. A
small enemy formation killed eight people in
London environs. A few more persons were
killed the next night when two enemy machines
flew over the capital. Bombs dropped in
several London districts wiped out a church
and damaged a block of luxury flats. Other
raids in the south and south-east did some
damage and caused casualties. Two raiders
out of 30 which crossed the coast were de-
stroyed.
* * * *
In the 100 days ended October 17 the R.A.F.
dropped 56,000 tons and the U.S.A.F. 18,000
tons of bombs on the Continent. The R.A.F.
dropped 48,000 tons in Germany. Its loss rate
of ’planes was under five per cent. The Ger-
mans in the same period dropped 480 tons on
Britain and lost 10 per cent, of their strength.
* * * *
The Japanese show themselves remarkably
nervous about the possibility of an Allied drive
in Bdrma and took the initiative with a swift
stroke against forces of General Chen in Yun-
nan, along the western bank of the Salween,
north of the Burma Road. On October 24
Chungking reported a fierce struggle on pro-
gress, with heavy casualties on both sides.
* * *
More than 5000 British Empire troops are in-
volved in prisoner exchanges with Germany. A
British hospital ship has landed at Gothenburg,
Sweden, German prisoners from the U.K.,
Canada and U.S., taking in return 4000 British
prisoners, who included two Australians and some
Canadians and U.S. troops. A German ship
visited a North African port, taking British
prisoners in exchange for Germans, and Ger-
man ships from a French port later delivered at
Barcelona 1080 Middle Eastern prisoners, in-
cluding 400 Australians and some Maorilanders,
South Africans and Indians, in exchange for
Germans. The exchange was to be effected on
October 25. Portuguese sources early in the
week reported the imminent arrival of another
Japanese exchange ship at Lourengo Marques.
* * # *
Brigadier Laycock, offspring of one of the
oldest military families in N. S. Wales —it was
an ancestor of his who fell out of the attic
of the Government Printing Office “on his
principal joint’” while searching for Bligh on
the night of the Rum Rebellion —has succeeded
Lord Louis Mountbatten in command of Com-
bined Operations in Britain. His “Lay Force”
has been the core of the independent companies
and special battalions which have operated from
Norway to Suez since July, 1940, and there is
no enemy coast in that time on which they
have not landed.
* * * *
On October 24 Tokyo Radio announced that
an “Indian Provisional Government” had been
established at Singapore, headed by the exiled
Chandra Bose. C. Bose had reviewed an
“army,” which marched past headed by its
armored forces and which proposed to begin
the liberation of India “at an early date” under
the slogan “On to Delhi.” Delhi, as the vulture
flies, is a mere 3000 miles away.


Miles of rope, strong and dependable,
move with the Army every day on
every front. Behind the guns in New
Guinea are busy workers in rope and
twine factories throughout the Com'
,mon wealth; their increased produc-
tion means that Army, Navy and
Air Force have essential rope ready
for a thousand uses.
Australian artillery units in New Guinea had to dismantle their 25-pounder
guns and drag the parts through precipitous and trackless country.
...a national industry ,
in the national effort
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY
Saturday, 6th November.
CUP DAY
Saturday, 1 3th November.
£7500 ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP and
£3OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
Arthur V. Kewney, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at Randwick was
slightly less than 55,000 on Metropolitan
day, against about 80,000 the previous
Saturday. Totalisator betting was again
heavy, the turnover for six races being
£125,457 155., making the total for the
five days raced at Randwick this season
a little over £531,870. A new system of
payment of late dividends was a success.
Excuses were made for several beaten
horses in the Metropolitan, but the
honors of the race were entirely with
Main Topic and Moorland. Gauntlet
and Colonel Post set a solid pace, run-
ning the first five furlongs in 1.4. Com-
mencing the last mile Ballot was nearest
them, with Main Topic and Moorland
next. Except that Ballot dropped back
the leaders were the same at the straight
entrance.
When Moorland shot out a furlong
from home the race looked over, but
Main Topic kept coming, and got his
nose in front in the last stride. Eureka
fan on well to finish third, but was three
lengths away. Cream Puff, who struck
a little trouble at the turn, was fourth,
and then Feltpal and Grand Fils, who
were nearer the front at the finish than
at any other stage. Goose Boy, favorite,
was next, but never looked more than a
place possibility. Shining Night did not
give his backers any hope, nor did Veiled
Threat or Katanga, and, though Moon-
darewa appeared to be going comfort-
ably when seventh half a mile from home,
he could not respond when Thompson
moved on him. The time, 2.41*, equalled
Dashing Cavalier’s Australian record, and
gave E. Bartle his fourth win in the race,
his first being on Murillo in 1927. Owner-
trainer T. McGrath almost gave up hope
a few weeks ago, but Main Topic’s form
in the Colin Stephen Stakes caused him
to think that after all his horse would
be at his best for the Metropolitan. It
was Main Topic’s first win since last
season’s A.J.C. Derby.
Tahmoor (Thompson) won the Chester
Stakes, but, after disposing of Trimmer
half a furlong from home, it was by only
a head he defeated Flying Knight, with
Nobleman a similar distance further
away, and then Fermanagh and Indus-
try, the last-named not having the best
of luck in running. The race should do
a lot for Trimmer, but as Hesione weak-
ened after being third into the straight
a return to her earlier form still seems
sogae distance off. Fervent, as usual,
stopped after showing a lot of pace for
half a mile. The time, l.lOj, was only
a half-second outside the Randwick
record.
Majesty (Golden Sovereign-Swiftspear,
by Spearhead), who cost 1600gns. as a
yearling, looked the gentleman of the
Canonbury Stakes field. Ridden by W.
Cook, he got going very smartly and,
turning for home well clear of Shannon
and Buckle, was not after in danger
of defeat, though he ran somewhat
greenly, and Shannon gained on him
over the last half-furlong. Silver Flare
(by Marconigram) was third, and Silent,
a nice colt by Talking from Morning
Gift, led the unplaced lot. He will im-
prove, as will the Golden Sovereign-
Gaterina colt Invictus.
Birthright gave trainer M. Poison a
winning turn in the two-year-old fillies’
race, the Widden Stakes. She was the
early leader, and sedred comfortably,
though her backers got a scare when Gol-
logly eased on her before reaching the
winning post, and the slow-beginning
Miss Sovereign (half-sister, by Golden
Sovereign, to Regal Star) ran her to half
a length. Chantilly, second into the
straight, tired badly in the run home,
and Tea Rose (Mr. Standfast-Tea Table)
was a promising third, with the Harinero
filly Topline next. Birthright, who is a
half-sister, by Le Grand Due, to Flying
Shuttle, was bred at the Kia-Ora Stud, and
was bought for 700gns. on behalf of the
Maharaja Gaekwar of Baroda. The time,
Imin. *sec., was a second and a half
slower than Majesty recorded.
Merrimba (F. Shean), who had not
shaped respectably in his recent races,
was never far from the front in the Final
Handicap, and, taking charge a furlong
from home, won comfortably from Tuo-
kool and Ron Rico, both of whom made
up a lot of leeway in the straight. Royal
Result, Silverelda and Beau Head led
at the turn, and Marcondis did well at
the finish. Prince’s Epsom run must have
knocked him out, as he was in the middle
of the field most of the way, and a check
he received in the straight really did not
tell against his chance. Modulation, who
moved a trifle stiffly in his preliminary,
did no better than Prince. Merrimba
equalled Mildura’s Randwick mile
record of 1.35*, and his trainer attri-
buted his improvement to the firm going.
* * * *
Saint Warden (100 to 1) and Skipton
(14 to 1) improved vastly on their latest
form to win their respective divisions of
the Caulfield Cup at Flemington last
Saturday. Saint Warden won the first
division from Heart’s Desire and Simmer-
ing and Skipton the second division from
Amana and Centenary.
Saint Warden, an aged gelding by
Lord Warden from Halo, won a Wes-
tralian St. Leger, but his Melbourne
form had been so disappointing that he
was sold earlier this year for 300gns. to
owner-trainer J. Nicholson, one-time
successful pony trainer. Recently he de-
feated a weak field at Geelong, but 22nd
in the Stand Handicap won by Damalis
was no recommendation for a Caulfield
Cup. Undoubtedly he would have been
rejected had the V.A.T.C. graded the
acceptors down to one race. Nicholson,
however, backed him, and, in addition
to having him going in a two-Cups
double, has been laid £7OOO to nothing
by two girls who have drawn Saint
Warden in a Melbourne Cup sweep.
Saint Warden is trained privately at
Allendale Stock Farm, and never gallops
farther than six furlongs. The treatment
agrees with him, as stamina won him
Saturday’s race. He was ridden by
apprentice H. White, who accepted the
mount only a week beforehand.
Heart’s Desire seems fated not to win
an important handicap. She was a place-
getter in both Cups last year and looked
the winner about a furlong from home
on Saturday. Simmering, according to
her rider, Unkovich, was unlucky. She
could not get a run until it was too late.
Her stable-mate, Neutron, who started
favorite, dropped a long way back early,
and, although sixth at the finish, was
never really dangerous.
Stewards’ inquiry into his apparent
reversal of form was a sensational sequel
to Skipton’s success in the second Caul-
field Cup. A week earlier, when starting
at 7 to 1, he finished only 11th to Mac
Rob over the Caulfield Cup distance in
the Herbert Power Handicap. He was
never really dangerous in that race, but,
according to his rider, Breasley, had the
Cup won a long way from home. The
stewards accepted the explanation, stating
in their report that they were satisfied
Skipton had been well backed by stable
connections for the Herbert Power
Handicap. Skipton, who is trained by J.
Fryer for Mrs. J. J. Kitson, won de-
cisively under 9.2, and has returned to
the form that won him the Victoria
Derby and Melbourne Cup two years
ago. He will be a runner for the Mel-
bourne Cup this year, but a 71b. penalty
on top of his original weight of 9.2 will
test him at two miles. His earnings total
£14,572*.
Some backers of Amana were inclined
to blame rider A. Dewhurst for that
horse’s defeat by Skipton. He ran to the
front about a mile from home, but the
pace was slow, and, as Amana was
pulling, his rider thought it best to • let
him run along instead of fighting with
him. Amana’s defeat made a big mone-
tary difference to his trainer and rider.
Owner W. Fink informed them before
the race that the full stake, £3600, was
theirs in the event of success. Dewhurst
was to have received £lOOO of that
amount.
* * * #
The nearest approach to outstanding
horses at the A.J.C. meeting were Main
Topic, Moorland, Katanga and Flight,
and though the first-named won the
Metropolitan with 8.13 Katanga gave
him 61b. and a beating in the Colin
Stephen Stakes. . No doubt Main Topic
improved between the two races, but it
would be difficult to claim that Katanga,
an aged stallion, is up to the standard of
some w.f.a. horses of recent years.
Moorland and Main Topic are practi-
cally equal at w.f.a., and as the former has
shown that he can, at least, run a good
mile and a half it is regrettable that he
will not be a Victoria Derby starter.
His form with a pound over w.f.a. in the
Metropolitan was' excellent, but it might
be inadvisable to stress greatly the fact
that the time equalled the record, seeing
that later in the day the much-raced
Merrimba did the same at a mile.
Flight beat Moorland and Main Topic
on w.f.a. terms in the Craven Plate, and
though it is probable that if Moorland
again met Flight at a mile and a quarter
on w.f.a. terms he would beat her, just
as he did in the A.J.C. Derby, she must
be credited with being one of the best
of her age and sex that have raced in
Sydney for a long time. Mayfowl and
War Eagle were somewhat disappointing,
but both will do better.
Among the two-year-olds Majesty may
still rate as good as any, notwithstand-
ing his Breeders’ Plate defeat. Victory
Lad won that by a head from Shannon,
with Majesty four lengths off, but in the
Canonbury Stakes Majesty beat Shannon
all the way. Although Birthright was
beaten by Scaur Fel in the Gimcrack
Stakes, it is possible Birthright is the better
filly, and neither is far ahead of Miss
Sovereign. Incidentally, the new sires
Golden Sovereign and Le Due made a
fair beginning in two-year-old races, the
former scoring a win, a second and a
third, and the latter a win and a second.
* * * *
Stakes at the A.J.C/ spring meeting
totalled £31,152, of which £26,400 was
added money and £4752 sweepstakes and
forfeits.
* * * *
An Australian Rule of Racing well
worth keeping in mind by owners who
have any idea of offending the public by
late withdrawal of fancied ‘horses from
important races reads as follows: “All
nominations or entries shall be subject
to the approval of the committee of the
club, or stewards, who may decline to
receive, and at any time after having re-
ceived, reject any such nominations or
entries without giving any reason for so
doing.” This means an owner has tp
keep in mind the future as well as ttie
present.
* * * *
Session, 1940 V.R.C. Oaks winner,
foaled a colt to Le Grand Due at Kia-
Ora Stud last week. He should be a
galloper.
Miscellaneous.
Colteaux v. Walker at Leichhardt
would have been a rousing bar-room
fight. M.Q. rules were ignored by both
pugs, especially Walker, who received the
decision —a bad one. Much better dis-
plays by middleweights were given at the
Stadium, where Jim McKeon, a pupil of
Jack Dunleavy, knocked out Hughie
Lang in the last of 12 rounds, and Max
Cameron again proved too fast for Jackie
Marr of Melbourne, Cameron is improv-
ing in every fight.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Wee Laddie,
1 ; Camacho, 2; Farewell or Night
Parade, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Silver Flare,
1; Tea Rose, 2; Oliver, 3.
Flying Handicap: Industry, 1 ;
Trimmer, 2 ; Fermanagh, 3.
City Tatter sail’s Cup: Grand
Fils, 1; Cream Puff, 2 ; Gryphon,
3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Royal
Peer, 1 ; Highgate, 2 ; Warlock or
West Point, 3.
Club Welter: Ron Rico, 1 ;
Chatham’s Choice, 2 ; Royal Result
or War Effort, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
A bright November race week seems
indicated by Caulfield Cup day. Though
there’s no return to the fiesta type of
dressing that made the lawns colorful in
peace-time there is evidence of a gayer
spirit, and at Caulfield most women
looked quietly smart ; whereas in the
last two years the general effect of race-
week dressing has been somewhat
bedraggled. Gone are the days when
a new ensemble seems almost a necessity,
but there are apparently enough spare
coupons to buy a bit of brightness for
the head, and there were quite a few new
summer frocks peeping out from under
last year’s coat on Saturday.
Another sign of renewed interest in
the social side of racing was the number
of people seen about the lawns,on Satur-
day who never missed a big meeting in
pre-war years but haven’t been bothering
since austerity became the order of the
day. Among these were many country
racegoers who were always in the great
trek citywards in former years, but put
in their first war-time appearance this year.
Lily-of-the-valley is on everyone’s
lapel and in nearly every bride’s bouquet.
No flower seems to have quite the same
charm save, perhaps, our own boronia.
Half the lure is in its white delicacy and
gentle perfume and half in the apple-
greens sheen of its leaf. Talking of bridal
bouquets, it’s odd how the "arum-lily
survives as a frequent choice in spite of
its demise in the sphere of indoor decora-
tion. One point in its favor is that it is
as “photogenic” as Lana Turner and
looks better than other blooms in the
camera’s eye.
Every woman likes to take a peek
into somebody else’s garden. On Sunday
this leaning was exploited for the benefit
of hospital funds by the Fraser lady,
who threw open the garden of Whern-
side to all who felt like giving a little
something to the cause. Chief beauties
of the garden were azaleas and rhododen-
drons in full blossoming glory. Previous
“open-gate” days in various gardens have
proved that this is an unusually good way
of raising funds. At Whernside a band
was an additional attraction.
“I’m just seeing a coat-length of cloth
off to boarding school” was one some-
what bitter lady’s way of saying what
she thought of the effect of war-time
regulations on tailors and dressmakers.
A wait of from six to nine months is not,
by any means unknown before material
is made up. As a result, tailoring firms
have cupboards full of everybody’s bits
of cloth, “boarding” till the tailor has
time to deal with them. Often the custo-
mer has forgotten the appearance of her
own bit when she sees it again.
The reason why so many nurses refuse
to accept jobs in country hospitals was
brought into the light of day by the vice-
regal lady last week. To the meeting of
the Bush Nursing Association, of which
she is patroness, she said that conditions
in many of the smaller country hospitals
were appalling, especially as far as nurses'
quarters were concerned, and she backed
her statements up with examples from
institutions she had personally inspected.
Nurses are pleased that the need for re-
form has been put plainly at last, and
are gratified to find they have so influen-
tial and doughty a champion. The
authorities concerned can’t take refuge in
the plea of war-time shortages, as the
conditions described were just as bad
before the war.
Saying “Thanks for everything you’ve
done for the Red Cross” was the purpose
of the half-past five party given by the
Knox lady on Thursday to the Thomas
Matthews pair. Mrs. Matthews (Eileen
Ralph on the concert platform) acted as
accompanist to her violinist husband at
their concert last week, one of many
which have helped patriotic funds. The
Assembly Hall was packed for the occa-
sion. The Matthews pair are most popu-
lar here, not only in musical circles, and
their stock has even risen since Thomas
Matthews had his tilt with the A.B.C.
Something of a crusader is Mrs. Joan
'Carbines, librarian of the Hawthorn
Municipal Children’s Library. She was a
teacher before taking up this work, and
looks upon'the library as an educational
factor. Naturally, therefore, she makes a
point of recommending the buying of a
high percentage of “formative” books.
The idea of a separate library has found
favor not only with local educational
authorities but with the children them-
selves, who throng the place after school
hours choosing books. An interesting
offshoot is a children’s club at which
the young folk read plays, discuss topi-
cal subjects and hold mock trials and the
like. At present an exhibition of chii-
dren’s creative work and hobbies is being
held there.
Though prices at the Commonwealth
Bank staff’s bazaar in the Town Hall on
Saturday could only be described as stiff,
monetary considerations didn t stop
crowds of would-be purchasers almost
taking one another apart in their -efforts
to buy “couponless” clothing. The battle
waxed, strongest around the stall where
beautifully-made underclothes were being
sold, and it looked as if the warnings
of the powers that be about the period
for which the next issue of coupons may
have to last had struck terror in many
minds. The effort looks like going down
in fund-raising history as a great success.
Patching up the holes in man-made
regulations is a job taken up with a right
good will by the Housewives’ Associa-
tion. Meetings are lively affairs where
the homemaker says in no uncertain way
what she thinks of the Food Controller,
the author of country transport regula-
tions or any other of the departmental
czars who add to the worries of the
already harassed housewife. Views ex-
pressed include practical suggestions for
betterment, and are not made up of com-
plaints alone.
Housewives dotted all over the land
make the association a clearing-house
for their news and views. It is a meeting-
place for all with the common interest of
home-building. Pictured here by Broo-
thorn is Miss Rachel Robinson, secre-
tary of the association, who makes the
wheels run smoothly and wields the
power of the association on the woman-
in-the-home’s behalf against profiteers,
short-weighters and adulterators.
The blackest sheep of the flock should
be able to raise his head a bit higher if
he hears about the value the Arts and
Crafts Society sets on his wool. At the
society’s show, opened on Monday, the
exhibit that took most female eyes was
a homespun skirt of natural wool in at-
tractive grey and blackish colorings. It
was explained that the wool used came
from black sheep and didn’t have to be
dyed in any way. Skirts of straight-from-
the-sheep wool are practically waterproof
and provide an argument for a spinning
wheel in the home.
This State should be in a whirl of
gaiety round about Dec. 8, when a Radio
Party Drive, emanating from Town Hall
fund-raising experts, will be in full
career. The drive was sent on its way
at a Town Hall get-together last week,
when all those who have a reputation for
putting hands to the wheel for charity
shows were present. The Lady Mayoress
is president of the appeal, with the Lud
Mayor as treasurer and the competent
Fraser lady as deputy chairwoman.
Among other office-bearers are Mrs. I. A.
Green and the Angliss lady.
The idea is that all over the State
hostesses will give;parties to raise funds.
To put a bit of gilt on the gingerbread
both hostesses and guests at every party
run a chance of winning some very
attractive prizes (many of them already
promised at last week’s meeting). These
prizes will be allotted by the “out-of-the-
hat” method, only in this case it’s a
barrel. The Lady Mayoress will do the
name-picking on December 8. “Guest”
prizes are allotted to hostesses, who can
arrange the rules under which party-
makers may win them.
From Sydney
Australia remembers David Game, a
son of a former Governor of N.S.W., as
a fair lad with a fine English skin. He
spent some of his school years here and
was well liked everywhere. It sorrows
for his mother and father, for Lieut.
David Game (just 24), R.N.V.R., has died
in the Middle East of infantile paralysis.
Real party frocks shimmered and shone
at the Red, White and Blue Ball in the
Town Hall last Friday. Some of them
hadn’t seen the light of electrics for two
or three years and seemed to rejoice in
their second blooming. Mrs. Colin
Wyatt, the ball’s secretary, and Mrs.
Vincent Fairfax, the ticket secretary, were
joint hostesses of a large, young and
bright party. Mrs. Wyatt’s long frock
of white crepe with its Paisley-patterned
cummerbund and cape was one of the
night’s most admired. The Hon. Henri-
etta Loder was hostess to a group, and
Mrs. Jane Bernays had with her a great
assemblage that included Mrs. O’Gorman
Hughes and Mrs. W. J. Kidd.
An immense Union Jack made inspir-
ing background to the stage, and the flags
of the Allies shone brave in the bright
lights. On the stage, too, were towering
flower arrangements in which arum-lilies
and watsonias proved stately neighbors.
Mrs. T. G. Parker was responsible for
the scheme of decoration, and Mrs.
Waterhouse, of Gordon, for the flower-
filled niches at the foot of the ballroom.
Here again arum-lilies were in profusion,
mixed with amaryllis and roses.
There were 22 debs., like a delicately-
colored posy in the varied shades of their
frocking. Mrs. Muirhead-Gould pre-
sented them to the John Butters lady,
who is president of the YtW.C.A. com-
mittee. Among the girls were two nieces
of Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, who was chair-
man of the ball. Flight-Lieut. Peter
Isaacson, of Lancaster bomber fame, and
members of the bomber crew were
among the merrymakers. Mrs. Wang
Osborne, Mrs. W. Anderson .and Miss
Stella James were others who arranged
_ parties.
Herewith a last-minute photograph of
Mrs. Farquhar-Smith, whose job in the
W.R.A.N.S. is that of writer on the sec-
retariat. Before her marriage to Lieut.
Farquhar-Smith, R.A.N.R. (S), she was
Betwyn Aitken, of Melbourne. Hus-
band’s father is Captain Farquhar-Smith,
R.A.N., of Hobart. Norton Trevaire
picture.
There may be some who think sherry is
not the right drink for ten in the evening.
But port, brandy and champagne (even
if you can get them) are unthinkable
accompaniment to a water-colorist
conversazione. So it was sherry or
coffee last Thursday night when the
artists, some discriminating buyers and
friends of art met in the midst of
the exhibition now in the Education
Galleries. A lecture by John Young
on the gentle art of criticism was the
night’s star turn. In it Bulletin critic
A. D. Wylie found himself set in the
good company of Pater and McColl.
President John Maund was the host.
Dora Jarret, the George Duncans, Mar-
garet Coen and Mary Edwards were
noted. Three paintings by Max Ragless,
of Adelaide, arrived since the opening,
were a point of interest.
If Gilbert and Sullivan had been com-
missioned by a farseeing Government to
write a song which would popularise
marriage and therefore increase popula-
tion they could not have done better
than Tessa’s “When a Merry Maiden
Marries”, in “The Gondoliers.” It was
sung blithely at last Saturday’s opening
by Ruby Riddell. Sydney took, like a
duck to water, to this revival of Gilbert
and Sullivan, and the whole season looks
like being a success. Young and old and
the not-so-olds crowded the Royal for
the first night, and Gladys Moncrieff, who
has just ceased “Merry Widowing,” re-
ceived the plaudits of the many as she
entered her box. Her black frock, with
its touches of kingfisher blue, had bishop
sleeves and a bolero. Lots of Allied
service men in the theatre, and of course
the H. J. Bradys, keen G. and S.
followers, were there.
The name of the J. S. Watkins Art
Salon will be a reminder (if such be
needed) of one of Sydney’s most kindly
artists and great teachers of painting.
The salon, which occupies two large
rooms on the second floor of the Vic-
toria Arcade, opposite the Australia
Hotel, was opened last Saturday after-
noon by artist Erik Langker, who spoke
of the imprint on Australian art left by
Mr. Watkins. He also pointed out that
the only two N.S.W. winners of the
Archibald Prize had been Watkins’s
pupils. The first exhibition is, of course,
one of works by J.S.W., and on Saturday
Mrs. Watkins, who is director of the
gallery, was kept busy putting the sold
seal on the pictures.
Another pleasing ceremony was the
presenting to Dr. Mary Booth of a
portrait of herself painted by J. S. Wat-
kins. Then, last of all, the success of the
salon was toasted in good Australian
wine, and then came tea. There were
about 100 guests at the opening.
To watch a number of women standing
up in oratory without benefit of small
table or other properties of public speak-
ing is to garner a posy of the sexs
temperamental reactions when following
in the footsteps of Demosthenes. Proof
of this was the Mayoress’s reception to
Dame Enid Lyons. Here a dozen or so
women representing groups and societies
were called upon by Mrs. Bartley to wel-
come the guest and congratulate her on
her accession to the Federal Parliament.
First came Ruby Board, stand and
voice forthright and direct. Followed
Mrs. Vaughan (who was Miss Preston-
Stanley, the State’s first woman M.L.A.),
the flowing contralto notes telling their
own tale of experience in addressing mul-
titudes ; Ruby Storey, of the Red Cross,
very small and neat in her uniform, her
words mild, her accents smooth as honey ;
Mrs. P. A. Cameron, hurrying her sen-
tences a little in warm eagerness ; Mrs.
Glencross. forcible and trailing the banner
of her thirty thousand housewives like a
cloud of glory. These and several other
speakers were wise to the charm of
brevity. „ , .
Dame Enid Lyons, in a soft grey frock
and a beposied hat, looked pleased with
the eulogies as she rose to speak. Her
voice is clear and well placed. With a
nice courtesy she did not lump all those
who had addressed her in one grand
“Thank you,” but spoke a short laudation
of the society which each represented.
Memories of the kindness she has always
received in Sydney from the time of her
first arrival, an appreciation of the men
of Canberra who have lent her a helping
hand, thanks to this city’s Mayor and
Mayoress for the day’s party were tucked
into her address, the gist of which seemed
to be that she regarded herself as a fore-
runner and had no desire to be looked
upon as a superwoman but just as a repre-
sentative of Australian womanhood.
A letter from Kenn Brodziak (R.A.F.)
tells that he was still in Africa, though
expecting to get U.K, leave shortly. Kenn,
who got his commission earlier in the
year (he’s now Pilot-Officer), finished his
first operational tour with over 800 flying
hours. In between scraping the clouds
Kenn wrote another revue, “A Touch of
the Sun,” which was being rehearsed for
soldier consumption. He says that, like
his first revue, this is a crazy show. A
serious effort which he was just com-
pleting was a play, “The Golden Days.”
His New York friend Warren Munsell,
who was in Sydney just previous to the
war, is in an executive position with the
American Red Cross.
At the latest meeting of the Fellow-
ship of Writers Frank Clune, in the course
of an address on Australian bushrangers,
mentioned that he had been at Forbes
every May for the past 18 years, and
noted that on every sth of May (the
anniversary of Ben Hall’s death) a beauti-.
ful bunch of flowers was placed on the
grave. “It is 76 years since Hall was
shot,” said the speaker, “yet his memory
seems as green as if he had died
recently.”
One of Queensland’s very young Bache-
lors of Science is Dymphna Lennon, who
graduated recently at Sydney University,
where she was in residence at Sancta
Sophia. Dymphna’s parents are the Brian
Lennons, of Mt. Morgan (Q-), and fathei
is chief metallurgist for Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
An uncle was William Lennon, for many
years Lieutenant-Governor of Queens-
land. Before Mt. Morgan, the family
lived in Burma —Northern Shan States.
The Red Cross is dropping competi-
tions for its big day in December.
Hitherto all- sorts of competitions have
raged throughout the length and breadth
of the State and made staggering totals
for previous “days.” However, nursing
some crackerjack money-making scheme
which it will launch next year, the society
will content itself in December with sales
of badges, “bring-and-buy ’ afternoons
and Christmas parties. The last are ex-
pected to be so prevalent in country
towns around the date of the Great Festi-
val that the very atmosphere will smell
like a plum pudding and the kookaburras
will warble a Christmas carol.


Missing friend.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of WALTER
SHAW, the husband of DOROTHY ALICE SHAW,
of Brisbane, Queensland, is requested to ask him to
get in touch with MR. J. K. DIXON, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney, when he will learn something to his
advantage.
Public Notices.
I, HERMAN MAZURBK, of Polish nationality, born
at Warsaw, Poland, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 52 Bream Street, Ooogee,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936. ,
A
JOBS
m
a
Ci
i
- j
/
%
A
%
S&£
Those amaz/nq duplex short-wave portables, carried
on soldiers' hacks in actual combat - are kept in
action bq /onqfastincf Evereacty batteries .
YOU CAN HELP US IN
OUR WAR JOE!
Go easy on your flashlight batteries so
we keep our Fighting Boys supplied.
The best way to make your flashlight
batteries last longer is to keep flashing
on and off when you use them. If you
leave your flashlight burning for minutes
at a time you wear out your batteries
sooner.
ẅ
EVE READY
*TPaOE_-MARK
The extra long life battery
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
m
a
ii
/JR
/
mm
w.
i&zf
i::
“I’m reminding you thai peaceful days
will come . . . and with the return of peace,
you’ll be able to relax and think of home
comforts. For the time being, take care
of your Feltex floor covering . . . and invest
what you save in War Bonds.”
feltex
BACK THE ATT AC K— invest in
THE FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
F1.35.1G
SMOKE-OH!
Threat at His Top.”—' "Sun” heading.
Punters were naturally expecting a good
spin.
>[• >l* ►!-
“Liberty is a bargain.”— Woman’s paper.
Yet there are always complaints that
divorce is too expensive.
“You can tell a man by his kiss.”
—“New Idea.”
Lip reading.
“No matter how often Jane asked him, Roger
still refused to shave off his bristling mous-
tache.” — Story.
He kept a stiff upper lip.
“A gloomy outlook for the civilian food front
was indicated in a joint statement issued by
the Food Controller (Mr. Murphy) and the
chairman of the Food Planning Committee
(Mr. H. A. Miillett).” — Canberra “Times:”
Why worry? We’ll still have Chips
and Fish!
4* 4* ❖
“Battle for Board Seat.”
—“Daily Mirror” heading.
This can’t be a soft billet, surely!
•F 4* 4* 4*
“If this is done with a jerk, the result would
be a broken wrist. Practise this an equal
number of times on both arms with your
opponent with whom you are learning the
tricks.” — Jiu-jitsu manual.
What! Give him ail the breaks?
•F *!• •£•
“Skin Bleach Discovery Turns Negroes
White.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
But won’t its market be exclusively
black?
Defensive.
Oh, cease to rail, my darling Kate,
Because with Isabel I dined.
Methinks you ought to cultivate
A philosophic turn of mind;
For I, perceiving through a mist
The light of True Philosophy,
Am doubtful whether I exist.
So, if there’s no objective Me,
How foolish then is your persistent
Upbraiding of the non-existent!
T. W. NATHAN.
Spectacular.
“Australia’s diplomatic representation in
Britain and America needs urgent ‘pepping-
up.’ ” —Earle Page.
Possibly; but the pepping up of
diplomacy can be overdone, as witness
the tragic case of my stepfather, Gustav
Winde, who as Swedish Ambassador to
Sciatica pioneered the enlivening of
diplomatic procedure by typical movie-
industry methods of showmanship. Un-
fortunately, he went too far.
One afternoon he was scheduled to
attend an important conference with the
Sciatican Minister for Fancy Work, and,
thanks to high-pressure advance publicity,
the usual large crowd had assembled ex-
pectantly in Summdam Place. This time,
my stepfather decided that the occasion
demanded something better than the cus-
tomary business of parading through the
streets on stilts, or riding up on an
elephant or parachuting from a bomber
with a portable transmitter for urging a
Second Front as he floated down.
Accordingly, he outdid himself.
Dressed in a flamboyant zoot suit, com-
plete with ankle-length keychain, he had
himself fired from a high-power circus
cannon half a mile out of town. As soon
as he landed in a huge net in the centre
of the gaily-decorated Place, four swing
bands went into action, and Gustav com-
menced a burlesque jitterbug act, inter-
spersed with comic political patter, on the
swaying net. He culminated in a spec-
tacular three-phase spiral back flip de-
signed to carry him on to a trapeze, but
getting tangled up in the key chain he
missed the trapeze, fell heavily on the
road and broke his neck.
CAL.
Descent.
“Marriage may be regard as a journey.”.
— Essayist.
And here’s the direction
In rhythmical diction :
It starts in affection
And ends in affliction.
T. W. N.
Leading Lady.
ẁ
P. O. M. C.
A Thespian’s Trials.
“I can testify that lumping a 10-stone actress
up the stairs was a man’s job.” '
— "Hamfat,” B. 20 /10 / 43.
Only ten-stoners! “Hamfat” was
lucky.
It was the idiot of a playwright’s fault.
In “He Did Her Wrong” his hero, Sigis-
mund Sornoff, the apprentice jockey,
comes back to the ancestral farmhouse
to find that Jasper Splooge, the grasping
mortgagee, is coming to foreclose at mid-
night. As he paces the living-room a few
minutes before 12 the door opens and in
staggers Bella, Jasper’s daughter, an opera
singer, who has been betrayed by an im-
presario. She just manages to gasp out
that her father must not find her there,
and implores Sigismund to hide her in
the attic and then swoons. The hero
then carries her up the stairs and secretes
her in the attic just as Jasper strides in.
I was the hero, 7st. 121 b. But the
management insisted on casting Ava
Dupois, 13st. 101 b., contending that any
woman under that weight wouldn’t look
like an operatic soprano. When I pro-
tested about having to hump Bella up
the narrow spiral staircase upstage I got
the ultimatum to do it or be fired. As I
was being owed £4 a week I couldn’t
afford to lose it.
Knowing I couldn’t skulldrag her as a
Hackenschmidt would have done, I de-
cided to use timing and balance. After
all, small lumpers can juggle big bags
of wheat purely by “knack.”
I practised on a dummy Bella for
several hours a day. When the figure
sagged forward in the “swoon” I would
move forward, bend one knee slightly and
in one deft movement transfer the weight,
evenly distributed, across my shoulders.
In fact, I became so expert that I could
even stop halfway up the stairs and non-
chalantly light a cigarette.
The opening night came. The curtain
rose on Act 11, Scene 4. All was quiet
save for the steady champing of peanuts
in the front stalls as the door opened and
Bella staggered in with the prop, snow in
her hair. She gasped out her imploring
words, and as she sagged forward I
moved in smartly. As I took her full
weight I felt something go in my right
hock. Nevertheless, X managed to get
her across my shoulder, and the momen-
tum carried me a few feet forward.
But I hadn’t allowed for Bella’s swell-
ing curves obscuring my view. Fran-
tically I groped my way around, hoping
I wouldn’t lob with a dull thud in the
orchestra well. Then came the stage man-
ager’s “To the left, you goat!”
I grasped the stair balustrade just as
one lung seemed to conk out. But I
would not be beaten. Taking a firmer
grip, I began the terrible ascent.
As by a superhuman effort I reached
the fifth step, Bella giggled and slid
down across my chest. I gave a terrific
heave to right her, but as I did so my
foot slipped and her weight pinned my
windpipe to the balustrade. At this
moment I was due to declaim my pas-
sionate lines; “I swear to protect my
love from the cruel tricks of Fate!”
I could hear the stage manager’s whis-
pered shriek for my cue, and with a last
despairing effort as my strength ebbed I
shifted Bella an inch or two and yelled
back in a strange croak “How the hell
do you think a man can talk with a hippo
parked on his gullet?” At that the in-
furiated Bella made a swipe at me with
her half-hundredweight arm. When we
finished at the bottom of the steps I was
underneath. It was then that a coarse
voice yelled above the rest of the shriek-
ing audience: “What! Did she use a
battery on y’, Sornoff?”
Since then I have stuck to roles like
“voices off.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
When They Come Home
Many soldiers I’ve discussed the ques-
tion with are not particularly desirous of
returning to their pre-war occupations.
For instance, the fellow who occupied the
bed next to mine in a military hospital
used to be a tram conductor. “It’ll
be to hell with the trams when I’m dis-
charged!” he’d often say. He’s working
now in a Queensland engineering shop,
and happy on the job.
Fred, a former machine-gunner, had
been a shop assistant. He’s now in a
sugar mill, and says, he’s “set for life.”
Another Queensland man was a brick-
layer before he became a soldier. He’s
now driving a truck on a defence job,
and likes doing it. Oscar, who was a
N.Q. fisherman before Tojo went mad,
is saving up his army pay (and all his
two-up winnings) with the intention of
starting a pub when the stoush is over.
So it seems to me the Government
that’s in power when the boys come
marching home is going to have a merry
time placing all these ex-soldiers who will
want to try something new. —Zend
Avesta (Q.).
The Experts Are Here to Stay
There isn’t going to be any post-war
unemployment problem. By the end of
the war half the population of Australia
will be employed in the public service
and the other half will be keeping them.
The permanent public servants who
have enlisted have been, rightly, prom-
ised their jobs back. Those who had to
stay put will retain their jobs, and John
Citizen won’t mind supporting them —
much!
But the “temporaries” appointed to re-
place the enlisted permanents are rapidly
digging in, and will be hard to displace
when the war ends ; likewise the academic
experts in charge of “control,” “inspec-
tion,” “war production” and similar
branches or departments, which they have
staffed with a further host of “temporary”
lesser experts.
These lesser invaders consider that their
“temporary” services cannot be ter-
minated till at least five years after the
war ends. Their bosses, the academic
experts, who practically run about hah
the public service now, consider that post-
war “controls” will be even more essen-
tial than war-time control. Which will
mean a further horde of “expert” busi-
ness advisers and consultants. In effect,
a Bigger and (perhaps) Better Bureau-
cracy.— Lakka-Lakka (A.C.T.).
Character and Race
Your thesis (B. 13/10/’43) that it is
“race” that matters, not ideologies, in-
terested me. After seeing recently
Coward’s “In Which We Serve” I came
away from the show wondering what it
is that has made Englishmen such heroic
seafarers, in peace no less than in war.
The influence of a long and noble tradi-
tion may be a partial explanation of the
incomparable courage shown by men of
the Royal Navy, but whence do the men
of the merchant service draw inspiration
for their deeds of valor?
The best answer I have seen to this
question is in Conrad’s Youth, where he
describes how a bunch of “profane scally-
wags,” British seamen, risked their lives
to do a job. Why? Professional reputa-
tion or a sense of duty or hope of
reward?
No; it was something in them, something
inborn and subtle and everlasting. I don’t
say positively that the crew of a French
or German merchantman wouldn’t have
done it, but I doubt whether it would have
been done in the same way. There was a
completeness in it, something solid like
a principle, and masterful like an instinct —
a disclosure of something secret —of that
hidden something, that gift of good or
evil that makes racial difference, that shapes
the fate of nations.
—M. E. D. (N.S.W.).
Norsemen as Immigrants
I have worked in several Scandinavian
ships, and am at present employed as
a sailor in a Norwegian freighter. One
thing common to the crews of these
vessels is their admiration for Australia.
It is the ambition of many of the young
men to marry an Australian girl and
settle ashore here after the war.
These sailors are real citizens of the
world, familiar with a dozen countries,
and it is flattering to know they are so
enthusiastic about our nation. But it
seems impossible for Australians, afflicted
by a sense of national inferiority, to be-
lieve that any men of another race could
prefer this country to the United States
or Canada, or any other place they see
only in the movies.
Some cynics say that a sailor will never
leave the sea. Don't you believe it. Those
cynics have never been sailors. If these
seafarers are so anxious to become Aus-
tralians, why should not other Scandi-
navians be inclined to settle here? It is
generally accepted that these people make
excellent citizens, and as immigrants we
must have to increase our population,
surely it would be wise to encourage them
in every possible way. — Matros (W.A.).
Reading Matter for Soldiers
Some little time ago The Bulletin’s
Service Department published an offer
to send (free of all cost) the more
serious type of reading matter to any
young soldier on a distant battle station
who was genuinely interested in literature.
I received replies from many young
soldiers on distant battle stations, and
there was a striking unanimity in express-
ing a longing for reading matter that
is not essentially trivial. “Good reading
matter is at a premium in the camps” ;
“We get plenty of tripe, but I would look
upon a copy of so-and-so as a god-
send ” ; “Patriotic bodies send us plenty
“ Don’t touch it, Bert! It's a trap!"
o£ this, that and those, but we rarely get
anything worth the time taken in read-
• ~ p dese are a r ew excernts from the
gj* ! P lrom tne
£havereceivedmorerep i ies than J can
«*» with. Are there any other = rs
£*£,s£ TsLfnt ve™iom
„P a , itt ie worth-while reading matter
- of these soldiers? I£ the B y would
care do this and get in tou ' h wjth
me j w ip send them the name and
address of a soldier on a distant battle
who m date serious>
‘"nswl” 8 ™ tter - - GERALD
‘ ‘
Ministerial Propaganda
Recently radio broadcasts of the 7 p.m.
so-called Overseas News h&ve set prin-
cipal emphasis on what Mr. Curtin
said,” “Mr. Dedman said.”
Surely the deeds of the fighting forces
c
the United Nations should have pnde
of place in such announcements. The
fighting forces in action live in constant
expectancy of death or of being
F } A • . c
wounded. Are then sacrifices or their
privations secondary to anything? Is it
in any way fair or reasonable to use the
most convenient time of the day for
making news announcements an occasion
for political advertisement apd propa-
ganda?
Let’s have full recognition and more
detailed announcements of our lads in
the fighting services first and foremost.—
Old Digger (Q.).
.
Composite Governments
Victoria’s Country party has achieved
more than any other like organisation has
because it kept aloof for many years
from the U.A.P. and the Labor party.
And now Dunstan, who should have
known better, has allied himself with the
U. Composite Governments are
anathema to the rank and file of the
V. and the party’s desire to preserve
its separate entity is wholly commendable.
For several years after the last war I
was president of the largest Victorian
branch of the Farmers’ Union. Fifty p.c.
of the members of our branch were small
farmers or the better class of farm
workers, who had hitherto voted Labor.
By degrees they had been weaned away
from old ideas, and when confronted
with three candidates, U.A.P., Labor and
Country party, they voted C.P.
In this southern part of Victoria there
are many thousands of similar ex-
Laborites. Do you wonder that I tear my
hair and froth at the mouth when I see
these damnfool composite Governments
coming along and wrecking the C.P.
ideas and ideals? You can visualise with
what enthusiasm these small farmers and
workers hail Dunstan’s most recent alli-
ance. — Steve (Vic.).
Rejection Slips
“The Editor regrets” slips, in almost
universal use, are unhelpful. The tyro
either shows promise, in which case he
(or she) should be encouraged, in the
interest of national culture, or shows no
aptitude and should be discouraged. As
The Bulletin has shown, even the tersest
comments can serve as pointers on tech-
nique and taste. Those stereotyped slips
are despotic. What right, in a demo-
cratic country, has anyone to treat a
writer so cavalierly? He is one of the
few at least trying to do creative work
and is entitled to a measure of sym-
pathy and respect. If the young writer
has any illusions about “the brotherhood
of the Inky Way,” it were kinder to cor-
rect them gently instead of snubbing
them out of him. That is no way to rear
the literary children of the race. —H. S. T.
(N.S.W.).
Children’s Free Libraries
While the N.S.W. Government appears
to have shelved the Free Library Act in-
definitely (B. 13 /10/ ’43) the Children’s
Free Library Movement is forging ahead
despite war difficulties. Back of this
organisation is Mary E. Mathieson,
M.A. (Cantab.). In London, 1922, she
was one of a group who helped Sir Owen
Seaman—then editor of “Punch”—trans-
form Dickens’s old home into a David
Copperfield Library for slum children.
Returning to Australia, hot with enthusi-
asm from this field, Mary E. Mathieson
started the first Children’s Free Library
going in Surry Hills in 1924.
After that six others were gradually
opened in congested suburbs. Today
these are attended by over 4000 children
who might otherwise be coming to
trouble on the streets. Then the idea
began to move country wards —a library
was opened at Springwood, another at
Katoomba. Next Cobar got busy. An
auxiliary including the Mayor and Town
Clerk was formed. Residents subscribed
£3O for 100 books; 400 more were
donated by the Sydney movement.
While the libraries in the city are cater-
ing for children who lack funds for
books and right environment, the
libraries in the country are helping
children who lack city benefits. These
libraries don’t just lend books; they have
grounds attached which allow for out-
door activities. They tutor the children
in arts and crafts, show them educational
films, let them hear good music, give
them some responsibility in helping run
each centre. Parents are encouraged to
attend any entertainment given. Age
limit for boys or girls is 16.
Growth of this movement is fairly
indicative of suburban and country
eagerness for libraries and educational
developments.— John Weyman (N.S.W.).
Week-ends for Orphans
There are many worthy welfare
organisations and societies which under-
take the providing of hospitality and
entertainment for our fighting men and
women, and as one who has benefited by
their good work I am deeply appreciative.
The idea could be extended to inmates
of orphanages.
Thousands of people would, I think,
undertake to look after at least one child
each week-end. The pleasure it would
give to the children, the refining influences
it would bring into their lives, the substan-
tial saving in food and other expenses for
the orphanages, the increase in the number
of adoptions—all these are obvious ad-
vantages.—WX36336 (W.A.).
One Day a Month
Amid the chorus of delight at the
restoration of racing on all Saturdays of
the month was heard the lone voice of
Sydney Lud Mayor Bartley, regretting
that the restored days had not been ear-
marked for patriotic meetings. He had
hoped, “as far as Sydney is concerned,
for a series of meetings to augment the
Australian Comforts Fund,”
Mr. Curtin, remembering his words
when the raceless Saturday was intro-
duced—“not only to reduce the activity
in racing but also to impress on the
nation as a whole that positive work of
war value can well be done on at least
one Saturday in each month” —ought to
examine the Bartley idea.
There was no sign of the dispossessed
racing enthusiasts doing “positive work
of war value” on raceless Saturdays.
What’s wrong with devoting the entire
proceeds of one day’s racing a month to
Commonwealth war funds: clubs, tote
co., owners, bookmakers, trainers,
jockeys, strappers—the whole box and
dice —to hand over their profits to the
country on that one day? It would
stifle criticism, give the tired war-worker
and not-so-tired striker his day out and
help towards that £700,000,000 Mr.
Chifley is after. —O. T. (N.S.W.).
Boards, Committees, Commissions
Old Man Mars has been a wondrously
prolific progenitor of boards, committees
and commissions of inquiry, but I will be
amazed if Peace doesn’t beat him hollow.
In Victoria we have seen in operation the
State Development Committee, the Rural
Reconstruction Committee and the State
and Federal Housing Commissions. They
have all held inquiries, called witnesses,
sometimes the same ones, asked them
questions, usually the same ones, col-
lected figures, often the same set, and
solemnly noted it all down and pigeon-
holed it where nobody is ever likely to
disturb it.
Members get fees, secretaries are paid
and there is a considerable bill for travel-
ling expenses. Eventually a committee
will be set up to co-ordinate the findings
of the committees and then there will be
another body to to-ordinate the co-ordi-
nators.
In the meantime things are changing
and nobody really knows what post-
war conditions will be, so the whole in-
vestigation is an inquiry into what is not.
It reminds me of those misguided painters
who return to the same scene over and
over again to paint a landscape, oblivious
of the fact that Nature seldom keeps an
effect for more than 20 minutes and
never repeats it.— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Science and Morals
“Observer’s” observations (B. 8/9/’43)
are not in accord with history. “Science”
and “church” are mere abstractions.
Scientists do not interfere with morals.
“Observer” forgets it was the scientists
and not the theologians who unravelled the
“mystery” of sex. They insisted that sex is
for reproduction and for no other purpose.
I blame the cinema for the absurd
angle at which the rising genera-
tion approaches sex. The picture pro-
ducers never glorify motherhood or
paternity. The old novelists, though they
touched on sex in their works, did not
get their audience through sex appeal.
Today, magazines and films saturate
everything with sex, with the result that
the rising generation is fitted with a set
of false values.
A certain amount of contempt for sex,
a certain amount of public good-natured
satire would turn the minds of the rising
generation to other more vital subjects,
and the world would be all the better
for it. — Herbert Mulvihill (M.L.).


i
73T
A
OF
AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
<1 In the air, at sea, and on land, Wireless is
helping Australia on her War Fronts. The ex-
tensive manufacturing resources and the Research
and Engineering Laboratories of Amalgamated
Wireless are to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy, Army, Air
Force, and Merchant Navy.
#
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Back the Attack Invest in the 4 th Liberty Loan
