

*
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 64,—N0. 3286
Wednesday, February 3, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MONNOW BRIDGE, MONMOUTH.
p EW indeed are the towns whose roots go deeper into English
history than Monmouth, the capital of a small maritime county,
the chief commercial and shipping centre of which is Newport.
Monmouth, despite the glamour of historical associations, is a
dreary place consisting of one large street, running through an
old gateway from Monnow Bridge to the market-place, with several
divergent lanes, bordered by tall, dark, foreboding houses, and
markedly unpleasant alleys. The visitor has no desire to make a
prolonged stay in Monmouth, quite independent of the fact that
King Henry V, known as Harry of Monmouth, was born in the
castle, some remains of which are to be seen, and the one-time
residence of John of Gaunt. It has to be admitted'the situation
of the town is attractive, at its junction of the Monnow and the
Wye. Monmouth’s “lion” is the impressive bridge, illustrated.
Erected so far back as 1240 or 1250, anyway in the 13th century,
it the most and hfilifived to be last remaining
example of that one-time prevailing feature of such structures-
a fortified gateway. It played its part, not inconsiderable, in
centuries gone by, in defending the town when it was politically
of great moment. In old prints of London Bridge, it will be
observed that over the southern gateway of that long ago “link”
were lengthy upright spikes or poles frequently “adorned” with
the heads of traitors and other malefactors. Such do not appear
to have been employed over the gateway of Monnow Bridge. The
last time the gateway was used in the defence of the town was
almost a century and a quarter ago* when the Chartist agitation
was assuming dangerous proportions in South Wales, and dire
threats were uttered by those who rendered, as all now admit, a
great service in the cause of political progress. Monmouth possesses
a fine parish church with a spire over 200 feet high, besides
numerous inns of varying quality and degree, the most attractive,
in one sense, being The King’s Head, with a “Stuart” legend.


AVVumq
rSuH M at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a•
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.’
My Name
My Address
fe'.B. 243
The Red Page
Hartley Grattan's Australia.
This is what Hartley Grattan says
about the Canberra countryside in Intro-
ducing Australia (John Day Co., New
York; Angus and Robertson):
Canberra is the most beautifully situated
capital city I have ever seen.... It is being
built in a 25,000-acre natural basin formed
by quite low pyramidal and table-topped
hills, a few of which are high enough to be
points of observation, Mount Ainslie and
Black Mountain... .The Australian Capital
Territory, within which Canberra is
located.... contains 570,000 acres, much of
it quite uninhabited.
And this is what M. Barnard Elder-
shaw in My Australia said about the
Canberra countryside:
You can look into a big valley with a flat
floor ringed round by mountains, smoke blue
in the distance with nearer foothills fawn
colored, patched with blue scrub or dark
with trees. The nearest mountains are
the Australian Alps. The valley is almost
closed in. It might so easily have remained
one of those idyllic lost worlds anchored
for ever in a golden age of peace, it is
still, despite the city, filled with tranquil-
lity. From the height Canberra looks rather
unreal, like the architectural rendering of
a city....
The city does not cover the plain. It is
a compact mass with no frayed edges and
the plain around it continues its im-
memorial life. The Molonglo loops and
twists across it, pale blue from the sky,
and the sheep go on grazing in paddocks of
delicately blended color, sun-baked grass
smeared with the greyish mauve of a weed,
fawn smudged with the rust of sorrel, pale
sage-green, gamboge soil filmed with new
green, windy silver of dr> bleached grass.
It is hot in summer and cold in winter,
the surrounding mountains see to that. It
is always beautiful, man and nature have
agreed upon it.
Hartley Grattan has done a much
more thorough job of introducing
us than did either Arnold Haskell
or Halliday Sutherland, but how dull
and how arid his thoroughness makes the
land appear! From the Australian view-
point, some of his descriptions are fan-
tastically lifeless —this of a dam, for
instance;
A dam is an earthen obstruction placed
in a water channel, dry most of the year,
at a point where a natural waterhole is
found, with the idea of increasing its capa-
city.
The style of Introducing Australia
is exactly the style of a Govern-
ment report; and if Americans are
going to read about us they’d get
a much better idea of why Australia
is worth fighting for —if a less precise
definition of a dam —from the warm
prose of M. Barnard Eldershaw than
from these statistical aridities.
There is a similar lack of joy, warmth,
color and delight —everything one looks
for in a country or its arts —in Hartley
Grattan’s chapter on Australian litera-
ture. He likes some Australian authors,
there is no doubt about that; and one
would not quarrel with his assertion that
the inspiration for a sound Australian
literary culture today and tomorrow is to
be found in the writings of Tom Collins,
Henry Lawson, Bernard O’Dowd, and those
who stand in the relation of allies, heirs
and assigns to them down the years.
He knows a great deal more about
Australian writing than most visi-
tors ; the survey (though recent books
such as The Pea Pickers and It’s
Harder for Girls are not mentioned)
is comprehensive and valuable; but
he should add to our soberer vir-
tues that delight in the spectacle of
existence for which one chiefly reads
Such Is Life and that lyrical joy and high
artistic achievement which he refuses to
recognise, as always, in the “purely deco-
rative” poetry of Hugh McCrae.
Politically, the tone of Introducing
Australia is moderate. For the most part,
Mr. Grattan confines himself to facts,
past and present; and when, from a
viewpoint presumably socialist, he offers
comments, he argues his points reason-
ably and temperately. He notes the
danger of “the tyrannical propensities of
centralised bureaucracies,” records that
in 1933 every ninth voter in Australia
was a civil servant, and ponders:
Is this a good or a bad situation? I am
sure I don’t know, but I do know that
Australia has far outrun the United States
in this respect. It is something like the
condition we can expect under the bureau-
cratic State which, it is widely believed,
is in the making throughout the world.
There is this pretty accurate analysis of
the “floating vote” that decides Austra-
lian elections:
The floating voters in Australia change
to the Labor party not because they have
become radicals all of a sudden, but be-
cause they instinctively know that Labor is
not really radical, and also, and most im-
portant, because a vote for Labor is the
only worth-while protest vote that can
be cast The Australian conservatives
tip themselves out of office on their own
records, which are public property, when
those records become so bad that the voters
feel they must “turn the rascals out.”
Labor, on its part, loses office for much
the same reasons, plus its inability to put
its case to the people through a well-
edited, intelligent press of general circula-
tion.
On a number of points Mr. Grattan is
in agreement with policies that have con-
sistently been advocated by The Bulle-
tin : that white settlement in the north
is feasible, for example—“a matter of
adaptation, of housing and diet, es-
pecially” •; that the crippling of road
transport in favor of the railways has
been a mistake ; and, most importantly,
that:
The juxtaposition of Australia and Asia
is not going to be changed by the war, no
matter who wins, or what takes place in
the Pacific. Australia is and must remain
a nation deeply concerned about what is
going on in her Near North. _ Australia
cannot by any stretch of the imagination
finish with the Near North during the
present war, with Japan making her-all-out
bid for East Asian supremacy. The pros-
pective defeat of the most aggressive Power
in the Pacific will not guarantee that Aus-
tralia can revert to her curiously unreal
attitude of not, after all, belonging in the
Pacific context.
On the matter of the abolition of State
Governments, his attitude is contradic-
tory. He wants the Commonwealth to
take over agriculture, social services, rail-
ways and industrial legislation ; but has
“profound misgivings” about Common-
wealth control of education. “Uniformity
of law and practice, yes” ; but, for fear
of “bureaucratic centralisation” and be-
cause Australia will always have regional
problems, “the decentralisation of respon-
sibility and administration with as inti-
mate a participation of the people in the
making of the broad decisions on policy
as it is possible to arrange.” Mr. Grattan
is apparently unacquainted with the
scheme for Regional Councils which,
agreeing with most of his objections,
offers a solution to them. He is unaware,
too, of the national significance of the
One Parliament ideal. A closer acquaint-
ance with the inevitable imbecilities, in-
efficiencies and national perils of the
States system would —besides bringing a
touch of color into his writing—prob-
ably convert him.
Taken as a whole, Introducing Aus-
tralia is an impressive piece of work. It’s
obviously the outcome of a great deal
of patient study ; the picture of Australia
is comprehensive and —largely—accept-
able ; and the author’s purpose of bring-
ing Australia favorably to the notice of
America is wholly admirable.
Two Newcomers.
Ethel Anderson and the mysterious
“E,” whose poems are sponsored by
Miles Franklin, are newcomers to Aus-
tralian poetry in more senses than the
obvious one that Squatter’s Luck (Mel-
bourne University Press ; by arrangement
with the Commonwealth Fund) is—apart
from a little pamphlet of lyrics published
about a year ago —Ethel Anderson’s first
book and Moles Do So Little with Their
Privacy (Angus and Robertson) “E’s”
first book. Each contributes something
entirely fresh to Australian writing, and
each writes from a European background
rather than the native.
When Ethel Anderson’s curious mix-
ture of narratives, ballads and lyrics,
loosely linked and amounting as a whole
to a kind of epic of land settlement, lists
during its course almost every type of
Australian flora and fauna, it may
seem strange to suggest that her
background is European rather than
Australian. But one feels in these
catalogues something of the same
underlying uneasiness that reveals itself
in Bernard O’Dowd’s catalogues of gods
and goddesses: the uneasiness of the
European mind in the Australian en-
vironment, reassuring itself in the one
case by saying, in effect, “The gum-trees
are trees” and in the other by saying “All
the familiar gods are to be found in the
bush.”
Australians such as “Banjo” Paterson,
who felt absolutely at home in their
environment, never needed to assure
themselves that Australia was a habitable
country. We don’t need to be told we
call “the tawny frogmouth” the “more-
pork”—we know we do.
But there is another way of looking at
this easygoing epic. Squatter’s Luck is
the sort of poem that Americans have
been writing ever since Whitman. It can
be regarded as an attempt to re-create
the past for a people that, accepting it
too casually, has forgotten it. Forgotten
that at Farm Cove
The schooner Isabelle
Against the quay unloads black buffaloes
From Timor, useless here; and pinchbeck
cargoes, .
Shipped by adventurous Samuels, Johns ana
Rollos . .
“On speculation” to the Societies...
Fanny brings crates of apples, two caskettes
Of best Van Diemen’s Land brown stout, Sea
Hawk
Sea-elephant oil, souchou, five gross ot shoes,
And green tobacco; seven hundred baskets.
Technically, this poem is as curious,
as interesting and as baffling as it is in
spirit. The whole notion of the “catalogue
poem” is essentially modern: Whitman
began it, Eliot and Pound (the Cantos
are one gigantic catalogue) continued it;
and Auden made a fetish of it. The
rhythms, generally, remind one of Pound
and Eliot. But then one comes across
conventional lyrics, using words such as
“broider’d” and “silv’ry.” There appear
to be fragments of classic Latin metres ;
and there is the Miltonic Latinity of
such constructions as “He, with brother
settlers, fitted and victualled, this.” There
is a line lifted (fair dinkum) straight
from the Sydney “Morning Herald’s”
Land Page—“Mr. Faffs Oxley Guitar is
a good cow” —and there is the touch of
an eighteenth-century pastoral in a line
about an Australian pioneer woman driv-
ing cows with “a flowery staff.” There
are realistic bits of outback comedy, but
the Australian farmers bear the improb-
able and absurd names of “Eustace” and
“Silas.”
Marred and confused by these lapses
or caprices, whichever they are, and
lacking the fire of poetry in the historical
reminiscences, Squatter’s Luck seems,
as a whole, to fail. It is good in patches,
but never startlingly good. The total
attempt is gallant and is interesting, but
one would not compare it, except to say
how far short of them it falls, with the
American national epics of Whitman,
Vachel Lindsay or Paul Engle.
The catalogue poem, it may be, has
been overworked. It is dangerously easy
to write. For instance, here’s almost a
catalogue poem based on the extraordi-
nary number of giants whose aid is en-
listed in the two introductions to Moles
Do So Little with Their Privacy : —
T. Inglis Moore introduces it, he quotes Will
Blflkc
(Though not the sublime “Damn braces; bless
relaxes |
Bergson follows in order—to blazes with Berg-
son ! _
Call up the hounds of Heaven, here’s Francis
Thompson .
And Bergson again, Donne, Browning, Walt
Whitman,
Robert FitzGerald, Baylebridge, Dame Mary
Gilmore,
Shaw Neilson and Emily Dickinson. By a
strange omission,
Bergson fails to appear in the final paragraph.
You think you have done, do you? Well, mind
your eye!
Here comes a second introduction done by
Miles Franklin,
Who says she has shown these poems to P. R.
Stephensen,
Doctor G. Mackaness, Miss Leeson of the
Mitchell Library,
Camden Morrisby, L. H. Allen, H. L. White,
Farmer Whyte, Mary Gilmore again, Mr.
Peter , , _ ,
Hopegood, Mr. R. G. Howarth and Robert
FitzGerald again,
And all these authorities approve of Miles
Franklin’s poet.
Approaching “E” with a certain
amount of trepidation after this barrage
of the big guns, one finds her a very
pleasant human being. There is not
much point in hailing her as “an Aus-
tralian Emily Dickinson”: it’s no com-
pliment to an original poet (which “E”
certainly is), and whether or not she
approaches Emily Dickinson’s stature
cannot be determined until all the 450
poems in Miles Franklin’s possession are
published.
Moles Do So Little with Their Privacy
contains about 100 pieces, lively, original,
witty, phrased generally with sparkling
precision, and often, as in both Mary
Gilmore and Emily Dickinson, lifting the
epigram into the higher air of poetry.
And she will not have “great instruments,
Celebrating my heart’s events.” She has
not, as Ethel Anderson most creditably
has, tried to play the “great instrument.”
She sings her own song; she “writes
small.” For that reason, Inglis Moore’s
introduction, thundering with the names
of men who wrote vastly, lacks a sense
of proportion. But “E” plays the “secret
lute” extremely well, and it is as finely
indestructible as she claims: —
“E” sees, and worships, life as a
“lion”: —
With life unanswered, heart secure,
I should have lived and died —
Unknown the mighty Terrible,
Splendid and tawny-eyed.
And her idea of hell is the absence of
the lion: —
No love to flail the pulses,
Nor love that calms the breast,
But cold mechanic motion,
v And cold mechanic rest.
“I sing,” she says, “my own song”: —
I sing my own song
In the high hour;
And when the Dark Power
Bids me be mute,
Yet is a secret lute
Awake in my heart.
The vast occasion of our time
Is heavy on us all,
And what am I, and what am I
On whom the timbers fall?
Since hand is weak I can go down
As brave as others do;
Old cities fallen, from their dust
Make mortar to build new.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: Falling for the ump-
teenth time to advertisements proclaim-
ing the latest from the Russian battle-
front, I went to one Sydney “theatrette”
and saw the same three shellbursts, the
same six infantrymen and the same tank
going nowhere in particular as I have
seen in every Russian-front newsreel since
the war began. Also I saw 14, I think,
colored cartoons about frogs. The in-
evitable ice-skating. And a bit of a serial
in which a beauteous blonde in darkest
Africa was horribly pursued by a tiger.
Then, after all that, hang me if another
neswreel doesn’t come to light with one
of the strangest and most dramatic shots
of the Pacific war. George Silk was on
a Papuan beach when a Jap soldier, with
hands raised while standing up to his
waist in the sea, was challenged by a
Digger. Silk hadn’t his movie camera,
but with an ordinary still camera took
half a dozen progressive snaps. The
“surrendering” Jap is holding a hand
grenade in one of his upraised hands.
As he’s about to hurl it, the Digger liqui-
dates him—literally, for the last one sees
is a swirl of water where the Jap has
departed this life. Our local cameramen
are saving the reputation of the newsreel.
“C.R.” on musicomedy and matri-
mony : —
J.C.W.’s recent revivals of old-timers such
as “The Maid of the Mountains” and “The
Merry Widow” in Melbourne set me wonder-
ing at the deathless vogue of the happy end-
ing. In a lifetime spent in going to the movies
and the theatre I have observed that the happy
ending never fails to convince anew each fresh
generation of playgoers, although it completely
contradicts most human experience and is con-
tradicted almost every day by the divorce statis-
tics of Hollywood. The fundamental difference
between popular musical-comedy and the
great operas or poetic dramas seems to be that
the one postulates eternal bliss in marriage
and the others deny it. Isn’t it rather significant
that all the great lovers of history, such
as Tristan and Isolde, Paola and Francesca,
and Anthony and Cleopatra, gave up the ghost
before marriage?
At the talkies: —
The man who invented the word “amnesia”
should be the subject of a daily silent toast
by the makers of films. A battalion could be
raised of celluloid heroes whose memories date
only from the moment something or someone
socked them hard on the head. The; phenome-
non turns up again in “Crossroads (Sydney ot.
James), which has to do with a French dipl
mat who cleverly sets a trap for blackmailers
seeking to convince him he was a criminal be-
fore a train accident blotted out his memories
of early life. Under Director Jack Conway,
William Powell, Hedy Lamarr and co make a
good job of it. Felix Bressart gives a delightful
study of a mental specialist, and old stage-
actor Guy Bates Post makes a president ot a
French Court act and look like one. two
Yanks in Trinidad” (Victory) has Brian Don-
levy and Pat O’Brien conducting a private teud
under the cold-fish eye of a nasty top sergeant.
It has all been done two million times before,
but for keeping action going at top pace ana
the merriment crackling steadily the director
is hereby forgiven for pulling the beautifu
boner that an army private would be put id
charge of laying mines in a harbor.
William Dargie, the Victorian war
artist who repeats his success of a year
ago by winning the Archibald Prize for
1942, does so in the face of competition
with all the best portraitists in Australia.
His painting of a V.C. winner m A.l. •
kit is more a quick sketch than a finished
work, but it looks a good likeness, and
the shade of Archibald, who intended his
prize to encourage the young fellows, pu
unfortunately didn’t give legal expression
to his wishes, must have whispered into
the ears of the judges. Among the mos
effective soldier portraits is Fred Leist s
impression of a captain of tanks. Mi
F. D. Ellis’s appreciative limning or
Dattilo Rubbo and Hanke’s fine portrait
of John Salvana stand out in the por-
traits of artists. Joshua Smiths parents
are again well in evidence.
Douglas Watson’s “Back Yard” (no
better than its title) wins the Wynne
Prize for “the best landscape painting
of Australian scenery,” and Miss Jean
Bellette wins the Sulman Prize for
“best subject or genre picture with ro
Whom the Bell Tolls,” a nice hom y
glimpse of Nazi stormtroopers preparing
to murder hostages.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
“THE SENIOR STORE”
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Glace and Wallaby Boots
No toe caps. All fittings. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Prices, pair 39/6, 42/-
12 Coupons Required
Black Box Calf Boots
Men’s Black Box Calf Boots with
genuine welted soles. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, pair 35/-, 37/6
In Black Glace Kid. Price, pr., 42/-
12 Coupons Required
Men’s High Grade Shoes
In Box Calf, Tan Calf and Black
Glace Kid. In all fittings. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, pair 35/-
12 Coupons Required
mm
I CERTIFICATES
11l Box Calf
In Box Calf. Narrow, medium and
wide fittings. Full and half sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price, 39/6
12 Coupons Required
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street.
‘Tree’ Officer’s Boots
“Tree” Brand Officer’s
Boots in Tan and Black;
and also Brown grained
leather. Standard screwed
and sewn soles. Full and
half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns’. Pair . . 27/6
6 Coupons Required
JP!
Used Coif Balls Can Be Re-covered
Bring your Golf Balls to us. Our Sports Department will buy them
at 2/- per dozen. The Government has given permission for used
Golf Balls to he re-covered. All Golf Balls tvill be accepted by
us except those with deep cuts which have damaged the core 9
or which are obviously perished through exposure to weather.
These re-covered balls will then be re-sold in perfect playing
condition at a price yet to he fixed by the Prices Commission.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
I 943. ("Australia” and “Austra-
lian" for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
MURPH'S SISTER
By A. C. HEADLEY.
There was dust
everywhere, and
when the pennies
hit the ground it
just about covered them.
Murph and I were right
on the edge of the khaki-clad ring, and I
could see that Murph was getting just a
bit fidgety. He was watching the spinner
shaping the coins up on his fingers, and
the next second his head and everyone
else’s bobbed up and bobbed down. The
circle pressed in for inspection, and a
moment later Murph gave a grunt.
“Heads,” he said with some force ; “four
in a row.”
The next second he plunged his hand
into his pocket and brought to light our
last remaining quid. “Joe,” he said, turn-
ing to me, “he can’t do it five in a
row. It ain’t natural.”
“If you or me was doing it,” I said,
“it wouldn’t be natural, but what do we
know about this bloke? He might be
the seventh son of a seventh father and
this is our last quid.”
From somewhere in the centre of the
ring a voice bellowed “Come in,
spinner.” It stirred Murph into violent
activity. “Hold her,” he yelped. “Tails
a quid.” His eyes swept the ring, but
the run of heads was not inspiring the
head bettors. Murph broke down his bet
for encouragement. “Tails ten bob.” It
was taken, and from the other side of
the ring a voice yelped that it would take
the other half. Murph grinned and passed
the money.
The spinner came in, and the coins
gleamed in the air. A moment later they
struck the ground and were half covered
with dust. The circle crowded in and
Murph used a yell as a sigh of relief.
“Tails—you beaut.”
I grabbed his arm. “Murph,” I said,
“the canteen is still open and we’ve got
an extra quid,”
Murph grinned. “Joe,” he said, “I’ve
got a feeling that tails are going to drop
again.” Without giving me a chance he
pushed forward and began to inquire
whether there were any head bettors for
a couple of quid.
“Murph,” I called after him, “don’t be
silly. A quid’s enough.”
' “Listen,” he said. “If we’d lost that
last spin we’d have been broke and satis-
fied. Therefore we can’t lose nothing and
we stand to win four quid.”
It was the way Murph worked things
out. I shrugged my shoulders and settled
down to wait.
“Come in, spinner.”
Two minutes later Murph and I were
walking back in the direction of our tent,
“Trouble with army life,” said Murph,
“is that there are too many opportunities
for gambling.”
“Trouble,” said I, “is that there are
too many blokes like you who don’t know
the value of a quid when it’s nine days
to pay parade.”
“Trouble,” said Murph, “is that there
are too many ungrateful friends who
don’t realise that I’m trying to do me
best for ’em.”
“Trouble,” said I, “is that you use
their money to do it.”
We tramped for a while in silence and
then suddenly Murph spoke., “Joe,” he
said, “I’ve told you before that this army
is full of opportunities. Look at this
camp. Hundreds of blokes are getting
six-’n’-six a day, and what have they got
to do with it? Nothin’ but beer and
smokes. It’s what they call virgin ground
and there’s some kind of a quotation
about it. At any rate, it’s what we’ve got
to attend to. We’ve got to be farmers,
that’s what.”
“If you ask me,” said I, “it’s a bad
season for the crops.”
Murph grinned. “All it needs,” he
said, “is intensive cultivation.”
“The one thing about it,” I said, “is
that it can’t cost us anything. We couldn’t
be any broker than we are now.”
“First,” said Murph, “we’ve got to get
a little capital.”
“In the vicinity,” said I, “of what?”
Murphy considered. “A tenner ought
to cover it,” he said.
“And what poor deluded doover is
going to approach that form of insanity?”
“I was thinkin’,” said Murph, “of the
C. 0.”
“And I suppose,” said I, “that he’s
going to shove his hand into his pocket
and pass you the tenner and tell you that
he likes to be a father to all his boys.”
“Sometimes,” said Murph, “I get the
idea that the Army is ruinin’ your sense
of concentration. This- needs finesse.
You’re going to write me a letter.”
“The Army’s ruined something in you,”
said I, “ and it isn’t concentration.”
E got down to the tent and Murph
shoved a pen and paper into my
hands and started to dictate. First of all
he gave me a Brisbane address and a date
a couple of days earlier to stick on the
top. Then came the letter;
Dear Murph,
Just a few lines hoping this finds
you as it leaves me. I am terrible
sick and so is Alec and Mabel and
there’s no money in the house on
account of there was such a lot of
money to pay for Teddy’s funeral
which was lovely and I wish you’d
been there. All we had to eat last
week was dry bread because Bob
came home in a terrible temper and
took the money you sent me and I
left lying around, and Bob ain’t
working now on account of the drink
what he bought with the money made
him punch the foreman in the nose
and he is now in prison for hitting a
policeman, and the kids and I ain’t
had much to eat for a long time, and
it ain’t for myself that I care. And
now I must bring this to a close. I
wish I wasn’t so sick.
Your loving sister,
Daisy.
P.S.—Bob got three months.
When I’d finished it I looked at Murph,
who, now that the throes of literary com-
position were over, was resting on his
kitbag with his eyes closed. “And what,”
1 said, “is this supposed to be?”
“This,” said Murph, “is the reason the
C.O. is going to lend me a tenner to send
to me dear stricken sister.” With that he
grabbed the letter and made for the flap
of the teqt.
“And what,” said I, “is going to hap-
pen if the C.O. decides to check up on
the address?”
“I thought of that,” Murph called
back, “and there is a girl of that name
living at that address what I know real
well.”
“Hey, listen,” I yelped. “You’re not
going to take that letter to the Major,
not with my writing on it.”
| T was half an hour before Murph came
* back, and as soon as I saw him my
throat started to fill up with my Adam’s
apple.
“Murph,” I said, “what’s the disaster?”
And in that tick I settled down to wonder
whether I could work my way off the
crime sheet by pretending ignorance.
Murph spilled the beans. “He fell for
the letter all right,” he said, “and when
he’d read it I told him that I wanted to
see if I could borrow a tenner to send
home to my poor afflicted sister. You
should’ve seen the way he lapped it up.”
“Well,” said I, “what’s the grouch and
where’s the tenner?”
Murph winced. “Joe,” he said, “d’ y’
know what he’s going to do? He’s going
on leave tomorrow and he lives in Bris-
bane. Out of the goodness of his heart
he’s going to pay me afflicted sister a
visit and hand over the tenner and see
that she’s all right.”
Once again my Adam’s apple took
possession of my throat, “Murph,” I
said, “I hope you’re going to keep my
name out of this. I’ve got ray life to live
and I don’t want to have to finish it in
front of a firing squad. If that happens
I’ll curse the day I ever let you get mixed
up in a two-up game.”
But Murph wasn’t listening. He was
looking out of the tent with his eyes half
closed. I reached over and shook him.
“This Daisy,” he said, “I reckon she’d
do a lot for me, and maybe if I was to
write to her and get her to pose as me
dear afflicted sister she’d do it for me for
a couple of quid and she could send the
other eight quid back to us.”
“Murph,” I said, “grab a pen and ink
and get to work.”
NEXT day we got a telegram to say
that Daisy would carry out her part
of the affair, and a week later a letter
telling us that everything had passed off
smoothly. She’d told the Major that she
was feeling much better except for no
food and that she’d managed to get the
kids into the hospital through the welfare
department, and then the Major had
taken her out to a couple of shows to
help take her mind off her troubles. There
was no mention of the eight quid she was
supposed to send us.
“The trouble,” said Murph, “is that
you can never trust women.”
I grinned. “What it would have cost
you in fines would have been much more
than a tenner. Sometimes I think you’re
never satisfied.”
“The trouble is,” said Murph, “that I
needed a tenner because I’ve got a scheme
which would put us on clover.”
T T wasn’t until the end of the next week
1 that the Major came back from leave.
Murph and I for some reason that was
only apparent to a certain sergeant were
doing a bit of kitchen fatigue when we
saw him drive up. I’d been thinking
about his coming back for a week and I
watched him as he went into the orderly
room.
“Murph” I said.
But Murph was just as intent on his
progress as I was. “Don’t say it,” he
said.
Then it came. I saw the orderly ser-
geant moving towards the kitchen. From
a distance of twenty yards he bawled
out “Pri-vut Mur-phy.”
“Yeah,” said Murph.
“The C.O. wants to see you.”
There was nothing to do but wait and
hope. I waited and there was nothing
wrong with my hoping. The more time
that passed the weaker my knees be-
came. It was like they say in stories,
“what seemed like an hour passed,” and
by the time Murph appeared again the
cooks would have been better off if they’d
cooked the skins instead of what was left
of the spuds I was peeling.
Murph’s hat was jammed down over
his eyes, and he looked like a man who
had lost all his spirit. A bloke passing
him bumped into him but Murph didn’t
seem to notice. That meant that some-
thing was wrong because Murph normally
would have asked him for a smoke.
“Murph,” I said.
He lifted his head, gave a shudder and
dropped it again. I grabbed him by the
arm. “What?” I said. “What’s hap-
pened?”
“Women,” Murph said bitterly—
“women, they should be drowned at
birth ”
“Is the Major a wake-up?” I asked.
Murph became coherent. “No,” he
said. “It’s worse than that. I’ve got to
pay him back the tenner, at so much a
pay. But that’s nothing. I’ve offered to
make an allotment out of me pay so
that me dear sister can be kept while her
husband is in clink. It was the Major’s
idea. He said that seeing that I was
getting my fuff six-’n’-six a day I wouldn’t
mind allotting half of it to help her.
What chance did I have? I just had to
sign the allotment form he passed over
to me. Now I’m keepin’ the wolf from
the door for me dear sister. It’s enough
to drive a man stone
ravin’ mad.”
I started to laugh and
Murph almost snarled.
“Just wait,” he said.
“Just wait till I get my
leave and go to Brisbane.”
“Listen,” I said. “For the next few
months you won’t have any money to
go anywhere. Instead of six-’n’-six a
day you’re now down to three bob, and
out of that you’ve got to pay back a
tenner. Even though your dear sister
would love to see you I don’t think you'll
be able to make it.”
Murph was thoughtful for a moment
and then he brightened. “Joe,” he said,
“I’ve got an idea how I can get that
tenner.”
Pacific Battlefield
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WHEN James Cook annexed the
east side of Australia to Britain
in 1770, no other great Power
held any territory in all the vast
expanse of the South Pacific lying be-
tween this continent and the western coast
of South America, but a hundred years
afterwards most of the European nations,
together with the United States, took a
hand in the game of “grab” by which
the natives of the South Sea Islands lost
their age-old heritage of coral and palm.
Although France had taken over New
Caledonia in 1853, Britain really began
the game in 1875 by collaring the Fijis.
About 1878 the ownership of the South
Sea Islands became a leading question
in world politics, and in the early ’eighties
commenced that feverish activity on the
part of European nations to get hold
of as much as they could of the uncivil-
ised parts of the earth. Next to Africa,
where the annexation fever raged most
furiously, Australasian spheres of influ-
ence suffered worst.
In 1882 France annexed Raiatea, close
by Tahiti, and began to covet the New
Hebrides. Germany had her eye on New
Guinea, Russia was supposed to be in-
terested in Papua, and there were rumors
of a projected Italian settlement in the
big mysterious island. The Australian
provinces began to be uneasy about all
these indications that they were not to
be allowed to remain in splendid isola-
tion, and very much feared the moving-
in of possible bad neighbors.
They felt too strongly to allow the sub-
ject to be shelved in the way Downing-
street seemed to desire, so an intercolo-
nial conference was held in Sydney in
1883, with representatives from each
colony as well as from New Zealand and
Fiji. It was agreed that New Guinea
must be annexed, that convict settlements
in the South Seas should be abolished,
and that no foreign Power should be per-
mitted to acquire any more territory in
these latitudes. The Australian colonies
pledged themselves to give every assist-
ance to the Empire in insisting upon such
measures, and eventually the Colonial
Office was prevailed upon to declare a
protectorate over the south coast of New
Guinea.
Before the New Guinea business was
settled Germany had begun to make
trouble in Samoa, and continued to do
so until she lost her possessions there as
a result of the 1914-18 war. After four
years of civil strife the distracted group
was placed under a joint British, Ger-
man and American protectorate. This
arrangement lasted to the end of the cen-
tury, when Britain retired from the
partnership, leaving Samoa and taking
over Tonga. After the last war the Ger-
man part of the group was repossessed
by Britain, a mandate over it being given
to New Zealand.
A series of arrangements had given into
French keeping all the groups of islands
eastward of Tahiti, and allowed Ger-
many a boundary line running through
the Solomons and north-easterly to the
Marshalls. ' The rest of the Solomons
and all the other islands east or south-
east of that line came into the British
sphere of influence. Here, also, Ger-
many’s defeat in 1918 brought about
rearrangements.
The last nation to enter this interest-
ing game of “grab” was Japan, who,
whilst leaving the League of Nations, re-
fused to surrender her control by man-
date over the former German territories
in the Marshall and Caroline groups. She
is playing her game very hard just now in
the Pacific battlefield.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3286.
Wednesday, February 3, 1943.
“ONE KIND KISS BEFORE WE PART.”
"'Giraud’s bombshell announcement that unity has not been reached with De Gaulle’ is the subject of a front-page editorial in the New York ‘Post,’ which stigmatises
Giraud as ‘impudent’ and blames the U.S. State Department for ‘the most colossal diplomatic failure of the entire war.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. U. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place-. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AUSTRALIA WASN'T THERE.
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt have
had another meeting—the third. The first
took place in North American waters in
August, 1941, and out of it came the
Atlantic Charter. For the second Mr.
Churchill travelled to Washington in
July, 1942, and it was then that the grand
plan for sending an armada and an army
to French North and West Africa was
agreed to. The third, very appropriately,
was held at Casablanca. There the
leaders of the two great democratic
nations conferred for 10 days, hav-
ing with them Chiefs of Staffs from
London and Washington, Admiral of
the Fleet Sir Dudley Pound, Vice-
Admiral Lord Louis Mount batten, the
C.-m-Cs. in North Africa, other distm-
guished leaders of the fighting services
T l i° t ? ne H om rr the • Pucific),
Mr. Hopkins, Mr. Harnman and Lord
i ers ‘ . , i ... .
Also present with a show of conciliation
at least in respect of military arrange-
ments were Generals De
Gaulle. Stalin had been cordially
invited and asked to name a suitable
meeting place very much farther east,
but was unable to leave Russia on ac-
count of the great offensive which he
himself is directing. That seems reason-
able, though it prompted the Scnpps-
Howard foreign editor to write that
“Soviet Russia remains more than ever
the greatest enigma of this war.” It is not
clear whether an invitation was sent to
Chiang Kai-shek, but that generalissimo
was apprised of the measures the Presi-
. , „ ■ Ayr . . . ,
dent and the Prime Minister are under-
. , • , • /—\* • ,
taking to assist him in China’s magmfi-
cent, unrelaxing struggle in the common
~ T , r> ■ 1 j c u- .
cause. The Russian leader, for his part,
ti r ~ • r j e -i *
was fully informed of the military pro-
nosals ” a statement which mav have en-
SeiedhoSTn some barters and
f ~ , , • , f
fears in others, and which anyway must
be read in the light of the fact that the
U.S.S.R. is not at war with Japan.
By and large this was the most impor-
tant conference in modern history. It
was itself historical in being the first
ever attended by a President of the
United States in a foreign country in
time of war; and it was held in circum-
stances very different from those which
attended the previous meetings of the
principal actors. They met for the first
time aboard the ill-starred battleship
Prince of Wales when the war clouds
were already gathering in the Pacific;
and Mr. Churchill, it has been written
with White House authority, proposed
a joint ultimatum to Japan. On the
second occasion the Prime Minister
learnwd at Washington of the capture of
Tobruk, with all its defenders, and of the
swift invasion of Egypt, which was to end
on the El Alamein line. At Casablanca
there was an atmosphere of stern exul-
tation and confidence, warranted by the
change which has come over the war scene.
The bloody chapter of Stalingrad was
closing in ruin for Hitler’s Sixth Army
and in the wrecking of his boasts, made
with the world for audience, that the
city was his, except for “a few points
not worth another Verdun.” From the
extreme north to the extreme south the
Russian armies were in motion and
threatening Rostov and the Kharkov-
Kursk line. Shrill cries of trepidation
were coming from Germany ; Hungary
and Rumania were mourning their lost
legions, and in Italy—the last of its
African possessions wrested from it by
the splendid Eighth Army, Malta
liberated, and Allied bombers from
near-by Tripolitania and Tunisia already
ranging over Sicily—all was dismay and
despair. And in the far south, the
Americans had made good their foot-
holds in the Solomons, and the Diggers
and Doughboys had finished their
desperate job in Papua.
During the 10 days “the entire field of
the war was surveyed, theatre by theatre,
throughout the world.” The survey of
the south Pacific theatre without General
MacArthur and a representative admiral
to report and advise can scarcely be
described as thorough ; but the Presi-
dent and the Prime Minister “realised
fully the enormous weight of the war
which Russia is successfully bearing
along its whole land front,” and “their
prime object has been to draw off as
much weight as possible from the Rus-
sian armies by engaging the enemy as
heavily as possible at the best selected
points.” They and “the combined staffs,
after completing plans for offensive cam-
paigns in 1943, separated in order to put
them into active concerted execution.”
It stands to reason that the first of the
“offensive campaigns” will be waged in
Tunisia. Axis resistance crushed in that
Region, the way will be clear for an
attack on Italy, previously softened by
bombing. The tone of the communica-
tions from Casablanca suggests that the
conference had something up its sleeve,
and this may prove to be the knowledge
that the Italians are sick of the war, and,
whatever their Government may decree,
will not stand up long against a resolute
attack by air, sea and land forces. It
may be recalled that Mr. Myron Taylor,
the President’s personal representative,
was permitted to visit and spend an un-
conscionably long time in Vatican City,
and that his mission was swiftly followed
by the removal of Italians from the
enemy-aliens list in the United States.
This now seems to have been done in
intelligent anticipation of the disaster
that has befallen Mussolini in North
Africa. Be that as it may, to defeat
what remains of the Italian air force,
bring the Italian navy to battle or capitu-
lation and get control of the Italian naval
stations, commercial ports and islands
would mean so much to the United
Nations everywhere that the job will
assuredly be tackled as soon as it can be.
What other projects were decided upon
at Casablanca can only be conjectured.
Unfortunately the Dominions were not
represented, nor was Australia men-
tioned in the communiques. In the one
issued at London the only reference to
the war in the Pacific was contained in
the words “complete agreement upon war
plans and enterprises to be undertaken in
1943 against Germany, Italy and Japan.”
To correspondents at Casablanca the
President was more communicative, say-
ing, first, that “the strategy evolved aims
at the unconditional surrender of Italy,
Germany and Japan,” and then that “the
object of the Allies in the Pacific is to
prevent Japan for ever from dominating
that ocean.” He said also that the con-
ference had decided upon “all possible
aid to Russia” ; so it is clear that, for good
or ill, the “Beat Hitler First” strategy
and the Russia-first priority still obtain.
Before it was revealed to the world that
the President and the Prime Minister had
met again—it could scarcely have been
a secret at Canberra—there was pub-
lished a pregnant MacArthur commen-
tary on the operations in Papua. The
general singled out as “the outstanding
military lesson” of the campaign “the
continuous, calculated application of air
power... .employed in the most intimate
tactical and logistical union with ground
troops.” What was needed to beat the
Jap was “the application of offensive
power in swift, massive strokes rather
than the dilatory and costly island-to-
island advance that some have assumed
necessary in a theatre where the enemy’s
far-flung strongholds are dispersed
throughout a vast expanse of archi-
pelagoes. Air forces and ground forces
were welded together in Papua, and, when
in sufficient strength, with proper naval
support, their indissoluble union points
the way to victory.”
Mr. Curtin supported these striking
sentences in a world broadcast, addressed
particularly to the Americans. Repeat-
ing that Australia is “everlastingly grate-
ful,” he reminded them that the resist-
ance offered to the Japanese in Papua
had been “a resistance without sea
power,” Though worsted in Papua, the
enemy was still in a position to make an-
other southward drive, and was, in fact,
“assailing with all strength the outer
fringe of the islands adjacent to the Aus-
tralian mainland.” If these went the Aus-
tralian people would be “faced with a
struggle on their own soil with an enemy
in command of all the sea approaches.”
The South-west Pacific area is too crucial
to be left to a force of caretakers. Time
is fighting for Japan and against the
United States. Too much is not good
enough when it is too late.
He appealed for “greater air strength and
greater naval strength” ; “in supplementa-
tion of the valorous land forces now fight-
ing” it would have “an immediate and
significant impact on Japanese plans.”
Mr. Curtin reported the substance of
the Casablanca decisions to Parliament
without comment. Afterwards he re-
peated his warning that the Jap is posted
in force in the chain of islands north of
Australia and “has control of all the sea
approaches to those islands,” adding
meaningly that “he may, by reason of
the effect of the global struggle on re-
sources in the South-west Pacific, essay
a major concentration against a key posi-
tion that may be stronger than the re-
sistance which we can concentrate.” Next
day his Government gave it out that the
Jap concentrations and movements were
consistent with a plan to strike hard at
Australia ; and the same day brought a
threat from Tojo: “We must inflict severe
blows on Australia as long as Australia
is an ally of the United States and
Britain” —which Australia always will be
unless it is engulfed.
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt are
masters of our fate. No people could
have more merciful or more gifted
masters, and if their imagination is equal
to their intelligence and eloquence all
may go well. But it is possible that their
plans for the redemption of Europe will
be upset by unforeseen political develop*-
ments, and it is possible that they under-
rate the strength and malignity of the
enemy who threatens these outposts of
the white race, and the war with whom
is solely a military problem. God grant
that events prove them right!
Jap Fact and Fable.
First there was the “pushover” fable.
The set of their eyes and a skewwhiff
sense of balance made Japs the world’s
worst airmen. Their armies were
“bogged down” in China. Stretched out
on a southward drive, their fleet would
be easy money. Their “paper cities”
would make grand bonfires when bombed
from Russia’s Pacific borders, certain
sequel to an Anglo-Russian alliance. A
long war already had them economically
groggy; inside a year of total embargo
they’d be bled white.
There was much more in this happy
vein. Then the Japs struck at Pearl Har-
bor. Aided a good deal by populations
previously held to hate them like poison,
they swept down through Malaya until
Singapore fell; they swarmed over the
Celebes, Borneo, Java, Timor, Sumatra ;
through Thailand and Burma ; into New
Guinea and Papua. With the Philippines
also taken in their stride, and Hongkong
as well, and French Indo-China, they
had collared the Asiatic holdings of the
U.S.A., Britain, France, Holland and
Portugal; the whole bang lot.
Out along on a front which, all told,
is three times as long as the Russian
front they got into the Solomons ; fur-
ther out, into the Aleutians. Thus estab-
lished, instead of their own lines of com-
munication being fatally vulnerable, they
threatened to cut American communica-
tion with Australia, the one country in
the whole vast expanse that might be
converted into a base rightly placed and
big enough for eventually destroying
them. And, of course, they threatened
—in General Blarney’s judgment, they
still threaten—direct attack on this coun-
try itself.
Behold, after all this, the change that
came over the fable concocted by those
Old Masters the itinerant windbag gos-
sips onetime known as “famous corre-
spondents”! Unless there’s a reincarna-
tion of Rip Van Winkle at large, nobody
today has any faith whatever in that
old concoction. All hands try to forget
it. In this they are aided and abetted
by a host of witnesses, eagerly testifying.
One of the most industrious is the former
U.S. Ambassador in Tokyo, Mr. Joseph
C. Grew. Mr. Grew has issued a stream
of speeches, writings and broadcasts that
haven’t only impressed his U.S. listeners
and readers, but have also inspired and
provided the material for countless thou-
sands of other speeches, writings and
broadcasts elsewhere. Flotsam from the
Grew stream:
Japan was strong when the war started,
but the new Japan—the great slave empire
of the Greater East Asia —is today poten-
tially the strongest Power in the world.
The Japanese will stop fighting only
when the last platoon of infantry and the
last torpedo boat crew on the water have
no further hope. It is my considered
opinion—and in the course of two wars I
have seen each at first hand —that as
soldiers the Japanese are definitely superior
to the Germans.
The first of these bits of flotsam is
somewhat worm-eaten by its “poten-
tially.” Otherwise it may be O.K. The
second bit would probably look sounder
if it was stated in what front-line fighting
Mr. Grew arrived at that very striking
opinion. At first look it might seem
that General Blarney shared in it when,
addressing his battle-worn troops in
Papua, he declared: “Never was the
original A.I.F. asked to perform so diffi-
cult a task as that you have accomplished
so splendidly.” From subsequent re-
marks of his, however, it appears that
General Blarney was then referring to the
evil conditions, rather than the evil
enemy, his men had to overcome.
Those conditions, to have been worse
than, say, the rotten Passchendaele
morass, stuck thick with the half-buried
corpses of horses, mules and men, and
with bogged guns, and where the only
escape from bogging for the barrage-
shattered living was not to slip off the
narrow duckboard tracks —to have been
worse than this the Papuan conditions
must have been incredibly vile. Or, say,
the Somme in 1916, where the British
alone, inside one 24 hours that might
have stained even what sun and moon
there were with blood, lost over 60,000
in casualties, 19,000 of them killed.
It might be held, too, that if Papua’s
tropical diseases caused more distress
and more casualties than the German gas
caused the old A.1.F., then, clearly, con-
ditions in Papua must have been fright-
ful indeed.
As for the comparative fighting quality
of the troops engaged, General Blarney
subsequently said: “Allied troops have
shown this proud Asiatic that he is an
inferior creature to the product of west-
ern civilisation.” General Blarney would
not have been as sweeping as that about
the major enemy of the old A.I.F. —the
German. He’d have rated the Digger
the German’s superior, and the records
would substantiate him. But neither he
nor any other Old Digger would make
out that the margin was so very great
that the enemy could have been dismissed
with a whiplash of contempt.
At all events, this summing-up on the
“proud Asiatic” as an “inferior creature”
is something towards correcting the new
fable on the Jap that had latterly, with
the assistance of Mr. Grew and countless
chorus, come to replace the old fable.
With Mr. Grew there is at least an im-
pressive sincerity. With many of those
echoing his theme, and thinking up varia-
tions of their own, there has been no-
thing more admirable than the spectacle
of earnest, well-meaning propagandists
determined to knock out the old danger-
ous fable once and for all, but at the
same time unconsciously replacing it with
another also harmful to the cause they
have at heart.
The new fable is that of the Jap as a
superman fighter; instance his going on
(in imagination) still scrapping though
only a platoon of him or a torpedo-boat
crew were left; though Tojo, Hirohito
and all the rest of the gang of “o’s” were
dust. In the new fable the Jap invari-
ably fights till he is killed ; even then he’s
as likely to arise and bayonet somebody
as stay with his ancestors. Also in the
new fable his “suicide” airmen are as
suicidally famous as they were formerly
notoriously incompetent. The truth would
appear to lie, as usual, somewhere be-
tween the fabulous extremes. It looks,
in short, as if the Jap (so far) is a good
fighter, but some way this side of the
world’s best.
Others besides General Blarney have
been arriving at round about this view.
One report from Papua, for instance, told
of a sudden cracking of Jap morale.
Established in an “elaborate system of
pillboxes and camouflaged trenches” that
might have taken “weeks to overcome”
the Japs were attacked by Australian
infantry:
Then the Japanese broke. In parties of
up to 50 they fled through the jungle,
abandoning masses of equipment, leaving
behind the wounded and sick....
That hardly squares with the fable of
the Japs as supermen fighters. Nor do
they square up as such in the American
Admiral Halsey’s forthright view of
them:
We have their measure in the air, on
the water and under the water, and on land.
They are not supermen, although they try
to make us believe they are.
Perhaps the admiral is there a shade
unfair to them, since the supermen fable
is not nearly so much a Japanese con-
struction as a concoction turned out by
countless professional and unconscious
fable-makers not on the Jap side at
all; indeed hating him, while thus
helping him. For there can hardly be
any question that propagating this myth
is of service to the Japs. Carried far
enough it could have serious effects on
the morale of those fighting them.
The later fable is now being belatedly
corrected, not only by the views of these
and other fighting leaders, but also, even
more solidly, by results. The compara-
tive losses in the Papuan fighting is one
striking pointer to the comparative fight-
ing ability of the troops engaged. Vide
General Blarney, “Our total battle losses
were many thousands less than the Japa-
nese lost in land fighting alone, and enemy
losses at sea exceeded Allied losses in
battle.” The Jap army there, General
Blarney added, “has not only been de-
feated. It has been practically extermi-
nated.” And by what if not by better
fighters?
While the main part of the new fable
was thus being ripped open a related part
of it was being torn out of the skies. This
was the myth of the Jap Zero ’planes,
also set up in the super class. Lieut-
General E. F. Herring has stated that this
part of the fable was “finally exploded
over the Huon Gulf.”
Japanese pilots are not good. Some of
their more experienced pilots built up a
false reputation against “green” Ameri-
can pilots before the Americans had
learned their job. There is a different
story to tell today. „
From all fronts the “different story
about the Japs is building up. Just as
well it can be built up. Even with the
Jap down off the pedestal obligingly con-
structed for him by our earnest fable-
makers, beating him, strategically placed
as he now is, and with his teeming num-
bers, will be a tough enough job. It
he were anything like the superman ot
the later fable it would be impossible.
Luckily he is nothing of the sort. Better
fighters, Diggers and Doughboys neither
making any claim to be supermen are
proving that the later fable is just as silly
as the old one.


PLAIN ENGLISH
On, On—to the Equator!
Mr. Curtin, having asked the Americans
for “greater air strength” and “greater
naval strength,” and reminded them that
“the men of Corregidor can be avenged
only if naval and air strength in this
theatre is adequate to the plans of the
commander,” was delivered of his Militia
Service Bill, by permission of seven
Labor conferences.
The bill has nothing to do with “the
men of Corregidor,” or with anything so
large as a welding of Australia’s mixed
forces into one army. It is restricted to
advancing by a figurative, and almost a
literal, 17| yards the boundaries up to
which the militia may be sent. The
Equator is the northern limit. If only
those who first established that imaginary
line had set it yards further north the
cause of democracy would now be three
full military marching paces better off.
As it is, it will be lawful to send the
militia to Dutch New Guinea, Amboina
and Timor ; into half of Java, a third
of Borneo and three-fourths of Cele-
bes. But it will not be lawful to send
the militia to Sumatra, the Philippines,
Singapore, Burma, Fiji, New Caledonia,
the Gilberts or Nauru, nor to the part
of the Solomons which includes Guadal-
canal, nor even to Maoriland —though if
Maoriland were attacked the only power
on earth that could prevent Aus-
tralians speeding to the help of their
brothers would be superior enemy power.
The bill has- had a first reading. Mr.
Menzies was pointedly critical of it. On
November 15, 1939, Mr. Menzies, as
P.M., stated: —■
I once more emphasise that there is no
question of conscription for overseas ser-
vice. We [then the Government, now the
Opposition] are definitely pledged against it.
This somewhat disqualifies Mr. Men-
zies as critic. However, the whole face
of the war has changed since then —
greatly to the bad for Australia. As well,
Mr. Menzies was then doing what he
could against the vigorous opposition of
Messrs. Curtin and co. Messrs. Curtin
and co. opposed an A.I.F. for overseas
service, and opposed militia service in
Australia’s island territories. They are
now happy to use the militia within the
limits of this bill, and the A.I.F. any-
where—didn’t the A.I.F. volunteer?
As to this history, it can be said that,
apart from such myopics as the Wards,
Calwells and Langs, anybody worthy of
representing an Australian backyard must
have since been forced by events to
drastic changes in mind and outlook.
Even this limited bill speaks of extra-
ordinary change in the thinking of its
sponsors. Its cardinal defect is that it
does not fully reflect that change. There-
fore it doesn’t look honest. It looks like
a raw length of political expediency. It
is a makeshift. It falls short by its own
limits of what its sponsors haven’t the
present guts to do.
The worst feature of it is its possible
effect in other parts of the world. It is
the weakest possible backing to Mr. Cur-
tin’s grave warnings of impending attack
and to his appeals to Allied countries
for help. The bill’s sponsors take a stand
that challenges all world records in brazen
impudence and impenetrable hide. While
insisting that soldiers of the country that
is vitally and directly threatened shall
be sent thus far and no farther, they
demand that other main Allied countries,
under no such threat, shall send their men
anywhere and everywhere.
Man-power.
Man-power is a headache everywhere.
In Australia all has been confusion, and
Mr. Curtin recently became conscious of
it. Man-power, he said somewhat plain-
tively, should be brought under one
authority; but he was either too gener-
ous or too timorous to remove the egre-
gious Mr. Ward.
In the new set-up Mr. Ward’s wings
have been clipped to some extent. Mr.
Wurth, as Director-General, has been
empowered to “direct” the employment of
practically everybody in the country,
irrespective of sex. Mr. Wurth is
an Old Digger of proved competency
in the public service. All the same, things
would be less difficult for him and the
nation if he were given a committee
made up of Diggers from both Houses
and a few people like Lieut. Cutler, V.C.,
of the R.S.L., to help him.
On the face of it, the new power re-
moves everybody from exemption. If
this is interpreted as including State
politicians—many of whom, especially
in N. S. Wales, are of military
or working age—it will be an earnest
of good intentions. And, very obvi-
ously, many employees of trade-unions
and radio stations, bookmakers, “com-
mission agents” and the like (a sur-
prising number of them has suddenly
found it expedient to become “wharf-
laborers” or “seamen,” though how many
labor on the wharves or go to sea isn’t
known) should come under the Wurth
review. The tendency for persons receiv-
ing A.W.C. call-ups to ring up, write to
or see somebody about it could do with
examination. There should also be a
deep scrutiny into the occupations of mobs
who hang round racecourses and pubs at
the week-end—one Sydney mob violently
assaulted a small party of returned
soldiers whose “offence” lay in trying to
get a drink in a pub declared “black”
by the mob.
The man-power authority ought to
recognise that the country’s superfluous
Governmental and quasi-Governmental
departments are overloaded with men
who perform few tasks of any value, and
who would be better utilised in the fight-
ing and auxiliary services. This doesn’t
apply to schoolteachers. Far too many
teachers have been allowed to enlist.
Diggers on Pensions.
About 2000 turned up for the Diggers’
pensions-and-repatriation meeting at Syd-
ney Town Hall, and, as well, the meet-
ing had the support of some 400-odd
R.S.L. sub-branches in N.S.W., the Vic-
torian branch and other related organ-
isations.
N.S.W. State secretary A. R. Cutler,
V.C., mentioned instances of seriously
disabled men receiving 2s. and 3s. a
week ; in many cases men and women
coming back from overseas suffering
from injuries which result in their dis-
charge receive no pension at all.
A Parliamentary Committee’s pro-
posal to increase pensions by 20 per cent,
was rated “entirely inadequate”; the
minimum increase should be “at least 50
per cent.” Proposed amendments to the
Repat. Act were also rated unsatisfac-
tory ; “the Act should be repealed and
an entirely new Act passed forthwith.”
It was made clear that there was no-
thing political about the meeting ; indeed,
the present Government was said to be
“the only one in the past 20 years which
had seriously tackled the pensions posi-
tion.” True enough, this, but an easily-
earned compliment, the present Govern-
ment being the only one in the time
under any pressing necessity to tackle the
issue. The Diggers’ claims being as just
as they are, and being backed by present
potential voting strength, any brand of
Government whatever would be doing
at least something about them now.
The Diggers can be surer of a hearing
now than ever before, for one good
reason —there are many more of them.
They are not, as they once were, a com-
parative handful as against the rest. By
the time this war is over those who have
worn uniform —both men and women —
could represent a force in the country
that none would dare to ignore, let alone
treat shabbily.
There is one danger—that they will
become divided. Maybe interested parties
see a hope of this in opposing the one-
army plan. If there is to remain an
A.I.F. and a C.M.F. as separate forces,
and if the Service Men’s League is to bar
the latter from membership, divided they
will be—and probably in organised divi-
sions at that. There could easily emerge
at least three separate bodies —the present
League, with its restricted membership ;
a League of returned C.M.F. (from Papua
and, presently, further abroad); and a
League of those who (very largely
through no fault of their own") would
be ineligible for both such Leagues,
though they may have worn uniform for
years. These last would not be all call-
up men by a long shot; there are many
thousands in uniform doing essential jobs
in Australia, yet ineligible for the present
League or for a returned C.M.F. League.
The position could arise where the
present League—which has done so much
so admirably for service men —would be
by numbers, and therefore in influence,
a minor body. Interested parties could
be relied on to do the rest, playing one
body against another.
Diggers might also do well to keep in
mmd that they are sure of a much more
sympathetic hearing now, while they rep-
resent the country’s safety, than they're
likely to get once that safety is ensured.
If one ex-service men’s organisation—
which would be the logical thing with a
one-army plan operating—is impossible
with the existing hotchpotch arrange-
ment, then those concerned would show
sense in working for affiliation at least.
NO NON-UNIONIST NEED APPLY.
“You can’t get a job here without a union ticket!”
“I joined the A.I.F. without one.”
“More bloody fool you!”


X
J
J 3
m
—r'T'A
4
•• tKey
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND CEN ERAI INSURANCE CO LTD.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
March Delivery.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15*/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
ALTHER* STEVEHSOH K
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The A.L.P. mountain which labored so
long and in so many places has brought
forth a mouse, portentously described as
“a Bill for an Act to authorise the Service
of Members of the Citizen Military
Forces in the South-western Pacific Zone
for the duration of the war.” The South-
western Pacific Zone is defined as
the area bounded on the West by the one
hundred and tenth meridian of East longi-
tude, on the North by the Equator and on
the East by the one hundred and fifty-ninth
meridian of East longitude.
It sounds like a prescription of the rules
for a military version of the game of
hopscotch. , Not prisoners’ base—Singa-
pore is about a hundred miles north of
the Equator. Out of bounds also are
the Jap bases of Yap, Truk, Jaluit and
Palau.
Curtin’s radio appeal for more Anglo-
American aircraft and warships in the
South-west Pacific was recorded, and the
record was turned on at an A.N.A.
gathering at Canberra, the P.M. and
Fadden being among' the listeners. When
the “God bless you!” rang out, the
Opposition-leader shook Curtin’s hand,
following this pleasing ceremony with
sturdy vocal support for his appeal. Two
days later, after a vulgar barney in the
House, Collins and Conelan shook their
fists in one another’s faces. Pity these
members and others of the kind can’t
learn from their leaders how to behave.
Charming announcement in Lang’s
“Century”:
The Conscription Barometer does not
appear as usual this week. In our next
edition, on Friday, February 6, will appear
a new and revised political Conscription
Barometer.
Presumably the State A.L.P. executive’s
demand for a pledge of loyalty (return-
able on February 4) produced such an
awful freeze among Labor politicians
that the old barometer went out of ser-
vice. And it is by no means certain that
the new barometer will function, although
poor old Jack protests that “90 p.c. of
the Labor movement in this State is
opposed to conscription.”
The N.S.W. Teachers’ Union has vir-
tually become a branch of the Labor
party and is strong for compulsory
unionism and all that. It was expected
by Labor teachers that the Victorian
Teachers’ Union would follow suit, but a
“motion for affiliation” failed of the
necessary three-fifths majority at the
Melbourne conference. Then the dele-
gates, after hearing N. G. McNicol say
that “the high educational standard of
the American troops is an eye-opener as
to how this country is lagging,” and W.
Trudinger that “Australia’s educational
systems, all six of them, are not sufficient
to meet the needs of the Commonwealth
and the tremendous problems that will
arise after the war,” voted unanimously
for Commonwealth control. And that
would be a great stride forward.
The Victorian teachers have a lady
president, Miss Gilbert, and she made a
powerful contribution to their debates in
Melbourne.
We note the rise of delinquency, the
childish rebellion against discipline and
orderly living and the continuing stream
of immature boys and girls passing un-
skilled into industry to repeat the tragedy
of the depression years. What is planned
for the training and direction of these
children? No one in authority gives a
reply.
It is a matter, one of many, for a national
system of education, not six provincial
substitutes, each with a Minister who
either muddles or dumbly acquiesces.
Reds have been a nuisance to the
A.W.U. for many years, but they seem
no nearer gaining control than they were
20 years ago. Their efforts to get Fallon
expelled from the union or dismissed
from the secretaryship failed egregiously
at the convention in Ballarat. Fallon put
it to the last convention, with its distinct
approval, that Russia should be asked to
fulfil a thousand Communist assurances
that it would take part in the war in the
Pacific; and for that the Corns, will
never forgive him.
Greatly to the relief of Ministers at
Canberra, the A.W.U. Convention, at
Fallon’s instance, declared itself loyal
to the Labor party and pledged the old
union to co-operate completely with the
Curtin Government, “with particular
reference to the war effort.” Fallon was
alleged to have said at an A.W.U. dele-
gate meeting in Queensland that “the
greatest mistake the A.W.U. ever made
was to pledge loyalty to this Govern-
ment.” He pronounced the report “an
invention of the capitalistic press.”
SOLD!
“The northern boundary specified in the Militia Service Bill stops at least 100 miles south
of Singapore.”
A professor of Columbia University
(U.S.A.) predicts that 50,000 American
service men will want to make their
homes in Australia after the war. Well,
there can be no objection to that —pro-
vided they’ve got their union tickets.
N.S.W. motorists who couldn’t fathom
why the McKells insisted on their tak-
ing out a separate third-party-risk policy
dated from registration date to expiry
date will get the explanation with their
registration renewal notices. These come
from the Traffic Department, and each
is accompanied by a four-page sheet con-
taining instructions and form of applica-
tion for third-party-risk to the Govern-
ment Insurance Office. Thus, every time
a motorist receives a renewal notice he
receives the form. If the stunt works,
the insurance office, set up in the face
of demands for economy in man-power
and paper, should get a good start on
motor insurance. Unconscious irony is
to be found on the registration form,
which bears across the column for “de-
scription of vehicle” the legend, in red
ink, “Details omitted as a war economy
measure.”
It is belatedly acknowledged that for
the year to June 30, 1942, another
£29,000 was thrown away on the “A.B.C.
Weekly.” In scores, hundreds, thou-
sands of ways the people’s money is
being wasted like water in a go-as-you-
please flat. Yet all the Government can
think of is to bump up the taxes, par-
ticularly the taxes on the middle class,
while carefully refraining from taxing
lottery prizes.
After saying that the income-tax
assessments introduced in May, 1942,
would not be increased during the year
to June 30, , 1943,. the Government is
preparing to increase them “as from”
April 1. It proposes also to hold over-
payments of tax taken from pay-enve-
lopes against next year’s tax, though
whether it can lawfully do so is question-
able. In the result there has been a rush
for refunds reminiscent of the rush to
buy at the shops when rationing inten-
tions were prematurely disclosed some-
how. “Much of the Government’s in-
terference with trade has been amateur-
ish,” says the secretary of the N.S.W.
Country Traders ; and the same is true
of these performances in the taxation
field, only more so.
The week passed without any fresh
Directors - General of the Post-War
Utopia being appointed. What’s the
matter?
Anyone who wants to lighten these
grim times with a hearty laugh needs only
to turn to the League of Nations section
of the Statesman’s Year-Book (1942).
Inter alia, it records that, “owing to the
world crisis, the League Assembly de-
cided in December, 1939, that the election
of Judges [of the Permanent Court of
International Justice] should be post-
poned. Accordingly, the present Judges
remain in office until replaced.” (Art.
13.) They include British, French,
Italian, Japanese, Chinese, American and
Finnish appointees. The president hails
from Salvador.
N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mac Kay
is a character in the latest chapter of a
long-standing Sydney newspaper feud
which has led to a punching at Rand-
wick and the seemingly interminable
Allied Works Council inquiry. On a
newspaperman’s complaint that he had
been “framed” by two constables, Mac-
Kay caused the charge to be withdrawn
and the constables to be suspended on
many charges pending a departmental
inquiry, though he let them carry on for
a week. Advised by its law officers that
the Commissioner had no right to with-
draw the proceedings against the news-
paperman, the Government ordered him
to issue a summons. To this he de-
murred, saying he would seek legal advice
himself, but presently he was heard say-
ing that he would “obey the direction of
the Honorable the Premier,” meanwhile
publishing extraordinary stuff about the
two constables, who have been silent
throughout. It has long been evident that
this gentleman is too big for his boots,
though the Stevens Government made
them specially big.
From the Sydney “Sunday Telegraph”:
By the industrial amalgamation between
ironworkers and munition-makers tough,
hard-hitting Ernie .Thornton becomes
general secretary of a powerful key union,
with a membership of 100,000. Thornton
and his Left-Wing comrades are solid for
Curtin and a . 100 per cent, war effort.
“Solid” since when? First fruits of the
amalgamation were a strike of 3000 em-
ployees in a Newcastle munitions factory
to force a staff roller to join the union—
a man of whom Justice Cantor said “the
question whether he should or should not
join the union is one entirely for him-
self.”
Scully found it necessary to announce
that his Director-General of Agriculture
had been appointed to the Fodder . Con-
servation Board and the Potato Com-
mittee. Why? As boss of agriculture
Bulcock should have control over all
phases of it. Or is it that these boards,
like so many others, are responsible to
nobody and would refuse to recognise
Bulcock unless he was appointed to
them?
Urging a reduction of war-damage in-
surance premiums, 22 N.S.W. municipal
councils apparently subscribed to the
Woollahra view, which is that there is
a danger of the premiums becoming per-
manent taxation. More compulsory
funds for “social security”?
During the Industrial Court proceed-
ings touching that shipyard strike in
Queensland, the secretary of the Metal
Trades Employers produced a Commu-
nist publication, printed before the
strike, and pointed out that it “approved
of action on the lines taken later by the
Federated Ironworkers.” Then it was
that Chief Justice Webb spoke out:
Are Communists sponsoring the strike?
If the promoters of such a strike lived in
Russia they would be liquidated. Perhaps
some of the people doing Japan’s dirty
work are disguised as Communists. To
pretend to be a Communist would be an
effective disguise for any Fifth Columnist.
The Government at Canberra, which re-
moved the outlawry of Communist
organisations and publications and is
complacently accepting their “support”
for its militia-service policy, is known to
have the highest opinion of Chief Justice
Webb. It must now be a prey to mixed
emotions. *
It came out last week that a scarcity
of charcoal in Sydney was giving trouble
to users of vehicles carrying essential
materials. The State Transport Commis-
sioner mumbled something about wet
weather and shortage of staff. McKell,
when bragging about the State War
Effort, rarely omits to suggest that the
Government charcoal-kilns are miracles
of improvisation and production.
“This,” said the guide, showing the
visitors round Canberra, “is where the
nation’s laws are made.” There was a
nark in the group and he joined issue,
arguing that the laws were made in
Trades Halls and were merely confirmed
in the building pointed out. He was
going on to develop his theme when a
harried-looking Minister arrived, spoke
to him pleadingly and led him away.
“Norther”: Substance of three resolu-
tions adopted by Charters Towers
Chamber of Commerce and Mines:
That Australian soldiers be suitably
tailored in off-duty dress and headgear.
Other forces have as many as four khaki
and one dungaree suits. The moral effect
of good clothes would be great and the
cost small.
That minimum rate of pay for men and
women stationed in battle areas be £1 a
day, with a minimum of 15s. a day for all
other forces, the increases to be in de-
ferred pay so that each will be in a posi-
tion to rehabilitate himself after the war.
That when a serving person is discharged
as incapacitated he shall receive the basic
wage until found a job within the scope of
his ability.
It all seems fair enough in view of the
Government’s tender regard for civilian
workers who hold union tickets.
Ever since the German war began Jews
have clamored for the creation of a Jew-
ish army. Fearing the effect in the Arab
world, the British Government has cold-
shouldered the proposal, and an Ameri-
can professor from Cairo has told the
Americans that the British Government is
right. Nevertheless, a proclamation calling
for a Jewish army has been issued in the
U.S.A. by Pierre van Paassen, the writer,
described as “national chairman of the
committee for a Jewish army of State-
less and Palestinian Jews,” and it bears the
signatures of Thurman Arnold, assistant
to the Attorney-General; Marriner
Eccles, chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board ; Joseph Davis, formerly Ambas-
sador to Russia; and Australia’s old
friend “Hail Columbia” Hoover. Surely
General Eisenhower has troubles enough.


LOOK Through These Glasses
at Everything You Buy!
EXB3-42
ţ
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
BATTERIES
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
S.A. Premier Playford has taken ad-
vantage of a visit to Adelaide by Lionel
Hill to collect at lunch, as far as possible,
their other predecessors in office. Bar-
well had four years from 1920, Butler
and Hill each two innings. Richards,
now Opposition-leader, who had a brief
term 10 years ago, is the only one now
(besides Playford) in active politics.
Crawford Vaughan, the senior among
S.A. Premiers living, and Gunn were not
available; nowadays the Crawford
Vaughans (the lady was Miss Preston
Stanley, M.L.A.) live at Leura (N.S.W.).
The first thing that will strike the
Very Rev. Thomas Mackinson Armour
when he arrives in Wangaratta as its new
Anglican bishop will be the Victorian
town’s beauty. And the first thing that
will strike the “Wangites” will be their
new bishop’s wit and forthright manner.
An Englishman, he came out as a Bush
Brother and evangelled round the Dubbo
district in 1928-29, then became Principal
of the Order until he was appointed
Deaffi of Newcastle in 1936. While Prin-
cipal, he had a look round the world,
sampling Hitlerite Germany on the way.
His large personality will absorb the quiet
loveliness of the Ovens River town as it
did the somewhat different environment
of coal capital, where he
helped found and was secretary of the
C. of E. League of Patriotic Service.
“El V.”; At Brisbane Grammar big Bill
Payne stood out among an adventurous comity
of rowdy youth as one who was courteous to
everyone, a little detached and judicial; one
who was big enough to lick any two of us
but who scorned to give or have a black eye;
a reasonable fellow, in fact, who never in his
life put birdlime in the whiskers of George
Rylatt, the janitor, or heaved a tomato at
Victor, our Calabrian ice-cream purveyor.
After a quietly brilliant school career, Payne
disappeared into the Queensland Lands De-
partment. Some time in his late twenties he
went to the Bar and became a Land Court
Crown advocate, and it dawned on the de-
partment that it had a young man of parts.
At 32 he was Assistant Under-Secretary. At 33,
as Chairman of the Prickly Pear Commission,
he embarked on a job which almost wiped out
pear-in Queensland and added “a. new province
PAYNE, of Queensland.
of vast potentialities to the State” —16,000,000
acres within 10 years after the job got properly
under way. At 36 he was on the Land Court
Bench, and next year he took on the reform
of Queensland land laws, performing the
almost impossible feat of pleasing all parties
and introducing a flexible pastoral tenure
adjustable to all conditions. One more year
found him Chairman of the Land Administra-
tion Board to carry out his own scheme and
control, inter alia, the largest landlord busi-
ness in Australia, managing 310,000,000-odd
acres of leasehold land. In ten years of drought
and depression he did his job in a way which
saved many sections of the wool industry from
disaster. He became President of the Queens-
land Land Appeal Court five years ago. A fea-
ture of Payne’s work has been his reports as a
commissioner on many subjects. The Northern
Territory, wool—for both Commonwealth and
State —forestry all have felt his reorganising
hand. His_ investigation is always thorough
and his elucidation is usually a model of what
a report should be. He is still the same con-
cisely spoken, unassuming Payne that he was
in his boyhood.
wmle a fair swag of Australians spent
the country’s birthday (January 26) loaf-
ing, General Douglas MacArthur was on
the job as usual for his 63rd birthday
on the same day. His chief, President
Roosevelt, was no doubt also on the job,
back from his African adventure, for
the same sort of occasion, F.D.R.’s
birthday happening last Saturday. Sixty-
one, the President had a solid cash
backing to kick off with, his parents
being described in an American bio-
graphical note as “very wealthy and
highly aristocratic.” So F.D.R. went
to Groton and Harvard and spent his
vacations in Europe, where he learned
German and French. His recent broad-
cast to the French people in their own
language after the North African land-
ings was criticised on the score of gram-
matical errors. Some wanted to know
who wrote it; others, even more rudely,
declared that it could only have been
written by the President himself —which,
in fact, it had been. Faulty French or
not, he and Churchill apparently did a
fair job with the French in Africa.
“Ek Dum” farewells a soldier:
Lt.-Col. Clyde Judd, dead in Queensland at
an all too early age, deserved well of his
country. Born at Cheltenham (Vic.) in 1892, he
began as a Victorian railway porter, enlisted at
22 in the Ist Battalion, A.1.F., and won his spurs
at Lone Pine on August 6, 1915, when after a
retirement he volunteered to run back over
no-man’s-land under fire to rescue a badly-
needed machine-gun. He received the M.M. and
was commissioned. He was wounded on the
ridge at Broodssinde on October 14, 1917, and
again in Villeret in the Hindenburg-Outpost
Line battle of September 18, 1918. After the
war he became a member of the New Guinea
Expropriation Board, cleaned up most of the
troubles of 1923 with businesslike decisiveness
and retired to the goldfields, where, as a con-
tractor, he was prepared to take on anything
which daunted anybody else. A great deal of
the development of the fields was due to his
initiative and :rprise. In the last years be-
fore the war he up a desperate struggle with
succeeding Governments to have New Guinea
put into a state of defence, and his 22-stone
figure was well known in Canberra. Had his
plan been followed, it would have saved Aus-
tralia hundreds of casualties —perhaps many
more before the war is over.
“Cauboy”: Australia has seen an
alleged portrait of Alexander Woolcott,
America’s most prolific writer, broad-
caster and critic, who recently collapsed
at the microphone and died shortly
after. It was contained in the leading
character of Hart and Kaufman’s “The
Man Who Came to Dinner,” put on here
with Edwin Styles in the Woolcott role.
Woolcott appeared in it as himself in the
American presentation, and it must have
required courage or something to do it,
for the character was not flattering.
Though there always was plenty of
fight hidden away in ex-Sydney Public
Librarian W. H. Ifould (now in the War
Organisation outfit), he looked more the
thoughtful, gentle part of bookman than
fighter. The fighting side has come out
strongly in his sons. Elton, serving in
New Guinea, lately collected the U.S.
Silver Star; last week Edward figured
in the lists with a bar to his D.F.C. ;
and Frank, who enlisted as an A.B. in
the Navy, has gone on to a commission.
Edward’s age, 33, is another knock to
the fiction that only pilots round about
the 20 mark are much good. Austra-
lia’s leading air ace, Caldwell, is just on
Ifould’s age ; American Joe Foss is get-
ting on that way ; and there are others.
It is some 60 years since the father and
an uncle of Lord Huntingfield, onetime
Governor of Victoria, married daughters
of a Queensland surgeon. Now it is
reported that Sub-Lieutenant the Hon.
Peter Vanneck, R.N., younger son of
his lordship, has affianced Miss Cordelia
Errington, of Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk.
In 1941 the sub-lieutenant’s brother, the
Hon. Gerard, married Miss Janetta
Errington, sister of Miss Cordelia.
Brisbane gets, to reopen its Gowrie
Child Centre, which has been closed for
a year or so, a first-class Director in
Ada Stephens, now head of the very
modern Free Kindergarten of Hackney,
an Adelaide suburb. She claims to be
the originator of the war-time scheme
by which the children of munition-
worker mothers are not only looked after
during the daytime, but are given supper
and bath, so that they are handed over
to the mother all ready for bed.
A wary citizen rang up Melbourne’s
Russell-street and reported that a Japa-
nese naval officer was wandering along
the foreshore counting the ships in the
harbor. A police car was dispatched in-
stanter, and presently the sleuths were
interrogating a foreign-looking gentle-
man in naval uniform who was walking
along St. Kilda Beach with an Australian
civilian. A policeman asked him if he
was an officer of the Japanese Navy.
“No,” said the stranger ; “of the Chinese.”
He was Captain Chih Kuang Wang,
Naval Attache to the Legation of the
Celestial Republic. Captain Wang joined
the Chinese Silent Service at 14 and has
seen plenty of excitement on China’s vast
river system as a gunboat captain. He
knows a good deal about Japan, having
Naval Attaché.
spent several years in that country. From
1937 to 1939 he was gaining diplomatic
experience in Hitlerland. Cultured and
speaking several European languages,
he is making headway with the Austra-
lian vernacular, which he speaks with an
idiomatic flavor that doesn’t come from
the classroom. He hails from Foochow,
•in Fukien province, the ancient source
of a good half of Chinese emigration
to Australia.
Victorian businessman in the rubber
line Albert Gharlesworth went back to
his first love in war jobs when he was
lately appointed hon. chief commissioner
for the Y.M.C.A. in this war. Last war
he represented the Y.M. for three years
in Egypt, England and France, and col-
lected an 0.8. E.
Posted missing after minelaying off the
Frisian Islands and now presumed to be
dead, Pilot-Officer W. Kenneth Williams,
one of the more brilliant recent products
of Melbourne University, born at Shep-
parton. At the Uni. he won the Wyselas-
kie Scholarship in political economy, the
Cobden Club medal and a first in final
honors. He left the job of resident tutor
in economics at Queen’s College for the
Empire Training Scheme, and in 1941
was transferred from Canada to Eng-
land. He was secretary of the Uni.
dramatic group which hides lofty aspira-
tions under the name of the Tin Pan
Alley players.
Two more A.I.F. V.Cs. ; like the other
recent two, both posthumous; one of
them yet another to W.A. Both were
won in the fighting in which A.I.F. in-
fantry broke a gap in the German lines
at El Alamein, opening the way for the
beginning of the drive right across Libya
and beyond Tripoli. The Westralian
winner was Pte. Percival Eric Gratwick.
The leaders of his company all killed and
the company held up by heavy fire from
strong positions, he charged alone, wiped
out one post with grenades, then attacked
another post with the bayonet. He was
killed there, but his action enabled the
post to be taken and the advance con-
tinued. Pte. Gratwick was 40 ; bom at
Katanning (W.A.); single ; a prospector.
The other Alamein V.C., Sgt. William
Henry N. Kibby, enlisted in S.A., but was
English-born. He attacked strong enemy
posts with a tommy-gun, killed three of
the enemy and captured 12. The post
taken, he led his platoon through sub-
sequent tough actions till it was mowed
down by machine-gun fire from point-
blank range. Sgt. Kibby, now alone, still
went on till he, too, was killed by a burst
from a machine-gun. He was 38.
Wounded and now a prisoner of war,
Capt. Hore-Ruthven, son and heir of
Australia’s Governor - General, Lord
Gowrie. He was with the British Army’s
Rifle Brigade.
Exit Ben Tillett:
Within a week or so of the passing of John
Burns, the even more noted British Labor stal-
wart, Ben Tillett, passed hence. Australia saw
Ben when he was out this way on his Empire
lecture tours. Eighty-three at the end, he started
off working in a brickyard when he was eight.
The dust and the grit made his think of the
fresh sea, and presently, still a boy, he was
on a fishing smack. Then he tried bootmaking,
but went back to the sea, first with the Navy,
and, invalided out, on merchant ships. In
1887, when he was 27, he organised the Dock
(etc.) Union, covering Britain and Ireland, and
was its secretary till it amalgamated with Trans-
port and General Workers’ (1922). He had
several shots at Parliament before getting in
for North Salford (1917-24 and, again, 1929-
31). As well, he was for years a London aider-
man. Always ready to take a lead in any such
doings, he went to Hamburg and Antwerp to
help strikers there. After being jugged for
this enthusiasm, he was given sailing directions
for home. He wrote a stack of pamphlets on
strikes he’d taken a hand in and suchlike
subjects. There was a good deal of J. Bull’s
staunchness and solidity about Ben.
Into the silence:
At 79, in Melbourne, Dr. Arthur E. Symc,
third son of David, of the “Age” proprietary.
One of the five who sought a career outside the
family tradition, Dr. Syme practised in Lily-
dale, Melba’s birthplace. Sportsman, athlete,
footballer, huntsman and racehorse-breeder,
he raced horses under his own name 30 years
ago and thereafter as “Mr. S. A. Rawdon.”
The stud and stables he built up at Mordialloc,
on the Mornington Peninsula, with their mile
and a half of racetrack, were a model. He
was also a noted amateur steeplechase rider.
Lilydale remembers him as the genial philan-
thropist and family doctor who drove all oyer
the Dandenongs and Warburton district to visit
patients behind a tough horse winter and
summer, and even on one occasion with an
unset collarbone broken while hunting.
In Sydney, at 82, Oscar Lines, former g.m.
of the Bank of N.S.W., and on its board of
directors after his retirement. Starting in Adel-
aide, where he was born, he had 52 years’
service with the bank, with managerial posts
in M.L., Victoria and London.
In Adelaide, at 56, Dr. Lionel Oxborrow
Betts, orthopaedic specialist and sheepbreeder.
The Betts Corriedale and Ryeland flocks are
known throughout Australia, the Ryeland stock
having won championships in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide over the past 10 years.
He gamed the 0.8. E. on war service overseas
in 1917.
In Adelaide, at 78, J. W. T. Saunders,
whose performance included water-conservation
schemes in S.A., N.S.W. and Vic.; second-in-
charge on the Kalgoorlie water supply; service
in the Kruger War (he enlisted while on holiday
in England, and gained the rank of captain, then
stayed on for S’African railway works); to
M.L. for the Powell wood process; engineer-in-
charge of the East-West railway (Port Augusta
to Kalgoorlie) construction.
At Malvern (Vic.), 70, Donald Clive Mor-
rison, solicitor, who came from Geelong’s
most distinguished family. His father founded
Geelong College and was its first headmaster,
and his brother succeeded the father. Another
brother was “Chinese” Morrison, “Times”
correspondent, adviser to the Manchus and
author of These from the Land of Sinim and
many other writings.
Killed in low-flying training exercises in
Queensland, Flight-Lieut. A. W. Macarthur
Onslow; b. Camden (N.S.W.), 1917, youngest
son of the late F. A. Macarthur Onslow. He
learned to fly with the Royal Aero Club,
Sydney, and took his ticket as a commercial
pilot and instructor in England, where he'd
previoulsy raced in light-car road events. In
1938 he flew his own survey ’plane from Eng-
land to Australia; then formed Air Travel and
Survey, carrying out Government contracts
throughout the Commonwealth. In 1937 he
gained a commission with the N.S.W. Lancers,
transferring to the R.A.A.F. when the war
started.
In his native Queensland, at 58, Clif Rut-
ledge, mining engineer, consultant and metal-
lurgist and son of the late knight Arthur Rut-
ledge, District Court Judge. Early years
were spent in the nickel mines of New Cale-
donia, also as g.m. of the Chillagoe State
Smelters (N.Q.) and as executive of the W. B.
Carr goldmining interests. Subsequently he
turned to Papua, and it is to his judgment and
energy as resident director that much of the
successful promotion and working of Fred
Cuthbert’s old mine was due. At the end, he
was assisting Malcolm Newman in the Federal
drive for strategic war minerals.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; Introduction of women into
some sections of our tramways where
never a female foot had trod before
has imposed a tremendous strain on
men used to tossing empurpled oaths
about with abandon. At one depot an
old bachelor who hasn’t taken kindly to
the innovation found it hard to keep a
a rein upon his lips when a large, grim-
faced lady engaged on car-cleaning came
to his store on successive occasions and
innocently asked for such strange items
as corrugated oil, underslung soap, a
cubic pound of bent resin, laminated
mercury and striped paint. Finally, when
a bushel of mercerised waste was requisi-
tioned, he flew off the handle and in-
quired whether she didn’t know her leg was
being well pulled. For that he got an
official dressing-down that gnawed like
a viper at his vitals. A day or two later
he had to relieve the clerk who checks
the tallies when the cleaners commence
and finish work:. The large lady with
the forbidding frontispiece came up,
sniffed, said “Twenty-seven” and held
out a hand for the corresponding
metal disc. The soured storeman glared
at her and, deeming the opportunity too
good to miss, and damn the conse-
quences, came back with “That was a
hell of a long time ago, I bet!”
* * * *
“Yair”: Going down from the Sydney
lottery office I noticed two small boys
ahead of me talking excitedly. One held
a stack of lottery forms—there must have
been 200 in the heap, and he hadn’t
taken them for fun. This was business.
“Righto!” he was saying intently.
“Every week we’ll round all the kids up
and run a lottery of our own. You can
write the/forms out for them and I’ll,
make up tickets with numbers and every-
thing. Two bob the prize—and we’ll
charge a zack a ticket.”
“M.’s Boy”: We were jammed tight in
the suffocating queue at Sydney’s lottery
office, and a woman voiced a complaint
abo.ut the alleged slowness of one of
the ticket-sellers. “It’s all right about
you,” snapped the lady in the cage.
“How would you like to have to deal
with this crowd?” Back came the retort,
“I wouldn’t. I’d leave it for some re-
turned soldier. Legless men could sit
in there and hand out tickets while able-
bodied women were doing something
better worth doing.” A small cheer arose
from the queue and a dead silence ruled
behind the wire.
* * * *
“Eureka”: What has happened to the
“penny poets” who used to be in evi-
dence at Sydney sports meetings? After
any notable event it was the custom of
these bards to compose a set of verses
and have them printed on a strip of paper
to be sold at a penny a copy to the
crowds at football and cricket matches
or the Sydney Show. “Paddy” Collins
was one of Sydney’s best-known penny
poets. As he made his way through the
crowded grandstands he would recite a
bit here and there from his works. One
of his best pieces was dedicated to the
memory of Les Darcy. Another of the
clan, most often to be found in Sydney
Domain, was Jack Bradshaw, who
claimed to be the last of the bushrangers.
With the war providing stirring events
every day there would be great scope for
penny poets in these times. One can
imagine the gems they would produce
about the Rats of Tobruk, the Mice of
Port Moresby and the Beavers of Timor.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The residents of Malvern, a
quiet suburb of Melbourne, were shaken
out of their customary calm by an offi-
cial request for immediate accommo-
dation for several hundred men on
leave for 30 days. The Government
was to provide the bedding. The
local council bestirred itself, food was
prepared and billets requisitioned from
householders, and the suburb waited with
considerable elation for the expected in-
vasion. No bedding arrived, and only one
lonely soldier turned up. Questioned, he
professed blank ignorance as to the
whereabouts of any others. Now the
suburb seeks the scalp of the blunderer.
“You are accused of using insulting language to the sergeant."
“Not me, boss —must be mistakin' me for some other pfeller!"
“Hamer”: In the midst of that present-
day jungle of old grimy factories Alex-
andria (Sydney) stands a quaint memory
of an arcadian past—the Cauliflower
Hotel. It got its name, of course, in the
days when the district was the location
of numberless Chinese-owned vegetable
gardens. Not far away, in Redfern, the
Cricketers’ Rest Hotel is a reminder that
in that locality there used to flourish the
Albert Cricket Ground, the earliest en-
closed area for cricket matches, where
the first international and intercolonial
games, as well as some challenge games,
were played. Men like Bonnor, Spof-
forth, the early Gregorys and the Banner-
mans used to pass through a back en l
trance into the pub for thirst-quenchers.
There were giants in those days and they
j . j
arans. aeep.
*** . *
“Curtain Raiser”: The thief who
attempted to get away with Tom Roberts’s
“Portrait nf a TV^an 95 from the Nstionsl
Portrait ot a Man irom me in anon at
Gallery in Melbourne and had to stutt
it behind a picture of Max Meldrum’s
“Stop muckin' about an' get on with the job!"
was a tyro at his profession. His method
would have evoked smiles of contempt
from the practitioners of Paris, where the
trade has for generations been regarded
as a fine art. Every self-respecting pic-
ture thief regards the successful abstrac-
tion of a masterpiece from the Louvre
*as the summit of ambition, and he goes
about it with the care and pride of an
expert. First of all he employs some
down-and-out painter who combines
unscrupulousness with a high degree of
artistic talent to copy the intended
quarry. Then, armed with the copy, he
enters the Louvre on one of those foggy
autumn days when Paris is under a
natural blackout. As the Louvre has no
artificial lighting and the official cus-
todians are surprisingly few in number
considering the value of the collection, he
can manage, working very deftly and
swiftly, to cut out the original canvas and
substitute the copy without being de-
tected. With the boodle stuffed under his
coat he can then stand admiring the
copy as long as he likes and make a
getaway at his leisure.
Jf: * sfc *
“F.S,”: Pictures from Arthur Streeton’s
latest Melbourne exhibition were sold
for £BOO. This can’t compare with the
days when the author of “Purple Noon”
used to net upwards of £3OOO from a
show and sometimes scored £lOOO for a
single landscape, but, considering that
moderns have become the fashion and
have convinced a section of the picture-
buying population that the old-timers
are old fogies, it is a good record.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: Curtin recently com-
plained that by taking a certain sen-
tence of his out of its context and using
it in another members of the Opposition
completely perverted its meaning. The
objection was valid. The practice is par-
ticularly favored by propagandists who
use lines of Shakspeare to bolster up
some sentiment or other that would set
the Bard whizzing in his grave if he heard
it. Still it can be used with effect with-
out baiting anyone in particular. A firm
of distillers offered a prize for the most
seductive slogan appropriate to its busi-
ness, and a citizen won with “If you
don’t want whisky to get the better of
you, get the best of whisky.” The winner
got it from a Salvation Army pamphlet!
& ♦ * * *
“Ellae” : Jokes such as the one which
portrays the pompous father (B.
20/1/’43) telling a war-worn son that
nothing in Papua could have been as
bad as a V.D.C. experience at the week-
end are worth a grin, but don’t let us
forget we’re in the middle of the second
world war of this century. In the
Kaiser’s war the average Old Contemp-
tible or Anzac went out from a house-
hold whose only idea of war was gained
from storybooks or the well-censored
experiences of those who saw service in
South Africa 14 years before. Then mis-
understandings of War’s realities were
pardonable. But today’s grandma was
the mother, father the fighting-man,
mother and auntie the flappers of that
four-year struggle which stripped all the
glamor from war and showed the ordi-
nary civilian more of its realities than his
ancestors for thousands x»f years had any
chance of finding out. ,
tt * * ‘ *
“D.E.,” with his regrets
So - T °hn Burns of Battersea (B. 27/1/’43) is
dead. He was one .of the early Labor members,
and b abor has never had a representative with
a greater combination of moral and physical
courage. A sturdily-built Cockney who had to
learn how to use his fists (boxing was one of
his Abiding p&ssidns}, , John Burns savcu 3
shipmate from droW nipg during his time as
ship’s engineer, diving into shark-infested
African waters to grab him ; and at the height
of his powers he sacrificed his post and career
ralher than give Ministerial sanction to a war
which his principles forbade him to support.
His principles were those of Bright and Cob-
den, who campaigned against the Crimean War
and suffered for it. Cobden afterwards said
that if another war came in his time he would
take an oath of silence for the duration. John
Burns imbibed the instruction and acted on it ;
I don’t think he ever spoke in public after his
resignation from the Ministry on August 4,
1914. Yet he had eloquence of a rugged sort
and relished handclaps and “hear-hears”; also,
himself very good company, he delighted in
entertaining “colonial’' visitors to Westminster
at afternoon tea on the terrace, never failing
on those occasions to bespeak their admiration
for the Thames —“liquid history” he called it
in a phrase that will survive him. John mar-
ried a London girl who was his faithful partner
for 55 years. The old man must have felt
very sad and lonely since she died six years
ago, but I’ll warrant he kept a stiff upper hp
to the end.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: I remember being one
of a party of pressmen entertained
at Stonnington, Melbourne, by a de-
parting Victorian Governor who was
inordinately proud of his chickens. He
would be surprised to see the old place
now. It is a Red Cross convalescent
hospital for soldiers. Two former Burn-
ley School of Horticulture students keep
a vegetable garden of two acres going
with the assistance of the stronger
patients. Staff and inmates number 150.
r * 5k *
WHY NOT?
“A ‘Women-to-Parliament’ movement has been
started in Melbourne.”
Well, and why not? Reflecting, as we know.
They’ve been enfranchised forty years or so,
It’s strange to realise how very few
Have passed our Parliamentary portals through,
Or even had a try to storm the gates
Where glory beckons and where ooftish waits
Along with chances, be it understood.
To serve your country for your country’s good.
There surely must be more who’d pass the grade
Where Ministries are formed and laws are made.
All those who vote should hold, beyond dispute,
The right of being voted for to boot,
Title to mount the hustings and dispense
Sound argument and moving eloquence,
License to tickle oxlike groundlings’ ears
With party shibboleths and faction jeers,
And all the other arts persuasive souls
Employ to score successes at the polls,
Those deft and dexterous appeals you find
That come so natural to womankind.
Think you, when under flowery Eden’s tree's
Our primal parents took their blissful ease.
As light of heart as they were lightly clad,
That Eve had less to say than Adam had?
What though she came too late to press her
claims
When birds were tabbed and beasts were given
names
A legend lingers that she couldn’t resist
Revision of her duller consort’s list.
So, too, our man-made laws mayhap would be
Improved by feminine psychology.
There must be petticoated paragons
Here, as in Britain —Ellen Wilkinsons
Belike, still hidden from the public view,
And mute inglorious Nancy Astors, too.
Women equipped, in Commonwealth and State,
To raise the stagnant level of debate.
And should our talking-shops through their
success
Number a score or two of males the less,
Even misogynists will hardly doubt,
The dames are better in than those who’re out.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HABET!
“The African hash of Mussolini has been settled”
(B. 27/l/’43).
The Empire which, he oft would vow,
Was Italy’s to have and hold
Until the desert sands grew cold—
Where is it now, where is it now?
Aloft, alow, by land and sea,
It’s gone to blazes, come to jsmash.
From Kismayu to Tripoli
They’ve settled Mussolini’s hash.
A modern Caesar’s was the role
He aimed to fill, the part to play,
Whose lustrous name would live for aye,
Like Julius’s, on history’s scroll,
As one who loyal legions led
To victory by field and flood.
It seems far likelier, instead.
Twill be synonymous with Mud.
It spelled his doom, foretold his end—
And didn’t Winston warn him so/
To make an old-time friend a foe,
An erstwhile enemy a friend.
A putty Caesar now he’s shown,
Who’s had his day and done his dasti.
In lands he fondly deemed his own
They’ve settled Mussolini’s hash.
Once idol to the fickle throng.
How will his mob react perforce
Now that they realise the horse
He put their money on was wrong/
No use in speculating, but
One tip I’ll give and risk rebutt,
That Hitler’s luncheon will be cut
When Mussolini “hollers ’nough!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Zake”: Early-morning trams that run
from Sydney Central railway station to
an industrial suburb are packed with girl
munition workers heavily outnumbering
some W.A.A.A.Fs. who work at a near-
by depot. The journey is made eventful
by the comments of the factory ’ands
on sheilahs ’oo git dolled up like sore
fingers, and the efforts of the conduc-
tors to prevent ’ands from shoving
uniformed sisters off the tram are deserv-
ing of civil V.Cs. And the cause of the
heated rivalry—is it the comparative
value of the work each performs for the
good of her country? Not a bit! The
W.A.A.A.Fs., being in uniform, pay a
penny fare, the munition workers tup-
pence. Wouldn’t that make any factory
’and mad?
* * * *
“Tuart”: Wavell is a capital writer
as well as an excellent leader of armies.
Moved by a Liddell Hart essay on the
great generals of history, he developed
his own ideas in a couple of articles con-
tributed to the “Times.” Mentioning the
difficulties of the task, especially as
regards the ancients, he used a neat
cricket illustration:
Was Mynn a better cricketer than
Grace, Grace than Trumper, Trumper
than Hammond? The difference in con-
ditions of pitch, - bowling, outfield, etc.,
makes any comparison most difficult.
Summing up, he put Marlborough and
Belisarius first (“the two most gifted and
able soldiers of whom I have read”),
Wellington and Frederick the Great next
(“two of the soundest and most single-
minded soldiers”); then Lee and Napo-
leon (“two brilliant exponents of mili-
tary art”); with “places somewhere in
the company,” for Hannibal and Scipio
(“I do not feel we have enough detailed
knowledge of them to determine their
exact standing”). Lee he described as
“the outstanding military hero of the
Civil War: a fine strategist and tactician,
great in adversity, and possibly the best
beloved and most attractive character of
all military leaders.” I think Douglas
Mae Arthur, though his father was a
Union general, would approve.
* * * sH
“S.T.S.”: The famous excuse for hav-
ing a baby, that it was “only a very
little one,” has been pleaded in an Ade-
laide court to a charge of “having driven
a motor car across the Uni. footbridge
without reasonable consideration for
other people using the road.” It must
have been indeed very little to get
through at all, and the driver has the
satisfaction of having done a thing sup-
posedly impossible. He admitted cheer-
fully that it was a silly thing to do, and
paid up fifty bob and costs.
“Spokeshave”; Politics had never
been mentioned in a certain Melbourne
household until war-time taxation began
to touch poor daddy’s pocket seriously.
Gradually v the names of Curtin, Ward,
Forde, Dedman, Chifley, Menzies, Fad-
den and other public persons began to
be interlarded with the parental discourse
over the breakfast eggs and bacon. An
elder daughter noticed that the youngest
hopeful was listening to his father’s dis-
sertations with apparent rapt attention,
and one day she asked him why he was
so interested in politics. “What’s that?”
asked the infant. She explained as well
as she was able. “Oh,” he said, “I
thought daddy was talking about fairies! ”
* * * *
“Harold T.” unfolds a soldiering
memory:
That hospital at Sanananda which our boys
found full of dead and dying Japs, filthy,
starving and neglected, set my mind back 25
years. Australian Lighthorsemen rode into
Jericho in February, 1918, on the heels of
the retreating Turks, who left behind their
wounded and sick, dead and dying, mingled
together in surroundings of indescribable filth
and neglect. The sick were typhus cases and
I was one who drew the unsavory job of bring-
ing the few still living out of a basement.
Typhus is a louse-borne disease, and to guard
against infection we wrapped our wrists and
ankles with bandages and sprinkled all the insect
powder in the brigade over ourselves. Then
we went in and slit and ripped the dirty rags
off the miserable bony wretches, rolled them
on to clean blankets —those they lay on were
unfit for dogs—and carried them out. The
incident is not worth recording but for its
sequel—the appearance of an Austrian army
nurse. A female prisoner of war is a novelty;
in this case it was also a gift from heaven. We
were dog-weary after three days and nights
of hard riding across the rocky desolation which
lies between Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley.
We had little stomach for the responsibility
of nursing Turks dying of typhus. What we
craved above all was sleep. To this Austrian
woman it was a matter of indifference that
typhus is a vile and deadly disease. She was
brought to our hospital and at once quite natu-
rally took charge of both the patients and us.
A short, dumpy, lively woman of about
30, cheerful and competent. Her English was
scanty but sufficient to make her wants under-
stood—let some of us bring her supplies of
hot milk for her sick about every two hours
and for the rest we could go and sleep. Thank-
ing heaven, we did. I don’t know her name.
I don’t know what happened to her after the
ambulances came down from Jerusalem and
took her and her Turks away. We went on
with the war, some of us perhaps a little less
cynical for this brief contact with a decent
human woman.
“Uramao” : The editor of a Maoriland
religious journal recently enlivened his
weekly message to his readers with a
story. An editor, similarly circumstanced
to himself, departed this life and an angel
was conducting him to heaven. With
characteristic flair for investigation the
editor expressed a wish to have a look at
the other place first. They zoomed down
to the domicile of Auld Clootie, and when
the editor asked the angel who were the
people stewing in one very fiery brim-
stone pit he was told they were people
who didn’t pay their newspaper subscrip-
tions. The editor’s eyes lit up, and he
stood riveted to the spot so long that the
angel said: “Come along, we’ll now
ascend to heaven.” “You get along,”
replied the editor. “This is heaven to
me.”
* afe ft ft
“MacH.”: Twice during this war I
have seen Sydney’s King’s Cross angry:
the night Italy came into the war, when
the entire population patrolled up and
down before greengrocers’ shops, hop-
ing that someone would start trouble ;•
and again when, for the second time
within a week, sick and wounded sol-
diers who had been taken to a matinee
at the Minerva were kept waiting for
their bus. The first time that had hap-
pened the story got into the dailies, so
that everybody knew the men had missed
their tea, that two of them, during the
unpardonable two hours they waited in
the street, had collapsed, and that some
“spokesman” had sworn that it would
pever happen again. Wherefore, when
it did happen again—the men had been
waiting an hour and a half when I saw
them; had missed their tea; and one
“Now, before you leave us, Sarah, I must know how you peel the eggs
before frying them.”
malaria victim was doing a round of the
chemists in an urgent search for quinine
—the Cross stood about in groups and
glowered. Thereby I learned that the
civilian does care—and very deeply—
about the soldier. And also that a
free press is indeed vital; for what
can anyone, infuriated at the spectacle
of sick and wounded soldiers sitting in
the gutter with their sticks and crutches
beside them, do about it except write
such a par. as this?
* * * *
“Mug Sapper” (A.I.F. abroad): If I’m
not too late (the postman takes a long
time to get round to us nowadays) I’d
like to reply to “M.C.’s” par. (B.
18/11/ ’42) on “Bless ’Em All.” It is a
good song, but it isn’t a product of this
war, as anyone who has heard regulars
of the Imperial Army could testify. Their
first verse runs:
The troopship was leaving Bombay,
Bound for old Blighty’s shore,
Heavily laden with time-expired men
Bound for the land they adore.
For we’re saying good-bye to them all,
As up the gangplank they crawl.
You’ll get no promotion
This side of the ocean,
So cheer up, my lads, bless ’em all!
Another verse contains adjective-pep-
pered remarks about officers’ baggy
trousers with stripes down the side and
pockets with nothing inside. The last
is pretty true these days, too, but it’s
many a year since the rest of the rig was
seen.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Australians who get hot under
the collar at foreigners’ ignorance of
their country should read the newspaper
reports of a case in which domicile had
to be proved. Plaintiff’s counsel had
to confess that he didn’t know if Nor-
folk Island was part of N. S. Wales or
not. Whereupon the Judge remarked:
“It is ; Norfolk Islanders are electors of
the constituency of East Sydney.” Nor-
folk Island is not part of the constitu-
ency of East Sydney and its population
has only once had a vote on Australian
affairs, and that was in the second refer-
endum on conscription. The Judge con-
fused Norfolk Island with Lord Howe
Island, 450 miles nearer Sydney, which
does form part of the electorate of
East Sydney. Norfolk, like Papua, is a
territory of the Commonwealth.
« * * f
“Hamer”: Yes; the joy in the job
has mostly gone (B. 20/1/’43). My own
chief regret is in the passing of that race
of restaurateurs and hotelkeepers in
Sydney who glowed with daily satisfac-
tion in the thought that they were pleas-
ing their patrons—men like Usher (who
delighted in calling himself/‘Host Usher”
and in the discovery of new sauces to
flavor his dishes), the Walkers, Godber,
Anton Gaudier and others. Roberts,
who kept a pub on the George-Market-
streets corner now occupied by Far-
mer’s, was one of them; he used to
stroll through his first-floor rooms, where
his extraordinarily good “ordinary” was
served, gloating over his patrons’ enjoy-
ment of the feast he had provided. _A
chap I knew found one day while din-
ing at Roberts’s that he was cashless.
To save the embarrassment of explain-
ing at the cash desk he had the bright
t idea to call Roberts and complain hotly
about his meal. He said he didn’t intend
to pay for it; he would come next day
and if the meal then provided was good
he would pay for both ; otherwise
But when my friend came back next day
prepared to pay for two meals Roberts
met him with a beaming smile, insisted
on both being free and thanked the im-
postor (“although what you said was
exaggerated”) for enabling him to remedy
slight defects in the menu.
“Cauboy”: After two grim experiences
of Melbourne weather A.B.C. has de-
cided not to conduct orchestral concerts
at “experimental locations.” The experi-
mental location was, of the tennis
courts at Kooyong, where a breeze blew
the orchestral shelter down to start with.
But there is nothing wrong with the
A.B.C.’s choice of locations. There is
everything wrong with its choice of
seasons. Nine Melbourne Octobers out
of ten give the perfect conditions for out-
door fixtures, from the Cup to the play-
ing of the Fifth Symphony of Schubert;
and there is usually a similar period
round about April and May. But the
meteorological authorities having fixed
arbitrary dates for the onset of summer
and winter, citizens are firmly convinced
that the. weather obeys the rules and the
A.B.C. apparently concurs.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Reported that at a Sydney
show one of the parts had to be read by
a substitute for a player who had sud-
denly been taken ill. It has happened
before. Owing to the just-on-curtain-rise
sickness of Julius Knight, Jimmy Athol-
wood had to be rushed at the last moment
to a crowded Sydney theatre to play
“Monsieur Beaucaire.” Jimmy did so
well that Knight made a miraculously
quick recovery. I, myself, once played a
part at a cbuple of hours’ notice. To
assist my memory after a hurried study, I
fixed slips of paper containing slabs of
my part to pieces of scenery. The per-
formance was a nightmare of chasing bits
of my parts from wing to wing, and
sometimes finding myself reading out
scraps of Act IV when we were only in
Act 11. But my worst difficulty was
with the heavy father of the co. Never
shall I forget the indignation of the old
actor when informed that some of my
lines, which I spoke facing him, would
have to be written on his shirt-front. He
seemed to think that it should be worth
another quid a night to him to cover
laundry charges. But he needn’t have
worried. The ghost never walked in that
show.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The language grows. What
would George V or Rudyard Kipling—
dead only just seven years—have made
of this two-line heading in an Adelaide
paper?
FOUR MILLION PLANE
DRIVE STAMPS OUT
But any busy sub-editor is liable to mis-
lead with a headline dashed off in a
hurry ; as in this one in the same issue,
“BIG NAZI AID TO ITALY SET
OUT.” Departure of a convoy clearly
indicated? Not at all; just a -schedule
of aid given in the past.
* * * ft
“Muldoon the Solid”; To decide
whether the solid breakfast is obsolescent
(B. 27 /I I ’43) depends on many things.
F’rinstance, in my hard-working youth
down on the mid-Murray, I’ve seen
shearers put away a breakfast that many
a boarding-house keeper would consider
excessive for 10 boarders, and I con-
sidered a plate of porridge, six fried
eggs, several thick rounds of soda bread
heavily upholstered with butter, jam and
treacle and three cups of tea as a moder-
ate beginning for the day. And at 10
a.m. I’d be anxiously looking for the
cook’s offsider staggering up the paddock
with a hundredweight or so of brownie
and a kero.-bucket of tea. These days,
being middle-aged and comfortably mar-
ried, in a sit-down nine-to-five job, I have
porridge, a boiled egg, one bit of bread
and butter and a glass of milk. And I
seldom eat lunch —I who once could put
ten beef rissoles away at midday and be
hungry again at 3 p.m.! But you ought
to see my 18-year-old nephew in action!
* * * *
“Spasebo”: According to the Eastern
European refugee Governments in Lon-
don Hitler is making a determined
effort to exterminate some of the
smaller nationalities of Europe
by rooting them out of their tradi-
tional homes and depositing them
elsewhere. As a means of exter-
mination that won’t work. His-
tory shows that racial minorities
kicked ' out of their ancestral
haunts have increased, not de-
creased, in power, wealth and im-
portance. The worse the condi-
tions they got the more it stiffened
their resistance. The Jews are
the classic example, but there are
dozens of others. Religious per-
E secution drove the Parsees out of Persia
into India, where they now form the
most enterprising and educated native
community. If a Parsee doesn’t own the
best shops, biggest factories or most
sumptuous hotels about the place it is
an Armenian, whose ancestors were the
victims of Turkish persecution. The
Parsees are sufficiently influential to be
able to maintain their owm peculiar
method of burial, though it violates the
hygienic ideas of the British and pro-
foundly shocks pious Hindus.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” contributes to the history
of sport in Australia:
The old-time Hawkesbury (H. S. Wales)
native was essentially a “sport,” and some of
the games on which he wagered his hard-earned
cash would startle present-day athletes. Any-
thing by which money could be won or lost
appealed to him, and for pretty large bets men
would undertake to roll against one another,
lying full length on the ground, or get into
empty casks and trundle down a hill, the bottom
of the declivity being the winning-post. They
would run races with pumpkins balanced on
their heads, or carrying men or boys on their
backs. Strong men would back themselves to
carry 1 on their shoulders cornsacks full of wet
sand for specified distances. Swinging from
horizontal bars, they would jump against one
another. But one of the queerest of their
games was jumping from bottles. Two of these
were laid on their sides on the ground with a
board across them —the bottles having a ten-
dency to roll from under the feet of the jumpers
—and it needed great agility to accomplish
a leap from such a starting-point. Two feet
was a record jump. Another contest was to
carry a sledgehammer with a nail driven in the
end of the handle and the head of the hammer
downwards, the nail to be held only between
the forefinger and thumb, and the feat was to
see who could carry the sledge in this manner
the greatest distance in a given time. As much
as £5O or £lOO would frequently be staked on
such performances. And the “Oxboros” did
a bit of field fighting now and then. Little
wonder the great-great-grandchildren of such
a people are good “scrappers”!
* * * *
“Bumpk”; Months ago a Victorian
country doctor allowed a grateful but
hard-up patient to pay him with a bag of
potatoes. Then an inspector turned up
and threatened the medico with proceed-
ings. “Go ahead,” replied the doctor and
stuck to his murphies. As I say, that was
months ago. Now it is no longer a hang-
ing matter to own or store potatoes, but
an almost criminal act not to stuff one-
self with them morning, noon and even-
ing.


SOLDIERS MARCHING.
When an evil drought was parching
Hilltop high and valley low.
Came a troop of soldiers marching
Down a road whereby I loitered,
Not so very long ago.
Not a blade of grass upspringing
Greened the roadside where they passed,
Nor a bird had heart for singing
In the wilted trees that nigh them
Shrunken pools of shadow cast.
Sons of sires in battle blooded.
Heads held high and shoulders squared,
Arms aswing and feet that thudded,
Fearless of what lay before them
Through the heat and haze they fared.
Reckless all of war or weather,
Drought and strife, they moved along
Chorusing, high-voiced, together,
Comrades on a far adventure
Side by side, a jocund song.
Joy of life within them burning;
Care, a trifle, dustwise tossed;
On they swung, till at a turning
Of that road whereby I loitered.
Sight and sound of them I lost.
Rain falls now and grass is springing
Where they sang and vanished so:
God grant, too, that gayly singing
Still they march, march on together
As they did not long ago!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: He laboriously wrote out
the receipt, but before passing it tore
a couple of inches off the bottom of the
sheet. “There!” (His wink conveyed a
wealth of cunning.) “Who’s to say that
never had a duty stamp on it?” Perhaps
I looked my thoughts, for he said
quickly: “It ain’t that I’m lousy—it’s just
a matter of principle; all me life they’ve
persecuted me, and I’m gettin’ square.”
“They,” it appeared as he grew more
vehement, covered Authority in all its
guises, from shire to Commonwealth.
“They” had pounded his cows for wan-
dering in the main street, pinched him for
failing to register his dog, chopped down
his petrol and compelled him to put fly-
traps on his fruit-trees, concrete his bails,
build a brick milkroom and have his
cows t.b'.-tested. In addition “they” had
prosecuted him for neglecting to fill in
an income-tax return, called up his man
Friday and But I had endured
enough. “Half-past ten,” I said. “I must
be off.” “Half-past nine,” he corrected.
“Oh, no,” I protested, “you’re an hour
slow.” “Half-past nine,” he announced
with emphatic finality, “is the proper,
genuine, untampered-with Eastern Stand-
ard Time. They might bluff youse mugs
into mucking about with the time, but
my clock ain’t varied a minute in twenty
years, and I won’t make it an hour fast
to suit them! I’ll go to gaol first!”
* * ♦ v
“Bundalinga”: War-time man-power
shortage and restrictions on rail transport
have brought the woman drover into
prominence. In Queensland especially
women are helping to get big mobs of
sheep and cattle to market, and they are
acting in every capacity, from cooking
upwards. One drover took 5000 sheep
from Cloncurry (Q.) through Longreach
with a team of one woman and three
girls. It is a profitable job, too ; present
rates for droving are the highest since
the boom days of 1924.
H* *l* *l*
“Si Anu”: “Wodgil’s” reference to the
gum-trees and ponies mentioned in the
official account of the Timor epic (B.
13/1/’43) might draw the inference that
both were imported. Actually, of course,
the gum-tree is indigenous to the island,
Timor being south of Wallace’s line and
therefore having more kinship with Aus-
tralia than with the continent of Asia. The
ponies are a cross, centuries old, between
some local breed and the Arab horses
introduced in the days when zealots
from Arabia were bringing trade and
Islam to the archipelago. It would be
easy for an Australian to imagine that
the gum-trees were imported, since there
are forests of Australian eucalypts in
places as far apart as Abyssinia and Cali-
fornia. An American soldier told me
that he thought the gum-tree was an
American tree, and when he saw his first
belt of gums outside Melbourne he was
delighted to see how homelike our
Forestry Departments had made Aus-
tralia for him.
* * * *
“Yeno Ham”: That explanation by
“Naturala” (B. 20/1/’43) as to why a
horse rises front-first and a cow the oppo-
site way is different from what I was
taught. The theory I imbibed was that
the horse, by getting his front end up
first, could lash out with full power at
any enemy which may have come along.
The cow’s method was dictated, 100, by
reasons of defence. By rising back-end
first she was able to get the full weight
and power of her body into a forward
lunge. It has always seemed a reasonable
explanation to me.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The late-November day
had been broiling hot; the island beach
with its expanse of sand nearly a hundred
yards wide had sizzled like a furnace.
But now it was night, with a cool breeze
blowing, the moon riding high and silvery,
the beach as white as an expanse of
snow. From out of the lapping surf the
shapes began to rise. At first a few, then
scores, hundreds, until they crowded like
ants. Rowing along just outside the surf
our boat bumped into them continually,
though many of these may have been
males, chivalrously escorting the females
to the shore, where the cycle of Nature
ordained that the turtles for a hundred
miles around should resort to lay their
eggs. The male never comes ashore ;
a sea denizen always, he is smaller and
has a tail about a foot long. On the
beach walking was difficult, so many
were the females bent on their life’s most
urgent errand. Some found a spot,
scraped a hole and set about egg-laying
without more ado. But others were par-
ticular —the sand in this spot didn’t suit;
in that some other turtle had pre-empted
the claim. But these too-fussy ones often
were jostled aside by others less particu-
lar, for the beach, after all, was limited
"Don't be silly , Diddums; they're our allies."
in size and there were thousands of eggs
to be laid before dawn. And perhaps the
fussy ones were really aged females with
few or no eggs to lay. All night long
they came and went. And then the
dawn, with the sun turning the island
sands into a vast incubator.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: If “Esk D.” has perfected
a method of growing eucalypts from
cuttings (B. 13/1 /’43) many nurserymen
will be glad to know how it is done.
Sydney has for many years tried to intro-
duce flowering gums from W.A. Appar-
ently they need deep sandy soil and
shelter from wind. Sydney conditions
are such that where there is sandy soil
there is no shelter, and further back from
the ocean the prevailing clay or shale
soil produces a very scraggy specimen
whose only redeeming feature is the
flowers, provided they are a good color.
Probably 50 per cent, of the so-called
scarlet-flowering gums will have white
flowers, even though the seed may have
been obtained from the right source.
Others will have wishy-washy pinks, or
horrible puce-pink shades, or hard scar-
let-salmon. Occasionally a really
glorious crimson flower is seen, and here
it is that “Esk D.” can perform a national
service by showing how plants of good
color can be raised from “a stake cut
from young and vigorous stock.”
“H.E.R.”: I don’t know about the
river redgum (B. 20/1 /’43), but as far
as some “other eucalypts” are concerned,
“M.U.R.” is up a gum-tree. I have seen
many a stake, driven into the ground to
hold a stack of firewood, take root. They
were cut from peppermint, box, mess-
mate and stringybark in the Daylesford
district (Vic.).
“Wingella”: The abo. mentioned in
“C.Q.’s” par. (B. 20/1/’43) was named
Neighbour. Besides receiving the Albert
Medal, he gets a regular yearly supply
of tucker and tobacco, a gift from the
constable whose life he saved. The inci-
dent helps to prove that neck-chains,
about which city humanitarians howled
so much, are more satisfactory than
handcuffs when dealing with bush abori-
ginals. Had Neighbour been handcuffed
instead of neck-chained that constable
would probably have drowned.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I wish “M.U.R.” (B.
30/12/’42) had been a trifle more infor-
mative regarding the foster mothers
to those wild ducklings he claims to have
reared. My experience is that domestic
ducks, with the exception of the Mus-
covy, seldom have ducklings, and hatch-
ing out their eggs is now delegated to
the domestic hen. When an occasional
throwback does hatch out a clutch of
her own eggs she is easily the world’s
worst mother, clumsily treading her off-
* spring to death. Possibly “M.U.R.”
means that he put the wild ducklings in
a pen with some domestic ditto. But
he couldn’t do that with Muscovies un-
less he took the mother away, for I
know of no animal or bird so intolerant
of another’s offspring as the mother Mus-
covy. Even when two clutches both the
same age and the one color are put to-
gether in a yard the two mothers know
every one of their own, and each will
attack the clutch belonging to the other.
“Yokel”: How is this for a lady doing
her bit for Australia in these times of
stress? One of my two-year-old Mus-
covy ducks laid 21 eggs in 21 days ; sat
on them for five weeks and brought out
21 ducklings. At date of writing, two
weeks later, mother and offspring doing
remarkably well.
» * * *
“Slim”: Sugarbag under his arm, long-
whiskered Charlie bounded into the coun-
try editor’s sanctum, “D’y’ read my
yarn?” he roared. “Yes; just tripe,”
said Scissors-and-paste with brutal frank-
ness. “An’ the poetry writ on the other
side?” “Yes ; that’s tripe, too.” “What
d’ y’ mean? Are there different kinds
of tripe?” asked Charlie. “Yes ; one’s
plain and the other’s purl. I’m the
town’s butcher as well as the editor, so
I oughter know.” The roof shook as
Charlie slammed the door. “Well, that
knocks me,” he mumbled as he went out.
“That’s the beauty of a yoonerversity
education. A bloke’d never know unless
somebody told ’im, would ’e, now?”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “It’s a bright moon-
light night, an’ I’m down at the lagoon
tryin’ t’ ketch a yellerbelly fer break-
fast,” said Bill the burr-cutter. “A coupla
possums is squawkin’ an’ chasin’ around
in a big redgum wot’s leanin’ out over
the water, an’ there’s a fish about the
size of a suckin’-pig cruisin’ around
watchin’ the capers o’ them possums.
After a bit he cuts out the cruisin’,
swims t’ the bank, climbs out an’ dis-
appears inter the long grass. Presently
I hears a scrabblin’ an’ squealin’ up in
the tree ; suddenly down comes a possum,
an’ the big fish wot I saw come out o’
the lagoon bangin’ on t’ him like grim
death ; they hits the water with a hell of
a splash, an’ that’s the last I see of either
o’ them,” “But, my dear chap,” objected
the new hand, “I find it difficult to
believe that the fish came out of the
water and actually climbed the tree after
the possums.” “D’y’ believe that they
got a fish up north wot comes outa the
water an’ climbs mangrove-trees?”
queried Bill. “Yes, but that’s an authenti-
cated fact,” replied the objector. “Well,”
demanded Bill, “if a Queenslan’ fish c’n
climb a mangrove, wot in hell’s t’ per-
vent a catfish climbin’ a gum-tree,
’specially w’en the indoocement is a nice
fat possum?”
* * * *
“Herbie”: Me and Porky, me fat
cobber, were properly cleaned up at the
Pepperina two-up joint, and we’re feeling
somewhat undernourished when we
locates a nice few acres of cat’s-eye burr
in a wayback cow-cocky’s cultivation.
We steps over the sagging gate and asks
if there’s any hoes handy. There was,
and we became burr contractors. The
cocky tells us it’s our lucky day, as he’s
just bought some sausages to give Mum
and the kids a real Sunday dinner.
“Durin’ the week days, y’ know,” he
tells us, “they does all the yakka on
boiled corn, sody bread and punkin pie;
but f’r a bit o’ balance they must have
some beef.” He tells us a lot more about
how well they tucker theirselves. By
keeping the hoes going we overcomes the
indigestion brought on by soda bread and
pumpkin pie, with snorks on Sunday, and
we gets to town. We has a few beers
and stops outside a caffy where the win-
dow is plastered with something about aus-
terity cooking and the nutriment value of
pumpkin pie. Porky gets so wild he ups
with a empty bottle and skittles the
pumpkin-pie sign into the caffy kitchen.
Our crash followed —seven days on the
woodheap. We held our breaths when
the John Hop’s missus springs the first
feed, and we wonders then why we
hadn’t pushed a gibber through a winder
before —it’s rump steak and baked spuds!
* * * *
“Gab”: Old Skinflint couldn’t get
farm help, so, desperate, he rode
across to O’Brien’s to see if he
could hire young Jim of that ilk,
who, though not fond of work, would
be better than no one at all. O’Brien,
senior, informed him that Jim had cut
out at his last job and was looking for
another. “Good! ” smirked Skinflint.
“You tell ’im I’ll give ’im a quid a week
and tucker.” As Jim didn’t turn up next
morning Skinflint rode across to O’Brien’s
to see what was doing, and was told that
Jim had found himself a job while Skin-
flint was over there the day before. A
week later Skinflint met young Jim in
town and said to him “I wanted you to
come an’ work for me, Jim, but I missed
y’ be a coupla hours.” “No damn’
fear,” laughed Jim. “What y’ missed me
by was 25 bob!”
* * * *
“Dusty Bob”: A good brumby hack
is rare. His chief assets are a fast trot
and .a hand gallop as rough as a bullock’s
canter. The best pace in a* hack is a
good fast walk, for one uses a horse
most at that pace. Watch the unbroken
ones as they walk around the yard. Those
that step over well can probably be edu-
cated to be good hacks. You can rough
up a brumby in a few days so that a good
rider can handle him —as a rule, his buck-
ing ability is limited to pig-jumping. As
for his reliability—well, you may get a
nasty nip as you prepare to mount if you
give him any slack on the offside rein. If
you stand back along his side to dodge
this you are likely to collect a cow-kick.
Fooling behind him within reach of his
heels is just looking for what you are
nearly sure to collect. If you want a hack
go for something with a bit of blood in
it. The more blood the better the horse
in every way.
* * * *
“P. Caby”: I helped to start a sawmill
that had been lying idle for a year or so.
The noise, especially when the saws
began, was nerve-racking. For weeks
afterwards wc killed rats almost under
our feet. Apparently stupefied, they used
to come up out of the belt ways and fall
asleep even on the stacks of timber.
* * * *
“Solitude”: On his droving trips down-
country the old bloke usually camps, but
supplies being short when he hit town
last week he decided to blow himself to
a night at the pub. Ten minutes after
he arrived Bung came on him exploring
the back tankstands. “Hey, ’ave y’ got
a dish I c’d use for a wash?” The boss
escorted him inside and indicated the
modern bathroom Returning a while
later, he again encountered Seventyfiver
hunting the back corners. He was minus
his shirt and mumbling in disgruntled
fashion. “Gripes, ain’t there nuthm
round this place a man can get a wash
in?” “What’s the matter with the bath-
room?” queried Bung. “Didn’t you see
• the washbasin built in the corner.
“ ’Course I seen it,” complained the old
bloke with a sniff, “but the damn’ things
got a big hole right through the middle
of it!”


“Ogosh”; When Jack Cornflake had to
go into camp, his wife, formerly a city
girl, refused all offers of help, doggedly
persisting that carrying on the farm was
to be her war effort. We neighbors
watched with interest the daily struggle
with the cows, and made bets on whether
the cream would be ready for the wagon
as usual. Rather surprisingly, it was ; the
poddy calves looked as sleek and well-
fed as ever; the eggs arrived at the local
store regularly. After three months Jack
came home on leave. The first evening
a few of us went over to see him. He
recounted at great length and with pride
the job done by his wife during his
absence. Suddenly the lady herself re-
membered something. “Jack,” she said,
“your prize sow had nine little ones.”
Jack’s face lit up. His wife continued
rather sorrowfully, “And seven of them
were sows!” Jack’s face lit still more.
“That’s good,” he confided to me. “I was
wantin’ two or three sows from her to
breed from.” “And,” the lady continued,
“young Billy Elliott was at school and I
had to get rid of them myself.” A dense
silence descended ; then came Jack’s ques-
tion, “Wha-what did you do?” She shud-
dered, then said heroically: “I put all the
little ‘shes’ in a bag with a brick and
dropped them into that waterhole where
you put the kittens.” It was Joe Fowley
who remembered that he had to feed the
horses and, taking the office, we all diplo-
matically let ourselves out.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Skinner, my neighbor, had
read in my copy of The B. (6/1/’43)
about using reins on a tractor and cot-
toned to the idea. Giving his hungry
nags a well-earned spell he got the
tractor out to finish the patch of late
oats. He mounted and went off confi-
dently to do the first six rounds. Habit
caught him with the reins in his hands
and he pulled into the fence to spell the
team as usual. He woke up on the other
side with a couple of panels trailing along,
and the last we saw was the tractor van-
ishing into the scrub with Skinner lying
back on the reins yelling “Whoa!” and
blue murder to the whole countryside.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: A Brisbane paper
claimed that a woman cotton-picker last
year established a record by picking
3121 b. If that’s a fact then the lady is
a wizard. Best I ever struck was a
cotton-grower’s daughter in the Burnett
country who picked 2201 b. of cotton in
an eight-hour day—and she had been at
the game for years. I’ve also weighed the
cotton for men who picked over 3001 b. of
cotton a day—champions all. Probably
the record claimed was for “snap” cotton
—that is, the final picking, when the
cotton is picked bolls and all and dumped
in the picking-bag. A Norwegian sailor
in the Monto country once picked just on
6001 b. of “snap” cotton in a nine-hour
day.
* * * *
“McQuarrie”: I fancy that “Austerity”
goes off the rails a trifle in his memories
of early Sydney (B. 30/12/’42) when he
quotes rum as selling at 10s. the bottle.
More likely it was that much per gallon.
Examining the archives of the Swan
River Settlement I find that as late as 1836
Nelson’s Blood sold at Bs. a gallon,
Colonial ale (Sydney) brought Is. a bottle,
while a local tipple sold for 6d. The
really dear item of those days was tea,
which, being a monopoly of the East
India Company, could be sold only at
the price fixed by that co., unless a small
ship bought a cargo in China and worked
“Thought so, Smith—shaving with your hat on again!”
it discreetly ashore at Australian ports
—a practice occasionally winked at by
the Governor of the time, but subject to
almost continual protest by the monopo-
list co. Thus tea fluctuated between 4s.
and 10s. a pound.
* * * •
“Bohemian”: The lady health inspec-
tor was paying a visit to Henare’s resi-
dence. She suggested that he should
get a looking-glass. “What for?” asked
Henare. “Well,” said the lady, “when
your wahine and children wash them-
selves, they will be able to look in the
glass and see if their faces are clean.”
“Strike me, missus,” replied Henare, “my
piccaninnies and wahine, when t’ey want
to see if te face clean, just look at te
tow’l! ”
He jJs H« *
“Louden”: Having sold and delivered
the load of firewood he had brought
into town on his light spring-dray, old
Johnny unyoked the leggy half-draught,
left an order at the store and then went
to his favorite pub. Towards sunset he
emerged, picked up his goods, yoked up
and, clambering on to the shaft where he
usually sat, drove off at a trot, singing
as he went. It was Saturday, with the
usual crowd in the main street, and
“Flash Phil,” a town smarty, thinking
he’d give the crowd a laugh, rode up
alongside the singing woodcarter on a
new bike and challenged him to a race.
By way of reply Johnny jabbed the prad
in the stern with a big chip and let out
a yell, and the race was on. A few
seconds later there was a loud canine
howl, followed by shrill screams from
female spectators, as the cyclist, colliding
with a greyhound, went down and under
the horse and dray. We picked him up,
“If Theodore and Packer set up as slimmin' specialists after the
war, Bill, they'll make a fortune!”
pallid and inert, and carried him to a
near-by pub, where he soon revived,
Meanwhile, the horse and dray had shat-
tered a newsboy’s billycart, scattered the
group of Salvos singing at the corner
and, with Johnny standing on the dray-
floor urging the horse to greater speed,
turned the corner on one wheel and were
lost to view,
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; No, our bathroom visitant
wasn’t a mantis (B. 27/1/’43), an animal
with which I’m quite familiar. • This thing
was grey, had an armored body which
made it look like a miliiature rhinoceros,
six short and powerful legs, a couple of
antennae fully 2in. long and the most
humorous expression in the insect world.
It’s overall length went close to 4in., and
it was completely unafraid.
* * * *
“S. McGurk”: We were talking about
the Jap and the job the boys had dicing
him out of the strongposts in New
Guinea. “Well,” said old Joe, “I can’t
help thinkin’ of The Packet o’ Crackers,
the worst-tempered man on the river.
Somebody got him goin’ one day, and
he grabs a rifle, takes a shot at one bloke
and then gets down a old mine shaft and
defies us t’ come an’ get him. The
mounted trooper tries threats and per-
suasion, but The Packet simply shoots
bad language an’ bullets at him. Then
the trooper does a think, goes off with
a billycan, collects a heap of bull-ants
in it and tips ’em down that shaft. Yair,
in about two minutes The Packet comes
out o’ it like a rocket, all the fight scared
out of him.” We advised Joe to write
to the military about it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Humping the knot
through the Wimmera one time I struck
a young bloke just outside Dimboola
and we teamed up. He was always skit-
ing about the cash his old man had and
how, if he liked, he could write and get
what he wanted. I gathered there’d been
some row or other, and my mate’s con-
stant complaint was “The trouble with
my old man he’s got no sense of humor.
I could see the funny side, but he never
could.” So, apparently, the young bloke
had cleared out. After about a fortnight
of the track he began to cave in. The
road was hard, the tucker poor, the
weather hot and dry, the prospects slim.
He wrote to his old man, giving a for-
warding address. There was no reply.
He wrote again, saying that his feet were
giving out. No reply. Again he wrote,
laying it on thick about sore and blis-
tered feet and the eternal tramping. Came
a reply, “Sent relief addressed you care
Murtoa post office.” With visions of
tucker and beer I made the pace into
Murtoa and stood at his side as he
received a parcel from the postal clerk.
Outside we sought a sequestered spot and
opened it. It contained a pair of new
carpet slippers and a note: “Here, these
are to wear every night when you camp.
They’ll ease your poor feet.” Then and
there I parted with the man whose father
had no sense of humor.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we were cashed
up, dressed up and hitting it up in a city
Mat took an innocent pleasure in extend-
ing the legs of the sophisticated urban
folk. Take the Friday afternoon when
he suddenly pulled me into the roadway
in Melbourne’s Bourke-street, began
pointing to the sky and shouting incoher-
ently. In ten minutes we had a good 500
people out from under the verandahs all
anxiously peering into the blue, and they
continued peering long after we’d quietly
retreated. In Adelaide he stuck a placard
on his front and back bearing the legend
“Follow me to a free session of a won-
derful picture,” and led the crowd that
gathered, not to West’s or the Metro., but
to the Art Gallery. Outside a Bendigo
picture theatre he gathered the crowd of
boys hanging around together, said to
the doorman “Count them,” watched
them go in and, when the doorman said
“Thirteen,” answered “That’s what 1
reckoned” and walked away. In Mel-
bourne again we bought a tape measure
and started measuring and chalking the
roadway and footpath in front of the
Royal Mail pub, in the city’s heart. The
crowd blocked the traffic, an unsympa-
thetic police sergeant took our names and
it cost us a quid and costs each. After
which I kept him in the bush for another
year.
ip * * *
“Bo”; Tim Fogarty’s pigs had an un-
canny aptitude for breaking through the
dividing fence and getting into Fred
Thurston’s place, always in proximity to
the vegetable patch. The habit became
so monotonous that it was at last borne
in on Fred’s intelligence that the porcine
fence-breakers had the material as well
as the moral support of their owner,
whereupon the victim of the cabbage-de-
spoilers got his wits to work. One day
Fred saw a couple of Tamworths nosing
their way around inside the fence of the
small horse paddock. Obviously they
had trapped themselves. Well, he’d fix
them this time! Tying some carrots on
to the end of a long sapling, he let down
the rail, got behind the pigs and, dangling
the tempting morsel in front of their
noses, started walking towards the well.
Avidly the porkers followed the carrots,
and as the leading pig trod on the rotten
boards of the well cover there was a
rending of timbers and a wild squeal as
the pig hit the water. Exulting at the
success of his ruse, Fred strolled up to
the house. Mrs. Thurston was in the
kitchen. “Hey, Mum,” began Fred,
“when Bert shows up get him to take
a walk over to Fogarty’s and tell
him” “Bert’s in his room now chang-
ing his things,” Mrs. T. volunteered. “Just
got in with the jinker. He called in on
the way back from town to McGraw's
place where they’re holding the auction
sale. Picked up a couple of Tamworths
cheap. He said” But Fred never
knew what his offspring had said. Before
his wife could finish Fred was tearing
out of the room yelling for “a blasted
rope.”
* * * *
“Wyllie”: The boss had bought the
young bull at the sale with the full know-
ledge that he was a terror on fences. The
bull paddock fence with its live wire
would stop him, but the other bull
was in there, and the boss knew from
bitter experience that to put anything in
the same paddock as Ayrshire Chiei other
than a female of his own species was ask-
ing for trouble. So the boss divided the
paddock by a continuation of the elec-
trified fence through the middle. That
did the trick, and after two hours the
newcomer wouldn’t go within six feet
of it. The real trouble started when they
wanted to shift the young bull. Ayrshire
Chiei was removed to where he wouldn’t
interfere with the proceedings. The divid-
ing wire was dropped flat on the ground
and the current cut off. The boss and
I never put in such a strenuous half-
hour’s work. We worked him to within
a few feet of the dead wire times without
number. Finally, when he did go he
cleared the grounded wire by six feet.
* * * ♦
“Boxer”: For the animal with the best-
developed sense of smell in the bush I
nominate the wild pig of the lower Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.). I have watched a boar
following a pad suddenly turn off and
walk 40 feet to one side, where he would
promptly and unerringly root up a worm.
The domestic pig has nowhere near the
sense of smell enjoyed by his cousin in
the reedbeds.
HARVEST.
Wheat, wheat, wheat.
Stare at it,
Glare at it,
Field after field of it.
Tear at it,
Swear at it,
Sit down and talk of it.
Sweat at it,
Fret at it,
Fall into dreams of it:
Wheat, wheat, wheat.
Eureka and Fedweb and Ghurka and Bobin;
Hard wheats and soft wheats and peg-drums
a-throbbin’.
Seeds in your socks and your boots full ot
grain,
You fall out of bed and go at it again.
Wheat, wheat, wheat.
Toil at it,
Moil at it,
Choke in the dust of it.
Rail at it,
Flail at it,
Count up the yield of it.
Jeer at it,
Sneer at it,
You’re in the grip of it:
Wheat, wheat, wheat.
Bcncubbin and Baldrain and Bordan and Beena;
The silos grow fat and your body grows leaner.
Sweat-boils and itches and eyes red and bleary,
Worn limbs and body and soul worn and weary.
Wheat, wheat, wheat.
Miles of it,
Piles of it,
Can’t get away from it.
Weeks of it,
Peaks of it,
There’s no relief from it.
Smell of it,
Hell of it,
Here’s all you get from it:
Wheat, wheat, wheat!
N.S.W.
KONKAVE KURLY.


US'TRAHAN - MADE
RADIOTRON
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETART, LTD.,
S 3 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
MM
ycnOtVcMtoi
fOR DOHIsTIr AiVES
- %ss
ni *CT... Vo , rt "CE
Co^ervjyourl 51 ? 11 * 168
WREN an v zlves but
. '°'y°Z:£t isn^
am * aa **OlOT 1 io lr
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1363)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, 0N
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, H ™TY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW* SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Forecasting Fertility.
“R. Ney”; Low prolificacy in sheep
is a serious problem. Stud merino
lambing percentages average only 61.9
p.c. in five States. Two major causes in
rams are high summer temperatures and
poor natural pasture in the dry period.
Fevers due to fly strike, abscesses and
diseases such as footrot, even dipping
and jetting with standard arsenical pre-
parations, can cause temporary degenera-
tion.
In a booklet published by the Austra-
lian Wool Board, giving examples of a
method by which seasonal fertility of en-
tirely pasture-fed rams may be predicted
for any particular district, Dr. R. M. C.
Gunn, of Sydney University, recom-
mends keeping rams on fresh pastures if
possible and, when necessary, giving
them supplementary feeds containing
large amounts of vitamin A or carotene.
See that there’s shade in ram paddocks,
avoid droving long distances in the heat
of the day and don’t dip in arsenical
dips for two months before mating.
Don’t mate rams affected with, or
recently recovered from, footrot, fly strike,
pneumonia or other fevers. Cull rigs
and those suffering from epididymitis,
atrophy of the testicle and hernia.
Remember that when most of the rams
in a flock refuse to work the cause will
likely be found in the ewes ; when only
a few fail to work the fault is in the rams.
Dr. R. B. of the C.5.1.R., points
to the fact that sheep have a non-breed-
ing season. Merinos as a breed have a
longer breeding season than any other,
and among them some individuals appear
to be capable of mating throughout the
whole year. They make spring matings
possible. However, don’t expect a large
number of ewes of this kind.
All things considered, breeders should
make certain that mating periods syn-
chronise with the normal breeding season
of their ewes—usually autumn or early
winter. The time can be discovered by
using impotent rams in pilot flocks. The
booklet is free and worth having. A
A Rural Tragedy.
“C.S.”: “Hullo. That Bangerang two
four? That you, Bill? Aw, not too bad.
How’s that old mare of yours that got
into the wheat? Cripes, conked, did she?
That’s bad luck. What I wanted is t’
ask y’ t’ keep me about twenty bags of
that Bencubbin of yours for seed. Me
own’s run out a bit an’ I want t’ freshen
it up nex’ year. Y’ want ten bob a
bushel? Bit hard, ain’t y’, Bill? Aw,
yairs, I know, but I got no chance o’
diggin’ up thirty quid unless you’re ready
t’ take me note.
“What’s that? You’ll take ten bags of
my Ford an’ me t’ give y’ a hand with
y’r sheep at crutchin’ an’ lamb markin’?
Well, that looks all right t’ me. I’ll be
over about Sunday week an’ we can fix
it all up an’ —eh? Permit? What per-
mit? No, I didn’t know. Read it out,
will y’, Bill? No, just the part about
swappin’ a bit o’ seed.”
Bill reads:
Exchange: (1) The number of each
grower’s “License to Grow Wheat.” (2)
The name and address of the persons with
whom the wheat is to be exchanged. (3)
The quantity which it is desired to deliver
to each such person. (4) Whether the
arrangement provides that the person
obtaining the Seed Wheat shall deliver a
quantity of wheat to the Board in the name
of the grower supplying the Seed Wheat.
All applications for permits must contain
the following certification, signed by the
growers submitting them: “1 certify that
“ How's that for size ?”
the information set out herein is true and
correct in every particular.” If the appli-
cation is in order, a Permit will also be
issued to enable the recipient of the Seed
Wheat to deliver the arranged quantity to
the Board in the name of the Seed Wheat
grower (supplier). This Permit must be
produced to the Country Receiving Agent
of the Board at the time of delivery.
Extract from the “Bangerang Guar-
dian and North-west Co-operator”:
“We regret to report the sudden death
of Mr. Robert Nabawa, a well-known
wheatgrower of this district, who suf-
fered a stroke while holding a telephone
conversation with a neighbor last night.
The unfortunate man’s widow was very
upset and had to be cared for by rela-
tives, to whom she repeatedly made the
peculiar statement that it was murder.”
Nitrate for Cane.
“B. Delta”: Nitrate of soda will have
to supply practically all the soluble nitro-
gen available for topdressing sugarcane
this season. Field tests at Queensland
experiment stations show that, on an
equal nitrogen basis, nitrate of soda and
sulphate of ammonia give equally good
results. However, no grower is likely to
get more than sufficient for a bag to the
acre on ratoons, with none for plant
cane, and it is being urged that the issue
be given to the ratoons and made go as
far as possible.
The season looks like being a wet one,
and it’s advised not to topdress with
nitrate during the rain but at the end
of a wet spell, if it can be done. Keep
it off waterlogged soils until they dry
out fairly well.
Nitrate doesn’t store well, and should
be used as soon as possible. It will give
quick results and can be used as late as
February should deliveries be late, and
it will prolong the growth of cane meant
for harvesting late this year.
Fertilisers for Vines.
“H.C.”: Tests in the Murray Valley
show that irrigated dried-fruit vines
answer best to nitrogen. A 2cwt. dress-
ing of sulphate of ammonia per acre pro-
duced some improvementstepped up to
3cwt. and 4cwt., greater yields resulted
everywhere. Green manure and sulph.
amm. proved better still. Spread over
the land after the green manure was
’mned in, the sulphate supplied all the
iitrogen necessary for the vines and
quick bacterial decomposition of the
cover crop.
At Red Cliffs 3cwt. of sulphate of
ammonia with beans sown in every row
produced the highest yield, 54.9 cwt.
to the acre. Given 3cwt. of sulphate
of ammonia only or mixed with
scwt. super, or 3.67 cwt. bonedust the
yield averaged 52cwt. per acre. Vines
treated with s|cwt. of dried blood or
dried blood plus scwt. of super, or
3.67 cwt. of bonedust averaged 49.2 cwt.
Treated with scwt. super, or 3.67 cwt.
bonedust or left unmanured the yield fell
to 46cwt.
In every case the nitrogen produced
more and larger bunches ; sugar content
or quality was not affected. In no trial
was yield improved by super., ground
bone or sulphate of potash.
D. V. Walters, M.Agr.Sc., suggests
that, with sulphate of ammonia scarce,
dressings of blood and bone should be
applied over the war period. Super, is
wasted on the vines and should be saved
for other crops. Lack of manuring will
not reduce the fruit yield more than
10 p.c. to 20 p.c. for at least four years.
Horse Collars.
“Hux”: A horse’s collar is nothing
more than a cushion to prevent the
hames bruising and cutting ; the thickest
part should come over the shoulder
muscles, about two-thirds the way down
from the top of the shoulder. In spring
and summer when the neck is thin, place
a small triangular pad at the top of the
collar so that the lower part’s brought
opposite the hame’s point and can prevent
shoulder sores. If hames are buckled
too tight on the top they’ll pinch and start
bruises there.
Give the shoulders of working horses
a little attention in the busy season.
Clean off the dust and dried sweat each
night and bathe with cold water and
vinegar or salt to toughen the skin
against pressure. Brush the shoulders
before sweat hardens. Currycombs were
never made for use on neck or shoulders.
Hints for the Farm.
“B-”: No cow ever gets sufficient
minerals from untreated pastures during
heavy milk production. She’s got to
draw on her body reserves —first on the
minerals in the bone and second on those
in the blood—and resistance to disease
is lowered. Adequate topdressing and
supplementary feeding will make good
the losses.
“L.C.”: If a calf persists in eating
rotten wood it’s suffering from acidity of
the stomach. Put it in a good grass pad-
dock in which there’s a little rock salt.
“Pat Ater”: On coastal tableland
country of average high rainfall and
volcanic-basaltic soils, there is need for
heavy lime dressing if mixed pastures
are to persist. Poor growth of ryes and
clovers has been traced to this need, and
remarkable improvement followed appli-
cations of 30cwt. of lime an acre. An
initial topdressing of two tons to the acre,
followed by annual dressings of at least
lOcwt, did better. Clovers stimulated by
- lime and the usual cwt. of super, have
made wonderful pastures in conjunction
with perennial and winter
annual ryes and red clover.
“Blairway”: Watch the hack’s
hooves for cracks. If they appear
and you can’t get him shod, get
a farrier’s knife and make two
grooves on each side of the
crack, starting about an inch
below the coronet and having
the grooves meet in a V on the
crack about halfway down the
hoof. Make them deep, but
don’t draw blood, and avoid in-
juring the coronet.
“R.L.K.”: Don’t stand a crosscut saw
up on end against a shed wall for weeks
or months and then wonder why the
thing is hard to work. Time and weight
will likely put a permanent bow in it.
Lay it across several rafters in the roof
or string it up with three or four loops
of rope or leather. Always smear lightly
with grease when putting it away.
“Myrrhee”: Athel trees (the only
evergreen Tamarix) will grow well on
barren and salty soils and are of value
for erosion control, as a breakwind, for
fodder and shade. They’re readily pro-
pagated by cuttings and grow rapidly to
a height of 40 feet or more. The foli-
age is similar to that of fi.e she-oak. In
1936 two cuttings were planted in the
Albert Morris Park at Broken Hill, and,
although sparingly watered, are now over
30 feet high and clothed in dense foliage
from ground level up. The tree has since
been widely planted in the streets, salty
flats and eroded areas around Broken
Hill.
question's ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
What is the right age at which to wean a
At from six to nine months, according to pro-
gress. Consideration must be given to the age
of the dam and whether she has been mated
again. In any case the foal should have be-
come used to being hand-fed before it is
weaned. When weaned it should be kept in
growing condition and in a paddock wmcn
allows plenty of exercise. Improved P ast .^ es
and lucerne grazing are excellent for yearling ■


10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save - or Slave. Put
ail you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5063 B
U.S. Views on the Pacific.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The deluded ones are those who fancy
that the fall of Hitler and Mussolini will
mean prompt collapse of the enemy in
the Far East. The Japanese do not col-
lapse easily. Almost a year has passed
since Pearl Harbor, but as yet the United
Nations have won back only a part of
one of the many toeholds the Japanese
have gained in the Pacific. It will not
be easy to persuade public opinion in
China, Australia or New Zealand, or
even in the greater part of the United
States, that anybody but Japan is Public
Enemy Number One. — N.Y. “Sun.”
4* 4*
Within the limits of extremely short
resources. General Douglas MacArthur
in New Guinea and Admiral William F.
Halsey in the Solomons area have deli-
vered smashing and costly blows at the
Japanese, but a glance at a map of Asia
and of the whole West Pacific region
tends to localise these contests. They
are not insignificant, but by the same
token they are strictly local. — Charles
Hurd, Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Last June the Russians were promised
a Second Front in Europe, and, though
the admirals always urged pushing naval
war in the Pacific ahead of any other
theatre, Admiral King went to London
with General Marshall to confer with
the British regarding the Second Front.
Roosevelt was persuaded a small Pacific
operation could be started against the
Japs. There was one good reason. The
Japs were rapidly building air bases on
all the Pacific islands. Once completed
they would be so much more difficult to
knock out. So the Navy persuaded the
President to start the Solomons campaign,
but with a specific promise: that no addi-
tional ships be taken out of the Atlantic,
away from the Second Front. There was
strong belief in the minds of some naval
advisers that, once Marines landed in the
Solomons, the President would change
his mind and permit more ships and rein-
inforcements—if necessary. But what
neither the President nor the admirals
figured on was the disastrous naval defeat
of Aug. 9, when our cruiser squadron
was caught off guard and we suffered
heavy losses. Besides the four U.S.-Aus-
tralian heavy cruisers sunk, other ships,
still unannounced, were damaged ; and a
damaged ship is as good as sunk until
repaired. Repairs sometimes take months.
So the defeat changed the history of this
war, caused reconsideration of the Second
Front. It played into the hands of
Churchill, extremely reluctant about the
Second Front. It meant more ships, more
troops had to be sent to the South Pacific.
— U.S. columnist Drew Pearson.
' 4* 4* 4* 4*
In the Japanese scheme of things off-
shore bases and island oases in the sea
figure as so many avenues leading into
the regions she is so systematically isolat-
ing—India, Siberia, Australia. Each time
Japan takes over one of these avenues
she counts it as another strategic door
shut and locked off. In no case has
Japan hastened to follow up her con-
quest of these strategic bases by invading
the countries to which they offer access.
For the Japanese High Command
assumes that if only all the doors leading
into these bastions can be locked —with
Japan holding the keys —these countries
will in their isolation stay put until the
time comes to invade each in its turn. —
Eliot Janeway, in “Asia and the
Americas.”
“Means must be found to carry the war
to Japan itself. The prospect of the war's
end in Europe is comparatively brighter
than is such prospect in the Far Pacific.”
— U.S. Senator Tydings.
The over-all picture of the war with
Japan is decidedly hopeful. This does
not mean that victory will be easy or
soon. It may take at least two years or
possibly three. But the facts at the
moment need to be interpreted within the
perspective of such a period. The Japa-
nese were not ready [when the U.S.
attacked in the Solomons]. They had not
recovered from the Battle of Midway.
Their timetables and calculations and
strategy were upset. The surprise move
caused reverberations in Japan. The
Japanese Navy had to move everything
it had available to the Solomon Islands
area. Each side really had to throw in
all it had in the vicinity. Navy chief-
tains cannot wait till they have adequate
forces for a decisive battle —they figure
every battle to be in some way decisive,
and when the issue is joined they must
fight it out. In the end the war against
Japan will be won by the attrition that
has already begun—by MacArthur’s
’planes and men moving north from Aus-
tralia and New Guinea, by naval and
marine forces moving up north to stra-
tegic islands protected by our fleet, and
by a host of Flying Fortresses operating
from China. All will have had a part
in the grand strategy of victory.— From
Washington correspondent David Law-
rence’s syndicated column.
-I* *!• -I*
Asked whether he considered the
South-west Pacific a second front,
Admiral Halsey barked that he consid-
ered it a first front. It is indeed a front
of great importance. To hold it means
to hold Australia for the Allies ; to lose
it means to lose Australia —and New
Zealand in all probability. Every advance
on that front means another step to-
wards revenge for Pearl Harbor, the
liquidation of the enormous Japanese
conquests in the Pacific and the eventual
smashing of Japanese world-conquest am-
bitions. If our leaders could bring them-
selves to give MacArthur ample men and
equipment, instead of occasionally ap-
plauding his shoestring near-miracles,
there is no telling what he might do
toward shortening the war. — N.Y. “Daily
News.”
4*
The Pacific today is still a secondary
war front for the United States. It has
second call, or at times even third call,
on men and ships and equipment. First
call is had by the forces fighting Hitler.
Some officials say that second call, at
least part of the time, goes to this coun-
try’s Allies. —“United States News.”
•I* •;« -i-
General Tojo and Admiral Yamamoto
know well enough how many ships they
have lost and how their losses compare
with ours. But properly to arm their
paid agents and equip their fifth columns
throughout Asia it is necessary to con-
tinue to picture themselves as invincible,
America as hopelessly beaten. Thus
their job of policing is made easier and
the time of revolts put off as long as
possible. Thus, too, the time when de-
structive questions begin to be put at
home, though in whispers, can be post-
poned as long as possible. In light of
the facts the Japanese communiques may
seem ridiculous, but they serve a prac-
tical purpose.— N.Y. “Times.”
Britain in India.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times” leader .)
Many believe that England is holding
on to India chiefly because of the
profit the English make out of India.
Some interesting figures were re-
cently made available by T. A. Raman,
formerly London editor of the United
Press of India. India pays no sort
of direct or indirect tax to Great Britain,
or any subsidy or tribute. British
industries operating in India —factories,
mines, public utilities, estates, trading con-
cerns —have an estimated capital value of
a little less than $2,000,000,000. Their
profit in recent years has been computed
at about $70,000,000 annually. In 1937
the British had loans outstanding in
India of a total amount of $1,104,000,000,
yielding to British nationals interest of
some $40,000,000. Since the war India
has wiped out this debt almost entirely.
Britain and the British Commonwealth
have bought so much from India of raw
materials and manufactured goods that
India has been able to build up huge
sterling credits. With part of these India
has repaid over 80 per cent, of these
former loans. It is expected that within
a few months the entire debt will have
been paid off. Britain, therefore, now
gains little or nothing by way of interest.
As to British nationals working in
India, of a total of over 500,000 employed
by the Administration only 2500 are
British, the rest Indians. There are, all
told, about 10,000 British making a living
in India.
As to foreign trade, the balance vis-a-
vis England is now overwhelmingly in
India’s favor. Great Britain has no more
economic interest in India than in the
free commonwealths of Canada, Australia
or in an outside country like Argentina.
India’s defence expenditure has
mounted since the outbreak of the war.
The armed forces have risen from less
than 200,000 in peace-time to the present
figure of over 1,500,000. But, by the
terms of an agreement with the British,
India pays only for the internal expenses
of her defence, the balance being paid by
the British Government. As a result of
this, two-thirds of the defence cost of
India —about $600,000,000 —was met by
Britain last year. This year the British
share is estimated to amount to
$1,500,000,000.
Letter to Frenchmen.
[ln the “open letter” from which this extract
is condensed Antoine de Saint-Exupery (French
airman and author of Night Flight ) was directly
addressing fellow-Frenchmen, but these of his
comments have a general interest also.]
There are 40,000,000 people over there
in France who must endure their slavery.
They will deal with French problems
better than we can ; they have all the
right to deal with them. Our talk will
carry no weight with them. They will
not read our books, they will not listen
to our speeches. Perhaps our ideas may
make them sick.
Our political discussions are the dis-
cussions of ghosts; ambitions among us
are comic. We do not represent France ;
all we can do is to serve her. And what-
ever we do we shall have no just claim
for recognition. For there is no common
measure between freedom to fight and
bearing the crushing weight of the dark-
ness. There is no common measure
between the metier of the soldier and the
metier of the hostage. The people over
there in France are the only true saints.
Even if we have the honor of taking part
in the battle, we shall still be in their
debt. There, in the first place, is the
fundamental truth.
Men of France, let us be reconciled in
order to serve! Why now should we get
bogged down in the old quarrels? It is
time to unite, not to divide ; for opening
wide the arms, not for exclusions.
Let us think of Vichy as a trustee in
bankruptcy, negotiating with a greedy
conqueror for delivery to France of a
little grease for railroad cars. (France
can no longer get gasoline, or even
horses, to bring food to her towns.) The
officers of the Armistice Commission will
one day tell us about this persistent and
atrocious German blackmail. A quarter-
turn of the key—delivery of any less
grease than required—and a hundred
thousand more French children would die
in the next six months.
When a single hostage is shot, his
sacrifice shines forth. His death is the
cement that binds French unity. But
when the Germans, by merely holding up
an agreement on grease for cars, kill a
hundred thousand hostages of five years,
where is the compensation for this slow,
silent haemorrhage? What is the accept-
able fixed price for dead children? What
would have been the tolerable limit of
Vichy’s concession in its attempt to save
them? Who can say?
You are aware that French denuncia-
tion of the armistice terms would have
been equivalent to a return to a state of
war. It would have justified the con-
queror’s seizure of all adult males as mili-
tary prisoners. This blackmail lay
heavily over France. The threat was
plainly set forth. German blackmail is
no jest. The rot of German prison
camps yields only corpses. My country
was thus threatened, purely and simply,
with utter extermination, under legal and
administrative pretence, of 6,000,000 men.
France was armed only with sticks to
resist this slave hunt. Who is in a posi-
tion to say for certain what should have
been her resistance?
Here is the seizure of North Africa by
the Allies to prove, perhaps, that, in spite
of blackmail and in spite of two years of
pressure, Germany has failed seriously to
encroach upon this North African terri-
tory. Somewhere, then, there must have
been attempts at resistance. Perhaps the
victory in North Africa has been won,
at least in part, by our 500,000 children
who have died. Who would dare say that
the number is insufficient?
Promises to Russia.
( N.Y. “Times” gives the facts .)
The familiar charge that the British
and American Governments “misled”
Russia about their intention to create a
second front and thereby “let Russia
down” rests on a reading of the state-
ment, made simultaneously on June 11,
1942, in a White House release and in a
Foreign Office communique in London,
that as a result of conversations which
M. Molotov had had with the heads of
the Allied Governments full agreement
had been reached “with regard to the
urgent tasks of creating a second front
in Europe in 1942.”
From both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill we have light on the interpre-
tations placed upon this phrase in Wash-
ington, in London and in Moscow.
Mr. Roosevelt has asserted, and Mr'
Churchill has corroborated his state-
ment, that at the time the June 11 declara-
tion was made a final decision had not
been reached as to whether to attack
Hitler across the Channel or to attack
him from the underside of Europe. Clearly
Mr. Churchill was sceptical even then of
the possibility of an early attack across
the Channel; for he said: “In June I
gave the Russian Government a written
document making it perfectly clear that,
while we preparing to make a land-
ing in 1942, we could not promise to
do so.”
' The final decision against the Channel
landing and in favor of the “underside”
attack was made a few weeks later, fol-
lowing Mr. Churchill’s second visit to
Washington (in the third week of June)
and the return visit (in July) of General
Marshall and Admiral King to London.
Plans were at once made for the offen-
sive that was destined to take the form


o
WAR
LOAN
m
4
s
iiiiii
Hi
★
War-time creates shortages.
Take care of your Feltex
and invest in
Commonwealth Savings Bonds.
Felt and Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Floor Coverings
.
M- : v
-
Hi
of a great armada of 850 ships bound
for Africa. The first highly confidential
orders for the assembling of that armada
were issued at the end of July
r-, • , . . , . , , , f
This decision having been taken, Mr.
Churchill set out promptly (he left Eng-
land in the first week of August) to lay
the whole plan before Stalin. He pre-
ferred to “deal with this matter person-
ally, face to face, rather than leave it to
ordinary diplomatic channels.” The news
he brought to the Russians “was not
welcome, and not considered by them
adequate. But they bore their dis-
appointment like men. And it was Stalin
who subsequsntly declared that as a result
of Mr Churchill s visit complete mutual
understanding was reached between the
leaders of the two countries.
The record thus reveals a written warn-
ing to Russia on Mr. Churchill’s part,
as early as June, that no promise could
be , an atdac ,H across the Channel
in 1942 and a full disclosure to the Rus-
as an s S oo°n as'plans" 1 AttackTerc
made P * “ 1 * *
These facts dispose of the accusation
that the Russians were at any time “mis-
j ed »
There remains the charge that they
were “let down,” because the de-
cision not to attack across the Channel
reflected too great caution on the part of
the Western Allies and thereby failed to
provide the immediate diversion of Ger-
man strength which the Russians had so
strongly urged.
Here we share completely Mr.
Churchill’s belief that “a dozen Dieppes
on one day and a couple of Dunkirks a
week or two later would not have helped
Russia , that they would, in fact, have
been of the greatest disserv.ce lo Russia
The alternative plan of a strong attack
delivered from North Africa “at the un-
derbelly of the Axis” has far greater
promise of success. It has diverted both
infantry and ’planes in large numbers
from the Russian front. There is every
reason to hope that it will continue to
divert land strength and air strength,
in ever-greater numbers, until the Ger-
man army is at least split in two and the
opportunity arises to destroy once and for
all the evil force of Hitler.
Slow African Job.
[First enthusiasm over the North African
success made many expect that the whole show
there would be soon over and immediate in-
vasion of Europe probable. U.S. war com-
mentator Flanson W. Baldwin shows why the
job must be slow.]
The campaigns in Algeria and Morocco
were political, not military, blitzkriegs. It
was fortunate this was so.
Q ur [U.S.] fighting forces are still, in
] ar2e meas ure, “areen” ; not ready—ex-
cepting certain units—to meet the bulk
G f the German army,
The German army today, despite the
a ttrition of the Russian war. comprises
a total of h 325 divisions 0 £ all
types Some of these
are not at full
strength . some are only garr i SO n, or
second-line, divisions—but it is, neverthe-
less, a most formidable army, and it is
reinforced by another 100 divisions from
the satellite Powers.
The j and p ower 0 f the enemy in Europe
and the land r of the enemy in the
Wester " Padfic and Asia is greater than
that which the United Nations can yet
rr A ter ’ _ T . « .
Complete possession of North Africa
—something that is not yet assured—does
mean imminent invasion of Europe
There are major problems of supply that
w ih require solution. The ports and corn-
munications of North Africa are limited
in facilities, and in the Mediterranean lit-
toral only a limited army can be sup-
ported, an army in no sense comparable
in size with the German army of Europe.
This means, if an invasion of Europe
is to have much chance of success, the
building up of supply bases in North
Africa and at other points around the
periphery of Europe. It means months
of effort It mea to that pressure
, exerted t Germany from
™ st be + ex f a § amst Germany trom
a l Pomts of the perimeter and not from
N° rth Afnca a i° ne ’ for Germany must
be Prevented from concentrating her
S re at forces against any one threat,
This means the strengthening of the
Russian front, the marked strengthening
of our North African forces and the
creation in Britain—her strength depleted
by the North African expedition—of an-
other great expeditionary force capable
of threatening the western face of
Europe.
This will take time —much time.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Wendell L. Willkie speaking: “I say it to
you and with knowledge that, with all pride
in what our own arms are accomplishing in
North Africa, it will be written in history
that it was Montgomery’s magnificent ability
at the Battle of El Alamein in the early part
of September that made possible everything
that the U.S.A. is doing there today. In these
operations in North Africa in which we as
Americans take so much pride, the British are
deliberately playing down their own contribu-
tion in order to give an extra lift to America,
■and also so that the world will have a visible
demonstration that America is fully in this war
with actual fighting troops. When the war is
over the story of Britain’s part in North Africa
yesterday and today will be one of the noble
sagas of history. For the Free Commonwealth
of British Nations and for Great Britain, I
have nothing but admiration and infinite re-
spect. I hope my fellow-Americans will con-
tinue to pour out their hearts and their national
resources to the limit, in grateful appreciation
to those great defenders of liberty.”
* * * *
The Chinese are letting it be known early
that they could use between $5,000,000,000 and
$10,000,000,000 in American loans to rehabili-
tate and to develop their nation after fighting
stops. Other parts of the world have not yet
submitted their ideas about needs for American
capital.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
Over one-fifth of the 600,000 Canadians who
have gone to fight are enlisted in the air force.
The proportion appears to be higher than in
any other country. One reason for this is that
the air force has offered the surest and quickest
way overseas and into action against the enemy.
Canadian fliers have collected one D. 5.0.,
three D.F.Cs. and bars, 109 D.F.Cs., 56
D.F.Ms., 14 A.F.Cs., two George Medals and
one George Cross, with other decorations.
Casualties among them are; 1142 killed in
action and 1371 missing, of whom 408 are
prisoners. Against that can be set an ever-
rising list of enemy aircraft destroyed.— N.Y.
“Times Magazine.”
* * * *
Earl Browder [the American Communist
leader] in howling for a “second front” in
Europe, doesn’t care a thimbleful of vodka
how many United Nations’ men are slaughtered
in a premature invasion so long as his own
bacon is safe. During World War No. 1,
when we were menaced by the Kaiser’s mighty
military machine, here is Earl Browder’s war
record: In May, 1917, he was gaoled for re-
fusing to register for the draft. Six months
later he was sentenced to two years on the
charge of obstructing the draft. He has lately
been released from Atlanta prison, on the Presi-
dent's order, where he had been sentenced for
violation of the passport laws. The only
“fronts” on which Browder has ever been active
are the Red Front and the Gaol Front. . Mrs.
Browder was ordered deported to Russia, but
she is still here. Great fighters, these Browders
—with their mouths! — Benjamin de Casseres;
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* $ * V
The negro question is adding to some Ameri-
cans’ worries about the war. Lynchings are
on the upcurve. There are disputes and near
riots here and there. Now and then a Jap
agent is caught trying to make medicine among
our negroes according to the “Why fight the
white man’s war?” formula. All these things
stir up ancient hates, fears and prejudices, and
a serious blowup conceivably could result
sometime. —“ Collier’sN
Mr. Churchill is thinking first of Great
Britain, and proudly admits it. Stalin is think-
ing first of Russia. We have it on good
authority that Stalin’s post-war price, in event
of Allied victory, is Russian recovery of Fin-
land, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and a big
piece of Poland —the old Czarist Russian geo-
graphical setup. Chiang Kai-shek is certainly
thinking of China first. And why not? — N.Y.
“Daily News.”
* * * *
One of the most unusual outfits in the army
is in the final stages of its training as a combat
unit at a Mid-Western (U.S.A.) training camp
—an infantry battalion composed solely of
men of Japanese ancestry. And they all agree
that they would like nothing better than to
create some unpleasant war news for Tokyo.
Every non-commissioned officer and man of
this 100th Infantry Battalion of the 2nd Army
is an American citizen of Japanese descent who
was drafted in the Hawaiian Islands. All but
a handful are veterans of the attack on Pearl
Harbor and of many months of active service
in preparing the islands against a possible re-
newal of the Japanese attack.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
it! 5k * JJC
Britons are drinking more beer, but this
need not disturb either those who demand
more austerity or temperance advocates.
Although consumption increased by four mil-
lion barrels over the pre-war consumption,
much less malt hop was consumed than before
the war owing to a 20 p.c. reduction in the
strength of the brew. Moreover, the regular
consumers have been augmented by Allied
troops quartered in Britain and by women
joining the ranks of the beer-drinkers, which
is amply justified by the many thirsty jobs
which women have taken from men. — “Wall-
street Journal’s” London correspondent.
* *1
Extortion is a mild word for the ingenious
scheme whereby the Nazis have compelled
France to finance her own economic destruc-
tion. Long practice in learning how to avoid
the payment of reparations has taught Germany
how to collect them. She did not levy repara-
tions as such; instead, she merely levied “occu-
pation costs,” payable in francs at the rate
of 400,000,000 francs a day. Germany’s actual
occupation costs, however, were far less than
this, probably no more than 125,000,000 francs
a day. The balance Germany has used to buy
up, at forced-sale prices, everything of value
Frenchmen own and Germans covet. — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Japan had a testing and seasoning ground
for her troops in China. She was able to
choose her own type of fighting by being the
aggressor, and she has tremendous stores in
anticipation of a blockade. — Raymond Crom-
ley; “Wall Street Journal.” (He was years in
Japan.)
* * * *
“Long live FREEDOM and damn the
ideologies!” That is the slogan of Robinson
Jeffers, California poet. It is one of the few
slogans that have the touch of eternal truth
about them. It could have been used just as truly
2500 years ago in Greece and can be used a
thousand years from now, when, no doubt,
there will be the same kind of fanatics that
have cursed the world today trying to put over
on free people their strangling “ideologies.”
Just what is an “ideology”? It is always some-
thing that extends the power of the State or a
group of men and that narrows the activities,
the thoughts and freedom of speech of the
individual. The U.S. Bill of Rights is the
supreme example of a piece of anti-ideological
writing. So is the Declaration of Independence.
So is the Constitution as a whole. So is the
Emancipation Proclamation. These documents,
like the English Magna Charta, limit the powers
of the State, proclaim no “ideological” prin-
ciple and are based on the biological necessity
of freedom. — N.Y. “Journal-American” column-
ist.


Weak Kidneys
Often Cause
Nagging Backache and Leg Pains.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys discharge poisonous
waste from the blood, thus removing
the cause of backache, leg pains, lum-
bago, swollen feet and ankles. Buy a
bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
E
m
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H^A^os£_& < Co^ i y^ i Ltd ;^<in^St;^ydne^
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
,'V
Asm*
m
s;
Ar
X X -> <2.
&£
'"s-
cT>
'fSj, , ,
X~
TURN YOUR POUNDS INTO PLANES
8 N VEST ALL YOUR SAYINGS IN VICTORY
Nothing matters now but Victory. Everything must be
subordinated to winning the war. The needs of our fighting
services come first, and your money is needed to provide
the arms and equipment they must have. Save every pound
you can by avoiding purchases of non-essentials which
also waste manpower vital to war production.
SAVE ALL YOU CAN , AND BUY
• 69 WAR SAVINGS STAMPS •
£1 WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES FOR 16<-
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
sm-is
Or make an advance subscription to the next War "Loan through any Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
What “ pulling together”
CAN DO
THE purpose of the A.M.P. Society is to provide
financial protection for its members. It is a good
example of the force and virtue of prudence when
put into practice.
The Society is purely co-operative. That is to say, it
belongs to its members and is controlled by its
members. Through membership in it an average of
one family in every three in the Commonwealth has
some measure of financial security, that measure
being decided by each member, without let or
hindrance.
The Society is, indeed, the greatest co-operative
institution in the Commonwealth. Its accumulated
funds have reached £140,000,000. Last year it paid
out £8,250,000 in benefits to its members or their
beneficiaries. For some time it has been putting
£500,000 a month into the War Loans; the total now
lent to the Commonwealth is £46,000,000, so the
Society helps to protect the Nation while it protects
its members.
The strength of the A.M.P. and the security of its
members come of Co-operation, allied with Prudence.
When men and women pull together for their mutual
happiness and progress there is no limit to what they
can do, provided they seek the things it is wise to seek
and shun those it is wise to shun.
AJUP. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern. K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Service Department.
Wants.
To buy, new or second-hand, Louis Kuhne’s
Science of Facial Expression. —3333.
To buy back numbers of Australian publica-
tions “Walkabout,” “Home Annual,” “Aus-
tralia Today,” “Sydney Mail Annual” and “Be-
yond the Cities.”—3334.
To buy Old Days and Old Ways, by Dame
Mary Gilmore.—333s.
Information Sought.
(1) Haw may tuberculosis be recognised ? (2)
What treatment is given ? (3) Can tuberculosis
be cured?
(1) The most important method of early
recognition is thorough X-ray examination.
Tests with tuberculin are also employed. (2)
Treatment varies with the stage of the disease,
but includes collapse of the affected lung (arti-
ficial pneumothorax) and several other pulmo-
nary operations, injection of gold salts, fresh
air and sanatorium treatment and dietetic super-
vision. (3) Yes, provided the condition is diag-
nosed early and suitable treatment commenced
at once.
* * * *
How long has the island of Malta belonged
to the British Empire, and what is the length
and breadth of the island?
Malta was annexed to the British Empire
in 1814; 17 miles long, eight miles in breadth.
* * * *
(1) What are the privileges of a life member
of a society? (2) In what circumstances is a
life membership conferred? (3) Would it be
appropriate to award a life membership to one
who had done good work in the inauguration
of a social club only three months in existence?
(4) Would it be consistent with procedure to
have that life member retain his position on
the board of management of that club ?
(1) Generally, free membership and admit-
tance to functions organised by that particular
body. (2) Usually for services rendered and /
or long membership. (3) Hardly, since the
organisation is just a fledgling. (4) Life
membership is generally conferred after the
member has ceased to take an active executive
part in the organisation’s affairs.
* * * *
Is it still necessary to use glass traps for fruit-
fly destruction in small orchards in N. S.
Wales ?
No; but foliage poison sprays and destruc-
tion of infested and fallen fruit are insisted upon.
Recommended: 2oz. tartar emetic, 24-lb. sugar
and four gallons of water; on each tree once a
week splash or spray six fluid ounces in patches
on the foliage, applying it five weeks before
the fruit ripens and until one month after the
crop has been gathered.
S= =£ * *
Particulars of O’Reilly’s bowling for N.S.W.
v. Victoria in 1933, when he took nine wickets?
O’Reilly’s figures in the second innings were:
35 overs, 14 maidens, 50 runs, nine wickets.
Brief Answers.
J.G.C.: The Digger Hat; Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney; price
35., plus postage E.E.W.: Squire’s Com-
panion to the British Pharmacopoeia is out of
print. Try second-hand book shop—say
Tyrrell’s, of 291 George-street, Sydney J. 8.:
The lines are from William Knox’s (1789-1825)
Songs of Israel Interested: Gloaming,
6.10 (D. O’Connor), won the Chelmsford
Stakes in 1919, beating Rebus (9.4) by eight
lengths, with Kennaquhair (9.0) a length and a
half away third. Eighteen other runners included
Poitrel, Cetigne, Lingle, Estland and Colugo.
Gloaming ran second in 1922 and 1924
R.L.: You should report the matter to the
Health Department... .X.Y.Z.: Can’t say
whether cure of complaint whose symptom is
a ticking sound in the ear is possible with-
out fuller details. Don’t think an X-ray alone
would help much J.J.8.: It is published by
Pastoral Review, Ltd., 22 Loftus-street, Sydney.
W.L.I.: The paravane was invented by
Commander Sir Charles Dennistoun Burney,
born in England in 1888 A.8.C.: Persons
desiring employment with the American Army
may apply at Room No. 804, Bth floor, Barrack
House, Barrack-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.W.M.:
So you think you can build a lasting and puissant
State
On a pedestal of rapine, lying and insensate hate?
Barbarians of a godless race, descendants of a milder
Hun,
In wickedness that ancient tribe with you bears
no comparison.
8.C.;
Musso. said bitterly
“Life is so slippery ;
Now I’ve lost Tripoli!
Bombs fall on Italy,
Break all the crockery:
Adolf, I’m jittery:
You go to Sicily!”
. ...A.M.Q.: “What see I on yon palm-clad
height a-welcoming the mom?” Gadzooks,
we wot not what K.M.C.: “Wings” frail.
T.P.W.: The subject’s too big for you
C.M.: Strangled in parentheses A.M.M.:
That three-line poem’s like the tail of a horse.
Where’s the rest of it? F.J.: No pennies
from this balcony... .J.E.8.: If there’s any-
thing worse than war, famine, disease, death
and the devil it’s a parody of “Hiawatha”....
L.G.H.C.: If you need capital letters for
emphasis it’s a fair indication there’s some-
thing flat in the verse M.S.: It has whiskers
Irom here to Bourke... .E.H.: The caveman
gets a grin where you don’t want it G.D.:
“Old Naseby’s heart will yearn no more.”
Ah E.S.: Your final rhyme’s harrowing....
R.M.G.: Not far off.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.F.: That drunk has been searching for his
reflection in a hairbrush for years H.C.W.: •
But what is the raft with the scarecrow cling-
ing to it doing up in the Alps? Bert C.: We
could give 50 reasons for rejection, but one
will suffice: her hands... .L.C.P.: The horse
has a hump, a tail like a kangaroo dog’s,
and apparently doesn’t need fetlocks J.H.8.:
If the small girl were to sit up straight she’d
bump her head on the ceiling T.F.N.: Why
is the gent, in the ankle-length nightshirt sawing
a balloon in half while his wife is floating about
above his head? M.C.: Try standing in the
same position as the fireman, but don’t blame
us if you crack your neck... .C.W.D.: First
time we’ve seen a gag illustrated by a patch-
work quilt A.S.D.; A tailor’s dummy, a
scrawny female and a dreary he-she joke.


Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
ludowicis
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
® -Hr
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
* &
LUDOWICIS
PfiWFP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine. Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street t Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts..
Claims Promptly and E q uUab. y Settled. A s e„*.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
f Dividends— —,
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933!. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934 . 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 17£ 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Taxes short-provided, £87,500 • • 662,110
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
A country’s effort to maintain its
fighting forces is inseparable from its
metal industries. Materials dug from the
earth have to flow through numerous pro-
cesses which turn them into arms, muni-
tions and equipment, etc., on their way
to the battle-fronts. Zinc, particularly in
its highly-refined state, is one of the chief
foundation stones on which production
of munitions rests. In one or other of
its alloyed forms, zinc is called for in
every cartridge case and in every pro-
jectile fired from guns. As a constituent
of brass and bronze, it is an important
element in armament and defence equip-
ment of many kinds; and as zinc dust it
finds its way into flares and smoke
mixtures. Also, as an anti-corrosive
or protective agent, zinc is used in
galvanising, and in its oxide form it goes
into paints and pigments and into tyres.
E.Z. operates mainly in Tas., produc-
ing zinc, by-product metals and super-
phosphate and mining silver-lead-zinc
and copper ores. The roasting and
sulphuric-acid plants, which cater for the
superphosphate and explosives industries,
are situated in S. Aus. and N. S. Wales.
And there is £756,684 invested in other
cos., chiefly in allied industries. These
cos. include Commonwealth Aircraft
Corp.; Australian Aluminium, which pro-
duces sheets, tubes and extruded sections;
Metal Manufactures, which turns out
copper and brass and other alloys for the
Munitions and Supply Departments;
Associated Paper and Pulp, now chief
source of supply of many writing and
printing papers in Australia. Other hold-
ings are in Australian Fertilizers, Com-
monwealth Steel, Imperial Smelting
Corp., Imperial Magnesium Co, and
1.C.1.A.N.Z. The Aluminium co.’s offer
to erect and operate on Government ac-
count a smeltery to produce aluminium
from bauxite has not been accepted.
More than two-thirds of E.Z.’s zinc
output is now used locally, where selling
price and distribution are controlled by
the Government; the balance is eagerly
taken by Britain at a figure which fluc-
tuates with costs. The pressing demand
for the metal kept the big Risdon plant
working at high pressure. And there
was no difficulty in disposing of the cad-
mium, zinc-base die-casting alloy, high-
grade cobalt and oleum-strength sul-
phuric acid and other by-products.
At Rosebery enough ore was mined to
supply full feed to the concentrating mill;
but development was short of schedule,
owing to absence of skilled miners. Still,
sufficient new ore was proved to compen-
sate for extraction, leaving ore reserves
unchanged around 1,500,000 tons of
average grade. Also, some ore of higher-
than-normal copper content was mined
in the Hercules.
Factors which hit earnings hardest
were (1) dilution of skilled labor arising
out of transfers to the fighting forces,
with consequent loss of operating effi-
ciency; (2) lift in the wages bill on ac-
count of cost-of-living adjustments and
concessions by wages boards ; (3) advance
in prices of operating supplies ; (4) sale
of products locally at prices (fixed) below
export parity. After allowing £125,000
—same as previous term —for deprecia-
tion, etc., the balance on working ac-
count was £559,001 (down £131,957). In-
vestments turned in only £39,971 (down
£11,252). The contraction was partly
offset by a reduction of £lOB,OOO in taxa-
tion and provision therefor (£212,000) —a
fifth of mining income is now exempt
in both the co.’s and shareholders’ hands.
The profit claimed was £58,868 lighter at
£303,916, which is reconciled with the
figure in the table in this way:
Profit and loss balance f
Add: Addition depreciation reserve . . 121,910
Unexplained addition gen. reserve 20,790
Reserve for ore depletion .. .. 25,000
£ 476,616
Less: Appropriation new plant, etc. .. 17,000
Added intangibles . . .. . ■ °
Net per table .. .. • • £459,611
After deducting net additions to the de-
preciation reserve (now £2,849,198),
which is included and then shown as
written off in the introductory table, the
balance (£337,701, down £27,621) was
equal to 12 p.c. on average capital as
against 14, 17.3, 15.6, 17.7, 20.6, 12.4
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1935. That leaves
out of the reckoning £87,500 of taxes
short paid at the end of June, 1941,
charged to reserves. The div. was lowered
from 14 p.c. to 9 p.c., and might go lower
still if the local selling price is not lifted
enough to cover the continued rise in
costs. However, the co.’s post-war pros-
pects look as promising as anything of
the kind can.
The plant-extension programme, to
help finance which £400,000 of fresh capi-
tal was gathered during the term, is
behind schedule, owing to labor difficul-
ties and delay in delivery of materials: - -
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Debentures . . £401,(100 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 309,718 199,416 255,137 £275,416
Deposits .. 59,585 203,432 225,696 98,742
Overdraft .. 8,296 62,393 47,920 439,239
Tax reserve . . 119,183 107,829 251,677 218,370
Mt. Read-Rose-
bery mines.. 457,524 457,524 457,525 463,561
Properties
plant, etc. 3,835,137 3,959,003 4,234,410 4,491,274
Book debts . . 287,916 194,916 262,135 437,060
Shares . . 353,781 500,468 714,397 766,684
Stocks . . 439,148 613,744 734,191 966,252
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,286,105 1,271,578 1,062,671 657,994
Net outlay on plant, etc., was £256,864,
while the reduction of £404,677 in
cash and investments is interrelated with
cancellation and final repayment of the
debenture debt. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,786,223) was £193,259.
Adelaide Electric Supply (S. Aus.)
, —Dividends—- Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 10 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 . . 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 . . • • 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520 . . • • 931,858
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
Written off plant, £90,990 . . .. 1,001,687
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 . . 991,255
1938.. 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,763
■Written off plant, etc., £105,377 .. 1,012,386
New capital exes., £3887 .. 1,008,499
1939.. 388,889 185,000 62,500 141,389 1,149,888
Written off plant, etc., £102,572 .. 1,047,316
New capital exes., £2597 . . . . 1,044,719
1940.. 400,459 193,854 62,500 144,105 1,188,824
Written off plant, etc., £28,120 . . 1,160,704
1941. . 427,095 197,500 62,500 1-67,095 1,327,799
Written off plant, etc., £12,062 . . 1,315,737
1942. 197,500 62,500 177,732 1,493,469
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
The co. has been under fire because of
misunderstanding of its attitude to the
unproved Leigh Creek coal measures,
which the State Legislature has become
suddenly anxious to develop. The Gov-
ernment, indeed, has gone so far as to
bring down a bill under which persons
may be “required’' to use the stuff with-
out saying where any increased costs
should fall.
From the co.’s viewpoint, chief trouble
is that industrial development in the
wine-making State has proceeded so fast
that a year ago it became plain that a
second powerhouse was “imperative at
the earliest possible moment”:
For this reason it was impossible to
delay proceeding with plans pending further
inquiry into the possibility of using Leigh
Creek coal, and inconceivable that we
should embark upon a project involving
nearly £2,000,000 based upon the use of a
coal concerning which neither the thermal
value, ash qualities nor the best method
of use had been established. Such a policy
would quite possibly have involved the
co. in heavy loss.
Successive tests have proved the exist-
ing furnaces unsuited to burn Leigh
coal; nevertheless, provision is being
made in two 60,0001 b.-an-hour boilers on
order for the use of the Leigh article
ip combination with the N.S.W. com-
modity, and experimentation is proceed-
ing in other ways.
Equipment for the new power station
includes two 30,000 kw. turbo-alternator
units and three 150,0001 b.-an-hour
boilers, delivery expected during 1944.
Meantime, an issue of £250,000 3f
p.c. debentures has been offered and
snapped. Present share and debenture
capital, which with reserves is costing a
moderate 5 p.c., is composed this way:
t —Capital Stock — x
Adelaide. London.
£
Pref. 6 .. 178,608 71,392
5A .. 250,000
’’ 8 B .. 249,950 50
„ 61C. . 747,127 252,873
„ 5D . . 500,000
P ord. 8 . . 743,348 6,652
Ord. .. 616,729 8,271
Total £5,035,762 589,238
t —Debenture Stock—^
I ' Adelaide. London.
|p.c. £ £
I 6 D 250,000
I 4 E 197,750
i a F 200,000
4| G 200 831,644
1 4JH 250,000
1
I
j £897,950 831,644
Installed generating capacity now aggre-
gates 75,000 kw., a rise from 65,000 kw.
since the close of accounts and pre-
cisely double the maximum load in 1937.
Another 2429 consumers (making
110,078) were connected last year, when
industrial demands for power and im-
proved lighting produced an increase of
29.3 p.c, in kilowatt hours sold, despite
street brownouts and restricted sale of
domestic appliances. But whereas
revenue expanded 15 p.c., exes., including
taxation, sprang nearly 26 p.c. The appar-
ent lift in profits according to the “Wild
Cat’s” reckoning reflects an addition of
£27,450 to contingency reserve—an
appropriation for maintenance which has
had to be postponed. Because of ex-
tensions of national importance, capitai
equipment has had to be allowed to run
down in other ways, too, the amount
charged to reserves in lieu of deprecia-
tion for plant scrapped (£102,572 in
1940) dropping further to £12,062. Ex-
cluding this fluctuating item, profit of
£437,732 was sufficient to pay the pre-
ferred divs. and hand the ords. 10 p.c.
with a margin of £177,732.
One transmission project in hand is
costing £150,000 or more; unlike
some defence extensions, which may call
for considerable writing-off later, the
benefits therefrom are expected to be
permanent. Altogether, £166,461 net was
added to the book value of the under-
taking last year, making it £6,712,796;
debtors £204,681, stocks and stores
£267,918, and cash and investments
£163,279 round off the assets. Creditors
are owed £337,355.
Timbrol, Ltd. (Sydney)
Year *' H-g-
- Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
1941 . 12,680 10 p.c. = 10,438 2,242 23,801
1942.. 19,256 8 „ „ 16,464 2,792 21,009
* Formula;, etc. ( £30,826), not reckoned as assets.
The business at first grew slowly, but
capital account has expanded from
£69,974 to £205,795 since 1938. Nearly
all of it took place during the first half
of 1941, when subscription of 63,636
shares at an Bs. premium was followed
by capitalisation of £55,795 of reserves
just before listing of the scrip in Sydney
and Melbourne, Wood-preserving oils
were the chief concern at the outset in
1925 ; then processes for treating coal-
tar products were developed, and subse-
quently the co., in which the Dixsons are
largely interested, turned to production
of synthetic chemicals for mining and
industrial purposes.
Output has been extended, changed
and accelerated by the needs of a war
economy in a state of semi-siege. But,
though profit advanced £6576 last year,
on capital employed the earning rate fell
from 12.1 p.c. to 9.3 p.c., and a two-point
cut was made in the div. (8 p.c.). That
left £2792 to put by, reducing the amount
of capital unrepresented by tangibles in
the books to £2l,oo9—patents, etc.,
aren’t treated as an asset herein.
The generous distribution of earnings
was apparently prompted by the way in
which depreciation (£20,976, up £BlBO,
and 14.6 p.c. of the book value of all
fixed assets) had been first looked after.
Here is the full financial position before
payment of the year’s div.:
1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. .. £205,795 £205,795- ■
Sundry creditors* .. 44,325 72,277 +27,952
Freeholds and plant .. 130,943 143,283 T 12,349
Stocks 36,217 52,402 +16,180
Sundry debtors . . 26,653 44,524 +17,8(1
Cash 42,945 33,319 9,626
* Including tax reserve.
Expansion on the most ambitious scale
yet is planned, and those on the register
have been offered 100,000 £1 5y p.c. prefs.
to provide “working capital.” The issue
has been underwritten by J. and J. North,
members of Sydney ’Change, at a com-
mission of 6d. a share. Post-war oppor-
tunities will depend partly on the present
behavior of costs.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net 1 ® ,e *
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
’ £ £ £ »
iqqo 9 923 Nil 2223 I,l°*
1983'.: disiS 3jp.c.= 6003 815 1,969
1934.. 8,230 4,, „ 7203 1027 2,996
Added intangibles, £75 .. •• •• >
Special reserve taken in, £220 • • 6 ’ L ,
1935 14,886 6 p.c. = 10,805 4081
1936.. 19,341 8J„ ~15,007 4334 11,55
1937.. 19,817 8i„ „ 15,007 4810 16,366
io°e 91 899 gl- , ~15,007 6815 Zo,io
1Q.39" 22 324 84 15+07 7317 30,49
1940 .’. 20,063 8J „ „ 15,007 5056 35,50
1941.. 18,502 84 „,, 15,007 349 a 39,04.
1942.. 20,121 84 „,, 15,007 5114 44,16
Profits, subject to climatic besides eco-
nomic conditions, reached a state o
apparent stability a half-dozen years


a-
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Gcddes, Public Trustee.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents, —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
WORLD EVENTS
have a deep personal significance for everybody these days. Efficiency
means full-time production and co-ordination. Australians must face up
to this fact and work together for the protection of our nation—and each
other!
THATCHER & OBERG are wholeheartedly participating in the work of
Australia’s Defence measures: striving to meet every demand for Timber
supplies—despite unprecedented stock shortages—and thus co-operating
to the utmost in Australia’s plans for national survival.
THATCHER & OBERG Pty. Ltd.
Timber Merchants - - - - Detail Joiners
Vat Builders - - - - Flooring’ Specialists
GARDENER'S ROAD MASCOT
’Phone:
MU 1221
(5 lines)
INVEST IN WAR BON DS
m
*
m
chabJS
fir*
U'S' \
'■ ' y
-
ANOTHER IM MILESTONE
... IN KHAKI!
The hundred thousandth Richards body has
slipped by in the stream of khaki-coloured
trucks and utilities hastening to their assign-
ments on the fighting fronts of half the world.
R.I. workers don’t celebrate records these
days. They are too busy giving all they’ve
got to help Australia on to Victory.
HICHAMS
INDUSTRIES || LIMITED
fmc HARPS]
PLANNING FOR PEACE WHILE GEARED FOR WAR!
RftMC
R 143
Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
Genera! Meeting of the Proprietors of the Com-
pany will be held at the Conference Room, 7th
floor, Grand United Order of Oddfellows Build-
ing, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, on Thurs-
day, 25th February, 1943, at 12 noon.
Business:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors fpr
the past year and authorise the payment of
a dividend for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1942.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of Sir
Samuel Sydney Cohen, K. 8., and Frank
Breese Spencer, Esq., who retire and who
have given the requisite notice that they are
candidates for re-election, for which they
are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of
Messrs. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.), and Harrie Hamilton Stitt, F.C.A.
(Aust.), who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candidates
for reappointment, for which they are
eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may be
properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required to
give notice of their candidature, in writing,
to the undersigned not later than Wednesday,
10th February, 1943.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the 11th to the 25th February,
1943, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR, Secretary.
Company’s Head Office,
Haymarket, Sydney,
28th January, 1943.
back. Turnover, now assisted by a grow-
ing demand from both Australian and
Allied forces which is introducing a lot
of potential new permanent customers,
has continuously advanced, but on the
surface the extra revenue has been swal-
lowed up by the mounting tide of
expense and taxation. Results, however,
are conservatively written ; depreciation
is particularly liberal, and “all known
contingencies” are regularly reported to
have been provided against.
The Sydney parent, which now has a
£44,200 paid-up interest, started the co.
off in 1927. Paid capital was then
£67,181, and operations were quickly ex-
tended to Rockhampton, where a branch
factory was established, and to Towns-
ville, North Queensland rights being dis-
posed of to an associate in which 6250
shares are held. This establishment of
manufacturing facilities at the main
coastal railway terminals helped the co.
spread and consolidate once the difficult
early ’thirties were negotiated.
Last year the management beat the
Dedman department to the rationalisa-
tion of its affairs by stopping or limit-
ing popular packaged lines and effecting
other economies in its civilian trade. The
£20,121 (up £1619) of profit shown was
struck, after looking after taxation in un-
precedented fashion, providing an un-
changed £11,500 for depreciation and
inaugurating a staff superannuation
scheme. The N.Q. co. contributed 6 p.c.,
but a Brisbane subsidiary again recorded
a loss. On capital, the £20,121 was 11.1
p.c., and shareholders received their
seventh successive 8| p.c.
Something of the extent of trade ex-
pansion shows up in enlargement of
plant, stocks and debtors:
1932. 1935. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £180,086 £180,086 £180,086 £180,086
Liabilities .. 17,723 4,697 11,437 23,582
Tax reserve . . 519 4,902 13,004 21,192
Freehold . . 101,928 102,070 115,974 116,874
Plant, etc. . . 100,478 108,194 179,162 185,100
Investments . . 35,848 30,561 21,850 21,878
Stock.. .. 4,262 7,663 29,265 31,879
Book debts . . 4,765 2,958 9,472 15,884
Cash, etc. .. 658 25,049 28,375 49,113
Finances all along have been carefully
nursed and the earning assets well cared
for. At £142,703, depreciation balances
amount to 77 p.c. of the cost value of
plant shown, or, taking in freeholds, 47
p.c. of all fixed assets. Since 1935,
£42,321 has been added to the more or
less liquid surplus (£73,294, excluding
tax reserve), and that after providing
£91,710 out of earnings for new build-
ings and plant.
As for normal trade, the immediate
future depends mainly on the national
demands on labor and transport.
If can be gained therefrom,
and Authority is willing, the Zinc Corp.
is thinking of “simplifying” its pref.-
ord. capital structure. Year-old accounts
for 1941 show that the big war-time
expansion in metal output—substantial
extensions were in hand at the outbreak
has all been for the benefit of the
British and Commonwealth Treasuries,
though a fifth of British e.-p.-t. exac-
tions should be rebateable after the war,
subject to conditions which preclude
its utilisation for divs., etc. In the latest
period, the surplus would have been
£38,866 lighter still but for a change in
the method of valuing metal stocks:
Year. Treated, Gross Tax Net
Dec., Tons. Revenue. Provision. Profit.
1939 424,700 £A1,662,904 £A78,446 £A178,219
1 1 Q 9 , 4 , 0 - 2,115,879 248,687 185,553
1941.. 535,443 2,303,579 307,586 173,946
The mine is described in “splendid
shape.” The ore-reserve estimate of a
year ago (3,800,000 tons) was unchanged
in grade and 150,000 tons above the
previous computation. No. 16 level
alone has been opened up to a point
where 2,000,000 tons is looked for, and
the drill has indicated the persistence of
widths and values in the broad lead lode
far below present workings. In the ad-
joining New B.H. holding, which the Zinc
Corp. is financially interested in and
manages, the stage is approaching “when
a joint working agreement will need to
be brought into force.”. Metal sales are
practically assured for the duration ; with
prices more or less fixed, the same isn’t
so certain about net earnings.
♦ * # *
As with steel, the Commonwealth is
securing the base munition metals lead
and zinc cheaper than any other Allied
Government. In copper and tin, the
country isn’t so fortunate, not being self-
sufficient in those commodities. Here is
the average of fixed London and Aus-
tralian selling prices during 1942:
London, Australia —
Metal. Sterling. Sterling. Australian.
Lead, ton .. £25 0 0 £l7 12 0 £22 0 0
Spelter, ton . . 25 15 0 17 12 0 22 0 0
Elec, copper, ton 62 0 0 78 4 9 97 15 9
Tin (spot), ton.. 259 10 0 276 12 0 358 5 0
Silver, oz. . . 2 1.3 2 1.3 2.7.7
Gold, oz. ..8 8 0 10 9 0
On the London market in the same
period antimony fetched £l2O stg. a ton,
and the important strategic minerals
molybdenite and wolfram £2 10s. and
£2 13s. 9d. a unit respectively. As with
copper and tin, local prices are higher in
order to encourage production.
* * * *
Lindesay Clark, Deputy-Controller of
Minerals, has been investigating the ex-
tent and value of Westralia’s variety of
strategic minerals, and C. E. Prior, for-
merly g.m. of Wiluna and now a member
of the U.S. Board of Economic Warfare
Mission, has been assisting. From the
information gathered Supply Minister
Beasley reports concerning the various
metals:
Tantalite. —Perhaps the most important de-
velopment is production from the Wodgina
mine, near Port Hedland. The metal is also
being mined in a small way at Greenbushes.
The U.S. is pressing us for 100 tons in the
shortest possible time.
Molybdenite.—U.S. wants supplies, and the
Warriedar deposit is being investigated.
Tin.—Properties at Greenbushes are being
inspected with a view, if sufficient inducement
offers, to granting Government financial assist-
ance for development.
Copper.—A new deposit near Meekatharra is
being worked, and the Evanston district on the
Yilgam goldfield is being considered.
Asbestos. —The Government is providing
financial assistance to develop blue asbestos
in the Hamersley Ranges, inland from Roe-
bourne.
Antimony.—Production as a by-product at
Wiluna is expected to cease shortly, but as
Wiluna is the main source of Australia’s supply
steps are being taken to see if the period
of production can be prolonged. Blue Spec,
at Nullagine, to which the Government has lent
£15,000, is also expected to become an anti-
mony producer before long, though on a much
smaller scale than Wiluna.
Arsenic. —Practically the whole of local pro-
duction is a by-product from Wiluna also, and
production is expected to end with exhaustion
of the mine as a gold-producer. The co., how-
ever, has a dump estimated to contain 5000
tons of crude arsenic—about two years’ Aus-
tralian requirements. Both the U.S. and British
Governments are buyers.
Tungsten.—A mine at Comet Vale is being
reopened with a view to producing scheelite
on a big scale. Dumps at the Edna May,
Westonia, and at the Golden Pole, Davyhurst,
are believed to contain appreciable quantities
of scheelite and wolfram.
Sulphur.—Great Victoria mine, near Southern
Cross, and the Iron King, at Norseman, have
large deposits of pyritic ore. The Iron King
is stated to be extremely high grade, and de-
velopment is being undertaken in order to
supply pyrites to Westralian superphosphate
cos. No Commonwealth money is involved.
Potash. —Lake Campion alunite deposits are
being worked by the State Government. Initial
output is expected to be 5000 tons of sulphate
of potash a year, with the prospect of in-
crease by plant extensions to 15,000 tons.
Australian consumption varies between 15,000
and 20.000 tons a year.
Magnesite.—A high-grade deposit near Cool-
gardie is being prospected.
Beryllium.—Well-known deposits are being
investigated. The U.S. is prepared to buy
2000 tons for immediate delivery.
Oil. —Resumption of boring on Freney’s
area in the Kimberleys is under consideration.
Technologists regard the Kimberleys as one of
the most likely sources of flow-oil in Australia.
* * * *
After depreciation of £16,179, Norse-
man (W.A.) records further fall in profit
from £41,800 to £19,753 for the year to
October ; a tax saving of £7500 was more
than gobbled by an increased charge for
development (£18,186). The year opened
with four-weekly crushings of 11,200
tons and finished on a level of 6000 tons,
which partly explains the lift from 28s.
6d. to 31s. lid. a ton in the cost of ex-
traction and treatment. Throughput for
the first quarter of the current term was
16,850 tons for mere 3.7dwt, recoveries.
Scheelite at Higginsville and sulphur-
prospecting in the Iron King are among
war-time activities that may later turn
in something. There have been no divs.
since June, 1940.
The reduction from $1,683,933 to
$1,003,150 Canadian in Pato Consoli-
dated’s net result for the year to April,
1942, was due primarily to contraction
from 25.77 to 20.33 cents in unit gold
yields ; costs, excluding depreciation and
depletion ($577,790), were actually
got back from 12.4 to 10.9 cents per C.y.
Dividend was raised frr>m PA n e fe.
jjiviaena was raised from 20 p.c to
47 P-C., calling for $500,850 more than
the profit exhibited. Placer Development
and Oroville Dredging, London (equal
36 p.c, shareholders), are the chief bene-
ficiaries. Pato s ability to continue dis-
tnbutions is obscured by recent Colom-
bian financial measures which prescribe
(1) a straightout 35 p.c. increase in in-
come tax ; (2) a second increase of 50
p.c for the years 1943-44, returnable in
defence bonds , and (3) payment for 20
p.c. of gold sales in the same paper, these
bond “subscriptions to be limited to
60 p.c. of the previous term’s taxable
profit and to cease altogether when a
f. , cf\ Ann a/va „
total of 60,000,000 pesos is reached. For
the same reasons, Asnazu, which, with
six months’ help from its new dredge, ad-
vanced its net earnings from $130,927 to
$253,215 Canadian last term, has also
had circumscribed its ability to clear off
the debt with which it financed its pro-
duction programme, thus further post-
nonina the div staae
* ’* * «
rp i , , . ~ ....
Tableland Tins big
dredge is having its trial nips. If things
go as expected, it will contribute a wel-
come 1000 tons of concentrate annually
to Commonwealth needs. There is
£lOO,OOO or more of debt in the way of
dividends, however.


7a
Y>
Z
An AGA Cooker in the
kitchen is as good as a
permit for extra staff. The
AGA burns continuously,
requires a minimum of at-
tention, and is instantly
available, day or night, for
every kind of cooking, fast
or slow.
The AGA’s sparkling vitreous-
enainelled surface is as clean as a
china plate. With an AGA, deli-
cious meals just cook themselves,
with full flavour and nourishing
values of all foods retained by the
scientific heat-storage principle.
The AGA is almost unbelievably
economical, and by using coke, a
by-product, assists in conserving
the nation s manpower.
The AGA Model CS is guaranteed
to consume no more than £4/7/6
worth of fuel, with coke at 35/-
a ton in the city. (Freight in-
creases price of fuel in country, but
annual consumption is so low that
amazing enonomy is possible any-
where in Australia.) Over 40,000
owners in the British Empire alone
have proved the AGA Cooker to be
the first essential in a modern kit-
chen. Eet us advise you about the
Model suitable for your home in
city or country. Write for AGA
Catalogue 82.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.) Estab. 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
South Australian Agents:
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaida.
Tasmanian Agents;
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Western Australian Agents:
Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth,
Queensland Agents:
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op-
erative Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
U3H003
(3Wvm aovux aoi>»)
vov
THAT'
wz
/'HE
WE'LL SHOULDER
THE BURDEN
You may be one of the many who find present uncertain conditions are making
intolerable demands upon your time and energy. So much so that you fin i
impossible to give proper attention to your personal financial affairs If this be
so you have the solution at hand. Let Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. relieve
you of all the worrying details of administration of your estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, this Company will give uninterrupted, faithful, and
efficient service.
If you are interested in learning details of the service which this tr^°“ pa n n f y ,, C “
render to those anxious to be relieved of the burden of °^° f their
affairs or estate, two special books will be forwarded on request. Write for
them now.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
c o M.PANY LIMITED
? BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
PHONE: B 7901.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Private Enterprise at War
Shareholders in companies are now
finding reduced dividends a common
thing. Although the cost of living has
advanced over 21 p.c. since the outbreak
of war, most of the increase having oc-
curred since the Japanese attack and the
ascent of Labor to the Treasury benches
placed a double burden on the Australian
economy, shareholders have had in-
creased divs. in very few cases, and on
the whole a noticeable reduction, statis-
tics issued by the Commonwealth Bank
being full evidence of this. Where war-
time dislocation of trade has not been
the cause of fallen profits it has been
mostly traceable to direct company taxa-
tion. This taxation has no personal re-
lationship whatsoever. The person to
whom divs. are paid has to pay his full
rate of taxation irrespective of what the
co. has paid. Thus double —and heavy —
taxation has been the lot of the share-
holder, while the wage-earner has not
even been taxed adequately once so far
as his inflated war-time earnings are
concerned. He has been granted full
cost-of-living allowances in the base of
his wage, and in addition he jaften gets
overtime payments and margins for
“skill” that would be nowhere in the
picture in peace-time. For the company
that is working additional shifts there is
no such thing as “overtime.” Excess-
profits tax is levied instead, and it has
been only recently that the taxation
people have allowed extra depreciation
on overworked plant.
Price control operates throughout the
Commonwealth. The effectiveness of
Professor Copland’s Prices Branch has
been a big factor in keeping inflation in
prices and some costs down to 21 p.c.
or thereabouts. The actual inflation that
has taken place in the amount of credit
available to the spending rather than the
investing class has been far in excess of
21 p.c. This inflation has been accen-
tuated by the shortage of things on which
the money may be spent, and only rigid
price control has stopped very great in-
flation in the price of some things. An
indication of what could happen to un-
controlled distribution of limited stocks
is seen in the price of oranges, other
fruit and vegetables in some States. Such
inflation is not allowed in manufactured
goods, except in the black markets. It is
quite easy around King’s Cross (Sydney)
to get 50s. for a bottle of Australian
whisky normally selling at 12s. 9d. But
that doesn’t benefit the maker of the
whisky. All his prices and other figures
are subject to inspection, and it is only
the sly-grogger who is able to cash-in
on this sort of thing.
While selling prices of industry are
strictly controlled, it is not customary to
allow the manufacturer or distributor full
allowance for increased costs. By an
order of April 15 last year, gross-profit
margins are restricted to the money figure
then prevailing —if 3d. on a sixpenny
article, then the margin stays at 3d. even
if the cost rises to 9d. or Is. In the case
of manufacturers there have been com-
plaints that the “general picture” prin-
ciple has been applied ; this has more
relationship to profit control than it has
to price control, and it is mostly applied
to businesses with an increasing turnover
on which there is the likelihood of greater
total profits being made even if margins
are falling.
The proprietary side of industry is
ringed round with price control and
special war taxation. The small pro-
prietor whose affairs don’t appear before
the public gaze may be getting financial
advantages out of this war, but he repre-
sents the exception rather than the rule.
The big companies, such as 8.H.P.,
C.S.R., etc., are earning the smallest
profits for years past, and the experience
of companies generally has already been
noted. In the case of mining cos. the
position has been as bad, if not worse.
Only recently have taxation allowances
been made for the wasting nature of the
asset most mining cos. possess, and Aus-
tralia’s great Barrier silver-lead mines
are being eaten into in order to produce
increased quantities of vital metals while
the shareholders are being reduced as to
dividends or else, in fortunate cases, are
receiving pre-war rates. Prices of silver,
lead and zinc are being strictly con-
trolled, and Australia is being supplied
at a cheaper price than any Allied
country. North, best financially placed
of all the Barrier mines, expects a cut in
the div. this year because of increasing
costs that aren’t likely to be accompanied
by much improvement in Australian or
British contract prices.
Prices for strategic minerals in short
supply have been increased in order to
encourage urgently-needed production.
Copper has been lifted, and so have wol-
fram and some others of the smaller but
vital metals. At the same time there is
still very little in mining for most com-
panies, though miners and owners of
small shows may be doing all right. The
producer finds the scales loaded against
him in anything he tackles. He is usually
set the impossible by the Government,
and then existence is made possible for
him only after repeated representations.
Although the more unbalanced mem-
bers of Labor’s Ministry frequently
storm at the “capitalist profiteer,” and
Communists are invariably doing so,
Prices Commissioner Copland, the man
who ought to know, has said, although
there has been a little underhand black-
marketing in the manufacture and dis-
tribution of clothing, there is no profiteer-
ing in prices in Australia. He added:
“I say this deliberately. We have cracked
some of these people very hard. The
only leniency shown them has been by
a magistrate occasionally.” Wage rates
and charges for overtime are not regu-
lated by the prices man. In them he
might find a very different story.
Where man-power has been needed,
the class of business affected has been
the main consideration, although politics
have entered extensively into this matter.
Goldmining has been curtailed severely
because of the need for expert miners
and such workers in more essential indus-
tries. Men have been taken away and
businesses handicapped irrespective of
the capital at risk on the owner’s part;
private interests have had to bow to the
national interest. Shipping cos. have
had their vessels commandeered, with
many aspects of compensation still in
the clouds after more than three years of
war. The uncertainty attached to Gov-
ernment action of this kind is almost as
bad to the owners as such compensa-
tion that is offered to begin with. There
have been more losses than profits on
Government “compensation” during this
war.
The banks have been severely restricted
by war and the Labor Government.
Their advances to industry have been
curtailed, and “surplus investible funds,”
representing the increase in deposits over
pre-war levels, have had to be handed on
to the Commonwealth Bank at 15s. per
cent, interest. Such help to the central
bank now runs to £75 million. Even
before company taxation is paid the
banks are not permitted to increase their
profits beyond the average for the three
years to August, 1939. Then, after pay-
ment of taxation, dividends are still sub-
ject to further tax in the hands of share-
holders.
On the home front Australia’s war
effort has been very lopsided. The
rough end of the stick has had to be
taken by the proprietary side of industry
all through. Some politicians have gone
to particular pains to make things diffi-
cult for private industry and finance irre-
spective of how important to the war
effort and our economic life their activi-
ties happen to be. Australia will have to
do something soon about a form of
socialism that is not even based on im-
practicable ideals, but on envy and
opportunism.
Federal Parliament has agreed to grant
producers of motor spirit from indi-
genous shale and coal protection, until
August, 1955, to the extent of 7.4 d. a
gallon over imported spirit, and 5.5 d.
over spirit produced in Australia from
imported crudes. Mr. Beasley said that
a similar concession had previously been
granted to producers who had an output
of oil by August 21, 1942, but not to those
who had begun production subsequently.
If the proposition is as straightforward as
it seems it is highly to be desired.
Anomalies in the Government’s attitude
towards the .production of shale-oil have
been astounding up to the present. There
has been really very little encouragement
to the production of oil as a sideline by
enterprises vitally needing petrol.
* * * *
Supply Minister Beasley announced
last week that a Government mission has
reached Britain on the way to the U.S.A.
to examine methods of producing alu-
minium from bauxite.
¥ * * *
Mr. Chifley, contending that Opposi-
tion members had the idea that war ex-
penditure could be financed entirely by
taxation and loans, said “no Govern-
ment, at the present rate of expenditure,
can get by taxation and loans complete
finance to pay for the war as it goes
along.” That, of course, is what Mr.
Chifley likes to think. Compare what
he says with this :
Nothing could be easier for me, as Minis-
ter for Finance, than to pick up the ’phone
the first morning in each month, call up
the manager of the central bank and just
ask him to credit the Government with what
we will need for the month. While a rela-
tively small amount of such credit expan-
sion may a times be required to provide
the larger working balances needed when
employment and production increase, the
amount is strictly limited by economic con-
ditions. If we, through the central bank,
create and spend more new money than
this limited amount, then the spending
of these new funds is added to the existing
level of expenditures and competes with it
for the available supplies, thereby forcing
up prices at a time like this when supplies
of very many things cannot be expanded.
That is J. L. Ilsley, Chifley’s opposite
number in Canada, speaking. He uses
bank credit for “working balances” only;
Chifley makes it the crumbling pillar of
his whole war-finance scheme. The pic-
ture grows more threatening every day.
In 15 months Labor has used over £2OO
million of bank credit.
sS * * *
Australian dollar bonds have gone to
higher prices in New York. A Common-
wealth issue that was down to 36i at the
most depressing period of the Pacific war
sold at 91 last week, when there was a
rise of five points in a few days. Other
issues went to 94 and 96, the highest
quotations in several years. In London
Australian bonds were being bought on
about a3i p.c. basis. Canadian securi-
ties have been popular also in London
and New York recently, Wall-street pay-
ing over par for some.
* * * •
If not already too late, Canberra might
forget its great political problems for a
moment and consider some more impor-
tant national problems, such as that of
wheat crops rotting on the ground in the
N. S. Wales north-west because of man-
power difficulties in some cases and petrol
shortage in others. There are sections of
rural Australia that feel as though they
have now been forgotten by a Govern-
ment which seems more occupied with
politics than production. They were not
forgotten when the calls for man-power
and loan money were made.


STOPvcur Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® LocaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO..
DEX‘X. 27, 84 PITT ST., SIRNKI'.
LET
St
£
'JyJJJjJM
Established 1808 In Keign of Georg© 111.
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen many
battles, including th.e Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager. N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
ST. PATRICK'S COLLEGE,
COULBURN.
(Founded 1874.)
Conducted by
THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS.
Registered Secondary School.
BOYS RETURN TUESDAY, 9th FEBRUARY.
m
Si
'SX
ill
*
Australian hardwoods are
now converted into
Masonite the wonder
board of a thousand uses.
They are the raw material
from which these wonder
boards are made. Now,
with the demands of
Australia’s war effort
creating so many new
uses for Masonite, the
raw material becomes
war material, and Aus-
tralian hardwood in the
form of Masonite serves
the nation in a score
of ways.
if
. W 4 ■ ;
m ~s —
mmmmm
PRESDWOOD.. TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE . . QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
Manufactured by Masonite Corporation (Aust.) Limited from Wood Fibre
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO, LTD. (Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . • . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE , . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
MAB 2-42
The New Taxation
The Federal Labor Government,
which has chosen to indulge in unde-
clared war on employers and savage class
taxation, has long neglected the job of
dealing with its own voting supporters
as it does with others. With a huge and
unwieldy war effort on its hands it has
added to its difficulties by financial
foolery. With Treasury-bill debt now ex-
ceeding £2OO million it is groggily trying
to shape up to the inflationary monster
it sees before it. It is talking about a
more widely-spread taxation scale, but
at the same time is awfully worried about
the padded seats at Canberra, especially
those on the Government side. It is
riven between duty and (a sort of) dis-
cretion. The country’s financial affairs
have gone hang for over 15 months, but
in the thick of the shock of disasters in
the Pacific the Government was fool-
ish enough to say that taxation rates
would not be increased on assessments
issued during the current year. In so
doing Mr. Curtin showed little apprecia-
tion of the financial realities of the war.
War is economic waste. To treat it as
other than waste is to ask for inflation.
In not paying for war out of taxation
to the fullest possible extent financial
disaster is asked for.
That taxation has not been fully used
is seen in the inflationary credit conditions
in the Commonwealth. The savings
banks, in which not more than £lOOO
may be deposited by one person, have
been rushed with an average of £6 mil-
lion a month for a lengthy period.
The note issue has inflated by millions of
pounds because of currency hoarding.
In respect of incomes under £8 a week
the rates of taxation in Australia are
far below those of Britain, Maoriland or
Canada. Yet last week Treasurer Chifley
had the nerve to cite the use of Treasury-
bill finance in Britain as an excuse for
his own weak-kneed inflation. When Mr.
Chifley’s extremely political Government
has dealt as firmly and fairly with tax-
payers as has Britain’s Government, and
that involves the taking of an extra £5O
million or more a year from those earn-
ing £8 a week and under, let him com-
pare his effort with that of Sir Kingsley
Wood.
In a debate on the financial drift in
Canberra last Thursday the Minister for
Home Security, Mr. Lazzarini, spoke in
a typical Labor-member manner:
Why should we be concerned about
damaging the banking system if we beat
the Japanese? We can easily mend the
banking system afterwards. The talk of
the financial system and of inflation is all
insidious propaganda; an attempt to stam-
pede the Labor people against the Govern-
ment.
Of course, Mr, Lazzarini hasn’t enough
brains to know that the damage done to
the banking system by inflation would be
only an incident compared with the
damage done to people’s jobs, to
their savings and the export trade.
Apart from that, the Labor party might
be just as reluctant to do the right,
“mending” thing after the war as it is to
do the sane, obvious thing now.
So far as Labor’s new taxation pro-
posals are concerned —these it has not
been tempted to reveal in full in spite
of the criticism of its present inflationary
progress—the chief feature is a sugges-
tion that tax will start at £lO4 a year,
against £156 at present. The reduction
will not apply to the fighting services.
From April 1 a new scale of taxes will
apply, mostly at higher rates. The Gov-
ernment intends to require each taxpayer
to continue paying weekly instalments
until he reaches a point at which the
much-debated “lag year” is taken up and
tax paid will be in respect of income in
the year of payment. At present tax is
said to be paid the year after earning.
The “excess” tax paid each year will earn
2 p.c. interest until, in several years’ time,
the taxpayer will be strictly paying as he
goes.
Still awaiting details of the all-impor-
tant new rates, there are points to be
commended in the scheme. Elimination
of the lag year is greatly to be desired,
though some claim that, legally, there
never has been any lag year. But
how can a person who is paying
18s. 6d. in the £ tax ever hope to do
more than he is doing at present? He
will probably still die with a millstone
of taxation debt tied round his neck.
And there is talk that much of the tax
will be paid into a social-security fund
first of all, out of which it will be allo-
cated to the Defence Department on
loan. That part of it amounts to the
same thing as the Government spending
the money on war now without any
strings to it and, after the war, imagin-
ing that it has a social-security fund.
A matter of Australia’s London funds
has been causing some interest both in
London and Australia. In his Budget
speech on September 2 Treasurer Chifley
said:
Our capacity to finance overseas war ex-
penditure depends upon the level of our
London funds. In 1941-42 we financed £47
million of overseas war expenditure, mainly
out of current international receipts, but
we had to draw on accumulated reserves
to some extent. Under an arrangement
made with the Chancellor of the Exchequer
by my colleague Dr. Evatt, obligations
which we cannot currently meet will be
postponed for consideration after the war.
It is impossible to forecast our trade
balance with any cer.ainty, but there is a
fair prospect that we shall be able to finance
out of current receipts about £5O million
of overseas war expenditure for 1942-43.
Some London holders of Commonwealth
securities took the “arrangement” men-
tioned to mean that the United Kingdom
Government was guaranteeing the interest
payable for the duration of the war.
Hence this in the “Economist” of Sep-
tember 12:
This arrangement, apparently, had no-
thing to do with the bonded sterling debt.
It refers to the war indebtedness incurred by
the Commonwealth in the United Kingdom
and does not affect the obligations to over-
seas bondholders or any other contractual
liability. The official correction of a false
interpretation of Mr. Chifley’s speech, inci-
dentally, provides the first official intima-
tion that the war expenditure of Australia
in this country has had no impact on Aus-
tralian balances here, but is accounted for
in separate inter-Treasury accounts which
are carefully segregated from the other
overseas payments and receipts of the Com-
monwealth.
The “official correction” appears to have
been made by S. M. Bruce, Australia’s
High Commissioner. On September 4,
according to the “Financial Times,”
Mr. Bruce made it known that the ar-
rangement referred to in the statement re-
lates entirely to war indebtedness to the
United Kingdom Government. He added
that it in no way affected obligations to
Australia’s overseas bondholders or any
other contractual obligations.
But at that the position is only partly
cleared up. Mr. Chifley says in 1941-42
“we had to draw on accumulated re-
serves to some extent.” The “Economist”
says “war expenditure of Australia in
this country has had no impact on Aus-
tralia’s balances here.” This is the point
that is intriguing Canberra at the present
time.
* * * *
Kandos Cement has reduced its div.
to the basis of about 7.8 p.c. p.a., interim
being at the rate of a share. The
rate previously was 12£ p.c., paid in
equal half-yearly instalments. There has
been ta!k °f rationalising the industry in
N.S.W. by closing down the Kandos
works. I his problem resolves itself
mamly into one of consideration of the
local population, as there is agreement
between the mainland cement manufac-
turers that if works are closed down as
a matter of national necessity there will
be proportionate compensation from the
others in the business. In any case
Kandos is nowadays a holding co., being
interested equally with Australian
Cement, Melbourne, in both the Kandos
and Geelong works. The latter are the
most efficient in the Commonwealth,
Special low rates are being charged the
Government for cement, but the indus-
try is beginning to feel the burden of
rising costs now, and requests for a lift
in selling prices are likely to be heard
The inflation that has taken place in wares
and other costs has not so far been corn-
pensated in cement prices or in cement-
co. divs. On the contrary, as showi h
the instance of Kandos and Goliath
(Tas.), the reverse has been the case with
divs. This has been a fairly common
experience with investors all over Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
It was at one of those Government
defence factories where job-control makes
it almost a crime for a man to work his
hardest and where departmental inter-
ference is at its futile worst. The pro-
duction head had had a specially bad
morning. “Never,” he said, “have so
many been around by so few for
so little.”


THE SERVICE MAN
Menace in the North.
“Ek Dum”: For the time being heavy
fighting has ceased in Papua, and Allied
troops are having a temporary respite,
which they have merited if ever men did.
Main activities have been transferred
to New Guinea.
The veteran A.I.F. men have particu-
larly earned the admiration of the Ameri-
cans, whose commander in the last phase,
Lieut.-General Eichelberger, said that he
had not expected the Sanananda position
to crack so quickly. Much of the credit,
he added, was due to the brilliance and
drive of Brigadier Wootten —whose whirl-
wind charges in March, 1941, took Jara-
bub in the Western Desert, who com-
manded a brigade of the “Rats” in
Tobruk, and who was very largely re-
sponsible for the successful throwing out
of the enemy from Milne Bay.
General Eichelberger said that he did
not believe there were finer troops any-
where than the Australians under Briga-
dier Wootten’s command. The Austra-
lian break-through to the coast which
split the enemy defences into three iso-
lated sections was “a victory-giving
manoeuvre.” In the final stages the
enemy had been “thoroughly whipped”
and U.S. troops had learned lessons
which boded ill for the enemy. *
General Eichelberger continued:- —
During the campaign I am afraid I
underestimated the enemy strength. It is
only now that we have had the horrible
job of burying the enemy dead that we
have realised in what force they were
The United States baptism of fire was a
harsh business. The troops were asked
to do things the first time in action which
normally would have been asked only of
seasoned troops... .Though the inland
groups of Japanese were hungry and their
uniforms and equipment badly knocked
about, those in the main body were fit and
well equipped.
According to the general, large stores
of fish and rice had been found in the
enemy dumps. The Japs had ample stores
of ammunition of all types. He added
that Allied casualties in the campaign
had not been light, but the proportion of
killed to wounded was not as heavy as
that of the enemy. Many of our wounded
would fight another day, and humane
and skilful treatment of the sick assured
that many men listed as casualties would
soon be fit for fighting again. Thanks
to the Allied air forces, what troops were
brought in by the enemy to reinforce the
Buna-Gona positions had been landed at
a very heavy cost.
Of the Australian Wirraway men who
acted in co-operation with the ground
forces throughout the campaign General
Eichelberger said: —
I never hope to fight with braver men.
Pilot-Officer J. C. Archer, who aston-
ished the Allied air forces by bringing
down an “O” fighter in a Wirraway (B.
20/1 / ’43), has been decorated by the
American G.O.C.
It has been established that the enemy
lost Lieut.-General Horii, then G.O.C.,
before the Buna battle began. He was
drowned in the flooded Kumusi.
Penetration of New Guinea
The land campaign has taken a new
turn in the attempted penetration of the
New Guinea Mandated mainland, up the
Sepik, from Madang and toward the
goldfields. This last was a main drive —
made from Salamaua, which is 35 miles
from Wau by air, but considerably more
over terrible hill tracks. The attack was
made after the usual jungle infiltration.
The enemy was discovered at 2 p.m.
on January 28 near Wandumi, about
eight miles from Wau. He had cut a new
track and his main force was by-passing
Wandumi.
Though the Australians were in inferior
force, a brisk action followed, both sides
using mortars, and heavy casualties were
reported. A party of 60 Japs was caught
at point-blank range by the Brens and
annihilated.
However, by dawn next day the enemy
was opening an attack on Wau from
across the swollen Bulolo River, which
only eight or ten men succeeded in cross-
ing. They were wiped out.
About 9 a.m. a force of the enemy
got within 400 yards of Wau aerodrome.
On Jan. 30 they attacked, but the Aus-
tralians, well entrenched, drove them off,
killing 250 at least, including Colonel
Kitamura, who was believed to be in
command of the expedition. Beaufighters
helped in the melde, firing 20,000 bullets
in the afternoon, and Havocs strafed the
enemy base at Mubo, 10 miles from Sala-
maua, and his lines of communication
with great effect. When last heard of
the enemy was “in full retreat and hotly
pursued.”
Save for this fighting, which sent the
invaders into retreat, and attack and
counter-attack round Mubo, Allied
efforts in the s.-w. Pacfic during the past
few days have been entirely limited to
persistent and heavy attacks on enemy
bases to whittle away some of the vast
offensive power which is being gathered
especially at the great nucleus of Rabaul.
There are said to be over 60 ships in
Rabaul Harbor.
On Jan. 26—the fifth morning in suc-
cession that Allied air forces had been
over Rabaul —a 2000-ton munition ship
was blown up and a hole was knocked
in the side of another vessel. Next day
an enemy vessel was fired. A later
attack damaged harbor installations, but
searchlight glare prevented fully effec-
tive observation.
There has been continuous blasting of
Lae, Salamaua, Mubo and other main-
land New Guinea bases on the north-
east, with regular visits to the arc of
smaller bases running through New
Britain to Finschhafen and the secondary
arc further north anchored at Wewak and
Kavieng.
Also, there are now regular attacks on
enemy facilities from the Arus, off the
western Papuan coast, to Timor.
All along this 200-mile borderline
Japanese resources are being brought in
from intermediate bases at Truk, Palau,
Manila, Singapore and direct from
Japan.
All types of ships, from battleships to
t.b.ds., and from tugs to the great 20,000-
ton whaling mother ships which can serve
as large-scale barge ferries, travelling
hangars or tankers, have been seen adja-
cent to Australian waters.
The coastal shipping routes of the
north are menaced from the air—a small
Allied vessel was sunk off Arnhem Land
on Jan. 27. An enemy float-’plane was
later damaged in the same region. All
shipping routes are subject to the menace
of the Jap submarine. Allied ports are
subject to continuous reconnaissance
from Moresby to Port Hedland. Some
times in the north-east the spy-’planes
bring a few bombs to Moresby or Milne
Bay; but their main object, save at
Merauke, seems to be “look-see.” They
are not “look-seeing” for nothing.
A stern fact which needs to be brought
home is that throughout the offensive
area of the Bismarcks, Louisiades and
New Guinea the enemy has not merely
naval supremacy but absolute control of
the sea, save in respect of air power.
This does not mean, of course, that he
holds control further south. He lost that
in the Coral Sea battle and has never
regained it; but it has yet to be proved
that he cannot build up a sufficient force
to regain it.
The End of an Empire.
“Ek Dum”: Musso was not its parent
—while it was in its birth-throes he actu-
ally was rejoicing at his appointment as
manager of the official organ of the Forli
Socialist Federation, a body which had
no time for empires. Some of his own
reactions to Italian empire-building were
such as to land him in gaol. This did
not militate against his later ambition to
become the greatest Csesar of them all.
By 1939 the Italian empire in Africa
consisted of:
Area,
Sq. Miles. Population.
Libya .. .. 679,358 888,401
Ethiopia .. .. 634,000 8,640,000
1,313,358 9,528,401
Of this area, the size of European
Russia, nothing remains in 1943 to Italy.
The effete British have taken it all despite
the fact that their own sources of supply
and armament are thousands of miles
away, while Axis centres of production
are next door.
When war broke out with Italy on
June 10, 1940, the Italians had 2500
front-line aircraft (against 168 R.A.F.
machines in Egypt and at Malta), six
battleships, 21 cruisers, 130-odd de-
stroyers and t.b.ds. and 104 submarines,
all devotable to the needs of the Medi-
terranean. At first Britain had what
Admiral Cunningham described as
“merely a token force.” Against 90,000
British imperial troops on all fronts from
Palestine to East Africa and the Libyan
border, many of them raw troops,
Musso had nearer 600,000 than 500,000
men in Africa alone, about 260,000 of
them in Libya.
The “Bold Offensive”
In East Africa there were 100,000
Italians along the Sudan frontier, fac-
ing 2500 British and 4500 Sudanese with
seven obsolete aircraft and two six-inch
guns at Port Sudan, and four old salute
guns at Khartoum —400 miles away.
Amazing to realise, the British, under
Major-General Platt, took the offensive
with such effect that they made them-
selves look like about a million until
help arrived. Then, with the South
Africans operating in Somaliland and
other British forces in the Red Sea, they
clawed Ethiopia out of the enemy’s
grasp.
Against the 260,000 in Libya General
Waved launched a force which, including
reserves and communication troops, num-
bered under 90,000, possessed of half a
dozen old tanks. In eight weeks Waved
had grabbed 130,000 prisoners and
enough booty to equip an army the size
of his own.
There are now 200,000 Axis troops
from Africa in British hands. The sands
of the desert are strewn with the bones
of tens of thousands more,
The later British achievement, having
regard to the long distances traversed,
the shipping involved and the general
conditions, called for a greater effort in
magnitude of organisation than that in-
volved in the operations of either the
Russian or German armies in southern
Europe in 1942,
Some of the feats of the Eighth Army
stand alone in this war, and will have a
definite and salutary effect on future
technique. The A.1.F., the 51st (High-
land) Division and the North of England
Division, for the first time in modern
war, showed that infantry could pene-
trate minefields without armored advance
guards and that infantry with light guns
could at least stand on their own feet
against tank charges.
In Tripoli and Tunisia.
“Ek Dum”: It was the Seaforths who
opened the way into Tripoli. They broke
through the German defences in the
pass along the hill road 10 to 12 miles
west of Homs —the Leptis Magna of the
Romans, one of the three cities from
which Tripolitania takes its name.
The country round here is rich and
fertile, broken up into hills and valleys
through which the road winds, the slopes
often covered with the esparto grass
which is exported to make brown paper.
The hilltops have many a reminder
that this is a place of old wars in the
shape of martello towers. History has
given it many strange experiences and
more than one taste of Italian rule —the
Roman Emperor Septimius Severus
granted it Italian citizen rights. Arabs
were responsible for most of the ruin
which now makes the countryside, as
well as the remains of the old city, pic-
turesque.
But never in its chequered existence
had Homs seen anything like the 51st
Highland Division, whose battalions went
up the valleys behind the pipes—a re-
minder of El Alamein to the remnants
of Rommel’s 90th Light Division.
It was, however, a bonny kind of
country for Highlanders. Somebody said
afterwards that it resembled the hills
which look across the bay towards
Dunnet Head, the most northerly point
of mainland Scotia. The Scots, in such
congenial surroundings, were at their best.
They charged and charged again into the
Spandau and tommy-fire and gradually
proved that Scottish bayonets can go
anywhere.
The fast columns —Gordons on Valen-
tine tanks raced through the pass
through which their sister regiment had
opened the way. Soon, too, the “Desert
Rat” (7th British Armored) column was
disputing with them for priority in
reaching Tripoli, 60 miles to the west.
As the sun rose that morning, a piper
strutted round the Piazza d’ltalia play-
ing “Cock o’ the North,” the Gordons’
march.
By January 26 Rommel’s sorely-tried
remains were behind the Mareth Line,
which runs from slightly below Gabes
(Tunisia) across the approaches from
Tripoli for about 80 miles. There is
little comfort for them there, or for Yon
Arnhim’s forces further northward which
are in the same paddock, though a sepa-
rate mob.
The landscape in every direction is
peopled by grim Allied mustering parties
converging steadily, with the R.N. and
the Allied air forces acting as backstops.
The Eighth Army is on the road from
Tripoli. The French from Lake Chad
are on their way up from the desert.
The U.S, Fifth Army is advancing
towards the coast. One of its spearheads
(on Jan. 26) took prisoners before Mak-
nassi, 55 miles north-west of Mahares
on the coast, and 70 miles from Mareth.
The Allies hold positions which form
an elbow round the whole Tunisian coast.
The First Army’s job is to take care of
Tunis and Bizerta ; a French drive further
south via Ousseltia and Kairuan is aimed
at the port of Susa, 80 miles s.-e. of
Tunis ; the American spearhead is point-
ing at Sfax, 80 miles south of Susa.
Rommel, with all his forces, or at least
his rearguards, near Gabes, is in the next
120 miles or so.
The weather and the state of the
ground still hold up major activity in
the northern part of the area. But there
are fierce local thrusts, the heaviest of
which, at Ousseltia, succeeded in wrest-
ing the important pass along the railway
and coastal road, from the French. The
Germans claimed to have taken 3000
prisoners. Before the end of the week,
despite showers, the enemy had been
pitched out again by Allied shock troops.
On Jan. 28 Americans occupied Mak-
nassi, passed through it, were within
35 miles of Gabes that evening, and at
the week-end were preparing for a further
move forward.
The “Second- and Third-Fronters” —
R.N. and air forces —spent a busy week.
All crucial ports and points in Tunisia
were bombed and submarines kept their
tally of Axis shipping moving upwards.
On Jan. 26 the Admiralty reported that
five more ships had been destroyed by
British submarines.
On Jan. 28 an Algiers message credited
one submarine with a 6000-ton Italian
merchantman, a schooner and a large
trawler off Sardinia ; a second with a
7000-ton German ship in the Genoan
Gulf, and a third with having destroyed
a large Italian merchantman and cheekily
bombarded a seaplane hangar on the
Italian coast, scoring 10 hits.
The S. Africans claimed 2295 prisoners
and 185 vehicles during the advance of
the Eighth Army.
It will be nearly a month before the
weather and supplies are likely to allow
full-scale and concerted operations be-
tween all the Allied forces in Tunisia, ac-
cording to Cairo advices. Only patrol
cars from the Eighth Army are over the
Tunisian border, and Berlin exults in
possession by the Axis of all the main
aerodromes of Tunisia.
Australian Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: The P.M. on January 27
gave the following totals up to Decem-
ber 31:
Killed 6,826
Missing 23,892
Prisoners .. .. .. 9,059
Wounded .. .. .. 12,371
Total 52,148
An official estimate of casualties was
issued by the Army Minister in March,
1942, a month after Singapore's down-
fall and six weeks after the Japanese
occupation of Rabaul, which took place
a year ago last Thursday, Jan. 28.
In this the Middle Eastern casualties
were given as 133 officers and 2069 men
killed, 267 officers and 4414 men
wounded, 673 officers and 12,662 men
missing.
Losses in Malaya were then reported
as 1024 officers and 15,720 men missing,
total casualties being 17,031. Pre-
viously, early in February, a Malayan
A.I.F. list of 183 dead, 359 wounded and
645 missings—total 1187 —had been pub-
lished.
On all fronts casualties were stated in
the 1942 list as 30,368, but these appar-
ently were only Army losses and did not
include naval or Air Force casualties or
men serving abroad with British forces
unless they actually were included in
A.I.F. units. Neither did they include
losses at Rabaul and in the Dutch N.E.I.
which were withheld “for security
reasons.”
In mid-September Mr. Forde stated
that 28,251 men, “mostly A.1.F.,” were
missing or prisoners of war, including
7667 in Greece and Crete and 20,584 m
enemy hands or missing in other regions
—16,286 in Malaya.
The difference between this estimate of
missing and prisoners and Mr. Curtins
estimate is 4700 ; but his represents total
war casualties” and therefore seems to
include R.A.N. and R.A.A.F. losses.
Apparently 21,780 casualties of all
kinds have been added to the roll since
March, including the naval and Air Force
losses not previously stated.
Among these the disappearance ot
H.M.A.S. Sydney and Perth, Yarra and
smaller ships account for round about
2000 —the Japanese say Perth’s crew is
interned in Java. H.M.A.S. Canberra s
sinking cost Australia 10 dead of wounds
(including the gallant captain, brans
Gettings, R.A.N.), 74 “missing, presumed
killed” and 109 wounded. R.A.A.r.


CD
am
casualties are not known, though there
have been frequent lists of names.
The balance is made up of the unstated
numbers lost on New Britain, in Java,
Timor —only 27 men have gone in 10
months there, but there were early losses
—and Ambon, in air and patrol activi-
ties, and since Dec. 1 in the fighting in
Papua and in Egypt, plus the two battle
casualty lists issued for El Alamein and
Papua to Dec. 1:
El Alamein (announced Nov. 25): 619
killed and 1800 wounded and in hospital.
Papua and New Guinea (excluding
Rabaul) to Dec. 1: 640 killed and 1550
wounded or otherwise casualties. This did
not include the sick list.
In the Ypres offensive of Oct.-Nov.,
1917, Australian battle losses were
38,093 officers and men ; on the Somme
in August-Sept., 1916, they were about
28,000 in seven weeks—an average of
7000 per division, nearly all in the in-
fantry. From Pozieres and the related
battles the Second Division came out
8100 men short.
Hard Pounding Goes On.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian advances in
the Don Cossack and Kuban country
during the few days preceding the week-
end were more in the nature of line-
straightening than of crucial gains, except
in one or two areas in the extreme north
and south from which the Germans had
begun to retreat previously.
The retirement of the Germans from
Voronezh completed the drawing-back of
the whole front held by their southern
armies.
Viewed mechanically as a retreat, the
process has been roughly as follows:
(1) The heavy' occupation-bulge in the Don
Bend west and north-west of Stalingrad was
evacuated under pressure, leaving behind islands
of troops at Stalingrad. The Russians flowed
into the vacuum.
(2) A heavy German counter-attack in which,
according to the Russians, 90,000 Axis troops
were used, was flung towards Stalingrad south
of the Don from the direction of Kotelnikovo.
The object of this was obviously threefold —
to put a brake on the Russian southern flank,
to break into the Stalingrad area and to hold
up the flood of the Russian advance until the
long finger of occupation by raiding forces,
which had been operating southward across the
Kalmuck Steppes to Elista and the S. Volga,
was pulled into the main stream of retirement.
(3) Another retirement was made inside the
Don Bend, in some places as far west as across
the railway from Voronezh to Rostov, the
enemy taking up the Russian pressure fiercely
in bitter local fighting. The Germans held on
to Millerovo and Kamensk, the two most valu-
able points in a not very good front position,
until the turnover of winter to its final dreadful
phase. Then the Russians reported the capture
of both.
(4) The southern far-flung front whose spear-
head was beyond Nalchik and Alagir, south of
the Terek, was pulled in very rapidly. The
Russians tried to pinch the retiring troops off
by the use of racing columns from the direction
of Stalingrad and Elista against their northern
side, while the Red armies of thfi Terek tried
to catch the retreating columns by the tail to
delay them by tenacious fighting. Town after
town, however, was found empty or occupied
only by rearguards, who made little resistance.
The retreat of the southern Axis flank forces
was still proceeding at the week-end, and the
Russians from Salsk and those coming up from
the south-east were again trying, in the Tik-
horetsk region, a similar manoeuvre to that
which they had attempted earlier. They had
taken Tikhoretsk and Kropotkin and the
Maikop oilfields, and the enemy could not re-
treat much further without sacrificing Krasno-
dar and the eastern Black Sea and Azov coasts.
(5) The Germans, as usual drawn into fierce
fighting, began the final withdrawal to com-
plete the retreat —that of their northern flank
in the Voronezh region, along and south of the
Kursk-Voronezh railway. This flank formed
a sort of roof, shading the southern Axis armies
from the heat generated by the Red armies of
the central Moscow regions.
Defeat—but No Rout So Far
Whatever his losses and privations,
the enemy’s retreat was orderly. It was
a substantial defeat, but not a rout. It
must have involved huge privations for
both sides, and a balance sheet can only
be struck when it is known what the
Russian casualties were and what im-
pact Russian usage of material has on
the power of the Red Army to con-
tinue its drives till the thaw at the end
of next month, and to take up an offen-
sive again in the spring. So far, the gains
have been heavily on the Russian side.
The Don country from February to
early June is at its worst for campaign-
ing. It is subject after this month’s cold
to two regular floodings—“the cold flood”
and “the warm flood.” The first comes
from the melting of the snows in the
Don Bend itself. The second, which
does not subside till the end of May in
normal years, is due to the thaw in cen-
tral Russia. The spring-offensive season
last year began only when the second
flood was out of the way and the Don
country was settling down to the period
of dry heat, during which much of the
1300-mile long, 700-to-1800-foot-wide
stream is fordable for miles together.
Stalin’s Order of the Day
Stalin himself crystallised Moscow’s
claims in an order of the day on Janu-
ary 25:
After two months’ offensive operations
the Red Army has broken through the
German defences on a wide front. It has
routed 102 enemy divisions and taken more
than 200,000 prisoners. The Russians in
this period captured 13,000 guns and much
other war material, and have advanced 250
miles. I congratulate the men, commanders
and political instructors on all fronts on
their victory over the German fascist in-
vaders and their Hungarian, Rumanian and
Italian allies, in front of Stalingrad, on the
Don, in the northern Caucasus, in front
of Voronezh, in the area of Velikiye Luki,
and south of Lake Ladoga. I thank the
commanders of the gallant troops who
routed the Hitlerite armies at the approaches
to Stalingrad, raised the siege of Lenin-
grad and liberated from the invaders the
towns .of Kantemirovka, Byelovodsk,
Morozovska, Millerovo, Starobyelsk, Kotel-
nikovo, Simonbvniki, Elista, Salsk, Mosdok,
Nalchik, Mineralivodi, Pyati-Gorsk, Voro-
shilovsk, Armavir, Valuiki, Rosoch, Ostro-
gorsk, Schlusselburg, Voronezh and many
other towns and thousands of inhabited
localities.
Oddly enough Stalin made no reference
to Kamensk, the one town claimed west
of the Donetz, strategically the most im-
portant of them all. Neither did he
speak of Chernyshkev, taken in the
middle Don'region on Jan. 4, hailed as
“a big arsenal” and “holding enormous
supplies of war material which the fleeing
enemy abandoned.”
Voronezh
The most surprising announcement in
the last few days has been that of the
capture of Voronezh. It is one of the
sixteen largest cities in European Russia ;
the population is 325,000. The Germans
claimed to have taken it on July 8. The
Russians stoutly denied its capture and
gave frequent circumstantial accounts of
fruitless German attempts to break into
it. At the end of August Voronezh was
held up as a Russian offensive centre. Up
till last week newspaper maps showed it
as being in Russian hands, though the
opinion was here expressed more than
once that it could not be, since the Ger-
mans would not have risked operations
on the scale they did further south with
a base like Voronezh, as important
strategically during their offensive period
as Stalingrad, leaning on their flank in
Red Army hands.
Last week the Russians described the
capture of Voronezh, laying stress on the
piles of dead in its streets and the
prisoners (86,000) taken in its outskirts
and approaches. At the beginning of this
week the Russians said they had wiped
out thousands more and had surrounded
50,000, who were being swiftly annihi-
lated.
Estimates Compared
Stalin’s is more modest than those of
foreign correspondents and radio uncles,
who have “annihilated” 100 divisions,
a third of them being killed for certain.
Among the slain were 300,000-odd be-
tween Stalingrad and the Don in an area
48 miles across at its narrowest and
double that at its widest. In this area,
too, over 120,000 prisoners have been
claimed, and the wounded have been
reckoned at three times the number of
the dead, bringing total alleged casual-
ties in that area alone to well over the
90-division mark.
Stalin’s estimate of German strength
on the eastern front on Nov. 6 was 172
divisions. Hungarians, Italians, Ru-
manians and oddments were reckoned
by Red Army authorities in September
at about 100 divisions.
“Red Star” says the Hungarians have
lost nine of their 13 divisions and the
Rumanians 18 of their 22. Italian losses
were mentioned for the second time on
January 29 in an official reference to “the
annihilation and capture of an Italian
alpine corps, in addition to 11,000 Italian
prisoners previously taken, including
three generals of division” —all on the
Voronezh front. The Germans referred
to the presence of Italians in “hundreds
of thousands” n.-w. of Stalingrad at the
end of October.
Italians have been in the main line of
the Russian advances along the northern
arm of the Don Bend. It seems that
Hitler has paid his allies the dubious
compliment of allowing them to make
the greater sacrifices during the retreat,
after withdrawing 42 of his own divi-
sions to rest barracks in the Balkans and
Germany and placing most of the re-
mainder in the hedgehogs. This has been
his policy throughout. Wherever there
was a high moraine on which to fight a
battle, there Germans would be. Wher-
ever there was poor ground and a dirty
job to be done, there satellite troops
would be engaged.
Stalingrad
One point at which Hitler and the
High Command grossly miscalculated is
Stalingrad.
On January 17 a Moscow Information
Department communique stated that the
Russians on Jan, 8 had issued an ulti-
matum calling on the residue of the
enemy in Stalingrad to surrender by 10
a.m. Moscow time next day.
No reply was received, and the Rus-
sians reported that an offensive was
launched on Jan. 9 and that to Jan, 16
26,800 Germans were killed and 7176
captured, with 371 ’planes, 603 tanks,
three armored trains and 100 rail car-
riages, while 1526 fortified centres and
blockhouses were wiped out and 317 artil-
lery and mortar batteries overcome.
The first communique said that the
Germans had been reduced to “a mini-
mum of 60,000 starving, cold and sick-
ness-ridden men.” This figure was later
corrected to “between 70,000 and 80,000,”
of whom “400 to 500” were said by
prisoners to be dying daily. General
Malinovsky described the garrison as
“armed prisoners of war.”
The Germans admitted later that they
had not been able to prevent a wedge
being driven into their positions on the
west, but on Jan. 24 declared that “in
heavy defensive fighting against superior
forces” they had maintained themselves
against all attempts to break through or
encircle, adding that “the defenders of
Stalingrad, concentrated in a narrow area
in the central and southern parts of the
town’s ruins, continue heroically to resist.”
General Dietmar, an official radio com-
mentator, said on Jan. 25 that, “though
for a time the situation at Stalingrad
and in the Don Bend was very serious
and still causes anxiety,” it was “not
catastrophic,” and this had been due
largely to the Stalingrad troops, who,
after being encircled, had resisted for
weeks, warding off heavier calamities:
The Germans at Stalingrad are fighting
with their backs to the wall, with no possi-
bilities of retreat —only the choice of hold-
ing out or being wiped out. The Stalingrad
army’s resistance has influenced the whole
of the southern front, giving the High
Command time to prepare counter measures,
which are now beginning to take effect.
On Jan. 27 Moscow issued a further
communique giving the total Germans
killed in Stalingrad since Jan. 9 as 40,000
and prisoners as 28,000 —in effect, 14,000
killed and 21,000 captured since Jan. 16.
There remained only remnants of 12,000
—one group in the north and one in the
centre.
On Jan. 28 Moscow announced that the
Germans in Stalingrad were now reduced
to 8000 men, and that attempts to send
supplies by air had failed, since “not a
single ’plane reached its destination.”
At 11 p.m. (Sydney time) on Jan.
Jan. 31 Berlin alleged that a “strong”
force was still holding out.
A Russian communique issued at 8
a.m. on Feb. 1 (Sydney time) was sen-
sational :
From German generals we ascertained
that the German forces encircled on Nov.
23 totalled at least 330,000, including aux-
iliaries It is now known that the en-
circled enemy between Nov. 23 and Jan.
10 lost 140,000 men. Consequently when
the Russians took the offensive on Jan. 10
the encircled enemy numbered 190,000.
This has been confirmed by Colonel von
Kubovsky, Q.M.G of the Sixth Army.
He stated that the encircled effectives, in-
cluding non-combatants, totalled 195,000.
It was reported from Moscow on the
same day by the Information Bureau
that 230,000 of the original number en-
circled had been killed and 46,000 cap-
tured, and that General Paulus (whom
Hitler appointed a field-marshal on Jan.
30) had been taken prisoner with 12 other
German and five Rumanian generals.
This looks like the end of a disastrous
chapter in the career of the Man of
Blood.
German Admissions
German admissions of defeat have gone
a long way, though not to the extent
reported by foreign correspondents and
radio uncles, Dietmar asked on Jan. 24
whether anybody could believe that the
German Army, after three years of vic-
tories, would perish from one defeat. He
admitted that the Russian offensive had
“considerable initial success,” and that the
Russians would not be content with terri-
torial gains, but would try to press on
with their offensives. But by “steadiness
in calamity greater even than we have
had yet to bear,” the Reich “must still
march on to victory.” He added, how-
ever, that things were not as bad as the
Russians made out —that it was untrue,
for instance, that Leningrad had been
relieved. There has been desperate and
apparently indecisive fighting in this
region.
“I assure you,” said Hitler to his serfs
on November 8, “that no more vessels
are steaming up the Volga, or will steam
up it, and that is all that matters.”
The Germans have had two bloody
months to assess the value of his other
remark in the same speech:
People ask why we are taking so long
over Stalingrad. I do not want mass
murders. Enough blood is flowing. If
the enemy wants to attack, let him. He
will bleed to death. The Russians, any-
way, are a long way from Germany.
On Jan. 29 they had travelled a fourth
of the way from the furthest German
point of penetration towards the borders
of the Reich.
Hitler’s tenth anniversary of the attain-
ment of supreme power was inglorious.
Remembering his boasts about Stalingrad,
he squibbed making his usual speech,
being “detained by the exigencies of the
military situation at headquarters, where
he is conducting the vast defensive war
in the East.” His Order of the Day
was a vague affair, and might have been
written in the air-raid shelter in which
Goring was compelled to immure him-
self for an hour away from the buzzing
of British Mosquitoes, which upset his
timetable as Hitler’s substitute. Goring
threatened a spring offensive against the
Russians. His “explanation” of Nazi-
land’s failure to retaliate for British
bombings of Western Germany was that
“we have a vast battle front.”
ale Jjc 9 *
Germany was raided four times in 12
hours on Jan. 30, which used to be Hit-
ler’s day. There were two daylight raids
on Berlin by the fast Mosquito bombers.
One, round noon, when Goring was
about to speak, took the a.-a. defences
by surprise and not a single machine was
lost; the other was in time for a Goeb-
bels eruption: here again there was little
opposition, though one machine did not
return. Splendidly daring, the raids
thrilled the world. Wellingtons attacked
Emden and its U-boat works, also in
daylight, and Hamburg had its 95th
attack —large fires were started in the
port and shipbuilding works. Lan-
casters and Stirlings earlier in the week
attacked the Rhineland. Six bombers
were lost.
* * * *
Several combats in the Solomons
resulted in the wiping-out of a further
400-odd Japanese last week. On Jan.
25 a large force of enemy bombers and
dive-bombers which attempted to reach
Guadalcanal was driven back before
reaching its target.
* * * *
Ground activity in Burma was unim-
portant in the past few days, but the
R.A.F. continued its attacks on enemy
bases.
* * * *
U.S. bombers on Jan. 27 made their
first attack on Germany in a raid on
Wilhelmshafen. Liberators bombed
other targets in Western Germany; and
the Diesel-engine works at Copenhagen
were bombed for the first time by Mos-
quitoes, led by Wing-Commander Ed-
wards, the Westralian V.C. Copenhagen
Radio reported damage on a large scale
and the evacuation of factories and
homes of 5000 people. Seven were killed
and 70 injured.
9 * * 9
Norway had one of its biggest raids on
Jan. 26, when Trondhjem was blasted for
six hours by waves of R.A.F. bombers.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Well-backed horses were to the fore at
Randwick on Saturday. Three races were
won by absolute favorites, in another
the winner was a short-priced second
favorite and the longest-priced winner
was Soho, 10 to 1, for the Australia Day
Handicap.
Soho shows his best form when allowed
to run along in the early part of a race
without pressure, and reserved for a dash
in the straight. Bartle handled him in
that fashion in the Australia Day Handi-
cap, and taking charge inside the last
furlong Soho squeezed home by a neck
from the dead-heaters Mildura and
Panchio. Mildura blundered slightly in
the straight, but though after that he
made a run that looked like carrying him
to the front he was scarcely doing as
well as Soho at the winning-post.
Grand Prodige led into the straight
from Hesione, followed by Panchio and
Yaralla, who were almost level. Grand
Prodige stopped to nothing in the
run home, but Hesione finished a close
fourth. Gold Salute commenced slowly,
and never after got in it; and, though
Yaralla started a forward move enter-
ing the straight and appeared to be
going comfortably, he was beaten at
the commencement of the last furlong.
The company was too warm for Romero,
and the distance too short for Nightbeam.
In the Anniversary Handicap Tide-
mark and Dashing Cavalier ran true to
Tatt.’s Cup form, but Veiled Threat
(Munro) was too good for both. When
Tidemark showed slightly in front of
Veiled Threat and Dashing Cavalier a
furlong from home it was anticipated his
pull in weight would stand to him, but
he was fairly outstayed by Veiled Threat.
Grands Fils, though he missed a place,
made a good showing, as did Eureka,
while Dewar’s sharp dash on the outside
from second-last at the seven furlongs to
first at the half-mile left him without an
effort in the straight after he and Widden
had led round the turn. Enderby, who
struck trouble, was never a possibility,
nor was Prince. Widden ran the first
half-mile in 51i, but the second half-
mile was much slower, and the time for
the full distance was 2.32.
Previous week’s form was upset in the
Havilah Handicap when Flight (Mc-
Menamin) led into the straight from The
Beacon, and then ran away from him.
The latter tired badly over the last fur-
long, and Mayfowl (brother to Beau Port)
and Frontier ran on well to get the minor
places, though without being able to
threaten Flight. West Point, though
fourth, did not shape as well as a week
earlier, and St. Quentin was again dis-
appointing, even allowing that he could
not get over near the rails at any part.
After being last for a long way Susque-
hanna made up a lot of ground to finish
fifth.
Bedford took charge at an early stage
of the Bondi Handicap, but Brinawa and
Kiaree were with him at the turn, with
Mastery and Sir Neith next. At the
leger Sir Neith (W. Cook) had charge,
and was too good for Brinawa, though
the latter fought on gamely right to the
winning-post. Kiaree and Mastery weak-
ened in the straight, and Modulation was
nearest the place-getters. As Sir Neith
was second-last at the half-mile his form
was first-class.
The assistance of Munro in the Kurnell
Trial Handicap enabled Wellesley to run
a very different race from when he was
second favorite for a similar class of
race a fortnight earlier and never raised
the hopes of his supporters. Always well
placed on Saturday, he was close to
Gauntlet, Gryphon and Crownfelt enter-
ing the straight, and beat the consistent
but unlucky Gauntlet by half a head.
Casket King was third, the placings being
the same as in an Encourage Stakes at
Rosehill in December. Lance was fourth
and Gryphon fifth, the latter finding the
last furlong one too many. White Feather
cut up badly, and The Gambler did not
run nearly so well as the previous week.
Notwithstanding that Willie Green had
not shone at six furlongs, he was made
favorite for the first division of the Phillip
Handicap on the strength of his close
second to Fearless in a mile race a week
earlier. He was never prominent, and
Trimmer, whose rider, L. Smith, was able
to claim 71b. allowance, outclassed his
opponents. He led from barrier-rise, his
closest followers entering the straight
being Miss Pentheus, Lord Pentheus,
Chatting and Diadem. With 10.13 he
won as he liked from Miss Pentheus in
faster time than Petruchio recorded in
the second division. Diadem, in getting
third, finished a little better than Tyran-
nus, with Gigli and Before Dark handy
to them. Before Dark is an improver.
In the second division of the Phillip
Handicap Petruchio (Bartle) was the early
leader, and turning for home Martheus,
Young Valais and Earlborough were his
nearest followers. In the straight Irish
Sea and Fearless improved their positions,
but Petruchio was never in danger, scor-
ing his first win for over a year. War
Spear, Our Barney and Etching finished
nearest the place-getters, and are worth
keeping in mind. Pannett was very
bright, but, though she was soundly
backed, could not get near the front.
Young Valais, who does not look up to
welter weight, tired in the straight.
* * * *
New owners received quick returns
when Refractive won the Clarendon Han-
dicap and Crojick the Gainsborough
Handicap* at Mentone on Saturday.
Refractive was bought privately after
her success at Moonee Valley a week
earlier, and Crojick realised 525gns. at
auction on Jan. 15. Refractive did not
defeat a strong field, but carried 8.13 and
won impressively enough to indicate
further improvement. Even if not up to
V.R.C. St. Leger standard, she will win
more races for Mrs. P, Lennon.
Crojick survived a protest after he had
unwound a splendid run to defeat the
favorite, Chamberlain, jn the Gains-
borough Handicap. Whatever interfer-
ence occurred made no difference to the
result. In view of his Toorak Handicap
win, and the fact that he had been some-
what unluckily beaten at Moonee Valley
at his start prior to Saturday, Crojick
looked cheap at 525gns. He has not been
easy to train, however, and, his new
owner, L. Abrahams, purchased him
more with a view to jumping. Abrahams
is keen on jumpers, and it is practically
certain that Crojick will be nominated
for the next G.N. Hurdle. His new
trainer, D. Mcßae, won that race last
year with Saul. In addition to first prize
of £350, Crojick landed substantial bets
on Saturday, his price firming from eights
to 11 to 2. Sangallo battled on well for
third money after attempting to lead
throughout.
S.A.-owned Plica, one of, the biggest
horses in training, upset a plunge on
Scarlet Toi in the Colchester Handicap.
He hit the front about a furlong from
home, and won by a neck from the faster-
finishing favorite, who should do better
over a distance beyond six furlongs.
Italula, also S.A.-owned, started at 100
to 1, and showed up well in third place.
Plica (Salatis-Lady Nalpa), is a four-
year-old gelding brother to Panka and
Plana, and is raced by his breeder, A. R.
Withers. He had shown pace in the Can-
tala Stakes at his only previous race in
Melbourne, but a shoulder injury put him
out of action temporarily. All going well,
he will be a runner for the Newmarket,
a race his trainer, H. Wolters, won last
year with Kelos and the previous year
with All Veil.
Precept, a colt by Peter Pan from
Yetna, finished stoutly to defeat Rouge
and Ola Rose in the Sturt Handicap. He
should appreciate a bit of distance later.
Spanish Legend, although a disappoint-
ing fifth for a warm favorite, should not
be condemned, and the race will improve
Meadow Gold. Taramoa compensated
for his narrow defeat at the previous
Mentone meeting by outstaying the 50-to-
-1 chance The Mace in a close finish for
the Iddesleigh Handicap. Azores, third,
added to his costly failures. S.A.-owned
Royal Decree, backed from tens down
to fives, landed a plunge by defeating
Lord Windburra a head, with Timber
third, in the Dartrey Handicap. Virile
broke a spell of misfortune by finishing
too strongly for the pacemaker, Haura,
in the Waratah Hurdle.
• * » *
In the V.R.C.’s plan for meeting sur-
plus acceptors it is set forth that: No
owner shall (1) go to the ballot with
more than one horse in the same race;
(2) go to the ballot with the same horse
in more than one race on the same day;
(3) go to the ballot with a horse that has
on the same day accepted in a race where
no ballot is necessary. Emergency
acceptors will not be allowed. The com-
mittee has divided races into three classes
—A, B and C. The method adopted
will safeguard the best horses, cut out
old horses and indifferent performers,
and provide plenty of racing for young
horses.
Prices realised at the recent yearling
sales in Maoriland and for older horses
in Sydney must have cheered N.S.W.
breeders. Some have been pessimistic
as to the outlook, but, as it is evident
there are still people prepared to pay big
prices for proved gallopers, the proba-
bilities are that anything with the neces-
sary breeding and conformation will be
productive of keen competition at the
coming yearling sales in Sydney.
The Wellington yearling sales showed
that Maorilanders have no fears as to
the future of racing in their country. Of
202 youngsters catalogued 158 were sold
at an average of 250gns., the highest
price paid being 1400gns. for the Tre-
lawney Stud’s colt by Foxbridge from
Rippling Waters, by Chief Ruler. He
was foaled about the middle of Novem-
ber. Next came Miss J. E. Jones’s colt
by Battle Song (Spion Kop-Cradle
Song) from Princess Pat (All Black-
Martian Princess) at 1200gns. He was
also a November foal. Another Battle
Song colt, out of Chiefava (Chief Ruler-
Nottava), who raced in Sydney, made
900gns. and a Defaulter-Merry Miss colt
was sold for 925gns. Several purchases
were made for India. One thing tending
to high prices was that tote betting has
recently been very heavy in Maoriland
and the turnover has a direct bearing on
prize-money.
* * * *
It is surprising how few jockeys—
capable ones, too —can tell much about
what happened them during the running
of a race. They will claim they had a
clear run throughout, notwithstanding
that it may be palpable, even without the
aid of glasses, they met with checks that
cost a lot of ground. After getting away
indifferently, a jockey will occasionally
tell the owner or trainer that he was well
served at the start. The possibility of
losing the mount on the horse at its next
run has something to do with that.
* * * *
A high price for Hall Stand was ex-
pected, but 3500gns. was something of
a surprise for a colt whose staying pre-
tensions are, on spring form, indifferent.
It is certain, however, he can run a good
nine furlongs, and, though the All-Aged
Stakes may be the only race that will
give his owner a reasonably good chance
of a successful w.f.a. plunge in the
autumn, Sydney spring races will in-
clude at least three short-distance races
that will give Hall Stand prospects of
distinguishing himself. At 1450gns.
Hawklet appeared to realise her full
value. She may stay, but on Adrian
Knox form Flying Shuttle and Hesione
are superior to her up to a mile. Of
course, as bearing on Hawklet’s price, her
possible value as a brood mare must
be taken into consideration.
* * * *
“Big credit bettors have dropped out
to a great extent,” remarked a well-
known bookmaker the other day, “but
I am using at least double as many
tickets on races at Randwick as a few
months ago. Men who used to bet 10s.
on a race now go as high as £2, and I
daresay it is relatively much the same
in the leger and on the flat.” There was
never such a volume of cash betting on
Sydney courses as at present. That, how-
ever, is not surprising, as there are so
many people receiving wages that would
have been regarded as impossible before
the war.
* * * »
Numerically the English Derby and St.
Leger winner Coronach was not strongly
represented at the Wellington (Maoriland)
yearling sales. Only three by him were
catalogued, and of these a colt out of
Snowfield (Lackham-Snowshoe), who
never raced, was sold for 825gns.
* * * *
In his old age Night Raid must have
had a return of virility. The 1942 Wel-
lington catalogue included only one year-
ling by him ; this year there were five.
Night Raid was foaled in 1918.
* * * *
Unless circumstances cause an altera-
tion the A.J.C. will distribute in added
money £19,850 at its autumn meeting,
and it must not be overlooked that, with
the exception of the St. Leger, it will
not be in receipt of revenue in entrance
and acceptance fees. Owners’ previous
contributions in that respect will be re-
turned to them in forfeits and sweep-
stakes. At last year’s A.J.C. autumn
meeting at Rosehill the added money was
£19,600, but as the club benefited from
entrance fees and acceptances this year’s
increase of £250 represents much heavier
expenditure.
* * * *
It seems as if at last the P.M.G.’s
Department intends taking an active part
in suppressing “off-the-course” betting.
The contention that silent telephone num-
bers and post-office boxes were immune
from interference seemed far-fetched, and
now it appears to have been discovered
i: was without legal foundation. Co-
operation of the P.M.G.’s Department,
police and leading racing bodies could
long ago have greatly restricted illegal
betting. It might not have entirely
knocked out small operators, but those
who did business on a big scale would
have found difficulty in carrying on.
* * * *
Sydney clubs have occasionally been
receiving more entries than they appre-
ciate, and balloting has been necessary.
Melbourne clubs, however, are troubled
to a greater extent in that respect. After
acceptances for the Mentone meeting last
week 34 horses had to be balloted out
of the mile Dartrey Handicap. Hard
luck for some of those trainers who had
their horses ready and expected them
to be suited by conditions.
* * * *
Whether anything beneficial to the war
effort has been accomplished by raceless
Saturdays can fairly be questioned.
Revenue has been lost to the various
States in more than one way ; breeders,
owners and trainers are losers ; and it
cannot be claimed that the loss of a day’s
racing has caused a greater tendency to
thrift on the part of many followers of
racing who are now receiving high wages.
There is more money going through the
totalisator in Sydney than at any pre-
vious time, which suggests that, more
than anything else, the “day off” in-
creases the zest for speculation. It cer-
tainly increases the zest for beer.
* * * *
In the last five days’ racing at Rand-
wick—commencing with the A.J.C. sum-
mer meeting—Bartle, Cook, Munro and
J. Thompson were the most successful
riders. Each rode four winners; others
with more than one win were Wilson
(three) and Gollogly (two). As Munro’s
wins included the Challenge Stakes and
Anniversary Handicap, those of Thomp-
son the Adrian Knox Stakes and Tatt.’s
Cup, Cook the December Stakes, Wilson
the Carrington Stakes and Bartle the
Australia Day Handicap, each had a
profitable holiday season.
* * * *
The totalisator turnover at Randwick
on Saturday was £86,734, making the
total for the two days £168,287 for thir-
teen races, against £79,180 for fifteen at
the corresponding meeting last year.
Austerity!
* * * *
Last year the reduction cf the added
money for the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes gave great concern to owners.
This time there has been no move to
that end, and with the addition of for-
feits and sweepstakes to the £3500 prize-
money it will be a race well worth win-
ning. The Champagne Stakes carries
£2OOO, and entries for both close on
March 23.
* * * *
There was a sensational totalisator
dividend at the Auckland R.C. meeting
on New Year’s Day. Billy Peach, winner
of the Eller,she Handicap, was eighteenth
in demand of the 19 runners for the
Ellerslie Handicap, and paid over £4OO
for a win and more than £4O for a place.
¥ * * *
Up to Nov. 25 the most successful
sires in America were Equipoise, 81
races, $344,877 (about £A105,000); Bull
Dog, 178 races, $344,385; Blenheim 11,
91 races, $272,810; and Good Goods,
38 races, $218,920. In number of wins,
however, they were beaten by Flying
Heels, who had 70 winners of 184 races.
* £ * *
In 1940, when Senator J. A. Dunnigan,
in his fight for the installation of the
totalisator on New York courses, sug-
gested that it might mean a revenue of
$10,000,000 for the State, he was laughed
at. Now he has the laugh on his side.
The State’s revenue last year was
$10,500,000 (roughly £A3,345,000). Com-
menting on the vindication of his pro-
phecy Dunnigan said: “In New York
in the ’twenties racing belonged to the
aristocracy. In the ’thirties it belonged
to the bookmakers, and now in the
’forties it belongs to the public and the
State of New York.”
Bennell v. Colteaux at Leichhardt, with
Bennell conceding 16 pounds, was a queer
affair. The first three rounds were fast
and, on Colteaux’s part, very wild; he
was thrice cautioned for not “keeping
them up,” and Bennell was heard to say
he mightn’t be able to continue. Not-
withstanding this, Bennell outboxed his
man in the next two rounds and was
adding to his lead in the sixth when an-
other solid right caught him below the
belt and Colteaux was disqualified.- Then
he was heard to say he had been “sick
in the stummick.”
Lightweights Teddy Williams and Les
Fitzgerald provided the main bout at
Sydney Stadium. Though Fitz. repeateolv
led with the right, Williams was not smar
enough to take advantage of this cardinal
error. Floored in the first and the
second, he was down three times in the
seventh, and was flat on his face when J° e
Wallis crowned Fitz.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Dining out in Melbourne has become
more adventurous than exploration in
Borneo. There may be plenty of room
at a favorite cafe one night, or there may
be a queue out on to the path from it. Once
inside there may be a plethora of waiters
or just Alphonse on his lonesome coping
with the multitude. However, this catch-
as-catch-can method of entertainment has
its compensations. Each dining-out citi-
zen meets all his or her friends sooner
or later, and time, money and temper
ringing them up are saved.
Supper groups at the Wentworth last
week craned their necks in cheerful
curiosity when a party of A.W.A.S.
officers filed downstairs and banked up
at the big supper table in the room where
bridal and other festive occasions are
celebrated. Presently onlookers spied an
unusually tall man on crutches, sur-
rounded by military gents in smart khaki,
heading for the A.W.A.S. group, and
someone said excitedly “Cutler, V.C.”
Over iced coffee (with tea for Major
Lorna Byrne), Major Kathleen Deasey
thanked Lieut. Cutler and welcomed him
to Victoria for the A.W.A.S. recruiting
rally. He had just stepped off the ’plane,
and there was but a small interval for
talk before the midnight hour struck.
Nowadays the city keeps early hours.
The appeal for funds made on behalf
of partially-blinded soldiers should get a
great boost from Gladys Moncrieff’s par-
ticipation. Big event is “The Merry
Widow” matinee on February 18, tickets
for which are already selling well; the
campaigners hope for at least £3OOO from
the afternoon. Private donations are
also commencing to come in. The col-
lection campaign, including a button
day, is in the hands of the Colin Fraser
and William Angliss ladies, and Travel-
lers’ Aid will be an additional beneficiary.
The Bush Nursing Association, whose
guiding star is its secretary, medical
knight James Barrett, is appealing for
nurses for its hospitals, which are des-
perately understaffed, so much so that
many seem likely to be forced to close.
The association’s hospital system is a
particularly suitable one for country con-
ditions, and many observers think that
the style of its buildings and its admin-
istrative organisation should set the
pattern for after-war State hospital ex-
pansion. In spite of raised salaries,
nurses for these hospitals have been ex-
tremely hard to get. Nurses fear that
domestic staff shortages in country
centres will make them maids-of-all-
work. The secretary points out, on the
other hand, that B.N.A. nurses have
greater freedom than others and enjoy
tremendous prestige among country
people.
When the Victorian Teachers’ Union
met last week president Hetty Gilbert
had a lot of pertinent things to say about
the Minister’s defence of the Vic. educa-
tion system. She is interested in a widen-
ing of “cultural” teaching in schools,
with special attention to musical appre-
ciation.
Farewells to the K. H. Baileys (he is
Professor of Law and she presides over
the executive of the Women of the Uni-
versity’s Patriotic Appeal), bound for Can-
berra, were sincerely regretful and wide-
spread. Mrs. Bailey, besides being beauti-
ful in a Dante’s Beatrice sort of way, be-
longs to the intelligentsia, and when it
came to telling the committee of the
W.U.P.A. what she could enjoy as a part-
ing gift she chose gramophone records,
her catholic musical tastes including the
latest Russian composer as well as the
older classical works. Mrs. Bailey’s suc-
cess in the chair was due in part to decid-
ing what war work she was best fitted
for and sticking to one job.
Joan Guice and Flying-Officer Rupert
Carruthers have announced matrimonial
intentions, and, as Flying-Officer Car-
ruthers is in England, that means the
cables have been busy. Geelong dis-
trict, where the Rev. D. D. Carruthers,
father of the airman, lives, was very in-
terested, for the clergyman, whose wife
is a cousin of Queen Elizabeth, and who
has recently recovered from serious ill-
ness, has been stationed there for a long
time. Miss Guice, who is daughter of
H. N. Guice, treasurer-accountant of the
Tramways Board, and Mrs, Guice, has
been doing in her spare time from a de-
fence job work in connection with the
Seamen’s Mission and the Australian Red
Cross. The Guice family has three sons
in the forces (two overseas) and the
bride-to-be’s sister is dietitian at a base
hospital.
The idea of being married in a quaint
little country church must commend itself
to many a worried bride- and ’groom-
to-be who don’t care to face a town
celebration with the struggle for taxis
and the hordes of rubbernecks of which
they have had experience, probably, at
friends’ weddings. But few of them have
the strength of mind to translate incli-
nation into action, as did Laurie Pendel-
bury and Helena Gude, who hied them
with a few friends to the little church of
St. Katherine, at St. Helena, near Eltham,
for the ceremony. The parties were
fellow-students at the Gallery, where the
bride won the Travelling Scholarship in
1941. The little church, one of the oldest
in Victoria, was built by a family which
came across from Tasmania. The name
of St. Helena recalls that the family had
been connected with the historic island
in the Atlantic.
Pictured here by Jack Cato is Nest
Malcolm, secretary to the Travellers’ Aid
Society. Her job has no easy stretches
in it, for travellers come and go with
never a break, the tale of their travels
and troubles having all the colorful light
and shade of pilgrimages in lands of
high adventure. Whether they be evacuee
children from Britain, service men’s
wives, mothers or sweethearts, folk from
outback or the usual tribe of young
ticket-losers and forgotten grandmas,
Nest Malcolm and her helpers are on the
spot with welcoming kindness and effi-
cient help. She has widened the scope
of Travellers’ Aid in war years to cover
changed conditions, and this State is
grateful. A button day on February 12
will enable Victorians to express their
thanks in cash.
People who met Mrs. Boyd Moriarty
when she passed through Melbourne were
glad to hear that she is taking a job of
hospital visiting up north, where she will
relieve Miss Grace Robertson. Hos-
pital visiting is an art which few in these
days practise, and, done well, it helps
considerably to relieve the tedium of con-
valescence for soldiers, sick or wounded,
who have come down from battle
stations. Australians who have seen their
fellow-compatriots in hospital all agree
that their response to the visitor is in-
variably friendly, for somehow we have
been lucky in having as visitors men and
women of a sort that soldiers can take
to. Red Cross seems to be deciding to
extend visiting services. Victoria’s first
two official Red Cross visitors were Lady
Blarney and former Matron-in-Chief
Grace Wilson.
The passing of Mrs. Harry Emmerton
revived interest in an era so far removed
from the stormy present that the younger
generation born between two wars can
scarcely credit it. When Mrs. Emmerton
was a young hostess it was the practice
for spies to lurk on the wharves watching
the incoming mailboats to report to local
society the arrival of distinguished visi-
tors from overseas. These were then in-
vited to the homes of the socially signi-
ficant, of which Raveloe, Mrs. Emmer-
ton’s house in South Yarra, was one of
the chief. Mrs. Emmerton was a gener-
ous patron of the arts, lending her draw-
ing-room with its famous red blinds and
tiger-skin rugs for musicales at which
many aspiring young things were
launched on a career.
From Sydney
One book or one magazine for each
man, not only on fighting fronts but for
every man in all the camps throughout
Australia, is the aim of the Camp Library
Service blitz which will rage from March
sto 11. This will mean that 1,000,000
books must be gathered in. The blitz is
in answer to an urgent appeal sent by
General Blarney when he was in New
Guinea. He told that one day he found
a group of hungry men wandering about
a mission station. He thought they were
looking for food but found they wee
hungry for books. The 1,000,000 books
can easily be found if every member of
a household will take two or three from
his own collection and send them in, not
picking out stodgy books but sending
the books that have been most enjoyed
by the owner. Such books will mean
much to men in camp, and more espe-
cially to those in the mosquito-infested
regions of New Guinea.
Philippa Stephen and Denis Allen have
announced their engagement. This means
the joining-up of two of the oldest legal
families in the State. Denis’s father was
Arthur Allen, of Allen, Allen and Hems-
ley, and Denis also sells law in the same
firm. Knight Colin Stephen, Philippa’s
father, was the senior Stephen of Stephen,
Jaques and Stephen. To thousands, how-
ever, his name was synonymous with the
A.J.C., for at his death and for many
years previous he was the chairman of
that body. Philippa herself is deeply in-
terested in racing, owns horses and is to
be seen at all the big meetings. The
wedding is fixed for February 20.
Dorothy Welding sends this photo-
graph of Jean Scott, the new general sec-
retary of the Y.W.C.A. Jean hails from
Scotland. She started work as a civil
servant in the Glasgow Post Office. When
the Government handed its staff over as
a going concern to the military in the
1914-18 war she automatically served in
France as a W.A.A.C. She says she
would not have missed this for the
world. She has a wide and sympathetic
understanding of human nature, and the
beginning of this understanding came
from her work in France. But it has been
strengthened by her work with the
Y.W.C.A. in Sydney and more especially
in the coalfield areas.
After the 1914-18 war she came to
Australia, where she interested herself in
peace movements. Now after 20 years
she is busy again in war activities. When
she visited a military camp for the first
time in this war it brought back her old
service life again, and the years between
just faded away.
Jean knows the problems that confront
women who have no outlet other than
housework or business life ; that is one
of the reasons why she is so enthusiastic
over recreational leadership work, train-
ing people how to make the most of their
leisure. She worked in Cessnock and
Kurri Kurri inaugurating Y.W.C.A.
groups and helping women to take their
place in voluntary movements. While
she was stationed at Newcastle as Area
General Secretary she kept in touch with
the coalfields. She numbers among her
friends many of the miners’ wives and.
daughters. A cup of tea and a friendly
talk smoothed away many difficulties.
Miss Scott holds the Sydney Uni.’s
Diploma of Social Service.
Knight Charles McCann, Agent-
General for South Australia, dropped in
to the Anzac Fellowship of Women’s
rooms during the week. He wanted to
meet the women who are responsible for
the babies’ kits that arrive so regularly
at the Fellowship’s London headquarters,
of which his wife is president.
Nearly everyone in Australia knows or
has heard of these kits and of the lov-
ing work that is put into making the
clothes and the rugs —small girls find
pennies in the pockets of their frocks ;
small boys a bag of marbles in the
pockets of their knickerbockers. There
is nothing more commendable in Lon-
don than this work, the visitor said.
Over a cup of tea the visitor gave a
vivid word-picture of blitzed London.
This brought home to his listeners far
more than the printed word could do
the destruction that has come to the
historic metropolis.
He told, too, of the almost incredible
work (not spectacular service work) that
women, even the very young, are doing.
Their fortitude and courage, lie said,
would go down in the annals of this war
and will stand for ever as a monument
to feminine patriotism and citizenship.
Among the workers is Sydney woman
Mrs. Cortis-Jones. She is associated
with numerous organisations, and wher-
ever there is something dangerous or
something rather repellent to do she is
on the job. The listeners remembered
Mrs, Cortis-Jones as the quietest and most
unassuming of the Fellowship’s members.
Dr. Mary Booth, president of the Fel-
lowship, and Mrs. J. Forbes, president
of the Babies’ Kit Branch, received the
guest.
After a lot of discussion and the
accumulation of mountains of corre-
spondence, the powers that be have
decided that the British official war
artists’ work at present on show in
Maoriland may be permitted to come
to Australia. It will be shown first
in the Sydney Gallery and then go on
to other States. The Australian official
war artists’ work will also be exhibited
shortly. Opening dates of these exhibi-
tions have not yet been decided.
Joy Ewart’s sensitive face wore a slight
smile as Dr. Douglas Anderson, in a neat
little speech, opened her show at the
Macquarie Galleries. This is Joy’s first
exhibition. She won a scholarship from
the Newcastle Tech, to Sydney Tech.
She studied frescoes and murals with
Virgil Loschiavo. She also studied with
Datillo Rubbo and Desiderius Orban, the
last-named at one time principal of the
Budapest Art School. Mr. Orban, very
proud of his pupil, was at the opening.
Also present were Mrs. Douglas Ander-
son, very attractive in black, and Joy's
mother.
Dorothy Ure Smith chose St. Philip’s
on Church Hill for her marriage to Bob
Hemphill. This slim, fair bride wore
delphinium blue in frock and hat. Her
two ’maids were in dusty pink. At the
reception telegrams of congratulation
were read from the bride’s brother Syd-
ney and from the two brothers of the
’groom. All three are in the services and
could not be present, but their health
was drunk by the guests. The bride is
the only daughter of Sydney Ure Smith,
president of the Society of Artists, and
Bob is a son of the R. J. Hemphills, of
Killara.
Dorothy is one of a company of young
things who made up their minds that
their careers can wait. She gave up her
art (she was just beginning to get a foot-
hold) and took a war job some time ago.
She will go back to this immediately the
short honeymoon is over.
Another pretty bride of the week-end
was Joan Stuart Berman. She married
Lieut. Raymond Johnson at St. Mary’s
Basilica. She wore the traditional bridal
raiment, and her white stiffened net frock
was followed by two ’maids in misty
blue. The ’groom is the only son of Mrs.
W. Johnson, now of Mosman, formerly
of Darwin and Perth.
Bettina MacPhillamy, of Charlton
Rockley, has just become engaged to
Captain Arthur Swan Kinnear, of the
Indian Engineers, Burma. Bettina is the
only daughter of Squadron-Leader and
Mrs. A. O. MacPhillamy„and was a V.A.
until father and brothers enlisted. Then
she returned to Bathurst to help her
mother run the station.
The British Orphans’ Adoption Society
has had to close its homes at Binalong
and Hazelbrook owing to shortage of
staff. This society has been caring for
the children of Australian service men
since early in the war period.
Some of the children have been sent to
Warrawing and others to Narrandera.
Two whose fathers were lost in H.M.A.S.
Sydney and two whose fathers are
prisoners of war in Germany are among
those sent to Warrawing. The society
hopes that in about six weeks’ time its
new home at Aylmerton will be ready.
This will take care of 18 children of
service men.
Immediately after the war the society
proposes to revert to the caring of British
war orphans, and Aylmerton will then
cover overseas cousins pending their
adoption into Australian families.
The 8.0.A.5. has a waiting list of over
1000 families which are anxious to give
a welcome to overseas homeless ones.
Another service planned by the society
is the providing of a home in a suburb
near the city where service men’s wives
employed in industry may leave their little
ones.
Mrs. Rule, of Manly, has had the same
brainwave. Owing to shortage of staff
and of nurses she has had to close her
maternity hospital at Manly—now it
provides accommodation for soldiers’
wives and their children. She hopes soon
to have a proper kindergarten running
where mothers who work may leave their
children, knowing they will be properly
cared for.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
.PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
aiiSSEk
ICTm I i n
HJSSgIs s to~
a
XD
88181
v
*
IQ
&
V*iS
>MC< ‘A
i£
-o
-V5
V
£
Kl
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager - - N. L Beavor
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised In the machine, and automatically runs off into
t
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health—over 2300 in use.
NO SMEEES. NO ELIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd. Telephone 81053.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 131% Sales Tax.
Plus 35/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Public Notice.
I, ELIZABETH MUNARI, of Australian
nationality (Italian by marriage), born at Sydney
and resident all my life in Australia, now re-
siding at 86 Mount Street, North Sydney, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-36.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HOGG late of Wollongong
Bricklayer.—TAKE NOTICE that ARCHI-
BALD JOHN HACKNEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1649 of 1941 on the ground of
your adultery with his wife DOROTHY ZOE
HACKNEY If you wish to defend the suit
you should enter an appearance on or before
the 8/ 3 / ’43 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from OSBORNE MITCHELL
ALLEN Solicitor 56 Hunter Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID ARCHIBALD McWHIRTER late
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that MARY ITA Mc-
WHIRTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 744 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Eighteenth day of
April One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Mr. G. M. STAFFORD Solici-
tor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DUDLEY GORDON SHORE late of Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BLANCHE KATHLEEN
SHORE has filed a Petition for Divprce No.
1653 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Eighteenth day of Apri
One thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charg
from MR. G. M. STAFFORD Solicitor 79
Elizabeth Street Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar. „
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN DAVID GIBBS late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET EDNA MAY
GIBBS has filed a Petition for Dnmrce No.
2304 of 1941 on the ground of desertion witn-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Supreme Court Kin=
Street Sydney by the Eighteenth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and forty-three an
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MR. G. M. STAFFORD SoUcitg fl
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BUL»i.
Registrar.
SMOKE-OH!
‘ln Australia approximately 3,600,000 people
wear spectacles.”— “Wireless Weekly.”
Half the population will goggle at this.
•£• *£•
“Simplicity is the keynote of the latest
nighties.”— Woman’s paper.
Women will simply go nap on them.
4* -I-
“Retreat from Oil.” — “S. M. Herald’'' heading.
What kid wouldn’t?
4* 4- -I- v
“Manly ferry held up.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Maybe Foo wanted to write a message
underneath it.
•J*
“Early baldness in men is caused by hats.”
—Magazine article.
Their wives’ hats mostly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
If fools are proverbially lucky, why
shouldn’t they rush in where the angels
fear to tread?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Tooth for a Tooth.
“Most of the pain suffered by patients in a
dentist’s chair is imaginary.”— “World’s News:”
“It’s all imagination,” he said as he
jabbed a nerve. “You’re imagining
things,” he laughed again as the drill
swung round a curve. He puffed some
hot air in my mouth and blistered all my
lip. “It’s just imagination” I was
tiring of that quip.
But the pain my dentist feels today is
real, and not so funny. He sent his bill.
I paid it —in imaginary money.
Loo.
£ove.
“Undoubtedly the financier took a great in-
terest in his girl secretary.”— “D.T.”
That, according to his standards, would
be a 240 p.c. interest. He felt that his
heart sang a p.n. of praise of her loveli-
ness every time he saw her; being a
man of principle, he offered her the
security of his name, for he knew she
was the sort of girl who would never
dishonor him and he could bank on her.
In short, she had a mortgage on his
heart and he didn’t care how soon she
foreclosed.
Hamer.
“Freedom for French Somaliland. Radios
Restored to People.”— Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Well, they must be prepared to make
some sacrifice for freedom.
❖ *l* ❖ if*
“He not only embezzled the office cash, but
eventually stole his employer’s wife.”
—Short story.
It is understood that his employer re-
garded the latter deed as a compensation
for the former.
Facing the Music.
“He was a silent man. He spent every even-
ing listening to the band.” — “Sunday Sun.”
We all know what it’s like. The intro-
duction comes with a small complaining
piccolo-like note. Then she brings in
the brass (the brass always comes in
powerfully—the brass you waste and the
brass she needs) with a crashing and
crushing effect. This leitmotiv dies away
and then a crashing note is heard in the
background. This is her harping on past
grievances.
The crescendo may terminate suddenly
and die into soft sobbing notes, diminu-
endo. The sobs are intended to soften
your heart and make you buy peace with
the extra money you can’t afford.
Still, you have a hope that the band
concert may be coming to an end. It is
illusive. There is another crash of sound
as she blows her own trumpet, bangs
the cymbals of her mastery over a worm
and keeps drumming on your delinquen-
cies. Throughout the whole performance
she will get on your G string.
But spending every evening listening
to the band seems a bit over the odds.
H. M.
Some of these literary lions are
astoundingly tame!
4* 4* 4*
“The information that he was suffering from
a very bad cold did not stop Roger from going
to the old man for money.” —Newspaper story.
He wanted the ,old chap to cough up.
Table of official red-tape measure-
ments :
Twenty documents = one file.
Two files = one case.
Ten cases = one nook.
Two nooks = one cranny.
Eight crannies = one pigeonhole.
Four pigeonholes = one table.
Ten tables = one office (or room).
Two offices (or rooms) one sub-section.
Two sub-sections = one branch.
Ten branches = one department.
Two departments = one Ministry.
Ten Ministries one Government.
Seven Governments = one Commohw^n'th.
J. s.
4* 4* 4* 4<
Speaking of etiquette, should a man
who is talking to himself say “Excuse
me” when interrupting his own conver-
sation?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Relentless Rising.
“I’m disciplining my riotous pumpkins.”
—Gardening article.
When weeds become unruly and rank
grasses run amuck, don’t work yourself
into a sweat this menace in uprooting.
And don’t get too excited when you
learn your spuds have struck, but be
prepared to face the worst when pump-
kins take to shooting!
Percival.
Going Cheap.
I, Benno da Muss-a, 1 go crook and
cuss-a;
Da overseas emp ’ is no more-a ;
Da armies come thuds-a, da generals all
duds-a.
No more of da dreams of da glor’-a.
Dey said dat II Duce was greater than
Fouche
(Da statesman of Napoleoni),
Or Machiavelli, or efen Ned Kelly;
But—basta ! —’twas all-a boloney.
I’m joost {as da say’ go) a leetle fat Dago
Who turned out a bletty beeg flop-a;
And now, by da crike-a I would anyone
like-a
My job for a lira to swap-a ?
K.
Idle Thought.
“Unemployment problem.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The Man-power Wolf is on the loose
And ’Erb’s not overjoyed.
Said he to Bill “The problem now
Simply amounts to this, just ’ow
Can we stay unemployed ?”
LOOBY.
Change.
“Before their marriage he used to be thrilled
by everything she said, especially by the way
she spoke his name.” — Magazine story.
Ah, lovely was her voice when young;
How sweetly she said “Jimmy!”
But now that voice is just a tongue
And all she says is “Gimme.”
H. M.
Enough and to Spare.
“Because there is now an oversupply of
potatoes, an intensive publicity campaign is
being launched to induce people to eat more
of them.”— “S. M. Herald.”
And much as Murphy play’d the Infidel
And robb’d me of my Mash and Scallops
— well,
I wonder now what Produce Merchants
buy
As plentiful as all the Spuds they sell.
P. M.
Man of Metal.
“Visitors to the village were always told
about the local policeman, a gentle and kind-
natured fellow whom everyone loved.”
—Short story.
His friends all thought it proper
That visitors be told.
Although he was a copper,
He had a heart of gold.
T. W. N.
The Scientific Approach.
“In altitude sickness there is a certain simi-
larity to the effects of alcohol. Many persons
under the influence of oxygen-lack, as in the
early stages of drunkenness, lose first the ability
for self-criticism; rather reserved people may
appear to be in high spirits. The altitude-sick
person, like the inebriate, is sometimes in a
very genial mood and thinks himself particu-
larly capable, whereas in reality just the re-
verse is true.”
—R.A.A.F. Medical Directorate brochure.
The charge was “drunk, and disorderly
conduct” and the plea “not guilty.”
Constable Beetlecrusher, called, de-
posed that while on his beat in Slope-
street on the evening of the 15th inst.
he saw defendant being carried on the
shoulders of a fellow-reveller, waving his
arms about and stopping passers-by to
tell them, in a very thick voice, that he
could conduct an orchestra better than
Beecham and knock Joe Louis cold
while kneeling and with one hand tied.
When witness told him he should be
ashamed of himself carrying on like that
in a public street defendant had shouted
“Who’m I to criticise meshelf —I’ve
never been dishatishfied with meshelf
yet, and, anyway, who in hell am I?”
Witness arrested him.
Defendant’s solicitor said they would
prove that the charge of being drunk was
utterly false. His client had merely been
suffering temporarily from altitude sick-
ness.
It had been scientifically established
that some persons were particularly
susceptible to this malady, which was
caused by the paucity of oxygen-
content in air at certain altitudes. De-
fendant, in a commendable endeavor to
assist the war effort by saving boot-
leather, was being carried by his equally
patriotic friend. To walk thus was no
indictable offence; it was unorthodox
perambulation, the product of an origi-
nal and imaginative mind. Unquestion-
ably, the rarefied atmosphere which his
client had breathed—the Crown would
admit that he must have breathed—
affected him, producing divers symptoms
not incompatible with advanced inebria-
tion which had misled the constable
into drawing false conclusions. The man
on whose shoulders defendant was sit-
ting was over six feet high, sufficiently
elevated for his burden to be moving in
air lighter than that to which defendant
was ordinarily accustomed.
Witness had stated that defendant,
when asked if he wasn’t ashamed of him-
self, stoutly refused to subject himself
to criticism; this symptom was one
readily recognised by the medical pro-
fession as being connected with altitude
sickness. Also, witness’s evidence as to
the wild claims made by defendant re-
garding his abilities merely confirmed
his contention that his client was the vic-
tim of the lack of a sufficient propor-
tion of one of the vital constituents of
an essential element.
As he warmed to his subject the de-
fending solicitor launched into a lengthy
dissertation on the relation of rarefied air
to intoxication. Wasn’t it a favorite
device of poets to compare a keen moun-
tain air with a heady wine? Who had not
read of the hillside air on a crisp spring
morning being likened to champagne?
Obviously poets must have got drunk on
the unseen stuff themselves, for it was un-
thinkable that they ever had enough cash
to buy the liquid stuff. Wasn’t it proof
positive, then, that air defendant breathed
when above the ordinary levels trod by
mortals would, when it coursed through
his bloodstream, impart some of its effer-
vescent and vivifying qualities and thus
metamorphose him from the strictest
sobriety into a state almost indistinguish-
able from that exalted condition common
to those who had imbibed either malted
or spirituous liquors?
The Gent. One was just starting to
trace a theory of Tisculapius on the sub-
ject when his Worship yawned, looked
at the clock and rose.
“Court will adjourn until two o’clock,”
he announced.
Promptly at 2 p.m. everyone in con-
nection with the case was in his place
awaiting the return of the S.M. By 2.15
everyone was fidgeting. Then at 2.30
a wild figure burst into the courtroom
with arms waving. With a loud “Yippee!”
his Worship playfully dropped a heavy
volume of Common Law Practice on
the shorthand writer’s head, beamed on
the assemblage and tried to stand on his
hands. Picking himself up, he took off
his tie so that he could wind up his
watch and then struck an attitude.
“Feel good-ohsh!” he declared after
singing a bar of “South of the Border.”
“Just had lunch on roof gardensh of
Jarmer’sh —rarefied air theresh boshker.
Who shaid I washn’t ash good oshcapelo-
gish—ashcopogolish—ash good at esh-
capin’ ash Houdini, eh? An’ if I wanna
to I could dishcover shecret of perpetual
motion tomorra. An’ doan get me to
shay word against meshelf to anyone,
even me. Case dishmish with cosh
’gainsht policesh. Whacko!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others per line.
Against Deflation
I am a woolgrower, and as such have
had a hard struggle since 1929.
I started on the land at the
end of the last war. After one bad
break, attributable to the ending of
the Wool Purchase Agreement, we had
a succession of good years with payable
stock and wool prices. Looking back
it was a good time for producers, for
businessmen and for workers. It
wasn’t so good for those, chiefly non-
workers or non-producers, who depended
on interest and pensions for their income,
because inflation in the war years had
reduced the purchasing power of the
pound note by one-third and a golden
sovereign was worth thirty shillings.
There doesn’t seem to have been much
fear of wars in those days either, or
great unemployment, and international
trade was returning to normal; but about
1925 England was brought back on to
the gold standard, and, in effect, incomes
from production and the working capi-
tal of businessmen and producers were
reduced by one-third.
In a few years, in company with mil-
lions of others, I faced ruin ; and Hitler
got his chance.
To my lay mind it seems that the value
of the £1 should have been pegged at the
point of inflation reached at the end of
1918. May we hope that at the end of the
present catastrophe that will be done and
no premature attempt be made to deflate?
In the Middle Ages a good sheep could
be bought for a penny, but in 1914 it
took a pound. Over the ages a gradual
inflation had set in. The tendency
has always been towards inflation. Look-
ing back it seems to have been a disas-
trous move to deflate to such an extent -
like swimming against too strong a tide.
—Norman A. Nicolson (Tas.).
A Civil Servant Talks Back
I am a civil servant. If judged by
“Fitzwilliam” (B. 20/1/’43) I should be
ashamed of it. But I am not. I am
proud of it. For I am a servant —and,
I think, a civil one —of the people, and
have given my life and intellect to the
service of the State. So does —or should
—everybody give his life and intellect.
For all are servants of the State, whether
as direct employees or as private citi-
zens. But “Fitzwilliam” considers me a
nincompoop, a nitwit, an inferior person,
a man neither of intellect nor of merit.
“Fitz.’s” premises are wrong from the
start. He begins by stating that the boy
who selects the civil service for a career
has an inferiority complex. How many
boys “select” their careers? Are the
careers not chosen for them by their
parents? Is the boy who enters the
civil service any different from the boy
whose parents start him off as a bank
clerk, a shop assistant or a butcher?
Of course he is not. The civil servant
no more starts life with an inferiority
complex than does the solicitor or the
surveyor,
“Fitz.” says “to refrain from action
is accounted to him for a merit.” “F.”
cannot have met many civil servants. I
have, and they are certainly not men of
“inferior ability” ; they do make deci-
sions—very often at a moment’s notice ;
they are not incompetent —quite the
reverse ; and they are the educated sec-
tion of the community.
“Fitz.” quotes a Stamp Office matter.
Does he know the reason why the sug-
gestion was not adopted? His state-
ment that it was because six men could
he dispensed with if it were adopted is
ridiculous. The Public Service Board
is only too anxious to reduce staffs. Let
me quote, by way of reply, an instance
of efficiency which I challenge “Fitz.” to
■hatch outside the service. Some years
ago the court house in a large country
town was burned down and all the
records therein were destroyed. These
included the land registers of a very
large district. Exactly one week later
the whole of these registers had been
rewritten and were available in the tem-
porary office!
As to the statement that no Govern-
ment dares to interfere with the civil
Service, just remember the depression
apd the 22\ p.c. salaries cut, on top of
the 12s. 6d. per week basic wage drop,
making a total cut (in my case) of 34
P.c. And it was many years before the
full salaries were restored. So much for
that argument.— Macßopus (N.S.W.).
Forgotten Women
As to “G.F.N.’s” complaint (B.
23/12/’42) that there are “no pensions
for spinsters who have lived a spotless
life for over half a century”; if they
live another 10 years there is definitely a
pension for them. In that regard they
have an advantage of five years over the
lonely bachelors, who may also have
lived a spotless life.— Geo. Roberts (Q.).
Overdoing It
According to the ever - ebullient
W. M. Hughes, the Japanese in a few
months conquered half the world. As
Indo-China and Thailand were gifts,
Billy must regard Malaya, Burma and the
N.E.I. equivalent to all the rest of the
globe. If he means that the Japs have
taken half the world’s population he’s
wrong; wrong also if he means they
have seized half the world’s material
material resources. When I was in
Malaya, Burma and Java those countries
imported nine-tenths of their material
requirements other than food. The Japs
may have more than half the world’s
tin, rubber, copra and quinine, but those
are only four out of at least a hundred
important commodities. — Si Anu (Vic.).
“The Main Enemy”
Thanks for that leader (B. 23/12/’42).
Your paper, at any rate, has no illusions
about what a hideous thing an Asiatic
invasion of Australia would be, nor as to
what a gigantic effort will be needed to
beat Japan. From this day onward any
“Boy, am I lucky? TWO HOURS’ leave!"
writer or cartoonist who depicts the Jap
as being as good as beaten merely be-
cause we have begun to counter his style
of fighting in one corner of the territory
which he has overrun, or as other than
fanatical and merciless, should be treated
as an enemy agent. As for those who
oppose the sending of troops to fight
him wherever we can hit him hardest
class them as among the unspeakables. —
H.A.L. (S.A.).
British Standard Railway Gauge
There is an appalling amount of apathy
and ignorance on the railway gauge ques-
tion, in spite of its vital importance to
Australia. A morning newspaper
asserted that ‘TOO years ago the Battle
of the Gauges raged in Europe and was
settled at a world conference, which
agreed upon a gauge of one metre and
a half —4ft. Byin., which N. S. Wales
used for its railways and trams.”
In the first place the “Battle of the
Gauges” was purely an English battle,
fought principally on the one hand by
the Stephensons, George and Robert
(narrow gauge, 4ft. Byin.), and by Isam-
bard, Kingdom and Brunei on the other
(broad gauge, 7ft.). The Stephensons,
putting uniformity first, advocated and
used the gauge of the early plateways and
tramways of Northumbria, the Wylam
plateway, the Hetton Colliery Railway
and others, which was 4ft. They
won and, by Act of Parliament, 4ft.
became known as the British Standard
Gauge (Regulating Act, 1846).
European railways use this gauge (met-
ric equivalent is 1.435 metres), with the
exception of Russia and the Iberian
peninsula. Some Frepch and German
railways for a time ran a little wide of
this ; but on account of excessive /t pscil-
ladon the gauge was subsequently tight-
ened up. The German railways, for
example, are now standardised at 1.436
metres ’
The writer does not know of any
country with railways of a gauge of one
metre and a half (4ft. ll.OSin.). The
nearest is Russia, with a railway gauge of
sft This was decided upon by the Czarist
re si me for military reasons.—George
np B r v (vrcwi
_U .
A Word for Examinations
_ , , • ._ orroinct
Reams have been wn n §
school examinations, but tiose
cerned, the children, enjoy the experi-
ence. Indeed, they look forward to it
with keenness. Scholars I questioned re-
gretted that tests were not more fre-
quent. . ,
Exams, prove an incentive to stuty.
But why are they held in midsummer .
The intense heat and not the exams, is
the cause of many scholars being on
color. ... ,
Competition is the only practical
means of testing efficiency and general
ability. If exams, were abolishe
row what would the critics p
place? . ~
A teacher of wide expeuence
that the mental effect on sc o a s
cellent; even the dullest exer *
selves. Sport thrives on com P® , ’
why should it be debarred from '
room? Nobody will question e p p •
larity of quiz shows on t e air.
what are these but miniature examma-
tions? Laymen comprise the majon y
of critics, but educationists know eu
own business and they, without excep-
tion, are all prize men. A. Daly
(S.A.).
Voting Qualification
My idea is that a fair rule-of-thumb
test would be to demand unaided com-
pletion of an electoral claim card from
every elector.
At present thousands of people lack
the brains necessary to _ fill in these cards
accurately. It stands to reason that
if they are unable to tackle such a simple
task they have not sufficient intelligence
to have a say in the country’s affairs. —
P. Radwon (Vic.).
Sandshoes
It is time the Government reduced
the present high coupon rating on sand-
shoes. In the North, the average farmer,
bushworker and canecutter are shod in
nothing else. With such hard wear sand-
shoes last a fortnight. Yet they cost
nine coupons simply because they are
rated as “sports shoes.” Just another
example of short-sighted politicians who
can’t —or won’t —see beyond the tennis
courts of their own southern cities. — Gip
(N.Q.).
Advertising Bans
The Bulletin recently mentioned that
manufacturers of linseed meal are for-
bidden to advertise, even by sending
pamphlets and booklets, etc., by mail.
This ban also extends to veterinary
medicines, pest destroyers, and many lines
used every day by land men. As many
farmers and graziers can testify, adver-
tising matter of this kind frequently con-
tains quite valuable information —in all
States there are enactments to see that
claims made can be backed up by per-
formance, and one seldom sees exagger-
ated claims made for products of this
kind. Yet, as the regulations stand at
present, it is illegal to send out feeding
or dosing instructions if the pamphlets,
etc., contain any advertising matter at all.
Presumably the merchant is expected
to write individual letters to customers
who asked for directions, which is not
a good way of saving labor. Then
he could go home and read the ads. for
lingerie and cosmetics which monopolise
the daily papers, and, when tired of that,
he could turn on the radio and hear all
about the soap which is claimed to be
the choice of nine out of every 10 of
Hollywood’s most glamorous stars. It’s
a great thing, this rationalisation. —
J. A. S. (Q.).
The Constitution and Legalities
Fearing that the Labor party will
“grant” power to the Curtin Government
to impose conscription, J. T. Lang, in
his weekly paper, now doubts the legality
of such a measure. Referring to 1916 he
says that “it was held that the Parlia-
ment hadn’t power to introduce conscrip-
tion” without a referendum.
The fact that a referendum is usually
associated with an attempt to amend the
Constitution has confused others beside
Mr, Lang. The Hughes Government
took this step only because it had pledged
itself against conscription. The Con-
stitution gives full power to the Federal
Government to enact whatever laws it
pleases for the defence of the Common-
wealth, and it is the existing Defence
Act, not the Constitution, which limits
compulsory service to Australian terri-
tory. A simple amendment of this Act
was all that Hughes legally needed, and
it is all that Curtin needs now. —Col.
(N.S.W.).
The Lady and the Dog
It has to go in small type: —
In Sydney there lives a lady who owns a
dog. She also owns a husband, but he is in
absentia —two years ago he took his expert
professional knowledge to the Middle East on
an A.I.F. captain’s pay, instead of waiting to
be called up by the A.W.C. as a cook at £21
a week. The lady’s only son is also in the
Middle East with the A.I.F. Her daughter, a
young girl, uses her time for the improvement
of the lives of children in a slum area in which
poor wharf-laborers cannot afford to bring
up their children properly, two-up and s.p.
being expensive. The mother of this family
adds her quota to the war effort by working
every day of the week from 8.30 a.m. to 5.15
p.m. in a Federal department concerned with
important and urgent aspects of defence —she
works on Saturday mornings, too, not being
a State civil servant.
In her leisure she looks after a two-storeyed
house, cooks the meals and mothers any stray
sailor or soldier boys who happen to need a
temporary home.
The one member of the family who lives a
reasonably normal life is Bill, the dog. Bill
looks like a dilapidated Barcoo ramskin which
somebody has flung negligently over a slip-
rail. What appear, at first, to be two moth
holes in his To’c’sle, on second glance reveal
themselves as famine-stricken eyes. His contri-
bution to the war effort is a bark like the love-
call of a sick bull buffalo. He is the sort of
dog a lonely woman needs in a browned-out city
in which all police are on traffic duty.
Recently, while the offensive in Libya was
just beginning, and every mother or wife with
interests in the Middle East was uneasy with
foreboding, the shadow of the Law fell across
the doorstep of the lady’s household.
“Where’s y’ dog license?”
It appeared that, having had one for 11
years, the lady was a month late in paying up.
She paid up next day—the half-crown in a
single instalment. Two days later she got her
receipt. Several days later she received a
notice to appear in a court two or three miles
away to answer for the delay.
She telephoned the police—said she was
engaged on urgent war work. Police said; "No
matter; so are other people.” Mightier powers
intervened—some higher colleague in the war
effort telephoned a C.P.S. The C.P.S. said
even the powers of darkness could not stop
the course of events now that the papers were
issued. , , _ ,
Sacrificing her own (and the Government s)
half-day’s work and heaven knows how much
morale as well—the Libyan offensive was by
now well in being—the lady attended court,
ploughed through a forest of new-crimmals and
found herself before the Beak.
She was entirely surrounded by coppers twice
as tall as herself—coppers whom Mr. MacKay
will not allow to enlist because they are needed
urgently on the Dog License front. One of
these bent double to ask for her excuses.
She told of the husband away, of the son
fighting, of her work, but the prosecutor
summed it up in one heady blast: “Slipped her
memory, your Worship. Said the Bench •
“Fifteen and six, qr else” Every cringing
memory-slipper knows the testy formula.
That night the lady wrote to the Minister
for Justice. She imparted to her letter all the
indignation of a spirited woman whose every
male relation of military age (and some well
over it) are voluntarily in uniform.
And the Minister took action. He sent an-
other policeman!
When last seen this myrmidon was moving
sedately down the street creaking under a load
of data which he had recorded in a large
black notebook—whether house owned by finee,
allowance from husband, salary from Govern-
ment, whether daughter earning . .. the coping-
stone, in fact, to several pounds of wasted
public time and effort over a half-crown fee,
accidentally forgotten and long since paid.
It will be great when the socialist millennium
arrives and the whole universe is run on Dog
License —El V. (N.S.W.).


mm
■ .
tm
mm
....
Wimmmi
111
iwl
mmmm
11
■ #■
iiiii
/
■■■Pi
. M
il il
m
, * J
:
\
_
im
' ■■
mm
f": % / /
Vm.
H
Jail
' • < '
Ax
&
SSsssS
m
mm
,
«: x
I
%
:SSgS3aBSSE!r..i. J
m
m.
W%
sE
yjr.
i ~w
lenc/ Your Money to speed Victory
Invest in War Bonds or War Savings
Certificates
No uniform graces this “soldier” that others may recopize
him as a member of his natioa’s war personnel.
To all outward appearances the research chemist is today bat
an ordinary member of the community. Yet in his hands he
holds a weapon far more potent and of greater value to his
nation’s war effort than any rifle or bayonet. For his test tube
is the source of potent war chemicals-aids on which we count
so much for victory.
A vital asset in this time of national emergency, the smelting
and refining industry with its man power is now My enlisted
in the nation’s service.
EZ 1.43
ELECTROLYTIC ZING COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
