

*
H
H
n
»
H
k.
■
m
ms
m
Mm
m
Up
»
iiiil
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin.”
Vol. 64.—N0. 3297
Wednesday, April 21, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BOLTON ABBEY.
ASSUREDLY one of the most beautiful remains of those
houses of religion which practically “covered England”
in the “long agone centuries” is Bolton Abbey, ideally situated
in the valley of the Wharfe, which, in turn, is within the
administrative district of the eastern division of the West Riding
of Yorkshire. Only 18 miles from Leeds, it was founded for the
Augustinian canons in 1120, and was of those forms of archi-
tecture known as Early English and Decorated. The nave,
which fortunately escaped destruction at the time of the disso-
lution of the monasteries, has been restored, and is now used
for service by the Anglican communion. The gateway is a part
of Bolton Hall, a seat of the Duke of Devonshire. The abbey
will be familiar to most from Wordsworth’s “White Doe of
Rylstone” and “The Force of Prayer.” Here is related that
the founding of the abbey commemorated the death of young
Romilly in Bardon Woods, where he was checked, while hunt-
ing, in a leap over the Strid, by the hanging back of his grey-
hound, and was drowned. The story is so interesting that a
more detailed reference may be acceptable. One day, almost
1000 years past, a little boy, the heir of William de Mesclines
and Cecily de Romille, his wife, went out,
“In tartan clad, and forest green,
With hound in leash, and hawk in hood,”
following the heron. He tried to ieap from one rock to another
at the Strid —the crossing of the river—where the overhanging
rocks closed in, and between which the water “flowed deep
down 'below,” but
“The hound hung back, and back he drew,
The master JjpdJus merlin [hawk] too.”
So the boy was drowned. The forester who had witnessed the
tragic incident hurried home with the news, and met his mistress
with the words “What is good for a bootless bane?” (a hopeless
prayer). She replied:
“ ‘Endless sorrow,’ f
For she knew that her son was dead.”
Long in the darkness she sat, and when she arose her first words
were;
“Let there be.
In Boiton, on the field of Wharfe,
A stately priory." ,
Her pious command was obeyed, and assuredly no site
could be conceived of greater beauty for its fulfilment. The
view approaching the abbey is one of singular loveliness. On
the right is Beamsley Beacon, beyond are the noble hill of
Simon’s Seat, the rich meadowlands, the deep woods of Bolton,
the river flowing down the glorious Vale of Wharfe, and in the
centre of this entrancing scene the ruins of the abbey, with
an air of beauty, seclusion and repose that to be realised must
be seen.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
Mg Address
S.R. 243
ACrE
The Red Page
NOISES OF WAR.
Jack Lindsay has written a long poem
about the Commandos at, Dieppe, Into
Action (Andrew Dakers, ■ Ltd,). Apart
from its topicality, its two principal points
of interest are its illustration of the in-
fluence of Hopkins, Eliot, Spender and
Auden on a writer whose previous exem-
plars were the Elizabethans and its attempt
to describe modern war by painting its
sights and imitating its sounds.
The use of “after*! in the opening—
After the many feet marching down many ways,
the calls at dawdling girls from the hurrying
lorries
After the many feet trudging up the gangways—
is a device introduced by Eliot (“After
the torchlight red on sweaty faces”) and
subsequently borrowed by Spender for
“The Express.” Direct echoes, however,
are not frequent. That Lindsay’s style
has moved with the times is a matter of
interest merely, not for adverse criticism.
But if the use of clumsy compounds
(Hopkins’s influence, or Joyce’s, perhaps)
is part of the attempt at modernisation,
that part of it is wholly bad. Here are
a few of them:
Green-rotten, wharf-face, movement-
orders, reef-fangs, bubble-stars, glow-tracks,
curled-back, water-flame, hunger-dart,
storm-thrust, death-squads, lightning-jags,
wing-strong, storm-fledged, stormcrcsts,
rage-flares, fruitflowers, fire-spikes, sun-
pulse, furnace-flare, cannon-clang, star-
berries, gnat-blur, power-gush, wave-surge,
star-flags, lightswords, foamtrack, abyss-
edge, foam-wreaths, foam-drops, spray-notes,
iris-hues, light-flick, star-leaves, star-
designs, ship-pyre, storm-fangs, battle-hours,
fire-plumes, water-columns, thunder-tint,
flame-pulse, foam-line, shell-blasting, merry-
hell, skyplanks, climbing-tracks, beach-
steps, silk-stripping, fire-bluster, deathlight,
drone-net, fireclang, cloud-pomps, ocean-
surge, foamlace, flutterfall, dapple-gleams,
chuckle-songs, twig-vanishings, bough-dip,
kisslight, storm-gap, dream-sequence, steel-
crunch, bloodspout, storm-exultation, death-
passage, battle-filth, gannet-drop, windcoils,
smoke-wool, foam-marked, battle-noise
There are scores of them. Every com-
pound, unless familiar, is an obstruction :
nearly always an obstruction to the
rhythm, because it makes a spondee;
often to the tongue, because it’s almost
impossible to pronounce such words as
“ship-pyre”—except as shipire; often to
the sense, because the meanings of “sun-
pulse,” “skyplanks,” etc., are either vague
or compressed beyond recognition ; and
often to the appreciation, because such
combinations as “power-gush” obviously
indicate that the poet hasn’t taken the
lime to search for the word he needed.
The attempt to present the sounds and
sights of modern war is as formidable as
the attempt at modernising the expres-
sion by the use of compounds. Some of
Ihe descriptions:
Rasp and rattle of many feet; quick
creak of derrick; tapped on stuttering
Morse-keys; engines, slickly panting; chugs
ahead slogging the clogged dark; the swish-
ing hush of brushing water is bruised; the
gaiter-dagger scrapes your heel; the chink
of metal, tingling, mingled with the still
water-hiss; the tracer-bullets score the
bleeding darkness with obliterated gashes;
Death’s garish furnace-flare; the blurt of
bomb and cannon-clang; wheels and pins
screech, chains jangle, underfoot is grating,
gravelled your knees; hoarse blown voice
of the sea-depth greets us with hails of
all freemen; leave a chaos on the irked
sight; smack of wave and streaming dark,
we drag it all along; the tracers rip the
sky, curve slashing upward in a red bower-
ing splash; and clanged the jagged star-
leaves on our flesh; Flak, shrapnel crackles
—lurk in murkier lair; a fist of darkness
hits with squelching light; the scything
volleys lop, earth spits and jags; the sleds
of fury stamp the stones to fiery tags,
upwhirled; the slopes are scarped with
warped bodies in heaps; channel sand with
zigzag gutters of blood; is it our own hob-
nailed echoes that scrape at the thin
silence eerily thinning to give the sun gang-
way, what jangle of shingle; the wire tings
and tinkles; sand in a slither, lights clang-
ing closed again; shells raced slicing fire-
furrowed space; the ripping edges that
ganch the brain with hooks of madness;
the sea is lisping with a limitless chinkle;
stumble on litter of death’s improvident
fair-day flapped with hot loops of blast
Tennyson once said that his “S’s”
hissed at him like snakes. But it’s some-
thing worse than a snake that growls and
grinds and grates and groans in Jack
Lindsay’s “G’s.” All is raw, violent,
turgid. And such violence defeats itself.
Eliot and Auden did well to bring poetry
back to life ; but, carried too far, realism
becomes mere ugliness ; unreal as poetry.
Tennyson needed only two lines to con-
vey all the sounds of war for which Jack
Lindsay has labored so desperately and
at such length :
So all day long the noise of battle rolled
Among the mountains by the winter sea.
Into Action is not without its merits.
It’s a gallant attempt at a modern epic,
and there are passages of both vigor
and charm. But its chief value is as an
example of how not to be influenced by
the modems and how not to describe the
sounds and sights of war.
Reporter in Berlin.
Representing various American news-
papers, Howard K. Smith was in Berlin
for the first two years of the war and
just got out in time to avoid being in-
terned when the U.S. came in. Last Train
from Berlin (Cresset Press) tells the story.
At first, he says, Berlin didn’t notice
the war:
The mobilisation of several million
soldiers to fight in Poland, a gargantuan
performance, had, it was evident, had no
more effect on the German home front
than the wash of a motor boat on a giant
liner at sea. It was heartbreaking, but it
seemed true, when a German officer at
whose side I was strolling down Unter den
Linden in the first spring of the war told
me: “Look around you, Herr Smith. No-
where a sign of war. Is not that the best
argument for our stiength? We shall never
be beaten.”
There was the jubilation after the fall
of France, when, as Mr. Smith elegantly
puts it, the graph of German morale
reached its “all-time high.” He saw the
people weeping for joy at a “victory”
parade. Somehow, the victory failed to
materialise. England resisted, “Morale
sank steeply. And like the graph of
American prosperity after 1929, it never
again really rose.”
Then came the Russian war. On
October 9, 1941, says Smith, Dr. Dietrich
announced to the world press that the
“last remnants” of the Russian armies
were undergoing annihilation. On
October 16 “Volkischer Beobachter” edi-
torially declared, “Stalin’s armies have
simply disappeared from the face of the
earth,”
“The German people,” says Smith,
“are not interested in military triumph.
They have grown callous to the capture
of towns, the encirclement of armies. The
only thing they were and are interested in
is a decisive victory.”
When he is talking about civilian
morale, quoting facts about arms pro-
duction or describing the great towers
and the mechanical ear erected for Ber-
lin’s defence against air raids. Smith is
more satisfactory than when he attempts
to reform the British Empire.
Call a conference of colonials —the
Indians, the Sudanese, the Egyptians—to
discuss which shall be completely indepen-
dent next month... .Call a conference of
the nations which will educate them and
make it include everybody: the Russians,
the Chinese, the British, Americans, Portu-
guese, Mexicans; everybody! And just
watch the morale of the Indians, the
Egyptians.... rise.
As G. K. Chesterton once said —chuck
it, Smith!
A Play About Hitler .
“What,” said Mr. Shean, “is this wet,
grey thing?”
“It might be an oyster,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “It might be an elephant. It
might be army soup. But if you had
not gone off your rocker today you
would recognise it as the sea. The wet-
ness is caused by the water.”
“Thank you,” said Mr. Shean. “I
never really understood the sea.”
“Barmy,” said Mr, Gallagher.
“Nay,” said Mr, Shean. “Thou mis-
judges! me. Knowest thou not that the
prophet Reed hath spoken again? I
have been reading his Downfall (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson), a play in three
acts.”
“What the deuce hath it done to thee,”
asked Mr. Gallagher, “that thou shouldst
come unto me muttering madly of wet,
grey things?”
'‘Downfall,” said Mr. Shean, “is a pro-
phetic play about the end of Hitler. It
is one of Adolfs speeches that has driven
me out of my five wits.”
“Quote the Fiihrer,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher.
“Hold fast,” said Mr. Shean, “And
up with your umbrella. The wet, grey
thing is coming. This is Hitler talking:
“ T knew there was something called the
sea, and something called the navy, and
because it was something to fight with I
did all I could to make it strong. (A
long pause, while he moves about.) But
I never really understood it. And in all
those years / never once saw the sea, until
one day, not long before this war, when I
went for a trip in the Baltic in one of Ley’s
Strength through Joy ships. I thought of
everything. But I never saw the sea. 1
do not understand the sea. It looks so
little on the map. It looks dull, so harm-
less, so uninteresting when you travel on
it. It did not look as if defeat lurked in
it. 1 do not understand the sea. What is it
about this wet, grey thing that makes it
such a menace and such a snare? (He
breaks off and looks into space....) The
sea! 1 never saw the sea! ’
“There is an art in writing dialogue,”
said Mr. Gallagher. “I am driven reluc-
tantly to the conclusion that Douglas
Reed never really understood it.” .
“From the literary point of view,” said
Mr. Shean, “there is much that he does
not understand. He writes;
“ ‘History is more interesting before it
happens than after. A play, written after
the event, that showed Napoleon’s capture,
voyage on the Bellerophon to England,
and subsequent exile in Saint Helena, would
have been of limited interest, though it
could have beep correct in detail to the last
shako. A play written before the event
which depicted in broadly accurate outline
that stupendous event would have been
of much greater interest.’ ”
“Meaning,” said Mr. Gallagher, “that
there is ‘limited interest’ in the entire
dramatic output of one William Shak-
speare? Ah, well”
“Ah, well,” repeated Mr. Shean, “we
shall not discuss Downfall from the
literary viewpoint. It is intended, in any
case, chiefly as a piece of political read-
ing for the present time; and, as such,
because Mr. Reed does know a good
deal about the abominable Adolf and his
cohorts, I found it interesting.”
“And what,” asked Mr. Gallagher,
“does Mr. Reed prophesy of the end of
the unspeakable Adolf?”
“When Germany begins to crumble,”
said Mr. Shean, “the ‘traditional power-
groups’ of Prussia will cause him to ‘dis-
appear’ so that they can try to bam-
boozle the Allies into another easy
peace.”
“And Adolf will just ‘disappear’?”
asked Mr. Gallagher.
“He will be smuggled away to some
safe retreat in a neutral country,” said
Mr. Shean. “His appearance will be
changed beyond recognition.”
“Ah, they’ll shave the cow!” said Mr.
Gallagher. “That’s something.”
“Furthermore,” said Mr. Shean, “a
little German kitchenmaid, who has wor-
shipped the Fiihrer in the days of his
glory, will turn him down flat in his
defeat. He will ask her to Come with
him into exile, but little Gretchen, who
has learned in the kitchen which side
her bread is buttered, will say him nay.”
“Mr. Reed may be right,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “But my own guess is that
Adolf will simply vanish into space with
a whiff of brimstone.”
Kangaroos and Monkeys .
Even if there aren’t any monkeys in
the N.T., there’s an entertaining legend
about them, so they take their place as
an aside in Charles Barrett’s Kangaroo
and His Kin (Robertson and Mullens):
The monkey stories in the Territory
mostly are based on probability if not upon
fact; a Jesuit priest at a mission in the
Daly River district is said to have kept
one or two monkeys from Java as pets.
When the mission was abandoned many
years ago, these animals may have escaped
into the bush or been liberated. But were
they a pair? If so, in favorable conditions
a monkey population possibly could have
been established; but there is no evidence
that this did happen. Who has seen a wild
monkey in Northern Australia?
Disregarding the possibility that some-
one kept a pair of Japs as pets, Mr.
Barrett goes on to talk about the cuscus
of North Queensland, which, though
popularly known as a “monkey,” is a
good Australian cuss that sleeps all day
and even when it becomes active —look-
ing for a meal after twilight—does so in
“its own leisurely way.” Photographs
of the cuscus support Mr. Barrett’s con-
tention that, if it were more widely
known, it would rival the koala in popu-
larity.
Well illustrated throughout and writ-
ten with Mr, Barrett’s characteristic
pleasant discursiveness. Kangaroo and
His Kin should find an audience among
American visitors as well as Australians.
Booklet size, it covers everything that
hops, the various possums, and the “fly-
ing squirrel” families.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Marlowe’s “Dr. Faustus,” capably pre-
sented in a radio adaptation by the
A.8.C., offers a good example of that
piling-on of bizarre stage spectacle in
which this column recently found an
affinity between the Elizabethans and
those lighter, slighter but nonetheless
admirably lively American comedy-
writers whose plays have been running at
Sydney Minerva. Marlowe’s chief con-
cern was to show how Faustus destroyed
his soul by dabbling in the black arts.
Sometimes in illustration of his point,
sometimes out of sheer love of spectacle,
he decorates his stage with: (1) one of
those inexpressibly painful Elizabethan
clown scenes; (2) an appearance of
Mephistophilis first in his own shape and
then in the habit of a Franciscan friar ;
(3) another clown scene, redeemed by the
manifestation of two devils; (4) manifes-
tation of a good angel and an evil angel;
(5) the devil-dance scene in which the
devils “give crowns and rich apparel to
Faustus, dance and then disappear” ; (6)
a woman devil with fireworks—presented
by Mephistophilis when Faustus asks for
a wife; (7) the good angel and the evil
angel again ; (8) visitation of Lucifer and
Belzebub ; (9) appearance—in person— of
the Seven Deadly Sins ; (10) the scene of
the Pope’s banquet, the snatching away
of the food by the invisible Faustus and
Mephistophilis and the subsequent curs-
ing by the friars; (11) more clowning,
improved by the entrance of Mephisto-
philis, who “sets squibs at their backs, and
then exit. They run about” ; (12) the
scene at the emperor’s court, the mani-
festation of Alexander the Great and his
paramour, and the decorating of the in-
solent knight with the horns of a stag;
(13) the completely “screwball” scene of
the horse-courser who, besides appearing
on the stage wet-through after his tumble
in the pond, pulls Faustus’s leg off; (14)
the scene where Faustus conjures grapes
in winter for the duchess; and (15) the
manifestation of Helen of Troy —a pretty
fair ration of odd or comic spectacle to
gild the pill of a tragedy.
Much of the incidental entertainment
of “Dr. Faustus,” being spectacle, is inevit-
ably lost in radio presentation ; and some
of it, such as the travel-talk on the won-
ders of Rome —fascinating, maybe, to
Elizabethan audiences—is faded. But the
real drama lies in the last scene where
Faustus, having had his fling, has to pay
for it by going to hell; and the sense
of doom in that last terror-stricken mono-
logue is still as powerful as anything in
literature; and the soliloquy, so long out
of favor with the stage, sounds natural
and moving, as always, over the radio.
And what a soliloquy it is:
Ah Faustus,
Now hast thou but one bare hour to live
And then thou must be damned perpetually!
Stand still, you ever-moving spheres of heaven,
That time may cease and midnight never come;
Fair Nature’s eye, rise, rise again, and make
Perpetual day; or let this hour be but
A year, a month, a week, a natural day,
That Faustus may repent and save his soul!
O lente, lente currite, noctis equi!
The stars move still, time runs, the clock will
strike,
The devil will come and Faustus must be
damned.
O, I’ll leap up to my God! —Who pulls me
down? —
See, see where Christ’s blood streams in the
firmament!
One drop would save my soul, half a drop;
ah, my Christ! —
Ah, rend not my heart for naming of my
Christ!
Yet will I call on him: O, spare me, Lucifer!—
Where is it now? ’Tis gone. And see, where
God
Stretcheth out his arm, and bends his ireful
brows!
Mountains and hills, come, come and fall on me.
And hide me from the heavy wrath of God!
At the talkies:
A Damon Runyon story, “Little Pinks,” shows
at Sydney Plaza as “The Big Street.” Though
his humor hasn’t the mellowness that enriched
the work of the “man who discovered Man-
hattan” Runyon has something of the O. Henry
touch. His writing seems too slick and too
mannered to last; but so, too, perhaps, did
O. Henry’s. With Henry Fonda as the “dumb
cluck,” Barton Mac Lane as the brutal, ice-hard
big-shot showman and Lucille Ball delightfully
objectionable as a night-club queen, the yarn
makes good entertainment. Runyon, who pro-
duced it himself, overdoes at the end that
peculiar sentimentality underlying all his
“tough guy” writing.
“F.S.”: Hugh Ramsay was born at
Glasgow in 1877 and died in Victoria
in 1906. Like Keats, he seemed to have
a presentiment that his life would be
short, for after entering the National Gal-
lery school in Melbourne he painted like
a raging torrent. He was beaten twice
for the Travelling Scholarship—once by
George Coates and once by Meldrum —
but in 1900 he somehow or other got to
Paris, lived on the smell of an oilrag,
metaphorically speaking, and two years
later had the record number of five pic-
tures hanging in the New Salon. His
last few years were spent in Victoria
struggling with the problems of art on
the one hand and tuberculosis on the
other. The current loan exhibition of 54
of his works at the National Gallery in
Melbourne shows that he was one of the
students successful in absorbinfg the late
Bernard Hall’s viewpoint. It was carried
furthest in the huge equestrienne group
in which the man, the woman, the horse
and the landscape are all of the one tex-
ture. Then he began to be experimental
and painted a succession of self-portraits
in which the same dogged face with the
same focused expression appears again
and again. How far he would have gone
nobody can say now, but the important
lesson he left for the artist was his capa-
city to transcend his conditions. This |s
probably the essence of genius, and i
that is what the critics mean who have
been applying the epithet to him on t
strength of this exhibition then there
nothing to object to.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
THE SENIOR STORE”
tfuMthaceuttcai itfc o tftc ilowl
“SiigSo” Vsl-amira Shampoo
Shampoo is soapless, non-
alkaline and leaves no film
on the hair, also it does not
remove natural oil and leaves
a new beauty and lustre.
Price, bottle 1/6
■V■OCvvx*CKl<A/v>AlOC<rtsoO'? <^, ” Itfjifa''' '
* *♦« ifftfU*
** ♦»• *?*s**« << *‘ ...
s * »«
*** «*♦*♦ Aft '&**** ** '•
*»»« « r **« ***%
♦ *«*« «>«««. ***
*< «» »*
s ‘ * HM/
“Dandryfix” Medicated
Shampoo
Removes and prevents
dandruff and keeps the
hair clean and healthy.
Price 2/6
II ;1
"* • m%
•»«*
.—-PRO**
n-.'f-’L,
P-rC=>
«=**
“Te-Trec-Oil”
Antiseptic Shampoo
Unsurpassed for scalp
health and hair beauty.
Specially recommended
for the treatment of
dandruff. Price 2/6
“SANTA LIS” —For dandruff and falling hair. Its
antiseptic quality will keep your hair in a healthy
condition. Price 2/11
“PALACE” DANDRUFF HAIR TONIC. An improved
formula for the eradication of dandruff. Specially pre-
pared after much research. Price 3/11
• Chemistry Department —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney
wmm
asl
m
m
m
■ ■ i
m
“Myleto” Hair Colour Restorer
An English product which effectively restores the
hair to its natural colour. Not a dye but a tonic.
Price 2/6
“McMahons’” Hair Restorer (Gyaranfeed)
A true hair grower. It revitalises the scalp and
speedily corrects falling hair. Price 5/-
-
Pq/<
5wr t
"u
**•*»
Ml* '”*l
*»•»
w
*** 1.. H,


FAMILY TROUBLE FOR MURPH
By A. C. HEADLEY.
“ OMETHING has got to be done
\ about this woman getting me
i 3 allotment money,” Murph said
for something like the fiftieth
time. He was referring to the mistake
he had made when, in the hope of rais-
ing the wind for one of his schemes,
he told the C.O. of a “sister” who
needed a tenner to keep the wolf from
coming into the breakfast-room. The
“sister” had gone to work and the C.O,
had “suggested” to Murph that the thing
to do was to allot her half his pay to
keep her and a couple of kids that she
hadn’t got.
“What I can see,” I said, “is you pay-
ing out half your pay for the rest of the
war.”
“Remember that letter you wrote for
me wot was supposed to be writ be me
sister?” Murph asked.
“You mean,” said I, “the letter I wrote
saying that my husband was in gaol and
the kids were in the hospital or starving?”
“That’s it,” he said. “All you’ve got
to do now is write another letter to the
C.O. saying that your husband has now
been released from gaol for good con-
duct and has found religion and has a
good job. You can say, as well, that the
kids are out of hospital and have never
been better and you don’t need the allot-
ment any more and you want me to
cancel it.”
“Me,” I said firmly, “I ain’t writing
no more letters.”
“But,” said Murph, “no one’ll ever
know you wrote it, and when I take it to
the C.O. he’ll cancel me allotment and
I’ll be back on six-’n’-six a day. It’s a
snack.' It’ll take me no time to build it
up to the tenner I need.”
“Ah,” I said, “you and your ten-quid
schemes. I’m not putting myself on an
A 4 for all the schemes in the world.”
“You and your crime sheets,” said
Murph, “Now, listen”
HALF an hour later I finished the
letter under Murph’s dictation, and
Murph grabbed his hat and vanished
from the tent.
He came back in a little while to
tell me that everything was fixed. “He’s
going to see that the allotment is stopped
right away,” he said. “I told you it was
a snack.”
“Don’t you think,” said I, “that it
might be a good idea if you were to write
to your sister and tell her what you’ve
done? If she doesn’t know anything
about it she might go making inquiries,
and then what would happen? I can see
you copping about twelve months in the
boob.”
“Joe,” said Murph, “I’m grateful.
There’s no time like the present.”
He took my pad, dabbed a stub of
pencil on his tongue and started:
“Dear Daisy,—You robbing, thieving
hound’
That was the beginning, and it took
Murph a page and a half and a lot of
tongue-dabbing-to finish it. “There,” he
said at last, “that ought to do it.”
“It ought to do something,” I com-
mented when I’d finished reading it, “and
1 hope it’s what you think.”
“Listen,” said Murph, “what can she
do? She can’t write to the C.O. because
he only knows me ‘sister’s’ handwriting
to be the same as what you just wrote.
She can’t do nothing. She can’t expose
me because I can prove she was getting
me allotment and was in the whole thing.
She’d most likely be sent to gaol for de-
frauding the Government.”
“But she wasn’t defrauding the Gov-
ernment,” said I. “The only one she was
defrauding was you.”
Murph grinned triumphantly. “For-
getting, ain’t you,” he said, “that the
Government subsidises what you allot
out of your pay, and she gets about twice
as much as what I give?”
“Forgetting that,” I agreed.
A WEEK later Murph received an
answer from his dear “sister.” Ac-
cording to her if Murph didn’t immedi-
ately take up his family responsibilities
she was going to blow the roof off the
whole affair.
“She sounds fair dinkum,” I told
Murph.
Murph grinned. “She won’t sound so
fair dinkum when I tell her about that
defrauding-the-Government part of it.”
He got to work right away on the
letter, and when we sneaked into town
that night for a few pots we got it posted.
A fortnight passed, and it began to look
as if the danger was over. Murph was
inclined to be jubilant, but there was still
a funny kind of doubt in my mind.
“Somehow,” I said, “1 don’t think we’ve
heard the end of it. If you ask me I
think she was getting used to those few
quid a week and she’s probably trying
to hatch up some kind of a scheme for
getting it back.”
Murph laughed. “There ain’t a
chance,” he said confidently. “I got
meself covered from every angle,”
And after a while it did look as
though nothing would happen. Down in
the “bullring” we began to get more
worried about the way we sloped arms
than about Murph’s sister. Life went as
well as it ever can in the army, and then
there came the letter.
Murph read it, scratched his head and
handed it to me.
“I don’t know what to make of it,” he
said.
I started on it.
“Dear Murph, —
“I would like to thank you very much
in anticipation of the twenty pounds. I
will be very pleased to get it. I have lots
of things that I want to buy, and I will
be able to get them without diving into
the money that I have got in the bank
for a rainy day.
“I was disappointed when I heard that
you had stopped my allotment, but know-
ing that you have always been selfish I
could understand it. I made up my mind
not to have nothing to do with you any
more. But I don’t want to be cruel, and
for that reason I will take the twenty
pounds to show that there is no ill-feeling.
“Love from your sister,
“Daisy.”
I scratched my head, “Listen, Murph,”
I said, “there should be a chapter before
this. The one where you get the clue that
tells you who did the murder. I’ve got a
feeling that you’re going to lose the sum
of twenty quid.”
“Blood can’t be got out of a stone,”
Murph said a trifle doubtfully. “And,
besides, how can she do it? She can’t
spill the beans because she’s been rob-
bing the Government.”
“All we can do,” said I, “is wait and
see. What I’m wondering is where you’re
going to get the twenty notes.”
I N the next few days Murph got into
I the way of springing ideas in the
middle of any conversation or straight
out of the blankness of nothing on the
various ways any plan of his “sister’s”
could be frustrated. But I could see that
his soul was uneasy. His mind wasn’t on
his work. Practically every night he was
appearing on the defaulters’ parade, and
even there he was right-turning when the
rest of the boys were moving off to the
left.
I tried to cheer him up. “She’s prob-
ably done it,” I said, “to scare the day-
lights out of you.”
“Yes,” said Murph feebly.
It was beginning to look as though if
nothing happened Murph would just pme
away and die, and I was almost on the
point of dropping a line to his fake sister
when it came.
We’d just marched back from a morn-
ing in the ring, and as we came back on
the parade-ground a runner came across
to the sarge. A moment later, in re-
sponse to an order, Murph moved out
of the ranks and stood to attention as
near as it is possible for Murph to stand
to attention. I was in the front rank and
I heard what was said. All it was was
that the C.O. wanted to see Murph. He
went off up the slope to the orderly-
room.
The orderly-room is one of those iron
affairs that the Army throws up wherever
it goes. As soon as we broke off I
moved up round the back of it to a spot
just under the C.O.’s office. The windows
were wide open and I just got there in
time,
“Fve got a letter here from your
brother-in-law,” said the major, address-
ing Murph.
There was an awkward pause.
“Yes, sir,” said Murph then in a
strangled voice.
“It’s a peculiar letter,” the C.O. con-
tinued.
“Yessir,” said Murph, more strangled
than ever.
“I might say,” said the C. 0., “a re-
markable letter. I don’t quite know why
he should have written to me instead of
directly to you, except that, as he points
out in the opening paragraph, he thought
that it might be better for me to, more
or less, break the news.”
I could almost see Murph clutch the
straw. “Me sister?” he yelped.
“Your sister,” said the C. 0., “is well,
It’s your brother-in-law. You remember
that letter you had from your sister say-
ing that her husband was out of gaol and
had found a good job?”
“Yessir,” choked Murph.
“Well,” said the C. 0., “your brother-
in-law has broken his trust. In this letter
he tells me that he succumbed to tempta-
tion and stole twenty pounds from the
firm by which he is employed.”
“Did you say twenty pounds, sir?” said
Murph hollowly.
“Twenty pounds, 1 ’ said the C.O. “And
unless he can replace this money within
the next few days he is certain that he
will be sent back to prison.”
“Yessir,” said Murph hopelessly.
“I’ll read you an extract from his
letter ” said the CO.
“ unless I can get Private Murphy
to lend me the money I'll be sent to gaol.
/ don't mind for myself, but it’s the
shame that I'll bring on my wife and
family. Besides that, with no money
coming in, they'll starve like they did
before. If Private Murphy will only lend
me this money it will save my sister s
heart from breaking, and I will promise
to turn over a new leaf."
\ wa ited, listening to the silence,
“Well,” said the C. 0., “what are you
going to do, Murphy?”
Murph clutched again,
“ But j ain ’ t got twenty pounds, sir.
j£ j b ad no thing would please me more
than to sa v e me sister’s name from further
disgrace.” He paused and then went on:
“It’s real bitter to know that I can’t raise
a hand to help her. I’d do anything tor
me dear sister.”
“i thought as much,’,’ said the C. 0.,
“and for that reason I wired twenty
pounds to your brother-in-law this morn-
ing. I’ll have the amount deducted m
fortnightly instalments from your _ pay
Twenty and the amount neces
sary for wiring.
From the window came sounds or a
violent fit of coughing. • Halt a mmute
passed,
“Yessir,” choked Murph. I m very
grate!ul. T v nPW
I heard the sound of feet, and 1 knew
the interview was at an end, but 1 dmni
go round to meet Murph. I left him with
his sorrow.
WANTABADGERY
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A LETTER which reached the writer
at The Bulletin office recently
ranks as something of an Austra-
lian historical document. It is
dated from “Wantabadgery West, Wagga
Wagga,” and signed “Claude Mac-
donald,” and there cannot be many eye-
witnesses left today of what it records.
“On the 30th of December,” it goes,
“you had in The Bulletin an account of
bushranging in the old days by Andrew
George Scott, alias Captain Moonlite.
“I was at Wantabadgery at the time,
having not long before arrived from Eng-
land, a youngster of nearly 21. My
brother, C. Falconer Macdonald, and
Mr. Fred Dangar, of Sydney, were
owners of Wantabadgery, and I was ad-
mitted a partner some 18 months later.
“My brother and I were away drafting
sheep the day the gang arrived. They
bailed up a number of people at the
public-house, brought them on. to the
station and took charge of the married
couple, who were alone in the house at the
time. I rode in at dark, and was saluted by
a voice saying ‘Come off your horse, you
bloody squatter!’ and on alighting found
a revolver held to each side of my head.
“I retreated to the gate, when I was
seized and then put into the big dining-
room, where I found 35 men and women
imprisoned and a sentry with a rifle
seated on a high sideboard, which was
pushed across the doorway. Later my
brother, the manager and the local post-
master were brought in, and we four
were imprisoned in a separate room.
“Moonlite then sent for me and said
it was hard for a youngster just arrived
from England to have fallen into an ad-
venture of this sort, and told me to come
and have dinner with him. The Kellys
were out at this time, and I thought he
was a Kelly—but he seemed a well-edu-
cated, good-mannered man, and I could
not place him at all.
“He was very talkative, and told
me all his history. He was edu-
cated at Dublin University, brought
up as a civil engineer, and lived
with his old aunt. His story was
that he had lost a lot of money horse-
racing, and asked his aunt for the money,
which she refused, and that, as he had
to pay, he robbed her safe at night and
cleared out.
“My cigar-case had been taken from
me when I was brought in. He gave
it back to me at dinner, and I still have
it and use it. I have also three Victoma
shillings, three sixpences and three three-
penny-bits which he threw on the table
on Monday morning when leaving, say-
ing ‘lt should never be said that a bush-
ranger had left without paying his bill.’
«AN Sunday the sheep overseer always
W came up for orders, and noticing
first that all the gates about the house
were open, and then that there was an
armed man on the roof, he rode off and
gave the alarm in Wagga, and then went
on to Gundagai.
“Half a dozen police arrived from
Wagga very early on Monday, and some
firing took place—for years one of the
corner posts of the house showed marks
of five or six bullets. Moonlite and
Rogan went down to the spot where the
police had hung up their horses and
brought them back, and the police retired.
“This was about six on Monday morn-
ing. The gang then made a hurried break-
fast and started for Gundagai, They met
the Gundagai police about three miles
northward from Wantabadgery and took
cover in a farmhouse. They had taken all
arms and horses from the homestead, so
my brother and I, on hearing the firing,
walked up to where the noise was, and
came in for the end of the battle.
“The gang occupied the farmhouse
till they began to be short of ammunition,
and then sent one of the party to get re-
serves from one of the horses which were
tied up to a tree. He (a youngster called
Wrenecke) was shot dead, and shortly
after the police, under Sergeant Carroll,
rushed the house. Bushranger Nesbit
(who was a full-grown man and not a
youth, as your article suggested) was also
shot. One of the police. Constable
Bowen, was mortally wounded and died
next day.
“The men were brought to trial in Syd-
ney under Sir William Windeyer and sen-
tenced to be hanged. The two youngest,
Williams and Bennet, alias Johns, were
reprieved and sentenced to life imprison-
ment. About five years later Bennet
attempted to murder one of his fellow-
prisoners, was again sentenced to death
by Sir William Windeyer and this time
hanged. Moonlite and Rogan were
hanged in Sydney.
4 ‘ K/I OONLITE was an extraordinary
IVI mixture, an educated man yet a
ruffian in many ways.
“My horse was brought up for me
by the stockman, and Moonlite tried to
mount her.' The mare pulled back. This
happened twice, and he then said that if
she pulled back again he would shoot
her. She did. He flashed his revolver
and shot her through the head. Then he
mustered six or seven men who were
prisoners in the dining-room and made
them drag the mare out of the yard, and
because he said one of the men was not
pulling and doing his best he drove his
bowie knife a good three inches into the
man’s buttocks and called on me to sew
it up!
“I think these facts should be put away
among the records of The Bulletin
office that they may be kept for all time.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3297.
Wednesday, April 21, 1943.
ONE VANDAL TO ANOTHER.
"Tunis, now threatened by the Allies, is about 20 miles from the site of Carthage, where in A.D. 533 Gelimer, King of the Vandals, a group of Teutonic tribes, was
defeated by the imperial general Belisarius. Gelimer was taken prisoner, and the Vandals disappeared from Africa and history."
“I wonder where you’ll go from here. They took ME to Constantinople—in chains.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H, K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TWO SPLENDID STATES.
When the German war was barely a
year old a Westralian Labor Assembly-
man, himself an anti-conscriptionist then,
whatever he may be now, told The
Bulletin that if conscription were put
to the vote Westralia would carry it by
a majority at least as great relatively as,
and greater actually than, in October,
1916, when the voting was 94,069 for and
40,884 against. Maybe Mr. Curtin was
of the same opinion, and was influenced
by it in the shaping of his militia-service
policy. Whether the Westralians ap-
prove of his methods and of the map
he presented to Parliament, with its
northern boundary the Equator, will be
shown when he and his Westralian col-
leagues go up for re-election.
Meanwhile, with the pride that a
worthy man feels in being a citizen of
no mean State, he has published figures
which demonstrate that Westralia’s great
recruiting record in the last war has been
paralleled in this war.
Of 790,000 men and women sworn
into the three services, 78,000 are
Westralians. In enrolments of men
per 1000 of population their State
leads the others astonishingly—West-
ralia, 280.9; Victoria, 195.2; Tas-
mania, 181.6; N. S. Wales, 175.7; Queens-
land, 168.1 ; South Australia, 167.6. So
it is with volunteers for service anywhere
with the R.A.N., the R.A.A.F. and the
A.1.F., 390,000 all told—3B,ooo Westra-
lians (81 per 1000 of population), 113,000
Victorians (58 per 1000 of population),
34.000 South Australians (56), 56,000
Queenslanders (54), 12,000 Tasmanians
(50) and 139,000 N. S. Welsh-
men (49). The number of service
women enlisted is 32,688, and here again
Mr. Curtin’s State is at the head per
1000 of population—Westralia, 4147
(18.8); Queensland, 5174 (10.7); South
Australia, 3078 (10.2); Tasmania, 1078
(9.3); Victoria, 8618 (9.0); N. S. Wales,
10,616 (7.8). In effect, voluntarism makes
its best showing in a community which
is conscriptionist to the marrow.
The war has brought no industrial
boom to the West. Its share of the
increase in number of factory employees,
164.000 for the Commonwealth since
September, 1939 (548,000 to 712,000), has
been slight (22,100 to 23,200), and its
principal industry has been hard hit.
Many goldmines have had to close down
or carry on with skeleton staffs, and min-
ing settlements which, after many years
of stagnation, prospered for six or seven
years before the war have become stag-
nant again. Mr. Dedman had the order-
ing of the restrictions on goldmining and
the large-scale transfer of miners to dis-
tant scenes, which was begun after the
young fellows had trooped into the ser-
vices, as they did in the last war; and
that dour socialist has remarked on the
cheerfulness with which it was taken,
though he couldn’t restrain himself from
having an unwarranted fling at “the
bosses.”
Sturdy loyalty and philosophic accept-
ance of harsh realities are to be found
everywhere in the West. There have been
no wicked war strikes. Bitter thmgs
have been heard from fighting men back
in N. S. Wales when greedy and arrogant
union mobs and mob leaders were doing
their worst, but not from Westralians
home from the Middle East, Timor,
Papua, the sky-routes and the Seven Seas,
for their people have supported them.
And the people are intensely proud of
their fighting men’s reputation and of
their four V.Cs., one of whom, the Fre-
mantle-born Edwards, is the most dis-
tinguished squadron-leader in the R.A.F.
An American counterpart of Westralia,
though the population is much greater,
is Texas. There is in that part of the
Union the same happy combination of
pride of State and devotion to the
country and its cause, and, as has been
noted by at least one competent observer,
the plains of Texas and Westralia seem
to produce much the same type of man.
Certainly, whether in battle or in hours
of ease, Texans and Westralians get along
very well together, and have many things
in common—above all, the desire to stamp
the enemy flat in the shortest possible
time.
In Texas there is a song which goes
“The eyes of Texas are upon you
you’ll never get away.” The words and
the music are in the Texan’s soul. Moved
by the spirit they express, and realising
the need for incessant energy on the
home front if Pearl Harbor were to be
avenged, the leaders of the Texas labor-
unions called on the Governor at Austin
and pledged themselves to “ban all
strikes, slow-downs, work-stoppages and
unnecessary absenteeism for the dura-
tion of the war.” Although the pledge
was not committed to paper, by the testi-
mony of the Governor, Mr. Coke R.
Stevenson, it was kept.
After more than a year had elapsed the
labor-union leaders arrived again, this
time to sign an agreement with the Gov-
ernor, “the first of its kind between a
State and organised labor,” Among them
were men from the great nation-wide
unions, the A.F.L., the C. 1.0. and the
Railroad Brotherhoods, and they and their
colleagues had authority from 300,000
Texas workers employed in war indus-
tries, notably chemical, shipbuilding and
oil production. The scene was the Gov-
ernor’s office ; the day (March 2), the
107th anniversary of Texan Independ-
ence, and with a resounding “whereas”
all persons within hearing were informed
that the parties to the ceremony had come
together because “the Government of
Texas, organised labor of Texas and in-
dustry of Texas are determined and re-
solved that there will be a full and un-
tiring effort on the part of Texas to pro-
duce for the war effort.” Then the sub-
joined agreement was read out and
signed:
1. There will be no strikes, slow-downs,
lockouts or work stoppages of any nature
within the State of Texas for the duration
of the war.
2. The Government of the State of Texas,
represented by the Governor of Texas, will
not interfere with industry or labor in
Texas in any manner that will in any way
impede maximum and full production for
the war effort.
3. The undersigned representatives of
organised labor pledge the Governor of
Texas that they will not sanction any inter-
ference on the part of labor that will in
any way impede maximum and full produc-
tion for the war effort within the State of
Texas. We furthermore agree that, if any
unsanctioned or unauthorised strike, lock-
out, slow-down or work stoppage of any
description shall occur in Texas, the Hon.
Coke R. Stevenson has our approval to
do anything and everything within his power
as Governor of Texas to stop or prevent
such an interference with the war effort.
We further request that, in the event any
of the abovementioned things occur within
the State of Texas, the Governor use any
and every power that he has at his com-
mand to stop or prevent the said strike,
slow-down, lockout or work stoppage of
any manner immediately, to the end and
for the purpose that not one man-hour shall
be lost within the State of Texas for the
duration of the war.
[The Governor possesses such power
and could, if necessary, exercise it in
drastic ways. He is “Commander-in-chief
of the armed forces of the State, can
embody the militia, repel invasion, sup-
press insurrection” (Bryce, The Ameri-
can Commonwealth )].
4. The undersigned representatives of
organised labor in Texas and the Governor
of Texas hereby call upon industry within
the State of Texas to produce at a full
and maximum capacity for the war effort,
and the undersigned hereby declare that we
will do all in our power to cause the in-
dustry of Texas to so produce.
5. It is the declaration of the under-
signed, and it is the purpose of this agree-
ment, to serve notice upon the world that
no individual or group of individuals, no
industry or group of industries, has any
right whatsoever to interfere with produc-
tion for the war effort, and the undersigned
intend by this agreement to eliminate any
and all obstacles that might in any way
interfere with the production of goods for
the successful prosecution of the war.
6. This is a solemn pledge made by the
undersigned to the armed forces of the
United States for the purpose of assuring
our fighting forces that labor, industry
and Government within the State of Texas
shall not fail them.
7. We invoke the blessings of Almighty
God that this agreement might be carried
out.
Splendid ; and just the thing for the
Australian State which harbors most of
the strikers and go-slow artists, and in
which, though no records are published,
absenteeism is notoriously bad. This
State has a Labor Government which
brags mightily of its “war effort,” the
outward and visible signs of which
have been outrageous taxes, hurtful not
only to the taxpayers but to the Govern-
ment which has to raise the war funds,
and complete subservience to union
bosses and mobs waging private war on
the country.
The fateful month of February, 1942,
when the Japs, everywhere victorious,
were bearing down on Australia and it
became desperately uncertain whether an-
other gallon of petrol would reach the
continent, found this Government’s Min-
ister of Mines blithely engaged in pen-
sioning 1700 or 1800 coalminers, they
having turned 60. Somewhat abashed at
Canberra’s reactions to this matchless
stroke of paternalism, the certain slump
in coal-production having been acceler-
ated by strikes (after every innovation
on the N.S.W. coalfields, good, bad
or mad, there are strikes), the Min-
ister, Mr. Badly, turned to themes
which (to his great mind) were ab-
sorbing without being perilous; con-
trol of dog-racing (he set up a committee
of inquiry composed of three highly-paid
departmental officers) and a new era in
horse-racing, with a “magic-eye” camera
on every course. He was drawn from
these solemn engagements by the news
that a party of northern miners had
struck because “the workings” were “un-
safe” and were staying down below
to prove it. Rushing to the scene, com-
plete with staff but without a brain
specialist, Daddy went down the mine
and plied the strikers with his persuasive
eloquence. It was effective, and, as the
report had it, “the valiant 58 emerged
from the bowels of the mine, led by a
Minister of the Crown and singing ‘Roll
Out the Barrel,’ to pass through a cheer-
ing crowd.”
While Mr. Badly is still enjoying this
diplomatic triumph, he might suggest to
his union admirers an agreement like the
one they have in Texas. It would be a
great thing if he could bring it off, how-
ever unimportant it may seem to those
who are hanging breathless on his deci-
sions as to the horses and the tin hares.
Australia's Axis Day.
April 12 should be entered as a day for
future celebration by those who delight
in sabotaging the war effort on the home
front.
On this day of the month that includes
Anzac Day 67,000 men and women were
idle in Australia by their own choice.
Sixty thousand took the day off in N. S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland “as a
protest against sections of a recent
award,” While the total altogether was
of record size, N.S.W. coalminers, for
once, were in a minority; only three pits
were idle, involving 765 miners. Indeed,
some of the miners made a move that
day to secure adoption of “the Federa-
tion’s policy of all-out production.” On
past performance, anyone who accepts
this as a guarantee that the coal the coun-
try’s war-time industry urgently needs
will be produced or that stocks for rail-
ways and lighting will be increased to
a safe margin qualifies as a prize opti-
mist, not to say goat.
Others on strike on Australia’s Axis
Day included 2000 girl ironworkers, 500
paper-mill hands and Sydney’s 4000
wharfies. The wharfies enhanced the
glory of the day by deciding by a narrow
majority (110 votes in a total of 3830)
to go back to the job which they had
left to compulsorily-appointed troops for
a fortnight. The troops included some
members of the Ninth Division, back in
their country after fighting for it for three
years. Among many thus employed
feeling was bitter, and very naturally so,
since they not only had to work for their
soldiers’ pay (a pittance compared with
wharfie earnings), but lost training which
might one day mean the difference be-
tween death and survival. Others of the
troops engaged didn’t mind. For one
thing, helping their country out of a hole
is their general job, and this was a safe
variation of it. For another thing, doing
the wharfies’ job after soldiering for
years was something of a picnic.
Without unduly exerting themselves in
any record-breaking effort, the troops
bettered the loading and unloading
performance of the regular wharfies.
Thus they bore out the heartfelt view
expressed by the American fighter pilot
Captain Rickenbacker in an address at
a joint session of the U.S. Legislature:—■
If necessary to make us appreciate our
duties, bring back the troops from the hell-
holes of the world; place them in the fac-
tories; take the war-workers, particularly
those single men without dependants from
18 to 38 years of age, and place them in
the foxholes with the filth, vermin, diarrhoea,
malaria and the Japanese, and I will guaran-
tee you that our production will be in-
creased —and much of it doubled —within
30 days.
In Brisbane on Australia’s Axis Day
Industrial Court President Webb exposed
the rotten core of the shameful striking
on any petty pretence that has given a
great many of the general run of Aus-
tralians an itch to get at voting papers
in the hope that a Government with the
guts to govern may be elected. Webb,
C.J., declared that Communists were
“behind all the strikes in Australia, in-
cluding that of the C.G.C.”
The Communist party is speaking with
two voices—one which appears to be aiding
the war effort, and the other working in the
dark to disrupt the organisation of in-
dustry.
His Honor added that it was beyond
the powers of the Court to deal with a
body that operated in the dark as did
the Communist party. It is not beyond
the power of a Government, unless the
Government is one that has ceased or
never seriously tried to govern.
As far as Communists are concerned,
the Government is reaping a deserved
harvest. In the belief (or so it was said)
that, because the country to which Com-
munists give their allegiance had been
attacked and forced into the war, Com-
munists could henceforth be relied on to
help the war effort of the country which
protects their skins, this Government gave
the underground party back its legal
standing. At once, mysteriously financial,
it opened up party rooms, labelled with
“Win the War” and “Victory” slogans,
hired halls for meetings and conferences
and increased its output of spoken and
printed propaganda. But the miracle
which the Government (so it was
said) expected failed to come off. Aus-
tralia’s record of strikes and stoppages
on piffling pretexts has got worse and
worse. Even when Communists profess
to be against them they are not believed.
It does not matter to Communists how
many fighting men’s lives may be the
price paid for any organised strike —and
the price of every strike staged in this
Australia at war, and the price of all
the absenteeism as well, is some number
of Australian lives. Every day’s produc-
tion that is lost through these causes in
the Allied countries means that the war
must last so much longer, and every day
the war lasts more lives will be lost.
Every time a worker on the Australian
home front downs tools or fails to turn
up at work he contributes to the killing
of defenders of the nation.
That Communists should be behind
strikes in Australia when the country to
which they gave their first loyalty is
fighting desperately for its existence is
nothing extraordinary. To this crew the
word “loyalty” and all if implies are
anathema. This body which, when
Britain looked like going down and Aus-
tralia with it, openly opposed and secretly
sabotaged the war effort branded itself
for ever as cancerous. From then on,
to expect it to act according to any
pattern of principle, to take its word on
anything, to rate it as anything but an
evil parasitic growth—for a community
or a Government to put any trust in it
whatever was utter idiocy.
One thing overlooked by those who
have expected loyalty to Russia, if to no-
where else, from this body is that, for the
time being, the Communist ideology is
at a discount in Russia. For acts such
as Communists commit with impunity in
Australia they would be shot in Russia
today.
In that country—where the names of
historic defenders, anything but Commu-
nists, have been called up as examples,
and where historic nationalism, loyalty
to country, has been made the ruling
slogan—the troops, fighting stubbornly
and suffering terribly against invaders,
have been supported by the home-front
workers in a manner which makes the
Australian Communist performance look
doubly shameful. There (as proudly re-
corded by the Marxian writer Maurice
Hindus) the “eight-hour labor day is all
but forgotten. Eleven and twelve hours
is the rule in Russian factories”; with
trial and drastic penalties for any worker
who is even 20 minutes late, though it
be a first offence. In Britain also
workers are fined for being late and
absentees are gaoled.
If Communists lending their dirty hand
in making Australia’s home-front per-
formance look disgraceful were to turn
up in the Russia of today they would be
bewildered strangers. They would find
that —for the time being, at any rate-
country came first and Communist
ideology nowhere. In Australia they carry
on in the old treacherous way because,
for one thing, training is hard to shake
off; for another, because, in their view,
this country remains a fair prospect for
the sowing of the disruption and discord
which is their road towards the revolu-
tion of their fanatic dreams; and be-
cause, for another thing, the threat of
invasion is not so pressing as to stir into
counter-action an almost fatally lethar-
gic community or a Government which,
through its inability to govern, encour-
ages the very acts of commission and
omission which its members monoto-
nously deplore.
The Government should be as fearful
of all this as much for what it means
to itself as for what it means to the
country. Even the record total of 67,000
on strike on Australia’s Axis Day is
small compared with the total more or
less continuously at work —518,000 war-
factory workers alone, compared with
13,500 in 1939; including the fighting
services, 3,400,000 in war work out of
Australia’s total of 5,000,000 men and
women between the ages of 14 and 6x
But the bulk of these (all in the fighting
services) are fed up to the neck with the
performance of the minority that strike
on any or no pretext, and just as fed up
with the Government’s failure to do any-
thing but wring its hands and weep as
it sees (or should see) through these
causes one fine Australian life after an-
other marked for sacrifice to pay for the
home-front holidays, and as it no doubt
also sorrowfully sees one precious Par-
liamentary seat after another going nito
eclipse.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pay-as-you-go.
Mr. Chifley and Mr. Curtin have told
us that their prices-stabilisation plan is
modelled on that operating in Canada.
They have high hopes, which are pre-
sumably shared by Mr. Dedman, that it
will work as well. Mr. Fadden’s view
is that the thing “will give Mr. Dedman
much opportunity to invade the efficient
fiejd of private enterprise on the excuse
that rationalisation is needed” ; and to
people who have learned what Dedman-
ism is that prospect is ghastly.
All ffie same, Canadian home-front
measures have been very successful, and
whether prices-stabilisation succeeds or
not the Australian Government could
adopt another Canadian innovation with
advantage. It already knows that Canada
has made a gift of $1000,000,000 worth
of war supplies to Britain and is making
another of the same amount to the
United Nations, Australia among them.
Such munificence, the fruits of vast in-
dustry and well-managed finance, our
Government cannot rival, but it can and
should follow Canada in placing income
tax on a pay-as-you-go basis.
The April newsletter issued monthly
from the High Commissioner’s office ex-
presses ip a few words what Canada is
doing in this respect:
One of the most important features of
the new Budget involves the transformation
of the personal income tax to a “pay-as-you-
earn” basis which avoids the lag in payment
of taxes under the present system.
In respect of fixed incomes, deductions
will continue to be made at the source.
These deductions, made in 1943, will apply
in respect of 1943 incomes.
Instead of completing their 1942 pay-
ments taxpayers immediately began paying
their 1943 assessments. There was no
lapse in collections. The benefits of this
changeover to “pay-as-you-earn” will not
be effective until taxpayers die. At that
time their income taxes will be paid up to
date, and their estates will not be subject
to deduction.
That is the root of the matter. Tax
goes on, but instead of being assessed on
the previous year’s earnings it is assessed
on and collected from earnings in the
current year. The Government loses
nothing, and taxpayers can plan for the
future assured that when they pay the
debt to nature tax for one year and
part (perhaps nearly the whole) of an-
other will not be demanded from depen-
dants who may need every penny. Nor
if, when still on deck, their war-time
earnings drop suddenly, and perhaps
permanently, will they have to find
taxes on, say, £4OO or £5OO out of £2OO
or £3OO.
Thousands of people who vote Labor
may be in this position. It is astonish-
ing that a Labor Government should be
so lacking in consideration for them.
Astonishing, also, that the Labor Gov-
ernment should not realise that income-
tax arrears, which always run into mil-
lions, will rise enormously when this
position arises. If the Government be-
lieves that there are a few special cases
in which assessments will be lower, they
could provide against them, once and
for all, by stipulating that tax must be
paid on the current or previous year’s
income, whichever is the higher.
As matters stand, it is doubtful whether
there is sound legal warrant for the
twelvemonth lag. The Government has
not faced up to this question, and when
challenged to deny that the Crown Soli-
citor had pronounced the lag indefen-
sible it sought refuge in evasion.
There is a dark suspicion that it is
against pay-as-you-go because the de-
partment objects to the work that would
be entailed in the first instance,
Ausfrolian Wine.
Manchester “Guardian” has published
an odd story involving promise of a little
justice to Australian wines and a lot of
poetic justice for wine dealers in London’s
West End.
Hitherto some dealers in that locality
have been part of the very strong con-
spiracy to keep the repute of European
wines up and the repute of Australian
wines down. Australians have no occa-
sion to get unduly shirty about this, being
themselves responsible for some of the
most ill-informed criticism of their own
country’s wines.
The justice to Australian wines rpen-
tioned by Manchester “Guardian” is the
prospect offered by the British Ministry
of Food of shipping space this year to
take some of the accumulated Australian
stocks to Britain. The Australian Gov-
ernment should co-operate for all it’s
worth. European wines are temporarily
unavailable; also, much damage must
already have been done to European vine-
yards and to production of wine on the
Continent. The effects may last for some
time even after the war, and in the
meantime, since all alcoholic drinks are
to be dearer, the Budget increases in the
wine duties will make no difference.
The touch of poetic justice being meted
out to stuffy West End dealers who have
helped to damage the Australian wine-ex-
port trade by stigmatising the Australian
product as “grocer’s wine for the sub-
urban trade” is that they now see wines
they could sell a hundred times over
going, indeed, chiefly to grocers in the
suburbs, the wines being allotted by
shippers to retailers in proportion to pre-
war purchases.
A helpful Australian Government could
at the same time be assisting this Austra-
lian industry by making more of the good
wines of the country available. Wine-
makers hold large stocks of beverage
wines like hock, chablis, claret and bur-
gundy, very palatable and low in alco-
holic strength, and the current restric-
tion on sales is stupid. The whole
quota business should be reviewed. At
the same time the authorities should deal
severely with retailers who charge fancy
prices for wines in greater demand, such
as sherry and port. Barefaced profiteer-
ing in these wines is going on in Sydney.
"Moscow Strikes Back."
“Bo” goes to the pictures;
A Mr. Zygmunt or Zygmand Blecheisen or
Bacheisen (these papers will differ) reached Aus-
tralia from Poland via Russia and Japan, applied
for exemption from military service on the
ground of hardship, and was granted “tem-
porary deferment.” Zygmunt, it was said, had
“imported a number of films, including
‘Moscow Strikes Back,’ ” which he had hired
for £346 Australian, and if he perforce became
Private Blecheisen his monish might fade into
thin air.
“Australian” Communists took up his case,
■without, for once, referring fiercely to “the profit
motive.” Their particular howl was directed
at the film censorship, which had objected to
certain “horror scenes” in “Moscow Strikes
Back.” Shorn of these scenes, the authorities
were informed in various accents, Clydeside
among them, the film would be withdrawn from
exhibition —Mr. Blecheisen said so —and Aus-
tralians would be denied the opportunity of
being pictorially convinced of the crying need
for a Second Front in Europe, kindly reserved
by Communists for Tommies, Doughboys,
British seamen and lads in air-force blue.
These representations prevailed, the censorship
being overruled by two (2) politicians.
Actually the “horror” shots are confined to
about three minutes. They show the bodies
of men, women and children in villages, and
one of seven or eight civilians hanging from
a rude gallows, illustrating starkly the barbari-
ties of Nazi invasion. And there are scenes of
reunion between soldiers and liberated villagers
which strike a note of real pathos.
The opening sequence is a magnificent parade
of young men and women in tableaux devoted
to the arts of peace. The time is August, 1939,
hut the commentator, Edward G. Robinson,
does not enlarge on the date or its significance.
Edward G. (no relation to “John P. Robinson,
he said they didn’t know everything down in
Judee”) is, however, at pains to repeat at inter-
vals that the war shots are not manoeuvres but
the real thing. Some obviously are, and they
are splendid. But only Red union bosses and
the like, who never get closer than 10,000 miles
to war, “people’s” or “imperialist,” would
allow that cavalry charge an enemy-held vantage
point to a Don Cossack choir accompaniment,
or that infantry go into action to the strains
of a symphony orchestra, or that so little risk is
incurred when hundreds of ski troops charge
the enemy over open ground. One (1) man
falls.
To Australians, with a savage and cunning
Asiatic foe only a few hundred miles from their
northern coastline, a film of greater interest
would be one showing the destruction wrought
by bombers at Darwin and Broome. It may
possibly be good policy to deprive them of
such first-hand evidence of frightfulness until
the enemy is driven back from the frontiers.
Meantime let Private —beg pardon, Mr.—
Blecheisen take his profit and let the “motive”
go hang.
>Csop in Australia.
A dispirited hen emu with a fairly large
family to feed and clothe, whose hus-
band had departed for the North to
assist in repelling an enemy, stood one
day in the shade of a quandong-tree. She
had been out trying to buy food for her
brood with no success, although the
public prints contained official statements
that this or that was in ample supply or
this or that was on sale at a certain price.
Now it happened that a crow saw her.
Crows always know where food is or
why it isn’t, and this crow was moved
by the poor hen emu’s distress. He said
to her “Come with me, my good dame,
and you shall learn for yourself.”
So she went with him and saw a large
number of secretary birds who sat, or
stood, or hurried back and forth in a
large plantation of commodious and well-
appointed trees. And the crow said
“Lady, these birds you see have been
appointed by Authority to control and
regulate foodstuffs. That there are more
birds than foodstuffs doesn’t matter; the
point is that, before a commodity can be
made available to such as you at such-
and-such a price, certain questions have
to be answered. These questions, I have
been assured, are very important, indeed
vital. Come, let us listen to this head
secretary bird talking to his deputies
and assistant-deputies and deputy-sub-
assistant deputies.”
And she heard the head secretary say
“Gentlemen, we are faced here with a
fact entailing a question, and until that
fact-question is answered in accordance
with Regulation 567, subsection 24 (of
45), para, g (Feb. 23/1942), we shall get
nowhere. Take down the fact therefore,
and set the necessary machinery in
motion.” All the others then got out their
tablets, and when they were* ready the
head quoted “It has been established by
six committees of inquiry over a period
of nine months that whenever eggs are
sold by the yard mutton is always two
quarts to the pint. What you have to
discover is why that is so. When that
is discovered we shall be able”
Hearing a slight noise the crow turned
and found that the emu had fainted. He
eyed her thoughtfully, debated whether
or not he should pick out her eyes, then
clicked his beak impatiently and went
away.
The Volunteer Australian.
If you went amongst them—in the A.1.F.,
the Navy, the Air Force—asking why
they’d volunteered you’d get all sorts of
answers. Some wouldn’t even speak:
they’d content themselves with a signifi-
cant grin or a “huh! ” and leave it to you.
Scarcely a one would say “I volun-
teered in order to use my strength and
what courage I have to bring the new
order closer.” The first of them, back
in 1939-40, had hardly heard of a new
order.
Plainly, what they fight for is to pre-
serve Australia as they know and love
it, not to change it into some impossible
place wherein a fairy godmother sort of
Government hands out pensions and
doles ad lib. and the good, bad and in-
different in the community share equally
all the marvellous benefits that are to
spring from the new order.
That being so, it is evident that, after
the war, the country will need its volun-
teers badly. It will be calling on them
to come forward in peace and to give to
the nation the same energy and the same
personal sacrifice they have so freely
given in war. Only a fool can believe
that when the last shot is fired and the
last bomber comes home Australia will
promptly enter on the promised era of
good times for all. Only a fool would
deny that after the war this country will
need its best brains, courage, initiative
and resource.
To talk of his duty to a volunteer
fighting man at this time is mighty like
presumption. Yet, when the fighting is
done, and done mostly by him, he will
still have a duty to fulfil. And that is
to see that the country which he held
by his blood and sweat remains the coun-
try he wants it to be, to see that he and
his comrades are not again pushed into
the background by servile and selfish
elements, to see that Australia is moulded'
as closely as possible to the shape it
took in the dreams he knew when lying
out on some perimeter, holding the watch
on a grim sea or gazing alertly from the
observation hatch of a ’plane.
All through the babble of words and
the nightmare of political shenanigan and
the wild chorus of “isms” that will arise,
the returned volunteer will have to stand
fast for one ideal alone, the ideal that
sent him forth to fight, the ideal of Aus-
tralia.
“DID WE EVER THINK IT WOULD COME TO THAT?”


Beware of
Tired Kidneys
Men and women often suffer from
Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, ana
other ailments caused by the slowing
down of kidneys. By taking a course of
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
kidneys function properly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
C. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan. Secretary.
Hranch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Quern Street, Mblbournh,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Russo-Jap neutrality agreement
has entered upon its third year. Like the
renewal of the Russo-Jap fisheries agree-
ment, the second anniversary was ignored
by Australian newspapers which man-
aged to find any amount of space for
horse- and dog-races. A radio commen-
tator gave it a mention.
As a substitute for the Ministry of
Food that the country needs (it doesn’t
need some of the present 19 Ministers),
Australia is to have a Food Executive
with Beasley as chairman, Beasley, of
course, is a city chap. Newspapers
which used to hate Beasley agree that
Beasley has done well as a sort of
Minister of Semi-Supply and he may
do better as a real Minister of Supply.
He has with him on the Food Executive
Chifley, Scully, Bulcock, Davis and —yes
—Dedman. Can’t they leave Deddy out
of anything ?
Fraser, “the Minister assisting the Min-
ister of the Army,” has admitted that
militiamen get 28 days’ leave after 12
months’ service, and A.I.F. men 14 to 21
days after two or three years of tackling
the Axis. “If ever there was an argument
in favor of having one army, it is that”
said Brand, that veteran of South Africa,
Gallipoli and France.
A depressingly familiar item in the
industrial news is that munitions girls,
members of some union under Red con-
trol, have gone or are about to go on strike
because the wage-payers haven’t given
them “90 p.c. of the male rate” (fixed by
the Arbitration Court on a three-in-
family basis, a fact ignored by Ward’s
Women’s Employment Board), dated
back to September. The Commonwealth
Statistician ought to be asked for a
reckoning of what Women’s Employment
Board “determinations” have cost the
country in the board’s first year. Where
cost -plus rules or wage increases are
added, as per proviso, to Government
contract prices, rises and back-pay go
on to the taxpayers’ burdens. Spread
over scores of thousands of girls at £1
6s. per week per girl, they form no in-
considerable part of the enormous war
expenditure.
Next time the Government floats a war
loan it should (1) ban lotteries for the
flotation period, and (2) keep Communists
out of the picture. Investors strongly
object to being barked at by blather-
skites to whom the war was an imperial-
ist ramp and blood-bath till June 22, 1941.
One A. J. Tout, chairman of the N. S.
Wales Public Service Association, objects
to public servants being “attacked by dis-
credited politicians and mouthpieces of
hypocrisy through the agency of a section
of the press.” Application to Govern-
ment employees of the terms “bureau-
cracy and regimentation” particularly
riles Tout, and, if Tout has his way, “the
leader of the organised gang of vilifiers,”
whoever he may be, will be tracked down
and dealt with.
He should be publicly and officially re-
buked, and his actions examined from the
point of view of Fifth Column activity
and retardation of the war effort.
If that is the socialist spirit it reeks of
intolerance. Interposing a whine, Tout
asserted that “public servants only carry
out the legislative commands of the Gov-
ernment in power.” Loud and bitter
laughter from any taxpayer who has tried
to argue with an income-tax boss, big or
little. ,
To the chagrin of newspaper oracles
and would-be outstanding candidates, the
U.A.P. council in Wentworth (Sydney)
gave Harrison, M.H.R., a unanimous
vote of confidence, and called upon all
members of the party to “cease their petty
bickerings and personalities, and concen-
trate upon becoming a really live Oppo-
sition” to the end of “achieving a maxi-
mum war effort.” Inauspicious for Billy
if Billy plans to run Walter Marks as
an “outstanding candidate.” This would
be inadvisable anyway, since both gentle-
men might find it hard to fix it in their
minds that they are not Nationalists or
Independent Nationalists with Labor sup-
port but U.A.P,
The two Polish Socialists who were put
to death by the Soviet Government on
the ground that they were intriguing with
the invader were Jews, One, Ehrlich, was
leader of the Jewish Workers’ Federa-
tion ; the other. Alter, was president of
the Polish National Council of Trade-
unions. They had influential American
friends, among them the A.F.L. and
“I haf suspicions dot you support der ‘Beat Hitler First’ policy.”
C. 1.0. leaders, and great efforts were
made to save them, among the interceders
being Wendell Willkie. Representations
were still being made when Litvinov, him-
self a Jew, revealed that the men had
been executed in December, 1941. This
caused a “painful sensation,” and a series
of protest meetings was held, Mayor La
Guardia being one of the speakers.
A perfect statement of the case for pay-
as-you-go—“pay-as-you-earn” in the ex-
cellent Canadian Budget:
It does not mean skipping a year, either
in imposing or in paying taxes. It means
simply that the measuring rod for a man’s
income tax in any year would be the income
of the same year, instead of the income of
• the year before. It substitutes for one tax
measure another tax measure to produce
the same revenue. The substituted measure,
in fact, is likely to produce more revenue,
because it takes the taxpayer’s money when
he still has the money and before he has a
chance to spend it.
It appeared in the New York “Times.”
Chifley should study it and do some
thinking on his own account instead of
leaning so heavily on departmental
pundits.
As an accountant in a big way,
Spooner, M.H.R., should know as much
about the income-tax people as any man
can without being admitted to their
secrets and mysteries. He said last week
that income-tax assessments, so simple
and intelligible in Britain, have baffled
all but mathematicians. Also that “oppo-
sition to pay-as-you-go comes from offi-
cialdom, which never relishes the dis-
turbance of an established procedure.”
Right and well put.
Said Lord Lothian before he died un-
timely: “Peace and order always depend
upon there being overwhelming power
behind just law.” That explains why in-
dustrial arbitration is going to the bow-
wows in Australia. Overwhelming power
has never been placed at its service. On
the N.S.W. coalfields an attempt to en-
force mild penalties for absenteeism led
to thousands of miners striking, which
rather suggests that enforcement of penal-
ties against unions and unionists is quite
a new thing.
Melbourne “Herald’s” publication of
the National Service group’s manifesto
stressing the threat of extinction to the
middle class was followed by a summary
of Wendell Willkie’s book, in which the
author mentions that “practically the
whole of the Russian upper middle class
has been exterminated: the country is
ruled by and composed almost entirely of
people whose parents possessed neither
property nor education.” Among those
exterminated there may conceivably have
been a wealth of mechanical, military
and organising talent which would have
been of priceless value to Russia when
Hitler turned dog on Stalin, On this
point Willkie does not speculate, but he
would probably be the first to admit that
middle-class extermination would be the
end of the Western democracies.
An Adelaide shopgirl has been ordered
to pay £3O 145., fine and costs, for having
fibbed about her dead father to get a rail
permit to travel to Victoria. She pleaded
that she wanted to see her boy friend’s
family, the boy friend being in the
R.A.A.F. Had she said she was a Com-
munist going to an inter-State conference
the permit would have been handed to
her on a platter.
“The National Convention of the
Miners’ Federation carried a resolution
promising fullest support to ensure maxi-
mum coal-production to meet essential
war needs.” It’s like the man who fre-
quently gets drunk and as. frequently
swears that he’ll never do it again.
There is a “resumed Apple and Pear
Board Inquiry” going on somewhere, but
it has a bad press, and few citizens can
follow the sketchy reports of what is
being said. Meantime, in Sydney at least,
there is a small flush of autumn fruits,
and it is possible, by careful exploration,
to buy an apple or two at prices within
reach of anybody on a tenner a week
or better.
Dunstan is to deliver his policy speech
at Eaglehawk on May 20. Its main
features will be decentralisation, more
schools in country districts, reafforesta-
tion and more health services and accom-
modation. The only item on the list
that has shown any movement in late
years is decentralisation —as a sequel to
Pearl Harbor and Singapore.
George E. Sokolsky, a New York
“Sun” writer, who was in Petrograd in
1917 and part of 1918, offars a thought-
provoking explanation of the Russian
debacle in 1917. He says the military
front collapsed because the food front
collapsed.
Roughly 14,000,000 Russians, mostly
peasants, were shifted from food and fibre
production to military purposes. Agricul-
ture was left to old people, women and
children, and they were inadequate. The
country shifted from food surpluses to star-
vation. The average workman and peasant
changed from a docile, obedient person into
a dissatisfied, bitter opponent of the Gov-
ernment. The people were hungry, and
they wanted peace that they might have
bread. Men and women who literally hated
the Bolsheviks greeted the regime of Lenin
and Trotsky because they hoped that it
would bring peace and bread.
Certainly a powerful warning that wars
can be lost on the home front, and,
though addressed to the U.S.A., it can
be read with profit in Australia.
Bruce Pie, the Queensland M.L.A.
whom Dedman appointed to the Bris-
bane W. 0.1., has resigned, “Dedmanism”
being too much for him. Dedman had
thrice asked him to quit because he
was too critical. Doctrinaires can’t take
criticism.
You don’t get any change from these
State Governments. The Queensland one
finds itself with a surplus of £2,000,000.
Does it propose to hand the money over
to the Commonwealth for war purposes
or to refund any to taxpayers? Not on
your life! It will use the surplus to
“establish a reconstruction and develop-
ment trust fund to be used after the war.”
An “Official” Laborite, a “free” Labor-
ite and an Independent are out for
Barcoo, which was Bulcock’s electorate.
So far, nothing has been heard from
.Barnes, of Bundaberg. The “free” Labor-
ite is a “shearer-chemist,” John Howe, of
Toowoomba. Queensland hasn’t for-
gotten Jack Howe, who was a ringer in
his day.
Wing-Commander White, M.H.R., ad-
dressing the Royal Empire Society in
London, suggested that immigrants might
fly to Australia on “permit to view,” with
an option of settling if they liked the
place. It has the stamp of a good notion
about it.
In normal times the Harvard Law
School has 1500 students ; now there are
only 168. Which recalls that when Syd-
ney law students were going into the
services Justices Halse Rogers and David-
son and other members of the Univer-
sity Senate proposed that temporary
arrangements should (and could, they
said; be made to carry on the work of
their Law School and that two vacant
professorships should be left unfilled till
after the war, when the claims of service
men with the necessary credentials might
be considered. This very reasonable pro-
posal was dished by the McKell Govern-
ment, after Abram Landa, M.L.A.,
had worked up a domestic tragedy con-
cerning a Mr. Julius Stone, alleging that
objectors to the (totally unnecessary)
appointments were down on Julius be-
cause he is a Jew. The same crowd is
now raising the cry that, because a prof,
said something or other, and because
Man-power restrictions have been placed
on the number of students entering uni-
versities, “Parliament” should take con-
trol of the Sydney foundation.


'
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
There can’t be many Boer War veterans
who have seen active service in the
present shindy. One is Frank Barber,
D.C.M., M.M., of Ashfield (N.S.W.), who
wears the King’s and Queen’s from the
Boer War, the three from the last show,
as well as his two decorations and King
Edward’s Coronation. This time he has
been on active service in New Guinea,
and is now awaiting posting to a hospital
ship. Erect and clear-eyed, he is “Al,
over age”—a great performance for any
Boer War man.
Allied Works Director Theodore lost
a son-in-law when Pilot-Officer Morris
Francis Hoban was killed in a collision
between two training aircraft. Hoban
was a Xavier College boy who graduated
as a chemist from Melbourne University
and entered the R.A.A.F. in 1940. He
married Miss Myra Theodore,
Back from a comprehensive tour of
England and the U.S.A. for the Aus-
tralian Red Cross, Dr. Newman Morris,
vice-chairman of the Australian institu-
tion, chairman for 17 years of the Vic-
torian B.M.A. and president of a host
of healing associations, from the Volun-
tary Blood Donors to the Crippled
Children. He found Australia’s war
effort well advertised, but England’s so
little known that the average citizen
firmly believed that America had sent
most of the help to Russia. Britain
is leading the world in progressive thought
in medicine, economics and social wel-
fare, according to this distinguished Mel-
bourne sawbones.
“Ek Dum”: Reported missing, Squadron-
Leader Frank Chapman, son of The Bulletin’s
staunch friend Chris Chapman, of G nestling,
south-western Queensland. He follows a
younger brother, who died in a Spitfire in
France, into the Valhalla of good pilots.
Chappie began flying at 16, and as a pupil
of Lester Brain proved himself born "to the
game. Before the war, after training at Point
Cook, he was sent to England. Later he flew
in the mailboats on the Auckland-Sydney run
and was drafted to the Catalinas.
In these he did much not only to make
his own name but theirs.
On one run he and his crew blotted out a
destroyer, and he had many adventures which
are legend in the service during his tens of
thousands of miles of Pacific patrol.
Pilot-Officer Waters wrote of him in the
Sydney “Sun”:—
They liked talking about Chapman in the
Catalina mess. They will always talk about
him.
“Australia’s foremost Catalina pilot,”
they said. “Never asks us to do anything
he doesn’t do himself. Always ready with a
warm smile of comradeship and encourage-
ment. A smack of the sea in his direct
blue eyes.”
He meant as much to these squadrons
as did “Old John” Jackson to original
Squadron 75 when it fought off the Japs
at Moresby.
Chappie was out on the “old milk run”
a few weeks ago. This time, south of Gas-
mata, he struck a small convoy—a mer-
chant ship, a cruiser and destroyer. He sig-
nalled for the Beaufort torpedo bombers.
While they were on the way Chappie
shadowed the ships, strafed the destroyer.
He kept on their tail for four hours. The
Beauforts dropped flares for guidance.
Chappie, blue-eyed, stern, slipped in,
dropped his bombs, strafed the decks of
the cruiser. “I’ll make ’em open up on
us,” was all he said.
His father was a Maorilander who took up
a ruined property in western Queensland and
reclaimed it in conditions which would have
daunted most men. The sons were made of the
same stuff and fibre.
L. P. D. O’Connor, manager of the
Queensland Advances Corporation, is
being loaned to the Commonwealth as
chairman of the committee that Is to plan
post-war housing. He’s had Sns of
experience, having joined the Queensland
civil service about 30 years ago and been
connected with State housing for over 20
years. During a decade under his man-
agement the Advances Corporation has
advanced £2J millions to more than 6000
home-builders. His spare time also goes
to housing study, though he found time
to captain Queensland’s cricket team for
eight years.
When Uncle Sam came into the war
Tom Heeney, the Gisborne (M.L.)
scrapper who got into the limelight
through fighting Tunney for the world’s
championship, enlisted in Uncle’s Navy,
leaving his wife (he married an Ameri-
can girl) to look after his New York
business interests. Tom’s now at a South
Pacific base.
“O’Yen”: Padre Rex Dakers (B.
24/ 3/ ’43), now p.o.w. in Germany, is
certainly one out of the box. A clinker
at football and tennis, he’s also a power-
ful axeman, a topnotch distance runner
and swimmer and a light-heavy boxer, so
accomplished with the gloves that, organ-
ising a show at a Victorian camp, he was
unable to secure an opponent. Undis-
mayed, he threw out a mat challenge.
Successor to C. A. Berendsen (M.L.’s
first High Commissioner to Australia) as
Permanent Head of the M.L. Prime
Minister’s Department is, as everyone
expected, Cecil Albert Jeffery, who has
been 40 years in the public service and
a Ministerial secretary since 1915 (with
an interval for some active service in
the 1914-18 war). Priministers he has
served with; Massey, Coates, Ward,
Forbes, Savage and Fraser. He has
been Clerk of the Executive Council
and Secretary to the Cabinet since 1935.
In 1941, in Egypt with Priminister Fraser,
he was injured in a motor accident which
laid him up till May of last year. He’s
54.
When they were born, the Gannon
twins were surveyed by their proud
parents and named Robert James and
James Robert. They-grew up and en-
tered Queensland police force, served the
interests of law and order and con-
founded many wrongdoers in various
parts of Bananaland. Robert James be-
came sub-inspector at Townsville and
James Robert sub-inspector at Too-
woomba. The force reckons its having
twin officers of the same rank is a record.
Before the war Sergeant J. K. (“Tex”)
Weston managed a sheep station in South
Aus., and no doubt gathered on that job
the sort of lore that made him outstand-
ing on night-patrolling in the Middle East
scrapping. By the time it came to El
Alamein he’d won an M.M. (Tel el Isa)
and a D.C.M. (Tobruk), and his name was
almost legendary through the Ninth Div.
and in sundry Allied units. Indian troops
gave him one of their knives in recog-
nition of his work —regarded as a rare
SGT. “TEX” WESTON, D.C.M., M.M.
mark of esteem. At El Alamein, on the
last night of the last show there, he was
wounded. With four bullets in him, he
was carried into a blockhouse and pro-
nounced done for. At that, he opened
his eyes, got on his feet and had to be
forcibly restrained from tearing out look-
ing for more fight.
Melbourne Uni. has conferred its hon-
orary Doctor of Laws on Chinese Min-
ister in Australia Dr. Hsu Mo, already
Doctor of Laws of Shanghai Uni. and
a Judge of Shanghai Provisional Court.
In 1922 Dr. Hsu Mo was Professor of
Law and Political Science at Nan-Kai
Uni., Tientsin.
Maybe you need this sort of personal
memory to get somewhere in politics.
Back in 1915 No. 4 gun of the 7th Bat-
tery, with its snout poked out actually
over the front-line trench above Shell
Green on Gallip., stopped what was only
to be expected—a direct hit. It lobbed
on the gun near the breech, wiping out
the crew, one member escaping with a bit
through each arm. The other Sunday this
SENATOR FOLL.
chap was doing gunnery with an ack-ack
outfit of Australia’s defences when he
was called out by his officer (also former
7th Bty.) and introduced to a visiting
head, with “You two ought to know each
other —old 7th Battery.” The gunner's
memory wasn’t equal to the occasion ;
but over the lapse of 28 years the other
—Queensland U.A.P. Senator Foil, now
V.D.C. Liaison Officer —not only in-
stantly remembered taking out his own
field dressing and binding the wounded
gunner up, but exactly where on each
arm the gunner had been hit! Though in
the same battery on Gallip., they hadn’t
known each other, nor had they seen each
other since.
One of the surgical miracles of this
war is facio maxillary treatment, whereby
a bad wound is handled in such a way
that when the patient emerges from hos-
pital it looks as if there’d never been a
wound. Home from the Middle East,
where he went from his Sydney practice,
Major P. H. Maclndoe was given charge
of Queensland and Northern Areas for
the f.m. treatment. Sir Harold Gillies
perfected the treatment in London, where
he had with him a graduate from Mel-
bourne University, Dr. B. K, Rank,
who’d gone to the Middle East as a major
and was joined by Maclndoe after Crete.
They worked together through the North
African and Syrian campaigns, checking
and proving and testing, and in the last
six months 200 men have learned in Mac-
Indoe’s northern hospital that they’ll
leave whole instead of in parts, owing to
the sulphanilamide drugs and facio maxil-
lary surgery.
“C.A.M.” among Digger railwaymen:
Lt.-Col. Keith Fraser, a • construction
engineer of N.S.W. railways who took the
Australian Railway Construction and Survey
cos. away in 1940, is back with an 0.8.E._ pre-
ceding his many engineers’ letters and with a
story of achievement already warmly acknow-
ledged by British Army “heads”—of many miles
of railway built often in very difficult terrain,
in Egypt, Palestine and Syria. The speed with
which, sans hold-ups through want of funds
and industrial hitches, these railways were com-
pleted, with the assistance of Lebanese labor
gangs, surprises railwaymen here who have
heard the C.O.’s plain, unvarnished tale of the
jobs carried out. The bridges built by the Aus-
tralian railway outfits can be easily recognised.
All bear, as trade-mark, carvings of the rising
sun or Jack Moses’s dog from Gundagai.
Lt.-Col. Fraser, who has served in two world
wars, is a son of a former Chief Civil Engineer,
afterwards Chief Commissioner, of Ma State
railways.
“Rodney”: Lieut.-Colonel A. J. Hobbs
(mentioned a while back as holding the
WXI number) belongs to a leading Perth
firm of architects. Soldiering has been
one of his hobbies. He holds the Effi-
ciency Decoration (for 20 years’ service
in the Militia Forces). Though only 19
when the 1914-18 war ended, he saw
active service in the Old A.I.F. Captain
in the Australian Field Artillery in 1929,
he was major in 1932 and lieut.-col. in
1937, He commanded the 3rd Field
Brigade from then till October, 1939,
when he was seconded to the New A.I.F.
He has a large supply of soldier-blood
in him: he’s a son of the late Lieut. -
General Talbot Hobbs, corps commander
and Monash’s offsider.
Lately had a brief break in his home
town, Melbourne, John Robert Kemp,
whose tidy job is controlling vast mili-
tary construction projects as Deputy
Director of Allied Works, among other
things building new highways through
virgin country, a business he learnt
during his seven years with the Victorian
Country Roads Board. Born at Yendon
(Vic.) and educated at State schools and
Melbourne University, Kemp joined Vic.
Public Works as a cadet. His brilliance
soon pushed him further. He was
awarded the Kernot Memorial Medal for
distinguished engineering service, trails-
erred to Queensland and was appointed
Co-ordinator-General of Public Works.
In 1938 he visited The Hague as Com-
monwealth delegate to the International
Road Congress.
Ex-Minister for Trade and Customs
“Tom” White’s story of escape of the
last war has been readapted for English
radio listeners —without any acknowledg-
ment to the author! The radio concern
announced: “Once it was the Turk —
now it is the Japanese, and under the
title of ‘Guests of the Unspeakable’ the
play... 4s as topical a drama as one
could hope to find. Its action is set in
war-tom China, with a swashbuckling
Australian pilot fighting his way out of a
captured city to join his countrymen in
their fight against the common foe.”
White’s Guests of the Unspeakable was
one of the best books of its kind that
came out of the last war, yet it took
him eight years to find a publisher for
it; then it immediately went through
three editions. Early in the present scrap
White returned to the R.A.A.F. (he’s now
wing-commander) and was posted to
England.
Into the silence:
Alfred Hope, of Hobart’s last remaining
horse-drawn cab. His father was a cabman
before him, and Alfred was on the job for 30
years.
At 32, M.L. jockey C. J. Goldsbro, one of
the headiest riders that ever lined up to the
barrier. He won every important race, and
was always near the top of winning-jockey lists.
He came of a horse family, his father being a
very capable rider.
At Atherton (Q.), at 85, Anthony Theodore
Linedale, pioneer mining man, known wherever
tin is got in Australia. He was with Moffatt
and Hall before Mt. Morgan burst forth, and
subsequent to that made three trips to London
for Moffatt and supervised the prospecting
and testing of many a North Queensland field.
In Brisbane, at 84, Allan Waddell, mill
manager at Irvinebank in the palmy days of
mining behind Cairns. Born in Scotland, he
was on those fields from 1885.
Reynolds Denniston, who was well known on
the American stage, was born in Dunedin
(M.L.), and was a nephew of Judge Denniston.
Was first a sharebroker, then, after a spot of
soldiering in S’Africa, joined Julius Knight’s
co. He settled in New York in 1918.
At 68, Frederick James Jones, chairman of
the Board of Management of M.L. Railways
when he retired in 1928. He was a keen Shak-
spearean, president for a while of the Welling-
ton Shakspeare Society.
Dr. Brian Moore, F.R.C.S., 48, a son of
H. P. Moore, old-time secretary of the pioneering
“S.A. Company,” graduated at Adelaide Uni.
just in time for service with the A.M.C. in
Flanders, and in latter years had been one of
Adelaide’s leading eye specialists.
In Adelaide, Fred Gilbert, a veteran better
known at Broken Hill, to which he gave his
best years in business, about 1882 to 1910.
Active and an official, in those days, in agri-
cultural shows, racing and bowls.
At 86, in Melbourne, John Baragwanath, who
played football and cricket for South Mel-
bourne in the ’seventies, and subsequently
attained to being mayor of the city four times.
One of Harry Trott’s team which toured M.L.,
he was president of the S. Melbourne Cricket
Club for 34 years.
In Melbourne, the widow of Henry Weedon,
who had three terms as Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne. Her father was publisher John Francis
McCarron.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”; On the grounds that a tenant
was “a nuisance to the other tenants” ;
that he “brought different women to his
flat every night, kept the wireless going
till midnight and at times screamed at
the top of his voice; came home drunk,
fell downstairs, crashed through the lat-
tice, broke seven flowerpots and caused
a fire which burnt a chair” ; also that
“his blankets were covered with lipstick
that wouldn’t come off,” the lessor
of a King’s Cross flattery applied
to a Sydney Court for an eject-
ment order. I rejoice to note that
the S.M. flatly refused it. Far from
being regarded as a nuisance at King’s
Cross, such a tenant would, if everything
the lessor complained of were provable
(the magistrate evidently didn’t believe
it was) be looked upon by everybody
else in the flats with affection and pride.
Such a fellow becomes, as it were, an
institution within an institution, and is
in line to get a rent reduction and other
special concessions. What would the
Cross be coming to if all its denizens
came home sober and went quietly to
bed at nine o’clock?
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The Salvation Army is
celebrating its diamond jubilee in M.L.
In 1883 General Booth sent out five oiii-
cers. The reception of the blood-and-fire
warriors was hostile, and in several muni-
cipalities the authorities prohibited meet-
ings of the strange new sect. But the
red jersey and the scuttle bonnet throve
on adversity, and the good-hearted Maori-
landers were soon won over. “The
Army,” as it is still called, even in these
warlike days, has given fine social service
in M.L., and has a steady place in the
hearts of two generations of soldiers.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Artists (the landscaping
and portraiting sort) are finding difficulty
in obtaining materials. A Melbourne
woman painter planted her easel by the
side of a highway and began limning the
landscape before her. A crowd collected,
but she was used to that. There was a
peculiarity about it, however, inasmuch
as there were twice as many spectators
facing her as were peering from the back.
When she got home she discovered the
reason. On the back of her board was
a painting of what students call a “con-
scientious nude” dating from her art-
school days.
* * * £
“Oxmead”: Alfred Austin’s verse is
so full of holes that it is not worth while
misquoting him to make it more ludi-
crous, Yet this is what “Pons”—or
should it be the late E. F. Benson?
does (B. 14/4/’43). Certainly Austin, in
his offm-and-justly-ridiculed Jameson
Raid verses, never wrote
They went across the veldt
As hard as they could pelt.
I have forgotten most of this effusion,
but it didn’t run in this metre. The Jame-
son Raiders were represented as travers-
ing the “rolling veldt” (I think) “as hard
as our nags could pelt”—and there was
a line between. Even with that, the
rhyme seemed a bit grotesque, all the
more so as “veldt” was generally spelled
then, and I believe invariably is now,
without the final “t.”
“S.T.S.”: I can give “Ike Hollar” (B.
31/3/’43) one more line from Alfred
Austin that sticks in the mind. It
comes from a Byronic sort of satire on
London society, whose idea of a really
enjoyable evening party Austin described
as an occasion “where the half-drunk lean
over the half-dressed” (and this, mind
you, was a good half-century ago). The
fact is that Austin was a first-class jour-
nalist, but with the unfortunate delusion
that he could write poetry. Even that
wouldn’t have mattered but for Salisbury,
as Prime Minister, pushing him—out of
pure cynicism, it was said —into the
Laureateship, passing over Swinburne and
Kipling because Queen Victoria thought
each of them “disloyal” and yet dis-
regarding the Queen’s own fancy for
Lewis Morris.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: The winning dream has
turned up again, this time in South
Africa, The dreamer told the press ‘lt
was vivid. I saw a horse named Warri-
“ Would it help if I sat on y'r knee f'r a while ?”
gal win one race and saw No. 1 hoisted
as the winner ol another. Wnen I looked
at the programme [Capetown] sure
enough there was a horse named Warri-
gal.” So he and his mates toted the
double Warrigal and Umgall (No. 1 in
the next race), and it came home and paid
them £1899 for £l, a tote double record
for South Africa.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, like Australia,
has seen sly-groggeries increase and mul-
tiply in direct ratio to the efforts of the
State to reduce the hours during which
booze can be sold, and to cut down the
volume of supplies. The statutory penal-
ties, which include imprisonment, seem
to have very little effect. A suspicion
that there’s something wrong with the
law is growing. The other day it was
expressed by one of the most experienced
police magistrates of the Dominion, Lux-
ford, S.M., of Auckland. After hearing
that 57 taxis had arrived at a suspected
sly-groggery between 7 and 9.45 on
a weekday evening, and, after having
fined the occupier £lOO and sentenced
him to three months’ gaol as well, Mr.
Luxford relieved his mind as follows:
We have got to admit that our liquor
laws are crazy. This man, like a lot of
others, has been exploiting the position and
taking advantage of the times. The effects
on the morals of the community are devas-
tating. The profits from sly-grog selling
are so great that to impose a fine in such
cases would only amount to a small license
fee.
How great the profits are was illustrated
in the next case, in which a plainclothes
cop testified he had been stung £4 10s.
for a bottle of alleged whisky,
j|{ jJ; )|(
“K.”: “C.Q.” (B. 14/4/’43) seems to
assume that any artist, musician, writer
or thinker who in his day arouses hostile
criticism must be a heaven-sent genius in
advance of his time. Certainly there was
some criticism of Beethoven’s works
when they first appeared, but it’s a guinea
to a gooseberry his admirers outnumbered
his detractors one hundred to one long
before he died. And is there any evi-
dence that the movement to dose Soc-
rates witn hemlock was a majority affair?
Epstein’s work has been assailed ; ergo,
according to “C.Q.,” he is due for a niche
alongside Rodin. More likely that the
current fad for ugliness and distortion
will pass, and that the folk of a.d. 2043
will find elephantiasis-stricken Eves only
in museums. And let “C.Q.” ask the first
100 reasonably well-read men he meets
what they think of James Joyce, If 99
don’t hold that Joyce was a ratbag and
that they can’t make head or tail of
Ulysses and the rest —well, I’ll pay my
income tax before the due date.
* * * *
“Hinemoa”: Prof. Theodore Sizer, of
Yale (he is that university’s art expert),
who was through Australasia a while ago
having a look at our museums and art
galleries at the behest of the Carnegie
Corporation, has been guardedly compli-
mentary in his comments on what he saw,
but it is clear that he considers most Aus-
tralian institutions of the kind are anti-
quated. He deplores adherence to the
“temple of the Muses” type of building,
involving “endless lonic porticos, rigidity
of plan and unsympathetic lighting.”
Also he suggests, very gently, that pro-
tective guard-rails in picture galleries are
relics of an unenlightened past. But
Adelaide gets a pat on the back for its
“progressive and beautifully-installed”
art gallery—guard-rails notwithstanding.
The prof.’s mission was to advise Oxi
material for exhibitions to be sent to the
U.S.A. and Canada, and as it has helped
to make Australia and M.L. better known
to our American cousins and brothers
his comments can be taken without re-
sentment.
m** * ■
“Blue P.”: A heading caught my eye,
“U.S. Wages Ceiled.” It meant, of
course, that wages in America had been
pegged, but it struck me as a new form
of verb, so I had a look at O.E.D. and
found “ceil, v.t., to provide with ceil-
ing.” Webster has it “ceiled, to overlay
or line... .to ceil a room.” I’m waiting for
Doc. Evatt to announce that he will urge
Curtin “to ceil wages and living costs.”
* * * •
“B. Hackshaw”: Lectures for all first-
year students at the University of Mel-
bourne were suspended one day recently,
and for three hours the students were
given a series of psychological tests by
educational research experts to ascer-
tain who were the most fitted for ad-
mittance under the new quota system.
1 wonder how they would have dealt with
Sir Richard Burton if that genius had
come up before them in his schooldays?
Burton began Latin at three, Greek at
four, at ten was conversant with most of
the dialects of England, and before he
died could converse fluently in 30 different
languages. His father had earmarked
him for the church and sent him to Ox-
ford. Richard was far more interested
in the mysteries of Oriental grammars
than in theology, and he was igno-
miniously dismissed as hopeless. Our
own “Chinese” Morrison could hardly
be said to have been less distinguished
than hundreds who pass through the
Melbourne University yearly, but he took
the medical course in that institution and
failed in all his examinations! So there’s
hope for the rejects.
* * * *
“Niloc”: When supplies of that loath-
some beverage cod-liver oil were stopped
by the war some vitamin nark in the
U.S.A. got the idea that shark’s liver
might exude something similar, and so
it proved. Indeed, it was found that one
particular breed of shark yielded a hun-
dred times more vitamin content than
cods do. Accordingly the tiger of the
sea, previously worth only about 10
dollars a ton on the basis of his value as
fertiliser, now rates 1500 dollars a ton.
Chemists have extracted insulin, soup
compounds and an excellent lubricant
from the oil. And shark is making its
appearance under its own name in restau-
rants ; “shark-steak —full of vitamins.”
They don’t call it that in Australian fish
joints.
* * ♦ *
“Zake”; With more than two months
to go before current ration books ex-
pire the Rationing Commission asked
the public to return five coupons per book
as a patriotic gesture. Inevitably the
sob sisters of the daily press rushed
to cut a “cross-section” through public
opinion. To a man—and woman —every-
one who was interviewed, from typists
to businessmen, proclaimed his or her
intention to use up every darned coupon,
and rats to the Rationing Commission.
Then, of course, a panic rush of buying
started, and Sydney firms proclaimed the
necessity of curtailing employees’ holi-
days to cope with it. Next to be mobbed
by the stunt press for opinions were the
spokesmen for various trade interests and
“public organisations.” One of these
condemned the commission’s “stupid
psychology” in asking the public to re-
turn coupons. There was certainly some
stupidity, but it lay in mentioning any
hopes of coupon-returns to the press. Had
the subject never been raised thousands
of unused coupons would probably have
been passed in. As it is, some retail
concerns now have a happy feeling that
they are about to get rid of a lot of
white-elephant stock at a beautiful profit.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” recalls a pioneer:
The first land grant made in Australia was to
James Ruse, who is buried in St. Peter’s church-
yard at Campbelltown (N.S.W.), as a reward
for being the first successful wheat-grower.
“James Ruse, his heirs and assigns," were
“to have and to hold for ever 30 acres of land,
in one lot, to be known by the name of Experi-
ment Farm, lying on the south of the Ponds,
at Parramatta.” Ruse must have been in occu-
pation of Experiment Farm long before this,
for Captain Watkin Tench records having
visited him there in December, 1791, when the
“experiment” had been a proved success for
some time. It is probable that the grant was
made earlier and was not registered until 1792.
* * * *
“Loc”: I should like to believe this
war story. It is about a Dutch tugboat
skipper who, when his tug was comman-
deered, was employed daily in towing
barges of German troops out to sea to let
them get accustomed to seasickness. For
months he found well-concealed enjoy-
ment in taking his charges to the roughest
water he could find in the Channel and
watching them turn all shades of green.
After some months of daylight service he
suggested that he should tote the troops
out nocturnally to accustom them to real
invasion conditions. So on a very dark
night the captain dragged out six loaded
barges, and when the elements had done
their worst with his passengers took them
near enough to the British coast to make
. a bird of their being caught; then cut
them loose. After that he peacefully
steamed into Yarmouth, where he now
happily plies his tug.
JOHN ANDERSON, MY JO!
“If a child is taught to believe that the world was
made in six days, instead of 50 to 100 inillion years,
the child will later realise that he” was taught
wrongly.... I believe the story of Adam and Eve
is a beautiful allegory.”
—Norman Rater, in N.S.W. Leg. Council.
John Anderson, my jo, John!
When we were first acquent
You made some observations which
Occasioned fierce dissent.
And though your thatch is greyer, John,
Than sixteen years ago,
You’re still the kind that speaks his mind,
John* Anderson, my jo!
John Anderson, my jo, John!
No doubt your heart assails
That much we learned in Sunday school
Was folk (or fairy) tales.
No new averment this, John,
Yet bound to raise, you know,
A stormy row about your pow,
John Anderson, my jo!
John Anderson, my jo, John!
Sic raw remarks and rude
Are apt to nark the hidebound crowd
And shock the “unco guid.”
Stern politicians frown, John,
To hear you talking so,
And threats let loose to cook your goose,
John Anderson, my jo!
John Anderson, my jo, John!
Their brains are full of kinks
Who’d seek to martyrise a man
For saying what he thinks.
Staunch champions yet their weight, John,
Upon your side will throw
Till you’ve—who knows? —more friends
than foes,
John Anderson, ray jo!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SAY IT WITH SPUDS.
“N.S.W. rail way men are being encouraged to grow
vegetables instead of flowers in their station gardens.
“Say it with flowers” the slogan used to go,
Detailing how some enterprising beau
His passion to a soul-mate might convey
In the most pleasantly romantic way.
Those times are past. Necessity presents
A homelier mode of paying compliments.
Howe’er it’s couched, she’ll drop to what it
means.
“Say it with greens.”
Flowers have' a language of their own, it’s true,
Why shouldn’t vegetables have one, too?
In pumpkins the recipient might see
Assurances of fond fidelity.
Marrows and cabbages and beans and peas
Might each contain distinctive messages.
So now, when shortage looms of blooms ana
buds,
“Say it with spuds.”
The time has come to clothe our kitchen-plants
Each with some amorous significance.
Roses and violets are well enough
For subtly breathing out exotic stun.
But why, because they deck the dinner-ooara,
Should artichokes and carrots be ignored/
May not a swain, alert to war-time needs,
“Say it with swedes”?
Sav it with lowers—but is there anything
That can’t be said as well in things that spring
From out our fruitful soil, the herbs we ea
As suitable accessories to meat? .
Just one, perhaps. When to some winsome 3
You send your next comestible bouquet.
Don’t, lest you tread on unsuspected bunions,
“Say it with onions.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Uramao”: Among Maoriland’s “essen-
tial industries” from 1 which employees
are forbidden to detach themselves with-
out permission from the
authorities is the cooking and serving of
food in restaurants and on licensed
premises. A pub sculleryman wanted
to quit. Authority refused his appli-
cation, whereupon the sculleryman had
a brainwave. He applied to the Court
for a prohibition order against himself
—an application which has never been
refused in M.L. in the memory of man.
A magistrate granted it, so the scullery-
man, forbidden under severe penalties to
enter licensed premises, and the publican,
forbidden under yet severer penalties to
allow the sculleryman on his licensed
premises, have parted company.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”; I have read the mani-
festo of Mr. Menzies, of the New Group,
and I have read the counter-manifesto
of Mr. Hughes, of the Old Guard, and
I am reminded of a spirited meeting in
Melbourne during a pre-war Federal
election. The candidate put one foot on
a chair, and, gracefully resting his left
hand on the table, impressively began:
“We stand for Peace, Progress and Pros-
perity. But what do our opponents stand
for?” A raucous voice from the back
of the hall shouted: “Peace, Progress
and Prosperity!”
* * * *
“Tuart”: One of the yarns in The
Greatest People in the World, written by
“a Flight-Lieutenant who in private life
is one of the best-known short-story
writers of the day,” is called “The Man
from Kalgoorlie.” As a study of a fine,
simple character it is very good indeed,
but parts of it will make goldfielders
smile. The young man “lived with his
parents two hundred miles north-east of
Kalgoorlie.”
His father had kept sheep on the same
two thousand acres for 30 years. The son
began to see that the native grasses were
played out, and in their place he decided
to make sowings of Italian rye-grass and
subterranean clover; and soon he was
able to change the flocks from one kind
to another.... In spring the wattle was in
blossom everywhere, like lemon foam.
For the most part possible 200 miles
south-west of Kalgoorlie, but 200 miles
north-east —no. There you couldn’t keep
300 sheep on 2000 acres, and if you tried
to grow rye-grass and sub. clover you
would break your heart. Nor 'does wattle
blossom decorate the landscape there,
though in spring you can feast your eyes
on wonderful everlastings.
* * at *
“Craiser”: A.B.C. announces another
season’s programme of symphonic music,
and Australia’s music-lovers, a lot of
whom haven’t given a thought to music
during the summer off-season, will be
getting ready to attend and pass opinions
on composers, conductors and per-
formers. Some of the opinions won’t be
very sensible. During the memorable
season when eleven virtuosos with world-
wide reputations trod on one another s
heels at the old Auditorium in Mel-
bourne, now the Metro Theatre, this hap-
pened : An eminent pianist played a piece
by Mozart and then, in response to the
frenzied applause, came out and played
again. “Ah,” said one connoisseur to
his neighbor, “how fresh Sibelius sounds
after that old stuff of Mozart’s.” “But,”
expostulated his friend, “that second
piece was Mozart,” And he was right.
Op * *
“C. Pipe”: My friend McSnitch, who
has one of those easy jobs, never used to
"We're not takin' beer bottles, lady. We on'y want
things wot are useful."
hit the city until around 9.30 every morn-
ing. “It dodges the rush,” he said, “and
if i’m a bit behind I can catch up by
workin’ a half-hour longer at night and
miss the rush again.” Lately I’ve observed
him on the 8.30 a.m. tram. “What’s bitten
you?” I asked. “It’s these blasted
women,” he snapped. “They rush all the
cigarette shops every morning, and when
a man comes along the places are sold
out. I never expected I’d have to get
up earlier because of a lot of tabbies.
And with a harried gasp he darted across
the road to tobacco kiosk was
being swamped under a crowd, mostly
female
* * * *
S.T.S.”: Without altogether endorsing
the odd theory that the word “ale” has
an attractive sound and “beer” an un-
pleasant one, one can imagine an in-
herited prejudice having something to do
with it. For the two things,were at one
time quite distinct. England made ale
—good malt liquor; Germany insisted
on putting hops in to give it added flavor.
This the Germans called—and still call
—bier. As late as 1670 Evelyn, in his
diary, was complaining of the bitter
foreign innovation. And, while we have
handy so honored an old name as “ale,’
why use the word, certainly German, even
though we spell it differently, “beer”?
* * * *
“Si Anu”: I would say that the most
sensible, comfortable and convenient
attire for most parts of the Pacific (B.
7/4/’43), though possibly not the most
beautiful, is the sort of long, flowing
nightshirt worn by the Gyppo at Port Said.
The missionaries introduced something on
similar lines to the South Seas but only
for females, the intention being not
hygienic but moral. The next most com-
fortable and convenient habiliment is
the Malay sarong, and it also has the
advantage, when finely patterned, of being
attractive except when the wearer is un-
duly portly. The worst was the costume
affected by the Dutchman in Java known
as chelana monyet, or “monkey trousers.
The Dutchman dressed his women sen-
sibly, but had a preference himself for
native sarong cloth cut into the shape of
very tight European trousers, which
neither looked nice nor were comfort-
able. The sarong as worn by the natives
was favored by the British, who nightly
heaved a sigh of relief as they doffed
their European clothes and luxuriously
and deftly wound the kain around them.
The most sensible costume for Sydney s
summer would be a simple sarong, plus
an open-necked white jacket carried over
the arm for polite occasions. No charge
to Deddy for the tip.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A trade that has felt the war-
time pressure in Melbourne is building
demolition. There is still wrecking to be
done (the site for the new Russell-street
police station, for example), but getting
labor is a problem. Man-power allots
only veterans of 70 and over to the job,
and it requires the strength of a Samson,
the agility of a monkey and the courage
of a lion to stand on a wall that is wav-
ing like paper and remove it piecemeal
from beneath you. The men who used
to do the work for the city’s leading
firm of wreckers got the name of
Whelan’s “bulls.” Now the master
wreckers have to go aloft and do the
more ticklish jobs themselves. Most of
them are old hands at it, however.
* * * *
“Hamer”: So long ago that the Law
may have forgotten it, sale of wax
matches was pro-
hibited. In some
places the reason
was that the
people who made
them developed
“phossy jaw,” but
in Australia the
main charge
against them was
that they caused
fires when rats,
nibbling the wax,
ignited the heads.
The prohibition
was not liked;
men of a former
day thought there
was something
sissy about safety
matches, which
were kept for
women’s use in
the home; now
that war condi-
tions have brought
back the old
“v e s t a s” we
accept them only
with a grumble
when safeties are
unavailable. In an
ashtray they make
a smoky nuisance
of themselves
when melted by
the glowing end
of a cigarette. One of the advan-
tages seen for them in former days
was that you could empty a box-
ful into a 'small pocket and strike
them on any hard surface. A cher-
ished memory of mine is a picture of
a “Daily Telegraph” editor, a Bohemian
who got the job because of his literary
reputation, lighting his pipe in Pitt-stree*
The “D.T.” management had induce him
tc adopt the frock-coai and belltopper
suitable for his station, according to the
ideas of the time. It was fine to see him
in all his elegance make a pause, cock
his leg, spats and all, draw aside the tails
of his frock-coat and strike a match on
the seat of his lavender trousers to light
a disreputable clay pipe.
“I'm ringin' from Somewhere in Australia, Mum. Home in half an hour!"
“Melbn”: It isn’t only in the Sydney
wharfie world that a strike has thrown
a disconcerting light on the strikers (B.
7/4/’43). There have been strikes of
bakies in Melbourne and Sydney over
night-baking, and citizens have been
queueing for their bread at the grocers’
counters. Melbourne master bakers
turned to in place of their employees
and improved the quality out of
all recognition. Somebody has made the
unkindly suggestion that the master
bakers know more about the trade than
their employees do.
“Pestle”: Time passes so gently in the
Speck that the fiftieth birthday of the
Ulverstone Club, the second-oldest in the
island’s North, came almost as a sur-
prise. There was a party, and members
of other clubs were invited. President
Dr. F. A. Ferris gave a sketch of the
club’s history. Ex-president Dr. Lachlan
Gollan, who held the reins for 34 years,
remembered the time a member lost a
five-pound note. Thinking that he
might haye dropped it in the club the
previous night, he called in next morning
and got the steward out of bed to have
a search, and there was his fiver on the
bar floor. The old steward said that was
a lesson to him on the advantages of
early rising. Dr. Gollan’s predecessor
was also a medico, Df. John McCall, later
Agent-General for Tas. and a knight.
Some of the staff gave long service—one
secretary officiated for 25 years. Hand-
writing experts say that his signature was
the most difficult to forge in the Empire.
A steward served for about the same
period, and now, although pensioned off,
still tends his beloved billiard tables daily.
The star turn of the jubilee birthday
party was given by vice-president Thomas
Wilson, who proposed the toast of “The
Visitors” in a song of bis own composi-
tion,
• * * * *
“Pawang”; The defence by “Tonsil-
litis” of lecturettes (B. 7/4/’43) leaves
me unimpressed. I will never forget the
great interest aroused in Melbourne dur-
ing the depression by the hordes of lec-
tures on the Douglas theory. In every
little hall in the city and the suburbs
almost nightly there were expounders of
Social Credit standing solemnly before
blackboards and showing what happened
from the time a pair of boots left the
factory till it reached the consumer, while
scores of young men and women and
old ladies with their knitting gnashed
their teeth with rage every time a banker
was mentioned. One couldn’t sit down
at a caf£ table without some perfect
stranger using a couple of forks and the
pepperpot to prove that the major had
a stranglehold on the financial system.
Where are all these 20-minute-lecture-
equipped economists now?
* . * * * ...
Curtain Raiser : The prevailing
misery in music so feelingly described by
A Major’ (B. 7/4/ 43) is nothing to the
all-pervading misery in art. Over a long
period of art-exhibition-going 1 have sur-
veyed hundreds of pictures in which t ie
authors depict themselves as emaciated
figures sitting in a, prison cell staring
gauntly into nothing; walking between
interminable vistas of trees whose leaves
drip blood upon them ; or hanging
chained to granite columns while rats,
vultures or dingoes devour their livers. As
a change from these direct expressions
of self-pity, they love to nmn children
being starved or dismembered or being
bludgeoned by policemen, down-and-outs
inspecting the contents of municipal dust-
bins and archbishops playing ring-a-ring-
a-rosy on heaps of mouldering corpses.
A recent playful specimen which won a
prize in a competition depicted a beauti-
ful woman whose head had been hali-
eaten by white-ants or something. Un-
sophisticated persons would naturally
suppose that the authors of these soul-
searing masterpieces were tortured
creatures, harrowed by awful injustices.
For the qiost part, I understand, they
are young men and women in safe de-
partmental jobs, with university or public-
school educations.
* * •
“McN.”: Those people who shot roofs
full of holes to stand off lovers (B.
j4/4/’43) lacked the fine subtlety of a
Victorian settler who was opposed to
his daughter’s suitor. To that young man
he sent by post a small parcel which con-
tained a .44 bullet and a note reading:
“A slug like this hasn’t been cut from
your carcass yet. Keep on hanging round
my girl if you wish to be present at such
an operation.” He took the hint.
« * * *
“R.M.”: “Zake” (B. 7/4/’43) guesses
wrongly the reactions of brickies who
contemplate the performance of the Rus-
sian virtuoso advertised as having laid
5000 bricks between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m.
Say he has half an hour for lunch and
spends five minutes an hour consulting
the plan, plumbing and levelling his
work, checking by rule the thickness of
the mortar joints after laying several
courses, shifting his line, changing his
position from one scaffold to another
and cutting bricks when necessary with
hammer and bolster. Let us imagine
that there are sufficient ancillary workers
to keep this human automaton supplied
with materials. We find that, with a
trowel in one hand lifting and spreading
the mortar, he lifts and lays with the
other hand fourteen bricks a minute and
keeps it up all day, whether the wall is
at the level of his feet or, as it rises, on
a level with his eyes. We brickies don’t
say “Muddy scab!” We lift our hats to
a miracle.
«#' ♦ •
“Ear Punisher”: The controversy rag-
ing through one of Melbourne’s dailies as
to whether the rising generation ought to
be treated like its grandmothers drew this
contribution the other day:— ,
“Grateful Daughter” is right. I am 16,
and to make me realise I am still a child I
still wear my hair in pigtails and am
spanked for misbehavior. I naturally don’t
like the strap—mother lays it on pretty
well—but I know lam going to be all the
better later on.
The controversialists are wondering
whether they are having their legs pulled.


ABORIGINALITIES
to the butcher. The road into town was
renowned for its fighting mongs, and at
each farm out would race a belligerent
canine to mop up the passing sheep-dog.
Paddy stood it for several trips, then he
sent south for a big shaggy brute whose
greatest joy was a scrap. He enjoyed
one glorious trip, and after that Paddy’s
progress was watched from sheltering
gateposts and hedges. For three months
he travelled in peace, then once more he
arrived in town three hours behind time.
“Thought you weren’t going to be late
any more,” the butcher greeted him.
“Well, is it my fault if me dog gets a
skin complaint?” challenged Paddy. “I
couldn’t get a thing at the store to
cure it, so there weren’t nothing left
but to clip the brute.” “Yes, but couldn’t
you have clipped him yesterday?” “So
I did,” Paddy explained ; “but today I
had to wait while he belted the daylights
out of every one of them flamin’ mongs
over again.”
* * * *
“Avon”: A press message from North
Africa to a M.L. newspaper has this:
No ground on which the New Zealanders
have paraded in the Middle East has re-
sembled the countryside they knew at home
more than the stretch of open, green
country at the edge of Tripoli’s orchard
district Through lanes of blueguras
which might have been almost anywhere
in Nelson or on the plains of Hawke’s
Bay, Mr. Churchill drove.
The reference is a reminder that not only
in the North Island but throughout the
“Old-timer”: Trundle (N.S.W.) on a
summer afternoon. In the beat the wide
street appears twice as wide. Hitched to
a verandah post an ancient saddle hack
drowses, its bottom lip flopping lazily at
the flies, its tail switching from side to
side like a pendulum. In the nag’s shadow
an ancient dog lies in the dust, apparently
asleep. In the shadow of the verandah
an ancient cove, his back to the wall, also
drowses. The traveller in the big car,
having slaked his thirst, looked at the
trio. “You know,” he remarked thought-
fully to nobody in particular, “that isn’t
a bad way to finish life for all three of
them. * There’s the old chap and his two
faithful friends, nothing to do, nothing
to worry about any more, passing their
days in a land of perpetual summer.
It”- Just then a barefooted boy
rushed out of the store and threw himself
on the nag, the dog hastily scrambled
aside and cannoned into the old man,
who made a kick at it and cursed, and
the storekeeper came out and told the
old man to clear out. He shuffled off
surlily, the stray mong disappeared round
the back, the boy belted the old nag with
a stick and the poetic traveller got in his
car and shot away in a cloud of dust.
* * * *
“Zake”: The swaggie was up before
Dunn, J.P. In an impassioned appeal
he claimed that it was the moral right
of every man who was poor and hungry
to get food. Would the Bench stand by
and see a man die for the lack of it? If
so, the country was not worth holding for
free white men. He was warming to his
subject when Dunn, J.P., cut the diatribe
short by handing out four days on the
cop’s woodheap. The knot-pusher was
indignant. “Well, strike me roan, you’re
pretty tough!” he addressed the Bench.
“Four Weedin’ days for screwin’ a coupla
bottles of beer out of Bung!”
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “Eureka’s” quaint sug-
gestion (B. 7/4/’43) reminds me of an
old dogger who, in nor’-west N.S.W.,
reared a dingo bitch from its puppy days
and practised howling until he could fool
any dingo. During the day he’d set
about a dozen traps in a circle and at
dusk he’d take out his bitch and tie her
up in the centre of the circle. Going
back to his camp he’d howl at intervals.
Soon the decoy would answer, and after
a while the warrigals would be in on it.
Then he’d let the bitch carry on. Dingoes
generally fight shy of traps, but with the
bitch as a decoy they’d walk straight in.
At a pound a scalp that dogger made
good money,
* * * *
“Betcha”: When Paddy shifted out to
Avonless he concentrated on fats, deli-
vering a few each week under contract
“Never mind the net —get the camera!”
Dominion practically the only eucalypt
favored by the pioneer settlers was E.
globulus, the Tasmanian bluegum. Even
in Canterbury, where miles-long rows of
poplars diversify the plains, where elms
and weeping willows line the creeks and
rivers, where Finns insignis groves pro-
tect wind-swept paddocks, you will find
the Tassie bluegum planted here and there
where there used to be a swampy patch.
I remember some mighty big fellows in
the southern provinces even in the ’eigh-
ties. The early Canterbury and Otago
settlers knew all about the marsh-reclaim-
ing powers of the eucalypt, as proved
in California and Italy. They chose E.
globulus, I presume, because they im-
ported most of their timber from
Tasmania in the form of what are
still called V.D.L. palings, though Van
Diemen’s Land is a forgotten title.
Among the virtues of E. globulus are
its oil and the strong, healthy scent of
the tree itself. You can smell a planta-
tion of young bluegums two miles away.
“B. A. Ker”: Tell “E.P.A.” that I
wasn’t confusing chinchillas in Chile with
ermine in Northern Canada (B. 31/3/ ’43)
when I mentioned the barbarity of trap-
ping ermine by the tongue. Moreover,
if the chap who described the practice to
me was pulling my leg then the naturalist
and author James Oliver Curwood must
have been in the joke also ; he writes of
it in Kazan the Wolf-dog and again in
Baree, Son of Kazan.
•jg *j.
“Fly Flat”: Alluvial gold handy to a
running stream was all right; even a pool
from which water could be ladled up to
work a cradle wasn’t too bad, but when
diggers faced the goldfields of W.A. they
had to take the gold out dry. That
brought to light the dryblower’s shaker,
a marvel of ingenuity. It consisted of a
series of sieves, supported on four laths
tall enough to give plenty of underneath
clearance for the tailings and elastic
enough to swing the loaded machine to
and fro and yet come back to the per-
pendicular when at rest. Right on top
sat the gravel hopper with its screen of
half-inch holes. Set on a slant, it allowed
coarse dirt to pass through and sent the
stones out over the cut-away lower end.
A rough riffle caught the nuggets,
Through the half-inch screen the dirt fell
on to one of fin. and so through smaller
screens, fining down to one-sixteenth. Dry-
blowers usually reckoned that any gold
finer than that was welcome to get away,
but after a while there came the genius
who wanted the mustard gold. Under-
neath the last fine screen he built a bel-
lows, the top covered with a screen of
linen. As the shaker rocked, so the bel-
lows puffed, blowing the dust away, leav-
ing gold as fine as flour. A pint of water
was sufficient to pan-off, and a spoonful
of mercury took up all the fine gold.
* * * *
“B. 4”: You can overstrain a gun, all
right. I remember just such another sport
as “City Mug” (B. 31/3/ ’43) who rushed
up to me one day as 1 presided over a
sardine hawser. “Seen'any ducks?” he
asked. “Yes,” I told him. “Two just
flew down the creek.” Wheeling round,
he let drive with both barrels. “That
was a few minutes ago,” I said. “Doesn’t
matter,” yelled the excited sport. “This
gun will catch ’em up. She’s a Purdy,
I paid a hundred quid for her!” After
that strain the gun wasn’t worth two
quid. And the extra exertion had had
its effect on the sportsman, too. I noticed
he limped as he walked away.
• . ' *, ‘ ‘ *
What 90 Mile’ (B.
31/3/43) has got under his shirt is the
brand of the poor marksman. I have
never yet had even a bruised shoulder
from gun or rifle , but a relative of mine
never comes home from hare-shooting
without a blue patch. The reason is
twofold: excitement and too-hasty firing
and inability to feel the balance of the
gun. If “90 Mile” had ever seen real
shooting—the sort that used to be prac-
tised at Bisley when the bull on the run-
ning deer target, flashing out from bank
to bank at 100 yards or over, was a 6in.
circle, invisible to the marksman, over
the heart —he wouldn’t consider shots at
a snake miraculous.
* * * *
“Billy See”: There’s plenty of virgin
ground for the novelist round and about
the abandoned shafts of the Golden West.
He could find romance, stage-coaches and
fair-but-wayward ladies in such names as
Dead Finish, Day Dawn, White Well,
Poison Creek, Youanmi, Black Range,
Cork Tree, Wallaby Knob, Coffin Rock,
Red Flag, Hawk’s Nest and Eucalyptus
Gully, to mention a few. Slug Hill and
The Pearling Grounds were the home of
nuggets. Poverty Point showed colors
to every dish, kidded a man on but kept
him just above starvation. Tucker Flat
made no man rich but always yielded up
a feed when other spots failed. Around
such El Dorados circulated Pigweed Harry,
Scandalous Jack, Quandong Joe, Russian
Jack, Whisky Bill, Posthole Harry,
Mickey the Priest, Dirty Ballast and Tom
the Rager. Yes, their stories could well
repay the telling.
* * * *
“Whymoul”: I testify to the soundness
of abo. teeth (B. 7/4/’43). Digging out
rabbits we came on an old burial-ground
—men, women, children. All had beeq
placed upright in the ground. It was an
old settled district; the bones disintegrated
when the air got at ’em, but nothing
could affect the teeth. They were perfect,
and one skull had a double set in the
bottom jaw,
“Anthropo”; One of the plaints urged
against the primitive abo. was that he
was completely lacking in chivalry ; that
he strode along, burdened only with a
couple of spears, his woomera and a
boomerang or so, while his hapless
woman struggled on behind loaded with
all the camp gear and possibly an infant.
But there was method in Binghi’s seem-
ing rudeness. He was primarily the food
provider. He walked ahead—and at any
moment a potential meal in the shape of
a kangaroo rat or other ground game
might start up practically under his
feet. Unencumbered by any load he
could start the hunt on the moment. But
even more important was the fact that
at almost any moment of his life he
might meet the killers. When an adult
male died from any cause other than
extreme old age the abo. mind could
conceive of no reason other than that
he had been destroyed by bad magic at
the hands of an unknown enemy. The
medicine men soon indicated in a general
direction where that enemy might be
found —always, of course, in the ranks of
another, and opposition, clan. Forth the
killers would go, and the first member
of that clan they met, male or female,
adult or'child, would become their vic-
tim. So it was just sheer suicide for the
abo. to go out walking without his
spears; if he was armed, and so no easy
mark, the killers would pass him by.
* * * *
“Grey Box”; “Naturala” (B. 31/3/’43)
is a bit astray about the wax worm’s
appetite for honey. The worm goes
chiefly for the skins of the bee larvce
which line the cells of the brood combs
and the wax base, causing the combs to
collapse. Combs in which only honey
has been stored are not eaten to any
extent. The first imported bee, the
“black,” offered no resistance to the
moth, but the Italian won’t stand any
tricks. I would be as surprised to see a
wax-moth worm at work in one of my
colonies as I would be to see a colony of
“blacks” without them.
* * * »
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m mates once with
a bloke that could play the organ,” said
Mat. “We’d hit a town on a Saturday
and this bloke’d do himself up a bit, call
on a parson, pitch a tale and get a job
playin’ for the Sunday services. It went
well, because the parson would generally
get round somebody in the con-
gregation to weigh in with a few
bob to help us on our way and
the least we’d get would be a
good supply of tucker. But we
parted at a place called Jeparit.
Some big gun in the place had
died and it happened the local
organ-player was sick, so me
mate lands the job. He’s promised
a fiver, draws a quid on account and we
celebrates. Well, that Sunday night the
mob gathers in the church, and me mate,
a bit onkus, is at the organ. There’s a
prayer and a sermon for the departed and
then me mate gets the oil and opens up on
the organ. But the licker and the stuffy
church had ruined him. He rolls out
the opening bars of the ‘Anvil Chorus’
an’ I take one look round that church
and make for me swag and the open
road.”
* * * *
“J.D.P.”; Met the counterpart of
“R.B.R.’s” Tasmanian identity in the days
when Queensland was the paradise of the
possum-peelers. He reckoned his daily
rub from topknot to toenails with
“goanner ile” and “karraseen” was “jist”
the thing to settle coughs and rheumatism.
His catch always realised top price—no
buyer would insist that a dubious skin
was a “rumper,” for that would entail
the old chap’s following the buyer round
for a close-up inspection ; and his mellow
presence earned him many cheap drinks
as the customers left their glasses and
fled in horror when he made for P the bar.
He used to boast that he lived on one
feed a day. “At night,” he said, “I bile
a couple of possums, a billy of tea, a
bucket of spuds and another of rice, and
when the johnnies are cooked I has a
gorge!”
* * * m
“Hencoop”; Crowd Aboliars into the
compound while I nominate my six pea-
fowls as the most reliable and useful
“watchdogs” on the farm. They’ll an-
nounce with high screeches the arrival of
visitors long before Bluey, the cattle-pup,
can bat an eyelid, and they refuse to shut
up until one of the family shoos them
away. Moreover, their rich spotted eggs
supply culinary needs, and the old birds
are preferable as a table delicacy to any-
thing with feathers on. Now, open the
door and let out the prevaricators!
<(•
“Esk D.”: “We were cleanin’ out an
old well at Skinner’s,” said “Tie-wire”
Ted. “After I’d been down all the morn-
in’ I kidded the new hand, who’d been
on the windlass, to have a turn below.
He was a bit scared of ridin’ the bucket
at first, but after a lot of persuadin’ he
climbed on. When I lowered him a few
feet he did his block properly an’ yelled
like mad to be pulled up. I told him not
to be a squib an’ kept lowerin’ away.
There came a jerk on the rope, then it
slackened suddenly, an’ I heard a splash
below. The pore cow had got that frantic
when I wouldn’t stop that he dragged out
his knife an’ sliced the rope!”
OBELISK AND ANCHOR.
While I linger in this park.
Ne’er a living shape in sight,
To me, throbbing through the dark,
Come the undertones of night.
’Neath a sky cloud-overcast
Fiint and eerily they sound,
As though once again the past
Utterance in the gloom had found.
Telling of days dead and old
Known and named in history,
Here an Anchor I behold,
There an Obelisk I see.
Wandering west and south and north.
Firmly built and wisely planned.
From the Obelisk go forth
All the highways of the land.
Parting soon to meet no more,
Goals set wide apart to win,
All the leagues they travel o’er
At this Obelisk begin.
Every milestone, far and nigh,
Whereon distances arc writ.
Read by wayworn passers-by,
Measurement received from it.
From the quayside nigh the park
Comes a sudden autumn gust,
Round the Anchor in the dark
Swirling fallen leaf and dust.
Dimly looming through the haze
Woven round it by the wind—
What is it the Anchor says,
Speaking to my musing mind?
“When the Sirius hither hove
I, the anchor of that ship,
Plunging down in Sydney Cove
Gripped its bed with iron grip.
“There and then I grasped this Land
Blest with riches manifold,
Like an unreleasing hand
That right righteously takes hold.
“Set and sunken in the deep,
in that hour of Destiny
Mine I made it, mine to keep,
Keep for aye unyieldingly!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: The two old claimholders,
anchored in the shanty pub, had been
sinking shafts all the afternoon. By dusk
they had reached the blueprint stage, and
with beer-dipped fingers were planning
on the bar fresh workings to open up a
new reef. They had reached the stage
of imaginatively and vociferously passing
out buckets full of the yellow metal when
two long-suffering fellow-patrons re-
turned after a short absence from the
bar, bearing a door, which they put on
the floor. They went up to one claim-
holder, grabbed him, placed him on the
stretcher and were bearing him out when
his partner protested: “Wash wrong?
Me matesh ain’t crook.” The stretcher-
bearers stopped, and one of them said
sadly “It’s worse than that. He’s dead.
He forgot to timber up that drive you
was torkin’ about an’ was stonkered by
a fall of earth.”
•jg. * * *
“B. 4”: “Nor’-west’s” spider (B.
24/3 / ’43) is identical with the tree spider
of C.Q., and it may build the largest web
—l’ve seen the mesh of golden silky
threads spread from tree to tree ten feet
apart and capable of trapping small birds
—but it certainly isn’t the largest in the
country. On the Burdekin there’s a huge
black tunnelling spider whose burrow
extends a yard deep. A squatter missing
prize week-old chickens dug out a bur-
row and found three of his chicks all
sucked dry by the hairy-legged mammoth.
It hung on to a stick like a bulldog while
being yarded into a tin for dispatch to
the museum. Its body was an inch
and a half across, while its bulk would
equal half a dozen of “N.-w.’s” arach-
nids.
* * * *
“Terrinjal”: For “The O.D.’s” infor-
mation a checkle-faced cow (B. 31/3/’43)
is one which has sizable squares of
colored patches on its face. The word
is used’mostly in England’s west country,
and comes originally from the French.
* * * *
“Hooshta”: Neither Smith Roberts nor
Vincent Green (B. 14/4/’43) introduced
the oont to Australia. It was Nicholas,
of Murra-Munda, near Nullagine (W.A.).
Smith Roberts worked for Nicholas when
he and Kidman were running Cobb and
Co. and afterwards as manager of
Nicholas’s Croydon run, out from Roe-
bourne. About 1907 Nicholas bought 500
camels at £l3 a head and insured them
to be landed at Port Hedland, free of
quarantine, from India, On landing they
were declared to be suffering from surra.
Tests and a court case occupied about
a year, after which Nicholas sold the
oonts at a good profit. Smith Roberts
was in charge of them during this period.
Nicholas died in 1929, but his sons are
still out in the Nullagine country.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Zake” makes a manful
defence of the claim that there such
an ornithological specimen as “grass
warbler” (B. 14/4/’43), and alleges that
I never saw one because all the warblers
are shy. They’ll get as friendly round a
camp as any other fowl. Wffiat I want
now is for someone to describe that
“grass warbler” to me —color, shape and
poundage.
* * * *
“N.”: It was one of those days when
the Murray refuses to oblige, and the
three of us rowed home at dark
without a single fish. As we passed
the derelict paddle-steamer, Denny the
Liar, who abides in it, hailed us,
asking our luck. We told him, shortly
and profanely. “Well, I’m reckonin’
on fish f’r tea meself,” he told
us. That led to betting, and ended by
the three of us climbing aboard. Denny
baited three handlines, each with a single
shrimp, and to a chorus of jeers dropped
them overboard so that they hung close
to the weed-grown hull, the hooks being
only two or three inches under water.
We went into the kitchen, and Denny
made a cup of tea and got the frying-
pan ready. Half -an hour later we were
eating callop. “Y’ see,” Denny explained,
“when the river was clean I often used
t’ watch the fish pokin’ around the rocks
under the cliffs. Callop especially follow
the rocks up to the surface. Bream do
the same to the old boat here. There s
always callop about the boat, an’ small
cod, too. But often y’ can’t catch ’em
ordinary ways. So I tried jus’ danglin’
a line. Or, in daytime, ’specially if there’s
a wind, lettin’ the bait down eighteen
inches or two foot under the water. It
gets ’em.” Yes, it works ; I’ve tried it,
“Padflogger”: I suggest that “Sailor
Bill” (B. 10/3/’43), when the present dis-
turbance is over, should yard up a few
hundred of those giant earthworms and
start a worm-oil factory. Was angling
alongside a stream one day when a wild-
whiskered bloke drops his outfit. “How
they bitin’?” he asked. I confessed that
they weren’t biting at all. Producing a
vaseline bottle from his fishing bag he
displayed what seemed a bottom layer
of mud and an upper layer of oil. “This’s
the stuff to bring ’em on. Use anythin’
—mutton, rabbit, anythin’. Just dip y’r
bait inter this oil and she’s jonnick.” She
certainly was, for, although I had waited
“Saved! A packet of dehydrated water!”
hours for a nibble at the frog’s leg that
I had with difficulty captured, he began
hauling them out almost at once. “I’ll
let y’ into the secret, though you mustn’t
tell everybody. When worms are plenti-
ful fill a bottle like this with them. No
dirt or water, just worms. After a while
they sorta digest, making mud and oil.
It’s strong stuff, but the fish like it.” It
certainly was strong stuff, though only
the product of a dozen or so 4in. worms.
Now one of “S.B.’s” yard-long worms
would nearly fill a pickle bottle —mon,
there’d be money in it!
* * * *
“R. Ney”: “Marsh” (B. 14/4/’43) tries
to tell the Council that starving sheep ate
the tails off horses tied up in the same
yard, and omits to inform us whether the
neddies’ hind legs were (a) Scotch-
hobbled, ( b ) mulga-hobbled or (c) para-
lysed. If he really wants to qualify as
an Aboliar he’ll have to watch details
like that.
* * * *
“Priller”: Do horses think (B.
14/4/’43)? With a quid of my own and
four of the boss’s, I rode the six miles
into town along a scrub track. Arrived
there, I found I’d lost the cash, so drew
a fiver from the bank to cover the busi-
ness. There was a howling westerly on
the way home, which set a lot of roly-
poly bumbling across the plains. Old
Mac cantered dignifiedly on —he was used
to roly-poly. Then, about a mile from
home, he shied and propped and 1 hit
the sand. Mac stood there looking at me
with that humorous expression of the old
horse whose rider has been dislodged.
“You old blanker,” 1 roared. “What in
the hell did you do that for?” Then I
discovered that his near forefoot was
planked firmly on the missing notes.
% * * *
“Drover”: A northern paper records
that a gent, in Queensland rode a buck-
jumper non-stop for six minutes. I’ve
seen some of the best, both riders and
horses, but I’ve yet to see any horse, off
the grass or corn-fed, that could buck
non-stop for more than 60 seconds.
#** * , ’
“Baldy”: Sliprail Jack never knew the
perils of education ; he depended on in-
genuity to pull him through. Charcoal
scratches on a piece of cement bag car-
ried his orders, and generally store hands
interpreted the “system” fairly well. One
day Jack scrawled a circle with XII across
it (he’d seen the number on the face of
the clock) and sent this along to the
store; but Bilko, the mailman, brought
back a 121 b. cheese. Then Sliprail hit
the clouds. “These idiots are the flamin’
limit,” he roared. “I wanted a blasted
grindstone!” “Well,” said Bilko, “it’s
your own fault. Why in the ’ell didn’t
y’ cut a hole out of the middle of y’r
drorin’?”
#
“T.V.”: “It was in the days before
the locks mucked up the fishin’,” said
Jimmy the Brander. “I used to have a
houseboat a bit up the river from Mor-
gan. Thought I’d have a go for the real
big stuff once, an’ got the blacksmith
to make me a hook. I baited it with a
small wallaby an’ threw her out on a
rope from the foredeck. That night a
dfevil of a splashin’ woke me. Just as
I got me lantern alight I feel the boat
movin’. For an’ hour or two I sat up in
the wheelhouse lookin’ at the banks slid-
in’ by. Then I see that the old man
cod’s got a good hold an’ 1 couldn’t do
nothin’, so 1 went back to me bunk.
Next day he settled down to a quiet,
steady pace, and where the channel wasn’t
too good I went to the wheel —the chains
were still rigged, though the engine was
out of her —but I soon see that the fish
was so big he’d have to stick to deepish
water, so I just loafed around. A couple
of days later I woke up to find the old
home sailin’ up the Dari in’ past Poon-
carie. I’m gettin’ short of tucker, so I
rigged a spinner over ihe stern, an’ that
kept me in fish. I’m hopin’ to make
Menindee, where me cousin hangs out;
but one mornin’ there’s a sudden jarrin’
that sent me down on the planks an’ the
boat stops short. ‘Wrecked,’ I think; then
I sees me spinner line streakin’ white —
another big ’un was hooked on behind.
I’m just considerin’ what t’ do when
there’s a screech an’ a shudder an’ the
stern half of the boat tears off down-
stream: she’d pulled clean in half.
Trouble was I lost the big bloke in front,
too ; the extra strain pulled the hook clean
through its mouth. That’s what I call
really bad luck!”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: “Seventyfiver’s” trout
which stirred up the dust as they made
their way up the riverbed (B. 17/3/’43>
reminded me of a time out north-east of
Mt. Margaret (W.A.), when the bolting
of a bull camel loaded with the expedi-
tion’s “tin-dog” left the larder destitute
of meat. Vegetarianism didn’t suit Jack
Daw, and after a week or so he went
foraging. We found him later on busy
with the frying-pan over his own little
bit of a fire away in the scrub. “Only
a few overland trout,” he explained.
“Didn’t suppose you blokes’d care for
any.” Sizzling in the fat were what
looked and smelt like fish, but reposing
beside the cleaning-block were the spare
parts of several sleepy lizards.
* * * *
“Looby”: As a result of the biggest
tribal fight for years Boolara was brought
into the little outback hospital for patch-
ing up. It was the first time the myall
had been in a ward and, from the start,
it was obvious that the white sheets had
him puzzled. But not a word would he
say to either the doctor or the bush-
nursing sister. Then one morning, after
he had been there a week, he looked up
at the sister, looked down at the sheet
and then nodded brightly to show he
understood, and immediately shook his
head violently to deny something or
other, It was Sam Hopkins, the old
prospector, who got talking to Boolara
and learned what was on the boong’s
mind. Boolara was convinced that he’d
been put between white sheets so the
sister would be able to see at a glance
whether or not he had one of the dogs
in bed with him.
* * * *
“Narrin”; A new disease, of endemic
proportions, is ravaging the outback.
When we’re away for a few weeks scrub-
cutting we generally get so tangled that
we don’t know if we’ve got tea and sugar
for last January or next June. And the
inevitable bush lawyer complicates
matters. One of that brand told us that
all coupons sent by post have to be
initialled on the back. We don’t yet
know whether he’s right or wrong, but
we can’t afford to take chances. And
that’s how it happens that the mob have
acquired “coupon-signer’s elbow.” And
it’s serious. Shopping as usual by mail-
order I have this morning initialled 59
coupons.
THE REEF AND JOE.
The gold was done in the creeks below and a
thousand diggers swore .
That they’d peg the reef on the mountain hank;
that shed to the valley floor; ....
And she of the spangled dress who dwelt in the
fastness underground
Awoke to the chatter of blast and steel and the
searching hammer’s pound.
But she knew no fear as they came and went
till the day that Joe rode by.
Big Joe, fresh down from the Palmer strike,
with the steely, glint in his eye —
And often, as kids, we’d stop by his camp and
drink in the tales that he told
Of northern blacks and gory fights and rivers
9 all flushed with gold.
And the mother lode sighed and returned to
her rest, but her sleep was fitful with fear,
For often, in fun, he’d cry down the shaft,
“I’m calling your bluff, d’ye hear?
You skulking witch! With these two hands
I’ll make your coffers flow.”
“With these two hands!” And his knotted
fingers made the motion — so —
And he’d laugh and bid us away to school and
wave us along the track;
And there came a day (Joe never lied) when
the reef-witch answered back.
Her voice was deep as an organ roll as she
begged of Joe to be freed,
And Joe was her slave and he loved her then
with a love untouched by greed.
She told him of those who came before and
sought to strip her bare;
She told him, too, just how they failed and why
and when and where;
And she whispered the word that many a man
would have bartered his soul to know:
She spoke of a spur with an ironstone cap . ..
she whispered it all to Joe.
And straight to the bowels of the range he drove
with a shaft that was wide and deep
To join his love at their trysting-place where
she lay in her timeless sleep—
But the speeding years brought only toil and a
grief such as few have known.
For little he found on his flinty floor but dust
and empty stone.
He cursed her then in a wild despair and named
her a jade and a shrew.
And he steeled his heart to her sobbing pleas
as a man will often do;
And he drove his weary body on with a fury
that burned like flame—
Big Joe, who hailed from the Palmer fields and
knew all the tricks of the game.
But she of the spangled dress, it seems, knew
them all when the world began,
For she had been born of the ageless stone
while Joe was only a man . . .
But why he failed and when and where no one
shall ever know,
For never a word was passed again between
the reef and Joe.
N.s.w.
A. S. ALLISON.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
t
asoxxffis
40z., 802., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STUCK AND STATION AGEN .-S.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE WAGGA, nwDON 1 ' ’
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS MPT? CO LTD
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANC ••
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Beef Cattle Show.
“Bulago”: Lack of man-power and
transport considered, the show was a
tribute to the breeders of three States
who made up the 300-odd entries. The
presence of studmasters in uniform and
of Land Girls towing—or being towed
by—exuberant black polls added to the
war-time flavor.
General quality was good, though there
were few really outstanding animals. Ex-
pecting high prices, some breeders had
sent bulk decidedly below show quality,
and nearly every breed had its tail. There
was a preponderance of calf entries and
fewer mature or aged animals than usual.
Females were scarce.
Shorthorns, with 73 entries, Herefords,
with 113, and Aberdeen-Angus, with 54,
were strongly in evidence. The value of
sires imported from England before the
war was reflected in the keen demand
for their progeny.
Coonong had a splendid even draft
of rich red bulls, mostly on the young
side. It won the junior bull champion-
ship with Coonong Legionnaire, a typi-
cal Red Baronet, and the reserve with
Matchmaker. Coornbing Park did well
with a small draft of choice animals.
Firefly 3rd, a beautifully-proportioned
red under three years, was champion, and
reserve went to Nalpa Statesman, an
older white bull from S.A. Young bull
classes were strong in numbers and in
quality, but cows and heifers were few 7 .
Champion cow was Kywanna Irish Prin-
cess, a beautiful roan rising three years ;
reserve went to Calool.
The swing to Polled Shorthorns was
very evident. The advance in quality
and the competition from well-known
breeders who are discarding the horns are
greater than in any other breed. The
tops were on a par with most of their
horned brethren. Gundibri, Antrim and
Netherby (Q.) collected most of the rib-
bons. There was improvement in color
and’fewer washy weak types. The cham-
pion is a neat white bull—Netherby Tam
O’Shanter, bred by J. T. Scrymgeour. It
took the junior championship also. A
roan bull of splendid top and underline
from Gundibri was reserve. Junior re-
serve went to Antrim.
Herefords paraded several strong
classes, particularly in the younger sec-
tions, but there was a noticeable absence
of animals carrying age and scale. One
of the few exceptions was Hobartville
Ringmaster, a typical Reynolds bull,
which, although it towered over the
champion, had to be content with the
reserve ribbon. Once again champion
honors went to W. Mcllrath’s Windsor
stud, whose 18-months-old Liberator won
the junior ribbon as well. He is level
on top, very deep and well finished.
Windsor Illustrious was first in a strong
class. Golf Hill Herefords were not so
numerous as usual. Bexley and Colly
Creek scored well, and Fenwick Brothers
and A, E. Cobcroft were prominent in
the female classes, the latter exhibiting
the champion cow, Milton Matron 2nd.
Polled Herefords had to rely on three
studs for representation, and competition
was practically nil. Moreduval had
champion and reserve bulls, while junior
bulls and all female championships went
to Mrs. U. M. Hordern. There was a
definite raggedness here.
Two breeders between them sent a
round dozen animals to represent Devons.
Havilah and Table Top divided the
honors.
Aberdeen-Angus breeders met compe-
tition from a new quarter, the Terinallum
cattle from Victoria doing very well.
Kahlua again scored particularly with
its females, which won the three
main championship ribbons. It was
Booroomooka’s day in the bull cham-
pionships. Kaolin, the champion, is true
to the type that H. G. Munro has been
breeding for years, while Legacy, which
won reserve and junior champion-
ships, made up with him an unbeatable
team. Many well-known studs were ab-
sent this year, and others were in smaller
numbers than usual. Quality wqs excel-
lent, but the usual tail persisted.
The increasing swing towards polled
types was particularly noticeable in the
Durhams. Goonoo-Goonoo showed both
“Have I the pleasure of addressing one of our splendid land girls ?”
horned and polled animals, but an-
nounced that it would send only polls in
future.
Perry Bros, had the only Red Polls,
Sales proved the demand for good
Herefords. An Australian record of
3100gns. was paid for the champion,
Windsor Liberator, from the Mcllrath
stud at Myall Creek, by the Herbert Field
interests from Gundagai. Wright’s Wal-
lamumbi stud paid 1075gns. for Hobart-
ville Richmond. Ten bulls from Myall
Creek averaged £596 18s. 6d, There was
strong competition for everything on
offer, and nearly three-quarters of the
total offering made lOOgns. or better.
Generally, Hereford values were about
double those of last year, but whether
they were true values is another matter.
Making a Pasture.
“Jindivick”: After rain don’t be
afraid to use harrows and clod-crusher to
break up lumps and assure a fine seed-
bed before sowing.
See that the mixture suits the district
and is balanced to suit the rainfall.
Where good spring rains are regular
there will be useful cuts of meadow hay,
and the pasture mixture should be
selected with this in view.
Clean the paddock before sowing so
that logs or stumps which may harbor
vermin are destroyed. Sow broadcast
with a good dressing of super, and then
drill in a cover crop of oats. Cross-har-
row to take out the drill furrows and then
fence in. By fencing after sowing a
clean fence-line is obtained and no deep
finishing furrows remain to scour in
future rains.
Turn stock on to the pasture as soon
as there is sufficient feed and the surface
has set firm enough to stop the young
grass being tom up by the roots. Where
they are available, poddies and yearlings
are the best to graze on new paddocks.
In any case keep the top eaten well down
so that root growth is encouraged.
Don’t let the grass run away to seed
the following spring; good paddocks
have been ruined by lack of care.
Grazing Horses.
“Plane Creek”: See that the farm
horses have a decent paddock to graze in.
It will save trouble from fence-breakers
and time searching for the nags in the
morning and currycombing the burrs out
of their hair before you put the harness
on ’em.
Best to have two grazing paddocks and
use them alternately. Swampy country
grows rank, unpalatable grass, and leech
attacks (in N.Q.) make horses sus-
ceptible to swamp cancer. Well-drained
land is best. With two paddocks in use,
native grasses should beat most weeds,
lantana excepted. Watch for this, and
use the brush-hook on it. Size of pad-
docks depends on the number you want
to pasture and the kind of grass.
A clean burn once a year is useful in
making a strong pasture. Bum each pad-
dock in turn as soon as the grass is dry
after the first spring or summer rain-
storm. New grass will soon come from
damp ground, while if you burn when
the ground is dry the weeds may beat it.
If the old grass isn’t burned soon after
the first downpour, new grass will grow
amongst it and make burning impossible.
At next burning there’ll be a great, hot
fire that will injure the grass-roots, and
the new grass will be scattered and poor.
Weeds alone won’t burn. If there
aren’t enough fallen leaves on the ground
to carry a fire through the paddock scythe
or brush the weeds before they seed and
burn them when they’re dry. During the
next year stock the paddock lightly and
the grass will recover its former strength.
Pig-raising in M.L.
“H.C.”: Intensive farming and a con-
tract with the local factory, which sup-
plies his seven-acre piggery with butter-
milk and whey, has enabled F. H. Ogier,
of Midhurst, Taranaki (N.Z.), to turn off
1000 baconers per annum for the past
four years. Buttermilk and whey are
pumped into three large wooden holding
tanks, and then pipe-fed into feeding
pens so that there’s no need for extra
labor.
Ogier has 14 pure Tam worth breeding
sows and a Duroc Jersey boar. The
cross puts on weight rapidly. No
baconer leaves the piggery till it’s the
full 1801 b, weight. Pigs on hand in
April, when the milk supply is going
down, are the only ones to go as porkers.
The fattening pen is divided into 14
sections and accommodates 240 pigs.
while the rest (up to 800-odd all told)
are on grass and mixed rations. Losses
from disease are low.
Meatmeal has been found to be one
of the best concentrates. It’s given to
three-week piglets in the creep, and with
barley-meal and pollard forms one of
the staple rations. When whey’s plenti-
ful and the pigs are being grazed, this
mixture is fed at the rate of 11b. per pig
per day at weaning and gradually in-
creased to to 21b. at four months.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: Don’t graze sheep on stink-
wort while it is flowering or seeding. A
number of fine hairs called pappas, re-
sembling the tail of a dart, are attached
to the end of each seed. When eaten
by sheep these hairs irritate the lining
of the stomach and intestines and often
cause death from enteritis. They can
also cause pulpy kidney by puncturing
the mucous membrane and letting in the
poisons produced by the organism re-
sponsible for that disease. There’s an
idea that stinkwort is only dangerous
immediately after rain. Don’t believe it.
Deaths often occur when there hasn’t
been rain for weeks.
“Bundalinga”: Don’t expect good pas-
tures from poor land. Improve the fer-
tility of land which has grown oats
and saccaline for long periods be-
fore it is diverted to pastures. Fer-
tilisers are necessary to restore
depleted soil foods; so is a strong
and vigorous sward of clover. After
a few years as pasture land a pad-
dock can be cropped for a spell
and then sown with pasture again.
“Hux”: Sloppy yards make pigs
uncomfortable and unthrifty. Get
the drains cleaned and wallows
dried and filled in before winter.
Plug cracks in lower waffs or floors,
examine guard rails in farrowing
pens, clean and repair troughs. If
possible, shift sheds to a new site.
Strain up the fences. Cut and stack
rank grass for winter litters.
“Will C.”: No vegetables are
easier to grow than pumpkins,
squashes, cucumbers and the like,
provided they get a drop of water
occasionally. I’ve seen heavy crops
harvested from self-sown vines on
all classes of soil. If we want vine
vegetables during autumn, winter
and spring, we dig “hills” here and
there with a mattock and put a
kerosene-tin of horse or cow
manure in each. The surrounding
ground we don’t cultivate, but
the “hills” we dig to a depth of 2ft. to
enable the roots to penetrate deep and
reach any lurking moisture. We plafit
on level ground, because in dry weather
the less drainage there is the better.
“Sarina”: After 40 years among horses
I’m satisfied that the Suffolk Punch is
a rattling good nag (B. 24/2/’43), and
I wouldn’t swap one for a Percheron.
Large and strong, active and willing in
a team, and suitable for most farm work,
the breed supplies draught, saddle and
light-harness nags. A bad point of the
Clydesdale is its susceptibility to greasy
heels, an ailment that doesn’t bother the
clean-legged Suffolk.
“Niloc”: The soy-bean is definitely in
the war. Besides its use on the table
(anything from soup down), it is now
tapped for by-products, so far yielding
explosives, lubricants, plastics and paints.
One pound of the beans, costing about
3d., contains as much protein as three
dozen eggs, six quarts of milk or two
pounds of boneless meat.
“S.T.S.”: Marked difference between
a swede and a turnip has been allowed
by a Court in S.A., which gave a farmer
£Bs—he had claimed £7so—against a
co. which supplied him with the wrong
seed. It was stated in evidence that, as
fodder for stock, turnips would store only
for about six weeks, as against four
months with swedes.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. I. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.


o '
• «< t JTt, •*.
■ ■
, y gu ■„ Mb
■z-
.
WmVt~ W®.
/ kj
rv
x>m?m
m
ir^
r s
CUTTING COSTS
Disston Experience in the manufacture
of QUALITY Saws, Disston Research in
metallurgy, Disston Engineering and
Disston Steel, give you the saws that
help you REDUCE COSTS.
Regardless of the kind of wood you cut
or how you cut it—Disston can provide
a better saw to help you REDUCE
COSTS, make a better product, make
more profits.
Disston Saws have been developed and
improved to meet modern needs.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws range
in diameters from 4 to 78 inches.
DISSTON
SOLID TOOTH
SAWS
For full information, see your dealer or write to —
HENRY DISSTON & SONS,
Pty. Ltd.
78 Vine St, Redfern, Sydney, H.S.W.
BOX 47. CHIPPENDALE P.O.
1-42
T]
«s«7 m
Wmfm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for April or May, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Winter Strikes Leningrad.
(From a special correspondent’s article in
London "Times.”)
When in December, 1941, the cold
spell hit Leningrad so hard and so sud-
denly that birds dropped dead on the
wing, the city’s food stores were-adequate
for a long siege, for the defence of Lenin-
grad had been foreseen by the Russians.
But German bombing and, more espe-
cially, the appalling difficulties of trans-
portation brought the city to the verge of
famine.
Those were the days before the great
ice highway across Lake Ladoga had been
built and aeroplanes of the Douglas type
began to fly provisions into the be-
leaguered city.
They were the days when people were
dragged dead through the streets on
sledges the composer Shostakovich,
while writing the first movement of his
Seventh Symphony, set out one day to
bury his closest friend, and with a pick
hacked the frozen ground to make a
grave.
They were the days when workers
arriving at the factories fell into a coma
on the floor by their benches ; when it
was not rare for someone telephoning to
hear the voice falter and cease, and to
find out afterwards that the speaker had
fallen dead; when, save for the sound
of battle, the life of the city was stilled,
and in streets festooned with tangled
wires (the Germans dropped pieces of
rail to cut them), littered with broken
glass and deep in uncleared snow, scenes
of desolation occurred.
One day, indeed, in the Nevsky Pros-
pekt the silence was rent. People shiver-
ing in their houses heard a fierce roar
and, removing the pillows they had
stuffed through the glassless windows,
looked down into the street. They saw a
crowd being restrained with difficulty
from taking revenge as it surged around
a group of German airmen brought
down over the city on one of their merci-
less, blind, high-level bombing attacks.
Changed Russia.
(From comment by Benjamin DeCasseres, in
N.Y. "Journal-American.”)
That Russia has gone “national” and
no longer thinks in “international” jargon
is manifested in an article cabled from
Kuibyshev, Russia, to the New York
“Herald Tribune” by Maurice Hindus,
who was born in Russia and whose books
have always, naturally, leaned toward
Marxian collectivism.
He tells us that there is a complete
“reversal of attitude on the part of the
Russians.” The persons they used to hiss
on the stage and curse in books as being
representative of “capitalistic society”
they now applaud and approve. They
also now glorify Kutuzov, commander-
in-chief of the Russian armies against
Napoleon. Kutuzov was a prince, a mili-
tarist and a “landed aristocrat.” Other
Russian commanders of the old regime
of the Czars “are as widely publicised
now,” says Mr. Hindus, “as the names
of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels,” the
fathers of Communism,
Mr. Hindus says about this new
Russia: “This new attitude toward the
present is fraught with incalculable mean-
ing for the immediate and distant future
of Soviet Russia. The new youth, more
than any since the coming of the Soviets,
feels it has roots not only in the prole-
tarian mass but in its own soil, its own
tradition, its own heroes—many utterly
alien to the proletariat—but, above all,
in its own history.”
The U-boat Menace.
(From a New York "Times” article by
Charles Hurd.)
The current rate of sinkings by sub-
marines is running close to the building
rate of about five or six ships a day.
Fortunately, most of the ships sunk are
smaller than the 10,000-ton freighters and
tankers coming off the new production
ways. But mere replacement of ships is
not enough to meet the growing needs
of war, and no amount of tonnage re-
placement can make up for the merchant
marine trained crew members and offi-
cers lost with almost every sinking.
o _ boats have becol ' e particularly
k armfu !. si , nce they 5 e * an CO ? Ce ”J l ra ‘*K®
attacks ™ loaded vessels, thereby
destroying not only ships but cargoes
as well, Ihere have been instances whe
these cargoes have been more importan
immediate tactical reasons than tne
shl P s themselves. ~ . ,
, Tankers, most vital of shipping an
tne hardest to replace quickly, have been
favorite targets. This means the east-
bound tankers with their priceless loads
of high-octane aviation gasoline. In an-
other knowm instance the submarine to -
pedoed a ship which was carrying a ful
cargo of ai rplanes. The number cannot
bo revealed, but there wore enough
planes on this ship alone to ave won a
major battle.
J n addition, information gleans n
Washington and London regar mg Ge -
m an production of submalines indicates
fb at Jb® number of these is me easing
rapidly, that the Germans are building
between 20 and 30 a month and that we
are sinking no more than half that nura-
ber - < (K ' a y s U-boats are m
to destroy than the oldei typ ,
more dangerous. Therefore the question
is raised whether the British and Ameri-
can shipyards can ever match in produc-
tion the indicated rise in the rate of de-
struction unless new and more efficient
methods of finding and destroying sub-
marines are devised.
The current alternative to hunting
down the submarines is the convoy sys-
tem. This had made shipping quite safe
along the eastern coasts of the Americas,
and it threw an almost perfect cordon of
defence around the armada that occupied
French North Africa. But such convoys
for every supply line require an inestim-
able number of armed ships built espe-
cially for this purpose.
Public statements made here would in-
dicate that, despite our arms production
and man-training programmes, it would
be most difficult to support a mass in-
vasion force, such as would be required
to open another front. This is the indi-
cated case, despite an accelerated pro-
gramme for the building of destroyers,
submarine chasers and similar convoy
vessels now running at full speed.
This situation arises at what might be
termed the actual beginning of American
commitments in world-wide warfare,
marked by increasing activity in the
Pacific, where bases are thousands of
miles distant from the nearest home
ports; with action in Tunisia that will
require enormous supplies for U.S.
troops, British forces and numerically
strong but virtually unarmed French
Allies ; and when lend-lease deliveries to
far-distant Russia are running ahead of
comparable deliveries to any other ally.
Japan: War and Peace.
[From a plan for peace in the Far East put
forward by Nathaniel Peffer, Associate Pro-
fessor of International Relations at Columbia
University.]
Japan must be not only defeated but
utterly crushed. It must be driven from
the Asiatic continent and from all the
islands it has seized. Moreover, it is
necessary to carry the war to Japan, to
leave ruins on Japanese soil, to destroy
the principal Japanese cities and break
down the industrial mechanism. It can
be done from the air, and it should be
done.
This may have the ring of war-time
emotionalism, but it contains an essential
political truth. For reasons peculiar to
Japan and for the sake of a future with-
out bloodshed Japan must be taught a
terrible lesson. To Japan, war is the


How to make Gillette Blades last longer .
*r
£
<s&
$
»S
—'SWT®??:.;,
Dry gently on a smooth Towel.. -
Put the corner of a smooth towel on a flat surface, lay the
blade on it and draw it towards you endways without
touching the edges with your fingers. Turn end over end
to dry the other side in the same way. You won’t cut the
towel and you will add life to the strong “shouldered”
edges that already serve you so well.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Help by saving. Save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates
&
1
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HUE SPECIALLY TO
FSEVSNT 80SE THROATS
Carreras Ltd.— ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 B
loftiest activity in nature. Defeat does
not teach the tragedy of war itself or
the consequences of aggression ; it signi-
fies only the end of an episode that went
wrong.
Japan, lying in an area of weaker
nations, has been able to do all the fight-
ing on other people’s soil. It is other
countrysides that are scarred; others’ vil-
lages that are devastated, with men,
women and children slaughtered alike ; it
is others who must live out their lives
among ruins. For Japan the safe and
satisfying adventure closes with martial
celebrations and emotional satisfaction.
Only if much of their own country is
devastated can the Japanese learn that
war is a terrible business, that aggression
cannot always be undertaken with im-
punity and that others are not the only
victims.
But once Japan is removed as a mili-
tary menace, and forced to disgorge all
the areas she has seized in China and else-
where, it will then be necessary to take
such measures as will enable the nation
to live and prosper. This is the second
requirement for Far Eastern peace.
Japan must be left no legitimate reason
to cherish dreams of revenge. Certain
concessions must be made to assure Japan
reasonable conditions of livelihood. No
nation as large and virile as Japan will
long be kept at peace if its elemental
needs are not satisfied.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The wider purpose of the Allies must be to
secure the co-operation not merely of one body
of Frenchmen here, another there, and an-
other somewhere else, but of the French nation
and of the French Empire as a whole. In the
end, it is metropolitan France which must de-
termine the relationship between herself and
the Allies, and the competence of French mili-
tary and civilian authorities everywhere. The
re-emergence of France as an ally in the full
sense of the term, both for winning the war
and winning the peace, should be the inflexible
Centur' » lorcisn policy ' London
n c * 1 en * *
“Gentlemen, we are the South Pacific Fight-
ing Force. I don’t want anybody to be even
ng Jnn te ™L° f A^ my ’t Navy . and ¥ anr l cs ‘
Every man must understand it—and every
blankety-blank so-and-so will understand it if
I have to take off all uniforms, issue coveralls
Jj? 6 insi p ia ?? uth Pacidc fighting
roice on the seat of the pants. — Admiral
William F. Halsey
“The people who contend that our
[f/.S.] Army is too large seem to over-
look two important factors. First, that
it is as essential to obtain superiority
over our enemies in number of soldiers
as it is in training and in number and
quality of weapons. Second, we are
training men in 1943 to fight in 1944.
The training programme must contem-
plate a long war, and unfortunately there
are no sound reasons to believe that the
war will be finished in 1943. Today it
is estimated that the Axis Powers and
their satellites have under arms 569 divi-
sions. This is considerably more divi-
sions than we and our British and Rus-
sian Allies have. The U.S. Army’s
present strength is over 5,500,000, far
along on the road toward the vital ob-
jective of 7,500,000 men by Jan. 1, 1944.
About 20 per cent, of U.S. forces now
are overseas.” — U.S. Under-Secretary of
War Robert P. Patterson.
Wherever else Japan chooses to advance, one
thing is certain: she will continue her attempts
to encircle Australia and to cut the sea routes
from America to the South-west Pacific. This
is a constant factor in the war, and here the
fortunes of war will fluctuate.— “ Atlantic
Monthly
* H= * *
The British Paediatric Association (an associa-
tion of physicians engaged in child medicine)
has received reports which show the appalling
effects of starvation and disease among the
children of the occupied countries. The con-
dition of the Greek children is terrible beyond
words. An eyewitness has described children in
Athens as “without strength to beg.” The
Athens Welfare Service reports that nine out of
ten babies die before they reach the age of six
months. Faced with this, the British Gov-
ernment has wisely relaxed the blockade; under
recent arrangements 100 tons of Canadian dried
milk is to be shipped each month, a bare
pittance for a child population of approximately
2,000,000. Under an earlier plan, suggested by
Sweden, 15,000 tons of wheat has been sent
into Greece each month since August, but to
supply cereal food without sufficient milk and
vitamins is of little value to starving children,
because it increases rickets. — London “Times”
letter.
* * * *
A campaign ribbon to be worn on the lapel
of American troops occupying Germany at the
close of the war is being manufactured in
quantities by the Rex Products Corporation.
The occupation ribbon is a narrow bar pre-
dominately black, with a narrow white band at
each end. Arthur Rosenberg, president of the
Rex firm, said he received the order from the
Army quartermaster. The size of the order
is a military secret. — N.Y. “Sun:”
* * * *
If one lesson was driven home by the failure
of the blitzkrieg against Britain in 1940-41 it
was that such an offensive to be effective must
be waged with steadily increasing intensity.
This would logically imply not only that the
numbers and bomb-loads of the attacking air-
craft should be augmented but also that the
attackers should become progressively less vul-
nerable. After six months of vain terrorisation
these conditions were not fulfilled; the Luft-
waffe was paying a rising price for its raids
and zero hour for the attack on Russia was
drawing near. It may usefully be remembered
that, about a month before the last heavy
attacks on London, the German press and radio
were hinting that if the R.A.F. left Berlin
alone the Luftwaffe would cease to bomb
London —in short, that attacks on London from
being terroristic were to become purely retali-
atory. To have allowed this threat to govern
British action would have been to hoist a white
flag. — London “Times.”
# * * *
The accident record for parachutists indicates
that the best ages for a parachutist are those
between 23 and 26. Before he is 20 a man is
quite likely to be injured. From ages 26 to
35 he is still a pretty good parachute jumper;
after 35 not so good ; after 40 he is so liable
to injury that he can seldom complete the re-
quired five practice jumps without harm. —
Boston “Globe.”
sf: * * *
“The last war left the German General Staff
with two firm convictions. The first was that
never again, if they could help it, would they
fight on two fronts; and they have got two
fronts today. The second was that never again
would they be lured into fighting a war of ex-
haustion. And that is just what Hitler has
lately been driven to promise them.” — Lord
Halifax
“There is at the present time a vocifer-
ous enthusiasm for what is called pro-
gressive educaiton, than which, in its
extreme forms, nothing could be more
reactionary or more damaging to youth.
By progressive education appears to be
meant the turning loose of youth in the
world in which they live to express them-
selves, as the saying is, and to form
such habits and tastes as they from time
to time may choose or which appear to
be natural to them. This has been prop-
erly described as the rabbit system of
education. The rabbit'is at liberty to
run about the garden where his life is
passed and feed upon such plants, weeds
and flowers as may attract him and oc-
cupy himself as seems inviting from
moment to moment. To call any such
process education is in the highest degree
absurd.”—Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler,
president of Columbia University.
It was never a pilot who started the idea
that night falls. A pilot knows that it does
not. It oozes up out of the ground, fills the
hollows and low places with purple pools of
shadow that spread and rise to the tops of
the trees and the houses. Long before the
sky has darkened the world below is swimming
in night. And then finally darkness begins
washing up over the sky from the east, climbing
over the zenith, closing down at last over the
final gleams of the sunset. Here and there stars
begin to prick through, larger and more liquid
than ever seen from the ground, and the moon,
big and white, outlines the earth. Below the
’plane lights map the towns, race along the
roads, accenting but not relieving the black-
ness, for darkness clings to the ground. What-
ever light there is clings to the sky to the last.
—From “Adventure Was the Compass.”
*
If the Germans had pursued their national
purpose without spreading consternation and
horror, and without convincing all except those
who refused to be convinced how fell that
purpose was, they might, within a few years
from now, have made themselves masters of
Europe, perhaps without a war, for the eyes
of the world, especially of the Western world,
were closed in a kind of lethargy, and minds
befogged by obscurantist doctrines were un-
analytical and unresponsive. It was Hitler and
his National Socialist followers who opened the
eyes of all and shook the Western world into
renewed activity. By doing so, they brought on
the Second World War and so, while destroying
themselves and their country, saved the world,
—London “Nineteenth Century.”
* t ♦ *
I don’t buy bonds to force the “Four Free-
doms” on the world. 1 don’t buy bonds to
make this a “better world.” I don’t buy
bonds to spread the gospel of the “Atlantic
Charter.” I don’t buy bonds to put Germany
back on her feet—as we did in the last war.
I don’t buy bonds to give the Japs' another
chance in the Pacific. I don’t buy bonds to
perpetuate Communism in Russia. I don't
buy bonds so that India may be “free.” I
don’t buy bonds to bring the blessings of
democracy to Gazook, Gazeh or Gazah.
No —definitely. I buy bonds so that Ger-
many and Japan may be completely defeated.
I buy bonds to preserve the free enterprise
system, the Constitution and the liberties of our
American people. I buy bonds to keep the old
U.S.A. free of newfangled “visions.” I buy
bonds not for a “new” America but for that
old, comfortable America that, looking back
on it now, was pretty near Utopian.— “ Journa-
l columnist.
* * * *
No one—not even those most opposed to
President Roosevelt —can doubt his ability to
handle a personal problem. He possesses
charm, affability and goodwill. The question is
whether the deals he has consummated will
hold. We hope so, but no one can be sure be-
cause deep historical forces are at work which
transcend personal arrangements. The British
must preserve their empire or they must starve.
France seeks some procedure for re-establish-
ing the great French nation. Europe must find
a way to live on her own strength and not as
a satellite to either the United States or Soviet
Russia. And throughout all the thinking and
planning and scheming and conniving in these
fields of historic action, a war is being fought
that must be won. And throughout it all runs
the dread of both Communism and Fascism
and the major desire of the average European
to be let alone to live his life according to the
traditions of his people. — George E. Sokolsky;
N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
A continuance of political backfire on the
part of the exiled Governments located in
London is not likely to assist in the post-war
settlement but to breed a new set of isolation-
ists in the United States who will find in the
returning soldiers and sailors this time what
regrettably was discovered last time, namely,
that the closer Americans got to the quarrels
and cleavages of European politics the farther
away they wanted to go to be free of the whole
mess. — Washington syndicate writer David Law-
rence.
* * * *
A group of shabby Japanese, arms raised
in surrender, walked toward the American lines
[on Guadalcanal], This was no group of raw
recruits shaken by their first experience under
fire. These men were members of the Japanese
224th Infantry Regiment, a crack outfit which
was cited by Emperor Hirohito for its work
in the Malayan campaign. They had been de-
feated by words as well as bullets. The Ameri-
cans know a few tricks of psychological war-
fare, and for several days loudspeakers had
been blaring up at the front, calling on the
hungry, tired Japanese to surrender. American
’planes had been flying back and forth across
the Japanese lines, dropping leaflets printed in
Japanese advising the enemy troops to give up
or face death by steel or starvation. — U.S.
United Press correspondent with the forces.
v * * *
It remained for U.S. Postmaster-General
Frank Walker to give voice to an important
Administration viewpoint on foreign policy.
He expressed himself as opposed to any long
cooling-off period before any permanent peace
agreements after the war. Herbert Hoover
and others had come out for such a period.
Word has it that Mr. Walker spoke with
White House approval. — “United States News.”
* * * *
American industry is standing on the threshold
of its greatest productive era in history. Actu-
ally U.S. volume of armaments will be as great
as the output of all the rest of the world, Axis
and Allies, by the end of 1943. — Frederick C.
Crawford, president U.S. Association of
Manufacturers.
* * * *
If there is a comparison between wars,
Russia is Hitler’s Verdun. If the defenders had
not been willing to make enormous sacrifices
the citadel would have fallen. Man-power is
no abstract thing. It is millions of people ready
to risk death and hundreds of thousands, m
this case, wounded and dying. And each man’s
wounds and each man’s death, even in Russia,
must be individually endured. The collective
will is but the sum of millions of personal
wills. Heroism can scarcely be communised.
The whole truth cannot be expressed by the
word Communism or by the word Russia.
Millions of Russians have won this victory over
our common enemy. These are the millions who
will have to be listened to when the peace
treaty is made, and who, we hope, are learn-
ing that a lasting peace cannot be made on
doctrinal terms or on nationalistic terms, but
only on terms which perpetuate the personal
and individual values which shine so brightly
on Russian and other battlefields.— N. Y.
“Times:”


ii-
'
'■’f.ii
M SR
,i *
a! iiiilii
Your Gas Pipe..
a weapon of Democracy!
k s*» ;
>* '
1/
THAT is an ordinary gas pipe. Your
plumber knows it inside out. It is
symbolic of peace.
But now, that gas pipe is symbolic of
war. We have turned gas pipes into
shells. We didn’t want to make shells.
We wanted to go on making good gas
pipes, but that was not to be. So your
gas pipes became shells.
Back in 1934 the plant of Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. went into production in
New South Wales. In Germany, Hindenburg
died. Warmonger Hitler came into full power.
England and America were working for
peace. Here in Australia, we were starting
on a plan of construction. New industries
were needed.
Before long Stewarts and Lloyds were pro-
ducing everything from gas pipes to ships
boiler tubes. Australian Democracy was at
work. But in Europe, it was “Guns instead
of Butter.”
In 1939 it was obvious to this* country that
the War we had tried to hold back was not
only inevitable, but ready to start at any hour.
We saw that unless we changed our produc-
tion from gas pipes to shells we wouldn t
be making Australian gas pipes for long.
Without subsidy we installed the plant neces-
sary for the forging and rough machining of
ammunition shell bodies. Speed was vital.
So we evolved a shell-making process faster
than any other and one which eliminated one
of the most lengthy and costly operations—
that of boring the inside. We were able to
make a forging so true to size, and so smooth
on the inside, that boring was unnecessary.
Engineers worked miracles in adapting tube
making plants, also to the manufacture of
shells. We couldn’t wait for weeks or months
for special plant or equipment from overseas.
As a result, we had shifts at work at one end
of a new extension before the roof was com-
pleted at the other end.
Remember, that was in 1939 before the
War.
Now, every month our output of shell bodies
shoots up to a new record. Those gas pipes
have become a weapon of Democracy,
Gas pipes into shells. Soon, we hope —shells
back into gas pipes. When that happens, and
the plumber joins your pipes with a neat
elbow, remember Stewarts and Lloyds, Re-
member the men who were ready for produc-
tion on the day that War was declared . , .
remember the men who piled up the shells so
that victorious peace could become a reality.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


What qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than 64 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
I BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MEIBOURNI
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £i)0 ( J, 622.
BOAItU OF U 1 RECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray ; Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.Q. .
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E. ; G. S. Coluian, C.B.E. i
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir (. laude Reading. K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W U Stewart . R. T Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER; J. W French.
■ Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M Hu*'-
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
§§
ss
llSI
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a on h s^ at 'f”'
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp tojgS
amilpimatina tables, masnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everiastm o
valves'*wa and oil-Ss, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10 12 PARRAMATTA RD„ CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £
1932. .205,752 25 p.c. = 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. 15 „ ~ 105,000 91,565 2,229,293
1934. .803,355 271 „ ~192,500 110.855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 ~ „ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. .666,940 70 „ „ 490.000 176,940 2,658.771
1937. .940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .505,153 90 ~ „ 630,000 2,738,552
1939. .356,841 40 ~ „ 280,000 76,841 2,815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 • • 3,061,969
1940. .520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941. .575,052 40 „ „ 280,000 295,052 3,597,409
1942. .515,574 40 „ „ 280,000 235,574 3,832,983
Besides mining silver-lead-zinc ore at
the Barrier, the big cos. operating on the
line of lode there have made important
contributions to the industrial develop-
ment of Australia. Now they are engaged
primarily in production of munition
metals, and many of the large group of
metal fabricating, ’plane-construction and
other industrial concerns in which they
are interested are engaged in meeting
th*e demands of our own apd Allied fight-
ing forces for munitions, arms and equip-
ment. And at every stage in the produc-
tion of these war goods there is an active
combination of materials, machines and
men, coupled with two other intangible
but vital factors—organising skill and the
will to go on. Every interruption to this
will, by strikes or otherwise, is the
equivalent of an attack on the
economic battlefront, upon the strength
of which victory for the fighting forces
in actual war zones largely depends.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
North’s production figures, at Govern-
ment request; but ore extraction is be-
lieved to be on a fairly even keel. Of
the total ore mined last term, 83.4 p.c.
came from the rich North section, where
lode pillars provided a substantial part
of the mill-feed, from which still a little
more metal was recovered;
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Lead . • 94.6 p.c. 95.5 p.c. 96.2 p.c. 96.9 p.c.
Silver .. 87.4 „ 88.1 „ 90.5 „ 91.8 „
Zinc .. 83.2 „ 86.5 „ 86.0 „ 86.4 ~
Whether the improvement in last year’s
figures was due to better mill practice oi
to richer ore, or both, is not ascertain-
able from the published report. The new
concentrating mill, which came into
operation just before the w-ar, is no doubt
giving a good account of itself. Another
pleasing feature is that development,
mainly in the lower levels, disclosed more
pay ore than was extracted. When the
books closed, measured ore reserves of
the North, British and Junction sections
combined totalled 5,340,000 tons (.up
108,000 tons), and a lot more payable
stuff is known to exist outside the meas-
ared limits. Below the 2600 ft. level the
drill continued in high-grade ore to
2970 ft., where the footwall was entered.
Since America came into the war there
has been no trouble about selling all
metal produced by the smelters at Pine.
Local lead and zinc requirements are
being met at prices claimed to be tne
lowest in the world, and remainder ot
production, less certain other require-
ments, finds its way to the British Min-
istry of Supply under contract. This con-
tract, previously an annual affair, is now
on a duration basis —the lead clause was
originally for 13,875 tons per month at
£AIB 16s. 7d. a ton, with half-yearly
adjustments for costs, which put the 1942
figure up to £A22 per ton. Here are
the North’s revenue and expenditure
figures: —
Revenue 1940. 1941.
Mine production £1,540,041 £4.741,318 £1,828,5 8
Investments .. 155,638 184,786 481,8^9
£1,695,679 £1,926,104 £1,960,337
E Mine itU, !!“ .. £1,024,501 £1,054,658 £1,114,715
P, and I. items 273,760 378,821 423,474
Loss investments 998
£1,298,261 £1,434,077 £1,538,189
Net profit . . . . 397,418 492,027 422,148
Last term mine products brought in an
extra £87,190, but working exes, took
£60,057 of the gain, mainly on account of
wage lifts The return from investments
was £52,957 lighter, and the tax bill
(£314,000, up £48,000) accounted for the
lift in the p. and I. item. The difference
between the profit claimed and that
shown in the introductory table repre-
sents £75,000 added to the depreciation
fund and an accretion of £18,426 to stores
replacement reserve. The £515,574 equals
3.65. per ss. share ; so nothing had to be
strained to meet the 2s. div.
Chief danger ahead appears to lie in
the inflationary trend of costs, both of
labor and materials. Unless the Govern-
ment makes wages subject to compulsory
loans, or to further direct taxation, the
drift will continue under pressure of
heavy war costs, and wage-earners and
receivers of fixed incomes will suffer more
than anyone else in the long run. Trans-
fer of man-power to the lighting forces
isn’t likely to be allowed to interfere
seriously with ore-production. A sweet
plum is the Government’s recent decision
to exempt from taxation for the duration
of the war 20 p.c. of the taxable income
derived from mining.
Balance-sheet figures present an attrac-
tive picture:
1940. 1941. 1942.
Shares in other cos. £1,313,637 £1,423,415 £1,485,887
Stores . . . . 90,008 105,099 118,231
Concentrates on hand 12,514 19,434 22,162
Debtors .. .. 443,837 569,327 455,839
Cash, etc... .. 187,196 159,245 862,636
Liquid assets .. £2,047,192 £2,276,520 £2,444,755
Less liabilities* .. 325,220 222,557 235,264
Liquid surplus .. £1,721,972 £2,053,963 £2,209,491
* Excludes provision for tax, etc., now £239,916.
The more or less liquid surplus (up
£155,528 last term) is equal to over three
times the paid capital,
Hordern Bros., Ltd. ("Sydney)
f Dividends N To
Prefs. Re— Re-
July, Profit. 9& 8 p.c.* Ords. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 28.231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933.. 30.207 13,175 6 „ „ 13.500 3,532 27.967
1934.. 31.007 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935.. 34.860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936.-39,048 13,175 6 „ „ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 6 ~ „ 14,530 14,608 66,584
1938.. 44.497 13,175 6 „ „ 14,530 16,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. 63,376
1989.. 42.087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 67,477
1940. .45,710 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,986 17,549' 85,026
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO .. 75,026
8 & 8 p.c.
1941.. 61.778 16,000 8 p.c. = 19,982 15,796 90,822
1942. .42,714 16,000 8 „ „ 19,982 6,732 97,554
* Subject to N.S’.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
The store runs through from Pitt-
street to George-street. Most of the
money enters via Pitt-street, which leads
to the women’s section, and that speaks
volumes for buying and trading policy,
considering the line-up of ragshops and
variety stores on each hand. Here is an
idea of how the clothes-rationing axe has
lopped Sydney turnovers as a whole:
Percentage Change on Same Month, 1941.
Wearing Apparel-^,
Piece- Men’s & Boots &
goods. Women’s. Boys’. Shoes.
March .. +30.1 +41.7 +47.9 +45.2
April . . +56.6 +31.3 +31.3 +46.8
May .. —7.0 —18.6 —13.7 —9.2
June .. -26.9 —31.3 —34.9 —8.9
July .. —18.9 —25.5 —28,5 —25.4
( A “'V
Household. Dress.
Aug. . . +63.6 —29.9 —1.3 +1.9 +12.3
Sept. .. +29.7 —38.8 —20.9 —23.0 +6.4
Oct. .. +6.4 —44.2 —30.7 —27.3 —11.2
Nov. . . +3.8 —27.9 —19.1 —19.6 -5.2
Dec. . . —4.6 —26.5 —29.8 —35.8 —lB.O
Household piecegoods, which aren’t on
coupons provided they leave the shop
“made up,” show an interesting trend.
But supply difficulties are causing all un-
rationed goods to ration themselves, so
smaller turnovers can be expected, not-
withstanding rationing administrator
Coles’s statement that no major change
in the allocation of clothing coupons is
contemplated in the second period.
These and other restrictive war meas-
ures, with limitation of gross margins to
a fixed money instead of percentage sum,
were felt only in the final quarter of the
last term. For the full period Sydney de-
partment-store sales nevertheless lifted
10 p.c. This and the sharp fall in its
stock - holding suggest that Hordern
Bros.’ profit fall had most to do with
tax and suchlike allocations, which, with
the exception of depreciation (£5624),
aren’t noised abroad. The £42,714
(down £9064) surplus exhibited was suffi-
dent to hand the prefs. their full contract
rates and then show 9.9 p.c. (13.8 p.c.
in ’4l) on the family-held ords. Instead,
an all-round 8 p.c. was paid.
Stocks are extensive and well-assorted
and still worth much more than in peace
days: —
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £427,825 £449,775 £449,775 £449,775
Mortgage 1 f 100,333 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. 1 193,614 1 22,986 98,713 12,180
Sundry cred.*j I 97,038 183,621 159,278
Premises I 405 17s 1 290,561 273,064 273,064
Fittings etc. j ’ I 88,380 83,872 79,280
Stocks -. 150,441 173,688 399,408 306,428
Book debts . . 55,920 88,903 119,683 58,885
Mortgages \ « j 54,932 54,932 52,317
Cash; etc. ) 1 59,987 8,867 49,146
* Including tax provision.
The fall of £92,980 here and discourage-
ment of credit-trading—debtors dropped
£60,798 —enabled a reduction of £110,976
in the co.’s own indebtedness, principally
where it will be most beneficial. Cash
holding jumped up £40,279, too. Still,
the more or less liquid surplus (£194,985)
was £5238 lighter. In the aggregate the
Harbor City’s retail trade v/as employ-
ing 24.5 p.c. fewer hands in December,
with a saving of 18.7 p.c. in the wages
bill, and other economies have been pos-
sible. Much depends on further Govern-
ment demands on both young labor and
floor and warehousing space, and as to
whether retailers are to be left to carry
out their own reorganisation or not.
There has been the minimum of direct
interference with distributing activities in
Britain, despite “telescoping” of manu-
facturing interests.
James Stedman Henderson’s Sweets
. Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1932.. 17,124 *8,031 11 p.c. = 7,960 1,133 35,303
1933.. 24,430 *7,750 3 „ „ 15,921 759 36,062
Written off, £3964 32.09?
1934.. 26,891 *7,750 31 p.c. = 18,574 567 32,66 a
1935.. 36,261 *7,750 5 „ „ 26,534 1,977 34,642
1936.. 38,306 *7,750 5 ~ „ 26,534 4,022 38,664
1937.. 41,822 *7,750 5 ~ „ 26,534 7,638 46,202
1938.. 24,604 *7,750 4 ~ „ 21,227 41,829
1939.. 34,423 *7,750 4i ~ „ 23,881 2,792 44,621
1940.. 37,387 *7,750 5 ~ „ 26,534 3,103 47,724
1941.. 41,355 *7,750 5 „ ~26,534 7,071 54,790
1942.. 39,406 *7,750 5 „ „ 26,534 5,122 59,917
*22J p.c. statutory cut from Oct. 1. 1931.
Sweets, although in the luxury class,
are a good selling line among all age
classes, and have a No. 1 priority with
juveniles. But there is little exclusive
about their manufacture. This co., while
entrenched in a big way as a manufac-
turer at Sydney and Auckland (M.L.),
has not so far produced anything thrill-
ing in the way of profits, despite assist-
ance from the Nestle’s organisation on
the distributing side. And a substantial
capital is a hurdle against much choco-
late-coating on divs.
Conditions last term, especially in the
first half, were conducive to easy trad-
ing. Production suffered in the second
six months through man-power call-ups,
and costs became jumpy and moved
higher. After writing off £19,912 for
depreciation, providing for taxes on a
heavier scale, and allowing for all other
exes., net result for the year was figurec
at £39,406 (down £1949). That does not
include £233 slipped into specific re-
serves. Net earnings thus disclosed were
sufficient to pay the prefs. their statu-
torily reduced rate and show 5.9 p.c. on
£530,690 of ord. capital, as against 6.3,
5.5 and 5 p.c. back to 1939. Ord. div.
was 5 p.c. for the third successive year,
and £5122 was left for the lay-by
(£59,917). It is subject to £48,250 of
patent rights.
It isn’t a very impressive record. Best
result so far was back in 1929, when,
after meeting pref. needs and paying
6 p.c. to the ords., £11,071 was left for
reserves. Still, the board rarely fails to
do something to strengthen finances, and
that in itself- is a good sign. Finances
more than management have been an
obstacle to earnings attractive m


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting i
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Aim.
* * * *
DAVIKS & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Aim,
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
asms
POT VO y « c
BUSIMBS«'" RS .
SAfE
111
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
SIDITOOVSELLeCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
BRANDALHTS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BBXNDAQBB * CO. lU. BIBMiMOHAM. UNO
VICTORY
W A
SERIES
RONALDSONTIPPETT
mm.
.
ass*
\X7E are backing up our fighting men and
our Allies by an all-out effort in war
production.
Pictured here is a BOMB PARTING OFF
MACHINE (weight 4£ tons), built in our
workshops, and used for parting off 2501 b.
armour-piercing bombs. Bombs partly manu-
factured in similar machines have brought
many a “Nip” to earth, and there are many
more to come.
This is but one of the many important war
jobs which tax the energy and shill of our
engineers. The fact that we are accomplish-
ing many tasks (in the national interest)
which are “off the beaten track” speaks
volumes for the skill and ingenuity of our
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY., LTD.
Head Office; BALLARAT, Vic.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Litd., Frazer House,
43 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors; Ronaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty., Litd.,
Parbury House. 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
#<>
moves mountains
THERE is no limit to what a nation can do when its
people learn to co-operate with each other, but some
idea of the possibilities may be gathered by studying the
lesson of the A.M.P. Society.
One family in every two in the Commonwealth has helped, and is
helping, to build up the strength of the A.M.P. to the end that it
might be the better able to protect its members. The measure of
protection that each family enjoys depends, of course, on the amount
that each contributes to the common fund.
Contributions range from a shilling a week upwards, but so widespread
is the co-operation , so vast the membership, that the Society’s income
last year was £17,315,000, and its assets are valued to-day at
£140,000,000.
Last year the Society paid out £8,250,000 in benefits to members and
their beneficiaries, but in addition it has been, and is, putting £500,000
a month into the War Loans. To date it has loaned £50,000,000 to
the Commonwealth. Its ability to help its members and the Nation
grows from day to day.
When the war is over the Society’s strength will be turned to helping
the Nation get squarely on its feet again: Co-operation not only moves
mountains, but makes easier the hardest of tasks.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir f .muel Hordern K.8.E., Chairman.
< Cecil h.. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax. Esq., W. A. Mackay,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manacer and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
relation to capital. Here is a comparison
of balance-sheet figures;
1936, 1939. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £630,690 £630,690 £630,690 £630,690
Mortgage .. 45,000 57,500 47.500 52,500
Overdraft . . 35,761 40,682 48,330 26,782
Sundry creditors 45,930 66,368 118,775 92,937
Specific reserves 2,930 4,412 4,645
Freeholds .. 164,752 183,147 181,843 181,721
Plant, etc. . . 339.556 827,669 301,614 289,706
Stocks.. .. 139,580 160,281 228.906 189,147
Debtors . .. 103,124 119,966 137,365 147.595
Invest. & cash 31,184 31,234 36,833 41,459
An extra £5OOO was borrowed on mort-
gage last term, but other debts were re-
duced £47,386. Also, £4500 was slipped
into war loan. Stocks came down
£39,759, and debtors went up £10,230.
The co. probably finds what others have
found—the Government is often long-
winded in settling. The more or less
liquid surplus, including stocks, is now
£205,982 (up £17,483).
Prospects for sweets, as for other foods,
are somewhat obscure. It is difficult to
fully replace stocks being consumed.
Transportation troubles, particularly
overseas, are responsible, states the board.
Sugar is more plentiful than anticipated
earlier, but chocolate is scarce, and so
are flavorings. Meantime, activities are
gradually being transferred from civil to
essential service and war requirements.
Directors of Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L.
(W.A.), “after carefully reviewing the
co.’s financial position,” have decided not
to pay the quarterly dividend usually
distributed in April. They consider it
essential that a cash reserve of approxi-
mately £lO,OOO (£6OOO is at present in-
vested in war loans) be created before
any further payments are made. They
add that, owing chiefly to man-power
difficulties and resultant decreased
throughput," costs have risen considerably
and at times it has appeared almost im-
possible to carry on. Shareholders are
told to be prepared for a recurrence of
this acute situation. T. Peart, late man-
ager of Mt. Magnet and Youanmi, has
succeeded R. H. Warrick as mine boss.
He recommends deepening the main
shaft. Wiluna and Hill 50 are now the
only mines operating on the Murchison.
Staff will be the main factor in future
operations.
London - controlled Youanmi Gold
Mines, Ltd., tells a mingled yarn about
(1) loss of £1799 stg. on the last years
operations on its since-closed-down mine,
(2) action of Commonwealth Govern-
ment in grabbing certain important items
of plant and leaving a residue which
might be of little value when considered
alone, (3) trouble over remitting money
to London, and (4) “promising” new
property on the Yilgarn field. After
much argument the Government offered
£40,000 sterling for the plant. The
directors got an independent valuation of
£76,000. Something between these two
amounts has, it is understood, been
accepted.
Youanmi’s other resources in sterling
are: Cash, bullion, war bonds, etc.,
approximately £40,000; and stores,
£8458. All creditors have been paid. It
is admitted that when the mine closed
down owing to labor shortage there was
nearly 200,000 tons of ore reserves visible
in its workings. As to the new property
at Yilgarn, £BOO has been spent in pro-
tecting it; an independent expert esti-
mates proved and probable oxidised ore
at 118,000 tons of 4.2dwt. average value,
and sulphides at 168,000 tons of B.4dwt.
grade. As most Westralian gold deposits
are richer in the oxidised zone, higher
sulphide values are difficult to under-
stand, though they may be correct, he
says, and he recommends dewatering and
20 p.c. check-sampling before purchase.
The board is talking of spending a further
£5OOO on a working option.
* * * *
An official announcement made in
London, but not in Australia, mentions
a serious subsidence in the old Lake
View lode opencut on the Boulder Per-
severance mine, Kalgoorlie. A cavity
100 ft. in diameter at surfa.ce and 60ft.
at the 100 ft. level was reported, together
with the urgent need for 30,000 tons of
filling. Later it was stated that the
subsidence, while important, was not so
serious as indicated earlier, when it was
said that the cavity was 500 ft. deep, that
it was enlarging and endangering the
winciing-eng.ne room and office buildings,
a: that the sides of the fall were being
blasted down to save the surface works.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Gold Mines, Ltd., which
skied the golden towel in Westralia last
year, informs its London shareholders
that the Westralian Government has
bought the plant for £25,000 Australian
and that proceeds have been used to pay
off the bank overdraft and costs of re-
ceivership. A balance of £6721 is being
retained by the Government in reduction
of sums advanced to the co., secured by
second charge on certain assets, including
plant. Present sterling assets are cash
£1035 and value of stores taken over by
Director of Munitions £2300. Liabili-
ties in Australia amount to £A4075 and
in London to £stg. 10,204. Directors
state that winding-up steps will have to be
taken eventually and in no circumstances
can any return of capital be expected.
* * 4= *
Proposal unsuccessfully made again
and again in recent years for a further
return of capital to Golden Horse Shoe
(W.A.) shareholders is likely to be put
forward at the next annual meeting. A
shilling a share was repaid in 1932, and
the chairman (knight Frederic Hamilton)
has repeatedly stated that another return
would not be considered until capital ex-
penditure had come to an end, all
residues on hand treated, and no more
available for purchase. That time may
not be long. At the last annual roll-up
it was said that the remaining tailings
would be cleaned up by the end of 1943.
* * * *
From London:
Some old shareholders deplore the absence
of men from down under from boards of
Australian goldmining cos. domiciled here. They
point out that years ago directors of these
ventures included such men as G. P. Doolette,
A. H. Collier, G. and B. Brookman, of Adel-
aide, Bill Clark and Lionel Robinson, of Mel-
bourne, Billy Jones, of Ballarat, F. H. Aarons,
of Sydney, and others. Collier is still a director
of several cos., but Clark, who was on the
Associated Northern board, retired some time
before it liquidated. The rest have passed on.
Young blood is also reckoned to be needed.
Several directors of Westralian goldmining
cos. domiciled here talk of visiting that State
after the war. Of Wiluna’s seven directors,
three have seen the mine; of Lake View’s six,
four; of Boulder Perseverance’s four, three; of
North Kalgurli’s four and South Kalgurli’s
three, none; of Paringa’s three, one; of Gold
Mine's of Kalgurli’s five, three; of Sons of
Gwalia’s four, two —one, E. A. Loring, when
a small boy during the time his father was mine
boss; and of Tindals’ six, three.
e * * *
Transvaal crushed last year the record quantity
of 68,000,000 tons of ore, but in all other
respects the growing handicaps of war caused
a susbsidence from previous peaks—except that
of taxation. In 1941 the gold output reached
the unprecedented total of 14,400,OOOoz.; in
1942 it was between 14,100,000 and 14,200,000.
As a result of the larger quantity of ore treated
in 1942 and the higher cost of mining supplies,
aggregate expenditure—in spite of various eco-
nomies effected —was something like £1,000,000
up. The net outcome was a relapse in gross
profits of approaching £2,000,000 to under
£44,000,000 and a setback in the dividend total
from £18,750,000 to between £16,500,000 and
£16,750,000. The “Financial Times” says that
on face value of around £90,000,000 represented
by the capital of the goldmines the latest divi-
dend total may seem not a bad return, but it
must be recognised that much of the capital was
subscribed at considerably above par and that
a large proportion of the dividends must be
treated as redemption of “wasting assets,” see-
ing that no mine lives for ever.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) is in trouble. Costs in
the last few months have been several
thousand pounds greater than receipts,
debts have increased and the manager
has resigned. There is some talk of the
mine closing down until conditions get
better.
* * * *
Australian Mines Management and
Secretariate, local boss of the De Ber-
nales Westralian golden group, reports
the following January returns:
Treated, Value Working Working
Company. Tons. Yield. Costs.* Surplus.
Gt. Boulder.. 25,155 £61,710 £40,818 £21,892
Comet .. 1,395 11,126 6,498 4,628
Eiuu. . .. 2.161 6,693 6,370 1,323
Phomix .. 2,504 5,257 5,968 7111
Vellowdine .. 1.255 5,112 4,015 1,097
* Including development, t Loss.


r?
m
tS*
■ f
2$
kv!
v
a
5*
5*
«»
; ,- if/V
... //'f # small symbo
BEHIND the flame and the clamour of
war, behind the smoke and the blood
and the agony, there are many factors,
seemingly small in themselves but great
in their significance and vital in their
indispensability. Water, for instance.
Without water, men perish. They may
survive the battle and the bombings, but
they cannot survive the lack of water.
Now you see how important this water
bottle is.
It is made in its entirety from CRMCO
Sheet Steel. Certainly, CRMCO steel is
used, too, in bombers and battle wag-
gons, in guns and in hand grenades, in
shells, in bombs, in cooking gear and in
innumerable other items of war equip-
ment and armament.
For these purposes you naturally accept
steel as indispensable. So it is. And
thousands upon thousands of tons of
CRMCO steel are so used in Aus-
tralia’s war effort. But behind the
glamour of the guns and the pride of
the bombers, and the majesty of the
tanks, there’s the vital water bottle
. . . symbol of the universal need of
steel in war.
bmHUHWeOMH,
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
annual income exceeds
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Prices Ceiling
Treasurer Chifley, under whose finan-
cial administration inflation per medium
of Treasury-bill finance has already be-
come a serious internal disorder in this
country, with its full story yet to come,
has announced the fixing of a price
ceiling for all goods, with the exception
of perishable and seasonal primary
products, such as potatoes, eggs, meat,
carrots, citrus fruits, onions, tomatoes,
apples, pears, hides and skins. There
may be other exceptions where profits
and balance sheets have been studied —
desperate cases, apparently. But in no
instance will a rise in the price of basic
commodities over those ruling on April
12 be permitted except in the case of
seasonal products. The Government
proposes to subsidise some items in
order to keep prices down, but before a
producer will be granted a subsidy he will
have to “satisfy a Price Stabilisation
Committee that he still needs relief after
having exhausted the possibilities of
economies resulting from rationalisation
and improved efficiency.” Cost of subsi-
dies, etc., is tipped to run to between £lO
million and £l5 million.
In endeavoring to put the lid on the
rise in prices which has been almost con-
tinuous since the outbreak of war and
particularly steep over the last 18 months,
the Government aims at imposing further
burdens on the employing end of industry
in the matter of price-control that will
in all cases restrict movements in profit
margins to downward ones —“any reduc-
tion in costs will be automatically fol-
lowed by a reduction in those prices.”
The majority of cos. have found it diffi-
cult already to get consideration under
the ordinary prices control where costs
have ri L sen ’ and, particularly over the last
y ear ’ there has been a falt m I ? oSt f W i r ;
ma( j e U p to wage-earner. This depre-
elation has run to about 22 p.c. since war
sta rted, and the basic wage has gone
up 16s. But company shareholders have
seen their profits drop away, and their
dividends have shrunk, of course,
B.H.P.’s div. has fallen from p.c. to
5 p.c., and Commonwealth Bank statis-
tics show that there is a widespread down-
ward movement among the incomes of
company shareholders as a whole,
Price-control is a necessary thing,
Britain, Canada and the U.S.A. have it.
From the very outset of this war, and at all
times when members of the present Gov-
ernment were advocating methods of pay-
ing for the war that were bound to breed
inflation, The Bulletin has been strong
for the control of costs and prices. It
foresaw the difficulties in which Australia
now finds itself, and urged the Govern-
ment all along to adopt methods whereby
the cost of war could be paid for directly
instead of by such a devious means as
bank credit. But the great volume of
income in the Commonwealth is earned
by people getting £8 a week and under,
and so many votes were involved that the
Government repeatedly shied away from
doing the sane, obvious and honest thing
—that is, taxing these incomes adequately,
So until April 1, when a new scale of
taxation was brought in, millions of in-
flationary pounds were left in the hands
of wage-earners every month when they
should have been taken, as in other coun-
tries, to pay for the war with something
like equality of sacrifice. Instead of such
equality, the position was that the major-
ity of wage-earners were making money
out of the war—becoming “richer” while
the country became poorer. In the cir-
cumstances, with lavish rates of overtime
being paid by a Government which of its
own accord introduced the 44-hour week
into the maritime industries, it was inevit-
able that we should have trouble with
rising prices.
Though Government spokesmen stress
the aspect of the rising cost of imports,
political bribery of voters by granting
impossible economic concessions in the
way of high pay on the one hand and
low war taxes rn the other have had
most to do with the inflating prices and
costs within the Commonwealth. In en-
deavoring to maintain a high standard of
living at a time like the present the Gov-
ernment has merely produced a high cost
of living. We know what the standard is
like —it is a standard of a level to which
waste and bungling have contributed. The
Government has interfered with the
democratic way of life in a measure far
beyond the demands of the war, and
“nationalisation” and bureaucracy have
made rapid strides under the cloak of war-
time emergency.
The Government is now taking a step
of great administrative difficulty and cost
in terms of man-power and friction, and
it is not doing so with the sort of record
behind it that one would like to see. In
the Government’s previous dealings with
the people in matters of economic ad-
justment this paper has yet to hear of a
case that was at the one time executed
with straightforwardness, fairplay and
commonsense. Except where it thought
it was hitting the “big man,” every
action that has been taken to allocate
the economic burdens of the* war in a
workable manner has been as a sort of
deathbed repentance. No skill or fore-
sight has been displayed. If anything
has shown a sign of scintillation in the
great amount of administrative bungling
it has been political cunning. The Gov-
ernment’s financial administration has
been deplorable.
Other countries have found it essen-
tial to impose a prices ceiling, and some
have at the same time pegged wages.
The most we have heard in this latter
direction in the Commonwealth has been
a suggestion by Professor Copland that
“an effect of the new system may be to
make unnecessary the automatic wage
adjustments ordered by the Arbitration
Court to meet the cost-of-living varia-
tions.” As always, the Government leaves
all the latitude in the world as regards
trade-unionists and their bosses, while
imposing rigid control elsewhere. There
should be full practical control every-
where, but proper budgeting to start with
would have made many other controls
unnecessary and would have relieved the
Government of its imploring-threatening
attitude in the matter of borrowing from
the public. The recent loan campaign
was in several respects disgraceful to be-
hold, revealing as it did the selfishness,
accompanied by latent alarm, that has
been bred in millions of Australians by
the Government’s vote-struck method of
governing.
A price-ceiling is a clumsy thing, and
at best is only an auxiliary control in the
problem of inflating prices. The causes
of inflation have to be attended to as
well, and, as we have seen, political diffi-
culties have been found —or created —
there. On the one hand, in this matter
of stabilising prices, there will be a re-
striction on the extent to which a pro-
ducer will be able to recover costs, and
on the other a paying of Paul to rob
Peter —a concession in prices to the con-
sumer, the cost of the concession to be
recovered from taxpayers generally, irre-
spective of how disproportionate the
spread of the taxation burden may
already be. A price-ceiling is no correc-
tive of inflation ; it redistributes inflation,
and often exaggerates the unfairness of
inflation’s incidence.
There is one favorable aspect of the
prices ceiling in Australia —apparently
Professor Copland is to figure in the ad-
ministration of it, and though there have
been complaints about the Prices Branch
in the past, they have not been so fre-
quent as those against the Department
of War Organisation of Industry. How-
ever, Mr. Dedman is also to appear in
the picture somewhere; he even offers
the loan of “efficiency experts” to help
out manufacturers who find themselves
squeezed against the ceiling by the pres-
sure of costs!
An increase from 32| p.c. to 42 \ p.c. in
the price of paint over the figures ruling
on August 31, 1939, has been allowed by
Professor Copland. The increases include
sales tax. The cost of raw materials has
greatly increased. Taubman’s showed a
decreased profit during the year to Sept.
30 last
* * * *
Britain is again taking dried fruits
from Australia. Mr. Scully has an-
nounced that “a big part of the export
surplus of dried vine fruits of the 1943
season” had been sold to Britain at the
following f.o.b. prices: Currants, £3O 55.,
sultanas, £4l ; lexias, four and five crown,
£4O 10s. a ton. Although those prices to
Britain do not provide for grades, at the
Australian end shippers will make an
adjustment in prices to producers accord-
ing to grade.
* * * *
Although Australia has so far been
able to grow only a few cinchona trees,
which will not produce quinine for five
or six years, enough acreage of pyre-
thrum is under cultivation in this country
to supply all military needs in the matter
of mosquito- and fly-sprays. Morphine
is being got from Australian-grown
opium poppies, and there is now enough
of this drug for all Commonwealth re-
quirements. Hypnotic drugs are being
derived in plentiful* supplies from the
corkwood tree.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Ibis Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent, free, on reguest.
Directors.
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Marager. N. L. SHAW. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
P. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
AUSTRALIA-WIDE TALK by
Mr. A. W. ANDERSON, Founder and Leader of the
One Parliament for Australia Movement
TUESDAY, APRIL 27.— Sydney: 2GB, 9 p.m.; 2UE, 9.30 p.m. Melbourne
3DB, 9.45 p.m. Adelaide: SDN, 9 p.m. Perth: 01X, 9.15 p.m. Hobart: 7HO
9 p.m. Launceston: TEX, 9 p.m. Brisbane, May 4: 4BK, 9 p.m.; 4BC, 9.30 p.m.
COUNTRY LISTENERS IN ALL STATES: Listen in immediately to your
local station tor notice of broadcast.
Mr. A. n. Anderson
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
and war savings certificates
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space by the Manufacturers of
HR
RE6? TRADE MARK
SAUCE
V
1
: :
■
■/. y-^
m
!S6
»
Sr
AV*v
M
precision aircraft equipment
Aircraft equipment intended for our war
planes might well be likened to “The Invisible
Crew”. Such equipment as starters, generators
and magnetos, must be precision engineered
to highest standards of accuracy, for the lives
of our war plane personnel can depend on the
worthiness of each such unit.
Tecnico Limited, manufacturing many units of
aircraft equipment —“The Invisible Crew”—
have developed an engineering organisation
equipped and staffed to produce precision
components comparable with any . . . Tecnico
Products. TC.2.43
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST., MARRICKVILLE
N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211
lecnico
Britain proposes to raise £2907 million
by taxation this year and £2848 million
by borrowing, etc. That indicates that
over 50 p.c. of this year’s outgo is to be
met by taxation. Income tax is not in-
creased —rates have been stable for two
years now. Indirect taxes are higher again,
however —beer tax goes up another iu. a
pint (up 3d. in two years), whisky 2s, 4d.
a bottle (7s. in two years), tobacco 4id.
an ounce (Is.) and a “ninepenny” packet
of 10 cigarettes will now cost 12|d. On
theatre seats costing over Is. there is
increased tax. Duty on light wines, Brit-
ish and foreign, is up 3s. a gallon, and
6s. a gallon on heavy wines. A cabled
summary of the Budget is as follows:
Inland Revenue.
Income lax .. .. .. £1,175,000,000
Surtax .. .. .. .. 80,000,000
Estate duties .. .. •. 100,000,000
Stamps .. •.. .. .. 17,000,000
National defence contribution
and Excess Profit Tax .. 500,000,000
Additional inland revenues .. 1,000,000
Total .. £1,873,000,000
Customs, Excise Revenue.
Customs £525,320,000
Excise 450,180,000
Total £975,500,000
Additional Revenues.
Motor taxes and miscellaneous £59,000,000
Total receipts from taxes ..'£2,907,500,000
Excess of expenditure over
revenue 2,848,614,000
Grand total £5,756,114,000
Total expenditure in the preceding year
was £5637 million, of which taxation pro-
vided £2595 million. Sir Kingsley Wood
is using indirect taxes on luxuries and
the like with considerable effect. At a
price of £lBO million a year the cost of
living has been stabilised at under 30
p.c. up on pre-war figures. The food
index for March this year was 20 p.c.
up, compared with 23 p.c, in April, 1941.
®l*
Sir Kingsley Wood, in his Budget
speech, revealed that “United States help
is large, but no greater than Britain is
affording her Allies. Reciprocal aid is
also operating on a considerable scale in
Australia, New Zealand and the colonial
Empire.” He also pointed out that com-
mitments by India in the matter of de-
fence had increased very little since the
outbreak of war. Britain is paying for
nearly everything in that war theatre of
daily-growing importance. That is with-
out belittling India’s contribution in man-
power, for which Britain is finding the
finance.
At what exchange rate is Australia
servicing U.S. troops in this country
under lend-lease? A great deal hangs
on the answer. In September the Prime
Minister revealed that the Common-
wealth was giving the U.S.A. reverse
lend-lease aid in the shape of small coast
and harbor craft, repairs and docking,
food, clothing and other requirements of
all the U.S. services here, camp accom-
modation, munitions, workshops and
many other items. So far as lend-lease in
general is concerned, in the ultimate
reckoning it is generally understood that
there will be little or no squaring-up of
balances. That is all right where one
country gives to another a specified quan-
tity, of materials which it knows it can
afford. But in the case of U.S, soldiers
in this country, they are being paid the
wherewithal to buy unspecified goods
—anything they like—and as Australian
is providing them with some of that
money, and in any case is called upon
to convert dollars into Australian pounds
and then pounds into Australian goods
and services, the rate of exchange for
lend-lease purposes is very important.
At 6s. Id. to the dollar —the rate quoted
generally all over Australia —it works
out at $3.29 to the Australian pound.
That is a very low figure to put on
Australian money, and it means, accord-
ing to people who know living costs
in this country and the U.S.A., that
the dollar is buying far more here (of
the sort of things that can be bought)
than can be bought in the dollar’s home
country. In other words, in these parti-
cular circumstances 6s. Id. for a dollar
is a false rate of exchange, and as there
seem to be a large number of men being
paid on a dollar basis in this country the
high purchasing power of U.S. currency,
very often provided at high cost by the
Australian Government, is loaded with
inflationary effects. Such inflation in
prices is already very evident in Bris-
bane and places further north.
sjc * * *
Mr, Dedman’s Department of War
Organisation of Industry now makes it an
offence for a liquor advertiser merely to
mention the name of his product in an
advertisement and then give a picture and
description of, say, the Araluen Valley or
the Barron Falls. It would also appear
to be illegal to mention the liquor and
then advocate the buying of war-savings
certificates. But, meantime, over the air
we hear liquor-sponsored programmes
quite frequently, and some of them go
on far too long even for people who
love Mr. Dedman. Can it possibly be—
can it possibly be? —that Mr. Dedman
has some particular dislike of the free,
unrationalised word in the public press
that manifests itself not in matters radio?
In N. S. Wales 37 commercial radio
stations have been declared “protected
undertakings” under the man-power
regulations, 18 in Victoria, 17 in Queens-
land, 11 in Westralia, eight in Tasmania
and six in South Aus. It is officially con-
sidered that “radio would be a vital link
between the Government and the public
in an emergency and it is essential to
maintain public morale at all times.”
Much use is being made of commercial
radio in Sydney at the present time to
advocate Communism by “sponsored
sessions,” and open abuse of the Opposi
tion parties at Canberra is frequently
heard under the slogan of “support the
Curtin Government,” although that Gov-
ernment breaks out into an angry sweat
every time there is a suggestion of the
Opposition parties using any form of
propaganda against the Government for
election purposes.
* * * *
The price of tin in Australia was lifted
by £5 a ton as from April 12. The tin
pool will take the increase and use it
to subsidise tin producers working on
low-grade ores and wash.
* * t *
During March the Commonwealth’s
outlay on war totalled £47.5 million, mak-
ing £407.5 million for the nine months
to March 31. Loan money to the extent
of £334.2 million was used, only £73.3
million being provided by consolidated
revenue. There are three months of the
financial year still to go, and it is fore-
cast that by June 30 war will have cost
£540 million for the 12 months and over
£lOOO million since Sept. 3, 1939. With
revenue representing only 18 p.c, of the
cost of war so far this year, we are obvi-
ously relying far too much on borrowing
and bank credit. Extra taxation has been
levied since April 1, and in any case
more revenue usually comes in during
the last quarter. But the position is very
unsatisfactory.
* * * *
The engineering trades of Australia
have played a very important part in
the equipment of this country for war.
AH over the Commonwealth there are
engineering shops, large and small, dove-
tailing in some way in turning out the
basic machines that aid the fighting man
so much. Engineers, as a rule, are trained
to cope with all kinds of mechanical
problems, and from the highest research
specialists and consultants to the man
who works with a spanner and screw-
driver himself they have proved them-
selves adaptable to the demands of
mechanised warfare. Australia, thou-
sands of miles by sea from its
nearest mass-production ally, has had
to depend on its own engineering re-
sources to an exceptional degree. Firms
that previously supplied the frames of
buildings and bridges may now be found
building ships, those that turned out rail-
way carriages may now be making aero-
plane, tank or gun parts, and motor-body
people are doing many vital, often amaz-
ing, jobs. Mining dredges aren’t now
being built, but the big concerns that
made them are busier than ever —on war
jobs. Bicycle concerns and former motor
engineers now turn out lathes and other
tools. Throughout the trade there are a
multitude of such changeovers. There is
a large pool of brains and skill, as well
as man-power, in Australia’s engineering
industry, and, with B.H.P. and similar
concerns as central sources of supply,
some magnificent work has been done.


THE SERVICE MAN
The New Guinea War.
“Ek Dum”: It coincided last week
with a war of words in the U.S.A. and
Australia:
Dr. Evatt: Forces in the South-west
Pacific area, not by massing great strength
but by consummate bravery and a policy of
attack; —by shrewd, implacable leadership,
initiative, resource and improvisation—have
destroyed 70 Japanese ships, shattered 1500
Japanese ’planes and killed 65,000 picked
Japanese troops. Our land forces were
80 per cent. Australians, who fought not
merely for the security of the Common-
wealth, but as the trustees for 31 Allied
nations. Because of lack of resources —the *
heaviest attacking force used against Rabaul
consisted of 37 ’planes, which dropped 80
tons of bombs —it was impossible to follow
up the victories, and the South-west Pacific
Command has been compelled to allow the
enemy to recover from blows which made
him stagger. To protect Australia as a
base of operation, it is essential that all
the forces needed in this theatre of war
should be provided quickly.
General MacArthur’s spokesman: A
great Japanese offensive fleet is maintained
at Truk, 800 miles from Rabaul, out of
range of Allied aerial attack, and for several
months past 250,000 tons of merchant ship-
ping has been in and around Rabaul. The
Japanese bases on the southern arc,
Palau (1500 miles from Darwin), Manila,
Sourabaya (1000 miles from the Westralian
coast), are within easy concentration range
of the 2500-mile battle-line across North
Australia. General Blarney’s estimate that
Japan has 200,000 troops and a powerful
force of combat troops in the archipelago
north of Australia is conservative. Ex-
cept for our submarine activities, which are
not to be discounted, the Japanese have
complete control of the sea lanes of the
western Pacific and of the outer approaches
to Australia. Control of such sea lanes
no longer depends solely or perhaps even
primarily on naval power. The first line
of Australian defence is our bomber line.
These views were reinforced by Major-
General Kenney, G.O.C. air in the Aus-
tralian area. The Japanese Radio chipped
in to the effect that an offensive is begin-
ning on all fronts and that the time is
particularly ripe for a drive southwards.
This is in keeping with previous Japanese
threats that Australia will be “severely
punished” for its refusal to surrender or
remain neutral.
Colonel Knox, Secretary for the U.S.
Navy: I know of no Japanese concentra-
tion of sea power in the South Pacific.
Mr. Stimson, Secretary for War: We shall
keep our Australian and American fliers
supplied with sufficient ’planes not only to
replace losses, but also to build up forces
to counter the increasing enemy air strength.
Mr. Curtin: The Australian Government
accepts global strategy in so far as it con-
ditions Australia’s employment as an offen-
sive base until Hitler is beaten. It does
not accept a flow of war materials,
notably aircraft, which does not measure
up to the requirements of a holding war.
Newspapers joined in, and the Austra-
tralian case for greater assistance was
strongly supported by the Hearst chain
and by New York and Washington
organs. Joseph Harsch, of the “Chris-
tian Science Monitor,” was, however,
quoted by the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
as saying that there were objections in
high quarters to (1) the frequent appeals
from Australia; (2) the restriction on
militia service, and (3) the withdrawal of
the Ninth Division in ships required for
other operations.
Too much notice cannot be taken of
public discussions of military supply
problems. More than once, as in the
case of Milne Bay, the Coral Sea battle
and the campaign in the Solomons, ex-
hibitions of complacency and apparent
weakness and unawareness by American
Secretaries and officials have turned out
to be useful bluffs, the aftermath of
which the enemy did not relish.
There is comfort in the fact that, in
every case in which there has been a need
for added strength, it has been provided
in time and with some margin. Apart
from this, Australia’s own strength is
growing daily.
New Guinea Operations
The enemy during the week indulged
in an unusual outburst of aerial energy
in which he used larger forces of bombers
against Allied bases in General Mac-
Arthur’s area than ever previously. His
forces, however, were not great enough
to cause surprise to the intended victims.
They were merely in keeping with the
concentrations which were known to exist
in the New Guinea area. If there was
any cause for surprise it lay in the fact
that the counter-attacks have not come
earlier and on a larger scale.
Following their unsuccessful attack on
Oro Bay on April 12, the Japs savagely
attacked Moresby next day with 105
’planes—4s bombers and 60 fighters.
They lost 17 bombers and nine fighters
for certain and 10 bombers and a fighter
probably destroyed. In all areas on
April 12 the enemy was reported to have
lost 52 aircraft. Airacobras and Light-
nings formed the staple of the defence.
Some damage was done. One Allied
fighter was shot down and another is
missing.
This sally was followed by an assault
on Milne Bay. Tokyo’s version, issued
in a communique from Imperial H.Q.,
was that the Japanese Navy had learnt
of the arrival at Milne Bay of a large
convoy of Allied transports and imme-
diately took measures to destroy it.
Fires, it was asserted, were started in
five areas in the vicinity of the bay ; four
transports were sunk immediately and
another seven went down later, while 44
Allied ’planes were shot out of the air.
Jap losses, it was alleged, were five
aircraft, which were believed to have
crash-dived deliberately into their objec-
tives.
It sounded bad, as did the first accounts
given out in Australia by Minister Beas-
ley, who told a loan-promotion rally in
Melbourne that the action had “brought
losses which will have to be accounted
for, and for which a great effort is neces-
sary, both in organisation and money-
power.”
General MacArthur’s statement was dif-
ferent. The general reported that from
75 to 100 enemy machines, medium dive-
bombers (46) with fighter escort, had
made the attack at dawn on Wednesday.
Damage and casualties were caused on
three small Allied vessels, one of which
was beached. On .the other two the fires
were put out in short order. Damage
ashore was described as “negligible.”
The bombers made their attacks at
high levels, 20,000 ft. to 27,000 ft., and
were promptly tackled by R.A.A.F. Kitty-
hawks, which at once became involved
in a series of whirling dogfights with the
escorts, which ranged from earth to ceil-
ing. Presently Lightnings took part in
the battles in the upper air, but the brunt
of the half-hour battle fell on the shoul-
ders of the Kittyhawks.
Enemy ’planes “shot out of action”
numbered 30, of which 22 were bombers
and eight fighters. Fifteen were seen to
crash, nine were seen falling and six
took delivery of bursts and left the fight.
Our own losses were not given, but were
described as “moderate.”
Convoy at Wewak
Allied bombing covered its usual range
from Ambon to Rabaul, its largest
actions being directed against the Wewak
area.
The fiercest Allied attacks from April
12’ onward were on shipping in the
Madang-Wewak section of the New
Guinea coast.
On April 13 reconnaissance ’planes
picked up a convoy of six cargo vessels,
three of which seemed to be between
8000 tons and 10,000 tons, in Hansa Bay,
close to Bogia, halfway between the two
main northern coastal bases. The ships
were shepherded by a cruiser and two
destroyers. It was a busy scene —winches
working heartily and power boats carry-
ing supplies ashore.
Liberators, in spite of bad weather,
made several attacks. They found search-
lights operating and 15 fighters moving
to the attack. Six of the fighters were
shot down in a 20-minute running com-
bat which ranged over 50 miles.
Apart from interception, there was a
surprising weight of ack-ack fire. A
10,000-ton vessel was hit heavily three
times, and, burning from stem to stern,
seemed a total loss. Heavy smoke rose
from amidships in an 8000-tonner after
she had taken some 5001 b. bombs to her
bosom, and a near miss was registered
against a 3000-tonner,
Further low-level attacks next day met
with no interception, though enemy
fighters were seen. Only one ship of the
convoy remained in the bay—a 6000-ton
freighter. She was left burning and sink-
ing by the stern, and land defences in the
locality and barges in the bay were thor-
oughly mangled before the ’planes left.
But it was the same story all over
again. No sooner was Hansa Bay clear
than “an enemy convoy of six merchant
ships, escorted by three warships,” was
seen approaching Wewak. At dusk heavy
bombers hit three vessels from masthead
height—one 8000-tonner was listing and
spewing oil, another was sinking by the
stern and a smaller vessel was beached.
One of the larger ships later was seen
to sink. Next day another 8000-tonner
was left settling. The cruisers and the
remnant of their charge left for the open
sea.
In the north-west area small opposition
was met by attacking ’planes, but Libera-
tors at the week-end shot down four of
15 “O” fighters which attempted to inter-
cept them at Ambon. North-western
operations were in general on a small
scale.
New Guinea Casualties.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. has given
out U.S. casualty statistics for New
Guinea operations—2l7s dead or miss-
ing in action and 2144 wounded. These
figures include air personnel.
Australian losses, 2379 dead or missing
and 3833 wounded, bring the Allied total
cost in blood to 4554 dead or missing
and 5977 wounded. Sickness casualties
in addition must have been heavy. And
Australian figures do not include
R.A.A.F. losses.
General MacArthur’s spokesman esti-
mated the Japanese losses at 38,000,
“practically all dead,” including 15,000
lost in the Papuan campaign and in the
Salamaua and Wau areas and 15,000 in
the Bismarck battle.
Tunisia—and After.
“Ek Dum”: The second phase of the
Allied offensive in Tunisia is over. The
forces are shaping up for the final battle
or series of battles.
The enemy is corralled in 4000 square
miles of country, the borders of which
form a natural fortress area. Inside this
fortress area are two great ports, one
great fortress on a true fortress scale,
large aerodromes. Substantial air sup-
port is possible provided the enemy has
enough ’planes to assure that even a
proportion of his own forces in Europe
gets through. The garrison is placed by
the American Secretary of War at
200,000. The problem is something like
the German assault of Sevastopol, but
on a much larger scale, and the obstacles
of the inner perimeter are of a different
nature,
A very fair picture of the scene can
be obtained by imagining that, between
Wollongong (N. S. Wales) to north of the
Hawkesbury and from west of the Blue
Mountains, Montgomery and Anderson,
with their First and Eighth Armies, are
attempting to invade the county of
Cumberland and take Sydney. Their line
would be a bit longer in that case, but
the west Tunisian approaches are not
unlike the Bathurst Plains country, and
parts of the Tunisian north-west and the
mountains of the Pont du Fahs region are
comparable to the Blue Mountains. The
Majerda River, Tunisia’s biggest stream,
which runs through General Anderson’s
line, is not so big as the Hawkesbury;
when full it is more like the Upper
Nepean.
The progress which has been made has
been almost entirely the work of the two
British armies. The function of the
Americans, whether intentionally or not,
has been that of holding flank forces
engaged. There is no criterion for gaug-
ing how far they have succeeded or
failed without knowing the strength of
their own formations in relation to the
strength of the enemy pitted against them
and the actual intentions of the com-
mand. Also, on the coastal drive the
Eighth Army at least was at an advan-
tage in the use of air support. On the
coast was largely plain country. The
inland positions attacked by the Ameri-
cans were in rough mountain terrain.
General Eisenhower declared at the
week-end that Patton’s Second Corps had
tied down at least 35,000 Germans in the
El Guettar region, had taken 4680
prisoners and destroyed or captured 673
vehicles and 69 tanks. The corps’ losses
were 903 killed, 3610 wounded and 859
missing.
The Campaign Summarised
The course of the campaign to the
week-end had been as follows:
(1) General Montgomery struck heavily
at the Mareth Line near the coast, at the
same time sending out Freyberg’s “ball of
fire” as an outflanking force.
(2) Freyberg reached his objective, only
40 miles from Montgomery’s battle flank,
after a 200-mile rough mountain journey,
thus threatening to envelop Rommel’s line.
Montgomery hastily disengaged himself
from the north-east, leant on the southern
end of the German line, reinforced Frey-
berg and forced a German retreat for 35
miles. If Patton’s Americans had been
able to link with Freyberg during the first
part of the operation, the Axis would have
been faced with disaster. They failed in
this, but were not necessarily blameworthy.
They may not have intended a break-
through.
(3) Contemporaneously with these move-
ments, General Anderson, who had been
making a strategic withdrawal, used his
weight and drove forward to advanced posi-
tions east of Cape Serrat, securely pinning
Von Arnim’s troops in the north.
t4V Rommel being entrenched along the
Wadi Akarit, 15 miles north of Gabes,
Montgomery outflanked him and hit him in
the breadbasket at the same moment.
Again, the Americans failed to break
through on his flank, but eventually they
made Junction with the Eighth Army’s flank
troops.
(5) General Anderson detached from his
First Army an armored Guards spearhead
and support composed of Home County
units, which passed through the Ameri-
cans holding the Fondouk positions com-
manding the holy city of Kairouan and
Susa and opened the way to the coast.
Kairouan and Susa fell. Meanwhile, the
French,which include some well-trained regu-
lar regiments, quite the best French troops
which have been seen in action since 1940
and the first in this war armed with modern
weapons and enough of them, were making
a successful progress in the Ousseltia region
just to the north. They had been taken
from the line in February for re-equipment.
(6) General Anderson at the same time
was building a northern assault perimeter
across the Majerda, with his right flank in
the Medjez el Bab region and clearing
the main roads which he needed as a core
of his communications. This movement was
far more important to the enemy than has
been stressed. Rommel now had to retreat
lickety-split for two reasons—to save him-
self from fighting in a sandwich between
Anderson’s break-through on the Susa
road and the Majerda, and to prevent
Arnim having a weak left flank against
which the Allies cotild deliver a crushing
attack from the south and south-east. The
integrity of the Tunis area was at stake.
(7) By the week-end it could be said that
the Eighth and First Armies, backed by
their Allies, were engaged in the prelimi-
naries of the main battle for Tunis and
Bizerta. To the north-west (Medjez el
Bab) they already occupied commanding
heights and the entries to passes; in the
south-east they were cleaning up the outer
slopes of the hills and marshalling their
forces. Everything—ports, aerodromes,
roads, resources —south of Ousseltia was in
their hands.
They had taken 30,000 prisoners since
the attack on the Mareth Line, includ-
ing 7000 Germans. It was safe to say
that at least as many of the enemy had
been killed and wounded, though Mont-
gomery and Anderson do not possess the
miraculous faculty of being able to count
tens of thousands of enemy dead over-
night.
Flight—Not Retreat
The whole landscape was strewn with
abandoned gear, much of it usable —52-
ton Mark IV tanks in odd places, large
Italian tanks in greater profusion, field
guns, 88mm. mobiles, Spandaus, trucks,
rifles. After the Eighth Army’s van had
passed across the land it was safe to say
that any stranger appearing on the hori-
zon would be a forlorn Italian in search
of a cage.
The one souvenir which the enemy did
not bequeath in normal quantities after
leaving the Wadi Akarit was mines. This
proved a great advantage. At the week-
end, Montgomery’s spearheads which
came by the coastal roads were 250 miles
from where they started in the Mareth
battle. Freyberg’s men and the British
tankers and flank supports had travelled
at least 500 miles. The last 200 miles
of the coastal drive had been done at
the rate of nearly 25 miles a day. Rom-
mel’s going was a flight, not a retreat,
achieved far faster than anything in Rus-
sia during the period in December when
the Germans were supposed to be tumb-
ling back broken and in hopeless con-
fusion. And in this there is a stern
lesson.
The Allied line at the week-end ran
roughly from Enfidaville to the south of
Bou Arada, via Jebel Abou Hedjar. Be-
tween these last two places the rearmed
French had driven a dent in the enemy
defences towards Pont du Fahs and Zag-
houan. It is tough country thereabouts.
From Bou Arada the line struck
directly northwards just west of Medjez
el Bab across the Beja road, then turned
north-west, passed Sedjenane to the east
of the town and reached the coast a few
miles east of Cape Serrat.
The land fighting was only of the static
kind. Both sides were busy getting into
position, with all the realisation of the
fierceness of the battle which was to be
expected when forces were joined once
more. General, Eisenhower pointed out
that three big obstacles would have to
be encountered, apart from the occupa-
tion of fortified positions by the enemy
and the mountainous nature of the ap-
proaches—enemy concentration of anti-
aircraft defence ; the fact that all bridge-
heads were held by crack German troops,
and the extensive use which was being
made of mines by the defenders.
At sea and over the land approaches
on the continent a savage battle has raged
all through the month. Despite it, by
the use at night of fast barges and air
transports, the enemy undoubtedly has
been bringing troops and supplies from
Italy, but at great cost.
British submarines, from the begin-
ning of the Mareth battle to April 19,
sank 21 enemy vessels and damaged eight
in the Mediterranean. To these Greek
and Dutch subs, added five victims. On
April 15 Allied destroyers sank two
Italian destroyers off Sicily.
Every large town which can serve as
a base round Sicily and the toe of Italy
has been bombed, from Catania north-
ward. The enemy response has not been
in keeping with the attacks. Bombing or
Allied African bases has been compara-
tively light.
General Eisenhower places enemy
’plane losses since the drive began below


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO TOM STEVENS also known as McLEOD
address unknown formerly of 30 Crown Street
East Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
JAMES McLEOD has commenced a suit
against his wife JEAN MARY McLEOD (No.
2433 of 1942) and is seeking a dissolution of
his marriage with the Respondent on the
grounds of her adultery with you AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance at the Supreme Court Sydney on or
before the Thirtieth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and forty-three A copy ol
the petition may be obtained without charge
from JOHN WRANGHAM MILNE Solicitor
for the Petitioner 350 George Street Sydney. —
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM ARTHUR SMITH formerly ot
Fulton Street Armadale in the State of Victoria
Printer but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife VIOLET GLADYS
SMITH has instituted proceedings for a divorce
on the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or be-
fore the sth day of May 1943 the case may
proceed in your absence IF you intend to de-
fend this suit you must also file an answer in
the said office on or before the 13th day of
May 1943 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the sealed copy petition and copy citation
in this suit may be inspected at the office ot the
Petitioner’s Solicitor JOAN ROSANOVE 415
Bourke Street Melbourne Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
TO WILLIAM BYRNE formerly of Percy
Street Brunswick in the State of Victoria Boot
Trade Employee but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILLIAN
FRANCES BYRNE has instituted proceedings
for a Divorce on the ground of' desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne on or before the sth day of May
1943 the case may proceed in your absence
IF you intend to defend this suit you must also
file an answer in the said office on or before
the 13th day of May 1943 AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation in this suit may be inspected
at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor JOAN
ROSANOVE 415 Bourke Street Melbourne
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO VIOLET LONG formerly of Long Gully
Bendigo in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
imsband NORMAN LESLIE LONG has in-
stituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of three years’ desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary s
Office of the Supreme Court of Victoria in Mel-
bourne on or before the 6th day of May 1943
and file an answer in the said office on or be-
fore the 13th day of May 1943 the case may
proceed m your absence and you rnsiy be
ordered to pay the costs. —J. R. A. O KEEFFE,
Solicitor, 620 Victoria Street, North Melbourne,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
CD
am
Mareth at 470 in the air and “an enor-
mous number on the ground,” against 157 -
Allied machines.
The German High Command appar-
ently realises that evacuation will be in- .
evitable in the long run and is preparing
its people for it.
But Cunningham’s sea-hounds are re-
ported by their commander to be ready
to smash any attempt at evacuation, a
job which every British seaman has been
itching to tackle ever since Dunkirk.
That Britain still has substantial com-
mand of the sea is shown by the fact that
on one night last month 1,000,000 tons
of Allied shipping was abroad in the 1000
miles or so of sea between Gibraltar and
Tunis. Allied shipping which has reached
North Africa since Nov. 7 totals
10,500,000 tons and losses in the Mediter-
ranean have been only 2.5 per cent.
One of the strangest features of Axis
propaganda at the moment is the respect
which oozes from all enemy refer-
ences to the Eighth Army. Berlin called
it “a worthy enemy, splendidly equipped,
vital and determined but not overreach-
ing in the enthusiasm of its commanders.”
A commentator on Rome Radio, who
spoke with something which sounded
very like pleasure at German discom-
fiture, declared:
The Eighth Army infantry is superbly
trained, and shows great fighting spirit, and
its armament and equipment are better than
any in the world. The British artillery is
well provided with magnificent guns, and is
splendidly organised. The British armored
units are among the world’s best. The
array’s leaders and staff have been carefully
chosen, and have proved their worth on the
battlefield.
Rommel nevertheless has proved him-
self a very capable general. Mont-
gomery’s feat of driving him back
2000 miles since October 23 (166 days)
has been a great one unprecedented in
history. Rommel has kept his army in
fighting spirit and its central motive and
defensive power intact during week after
week of retirement, defeat and disaster.
This should be acknowledged as an
antidote to the propaganda which holds
that the Axis is on the point of cracking,
and that it needs only the landing of a
force on European shores to see the Ger-
man hold on Europe go to pieces.
Africa and the Second Front
It is necessary to make sure that pre-
parations for European invasion are on
a sufficiently gigantic—and widespread-
scale to go through with the task, once it
is attempted, if it is attempted.
This implies tasks which range far
beyond Europe itself. Locally it will be
no venture for Taw young troops who
have been brought up by newspapers in
the belief, based on reports from Rus-
sia, that the German is a contemptible
fellow in battle, who shines in torturing
civilians and in looting, but runs before
an equal and is often routed even when
advancing.
The Eighth Army drive also points an-
other stern lesson, which has been here
stressed again and again since the S. Afri-
can 1500-mile drive into Abyssinia. The
limit to the seasonal range of large armies
with land communications is rapidly
widening with the growth of transport
and supplies and trained man-power.
What Montgomery could do, having
beaten Rommel, Von Mannstein could
do if he were to beat Zhukov in a break-
through battle.
The nearest point on the Indian border
is 600 miles closer to the advanced Kuban
German posts than Montgomery’s present
forward line is to El Alamein, from
which the Germans began to be driven
on Nov. 5.
The endless steppes of the Volga coun-
try and beyond, with all their possibilities
of dispersion and alternative routes,
would make a drive to the Indian border
for an army with sufficient resources
theoretically easier than the drive from
El Alamein.
There is danger that, if Russia is beaten,
India in its next season of campaign
might find itself menaced on both sides.
The feat of the Eighth Army has adver-
tised that there are not two wars in pro-
gress in East and West but one war. The
belief held in some quarters that Ger-
many would, if Russia were beaten, con-
fine her efforts to Europe is a delusion.
Hitler could not allow Japan control
of the Arabian Sea and of the Indian
Ocean approaches to Suez and the Medi-
terranean without having his own
dominions menaced and his own trade
controlled by a nation with a far stronger
navy and a far fresher army than his
own.
Apart from that, the German-Japanese
sea war is already concerted , and so
probably is the land war.
Out of 96 known Japanese divisions
about 12 to 15 are probably in the East
Indies and the South Pacific and median
Ocean fringes.
The rest, disposed for Asiatic war, are,
in effect, German reserves. They are not
used to strike at Russia, perhaps partly
because such a move would present
Allies with the battleground which they
most covet, and because the Axis allies
believe that Asiatic Russia may fall into
their hands in the end without battle
scars.
But there can be no more dangerous
policy than to assume that they will not
be used with as much force as the Ger-
man armies were used in 1940 so soon
as their time comes —that is, so soon as
Britain and America are locked in major
combat in Western Europe.
Real Strategic Necessities
There can be no surrender to senti-
ment, no allowing a natural desire to
help the Russians in a crucial moment
to blind the British, Dominion and
American Governments to the real
necessities of the situation. The Russians
are realists who have never professed that
they are fighting for anything except to
save Russia. The first consideration of
the British and American Governments
also must be to save their own countries
and dependencies.
The establishment of a front in West-
ern Europe on a decisive scale is not
merely a matter of accumulating suffi-
cient force to beat Germany and win
battles in,Europe, but of gathering suffi-
cient trained men and materials to hold
Japan at the same time.
This job is just as vital and just as
much part of Europe’s problem as our
own.
It is one which calls for strictly con-
certed operations.
If the British and American Govern-
ments are under the delusion that they
can finish one war at a time they may
conceivably find, supposing them to have
finished the first instalment, that the foot-
holds from which they hoped to fight
the second one are gone, and that all they
have done is buy themselves a second
European war against invaders from the
East, operating along unapproachable
communication lines through Central
Asia and through a vassal India set in
Japanese-controlled seas.
Shadows on Europe's
Fortress.
“Ek Dum”: Allied bombing of Europe
has been on the normal 1943 scale 168
hours of round-the-clock attacks up till
April 18—but more far-reaching than
before.
The R.A.F. is still doing 90 per cent,
of the work. The Americans are not yet
trained in numbers for the large-scale,
low-level night bombing which, as they
have now been convinced by experience
of Europe, is the most effective kind.
Their attacks have hitherto been
made by limited numbers of machines in
daylight, which perforce must operate
against first-class objectives at high level.
Their time will come. Their most ambi-
tious raid was on Bremen, where big fires
were started. Sixteen bombers were lost,
but 50 enemy fighters were claimed.
In Russian raids on Tilsit, Konigs-
berg and Dantzig limited numbers of
bombers were engaged. Little attention
was devoted to their results by the Ger-
mans, in contrast to the outcry which was
raised about British “terrorism.”
The R.A.F.’s operations began with
heavy raids from England on Spezia, a
great western Italian naval base, and on
Stuttgart, where havoc was wrought at
the cost of 27 bombers.
The greatest was directed against Skoda
—the fourth which that distant Czech
armament works has suffered.
In the biggest long-distance attack in
history, 600 Lancasters and Halifaxes flew
1500 miles there and back and dropped
900 tons. The German Labor Director
in Bohemia announced afterwards that
the works would be closed for several
days, and Berlin howled with horror at
the destruction of unfortunate Czechs,
pausing every now and then to emit a
few screams of pity for the “innocent
Dutch” who were allegedly dying from
British “terror bombing”—a gesture
which the Dutch, surveying the rubble of
what was once the historic centre of
Rotterdam, must have bitterly reckoned
at its proper value,
A second heavy raid (April 16) was
made on Mannheim and Ludwigshafen,
which occupy one of the best positions
for bombing. Mannheim, a great indus-
trial centre and inland port of over
400,000 people, is virtually on an island.
It had been badly battered before in some
of the 48 previous raids made on it, but
it will probably remember the 49th as
the worst of all.
The R.A.F.’s losses in these two raids
were severe —37 bombers in the Skoda
expedition and 18 at Mannheim-Ludwigs-
hafen. They point to the growing powei
of German anti-aircraft defences.
The bombing is accompanied with per-
sistent sea harrying of Axis forces and
ports and some paratroop activity in co-
operation with the R.N. and Allied
navies. The Germans, ringed with fire,
now appear convinced that they face a
four-point attack some time this summer
—on the Channel, perhaps from north-
east of Calais, through the dune area of
Belgium ; across the necks of the Manche
and the Finisterre peninsulas, which
contain the ports of Cherbourg, Brest,
Lorient, St. Nazaire, St. Brieux and other
harbors which could be isolated by land
by a couple of short drives across the
peninsula necks; in the Italian islands of
Sardinia and Sicily, and in the Aegian
and Balkan littoral.
Activity in the Balkans has been
vigorous. Marshal Keitel has visited
Sofia—his visits are generally a pointer
to the imminence of important action.
Turkish military missions have visited
Tunisia, India and London in the past
three months, and Turkish airmen are now
receiving full training courses in Britain.
Hitler has held conferences with the
Hungarian Regent (Horthy), the
Rumanian dictator and c.-in.c. (An-
tonescu) and King Boris of Bulgaria.
Eve of a Mew Campaign.
“Ek Bum”: The curtain has fallen on
the winter act of the Russian war. Both
casts have changed into summer cos-
tumes all along the central and southern
front. The mud is drying. The last
phenomenon hampering to operations
before the true spring, the later Don
floods, are only a month away.
Up and down the whole length of the
front the Germans have been punching
at the curtain, partly to find out what is
behind it, partly to assure that the Rus-
sians will not be able to concentrate their
attention and forces with safety.
The Moscow correspondents are kept
jumping from one toe to another, though
some of the most “famous” of them are
no longer in their old haunts, having been
transferred to Tunisia. Every time a
large patrol goes out they cover them-
selves in case it should be the beginning
of a major offensive.
That offensive may or may not be
imminent. If it is coming, the first real
moves will almost certainly take place
within the next fortnight.
German communications have the ad-
vantage, and there has been considerable
backward and forward lateral movement
inside the enemy’s eastern lines.
The main centres of activity have been
at Leningrad, in the Donetz region and
in the Kuban, where the Russians have
renewed their attempts to break into the
Taman find Novorossisk bridgeheads.
At Leningrad it was reported that the
Germans were attempting to close the
passage which had been opened into the
city. Mention of Russian tanks break-
ing across the Neva was ominous. It sug-
gested that the Russians must have lost
considerable ground and that their com-
munications have been reduced to a
thread.
Recent photographs of Leningrad pub-
lished in America —some are Russian,
some telephoto pictures taken by the
enemy—show that relatively little dam-
age has been done to the city.
German sources mentioned heavy Rus-
sian concentrations near Novgorod, 120
miles south of Leningrad. This is the
southernmost end of the Leningrad
sector.
In the Donetz there were only punch-
throwing competitions.
In brief:
The age limit for enlistment in the A.I.F.
has been lowered from 19 to 18 years, but no
soldier under 18 years may be sent either
to the Northern Territory or New Guinea.
* * * *
Another small Allied vessel was reported on
April 12 to have been torpedoed off the Aus-
tralian coast. Six Australians and four other
Allied nationals were rescued from a raft.
* * * *
The military spokesman in Chungking de-
clares that thousands of British and Australian
prisoners are being used to construct the Bang-
kok-Rangoon railway.
* * * *
Operations in Burma have consisted mainly
of Anglo-American air attacks on Japanese
bases, combined with some skirmishing on the
Mayu Peninsula front, where several Japanese
parties were ambushed and mauled on April
15. The Japanese report the death of Briga-
dier George Cavendish, whom they claimed
previously to have taken prisoner. There is
no confirmation from New Delhi of the asser-
tion that he and his brigade fell into enemy
hands.
* * * •
German E-boat forces in strength were beaten
in an action off the east coast of England by
H.M. destroyer Westminster, H.M. sloop Wid-
geon and sea and air auxiliaries. There were
no British casualties. Two E-boats blew up.
Four others were hit and were forced to run
the gauntlet of the Fleet Air Arm. Bad visi-
bility seems to have saved them.
v * * *
Field-Marshal Chetwode, chairman of the
British Red Cross, said at the annual meeting
that hundreds of thousands of parcels for
British war prisoners had been lost at sea and
in port through enemy action, along with
“every pennyworth of the large stocks held in
France, Hong Kong, Singapore, Greece and
Crete.” He added that "the Germans have
put up a remarkable performance in dispatch-
ing parcels, and have never refused transport.”
Ifiey had carried weekly for prisoners of war
more than 250 tons of food and tobacco alone.
The Italians were “rather difficult at the outset,
but are doing well now.” The British Red
Cross had raised nearly £19,000,000 since the
outbreak of war and in December had no
deficit.


Public Notice.
I, EDITH MARIE BRAUN, of German nation-
ality, born at Marrickvilie, N.S.W., 1921. and
resident for 21 years in Australia, now residing
at 28 Wardell Road, Petersham, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IVY HUGHES formerly of 76 Lang Road
Centennial Park Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILTON FITZHERBERT HUGHES has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2695 of 1942 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards It is the
intention of the Petitioner to apply that the
Court exercise in his favor the discretion con-
ferred upon it by Section 19 of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance before the Eighth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from K. V. SWAIN Solicitor 10 Martin
Place Sydney.—C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JANE BELL CURLEY late of Newcastle
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that WIL-
LIAM THOMAS CURLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1433 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards You may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
30th day of June 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from SYDNEY S.
MITCHELL Solicitor of Bank Corner Wick-
ham or his Agents JOHN CORCORAN & CO.
Solicitors of 2 York Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COU RT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FANNY CAROLINE ISABEL CROSS-
TAKE NOTICE that ROLAND GRETA
CROSS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2831 of 1942 against FANNY CAROLINE
ISABEL CROSS on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ninth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and forty-three and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from R. D. MEAGfIER
SPROULE & CO., Solicitors 63 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JACKSON late of Dubbo
TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE JACKSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2781 of
1942 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 7th July 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from R. F.
DUDLEY Solicitor 9 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY REGINALD HOWARD also
known as Sidney Randolph Housago late of
245-247 Enmore Road Marrickville. —TAKE
NOTICE that REGINA VERONICA MAN-
SOUR falsely called Regina Veronica Howard
has filed a Petition for Nullity of Marriage No.
239 of 1943 on the ground of bigamy If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Bth June 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from HAROLD
T. MORGAN & SONS Solicitors 34 Martin
Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
S[ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
O CEDONIA MAUD PALMER late «
ooranbong New South Wales.— TAK;
OTICE that GEORGE THOMAS LESLIE
ALMER has filed a Petition for Divorce W-
-585 of 1942 on the ground of desertion witn-
ut just cause or excuse for three years ano
pwards You may enter an appearance at in
livorce Office Supreme Court King; otree
ydney by the Thirtieth day of June 1943 ana
btain a copy of the petition from A. ALIM
3HNSON & MCDONALD Solicitors L
olton Street Newcastle or JOHN cuts
ORAN & CO. Solicitors Assembly Han -
ork Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. '
egistrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of about 43,000 “pay-
ing guests” was much below expectations
at Randwick on Doncaster day. In addi-
tion, about 10,000 service men were
present, and the tote turnover was
£105,072.
The strong backing of Kingsdale (Mc-
Menamin) pointed to those associated with
him having no doubt as to his seeing out
the mile in the Doncaster Handicap. He
closed favorite at 6 to 1, and, third to
Guild Hall and Hall Stand at the half-
mile, he was first into the straight, and
was not after actually in danger of defeat,
though Magi, who was sixth or seventh
at the turn, ran him to a neck. Magi is
only a “little ’un,” but she is good.
Merrimba, who was a trifle slow in
finding his legs and did not after get a
good run, was third, but it was by a
narrow margin he beat Faerie Queen.
The latter put up a remarkable effort,
as, after being badly left at barrier-rise,
she was a probable place-getter at least
a hundred yards from home. Neither
Mildura nor Riverton ever flattered his
backers, nor did Rimveil, and so far Hall
Stand is a poor investment at the high
price paid for him. Gold Salute ran
fairly ; likewise Afloat, Nightbeam (who
struck a little trouble) and Nobleman,
while interference completely disposed of
Triad.
Kingsdale, who is trained by J. L.
O’Sullivan, was a 325gns. yearling, and
is by Andrea from Rippledale, by Ros-
sendale from Tinkling, by Malt King
from Timbrel, by Amphion.
Baroda’s backers looked to him to out-
stay Modulation (Cook) in the St. Leger,
but the latter definitely proved his superi-
ority, Second to Modulation for the first
six furlongs, Baroda then gave place to
Angel, and though he again went into
second place at the three furlongs Modu-
lation ran right away from him in the
straight. Flying Shuttle discounted the
idea that Baroda was a potential stayer
by cutting him out of second money in
the last two or three strides. The pace
was slow for the first mile, and the time
for the full distance was 3.3 i against
Lucrative’s 2.57* two years ago. Modu-
lation is by Manitoba from Vocal, by
Thracian from Garrulity, by Magpie. His
brother is among the yearlings to be
offered at today’s sales at Randwick.
Owing principally to his rider’s anxiety
to get to the front half a mile from home
Veiled Threat was beaten in the Autumn
Plate. After cutting down Galliard, who
had a long lead for the first seven fur-
longs, he stalled off Yaralla at the turn,
but Katanga (Munro), with the advantage
of the last run, was just too good for
him. Abspear, after being the whipper-in
for a long way, dead-heated Yaralla for
third, and it is now certain the latter is
out of his distance at a mile and a half.
Grand Fils was a fair fifth, and, while
Moondarewa is seemingly not up to w.f.a.
standard, Dashing Cavalier’s showing
proved that he was far below his best.
The greatest shock backers received
during the afternoon was Moorland’s
poor effort in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. He was not going well at any
part, and three furlongs from home it
was apparent his chance of winning was
negligible. Flight and Mayfowl (Mc-
Menamin) were the leaders when the field
settled down, with Star Gold and War
Eagle nearest them. The first-mentioned
two had a great tussle over the final fur-
long, and it was only right on the post
that Mayfowl got his head in front. War
Eagle was a close third, and then Moor-
land. Stablemates MacArthur and Van
Eyck were next, and only for receiving a
couple of checks when trying to improve
his position the latter would have been
a little closer. Still, on form, neither he
nor MacArthur is first-class. Mayfowl is
by Beau Pere from imported Grey Port, by
Portland from Grey Leaf, and is owned
by Indian trainer A. Higgins, who had
a profitable time in Calcutta at the end
of last year, when winners prepared by
him included Finalist (Viceroy’s Cup).
St. Elmo and Hauteur were the popu-
lar selections for the first division of the
Vaucluse Handicap, but though they led
into the straight from War Spear, Stream-
ford and Henchman they had nothing to
do with the finish. The winner turned up
in Streamford (Knox), who was too good
for War Spear and Diadem in the run
home. Streamford, whose only previous
win was in a two-year-old race at Rose-
hill, is by Midstream from Social (sister
to Talking), and is one of McCarten’s
team. He was a 900gns. yearling. Tel
Asur, though well in the betting, was
never dangerous, and Rathlin and Fer-
managh were others that did not run up
to their best form. Lack of racing told
against Fermanagh.
When Marcoperi and Miss Pentheus
swung out entering the straight in the
second division of the Vaucluse Handi-
cap, and Petruchio gained a clear lead,
his chance of success appeared excellent.
However, he was quickly in trouble when
tackled by Usher, but though the latter
led a couple of strides from the winning-
post he was beaten a half-head by Gigli.
Half a furlong from home it looked as
if Pinero might score, and that he failed
was probably due to the fact that he had
not raced since November. The run
should greatly improve him. Our Barney,
who may yet return to his earlier form,
was fourth, followed by the heavily-
backed Louane, who did not get among
the front division until well in the straight.
He may fare better next time.
Fearless Fox and Ron Rico shared
favoritism for the City Handicap, but
while the latter ran third the former was
squeezed back after passing the mile post.
Last at the six furlongs, he failed to get
a run-through in the straight, and fin-
ished fifth. Edigram, Omapo and Angus
comprised the leading division at the
straight entrance, but, though half a fur-
long from home Lady Hamilton (J.
Thompson) looked a winner* Wellesley
(Mulley) dead-heated her, with Ron Rico
a close third. Aided by the longer dis-
tance, Wellesley improved greatly on his
form in the Cabramatta Handicap the
previous week, but in that it was said he
received a bump that spoilt his chance.
Jymjon cut up badly.
* * * »
After a brilliant sustained run that car-
ried him from the rear of a strung-out
field Similar struck the front right on
the post to win the Hospital Handicap of
13 furlongs at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Last at the mile post, Similar was
still a fair way back turning into the
straight, but continuing his run he
snatched the race from the 100-to-l
chance New Princess. He had only a
bead to spare at the finish, but was going
away from his opponents. Third, a neck
away, was the favorite, Centenary, who
would probably have won but for being
cramped for room three furlongs from
home.
A five-year-old gelding by Son O’
Mine, Similar is raced and trained by
M. Crossey. His success was the first
sign he had shown of a return to the
form that caused him to start favorite
in the Australian Cup last year. He had
not won since May last year, but now
that he has struck form and is down in
the weights he is likely to win more
races over a distance. New Princess sur-
prised by her effort, as, although she has
won minor races in the country, it was a
vast improvement on anything she had
shown on metropolitan courses. Because
of his unlucky run, Centenary’s failure
should be overlooked. A winner at his
last start, he has worked particularly
well on the track since, and should soon
make amends.
Backed from 33 to 1 to 14 to 1 Petalie
outclassed sprinters in the Relief Handi-
cap and continued the run of successes
by South Australian horses. Petalie was
having his second start for nearly two
years. He was always with the leaders,
and dashing away in the straight he won
by three lengths from the outsider Orca-
dian, with another unfancied runner,
Prince David, a neck away third. Bur-
berry and Distinction both tired near
the finish, but Naval Revue, for whom
there was good backing, ran on strongly
in fourth place. Petalie is owned by H.
Bastian, who rode with success in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide some years ago.
Form displayed at the last Moonee
Valley meeting was borne out in the divi-
sions of the Juvenile Handicap, Stygian,
who won at that meeting, and Ola Rose,
who was runner-up to her, winning the
heats. Stygian started at a surprisingly
good price (11 to 2) in view of her previ-
ous success, and she scored the easiest
win of the afternoon. She won by five
lengths and was being eased on the post.
The Bohemian, who showed good form
early in the season, was second, a head
in front of Ava.
Ola Rose started 7-to-4 favorite in her
division, and, though she gave the second
horse, Lunar Lynx, a three lengths’ lead
from the home turn, she was fortunate
to win. It was a neck-and-neck struggle,
and only half a head separated the pair,
had his apprentice rider kept Lunar Lynx
going in the straight the placings would
probably have been reversed.
Having his first run since June, Wal-
lace James had an impressive win from
a good field in the Hostel Welter. From
No. 17 at the barrier Wallace James
took the lead at the half-mile, and, resist-
ing a strong challenge from Lilette, he
won by two lengths. Hero, who missed
the start, did well to run third. In a
good betting race the favorite was Ret-
nuha, but he finished at the tail end of
the field,
* * * *
After last Saturday’s racing Veiled
Threat was the popular pick for the Syd-
ney Cup. He was followed by Abspear,
with Grand Fils and Eureka next, and
then Moondarewa, with Wellesley the
only other receiving mention.
* * * *
It would be interesting to know the
amount of E. Britt’s earnings in Bombay
from the beginning of December to the
middle of February. They would cer-
tainly make those of nearly all leading
jockeys in Australia this season appear
paltry. Britt was successful in most of
the valuable races during the period
mentioned. These included the Idar
Gold Cup, Indian One Thousand
Guineas, Two Thousand Guineas and
Derby on Princess Beautiful; Eclipse
Stakes —India’s richest race —on Golden
Fawn; Wadia Cup, Arab Champion
Stakes and Victory . Cup, He also won
his share of minor races. Princess Beau-
tiful and Golden Fawn are owned by
the Maharaja Gaekwar of Baroda. In
the past some Australian jockeys made a
lot of money in India, and evidently
opportunities are still there for top-
notchers.
* * * *
Moorland was discredited in the Sires’
Produce Stakes, but if he regains the
form he showed in the Fairfield Handi-
cap he should win the Champagne Stakes.
He will meet Clarion Call the same
and Flight 11b. worse than in the
Fairfield, and, on those figures, should
again beat them. It is difficult to account
for Moorland’s poor display last Satur-
day. His appearance did not suggest
there was anything amiss, and yet he was
never a possibility. If he is unable to
repeat his previous form, and if, as is
suggested, Mayfowl drops out, the race
may resolve itself into a match between
Clarion Call and Flight.
Even if it is decided to run Mayfowl
he would not be preferable to Flight on
101 b. worse terms than last week, espe-
cially as the furlong shorter would also
improve Flight’s prospects. Clarion Call’s
71b. penalty sends him up to 9.3,
and that may prove a steadier. Last
year Hall Stand easily won the Sires’
Produce Stakes with 8.10, but was un-
placed in the Champagne Stakes with 9.3.
In 1941 Yaralla won the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, but with 9.6 was only fourth of
the five runners in the Champagne Stakes.
As Flight has won with 8.9 she should
not be troubled by 8.8 even in the best
company, and might be a more reliable
bet than any of the colts. Still, Moor-
land is worth giving another chance,
* * * *
Nothing happened on Saturday to
affect Sydney Cup prospects to any
extent. Wellesley dead-heated for the
City Handicap in fast time, but he was
only 51b. from the minimum, against 91b.
in the Cup, and those behind him were,
as a whole, ordinary stayers. Veiled
Threat was beaten in the Autumn Plate
with 51b. less than his Cup weight. He
should have won, but will be meeting
Abspear, who, after being last for the
greater part of the trip, dead-heated
Yaralla for third, 131 b. worse. Compared
with the Plate, Grand Fils drops 111 b.
in the Cup and Moondarewa 161 b. There
was little difference in their form, as they
were close together at the turn and the
finish.
It seems safe to dismiss Dashing Cava-
lier, and the lighter weight will have to
do a lot for Baroda to make him a
winner. He meets Flying Shuttle 71b.
worse than in the St. Leger. In the City
Handicap Enderby did not create a favor-
able impression, and if Eureka repeats
his Warwick Farm Autumn Cup run he
will be a tough proposition with 7.9. The
extra half-mile may pull him up, but in
the race mentioned he was running on
better at the winning-post than anything
behind him. Breeding favors him as a
stayer, as he is by Spearfelt from Poy
Patrol, whose Brisbane wins included the
Queensland Cup. She is by The Night
Patrol from Poyferre, a sister to Poitrel.
Two promising youngsters, Jim Fraser,
a lightweight, and Owen Moase, a welter-
weight, were seen in action at Leichhardt
on Thursday. Fraser stopped the South
Australian Alan Harry in seven rounds,
and Owen Moase had Johnny Buckley
dead to the world in the eighth round.
Fraser may train on into an opponent for
Patrick.
The Alabama Kid has been whipped at
last, and that by a previous victim. Jack
McNamee, who was 61b. lighter. For
seven rounds at Sydney Stadium Ala-
bama bustled McNamee all over the
place, but Jack did some damage with
right leads in the eighth, and at “corners”
the black signalled for the towel. He
said he had run out of condition
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
C, W. Cropper Handicap: Noble-
man, 1 ; Winnipeg, 2; Triad or
Trimmer, 3.
All-Aged Plate: Yaralla, 1;
Kingsdale, 2 ; Modulation, 3.
Champagne Stakes: Moorland,
1 ; Flight, 2 ; Clarion Call, 3.
Sydney Cup: Eureka, 1 ; Veiled
Threat, 2; Grand Fils or Abspear,
3.
Fernhill Handicap: Goya, 1 ;
MacArthur 2 ; Falcon Knight, 3.
Final Handicap: Ron Rico, 1;
Nightbeam, 2; Lady Hamilton, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
A warm autumn day, flying hooves and
fifty-three or more thousand men and
women, bubbling with excitement, made
Randwick Saturday afternoon’s popular
playground. Returned service men and
women found it good to escape for a few
hours from memories of grim realities.
Mere civilians could forget, too, coupon
and Man-power worries. Gigli did better
than his operatic namesake, for, whereas
the singer remains one tenor, the horse
made many tenners for his backers.
Altogether it was a memorable afternoon
—another bright glimpse of the Austra-
lian scene, dewy green lawns, spreading
trees, the borders green and gorse-brown,
with a flash of bright scarlet in the beds
beyond.
Marjory Moss deserves mention in this
dispatch. She came to Randwick not
only to enjoy the races, but to invest in
the War Loan at the appointed place.
Marjory’s fresh good looks were dressed
in an almond-green suit and a natty
brown sailor hat. Mrs. Hector Living-
stone’s hat of upturned brim was in
red, white and blue. A hat of similar
optimistic brim and coloring was worn
by Mrs. J, L. Normoyle. Mrs. Angus
Macpherson contrasted green and bur-
gundy. Mrs. Stanley Crick and the Nock
lady were both there. Dr. Lucy
McMahon’s suit was the shade of the red
berries that grow above Lake Wakatipu.
Anne Hill was among the day’s good-
lookers. Captain Sam Hordern, A.1.F.,
returned, and his wife were there. Mrs.
Joe. Coen was another who saw the
day through. Margaret Longworth, in a
sapphire-blue setting, was decorative.
Twinkling ankles carried a much
: slimmer Gladys Moncrieff back into
the place she has never lost in
the hearts of Sydney theatregoers last
Saturday night. The vivid, warm-
hearted Teresa and Gladys always
seem to be one and the same person,
and on the first night of the re-
vival the audience wrapped singer and
the girl she was portraying in a cloak
of appreciation and affection. Aileen
Britton made striking entry in an im-
peccably-cut white riding suit. It was
Aileen’s first appearance in musical
comedy.
A packed-out Royal was still cheering
at half-past eleven, and speeches and
flowers were still blooming. Strella Wil-
son was in the house. Marie La Varre
got a special hand. Old favorite Minnie
Love was noted. Mrs. Hugh Ward once
again listened to the Moncrieff notes she
had in the early days helped to polish.
The Roland Fosters were talking in
the interval to Marie Ryan. The H. J,
Bradys and the Ernest Lashmars were
there to applaud their great friend
Gladys. It was a grand night, scintil-
lating with excitement in spite of the
rather dull daytime dressing of an
audience whose brows (at least the
women’s thereof) were furrowed with the
sum of “Honor plus five coupons handed
back to the Government or a new hat
for joy and four hankies against the
inevitable winter cold in the head minus
five coupons handed to the favorite
drapery shop.”
The Butters lady, who is president of
the Y.W.C.A., went off to Bathurst and
the opening of the new Leave House for
Service Woipen last week with an easy
heart. Word had just been received that
daughter Mollie had arrived safe in
South Africa and is staying in Capetown
with relations till her approaching wed-
ding. Lady Wakehurst opened the Leave
House. It will accommodate 38. Mrs.
Ewen Corlette, of Sydney, is the matron.
The house was provided by the Y.W.C.A.
Regional Committee for War Services
and the Australian Comforts Fund.
The autumn sun was like wine but
there was no cheery uplift about the Rus-
sell Drysdale paintings in the Macquarie
Galleries last Wednesday. There is a
stark reality about both oils and water-
colors. No stronger argument for a new
order could be brought forward than his
“Mother and Child,” so poor, so hope-
less-looking, so hard-working. Not even
three cups of tea drunk at quick intervals
later on to cheer the heart could wash
away the memory. By half-past one,
when the show opened itself without aid
of oratory, nine of the 14 pictures on view
had found buyers.
The art world stepped into the show in
great numbers and kept Mrs. Drysdale
busy with greetings. Her small, neat
figure was smart in a black suit; her tiny
hat was black, too. Elaine Haxton wore
a green-and-white-striped turban to match
the stripes in her frock. Mrs. Harold
Sweetapple was among the gazers. Peg
Lord’s black hat had" a high crown. Mrs.
Hall Best and Cecil Bellbridge were
noted. Jean Stephen supported sister Mrs.
Drysdale. The artist, who comes from
Albury and Melbourne, won the admira-
tion of American critics, and during the
exhibition of Australian art in U.S.A.
one of his paintings was bought by the
Metropolitan Museum in New York.
Mrs. R. G, Casey was an admirer of Rus-
sell’s rich sense of color, and when she
left Australia took with her several of
his paintings, which she hung in the Lega-
tion in Washington. Last year the Mel-
bourne Gallery and the National Gallery
each bought a Drysdale painting.
Recently married in St. Philip’s Church
on Church Hill, Patricia Chappie,
daughter of the Clyde Chappies, of Rose-
ville, to Pilot-Officer Leonard Shepherd
Vial. The wedding was an afternoon
one, and later there was a reception at
Romano’s.
This is the profile of Ruth Pearce
Jones, who will lift her soprano in the
Conservatorium Hall on April 22. With
the singer will be teamed pianist Alex-
ander Sverjensky, and together they are
offering an outstanding programme.
Schubert songs and the “Gipsy Cycle”
*
of Dvorak will be among Ruth’s num-
bers. The pianist will feature the works
of Schumann and Medtner. The singer
has studied in Australia and overseas
and is known to concertgoers and radio
listeners.
One of the events listed for Easter
Saturday in the Northern Territory is the
wedding of Lt. Maurice C. Timbs (A.1.F.,
returned) and Sister Woodhead. ’Groom
comes from Glen Innes (N.S.W.), was
educated at De la Salle, Armidale, and
graduated B.Ec., Sydney, just prior to
departing overseas. Sister Woodhead's
home is in Virginia, S. Aus. Chaplain
Lieut.-Col. Reid will bless the vows, and
the chapel will be decorated by a group
of army sisters. Matron Winnall will
entertain the wedding party after the cere-
mony, and then the newly-marrieds will
go off to Tipperary station for nine days’
leave. Fellow-officers of the bridegroom
will be guests at the wedding. One of
the ’groom’s brothers is lost in Malaya,
another is with the forces overseas, and
a sister has just returned with Ist A.G.H.
from overseas.
Noel Coward’s period piece “The
Marquise” was given an airing by Doris
Fitton’s Independents at their North Syd-
ney theatre last Friday. This is an In-
dependent revival, and was as successful
as on its first appearance eight years
ago. A couple who descended from
Vaucluse were heard enviously remark-
ing that it isn’t every suburb that can
get a real flesh-and-blood theatre on its
doorstep. A delightful interlude was
the coffee and biscuits and general talk
for patrons in the foyer. Doris Fitton’s
Marquise was a blithe and smooth
creature, and the Coward comedy of
matchmaking lost nothing in interpreta-
tion of old flames by Clive Coppard and
Ivor Bromley-Smith, with Sidney Cham-
bers as the frigid Fra Clement. June
Brooks’s Adrienne had the stamp of
duality, well backed up by the rest of the
cast.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that,
besides being a warning to wantons, the
man-power descent on restaurants and
racing clubs must teach the Seventy and
Over Club what to expect if they insist
on forgathering to demonstrate how
hefty a septuagenarian can be!
Today at noon Federal Treasurer Chif-
ley will open an exhibition of British
war paintings in the National Art Gallery.
From Melbourne
The Women’s Air Training Corps
(W.A.T.C. to the initiated) is translat-
ing its claim to be the little sister of the
Air Force into practical action. Form
will be a Sister Susie Bureau for R.A.A.F.
men in Howey Court. “Sister Susie,”
this war, is going to mean not only sew-
ing socks, shirts or whatever the service
man wants sewn, but also providing in-
formation about good spots to have a
meal or doing the newly-arrived country
lad’s shopping if he doesn’t feel brave
enough to do it himself in the big city.
Meeting mother or auntie at the station
when the lad can’t manage to be there
himself is another service these willing
lasses have in mind, and cleaning and
pressing will, of course, be a major aid.
Coffee or tea will be provided for the
unrefreshed and a few nice armchairs
for the leg-weary. Writing materials will
be on hand, too. W.A.T.C. girls doing
this work will be under the guidance of
Mrs. L. Le Maistre, As they are mostly
training to become members of the
W.A.A.A.F. they should get a welcome
preliminary peep into service life.
Celebrating the anniversary of their
commencement of Sunday-night parties
for service men, the Australia Group, led
by Harold Clapp’s lady, organised a birth-
day floor show, which, as all Clappian
efforts have the habit of doing, went with
a bang from the first sounding of the
teocalli (or whatever it was that struck
the first joyful note). This tea-dance kind
of party, with all ranks as guests, pre-
sents its problems, but everything went
very sweetly and smoothly, which says
much for the Clapp lady’s aplomb. Floor
show included some American novelties,
but local girls and whirls were the back-
bone of the enjoyment. Now that any
new form of Sunday pleasure is frowned
on, the organisers of the already-estab-
lished dances and parties on that day
are congratulating themselves on begin-
ning in time.
Scandinavians who strike Melbourne
in war-time are not without the help of
a compatriot hand and a spot of con-
versation about home. The Norwegian
Club, whose members are all Norwegians
who have made their home in this city,
seeks to provide just that for compatriots.
Situated on the sixth floor of Capital
House, the club arranges nightly dances
for visiting Norsemen and provides quiet
reading and games facilities for those to
whom dancing does not appeal. A can-
teen is, of course, part of the layout.
President of the club is Mrs. I. Borhaven,
and among active workers is Marie Gun-
nersen (here pictured by Spencer Shier),
who, in addition to being hostess of the
club, acts with the Novettes Group.
Members of the group, numbering eight,
have raised over £2OO for the Red Cross.
A show, “What Now?”, arranged,
dressed and produced entirely by the
group, was so good that plans are afoot
for another production after the war—
as most of the cast are now in service.
The Fighting French Women’s Com-
mittee has had great luck with its shop,
rent of which was paid for a fortnight by
a wellwisher. It has produced quite a
substantial sum with which to buy com-
forts for Fighting French troops. All
sorts of quaint and pleasant things hap-
pened to the shop and its keepers. An-
toinette Dolores, a singer affectionately
remembered by the older generations,
sent her portrait, signed, from London,
where, an old lady, she spends the twi-
light of her long life. Dr. Julian Smith
gave a striking portrait study of a typical
Australian soldier, and immediately a
notice of this gift appeared in the daily
press the shop got an offer to buy it
from the country. Price was telegraphed
to offerer, who in reply telegraphed the
cash. Charming gifts were Ethel Car-
rick’s picture “Nice,” just the French
touch the shop window needed, and a
sketch of a Fighting French warship.
Raffles are not what they used to be,
though still the best way of raising funds
cheaply. But hope doesn’t spring eter-
nal in everyone’s breast, and there are
pessimists who, after four years of buy-
ing raffle tickets, are convinced that they
are fated never to win anything. Also the
feeling that one was “helping the boys”
by putting in sixpence for a very tempt-
ing prize has been knocked out by sternly
realistic loan propaganda. Raffle-runners
nowadays have to get their brains to work
thinking out things people just can’t re-
sist. The French Shop’s blue cocker
spaniel is an example of a real heart-
squeezing appeal. His photograph is
shown to would-be purchasers, and he’s
wonderful down to the last little puppy
whisker,
Melbourne was impressed with the gal-
lantry of two- refugee women who gave
a concert last week in the Samuel Meyers
Hall. Not at their giving the concert,
for both are highly competent musicians,
but at their serenity after the troubles
through which both had passed. Cecelia
Horowitz, pianist, and Mrs. Hilde Ullin,
singer, had both made two escapes, the
former being in Singapore on a musical
engagement in the fateful days, and the
latter having first escaped from Ger-
many and then from Italy. Both had left
nearly everything of value behind them
except a few frocks and some works of
art. Yet they looked superb, serene and
absorbed in their art. Mrs. Ullin, by the
way, belongs to the family group which
brought with it the rare tenth-century
European wood carvings which have been
on view at the National Art Gallery.
At the preview of the Noel Coward
film “In Which We Serve,” the bigwigs
accustomed to park their splendor in the
best cushioned seats were dispossessed
for once, and wounded soldiers and
sailors and nurses.who had seen active
service sat in the seats of the mighty,
Big Business had arranged this by putting
its thousands into Liberty bonds. Matrons
Sage and Field took time off from their
arduous duties to sit the preview out.
The affair meant nearly three millions
subscribed for the Third Liberty Loan,
and John O’Callaghan, Hoyts’ manager,
looked very satisfied with the results.
Children’s orchestral concerts began
again last week at Heidelberg Town Hall.
About a thousand kids of the healthy
sort reared in Melbourne’s garden sub-
urbs were all jolly with conductor Bernard
Heinze as he gave his now quite well-
known act “A Walk Through the Orches-
tra.” There was great applause for French
horns and dig double basses ; and then
singing with orchestral accompaniment
and tremendous fervor of “Waltzing
Matilda” and “Land of Hope and Glory.”
For once in a way children had
been assembled who had some real urge
towards music—unlike some of the Mel-
bourne Town Hall concerts, where among
the 3000 gathered were many who seemed
to be there only to pull the hair of the
girl in front or attack male friends with
any weapon handy.
The choice of a kindergarten scholar-
ship as a suitable memorial by the Lady
Huntingfield Memorial Fund Committee
has been proved apt by the decision of
the Kindergarten Extension Board to put
all its energies into working for scholar-
ships to increase the number of trained
kindergarteiiers. What is particularly
needed is training in child development,
which enables kindergarteners to advise
parents how to deal with psychological
problems. A bit more propaganda for
social service courses, kindergarten train-
ing and baby nursing is badly needed.
These avocations are avoided by most
girls because there is a feeling that they
are footling jobs which the comparatively
brainless can do —quite an erroneous
view, of course.
Pat Vollugi and fiance Gunner William
Goss, of the “Ninth,” are coming in for
a lot of family jubilation and congratu-
lations from their many friends. Gunner
Goss came home in a hospital ship, too
late to see the welcome Melbourne gave
the division. Future plans of the couple
are being postponed till he has fully re-
covered. The Vollugi family’s sporting
representative is sister Dorothy, now with
the A.W.A.S., and well-known in inter-
state and inter-university hockey and
swimming groups. Gunner Goss is only
son of W, H. Goss, of Malvern, and the
late Mrs. Goss, and Pat is younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Vollugi, of
South Yarra.
Pressman Bob Irving, now in W.O.L,
and his wife, a trained nurse, were
the seconds last week at the mar-
riage of their friends Sister Katie Kirk-
land Robertson and Sapper Thomas
Murray Broadhurst. Bob gave the bride
away and his wife was matron of honor.
Lieut. Arthur Jonas kept the bridegroom
in order as best man.


L W
i/H
’.C&PZA V f St
HI
mm
.>*Ts'- ' v..
C.S. B. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
Pl|l S#!R
Sp ecially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exception-
a 11y hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
THE COLONIAL
SYDNEY
SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
. MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - • ADELAIDE • - PERTH
P. 1-43.
m
\ *
•• %
m
• -:®
15?
SSSS
5W
m&
JOHN ZVSJSCHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • FREMANTLE
-
'C93 308 J
BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
. HAVE
1
nr i
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
to
pry. i~~r£D.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS-
SMOKE-OH!
“How frequently we find a woman married to
a man who is twice her age.”— Woman’s paper.
Almost as often as we find a man mar-
ried to a woman who is half her age.
“Allied ’planes scored direct hits with heavy
bombs on a 10,000-ton crooner.”
— A.B.C. announcer.
“Bing! Bang!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ernest Raspberry, tired of jokes about his
name, has asked a Georgia Court for permis-
sion to change it to Berry.”—' ‘‘World’s News.”
The rasp won’t grate on him any jnore.
■i* 4* 4* ■ 4*
Saved!
The war-created shortage hit poor old
McOnkus very hard. He put up will-
ingly with shortages of beer, smokes,
elastic, tea and so forth, but to a con-
firmed jigsaw puzzle and crossword de-
votee the sudden disappearance of these
things from the shops was an awful blow.
However, McOnkus is making a rapid
recovery. . He has found that he can get
all the brain-teasing he wants simply by
making an application to some Govern-
ment department or other and taking
home the forms which they hand him.
His quickest solution so far is four days
flat on the form for extra sugar for jam-
making.
4. 4. .j. 4. ‘
“What is the best way to date?”
c „ '
Swallow the Stone.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Lost, Bay Child’s Pony Mare, two white
hind feet, blaze on face; unshod.”
— Advt. in suburban paper.
The mare was red-headed?
....
•iTT- a . . Tu c t.. . uu:
His doctor told the Earl that his habit of
taking pegs of whisky at all hours of the
day must cease. Woman s paper.
Exhortation.
Always be polite, my friend.
Always be polite.
Though another may offend
Don’t get wild and bite.
Always be genteel and nice;
Keep serenely cool.
If you don’t take this advice,
Blast you, you’re a fool!
NAT.
A proud man he — far, far above
Alb common ills; that was his view.
The doctor gave his pride a shove —
He took him down a peg or two.
P. P.
The Parfait Gent.
“M. Pages, at whose villa outside Sfax
Rommel stayed as a self-invited guest, said that
the field-marshal left suddenly one night with-
out announcement and without saying thanks.
All Madame Fages’s best silver and linen went
with him. But M. Pages is a fair-minded man.
‘Rommel is a great soldier,’ he said, ‘very cor-
rect, very austere.’ -“S. M. Herald” cable.
“Mais oui, m’sieur; M. Rommel was
the grande gentilhomme, nest ce pas?
Always scrupulously honorable. When-
evaire he help himself to a dozen, pullets
or a ’undred bottle of Veuve Cliquot from
my cellaire, always he bow and inseest
on paying for zem weeth ze monnie what
he get from selling some of my prize
peegs. Ma foil Zat man was ze most
high-principled I ’ave ze pleasaire of
meeting. And nevaire would he tbeenk
of having more zan seven helpings of
my pate de fois gras, m’sieur, nor gorge
ontil he had to be carried from ze table.
No, m’sieur, always he put down his fork
an’ knife while he could steel staggaire
across an’ —’ow you say? —prop it up
against ze cushions. Such austerity,
m’sieur, would ’ave delighted your M.
Curtin to see.
“Nobody, m’sieur, could ’ave been
more polite an’ conseederate zan ze
marechal. Take when ’e first came, an’
took madame’s an’ my bedroom for
’eemself, an’ made us sleep in ze spare
peegsty. M’sieur, it was weeth ze greatest
solicitude ’e ask madame my wife next
morning eef ze chats were bad. An’ one
day, m’sieur, when somezings go wrong
up in ze study, parbleu ! ’e t’row ze door
sentry at a staff capitaine. Ze capitaine he
dodge and ze sentry go through a beauti-
ful cheval mirror. Ze marechal cour-
teously ask my attendance. ‘Combien,
m’sieur ?’ he ask. I tell heem it cost 7000
francs. ‘ Guten !’ says ze marechal, weeth
charming manners. ‘Pay it to my ober-
leutnant, offal, und I vill no more trouble
make ofer it.’ M’sieur, could one have a
better example of probity and sportsman-
ship? M. Rommel, m’sieur, he is the
true preux chevalier
Bo.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Rolling Down the Lachlan, by Frank
Clune—3339.
To buy Physics, by Booth and Nicol. 3340.
Information Sought.
How did the term “Rafferty’s Rules” origi-
faction fights at Donny .
brook Fair. Any available weapons were used
j n dicse battles, and the Rafferty gang, being
rougher than any other, made its own rules.
* * * *
/ hold land under the N.S.W. Crown Lands
Consolidation Act. Am I entitled to impound
cattle straying on my lease? .
That Act provides that no person occupying
land under the Act can (a) impound any stock
trespass j n g on the land, or ( b ) bring any action
| Qr trespass committed by stock on the land
unless the land, or portion thereof trespassed
upon, was at the date of the trespass enclosed
with a fence reasbnably sufficient to keep out
stock. # # * *
Are The Bulletin’s "Outback Occupations’ •’
articles to be published in book form ?
Yes, the book should appear about the end
of this month. It is being published by
Dymocks, of Sydney.
* . *
I have a bridge over a tidal salt-water inlet.
Any means of counteracting cobras which
attack the piles?
At low tide the piles should be swabbed, be-
tween high-water mark and mud line, witn
creosote oil. This process should be repeated
once a year. The oil should be worked well into
C ff V ta? Obtained 11 and
applied to the piles in a similar fashion while it
is hot and then covered with fine sand a more
permanent effect will be secure d^oats
of tar and sand can be given with advantage.
Brief Answers.
Ns> and r.g.L. : Information on its way.
D.E.: A. Senior made a motor-cycle
record in 1935 by racing i-mile with top speed
.n S and Pl 'in ’ a barmV pSce I lin. layer
D f sand , then a layer of oranges (not touching
each other), and another layer of sand. Com-
m’sieur, VblSite i”ilS'.°
£ or . was the Melbourne Newport, of
course. One of those slips.
Answers to Correspondents
Kumt and address must appear on the MS. Ko
liability is ‘undertaken rc contributions voluntarily
submitted: and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.R.C.:—
’Twas the voice of the sluggard,
I heard him complain:
“You have waked me too soon,
There’s a strike on again.’’
T.U.S.:
The bomb-burst and the gunfire now
Are playing different notes
To shed fetters of oppression
And permit the antidotes.
War. And still its aftermath
To follow in its sequence,
Yet some at home commit, condone
A nought, plus grandiloquence.
.. ..C.W.: There’s an “1” in “calm” and an
“r” in “harm” and never the twain shall
rhyme F.MacD.: Prosy K.V.L.: A good
shot on the tennis court.. . .IfH.: “Return ’
is a promising theme too slightly treated
H.N.: Close M.L.G.: Sing-song C.V.:
Featherweights... .8.L.P.: It is not necessary
to adopt an archaic diction when talking to a
bird E.H.: Why do you say it “lends"
beauty to the scene?... .T.N.: Vague E.L.,
R.C.C., D.K.8., D.M.E., 0.E., R.W., J.A.,
H.E.C.: Missed.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Australians for the Kimberleys
Colonisation of the Kimberleys by
Jewish refugees or any other race outside
the British Empire is a national matter
which should be put to a referendum of
the people and not decided by a few
politicians. Let Australians be warned.
In 1941 the State Government was all in
favor of the scheme. The Federal Gov-
ernment, however, decided it had enough
international complications on its hands.
This area will ultimately prove one of
the most remarkable of the Common-
wealth. It is to our disgrace that up to
the present we have wholly neglected its
worth. While it has been stated that the
country is “wild,” it is by no means wild
in the sense that it lacks fertility. Along
the banks of the River Ord are thousands
of acres of land much more fertile than
a big percentage of those already farmed
throughout the Commonwealth. These
areas are flat and require the minimum
amount of irrigation to transform them
into magnificent pastures and crop lands.
Since there’s really no cold season, many
crops can be cultivated the full year
round. Given the right transport facili-
ties, the wealth of the cattle country
should prove to be enormous.
That there is an abundant under-
ground supply of water A. W. Canning
proved in 1906, when he mapped out a
stock route of 850 miles to take cattle
to Perth overland, via Lake Way station.
Wells were sunk at intervals of approxi-
mately 14 miles. In some cases an in-
flow of water of 4300 gallons an hour
was obtained at Bft.; in others 2000 gal-
lons an hour at 20ft. Deposits of wol-
fram and iron ore have already been
discovered. In 1885, over 10,000 trekked
out to the Kimberleys in search of gold ;
the big mines were never developed.
H. C. Barclay, who traversed this sec-
tion of the continent about 1940, found
delicious bream abundant in the inland
Traine and Hann rivers.
To open up the Kimberleys thousands
of miles of railways are needed, east to
west and north to south across the great
domains; also inducements by the Gov-
ernments of rich gifts of lands to tempt
pioneers into the hinterland so that it
shall be developed and populated as an
Australian possession. Furthermore,
the establishment of entire towns is re-
quired and assurances by big business
people that they will support the towns
and help establish the settlers.
The shades of Forrest and Grey, Eyre,
Burke and Wills, Blaxland, Lawson and
Wentworth—of all our great explorers—
now stand by. “Did we,” they ask,
"blaze the trail to hand this land over in
its entirety to any people who have not
starved that it might live, have not battled
with its floods, its droughts and its fires?
This is the heritage we handed down to
you. Guard it well. Hold your lands as
your own!”— David Ashway (N.S.W.).
War Loan Publicity
Does the repent idea of publicising the
names of country towns whose “response
has been shocking” really help to increase
War Loan subscriptions? It would only
put my back up if I lived in one of the
named towns, and many others would
doubtless react in the same way. The
best way to make a naughty child defiant
is to reprimand it publicly,— Ajax (S.A.).
Freedom of Speech
There is still a lot of confusion, even
in professorial circles, about the meaning
of “free speech.” The N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly censured Prof. Anderson,
of Sydney Uni., for having expressed
anti-religious views in public. The pro-
fessor, invoking Magna Charta or the Bill
of Rights or some similar authority,
claimed that the righteous ones sought
to deny him that freedom to say what
we like which we are all supposed to
enjoy. One section of the public still falls
for that specious argument; the remaining
section is just illogically censorious. None
of the ensuing press comment (and there
has been a spate of it) seems to have
argued this particular aspect:
The society which concedes freedom of
speech at the same time expects each
member of it to observe his individual
obligations. Thus, a Labor politician is
quite entitled to advocate a 10-hour day
and no pay for overtime, but only after
he has ceased, by resignation or other-
wise, lo draw salary for representing a
working-class constituency. Similarly an
Anglican minister may extol the virtues
of Mohammedanism when he is prepared
to pass up his Anglican stipend. If the
terms of Professor Anderson’s employ-
ment oblige him to refrain from shoot-
ing off his anti-religious views, then he
has broken his obligation. That is a
question for the University to decide, not
for the Legislative Assembly.— Jake B.
(N.S.W.).
Land Settlement in N.S.W.
“Seedy” (B. 24/3/’43) dismisses the
land-settlement problem too lightly and
is less than just to Mr. Tully, who doesn’t
contemplate a Western Darling full of
carrot-growers. The Western Division
doesn’t come into the scheme at all.
It will be news to some that more than
half the properties in the Eastern and
Central Divisions are of under £5OOO
u.c.v., the proposed minimum for the
new land tax, and that the most prosper-
ous districts are those with the smallest
number of big holdings. That there are
thousands of men living comfortably and
bringing up families on 1000 acres and
“Could I have a few days off, sir? The wife’s coming home on final leave.”
less (I refer to grazing) while near-by
properties of anything from 10,000 to
40,000 acres support one family at the
homestead and one employee and his
family in a ramshackle hut to each 5000
or so acres. That the small owner has
improved his property to as much as
double its former carrying capacity by’
sowing pastures and subdividing, and has
improved his flocks by careful breeding,
while many of the large holdings have
depreciated, and, running wethers only,
added nothing to sheep quality.
These observations refer to good rain-
fall districts. Anyone can verify them by
taking a look round for himself or by
asking a woolbroker where the great in-
crease in the wool-clip has come from
over the last 20 years—from the small
grower or the large? There are excep-
tions among the big properties, of course,
and there are also the great studs, which
are a class apart.
Whenever a small property comes on
the market it is bought by a big neigh-
bor at a price far above its economic
value, unless there is a buyer about who
wants to put his son on the land and is
prepared to pay a big price to get the
place. The small man who has to make
the place pay for itself isn’t in the race,
and if there are no sheds, yards, dwell-
ing, etc., already erected, the neighbor
who can work it from his own place has
an advantage of at least £3 per acre
over the man who has to build them.
The only apparent solution to the land-
settlement problem is to limit the man
who has enough already. The sugges-
tion that to reduce the capital value of
land will reduce its earning power is
puerile. The only sound objection among
the many artificial ones is that the time
is not opportune, but if the bill is shelved
now it may be two generations before it
is tackled again.—H. O. (N.S.W.).
Army Pay
There are many arguments against the
existing rates of army pay for the lower
ranks, especially when these are com-
pared with the earnings of munition
workers, wharf-laborers and the like, but
a word or two may be said for the Army
side of things.
This is how two or three married cor-
porals, with similar home conditions,
work things out;
Per Day.
s. d.
Army pay .. .. .. 10 6
Wife’s allowance . ■ • ■ 4 0
Allowance for one child .. 3 0
Deferred pay .. .. • • 2 0
Board in camp .. .. •. 3 6
Clothing .. .. • • 10
Dentist, doctor in attendance .. 6
24 6
For the average man this is a good
wage. For a seven-day week it repre-
sents £8 11s. 6d., and not many workers
make an average anywhere near it.
The single man,’ as a private, certainly
gets only 455. 6d. per week, but this is
purely spending money. With his de-
ferred pay, board and other items, his
total swells to approximately £4 11s. 6d.
The only man who really suffers is the
married man who draws a private’s pay.
I have seen men in such circumstances
draw as little as 7s. per week in order
to swell the funds at home, while the
greatest amount which can be collected
is only a weekly 17s. 6d. There is defi-
nitely something to be said for an in-
crease in the married private’s pay.—
A. S. B. (Tas.).
Not Shirkers
Being the plant superintendent on a
mine producing strategic minerals I have
intimate association with the men engaged
on the job and know their point of view
thoroughly. As an example, one young
man, a shift boss, went to the city for
his annual vacation. He returned after
a day or so because he felt a “squib” not
being in uniform.
Frankly, I think that most returned
soldiers actually do regard him and
others in a similar position as shirkers.
It has been my duty on several occa-
sions to talk with the men and try to
convince them that they are doing their
duty by keeping up production. I now
feel it my duty to try to get some clear
understanding that the men will not be
penalised after the war. The R.S.L.,
for example, will certainly insist on pref-
erence for returned soldiers. Most em-
ployers will consider it their duty to give
this preference. What then of the man
who has been flatly refused permission
to join the forces? — Gordon Ley (W.A.).
War
Instead of trying to prevent future
wars by drawing up a balance sheet show-
ing that a war of aggression does not
pay, as suggested by “Angellic” (B.
24/3/’43), it would be . preferable to
adopt the positive method of rubbing in
the fact that a successful war against
aggression does pay. Few people in
Allied countries would dispute this now.
General MacArthur has given us bril-
liant examples of how well it pays to be
ready to smash an enemy before he can
build up a force on your soil. It would
pay still better to have a defensive force
ready to go and smash any attempt by
him to build up an aggressive force on
his own soil.
Even that, of course, is not enough.
We ought to attack still earlier by try-
ing to quench the smouldering embers
of war: the injustices, intolerance,
jealousies and prejudices which embitter
human relationships and the false teach-
ings which fan those embers to the point
where people are willing to allow them-
selves to be regimented into a nation of
aggressors. But that will not be the
simple job which some ideologists seem
to imagine. It may take generations to
eradicate the hatred and distrust spawned
by this war alone. In the meantime, we
could have no better investment than a
defensive force—either British or, pref-
erably, international—ready and willing
to stamp out the beginnings of another
war.—Biv (vS.A.).
The Price We Pay
The typhoid epidemic in Melbourne
has been given great publicity. Official-
dom, badly frightened, is ready to go to
any lengths to deal with the menace, even
if it means closing down farms and
dairies.
But since the Pacific war got into its
stride there has been a worse epidemic
of venereal diseases. How much publicity
has been given to that and how frank is
officialdom about it?
Dr. Featonby, Chief Health Officer of
Victoria, put it in a nutshell the other
day when he said: “Medical authorities
consider that if they were enabled to
conduct widespread propaganda as to
means of prevention of the disease the
number of infections would be materially
lessened.” Then he added ; “No Govern-
ment in any English-speaking country, as
far as I am aware, would countenance
such propaganda, as it would immediately
be accused of encouraging immorality
and inciting young people to live immoral
lives.”
Premier Dunstan can’t very well say
that it is the Federal Government which
restricts him in this case.— Lord Luvus
(Vic.).
Aids to Morality
All this destructive criticism of the
morals of young people, particularly
girls, neglects an important aspect of the
matter.
Consider the case of the girl and her
boy-friend who are, perhaps, strangers
to the city. They start off by going to
pictures, cafes, etc., and end up in parks,
hotel parlors and other less favorable
places. Why? Because they have no-
where else to go.
Why not rest-rooms in town? There,
with both sexes welcome, they could talk,
meet their friends, and have music. This
should also be available to munition
workers.
Instead of heaping insults on our
girls and boys let us help them. Insti-
tute clubs and rest-rooms where young
folk can meet under decent and, digni-
fied conditions. —X. B. W. (Q.).
Post-war Wool Trade
Japan as a buyer may be counted out.
Trade with Russia will be possible, and
with Britain certain. British farmers have
been forced to break up grass land and
grow more urgent crops. They have been
paid a subsidy for each additional acre
brought under the plough. So there may
be an increased market for wool in post-
war Britain.
“H.D.” has not explained the agree-
ment with Britain fully. Profits on
resales are to be paid to the Aus-
tralian growers, and although that scheme
will end one year after the war it will be
good business for Australia to supply
England with wool at a controlled price
that will repay growers. Certainly the
Commonwealth Government should fix
the price in relation to costs.
There is nothing in the Atlantic
Charter to interfere with price control.
“Access to raw materials” merely means
that monopoly with a view to manufac-
turing preference will he discontinued. —
Stephen Carley (N.S.W.).
These Price-fixers!
Two prosecutions have taken place for
overcharging the fixed price of face-
washers. If the whole business world had
been combed from end to end a less-
important item could scarcely have been
found. But the prosecutions demonstrate
how really busy the price-fixers are. So
busy that they quite missed a great mass
of Christmas toys, sold at an increase of
about 200 per cent, on the previous year’s
prices, but still bearing, after a year at
war with that nation, the stamp “Made
in Japan,” proving them old stock. The
price-fixers wouldn’t tackle meat and
vegetables, but sat back and watched
these items, on Which the country spends
millions, creep up 100 p.c. and 300 p.c.
respectively.
I believe in price-fixing in an abnormal
time like this ; but it must be all-in if
anything, at least as far as essentials go,
including price of labor, rents, commis-
sions, interests and all costs that might
allow an undue advantage because of a
state of war. —G. A. B. (N.S.W.).


L
1
•::V v ' '
COMMUNICATIONS
sa«gfs»s“ SE,V,CE
SS SSof wSI SERVICE
M*NOFACTUWMO ti o N .
ssS sssr
wireless “Instruments
SS SSSdSr RECEIVERS
broadcasting
OWNERS AND OPERAT stat(oNS
OF BROADC ctRALI AN ARTISTS
RECORDING OF AUSTRALIA!
MARCONI SCHOOL
KSS mkS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sia) LIMITED
Australians National Wireless Organisation
