

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 331 S
Wednesday, August 25, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered it the General PM Office. Sydney N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post .. . v-tvsnaoet.
Seppelts
“VIA VERITAS VITA”— GLASGOW'S NOTED UNIVERSITY.
170 R all its preoccupation with trade and manufacture
1 Glasgow has long been proud of its ancient-founded
University. Originally in the High Street, Glasgow Uni-
versity was established nearly five hundred years ago by a
bull secured from Pope Nicholas II through the influence
of William Turnbull, Bishop of Glasgow at the time, ror
four centuries this, the second oldest of Scotia s Universities,
remained in the heart of the city, various Scottisi no ) es an
sovereigns making gifts of land and other P™P<= r J 01 ’ n
1860 the present magnificent buildings planned by S.
r. Srott were opened on a new site on the ridge ot
Gilimirchill above the pooh and groves of the river Kelvin,
A part of the buildings is occupied by a museum founded
by William Hunter, M.D., one of the most distinguishec
alumni and graduates of the University, and in which lie
many coins and relics from the Roman Wall which ran
between the Clyde and Forth. The lord rector of Glasgow
University is elected by the students voting as four
“nations”: Glottiana, Transforthana, Rothseiana, and
Loudonia. Distinguished Scots educated here include
Adam Smith, the economist ; Sir W. Hamilton, phil-
(“Christopher North”), famous
osopner , auu juun vv v r „
author of bygone years who wrote Noetes Ambrosamm.


w
This Book FREE to YOU'
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fre“
Booklet explaining how to Write /or Profit a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My A ddress
s.b. us
AGE
The Red Page
THE HEROIC DREAM.
For she had fiery blood
When I was young,
And trod so sweetly proud
As ’twere upon a cloud,
A woman Homer sung,
That life and letters seem
But an heroic dream.
In everything W. B. Yeats did or said
and in every spectacle or adventure
which life presented to him, there seems
to be something dreamlike, heroic, fan-
tastic. Even while he was living it his
life had the quality of a legend.
For that there are three causes: he
did genuinely live, as in old age he in-
formed his doctor, “a life of excite-
ment” in strange and stirring times ; and
he had the artist’s eye for the bizarre or
the heroic in what to another man might
have been unremarkable, seeing his life
and his acquaintances as history would
see them, larger than life, mythological;
and, to some extent, he deliberately posed
as a romantic figure. He chose to look
legendary, as witness this glimpse of him
beside Maud Gonne from Joseph Hone’s
W. B. Yeats (Macmillan), the excellent
authorised biography:
In London what a curious sight they
must have presented to the Cockneys—the
young poet and the European beauty: the
poet, with pale face and long hair and
rich melancholy eyes, held her cloak and
superintended the transport of the bird-
cages beneath the high, sooty arch of Vic-
toria station; beside him Maud Gonne, as
tall as he, eyes fiery from her Parisian poli-
tics, her clothes , swirling with her long
strides and wide gestures. Either alone
would have arrested attention; together,
with cloaks and birdcages, amid the fuss
and paraphernalia of a railway station, they
set the platform astare. Once he had to
carry a full-grown Donegal hawk to her
compartment.
The great formative influences on
Yeats s life and poetry, however natural
and normal they may have seemed when
he experienced them —but he was never
quite unaware of their strangeness—all
seem fantastic and legendary at this day
and at this distance from Ireland: the
Rhymers’ Club ; magic and spiritualism ;
his iove for Maud Gonne; Irish
politics.
To the Rhymers’ Club came “the tragic
generation” (to which, incidentally, Chris
Brennan belonged in spirit); aesthetes
who imbibed through the pipe of
Mallarme the subtle poison of Baude-
laire.
Ernest Dowson came, faithful to
Cynara after his fashion ; Lionel John-
son came, a Greek miniature with Pater
on his lips and a fatal thirst in his throat;
Arthur Symons came and was described
by Johnson as “an aesthete with a surfeit
searching the music-halls sadly for com-
monplace pleasures.” Francis Thompson
and William Watson hovered in the
background. Not associated with the
club, but a pillar of the same decadence
was Oscar Wilde.
Poets wore cloaks and long hair.
Everyone had his “weakness.” Hone de-
scribes Yeats and Symons, who were
temperate with alcohol, comparing them-
selves sadly with Dowson, feeling that
their ability to resist temptation was pos-
sibly a weakness in them as poets:
They decided to have two whiskies every
night at 12 to see if they could do without
a third. When at the end of a fortnight
they returned to their tumblers of hot water
Yeats said, half-seriously, “Symons, if we
had felt a tendency to excess we would be
better poets.”
If Yeats was unable to acquire a
proper passion for alcohol, opium, pros-
titutes or suicide, he was at least able to
turn with enthusiasm to the Occult. And
Madame Blavatsky and her circle were
quite as fantastic as “the tragic genera-
tion.” When Yeats shaved his beard
Madame foretold him a bad illness
within six months “through the loss of the
mesmeric forces that collect in the
beard.” A glimpse of Yeats at spiritual
chess with MacGregor Mathers in
Paris:
As a rule, though he evidently lived under
a great strain, Mathers was a gay and
companionable man. In the evenings he
made his wife and Yeats play chess with
mm, a curious form of chess with four
players. Yeats’s partner was Mrs. Mathers,
Mathers’s a spirit. Mathers would shade his
eyes with his hands and gaze at the empty
chair at the opposite corner of the board
before moving his partner’s piece.
Even in a world where violence has
become the norm of civilised behavior,
the present commentator found it ami-
ably fantastic when he read in a Chinese
novel that patriots in Hong Kong
had been making bombs out of kettles
and watermelons ; and one can hardly
regard as any less fantastic the world of
Irish Republican politics into which Yeats
was plunged:
Maud Gonne had visited the Boer agent,
Dr. Leyds, in Brussels in order to place
before him a design for sending a British
troopship to the bottom by concealing in
the bunkers bombs disguised as lumps of
coal.
Leyds was reluctant to adopt an un-
recognised method of warfare, because he
feared the effect upon English liberal senti-
ment, but he had yielded to the entreaties
of the fair envoy to the extent of offering
to place £2OOO at her disposal for un-
specified revolutionary action in Ireland.
The sum had been intercepted by a
gentleman who, calling upon Leyds after
Maud Gonne had left Brussels, declared
that he was her friend and that it was
undesirable for a lady to be mixed in such
dangerous transactions. It was suspected
.... that the gentleman was the mad rogue,
as Yeats now called O’Donnell.
Maud Gonne was in despair. After
enduring so many vicissitudes—including
an attempt of Clemenceau to poison her —
all the political credit she had built up in
France lay in ruins Yeats comforted her
as best he could Then the 1.R.8. got wind
of the affair and some young hotheads de-
cided that O’Donnell’s crime could be ex-
piated only by death.
Maud Gonne felt a scruple about being
privy to the removal of an enemy by means
which she would not employ herself, and
for some weeks Yeats lived the life of a
hero of a sensational novel, pleading with
her for their enemy at meetings of the
1.R.8.
Their efforts were successful; O’Donnell
escaped vengeance, and a few years later
produced another lively pamphlet against
the Yeatsian literature.
Yeats had reason to write that life
seemed like “an heroic dream”!
Though the phrase summed up the
whole of his life it referred specifically
to Maud Gonne. More than anything
else it was his prolonged, hopeless devotion
to that proud, cold, fanatical beauty, “a
woman Homer sung,” that wrapped his
days in “the cold snows of a dream.”
He met Maud Gonne when he was 23,
and first proposed marriage to her three
years later. He was still asking her to
marry him in 1917, when he was 52.
His devotion, Yeats told Lady
Gregory, “might as well have been offered
to an image ip a milliner’s shop or to a
statue in a museum.”
What Yeats took with him when he
emerged from the mists of “the tragic
generation,” Hone suggests, was his
cloak: that is, the conscious pose of the
poet, which, though it is out of fashion
today and though it had the inevitable
defects of artificiality, gave him one of
his greatest virtues as a writer, his
respect for his own art, reflected in an
invariable dignity of style. It is prob-
able that Yeats also took with him from
the ’nineties the notion that a Broken
Heart was a highly desirable possession
for a poet.
Baudelaire had had his opium;
Symons had his ladies of the street;
Dowson and Johnson had their drink ;
Wilde was notoriously the Stricken
Deer ; and Yeats, until in middle life he
began to be annoyed with it, had his
Broken Heart. It was his wound, his
weakness: it very nearly became his vice.
Somebody who believed the Broken
Heart was all pose, said that Yeats had
a cold heart and a warm mind. Hone,
rightly disagreeing, points out that it is
impossible with Yeats (as with everyone
else) to say where pose ends and reality
begins. A man is not part pose and part
reality, but an inextricable blending of
pose and reality. Yeats’s love for Maud
Gonne was unquestionably sincere. On
what was apparently the only occasion in
his early manhood when his devotion was
temporarily chilled so that he could look
favorably upon another woman (“Diana
Vernon”) the spectre of Maud Gonne
rose up to frustrate an elopement. That
was not pose; Yeats was in love with
Maud Gonne.
ln 1903, when Yeats was 38, Maud
Gonne married John Macßride, who had
led the Irish Brigade with the Boers.
Throughout the duration of the marriage
(which turned out a failure) Yeats re-
mained devoted. A liaison with “an un-
married lady past her first youth,” begun
when the poet was 45, was “carried on
without great conviction on either side,”
and died quickly when Yeats came—
erroneously—to suspect that he had been
“ensnared by a huntress.” Maud Gonne
remained his idol, and in 1917, when her
husband died, he repeated his proposals
of marriage.
It was an extraordinary year for Yeats.
When Maud Gonne rejected him yet
again, he proposed to her daughter Iseult.
Iseult also having declined —
How could she mate with fifty years that was
so wildly bred?
Let the cage bird and the cage bird mate and
the wild bird mate in the wild —
the poet married an Englishwoman, Miss
Hyde-Lees, whom he found “a perfect
wife, kind, wise and unselfish.” Three
years earlier, in the prelude to Responsi-
bilities, he had addressed his ancestors:
Pardon that for a barren passion’s sake
Although 1 have come close on forty-nine,
[ have no child, I have nothing but a book,
Nothing but that to prove your blood and mine.
The “barren passion,” he had come to
realise, was destroying his life. It was
also harming his work; or, more
accurately, he had worked out to the full
the literary value of a broken heart, and,
if he were to continue writing without
repetition, he needed adventure. The
image of Maud Gonne haunted him to
the end of his life ; but he was free from
her ; he could see her clearly, detachedly,
write about her with new strength. The
typical early poem to Maud Gonne
was:
Had I the heavens’ embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
The “key” of his maturity was indigna-
tion as well as love —anger, even
hatred:
Have I not seen the loveliest woman born
Out of the mouth of Plenty’s horn,
Because of her opinionated mind
Barter that horn and every good
By quiet natures understood
For an old bellows full of angry wind?
Yeats would still have been a con-
siderable poet if he had never broken free
from Maude Gonne. No change of
fashion can destroy the beauty of the
early poems on the lost-love theme. But
if he had not broken free he would never
have been so great a poet as he is. For
the full statement, the complete under-
standing of life that gives his later poems
their Shakspearean richness, he had to
emerge from his dreams, welcome the
“blood and mire,” discover action and
sensuality.
Now that ray ladder’s gone,
I must lie down where all the ladders start
In the foul rag-and-bone shop of the heart.
Of all the “dreams” in which he had
moved the dream of Maud Gonne was
the most dangerous, because, feeling it
the most strongly, he came the nearest
to surrendering to it.
Any one of the great influences upon
Yeats’s life and art could have been
fatal to both. The decadence of the
’nineties could have destroyed him as it
destroyed Dowson and Johnson and
Wilde. His dabbling in magic and mysti-
cism set him on the road to frenzy, for
the process of mysticism—the opening of
the mind to a flood of images from the
subconscious, formless, incoherent and
unintelligible inevitably destroys the
poetic process, the essence of which is
control, the isolation and clarification of
the image. Had Yeats surrendered to
his mysticism as Blake did, his work
would have been a collection of mon-
strosities like his solitary “prophetic
book,” A Vision.
Irish politics, too, might well have
destroyed him. Maud Gonne tried again
and again to persuade him to write
propaganda plays, and, though he was
above that vulgarity, he wasted much
time and energy on what he afterwards
came to realise was “a surrender to the
artist’s greatest evil, creation without
toil.”
Some inner balance preserved him
from surrendering irrevocably to any of
his dreams. He used them for his
poetry and passed on. He came to re-
gard the poetic process as “a continual
setting in order of the disorder of one’s
own mind.” Hone quotes with approval
Dr. Bronowski’s summing-up:
“Yeats stands against the line of poets
whose ideal was poetry. And he stands
away from the little poets of the nine-
teenth century who tried to fit poetry to a
social use. He is a poet of great living and
of the senses. Yeats is poet enough to
stand against poetry.”
The secret of his life is detachment. He
was not finally involved in any of his
dreams. He could look detachedly on the
Rhymers’ Club, detachedly on mysticism,
detachedly on politics, detachedly (after
bitter struggle) on Maud Gonne, de-
tachedly at the end on life itself, writing
for his epitaph:
Draw rein, draw breath,
Cast a cold eye
On life, on death.
Horseman, pass by!
Maud Gonne became “a woman
Homer sung” ; out of politics, “A terrible
beauty is born” ; life was an heroic
dream, a great spectacle, a dance from
which his deepest integrity stood apart
even while he was moving to its rhythms
and bewildered by its music.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Curtain Raiser” : Surveying “Hitler’s
Children’ at Hoyt’s de Luxe in Mel-
bourne I was struck by the fact
that the packed house was more amused
than horrified at the revelations of Nazi
terror. As propaganda the film fell flat.
As with most propagandists, the authors
had depicted only one parly to the story
as human beings, the other party being
quite inhuman. Nobody can identify him-
self with characters with whom he has
no acquaintance ; he can identify him-
self only with people who are more or less
like himself and share similar emotions.
If we were told that there was a race of
people somewhere with feathers sticking
out 6f their heads instead of hair we
would not believe it. We would require
proof. There is not one human charac-
teristic in the Nazi villains in “Hitler’s
Children,” so nobody really believes such
creatures exist any more than they be-
lieve feathered human beings exist. But
everybody can recognise the characters in
Tolstoy’s War and Peace and Remarque’s
All Quiet. Toystoy and Remarque are
good propagandists, the authors of
“Hitler’s Children” are bad ones.
At the talkies:
Nevil Shute created a solid character as the
central figure of his “Pied Piper”—an elderly
well-to-do Englishman, full of that phlegmatic
■calm and hearty contempt for all arm-waving
foreigners which is the birthright of all elderly
well-to-do Englishmen. Unlike the majority of
escape-from-Occupied-Europe stories, Shute’s
was convincing. His Nazi gauleiter who con-
nived at escape for the e.E. and five refugee
children in order to get his own half-Jewish niece
away to America mixed Prussian thoroughness
and ruthlessness with a very human desire for
his own future security. In the film version at
Sydney Century, bearded Monty Woolley is the
whole picture. He could easily have ruined the
whole thing by false heroics in his defiance of
the German S.S. man. But his quick explosions
of anger hit a truer note. The comedy is
crystallised by the e.E. nervously asking the
parting mother if the children “are—er—cap-
able of observing the—um —usual conventions.’'
Vaudeville, for long regarded as the poor re-
lation of the show business, stood up surpris-
ingly well when so many of its superior sisters
of the legit, were flattened by the silver screen.
It is probably as strongly entrenched now as
ever. The range of its vitality is demonstrated
by two current films. Those formerly unsung
heroes the small-bill teams, true battlers of the
boards, eternally struggling to topline the “big
shows” and endlessly searching for new twists
and sequences, are the subject of “For Me and
My Gal” (St. James). It gives a true-life pic-
ture of the slow struggle to recognition. It is
genuine vaudeville of the early ragtime era, in-
terpreted spiritedly by Judy Garland, Gene
Kelly, George Murphy and Hungarian soprano
Marta Eggerth. At the other end of the scale
is “Rhythm on Ice” (Victory), which is really
super-vaudeville, featuring troupers in the £3OO-
--week class. That wizard Phil Taylor, who
did a show at the Sydney Royal a few years
ago, gives with daughter Megan and Vera
Hruba turns which combine the hair-raising
with the perfection of grace. And in the best
traditions of high-class vaudeville the show is
scintillatingly mounted.
Most of what is meritorious in the
Society of Artists’ show at the Educa-
tion Department galleries, Sydney, has
been seen before. There is the usual
array of sound work by well-known prac-
titioners, but in most cases these plough
along old furrows. Murch’s strikingly
composed “Summer Sun” stands out.
Frank Medworth’s water-color “Eastern
Suburbs, Morning,” is unusual in
approach and remarkably successful.
Dorothea Johnson’s little sketch in oils,
“Spring Hat,” is so charming and clever
that it won a red seal five minutes after
the private view opened. Dahl Collings’s
“Silva Ley” is as effective as it is unusual.
William Dobell, whose work gives spice
to any collection, catches the eye with
“South Kensington Woman.” Arnold
Shore in “Country Residence” takes his
tongue out of his cheek and presents a
striking impression. Frances D. Ellis’s
portrait “The Artist” is suave and mellow,
and Charles Lloyd Jones shows one of
the pleasantest landscapes in the show,
“Summer at Summerlees.” Charles
Meere’s still-life No. 124 is especially
well painted. Daryl Lindsay’s “Flower
Piece,” in oils, is a departure, in medium
and subject, and quite a successful one.
Miss A. M. E. Bale, Melbourne’s
veteran flower-painter, whose latest show
is at Sedon’s, is the daughter of a former
inspector of customs who became a
scientific specialist of world - wide
authority on hydroid zoophytes. All her
life Miss Bale has shown the same sin-
cere devotion to ranunculi and roses as
her father did to corals and sponges. She
paints them with a factual appreciation
of the delicacy of their texture and the
refinement of their color. In an occa-
sional landscape she shows a tendency to
delve deeper.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
CHOSEN
FROM OUR
CHEMISTRY HEFT.
%
B
Q
O
*
m
%
%
u
:
s>
r
x /y //<r-v
y '<s//
W~ *««*
4 > **y ««
Wi?*i
S>>
m
❖
5%
I
V
SP
H
**
aw
\^ x
;
i
m
<L
m
m
\\\\\s^>-
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
:v':>
m
m
m
Hi
a
w
c o%
f.
mm
m
's,
mm
*w-m.
n
tt&x
m*
&&&&I
Wi ■ - v
mm&i
• *> ■■**
Dr. Webster's Asthma and Bronchitis
Cure. Also a good tonic for the blood
and body. Improves the appetite, digestion
and general health. Price 10/6
Glucose Liquid with Vitamin D. Restores
energy; builds up the resistance. Use as
a sweetening for drinks such as fruit juices,
milk, etc. It is invaluable for children and
invalids. Price, large jar 5/3
Digestase. A digestion powder that is
more than an ordinary stomach powder.
"Digestase" contains a highly concen-
trated extract from malt which will digest
many times its own weight in starchy
foods. Does not contain soda. Price, 2/6
Evagreen Eucalyptus Oil Extract. Contains
80/90 per cent. Eucalyptus. Absolutely no
Phellandrene. No irritating alcohols and
aldehydes. For wounds and treatment of
colds it is without equal. Prices, 9d. and 1/3
Hamilton's Industrial Cream. A scientifi-
cally prepared product as a protection
against skin irritations. Admirable for
workers everywhere. Prices, 2/6 and 7/-
Mort-Ant. For the destruction of Ants of
all kinds. Also destroys Borers and Ver-
min-of any description. Price, lib. tin, 4/9
• Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


TOO GO, FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
By DAL STIVENS
I.
IN the ladies’ toilet Merle, 16, who
worked behind the stocking counter
at one of the big stores during the
day, powdered her nose and put more
lipstick on her lips. She wore a bright
pink taffeta evening frock and had flung
her brown topcoat, with the sleeves hang-
ing loose, over her shoulders. Her brown
hair was done in tight curls and her full
lips were heavily painted. She had a
turned-up nose.
At the next basin her friend Shirley,
from the same store, was also powdering
her nose. She wore a blue evening frock
with a shoulder spray of artificial flowers.
She was blonde with heavy cheekbones.
Wiping her lips with a make-up hand-
kerchief, Shirley said;
“I dunno what’s biting you tonight.
You’ve never been like this before.
You’ve dumped plenty of fellows before.”
“It kind of seems mean. They’re
lonely,” Merle said.
“That’s their worry. You ain’t been
this way before. I’ve seen you dump
plenty this way before.”
“We’ve got to go back,” Merle said.
“We’ve been here too long.”
“You’re getting soft. Don’t tell me
you’re getting soft at last.”
“No,” Merle said. “I’m not getting
soft, but it does seem mean to talk to
fellows and have a dance with them and
then ask them to wait and not come
back.”
“You’ve done it before, Merle. You
stay the way you are and get all you
can out of men.” Shirley shut her hand-
bag up with a snap, fluffed out a curl.
“All of them only want the one thing.
You want to make them pay. These kids
haven’t got any money.”
“I’m going back to them,” Merle said.
“I’ll tell them you got sick.”
“You tell them what you like. I’m
not going to spend the evening with two
kids of sailors without any dough.”
Merle walked five steps away and
turned back, looking to her friend.
“Come back, Shirley. They mightn’t
be so bad.”
• “You go to hell,” Shirley said. “You
do what you like. Dumping me like this
for a couple of dumb sailors!”
“I’m sorry, Shirley.”
“You’re a fool. I dunno why we let
them pick us up in the first place.”
“The fair one seemed kind of nice.”
“Listen, Merle, they’re nicer when
they’ve got some dough. Let’s dump them
and pick up a couple who’ll give us a
good time. I dunno what’s come over
you.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Letting me down like this. You said
you wanted a good time tonight.”
“I’m sorry, Shirley. Honest, I am.
I’m going back—you come, too.”
“Not on your bloody life. You go,
Florence Nightingale.”
K A ERLE went slowly out of the ladies’
‘"I toilet and through the girls standing
around waiting for men to come up and
dance with them. Along the wall men
and girls had teamed up and were sitting
at tables. The two Australian sailors
were waiting and smiled when they saw
her.
“Hallo,” the one with the fair curly
hair said. He looked about 19. “Where’s
your friend?”
“She’s going home,” said Merle. “She
isn’t well.”
“That’s bad luck,” the dark sailor, who
looked a little older than the other, said.
“Can we take her home?”
Merle sat down alongside the sailor
with curly hair. “No,” she said. “Shirley
will be all right. Don’t worry about her.”
“She mightn’t be all right,” the fair
sailor said. “We’d better take her home.
You go and fetch her.”
“Don’t worry about her. Please.”
“All right.”
The orchestra began to play, and the
fair sailor stood up and asked Merle to
dance. She half got up and then sat
down.
“You ought to look around for two
other girls,” she said.
“Don’t you want to dance with me?”
“Yes. But it’s no fun for you two.
You want two girls.”
“Let’s dance,” he said, and walked
close to her. She got up. As they went
off the dark-haired sailor laughed and
waved to them. Then he stood un and
left the table.
Jack will be 0.K., ’ the fair sailor told
Merle. “I’m glad you didn’t get sick. My
name is Bill. What’s yours?”
“Merle.”
“I like it.”
He started to say something else and
then stopped. Merle looked at him,
smiled and pressed his hand.
“You’re shy,” she said.
His face went red.
“Yes.”
They danced three more dances. Then
they went and found a vacant table and
sat down. A girl in a green frock came
out and crooned “Concerto for Two.”
A yellow spotlight played on the girl.
She mouthed her red lips at the mike,
and once she stood on her toes and
leaned over it. She sang two other
numbers.
11.
*‘ I ET’S go to a night club.”
J —“ Haven’t you got any in Perth?”
“Not like the ones in Sydney. I want
to see one.”
“You don’t want to waste your money.
It’s all right here.”
“It’s hot,” the boy said.
“Let’s go outside.”
They pushed through the glass doors
and went down the steps to George-
street. The street was browned-out and
they couldn’t see clearly for a minute.
After the dance floor the street seemed
quiet. They saw the dark Town Hall
tower with the grey-white faces of the
clock. The hooded headlights of a taxi
coming over a small swelling in the street
flashed brightly and then blinked back
to a little glow.
Merle led the way into Park-street,
looking back once over her shoulder to
peer into an unlit frock window ; service
men were waiting for girls at the entrance
to Hyde Park. They found a seat under
a wattle tree. There were other couples
around them in the darkness; on the
right a girl laughed suddenly and loudly ;
ahead a man lit two cigarettes and the
match lit up cheeks, nose and eyes. A
tram whined along Elizabeth-street, and
its pole struck out blue sparks as though
from an emery wheel.
“Tell me,” Merle said, “was it very
bad—up there?”
“It was very bad. The Japs gave us
everything they had. They sent bombers
and tried to sink us. They seemed to
come from everywhere.”
“Couldn’t you do anything?”
“We tried all we could. There were
too many of them. I don’t want to talk
of it. There were too many of them.”
In the dark a girl giggled. Arm in
arm, a soldier and a girl walked through
the dim cone of a browned-out light.
“I don’t want to talk about it,” the
boy said, loudly this time. “Please don’t
ask me.”
Merle put her hand on his.
“No, we won’t talk of it,” she said.
“Let’s talk about something else.”
“I don’t want to talk now,” the boy
said. “Please don’t take it the wrong
way. I want to get drunk. You take
me to a night club.”
“Getting drunk won’t do you any
good.”
“I want to get drunk,” the boy said.
“I’m on leave. You be a sport and take
me to a night club. I’ve got plenty of
dough.”
“All right, Bill,” Merle said. “If you
want to go so badly.” She stood and
chattered at him gaily. “Let’s have some
fun. You have all the fun you can. Kiss
me again, please. Suppose we both get
drunk?”
111.
THE fat waiter, who was going bald
and who had dandruff flakes on the
shoulders of his black jacket, picked up
two empty bottles from the table, gave
his jacket a tug and went away.
On the platform one of the band tipped
his saxophone up to drain it, and the
’cellist spun his instrument on its point.
At the next table a girl leaned her head
on the shoulder of an A.I.F. private.
“Where’ll we go tomorrow night?” the
boy asked.
“Anywhere you like, Bill. Anywhere.”
He passed her a packet of cigarettes.
“Am I very drunk?” he asked.
“No, you’re just nice. Nice and happy.”
The band started to play and he said :
“Let’s dance.”
“Yes.”
Someone threw a switch and the lights
dimmed. The night club was decorated
after the style of a ship’s interior, and
the globes were set in imitation ships’
lanterns.
A girl in pink in front of the band
threw streamers over the dancers.
One streamer fell across them and
Merle caught it.
“See, I’m a maypole dancer,” she said.
Then she began to laugh. She went on
laughing and _he half-let his arms fall
and looked at her.
“No,” she said. “I’m not a maypole
dancer. I’m Florence Nightingale.”
“Florence who?”
“Florence Nightingale. You know, the
one with the lamp. I’m Florence Nightin-
gale.”
“I remember. She was a nurse.”
“I’m her,” Merle said. “She carried a
lamp.”
“Do you want a lamp?” he asked.
“I’d look good with a lamp. I’m Flor-
ence Nightingale.”
He stopped dancing abruptly. “You
stay there,” he said. He walked over
to a table and reached up for the lan-
tern.
“Don’t,” she said. “Please, Bill, don’t,
You can’t do that.”
“You said you want a lamp.”
The fat waiter came running up.
“Do you want anything, sir?”
“The lady wants to be Florence Night-
ingale,” the boy said. “She wants a
lamp.”
IV.
J T did not seem long after that before
* they were in a taxi on the way to her
home at Glebe. He had hailed the taxi,
walking drunkenly into its headlights,
and the driver had braked sharply, the
taxi’s tyres searing the asphalt.
He leaned heavily against her in the
back seat and she put her arms round
him. The taxi went on smoothly and the
black silk of George-street was wound
softly and swiftly on the wheels. A “No
Parking” sign swam before her eyes,
dipped and disappeared. She felt sleepy
and happy. She snuggled close to him.
He stirred then.
“You’re very young,” she said.
He furrowed his forehead, trying to
open his eyes. “Yes, darling.”
She didn’t know why, but she found
she was crying. She drew her arms
tightly round him. She didn’t know it
then, but that night she had become a
woman.
PEACE IN THE PARK
By LES ROBINSON.
THE night had been bitterly cold and
the morning was raw, but the clouds
that filled the sky were beginning to
disperse and soon the park would
be flooded with sunshine. I was looking
for a seat, a sheltered one, as the wind
was chilly, and sequestered, too, if it
could be found.
As an arranger of programmes for
broadcasting, it was my intention to be
busy until the middle of the day at least.
Having rounded up my scattered
thoughts,,! began to concentrate on the
task before me, hoping fervently, whilst
doing so, that nobody else would make
for my particular seat. Several people,
however, who had been making for it
evidently, sat down heavily within the
next few minutes, some of them with
grunts or sighs denoting satisfaction that
their wish to avoid further exertion of any
kind had been achieved.
Let me see, where was I? Oh, yes. I
know:
“10 a.m. —The Quarrymen’s Band:
‘Ballastelle,’ ‘My Stony-hearted Baby,"
‘The Pyramids’ (reverie melancholique),
‘Stonehenge’ (tone-poem), ‘Rock of
Ages.’ ”
“Get down off that parapet at once,
Georgie!” a heavy woman, second from
the other end of the seat and minding a
couple of kids, suddenly exclaimed.
A man in a battered bowler sitting
alongside me was, I could not help notic-
ing, making attempts, all of which were
ineffectual, to spear with his pocket-
knife a fly that kept on trying to bite him
through a small hole in his trousers.
“10.30 a.m. —The Plumbers’ Band:
‘Cisternella,’ caprice (Faucet), ‘March of
the Solderers’ (Plunger), ‘The Drangle-
plunk’s Birthday’ (morceau characteris-
tique), par Dregs”
“If you don’t get down off that parapet,
Georgie, I’ll beat you!” screamed the
woman who was minding the kids. She
seemed unable to keep still and, being
heavily built, rocked the seat every time
she moved.
“ ‘The Raindrop Prelude’ (Chopin),” I
continued. “ ‘Singin’ in the Rain’ (Hat-
ter), ‘By the Waters of Minnetonka’ (Pad-
dila), ‘A Cottage Small ’Neath a Water-
fall’ (Mutkins), ‘The Storm’ (Mackintosh),
‘Oh Leaden Is My Heart’ (Zinker), ‘Wed-
ding in a Washhouse,’ descriptive
(Quelch).”
U/E were overwhelmed by dense clouds
“* of smoke. The park-ranger was
burning off. My nose informed me that
discarded socks or an old pair of trousers
were being incinerated in addition to
leaves, grass, newspapers and fruit-skins.
“11 a.m.—Wurlitzer recital from the
Stunendic Picture Theatre: ‘Wedding of
the Whirlwinds’ (Willy), ‘The Burning of
Rome,’ descriptive (Bryant and May),
‘Storm Fantasia’ (Mackintosh), ‘What
Are the Wild Waves Saying?’ (S. Tatic),
‘Giggling Gollywog,’ ‘Cavalry of the
Clouds’ (march), ‘Blizzard on the Moun-
tain Tops’ (Queakzeagle).”
I lit my pipe and was puffing away at it
contentedly when my gaze, happening to
stray away again from the few notes I
had managed to make, encountered that
of an elderly person who was scowling
at me from the footpath a few yards
away.
“Smoking! Smoking!” he suddenly,
loudly and cantankerously ejaculated.
“It’s a beastly, a filthy habit! Abomin-
able ! Making chimneys of their mouths!
Morning, noon and night they think of
nothing else! Smoking their brains
away! ”
It is by no means improbable that he
blamed me for all the smoke in the park.
He was a “hatter,” the man in the
battered bowler informed me.
“There are a few other old-timers like
him with bats in the belfry living about
here,” he said. “One of ’em thinks
everybody is trying to lure his dawg away
from him. You’ll often see ’em in the
park. They’re quite harmless.”
“12 a.m. —The Bacon-curers’ Orches-
tra : ‘Overture, Egmont’ (Beethoven),
‘Three Little Pigs Went to Market’
(Lardner), ‘The Flitch Symphony’
(Dregs), ‘The Herdgirl’s Dream’ (Hog-
bin), ‘Sizzilita’ (Frizelle).”
A retriever that had just emerged from
a drain or pond paused near the seat
and, before I had time to get out of the
way, shook itself all over me. Merely
as a means of indicating that it had not
made an enemy of me for life, I gave it
a biscuit I happened to have in my pocket.
“Refrain, please, from feeding my
dog!” exclaimed someone behind me
curtly. “It needs no contributions from
strangers towards its maintenance!”
I turned round. The owner of the
voice and the dog was disgruntled and
gloomy looking. He was pernickety,
grumpy, a hermit probably and self-
centred, I surmised.
I apologised for having given the dog
the biscuit, which, however, did not
appease him, for he shuffled off mumbling
peevishly and growling like a dog himself.
“That’s the old bloke I was tellin’ you
about,” said the man in the battered
bowler, nudging me and grinning. “He
thinks you were tryin’ to lure that dawg
of his away from him. It’s always best
to take no notice of ’em. They’ll go
away quicker if you don’t.”
I relinquished further effort and,
lamenting over the small amount of pro-
gress I had made, went home.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3315.
Wednesday, August 25, 1943.
IF YOU CAN IMAGINE IT
“Eddie’s in and Curtin’s home and dry.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 voihns
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0 .) Wellingtor
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 rieet Street,
London. E.C.4
FOR WHAT'S AHEAD.
Launched by a lie, carried through in a
war-overcast atmosphere thick with a
smoke barrage of false claims and false
issues, an inspiration for narrow provin-
cialism and rowdiness at election meet-
ings, the campaigning for the election of
Australia’s Seventeenth Parliament laid
bare one thing above all—the paucity of
men of outstanding ability in each of the
old parties.
■ From opening lie till the last day before
radio silence was mercifully enforced, the
old parties made it an exposing orgy of
party politics. The evident leading
assumption was that the whole electorate
was inhabited by political illiterates. It
was assumed that these could be safely
counted on to swallow the most reckless
and transparent of lies and the most’
glutinous humbug. The Brisbane lie,
concocted regardless of any such con-
sideration as Ministerial responsibility,
effect on morale or elementary decency,
set the standard for the great bulk of
the campaigning. It was nailed early,
with legal exactness, but evidently Mr.
Curtin —who repeated it wrapped in
vagueness when he accused previous Gov-
ernments of being “defeatist in outlook
and preparation”—regarded it as a fair
line of approach to the nation.
Mr. Curtin’s variation on the lie direct
having proved a dud, his party resorted
to the claim that the war was as good as
won and that it had won it. In this
excess of humbug it went further.
With the Japs still holding all but
a pocket handkerchief of the vast
possessions they overran and nothing
of the Japs’ own powerfully defended
bastions so much as scratched, Labor
politicians asked for a mandate to “pre-
pare the peace.”
Dr. Evatt returned in the midst of
these babblings and ravings from his
mission abroad. He had done a good
job, and hence had more cause to feel
sure of himself than any other of his
party, or —excluding soldier candidates —
any other of the aspirants. He made
an attempt to lift its approach to
the country on to a higher plane.
Contrasting strangely with the mouth-
ings of Mr. Ward, Dr. Evatt admitted
that “in some respects the Menzies-
Fadden Government did a good job,” in-
stancing the Empire Air Training Scheme
to its credit. He had more of a states-
manlike quality to say;
Under Mr. Curtin, the War Council be-
came something closely approximating to
a national Government. It shows that the
two parties can co-operate on a non-par-
tisan basis for war purposes It also
illustrates how desirable it is that the repre-
sentatives of Australia in the conferences
dealing with peace should not be con-
fined to the particular Government in
power.
At this interesting stage sickness
knocked Dr. Evatt out of the campaign-
ing and kept him out. Also at this stage
the Opposition leadership had one of its
several tests, and, as in all of them, was
found wanting. Mr. Fadden, who blun-
dered and floundered all through the
campaign like a wounded walrus, here
blundered in to “challenge” Dr. Evatt on
the national-Government issue. The
Opposition leader had earlier blundered
when he bellowed down the continent
that a statement . made by Mr.
Menzies, speaking as a “private back-
bench member” on Mr. Fadden’s juicy
scheme for refunding taxation and being
unable to approve of it, was “a stab in
the back.., .another betrayal in the series
for which Mr. Menzies had become
notorious,”
Naturally, Mr. Fadden’s opponents
pounced on this and made the most of
it, using the Opposition dissension it
seemed to indicate as the strongest argu-
ment in the quiver against the national
Government which Mr. Fadden proposed.
The simple truth of the matter was that
Mr. Menzies not only had every right to
speak his conviction, but was right in
that conviction.
But it was not alone because of these
mistakes that Mr. Fadden was behind in
his own electorate of Darling Downs,
which, with 50,681 voting, gave him a
majority of 8049 in 1940. Nor was it
because of a sudden swelling of admira-
tion for the Curtin Government that
Labor was seen winning in normal
U.A.P. or U.C.P. electorates, and polling
strongly in all the rest —even in Victoria,
where at the recent State elections it won
22 seats out of 65.
The other main plank on which Labor
finally stood was its army policy—That is,
an A.I.F. (the willing ones) to be used
anywhere; and a C.M.F. limited to
doing its fighting (if any) withi'n fixed
boundaries not too far from Australia.
The U.A.P.-U.C.P. army policy was the
One Army proposal, under which, not
the willing ones of the Anzac tradition
alone, but eligible C.M.F. also would be
sent to fight where required. It set Full
Liability against Limited Liability—and
was defeated.
In effect, the old last-war anti-conscrip-
tion feeling was in action again, rowdy
meetings and all; and, with Labor this
time avoiding a party split, having prof-
ited by Mr. Hughes’s example, it swept
the polls. The vote of the electoral popu-
lation in Australia says that majority
Australia prefers that the A.I.F. shall
carry the main burden of the land fight-
ing, while American conscripts, white and
colored, help it to ensure Australia’s
continued existence.
This is not flattering ; but it is a fair
reading of the results on the main issues
as they were put. It is Australia’s choice,
and continued Labor Government—with,
no doubt, men such as Mr. Ward, Mr.
Forde, Mr. Lazzarini and Senator Don
Cameron in office, while men of the
quality of Mr. Menzies, Dr. Page and
Major Cameron are excluded —is merely
incidental to it. Yet, if the affairs and
mounting problems of this country—at
war, and when there is peace—are to be
wisely and successfully administered and
overcome, what will be needed will be
a combination of the best men available
in the country.
Judging by the electioneering showing
there are few enough of these, taking
all parties and all candidates together.
What is ahead calls for something
more than Ihe talent and willing-
ness to keep the flame of class-
war burning among home-front strikers
or to rouse a rabble in the lanes of East
Sydney. It calls for more than an ability
to strut and pose in a militarily syn-
thetic tropical uniform. The further and
wider Australia progresses into it —into its
destined role of a leading Pacific Power
—the higher its leaders will need to be
able to rise above the pettiness, the pro-
vincialism, the plain and fancy lying and
the humbug out of which the present Par-
liament, for better or for worse, emerged.
That, eventually, the war in the Pacific
will be won seems as good as certain,
and, in any case, is a ruling article of
faith inspiring the confidence that will
surely, some day, bring it about. Any-
thing short of a decisive victory would
mean, for Australia and New Zealand,
that the war had been lost. And even
when it is won decisively these countries
—unless British and American armed
might remains in control, and until they
themselves are immeasurably stronger
than they look like becoming for a
century —will remain under the shadow
of Asia, a part of which overhangs them
now. For a long time to come the fact
will stand that within some mere days’ sail
of these countries there are 1,000,000,000
Asiatics—to the present combined Aus-
tralia-N.Z. total of fewer than 9,000,000.
A United States publication has summed
up on this relative position:
If Australia has weathered the crisis it
is largely due to American aid; but our
antipodean friends, to whom we feel a kin-
ship of spirit, will continue to be in the
greatest danger while the teeming millions
of Asia overhang their slim populations.
A complaint—and a reasonable one-
on this score has been made in London
“Fortnightly”:
The smallness of the populations of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand has not only been
a source of weakness to Great Britain and
her Far Eastern policy in the recent past,
but' it has also provided one important
pretext for Japan’s policy of aggression.
Apart from some vague generalities,
this aspect of the huge problems ahead
was shunned like the plague in the late
electioneering. So was the question of
Australia’s security. Dr. Evatt was a
striking Labor exception. Stating that
after the war Australia must take its part
in protecting the security of the Pacific,
Dr. Evatt added that “for that purpose
substantial Australian land forces of a
permanent character will be required.”
Also, “a very strong Australian air force
and a very strong Australian navy. Any-
thing less than this would be suicidal.”
This was in accord with one of
those much-advertised “polls.” In this
one, 85 per cent, of those expressing an
opinion on the question of the post-war
continuation of compulsory training for
Australians were in favor. The elec-
tion result would indicate that this would
be conditional on compulsory trainees
not being obliged ever to go too far
away from Australia to fight.
Apart from that reservation, what those
who pin their faith on these “polls” seem
to overlook is that such moods are by no
means lasting. Not only in Australia
but in America and elsewhere there
might easily be another sweeping reac-
tion against everything at all associated
with or remindful of war, such as that
which followed the 1914-18 war, and
which led to these countries being virtu-
ally disarmed when the present war came.
This is all the more likely if—as is only
too tragically probable there are
grievous casualties in all the unpredict-
able fighting that still does lie ahead.
Against these experts might be set such
an amateur as U.S. Chief of Staff General
Marshall, recently warning that our suc-
cesses so far have been “comparatively
minor” ; that the war tasks ahead will be
“increasingly difficult” ; that the way will
be “far from easy” ; and that “our public
has yet to be proven in the agony of
enduring heavy casualties.” General
Marshall might well have had the blah
of Australian electioneers in mind as he
added a word on “the sudden waves of
optimism leading the public to feel that
we have made our great effort and the
end is in sight. This is far from the case.”
As everybody is well aware, in the elec-
tioneering out of which Australia’s Par-
liament has emerged the fostering of
that same false optimism which General
Marshall wisely warns against was a
major Labor contribution to the cam-
paign. That it sucked in many thousands
who are due for sorry disillusionment is
certain. It was yet another signpost to the
paucity of prospective leaders of the
country btg enough and able enough to
get the country through the war, let alone
successfully on into the peace, when it
comes. As Dr. Evatt has had the vision
to see, the post-war Pacific problems,
“political, economic and social, and their
solution will tax our wisdom, our under-
standing, our tolerance and our sin-
cerity.”
It is a mightily changed and changing
section of the world that this Parliament
and its successors will be called on to
face. If Australia is to have a stirring and
vigorous destiny here in this section it
will need Governments of the very highest
quality the sparse population is capable
of producing. On the evidence of the
late electioneering and its results, that
would mean a national Government, but
this, together with the One Army pro-
posal which the U.A.P.-U.C.P. put for-
ward with it, is off for the immediate
future..
So Australia faces up to what’s ahead
with the main burden and sacrifices of
the land fighting resting on the A.1.F.,
and the overcoming of an immensity of
immediate and future problems entrusted
to a Government far short of greatness.
Election Facts and Factors.
At the Commonwealth elections of Sep-
tember, 1940, there were 337 candidates
for 94 seats, the Northern Territory in-
cluded. Electors enrolled numbered
4,245,083, and 10,286 ballot papers were
issued to persons who claimed that their
names had been “omitted or removed
from the rolls by mistake.” Votes cast
totalled 4,021,066, 486,097 being informal.
Marking Senate ballot papers always
baffles a prodigious number of people,
and 183,015 had to be discarded in N. S.
Wales, 101,107 in Victoria, 29,883 in
Queensland, 29,443 in South Australia,
23,471 in Westralia and 17,067 in Tas-
mania. House of Representatives figures
were not so shocking, but there were
46,193 informal votes out of 1,575,949 in
N. S. Wales, 20,322 out of 1,138,426 in
Victoria, 12,156 out of 565,914 in Queens-
land, 12,887 out of 359,000 in South Aus-
tralia, 6363 out of 208,934 in Westralia
and 4102 out of 130,786 in Tasmania.
Electors enrolled last week numbered
4,490,660, and there were 416 candidates
for 94 seats. Unless a magical change
for the better has been effected, that must
mean that informal votes were once more
numerous, perhaps more so than ever,
at any rate as far as the House of Repre-
sentatives is concerned. And with the
rolls chaotic (for this, in the unusual cir-
cumstances, the department has a pretty
good excuse) and electors scattered as
never before, there were fine opportuni-
ties for impersonation, particularly under
the Electoral Act section which permits
total strangers to vote outside their sub-
divisions or electorates —321,315 did in
September, 1940.
Check on civilians there was none,
although all civilians are supposed to
carry identity cards in their pockets or
handbags. When enforced production of
identity cards was suggested to the leader
of the Senate, he rejected it on various
grounds, all flimsy:
Misunderstanding and confusion might
conceivably arise in the case of members of
the forces an leave. Difficulty would occur
in the case of postal voters. Irrespective of
how much publicity was given, large
numbers of electors would attend the
booths without their identity cards and
the rejection of the right to vote in such
circumstances would, it is feared, not only
cause grave displeasure but conceivably
might affect the result in a closely contested
electorate. The enforcement of the pro-
posed amendment would be most severely
felt in country areas. It is not thought that
any appreciable degree of personation is
indulged in in connection with Federal
elections.
The N.S.W. Labor executive provided
a comment on these observations by
declaring the ballots for the selection of
candidates for the Senate and for two
seats in the House null and void on the
ground that a very “appreciable degree of
impersonation” had been “indulged in.”
But the Collings idea may be that the
kind of person who stooped to these “in-
dulgences” is too highminded to practise
them in Commonwealth polling booths.
Personation there must have been ; and
it could and should have been prevented
—and wasn’t. Though, as it happened,
it could nowhere have materially influ-
enced election results, which were too
sweeping to have been so influenced, the
fact should be placed on record in the
interest of clean elections.
Factors which told in favor of the
Labor party were the great shifts of popu-
lation into Big-City electorates, from
which it derives its main strength, and
out of ordinarily doubtful country elec-
torates, a better “press” than it ever had
before, Senator Keane notwithstanding, a
leader possessed of ability, character and
likeableness, though he has strange lapses
into unfairness to opponents, and the old
feeling that it is unsafe to swap horses
when crossing a stream.
Factors which operated against the
U.A.P. and U.C.P. were the flounderings
of Mr. Fadden, his election-time renewal
of his quarrel with Mr. Menzies, the ad-
vent of a multitude of new-group and In-
dependent candidates who, as the event
proved, took votes from them and not
from Labor, and, above all, its advocacy
of One Army for Australia. This was to
its credit, but what it held to be a national
necessity proved an election liability. It
must be assigned as the main reason for
the universal slump in U.A.P.-U.C.P.
majorities, where majorities were pre-
served (it is significant that the slump
affected Mr. Menzies in Kooyong least of
all), and for the Labor successes, which
were such that on Monday the party
looked to have gained five House seats
outright, to have excellent prospects of
gaining ten more, and to be winning all
the Senate seats, except possibly one in
Tasmania.
Service votes may make a difference in
at least some of the doubtful electorates.
In 1940 they benefited sitting members,
though the bulk were for Labor. But
there were only 17,000 then. There are
upwards of three-quarters of a million
now, and among them are the votes of
“members of the forces under 21 who
have served or are serving outside Aus-
tralia,” and “discharged members of the
forces under 21 who have served out-
side Australia,” none of whom had flu
franchise in 1940.
PLAIN ENGLISH
A Check to Wordism.
In the last session of the last Parliament
the Curtin-Ward Government was sharply
reminded by Senator McLeay and his
associates that, by virtue of Constitu-
tional Section 53, the Senate has “equal
power” with the House of Representatives
“in respect of all proposed laws,” except
“proposed laws appropriating revenue
or moneys or imposing taxation” ; and
these it may “at any stage” return to the
House requesting omissions or amend-
ments. A week before polling-day the
Government was reminded by a High
Court judgment that the Senate was
charged with another power, which had
been exercised validly in the case of Mr.
Ward’s Women’s Employment Board.
That Ward improvisation threw a
spanner into the Commonwealth arbitra-
tion works. In awards of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court wages for
women were, as a regular thing, fixed at
54 p.c. of the wages for family men.
The Ward Board ordered employers to
pay women and girls up to 90 p.c. of
family men’s wages; and they were
promptly served with a vast numbei o
claims for increases, which grew every
week as the Ward Board went on its
blithe way.
Then the headaches began. If em '
ployers paid the wages prescribed by t e
Ward Board, wouldn’t they be violating
the Government’s wage-pegging regu a-
tions? In setting up the Ward Board ha


ẃ
wheat and sugar, and exports them over-
seas.
Production of these things has been
reduced by a variety of factors, the main
ones being visionless drainage of man-
power from farms to services, scarcity
of artificial fertilisers, cessation to a large
extent of manufacture of farm machinery
and duplicates, bungling by boards set
up to control supply and distribution of
seeds, overlapping of State and Com-
monwealth food authorities, and Gov-
ernment ignorance of or inability or
refusal to understand the simple eco-
nomics of primary production.
None of the foregoing is a sudden de-
velopment. It has all been sticking out
like a sore thumb for nearly two years.
And for nearly two years nothing prac-
tical has come out of Canberra —only
words, setting up of more authorities,
more appointments and more words.
And words and appointments won’t fill
stomachs.
It was obvious long ago that nothing
short of single Commonwealth control
of all land production would correct the
drift. Advocates of such control did
not mean that it should be exercised
by people with little or no knowledge of
agriculture or food transport and mar-
keting.
During the debate on the no-confidence
motion Mr. Scully came to light with a
grandiloquent description of What he
called the “new” food control. There were
to be directors and controllers-general
and divisions, State bodies and consul-
tative councils and committees, techno-
logical and research services, also liaisons
with everybody from Washington to the
Sydney Trades Hall. Mr. Scully is still
blithering on the same lines. But the
food position is still in a mess, and all
Mr.- Scully’s wizardry of appointment
and high title won’t clean it up.
For a Government with understanding
and courage there is nothing frightening
about the task. But somehow Labor
has never made much of a fist of admin-
istering even fishshops, meatshops and
pubs, let alone the food question in war-
time.
The Other John Lango
Written while waiting for election
results; —
While he wonders whether his Reid majority
over Labor-member Morgan (at the moment
4000) will survive the counting of preferences,
John Thomas Lang may perhaps be brooding
on the career of Dr. John Dunmore Lang, D.D ;
It is just 100 years since John Dunmore Lang
was elected one of the six representatives for
Port Phillip in the Legislative Council.
Busts of John Thomas Lang struck off in
his “The revolution is here” days can be
found here and there. Two memorials of John
Dunmore Lang exist in Sydney —the statue at
the northern end of Wynyard-square and the
new Scots Church behind it. A Commonwealth
electorate (represented by a previous supporter
of John Thomas Lang) has been named after
him, and the historical records of N. S. Wales,
the Government endowed it with powers
at least equal to and perhaps overriding
those of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, which have been held to nullify
State industrial awards, and even State
legislation where State legislation con-
flicts with Commonwealth arbitration
awards? Was the setting up of the Ward
Board a valid exercise of the Common-
wealth defence power? Would women
getting 54 p.c. of family men’s wages be
content to see comparatively inexperi-
enced women and girls receiving up to 90
p.c., and would the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court recognise its implied in-
feriority to the Ward Board by altering
its awards accordingly?
Taxpayers came into the picture. Many
of the concerns involved are working for
the Government on a cost -plus basis,
which means that every addition to expen-
diture ordered by the Ward Board, in the
aggregate a massive sum, would come out
of the Treasury. Some employers com-
plied with the Ward Board award ; others
refused to do so until the legal position
was straightened out. Union bosses
availed themselves of the position to stir
up strikes.
Senator McLeay and his associates
brought matters to a head by disallow-
ing Government regulations giving the
Ward Board jurisdictional power, and the
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures and
others launched a High Court case, in
which the validity of the Ward Board and
its decisions was challenged.
In a majority judgment the Full High
Court decided that the Women’s Employ-
ment Act, under which the Ward Board
was constituted, was validly enacted
under the defence power, but that the
Ward Board decisions were valid only up
to the time (March 16, 1943) the Senate
disallowed the regulation. One of the
dissentients was Justice Starke, who de-
clared that the Act itself was bad, inas-
much as it gave Parliament power to over-
ride decisions of Arbitration Courts and
Wages Boards and itself regulate wages
and working conditions ; “this,” he said,
is “inconsistent with the Federal system
of government adopted by the Constitu-
tion.” Chief Justice Latham described
the judgment as “partly a victory for the
plaintiffs and partly for the board.”
The immediate effect is that the board
cannot now function unless Labor is in
a position to clothe it with full powers
by getting control of both Houses. When
its career was checked by the Senate it
had 160 cases on its list, and the cases
now stand adjourned indefinitely. Mean-
while /under Ward Board awards issued
up to September 23, 1942, and between
October 6, 1942, and March 16, 1943,
there has been a forest of demands for
back pay, so headaches continue.
And now, presumably, the Senate will
cease to be a check on the Government,
since Labor will have majorities in both
Houses —at least after June 30, 1944.
"Desert Victory."
Capable of taking in tremendous up-
heavals of nature, the spectacle of a burn-
ing city or the sweep of a naval action,
the movie camera met its match when it
tried to capture the terrific night barrage
with which Montgomery’s Eighth Army
opened the attack on El Alamein on
October 23, 1942. Even so, what it was
able to capture of the phantasmagoria
of flame and sound is vivid enough.
From the opening scenes showing the
desert, “stretched and stricken, left and
right, left and right....and a red wind
out of Libya roaring ,” to Mont-
gomery’s parade of triumph to Tripoli,
the film is a magnificent panorama of the
Eighth Army victory that began the rout
of the German-Italian forces and led on
to their expulsion from Africa, the taking
of Sicily and the imminent end of Italy
as a belligerent.
It is a crushing answer to snivelling
critics of British Empire genius for organ-
isation, manufacture of equipment, fight-
ing and ability to overcome odds. There
are glimpses also of the A.I.F. Ninth
Division men, giving an idea of their
grand work on the coast in the opening
phases of the battle, when they were part
of the greatest single army in the world
and under the leadership of the greatest
fighting general.
The fact that the picture has had to
wait so long in cold storage here is a
reproach to whoever is responsible. It is
one of the most inspiring films ever made.
The Food Mess.
Australia has to feed its service men
and women. Allies serving within its
borders and neighboring islands and seas,
its war workers and the rest of the civil
population, at the same time maintain-
ing or increasing supply of foods to
Britain. Normally it produces surpluses,
many of them huge, of the main food-
stuffs, such as butter, meat, fruit, eggs,
Vi-toria and Queensland carry the imprint of
Iris strong, indomitable, unselfish personality.
He was a great man, a great fighter and a great
lover of and believer in his fellow-Australians.
August has been a fateful month for both
John Langs.
John Dqnmore Lang was born at Greenock
on August 24, 1799. He took bis M.A. degree
in the University of Glasgow at the age of 21,
receiving his license to preach from the presby-
tery of Irvine in the same year. He decided to
devote himself to the missionary side of Presby-
terian Christianity, and turned to Australia,
where an elder brother was already settled on
the Hunter River. He arrived in Sydney in
May, 1823 (109 years before John Thomas
Lang’s Government was sent about its busi-
ness by Governor Game), and his family
followed him to the colony at the beginning of
’24.
As a representative of the Port Phillip district
he was conspicuous as an advocate of sepa-
ration from N. S. Wales. He did not rest
from agitating with that end in view until
Victoria became independent.
The encouragement of immigration from Scot-
land became one of his greatest activities. He
did everything possible to settle large numbers
of his countrymen in the Port Phillip and More-
ton Bay districts, with consequences .which can
be seen today. He resigned his seat in the
Council and made a voyage to England, where
he published two books extolling the advan-
tages to the settler to be found in “Phillips-
land” (Victoria) and “Cooksland” (Queensland).
By strenuous campaigning he succeeded in
organising some 600 migrants to come to N. S.
Wales, on the understanding that they would
receive on their arrival grants of land equal in
value to the cost of their passage to the colony.
The local Government, however, refused to fall
in with this arrangement, and Dr. Lang’s wise
experiment led him into a good many difficulties
and very heavy personal expenses.
Upon his return from this expedition he again
entered the Council as one of the members
for Sydney (July, 1850), and was particularly
active over the question of the abolition of
convict transportation.
Becoming the representative of a Moreton
Bay electorate (Stanley) in 1854, he threw
himself heart and soul into the movement for
separation. He had a vision of a Federated
Australia to consist of seven States —South
Australia, Victoria, Tasmania, N. S. Wales,
and three new States which were to be
formed in the northern districts: “Cooksland,”
“Leichhardtsland” and “Flindersland.” After-
wards he rechristened Leichhardtsland and
Flindersland “Capricornia” and “Carpentaria.’
His ecclesiastical activities were prodigious.
When he arrived in N. S. Wales the only
Presbyterian church was the ancient building,
still in existence, at Ebenezer, on the Hawkes-
bury (John Thomas Lang is a gentleman farmer
in the neighborhood), and the only place avail-
able for services in Sydney was the Supreme
Court House at the top of King-street. Tem-
porary use of the Supreme Court House was
granted to Dr. Lang by Governor Brisbane.
He was not long in altering this state of affairs,
and the old Scots Church —demolished about a
dozen years ago—had its foundation-stone laid
on July 1, 1824, and was opened just over
two years later. Then he devoted himself to
the institution of educational facilities for the
people, a work which he never relinquished
until his death. And that took place in the
fateful month —on August 8, 1878.
Land into Dust.
A Victorian “Journal of Agriculture ’
photograph shows part of the large
Murray town of Mildura with a mallee
duststorm about to sweep down on it.
A semi-darkness lies over the buildings,
and behind them is a rolling mass of
sand and dust.
Recently the Rural Reconstruction
Commission was told in Sydney by Sam
Clayton, N.S.W. soil conservation expert,
that of the State’s 200,000,000 acres
60,000,000 are being eroded.
Those 60,000,000 acres carry most of
the State’s crop lands and 90 p.c. of its
stock.
Clayton also told the commission that
an intensive attack on erosion was
planned for immediately after the war,
that five research stations were being
established, but that more than a million
acres of farm land would be lost before
corrective measures could be taken.
In Victoria, H. Hanslow, State Rivers
and Water Supply Commissioner, has
tried hard to wake people up to what is
going on. Hanslow has grim practical
knowledge ; it costs his commission thou-
sands a year to keep water channels free
of drifting sand. It also costs the Vic-
torian Railways thousands to keep lines
clear.
The Rural Reconstruction Commission
has been hearing a lot of what is pro-
posed for the future. In Sydney it heard
of a grand inland water scheme to cost
£26,500,000, a prophecy that a million
men would come to Australia from
abroad after the war, a vision of Aus-
tralia feeding them and devastated Europe
as well. In Melbourne it was told of
room for expansion in potato-growing,
flax and tobacco production, more wool,
milk, cheese, poultry and honey. All
desirable, but all doubtful until erosion
is mastered.
That it can be mastered nobody
familiar with it doubts. But it won’t be
while a man like Clayton is restricted to
an office in Sydney, one piffling experi-
ment farm and promises of others, or
while Hanslow has to do the best he can
with £l5 prizes donated by himself and
private business firms, or while Trumble
in Adelaide is restricted to lectures on
the subject.
It calls for action on a national scale.
Erosion was beaten in America by a
national body, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, given the necessary powers
and finance.
But, apparently, it doesn’t mean any-
thing to the nation’s Parliament that pic-
tures can be published showing land
blown to a depth of sft. Biin. in 20 years,
that what were once brief dry spells are
now droughts, that land on which the
last generation grew bumper crops of
wheat and wool will now barely maintain
life. If this meant what it should a
national soil conservation scheme would
be set going at once.
AFTER THE TEMPEST.
“‘S. M. Herald’ advised N.S.W. electors to vote for Evatt, Chifley, Beasley, Clark, Scully and Watkins (Labor), for new-
group candidates out against the Opposition members in Eden-Monaro, Hume, Parkes, Parramatta and Wentworth, and
against Ward, Falstein, Lang and the Labor Senate team.”
“Well, Mr. Fairfax, I suppose it’s safe for your old Granny to get down now!”


x \\\\
( St
>.- •-
m
/sr>
I mm
- ;
«■' * ■'■' * **ai
C. S. B. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - -
p.
LTD.
PERTH
1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
SAUCE
★ * -V -y.
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
POLITICAL POINTS
The luck of the political game! Sun-
day, September 22, 1940, found John
Curtin a prey to dejection, certain, he
thought, to lose his seat (and that had
happened to no Federal Labor-leader be-
fore him, Watson, Fisher, Hughes, Tudor,
Charlton or Scullin) and doomed to spend
the next three years eating his heart out
'on some newspaper in Perth. Sunday,
August 22, 1943, found John Curtin in
the seventh heaven ef delight, sure not
only of a resounding personal majority
in Fremantle, perhaps two to one, but
also of a party majority in each House,
denied to him in the last Parliament. He
will be the first Labor P.M. to carry on
from one Parliament into the next.
As in 1940 F. R. Lee will finish second
to Curtin ; and not a bad second con-
sidering the cry that was raised, always
telling in the West—“just a carpetbagger
from Melbourne!” As Curtin knows,
the U.A.P. wasted a good man when,
after his near-miss three years ago, it
didn’t snap Lee up for something less
difficult in Victoria or N. S. Wales—
always tragically short of seat-winners.
Curtin Labor candidates have unseated
McCall in Martin, Spooner in Robertson
(and “S. M. Herald” was grooming
Spooner for the Opposition leadership),
Stacey in Adelaide, Badman in Grey and
Beck in Denison. Other Curtin candi-
dates may wrest Eden-Monaro from Per-
kins, New England from Abbott, Parkes
from Marr, Boothby from Grenfell Price,
Wakefield from Duncan-Hughes, Perth
from Nairn, Forrest from Prowse, Swan
from Marwick, and possibly Wentworth
from Harrison and Barker from Archie
Cameron, though in all these cases, espe-
cially those of Cameron and Harrison,
uncounted service votes can save the sit-
ting members. On the other hand. Labor
may lose Coles ki Henty and Baker in
Maranoa, nor is McLeod safe in Wannon.
For the Senate Labor is sure to win five
States, but may not hold the three seats
in Tasmania. In that State a new man,
McKenna, is running second to Aylett,
leaving Lamp and Darcey and a U.A.P.
man to battle for the third seat.
The service vote, though multiplied
many times this year, should have no
terrors for Curtin. In the last week of
September, 1940, when he was running
second to Lee and looked in a desperate
case, it went 213 to 97 in his favor.
It was also in favor of Nairn (206
to 146), Archie Cameron (135 to 81),
Josh Francis (148 to 58), Fadden (74 to
56), Tommy White (243 to 170), W. M.
Hughes (213 to 116) and Spender (247 to
64); but for the most part it went Labor s
way. Forde got 134 to 52 and Riordan
204 to 48.
A Victorian C.P. Senator for six years,
Bob Elliott ran alone in 1934 against the
-U.A.P.-C.P. ticket and got 164,550 votes,
raised by preferences to 188,921. Not
enough, as it happened, but a rather
astonishing performance all the same ;
nevertheless at the declaration of the poll
Bob was a prey to gloom. After letting
fly at “the damnable game of party poli-
tics,” he said he would never stand for
the Senate again. He was as good as his
word ; but last week the old warhorse
lumbered into the lists in Deakin as an
Independent. He is polling pretty well.
It looks as if the Sydney U.A.P. bosses
will never learn how to run an election.
Their selection of Arkins and Dein for
the Senate when men like Richard Win-
deyer, Louat and the Rhodes scholar
Starke were available was only less idiotic
than their making a gift of Werriwa to
Lazzarini, of all duds —Lazzarini, who
was beaten by a U.A.P. man in 1931, and
whose majorities at three subsequent elec-
tions were nothing much. And the propa-
ganda that the U.A.P. didn’t beg or
borrow could have converted only
dotards and imbeciles.
Sydney telephone dialogue, a U.A.P.
supporter (lady) at one end:
“Is that U.A.P. headquarters? I have
heard you are putting over a broadcast of
a very clever Menzies speech. Can you tell
rae the station and the time?”
“I know nothing about it.”
“Surely that can’t be right. lam told
Mr. Menzies has done nothing better,
and”
“We are not interested in Mr. Menzies.”
Explosion at one end of the line. An- .
other person arrives at the other end. Re-
quests for time and place of the broadcast
repeated, together with a few words in
praise of the member for Kooyong (Mel-
bourne).
“Mr. Menzies? He has his defects, you
know.”
A few more exchanges, after which the
information is furnished.
Blighted was the day when the U.A.P.
lost the one sure election-winner it had —
Lang.
Quebec has a Mayor named Borne,
and on a subject of the utmost delicacy
he made a confidant of Mr. Godfrey
Blunden, Sydney “D.T.’s” Roving Re-
porter. To that young gentleman he said
—at least the young gentleman says so —
that Stalin not only wasn’t invited to the
Churchill-Roosevelt discussions “but
would not be welcome if he were there.”
Then the Mayor denied having made the
statement, and the Roving Reporter hit
the roof: —
I have not the slightest hesitation in
affirming that Mr. Borne said this to me
emphatically and beyond doubt. He said it
to me at a cocktail party which he gave to
visiting pressmen.
Lots of silly things are said at cocktail
parties to “visiting pressmen.” If they
are too silly or too embarrassing or too
invidious really experienced reporters
forget them.
A sojourn of ten minutes in Quebec
has convinced Sydney “D.T.’s” Roving
Reporter that the picturesque old prov-
ince is politically hopeless:
The evident truth is that Stalin would not
be welcome in Quebec and that its inhabi-
tants detest Communism, Socialism and
Liberalism and are pre-eminently reaction-
ary.
Mr. Blunden is, of course, a perambulat-
ing incarnation of Sweetness and Light.
In point of fact the predominant Quebec
party for generations has called itself
Liberal, and it has had at least one great
man, Laurier, to whom the term was
never denied. He went from a Catholic
college to Protestant McGill and 'con-
trived to become accepted not only as a
Canadian patriot but as an Imperial
statesman in the front rank. Fortunately
for his reputation he is dead, so he
escapes being dismissed by Mr. Blunden
as “pre-eminently reactionary.”
After Crete, F. Ehrenfried Baume, the
Great War Correspondent, hotly objected
to British battleships being kept as “show-
pieces,” and after the affair of the Scharn-
horst he had a crack at the R.A.F. Now
he is at ’em again:—•
The general impression in Britain —en-
couraged in official quarters—was that
Admiral Cunningham’s fleet was making it
next to impossible for any full-scale Axis
evacuation of Sicily to be carried out.
Presence of a strong Axis force from Sicily
in Reggio and other parts of southern
Italy could indicate that the Axis managed
to elude British naval and air inter-
ference in northern Sicily. There has been
sufficient discussion and no little conster-
nation about the last stages of the Sicily
campaign.
Ehrenfried’s real grievance seems to be
that Churchill and Roosevelt have a lin-
gering prejudice against letting the
assorted ruffianism of Europe cut loose
with rifles, pistols, bombs, knives, sand-
bags and knuckledusters by way of bring-
ing about a beautiful revolution.
These Government statisticians are un-
comfortable fellows. Just when candi-
dates were telling the country how they
would restore its rural industries, S. R.
Carver, the Commonwealth man, told the
Australian Food Council that since Sep-
tember, 1928, 28,438 workers and 8749
owners, lessees and share-farmers had
left the land in N. S. Wales alone. The
only replacement was 11,000 female
workers. This loss of electoral popula-
tion had a powerful effect on the chances
of Country-party candidates.
When “S. M. Herald” had to sum up
on the Commonwealth elections it must
have called in the horse reporter. For
a beginning its readers were advised to
go nap on six Labor certainties, Evatt,
Chifley, Beasley, Clark, Scully and Wat-
kins ; but in each case the price was pro-
hibitive. Next six Opposition fancies were
recommended, with, on the whole, unfor-
tunate results —Page, Hughes, Spender
(hard pressed), McCall, Abbott, Spooner
(buried in the ruck) ; and punters were
unluckily advised to bet against Ward,
Falstein and Lang. Still more unhappy
were other selections, “candidates of
ability and promise,” Bisset, Brady, Law-
rence, Love, Macarthur Onslow, Went-
worth and Whitfield, who finished “down
the course.” Finally, discarding the office
dictum that Arkins and Dein were cart-
horses, the loud trumpet sounded: “Vote
to defeat the Labor Senate team... .This
can only be done by voting for the
U.A.P.-U.C.P. Senate team.” The Labor
Senate team wins by the greatest distance
on record.
“Hooroar for principle,” Sam Weller
said ; and there is no sounder maxim for
political journalists. At two Common-
wealth elections the Oldest Morning
Paper, aided on the first occasion by its
junior contemporary, has substituted
“Men, not measures.” Results have
been awful.
The Communists ran 17 candidates
and the One-Parliament-for-Australia
group 24. One of each saved his deposit;
Paterson (Com., Herbert) and Anderson
(0.P.F.A., Richmond) —a most unusual
double. Leaving out the N.T., it looks
as if the Commonwealth will be able to
keep 178 of the “ponies” handed in with
nomination-papers; and that will be
something to set against the cost of the
election.
Every few weeks the New York
“Times” publishes a page advertisement
demanding the immediate formation of
an Army of Palestine and Stateless Jews.
On it are the names of an astonishing
number of Important People, and it
generally winds up with a tilt at the
British by a wandering novelist named
Pierre van Paassen. An accompanying
grievance is the withdrawal from the
Algerian Jews of their rights of French
citizenship, an offence imputed to
Giraud, though it is nine months since
General Eisenhower arrived in Algeria
with supreme powers. The other day
the U.S. Jewish Labor Committee lodged
a protest against the treatment of the
Algerian Jews with the old Secretary of
State. His reply was that “the Arab
population of Algeria” was “responsible”
—its “representatives” had “informed the
Allied authorities that they could not
guarantee Arab goodwill or even non-
aggression if French citizenship was re-
stored to the Algerian Jews.” What a pic-
nic the British would have in the Middle
East if they gave in to the demands of
gentlemen like Van Paassen and Abie
Landa’s protege Julius Stone!
One certain consequence of the Oppo-
sition rout is that Menzies will return
to his rightful place as leader of the com-
bined parties. On Saturday night, when
Fadden, Page and Spooner were behind
their Labor opponents and Hughes and
Spender were blinking at the reduction
of their 1940, party majorities (from
28,677 to 4378 in Billy’s case and from
36,747 to 5738 in Percy’s), Menzies was
13,978 ahead of his A.L.P. adversary—
nearly two to one. Had Great Dailies
given him steady support, instead of
objecting to the cut of his jib or some-
thing, August 21, 1943, may not have
been the Black Day it was for them.
From under the Vaucluse (Sydney)
water-tower:
The reaction in this U.A.P. stronghold to the
big vote gained by Mrs. Street (Left-wing Labor)
against Eric Harrison was a sort of stricken
silence. The appearance of young Wentworth
took away a lot of Eric’s glamor, but the sub-
bub was hardly prepared for the support given
Mrs. Street. Perhaps its feelings on the matter
were best summed up by the old gentleman
who, weakly leaning against a rose bush on
Sunday morning, was heard murmuring “But,
great heavens, a female !”
Twice elected for the Nunawading
(Vic.) Assembly seat Mrs. Webef re-
signed to contest Federal Henty against
Coles and young Gullett. The charming
woman now realises that it was a dreadful
mistake ; she headed only the inex-
tinguishable Carlyle Ferguson, and will
lose her deposit.- All the same, two
members of her sex look like going to
Canberra: Dame Enid Lyons as M.H.R.
for Darwin (Tas.) and Miss Tangney as
a Westralian Senator.
The election ought to make easy the
minds of many people who distrust “new
orders,” “modern systems” and so forth.
Though Australians are continually being
told that the world they know won’t exist
after the war, that startling changes must
come in their way of life, that they’ll have
to hobnob with all sorts of foreigners in
the “new world,” they signified their atti-
tude clearly last Saturday. Offered a
plethora of candidates who stood for
pretty well everything they made it a
straight-out fight between the old parties
and gave Labor one more chance to
make good.
The transferring by the United States
of between 150 and 200 ships to the
British flag, with a like arrangement being
made by the Canadian Government, in-
dicates what having “a front on every
wave that breaks” has cost J. Bull. This
cost —with Russia-bound convoys, the
Battle of the Atlantic, running the gaunt-
let to Malta and North Africa and help-
ing stave off a Jap invasion of Australia
—is estimated at almost half of J.B.’s
pre-war 18,000,000 gross tonnage. Ameri-
can tonnage —about 9,000,000 in 1939 —
is expected to touch 23,000,000 by the end
of this year. Phillip Runciman, chair-
man of the General Council of British
Shipping, has summed up:
When the war ends Britain will have a
much smaller merchant fleet than in 1938,
probably smaller proportionately than that
of any other maritime nation.
He gives it sadly as the “one conclusion
that the most timid prophet can reach."


ẅ
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
Had a 64th birthday this month,
premier Willcock, of W.A. A native of
progmore (N.S.W.), he went to the West
in ’99, became M.L.A. for Geraldton
in 1917, and was Minister for Justice and
Railways in the first Collier Government
(1924), holding the job till 1930. When
the Collier Government came back in
1933 Willcock took over his old job, and
succeeded Collier in the Premiership in
August, 1936. He holds the Westrafian
record for length of Ministerial service.
Like Collier, he has no enemy on the
other side of the House, only friends.
If it wasn’t for the something like dif-
fidence that so many of these air chaps
have in common, Pilot-Officer Ernest E.
Coate, D.F.C. and bar, could branch out
as a film actor. He has the appearance
COATE, D.F.C.
and a convincing personality. But, like
all the rest of them The Bulletin has
encountered, he’s the absolute reverse ot
a limelighter. The idea of being inter-
viewed” ties them all up ; they tai<e a poor
view of it. Also, good talkers when they
get going and with plenty to talk about,
they’ll talk about anybody but themselves,
which isn’t the most noted trait of actors.
Actually, Coate has made a film appear-
ance in a short in which he was shown
re-meeting R.A.A.F. recruiting head
Donald Cameron, who asked him, among
other things, what was the greatest kick
he’d got out of anything since he left Aus-
tralia. Without hesitation, Coate plumped
for being present when Churchill and
Montgomery met in North Africa. Coate
reckons there was something about that
meeting practically indescribable. On
both sides it was a spontaneous admission
of mutual admiration and gratitude, each
for each. Coate, who hails from Bairns-
dale (Vic.), won his decorations with the
R. over and around Malta, and has
a high regard for that gallant little island.
On the first day of his latest show at
Melbourne Athemeum Ernest Buck-
master sold over £lOOO worth of pic-
tures, beating Arthur Streeton’s and
Septimus Power’s first-day performances
in their artistic heyday-a remarkable
achievement for war-time. Buckmaster
was born at Hawthorn (Vic.), educated
at State schools and apprenticed to the
signwriting business. He entered the
National Gallery school in 1918, held a
successful first exhibition in 1926 and,
after a browse around the galleries of
Europe, took to landscape and portrait
painting. He was the Archibald Prize
winner for 1932, and most Australian
galleries have his pictures.
“Bryan Adelaide,” Anglican bishop in
S. surprises his flock by devoting the
whole of his episcopal letter for Septem-
ber to a warm tribute to the railways of
Queensland, where, as Bryan Robin, he
worked hard in the Bush Brotherhood
from 1914 to 1930. Then (on the rail-
ways), “consistently unpleasant memories,
inefficiency, meals (if and when procur-
able) bad, and ‘thrown at’ one ; spirit of
the men that which typifies Australia at
her worst....” Now, “a remarkable and
pleasant surprise: men entirely cheerful,
willing, friendly and obliging.... Re-
freshments served, h0t.... efficiency and
cheerfulness quite beyond praise. One
felt that the railways had somehow
been born again.... I found myself
wishing "that a very large percent-
age of Australian miners, waterside
workers and others could be given a like
baptism, and become entitled both to
their self-respect and the respect of
others.”
One of the restless:
Author Boyd Cable, who lately passed on
in London at 65, was a man of many countries
and many callings. Born in India, he was bap-
tised Ernest Andrew Ewart. His folk hailed
from Scotland, where he himself was educated.
After that he was in England for a while;
next in South Africa as a scout in the Boer
War. After the fighting he stayed on in South
Africa, and tried a dozen or more different
ways of earning a crust before heading for Aus-
tralia. Here he roamed the country, writing
many stories and countless pars, for The
Bulletin and the old “Lone Hand.” Then he
was in France with the R.F.C. in the 1914-18
scrap. After that he went into the film business,
and set up also as author. He wrote 20-odd
books, 15 of them fiction. Steinbeck lately
nabbed the title of Boyd Cable’s best-known
book, The Grapes of Wrath, which dealt mainly
with the Battle of the Somme. His Australian
books were / Blow and Kiss and Double Scoop.
Missing in air operations with the R.A.F.
Coastal Command, a brilliant young Aus-
tralian —Flying : Officer Richard T. E.
Latham, son of knight John Latham, C.J.
of the High Court. Victoria’s 1931
Rhodes scholar, Flying-Officer Latham
had a distinguished record at both Mel-
bourne Uni. and Oxford. Joining the
Foreign Office, he was so highly regarded
there that he had to put up a fight lasting
a long time before they would release
him for the R.A.F. Author of a number
of legal works, he was writing for the
Encyclopaedia of Laws when war broke
out.
Also missing, as one of the crew of'a
Liberator, former Australian bike cham-
pion Harris Horder. The ’plane was
American-manned, Horder having lived
in the United States for many years as
a naturalised American. He was a rear-
gunner, old as airmen go (43). The
Liberator had made an attack on Sala-
maua, but ran into very bad weather on
the return run and crashed into a river.
Only a little time back Horder was
awarded the Silver Star for gallantry in
action, General Kenney remarking:
“Horder, you keep shootin’ them down
and I’ll keep pinnin’ them on.”
The famous plastic surgeon Harold
Gillies, who carries a knighthood and
whose reputation was established in the
last war and has been improved in this
war, has an understudy rising to fame in
the same branch of surgery—-Dr. A. H.
Mclndoe, a cousin of Harold Gillies and,
like him, a native of Dunedin (M.L.).
Mclndoe controls the Queen Victoria
Hospital, Sussex (Eng.), where burns,
explosive wounds and the many other in-
juries which airmen suffer are treated.
Dr. Mclndoe left M.L. in his twenties
for Rochester (U.S.A.), and was at the
Mayo Institute. He arrived in England
in 1930, became a F.R.C.S., and joined
Gillies in 1932.
Purely from the personal angle the
Sydney Government did a good job in
the appointments to the new Sydney Turf
Club Committee. Chairman W. W. Hill
is a big, very popular cHap; former
Rugby Union president; himself an in-
ternational footballer; chairman of
Tatt.’s Club. Former Australian champion
swimmer W. Longworth is chairman of
the Owners and Trainers’ Association ;
he races horses, and gives a share of the
winnings to war funds. F. G. Under-
wood secretaried for the Sports Club for
many years, and is chairman of Canter-
bury Park committee. Herbert Thomp-
son owns Tarwyn Park Stud, which has
given Australian racing a long string of
winners ; its present sires include Mel-
fort, Hall Mark, Nuffield, Dark Lover
and Golden Sovereign. Harry Tancred
is a former football international, latterly
High Caste’s owner. G. E. Ryder is
a business and sporting personality round
Cessnock way ; M. Weir is Under-Sec.
to the N.S.W. Treasury; H. B. Hay is
general sec. of the A.W.U.; J. Dowling,
who races horses, has had long experience
of the Turf, especially with the Rosebery
Club, as had his father before him. V,
E. H. Davis is one of the best known of
racing vets. ; Bert Riddle is studmaster
at P. Miller’s Kia-ora Stud at Scone ; and
W. R. Dovey, who owns several neddies,
is a leading Sydney K.C.
When this page went to the printer
journalist Alan Fraser looked to have a
good chance of being one of the N.S.W.
additions to Labor’s strength in the Reps.
He will know more about what goes on
in the Canberra House than any other
of the newcomers, having for years re-
ported and commented on the doings,
there. He’s of the solid type, rare enough
among politicians but rarer still among
present-day scribes.
Back in Perth after three years on re-
search work at the University of Cali-
fornia, and with its degree of Ph.D., Dr.
M. E. Smith, B.Sc., who got his B.Sc.
with honors at the University of W.A.
At the Westralian seat of learning he had
a brilliant run, taking first-class honors
in chemistry and a Hackett studentship.
Named Minister for Rehabilitation,
Major C. F. Skinner, M.C., is, at 42, the
youngest member of the M.L. Cabinet.
He won his decoration for notable
bravery and leadership in action with the
N. Engineers. He’s a hard-headed,
practical chap, free from any exotic
notions.
“El V.” on a man who had great gifts:
When he passed over at 86 the other day
William Hill Irvine, labelled “Iceberg” by
James Edmond, was almost forgotten by this
generation, but in his day he was a power in
Victorian and for a time in Federal politics.
A County Down Irishman, a kind of Carson
without the eloquence, uncompromisingly
honest, dour in his public relations, but not so
dour in private, he came to Australia at 21
with no equipment but an Arts degree from
Trinity College, Dublin —he was born in FJewry,
the home town of Russell of Killowen. He
won a law scholarship at Melbourne University,
was called to the Victorian Bar at 26, and at
36 won the Lowan Assembly seat. His political
progress was comparatively slow, since for some
years his considerable practice was his main
preoccupation, but once in the McLean Minis-
try in 1899 he made a quick rise to the
Premiership three years later in a turbulent
period of which the features were the big
drought and railway strike of 1903. In 1906
he won Flinders, was Jocook’s Attorney-General
Former Victorian Premier and Chief
Justice IRVINE.
in 1903, and retired in 1908 to succeed that
other great Bulletin character John Madden
as Victorian Chief Justice. Illness brought
about his retirement in 1936. He was a curious
character, with a secret passion for mechanics
which made him one of the Commonwealth’s
pioneer motorists. Much of his supposed aus-
terity was due to shyness; he could unbend
and display Irish charm and wit on occasion,
and he could be pithily descriptive of his fel-
lows, as when he spoke of Billy Hughes, walk-
ing the Block with bluff John Forrest, as like
“a molecule conspiring with a bear.”
Dr. John Fullarton Mackeddie, re-
appointed vice-president of the Victorian
National Gallery, is the trustee most often
seen at art shows, and, with interest in
art revived by a contest that has broken
out between Lud Mayor Nettlefold and
Gallery Director Daryl Lindsay, Dr.
Mackeddie is acting as Lindsay’s second.
The set-to started when Daryl Lindsay
ART TRUSTEE.
remarked at an opening that Australian
art was at a low ebb and that Sydney
art was better than Melbourne’s. As well
as being active on the Gallery board, Dr.
Mackeddie is honorary consulting
physician to the Alfred Hospital, chair-
man of trustees of the Baker Institute of
Research Medicine and vice-president of
the Minton Boys’ Home.
The winning entry in A.B.C.’s recent
song competition for the forces was a
“sound-picture” of present-day Europe
entitled “Sounds of Europe,” its authors
Sergeant Werner Baer (composer) and
Private Simon Hochberger (poet). Ser-
geant Baer studied at Berlin University,
published songs in Europe, was municipal
organist at Singapore before the Japanese
invasion and reached Australia in 1940.
Private Hochberger is a Czechoslovakian
journalist, was on the staff of Paris
“Soir,” has published a novel and two
volumes of verse and had a play, “Inter-
mezzo,” put on by one of London’s little
theatres. The collaborators met in a
military camp in Australia, and Baer
finished his opus ten minutes after read-
ing Hochberger’s verses.
Into the silence:
At 65, Hermann Charles Flehr, director of
one of Adelaide’s besFknown tailoring con-
cerns, and former president of the Clothing
and Tailoring Trades Association of S.A. He
was a member of the board of Rotary.
In Adelaide, at 83, Henry Walter Uffindell,
S.M., after a legal career of 60 years. He was
chairman of the Town Planning Committee and
president of the Poetry Society and Dual Club.
In Adelaide, at 81, E. A. Whitelmad, an
engineer who learned his job at NewcSstle-on-
Tyne but came to Australia over half a cen-
tury ago. He started with Coates and Co.
in Melbourne, represented that firm in Sydney,
had 20 years as manager of Broken Hill water
supply, and since 1915 had been in business
in Adelaide.
In Adelaide after a long illness, veteran
actress Jennie Opie, who had been booming out
a glorious contralto ever since she was a school-
girl. She had also a keen comic strain, and
was with J.C.W. in light opera, including two
visits to India. As an interlude she had some
years in the U.S.A. After retiring from the
stage about 1920, she welcomed old professional
friends as manager of one of Adelaide’s lead-
ing hotels.
Reported killed in an aircraft accident in Eng-
land, Flying-Officer Sydney B. Abbott, D.F.C.,
of Camberwell, Melbourne. A younger brother
was lost when a Japanese submarine sank the
hospital ship Centaur off the Australian coast,
A third brother is overseas with the R.A.N.
In Gingin (W.A.), at 82, William Beattie
Gordon, former M.L.A. for South Perth and
Canning, and father of Cpl. James Heather
(Jim) Gordon, V.C.
In Sydney, at 89, Edward John Mclver,
held to have been the oldest 1914-18 Digger
in Australia. He was with the 12th Light
Horse, and had also fought in the Boer War.
At 85, in Melbourne, Thomas Price, doyen
of Victorian trade-union leaders, foundation
member of the Ironworkers’ Union and its
secretary for 50 years.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Stingah”; That report of the Japanese
building a ship entirely of rubber
recalls one of their previous efforts
which was not so original. Early in the
century, with an eye to the possibilities
of the tourist trade, a Nipponese ship-
ping firm ordered two liners from a
Clydeside shipbuilder. The first vessel
was completed and delivered. Glasgow
then received a cable asking the builders
not to proceed with the second. The
Japs, it seems, contemplated alterations
in the design. Could they have the plans
for revision? There were sent out, and
Tokyo then cancelled the second order.
With the plans a Japanese contractor built
a liner. On launching it immediately
toppled over and sank. The canny Scots
had done a bit of revising on those plans
themselves before posting them to the
Far East.
* * * *
“Avon”; The Maoriland Army has in-
stituted as part of the routine of every
unit a weekly “request hour,” which gives
an opportunity to any soldier to bring
before an officer, informally and unoffi-
cially, little difficulties and grievances of
a sort that men do not care to make
formal complaints about. The innova-
tion is said to have been welcomed both
by men and officers, and to have, im-
proved efficiency—so much so that
Maorilanders, who 50 years ago gained a
reputation for social originality, are won-
dering why they didn’t think of it them-
selves. They didn’t. The scheme was
originated in Britain and had been
applied to the British Army for some
months before it was adopted by the
Maoriland authorities.
* * *
“Nakhoda”: Reuter reports that the
inmates of a monastery in the mountains
of Tibet have just learned there is a war
on. Shortly before the Emden met her
end at the hands of the Sydney the Ger-
man raider put into Diego Garcia, a
lonely British outpost in the Indian
Ocean. The townsfolk were delighted
and put on balls and parties. At a ban-
quet the Mayor delivered himself of some
noble sentiments about the immutable
friendship between the British and the
German empires, to which Captain von
Muller fittingly responded, and the sailors
mingled with the population. Then,
loaded with fresh fruit, vegetables and
other products of the island, the vessel
fired a grateful salute and departed. A
few hours later a British warship hurried
in to tell the Diego Garcians that they
had been at war with their late guests
for months and months.
* $ * #
“C. Coral”: At two places in Torres
Strait which he named —Darnley and
Warrior Islands —William Bligh was
attacked by islanders in their big canoes.
A number of descendants of those
islanders, fine physical specimens, are
serving in the forces today ; some have
been as far afield as England and the
Middle East. Their European comrades-
in-arms pay Ihem high tribute, and
although “Jimmy Susu” himself wasn’t
allowed to join up in the 1914-18 affair,
it being imagined that the white man’s
prestige might possibly suffer injury
thereby, Jimmy’s sons are very proud of
the share they’re allowed to have in this
war. The good sense and practical out-
look of the administrative and missionary
folk who’ve helped to direct the islanders
(who are within Queensland jurisdiction)
have worked wonders with them.
* * * *
“McNoham”: When political broad-
casts were banned some electorates were
afflicted with raucous amplified propa-
ganda delivered from trucks and cars.
Two opposition spruikers clashed when
endeavoring to sway a crowd emerging
from a suburban theatre at the interval.
With each trying to outbawl the other,
the crowd returned to the flicks, but a
pyjama-clad figure on a balcony roared
above the din: “Lissen, youse blank-
ards! I’m on night shift, and I
won’t vote for either of yez—l’ll vote
informal!” “Me, too!” echoed a by-
stander.
<= * * *
“V. Cluse”: The nfews (B. 18/8/’43)
that “electric shock can be used to
minister to a mind distraught” and that
it “usually causes convulsions, followed
by deep unconsciousness, apd causes a
"Anyone call?"
“Only the Man-power, but I told 'em you Were out playing golf!"
person to forget his worries” was re-
ceived by our subbub’s drunk with a
deep interest. In recent months, deprived
of much of his usual remedy for worry
by war conditions, and also having taken
a pull because of his munitions job, he
has been trying to convince his missus
that the change is fair dinkum. In what
he calls the “good old days” his arrival
home in a sozzled condition usually
“caused convulsions,” and, since he
always had reinforcements somewhere
about the place, he soon achieved “deep
unconsciousness” apd was able to “for-
get his wonies. And by cripes, he
asserts, “if electric-shock treatment will
gimme the same result I’ll have a few
"Have the Rushins captured that bloke Kharkov yet?"
bobs worth any time.' But 1 doubt
it the electric treatment will be as
pleasant as was the alcoholic.
* * * *
’Sartorus”: Australia’s friends of the
Allied forces seem to express in their
very nicely-cut uniforms so many inter-
pretations of khaki — ranging from dull
yellow, through light mauve and olive
green to brown—that it might be thought
* a ‘ dea lof latitude is flowed in
such matters. This is not so the exact
tint ot every fabric has been devised and
chosen with a sole view to ensuring, as
far as possible, the safety of the wearer
in a certain sort of environment. Our
Ally’s Navy has now, “after months of
i * ,
experimentation, decided on slate-grcj,
as the hue ot the summer working dress
of officers. Blue-black plastic buttons and
grey shirts go with this, and all the Navy’s
stocks of khaki cloth are to be dyed the
™lr.r
new eoiui ■
(tl , „ ' , .
Ken : Second World War additions
to naval parlance are “blaunch” and
“scarp.” If you stand too close to a big
/ (d i i t,,
one you get blaunched, or n just
after our second shot — blaunch! — up she
went!” A destroyer going at full speed
“scarps” along, and sometimes on shore
a sailor has to “scarp” to beat closing
lime. Origins? Search roe!
. * *
“Bohemian” recites the saga of a Gov-
ernment yacht: —
Maoriland’s official steamer Hinemoa, soon
to be scrapped, has for 50 years been associ-
ated with the political history of the Dominion.
Vogel bought her out of his notorious
£10,000,000 loan for public works. She was
SkWe C «ew"o d t S’XfiSS'W'S
the Dawn, wrecked on Antipodes island in
iSSETS
tvs jLt be ?:;
wrecked on Disappointment Island, and made
a boat journey to Auckland. During the
Seddon regime, when Samoa was German,
a Samoan chief was given passage in the Hine-
moa from Wellington to Samoa. He bought
cases of waipiro in Wellington, and partook
Skytndt belhgerennfs .“Sea t, ‘ Whe°n
a German “52Sr“ ?amf aboardfl,e
SSjfS t°a„f?h W rew h )he' l, fcS„ l 0„.
board. It some smooth diplomacy to re-
store good relations. There is a deal of public
sentiment centred in the old steamer, and a
general wish that she should be preserved.
rp. a.I • * . „ * ...
. h.I.N ; Ihe Municipal Trust which
runs all Adelaide’s metropolitan and
suburban trams has refused to appoint
women conductors. I, has also suddenly
oecidpd to allow smoking anywhere in
a tramcar — though not in a bus. The
odd and only reason given is that women
and children had invaded compartments
where smoking was already allowed
There have been prompt protests by
municipal bodies entitled to a say in trara-
way management,
■» * * ,
“Golden Mile”; There are still West-
ralians who remember Hoover after-
wards President of the United States
(1929-33). He was g.m. of the Sons of
Gwalia mine near Leonora and during
his time there was a fire ’The nearest
available water was in a tank filled with
cyanide gold solution, the mine’s output
for the previous two weeks. Into this the
suction hose of the fire-engine was
dropped and the liquid gold played on
the flames. But the gold wasn’t lost-
ashes, charcoal and moist earth were
gathered up and put through a process.
* * *
“Bon Accord” on a Scottish minor bard:
That song “Thou Bonnie Wood o’ Craigielea”
has been referred to so often lately that a
word or two about the poet who wrote it,
Robert Tannahill, may be admissible. The rap-
turous reception of the first edition or two of
Burns’s songs brought forth a spate of verse,
good, bad and worse, from a hundred writers,
and many were from Paisley, toun o’ hand-
loom weavers and shawl-makers. In the fore-
front of these poets o’ sorts was Tannahill, a
versatile, graceful writer who used to do his
courting amid silver birch-trees, a bonnie burn
wimpling ’tween mossy banks gay with wild
violets, Scottish bluebells and heather-r-r the
wood o’ Craigielea, no less, just a few miles
north of Paisley. Before the end of last cen-
tury the wood vanished to give place to a
gasworks, but the memory of the poet is kept
green, for yearly on his birthday a choir ol
Paisley lads and lasses renders a programme ot
Tannahill’s songs, unaccompanied, in a verdant
amphitheatre on Gleniffer Braes (whose praises
were also sung by this bard a hundred years
ago). At that, Tannahill is lucky. It is related
that, some years ago, when a lecturer in the
Paisley Mechanics’ Institute made reference to
“Paisley’s poet,” the entire audience rose and
bowed acknowledgment.
*l, & &
A TIMELY WARNING.
“Australian girls marrying American service men
.are warned by the U.S. Anfly Red Cross not to let
their views of American home life be colored by
glamorous films.”
You girls who rely upon cinema sessions
Far lands in perspective to fix,
You'll make a mistake if you let your impres-
sions
Be grounded too much on the flicks.
There’s the world’s richest realm where the Star-
Spangled Banner
O’er the width of a continent flies,
But the genuine picture is far from the manner
Presented through Hollywood eyes.
They’re bound to be buttressed by glitter and
glamor,
The figures you see on the screens,
The dames who impress and enthral and en-
amor
In highly romantical scenes,
The stars of the movies whose dash and whose
diction
And gestures intrigue and attract.
But the catch is, you see, that they’re fashioned
from fiction
More often than founded on fact.
No fields are so verdant as those in the dis-
tance.
No motive like travel to tempt,
No prospect so luring perhaps as existence
In places whereof you have dreamt.
But mind that, before you arrive at conclusions,
Reliable data are there.
Beware of the danger of wishful illusions,
Of vague expectations beware!
There are always two countries —the real and
the stage one—
One plain, so to speak, as a pike,
The other that playwrights are out to engage
one
To get the idea that it’s like.
And when some acceptable guidance you’re
needing
Columbia’s features to fix
In your mind, give a miss to the Hollywood
reading
And don’t be misled by the flicks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SAY IT WITH VEGETABLES.
“Say it with flowers” was once a phrase we
knew.
Now, when our hearts ’gainst luxuries we
harden,
There’s surely good excuse for switching to
The kitchen garden.
Roses and lilies points were held to claim
Erstwhile for Jacks with Jills, and Petes with
Pollies.
These times why shouldn’t carrots do the same,
And why not caulies?
Wordless attachment —not perhaps the grade
We read of, or are told about, in Plato
Might by a humble cabbage be conveyed
Or a potato
As clearly as by pinks or violets
Or any other bit of floral screening
On which the gratified recipient sets
A subtle meaning.
Romance might be transferred in days like these,
Now that our florists’ shops are stocked so
sparsely.
To celery and lettuce, beans and peas,
Parsnips and parsley.
“Say it with flowers” —but not for modern folks
Those blooms whereof the poet sings so
cockily.
Better to hint at it with artichokes,
Breathe it with broccoli.
Flowers have the meanings centuries have hid
Within their names as love's symbolic pledges.
It seems a pity no one ever did
The same with veges.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Vicar”: Touching on the popularity
of Phar Lap photographs, a Westralian
publican got two from the Melbourne
Art Gallery—the second because the first
was pinched from his lounge wall. When
the second disappeared he enlisted the
sympathy of a newspaper friend, who
struck off 50 copies of a local plater’s
photo, and stuck Phar Lap’s name under
each. Bung has to tack up one every
week or so, but gets a queer satisfaction
from the ring-in tactics. The mugs who
think they are getting a genuine Phar Lap
masterpiece must be rotten judges of con-
formation, even if they revere form.
* * * *
“Nakh”; Women campaigners have
some vulnerable spots. At Davenport,
Tasmania, Dame Enid Lyons was appeal-
ing for sympathy for Mr. Menzies in his
efforts on behalf of his party. “You
don’t know what a strain it is,” she said,
“to go on talking hours at a time, day
after day.” “No trouble for a woman,”
said a voice charged with deep emotion.
“Lord Luvus”: “Of all public trans-
actions,” wrote Dr. Johnson in 1773,
“the whole world is now informed by the
newspapers.” The old boy wasnt
familiar with the use modern newspapers
make of headlines or he might have
given his statement a sardonic turn by
saying “misinformed.” When my Mel-
bourne morning mentor reports an alle-
gation by Mr. Fadden concerning the
political past of Mr. Curtin it calls it a
“disclosure.” When Mr. Curtin makes
an allegation about the political past of
Mr. Fadden it calls it an “insinuation.” As
most of that paper’s readers, myself in-
cluded, seldom read beyond the head-
lines it can scarcely be said that we are
being informed. A classic example of
the device appeared in the London
“Daily Worker” in 1938, when it printed
the headline: “Mr. Chamberlain Says He
Started Truthful.” In the report that
followed Mr. Chamberlain was quite
correctly reported as declaring “I was
brought up in a household where we
were taught the importance of telling the
truth, even though we got into trouble
for doing so.”
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Having gleaned
from my evening newspaper that there was
a sinister movement in the country, that
it was gaining ground and that the ring-
leaders were to address a meeting at one
of the town halls in suburban Melbourne,
1 slipped a six-shooter into my hip
pocket and wended my way thither. The
hall, one of those huge fanes built
in the boom years, looked dark and
deserted. Wandering through its echoing
halls without interference I heard a dis-
tant voice raised in expostulation and I
journeyed in its direction. Coming on
the main hall and beholding a vast array
of empty chairs and not more than 30
people, mostly baldheaded, listening to a
speaker, I thought I had come to the
wrong address and stumbled on an anti-
liquor rally. But phrases like “Fascist
terrorist,” “capitalistic exploiters” and
“local Gestapo agents,” and so forth and
so on, showed me I had arrived. The
first speaker finished his address and, re-
marking that he hadn’t had his dinner,
vacated the platform. A lady spoke for
ten minutes, repeating the same phrases,
and then she too disappeared behind the
curtain. The principal speaker, a mild-
looking individual with a scholarly
appearance, also repeated the stock
phrases. There was one interjector, and
no policemen were present. On my way
home I saw the irresistible army of revo-
lution pouring out of the cinemas after
a night with Myrna Loy, Don Ameche
and Joe E. Brown.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A resident of Mount Barker
(S.A.) has obtained the very rare decree
against a wife of divorce for cruelty.
This took the form (said the Court) of
strange conduct to the couple’s three
small children, which became a habit, and
varied from “neglectful or teasing to
rather brutal and not far short of tor-
ture.” The result to their father was
“nervous exhaustion approaching pros-
tration and a loss of weight from 13 stone
to under nine.”
* * *
“J. 8.,” in praise of Maoriland air-
men: —
They have been operating out of Guadal-
canal since November, 1942. They keep two
units always on call, and they’ve given a fine
account of themselves.
The patrols have flown hundreds of
thousands of miles on routine flights. Their
work in keeping watch on the shipping lanes
that supply the men and the materials for any
Solomons operation, be it on land or on the
sea or in the air, has been invaluable.
To the commander of all air operations in
the Solomons area the Maorilanders are the
“eyes of the Allied forces in the South Pacific.”
And the American lads who fly the Grumman
torpedo bombers and Dauntless dive-bombers
on strikes against enemy bases, from Kihili on
the southern tip of. Bougainville to Munda and
Kolombangara and Rekata Bay on the east
coast of Santa Ysabel, have been quick to
acknowledge their debt to the Kiwi fliers.
Following the practice developed by the
R.A.F. in raids over Europe the Hudson pilots
have introduced “pathfinding” methods to the
air war in the Pacific. Their crews are specially
trained in navigation and hand-picked for their
proficiency in bringing their ships home, what-
ever the weather conditions or the visibility.
They have taken on the navigational work for
the single-engined bombing machines, thus
leaving the men in those more-completely-
equipped striking units free to concentrate on
their work of destruction. The Hudsons lead
the bombers in over their targets, then wait
about while the job is done, rendezvous and
lead them home again. It’s a policy that has
paid handsome dividends in cutting down
operational losses on the ever-increasing raids.
The weather reports brought back by the
Hudsons from their regular patrols help, too, in
determining when and towards where the raids
may be directed.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A police trap of a sort new
in Victoria’s history has proved success-
ful. The mayors of Camberwell and
Brighton had had their homes burgled
while they were out on official duties.
One day a little later an advertisement
appeared in the dailies stating that “the
Mayor and Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. I.
C. Hogan) will entertain patriotic and
charitable organisations’ representatives
at Box Hill Town Hall tonight.” When
three strangers arrived at the mayoral
home they found the police waiting. One
was wounded badly and captured and
two got away, one with a considerable
amount of lead inside him.
* * * *
“T. McNark”: Following a familiar
pattern a Sydney woman was snivelled
over by the city’s afternoon press last
week because she’d lost her dog. Readers
were served with a heart-rending picture
of the lady wandering the streets calling
brokenly for the mong and falling into a
“So THAT’S where you carry our dispatches?"
decline or something because the creature
failed to appear. A day or two before
that the Child Welfare people were plead-
ing with people who could do it to adopt
or accept as State-supported wards little
children who need a home and care, but,
of course, there’s not much “human
appeal” in that sort of thing.
* * * *
“Bump”: History repeated itself be-
fore dawn one morning when the
assistant stationmaster at Wodonga, Vic-
toria, noticed a single-engined training
’plane circling repeatedly and flashing its
lights on and off. He called up the nearest
volunteer observer, who got in touch with
the R.A.A.F. Albury was advised, and
40 cars were assembled on an emergency
landing ground and lit a strip with their
headlamps. Then the town was instructed
to signal in Morse to the distressed pilot
with the town lights. It worked, and the
pilot made a safe landing. Albury had
had previous experience. Nine years ago
it used the same technique impromptu,
through the town clerk’s inspiration, to
show Parmentier and Moll, Dutch con-
testants in the Centenary Air Race, a
way to safety.
* * * *
“Bo”: The afternoon bottle queue, two
deep and over a hundred strong, was
lined up. A drunk surveyed with
owlish solemnity the throng, mostly
women; then with an outflung arm
he invited the passers-by to gaze
with him upon the queuers. “Didsha
ever shee such a warby-lookin bunch
dames?” he asked. “Instead o’ waitin’
for hours for plonk it’d shute y berrer
to be at home cookin’ y'r ole man’s
shocks an’ darnin’ ’ish spuds!” A deter-
mined-looking woman holding a suitcase
rose to the bait. “You drunken wretch! ”
she shrilled. “Pity you didn t ave more
to do!” The drunk turned a bleary eye
on his challenger, deeply pondered the
statement, then dived into his pocket,
produced a couple of quid notes and
waved them about. “Well, I have, shee,
an’ I’ll do it all before I’ve finished. But
I’ll shtick to beer ; you have y’r plonk,
an’ I hope f’r y’r ole man’s shake it
chokes y’! ” And with that pulverising
riposte he made for the train.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Supreme Court has
made it really rough for a commercia
traveller whose car ran down and killed
a four-year-old child walking with its
mother by the roadside. Firstly, the
driver got six months’ hard labor, and
was disqualified for five years from hold-
ing a driver’s license. He has now been
told, as the consequence of a civil
action by the parents, to pay them £2OOO-
- to be reduced, however, to £655 it
an appeal on the difficult question ol
“indirect shock” is successful.
* * * *
“Diffy”: The landlord of our flats, on
his weekly visit for the rent, had been
foiled three weeks running by Mrs. Blank,
of No. 23. On his fourth visit he got
tough. “Madam,” he said, “is your hus-
band in? I must insist on seeing him.”
“He’s not at home,” declared Mrs. B.
“But I can see his shadow,” cried the
landlord, peeping down the hallway.
“Oh, yes,” beamed Mrs. B„ “but it’s only
his shadow.”
* * * *
“Pink Tape”; An unfriendly tone has
set in in our departmental cafeteria.
Short tempers are in evidence ; probably
a natural corollary of other shortages.
The new woman who presided over the
hot-drink urns served our tea in a bel-
ligerent way but without remark until
a timid soul asked for “a cup of medium
tea, please.” The pourer-out shot a glance
of withering contempt. “Tea’s tea an’
cawfee’s cawfee,” she said. “There ain t
no meedjim tea.” She sloshed out a cup
of tea and swept it forward in a “take it
or leave it” style. The customer took it.
* * * *
“Relater”: “Strict Veg.’s” astonishment
at someone proposing to expound the
Einstein theory of relativity “in 26 easy
lessons” is based apparently on a very
prevalent misapprehension—that the Ein-
steinian doctrines are expressible only in
mathematical formulae of a sort not intel-
ligible to anyone below the status of a
Senior Wrangler. That legend seems to
have been started just after the publica-
tion of Einstein’s first treatise on the sub-
ject, when, Lord Haldane having offered
some learned comments, a reviewer ac-
claimed his lordship as “one of the six
men in Europe with sufficient mathemati-
cal ability to comprehend the theory.”
That, of course, was an unwarranted re-
flection on the mathematical departments
of Europe’s 50 universities, but it fright-
ened most laymen. Einstein in the preface
to his popular exposition of his doc-
trines, published in English more than 20
years ago, says “the work presumes a
standard of education corresponding to
that of a university matriculation exami-
nation.” Eddington in The Nature of the
Physical World gives a very lucid ac-
count of the theory and its implications
without a single mathematical reference.
* * * *
“Loc”; A badgerlike army, fortified
with ever-boiling billies, scrapes and
hacks the soil of our subbub in efforts to
achieve the Better Victory Garden. Weed-
ing, digging and turning, some work an
arsenal of tools about a solitary cabbage ;
sticks, trowels and a little knowledge
serve others. But there are pitfalls. A
woman in our street learned that her
backyard could be put to good use and
promptly went to work. Three weeks
later she watched green shoots creeping
upwards. There followed another inter-
val of three weeks, during which the
shoots developed into what didn’t look
like any of the edible plants she had
ever seen, so local authorities were called
in. She had been tending a quarter-acre
crop of ragweed.
* * * *
“Vicar”; Almost every Westralian has
heard of Bill Benstead and Manny Man-
delstamm, figures of the Roaring ’Nine-
ties, but only their friends were let into
the secret of their sickest crash as specu-
lators. Conceiving the notion of putting
tinned turtle soup on the market, they set
up a treatment factory at Rockingham,
an old timber port close to Fremantle.
Turtles were caught in the north-west
and brought down by coastal steamer in
their live state to the factory, on the sea
frontage of which a kind of picket-fence
compound was built out into the water.
For bookkeeping purposes each turtle was
branded, the brand being painted on its
back. The hawksbill found he could get
his head and neck through the pickets but
not his shoulders —so he turned on his
side. In three months niggers at Yampi
Sound were recatching paint-branded
turtles that had travelled over a thousand
miles.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The modern apple may
be larger, rounder and a more prolific
cropper than the ones 1 ate in my child-
hood, but I will eat my hat if it tastes
anything like them. Centralisation of
fruitgrowing, as with winemaking, m
districts where the soil will produce the
heaviest crops has tended to destroy the
variety our grandfathers enjoyed, though
it has produced a more uniform and
marketable article. I was walking over
an old orchard with an orchardist and L
gave him an apple to eat. He remarked
sadly: “That is the best apple in Aus-
tralia, but it has gone out of fashion. If
I were so silly as to grow that 1 would
drive myself out of business.”
* * * *
“Camsa”: The argument ran on
schooners of beer. One bloke said the
term originated in and was peculiar to
Adelaide. Another said he’d sunk
schooners by that name in N.S.W. I’d
say the term is as wide as Anglo-Saxon-
dom. H. L. Mencken, in Newspaper
Days, recounts that in 1898 there was a
Stevedores’ Club in Baltimore the mem-
bers of which were reporters. The club
derived its name from the capacity of its
members for unloading schooners of beer.
Mencken said he knew of only one re-
porter south of the Mason and Dixon
line who didn’t drink beer, and he was
regarded as being off his rocker.
$ * =H *
“C.Q.”: One of the most difficult
searches in Victorian history culminated
in the discovery of the body of
Georgine Gadsden, the 23-year-old girl
who was lost in the blizzard on Mount
Bogong, at a spot 500 feet below where
she apparently perished along with her
two companions. The job of recovering
the body presented a problem that needed
all the skill of the members of the Ski
Club and local experts. How it got there
remains a mystery. The most reasonable
theory is that between the times when the
original party saw the three bodies en-
cased in ice on the wind-swept ridge and
the police party found only two corpses
a slight thaw set in, and that thaw and
high wind combined to slide it over the
precipice.
* * * *
“Hamfat” remembers a theatrical,
scene-painter:
Maoriland, which produced some first-class
theatrical scenic artists (Harry Waite and
Leader Williams were bom there), still
cherishes with affection the memory of a genius
named Ingersoll who did the scene-painting
and drop cloths for a multitude of halls in
small country towns-—apparently because he
had put in the lowest tenders. His work gave
great joy to travelling theatricals. At Picton
the manager who first discovered the beauties
of the Ingersollian method assembled his
whole co. in front so that he could let fall the
drop curtain for its entertainment. An ele-
phantine cow with two eyes on one side of its
head chewed the cud on a river-bank amongst
buttercups as big as meat dishes. On the top
of a rickety-looking Windsor Castle m the back-
ground floated a well-starched flag flat out
against the sky, and in between that back-
ground and the cow foreground a lopsided
rowing skiff passed with five oars in the air on
one side and four sunk in the river on the
other. Such masterpieces were to be en-
countered anywhere between the Bluff and
Auckland, but, although his wood wings and
sky borders were horrors, Ingersoll was not so
bad on interiors —he did those with a stencil.
In one town, so the tale ran, the mayor thought
the visit of Ingersoll offered a chance to get
his house painted, and made him an otter.
“Sir I am an artist, not a tradesman,' said
Ingersoll, “but [relenting] what’s it worth to
....
“McSnitch”: If there’s one thing I like
about the Scots more than another it’s
their passion for exactitude. One of
them, a resident of Drumnadrochit, is up
swearin’ he’s sighted yon Loch Ness
monsterrr again. The observer said it was
moving at “10 m.p.h.” when sighted. Not
about that speed or a bit more or a bit
under, but exactly 10.* Fle’s a bold chiel
who would challenge a man that sure of
his facts.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Russ, the slow, dopy hand, had
been sent by Heffernan to fell a dying
white box from the back paddock over
the ridge. He took the cart to bring back
some of the light stuff for firewood. Russ
got out of the cart, took the axe and let
the quiet old horse get a picking of grass
while he made the scarf. With slow de-
liberation he plugged away and forgot
all about the moke —until the straining
and creaking following the last stroke
preluded the fall. Six seconds later the
trunk landed flush across the back of the
cart and the horse with a startled squeal
shot up in the air as the shafts tilted.
Russ surveyed his handiwork for several
seconds in open-mouthed wonder. As he
walked over and slowly circumnavigated
the wrecked cart the still elevated but
luckily uninjured horse lashed out in
terror, just missing Russ. The hand stood
back and scratched his head. “I thought
old Heffernan made a bloomer buyin’
old Jimmy,” he soliloquised. “That ’orse
is too blarsted ’igh strung!”
* * * *
“iM.U.R.”; As a long observer of meat-
ant habits, I doubt if giving a nest of
them a self-poisoned snake to eat (B.
18/8/’43) would kill ’em off. Dropping
defunct reptiles on their nests was a
favorite pastime of ours, the idea being
to have the skeleton picked clean for
exhibition purposes, and, though the ants
obviously cleaned up the poison glands,
it never seemed to affect them. But 1
have seen nests abandoned overnight, and
the only conclusion I could come to was
that some sudden decision had been made
—perhaps the milking herd had gone dry
or the queens did a bunk or maybe some
scout came in with news of a better site.
I’ve also seen a new nest appear overnight
without a hint of preliminary surveys.
One such appeared one morning, and by
midday the ants had evidently struck the
old concrete floor about six inches under
the ground. There was a lot of running
about, with messengers darting hither and
yon, small expeditions heading into the
wilds and feverish conferences at en-
trances wherein all work had obviously
ceased. By mid-afternoon the ants had
gone. Next morning a new nest was in
operation a furlong away.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
records that a chap called Brooks claims
to have shot a fox at 300 yards. The
fox was running, and he killed it with a
bullet from a .22 automatic pistol. In
yielding the belt I congratulate Mr.
Brooks, but, at the same time, I should
like to stress the point that subtlety is
everything in these matters. I wouldn’t
feel so bad if he’d made it 250 yards.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Coastal natives along the
outer fringe of the dozens of small islands
that go to make up the Solomons group
watched with interest the arrival of the
first American fliers to be forced down
into the sea within their area. They saw
their efforts to attract the attention of
other fliers who were searching for them ;
the manner in which they displayed their
spread-out parachutes and rubber boats;
the way they ran along the beach waving
their arms. The natives fed and cared
for the castaways, and, where they were
sick, carried them down to the water to
the rescuing seaplanes. They were re-
warded with American cigarettes, with
pipes and chewing tobacco and with
tinned rations and odd nickels, dimes and
quarters. They kept the discarded para-
chutes and the rubber boats. And they
acquired a strong and growing taste for
that tobacco and the tinned rations. Now
when they find their supplies running
short they go through the familiar rou-
tine—bring out the parachutes and the
rubber boats, run up and down the
beach. Often there isn’t a grounded flier
within a hundred miles.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Black sister of the
Murchison and the Nullagine (W.A.)
could do one quite remarkable thing
with her coolamon or yandi. White-ants
being a delicacy much esteemed by the
male members of the tribes, the ladies
seldom let a nest pass without taking toll.
With digging stick they routed the ter-
mites, gathering up handfuls of mixed
earth and ants. Such a mixture was, of
course, uneatable. But within a few
minutes by a series of deft twists and
shakes the edible portion of the catch
would be at one end of the yandi and
the earthy at the other. So black sister
developed the art of dry-blowing thou-
sands of years prior to the advent of that
kingdom of dry-blowers the W.A. gold-
fields.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Although agreeing with
most of what “B. A. Ker” says (B.
4/8/’43) about the uses and virtues of
stringybark, I hit the roof on coming to
This CAN'T be the Solomons !”
that bit about “easy splitting.” Spare me
days, after all the sweat and curses I’ve
shed in cutting for firewood that cross- and
locked-grained stuff! It certainly splits
easily one way, but to get it down to
stove pieces it takes plain horse-power.
That’s white stringy I’m talking about —
mountain stuff that spills down on to the
plains ; not one of the red or yellow
mahoganies that masquerade as stringies
(which they really are in bark fibre) in
some places—and vice verm. All of it is
good roofing and lighting bark. The
trouble is there’s so many darned stringy-
bark varieties that a chap in northern
N.S.W. or Queensland boosting it as
timber might mean something a Victorian
or a Snowy River dweller would turn
up his nose about. This white stringy is
heavy and hard as iron bark, which it re-
sembles (the coastal white ironbark I
mean, E. paniculatd). But some of the
mahogany is poor timber and splits easily.
Only way to burn the white wood is to
pack plenty of burning coals around it;
it doesn’t make any itself: bloodwood,
redgum, blackbutt and peppermint are
some of the best of the “splitting”
timbers.
* * * *
“M.N.”; Fox and dog won’t cross.
They belong to different species. Judging
by the description of those pups given
by “B.B.” (B. 28/7/’43), I strongly sus-
pect the vixen the Pinnaroo man used
with his sheep-dog was a precocious
pomeranian that had strayed from her
owner’s apron strings.
* * * *
“Little Ben”; Touching the assertion
(B. 18/8/’43) that ravens in the Aleutians
have “studied modern aerobatics and
copied the formations, spins, banks and
loops of the airmen.” If “Niloc”
cares to go out into his own paddocks
he’ll see all sorts of birds doing the
same things; they learnt it many a cen-
tury before man did. Actually, of course,
man learned his flying from the birds.
The tight formation of bombers when
attacked by fighters is nothing more than
that of a mob of starlings attacked by
hawks, the bank is done by Kelly every
time he sees a puff of smoke from a
gun, and for a real Spitfire in action
watch a wagtail going for a magpie.
* * * *
“Billy See’s” account of how
prompt action saved Big Brady from
choking (B. 28/4/’43) reminds me of the
incident which gave “Bottle-neck”
Hagerty his nickname. A gullet which
wouldn’t have disgraced a carpet-snake’s
made Hagerty the logical favorite for
Desert Oak’s annual beer-drinking con-
test. Maintaining a comfortable lead
over old Sam Duffy, the previous year’s
champ., Hagerty had just raised the last
bottle to his mouth when an excited bar-
racker, a little premature with his con-
gratulations, smacked him on the back.
The shock made Hagerty lose his grip
on the bottle, which slipped down his
throat with a sucking sound. Before
anyone realised what had happened he
fell to the ground, writhing. It would
have been the end of him, too, only his
missus, who was in the audience, had the
presence of mind to prise his jaws open
with a piece of iron piping, locate the
bottle halfway down his throat and with
a claw hammer knock the bottom out
of the bottle so Hagerty could breathe.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The V.D.C. blokes were put-
ting over a stunt for the benefit of the
visiting officer. “No imagination,” grieved
the officer, shaking his head at their casual
approach to an imaginary enemy posi-
tion. “They’d all be shot. No imagi-
nation at all.” The straggling line sur-
rounding the pocket advanced another
few yards, then Jim, a bit in front of
the others, suddenly stopped. His hand
went up and halted the mob. Turning
cautiously, he whispered to the next
bloke ; the message flashed along the line,
and within a few seconds the transformed
men were waiting tensely for orders. Jim
signalled, and on hands and knees the
whole section crept forward as one man.
Every tussock and rise was used as cover,
no equipment rattled and no boot
scraped. The watching officer came to
life. “Marvellous!” he gasped. “ There’s
enthusiasm for you! There’s imagina-
tion ! The attackers wriggled nearer,
paused, then at a signal from their leader
charged in to strafe the position. Every
man moved with keen purpose, and the
scrub patch appeared to be a flailing
jumble of men. Suddenly Jim rose from
the melee, holding aloft a prisoner.
“Mine,” he yelled triumphantly. “1 got
Jm first. An’ cripes, I bet the skin on
that bunny’s worth a deener.”
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: “Gumsucker” (B. 18/8/’43)
has a poor opinion of a man’s capacity
in a crisis if he doesn’t think a cut right
hand could be bandaged with the left
hand and teeth. If you have to you can
make the left hand do anything except
scratch its own elbow.
* * * *
“Golden Mile": I don’t know how
washing soda would react on tobacco
when it came to be smoked or chewed
(B. 21/7/’43), but I do know that cyanide
and the weed are irreconcilable. Six
hundred feet down in the Ivanhoe (W.A.)
g.m. I swung the banjo, stope-filling with
sands from the leaching vats. This
material was washed several times after
the cyanide-gold solution had been
drained off and theoretically was free from
the poison. But traces remained, and the
confined air of the slopes bore a taint of
what is said to resemble the scent of
bitter almonds. But it was when one lit
a tag or tried a pull at the pipe that one
realised the conflict between cyanide and
nicotine. A few draws, and one’s palate
became aware of a flavor not to be de-
scribed in polite language ; and the olde;
the pipe the worse the flavor. Hardened
smokers to whom eight hours without a
smoke was purgatory used to light up and
make the attempt, but they had to own
defeat, and had a further complaint, for
even when they got to the surface the
pipe was ruined, the cyanide fumes hav-
ing been absorbed by the nicotine juice
filling the stem.
* * * *
Louden”: The crowd in the pub after
hours was quiet and orderly. Suddenly
the “cockatoo” at the front door
screeched a warning and the mob
stampeded. Out the rear entrance and
down the yard raced the well-bunched
field and, leaping at the solitary panel of
6ft. palings in the back fence, the panel
and the mob fell on the billycart of a
passing newsboy and narrowly missed its
owner. “Hold on,” said the startled boy
as the mob rose to its feet. “You’ll all
get a paper!”
* * * «
“B. A. Ker”: With only two minutes
to play and the scores five to three, the
chances of Boolerang retaining the Cup
looked extremely remote. None realised
more than “Jumb,” the home team’s
skipper, just how desperate the situation
was, but in his heart was a wild exulta-
tion. He had seen pictures like this: a
hopeless situation, the game practically
over—then a superhuman effort, and the
hero wins the game and the girl! Well,
Daphne was on the sideline ; it was now
or never. Then the ball came to him in
a low pass; like a charging bull he went
through the breaking scrum. Three
figures clinging to him as he emerged
were flung aside. A Wangaroo man dived
at the pounding boots —and was trampled
underfoot. Another heroic defender flung
himself in the path of the Juggernaut—to
wake up on the sideline. Only the full-
back remained : “Gibraltar” Kelly. Jumb
was in no mood for swerve or subter-
fuge ; there was a sickening thud, and
Boolerang held its breath as its idol stag-
gered, almost fell, reeled forward till one
hand touched the turf, and finally dived
over the line. Like a king approaching
the coronation dais Jumb strode towards
Daphne. But no welcoming arms and
smiling lips awaited him! Instead the
girl turned her back and stood with
shoulders heaving convulsively. Heart-
sick, the hero turned back to the field —
and understood in a flash. Gibraltar was
waving half a pair of shorts.
* * * *
“P. Lewis”: A tribute to the durability
of jarrah is to be found in just about
every graveyard of the W.A. south-west.
In parts of the world where pine is the
material largely used for coffins it is
common to see graves fallen in even
after only a few years, the pine having
decayed. But where jarrah has been used
for the casket one will find graves 30 and
40 years old still showing no signs of
collapse.
* * *
“D.R.H.”: “Paroo” Walters, riding
home through the duststorm, felt some-
thing catch him under the chin. His
mare, feeling him shift in the saddle, flew
into it, and “Paroo” hit the gibbers, sore
of body, anguished in spirit and consider-
ably conscious of the lack of a largish
patch of whiskers and hide above his
Adam’s apple. He was also aware of the
duststorm and of the necessity for walk-
ing home, so he didn’t feel any better
when he discovered that he’d been hung
on the single-wire ’phone line which be-
longed to old John Bertram, his neigh-
bor, and which crossed “Paroo’s” home-
paddock. But despite his discomfort he
remembered to break the wire before
tramping off in the dust. That started a
feud. Seven times “Paroo” found the line
low, and seven times he cut it. Old John
went to court over the matter, and won
his case. “Paroo” felt that this was in-
sult added to injury, but he lay low and
thought hard. Then he sent down the line
for ten bags of wheat. At the back of
his home-paddock the offending line
crossed a quarter of a mile of water-
course where salt springs and one small
fresh soak kept the ground continually
moist. “Paroo” went out every day and
scattered grain under the line right across
the watercourse. Word went round, and
soon every galah in the district had
gathered for the feast. “Paroo” said it
was a lovely sight to see a quarter of a
mile of galahs swinging morning and
evening on the wire ; and it was even
better when the tie-wire gave and the line
fell on the wet ground. Old John used
heavy wire on his insulators, and the
galahs broke the line. For six months
he tried to get on without a telephone,
and then moved the whole line to the
boundary fence. “Paroo” reckons galahs
are great birds.
THE SHIP.
As dim grew the twilight,
Last day’s end, and pale,
Across troubled waters
I saw a far sail.
Hard-handled by weather,
Scarce moving seemed she,
And much did I ponder
What ship she might be.
Anon fell the darkness
Of thick-clouded skies.
Yet strangely that darkness
Seemed crowded with eyes;
Eyes straining, eyes yearning,
Eyes burthened with care:
All fixed on the offing
They peered with me there.
All stirless, all staring,
On beach and on height,
They watched in her travail
That ship in the night.
Oh, Peace was the vision,
The hope that they shared *
As, wave and wind fighting,
Through darkness she fared.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Me uncle's an acting lance corporal. 1 think he can pull some strings
for me!”
“Old-timer”: George, a short, stout
cove, attended the horse sale in a slightly
sober condition, and bought a gelding
that went pretty close to 17 hands. Then
he and the saddler adjourned to the
pub and haggled over the sale of a saddle
and bridle until well after sundown. The
moon was up by the time the pair of
them had collected the big nag, bridled
asd saddled him. Then the saddler went
to leg the little bloke aboard ; but since
they’d put the saddle on back to front
he blinked, eyed the big horse carefully,
then helped George round to the offside
and put him aboard. George felt blindly
round for the reins, and the horse, a
quiet enough hack, moved off. The
saddler wished George a bleary so-long
and sank into slumber by the fence.
George, vainly feeling for the reins, gave
it up and himself sank into a doze, his
two hands resting on the front of the
saddle. What the horse thought of his
reversed rider isn’t recorded, but he
ambled steadily along the road until
George, coming out of his doze, surveyed
the rocking rump and switching tail with
some astonishment and said “Whoa!”
The big horse stopped, and George slid
to the ground, sorted himself out and
tried to get on again. But the horse was
too high, so George found a log in the
moonlight, led the horse beside it and
mounted from there. The prad moved
off, George swaying happily in the saddle.
Then he said “Whoa!” again, took one
good look at the rump and tail in front
of him, slid hurriedly to the ground and
headed back to town. Thirty minutes
later he was urging the trooper to “pinch
that blasted ockshoneer. Cow werrant
sol’ me a ’orse that norronly has no head
but keeps on walkin’ backwards. Taint
a fair go.”
* * * *
“Jachris”: There are dozens of
bridges on Guadalcanal carrying the
roadways and the continuous stream of
heavy traffic necessary to a forward base
of such immense proportions across
rivers and streams. They’ve been de-
signed for utility rather than for appear-
ance, and they’re built chiefly of round
coconut-palm logs and large bulks of
sawn timber. There’s one “million-
dollar bridge” ; no different from all the
others in appearance, but it’s built of
mahogany logs and girders. There are
storage sheds and latrines on Guadal-
canal made of mahogany planks. In
many places it’s the only sound timber
available.
* * * *
“Two Wells”: That horse of “Propa-
long’s” (B. 11/8 / ’43) sounds like one
of the offspring of the Goolowie
mares out Tilwinnie way. Hard neddies,
most of them were black, and all turned
rusty as they aged. They were devils
to ride, except when cantering for
home, and had mouths like iron. Their
toughness is admitted by all who’ve
known ’em. One notable feature was
their long teeth ; if you looked at one s
mouth you’d swear he was twice the age
he really was.
* * * *
“Arev”: The two land girls were given
quarters in the skillion bedroom behind
the Jupp kitchen. As Bill Jupp carried
in their luggage one of the girls pointed
to the wall. “Look! What’s that? she
asked excitedly. Bill glanced at the big
tarantula clinging to the plaster board.
“Aw!” he said ; “won’t hurt y’. It’s only
an outsize spider; you’ll soon get
hardened to things like that. They’re
quite harmless, like most of the
tilings you’ll meet.” As the days
went on the two land girls accom-
modated themselves to the country ways.
One morning they were helping Bill cut
seed potatoes. The shed door stood
open, and Betty nudged her pal Jean
as a long black form slithered inside and
made towards the spot where Bill, hum-
ming a tune, sat surrounded by tubers.
The two girls grinned as they watched
the sinuous form creeping alongside the
wall. Suddenly Bill looked up at the
girls as they sat with knives idle. He
followed the direction of their eyes. Then
he let out a yell and grabbed a hay fork.
When the execution was over Bill turned
to the girls. “Why didn’t you tell me
when you saw it?” he demanded. The
girls giggled. “We were trying to get
hardened like you told us,” Betty said.
“Yes,” said Jean ; “but if it was harmless
why did you kill it?”
* * * *
“Nigel Dugan”: Sheep that bolted
from under a tree that a minute later fell
probably heard the timber “talking.” One
of the oddest experiences of a newchum
down in a stope of a deep mine is to
hear the rock above “talking.” Cracks,
grating sounds, almost groans come from
overhead. Old miners are not seriously
perturbed by the one-sided conversation,
though they keep a wary eye open all the
time. But to the newchum it is hair-rais-
ing ; he expects to see the roof fall any
moment. It’s when tbp “back” has been
talking for a good while, then stops, that
danger is anticipated, for by then the big
shelly piece that was obviously suffering
birth pangs has become practically de-
tached and is hanging only by suction.
Then air finds its way in ; if there comes
a rush of wind tons may come down —
and woe to the human who may be
underneath. A tree about to leave the
vertical position would doubtless give
forth faint sounds which the more sen-
sitive ears of animals would register.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “I’m humpin’ me drum
along the Upper Murray,” said Stumpy
Joe, “when I come on a young bloke
gazin’ mournfully at a dead heifer by
the roadside. I c’d see it was one o’
those well-bred Jerseys that are worth
their weight in butterfat; an’ I picture
the feelin’s of the young feller probably
just startin’ out on his own an’ facin’ his
first big loss. ‘No use worryin’ too hard
over things, mate,’ I say. ‘There’ll be
plenty more heifers like that one some
day.’ ‘Yairs,’ he ses without lookin’ up,
‘an’ just as bloomin’ dead. 01’ Hard-
cashe’s stud cattle are dyin’ orf like flies
with some sort of lung disease.’ ‘Well,
that’s his picnic, ain’t it?’ I ask. ‘Like
hell it is,’ he snaps back. ‘lt’s part o
my job to skin all the blankards that peg
out.’ ”
* * * *
“B-gar”: Much as I admire the quali-
ties of endurance and adaptability of the
merino (B. 14/7/’43), I won’t have it that
the jumbuck has anything on the goat,
especially the sort that ekes out an exist-
ence in W.Q. areas. During one drought
in Queensland’s north-west, when salt
beef was being transported from “inside
and any sheep that could travel had gone
to agistment country, there was always
an odd fat goat or two to be had among
those existing mostly on gidya bark and
paper torn from advertising hoardings.
Temperatures mean nothing to them, and
they take an odd drink where they can
find it. It’s going to be a sorry day when
an institution like the goat is seen no
more about the streets, commons and
rubbish dumps of towns like Longreach
and Winton.
“K.”: Here’s something that vouches
for the merino’s toughness. In 1923,
while down on the Snowy River (N.S.W.),
I was shown a wether that had just been
found. By its earmarks it was recognised
as a straggler from a mob that had been
sent up to grass there seven years before.
Not only was that merino in excellent
condition, but it was carrying a good-
quality fleece that was just on 18in. Jong!
It takes a tough sheep to carry that
weight of wool around in an Australian
summer and still keep in good nick.
“Propalong”: I know all about the
droving, dogging, dagging and damning
of sheep, and I’ve seen mutton on the
hoof die in a lot of the ingenious and
painful ways known to the species, but I
can’t say that I’ve ever been particularly
sorry for the merino until the other day
going into Adelaide. It was late after-
noon, and outside the train a freezing
south gale was howling across the plains.
There was a tiny paddock, about 40
acres I. suppose, level as a table and
almost bare of vegetation. Across it
were drifting 20 or 30 sheep, sterns to
the wind and the nearly-level, sleety
rain. Duststorms, crows and 120-in-the-
waterbag may be bad, but if I ever have
to be reincarnated as a sheep I’m putting
in a petition here and now that it may be
in hot country.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Someone should choke
“Walkabout” off before some confiding
squatter takes his chromatic opinion of
mules literally (B. 21/7/’43). When the
B.P. Co. (S.A.) used the misbegotten
quadrupeds exclusively on several of its
stations, as it did for years, I saw the
mule as a sheep-station hack. Here s one
picture: A small tank under Mt. Decep-
tion, nearly dry ; a few sheep hanging
up; boundary-rider on mule appears;
sheep take off. Now that boundary-
rider is armed with a substantial mulga
waddy and a couple of portable circular
saws on his heels. He uses his armament
vigorously for two minutes. The mule
breaks into half a jig-jog. More applica-
tion of waddy and spurs. Mule reluc-
tantly breaks into a canter; it travels
easily four miles an hour, and at each
“Be good enough, Simpson, to start them OUR way."
stride you can see Mt. Deception under
its bellv Sheen vanish in the direction
of W A Another picture: The Beltana
caniDTravelltos a mobof sheep. Morn-
inc at Playfair” well Three earnest souls
“f a saddle on a colt mule. Its rider,
dodSnc teeth a striking forefoot and a
cow-kicking hind leg, gets aboard. Mule
pigroots wildly, then tries to bolt. Rider
stays with that mule all the morning,
frightened to get off without someone,
trignteneu io gc L uu .’
or several someones, to hold it lest it
get away. Many stations, you see, re-
quired men to boundary-ride alone with
mules, and of these men there is quite
a little list of fatalities and accidents.
* * * *
“Edjudina”; Out beyond Mt. Mar-
garet (W.A.) we dropped on to a quaint
family circle. Pa was very tired, content
to hang around our camp in the hope ot
getting a lick out of our emptied tinned-
dog containers. Ma was of sterner stuff ;
moreover, she had two children to sup-
port in addition to the old man. ’Roos
and emus, far from plentiful, were be-
yond her hunting, but she did fairly well
with rats. And in a way it was a shabby
trick Nature had played on those rats.
Evidently she had educated them when
their only enemies were the goanna and
suchlike. With this end in view the
Dame had taught her rat to dig a long
tunnel, preferably into a small hillock.
At the end of this tunnel the rat builds
its nest, comfortably lined with grass.
And, so that it should sleep securely,
Nature taught her rat to block up the
outer end of the tunnel with earth. This
rendered some other means of ventilation
necessary, so, continuing, Nature taught
the rodent to dig a vertical ventilation
tunnel. Further, so that this again should
not betray the sleeping place, the rat
learned to camouflage the opening of
the ventilator with small sticks and
stones ; which was as near perfection as
could be expected. But the whole scheme
collapsed when Mrs. Abo., seeking
dinner, looked specially for that little
camouflaging heap, dug down and got
her rat.
* * * *
“Billy See”: In the main street I came
across a rather ancient cart with a not
bad little brumby in the shafts and a
wise-looking old dog on the seat. Large
and ginger, he was of a breed 1 couldn t
determine; but withal a friendly old
chap. He liked it when four soldiers
came along, snapped their fingers at him
and, when he responded, began to pat
him. I knew that old dog. “Try going
near the horse’s head,” I suggested. The
moment one even made a gesture in that
direction the old dog immediately started
along one of the shafts. Old Jack could
stay in the. pub till he was half para-
lytic. but no one could play any tricks
wdh the outfit that ultimately would
carry him home.
* * *
“Sur Cingle”: The city bloke at the
Siding pub was a bit of an amateur
naturalist, and, someone having informed
him that the little burrows that are so
plentiful in the sand about here are made
by scorpions, he decided to do some
collecting. He was contemplating his
blistered hands after a fruitless morning
with the shovel when the schoolkids
came out for lunch. A few seconds
later sandy-haired, freckled Micky Bryan
appeared oil the scene of the excava-
tions. “Lorst somethin’, Mister?” he
asked hopefully. On being told shortly
and sourly the state of affairs he volun-
teered cheerfully to dig scorpions after
school. The city bloke, who by then re-
garded the arachnids as something in the
buried-treasure class, promised a bob for
every one produced, and Micky went off
already spending in imagination the for-
tune he was going to make. After school
he was on the job thewfter
bucket of water. After pounng me water
down a scorpion-hole he carefully fol-
lowed the line of wet sand with the
spade till he found the tenant, and popped
him in a tobacco-tin He went on, the
wet sand guiding him down to the
deepest burrows, and ,yn hour had six
fine specimens. JJj e r S 0 „ s 0 a P a a s £
and Micky s father reckons that as the
youngster can earn six bob an hour at
h ought to be eligible for a
ten years ne uug 6
holiday at Canberra before he it).
THE HAWKER COMES TO
WAVELEY.
Down the long track to Waveley
I travel back by dream-sweet night,
To keep a tryst with memory.
And my dim light of life burns bright
As fifty years of toil and care
Fade, and my heart knows childish glee
When on a day of all the year
The hawker comes to Waveley.
And he, a turbaned Eastern man,
Has in his covered camel-cart
Among his wares the things that can
Gladden a toy-starved infant’s heart.
Glittering things to charm the eye
And bottled sweets he brings to me
When o’er a hundred creek beds dry
He comes again to Waveley.
My father walked off Waveley
When the grim drought years broke his
heart.
And 1 have for a legacy
Dreams of a hawker in a cart
Who came by stony hill and dale
Out to the Junction from the sea
Along the tortuous inland trail
Over the range to Waveley.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES. LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
CYanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
ŵ
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
■.(hi: 0 *
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Classes*.
“Murrawong”: Shortage of shedhands
and inexperienced labor increase the
classer’s responsibility for preparation of
the clip, not only in grading the fleece
portion but the instruction and super-
vision of woolrollers and piece-pickers.
Complaints are numerous that hand-
ling of fleeces has suffered because of
insufficient shedhands for the job, and
because bosses have refused to get rid
of unsatisfactory rouseabouts. A classer’s
reputation stands on the quality and get-
up of the clip. Some shedhands, knowing
that the sack is unlikely and jobs plenti-
ful, often refuse to obey the classer s
orders, and much free wool is left on the
skirtings or fleeces are badly skirted,
fribs, stains and burr being left on them.
When such a clip is opened up for ap-
praisement an adverse report on the class-
ing is made by the broker. The same
thing applies to piece-picking. The classer
has little control, and. frequently arm-
fuls of unpicked skirtings are dumped
into the bins.
Yet the classer’s responsibility for the
get-up of the clip remains. His only
redress is to state the facts in his “wool
report” to the broker. Brokers, too, are
short-staffed and realise the position, so
the classer who does his best and reports
fairly should get consideration.
Thus, although conditions may be
heartbreaking, the classer should do his
best because of his responsibility for the
clip. Where labor is short in the wool-
room concentrate on doing one thing
well rather than a bit of everything badly.
If fleeces are badly skirted, fleece lines are
affected, so concentrate on good skirting
even if the pieces are not picked. Remove
stains and wet wool from the pieces and
send them to a repacking firm, which will
class the skirtings on a higher standard
than could be done in the shed.
The Wheat Position.
C. Shaw, Vaucluse; Whatever else is
short when this war ends the world will
have plenty of wheat. At the end of
July the four wheat countries—U.S.A.,
Canada, Argentina, Australia—had among
them a record stock of pretty well
2.000. bushels, or more than four
times the total average annual export of
the four for the five years prior to 1939.
In the pre-war year the entire world im-
ported 618,000,000 bushels, Europe taking
434.000. Thus if the war ended
next month it would take at least three
years for existing stocks to be consumed.
All four countries are signatories, with
the United Kingdom, of the 1942
“Memorandum of Agreement.” This
provides for conferences of all nations
having an interest in wheat either as ex-
porters or importers, for restricted sowings
meantime by the four, an immediate post-
war establishment of a wheat pool for
inter-Governmental relief of war-stricken
areas. This pool is to hold 100,000,000
bushels, with more if needed. Canada
will contribute 25,000,000, United King-
dom 25,000,000 and U.S.A. 50,000,000.
There is also an export quota—for
Canada 40 p.c., U.S.A. 16 p.c.,
Argentina 25 p.c. and Australia 19
p.c. On an annual export of
500.000. bushels, Canada’s share
would thus be 200,000,000, U.S.A.’s
80.000. Argentina’s 125,000,000 and
Australia’s 95,000,000. Minimum and
maximum prices for wheat entering inter-
national trade are provided for.
What will happen in the year follow-
ing the war in both Russia and the
Danubian States is worth considering.
It is safe to assume that, unless their
lands are entirely laid waste, the Govern-
ments responsible will rush in wheat as
fast and as far as they can. Both could
"Just for a start, Mabel, I'll clear four or five acres for wheat.”
have export surpluses within two years.
How would they regard the “Memoran-
dum of Agreement”?
The awkward truth about world wheat
economy is that, with the possible excep-
tion of Russia and Argentina, the grain
is produced in countries of high (and
therefore costly) living standards for sale
to countries with lower standards. The
problem for Australia is how to grow
wheat on high-priced land, paying high
wages and high costs for machinery, and
sell it to lowly-paid populations at a
price to suit both. It can only be done
when the grower can produce much more
at the same cost, and his chance of doing
that is pretty slim.
Aspiring Prime Ministers may offer
ss. 2d. a bushel, and organised farmer
groups may demand that and more, but
in a world suffering, at least temporarily,
from wheat indigestion, the only people
who can pay such prices are the Aus-
tralian taxpayers, and it’s doubtful how
long they can do it. The simple truth
is that Australia had, at 30/6/’43, a
carryover of 204,000,000 bushels. Her
normal local annual consumption is less
than a fourth of that, and her pools
of stored wheat are mounting. So are
the Government advances to growers;
they total (Commonwealth Statistician’s
figures) £93,881,000 since 1939.
Thoughtful growers, aware of this lia-
bility, are asking what has become of the
wheat distilleries and whether, in view of
the known shrinkage in world minerals,
anything is being done about wheat’s
chances in the field of plastics—probably
the most promising of fields waiting to
be exploited after the war. The country
must find some way of using some of its
wheat in this way and more of it as stock
feed. The business of growing, storing
and paying from the public purse can’t
go on for ever. To look to the end,of
the war and reopening of export markets
for some relief is all right, but only a
super-optimist would expect that to end
all our wheat troubles.
Dehorning.
“Plane Creek”: J. R. Dice, chairman
of Dairy Husbandry at North Dakota
Agricultural College (U.S.A.), is for
dressing wounds caused by dehorning
cattle (B. 28/7/’43). To keep out dust
and germs he recommends a covering of
clean, absorbent cotton, which should be
loosened after a couple of days to enable
it to fall off of its own accord. A cord
tied around the poll will lessen bleeding,
which is most severe in cattle of two
years and over.
Dice prefers a gouger to caustic potash
for dehorning calves. The buttons and
the skin surrounding them are cut off
when the calves are from one to ten
months old, depending on sex and de-
velopment and the type of gouger used.
During the operation, which some are
brave enough to perform with a sharp
knife, one man should hold the calf’s
head and another use the gouger. Goug-
ing is a quick, easy operation, and leaves
the head natural and undeformed.
Caustic potash, if applied too freely, de-
forms the head ; if applied too sparingly,
spurs will sprout.
Milk-goat breeders dehorn kids up to
four days old by touching the horn buds
with a specially-made hot iron, after-
wards protecting the wound with an
antiseptic pad. This method does not
deform the head, and Dice recommends
it for dehorning calves.
He suggests light dehorners for year-
ling cattle and heavy dehorners for two-
year-olds and older. When a bull’s horns
must be removed with a saw because
they’re beyond the scope of a dehorner
the bull should be placed under a local
anaesthetic to prevent him from struggling
wildly and injuring himself.
Bees.
“Warranga”: You can’t go wrong pro-
vided you are willing to learn from them
and practice what you learn. Besides being
a profitable hobby, beekeeping is one of
the most interesting.
Most important thing is not to be
afraid. Bees know when a man is afraid
of them and will try to bully him. Some
people can neither handle bees nor endure
the sting. A friend who handled them
for over 20 years without harm got stung
one day and nearly died from poison
and shock. Handle them gently, and
don’t disturb them any more than can
be helped. Use only enough smoke to
quiet them.
When inspecting hives, first give a few
puffs of smoke in the entrance. Then
lift the lid and puff in enough to steady
them. Remove each frame separately and
inspect it to see that there is a good
supply of brood, pollen and honey. Put
each frame back, but make sure there
are no wax moths or spiders under the
ends of the top bar or in the corners on
the floor. Make sure there is no disease
in the hive. Allow no cracks in the hive,
and give it a good roof so wind and water
cannot get in. Handled properly, bees
soon get to know you and are unlikely
to attack in normal circumstances. They
don’t like noise, animals or strangers.
Hints for the Farm.
“E.H.M.”: Tell “M.” (B. 4/8/’43)
not to worry about the danger to stock
on ergot-infected paspalum. For eight
years the Tweed and Richmond districts
(N.S.W.) have been infected, and during
this time not 50 deaths have been
recorded. From January to April pas-
palum seeds, and thousands of cattle
graze on paspalum dripping with “honey
dew” for two months and black with
the fungus the rest of the time.
“B. Cubbin”: A list of bushel weights
worth keeping; Wheat, vetches, tares,
soybean, sorghum, setaria, ryecorn,
peas, panicum, millets, lupins, cowpeas
and beans, all 601 b. ; barley, 501 b.; maize
and rape, 561 b.; oats, 401 b. ; bran, grass-
seeds, mangels, meals, paspalum, pollard,
prairie and Rhodes grass, rye grasses,
201 b.
“L.C.”: Before cleaning sheds, stables,
cowbails, piggeries, etc., apply a disinfec-
tant solution to walls and floors and leave
for 24 hours. Then scrape and scrub,
soak refuse with kerosene and burn. For
the solution use a pint of phenol or H
pints of crude carbolic acid to 4gal.
water or 11b. chloride of lime to a gallon
of water.
“Canbelego”: An adjustable spanner
can be made from a bolt and couple of
nuts. Place the nut to be removed be-
tween the two nuts on the bolt so that
the fixed*nut is held securely between
the improvised jaws. With a bolt of
suitable size practically any nut can be
removed.
“F.E.”; At Moree (N.S.W.) it was
revealed that a farmer can earn a good
living from five acres of tobacco. One
man got £BOO from 6i acres. Closer
settlement would be real under those
conditions.
“Sleepy Hollow”: The Guthrie Corrie-
dale studs (Elcho, Vic., and Bulgandra,
N.S.W.) paid a world’s record of
lOOOgns. for G. 390, a high-liner from
Bushey Park (N.Z.). He’s to be called
“Record Breaker,” and is a distinct addi-
tion to Australian Corriedale breeding.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life. . . .as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER— 22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42; “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIK FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER— Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his mdiviaua
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Thrive who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The P elm an Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute. Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, S Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
151
M 3?
cw
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HADE SPECIALLY TO
FEEVENT SOBE MOATS
A
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5066 S
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Unconditional Surrender.”
(From an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
To announce, as the Prime Minister
did at Casablanca, that the Allies will
insist on the unconditional surrender of
the enemy does not seem very prudent,
for the war is far from won, even if vic-
tory seems well on the way, and no one
can foretell in what circumstances the
war will end.
When the enemy is prepared to sue for
terms of peace, it is impolitic as well as
inhuman to prolong hostilities by a single
hour if the enemy will accept such terms
as will enable the Allies to impose their
war aims and their peace aims. If the
only reply to his request for terms and,
possibly, for an armistice be a demand
for unconditional surrender, he may be
goaded into renewed resistance.
It is even conceivable that a demand
for unconditional surrender will lead to
the overthrow of the existing regime and
the creation of a new revolutionary Gov-
ernment. It will be said that such an
end is most desirable, for it will mean
the collapse of the German home front
—as it did last time. It may, however,
mean the opposite. The revolutionary
Government might be created with the
object of rallying the German people in
a supreme last effort to save their coun-
try from destruction and to secure terms
that will hold out the prospect of not
too unendurable a future.
Such a Government might be viewed
in one way from London, in another
from New York, in another from Mos-
cow, Paris, Warsaw and so on. Then
there is no telling whether, while creating
a new unity amongst the Germans, it
might not promote disunity amongst the
Allies.
Lessons from Tunisia.
(Condensed from an article by a Manchester
“Guardian” war correspondent.)
Our final blow at Tunis and the subse-
quent rounding up of the Axis forces
were perfect examples of the value of
speed, surprise and concentration of
weight behind the thrust, with swift ex-
ploitation of the confusion thus created.
The degree of surprise achieved was
remarkable. It was perhaps pardonable
that German officers should be discovered
by our armored cars walking the streets
of Tunis at their ease, for they had not
had time to realise the speed and weight
of our blow. But even then the Germans
did not fully grasp what was happening.
Four days later a detachment of the
Derbyshire Yeomanry, roving round Beni
Khalled, in the middle of the neck of
Gape Bon Peninsula, caught 14 German
officers enjoying a champagne supper.
They reported that the supper was good
but the champagne sweet.
The reverse side of the principle of
concentration of force was sadly illus-
trated several times earlier in the cam-
paign. More than once we undertook
operations with insufficient strength, and
the result was failure. The Americans
learnt this, too, at Fondouk, where they
tried to take a range of hills by using their
infantry in penny packets all along the
line instead of localising their strength.
Another painful lesson learnt at Long-
stop Hill and later at Djebel Mansour
was that it is most difficult to get good
tactical co-operation in a smallish force
composed of different national armies
with differences of training, military prac-
tice and perhaps language. These small
mixed forces were only used because we
were then so short of men that reinforce-
ments of whatever army had to be used
to plug the nearest gap as soon as thev
arrived. In the final offensive each ally
did its own fighting.
For the Americans the campaign had
many painful lessons, which they learned
manfully. They found that they were not
physically trained hard enough and that
they had not the unquestioning discipline
which enables troops to be at the right
place and ready to move at the right
time. Most important of all, they learned
that no army can complete its training
except by fighting.
Our own First Army had had much
longer training, and many individuals in
it had fought in France, but even it
found it had much to i ear n. The Ameri-
cans had f ar more to learn, because they
were start j ng w h er e we started in 1939-
ear b er? j n f act> for they had not our mili-
tary tradition and were accustomed to
j ive so f ter dves and asser t their individual
personalities more strongly. But they
i earned as tonishingly quickly, and their
experience will be of the utmost value to
the rest of the American Army if it is
qu i ck i y and thoroughly diffused,
Amer i can equipment was superb, par-
ticulad their transport. At the same
time the old lesson was hammered home
anew that condi tions may occur in which
mechanica i transport is useless, and it
was luck for us that after a considerable
debate we had decided to include some
mule transport in our equipment. Again
and again it proved invaluable in moun-
tainous country.
United Nations War Leaders,
( Condensed from an article by Hanson W.
Baldwin in N.Y. “Times Magazine." )
Eisenhower (General, US. Army,
Commander of all Allied Forces in North
A f onfrrPQdvP *
Africa)— Dynamic, aggressive, restless,
takes his great responsibilities m his
stride; befriends his subordinates b t
can lash out and swear emphatically at
inefficiency or orders bungled. Since he
has commanded in North Africa work
and responsibility have left their im-
prints upon his face. But his energy
is greater than most men far younger
than himself. He packs a prodigious
amount of work into 24 hours,
When he talks to a caller he often
paces nervously about the room or gets
up and moves from one chair to another ;
his is the kind of restless energy that
seeks release in physical as well as mental
activity. In North Africa he has preached
and enforced co-operative action ; he will
not tolerate national animosities or preju-
dices.
Alexander (British Army ; Command-
ing General of Allied Ground Forces).
Medium height, fairly heavy set, red-
dish complexion, tanned cheeks, clipped
moustache, good-humored, polite, to the
manner born. Perhaps not as good a tac-
ticianas but a better strategist thani Mont
gomery. He has ta gtetd by
UUIlKirKj 9
Nort h Africa. He epitomises some
thg best in the Britis h cas te-class system
g enera lship ; he was born to corn-
He ta]ks calmly but with em .
hasis * speaks his mind f ran kly like
Ej sen hower. His field headquarters are
a British blend of the meticulous and
the informal. His mess is his own, its
routine as inflexibly formal and precise
as tradition has ordered it, but he wears
corduroy slacks and the blouse of the
British battle dress, and you might take
him, walking in the grove of trees, for a
fairly junior officer
Cunningham (Admiral of the Bunm
Fleet; Allied Naval Commander inChiel
in Mediterranean).—A seadog after tne
old Royal Navy tradition. He s tough. He


JLhe shape of things to come is being
formed to-day! In the sky ... on sea and land .. .
and in the quickening beat of war production, the
tempo of Victory is already ringing in Axis ears.
But, without money, the war effort must come to a
stop machines cannot work; nor ships sail; nor
planes fly. Lend your money and lend it now!
Invest in National Savings Bonds and War Savings
Certificates. Enlist your money in Active Service .
This advertisement is inserted by the
D
*
vttP
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
Breks Trousers Sovereign Hats
BRANDALERS
PS
ex'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
c. BBAXDADBE <fe CO, LM, HBMIBttHAM. ENO
believes, with Nelson, that a fleet is ex-
pendable ; he will throw ships into action
—as he did at Crete—to accomplish a
purpose, regardless of the consequences.
Come hell or high water he will do as
ordered, and he has the sublime faith of
the average British naval officer that all
the R.N. ranks and ratings will do the
same. He shows the sign of strain and
age ; he is not a young man, but an old
seadog who has weathered many crises.
He has a bloodshot lower eyelid, there are
purpled veins in his cheek, and his ruddy
face grows red when he laughs. He is
emphatic, terse, pounds his fist to make
his points ; he regards the enemy’s sub-
marine warfare as dangerous—“when we
get ahead of that we’ve got his money.”
Tedder (British Air Chief Marshal).—
A rather small, thip-faced Scot, to whom
air power means personal tragedy as well
as a primary weapon of victory. His wife
was killed in an airplane crash in Cairo
and his eldest son —he has another son
and daughter—“bought his” in action
high in the air above Britain. But the
face of “The Chief,” as he’s known to his
men, doesn’t speak of these sorrows;
though deeply lined and quizzical, it is
etched with laughter wrinkles, and the
eyes are bright and piercing. There is,
however, about the man an air of quiet
weariness which is deceptive ; friends
think he never looks well, and perhaps
he doesn’t; the amount of work he does
would kill a horse. Tedder it was who,
after Crete, paved the way to victory from
defeat. He has a sharp and sometimes
cutting humor, but he’s a quiet man —
one likely to go unnoticed. But not by
history.
Doolittle (Major-General, U.S. Air
Force). —Meeting him for the first time
you get the impression of politeness, pre-
cise politeness. His answers are illus-
trative and exact; you can see he is used
to the habit of command. But he is more
than a commander ; he is a technician
and a flier. He is an expert engineer.
He worked out, against the background
of long experience and painstaking ex-
periment, the estimated fuel consumption
for the bombdrs that took part in the
Tokyo raid. He believes in the air, but
he appreciates more than many airmen
the problems of the ground. He believes
the greatest tactical lesson of North
Africa is the need for more replacement
crews ; airplanes “can take it” better than
the human beings that man them. Like
Eisenhower, he doesn’t like the office ;
he is for ever slipping away and leading
his bombers to enemy objectives—and
without benefit of publicity.
Coningham (British Air Marshal). —
Sir Arthur Coningham is the other mem-
ber of the famous North African team
of Cunningham and Coningham. This
one’s younger, less didactic but no less
assured than his old naval confrere. The
Air Marshal teams up directly with Alex-
ander and Montgomery, in the desert lives
in a trailer or “caravan,” well-furnished
(the airmen do themselves well), and can
produce a bottle of Black and White
from the desert sands like a genie. He
is perhaps the world’s foremost exponent
of ground support tactics. He is suave
and humorous and sincere.
Montgomery (Commander-in-Chief,
British Eighth Army).—-He speaks in “I’s”
and knows the value of conceit. But if
genius is the art of taking pains General
Sir Bernard Law Montgomery has it. A
somewhat dour man, with a sharp profile
and a single-minded religion—his job.
He neither smokes nor drinks. He is a
showman. The simplicity of his uniform,
topped by a beret, is in startling contrast
to the full-dressed portrait of Rommel,
his arch adversary, which Montgomery
kept mounted at the end of his trailer-
truck, his “Battle Headquarters.” He is
a fine tactician, and El Alamein and the
Mareth Line will some day be classics
at the world’s command and general staff
schools.
Patton (Lieutenant - General, U.S.
Army).—Used to be known as “Flash
Gordon” or the “Green Hornet” to some
of his men ; his pearl-handled revolvers
and unexpurgated expletives were famous.
Like “Monty,” in his way—but far more
flashily—he’s a showman. Some think
he’s a bull in a china shop, but he spruced
up the discipline and the spirit of the
Second American Corps after its licking
at Kasserine, and the Army sums him up
in a phrase: “Say what you will about
Patton; he’s aggressive.” And he’s
human. He’s not always rampaging, as
so many of the newspaper accounts would
indicate ; he plans and thinks and talks
quietly in his headquarters. Patton might
be termed, like Custer, a “glory hunter,”
but it’s deliberate ; it’s not for himself
alone; he believes it’s an important
morale factor. “A man won’t die for
pay,” he says; “glory’s necessary.”
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
“I do not for one minute object to Great
Britain pursuing her own interests with vigor
and selfishness, so long as she is threatened,
and the world is threatened, by the possibility
of recurrent American isolation. England can
do nothing else, so long as the high officials of
this [U,S.] Government continue to make windy
words and sentiment and vague principles such
as the Four Freedoms. I submit in this epoch
of history collective security is meaningless
without the firm and clearly established military
as well as economic and spiritual collaboration
of the United States and the British Common-
wealth.”—Claire Boothe Luce, in Congress.
* * * *
The British Labor party repudiated its best
leader, Herbert Morrison, for the antiquated
Arthur Greenwood in a grudge fight. The Labor
party has almost no leadership material outside
of Morrison. Younger men have been snuffed
out by the practice of putting retired trade-
union officials, aged and broken down, into
Parliament as Labor party members—TV. Y.
“World-Telegram” London correspondent.
* * * *
It may be wise to realise beforehand the
nervous tension which an occupied people like
the Dutch have been storing up during three
years of steadily increasing oppression. On the
day of liberation they will be dangerously
underfed. Thousands, if not tens of thousands,
will emerge from their hiding-places skeleton-
like. The feeling of general insecurity, the
terror of the Gestapo will have left its mark on
millions. In fact, the entire people will have
lived “on their nerves” for years.— Dutch
correspondent in London “Times.”
* * * *
In North Africa, the French Army already
has reached 300,000 men and still is growing.
Seven divisions of 105,000 men are fully equipped
with new weapons. The others rapidly are being
equipped and trained in the use of the latest
arms from the United States and Britain. The
French have a navy of 200,000 tons of useful
warships. They have a nucleus of 2500 pilots
for an air force. In provinces and territories
outside of North Africa they have at least
90,000 additional troops. As to fighting quali-
ties, there is a great change from the misled and
dispirited force that three years ago laid down
its arms to Hitler. In Tunisia, all French forces,
including the native Moroccan Gowns, fought
well. — “United States News.”
* * * *
“The Japanese know that we can take their
navy, demobilise their army, control their in-
dustry, limit their trade, strip their fortifications
and even occupy part of their country without
disturbing their war-making capacity if we fail
to stamp out the tradition of militarism. The
innermost heart of Japanese aggression is the
Japanese militarist cult and Japanese claims
to racial 'superiority. Unless that cult is de :
stroyed another war will be inevitable, and
the Japanese will begin preparing their next
military empire at the very moment that they
raise the white flag over the smoking ruins of
this one.” — Former U.S. Ambassador in Tokyo
Joseph E. Grew.
* * * *
Our two desires are closely allied; one is to
finish the war, the other to get home. We
appreciate your good wishes, but we don’t
appreciate home strikes, false patriotism and a
recurrent indifference to this part of the world.
Our favorite income is mail, not money, and
our favorite emission is a curse at John L.
Lewis. The men here would gladly trade jobs
with any of his workers, and work for half the
pay and twice the time, were they permitted
an occasional day at home or an occasional
week-end with their wives. Homesickness is a
much greater grievance than a doubtful poor-
wage.—From a letter home written by an Ameri-
can soldier in New Guinea, published in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
A London firm, specialising since 1772 in the
manufacture of swords, is now making suits of
mail for American airmen. The Eighth Air
Service announces that henceforth all crews of
U.S. heavy bombers stationed in England will
be equipped with this new armor. Tests in
battle over Germany have proved its worth.
The bombardier of a Flying Fortress wore one
of the bullet-proof vests in a recent raid over
Welhelmshaven. The shell of a 20mm. cannon
crashed through the ’plane and exploded two
feet from him. Though the surface of his vest
looked like a fire-blackened sieve there was no
penetration. Other fliers report similar results,
and already many lives have been saved. The
full equipment, at first shunned as an encum-
brance, weighs 131 b. Now the entire service
wants it. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The trend [in America] is toward conservative
ways of thinking and doing. That means
toward individual initiative, private enterprise,
private profits and maintenance of the essen-
tials of what we call “capitalism.” It means
that the trend in the United States is away from
further growth of Government domination,
Government control and political management
of the economy from some central Government
watchtower. — W. M. Kiplinger, in the “Cosmo-
politan.”
* * * *
In the desert outside of Tripoli King George
pinned the Victoria Cross on the tunic of a
little Gurkha sergeant. The sergeant was short
and portly, with an innocent, childlike face.
He had decapitated fifty-seven Germans in one
night during the fighting at Mareth, person-
ally clearing out a strongly-held position. The
fat little man went out alone on reconnaissance,
carrying his thin curved knife, and removed
the head of everybody he met. He didn’t return
till he ran out of Germans. Then he reported
that the position could be taken. It was. The
sergeant, who was standing as straight as
his comfortable stomach would permit, did
not understand the King’s words. An officer
translated, and he started to smile. Then his
face froze again, obviously because he couldn’t
hold his stomach in and smile at the same time.
— N.Y. “Sun” war correspondent.


■■
■I
r*"-*
V ffl
■
■■■
■
. J :
r .fc^^A. lllir ,
n
L oVi^
HH
«
m
■
:»
r 1
*
I
|||
MM
,
SIB
iiiii
■
"Science and Industry”—by Paul Dnndas. This is the first of a series of paintings symbolising Australia’s
coming peacetime prosperity and happiness commissioned by Stewarts arid Lloyds (Amt.) Pty. Ltd.
What will be your first job after the war?
Find us the soldier or civilian who isn’t building a home,
driving a new car, or taking a long, lazy holiday . . . every
time he starts thinking about "after the war.”
Whether or not that Australian gets what he is fighting
for depends on more than Victory.
It depends upon the job that Australian industry gets
after the war ... and Australian industry will have to make
its own job and make it quickly.
We will have to beat tanks into tractors, shells into
tubes. Field telephones will give way to home television sets
on the assembly lines. There will be private planes in back-
yard garages, washing machines in every laundry.
Australians will be producing all of these things for
their own good, producing them in plenty.
Such a time must surely come. Whether it comes sooner
or later depends upon two factors. These two factors are
resourcefulness and courage.
This war has shown that we’ve got them both.
We didn’t wait for Government subsidies, or even the
war itself for that matter, before we found a way to make
shell bodies that was as easy as making tubes. Shell bodies
were rolling off our production lines as soon as the guns
started firing.
What we’ve done for war we can do for a peaceful way
of life, too. After all, that’s what we’re fighting for.
Some millions of Australians will have to find jobs when
the fighting is over. Many public bodies will assert responsi-
bility for solving this problem.
Only quick, practical action can solve it and that
action must come from the industries of Australia.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
I That new water pipe for your garden has become a “jungle cart .
So great is the demand for our products for war purposes that there is, literally, no
surplus for ordinary civil needs.
Even the best pipe requires replacement occasionally, either through damage or corro-
sion', particularly when galvanised quality cannot be supplied owing to shortage of zinc.
We can only provide such replacements when the request is supported by a certificate
from the local atdhority . . . Since every length used for such replacements means one
length less available to fill the hundreds of defence orders on our books, we ask users
and authorities to co-operate with a view to asking for and authorising replacements
only in essential cases tvhere repair is impossible and standards of health may suffer.


6
WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR DIES
-Will YOUR ESTATE SUTTER
If you appoint an individual as Executor his
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devoted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD..
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST, SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST,
MELBOURNE.
Copilot (paid and uncalled) and Reserves • £948,600.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
For Australia at War . . .
Qfe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
★
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
N*
The WILD CAT COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28,9'61 7,388 45,887
1915 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 6C5 234,793
1927 . . 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1930 . . 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1933 . . 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 1 22g 668
’ Reseived for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )
1934 .. 1,039.535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596 1
From bonus equalisation account, [ 579,467
£30.000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289 t r r , s 88 q
To staff fund, £5OOO S ’
1938 .. 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,268 1
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 [ 540,496
To staff fund. £5OOO j
1939 .. 1,368,133 732,898 172,415 21,765 441,565
1940 . . 1,432,037 050,433 188,272 40,698 552,634
Assets written down £557,308 £322,307 from
visible and £235,000 from inner reserves.
1941 .. 1,457,722 727,279 247,390 11,991 471,062
1942.. 1,509,888 630,190 261,342 7,761 \ 520 595
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 j ’
New business income has steadied, and
renewal premiums are building up ; there
has been a marked decline in surrenders
following the vote of policy-holders that
secured a continuity of management after
the washing-up of the 1941 term. About
that stage of the society’s career there
was a cleaning-up of the assets as well as
a reduction in the basis of valuation from
3i p.c. to 3 p.c. Claims are now at the
lightest rate since before the war, although
the City Mutual’s war cover is unusually
liberal, and terms of reinstatement of
soldiers’ policies are as generous as in the
case of other offices.
The number of new policies put on the
books last year was 3862, compared with
4622 in the preceding term, and the sum
assured was £222,542 lower at £1,820,869.
But the average per policy was high at
£471 (against £442), and the income from
first premiums was almost unchanged at
£76,451. Renewal premiums brought in
£31,648 more at £908,207 net, while
annuity income was £5613 better at
£9026. In spite of recent additions to
funds, the low yields from new invest-
ment has slowed down the interest re-
turn, which, gross, was £15,612 higher at
£516,204 last year. Altogether total in-
come was £52,166 greater at £1,509,888.
Among outgoings, the drop of £91,089
in claims was all due to the falling-off of
£70,911 in death claims (£277,473) and
£35,412 in surrenders (£71,243). Endow-
ment maturities were £21,334 higher at
£252,860. The growth of £13,952 in
expenses (£261,342), following a substan-
tial increase in the previous year,
prompts investigation until it is found
that taxation (£93,357) is £18,120
higher, and there is an item of
A.R.P. and war-damage outgo totalling
£11,227. Actual management exes.
(£152,589) were cut back £16,894 during
the term. Total exes, (apart from taxes
and depreciation) took 16.9 p.c. of the
premium income, compared with 18 p.c.
To the staff fund £4167 was sent (up
£ 1500); depreciation allowance was
£4230 lower at £7761. But to contin-
gencies reserve £75,000 was sent, and,
allowing for this, the year’s net addition
to the assurance fund was £58,533 greater
at £529,595, making the fund £11,324,884.
Contingency fund has reached £305,643.
The actuary now makes his calculations
on a 2| p.c. net premium basis, the
change being effected last term at a cost
of about £300,000. After establishing
this new basis of valuation and sending
the £75,000 to contingency reserve, there
still remained a “financial residue” of
£127,435, out of which £107,607 was ear-
marked for reversionary bonuses at the
same rate as last year.
The new basis of valuation is a wise
arrangement in view of the falling average
interest and rent earnings that are a
natural consequence of increasing policy
liabilities, the funds to cover which are
mostly invested in low-interest-bearing
Government securities. The office is find-
ing it difficult to reinvest discharged
mortgage money at anything like the old
rate of earning, and the result is seen in
a sharply increasing holding of Govern-
ment securities, which now represent
33.9 p.c. of the total funds, compared
with 28.2 p.c. last year and 23.2 p.c. in
1939:
1941. p,q. 194 9 . p.O.
Govt securities.. £3,178,706 28.2 £4.022.845 33.9
Mortgages, etc... 3,481,096 80.9 3.307,574 28.0
Loan's on policies 1,273,200 11.3 1,235,457 10,4
Properties., . . 2,207,929 19.6 2,236,414 18.9
Shares and
debentures, etc. 885,570 7.8 885,015 7.4
Cash and sundries 262,200 2.2 167,679 1.4
Last term the net yield from investments
was 3.82 p.c. on the average life fund,
compared with 4.11 p.c. in the preced-
ing term and 5.08 p.c. in 1938, when the
investment policy of the late George
Crowley still held considerable sway in
the affairs of the office. The change in
the C.M.L.’s investment holdings since
then has been entirely along the lines of
sound Australian life-assurance practice.
Furthermore, the office’s support of war
loans has been of great help at a time
when the Treasury is in dire need of
finance which has a sound basis. In
1942 the society put £850,000 into war
loans, and since the close of accounts
has taken £600,000 in the Third Liberty
Loan. After the war, when the Govern-
ment’s monetary requirements may rea-
sonably be expected to fall, chairman
William Bennett looks forward to the
City Mutual’s participation in solving the
housing problem. A life office could
hardly interest itself in a more vitally
useful national work, and one singularly
appropriate to its basic functions.
Ballarat Brewing Co,, Ltd.
To He— Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 lljp.c. - 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 12* p.c. = 29,318 9,235 l 9ll . qfi
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 J " ’
1938.. 42,498 12* p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total,
1939.. 46,008 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 33,750 12.258 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ ll“i „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
1941.. 34,502 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31,145 6 „ 8f „ 29,375 1,770 243,833
1943.. 42,258 6 „ 7* „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
While the March, 1942, restriction on
beer deliveries has sealed civilian con-
sumption at two-thirds the level of the
preceding two months, brewers’ outputs
appear to have suffered only nominal
falling off. This because service can-
teens and their three-quarters of a mil-
lion or more potential customers stand
outside the civilian rationing scheme,
though the Army rations itself where it
has the “hard” stuff on tap. Where this
Ballarat co. has been affected—while also
in Melbourne and Geelong, its trade is
mainly in the food-producing areas of
western Victoria and the N.S.W. Riverina
—is in the denudation of rural popula-
tions by call-ups and the drift citywards.
The same factors have also conspired
against secondary earnings from the co.’s
big investment in hotels, rents from which
have slipped £9581 since 1940. Still, “a
substantial part” of brewery output is
being absorbed by the service demand
mentioned, and while this trade doesn’t
Carry the normal margin of profit it also
doesn’t involve the same element of ex-
pense, which partly explains the ready
response of outgoings to economy
measures.
“Coghlan and Tulloch’s”—names still
prominent on the board —used to prefix
the co.’s title. Shortening of the name-
plate came when the public was invited
to participate in the profits of the old-
established business and to put up funds
for further development in 1936. While
the new capital hasn’t earned at the same
rate as the old, attractive results came
along till war somewhat spoilt the picture.
Last term, the first full year of restricted
production, gross profit from trading fell
£7269 to £105,999 and rents, etc.
(£35,912), slipped another £2002. How-
ever, on the opposite side of p. and 1.,
savings of £15,884 obligingly showed up.
That was after setting aside out of
revenue a reserve of £4500 for repairs
and replacements at present impossible
to effect, a sum taken into profits in
these calculations along with an appropri-
ation of £B5OO to property reserve, etc.
Depreciation of £5229 was struck olf the
working assets direct, and £2OOO more
was slid back into tax reserve than the
£23,654 taken from it during the year.
Allowing for the prefs.’ £7500, the
profit of £42,258 (up £11,113) calculated
by the “Wild Cat” represented 13.8 p.c.
on the £250,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 9.4, 10.8, 13.2 and 17.4 p.c. back to
really prosperous pre-war days. Still,
because the improvement in earnings is
overstated to the extent that accrued
wear and tear may later have to be
made good, there were none of the cost-
of-living adjustments for shareholders
that employees enjoyed; on the con-
trary, ord.-holders suffered their fourth
successive threepence-a-share cut in in-
come, reducing the div. to 1\ p.c, and
the public average to 10.7 p.c.
As far as possible, future earning-
power has been protected by vigorous
mopping up of pubs. Only property out-
lay last term was the purchase of a forest
block to ensure firewood supplies:
1930. 1988. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £184,025 £250,000 £375,000 £375,000
Mortgages . . 1,500 38,500 lIO.OO'O 111,500
Overdraft . . 80,138 60.175 40,784 20,991
Sundry creditors 0.760 13,107 10,027 11,182
Tax reserve .. 10,500 27,000 29,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. ' .. 259,133 425,652 564,194 564,189
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 49,500 65,000 61,500
Stock.. .. 23,186 24,872 35,716 28,823
Sundry debtors 83,419 111,412 146,737 142,668
Shares other cos. 853 853 346 346
Cash, etc. . . 12,676 5,904 17,502 26,556
Expert valuations disclosed an inner
reserve of £239,000 in the main asset at
the time the public came in, a handy
supplement to the visible accumulation
of £259,841 shown. Post-war prospects,
of course, are interlocked with those of
the farmer and pastoralist, and further
dependent on the pressure on the tax
screw, direct and indirect. Meantime the
No. 1 war role now allotted food pro-
duction may do a trifle to correct the
disequilibrium between town and country
populations.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1935. . 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles, £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 1 1400 17 705
Written off intangibles, £660 | ’
Share premiums, £23,750 .. •• 41,530
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 .. • • 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
Added intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940.. 18,728 Nil 18,728 20,082
1941.. 25,309 5 p.c. = 14,249 11,060 9,022
Reserves.
Net taxation written back, £13,326 . . 4,304
1942.. 50,766 6 p.c. = 17,100 33,666 37,970
1943.. 21,046 6 „ ~17,106 3,946 41,910
The management has given up as a bad
job trying to guess the course of taxa-
tion, and now refrains from providing
therefor until the actual assessments
come in. Hence the apparent jitterbug-
ging of earnings over the past two years.
The sharp spring in 1942, when nothing
was set aside for the Government sleep-
ing partner, marked the first year of the
changed policy, while the equally abrupt
contraction last term reflected the chalk-
ing of assessments for £38,621 against
p. and 1. —-“it appears reasonably certain
that some refunds will be received,” the
board is moved to declare. Eighteen
months’ profits remained untaxed at bal-
ance date, the unassessed liability in re-
spect of which gives the reserves shown
a largely nominal complexion.
Comprising 16 stores in N.S.W. and
another three (conducted by offshoots) in
Westralia and Maoriland, the business
now wears a different complexion from
that of the spindly organisation which the
present control began nursing back to
health years ago. Consolidation must
wait, however, for the war conditions
which assisted in the rehabilitation are
now operating in reverse gear. Though
everyday articles comprise the chief
stock-in-trade of variety chains, fam-
ished purchasing power is unable to be
fed in nearly all imported and innumer-
able local lines, while in other ways
demand is harnessed by rationing which
has produced an acute degree of coupon-
consciousness and required adjustments
to trading policy. Vacant counters have
been turned into fruit and vegetable
marts in an endeavor to sustain turnover,
but retailers’ margins in these and other
food lines aren’t of the fortune-making
variety, and mainly serve only to lighten
the incidence of overhead costs. Com-
pulsory diversion of woman-power to
war work is also intensifying staffing
problems; fortunately, the class or


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
You Can Stop
That Backache
But. yon must help your kidneys to
flush out acid poisons hy taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don't delay—go to your chemist or
store and ask for Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. Use them regularly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ẃ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an<i Trade Marks.—Advt.
fOIKK UANS
p^QBlE^
W'
LUDOWICIS
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & S ON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
LEATHER
BELTING
PULLEY*
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
NOISSIIMSNVUI
XlMOd
s.ioiMoam
STATE EXPRESS
®£umysp&mde i
S
' /t’s yowr fight — your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
1959 D-11 42
business the co. is in requires only a
minimum of salesmanship.
Servicing of the two distant off-
shoots also isn’t becoming easier. Like
their parent, both have been established
on a profitable trading footing, though a
big wad of intangibles remains to be
dealt with in each case. The W.A. sub-
sidiary is paying another 5 p.c. in respect
of its latest term from net earnings of
8.9 p.c. on capital. On the other hand,
the trans-Tasman associate saw £9446 of
a tradihg surplus of £12,822 swallowed in
taxation ; an unrecurring loss of £3979
on the sale of certain property and fit-
tings cut out the balance of the takings
and a bit more. As for the parent, de-
spite finer margins pre-tax earnings, in-
cluding a maiden £2535 from the West-
ralian pup, reached £59,687, against com-
parable figures for the three preceding
years of £50,766, £37,809 and £19,728
respectively. After chipping off the
£38,621 of taxation mentioned, the latest
result was left at 7.3 p.c. on capital.
Shareholders scored another 6 p.c., and
£3946 was added to the nominal heap of
reserves.
Depreciation and the like for the year
ran to £16,287 (up £551). The allowance
enabled the buying side to add another
£17,141 to stocks, and, provided they
have been well bought, a better invest-
ment couldn’t be had in view of the
hand-to-mouth existence facing most dis-
tributors on the supplies side:
1935. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £56,067 £284,897 £285,000 £285,000
Sundry creditors 26,252* 76,355* 95,554 101,963
Freeholds .. 18,801 19,370 19,561
Leaseholds . . 8,969 53,118 40,551 36,223
Plant, etc. . . 21,441 83,736 94,736 85,178
Stock . . . . 38,789 87,593 199,123 216,264
Debtors etc. . . 5,724 7,949 4,930 11,536
Cash . . . . 708 2,424 2,645 2,947
Shares subsidiaries 109,320 74,270 74,270
* Including taxation, etc.
With the stockholding twice covering the
outside debt, the general picture is not
uncomfortable, for the one item will
come down with the other. Investments
—62,600 shares in Selfridges (W.A.) and
73,850 in Selfridges (N.Z.), all of £1 less
£21,180 uncalled—-aren’t exactly a source
of strength yet; still, allowing for £41,000
already written off in respect of free pro-
moting shares, further adjustments in
book values may not prove necessary.
Following the capital repayment in
kind some time ago, importance has
seeped out of Gold Mines of Australia’s
investment portfolio —3669 lOs.-paids in
Victoria Dredging, 16,450 (35.) in Morn-
ing Star, 19,600 (10s.) in Mt. Coolon,
64501 in Triton and 90,000 (3d.) in Atlas
G.M., market value of the lot around
£13,500. Main interest now lies in other
surplus liquids equal to 17s. 6d. in the
£ of paid capital and the potentialities,
when equipped, of two areas jointly
owned with Gold Exploration and
Finance next door to Victoria Gold
Dredging at Newstead (Vic.). The Sandy
Creek one at least, however, isn’t another
V.G.D. as regards values (2|gr.), though
comparing well as regards quantity of
wash available (20| million c.y.).
* * * *
Horseshoe Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
at Wiluna (W.A.), is being wound up.
This is one of two operating cos. for
Gold Fields Australian Development, the
London holding concern. The other is
Moonlight Wiluna Gold Mines, on whose
mine development and ore-extraction
have been carried on for some years,
and from which the holding co. has re-
ceived a few dividends. Horseshoe and
Moonlight properties adjoin, and cover
726 acres north of the Wiluna mine.
5jC H 4
North Kalgurli (W.A.) on September
27 pays a dividend out of mining profits
of Is. a share sterling, equal, after Eng-
lish income tax of Bs. sterling in
the £ has been taken off, to about
£3 9s. 6d. in Australian currency per 100
shares. The last distribution of 9d.
sterling a share, made in December, 1942,
was equal to £3 4s. Id. in Australian
currency, but taxation was not as heavy
then.
* jH * *
Man-power shortage is worrying Wes-
tralian mineowners. Speaking in the
State Assembly, Triat, a goldfields Labor
member, said that at one mine in his elec-
torate the management had been forced
to employ several men between the ages
of 60 and 70 on the surface. These men
had agreed to return to work to keep the
mine going, and by doing so maintain the
near-by town’s existence. There are
several other similar cases.
* * * *
New Milano (W.A.) board states that
the man-power and economic position,
together with exhaustion of developed
ore, necessitates the temporary closing
of the co.’s mine near Mt. Monger
(W.A.). In the meantime the Leslie
mine, the co.’s near-by second string,
which is said to have a larger and more
easily-worked ore-body, is to be un-
watered preparatory to extracting trial
crushings. As the “Wild Cat” has often
said before, Mt. Monger is not a likely
place to look for deep-seated gold de-
posits.


&
JOBS
%
v
of
'MI
m
MS-
Sk
9
another l/oht
_ THAT NEVER FANE.
One cf Bcereadqs War jobs is to provide batteries for
an amazinq tiqhtinq apparatus which is attached to a//
Li/e-sarinq rafts carried on the qattant merchant ships
There’s another war job for
all of us
SAVE ESSENTIAL
WAR SUPPLIES
For that reason get the most out of your flash-
light batteries. They last longer when you use
a series of short flashes. Remember the quickest
way to burn out batteries is to leave light on for
minutes at a time.
,? H
eVE READY
-TRADE-MARK
The extra long life battery
The Queensland National Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET as at close of business on 30th June, 1943.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-400,000 Shares at £5 per Share £2,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-350,000 Shares at £5 per Share
fully paid .. .. .. £1,750,000 0 0
Paid Up Capital £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Funds . . .. . . 860,000 0 0
(Used in the business of the
Total Shareholders’ Funds .. £2,672,099 7 3
Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock 2,982,627 0 8
Deposits, Bills Payable and other
Liabilities, including Provisions
for Contingencies . . . . 13,855,524 19' 7
Balances Due to other Banks.. 9,850 3 11
Note. —All assets and liabilities
are expressed in Australian
currency.
Bank)
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss
89,375 0 0
22,724 7 3
Account . .
£19,520,101 11 5
Contingent Liabilities .. .. £330,269 4 1
(Under letters of credit, guarantees, etc.)
ASSETS.
Australian Government Se-
curities (under cost or
face value)
Special War-Time Deposit Account
with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit
3,306,000 0 0
785,407 14 0
£9,858,737 5 0
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting pro-
vision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) 8,977,472 9 2
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (at cost less amounts
written off) . . •. • • 588,934 0 5
All other Assets (floating —under
cost or market value) .. .. 94,957 16 10
£19,520,101 11 5
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £330,269 4 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1943.
To Expenses, Head Office, Branches
and Agencies (including
Directors’ Fees, £2,941/6/4
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes
~ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down
£270,364 16 1
51,378 13 7
77,502 10 10
£399,246 0 6
To Transfer to Reserve Funds
~ Amounts written off Bank
Premises and Furniture .. £3,000 0 0
~ Dividends—
Interim Paid £35,000 0 0
Pinal Proposed
Payable .. £39,375 0 0
„ , 74,375 0 0
„ Balance Carried Forward .. 22,724 7 8
Note.— All amounts are expressed
in Australian currency.
£100,099
7 3
By Discount and interest earned, net
exchange, commissions and other
income after deducting interest paid
and accrued on deposits, rebate on
bills current at balance date and
appropriations to the credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all bad and
doubtful debts has been made).. £399,246 0 6
£399,246 0 6
By Net Balance brought forward.. £22,596 16 5
~ Net Profit for the Year.. .. 77,502 10 10
£100,099 7 3
Business, Rollery, etc.
Economic Blackout
Economically, it is mostly blind flying
in Australia at present. Normal guides
and landmarks are almost blacked-out
under war-time conditions that include
totalitarian financial controls. Save, per-
haps, for wheat, there is a full demand
for nearly any kind of production, and,
whatever the cost or price, Australians
have to pay—directly, indirectly through
taxation, or, more indirectly and inequit-
ably still, through currency depreciation.
Because of the full demand for whatever
the country produces,, the high produc-
tion costs, the labor deficiencies, the
financial mistakes and the administrative
errors are to a large extent covered up
for the time being.
It may be that our war production
is not nearly as substantial as the
huge cost would indicate. It may be
that the financing of war largely by
borrowing and bank credit has depre-
ciated our currency to a much greater
extent than the 24 p.c. indicated by the
growth in living costs. It may be that
the price paid by Great Britain for our
wool is too high on the existing statistical
situation of the product, at the same time
not particularly remunerative to growers
because of rising costs and our fixed
exchange rate. Whatever the answer,
those in control of this country’s eco-
nomic destiny have up to the present
been able to cover up much that will not
remain covered up when the searching
wind of world competition once again
starts to blow things about.
The war-time Government of the day
has had various opportunities of con-
cealing its weaknesses and mistakes. To
start with, there is the official secrecy of
war-time. Also, a section of the people
is resigned to financial sacrifice, so
therefore this section has been taxed
more at a, pinch to make up de-
ficiencies of others; and when the
lightly taxed have failed to give adequate
support to war loans bank credit has
been used to fill up the gap. Again, as
the need for a rapidly expanded war
effort was something that transcended all
other considerations, authorities who re-
garded excessive use of bank-credit
finance as unsound in the long run at
the same time made concessions to poli-
tics and the exigencies of war. War-
time controls over almost all kinds of
spending and investment, too, have dis-
guised the nature of the delayed-action
bomb that inflationary finance has created
in the Australian economic system.
The people have been in a spirit to
accept burdens. They have been ready
to put up with shortages. They have
been prepared to put national interests
above sectional interests. But the Curtin
Government did not make good use of
the spirit in which Australians were pre-
pared to rise to the occasion. It made
many blunders in rationing and rationali-
sation, it overworked the A.I.F. divisions
formed before it took office, it took the
side of unionists of the most militant and
disloyal type, and it went out of its way
to make concessions to some unions that
were not at all justified by the state of the
war at that time. One result has been a
great confusion about moral issues and
other values.
A people shocked by the savagery of
war, especially such savagery as has been
seen in the Japanese offensive and retreat
in the Pacific, is liable to lose touch to
some extent with peace-time considera-
tions and standards. A callousness may
grow oyer normal instincts, feelings and
susceptibilities, or a generous spirit of
self-sacrifice may set aside for the time
being most thoughts of caution, economic
self-preservation or post-war difficulties
arising from war-time expediency. In
any case a situation has arisen in Aus-
tralia where demands by Labor have been
repeatedly met, however unjustified they
have been, in order to maintain essential
war-time production. High rates have
been paid for overtime, and there
are many reports that production has
been restricted in “ordinary” hours in
order to collect a harvest of “penalty”
money after the eight-hour day has fin-
i sbed -
At the same time the Labor Govern-
ment has tacitly encouraged the idea
of nationalisation of industry, although
Mr. Curtin has been heard to protest
that he would do nothing actually to
implement it “during the war.” Com-
mumsts, who aim at revolution, have
been given such a free hand that they
have had a considerable influence on
costs of production. It is estimated in
some quarters that the rate of loading on
the wharves in war-time has fallen to
half what it was in pre-war years. The
cost is vastly greater, and is mostly paid
(or by the Defence Department. Part
,^f Cy -‘ S C a vu e a "
industrial and economic breakdown
within this country. Communism thrives
on chaos.
Another factor that is having an impor-
tant influence on the economy of Aus-
tralia is the rationing of most civilian
goods and its influence when taken in
conjunction with the increased wages
that many unionists are receiving. Some
wage-earners are naturally thriftless, and
the fact that it is hard to spend their
wages on desirable goods or property is
dulling their incentive to work. Many
of workers, too, are not “taxation-
minded, and the fact that their increased
earnings have become subject to compara-
lively heavy taxation for defence pur-
poses has had a tendency ot encourage
absenteeism and reduced production per
Australia s-
this reduction in per-capila output
imposes a further strain on an economy
already seriously overloaded. Trades have
been diluted with unskilled men, and
women in munitions industries are receiv-
ing 90 p.c. of the male rate of pay.
Monetary policy has become a poli-
tical plaything. Without outlining any
plan that embraced industrial or economic
actors, Mr. Cur tin recently advocated
“dnfhUnf ba r k Kv ed “*“, a ,” eanS ° £
” L if ■ P°r
S?°”: Hhe WM at all sincere m his
, p iTe . 1 , S early blm
to the fact that only war-time emergency
onliols have prevented the full inlla-
SnSS°”f l V Ur H°, m Wai ‘
time overdose ot bank credit would nor-
Tw a a Lnf e ra° US , a r Ct ' 01 ;
f„ - P . Pe f° ' SU r C ?f
in its silliness, an election slogan of Mrs.
Pauline Budge- Free money means free
men -is typical of a kind of thought that
has done a great deal to mislead and con-
fuse people at a time when the issues in
front of Australians were grimly clear-
cut. When Winston Churchill in Britain
was promising his people “blood, toil,
tears and sweat,” in the Commonwealth
there was a flood of propaganda aiming
at the stimulation of self-pity and self-
seeking. The false atmosphere created
by the Government’s wide use of bank
credit in order to avoid adequate taxa-
tion of the lower incomes, resulting as
it did in great additions to the savings
credited to people in the savings banks
and elsewhere, almost persuaded some
folk that the war could be paid for
without paying for it, and that by a
similar “miracle of credit” all sorts of
national works could be carried out now
and in the post-war period. The fact
is, as already stated, that the reactionary
effect of bank-credit finance has still to
reveal itself fully. The growth in “sav-
ings” is being offset by currency depre-
ciation
Tile'unbalanced and disguised distri-
butio" of the war burden is bound in
~ . ,
tbe lons run “ industry and em-
ployment. The rural industries have
alread Y slipped back. It remains to be
seen whether the method by which com-
P a nies have been taxed in war-time will
leave industry with sufficient funds after
the war to rehabilitate its depreciated
plant and adjust itself to new conditions,
Given a fair go by the Government, most
private industries will probably be able
to survive. It will be production costs,
Government credit, planning and admin-
istration, with the attitude of Labor, that
will be the major worries, and national
credit and level of production costs will
affect interest rates and the exchange
rate,
Interest levds and the exchange rates
£ ££* gf 0 * f hings ! n th f ls ““I
try Not only is investment abroad
prohlblted ’ but Wlthm the Commonwealth
most new investment other than in war
l° ans also is not allowed. Importing is
done only under license, and the operation
of lend-lease is another factor that takqs a
part in the disguising of Australia’s real
economic position. The present interest
rate at which the Commonwealth is bor-
rowing is extremely flattering ; it is largely
patriotism on the part of the people, scmi-
compulsion in the case of life iffices,
et and actual compu | sion in the case
ot the banka that have enabled the huge
borrowings of this war to be financed at
a comparatively low interest rate. Much
of our war-time borrowing, however, has
been done on a sho rt-term basis, and post-
war conversion will not be easy unless
totalitarian finance continues. And there
; of course a limit to which even totaU .
tarian finance can if it is not based
on a sound foundat l on ,
n f ,
e 15 a oobsb man in deed who takes
ou tward manifestations of present-day
controlled economics in Australia as a
complete guide to the future. Our sins
and mistakes have not nearly found us
out yet, though with the passing of every
day the showdown draws nearer.


Wanted to Purchase.
ney N 3 B ° X 2521 BB > G.P.0., Syd-
“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
Join Danks c,Sqn
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
i
1 *«,x.
#
Serves the Nation
on Land ,
and in the Air
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
4"
u
a®
M 34
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia)
The new financial year began with the
expenditure of £40.4 million on war dur-
ing July. This is at a reduced rate com-
pared with 1942-43 experience, when the
average was nearly £47 million a month.
July’s outgo was financed to the extent
of £12.1 million from revenue and to the
extent of £28.3 million from the loan
fund.
* % * *
Mr. Curtin states that in 16 months
the Allied Works Council spent £B2 mil-
lion. “Slightly under 50,000 workers
accomplished all this at a. rate of over
£1,000,000 a week.” Achievements, in
the words of the Prime Minister, have
been “almost miraculous.” He added:
“It was the knowledge that this vast
strategic plan of works had been virtu-
ally completed wholly within the term
of office of the Labor Government that
enabled me, with knowledge of other
factors, to say that Japan could not take
this country.” But without hearing what
the “other factors” were, the public is
asked to accept rather a lot. After all,
aircraft have had a great deal to do with
the keeping away of the Japanese, and
the A.W.C. doesn’t manufacture ’planes.
* ❖ * J?
The “Argus,” Melbourne, with its off-
shoots, made a profit of £26,869 last year,
down £11,717 compared with the preced-
ing period. Argus Broadcasting Ser-
vices Pty. contributed £2843 to the year’s
result, compared with £2726 the term
before. Out of the earnings of the under-
taking as a whole a 6 p.c. div. was paid
to the prefs., 5 p.c. to the preferred ords.,
and a maiden 2 p.c. to the ords., total
distributions to shareholders being
£23,600. From p. and 1. £2852 was
written off establishment account, and
the bringing-in of a surplus of £6348 re-
sulting from the revaluation (to par) of
the holding in Australian Newsprint Mills
completed the wiping-out of this intan-
gible. There remain in the sheet £lOO,OOO
of goodwill and £24,633 of preliminary
exes. The debt, including final div., had
been reduced to £52,313 last balance day,
more than covered by cash (£60,250) and
Consols (£18,112). The exceptionally
liquid position is due to a large extent
to a reduction in newsprint stocks
(£84,400, down £59,045), caused by the
restriction of imports.
* * * *
Greater Union Theatres, the picture
houses of which have been swamped by
a flood of war-stimulated attendances, has
at long last come to light with a div. to
its controlling cos., and the shareholding
public is to benefit immediately. Wests,
which owns 39 G.U.T. shares for every
100 of its own, has received £10,480 from
G.U.T., out of which 3j p.c. is to be paid,
in addition to 1| p.c. from theatre rents
and interest. Spencers, owner of 36
G.U.Ts. for every 100 of its own, gets
£10,680, and, after eliminating a p. and 1.
debit of £4367, a 2 p.c. distribution is to
be made. (Spencers has no assets of con-
sequence outside of Greater Union.)
Greater J. D. Williams, owner of 33
shares per 100, collected £13,000 from
Greater Union, out of which 3 p.c. is
being paid, in addition to 1 p.c. from
rentals and interest. It has not yet been
revealed what the total profits of Greater
Union actually were during 1942, but
they have been increasing since the end of
1939 (when £1705 was shown), reaching
£100,728 in 1941. A fourth holding co.
rs Amalgamated Pictures, owner of 32
G.U.T. \shares for every 100 of its own
issued. It balances in February.
* * * *
Following recent changes on the board
and in the management, the directors of
I eters American Delicacy Co. are asking
shareholders to agree to an alteration in
the articles of association so that no
person shall be eligible to be a director
who has been removed or dismissed from
office or employment with the co. or its
subsidiaries ; or who has accepted pay-
ment (other than through the super-
annuation fund) in consideration wholly
or in part of his resignation. The whole
matter could do with more ventilation
than the co. has chosen to give. In any
case, as the election of directors is a
* or Cardholders to decide, it seems
odd that they should be asked to go out
of their way to restrict their own right
ot selection. The merits or otherwise of
a candidate for the board can always be
discussed at a general meeting.
:Jc jJ.
Piotesting that the 4|d. profit margin
allowed to tea retailers by the coffee and
tea control is too much, and that 2d.
would be enough for the co., S. E.
ickms, Melbourne self-service grocers,
took out a High Court writ last week
seeking declarations that various orders
and regulations are invalid. The co. says
Jt has been threatened with prosecution
Tor having sold tea below the fixed price
of 2s. 3d.
* * * *
Canberra proposes to establish an
aluminium ingot industry in Tasmania,
and for this purpose £3,000,000 is to be
set aside. “For security reasons” the
extent of the project cannot be disclosed,
but it was mentioned that the Australian
rolling, extrusion and forging plants
already in existence were being added to.
Electricity for the ingot undertaking
will be drawn from the Tasmanian hydro-
electric scheme. Plant is more likely to
come from Britain than from the U.S.A.,
Mr. Beasley says. Prior to the taking of
office by the Curtin Government there
was considerable activity in the investi-
gation of aluminium production in the
Commonwealth. Various bauxite deposits
were investigated, including some in
Queensland, N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Tasmania. Malcolm Newman, now hold-
ing a job that has to do with strategic
minerals, was interested. Apart from the
necessity of being able to get high-grade
bauxite, cheap electricity is an essential
in the economical production of alumi-
nium. That is one reason why Canada,
with its enormous water-power, has be-
come a leading producer of aluminium.
* * * #
The Commonwealth last year collected
£l4l million in income tax, and out of
that reimbursed the States to the extent
of £26.4 million. The net £114.6 million
compares with £77 million in the pre-
ceding year, when the States Collected
their own income tax. Total income tax,
State and Federal, in 1942-43 worked out
at £l9 11s. 6d. a head, compared with
£l6 os. Bd. in the preceding period. If
present rates continue during 1943-44 an
additional £3O million at least can be ex-
pected from the full operation of the tax
on personal incomes that has been col-
lected since April 1.
* * * *
Entertainments tax yielded to the
Commonwealth £2,994,000 last year, and
out of this £574,000 was refunded to the
States.


From Wewok to Kiska.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: Events in the New Guinea-
Solomons attack arc during the week
added to the mystery of why the enemy,
who proves himself such a tough cus-
tomer on the ground, full of tricks, wiles,
dodges and the will to fight, has not
shown these qualities in anything like the
same degree in the air and sea war. See-
ing that he has built ships and ’planes
which cannot possibly be accounted in-
ferior, it would be foolish to draw com-
placent conclusions.
To break up the new Jap main base
on the North New Guinea coast Allied
air forces launched after midnight on
Monday, August 16, a heavy onslaught
on Wewak, which is about 450 miles
from Salamaua, beyond the Vitiaz Strait
and within the inner ring of the island-
enclosed waters which the Germans
named the Calm Sea.
In the Wewak area unpreparedness and
lack of caution were evident; so that the
communiques were able to report the
direst outcome for the enemy.
South-west Pacific Headquarters stated
on August 18; — *
More than 225 aeroplanes and their crews
were surprised on the ground, and the
greater part of the force was destroyed.
Our reconnaissance revealed that the enemy
had moved heavy reinforcements to his
four airfields at Borum, But, Dagau and
Wewak. Many of his aircraft were parked
wing-tip to wing-tip on the runways, appar-
ently in preparation for an early decisive
air stroke in support of his ground forces
disposed in the New Guinea area.
Acting instantly, the communique con-
tinued, Allied air units concentrated for
a night attack. The “surprise was com-
plete.” More than 10,000 incendiary and
fragmentation bombs produced vast
havoc round the aerodromes and dispersal
areas and the whole peninsula was en-
compassed by fires visible for 150 miles.
At Borum the motors of 60 machines
were being warmed up, the air crews in
their places and ground crews standing
by. Some of the enemy pilots tried to
take the air, and were burned up with
their ’planes, crashing to the ground into
the inferno of flame into which the
bombing had turned the aerodrome.
At Wewak six fighters took off and
three were shot down. The communique
concluded:
Photographs reveal the total destruction
of 120 aircraft and severe damage to at
least another 50. Heavy casualties were
inflicted on his air and ground crews, who
were completely surprised and unable to
escape the machine-gun fire and bombing
attacks as our aircraft strafed and restrafed
the fields in numberless passes. It is esti-
mated that 1500 air personnel were killed.
General MacArthur commented;
It was a crippling blow at an opportune
moment. Numerically the opposing forces
were about equal in strength, but one was
in the air and one was not. Nothing is so
helpless as aircraft on the ground. In war,
surprise is decisive.
“Practical Annihilation”
Next day the South-west Pacific Com-
mand reported:
We have completed the destruction of the
Japanese air force centred on Wewak. Of
the 225 ’planes originally assembled, yester-
day’s surprise attack destroyed 120 on the
ground, three in the air, and damaged 50
on the ground, leaving still existent 52 un-
damaged in addition to the 50 damaged.
It was reported that “our attacks in all
categories continued in incessant waves
today.” The enemy mounted 30 fighters
to meet the onslaught, and 28 were shot
down:
The fields were then combed to practical
annihilation. Only 10 ’planes of the 225
’planes escaped. The remaining 215 are
gone. We then struck the town and harbor
area, setting on fire three medium-sized
cargo ships, sinking a number of barges,
and leaving 20 large fires burning in the
supply and dump areas. We lost three
’planes, bringing our total to six. This
closes the combat.
Major-General Whitehead, in com-
mand, reported that “neither Borum nor
Wewak ’dromes are targets any more
after our attacks on them on August 16
and 17.”
This punishment, however, apparently
did not teach the enemy a lesson. On
August 21 it was reported that 66 tons of
explosives had been dropped on Borum
aerodrome after the arrival of Jap re-
inforcements. There was sharp anti-
aircraft fire and 30-35 enemy fighters
went into the air, of which 19 were shot
down, six probably destroyed and three
others retired from the combat against
an Allied loss of two machines.
On August 22 it was reported that still
further enemy machines had arrived, and
that the Wewak area had “become the
scene of fierce combat.” Medium bombers
struck at Dagua and But, “completing
the destruction of aircraft previously ren-
dered unserviceable and destroying pos-
sible replacements.”
It was announced that 34 aircraft had
been destroyed and left burning on the
ground, while many anti-aircraft posi-
tions had been silenced and, offshore,
four barges and a power launch were
destroyed. A large force of fighters was
encountered ; 33 were shot down and five
others probably destroyed. Three Allied
fighters were missing and a number sus-
tained minor damage.
The week’s aerial statistics in the
Wewak area therefore were:
Japanese ’planes destroyed on the ground
and in the air 306, apart from numerous
probables and heavy destruction of ground
facilities and barges.
Allied machines 11.
Bombing Continues
Bombing continued all round the
western half of the North Australian area
as it did in the Solomons.
On August 17 a fierce encounter over
the Watut Valley, 40 miles s.-w. of Lae,
resulted in the destruction of 12 enemy
fighters for the loss of one Allied fighter
and four slightly damaged.
On August 18 G.H.Q. reported an
attack in the Arus in which about 50
Jap troops were killed aboard a small
transport, which was set on fire. Four
enemy floatplanes were shot down and a
fifth damaged ; two more were shot down
later in the week. And four enemy recon-
naissance ’planes were destroyed over the
Darwin area, Wing-Commander Clive
Caldwell bringing his score to U\
machines. On August 22 a further raid
which caused “minor damage but no
casualties” was reported.
A single machine, under cover of dark-
ness, dropped eight harmless bombs at
Port Hedland (W.A.). Madang, Hansa
Bay and Finschhafen were attacked in
the Lae region.
It was reported that a heavy bomber
force had set on fire and probably de-
stroyed four large ships—probably
tankers—at Balik Papan, the oil port of
eastern Borneo, without loss. Macassar
also had a raid, and severe damage was
done to facilities in the nickel-mining
centre of Pomelaa in the Celebes.
At various times later in the week
shipping, dock areas, dumps and aero-
dromes from New Ireland to Koepang
felt the weight of Allied attack.
On to Salamaua
In the Salamaua area the small, vicious
fighting in the Tambu region continued,
fighting for pillbox and spur, gully and
razor-edged hill. Inch by inch a grip
was obtained on Bobdubi Ridge from
Namling and Orodubi to the Francisco
Bend ; also Roosevelt Ridge, which, in
the coastal sector, pours itself into the sea
between Tambu and Dot Bays, was con-
trolled. The final fight for it cost the
enemy 200 dead.
From the new positions a stone could
be thrown into the heart of the Salamaua
perimeter defences—the airfield is only
three miles away; the three miles are
moated off with a torrent and are hedged
away with more hills and natural obstacles
than there are on the Russian steppes.
Between Bobdubi and the coastal posi-
tions the Japanese ground bellied south-
ward for a time. Their holding positions
were being pinched out while the forward
areas of Salamaua itself were undergoing
further artillery bombing and strafing
preparation for the Australian-American
advance. About 177 tons of bombs were
dropped on the base during the week.
In six weeks the Salamaua area has ab-
sorbed 2000 tons. Salamaua itself is flat.
After standing pressure, stabbing,
thunder and lightning from the air, the
main wall of the southern Japanese de-
fences gave way. With Komiatum in
their hands —Komiatum, on the long,
weary trail which it has taken some time
to negotiate—and also Orodubi, the Aus-
tralian and U.S. troops had Salamaua
itself in sight from several points.
Over the intervening ground the enemy
was described by the communique as
being “in full retreat.” He had left behind
him a tangle of broken guns, littered fox-
holes and the untidy corpses of 350 dead.
“Human Steam Shovels”
Damien Parer, back from the front,
gave one of the most graphic pictures
of what conditions of defence have been.
The Japs, he said, “are human steam
shovels, more like rabbits than men,” who
dig and dig and link their weapon pits
with “an astounding maze of tunnels no
honest man would live in.”
The leader of the advance Australian
parties Parer describes as “a legendary
figure, one of the most offensive-minded
soldiers I’ve met.”
There is still some mopping-up to be
done in the rear.
And there is still also Salamaua to be
taken.
Vella Lavella Occupied
The Solomons battle slides on its piece-
meal way. The most important develop-
ment was the seizure, reported on August
17, of Vella Lavella.
It is an island just above the eighth
parallel covering the southern part of the
open stretch of sea below Bougainville,
which is sheltered to the north-east by
Choiseul.
The details of the seizure were much
the same as those of the seizure of Ren-
dova—a late-afternoon start from a base ;
a moonlit voyage with phosphorescent
wakes snaking out behind the ships ; a
dawn in which the island, which towers
above the sea like Gibraltar, only that it
is more than twice as high, was ap-
proached through a narrow channel and
a forest of coral heads.
The approach was made under air
attack and with a fighter battle overhead
in which 13 “Os” were smashed, together
With four dive-bombers.
On the island were found 350 Japa-
nese, some of them survivors from ships
sunk by the Allies.
Vella Lavella is about 400 sq. miles in
area. It has not much level, uncleared
ground, but it gives the Allies a control
point for all approaches southward, and
it puts Kolombangara and beleaguered
Bairoko in a sandwich from which there
is no escape for the garrisons.
On August 19 the first fruits of the
occupation of Vella Lavella were an-
nounced. Allied surface units at night
caught four Jap destroyers and a large
number of barges in Vella Gulf, damaged
two destroyers and probably sank one,
hit a third and destroyed most of the
barges, though a small residue apparently
succeeded in landing men an the north-
east of the island. It was said by one
observer that of 2000 Japs only 300
escaped death.
Enemy ’planes attacked in small force
and wrecked a small Allied cargo ship
withdrawing from Vella Lavella in a con-
voy. U.S. aircraft have wrecked
numerous small craft. At the week-end
enemy aircraft bombed intermittently.
Kiska
Operations in the North Pacific by
Canadian and American troops produced
evidence of the theory, more than once
voiced in these pages, that the Japanese
in their decisive war phases would con-
centrate their power as close as possible
to their bases. The combined landing
formation making for Kiska and bent on
taking it at any price discovered that it
was a gift. The enemy had stolen away
from “the last vestige of North American
territory in Japanese hands.”
End in Sicily.
“Ek Dum”; The last phase of the
battle was fought in the heat of the
Sicilian summer, in dust clouds and shim-
mering heat, when the haze dances on
the roads as it does in western Queens-
land, and the wayfarer from Australia
wishes he was in western Queensland.
There a long beer is procurable—it is not
in Sicily.
The first landing on the island had
been made on July 10; the end came
about 8 p.m. on August 16, when the
U.S. Third Division entered Messina
after the Eighth Army of the British
Empire had broken the last bit of resist-
ance on the Taormina-Messina route.
The Americans fought their way through
the town, where a few Axis troops were
making a last-resort resistance to cover
the tail-end of the scuttle across the strait.
The victors joined hands next morning,
with the British coming in to the base
of the sickle-shaped peninsula which en-
closes the harbor.
The Germans admitted their defeat in
a world message, which reported the
evacuation of the last of the Axis troops
“with all their material and supplies.”
This was broadcast, impinging on deri-
sive echoes from the Calabrian heights,
where British and American naval gun-
fire and bombing were sending ragged
cumuli of smoke into the sky.
The enemy, seeming humble before
General Alexander’s effort, described
how the “heroic” Germans had been
engaged, with the help of a few Italians,
in “hard and bitter struggles” against
“four- and fivefold enemy superiority.”
He said that under sub-tropical heat the
defenders had accomplished superhuman
tasks, the British and Americans having
been compelled again and again to hurl
fresh forces into battle to replenish the
great losses they had suffered in men and
material:
Our forces, despite the strongest enemy
air superiority, succeeded systematically in
carrying out the large-scale action of cross-
ing to Calabria, with the result that at
6 a.m. today [Aug. 17] all the Italians and
Germans, with their heavy weapons, tanks,
guns, motor vehicles and war material, had
been transferred across the strait
Then occurred a humorous passage:
With indefatigable heroism the German
Navy succeeded in carrying on traffic, by
small vessels which had only light protec-
tion, and by a strong umbrella which
the Luftwaffe, with fighters and anti-
aircraft guns, spread over the strait. Com-
manders and troops have fulfilled an
achievement which will go down in military
history as a victorious battle would.
One can imagine General Hube, who
was advertised as one of the last to leave,
attaching a spare spanner to the word
“Dunkirk,” which has been used in a
million sneers from Berlin, and quietly
dropping it overboard between Scylla
and Charybdis.
Night Sneak from Messina
This was no Dunkirk achieved in broad
daylight over 100- miles of sea under a
hostile and dominating air force, with
no land cover behind. It was a night
sneak across the stretch of water the
width of Sydney Harbor, under cover of
a long-prepared heavy barrage shooting
at close range from mainland heights.
It was further covered by fighter aircraft
from long-established and well-muni-
tioned aerodromes —or what the Allied
air forces had left of them.
The full reckoning of enemy loss has
yet to be established. The booty was
substantial, though not in Messina, which
was an even more terrible spectacle than
Pantellaria. When the Americans
entered the city—which is about the size
of Newcastle—they found that Allied Air
Forces had levelled it.
A few forlorn people only met them
in the flattened town, which was almost
as thoroughly destroyed as it had been
by the earthquake of December 28, 1908,
though then four-fifths of the inhabitants
were wiped out.
Enemy Losses
The Germans claimed to have evacu-
ated 40,000 men. General Eisenhower
estimated that there had been 70,000 to
75.000 of them in Sicily, of whom at
least 30,000 were lost, not counting those
drowned during the evacuation.
The whole Sixth Italian Army went up
m smoke. General Alexander, at the
week-end, said that the Axis had had
30.000 men killed and wounded, and lost
130.000 prisoners, apart from a large
number of Sicilian troops demobilised.
To August 17 British Eighth Army casual-
ties were 11,835, Canadian 2388 and the
U.S. Seventh Army 7400.
Added to the Tunisian losses (341,000)
German-Italian casualties since the
opening of the spring attacks in Tunisia
amounted to 500,000. Since the begin-
ning of the Alamein campaign the armies
of Africa have wiped out as many divi-
sions as the Russians claimed in the first
two months of their winter offensive, in
which millions of men were alleged to
have been involved.
On Mr. Churchill’s figures the African
campaign and its sequel have cost the
enemy considerably more than 1,000,000
men all told.
The Next Move?
So soon as the Sicilian affair was
settled curiosity concerned itself with
what would happen next.
Amateur strategists had a glorious
week. 8.8. C. went about, as it were, in
mask and cloak, playing at being the
Scarlet Pimpernel and broadcasting
alphabetical messages which might have
been invented by the ghost of Edgar
Wallace.
The R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. contented
themselves with broadcasting block-
busters and incendiaries, mixed with
thunderstorms of shell and bullet through-
out the width of Europe.
Passing the ruins of Milan the R.A.F.
celebrated the retreat of the Germans
from Sicily by battering Turin and its
industrial environs, while General Alex-
ander’s Fifteenth Group Tactical Air
Force tore up aerodromes, shipping, rail-
ways, road and troop columns and em-
placements in Italy’s very sore toe.
An R.A.A.F. squadron sank eight out of
ten vessels in Milazzo Harbor in Sicily.
Sometimes these operations were in-
terrupted by heavy air interception, as
when U.S.A.F. Fortress units were com-
pelled to interrupt their operations over
the basic aerodrome of Foggia to destroy
45 out of 100 fighters, which included
FWl9o’s and Melo9’s.
Italy and its German occupants were
by August 17 preparing for the invasion
of Italy—Berlin said an invasion fleet
was already assembled at Catania.
What was probably the heaviest and
most widespread day of air fighting
Europe has ever seen was reported', from
London. It raged over the width of the
Continent from Peenemunde, blown out
of its forest shelter on the Baltic along
with its radio-location laboratories, to
San Giovanni in that aching Italian toe.
Fighters swept in gusts over France to
within sight of Marseilles.
The R.A.F. by night and the For-
tresses by day braved clouds of flak,


Public Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CYRIL EDWARD ROY CREGAN late
of Mongarlowe Labourer. —TAKE NOTICE
that ELSIE KATHLEEN CREGAN has hied
a Petition for Divorce No. 458 of 1943 on the
ground of your desertion If you wish to defend
the suit you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the First day of November 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from OSBORNE MITCHELL ALLEN Solici-
tor 56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
TO NORMAN KEITH~BOYD formerly of
Caulfield in the State of Victoria but last heard
of in Auckland New Zealand. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife has commenced
divorce proceedings against you on the ground
of desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria in Melbourne on
or before the 22nd day of October 1943 the
case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs If you intend to de-
fend this suit you must also file an answer in
the said office on or before the First day of
November 1943.- —ROY SCHILLING, of 379
Collins Street, Melbourne, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
TO JACK GRAHAM WINTER formerly of
25 Caroline Street South Yarra in the State
of Victoria Engineer. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife has commenced divorce proceedings
against you on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria in Melbourne on or before the 16th day
of September 1943 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 27th day of September 1943. —
ROY SCHILLING, of 379 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Proctor for the Petitioner.
TO QUEENIE BLOOM (formerly Queenie Coy
nee Ford) formerly of 96 Carlton Street Carlton
in the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband FRANCIS TARRANT BLOOM
has instituted proceedings for divorce on the
ground of three years’ desertion Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne
by the Ninth day of September 1943 and file
an answer in the said office by the Twentieth
day of September 1943 the case may proceed
in your absence. —MICHAEL NIALL & CO.,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
TO MENA PEARL COLLINGS formerly of
Moorabbin in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your huband ROBERT
CHARLES COLLINGS has filed a Petition in
the Supreme Court of Victoria (No. 818 of
1943) for dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion If you desire to defend the suit
you must enter an appearance on or before the
Ninth day of September 1943 and file an answer
on or before the Twentieth day of September
1943 at the Office of the Prothonotary of the;
Supreme Court at Melbourne and in default of
your so doing the petition may be heard in your
absence.—CLYDE ROGERS, LL.B., of 31
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES CAMPBELL WHITEHEAD for-
merly of c/o General Post Office Melbourne.
—TAKE NOTICE that NINA WHITEHEAD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 510 of
1943 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fourth day of November
1943 and obtain a copy of the said petition with-
out charge from C. W. ROBINSON Solicitor 74
Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
TO HERBERT EDWARD MITCHELL late
of No. 1 Mount Street Redfern.—TAKE
NOTICE that LAURA MAUD MITCHELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2148 of
1943 on the ground of desertion without reason-
able cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney before 3rd November 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from CLIVE
DAVIES & SHARPE Solicitors 14 Martin Place
Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
in' the - "supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PANAS POLITIS (known as Peter Politis)
late of Sydney New South Wales Restaurant
Proprietor.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
MARGARET POLITIS (known as Annie
Margaret Walker) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2049 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First of November 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MAD-
DOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE Solicitors 38
Martin Place Sydney N.S.W. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
CD
am
sometimes on 1200-mile flights, to carry
destruction to German factories and com-
munications.
The scale of the operations was shown
by the fact that the day’s work cost 77
bombers, one fighter-bomber and six
fighters. But 33 enemy aircraft were
destroyed by day and four by night.
The Americans at this stage joined the
R.A.F. in its practice of shuttling
machines across Europe to the Mediter-
ranean, where they pick up fresh loads
for the return journey.
In Italy the air blows became heavier.
Foggia’s aerodrome equipment was
almost entirely wiped out by a conjunc-
tion of Fortresses and Wellingtons from
Sicily and Malta and Liberators from the
Middle East Command.
Main railways of the south were cut
the whole width of the Italian peninsula.
The attacks swept across the Adriatic
and Greece to Crete and the Aegean. The
whole range of occupied western Europe
and of Germany was within reach of the
blast.
Germany attempted only one raid —it
was said in Berlin against Lincoln —
and it was beaten off with a loss of 10
machines. The nature of that attack and
of the two attacks made in the previous
week on Plymouth and Bournemouth
suggested an attempt to test the British
defences. Berlin alleges that horrible re-
prisals are in preparation and that new
devices will be employed.
The Siege of Quebec
Amateur strategists were almost more
interested in the Siege of Quebec than in
the bombing of Europe. Stockholm re-
ported “crucial events” in Italy. Britain’s
Ambassador to Spain, Sir Samuel Hoare,
hurriedly conferred with Franco, and as
hurriedly left for Britain—following a
week of what sounded very much like
one of Hitler’s periodical peace offensives,
in which Spanish newspapers were in-
volved. Reports came from England of
coasts bristling with bayonets in restricted
defence zones ; also from Quebec of in-
vasion by a force of famous correspon-
dents as numerous as the units with which
Wolfe and Howe assailed the Heights of
Abraham.
They found the President and the Prime
Minister tougher and more wary than the
French military of the eighteenth century
—the pair pursued the strategy which
might have saved Montcalm, and refused
to leave the Citadel.
Mr. Brendan Bracken, Minister for
Information, one of the two Australians
in the British Ministry, made a sortie to
say that he “thought the war was going
well,” but it would last “a very long time
and be very hard,” and that “this is not
an ordinary conference, but one at which
military decisions of vital importance are
being made.” About these, he said, the
Axis would get news from Quebec in
the form of military action.
In the midst of the conference it was
announced that M. Litvinov, Ambassador
to Washington, would not return from
Moscow, whither he had gone “for con-
sultations.” He is to be replaced by M.
Gromyko, Charge d’Affaires. Moscow
Radio said that M. Litvinov had “been
relieved of his duties by the Praesidium
of the Supreme Council.”
According to “S. M. Herald’s” New
York correspondent, “it is generally ac-
cepted that Mr. Joseph Davies’s mission
to Moscow was to ask Marshal Stalin
to join the President and Mr. Churchill
in a conference ‘any time, anywhere.’
These approaches were unfavorably re-
ceived, and it seems that Russia is bent
on following an independent course.”
Beyond that nothing was known ; but
the advisory personnel advertised the in-
terest of the conference in diplomacy as
well as high military strategy ; and in the
Pacific as well as in Europe.
It may be that the advance against
Burma is ready for launching so soon as
the rainy season is over in November.
Russia's Battles.
“Ek Dum”; There are really two Rus-
sian wars in progress —one of words and
one of actions. The one of words is
being fought in many countries. It is for
a Second Front in western Europe ; and
one of the odd things about it is that
Berlin and Tokyo seem hurt because
Anglo-American forces have not been
flung against the West Wall in millions.
Tokyo is particularly aggrieved at the
“perfidy” of the English-speaking nations.
Moscow’s demands are exactly those of
November last—that 60 Axis divisions
should be drawn from the Russian front
by an offensive in western Europe. That
having been accomplished, the Red Army
will do the rest.
As far back as the first week in
November Stalin gave an assurance that,
with 60 divisions of Axis troops with-
drawn, he could settle the hash of the rest.
Ten days later the Russians began their
winter offensive. Six weeks later Major-
General Zhuravlev summed up the posi-
tion in these words:
During six weeks of the Red Army offen-
sive on the approaches of Stalingrad, the
Fascists lost 36 divisions, while 22 of their
divisions are surrounded some 150 kilo-
metres frorh the front line, which is daily
moving further away from the surrounded
troops. There is hence every ground for
considering these 22 divisions lost to the
enemy, which brings his total loss to 58
divisions... .The Germans have lost 34
divisions, including eight tank and four
motorised divisions; the Italian losses
amount to six divisions and one brigade;
the Rumanians have lost 18 divisions.
The Russians also announced that
heavy losses had been inflicted on seven
other enemy divisions. By the end of
the winter offensive they claimed to have
wiped out the equivalent of 62 divisions
by death and capture, to have smashed
a total of 112 divisions, and to have
captured equipment for a million men.
Their own losses in men and material,
they added, were relatively small, casual-
ties being at the rate of one man to every
four of the enemy wiped out. Yet they
still feel it necessary to demand the suck-
ing back of 60 Axis divisions.
The tone of Moscow Second-Front
communications conveys no gratitude for
Anglo-American exertions in all fields.
Last week there was sometimes little to
choose between the voice of Moscow and
the voice of Tokyo in discussions of the
Second Front in western Europe, Inci-
dentally, a Second Front in Siberia is the
theme of many American newspaper car-
toons.
Mr. Byrnes Speaks
Mr. Byrnes is U.S. Director of War
Mobilisation, in effect President Roose-
velt’s operative commander in all phases
of the war effort. He said last week that
in the European area Britain and America
had defeated only 7 per cent, of the total
Axis combat divisions in the European
area.
The Russians are engaging 40 per cent,
of the enemy’s total combat divisions —so
that the enemy has been using less than
half his combat divisions. The enemy still
will have as many divisions as the Allies
even after American mobilisation is com-
plete. Only in the air should we be numeri-
cally superior.
Thus, the Allies —for the greater part
of the time Britain alone, and even now
mostly—have been holding 60 p.c. of the
German and other enemy divisions off
Russia’s throat and helping the Russians
with their fighting on an enormous scale,
but receiving little thanks or praise for
it, none at all in Communist publica-
tions printed in English—on the con-
trary, persistent snarling attacks. And
Russia officially propagates the idea that
the Red Armies have borne the whole
weight of the war since 1941, and that if
allies would only give a little help they
could assure final victory this year.
On the Kharkov Front
Meanwhile the Russians’ advances con-
tinue in the unreal atmosphere of the last
two months. At the beginning of the
week they were “unofficially” reported
to be actually inside the defences of
Kharkov; but by the week-end, while
official statements came from Moscow
that German counter-attacks in the
Kharkov region had proved failures, the
Russians seemed further from the city
than they had been several days earlier.
The fighting in this area had some re-
markable features. A big bulge, perhaps
40 miles wide, appeared to have been
driven westward into the German posi-
tions north of Kharkov, then southward
behind it to within a few miles of Pol-
tava, cutting the Kharkov-Poltava rail-
way and leaving the enemy a corridor
out of Kharkov about 14 miles wide, with
one railway—that to the Crimea via
Losovaya —in the centre.
On the south-east of Kharkov, how-
ever, though the Russians had been strong
enough to take the key towns of
Chuguev and Isyum (which they were
believed to hold prior to their announce-
ment of the captures), it was only when
they were supposed to be both behind
and within the defences of Kharkov that
they succeeded in forcing the passage of
the Donetz halfway between Chuguev
and Isyum.
Here again they conquered country
which was supposed to have been in their
hands since February. They still have
about 6000 square miles less territory in
the Kharkov region than they held after
their capture of Kharkov at the beginning
of the year, before the Germans counter-
attacked and forced them beyond the
Donetz.
The Germans are still bringing up re-
inforcements. In their bulletins there is
no evidence of perturbation about their
position further south, in the industrial
Donetz and in the Crimea, although
correspondents see them with 750,000 men
in dire peril of being cut off.
Bryansk Advances
The Russians were attacking in other
sectors, “advancing steadily.” On
August 15 the Moscow communique
announced:
Our troops on the Bryansk front today
continued successfully to develop their
offensive. They advanced five to nine
miles, and occupied more than 130 in-
habited places, including Zhizdra, 35 miles
north-north-east of Bryansk, and Mayle
Luki, eight miles west of Karachev—which
is 25 miles from Bryansk. The Russians
advanced five to seven miles from the
Demensk direction and occupied more than
30 inhabited localities, including Tcher-
kovchina. On the Kharkov front they beat
off German infantry and tank attacks.
In the battle for Zhizdra, 1100 Germans
were killed.
German version:
The Russians, after violent artillery pre-
paration, launched heavy attacks on the
area of Isyum, 80 miles south-east of
Kharkov, but were repulsed with heavy
losses. Local attacks were repulsed south-
west of Byelgorod— i.e., in the salient north-
west of Kharkov —and there were only
weak attacks south of Orel. The Russians
unsuccessfully continued strong attacks
south and south-west of Viazma and
south-west of Byeloi—Bo miles north-north-
east of Smolensk —and on the Lake Ladoga
front further north.
Dispersed Attacks
From both accounts, a dispersion of
Russian effort was obvious —a dispersion
which could not succeed unless the Ger-
mans were hopelessly weak all along the
front.
Had the Russians expected a decisive
break-through at any point it seemed
logical that they would be satisfied to
leave sufficient forces along the rest of
the line to pin down the enemy troops
there and throw all their weight against
the breaching sector, since success there
would mean the breakdown of the whole
German line. They were not doing this.
At the one point at which a large break-
through seemed possible, the enemy was
behaving like strong elastic rather than
torn paper.
On August 18 Moscow reported a
further advance on the Bryansk-Zhizdra
front of from 2\ to 3\ miles and the
capture of 60 more inhabited localities,
an improvement of the position on the
Demensk front, south of Viazma in the
Smolensk sector and the beating off of
counter-attacks and more improvements
of position on the Kharkov front, with
the destruction of 96 enemy tanks and
78 aircraft. It was then announced that
the Red Army had regained the upper
hand 25 miles west of Kharkov, after a
four-day German counter-attack which
cost the enemy 30,000 men. In all, since
the fall of Byelgorod, the Germans were
said to have lost 120,000 men. A later
Moscow report gave the enemy losses for
eight weeks as at least a million, with
300,000 dead and 25,600 prisoners.
New Battles
A new battle developed south-west of
Kharkov, where the Russians apparently
were bent on driving a fresh salient south
of the city, similar to that driven from
Byelgorod in the north. If this were
successful, Kharkov would be cut off
completely. Both Germans and Russians
late in the week reported heavy fighting
in this sector, and the Russians declared
that the circle round Kharkov was two-
thirds complete.
The Germans announced another offen-
sive by the Russians on the Mius River,
above Taganrog. They alleged that they
had beaten off the Russian onslaughts on
the Isyum front, south-east of Kharkov,
and encircled and “annihilated” two Rus-
sian battalions,
Berlin admitted that north-west of
Kharkov “the fighting continued with
undiminished violence.” A German
High Command spokesman mentioned
still another Russian offensive by a large
armored striking force at Staraya Russa,
600 miles to the north of the Donetz
fighting.
It is all rather bewildering. The Khar-
kov sector seems to be the crucial one.
It is the only one in which there has been
consistent fighting. In every other sector
involved the battle has flared up heavily,
rolled over a little country containing
hundreds of inhabited places—the Rus-
sians claim to have taken 3100 inhabited
places since the beginning of the Orel
offensive halfway through July—and then
died down suddenly.
Of the details of what is going on the
world knows only what the Russians and
Germans choose to tell it.
In brief:
Heavy bombing of Burma continues on a
growing scale. The last fortnight’s operations
look like the beginning of a “softening up
campaign as a preliminary to military,operations
in a few weeks’ time.
* * * *
An R.A.A.F. squadron (C. 0., Wing-Com-
mander C. E. Martin, D. 5.0., D.F.C.) cele-
brated its 1000th sortie with Lancasters at the
Peenemunde radio-location plant on the Baltic.
The squadron has been in 146 separate raids,
including 42 on the Ruhr, 16 each on Ham-
burg and Essen and five each on Berlin and
Turin. Its members have won 66 decorations
two D.S.Os., 23 D.F.Cs., a bar to a D.F.C.
and 40 D.F.Ms. •


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer .
Never touch the
edges...
i*.
..hold Blade
at the end..
• Wash your face first and lather twice as long
as usual.
Wipe away all moisture from the blade to prevent
rust forming. Reasonable care will double the
life of your blades.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Saving means safety, waste means disaster—Buy Savings Bonds or Certificates
Personal and Missing Friends.
IF SIDNEY ELLIOTT, formerly of Melbourne
and Marysville, will communicate with He,k-
MAN & COLTMAN, 456 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, he will receive information to m
financial advantage.
ROSEN, Elizabeth Dorothy (daughter of
Herman Rosen and Margaret Rosen), Nurse,
who died on the 3rd February, 1943, at Koo -
drook, in the State of Victoria L,
HERMAN ROSEN (her father), HERMAN,
JOHN or ROBERT ROSEN (her brothers), oi
their children, or any person supplying into -
mation, kindly communicate with NAuONA
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95 Queen Street,
Melbourne, on or before Ist November,
NEIL GILLIES, a former member of Hew
South Wales Police Force, last heard or
Victoria and Western Australia in 1927-28, w
arrived in Sydney from Busby, Scotland, ab
1914, and is a nephew of William McNab,
Bowmore, Islay, Scotland, will hear someth g
to his advantage on communicating
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors, 70-7-
Street, Sydney.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF. AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off * n
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT J
Approved hy the Board of Health —over 3200 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
• ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd. :.r“.r ET '
« ■ /n - c vnxriß’V ■ IW‘l iwlin fr 12i c /n Tax.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12J% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
w
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was good racing on a heavy
track at Randwick on Saturday. Money
was plentiful, the tote turnover being
£83,170. The sensation of the afternoon
was the discovery a few minutes before
starting time that the Spring Handicap
favorite. Beau Timide (9 to 4), was lame.
Acting on veterinary advice, the stewards
ordered his withdrawal, declared all bets
off and put the race back ten minutes
so as to enable the books to do fresh
business. Apart from Beau Timide,
double bets commencing with Magi and
other winners stood. Finally Eureka was
a shade better in demand than Gauntlet
and Amberspear.
Scene, favorite for the Three-year-old
Handicap, was second to Kurranulla at
the straight entrance, but after looking a
winner inside the last furlong was out-
stayed by Active Service (N. Allen), a
shapely but not over-big half-brother, by
Brueghel, to Veiled Threat. One of T. J.
Haylen’s team, it was his first run since
February. Tennessee was squeezed back
at the start, and then, after being one
of the tail-enders at the half-mile,
finished wide out on the track to beat
Betza in the last two strides for third.
The latter, who is by Beau Pere from
Reserved, will pay his way. St. Quentin,
Gunman and Highgate were prominent
at the turn, and Cast Well and Mustang
did fairly at the finish. Cremorne, a
winner at his previous start, did not relish
the soft going and ran last. The winner
is raced in partnership by his breeder,
E. M. Larkin, and C. F. and A. M.
Robinson.
In a great finish for the Hobartville
Stakes Flight (Thompson) squeezed home
by a head from Tribal, who surprised by
outpacing Flight in the first couple of
furlongs and leading her by nearly three
lengths round the turn and halfway down
the straight. He then tired. Flight is
undeniably game or would not have
won, but in a Derby connection War
Eagle made the best showing. He looked
burly, but though he was giving Tribal
and Flight a long start a furlong from
home he finished less than a neck be-
hind the winner. Clarion Call showed
pace, but while very little fault could be
found with Mayfowl’s condition he was
never prominent. St. George, a well-
grown Midstream colt, did better than
his stable-companion MacArthur.
With age Katanga (Munro) continues
to improve. Third to Yaralla and Main
Topic entering the straight in the War-
wick Stakes, he had them beaten nearly
a furlong from home, and then had no
difficulty in stalling off Winnipeg, though
for a few strides the last-named looked
like making a race of it. Veiled Threat,
after being one of the last two for a long
way, finished so well in fourth position
that he will not lack backing when he
starts in a middle-distance race. Main
Topic, in pacing it with Yaralla, showed
unexpected dash, but finished indif-
ferently ; while It's Funny, who looks
very well, was always a long way back.
Cook, rider of Main Topic, was sus-
pended for two months for crossing
Winnipeg too sharply shortly before
reaching the straight.
Magi’s (F. Delaney) Campbelltown
Handicap win said a lot for her Epsom
chance. She will again carry 7.11. Indus-
try and Cradle Song were together in
front at the bend, with Bruce Wood
nearest them, but though Industry looked
a winner a furlong from home he was
unequal to stalling off Magi, who has
71b. more in the Epsom than when second
to Kingsdale in the Doncaster. Neither
Triad nor Rimveil showed Epsom form,
but the latter looked as if more racing
was needed to bring him to his best. The
same applies to Kingsdale Gold
Salute. Soho was last, and was lame on
pulling up.
In the Spring Handicap Gauntlet
(Thompson) repeated his Rosehill form.
Addington went with him for two or
three furlongs, and then Amberspear took
him along until nearing the turn. Though
very tired, Gauntlet kept going to shake
off Shining Night, and then Eureka, who,
half a furlong from home, looked as if
he might overhaul him, but could not
quite wipe out the gap that separated
them halfway down the straight. Gaunt-
let has 91b. less to carry in the Metropoli-
tan, but his win did not greatly enhance
his chance of success in that race. Shin-
ing Night meets him only 21b. better, but
will be helped by the lower scale. Colonel
Post did sufficiently well for nine fur-
longs to make him worth following.
Rylstone (Cook) had an easy win in the
Glenlee Handicap. Leading practically
throughout, he ran away from Silverelda
and Tuokool after turning into the
straight. Nightbeam’s fourth pointed to
an early return to the winning list, and
of the remainder Panbranch did best.
Brueghelier did not run up to his form
of the previous week, and, after meeting
with a couple of checks, Air Link ran
last. Jymjon weakened after making a
dash halfway down the straight.
* * * *
Recovered from an injury sustained on
the eve of the G.N. Steeple, in which he
finished fourth. Gold Watch, only a
fraction over 15 hands high, defeated
Quixotic and Highland March in the Aus-
tralian Steeple, run at Flemington last
Saturday. He was one of the leaders all
the way, and fought off Quixotic to win
in record time of for the three miles
one furlong. An eight-year-old gelding by
Middle Watch from Miss Militant, Gold
Watch is owned in S.A. and trained by
ex-S.A. trainer J. M. Cummings. He
was sent to Melbourne subsequent to the
racing ban in S.A. Because of earlier
doubts about Gold Watch running on
Saturday, R. Watts, his usual rider, was
advised to take another mount if one
were available. He contracted to ride
Jack Farr. While G. Shell received a
lucky winning fee, Watts received minor
injuries when Jack Farr fell.
Lawrence, racing for the first time
since March, surprised by beating the
hot favorite, Action, in the Chatsworth
Plate, for three-year-olds. He was one of
the best of his age in the autumn, and
now comes into prominence for the Caul-
field Guineas, Derby and Cups. Olsen’s
vigor was the deciding factor in Law-
rence’s head win, but Action, although in
receipt of 111 b. from the winner, might
yet be as good as his two previous wins
suggested. Crown Seal, an Oaks candi-
date, battled on well for third money,
and should improve.
Temple Chief, Perth Cup winner last
season, firmed for the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups following his defeat of
Philander and Saint Warden in the Mala-
koff Stakes. He won by only a neck,
but would have been unlucky to lose.
Temple Chief carried 8.5 on Saturday,
as against 7.7 in the Caulfield Cup and
7.8 in the Melbourne Cup. Pantheist,
who finished third to Temple Chief in
the Perth Cup, failed to justify his favor-
itism for the Cambria Plate, for four-
year-olds. He was beaten into third place
by Huntingdale and Mating Call, but
did not have the best of luck and should
soon compensate for his defeat. Prima-
vera recorded a good Caulfield Cup trial
by winning the first St. Aubin Welter
from Linkboy and Sunrocks. Badly
drawn at the barrier, and burdened with
9.10, she came from last near the half-
mile. Primavera lacks size, but is one of
the gamest mares in training.
* *
Bearing on future races of importance
impressive form at Randwick last week
was that of Magi, War Eagle, Katanga
and Veiled Threat. Some horses do well
on a light preparation, but War Eagle
gave a specially good account of himself
on easy tasks. Condition failed him in
the last few strides in the Hobartville,
Magi finished very strongly in the Camp-
belltown Handicap, and, while she looked
really well, her trainer expects improve-
ment. Her backers have the satisfaction
of now knowing that she is at home in
any kind of going. It is the same with
Katanga, though he may have enough
weight to stop him in the Epsom or
Metropolitan.
Ridden by a youngster able to do
7st. Veiled Threat was a long way
back in the Warwick Stakes up to the
turn. He then came home better than
anything except Katanga, and, though he
failed badly when backed for the Sydney
Cup with 9.5, it is worth recalling that
three months earlier he won the Anni-
versary Handicap with 8.12, beating Tide-
mark 7.5. Main Topic, a sturdy customer,
dropped out at the finish of the War-
wick Stakes after showing unexpected
dash, but, as he looked above himself,
that did not trouble his Metropolitan
backers. Abspear was another on the
big side.
Heavyweights have a good record in
the Epsom Handicap, but, unless it
should be Rimveil or Gold Salute, it is
doubtful whether the winner will come
from anything with over 9st. this year.
Form of the next few weeks may put a
different complexion on affairs, but
present possibilities below the 9st. mark
include Grand Prodige, Hall Stand, Magi,
Industry, Goose Boy, Prince and Night-
beam. In the Metropolitan Veiled Threat
reads best of those with over 9st., and
lower down Main Topic, Grand Fils,
Goose Boy, Shining Night, Cream Puff
and Lady Hamilton are among those
nicely weighted.
* * * *
The selection of W. W. Hill as chair-
man of the S.T.C. directorate was a
happy one. He is a man for whom those
closely associated with racing have a lot
of time. The other members of the
committee are representative of varied
interests, and, though there are some stiff
obstacles —principally financial —to be
negotiated, the S.T.C. should in time
achieve its aims, the principal one being
to benefit breeders, owners and trainers
in the way of increased prize-money,
and that is something with which it is
difficult to find fault.
* * * *
Entries close on Monday next for Tat-
tersall’s meeting at Rand wick on Sept.
11. The Chelmsford Stakes carries £lOOO
and the Tramway and Spring Handicaps
£5OO each.
Miscelßemeous
The 15,000 who went to Glenferrie to
see if Hawthorn could stay in the V.F.L.
“four” on Saturday got their money’s
worth. South Melbourne went flat out
to beat the Hawks, and headed them until
the last quarter, when a great rally put
Hawthorn in front, 13.10 to 7.14. At
Footscray the locals grabbed the ball
from the astonished Essendon and booted
9.10 to 6.15 ; Richmond accounted for
Melbourne, 15.19-12.13 ; Collingwood
added to the day’s surprises by downing
Fitzroy, 16.17 to 9.9 ; and Carlton duly
walloped North Melbourne, 15.23-7.5.
Essendon is 44 points, Carlton, Fitzroy,
Hawthorn and Richmond 40 each in the
premiership table.
* * * *
Patriotic funds benefited by the two
Rugby Union matches on Saturday. The
services were beaten in both games.
Manly had a comfortable win over
R.A.A.F., 24-11 ; and Metropolitan,
behind 6-11 at half-time, finished strongly
to beat Army 30-24.
* * * *
In Sydney last week Al Walker beat
Mohamed Fahmy at Leichhardt in a dull
twelve-rounder and at the Stadium Jim
Grey stopped Bob Turner in the fifth.
Though inches taller and longer in tne
reach, Turner proved no match for the
frequent visitor from Melbourne, who
arrived there via North Queensland.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap: En-
thuse, 1 ; Betza, 2; Denton or
Kurranulla, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ;
Winnipeg, 2 ; Freckles, 3.
Flying Handicap: Prince, 1 ;
High Flight, 2 ; Irish Sea or Ara-
hura, 3.
Canterbury Guineas: In the pos-
sible absence of Flight and War
Eagle: Tribal, 1 ; Moorland, 2;
Falcon Knight, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Colonel
Post, 1 ; Salivant, 2 ; Amberspear, 3.
Bankstown Handicap: Night-
beam, 1 ; Barrenjoey, 2 ; Stream-
ford or Haripur, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The sandwich and the hot pasty went
their merry rounds at Government House
one midday last week in the cause of
the Children’s Library movement. There
is something very touching to the grown-
up heart about an appeal for the very
young, and the vice-regal dining-room
was crowded with enthusiasts in the
cause. The Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst received the guests, many of them
nabobs in art and education. Lady
Gowrie was accompained by Ivie Price.
Professor Ashby was among the noted ;
so were Public Librarian Metcalf and
his wife, the popular president of the
Lyceum Club. Hilda Marks and her tall
alderman brother came, as did the lan
Clunies-Rosses. Charles Moses, of the
A.8.C., and his wife, sculptor Fleisch-
mann, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax and Conser-
vatorium Director Bainton and Mrs.
Bainton were among the many.
After lunch everybody went into the
ballroom and listened to Dr. C. O. Van
der Plas, Chief Commissioner for the
Netherlands Indies. He talked on experi-
ments in education and culture in Java,
where, apparently, everything was being
done to keep alive the native folklore and
crafts. Dr. Van der Plas even sang a
little Javanese song which is always a
feature of wedding feasts.
Mrs. Mary Matheson, who started
Sydney’s Children’s Libraries from very
small beginnings indeed, said in her
speech of thanks that a successful issue
must come when heart and brain were
wedded in any cause. Lady Wakehurst
made vivid speech in introducing the
Netherlands Indies Commissioner.
The idea that a concert must last from
eight to ten is doing a fadeout. North
Shore liners reached Wynyard in com-
fortable time to catch a train about ten
after the concert in the Con. given by
Thomas Matthews and Eileen Ralph last
Saturday. This, to at least one concert-
goer, is much more musically sensible
than glutting the listener with a two-hour
programme plus another half-hour or so
of encores. Anyway the concert was a
brilliant success, and the Red Cross bene-
fits. Lady Gowrie and Lord and Lady
Wakehurst were in the audience. Once
again the daytime frock was restoring its
tissues in the wardrobe, a reminder, in
the soothing words of the good old song,
that “Be the day weary, be the day long,
it cometh at last to evensong.” In plain
English, evening frocks were worn by the
many. The Conservatorium was packed.
The Alexander Gordon lady and the
Special Appeals Committee had scored
another hit.
The Australian Comforts Fund, N. S.
Wales Division, has sent out in the name
of Sydney’s Mayor Bartley invitations to
the opening of an Officers’ Club at 15
Elizabeth Bay-road by Lord Wakehurst
at a quarter to three this afternoon. The
club’s site formerly was occupied by
Kinneil, a spacious home which in its
latter days was a well-known guest-house
There was a grand rally of Lyceum
Club members at the Pioneer Circle’s
lunch to Muriel Morley, principal of the
Hornsby Girls’ High School, last Friday.
Miss Morley, trim, erect, decisive and
crisp of speech, was recalled by Mrs.
Armitage, who introduced her, as a little
girl with golden curls and large violet
eyes, when both were small playmates.
The violet eyes and the golden Curls, so
time proved, were the accompaniments of
a clever brain and of a character that has
proved a guiding star to hundreds, maybe
thousands, of adolescent girls. Youth,
between 14 and 18 (the High School age),
is Miss Morley’s special province, and her
speech showed the sympathy and under-
standing which have been bringing such
cargoes safely to port every few years.
Dame Mary Gilmore made the speech
of thanks, and read a note from Miss
Elizabeth Fry, who, in spite of blitz and
shortage of paper, is still intent on bring-
ing out anthologies of Australian verse
and story. President Mrs. Metcalfe,
smartly tailored in grey, was the hostess.
Former president Mrs. A. G. Thomas
was another good-looker at the top table.
The pleasant Makers and Menders
(Naval War Auxiliary) held their annual
meeting in the Pickwick Club last Friday.
This group is responsible for the mend-
ing of all the linen and pyjamas at one
of the naval hospitals. In addition 211
garments have been made for the Naval
War Auxiliary, and other articles of
clothing by the dozen have been sent to
R.A.N. relief. Books and magazines are
also sent by the Makers and Menders to
ships and naval establishments. Presi-
dent Mrs. R. N. White, who leaves for
another city in a few weeks, was fare-
welled.
This is a photograph of Carline Reid
taken by Norton Trevaire for The
Bulletin, - and it reflects the serenity
with its reserves of power and fun which
are characteristic of the author of
Malayan Crisis. Carline is a Tasmanian
girl who went to stay a month with
friends in Kuala Lumpur. This was in
1940. She was among the evacuees from
Singapore on the 12th of February of
1942, leaving in a ship originally meant
to carry 20 or 30 passengers, but on that
voyage burdened with 2500. Carline’s
little odyssey tells of heroism without
heroics and of the cheerful “grin-and-
stick-at-it” attitude revealed by the
women of the Federated Malay States,
and later in Singapore.
Carline started out in Kuala Lumpur
as a social butterfly. Because she knew
a little shorthand and something of typ-
ing she found herself one morning in a
job where she took the place of two
engineers and the manager of the Import
Department. This was while the men
were in camp. Then she was in the office
of the Selangor Defence Corps, and with
that group she stayed till practically
forced aboard the lugger. Carline gave
all her spare time to helping at the
Anzac Club in Kuala Lumpur. The
helpers kept it going to the last ditch.
Then came the final half hour:
We gave all the things away to the
volunteers, and passed out free food to any
troops who were there. Gramophones,
first-aid box—the troops were given any-
thing they wanted. Then I took the cash-
box to the bank. It was a pity
It is safe to say that the Conserva-
torium stage has never presented three
better-looking girls to an audience than
the trio concerned in the dance recital
for the Red Cross last week. Darya Col-
lin, tall, slim, supple as water ; Edmee
Monod, small, dark and full of artless
grace ; and Audrey Barrow, of Westralia,
like some girl in a miniature, but with a
talent equal to tackling a concert grand
and taking no nonsense from it. The
Conservatorium was packed. Of Darling
Pointers there were no end, but waste not
the sigh of sympathy. They came en-
cased in cars, gas-producing or swooshing
along on the demon petrol.
Lady Gowrie, back from a tour, was in
the audience ; so were Lord and Lady
Wakehurst. Whether it was the influence
of the presence of so many vice-regals or
just that the dread moth has been dis-
covered laying waste the best evening
raiment, clothes were distinctly of the
after - eight - o’clock variety. This is
sensible. While a woman’s evening
frocks still hang together she is not help-
ing to win the war by letting them repose
in her wardrobe. When they wear out
she need not renew them. Red Cross
importants were everywhere, for the Red
Cross benefited. Mrs. Nigel Smith, of
seals fame, was there ; so were the Blax-
Tands, Noreen Dangar, Susan Spencer,
the Hon. Henrietta Loder, Peter Lub-
bock, Ivie Price, the Charles Lloyd Jones
couple, Sydney Ure Smith, Chief Com-
missioner for the Netherlands Indies Dr.
Van der Plas and the Netherlands Con-
sular Penninks, who gave a supper-party
at their home after the show.
Stage frocks were all light and cheer-
fulness and grace. A pastoral Edmee
Monod (frock designed by Elaine Hax-
ton and made by Tchinarova) displayed
a bouffant white frock, trellised in blue,
a wide-eyed pink rose in each bar of
the trellis. Very dashing and at the
same time subtle effects were conveyed
by Darya’s Potiphar’s wife raiment. Apart
from the breastplates and other Middle
East gadgets, there was a long, full-flow-
ing skirt of silver-grey satin. As the
Egyptian glamor girl danced the swirl
of the skirt showed linings of deep blues,
purples and reds. Three dances modelled
on circus tradition —the performing dogs’
trainer, the dancer, the director —were
bright bits of nonsense, gaily dressed,
and won performer Darya a laurel
wreath.
From Melbourne
It seems that every organisation that
meets annually has been doing it in the
past fortnight, which is a bit of a pity, as
it makes mildly-interested citizens dizzy.
The president always seems to feel bound
to express himself or herself in statistical
terms, and the figures given refer to such
items as the number of socks knitted or
the total of articles which have gone
through a laundry in the course of the
year. One of those latter totals was so
huge that everyone wondered ' who
counted the articles, and envisioned the
lady of the washtub murmuring “One
million six hundred and seventy-seven
thousand four hundred and six” as she
did her ironing. On the whole the
“analogy” or “picturesque” method is
probably better —saying “If all the tea
served in X canteen was put in one
container it would float the Queen Mary.”
The Moral Disarmament party had its
day, or rather night, at the Town Hall
when, at the Lord Mayoral invitation, it
gave “Battle for Australia,” its revue.
Ivan Menzies was in charge of the revue
and said little bits at intervals during the
entertainment. Opinions differ as to how
entertaining it was. The blitz scene in
a London dugout was pretty good ; some
of the others seemed a bit propagandish.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
made everyone happy afterwards with a
really-truly scallop supper. Never were
so many scallops fed to so few (about a
dozen each, at a guess). The Lud Mayor
stood in the portico room (turned into
a reception-room, with carpets, greenery
and all), to receive anyone who could
spare a few minutes from the scallops to
talk uplift.
The idea of the Moral party, it would
appear, was to buck up morale and make
everyone willing to keep on with war
work. Other Mayors are inviting the
revue to their own Town Halls, Malvern
giving it a suburban start next week.
There is in this a notion of entertaining
people other than those who usually get
themselves invited to Mayoral functions,
for in these days A.R.P. wardens and Red
Cross workers, to say nothing of the
hundreds who assist in entertaining troops
to their city’s glory, ought to be given a
spot of cheer-up. Suburban municipalities
which have been entertaining war workers
find they are bringing about brighter
parties than the old-fashioned balls and
receptions.
Many friends in and out of the Uni-
versity are having some difficulty in mak-
ing a time to convey their good wishes
to newly-engaged Joy Youlden and Des-
mond Connor as both are up to the eyes
in work at the moment. “Des” Connor,
who is manager of the Uni. Union
Theatre, is making the Queen’s College
production “Winterset” a smooth-running
affair (this includes scene-painting, which
is one of the many things he does well),
joy, who left a physical education course
to follow the bent for acting she’d shown
in school and Uni. shows, is with the
J.C.W. co. now presenting “The Girl
Friend.” Joy is pictured here by Noel
Rubie.
Something of a record in fund-raising
was Red Cross Junior’s “Beatrice” doll
raffle. The doll was named for her donor,
the Lady Mayoress, and was made by
Mrs. V. Schnieder. The raffle was run
for only 24 days and in that time helped
the Red Cross to the extent of £235,
which shows just how popular dolls still
are even in these days of toy cupboards
which look like miniature armories. An-
other Red Cross Junior event was Navy
Trade Section’s jumble sale in the Lower
Town Hall in support of the Navy’s Baby
(a small Norwegian laddie, by the way).
Shoppers were a bit surprised to see quite
a few hefty policemen walking around,
but Red Cross authorities explained that
nowadays sales of old clothes and the
like bring out the darker side of many
people.
The Town Hall auditorium should re-
semble the waiting-room of Stork De-
livery Service, Ltd., on September 4 when
every aspirant for Red Cross Junior
honors will be presented with a certificate
signed by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress noting the sum the baby in
question has raised and expressing Red
Cross’s thanks. It should be the sort of
“great event of my childhood” affair
that the older babies will start remem-
bering, to their grandchildren’s intense
boredom, when the babies-now are about
80 and a bit. All the wherewithal col-
lected by competing babies has to be
dropped in to the Red Cross Junior
organiser by noon on the same day
(September 4).
News comes across the border that
Adelaide Public Library is running a war-
charity show of “Children Through the
Ages,” widely supported by Government
House and everyone else. Everything
goes in: gigantic Noah’s Ark and dolls’
house, old-style toy books and moral
lessons, valuable illustrated volumes,
elaborately worked christening robes and
childhood photographs of celebrities, in-
cluding one of Don Bradman at 18
months.
Who’d have thought there were so
many feminine flautists in this part of the
world! At a quiz one would be inclined
to say that there were Judy Amadio and
perhaps one other. But they are becom-
ing quite a crowd. When at Melba Hall
the Uni. Con. Past and Present Students’
group gave its Red Cross and Comforts
Conceit (third of a series) and the flautist
Audrey Walklate was laid aside by a bad
cold, into her place stepped Shirley Luke,
in green gown very appropriate to a girl
with a pipe, and played cheerily and
melodiously. A few years ago when Mrs.
Louise Dyer, now Mrs. Hanson, urged
the claims of wind instruments on women
scornful indeed were the criticisms, but
apparently they weren’t soundly based.
Button-sellers and stallholders who
lined up for a Wattle Day raid on the
public’s pocket felt thoroughly depressed
when they started on the job, as it seemed
that this city’s denizens were jolly well
sick of Wattle . Days and pockets were
getting very wary. The weather, it
chanced, wasn’t very encouraging either,
especially as most of the begging on these
occasions is done by the middle-aged and
elderly, who find spending hours on
chilly street corners anything but fun.
When the final figures were published,
however, it was discovered that the 52
children’s welfare organisations involved
had benefited by £BOO more than was col-
lected last year.
Opened on Tuesday by the Lady
Mayoress, the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion Holiday Home still has a substantial
list of “wanteds” to put before those who
may still have useful things tucked away
in bottom drawers. Among these
bathing suits for both children and adults
rank first. Nowadays, what with coupons
and the fact that such garments simply
aren’t being made, these are impossible
to buy, and in any case bathers are not
things a hard-pressed mother of a family
tends to feel like buying. A few push-
carts to take the fairly hefty babies beach-
wards are another important want. The
A.I.F. Women’s Association kept open
house for guests coming down for the
opening and provided the weary traveller
who’d made the considerable distance to
Frankston with lunch.
The band of women which has made
Ye Olde Dutch Cafe into a going concern
for Red Cross P.O.W. funds is showing
just how good a job voluntary workers
can do, and, incidentally, what a paying
proposition a well-run eatery is these
times. Hot on the heels of the very sub-
stantial cheque presented to Red Cross
only a few months ago the workers have
surprised even that ever-hopeful organ-
isation with another for £lOOO. .Success
is due very much to the thought which
goes into the making up of menus and
the good cooking. The cafe is becoming
known as one of the best spots to which
to take a friend whom one wants to do
well.
An engagement of interest to more
than one service is that of Judy Ritchie
to Kenneth Major. Judy is the only
daughter of Mrs. E. Ritchie, of Sydney,
and sister of Flight-Lt. Alan Ritchie, a
member of the Lancaster bomber crew.
Another brother is Flight-Lt. David
Ritchie, R.A.A.F., who has recently re-
turned from the Middle East. Judy her-
self has a war job on the technical side
of aircraft production. Her fiance, only
son of the E. W. Majors, of Kew, is in
the Navy Office.


7
Be
7
AO
COOKERS
On Service
A. us tralia
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So it delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
. . . almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call for demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue JR 8.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
£sf. 18S2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch • Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
<?ld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd.. Brisbane.
Although the Department of Wat
Organisdtion of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
■v?
ITEMS 01 THE
ASSET SIDE
-C? «£? -v? <U #
■Cr
•C?
■v?
ILJnder the stimulus of war, Australian
industry to-day is producing in quantity
things which, only recently, were considered
beyond our ability. In making them, Aus-
tralian industry has learned many lessons
and many new skills.
Here are some items on the asset side to
he stored up and used for the good of
Australia when Victory is won.
For example, Australia’s development
in metallurgy has anticipated the progress
of at least a decade. This netv knowledge
of metals and alloys will be of great
advantage in the reconstruction period,
y. Again, the degree of precision re-
quired and achieved to-day in Australian
engineering and production paves the
way for new and valuable peace-time
manufactures.
y
The experience Australian workers
are gaining to-day in making new pro-
ducts, in using new materials and new
techniques will remain with us later.
Such things are double items on the asset
side assets now, when all that matters is
supplying our fighting forces with what they
need to win assets in days to come, when
we will have to build a belter world.
Victory is our Business !
SERVE AND SAVE.. BUY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBAN E
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE PERTH
C 770-22
SMOKE-OH!
“I, , of , in the State of N.S.W.,
formally and absolutely renounce, relinquish
and abandon the use of ray surname of Phoo.”
— “S.M.H.” advt.
Found at last, eh?
*b *b *b *b
“Soldiers in N.G. must have books.”
—News item.
In fact, N.G.’s N.B.G. without them!
*b HE* *b *b
“He declared that he had only beaten his wife
on one occasion, and that was when she had
refused to have a bath.” — Divorce item.
No doubt he considered he was justi-
fied in cleaning her up.
•b <b *b *b
“A 17-year-old bigamist, Daisy Parsley, of
Boise (Idaho), married three times without get-
ting a divorce.”— Cable item.
Real Parsley sauce.
•b *b *b »b
“The rector made his appeal at both morning
and evening services. One effect of the enhanced
collections was the improvement in finances.”
—Church paper.
Another was that more cash came in.
“How to get rid of that nagging pain.”
—Tonic ad.
Divorce?
'!• *b »b »b
“Ladies. Only 17 assorted light shades left;
now or never.”— Burnie ( Tas .) “Advocate.”
Gentlemen apparently prefer a wide
variety of blondes.
•b *b *b *b
“I am 75 years old and have never tasted
beer. In Collins-street, Melbourne, recently I
admonished a young man for drinking, and told
him I had never touched the stuff. In a few
minutes he had quite a crowd round me staring
as at a curiosity.
The “as” seems redundant.
•b *b -b
“Gestapo tries to arrest statue.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Leaving no stone uninterned.
•b <b * *b ,
“Cole and Brad exchanged glances m the
darkness.” — Western story.
Black looks?
•b *b *b •b
“I am being married soon and want to know
if I must have someone to give me away?”
—lnquirer in woman s mag.
Not necessarily, dear. Why not ask
your husband in, say, six months?
“...As Good as a Feast.”
“Mixed feelings have been caused among
Canberra householders by a proposal that every
house should have a goat in its backyard as a
means of supplementing the butter ration.”
—Hobart “Mercury.”
Molongloside’s reactions are derisive,
Its sabre-cuts of Saxon speech incisive,
Its mood distinctly hostile and unpleasant:
“More goats! We’ve quite enough
round here at present!”
EDOUARD.
Curt Courting.
“Laurie —Is there any chance for me, Pat?”
— “S. M. Herald” agony column.
Some ply fair words, their cause to plead.
Beneath the moon in leafy bowers,
While others disavow the need
Of speech and say their piece with
flowers.
But here’s an enterprising lad,
His lady’s feelings to divine,
Who puts the question with an ad.
And says it in a single line !
P. O. M. C.
Ghost Story.
“One curious legend of the old castle tells
how a medieval courtier destroyed a ghost
which had been haunting him there for several
years.”— Travel book.
That night when the courtier made his
kill
’Twas a hollow vict’ry at most,
For he soon found out he was haunted
still
By the ghost of the murdered ghost!
NAT.
A Centenarian’s Capers.
.. .An’ ole Granny Yerrold, Sairey,
do y’ ever see ’er now?”
“Ev’ry day, Betsy, except Sundeys. Y’
wouldn’t think to look at ’er she’s much
diff’rent to wot she useter be, on’y she’s
got a lot thinner. But, my! She ’as
changed in other ways! O’ corse, she’s
over a ’undred now, an’ lookin’ ev’ry
bit of it, too, if y’ arsk me. I think it’s
that there sun-oil decay she’s got. She’s
sorta wanderin’ lately.”
“Good Lor’, Sairey, y’ don’t say!”
“But Ido say, Betsy! Y’ know me
dorter does a bit o’ scrubbin’ up at the
Union Club an’ she ’ears things. Y’ve
’card, I s’pose, ’ow Granny useter be the
white-’aired ole girl with all them lah-
di-dah toffs. Well, me dorter says one
big bank manager feller one day was
tellin’ the oldest number all about wot
Granny ’ad said about Curtin, ’ow she
reckoned ’e was just the reel McCoy an’
’ow she slobbered over ’im, when the ole
feller chucked a sugar doodle out of ’is
chair in a fit. No one’s allowed to men-
tion the name o’ Granny Yerrold in the
club now!”
“Just fancy, Sairey! She ’as changed,
right enough. 1 remember ’em sayin’
not so long back as ’ow Granny useter
froth at the mouth whenever Labor was
menshuned.”
“Ar, she’s got a very forgivin’ nachur,
Betsy. She’s buried the ’ammer, so to
speak. 1 mind the time w’en the Trades
’All blokes useter sling orf at ’er as the
’Ag of ’Unter-street, but Granny treated
’em all with silent cement, as y’ might
say. Reel diggenyfide an’ ladylike she
were. But she’s been pattin’ ’em on the
back so much lately ’er ’and must be
sore. Me ’usband says if Granny was
to go down Goulburn-street way these
days all them union siccatairy blokes’d
do ’er grand an’ bring out the red carpet
spesh’ly for ’er to walk in on. Yairs, she’s
queen ’igh down there now.”
“Yes, Sairey. My ole man reckons ’c
wouldn’t be surprised to see ole Granny
leadin’ a May Day perseshun yellin’ fer
a Second Front in Yirrip an’ demandin’
govermint be the oppressed masses
strugglin’ to be free. Wot’s made ’er git
like this, Sairey?”
“Well, Betsysome do say it orl began
when Granny started admirin’ the paintin’
that that Sir Reelist bloke does. You
know, ’e slaps a purple sausage up in
one corner, puts a pig’s yeller insides
under it, chucks in a blue square sun an'
a pink spittoon an’ calls it ‘Luv’s Sunset.’
An’ them fancy-pants fellers that doll up
in tights an’ twirl tarts in little skirts
round on their toes—bally darncers they
call ’em—Granny’s orl taken up with
them, too. Wot with Sir Reelist and
bally, Granny’s gone a bit nuts, as them
Yanks say.”
“An’ all them coves, Sairey, they calls
capstans of hindustry wot useter be such
friends of ’ers—’ow do they like ole
Granny’obnobbin’with them soshalists?”
“Well, Betsy, they reckon that if ’er
rival was anyone else but a feather-
brained flapper wot don’t know ’er own
mind she could grab all them there cap-
stans as y’ call ’em for ’erself an’ leave
Granny Yerrold out in the cold!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
43d. per line: all others 2Jd. per line.
England’s Soul—and Australia’s
England on her knees, wiping blood
and sweat from her eyes, staggered to
her feet again after Dunkirk —and car-
ried on. Fighting then for her very exist-
ence, she also carried on the fight for
national decency and freedom against
Nazi brutality and domination.
Lesser things, among them party poli-
tics, were swept aside, and a national
Government was formed for the duration
of the war. England with her back
to the wall presented a united front
to the enemy. During 1940-41 England
and her people withstood the greatest
national ordeal in history. Incessant
bombing by night and day!
Going among these people, climbing
the rubble and debris that had been their
homes, Churchill said of them “I have
found the soul of an unconquerable
people.” But for the grace of God and
the valor, of these British people, that
made possible the defence of England,
where were we? Had England fallen we
were gone with the wind!
When the first few bombs fell on Aus-
tralia it was to this war-racked England
we cried for help. We sought her aid, but
had not followed her example. Had
more bombs fallen on Australia, would
more imminent danger have united us?
Would such national travail as Englahd
survived have brought forth Australia’s
soul? — Olive M. Green, Abbott-street
New Farm (Q.).
Science Must Make Amends
In former centuries humanity had an
automatic protection from the extrava-
gance of rulers in the fact that cash had
to be paid for adventure ; when there
was no more cash there could be no more
war. The modern dictator or power-
politician has got over this impediment to
adventure and can now operate with the
sky, literally, as his only limit. When
the scope for waste by potentates was
restricted to human life, natural produce
and stores of gold, the disastrous conse-
quences of imperial prodigality were not
permanent.
Today the scope for such waste has
become three-dimensional and limited
only by the depth to which mines can be
sunk, the height to which ’planes can
fly and the breadth over which soil and
vegetation can be destroyed. Such limits
are practically no limits and constitute no
safeguard at all for the future of human
life on a relatively small planet. In the
matter of the present-day wastage of
natural resources, for instance, there is
already a steadily mounting volume of
scientific evidence to show that this earth
is too small to go on indefinitely meeting
the inordinate demands of warlords
of the modern world for the material
means of mastery.
It is often complained that scientists
have harmed the community by their
destructive inventions. Now, then, has
come the time for scientists to serve the
people well by making clear what must
and will happen if the prodigal and
wanton application of scientific work to
wasteful ends is not halted by a scientifi-
cally enlightened and awakened humanity.
The peoples of today of all political
ideologies are subjected, more or less, to
an economic misrule by political power
which tends to become absolute. Such
absolute power takes no account of the
material needs of the future, but rather
glories in the unrestricted waste of
natural resources.
One of two things must happen: either
this unrestricted waste must lead, quite
soon, to the utter bankruptcy of planetary
stores or the people must resume eco-
nomic control over the means of their
future subsistence. There is no third path.
~~l W. R. (Tas.).
The Post-war World
The hope that at the conclusion of this
war the world will be a happier, safer
a nd more comfortable place to live in is
nowhere more sedulously cherished than
ip the U.S.A. The whole trend of adver-
ting, of the public pronouncements of
captains of industry, of political pro-
phecies, is in the direction of emphasis-
ing that during the war period the pro-
ductive capacity and the resources of the
nation have been not merely consider-
ably but tremendously enhanced.
Here are a few extracts from an address
by one of the Du Pont Co. directors,
Theodore G. Joslin;
The pressures of this war are compressing
into the space of months developments that
might well have taken years... .Already our
world of 1940 has become an antiquity in
scientific eyes....By the end of 1943 we
will declare our independence of rubber....
The nation will emerge from the war with
capacities for making plastics, synthetic
fibres, nitrates, hydrocarbons, high octane
gasolines and scores of chemical and other
raw materials on a scale that would have
been regarded as fantastic before the war
began ... .Released by an American victory
we will have at our command a hundred
times what we had before, chiefly of new
material.... We will no more return to the
economy of the pre-war period than we will
go back to the horse and buggy, the hand
pump and the coal-oil lamp. We can’t
go back....We fight not for the past but
for the future, a future without parallel in
the life of man.
Mr. Joslin gives various facts and
figures in support of his thesis, such as
a sevenfold increase in aluminium pro-
duction, a hundredfold production of
magnesium (now obtained from sea-
water), the vast advances in utilising
petroleum products, the creation of vast
new manufacturing plants at a cost of
billions of dollars, the spending of
300,000,000 dollars annually on industrial
research, and the tremendous improve-
ments in house fabrication made as a
result of war-organisation needs.
Surely there is food for thought here
on the part of Australian post-war
planners. Industrial production and the
resources behind that production have
“I don't care if the style DOESN’T suit you—steel helmets are Worn
TURNED DOWN.”
been expanded in this country to an ex-
tent certainly no less striking, relatively,
than that in the U.S.A. A preliminary
task when peace looms must be to de-
cide whether we wish to return to our
pre-war industrial organisation or to con-
vert our war-created plants to the pur-
poses of our peace-time commerce ; we
must decide whether we wish to remain
a mainly-farming community of seven
millions or an industrial nation capable
of providing work and a good living for
a score of millions.
No matter what we decide, we shall be
very foolish if we attempt to plan in the
light of pre-war experience only. The
world has moved. — De Novo (N.S.W.).
Reducing of the Rates
It isn’t necessary to go as far
as Maoriland to find municipalities
reducing rates. W.A. can show at
least three examples. Subiaco last
year reduced rates on my cottage from
£3 3s. to £2 18s. Perth city has given its
ratepayers similar relief. And two years
ago Perth Electricity and Gas, which
supplies the whole metropolitan area, in-
cluding Fremantle, gave consumers a
substantial reduction. This despite in-
creases in the price of coal and expen-
diture on plant additions which by every
tradition of Australian government
should have brought a bounding increase.
—Willie Subub (W.A.).
Australia’s Need of Trees
One of the things urgently needed
is a well-defined lead in a tree-planting
policy—a lead that will include education
regarding the value of trees to the land
as well as to the common scene.
Lack of such a policy is now drasti-
cally affecting farms, towns and road-
sides. Few countries have been so ruth-
less in the devastation of their forests as
Australia. The evidence is everywhere.
This is all the more serious when climatic
extremes are considered.
Our farming areas are greatly in need
of wood lots; they store up moisture and
prevent gullying and erosion. Planted on
that part of the property unsuited to agri-
culture. they guarantee the farmer timber
independence by supplying fuel and
fencing. The wood lot on the American
farm now averages 27 acres. On how
many Australian farms are there five
acres of trees?
Trees used as windbreaks against the
terrific force of westerlies and southerlies
increase the crop yield and forestall
erosion. Great shade belts of trees will
protect stock from summer’s heat or
winter’s blasts. Yet in how many in-
stances are such provisions made?
Because of lack of trees thousands of
miles of Australian roads are stark and
ugly. So are many towns. That splendid
things can be done in this country with
trees has been well demonstrated here and
there throughout the Commonwealth.
Lack of trees on roadsides' and on
roads cannot be said to be wholly due to
lack of civic pride. There exists tremen-
dous ignorance regarding tree-culture.
Some lead, therefore, is necessary —either
from the Government or by the forma-
tion of Forestry Leagues similar to those
now operating overseas.
This, however, is only the start of tree-
education. The generations coming after
must be taught—as they have been else-
where —the iniquity of destroying trees
and the tremendous value of trees to the
land.— John Weyman (N.S.W.).
Economics of Dairying
Notwithstanding wage awards, the
dairy-farmer can still get cheap labor.
The share-farmer system supplies that.
A share-farmer can make a contract that
will net him a high wage if he takes it
into account as his own earnings. But
in a great number of cases he can handle
the work only by working himself, his
wife and kids as slaves in the cowyard.
If the wage award was applied to every
person who worked in a cowyard share-
cockies and many of the cookies would
have to get off the farms.
Low wages have been the order on
dairy farms. The butter subsidy won’t
make up much leeway. It is time that
something was done to put this industry
on a firm footing.
It could be worked out to a formula.
Number of cows (average) per week,
equals fair working week, equals a fair
living wage with margin for proprietor-
ship. Butter prices would be computed
on average production. If prices are
lower overseas it is not the farmer who
should have to bear the burden. The
Government should subsidise to make up
the balance.
Some may contend that dairying land
varies so much that a rich profit in one
district may be starvation in another.
But the purchase price of land is roughly
proportionate, and 40 acres at £lO an acre
should have an equal production capacity
with 100 acres at £4.
Manufactured articles are made by
workers on a basic wage ; it is only fair
that primary production should be handled
on the same basis. — Esk D. (Vic.).
Church and Sex
In an address in Melbourne recently
Dr. W. Carrington said the church should
instruct adults on sex. It would be as
appropriate for the Licensed Victuallers’
Association to lecture on temperance.
The church, with its Garden of Eden,
its teachings on the status of woman, its
attitude towards the illegitimate child, its
outlook on social diseases, its refusal to
recognise the teachings of psychology, its
decrying of men who have the honesty
to face up to the problem, is ill-equipped
as a guide along that road.
Until sex is lifted from the slime
where it was cast by the church we can-
not hope to see any improvement in the
moral code. Only those who will
approach the subject with commonsense
and candor can be trusted to teach
others; and then only after a compre-
hensive study of all the subjects pertain-
ing to sex. —R. H. H. (Vic.).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Pastoral Pioneers o] Port Phillip, by
Biilis and Kenyon.—337B.
lb buy humorous works by Stephen Lea-
cock, such as Nonsense Novels or Literary
Lapses. —3379.
Information Sought.
(1) Which constituency did Edmund Barton
represent in the first Federal Parliament ? Was
he returned at a by-election? (2) Was he ever
Australia’s High Commissioner in London?
(1) Hunter, N.S.W.; he was elected un-
opposed and did not stand again. (2) No.
Sure method of catching mice?
Traps; wear greased gloves when setting. For
a few days place the traps unset but baited in
the runways, using rancid bacon as bait. After
the baits have been taken for three nights bait
again, but set the traps, sprinkling with flour
and placing a little oil on the catch.
Method for removing rusf from light J a para-
silk sails without damage ?
Rust stains should be removed before fabric
is wetted; dampness spreads rust. Spread salts
of lemon over stains, pour boiling water
through and then rinse with warm water. If
rust has been fixed by time water eradication
is impossible.
I have coated an iron roof at regular intervals
with bituminous paint, which flakes off in the
heat of summer, allowing extensive rusting.
Would a coaling of tar be of value, or is the
type of paint I use not the most suitable avail-
able ?
The use of coal tar is not recommended be-
cause, firstly, it would be undesirable to use the
water collected from the roof for drinking pur-
poses, and, secondly, there is a tendency for
corrosive action of the tar on the roof. The
fact that you have had to apply frequent coats
of bituminous paint indicates that an unsuitable
type has been used. There are many grades of
bitumen, some brittle and others flexible. It is
very important that the bitumen should be
blended properly for use as a roofing paint.
Several good bitumen paints are on the market.
Did Tommy Uren ever defeat Americans
Eddie McGoorty and Jimmy Clabby? How
many times did Uren meet Clabby and Fred
Kay, and results of their fights?
Uren outpointed McGoorty over 20 rounds
in 1917. Fought Clabby 10 times for six wins,
three losses and one draw. Fought Kay eight
times for five wins and three losses.
Byief Answers.
L.H.K.: Suits are of equal rank in poker; A
wins because he holds the higher cards. The
fact that he paid to look keeps him in the
game. In the case of hands of identical value,
the pot is shared between the holders if the
holders are still in the game C.S.: All items
sent in by readers and published in The Bulle-
tin are paid for. There is also 7s. 6d. each for
gags for joke-blocks and suggestions for draw-
ings. When an item appears, submit a claim,
giving particulars L.M.P.: Jetsam is a term
in navigation law, applied to goods thrown into
the sea to lighten a ship in danger of wreck.
Such goods are the property of the Crown in
default of other claimants R.L.; Ind.
A.C.L. stands for Independent (Anti-conscrip-
tion) Labor; C.N.0., Country National Organi-
sation ; L.C.L., Liberal Country League;
0.P.F.A., One Parliament for Australia;
C.N.0.M., Christian New Order Movement;
M.C.0., Middle-class Organisation... .C.M.D.:
To top off cockerels, pen in a small, dry house
with a little run. Feed on mash made into a
gruel, and don’t let them have water. Mix
the feed with milk, or buttermilk if you can,
giving them a plentiful supply three times a day.
Keep the food clean; never give it to them
sour A.C.P.; Approximately 38 p.c. of the
area of Russia is permanently “frozen-in”
Y.Q.: The title of the British ruling house was
changed from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha to
Windsor on July 17, 1917... .8.J.: Between
Theodore and Franklin D. Roosevelt there were
five American Presidents, Taft, Wilson, Harding,
Coolidge and Hoover V.M.R.: Get in touch
with Anderson’s Nursery, 10 Condamine-street,
Balgowlah, N-S.W L.C.: (1) Correct pro-
nunciation of “thaumaturgic” is “thaw-mattur-
gick.” It means “wonder-working.” “Pseudo,”
pronounced “seredoh,” is often used as a prefix,
meaning “false.” (2) An account of the Tristan
and Isolde legend appears in The Encyclopcedia
Britannica and in books of Celtic and Germanic
legends. (3) Original Pygmalion story appears
in Guerber’j Myths of Greece and Rome....
F.N.: “K.Gi” and “H.P.,” appearing on recent
pennies, are the initials of Kruger Gray and
H. Paget, the sculptors who engraved the dies
from which the coins were minted... .C.W.:
According to David Weir in an article entitled
“Facts About the Rifle” in the “Engineer,” the
British service bullet leaves the muzzle with a
rotational speed of 175,680 r.p.m L.D.M. :
World’s flyweight championship vacant at
present.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.E.: Your feet, feet, feet are Kipling’s boots,
boots, boots E.W.M.: The cod wears a
snow-white beard and the verse is excruciating.
H.R.: Why say “Notes of music oft do
touch the soul” when you mean “Notes of
music often touch the soul”? P.D.O’H.:
Not a hope R.G.: Elementary A.J.W.:
Read a lot and come again J.P.G.: Don’t
use archaisms such as “atop” and “nigh”
C. 8.: “There’s a little old shack by an old
bush track.” There’s also a cottage small by a
waterfall, and a little grey home in the west.
V.B.: Try a Buddhist paper Falcon:
Parodies of Omar, like parodies of Kipling’s
“If,” are slain on sight A.M.W.: Too
many archaisms, too much conventional
imagery M.D.: Slight T.D.J.: If you do
manage to buy an axe-handle, chop up the
poem 8.D.: “Vernal Show’rs” all wet
J. 8.; Thought for a poem, but the poem’s yet
to be written W.E.R.: She doesn’t get steam
U p A.C.; Nicely done, but it never emerges
from the conventional H.D.: A daily might
be able to tolerate those streams of bullets
T.G.: Unable to respond to “the light of sheer
admiration in Cecilia Grey’s eyes” C.M.:
Ditto for “Cynthia’s blue eyes and her immacu-
late golden perm.” R.H.8.: Bobby’s butter-
fly not for our collection.


m
w
'Jr
tk
p
H
Hi
r*»
ii
>
m
m
m
I m
U
Remembe
OF course we do—it was the occasion of the Cen-
tenary Celebrations, when the Nation paused
with a justifiable pride to consider the achievements
of our short history.
To most of us, looking back, the details seem dim,
but we can recall something of the freedom, the gaiety
and the pageantry; we can remember the crowds that
lined the streets of Sydney, and the many visitors from
other States and from overseas who came to join us in
the celebrations.
We can recall that, while those days may not have
given all that we desired, yet our lives were moulded on
a different pattern—-the pattern of a Nation at peace.
The years between have not been easy; we have had
to adjust ourselves to the demands of total war; to accept
restrictions, difficulties and sacrifices; to subjugate all
thought of personal desire or ambition. We have known
the fear of impending invasion and the tragic bitterness
of large casualty lists.
ŵ
Today pride would not be seemly, but a hopeful
confidence would not be out of place. The tasks of the
present are manifold and the enemies still strong, but
in time we shall master them; and we can look forward
—forward to a nation once more engaged in the quiet
avocations and casual pastimes of peace—a nation busy
and content.
Once more we shall see the people lining the streets
in pageantry and celebration. We shall see the happi-
ness of sweethearts and friends and families. Everyone
of those people will have needs and' desires; they will
want homes, furniture, refrigerators, wireless sets, motor-
cars and a thousand and one amenities that are part of
modern civilised life. If there is one dominant note in
our national consciousness today it is the determination
that those needs and those desires shall be met. That
there shall be a share for all, and all shall share.
At Commercial Steels and Forge Company we feel
we are playing our part. We have contributed a share
to the Guns, the Ships, the Aeroplanes; and to this end
we have multiplied our production one hundredfold. We
have worked hard, and we have learned much, and today
we perform tasks and make parts that would have seemed
impossible in 1938.
We too look forward, determined and confident
that the productive capacity we have developed shall be
ready to serve a nation at peace as it does now a nation
at war.
STEELS
PTY.
ẁ
AND
FORGE CO
LTD.
INCORPORATING AUSTRALIAN DROP FORGING CO. PTY. LIMITED
• FORGE DIVISION. Lidcombe, N.S.W. UX7473 (7 lines). • STEEL & MACHINERY DIVISION, Alexandria. N.S.W. MXII9I (7 lines).
• MELBOURNE OFFICE, Capcl and Queens bury Streets, North Melbourne, Victoria. ’Phone F 361 b (3 tn e s
