

ŵ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3319
Wednesday, September 22, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BALMORAL, “THE HIGHLAND JEWEL.”
AMONG the most famous of the British Castles is Balmoral,
the world-noted royal residence near Ballater in Scotland. At
an elevation of 926 feet the site commands a magnificent panorama
of the surrounding thirty thousand acres of deer country which
might have inspired the Scottish poet to write:
Give me the forest wide and high ,
The mountains and the vale.
Where dwell the herds of piercing eye
Whose speed outstrips the gale.
In 1848, when the Queen first saw Balmoral, she fell so much in
love with the district that she decided here would be her Highland
home, and a few short years later the foundation stone of the
present building was laid. A chief feature of this castle, which
is of the Scottish baronial style, is its high clock tower, sur-
mounted by its lofty flagstaff, and one of Deeside’s most con-
spicuous landmarks.
Balmoral Castle is the royal refuge when cares of State press too
heavily; where, as far as their great sense of public duty permits,
their Majesties can live as private people, the friend and neighbor
of those about them.
The standard on the■ braes o' Mar
Is up and streaming rarely ;
The gathering pipe on, Lochnagar
Is sounding loud and clearly.
Here, too, is a royal residence that is steadily gathering to its
noble stones highlights in the history of Britain's ruling House.
It was here that the betrothal of Princess Louise to the Marquis
of Lome was announced, while in the neighborhood is the
memorial to Prince Albert, unveiled in 1867, on the anniversary
of the Queen’s betrothal; while there is here also a cross to the
memory of Princess Alice of Hesse, Victoria’s favorite daughter.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at ho*tf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Fame
il u A ddress
S.B. 143
AGE
The Red Page
The Rhinoceros's Mother.
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “did
you ever have a mother?”
“Certainly not!” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean. “Which of ’em
have you been reading? Freud ; that ex-
tremely well-written verse-play ‘The Way
of an Eagle,’ recently broadcast by the
A.B.C. ; or W. H. Auden’s ‘The Ascent
of F6’?”
“I have attended an elegant perform-
ance of ‘The Ascent of F6’ by an ama-
teur group in Sydney,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “I learned that men climb moun-
tains because they have a mother-com-
plex ; that all heroic action springs from
some such undignified source. Conse-
quently I prefer to regard myself as a
figment of the imagination ; or possibly
as an immortal who descended from the
clouds disguised as a swan or a white
bull. It has become inconsistent with
human dignity to have been dandled upon
a mother’s lap.”
“And yet,” said Mr. Shean, “a mother’s
love is a beautiful thing.”
“Many a time,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“watching a group of otherwise rational
ladies crowding about some little monster
in a pram, tickling its toes, poking their
fingers into its stomach, fearsomely roll-
ing their eyes at it and making shrill, in-
coherent noises, I have tried to think so.”
“Nevertheless,” said Mr. Shean, “it is
a beautiful and tender spectacle. It
causes young fathers almost to give up
beer. Poets have written verses about it.”
“All the best baby-poetry,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “has been written by slightly
unbalanced bachelors. Swinburne, for
instance. However, I will grant you that
this phenomenon is completely natural
and normal; even, in small doses at in-
frequent intervals, charming; certainly
not to be disapproved of.”
“How sad,” said Mr. Shean, “to think
that, while these duckings and gooings
and ticklings are proceeding, the little
innocent in the pram is inescapably de-
veloping a horrible big Freudian Mother-
Complex that is going to haunt him for
the rest of his days, making it impossible
for one to attribute to him, when he
climbs a mountain or explores the ice or
the desert, or behaves with bravery in
battle, any but the most ignoble motive.
The hero of ‘The Ascent of F6,’ as you
are aware, climbs the mountain because
he wishes, in symbolism, to kill a brother
who has been his mother’s favorite.
Every baby, according to these post-
Freudian literary gents, falls in love with
his mother and spends the rest of his life
trying to bump off his father or his
brother or himself.”
“In spite of having seen ‘The Ascent
of F6,’ ” said Mr. Gallagher, “I think I
had better admit to you that once upon
a time —I can hardly credit it of myself—l
was an ordinary baby. Do you know what
1 fell in love with when I was a baby?”
“No?” said Mr. Shean.
“Coal. Absolutely adored it. A hor-
rible, unnatural passion. They couldn’t
keep me away from it. I must have
eaten a ton of the stuff.”
“I don’t doubt,” said Mr. Shean, “that
that is responsible for your ambition to
become an enginedriver.”
“But I should hate to become an engine-
driver,” said Mr. Gallagher. “A messy
job, unpleasantly prophetic of hellfire.”
“Do you claim,” said Mr. Shean, “that
from this deplorable addiction to coal
you have suffered no lasting ill-effects
whatsoever?”
“Absolutely none!” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “In my early youth I was occa-
sionally known to whistle shrilly and run
backwards with a clanking noise at un-
expected moments. But in later youth
and manhood I cannot recall a single
eccentricity that could be related to coal.”
“Then your theory is,” said Mr. Shean,
that even if all our heroes are inflicted
with a mother-complex in infancy they
usually grow out of it?”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “even
(he rhinoceros had a mother.”
“A thought,” said Mr. Shean, “of
transcendental beauty.”
“And upon the infantile rhinoceros,”
continued Mr. Gallagher, “its mother
tevished juslJthat care and auction which
ithe Human# mother JkvisnM upon her
"y#iu|.” / Itf/’VJ .
“I don’t think,” said JVn - . Shean, “tnaf
the* mother rhinoceros has ever been
known to say ‘Mumsy’s' "icklewviolde
precious-esshus’; yet the point is well'
taken.”
“Then,” said Mr. Gallagher, “has or
has not the baby rhinoceros, now grown
to full and glorious manhood, got a
mother-complex ? ”
“As a matter of fact,” said Mr. Shean,
“most of the rhinoceroses of my ac-
quaintance do look as if they are suffer-
ing from some secret sorrow. Yet I think
I must agree with you that, whatever
bug is biting them, it is unlikely to be a
mother-complex.”
“Therefore,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“when the rhinoceros charges the keeper
it is not trying to kill its father: it is try-
ing to kill the keeper. Things are much
more like what they seem than Freud
and the poet think they are.”
“You believe,” said Mr. Shean, “that
the human young throws off the maternal
yoke as does the young rhinoceros? That
an occasional weakling may be riddled
with these monstrous ‘complexes,’ but
that they have been fantastically over-
emphasised in contemporary literature?
You defend the mothers of the nation
against all these wicked aspersions on the
admirable if faintly ridiculous pheno-
menon of mother-love? You believe
heroes are heroes?”
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
do.”
“In that case, Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr.
Shean, “I will confess to you. I also
had a mother.”
“A rhinoceros, I presume?” said Mr.
Gallagher.
The Bishop Was Human .
In nothing was the late Right Rev.
Percival MacPeake, D.D., Lord Bishop of
the United Diocese of Bangor, Dungan-
non and Strabane, more human than in
deciding not to publish his memoirs dur-
ing his lifetime.
My book may never be printed. Cer-
tainly I am determined that it cannot be
printed in my own lifetime, for, as I con-
ceive it, it is going to be a frank, indiscreet
book, liable to cause adverse criticism and
controversy. I am old and not very well
and I want peace, and the publication of
this book would certainly not bring me
peace, so it can wait to take its chance
when I am dead.
Now that the bishop has passed be-
yond the reach of controversy, The
Bishop’s Confession, edited by Hugh
Shearman, has been published by Faber,
It is a document of much human interest.
Were it not written by a bishop it would
have little “scandalous,” religious or
controversial importance: as ordinary
men gp, the bishop has remarkably little
to cotifcss. He describes the experiences
of adolescence frankly ; but they are in
no way out of the ordinary. His hectic
but brief and blameless adventure in the
bathroom of an actress in later life and
his subsequent unrequited love would
enliven any autobiography; but in the
life, say, of a man of letters or a film
actor it would not be remarkable. It
would not be sensational in the life of an
ordinary man if in middle-age he lost
faith in revealed religion but came to a
new faith in “clear-sightedness” and in
the ethical, if not the spiritual, teachings
of Christianity.
Yet, the autobiography would still
be highly readable even if the author
were not a bishop. It is the
inner history of an ordinary, sensitive
man who drifted into becoming a
bishop ; and if it is mildly surprising to
the layman to learn that a bishop can be
an ordinary man, it probably won’t be
astonishing to bishops.
As in nine autobiographies out of ten,
the early chapters describing childhood
and youth are by far the best. The Irish
middle-class household into which the
author was born, the Victorian parents
who weren’t Victorian —“We lived a
most placid and easy life in my child-
hood, and my impression of the Vic-
torian age is not one of frustration,
hypocrisy, convention and strictness, but
rather of freedom, spaciousness and
dignity”—are excellently described. Like-
wise the infant’s first perceptions of the
material worlds —he was fascinated by
gigantic, brass bedknobs isolated in space
like flaming suns ; and likewise his first
introduction to religion when, it never
having occurred to him to relate scriptural
characters to ordinary life, he imagined
Moses as “a gigantic figure filling half
the sky and urging on, with a huge voice
like thunder, the children of Israel.”
A description of his headmaster will
illustrate both the bishop’s own character
and his gift for portraying other
people:
The head himself had written several
history textbooks for schools and we used
these. I have one of them on my desk
before me as I write. I never quite like to
shown! to strangers, for its purple passages
t always provoke laughter. 1 never like to
have master laughed at. I have a
sentimental affection for the memory of
him, with his grand futility and his purple
rrosca> I prefer not to disturb him by
quoting from his books here. Looking
over his account of the fall of the Roman
Empire in the west, I seem to hear his
deep, slow voice again and see the grave
gesture, the purple nose, and the solemn,
slightly moist eyes. There was something
very amusing and preposterous about him,
but also something rather tragic.
A solitary child, intensely shy, the
author became religious in his adoles-
cence and, as he says himself, “drifted”
into the church. “There came to be a
sort of conspiracy of repetition propel-
ling me towards the church. Anybody
who liked me and approved of me seemed
to say that I ought to go on for the
church. Anybody who thought me a boob
said the same.” When, by this time a
canon, he discovered that he had no real
faith, there was no dramatic break. On
the contrary, he found his sermons more
popular than before and “drifted” into a
bishopric.
The author’s description of himself is
“a man who took serious things seri-
ously.” Contrasting with this, and also
contrasting with his understandable but
undramatic drifting, is the story of his
sister Elizabeth, who, “taking frivolous
things frivolously,” gives light and
warmth to the whole book.
It’s rather a pity to have to reveal that
this excellent “autobiography” is, in fact,
a novel. The jacket, introduction and
title-page are noncommittal on this point,
and most readers, unless they had seen
the publishers’ advertisements announc-
ing the work as a novel by Hugh Shear-
man, would probably accept it as a genu-
ine autobiography.
Some doubts might arise because of a
general feeling that it’s “too good to be
true.” There is an extremely convenient
motor accident brought in to remove the
bishop’s brother, enabling publication of
the “memoirs.” The bishop is a bit too
clear-sighted a psychologist in his under-
standing that he has to some extent been
“destroyed” by his affection for Eliza-
beth, and that he has experienced life by
proxy through his sister’s adventures.
And the affair with the actress definitely
strains credibility.
And yet, so convincing is the portrayal
of the bishop and so ingeniously are the
tone and structure of autobiography imi-
tated that it would easily be possible to
swallow the improbabilities. Shearman
even introduces a few deliberately dull
passages of theological discussion —for
which the bishop apologises—to help
make the picture convincing. The novel
is a “stunt” in writing and publishing,
and an extraordinarily successful one.
A Prisoner of Japan,
Interned by the Japanese on the out-
break of the war in the Pacific, Dr.
Chas. I. McLaren had been professor of
neurology at the Severance Medical Col-
lege, Seoul, Korea. He was released in
an exchange of civilian internees and
reached Australia, by way of Portuguese
East Africa, in November, 1942.
He gives a brief but interesting
account of his experiences in a booklet
called Eleven Weeks in a Japanese Police
Cell (S. John Bacon, 317 Collins-street,
Melbourne; Robertson and Mullens).
There is a foreword by the Moderator-
General of the Presbyterian Church of
Australia.
Dr. McLaren endured plenty of hard-
ships but was not actually maltreated.
He quotes, however, “confirmed stories
of war atrocities and inhuman treatment
of prisoners” and, though by no means
hostile to what is good in Japan, decides:
“A major strain of sadism disgraces and
degrades Japan.”
Can human beings really behave like
this? Yes. Japan did so behave, and the
man who says that it was not Japan but
“only a few irresponsibles” who did so is
misrepresenting the truth.
After his eleven weeks of imprison-
ment with an opium-addict and Korean
political prisoners, Dr. McLaren was
allowed to join the other four members
of the Australian Mission who were in-
terned in the house of the Rev. A. C.
Wright.
Our guards were friendly—as well they
might be, exposed to the quite astonishing
goodwill of Mr. Wright.... Once —incred-
ible man—when they were drunk and dis-
orderly he locked them away from our part
of the house. Mr. Lane read one man
a lecture for wasting his money on drink
and called another to order for taking
flowers from the garden without permis-
sion.
One reason for the comparatively good
treatment given to the Australian in-
ternees, says Dr. McLaren, was that the
Japanese hoped to persuade Australia to
leave the Empire and join the “Co-Pros-
perity sphere.” Threats as well as
blandishments were to be used, and
apparently the Japanese were highly im-
pressed when their sub. shelled Sydney.
A pleasant, well-spoken youn" Japanese
journalist laid before us the fact that
Sydney had been shelled (the extent of the
mischief we did not know). What he
wanted was our reactions. Mr. Lane rose
to the occasion—“ How would you feel if
Kobe had been shelled?”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A.W. on the R.A.S. exhibition:
Arthur Streeton's “Blue Valley,” lent by
flower-painter A. J. Sherman and exhibited as
a memorial tribute, is one of the most appealing
landscapes at the Education Department gal-
leries, Sydney, where the Royal Art Society has
its annual show. The principal living land-
scapists in the oils section are Sydney Long,
who can find beauty and mystery equally as
well in the Australian bush as in the lanes of
Surrey, and who can purvey some magic even in
“After Rain, Queen’s Square,” and Erik Langker,
who irradiates a sort of mellow dignity in such
canvases as “Across the Bay” and “Valley and
Distance, Leura.” Rubery Bennett offers a very
effective “Australian Landscape.” Lance Solo-
mon has got over his obsession with bushland
greys and is painting in a richer, more vigorous
impressionistic style which seems to take up
J. Muir Auld's studies somewhere near the stage
at which that much-underrated painter was told
by Death to call it a day. “Happy Day” is an
achievement. Percy Lindsay, who is con-
tinually discovering new quiet beauties in the
Australian scene and presenting them in apolo-
getic small canvases, makes four appearances.
Howard Ashton looks at the sea in half a
dozen canvases, and makes as pleasing a use of
the material he finds there as he does ashore.
John B. Godson’s “Winter Oak” has quality,
and paintings by James R. Jackson, Robert
Johnson, H. J. Gallop, G. V. F. Mann, John
Banks and John Allcot maintain the reputation
of those well-known painters. Richard Ashton
has temporarily deserted seascapes for New
Guinea villages, which he paints with vigor.
J. W. Peisley’s prize-winning “Haystack” is on
show.
In portraiture and figure studies Norman
Lindsay leads with “Rita of the Nineties.” She
lives. Lyall Trindall’s life-size nude in the classi-
cal manner, “Dawn,” dominates its wall.
H. A. Hanke demonstrates the art of posing a
sitter in No. 15. Jerrold Nathan’s exhibits,
Dora Toovey’s sound portrait of a V.A.,
J. H. R. Rousel’s “Octogenarian” and Fred
Leist’s munitions-worker (both bought by the
N.S.W. Gallery) and J. Wolinski’s war-time
study “We Can Take It” arc notable.
In still-life the field is held by Albert Sher-
man, one of whose gorgeous canvases, “Jewels,”
goes to the N. S. Wales Gallery.
Among the water-colorists the general
quality is higher than usual. G. K. Towns-
hend’s touch is surer than ever; Erik Langker
surpasses past performances in “The Distant
Township”; Margaret Coen’s flower studies are
charming. Her landscape “The Glade” goes to
the N. S. Wales Gallery.
Tom Garrett’s monotypes—they have a niche
of their own and their quality improves with
the years—and miniatures by D. M. Brookes
and etchings by Squire Morgan round off a well-
varied show.
“C.Q.”: The boom in Melbourne art
continues. Over 40 pictures were sold
out of an exhibition at the Sedon Gal-
leries of dead and living artists, the
former including W. B. Mclnncs, Charles
Conder, Lister Lister, David Davies,
Victor Zelman (killed in a London air
raid), Penleigh Boyd, Strecton and John
Mather ; the latter Norman and Lionel
Lindsay, Murray Griffen (p.o.w. in
Malaya) and Dora Wilson. The one-
man show by Ernest Buckmaster at the
Athenaeum netted close on £2OOO.
Next to the reason for wasting “non-
smoking” labels on suburban train car-
riages, Sydney’s major current mystery
is how George Wallace’s low-hung tropi-
cal shorts don’t fall off. In “Black Vani-
ties,” the Tiv.’s latest outburst, George,
beachcomber, contends uproariously with
Charles Norman, perfect English official,
over a very broadminded damsel who gets
washed up on their South Sea isle. The
ballet sparkles decoratively in the nicely-
mounted “Lamplighter’s Serenade”;
Slivers clowns cleverly on a bike; and,
though she condescends to the inevitable
microphone, Monda Lenz is a singer who
really has a voice.
“The Haxtons,” by Walpole, Adelaide
Repertory’s latest offering, is an uncom-
fortable drama of sisters-in-law (Roxy
Byrne and Ruby Litchfield) for ever
strapping. One of them has a son, a
rotter, but with “charm” (finely played
by a new recruit, Pricker), whose true
character is seen by nobody but cynical
Grandmother (Beryl Roberts): So many
of these supremely wise old ladies have
been met in recent plays and novels that
it seems high time that («) a Govern-
ment of Grandmothers was elected to
save the world or ( b ) all the old dears, as
an overworked fictional device, were
hanged by the neck.
At the talkies: — .
If Claire Booth were to view a revived per-
formance of “The Lights 9’ London she would,
no doubt, laugh at the Villain. But if, recipro
eating, the author of that gem of the nineties
were to see Claire Booth’s “Margin f°r Error,
the film version of which is at Sydney Civic, he
would see melodrama just as lurid. lr >
find this villain different in that he doesn t
twirl a 12-inch needle-pointed moustache, walk
like a crab and violently oscillate a P a > r
bushy eyebrows. The new villain is exag-
geratedly calm ; the shifty gaze of he old-iimer
gives place to a deceivingly candid stare. But
Claire Booth’s Nazi Consul, pla!> a ed hy °«o
Preminger, remains faithful to the g
traditions in the end —he gets shot, st
poisoned, all within 20 seconds,
almost hear the ghostly hisses and 1 gry
crushing of the peanut shells.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
120th Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE"
r
rfy <
\
i
Portrait of a
Summer Commando k
\
THE MOSQUITOES OUT
OF THE SKIES WITH
DAIMOS INSECT SPRAY
Dcdmos, concentrated insect spray. Kills moths,
mosquitoes, insects, cockroaches and others.
Contents of tin, 8 fluid ounces, to be mixed with
one gallon of kerosene, which makes a gallon
of insect spray. Price, tin 2/9
'
Lyrol Mosquito Repellant. Lyrol gently
applied to the surface of the skin repels
mosquitoes. It is effective and may be used
on the most tender skins. Price, cake, I/
-•MI'S/
////!??,
■m
JfSSy.
Oil of Citronella Compound. Perfect oil and
of full aroma.
Sizes: 1 oz. Price 10|d.
2 ozs. Price 1/5
4 ozs. Price 2/4-J-
Mosquito Coils. Pre-war stocks. . Genuine
pyrethrum floues content. Each coil will
bum for four hours. Boxes of 12 coils. lO^d.
-
■>
■Sy
i
Potter & Moore's Mosquito Repellent, in tubes.
This compound contains concentrated laven-
der which leaves no stain and is a sure
mosquito repellant. Price, tube • 1/2
Skeeta, the Mosquito and Insect Repellant.
Packed in glass screw-top jars. Prepared
from the formula by the late R. J. Tillyard,
F.R.S. Send a bottle in your next parcel to
the serviceman "up north". Price I/-
/V
Vi' V' aSx/j
A
sS
S? *■ » \ ■■■..
Mosquito Cream. An
It contains a high per-
centage of medications compounded into a
smooth, pleasant base. Price, jar 2/3
Celebrity Equator
effective repellant.
BRIGGS' IMPORTED BLACK BITUMEN PAlNT.— ldeal for Iron
and Composition Roofs and Gutterings. Durable, elastic and
anti-corrosive. In 5 gallon drums. Price, drum 42/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Goings Home
By MYRA MORRIS.
JOE called the little
girls inside and looked
anxiously at their faces.
There was dirt under
the rosiness.
“I don’t want to be cleaned-up,”
whined Julie, who was small for her
three years and inclined to easy tears.
“You must,” he said firmly. “Yqur
mother’s coming home today.”
He led the two into the bathroom,
where the wind fluttered little whiskers of
wood on the unlined walls, and washed
their faces with the damp end of a
roller-towel.
He sped them, outside with a good-
natured cuff, and started his prowl up
and down the passage, peering into the
rooms. .The house was spotless. It
smelled clean.
He had worked till late the night be-
fore, and had hurried over milking so
that he could get to the kitchen stove.
The stove looked nice now —just as
Marge liked it, shining as though it had
been lacquered, the kettles scoured and
the ash in the pan no more than a deli-
cate froth of rose and white like pink-
sugared apple-snow.
The same order prevailed in the
crowded little dining-room, where he had
evened the crumbling bricks of the fire-
place and raddled the hobs. He had put
yellow flowers in a 'vase.
He stood for a moment nodding his
satisfaction, a tall, stringy young" man
with a long face burnt to the color of
dust. His features were sensitively cut;
his high forehead with the skin drawn
tightly across, clean and worn like a stone
worn by the sea; his grey eyes keen and
a little perplexed as though the spectacle
of life puzzled while it enchanted him.
Pulling a hat down over his thinning
dark hair he went out into the yard,
walking with the headlong, slightly
pigeon-toed gait of an active man. He
could leave the place now with an easy
mind. Miss Bowden from across the
paddocks would be here at any moment
to keep an eye on the kids. Without
hurry he backed the tinny single-seater
out of the shed, drove past the side of
the bare weatherboard house towards the
gate. At the culvert a red-faced man in
a billowing shirt roared at him.
“ ’Day, Joe! Coin’ in for the missus?”
“That’s right, Ted!” Joe lifted his
hand from the wheel and gave a salute.
It was the gesture of a man used to
driving with a whip in his hand. . “Be
back less than two hours.”
HE wished regretfully, as the wheels
of the car fumbled for the crown of
the road, that he could have driven the
gig instead. The deep, mud-crusted ruts,
the milky-yellow water lying in unsus-
pected seams and hollows made steering
difficult.
But it was impossible to think of
Marge driving home ip the gig, sitting
high up, exposed to the bitter wind from
the plains with a two-weeks-old baby
in her arms. He was actually now, at
this moment, going into the township
hospital for Marge and the nipper! The
thought of it excited him, loosening in
him a feeling of awe and pride.
He straightened suddenly over the
jerking steering wheel, ducking his head
as the car splashed and bumped through
water and a frail dancing curtain of
amber drops hung between him and the
sky. Poor Marge, he thought, poor girl,
it wasn’t much of a place.
, Sighing, he looked over the bleak, un-
accented landscape. Bare paddocks
tufted with winter-whitened grass and
endless post-and-rail fences regular as
printed staves of music ; patches of young
crop, unearthly green and tender, touched
with quicksilver where water flooded the
hollows. A farm or two with ragged stacks
and jumbled outhouses that looked as if
they would disintegrate at a touch. And
over all a sky faintly rose at the edges,
colorless as melting ice, floating texture-
less and formless as a frosty breath.
He thought back to his place along-
side the road.
With Ted Simpson he had invested in
a saw-bench, and they were now cutting
the timber and stacking it ready for cart-
ing. The sound of the saw biting into
the resisting wood, that harsh, clanging
whine with its brazen bell-like echo,
soothed and gratified him, giving as it
did an impression of immense stir and
activity about the place.
He turned the car now into a smoother
patch of road where metal was hard
under the wheels. He felt all of a sudden
excited and uplifted. Nearly there now.
He drew up in front of the big white
hospital—the pride of the town —and
looked at his watch. Shyness descended
on him. Sweat broke in beads on his
face. He ran his fingers along the rough
back of his neck. “I’m early,” he thought
with a feeling of relief. “I’ll slip down
the street and have a haircut.”
INSIDE the hospital people sat about
' on wooden benches waiting with long,
patient faces. Nurses rustled past im-
portantly, moving on ugly black-
stockinged legs that did not seem to be-
long to them. Babies cried in the glass-
doored nursery, their voices faint and far
away like the voices of magpies calling
out of the grey void of early morning.
Marge waited sitting on a chair in the
little ward that held two beds. She was
a big-boned, composed-looking young
woman with a fuzz of sandy hair and
color in her cheeks that, lying close under
the skin, constantly came and went. She
was dressed in a faded brown cardigan
and a tweed skirt with loose threads and
a gaping plaquet.
A nurse bustled into the room, cheer-
ful and managing.
“You leaving at once, Mrs. Ander-
son? Baby’s all ready.”
“Yes, I fed him at two and they took
him away.” Marge’s voice was soft and
unhurried. “I’ll be able to have more of
him now.”
“You won’t want to be spoiling him,”
scolded the nurse. “Ach, you mothers!
And no taking him into bed, remember! ”
She went out with a tread that set the
bottles on the lockers jangling, and Marge
and the grey-haired woman in the next bed
exchanged a long, comfortable smile.
“What they know,” scoffed the woman
with the grey hair. “I’ve buried two and
reared five, and all of them slept in bed
with me—nibble, nibble, nibble all night
long like little mice till they dropped off.
Your man’s late, isn’t he, dear? Must
’a’ been kep’.”
“I don’t mind waiting.”
Marge looked peacefully in front of
her, her big, red hands folded on her
lap. It was .nice to be going home, but
she had been happy in here. Sleeping,
washing, eating, feeding the baby. Sleep-
ing again . . . eating. It would be dif-
ferent at home with everything to do . . ,
Her thoughts ran on easily, comfortably.
And then there was Joe standing in
front of her looking sheepish, twirling
his hat, muttering apologies. He was
sorry he was late. He’d called into
Hogan’s to have a haircut.
“It doesn’t matter,” said Marge, and
the quick red patched her smiling face
and ran down into her furrowed neck.
“I’ll tell Nurse to bring baby. Have you
brought my shoes?”
“Crumbs, no! I forgot them.” Joe
stared at her slippered feet, contrite and
wretched.
“Oh, well” Her gaze, absent and
unfocused like the gaze of a young
kitten, slid past him as she rang the bell.
“Get my things out of that cupboard,
and I’ll want a warm top-shawl to put
over him and”
It wasn’t until he was in the car with
the memory of the nurse’s patronising
laugh diminishing in his ears that Joe
felt completely happy and at ease. He
looked at Marge as she sat with her head
tilted, her chin topping the fringe of
woolly shawl. He felt tender towards
Marge and, in an obscure fashion, grate-
ful. He felt tender and grateful to all
women who went uncomplainingly down
into the Valley of the Shadow and
brought life back with them. It was dif-
ferent with a man. A woman had the
hard part.
Look at Marge now! It was starting
all over again for her. Three children
at her heels. Three! And a mean little
house and lack of ready money. Pinching
here, scraping there, making-do. He was
pierced by an anguish of pity for Marge.
The girl straightened her sliding hat
with a free hand and glanced bemusedly
at Joe, only half-seeing him —his thin,
sensitive face with its bony forehead, his
narrow shoulders hunched over the
wheel, his hands pocked with the tiny
scabs of healing sores. “Dear Joe,” she
thought vaguely, “He’s nice, he’s good
. . . Some husbands ... It will be nice to
be home. That new food in a tin. All
nursing mothers should have some, I
must get”
“Everything right at home?” she
asked with an effort.
“Fine,” said Joe eagerly. He wanted to
tell her in a rush. “Great kids, Kate and
Julie. Been gathering eggs. The white
chooks have started to lay. I’ve knocked up
some new roosts for them at the far end.”
He talked on, but his
voice faltered. She wasn’t
really listening. She was
brooding, her mouth slightly
open, her shallow brown
eyes fixed as on some inner vision. She
gave a tiny contented laugh.
“I’m glad he’s not a bottle baby like
Julie was. Of course it’ll mean giving him
a feed at six—bringing him into bed.”
Joe grunted, dimly offended. The car
dipped to a muddy creek, rose again.
Wind moaned along the wires of Simp-
son’s new fences. A cloud of white
cockatoos lifted tremulously and broke
like glistening sea-spray against the arch
of sky. The car panted and wheezed over
the last ruts. The house —small and bare
and definite in outline like a model house
in an agent’s window —came into view.
AS soon as they were inside the baby
began to cry. Miss Bowden, loitering
delicately, made clucking noises with her
tongue, and Marge watched her with a
remote, chilled look.
“He’ll be all right,” she said softly.
“Well, your cup o’ tea’s ready,” said
Miss Bowden, preparing to depart. “I’ve
had mine. I’ll be off now. Yes, it’s a
real nice baby and all.”
Joe went with her to the door and
came back. Marge was putting the baby
down in the cot. He was ready for her
when she emerged from the bedroom, a
child tugging at each hand. He waited
on her humbly, drawing her chair close
to the fire, putting a stool to her feet.
He poured out her tea, stirring it
anxiously. Good tea, wasn’t it? Todd’s
best Grade 1 Special. Not like that wish-
wash at the hospital. And the fireplace?
Did she notice the bricks he had evened
up at the back?
“It’s lovely,” said Marge, smiling. “Yes,
I noticed that at once.”
She began to unplait Kate’s tight
blonde plaits with practised fingers.
“And the flowers?” muttered Joe,
clearing his throat and craning his thin
neck. He spoke with a studied careless-
ness. “That yellow jasmine stuff. Pretty,
I put it in”
“It’s lovely,” said Marge, peering
about vaguely. “I noticed that, too.”
But Joe’s face had clouded. She hadn’t
really noticed at all. She hadn’t noticed
anything. He was conscious of flatness.
He smiled tiredly, listening to the little
girls’ piping prattle . . . The chooks had
got out of the yard and had scratched up
mummy’s seedbed.
“Crumbs,. I’m sorry, old girl; I left the
gate open,” said Joe miserably. “I
thought of it afterwards.”
“It doesn’t matter, love,” said Marge,
screwing up her eyes. A few old seeds,
she thought. What odds? She’d put the
pram round there.
Joe clattered the dishes into the kitchen,
wondering forlornly if Marge would
notice the polished stove.
Suddenly from a point away at the
back of the house he heard the harsh,
importunate whine of the saw. That
would be old Ted with his gawky son.
Damn! The sound went through him,
plunging, cutting like a knife through
quivering nerves and flesh and muscle.
He had never noticed before how shat-
tering the sound was, how inescapable.
He went quickly into the dining-room.
“I’ll stop that,” he said. “At once.”
Marge was sitting with her knees wide,
looking in front*, smiling contentedly at
nothing. Joe saw that she was miles
away, inaccessible, absorbed, wrapped in
a dream of her own making.
“Stop what?” she asked in a blurred
voice.
“The saw,” he said stupidly. “It makes
such a row. It’ll wake the kid.”
“He won’t hear,” she said, surprised.
“Anyhow, I don’t mind. I really didn’t
hear it.”
Joe tiptoed out into the yard. It was
funny Marge not minding the scraping
saw; funny her not minding the scratch-
ing chooks. She had always made a row
before. He looked appreciatively about
him. The afternoon light was begin-
ning to fail. The dead silvery timber,
the sheds, the shaggy gumtree, the cows
down by the bails, the white fowls peck-
ing near the grassy border seemed washed
with a cold greyish-lilac, seemed melting,
dissolving into that shadowy lilac, be-
coming part of it, inseparable from it.
All qt once everything that he saw seemed
precious and significant. He wanted to
gather every detail up and hold it fast.
He could see now. Marge in there. She
was temporarily removed from him, com-
plete in herself, happy and serene, above
and beyond the little irritations and obli-
gations of outside life. She was shrouded,
safe in her motherhood as in a cocoon.
Wrapped in a dream, he thought as he
moved through the lilac half-light,
wrapped in a dream.
Various Verse
In Memory of a Swimmer.
(“S.” O’R.)
Upon the roof that overlooks the blue
And green bejewelled bay
That varies in its shades as opals do;
While looking on the pool which lay
Below and seemed by melted sapphires filled,
We heard that he’d been killed
In action at Tobruk; that he was dead.
And someone said,
“It only seems to me like yesterday
I watched him swimming there.”
Another shook his head
And said, “Well, anyway,
He’s had his share
Of this, you’ll never see him here again.”
And many others spoke about him then.
But I
Left them to talk, for if, when bodies die,
The souls of men live on, as I believe,
Surely, I thought, he’ll come again to this
Old place of bliss.
The fates will surely grant him this reprieve
To see the only place he loved again,
The place he died for and could not forget.
For this was all he had or wanted, yet
It was a wealth no wise man would disdain.
Brother, this place you loved as much as I,
And though in life you had no ties with me
Except that we were kinsmen of the sea,
I will remember you until I die.
Long after all your friends have ceased to care.
When combers break across our lovely bay
And days are fair,
If in some sunless land your soul should be,
You may be happy there
To know that I remember you and say
“He would have loved today.”
N.S.W.
CHARLES CAMPBELL.
Rose Bay Boy at Buna.
So goes the life of Balfour Road,
With its garbage tins and cats;
And Polish blokes with prominent bokes
Their flat feet cased in spats.
Hong Kong, Singapore, short and ta11...
And the plane-trees fall.
The bulbuls sit on the telephone wire,
Their crests assault the sky.
The stink comes out of the mouldy mire
Here —in the reeds —to die?
I would sit in the sun by the western wall
Where the plane-trees fall.
“Iceland poppies fresh today,
Iceland poppies.” Duck
Or you lie unmoved as your cobbers lay
With your face in the filthy muck.
It is long since I heard the milkman call
Where the plane-trees fall.
The foxies chase the postman’s van,
The kids drift off to school,
Mum swiggles round with the watering can.
Keep down, you bloody fool,
A bush over there looks far too tall
And the plane-trees . . . fall.
N.S.W.
R. I. K.
Not Till Love Asks.
ẁ
ẃ
J. R. HERVEY.
"Beauty in Distress."
ŵ
ẁ
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—Nq. 3319.
Wednesday, September 22, 1943.
IN “FORTRESS” EUROPE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ANNIVERSARIES.
It occurred to Mr. Forde that September
12 was the fourth anniversary of the glori-
ous resurrection of the A.I.F. He may
have been reminded of it by the tributes
paid by General Blarney and Axel Olsen,
the “Argus” war correspondent, to the
A.I F.’s veteran 17th Brigade, inspired
by the impending fall of Salamaua, of
which Olsen wrote that it would “bring
to a close one of the most inspiring epi-
sodes in the history of the A.1.F.”
Under the command of Brigadier Moten,
and with independent companies, the 17th
Brigade beat back the Japanese from the
edge of Wau aerodrome, and for seven in-
credible months in the world’s worst
mountain jungle battled against vastly
superior numbers to recapture one ridge
after another and send the enemy fleeing in
disorder. Observation Hill, Mubo, Mt.
Tambu, Komiatum, Goodview Junction,
Bobdubi Ridge, they were all won by sheer
bravery and human endurance that day
after day was stretched to breaking-point.
Mr. Forde did not single out the 17th
Brigade for the flowery or cauliflowery
rhetoric of which he is a master. He
praised “the valor of our militia troops,
who in many .areas in New Guinea have
fought gallantly shoulder to shoulder with
the A.1.F.” He was particularly im-
pressed with “their latest achievement,
the capture of the Salamaua airfield,”
which, he said, “has earned them the
admiration and appreciation of Aus-
tralia” ; and that is certainly true of the
crossing of the swirling waters of the
Francisco River: according to Olsen,
some of the militia lads “risked their lives
to swim the fierce stream and sling ropes
for others to cross with equipment.” But
another account should be quoted:
The militia unit which swam the flooded
Francisco was the first to reach the Sala-
maua airfield. It held the field until the
main body of our attacking forces had
been ferried across.
Turning to the A.1.F., Mr. Forde said
that “Timor, Milne Bay, the Owen
Stanley Range, Kokoda, Buna-Gona,
Sanananda, Salamaua and Lae now
figure in the deeds of these splendid sons
of Australia,” and that “one is filled with
amazement that so much could have been
accomplished in four years” in the Middle
East and in the Pacific area.
Pride is blended with sorrow when we
pay tribute to the Eighth Division, most
of whom are still in Japanese hands. As
the Allied cause prevails, the release of
the Eighth Division comes nearer.
It was to the Eighth Division, at bay
on Singapore Island, that Mr. Forde ad-
dressed a radio message urging the officers
and men and their companions to be of
good cheer, for help was on the way.
It will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming torrent.
Had a British Minister sent such a
message he would at the least have been
called to account in the House of Com-
mons, in Mr. Churchill’s glowing phrase
the Grand Inquest of the Nation, if not
kicked from his place. But the Parlia-
ment at Canberra was too busy with
other topics to debate the tragedy of
Singapore, and Mr. Forde’s blither, so
far from being criticised, was never even
quoted. And if the survivors of the
Eighth Division are to be liberated by Aus-
tralian soldiers, it will be one more A.I.F,
job unless a change of policy is forced
on Mr. Forde’s Government by the pres-
sure of events. The northern limit Mr.
Forde’s Government has set for militia
service is south of the place in which
the Eighth had to lay down its arms and
of the places in which its broken detach-
ments are held captive.
Only one September anniversary was,
noted by the Army Minister. There are
others he could have mentioned ; and the
omission is here repaired.
September 6 was the fourth anniver-
sary of Mr. Curtin’s statement, as Labor
leader, of his party’s hostility to “con-
scription” and “expeditionary forces
those two issues upon which the Opposi-
tion is pledged,” and upon which “we
are determined to maintain the views and
the principles for which we have stood
and fought while we have been a party.”
The fourth anniversary likewise of Mr.
Ward’s demand for “a more definite
assurance that the [Menzies] Govern-
ment” was “not prepared to “ raise an
expeditionary force” ; in short, the A.I.F,
These things are of some consequence to
historians, though not, it seems, to
electors.
September 20 was the fourth anniver-
sary of the Labor party’s attempt, in a
measure sponsored by Mr. Curtin but
introduced by Mr. Ward, to make it un-
lawful to send militiamen to Moresby and
all other parts of Papua ; to Salamaua,
Wau, Lae, Madang and all the rest of
north-eastern New Guinea; to New
Britain, with Rabaul and Kokopo; to
New Ireland, with Kavieng; to all the
Solomon Islands held under Australian
Mandate and to Norfolk Island, as well
as to New Zealand, New Caledonia and
the New Hebrides.
September 21 was the fourth anniver-
sary of Mr. Curtin’s contribution to the
debate on this proposed law, which was
defeated, Mr. Curtin said “Those tern
tories which have been added to the Com-
monwealth under various arrangements
ought not to be made the subject of con-
scribed service ; we say there should be
no conscription for the defence of terri
tories extra-territorial to the continent —
they ought to be defended by forces
voluntarily recruited.”
A year later to the day the Common-
wealth election was held. Mr. Curtin
went to bed that night mournfully con-
vinced not only that his party had lost the
election (and indeed it failed of a major-
ity in either House), but that he had lost
his seat and would have to go back to
journalism. How, after days of intense
gloom, he learned from his scrutineers
that the U.A.P. majority in Fremantle had
been dissipated by careless voting down
the ballot-paper; how, on October 7,
1941, he became Prime Minister and how
September 21, 1943, found him ready to
meet the new Parliament, with an unpre-
cedented majority in the House and a
Ministry remoulded nearer to his heart’s
desire—all this is now part of Labor
history.
In Mr. Curtin’s progress from Cottesloe
—where he voted and experienced the
first fine rapture of the election results —
to the Prime Minister’s Lodge at Can-
berra it was roses, roses all the way.
Even opponents as far removed as Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Leahy, the chairman
of the Queensland Country-party organ-
isation, agree that majority Australia de-
clared for his party in a transport of en-
thusiasm for his leadership. It is as true
as that the strong Labor vote in
military camps was an expression of the
admiration and affection of the soldiery
for Mr. Forde.
A modest man, wise in the ways of
voters, and with experience, at times
bitter, of the impulses by which they are
swayed, Mr. Curtin knows better. He
owes his resounding success in the main
to the influences which caused the defeat
of conscription for overseas service when
it was twice put to the vote in the last
war. Revived in a generation which has
been taught for many years that conscrip-
tion for overseas service is an unholy
thing, and that wars are made by banks,
“imperialists” and armament manu-
facturers and should be fought by
volunteers, these influences, strengthened
by the “Don’t-shoot-Santa-Claus” spirit,
caused the defeat of an Opposition which
stood for One Army with equality of risk.
For an effect so general as a tremen-
dous swing in every State to a party with
a record of feckless meddling, regulation
mania and toleration of wicked war
strikes there must have been a general
cause. It is idle to pretend that it was
the result of a studied comparison be-
tween Mr. Curtin and Mr. Fadden or
between the Labor and Opposition
organisations. It might as well be argued
that the enormous number of informal
votes (200,000 in N. S. Wales alone) was
a deliberate mass rejection of the claims
of all the parties and candidates.
The election could decide one thing
only, and here the decision was definite.
After June 30, if not sooner. Labor will
be in control of both Houses, perhaps for
the rest of the war and for the first in-
stalment of peace. That is, unless the
bhoys go in for faction fighting on Dooley-
McGirr, Lang-Loughlin, Beasley-Scullin
and Beasley-Curtin lines, and though Mr.
Curtin’s proposal for an Imperial Con-
sultative Council may, if developed, breed
opposition among the narrow provincial-
ists of his party, especially disappointed
candidates for office, there is no present
ground for the expectation or fear that
Labor will tear itself to pieces again.
Sydney is strongly represented in Mr.
Curtin’s party, and in Sydney all the fac-
tion fights have started, as well as most
of the strikes, but it would not be in the
larger interests of the nation for the party
to break up again. Mr. Curtin himself
has no taste for faction fighting, and if,
with his increased prestige as the only
Labor Prime Minister who has been con-
firmed in, office by the people, he can
keep his majority solid, so much the
better.
But the problems with which the
Government was faced in August re-
main in September, and will accumulate
as time goes on. Though the Com-
munists polled contemptibly, they are
still in control of key unions and
“mergers,” and this control will have to
be challenged, if only because it threatens
to extend to Labor organisations, with the
one in Sydney as first prize. Unsettled
also is the question whether the trade-
unionist’s first loyalty is to a union clique
or the union executive or the nation —
whether mob law or Australian law shall
prevail. Ugly strikes in contempt of in-
dustrial awards, Judges’ orders, National
Security regulations and public necessi-
ties, suspended for a week or two before
the election, have broken out again.
They are more likely than not to increase
and multiply if Canberra inertia pre-
vails.
And finance remains a headache which no
words can charm away. If 75 p.c. of the
people who voted Labor subscribed £3O
a head to war loans Mr, Chifley would be
glad and proud, but it is not really
expected that the gratitude to and ad-
miration for Mr. Curtin alleged to have
been expressed at the polls will be sub-
stantially repeated on subscription forms.
Yet there is a tremendous amount of
loose money about. The bookmakers and
the publicans and the wine-shop keepers
and the professional football crowd in
Sydney are having the time of their
lives, and one of the four State Govern-
ments which run or license lotteries is
raking in about quarter of a million a
month. Mr. Chifley’s Government it-
self is so hard pressed for war funds that
it will be necessary for it to review this
expenditure, with due regard to the
operations of Santa Claus in fields where
the Commonwealth is notoriously getting
a poor return for its money, and also to
check the building up of huge post-war
funds, fruits of a foolishly generous dis-
tribution of income-tax revenue and of
prodigious Commonwealth payments for
“services,” by at least two State Govern-
ments. Moreover, it will have to over-
come its strange hostility to the pay-as-
you-earn basis of income tax, if only to
prevent the middle class, hitherto an un-
failing source of war-loan subscriptions,
from being wiped out.
And those who voted Labor in the
expectation that “the area” for com-
pulsory military service will remain
“bounded on the west by the 110th
meridian of east longitude, on the north
by the Equator and on the east by the
159th meridian of east longitude” will
most probably be disappointed. The
specified boundaries cut out all the
Malay Peninsula, Sumatra and the Philip-
pines, half Borneo and some of the Solo-
mons, together with the New Hebrides,
New Caledonia, the Tonga group, the
Gilberts, Nauru and Ocean Island. As
the war in the Pacific moves north, it
will be difficult to retain these limits.
Other nations whose conscripts have to
go wherever they are sent, and to one of
which Australia owes more than it can
ever repay, may object. If it is pleaded
that the population is too small to
warrant acceptance of equality of obli-
gation and risk (and Labor politicians are
always ready with this “argument”) Aus-
tralia may be told, with some asperity,
that it has more people than Scotland,
Wales, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Finland, Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania, Greece, Bulgaria, Bolivia,
Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uru-
guay, Venezuela and each of the Central
American republics, and that unless it
fights “all out” it can’t expect “all-out”
support at the peace conference, where
the White-Australia doctrine is sure to be
challenged.
One crying necessity is the creation of
another Eighth Division. After the 51st
(Highland) Division was lost in France
the Scots organised another 51st, which
has won an immortal name for itself as
part of Montgomery’s army. What Scot-
land did Australia, with 1,100,000 more
males, can do —and should.
General Guilt.
Txt . ■ , . . , ~
In America last week an Australian
bishop set up a now familiar scapegoat
and had a pelt at it; “Those statesmen
who at the time of crisis before the war
neglected to take the definite steps which
it was their duty to take are in a great
part responsible for this catastrophe of
war.” Apart from being a shade woolly,
this overlooks an important aspect of
democratic government—the big share of
responsibility of the people at large for
the policies their politicians pursue.
There was a similar overlooking in the
late Commonwealth elections, in which
the eventual winners made much of
the fact that when they became a
Government two months before Japan
came into the war Australia was unpre-
pared. This was the bare truth, and had
it been put out with complete honesty,
in a never-again spirit, laying it bare
would have been a fair service to the
country. Instead, it was, of course, put
out loaded with the implication that, had
there been Labor Governments before
and during the war, instead of a succes-
sion of non-Labor Governments, such a
state of affairs would never have existed.
This was misleading and dangerous
balderdash dangerous because what
should have been set up was an indelible
truth for future guidance. Nobody
asked the electors to consider how much
they themselves had been responsible for
Australia’s # unpreparCdness. Nobody
pointed out that time and again Australia
had endorsed and insisted on that very
state of things. .
When the Wrecker Government broke
up the defence establishment in 1929
there was not a solitary public protest.
It was followed in office and into oblivion
by a succession of non-Labor Govern-
ments pledged to the declared “policy”
of doing nothing to correct what it had
done. They made that positive promise
to the people, and the people elected them
on the strength of it. Right up almost
to the day war broke out unpreparedness
was precisely what majority Australia
preferred. Until the danger came any
leader who had dared to make adequate
defence a plank of policy would have
risked, and lost, his political neck.
The trouble with glossing this over —
giving majority Australia a handy scape-
goat to pelt instead of trying to waken
a general sense of guilt—is that this is
the surest guarantee of a repetition when
one day the same apparent safe circum-
stances return, as they most probably will.
Just at the moment the idea that Aus-
tralians might ever again allow any bunch
of politicians to lead them in defenceless-
ness seems idiotic, but there has never
yet been a war that was not followed
by violent anti-war reactions, usually
turning against anyone or anything in any
way representative of war.
It was such a national, or at any rate
majority, reaction —expressed in a variety
of ways and at election after election —
which really accounted for the sorry stale
Australia’s defences were in when the
first Curtin Government took over. And
these defences then could be called
strong compared with what they were
when the war broke out in 1939. In his
electioneering Dr. Evatt gave some details
that remained spine-chillers even though
the state of things he referred to no
longer existed. When he went abroad on
his first mission, he said, he “valued one
tank, one aeroplane, one anti-tank gun as
worth to Australia all the wealth of our
country.”
For months our equipment position was
desperate. Every soldier and sailor and
airman knows the facts. We had less than
a dozen tanks in the country. For a while
we had not a single modern fighter ’plane
to deal with the enemy bombers. Five
Wirraways were all the R.A.A.F. had with
which to defend Rabaul.
Every soldier and sailor and airman
certainly knew these facts, and many a
fine man among them lost his life because
these were the facts. What training
many of them had had they had gained
with wooden weapons, with wooden guns,
even with “guns” drawn with pointed
sticks on the ground. What Dr. Evatt
neglected to mention, and what no other
of the multitude of political aspirants
thought of pointing out, was that this was
nothing more than an inseparable conse-
quence of majority Australia’s preference
for the very minimum in defence between
the wars. It was a preference dictated
not by the heart nor by the head, but
by the pocket, and by selfishness and
inertia. And when the war is over, and
the immediate danger which makes heavy
taxes bearable and understandable has
passed, these influences may again be-
come strong, with politicians only too
agreeable to exploit them, and possibly
with defence—as in the past —the first
sacrifice. That is, unless majority Aus-
tralia, which decides such matters, has
this time really learnt something from
what very nearly happened.
But if Australia is to profit by the truths
of its perilously narrow escape it will
need to realise what those truths were —
not just swallow electioneering poppy-
cock about its all having resulted from the
negligence of a couple of short-lived war-
time Governments. The two main truths
that need facing are (1) that the guilt
of unpreparedness belongs to the country
at large, and (2) that preparing for
present-day war takes time: it is only
now that even such a highly-industrialised
country as the U.S.A. is coming up to
scheduled war production.
The Curtin Government now has the
opportunity to turn what were merely a
lot of electioneering pretences into reali-
ties. Even if the war should outlast it,
it can meanwhile establish this country’s
security on foundations that no future
bunch of politicians (of any political
color), pandering to and reflecting some
temporary aberration in majority Aus-
tralia’s thinking, will be able to destroy
without placing themselves in danger of
being destroyed. The power has been
placed in its hands, if the will exists.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Out of the Silence.
Australians with sons, brothers, hus-
bands and fathers in the lost Eighth Divi-
sion have heard from them at last.
Lists and cards conveyed little more
than the fact that the men were
alive and well; but they brought enor-
mous relief to people who had gone
through long months of anxiety. For
some they brought even greater news,
for more than one soldier earlier re-
ported “missing, believed killed,” is now
known to be alive. Thousands heard of their
men for the first time since Singapore fell.
Only those who have suffered such
anxiety can appreciate what it meant to
read a name in a list or hold a small card
bearing a few words in a well-known hand.
The mail was a long time reaching its
destination. It went from Japan to Swit-
zerland before coming to Australia. Only
time will reveal the motives of the enemy
in not allowing communication between
prisoners and their families long before
this. Most of the cards in the first lot
were dated June and July, 1942.
While lists and mail were being eagerly
read, “S. M. Herald’s” man in China,
Selwyn Speight, sent more news. “From
a source not Chinese, and meriting much
more than ordinary attention,” he learned
that great camps had been built on the
isthmus linking Malaya with the main-
land ; that at first these camps left much
to be desired ; that there had been deaths
from malaria and malnutrition, but that
on protests from the Red Cross the camps
were improved and the malaria reduced.
The men are said to look fairly healthy.
Most of them have lost, worn out or bar-
gained away all their clothes except shorts,
but the Australians somehow have managed
to retain their hats and are still easily
recognisable.
They would be. To set them free is
a sacred duty, and the obligation rests
on the whole nation, not merely a part
of it, however gallant the part.
H.M.A.S. Shropshire.
Loss of H.M.A.S. Canberra in a surprise
attack in the Solomons on the night of
August 9, 1942, led to two departures
from the usual. As a mark of apprecia-
tion for Australia’s part in the Pacific
war the U.S.A. named one of its cruisers
after the lost Australian cruiser, and
Australia, at first intending to rename
the British gift cruiser Canberra, left its
own name of Shropshire to stand.
Now H.M.A.S. Shropshire has left a
U.K. dockyard with an all-Australian crew
of 820, mostly survivors from Aus-
tralian warships that have been lost, and
with Captain J. A. Collins, formerly of
the Sydney, and one of the most out-
standing of naval gunners, in command.
As well as the name, H.M.A.S. Shrop-
shire carries its original bell, Captain
Collins deciding to retain it as a per-
manent reminder that she is a gift ship.
Otherwise, she has undergone a great
change, has been completely refitted, and,
with her firing power enormously in-
creased, is rated one of the most for-
midable fighting ships of her size afloat.
Where shp will do her fighting was not
given out, but Captain Collins expressed
the wish that it would be against the
Japs. If so, the Japs will get a taste of
something of what British inventive
genius was doing while British courage
—for so long alone —was ensuring that
freedom, civilisation did not perish from
the earth. This inventive side is one of
the least publicised parts of J. Bull’s
splendid effort, but, with the threat of
catastrophe averted, and now with others
in making victory certain, it is of the
highest importance. American, Russian,
Dominion and all other troops, airmen
and seamen against the Axis benefit in-
calculably by it, in new and improved
fighting weapons and in other ways, and
America, in particular, gives unstinted
praise and thanks for J.B. inventiveness.
H.M.A.S. Shropshire is a striking
example of the J.B. genius in the navy
sphere. She is fitted with many secret
devices and weapons, and these, along
with practically all the equipment in-
stalled, have been invented since 1939.
And Australia, it may be hoped, has
learnt enough by now never again to, in
a fit of pacifist lunacy, tow a fine ship
outside a harbor and send her down to
Davy Jones’s locker, imagining war will
come no more.
/
Union-ridden Slaughteryards.
If, as Scripture has it, “the meek shall
inherit the earth,” Sydney people should
get a big share of it. They submit to coal,
bread and meat strikes and to Govern-
ment mishandling of them with a docility
which excites the wonder of the rest of
Australia.
The latest meat strike saw the familiar
queues, the familiar Ministerial ineptitude
and thousands going meatless. It lasted
11 days, and might still be going on but
that Mr. Curtin issued certain directions,
which were accepted—at least, for the
time being.
When the strike began it was given
out that it was against “certain wages
and holiday provisions of the award” ;
but these were the terms of “settlement”:
That the Meat Commissioner should
arrange for the separate slaughtering of
suspect and reactor cattle and that the
employees should return to work.
A small thing on which to hold up a
great city’s meat supply, but union job-
controllers have no conscience about
excuses. Anything will do.
There were the usual compulsory con-
ference before the Industrial Commis-
sion, the usual direction that the men
should return to work and the usual
ignoring of it. Followed appeals by the
State Minister of Labor, the Federal
Meat Controller and others. They re-
ceived the same treatment as Justice
Cantor, who had said:
The stoppage is not only against the em-
ployer but against the law. It is a strike
against the community in general, the fight-
ing forces and our kinsmen overseas.
Mr. Knight bleated that on being
appointed State Minister of Labor he
had become greatly concerned about
“continual stoppages” at the Homebush
abattoirs—it is a State Government con-
cern —and had set up a Reference Board.
He believed “there is ground for a full
and complete inquiry.”
There was a “full and complete in-
quiry” last year. The only effect it had
was to further weaken the authority of
the man placed in charge pf the Govern-
ment “enterprise” at Homebush. It had
a Labor member for chairman, it heard
79 witnesses and produced a report
weighing over 21b. and costing 15s. a
copy. Among the 79 witnesses were
many members of the union, who were
paid for giving evidence.
That “full and complete inquiry” made
it clear that Homebush slaughtermen
simply won’t obey “the award,” unless it
suits them, though, as a witness pointed
out, “the award” asks them to do less than
boys do in country works, A Sydney
“Herald” man wrote after a personal in-
vestigation that beef men work about
22\ hours and mutton men 32i hours a
week, and that few are on hand after
midday on Fridays. Pay ranges from
£1 Bs. a day for unskilled laborers on
piecework to £2 4s. on mutton chains.
The remedy for the long-lasting bother
at Sydney’s Government slaughteryards
is country killing. Aside from the humane
aspect —anybody who has worked on
stock trains knows what the animals
suffer on their way to the city and the
saving to the producer, decentralisation
would put an end to the brazen holdups.
No country slaughteryard could hold the
city to ransom.
Robbing the Land.
From a recent observer:
You have to see for yourself to understand
what the farming communities have suffered
through being denuded of man-power. Central-
west N. S. Wales is a fair sample.
Just now they’re finishing the shearing. It
was mostly done by neighbors, with a few
shearers circulating through the district. Every
one of these neighbors had to let his own
work slide for the week or fortnight he was
helping the others. Some were able to get sons
home on leave for the work —a blessed, though
temporary, relief.
Farm after farm has been reduced to one
man; generally the farmer himself, no longer
young and frequently worn with years of toil.
Many who had retired to near-by towns for a
well-earned rest, leaving their sons to carry on,
have had to come out of retirement.
Any decent-sized wheat and sheep farm needs
at least two men all the year round. There are
dozens of small, day-by-day jobs that must be
done by one man —tending the sheep, the
fences, the chooks, the dogs, the tanks, the
horses, the fuel the mail, the supplies. A
man can’t start his fallowing and then leave it
at odd times through the day to do the small
jobs. Any breakage means a trip to town for
parts (if they can be got). Illness or injury is
literally a disaster. Crows, blowflies, rabbits
and weeds have to be fought all the time.
Just now many men are weeks behind with
their fallowing. The central-west is facing a
bountiful spring. You can almost hear the
grass growing at night. This excessive growth
ought to be cut and put down for silage, but
who is to do it? The early spring rains are
cutting gullies across old fallows, through gate-
ways and down tracks, but there is nobody to
stop the erosion. Saffron, Bathurst burr and
black oats are springing on the old cultivations;
there’s nobody to turn them in.
There was a shortage of machines and
machine parts. That doesn’t matter now, be-
cause there is nobody to work the machines.
Tractors and discs stand idle while acres simply
cry out for working after the good' rains. And
if the grasshoppers come, as many expect them
to come, they’ll have an open go.
The Women’s Land Army is a washout in
that country. The girls might be all right for
pea- and fruit-picking, but wheat and sheep men
won’t look at ’em. One man who tried them
found that they thought it was a picnic. One
girl complained because nobody had cleaned
her shoes overnight.
In the early days of the enemy threat to
this country there may have been some excuse
for the hurried and visionless calling up of
man-power from the farms. But those days are
over long since, and unless there’s an equally
hurried return of men to the land heaven
only knows how the country is going to keep
its farms going, let alone feed its own and
Allied troops and help to feed the British.
“HOME, HOME ON THE RANGE,
Where seldom is heard a discouraging word
And the s-kies are not cloudy all day.”


¥
400 - YEARS BEFORE ITS
4
Leonardo Da Vinci, famous as a
painter, sculptor, architect, scien-
tist, engineer and anatomist in the
fifteenth century, invented a mul-
tiple-barrelled gun designed to fire
successive volleys. In this zvay he
anticipated by over four hundred
years the modern quick-firing mul-
tiple barrel anti-aircraft pom-pom.
IHE inventive genius of Leonardo Da Vinci has its counter-
part in the history of A.T.L. Before the war A.T.L. were con-
centrating on production of one of the most scientific and
amazing mechanical robots ever invented—the Premier Auto-
matic Totalisator. With the outbreak of war the skilled per-
sonnel and years of experience of A.T.L. were called upon to
produce some of the most intricate and precise tools, gauges
and instruments required in munitions production.
When you think of precision engineering, precision
toots or gauges—think of
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE PERTH • BRISBANE
mproi/RMM
nomical, quickly effective in
druff and cradle cap.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitkcn Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
Stimulate
Its growth
and keep it
healthy with
McMahon's.
Easy and eco-
cases of failing hair, alopecia
patches, scalp dryness, dan-
w
ŵ
POLITICAL POINTS
In the new House there is the greatest
number of Labor members ever elected,
49. In 1929 there were 47, but one,
Frost, of Franklin, arrived after a by-elec-
tion, McWilliams, whom Labor did not
oppose, having died without taking his
seat. In 1910 there were 41 ; in 1914,
40. But there were far more Labor
Senators then than there are now or will
be after June 30. It was the double-
dissolution year, and 31 Labor Senators
got in ; and then Labor had to present
a seat to the other side, Gregor Mc-
Gregor, one of Fisher’s Ministers, hav-
ing died between nomination-day and
polling-day.
To Senator Amour went the greatest
individual vote ever given to an Austra-
lian—7s7,73l, with some service ballot-
papers to come. It was greater than the
votes polled for Parkes, Barton, Reid,
Deakin, Forrest and Kingston at all their
elections ; and a few more distinguished
men of the past could be thrown in.
Sydney contributed the bulk of it. Yet if
Senator Amour walked from end to end
of George-street not one supporter in a
thousand would recognise him, even if
crowds had been collected by the an-
nouncement that at a certain hour an un-
named celebrity would appear among
them. *
Worthy as she is/of the distinction of
being the first M.H.R. of her sex. Dame
Enid Lyons’s election supports the im-
pression that the deciding influence in the
constituencies was the old anti-conscrip-
tion feeling in a 1943 form. With seven
candidates running, the Labor plus Com-
munist total of primaries exceeded the
U.A.P. total by 710. In Darwin, but
nowhere else, there was a leakage of
Labor preferences, and Dame Enid
emerged the winner by 826 votes in an
effective poll of 27,294. Electors must
have remembered what the lady said
when her husband was P.M.—that if he
ever came out for compulsory military
training she would oppose it.
Out of the night that covered him.
Fadden turned up at the declaration of
the Darling Downs poll, his head bloody
but unbowed. He said he had no regrets
for having advocated post-war credits,
pay-as-you-earn tax or One Army for
Australia, “though this undoubtedly cost
us thousands” of votes —he might have
made it “hundreds of thousands.”
If I had to submit a policy to the people
tomorrow I would not subtract one comma
or one full stop from the policy I enunci-
ated before August 21.
In his career of ups and downs nothing
has become him so much. It is the real
Arthurian spirit, as distinguished from
the “Call-me-Artie” spirit. Unfortunately
there are no Galahads or Bediveres
among Arthur William’s followers, nor
any place where he may “heal” him of
his “grievous wound.”
Artie returned to Canberra a leader
without a party or with only the shadow
of one. So did Billy. A resolution of
the N.S.W. Cockies virtually ended the
U.A.P.-C.P. arrangement which dates
back to Bruce-Page, It is expected that
Menzies will lead the U.A.P. and Page
the C.P. : and as captain of the bigger
team Menzies, if chosen, will be recog-
nised as leader of the Opposition. But
while Labor logrolling for portfolios was
going on it was given out that Spender
and Holt had hopes of beating Bob.
A sort of “off again, on again, gone
again, Finnegan” disturbance hit the Mel-
bourne “Parliament” last week. Dunstan
resigned, Cain formed a Government,
then Dunstan’s C.P. and Hollway’s
U.A.P. threw Cain out within 48 hours
and Dunstan was re-enthroned with
U.A.P. support. Cain called it “unsavory
and unseemly machinations” and a “dis-
graceful U.A.P. somersault.” Agreed;
but who kept the Dunstan crowd in
office for eight years? Cain.
Cain wasn’t Able.
The price Dunstan had to pay to get
back into office was to jettison four of
his Ministers to make way for four
U.A.P. men. George Goudie (77), Old
(68), Mackrell (65) and Bailey went out,
and Hollway, Macfarlan, Oldham and
Humpty Dunstan sat on a wall ;
Humpty Dunstan suffered a fall;
But U.C.P. horses and U.A.P. men
Combined to put Humpty together again.
Kennedy came in ; moreover, Chandler
(U.A.P.) replaces Rodda (C.P.), who re-
signed to contest the Wannon Federal
seat. In the final C.P. ballot for Ministers
Dodgshun and McDonald tied for last
place. The names were drawn from a
hat, and McDonald’s came out. All the
names should have been drawn from a
hat.
Under a special Act passed in May,
1939, Dame Enid Lyons was granted an
annuity of £5OO till death or remarriage,
and the same amount for the care of
her 11 children, limited to 10 years.
She has announced that she will not draw
her annuity while a member, and an
unchivalrous Labor section talked of
questioning her right to be a member.
Constitutional Section 44 disqualifies
“any person who holds any pension pay-
able during the pleasure of the Crown
out of any of the revenues of the Com-
monwealth” from being “chosen or sit-
ting as a Senator or a member of the
House,” but annuities voted by Parlia-
ment can scarcely be construed as “pay-
able during the pleasure of the Crown.”
John Forrest had an Imperial pension of
£5OO. He drew it as a Commonwealth
member, but not during his periods of
office.
Inmates of the Old Men’s Home at
Lidcombe (Sydney) get one (1) ounce of
butter a week, and that on Sundays.
The fact was elicited at a Government in-
quiry, a typical N.S.W. Labor expedient
—in this case it was a sequel to an awk-
ward campaign worked up by a philan-
thropic Sydney businessman, J. Wallace-
Alexander. The Labor Government is
rolling in easy money supplied by the
Commonwealth, but with such important
things to concentrate on as a new horse-
racing club and a Control Board for
“that good and useful sport dog-racing”
(Mr. Badly), how can it be expected to
see that the indigent aged get two (2)
ounces of butter a week?
The R.S.L. embargo on political action
has been removed, as far as N. S. Wales
is concerned, by a resolution of the State
branch. It doesn’t mean that the N. S.
Wales Diggers are forming a party, but
that may come.
For once Hitler is in agreement with
one of his implacable and most successful
enemies:
Hitler: Without the intervention of the
German soldier North Africa would have
been lost to Italy as early as the winter of
1940.
Cunningham: The Italians were nearly
gone at the end of 1940, but the Germans
came in and stiffened them up.
Though the admiral’s statement was made
after Hitler’s admission, the difference in
time was only a few hours, so in all
probability he knew nothing of it.
The Sydney Government is appointing
a Director of Post-War Reconstruction
at £l2OO a year. Even if it finds more
for the secretary of its racing club, as it
probably will, this means the setting up
of another department, with deputy-
directors, deputy-sub-directors and so on
down to office-boys. What the Sydney
Government wants a Director of Post-
War Reconstruction for is beyond com-
prehension. It already has a bunch of
overpaid Ministers and overstaffed de-
partments with little to do but twiddle
their thumbs and squabble about pre-
rogatives.
People who voted Labor in the belief
that election of an arjti-Labor Govern-
ment would mean industrial upheavals
must be scratching their heads. The bin
Sydney meat strike which followed the
election was hardly over when fresh
strikes broke out in the mines, and on
Monday it was threatened in Melbourne
that 6000 munitions workers would come
out in support of some girls who didn't
like a forewoman’s face.
Exit from the Senate after June 30,
Richard Darcey, Tas. Labor’s “costless”-
credit crank. According to his own ac-
count, Darcey was 68 when he stood for
election (Oct. 23, 1937), and he arrived
for “one purpose”—to give the “inter-
national financiers” beans. He railed at
them so often and in such strange places
that his fellow-members were never safe.
When journeying from Canberra to Syd-
ney, a member of the [Menzies] Govern-
ment asked me to explain how the proposed
defence expenditure could be financed
through the Commonwealth Bank free of
interest. I gave him an hour and a half.
He said I talked to him from Canberra to
Sydney, but that is not correct; he left the
train at Goulburn. On another occasion
an honorable Senator opposite asked me
when I was going to give another talk on
finance, and 1 replied that I had just
spoken on the subject for 25 minutes. He
replied, “I must have been playing
billiards.”
In the end the old boy talked himself out
of his job, as did Baker, of Maranoa,
who had too much zeal about the Bris-
bane Line.
The President to Congress:
There has i one serious gap in the
lines of our globe-girdling sea-power, the
gap between north-west Australia and Cey-
lon. That gap can now be closed as a
result of the victory in the Mediterranean.
You would almost think he was address-
ing—and rebuking—our Mr. Beasley.
When Queensland Premier Cooper
somewhat grandiloquently announced that
his Government proposed to suspend its
tax on unimproved land, Nicklin rose up
to call it a very small crumb, a mere
tenth of a penny in the pound off total
revenue, which was over £5,000,000 above
the estimate. An Opposition motion for
suspension of all State land taxes until
after the war was thrown out. Then
Cooper announced the figures for 1932-
33 : surplus of £68,800, plus £1,670,000
added to the post-war-reconstruction fund;
cash balance on June 30, £5,699,000, an
increase of £3,445,000 for the twelve-
month. Is Chifley listening?
Mrs. Roosevelt, looking down from a
’plane:
Everywhere in wooded sections you see
trees ringed so they will die, and the reason
given me is that they must clear the land
so that grass will grow better As I look
down from the ’plane I recognise the
familiar look of eroded land which we now
have to try to stop in our own country.
A pity the First Lady didn’t have a few
Australian “statesmen” with her in that
’plane.
As Sydney “Sun’s” Canberra man sees
it:
Main opposition to pay-as-you-go taxa-
tion has come from the conservative
Treasury Department Though com-
pletely independent on policy matters, the
Treasurer places great reliance on Treasury
officials on administrative questions. This
has probably influenced him against the
proposal.
But isn’t Chifley’s party supposed to be
running the country?


w
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Among the postcards received by rela-
tives of soldiers in Japanese prison camps
is one from the soldier-member for ihe
Northern Territory, A. M. Blain, who
pronounced himself fit and well.
Dominion airmen in London have a
choice off-duty rendezvous —one of the
city’s oldest surviving chop houses, the
Watling, in Bow-lane. It dates back be-
yond the Great Fire (1666), in which it
was damaged. The German bombing
raids missed it. A couple of months back
one evening’s guest of honor there was
Wing-Commander J. R. Ratten, of
Hobart, first Australian to command a
Spitfire wing in Britain. Australian mem-
bers of one of the most famous of Spit-
fire pursuit squadrons presented him with
a tankard inscribed with the crest of the
R.
Major V. M. (“Mick”) Newland, in
the chair at the latest S.A. reunion of
S’African War Veterans—the 34th, with
over 100 present—-has the odd distinc-
tion of having fought against Smuts
in the Boer War and been on his
staff in 1915. Also, staying on in S’Africa
as a big-game hunter, he outfitted Theo-
dore Roosevelt for the expedition which
gave the word teddy-bear to the lan-
guage. V.M. is a son of the author of the
S. pioneering classic Paving the Way ;
Henry Newland, one of Adelaide’s lead-
ing surgeons, is a brother ; so was Phil
Newland, who went to England as a
wicketkeeper in an Australian XI long
ago, but had a bad accident on the way
and died young.
On James Cowan;
A wreath of New Zealand ferns and kawa
kawa leaves—the Maori symbol of grief—was
the P.E.N. Club’s tribute to James Cowan, who
died at Otaki. It epitomised very well the
great debt that New Zealand writers, the Maoris
and the Dominion as a whole owes to a man
who gave his whole life to the documenting
of Maori life, their legends, their history, their
poetry, their ceremonies, their wars and their
simple life in whare and wharepuni. He spent
his boyhood in the very centre of Maori tra-
dition, for his father’s farm in the Waikato
included the site of Orakau, where the most
spectacular battle of the Maori wars had been
fought and where Hauraki Tonganui ( not Rewi
Maniapoto) shouted the words that have be-
come a legend, “Friend, we will fight you lor
ever and ever.” Cowan spoke Maori fluently,
and took down his narrative of Orakau from
the lips of a survivor, Tupotahi. New Zealand
writers will be borrowing from his books for
generations. Some of them, particularly Faery
Folk Tales of the Maori and The Maoris of
New Zealand, could well be reprinted in Aus-
tralia; Maori exploits in this war have re-
awakened interest in the warrior race. Cowan
kept on writing until a few months before his
death, and left, to be added to a big output of
published works, the MSS. of six or seven
books.
Albert Arthur (“No-no”) Dunstan now
has two records in the Victorian Premier-
ship that are likely to stand for a while
Premier for over eight years, and then
out of the job for eight-and-forty hours
before he was Premier again. He got the
“No-no” title because of his opposition
to Sunday entertainment in Melbourne,
where, as one service man put it, a
day’s leave on the Sabbath is’ me nearest
thing to absolute misery attainable in
this life.” A whale for work, Dunstan
has claimed to have had a hand in
putting more than 800 laws in the statute
book. He has represented Korong and
Eaglehawk since 1920, with one taste of
foreign travel, representing the State at
the coronation of George VI.
“Cauboy” with G. 8.5.:
In his autobiographical essay Immaturity
G. B. Shaw had a lot to say about his cousins,
uncles and aunts, and it wasn’t the sort of
thing most people bare to the public. One of
his many uncles, he wrote, was a ship’s sur-
geon who on periodical visits regaled his nephew
with unprintable limericks, mad profanity and
obscene stories. Another was such a con-
sistent toper that a wager that he could be
produced sober and called out of bed at
six in the morning was lost. Another shuffled
off this mortal coil by putting his head in a
carpet-bag, a method that seemed so comic
to the youthful Shaw that it destroyed his awe
of death as a romantic conclusion to existence.
His father was a convivial drunkard who got
scandalously drunk at every party he went to
and eventually found every door in London
shut against him, so that Shaw never had any
social position to keep up, which he regarded
as an unmitigated blessing. The only note he
made about his wife (just dead in London) was
that she was his best critic. He was 42 when
Miss Charlotte Payne Townsend was being
launched on London society by her wealthy
Dublin parents. The rising Irish playwright met
her in, of all places, a Sussex rectory, and the
original review he gave her of the society her
parents wanted her to enter interested her so
much that for 45 years she shared his intellec-
tual voyage and probably found it more excit-
ing, if tempestuous, than any London season.
Her own intellectual achievement was in trans-
lating. She translated and published the three
plays of Brieux, one of which, “Damaged
Goods,” caused almost as big a sensation as
Shaw’s own “Mrs. Warren’s Profession.” His
wife accompanied G.B.S. on all his travels and
was inconspicuously by his side during his
sojourn in N.Z.
Leonard Grant, manager of the New-
castle steelworks, becomes B.H.P.’s new
g.m. in the place of the late Leslie Brad-
ford. Keith Butler goes to the steelworks
managership, with lan McLennan as
assistant.
By October 4 Sol Rosevear —always
so referred to, though there’s a John in
front of the Solomon —will have held
Dailey longer than any other of its
holders (he bagged it from Ted Theodore
in 1931). In contrast, he was Speaker for
only a matter of days—while the first
Curtin Government was winding up. All
hands agree that he made a tip-top
Speaker, brightening with a lively brand
of wit what turned out to be the political
funeral of quite a lot of the gentleme.n
below. There’s a touch of private irony
in Sol’s being harnessed to the resounding
job of Commonwealth Controller of
MADE A TIPTOP SPEAKER.
Leather and Footwear. Five years back
a burglar relieved him of a goodly piece
of leather he owned, shaped into a
travelling-bag. Sikes also relieved him
of the best suit he’d ever possessed, and
pinched also his cups and medals, re-
minders of when he took a hand in sport,
including Soccer and water-polo. These
days he names reading his main recrea-
tion. He’s been in the A.L.P. since he
was 18, when he worked in timber mills
at Pyrmont.
When the Rev. R. C. Firebrace
announced his intention of having
a shot at Parramatta some uncouth
person reminded him of his one-
time adventuring in pyramid prophecy,
and asked if it couldn’t be applied
to the prospects then lying ahead.
The Rev. refused to be drawn, except to
say something to the effect that he ex-
pected that to be brought up in the cam-
paigning, leaving the impression that he’d
gften that up. If so, he can have for
company another notable ex-prophet,
American Admiral William F. Halsey,
who a while back twice predicted that the
Japs would be licked this year. Re-
minded of this by a rude scribe the other
day, the admiral broke into an ear-to-ear
grin and said with emphasis: “I refuse
to gaze into the crystal-ball any more!”
In one last-war A.I.F. unit it was the
custom for a while to sentence delin-
quents to be cooks, and it says enough
for Digger toughness that some of their
victims are still on deck. "These days,
apparently, they try to do things differ-
ently in the bab line, as witness the
recent appointment of Major N. M. Gut-
teridge as medical liaison officer “to co-
operate with the Directorate of Army
Catering in looking after the nutrition of
Australian troops.” Whatever miracles
certain babs will no doubt still perform
in translating good food into something
else, the planning of the issue in the first
place is in good hands. Major Gutteridge
was six years chairman of the Queens-
land Nutrition Council and has done a
lot in improving general nutrition in the
northern State. Lieut.-Col. Stanton
Hicks is the Director of Army Catering.
In one of the welter of guesswork
cables touching on Musso. in the role of
jack-in-the-box it was guessed that he’d
presently declare King Victor Emmanuel
null and void as Italy’s ruler. He did,
and if it carried any more weight than
one of Musso.’s balcony speeches does
now, it would end a quite remarkable
reign. King Victor has managed to hold
his throne since 1900, and meanwhile
Italy has been in two world wars, two
smalier wars and a revolution. His
queen, Helena affectionately called
Madre by the general run of Italy’s
people—is credited with having in her
day improved nursing standards in her
country until they compared with those
of Britain and America. She is held to
be the tallest queen in the world —six
feet, to King Victor’s five-foot-three.
It turns out that
General Ritta von
Thoma, commander
of the Afrikakorps,
fell to Captain Grant
Allen Singer, 11th
Hussars, now mechan-
ised. With a couple
of light armored cars,
far from our lines,
Singer clashed with
two German tanks,
shot it out and won.
Among his prisoners
was Von Thoma.
Singer was the adopted
son of Washington M.
Singer, yachtsman and
racehorse owner, from
whom he inherited
£1,000,000 and an
estate, Norman Court,
in Wiltshire. He left
Cambridge in 1935 to
lead the comfortable
life of a fox-hunting
gentleman and be-
come master of the
Hursley Hounds in
Hampshire. But it is
doubtful whether he
ever ran to earth as wily a fox as Von
Thoma.
Universally known as “Doc,” W. B.
Carr (B. 8/9/’43), was a man who came
to the top in whatever he touched. A
junior on the old “Register,” he became
sporting editor when Moxon Cook left
for Melbourne “Argus.” In the Kal-
goorlie boom he joined Adelaide Stock
Exchange, and presently was its chairman
for 25 years. Meanwhile he was chair-
man of Adelaide Racing Club for 10
years, after which he resigned to become
a committeeman of S.A. Jockey Club,
and in five years was chairman of that,
holding the position from 1924 to 1940,
and continuing on the committee till his
death. He married four times.
“Old Unionist”: Jack Osborne, run-
ning as an Independent in the N.S.W-
Willoughby scramble, is the man who,
as sec. of the original Shop Assistants’
Union, secured the first industrial award
for white-collar workers. Osborne, in
the boom, won the Paddington seat,
which had hitherto been regarded as an
anti-Labor certainty (the electorate, now
in East Sydney, has changed greatly). A
place on the Meat Board got him safely
out of the disruption over conscription
and other issues. He has recently been
an executive of the Benevolent Society.
Two more men from newspaper offices
figure in active-service awards —Lieut.
John M. Colless, of the “S. M. Herald’s”
reader staff, and Squadron-Leader E. K.
Sinclair, formerly a reporter on Mel-
bourne “Age” and for some years on the
London staff of Australian Associated
Press. Colless won the M.C. in the fight-
ing at Mubo, New Guinea, and Sinclair
the D.F C. in a bombing raid on Ger-
many. Sinclair once met Hitler person
ally, at' a press conference at Nuremberg,
so he may send his bombs down with a
particular hope. Incidentally, Minister
for the Army Forde has given out that
more than 2000 decorations were won by
the A.I.F. in the Middle East, and close
on another 500 have been won by A.I.F.
and militia in the Pacific area. The list
includes nine V.Cs.
Elected to Melbourne Stock Exchange,
Lieutenant Charles Rodney Eggleston,
who was badly wounded at El Alamein.
He will again be with J. B. Were and
Son, of whose staff he was a member for
nearly 10 years before joining the
A.I.F. as a private in 1940. He’s a son
of Melbourne architect Alec Eggleston
and nephew of knight Frederic Eggleston,
Australian Minister to Chungking.
The Mark Twain gag describing the
premature report of his death as greatly
exaggerated was given a new twist in
an exchange of British and Italian
prisoners of war. The British batch in-
cluded Major H. W. Le Patourel, who,
after the fighting at Tebourba last De-
cember, was awarded the V.C. “post-
humously.*’
Reports of recent bombing raids on
Germany included news of Robert
Christian Dunstan, who, son of a 1914-
18 Digger, got away to this war at 16
and lost a leg in the Middle East. Back
in Victoria, he returned to Geelong
Grammar for a while, till he was able to
persuade the R.A.A.F. to accept him as
an air-gunner. He’s still on the right
side of 19.
Until the practice was frowned on by
Authority, Diggers on Gallip. sometimes
wrote home on issue biscuits, using them
as postcards. (Authority had earlier, at
Lemnos, forbidden the employment of
those same hardy articles of diet as
missiles used playfully by Diggers for shy-
ing at passing ship’s boats; Authority
said they were “dangerous to life.”) Some
of the biscuit postcards are probably still
extant; and now The Bulletin has seen
another novel form of letter-home be-
longing to the present war. This is a
collection of envelopes covering letters
received from time to time by the Gill-
man family of Crow’s Nest, Sydney, from
Pte. J. D. Gillman, who has been in New
Guinea for the past 10 months. The full
face of every envelope is decorated by
the sender with pen-and-ink drawing,
usually with a humorous twist and with
the address ingeniously worked in. So
every time he writes home Pte. Gillman
also, so to speak, draws home, too, and
as well uses such spare time as he has
furthering his ambition to become an
artist, to which end he put in a while at
East Sydney Tech, before heading north.
Into the silence:
K. S. Frewen learned transport with N.S.W.
Tramways, but moved 20 years ago to Adel-
aide, where he became Traffic Superintendent
of the big Municipal Trust that runs city and
suburbs. “A great loss to the service,” says
Goodman, head of the M.T.T.
At Goolwa (S.A.) George Hall, who 50 years
back, trying his luck as a prospector in West-
ralia, gave his name to Hall’s Reef at the
Mount Benson mine.
Robert Henderson, 78, was a leading business-
man of Adelaide. He had been at a directors’
meeting in Sydney only a few days before, but
on the journey caught a chill which turned to
pneumonia. At the beginning of the century
he and his brother Bruce were prominent in
Perth as contractors and in the transport firm
Henderson and McGeorge.
At 85, Alexander Noble, one of the best of
N.S.W. teachers and inspectors of his genera-
tion. A report he wrote on school medical
inspection in the U.S.A. heralded the introduc-
tion of such inspection, first in N.S.W. and
afterwards throughout the Commonwealth.
In Chatswood, Sydney, there’s an Alexander
Noble Old Boys’ Union, one aim of which
is an annual scholarship in memory of “the
old boss.”
At 96, Andrew Burns, oldest of M.L. journal-
ists. Coming very young from Kilmarnock, he
worked on, founded and conducted papers
in many parts of M.L. His last post before
retiring was editing the “Farmers’ Union
Chronicle.” Andrew Burns, M.A., of Welling-
ton, and- R. Nelson Burns, of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” staff, are sons.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”; Sydney, which I always con-
sidered one of the most easygoing places
in the world, has been forced to do things
lately that it wouldn’t have thought
credible a year or two ago. It was fairly
used to queues at picture shows, but now
it’s familiar with bread, cigarette, wine,
lottery and meat queues. In all but one
type of queue patience is a marked char-
acteristic ; the exception is the lottery
queue. There, where the hopeful follow
all sorts of luck signs, a Chinese or a
black cat or a man with a wen has only
to join one queue and something
like a gold rush sets in from all the others.
The other morning, while a meat queue
was waiting for a butchery to open, two
coves started a fight round the corner.
The queuers refused to break up ; they
listened to the noise, and got a punch-by-
punch description from a newspaper
seller, which shows what a little practice
can do.
“Blue P.”: Sydney
“D.T.” has suddenly dis-
covered the rural man-
power shortage and by car-
toon and editorial is call-
ing on Authority to do
something and the public
to regard the harried
farmer with sympathy.
When country people de-
nounced daylight saving,
the same paper dubbed
them “hillbillies.”
* * *
“Clooter”: I note with
some apprehension that
Dr. Coombs, Common-
wealth Director - General
of Post-war Reconstruc-
tion, holds that reconstruc-
tion plans will be “affected
by the problem of the indi-
vidual and the environ-
ment into which he would
have to be fitted,” I be-
lieve Australians to be the
most nomadic and mobile
people on earth. Thou-
sands of them, in normal
times, are continually
changing their place of
residence, moving from
one part, if not one end,
of the continent to the
other. Thousands more
like changing jobs. As for me, I’ve always
chosen my own environment, and if Dr.
Coombs tries fitting me into one I don't
like I’m just going to pack the old swag,
get right up and go somewhere else. So
long as the central Government gives
industry a fair go, the men will find the
jobs without having to be shoved into
them whether they like it or not,
* * ![: *
“D.E.”; Hitler fancies himself another
Napoleon, only shrewder, and before
sending his troops into Rome he must
have pondered on the Emperor’s way with
Pius VII. That pontiff Napoleon alter-
nately courted, scolded, plundered and
imprisoned. In 1809 he caused the Pope
to be “removed” to France, where his
captive, conceding nothing to Napoleonic
policy, was kept till 1814. Released in
the delusive hope of allaying the fury of
some of Napoleon’s enemies, he returned
to Rome, and Nap. went to Elba. Per-
haps Hitler’s idea is that the present Pope
may be seized and held as a hostage with-
out any of the awkward results which
attended the Bonapartist violation of the
Vatican. For that there was a Revolu-
tionary precedent, though a vile one. In
February, 1798, a French army entered
Rome and the aged Pius VI was carried
off as “a prisoner of war.” He died 18
months afterwards at Valence, in Dau-
phine.
* * * *
“J.B. ’: For the first time in any theatre
of war the U.S. Army’s Silver Star has
been awarded to every member of a
’plane crew, and the distinction was
richly deserved. Their Liberator bomber
had last place in a formation which raided
Kahili, the Jap air base on southern
Bougainville, on August 29. In face of
heavy ack-ack fire and attack from a
large force of Zeros, the squadron made
its run successfully, but on the way back
one of the bombers, badly shot up,
dropped out of the formation. The
tail-gunner of the end ’plane saw the
crew bale out and 18 Zeros come in to
strafe the parachutes. He reported to
Lt. Faucett, the pilot, over the interphone.
Faucett put his question to each of the
nine members of his crew in turn: “Do
you want to continue with the formation
or will we go back to help those boys?”
The answer being unanimous, Faucett
took the Liberator straight inside the ring
of Zeros and began a slow circling of
the parachutes. A Corsair pilot, Captain
Jack Scott, one of the fighter escort, saw
what was happening? and headed back
also. He flew high into the sun to keep
the Zeros from attacking from that direc-
tion, and he managed to keep them off
the Liberator’s tail. Eight of the Zeros
were shot down before the Japs decided
to give the bomber best. Faucett stayed
with them till all the parachutes had
reached the water; then he dropped a
rubber life raft, and Liberator and Cor-
sair turned for home. Scott’s name has
been added to those of the bomber’s
crew in the list of awards.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”; The belief modern educa-
tors have in gadgets passeth all under-
standing. G. S. Browne, Professor of
“No one's going to shift ME even if we ARE on occupied territory.”
Education at Melbourne Uni., thinks it
would be a great boon if the schools had
television. But how on earth can we sud-
denly switch to a theory of visual educa-
tion? Most of the children in Victoria
are taught in buildings ugly enough to
have given Sir Christopher Wren the
horrors. In many cases the beautiful old
bluestone buildings the early settlers built
have been defaced with hideous fibro-
cement additions. How can children be
taught respect for art and architecture
when their educators show hearty con-
tempt for these arts?
“Bushwalker”: It should not be
necessary for botanical experts like
“Pat Ater” and “Kenwood” to wrangle
about the suitability of various sorts of
trees for planting in Sydney streets, and
to ask the Botanic Gardens staff to make
experiments, when there is the accumu-
lated experience of Sydney’s various tree-
planting suburbs to draw upon. The
North Shore villages have had a great
deal of success with camphor laurels,
Illawarra flame-trees, Westralian flower-
ing gums and pittosporum—indeed they
seem to spend a lot of their revenue
pruning and pollarding
so that the forests won’t
foul the overhead wires
—and doubtless their
records show also what
may not be attempted. I
should say the hardiest
warrior to plant amid
metropolitan Sydney’s
concrete canyons would
be that monarch of the
bush the apple - gum,
Angophora lanceolata to
be precise. This tree de-
lights in its ability to
grow out of apparently
solid sandstone, spread-
ing its tough roots
through narrow tissues
and getting an anchorage
that will withstand any
gale. Lay down some
10ft. concrete cubes and
the apple-gum (an older
inhabitant than the euca-
lypts, so some botanists
say) should be perfectly
happy in their society.
* *
“Contract”: The de-
scription of a war-worn
British destroyer leading
the Italian battle fleet
into Valetta Harbor
called to my mind a now-
faded newspaper photo-
Sra p h portraying the
bridge of a British war-
ship. Standing on the
bridge scanning the scene
through binoculars, cap at a jaunty angle,
was Admiral Beatty, accompanied by two
officers. They were watching a long
line of German warships facing led
to Scapa Flow. The legend under
the picture merely quotes Beatty’s words:
“I always said they’d come out on the
end of a bit of string.” Remember?
* * * *
“Craiser”; An Australian sculptor
struck hard times, A bailiff called, saying
he had been sent to remove any property
of value. “Delighted! ” shouted the sculp-
tor. “Come in here,” and throwing the
door of his studio open he disclosed a
collection of statuary one item of which
alone weighed five tons. “Help your-
self,” he added. “I can’t find any carrier
who will tackle them. Perhaps you can! ”
“Spokeshave”: The Government
meteorologist, after long years of prog-
nosticating the weather for the farmers,
got accumulated leave and made the
mistake of spending it in a country town-
ship. He made the further mistake of
seeking the pub for human sympathy and
companionship and engaging the locals
in conversation without an introduc-
tion. He said to a bearded cocky:
“Do you know Mr. X, the meteorolo-
gist?” “Know him?” said the farmer.
“I know of him! When he says it’s going
to rain we’re sure of fine weather.”
Avon ’; Maoriland’s divorce law
admits non-compliance with an order for
restitution of conjugal rights as a ground
for dissolution of marriage. That, of
course, opens the door rather widely to
collusion, and Judges have been remark-
ing on the strong smell of fish pervading
some of these cases ever since they be-
gan to appear on the calendar. Myers,
C.J., struck a batch of them in Welling-
ton recently and said:
I am perfectly sure this restitution of con-
jugal rights business is all wrong. It is
against all the moral welfare of the com-
"Scratch Mrs. Roosevelt , would you!”
munity. I have spoken about it before, as
have other learned Judges, but it is of no
use any Judge saying anything about it.
Nobody takes any notice.
He went on to say that in a typical case
a petition for a decree nisi was bunged
in within a week of failure to comply
with a 14 days’ restitution notice. In such
circumstances he could not believe there
was any real desire for restitution. In a
case that came on the same afternoon the
C.J. asked petitioner if he really desired
his wife to return to him, and the answer
was “No.” “Then I must penalise you
for your honesty,” said the Judge, “and
refuse you a decree.” Later petitioner’s
counsel pleaded that his client had not
realised the legal effert of his reply; the
question was put again, eliciting v “Yes,”
and a decree was granted.
THE GATE-CRASHERS.
“Women members may enjoy all the privileges of
men members in the Federal Parliament, and may
even put their feet on the bar-rail if they want to.”
—Speaker Rosevear.
They’ve stormed, with determined aggression,
Most callings, and won to a perch
In every peaceful profession
Excepting, 1 fancy, the Church.
Now soon they’ll be joining the men at
The crowd on our Capitol’s steps
To statecraft—one bound for the Senate,
And one for the Reps.
We’ve seen them in garb academic
As teachers in learning’s resorts,
Or arguing issues polemic,
Begowned and behorsehaired, in courts.
And, further restrictions escaping
Once placed upon feminine jaws,
They’ll shortly be sharing in shaping
Our Commonwealth laws.
Will their influence sweeeten and soften
The stress of political war,
The brawls that we read of so often,
The scenes we detest and deplore?
Will it terminate language unpleasant
And obviate slangwhanging scraps,
The knowledge that ladies are present?
What say you? Perhaps?
Will they rise by their guile and their graces
And their glamorous gift of the gab
To fill Ministerial places,
Rich spoil from the tartshop to grab?
Who knows? But there’s few wouldn’t favor,
However tradition it hurts,
A Whip with a permanent wave or
A Speaker in skirts.
Here’s luck to the first and the second
Of their sex with the nous and the nerve
To crash what till now has been reckoned
The gate of man’s special reserve!
They’re free now their feet to be setting
Wherever male lawmakers' are
In harness —not even forgetting
The rail at the bar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
NATIONAL EMBLEMS.
“The Director-General of Agriculture, Mr. Bulcock,
urging householders to grow their own vegetables,
said that the cabbage must emerge from obscurity
and the carrot become a national emblem.”
Said the cabbage to the carrot: “Over count-
less years have we
Had to languish in enforced and undeserved
obscurity.
But our time is coming, brother. Mr. Bulcock
(bless him!) knows
That you cannot eat the orchid or the lily or
the rose,
That there’s nothing which will fatten, nothing
which will even fill
Empty innards in the tulip or the yellow daffo-
dil.
Though we lay no claim to beauty, here’s a
fitting and a fine
Tribute to our vital value in a more important
line.”
Said the carrot to the cabbage: “Time for them
to can the blah
Sturdy patriots lavish on the wattle and the
waratah.
Such may serve as ornamental emblems of our
0 nationhood,
But for national requirements what the blazes
is their good?
Can you find in all or any of the fashionable
group,
Not excluding sweet boronia, the ingredients for
soup? .
Poets sing them, artists limn them, for their
fragrance or their looks,
But one cannot help recalling that they cut
no ice with cooks.”
Said the cabbage to the carrot: “That’s the
way our Bulcock feels;
Far more pressing than aesthetics he accounts
the need for meals.
How would silverside or brisket, how would
even Irish stew
Make the grade if unattended by the likes of
me and you?
Over many a board you’ll listen to enthusiastic
whoops , , . „
Ranking us with spuds and onions as the stun
to give the troops.
And for apt armorial bearings I shall fearlessly
Hsscrt
None could beat a carrot couchant on a field
of cabbage vert.”
Thus I seemed to hear the vegetables talk,
and in the skies
Over many a kitchen garden did the star of
Bulcock rise.
N.S.VV.
MIDFORD.


“Pip”: Army slang, is it? It comes and
it goes. To hear somebody use an out-
moded word makes you feel like Fowler
faced with an archaism. Fashionable at
the moment is “munga,” or food —of abo.
derivation I’m told. The “drone” or
“drongo” of yesteryear is a “galah”
today. Pronounce it gay-lah. Or, alter-
natively, he’s a “peanut.” So if you hear
of someone who’s “what a gaylah, what
a blanky peanut” you’ll know he’s not
bright. “No-hoper” is declining. It can
be either a carefree soul or a confirmed
drinker. With infrequent leave and less
frequent booze you can understand its
demise. But the “no-mater” is new on
the scene. He’s a person who’ll put your
weights up, report or “no-mate” you
very smartly. He doesn’t lead a pleasant
life, for people don’t like being no-mated
or “canned.” The meaningless catchcry
of today is “ho-ho-ho,” very loudly, used
to attract attention, to jeer or just to
make a noise. It was used to start events
at an army race meeting not so long ago.
At the signal a score of soldiers near the
barrier ho-ho-hoed in unison. Nags have
never got away faster —or gone in so
many directions at once.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. for butchers of beer?
Certainly, as long as I can remember.
And note that “colonial” beer was poor
stuff 60 or 70 years ago, and everybody
who could afford it called for English ale.
So it is said —and I believe truly—that
“Affie” Jarvis, the fir’st Adelaide cricketer
to go to England (1880 tour, as under-
study with the gloves to Blackham), para-
lysed a London barmaid by demanding
“a butcher of English.” It was just the
big glass supposed to be demanded by
butchers. Also Adelaide poker-players,
till well into this century, called a hand
of three kings “three butchers” (whom I
could even name if required—local meat-
merchants in a large way). As for
“schooners,” Adelaide certainly did not
invent this one. I heard it lately declared
by Authority, at a quiz, to refer to
speed: that when a pot of beer was slid
along the bar someone .said “See how she
schoons,” and schooner it became. But I
still don’t believe it.
* * *
“Lao-dah”: Farmers are said to be up
in arms in Victoria over daylight saving,
one of their arguments being that the
extra hour of daylight will prevent people
from sleeping. In England in summer it
is light for much longer than it is in Aus-
tralia, in Sweden I have read a newspaper
by daylight at midnight and in Lenin-
grad I have taken a photograph at two in
the morning. But I never heard com-
plaints of insomnia in England, Sweden
or Russia.
* * %
“Yacko”; The Governor’s guests of to-
day may not be expected to bring their
butter ration, as Lock suggests (B.
1/9/’43), but their forefathers certainly
needed to take along bread rolls in the
regime of Governor Phillip. The A.D.C.
never failed to add an N.B. to the invi-
tation card, “Please bring your own bread
rolls.” But the Governor, always the
gallant gentleman, penned on the card of
the one lady guest “Always a roll foi
Mrs. Macarthur.”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A correspondence in
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” Fifty-Fifty column
had unexpected repercussions. It started
with a flapper asserting that she got a
weekly letter of several pages from her
boy-friend somewhere up north. Other
damsels wrote in capping her total, but
they were outshone by a girl who an-
nounced that she had just received an
epistle of 40 pages from her soldier
fiance, that it was a daily event, and had
been for months past. This proof of de-
votion silenced all competitors for some
weeks. Then the silence was broken by
a missive that bore a dozen Digger
signatures:
We, the undersigned patients in an
advanced field hospital, realise that love is
a wondrous thing, but it seems rather hot
that some people should use valuable paper
writing 40 or 50 pages of mush (presumably
on A.C.F. issue) while we have to use
biscuit wrappings such as this. Also, the
time factor arouses interest. It takes most
of us here an hour per page, so the Casa-
nova quoted cannot be devoting much time
to defeating Tojo.
» * * *
“F.S.”: Basic English, invented by a
Cambridge Fellow 10 years ago, now has
the endorsement of Winston Churchill,
who in an address at Harvard said it was
a “deftly wrought plan for an inter-
national language, capable of being used
in transactions of practical business and
interchange of ideas.” I am prepared to
agree with the first assertion, but not with
the second. The principle of Basic Eng-
lish simply is that many words have crept
into the language which are logically
superfluous. For instance, go in, go
out, go up, go down, go back, go for-
ward, go ahead and go white are, roughly
speaking, expressed in non-basic English
by separate words—-enter, emerge, ascend,
descend, retire, advance, lead and pale.
By eliminating “superfluous” expressions
Professor Samuel Henry Hook succeeded
in producing a Basic English Bible using
only 1000 words, instead of the Author-
ised Version’s 6000. Unfortunately for
the people who hope to exchange ideas in
Basic English, words are only symbols
for associations. When Shakspeare
makes Romeo say “Beauty’s ensign yet
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
And death’s pale flag is not advanced
there,” he produces a certain feeling. If
the Basic English professors can put that
into the new lingo and produce the same
feeling I will boil my hat for soup and
drink it.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Now that the wattle is
blooming in all its golden glory on the
hillsides half the population has started
sneezing, the doctors have got out their
needles and the patent medicine vendors
their potions. They have been doing it
for generations, but the community goes
on sneezing. Scientific opinion is that
the affliction is as much psychological as
physical in origin. Despite the belief of
most sufferers, environment seems to have
little to do with it. A friend of mine rented
a house in the country and fell in love
with the place and the garden. After a
while he got asthma and his child got
hay fever. He called in a doctor, and
the medico advised that the air was un-
suitable and the patient must go to the
seaside. The M.D. might have recon-
sidered his diagnosis if he had known
that the last owner of the house had left
the seaside to get relief from hay fever
inland.
“Visitors, Fanny! Better slip into your sarong !”
“Lao-dah” on a unique institution: —-
I wonder what has been the fate of the
Chinese Maritime Customs, Does it still exist
and, if not, what has happened to the 800-odd
foreigners, mainly Australians, who maintained
its hoary reputation for probity established by
Sir Robert Hart? There was scarcely anywhere
you could go in China without running against
an Australian tied up in the mud of a canal,
levying toll from his barge on the passing river
traffic or making up his accounts with
meticulous accuracy and hanging on to the
cashbox until the latest local civil war had
worn itself out, so that he could hand the
money over to its legitimate owners, the
Chinese Government, whatever that 'yas. Sur-
veying, chasing smugglers, tending lighthouses
and resisting squeezing provincial Governors
was part of his day’s work, and the amazing
thing was that he was allowed to function
unmolested in provinces overrun by bandits,
rebels and contending warlords who had about
as much respect for their fellow-countrymen
as a tiger has for a mouse. The Maritime
Customs receipts were the only reliable income
the Government had. Part of it was earmarked
for the service of foreign loans, and most
Chinese bitterly resented this; but such was
the white man’s prestige or Chinese tolerance
in those days that I don’t remember a case
of these unarmed servants of the State being
seriously incommoded. Since extra-territoriality
was abolished Chungking may have taken the
service over and manned it with Chinese. It
so, what has happened to its European per-
sonnel?
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Viewing the way in
which the New Digger is whirled from
place to place by jeep and ’plane, I think
back to the garrisons of Australia’s first
50 years and the way they walked. 1
suppose many a redcoat walked all the
way from Sydney to Bathurst, and was
expected to make good time about it,
too. Browsing through the records of the
Second Company of the 63rd Regiment
of Foot, stationed at the Swan River
(1829 to 1833), I find them doing some
pretty fair walking. From Perth to the
Murray, now Mandurah, was roughly
50 miles — days’ march, with one
night’s bivouac "'in the bush. From Perth
to York was 70 miles over the hills —
which meant three days, with two nights’
bivouac. Around 25 miles a day was the
average, and they marched in full order,
red coats, knapsacks, musket and ammu-
nition, food. Sometimes a woman and
perhaps a couple of children marched
with them, for all, married or single, had
to take turn on outpost stations. And
those women were tough. They travelled
round the world on the meanest little
ships; India, Sydney, Van Diemens
Land, Swan River, Mauritius, the Cape,
West Indies, Gibraltar, Malta, anywhere
and everywhere just to be with their men.
They were in at the birth of most of the
British Empire, those soldiers and their
wives. And most of them couldn’t even
write. But they had it, the indomitable
spirit of adventure, and so have their
descendant^ —look at Montgomery’s men!
*** ' *
“G.L.” celebrates the beginnings of
Macquarie-street’s 39 steps:
A sunny morning 75 years ago. To Sydney’s
Macquarie-street comes the Honorable Charles
Moore, M.L.C., Mayor of Sydney (Moore Park
keeps his memory green), with many civic dig-
nitaries in carriages and cabs, “creating quite
a sensation,” to rejoice over the disappearance
of an eyesore. Proudly his Worship points to
the 39 steps linking the high level of Mac-
quarie-street with Circular Quay. These steps,
faced with bluestone “specially imported from
Melbourne,” and resting on “massive stone
arches of masonry,” provide safe descent from
heights so dangerous that previously “all citi-
zens except a few reckless adventurers went the
long way round.” The Mayor, standing with
a bottle of wine near the iron post at the
entrance, said: “You all know this has been a
lumberyard for seven or eight years. Had I
not done my duty it would have been a
lumberyard still. Now we have these com-
modious stone steps.” He then broke the bottle
on the post, and as the wine splashed the new
stonework the steps were “named ‘Moore’s
Stairs’ for ever.” Three hearty cheers were
given for the Queen and three for the Mayor,
and the party drove off gaily to Moore Park
to plant “a goodly line of 16 Moreton Bay
fig-trees” to be called “Alderman Row.” The
Sydney “Morning Herald” reported next day
that, “after Mr. A. Hordern had proposed votes
of thanks to Mayor and aldermen, the party
broke up shortly before six o’clock.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The gas restrictions im-
posed on Melbourne are arranged
apparently on the assumption that the
whole community rises, goes to work,
dines and sleeps simultaneously. Obser-
vation would have shown the framers that
the city’s habits have changed funda-
mentally in war-time. The thousands
of people who work at times not dreamed
of by the regulation-makers are to be
prevented from getting a hot meal while
people who don’t work at all are not
even mildly inconvenienced. I have asked a
dozen people what they were doing about
the gas restrictions. All said quite
blithely that they were ignoring the regu-
lations altogether and trusting to the
inspector not calling, and all gave rea-
sons satisfactory to themselves for their
anti-social behavior.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: A reminder that there is
some evidence of an earlier inhabitation
of Maoriland than that initiated by the
Maoris from Hawaiki is a report by the
engineer of the Mackenzie County Coun-
cil (whose bailiwick is the “Mackenzie
country,” graphically described in
Samuel Butler’s Erewhon ) that ancient
drawings in rock caves in the locality are
in danger of destruction through lime-
crushing operations. Although there
seems to be very little direct evidence that
the Morioris (whose last survivors died
on the Chatham Islands) had a footing
on the Maoriland mainland, those Mac-
kenzie cave drawings have always been
ascribed to the Morioris. Certainly they
have not the usual Maori characteristics,
and they can scarcely be very early
Maori because when that race migrated
south its art was as well developed as it
is today. It seems just possible that the
first Maoris found the ignoble Morioris
in possession and exterminated them so
easily that this phase of colonisation was
soft-pedalled in the sagas, as not parti-
cularly glorious to a martial race.
« * * *
“F.S.”: Overseas visitors in Melbourne
who wish to find out what Australian
culture is usually pay at least one visit
to the National Gallery. I wonder what
conclusions they come to. All the Old
Masters stored for safety having been
returned, the South Rotunda, the Mc-
Arthur and the Stawell have been rehung,
dnd, thanks to the late Alfred Felton,
the pictures make an imposing show. But
where are the Australian pictures? There
isn’t a solitary example on exhibition,
and the visitor might conclude that the
'only art yet produced in this country is
represented by the aboriginal boome-
rangs, mats and baskets in the National
Museum. Of course, there’s a good
reason. The Mac Allan Gallery has been
equipped with a piano, dressing-rooms
and hot showers, and handed over to the
National Fitness Council as a gymnasium
for girls.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: When I was a boy I
could tell the rig and run of every ship
entering Sydney Harbor, and identify its
house flag, just as modern kids know
motor-cars. I remember the excitement
on the waterfront caused by the arrival,
50 years ago, of the Hero,
the most powerful tug ever
seen up till then in Port
Jackson. She came from
England under her own
steam and reported an ex-
ceptionally stormy voyage.
Sunk three years ago after
collision with a freighter,
she is to be refloated. She
dropped into water 160 ft.
deep, and salvage was for
a while regarded as im-
practicable. But a good
tug is worth almost any
price in present circum-
stances, and the job of
raising the Hero will be
tackled.
* #
John Brennan’s story of
fortitude: —•
Sergeant T, E. (Janlcy, of Hamilton, returned
to his R.N.Z.A.F. squadron 37 days after the
take-off, has told the story of a reconnaissance
flight near Vella Lavelia on July 24 from which
the bomber failed to return. Ganley was turret-
gunner. He is the only known survivor.
Flying low, they were north-west of Vella
Lavelia when they ran into a flight of eight
Zeros. The bomber sheered off and headed
south, its guns blazing defensively.
The second pilot and fire-control officer,
F. B. Kerr, of Auckland, was badly wounded
by the first burst. Ganiev’s turret and guns
were put out of action, and he was wounded —
forehead and hip, left arm and wrist. He
went to man the bomber’s belly guns. Two
Zeros were shot into the sea, but the rest
pressed their attack.
Kerr drew Ganley’s attention to a fire at the
bomber’s starboard wing root. They managed
to get it partly under control with extinguishers.
JS[o use; the pilot, Flight-Lieutenant W. G. C.
Allison, of Auckland, was forced, to make a
crash landing into the sea two miles from
an island.
The automatic ejection gear inflated the
’plane’? rubber dinghy and launched it, and all
six men got into the water. They were in pairs:
Colonel Bengough (he was Britain’s Acting
Resident Commissioner) and Sergeant J. H.
Johnstone, the other gunner; the two pilots;
Ganley and the navigator, R. G. Douglas, also
wounded —they were clinging to the dinghy.
The Zeros came in again. Douglas, hit, lost
his grip on the dinghy and floated away.
Colonel Bengough and Johnstone are believed
to have been killed in the first run. Ganley
did not see what happened to the two pilots.
He saved himself from the strafing by ducking
beneath the dinghy. The Japs persisted with
their attack for 10 minutes. The dinghy sank
shortly after they had made off.
Ganley managed to keep himself afloat long
enough to reach an island. His wounds were
causing him great pain. He dragged himself
up the beach and, finding shelter, rested for a
day and a night; then he found a small,
one-man rubber dinghy from an American
fighter ’plane. There were two bars of choco-
late, and Ganley lived on them and coconuts
and water from a spring for seven days.
One night a Jap landing barge came to the
island with a small party. Ganley hid in the
jungle, watched them go and decided that they
might come back.
His feet had been badly cut by the coral, so
he made himself some pads from his life-jacket
and then, carrying the dinghy, walked for six
miles round the island to a point nearest a
near-by island. He paddled his way slowly
across by hand. Halfway across a Zero sighted
him and came down circling. Then, apparently
mistaking him for a Jap, the pilot waggled his
wings and flew off.
Ganley approached the island cautiously. He
was about 50 yards offshore when he noticed
a native peering at him from the jungle. He
waved and shouted he was British.
Almost immediately some 400 natives came
down to the beach. A number of them waded
out to him, and they carried him in ceremony,
the rest following, to their village. For a
month they fed him, cared for his wounds and
hid him fiom Japs. When a rescue party came
for him his wounds were healed and he had
completely recovered from his ordeal.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The long goods train was grunt-
ing its way at a steady 6 m.p.h. up the
slope towards Gibbertop when the fire-
man sang out to the driver and pointed
ahead. About half a mile away a figure
came tearing down the line waving a red
rag. The driver jerked the train to a
standstill and had just climbed down to
the metals when the flag-waver up.
On the point of collapse, he pointed
wildly back in the direction he had come,
but could utter no sound beyond efforts
to gulp in air. ■ It was three minutes be-
fore his vocal chords could work. To
the driver’s anxious query as to whether
there had been a landslide or a bridge
wreck the other shook his head. Then he
took a deep breath and with great de-
liberation informed the crew that there
was a bull on the line at Massey’s. “And
where’s Massey’s?” asked the chief lever-
puller. The Man Who Saved the Train
looked at the driver in astonishment.
“Cripes, I thought everyone noo where
Massey’s was,” he drawled. “It’s about
three mile round the bend up there —it’s
got a line o’ willers ; y’ can’t mistake it.
But be dead careful an’ watch for the
bull —it’s savage, an’ it’ll go any think ! ”
* * * *
“Beefo”: In making his twisted green-
hide rope “Pine Creek” (B. 1/9/’43) has
omitted one important operation. Before
twisting the three strands together into
ropelike form each strand should be
twisted separately. This is done by spin-
ning the wheel clockwise until sufficient
twist in the strand is evident. The strand
is then taken off the wheel and secured
so that none of the twist is lost. All
three strands are then returned to the
wheel via the holes in the board, as
“P.C.” mentions. The wheel is then,spun
anti-clockwise. During the wet season —
“greenhide-fever” time —all hands were
put on to rope-making, and the twisted
ropes, three-, four- and five-stranders,
were always made in the manner indicated
for use on the branding camps. And
although we branded up to 40,000 calves,
including some hefty two- and three-
year-old “nuggets,” during the muster of
the chain of stations, it was rare to see
one of these twisted ropes fail to stand
up to the job. We looked after them,
though; instead of being tossed aside in
jumbled coils after the day’s work each
rope was hung up with weights applied
to keep the tension, and then well
greased. These Diamantina-made ropes
were the best I’ve ever seen from the
Murray to the Ord.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Outside Booval (Q.) we
noticed that hours after un-ashed cigarette
butts had burned themselves out the
surrounding ground was still smoulder-
ing. Have always thought of peat as
something peculiar to the Ould Sod. Now
if this isn’t peat, what other combustible
property does the Booval earth contain?
« * * ♦
“B. 4”: One sweltering afternoon I
arrived at a bachelor’s station in the Gulf
country. Knowing the ropes and the boss,
I unharnessed the mokes and pushed
them into the horse paddock. As I
drifted towards the slab house a voice
hailed “Who’s there?” “Pat,” I replied.
“Good-oh, peel off and come in!” Won-
dering some, I screwed round the corner,
and there were the boss and a couple of
ringers in the nude, each sitting in a
tub of water the while they ladled tinfuls
over heated hides. A fourth tubful was
awaiting the first arrival, and in 1 hopped.
Before us was a box upside down, on
which was room for pipes, cards and a
bottle of whisky. We survived that after-
noon quite comfortably.
3= * * *
“Duddo Bore”: To these obvious
spoofs about snakes are added countless
yarns of narrow squeaks, fights against
snakes, battles royal between snake and
snake, goanna and snake, dog and snake,
hen and snake and so forth. Of men
awaking to find snakes in their bunks,
in their boots, rolled in their swags. Of
snakes picked up by flying hooves or
spinning wheels and hurled on to the
rider or driver, of fishermen meeting them
in boats, swimmers meeting them in the
water, even bush clergymen who’ve
met them in the pulpit. Many a bush
romance has begun with the hero rescu-
ing the fair one from imminent snake-
bite. Which reminds me of a buxom
Riverina girl who’d shot, beaten,
squashed, slashed and otherwise murdered
more snakes than most people have seen.
A young mounted policeman came from
the city to the district, and the day he
called on her father to collect the agri-
cultural statistics he was able to save
her from the menace of a poor, be-
wildered sleepy lizard that the dogs had
brought home. It ended in wedding bells.
“We of the army, Private Jones, feel that a salute is quite sufficient!”
And always, as the yarn is repeated, it
grows, is embroidered and colored until
it loses all semblance of the original.
* * * *
“Zake”; Matthews, sft. 3in. and 9st.
of meekness, performed the jobs around
his 150-acre block as directed by the
masterful widow he had married the year
before. One day while walking across
the dry-rotted well cover it caved in,
and in trying vainly to save himself from
falling down he cut and bruised both
arms. There was plenty of water, and
his yells for help were luckily heard by
his neighbor Hogan, who happened to be
just on his way over to borrow some-
thing. In little time Matthews was hauled
to the surface. “The missus is out for the
day,” said Matthews. “I’d better go into
hospital with these arms.” “But they’re
on’y bruises and a few cuts,” said Hogan.
“They on’y want bandaging an’ they’ll be
right in a few days. You won’t be able
to use ’em in the meantime, o’ course.”
“That’s why I want to be put into hos-
pital,” said Matthews. “If I can’t move
me arms how the hell can I defend meself
against the old woman?”
° * * * *
“Nor’-west”: I have heard white men
boasting of being able to make fire by
sawing two pieces of wood together, abo.
fashion, but I confess that I have never
accomplished it myself, although I have
had the actual abo. outfit to try with:
the iron hard edge of a woomera and a
stick of soft, dry paperbark wood. Smoke
I could obtain repeatedly, but before I
could develop a spark the muscles of the
upper arm gave out and I had to stop.
Nor did I win any better results with the
abo. dril 1-and-bedpiece method, for in-
stead of being able to exert a downward
pressure my Caucasian arm muscles
tended to lift the drill up. So I conclude
that the abo. has muscles specially de-
veloped for such work, inherited from a
thousand generations of fire-makers.
But even the abo. doesn’t care too much
about doing it, since he will carry a fire-
stick all day to save the trouble with saw
or drill at sunset. Should he have women
with him he delegates the fire-carrying
to them, and woe to the gin so careless or
unlucky as to let the ember become ex-
tinguished.
* * * *
“Nipper”: Jam and honey seem to
have no substitute monikers outback;
golden syrup gets only the universal tag ;
butter may be known by the alternative
“axle-grease” ; it is treacle which has the
multiplicity of aliases. Have heard it
referred to in various parts as “black
cocky’s joy,” “bullocky’s delight,” “mulga
honey,” “mallee honey,” “the tack,”
“farmer’s friend,” “varnish” and “oh-be-
joyful.”
# * * *
“Liss”; If “Zake” (B. 8/9/’43) wants
to teach alhorse to pull away, tying him
to a peg hammered in the ground is a
dead cert. To hold a horse a 2ft. post
should be sunk in the ground so that the
top is slightly below ground level. If a
swivelled hobble chain has first been
strongly wired to the top the prad- can
be tied to a ring by the rope of a strong
halter, and it will hold him until he starves
to death. All mine are broken that way,
and I am still using bridle reins made (in
Winton, W.Q.) in 1927.
“L. 0.”; Training horses to “stand” (B.
8/9/’43) was introduced to Australia
early last century, when Major Weston
came from India to establish his Horsley
stud at Prospect (N.S.W.). With him
came Uhlan, his horseman, who trained
young horses to “stay put” as soon as
they could eat hay. Their feed was spread
round a well from which they had a 20ft.
tether, with a fixed loop round the neck.
If they stepped beyond their tether a
weight fell down the well. In a few weeks
they would stay anywhere if left with a
bit of rope dangling from the neck to
the ground. When the major visited
Parramatta two horses would stand all
day on the lawn in front of the old Wool-
pack Hotel.
# * * H=
“Edjudina”: Viewed as poultry, the
emu is a disappointing bird. Feathered
as it is, the bird’s body leads to an expec-
tation of pounds of solid meat, but when
stripped—skinning is the easiest way —
all that appears is a shackle of bones.
But the thighs are worth while; sliced
across as the butcher cuts a leg chop they
yield a steak that fries to a delicate and
delicious flavor. News from the outposts
indicate that some of the bush-born Aus-
sies have been introducing the Yanks to
this in lieu of the fried chicken of their
homeland. One American has been heard
discussing the crossing of the emu with
the 401 b. American turkey, thus produc-
ing a 701 b. turkemu that might do some-
thing towards filling the poultry vacancies
of a post-war world.
*** ■ *
“Herbert Dawson”: In answer to “Prop-
along’s” query (B. 1/9/’43), I certainly
don’t know how I am going to get on if
(which heaven forbid!) I ever do get a
job in “the unfenced top-end of S.A.”
My blue heeler makes light of following
me on a 20- to 30-mile walk-and-canter
along a road, provided he finds a pothole
of water to dip into now and then. But
where “mustering means lapping along
from daylight till dark at a pace no
canine yet patented can stand” —well, I
will pass over the endurance of the horses
(they probably spring from one of those
famous Hollywood strains), but my
simple, trusting mind is impelled to the
question “How do the cattle stand the
gruelling pace?” Even Hollywood can’t
produce their like. After mature con-
sideration, I think my answer to “Propa-
long’s” question must be that in such a
regrettable eventuality as he pictures 1
would jettison my hitherto unshaken faith
in “blue heelers” and Queensland stock-
horses, and use an aeroplane and trained
eaglehawks.
* ♦ * #
“Arev”: For weeks Mrs. Jupp had
been at Bill to dig a plot in which she
might plant vegetables. Bill always prom-
ised to do the job the following day, but
the morrow never came. Mrs. J. waited
until Murphy from the next farm came
over to have a yarn in the cool of the even-
ing. As the two men leaned over the
fence discussing the crop there came to
their ears the sound of digging. For a
while Bill pretended to ignore it, but when
Murphy turned around Bill was forced
to do likewise. Apparently oblivious of
her audience, Mrs. Jupp swung the mat-
tock as to the manner born. “Hard work
for a woman,” Murphy observed. Bill
frowned. “I’d better do it for her. I’ve
been meaning to dig that ground for a
week or more.” Bill walked over, fol-
lowed by Murphy. “I’ll do that, Mum,”
he said. Red of face and short of breath,
Mrs. Jupp handed over the mattock.
After he’d finished and his neighbor had
departed. Bill walked into the kitchen,
a scowl on his face. “Well, your vege-
table patch is dug, Mum,” he said. Mrs.
Jupp beamed her thanks. “But,” he went
on, “don’t do a thing like that again.
You made me feel real ashamed.” Mrs.
Jupp began to be remorseful. “Did 1,
Bill?” Bill dropped into a chair. “Yes;
that mattock was covered with rust. I
was ashamed for Murphy to see it.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Those people who call
animals “poor senseless creatures” cer-
tainly don’t know much about them, I’ve
even noted a glimmer resembling sense in
a jumbuck, and as for rabbits! Lately
I’ve been watching the manoeuvres of an
old doe with her covered-in burrow, and
I hand her the blue ribbon for her art
of camouflage. For some time the open-
ing was completely covered with earth
ahd grass ; then one day came the intro-
duction of an air hole —an attention never
since neglected. Now, who taught that
old doe about air and its necessity to life?
And who told her just when those
youngsters- were old enough to need the
ventilation? Or how much to give them?
Search me! Were a human, born of civi-
lised parents, by some means reared alone
in the wilds, he would go bush. He would
carry with him the many weaknesses
but not the advantages acquired through
centuries of civilisation. And, poor
wretch, he would be inferior to many of
the animals around him. But without
books or learning most animals are self-
sufficient doctors, chemists, food-winners,
home-builders and -protectors. I “dips
me lid” to the lot of ’em.
* * * *
“Moyhu”; A hoar frost sparkled in the
first rays of the rising sun. Dad was
getting the breakfast, and found the
presence of the new hand warming him-
self at the stove rather irksome. “Can’t
y’ stand out of me road?” he exploded
at last. “If you’re cold you can have a go
at the woodheap.” The hand went out.
“That’s teaching him,” Dad smirked,
ladling out the porridge. “When I was
a lad there was no warming y’r trousers
by the fire.” Dad was busy with the
bacon strips, but soon the sound of the
sizzling fat was drowned by a crackling
roar from outside. Dad flew to the door
and looked out. “Cripes,” he yelled.
“It’s the woodheap —and the
standin’ there with his back to it!”
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad came on Dave and the
hand engaged in animated argument.
They were draped over the top rail or
a fence with their backs to Dad and
were unaware of his approach. Seating
himself on a near-by log, Dad decided
to wait till the discussion was over before
putting in his oar. He sat there, more
or less patiently, for about five minutes,
then Dave’s voice raised in anger reached
him. “Y’re wrong, I say. We ve been
arguin’ this fer an hour now, he cried,
“an’ I ain’t going t’ let y’ get away with
that, even if it takes the rest of the day.
Dad rose and advanced on the debaters,
who turned quickly as they heard him.
“We wus on’y” began Dave. 1 nat u
do,” said Dad sharply. “I dunno what
youse two wus argyin’ about, but wnat-
ever it wus y’re both wrong i n one t im S-
Dave-, with an attempt at blutt, cneo
“What a damn’ silly thing t say. it
y’ didn’t hear what we wus argum about
how d’v’ know we wus wrong about any-
thing ?” “Well,” replied Dad with a sar-
donic grin, “y’ both think yfl he §
a full week’s pay on Saturday; well, that
where y’re both wrong.”
THE MIST.
“He fought and died in the jungle,”
The woman I talked with said;
“And since he is dead I am seeing
All things through a mist of red.
“I know not what ails my vision,
What ’tis that troubles my eyes,
For red is the sun at dawning
And red are the sunset skies.
“Red, red is that mist, hued redder
Than wine that the carefree drink,
And that which it most resembles
I shudder to name or think.
“From the first bird’s call in the morning
Till, tireless, I seek my bed,
Wherever my feet may take me,
Eyes dazed, through its haze I tread.
“The blue of the sea I see not
As lonesome 1 tread its shore,
And ever, dim-eyed, I vision
The green of the fields no more.
“At night, when the hours are silent,
Ofttimes I turn to the stars,
But down from them comes no comfort,
For redder are they than Mars.
“And often, as lone with Sorrow
I sit by a tireless hearth,
I pray for a gale to banish
That baleful mist from earth."
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Esk D.”: Some of Wombat Ridge s
thirstiest denizens were in the pub after
hours. Bung had just filled the row of
glasses when a burly stranger bustled in.
“Quick and lively, you chaps!” he an-
nounced excitedly. “The new John s
here.” Bung ushered his customers
out in double-quick time. After a tour
of inspection that showed no signs of
police, he returned suspiciously to the
bar. “Hey!” he said to the stranger, who
had stayed behind, “didn’t you say the
new John was here?” The burly chap
paused in the act of surrounding the last
drink. “So I did,” he admitted with a
grin. “I’m him.”
*
“B. A. Ker”: Mick, the new joker,
developed a bad cold ; repeated doses of
kerosene-on-sugar failing to ease the
graveyard cough he rode in to the town-
ship to drown it in rum. After the first
tot the cough was still there; as it was
after the second and third. He was start-
ing on the fourth when he became aware
of the queer-looking little fellow staring
fixedly at him. The fifth rum went, but
the cough remained; so did the little
bloke —staring harder than ever. That
stare was becoming embarrassing and
Mick was just going to do something
about it when the little ’un produced a
notebook and pencil. Then the light
dawned —an artist in quest of types!
Mick posed in studied nonchalance,
watching out of the corner of his eye as
the dther chap studied him carefully
before each movement of the pencil.
“An artist?” Mick asked the publican,
pointing to the departing figure. Bung
looked puzzled. “I’ve never heard of
him painting anything more than a fowl-
house,” he said, “although he does a bit
of anything from fencing to well-sinking
—when he can’t get clients.” “What’s
his business?” Mick was mystified. “Oh,
he’s the new undertaker! ” Bung an-
nounced. It took another five rums to
restore Mick’s shattered morale.
* * % *
“Pat Ater”: Assisting in white-ant
eviction proceedings from my gatepdst
is a very small gentleman in a black
frock-coat with scarlet breast order and
his more soberly attired wife. They
come when called to the banquet table
as a line of soft cream and brown ter-
mites is revealed by the split-open outer
post-cover. Scarlet Robin hops around
daintily, picking up morsels and chirrup-
ing an invitation to his demure spouse,
who waits till I leave before accepting.
She’s canny and chooses her meal fas-
tidiously. They’re not excitable people,
really, but work objectively in relay,
back and forth, showing alternately the
white V along the back and the gleam-
“This looks a good spot, 'Arry. We'll drop the pick here.”
ing white “miner’s headlight” on each
forehead. It’s a satisfying picture from
any viewpoint. At the end no crumbs are
left for latecomers. '
* * * *
“Robert Chef” delves into sheep-dog
history:
Around 1870 there came news of a remark-
able strain of smooth-haired collies bred by
Rutherfords in Scotland, and Elliott and
Allen, of Geraldra station, near Forbes,
N.S.W., sent for a pair. They were smooth-
haired, prick-eared, black-and-tan collies.
Brutus and Jenny, but referred to generally
as the “fox-collies.” The suggestion of the
fox was confirmed by the fact that in a litter
« J "7 " he g Sl’ the MrreTvSe
«oned, replied that in
'if rs a ' ed /° x W ° cc n u "f4 best one
the pups were duly e L nt : on doubt-
brought with him from Victoria a fine black-
and-tan sheep bitch, of unknown pedigree,
called Kelpie. From her appearance she was a
cross of the black-antTtan collie with the dingo,
she was mated with Caesar, and from the littei
one pup at 12 months old easily won the first
s b ee p-dog trial held in the Commonwealth.
She, too, was named Kelpie. Her pups became
in great demand. They were at fiist ca e
P»*” subsepuentl, srnrply
* * * *
“E.P.A.”: Those Queensland cattle
stadons t h a t ge t along without cattle-
dogs stra j n m y credulity, but there is
near Adavale ( s> . w> Q.) a sheep selec-
tjon without a horse on the place. As the
country j s mo stly open the stock can be
j nS p ected d y car or bike. The sheep are
mustered at bores and tanks and the dogs
do the hard work.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: I for one am prepared to
grant the j um buck honors as a hardy
an j ma ] The first fresh meat in Cool-
gardie was mu tton ; and it was there in
little more than a mon th from the day of
Bayky registering his claim with the
warden at Southern Cross. Bill Benstead
was the benefactor, driving a small flock
ffom the vicinity c f York. Nothing very
i engthy as dr j ves gQj j ust about 300 miles,
But over what sort of country! Water
at the rarest intervals, grass mere withered
fluff During the following few years
horses p erished by scores on that stretch ;
cameJs were consider ed the only depend-
abie means of transport. Yet those early
jumfcucks did it; i ived to be converted
> mutton for the nourishmen t of Cool-
die>g first thousand diggers . And, in-
*identall to bri ng what seemed the mil.
knnjum y ’ 0 the Coolgardie blacks, their
• ■ ,• th offal
perquisite bem e the onai.
** * .
“No. 1 Bench : I agree with Lower
Tops’l” (B. 11/8/’43) that teak is the
premier wood for boatbuilding in that
it carries a natural oil which defends it
aga inst “iron-sickness,” so fatal to many
other durable timbers. Jarrah, which is
probably more durable than teak, log for
log, is particularly subject to the evil in-
fluence of iron. Its fibre contains an acid
w hich even under moderately dry con-
ditions will start an action which results
j n the eating away of iron and the rotting
D f WO od immediately surrounding it. So
a j ar rah ship to last any great length of
time needed either to be copper-fastened
G r dowelled with a long-grained wood,
conditions hardly payable against teak,
which could be iron-fastened anywhere
above the waterline. But even teak had
its variations. Shipbuilders of the seven-
teenth and eighteenth centuries gave first
favor to teak from the Malabar coast,
When that began to thin out they rather
grudgingly admitted teak from the Coro-
mandel. Later they were obliged to use
the once-despised teak from Burma and
even later from Siam. As late as 1830
British Admiralty specifications de-
manded Malabar teak for all naval re-
quirements, and it was considered quite
extraordinary that unseasoned jarrah
from the slopes of Mt. Eliza, used in
repairing H.M.S. Success when that
frigate grounded badly in Cockbum
Sound, should have stood up alongside
teak, and be still in perfect condition,
when the ship was broken up several
years later.
jfc * *
“Bo”: “Y’ talk about Barney there
bein’ vicious,” said “Set-’em-up Steve.
“Y’ orter’ve seen a moke I had once up
at Swinglebar. A 17-hand bay, half
brumby, he was a real killer. All teeth,
eyeballs and flyin’ hoofs whenever you
approached him, an’ he’d bring the roof
in with screamin’ an’ whinnyin’ if anyone
come within yards of him. As soon as
y’ sneaked the bridle from behind y’r
back he’d go stone mad and lash out.
He had a telescopic neck, too. I was
five feet orf him one day, and he reached
out an’ ripped me coat clean orf. Used
to go clean through two-inch saplin’s in
one bite when he was narked ; an’ the
blacksmith there wouldn’t shoe him un-
"Sure you've given me the right shirt , Quarter? This is
too comfortable.”
less he was put orf with chloroform first.
I never knew anyone bar meself who ever
got within yards of him. Even after years
I had to be careful. Was out on him one
day an’ he kidded to be dead quiet. 1
was on the lookout for some dodge, but
I admit I was tricked when he stopped
dead ; then like a flash, before I could pull
in the reins, he ducked his head between
his forelegs, shot out his long neck an’
grabbed me boot that’s restin’ alongside
his flank. He must’ve thought that one
out. Yair, he was a proper tiger, right
enough.” “Finish up shootin’ him, I
s’pose, did y’?” asked the Blazing Stump.
“No, didn’t have a chance,” said “Set-’em-
up.” “I left him tied to a post outside
Brannigan’s store while I was inside one
day, an’ when I come out he’s gorn. Some
cow had sneaked up an’ pinched him! ”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Tree roots must be guided
by some instinct or a dual magnetism
with water and good soil pockets when
forced to grow up in hard, rocky posi-
tions. The waratah can have its head
on a rock ledge and the roots will some-
times travel up to 20 feet to get into a
patch where the going is good. Then
hard bark covers the intervening channel
piece, which acts as anchor and conduit.
That is why predatory picnickers who
yank the scarlet-flowered bush up by the
“roots” fail to grow it after transplant-
ing. All they get is a hard bole which
sustains life for a while and then peters
out. Once, on a landscape job, I wanted
to preserve a splendid bluegum which
flanked a gully. A gardener who was ex-
cavating for a rock garden over 35 feet
away on a lower level came across a
root, as. thick as a man’s leg, running
horizontally. He cut it through and the
big bluegum fell. In the teeth of souther-
lies that tree had held by its single con-
duit root for years, and the “feeding”
area was 40 feet from its trunk.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The two Assyrian hawkers
managed at last to convey that they
wanted to buy a sheaf of hay for
their horse. The boss took a fork,
walked across to a stock in the paddock,
jabbed the fork into a couple of sheaves,
shouldered them and walked back. The
Assyrians’ eyes popped as a big brown
snake poked its head from a sheaf and
waved it about. They lost what English
they had in the excitement, but shrieked
in their own tongue, waved their arms,
danced and kept on backing away from
the advancing boss. He followed them,
earnestly trying to understand their per-
formance, and the more he advanced the
more they retreated, till they finally
reached their buggy and, evidently giving
up all hope of directing the boss’s atten-
tion to the worried snake behind his head,
hopped in and drove off at a furious pace.
“Them blanky foreigners! ” said the boss
disgustedly, and dropped the sheaves on
the ground. Then he saw it, smacked it
with the pitchfork and, looking after the
disappearing buggy, chuckled “Cripes,
they don’t seem t’ like snakes! ”
* * * *
“C.E.”: “I’ve decided t’ breed a few
Southdown lambs, Ma,” Dad said. “Be
a change from merinos.” “You please
yourself, Dad,” Ma answered, “but old
Smithers tried them last year, you know,
and he said they aren’t so good unless you
keep their condition up. What about
crossbreds; then if the season’s bad,
there’s always their wool?” “Somethin’
in that, too, Ma. P’raps they would be
best.” He talked crossbreds till the next
day brought new ideas. ‘'Don’t think I’ll
have crossbreds after all, Ma,” he said,
picking up the ’phone. “Y’ see Hello,
is that the stock agent?... .Yair....
I want y’ to get me a ifew English
Leicester rams. —Eh?... .Border?....
Yair, y’ right there Awright, get me
some Border Leicesters.... G’bye.” For
three days Dad was satisfied, then: “Ma,
y’ better ring the auctioneers not t’ get
them Borders at the down-country sale
t’morrer. Think we’ll make the trip our-
selves, then I c’n see if there’s any Pol-
warths in, an’ you c’n get that new hat
y’ been wantin’.” Next afternoon Ma
spent a busy time at the stores, and
towards evening drove round to pick up
the old man. “Get your rams. Dad?” she
greeted. “Too right I did! ” He flopped
into the truck with a grunt of satisfac-
tion. “Bonzer big Romneys they are.
But, cripes, y’ got a brown hat, Ma!
Thought y’ wus goin’t’ get a black one!”
Ma grinned apologetically. “Oh, well,
this one looked better on me, Dad,” she
explained. “Well, well, well, y’ just
can’t beat wimmin f’r changin’ their
minds!”
* t-
“Tinopai”: That the Maoris continued
the Polynesian custom of cutting the hair
is proved by a find of well-preserved
clippings from nine separate heads. These
came to light on the Poor Knights
Islands, off the northern M.L. coast, at a
spot known for its burial caves. Close
by were the implements —a totara head-
rest, a chopping block and the cutter, a
sharp piece of obsidian. Hair was
apparently worn bound tightly on the
top, and after being cut off was carefully
preserved by the tohunga. The clippings
found ranged from jet black to light
auburn.
* # *
“Bohemian”: The shrinking of her ice-
fields is causing some concern in M.L.
An engineer recently stated that photo-
graphs taken in 1891 showed the surface
of the Ball glacier a considerable height
above the level of the moraine; today
it averages about 50ft. below it. It is
calculated that there were 100,000,000
tons less ice in the catchment area of the
Waitaki than existed in 1900, while in
the Tasman glacier alone there has been
a shrinkage of 50,000,000 tons of ice dur-
ing the same period. This has an im-
portant bearing on the future of hydro-
electricity in the zones affected. The
engineer in question said it may be neces-
sary to harness lakes Chau and Pukaki
in order to guarantee an adequate reserve
for the Waitaki power scheme.
SEPTEMBER 9, 1943.
The first glad daffodil of Peace
Has thrust aside the war-worn sod;
Its tenure is no passing lease
But title held by grace of God.
And soon its green and gold will spread,
Cooling the fever in earth’s breast.
And man can earn his daily bread,
And live and laugh, and take his rest!
N.S.W.
NORA KELLY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE O’N GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
CVanogaS
destroys them quickly and feasily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
I
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Farm Clip.
“R. Ney”; Skirt lightly but skirt well.
Too deep skirting may give you a fine
show of first pieces, but it takes pounds
off your fleece tally, and fleece wool is
always worth 3d. to 6d. per pound more
than pieces. When you skirt see that you
strip off the inferior bits from round
the fleece ; that’s all that’s needed.
You’ll need only three classes for a
small clip. If you need more then your
sheep need culling to make them more
uniform, and you might need a good ram
or two to improve the quality. It’s just
as worth while to have high quality and
evenness in a small flock as in a large
one —in fact, more so, for the small man
has to get all he can from every sheep.
The lots should begin with AA, into
which goes most of the fleece wool, all
that is sound, fairly even in length, quality
and condition. The A bin will take the
heavier r conditioned, discolored stuff,
usually a bit shorter than the AA fleece,
though it must be sound. That leaves
the last bin, “fleece,” for the tender, un-
sound wools, those fleeces with a break
and the very dirty wool. It might be
necessary, if there are harsher fleeces or
a very uneven lot, to make a bale or two
of combings.
The best place to do the woolclass-
ing is in the paddock. The man who
keeps a steady eye on his flock, ruth-
lessly outing anything that doesn’t
measure up to the standard he sets
and never missing a chance to im-
prove constitution, yield and quality
by importing better ewes and rams
into his stock, is going to have an
even line at shearing time.
Way of Success.
“Kiwi”: When W, A. Rayson settled
on his 60-acre dairy farm at Horsham
Downs, Maoriland, five years ago, his
herd just averaged 2981 b. of butterfat.
Rayson sought the best blood lines ob-
tainable and started testing and culling,
now his 28 cows are half pure Jerseys and
half grades ; the bull, from G. B. Lepper’s
Te Puke Awa stud at Taranaki, a son of
Maori Victress, a lifetime merit register
cow with 37461 b. butterfat in nine lacta-
tions. With these improvements butter-
fat average has jumped to 4001 b. Last
year Rayson’s was one of the four best
of 2100 herds tested by the Auckland
Herd Improvement Association.
Rotational grazing has a part. The
grazing area is reduced by steep gullies,
and the balance is subdivided into nine
five-acre paddocks. Pastures are clover,
rye and cocksfoot, with paspalum in the
autumn. Main fertilisers are slag and
bone dust, applied at 3cwt. to 4cwt. an
acre. The cows are changed from pad-
dock to paddock every three days, and
harrows are frequently used. In April
one paddock is closed and held for the
new milkers.
An unusual winter reserve is
grass. The cows go into half an acre
of it at a time. After three weeks they
move on to another portion. The pampas
grows easily. Keeping it going costs next
to nothing and, burnt at the end of
winter, the area is cleared of all rubbish
and new sprouts shoot quickly.
Japanese Millet.
“L.C.”: It can be for grazing, green
fodder, silage or grain. Given fair soil
and weather, it’s ready for cutting six
weeks after planting. Milk-producing
value is high. Its strong astringent quali-
ties forestall scouring in cattle ; prussic-
acid content is nil. Stock like it.
Frosts hit this millet badly. When
they’re over, plant to suit the feed supply ;
from September to end of January suits
most districts. Best yields follow a dry
winter and spring. When broadcast in
coastal districts sow 121 b. to 151 b., in safe
wheat districts 81b. to 101 b., drier areas
51b. to 61b. and under irrigation 101 b. to
121 b. an acre. For the drill mix the seed
on morning of planting with superphos-
phate and sow through the fertiliser box
at 561 b. to 1121 b. per acre. A lucerne or
grass-seed box is a satisfactory sowing
attachment.
Jap millet needs a firm seedbed. Sow
to 2in. deep. Cover with trailing
harrows when using the drill, or with
“Could I speak to the foreman?"
“Come back later — we're busy just now!"
light harrows in coastal districts. Where
possible add, in wheat districts, lewt. to
lewt, super, and in irrigation areas
Ijrcwt. super, an acre. Coastal farms can
be given a two-to-one mixture of super,
and sulphate of ammonia at lewt. to
llcwt, an acre.
Graze Jap millet young and it stages
a quick comeback. Later, it makes poor
recovery.
On the coast it provides successive
grazings, but bulk decreases as the season
advances. That’s why three or four sow-
ings are best for continuity of fodder.
Grow at all times in moderate-sized pad-
docks. Large areas get unmanageable.
For hay, green feed or silage, cut when
in head and before the grain’s well
formed. Jap millet hay is inferior to
wheaten or oaten, but makes useful re-
serve fodder. Yields in inland districts
vary from one to three tons an acre,
green fodder on the coast 10 to 20 tons
per acre and grain lOcwt. to 12cwt. per
acre. Don’t feed millet grain to horses.
It affects the kidneys and causes swell-
ing of the joints and lameness.
Phalaris on the Coast.
“Pat Ater”: No better test of the value
of Phalaris tuberosa as a standard winter
grass could have been given than this
winter of cold early rain and long run of
frosts on the N.S.W. tableland country.
The stools have come away at many
places along the southern highlands sheep
country in surprising vigor, a vigor main-
tained in spite of regular grazing. Sheep
thrive on it, especially where the needful
combination of Phalaris and sub. clover
is given.
Cattle, including dairy herds, are show-
ing that they like Phalaris. Several dairy-
men in theTHawarra coastal country are
proving its winter worth. Phalaris seems
to be doing quite as well in this warmer
coastal belt s it does on the uplands.
More, it holds out through the hot
summer months. So far it has been
tested by two big farmers for two suc-
cessive winters and hot, dry summers.
On the coast the tendency is to mix it
with Wimmera rye and red clover. Many
tons of silage were cut at the end of last
season from this mixture. The growers
are loud in their praise of Phalaris and
it has come to stay in more variable dis-
tricts than was thought possible during
the early days of its distribution,
Phalaris’s only drawback seems to be
the trouble—now proved overstressed —
of establishing it. In dairy country it is
sown direct in ploughed and harrowed
paddocks with lewt. to the acre, super,
dressings and not grazed until it has a
good hold. On one place the first year’s
cut was for silage only; grazing began
the second winter.
Rotation for Returns.
“Pat Ater”: Rotation increases yields
and beats disease. Members of the same
plant family should not rotate or follow
each other seasonally, because they are
mostly subject to common diseases.
Some, such as the blights of tomatoes
and potatoes, can be carried over in the
soil and infect a following crop. That is
why, in the spring preparation of land for
early tomatoes, that which (even as far
back as last autumn) previously carried
potatoes should not be used.
Nor should potatoes be grown there
again if another patch is available.
Market-growers who specialise in certain
crops cannot follow such a table literally.
Winter fallow, in conjunction with ade-
quate rebuilding of the soil’s plant-food,
is their substitute. Cauliflowers or other
brassica family members are often used
—a correct rotation. Single cropping, as
wheatgrowers have found, soon exhausts
important “trace” elements, which are
difficult to determine and replace. Lower
yields and inferior quality are the result.
A sound policy is to follow a green crop
with a root crop, with the exception of all
brassicas swedes, turnips, cabbages,
broccoli, cauliflowers and sprouts—which
should never be planted or sown to fol-
low one another.
When onions have been attacked
heavily in the field with devastating blue
mould or onion blight—even though you
spray with Bordeaux or lime-sulphur
fungicides—only by avoiding that soil
for at least one succeeding season before
planting onions again can a return be
avoided.
Here’s a table of recommended plant-
ings on a three-season basis: —
First
Season. Follow with Then
Potatoes. Brassicas, Peas and
Swedes, Beans.
Turnips,
Lettuce.
Carrots, Beet, Onions, Brassicas,
Parsnips. Leeks, Swedes and
Shallots, Turnips,
Tomatoes. Lettuce.
Brassicas, Peas or Beans. Potatoes.
Lettuce,
Swedes,
Tomatoes,
Spinach. __
Peas and Beetroot, Onions,
Beans. Carrots, Leeks,
Parsnips. Tomatoes.
Onions, Potatoes. Carrots,
Leeks, Parsnips,
Shallots. Beetroot.
Four patches of soil can thus be worked
with crops of differenLroot depth, utilis-
ing each feeding ground and reducing
disease to a minimum.
Hints for the Farm.
“B.”: Calf feed too high in protein
and carbohydrates induces chronic indi-
gestion and fits result. Balance the
ration and they disappear ; animals on
grass are rarely affected. Hair-balls in
the stomach or heavy infestations of
worms are other causes. To clear the
worms, dissolve Boz. bluestone in three
gallons of water. Dose calves of four, six,
nine and 12 months with 30z., 40z., 6oz.
and Boz. respectively.
“Plane Creek”: Couch grass is mag-
nificent for Queensland. It stands long
dry spells, flood rains, heat and cold.
It is a prolific spreader, developing a vast
root system, and succeeds in poor or
shallow land, but does best on rich,
well-drained land containing plenty
of lime. Sandy creek banks suit it, and
its wealth of roots checks erosion. It
doesn’t like shade, but can stand heavy
grazing. Stock like it, and tests have
shown its feeding value to be high. It
will grow 12in. high in fertile land, and
yields a protein-rich hay. Sow the seed
in fine, well-prepared soil during the
spring and summer months.
“Sarina”: Besides being inferior to sul-
phate of ammonia as a cane fertiliser,
nitrate of soda is deadly to stock. Cattle
that licked the salty stuff off an emptied
bag dropped dead. Other cattle passed
out after eating grass upon which a small
amount of nitrate had been spilled. Both
accidents occurred in the Mackay (C.Q.)
district.
“W. Court”; A big vegetable project
is under way in the Burdekin Delta
(N.Q.). The U.S. Army needs 751 b. of
vegetables per 100 men per day, and U.S.
and Queensland experts plan to sow
1000 acres of sweet corn, radish, lettuce,
carrots and other vegetables scarce on
the open market. Seedlings are already
coming along, including 50,000 lettuce.
A number of farms may be leased from
their present owners. Spray irrigation
will help shallow-rooting crops along and
ditches will carry water for deep-rooters.
Civilian labor will be used and perhaps
U.S. footsloggers will be called in. Plant-
ing will cost £30,000, and Captain John-
son, a Louisiana agricultural expert, will
boss operations.


Are you shackling this man ?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
This advertisement is inserted by the
iPD
m
VTO
proprietors of Trp Dog Men's Wear
JWek.s Trousers
ẁ
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Not Over Yet.
(Extract from an article by Major George
Fielding Eliot in N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”)
Somehow the notion that the war with
Germany will be over this year is becom-
ing almost universal, at least in the ex-
pression of opinion in private conver-
sation. I do not know what causes it.
Partly, of course, plain wishful thinking
—we want the war to end, so we snatch
happily at the first casual suggestion that
maybe it will end soon.
Partly, the feeling is due to exaggera-
tion in the public mind of the import-
ance of recent successes and the fact that
we are on the offensive in the Pacific.
Finally, I think that much of the com-
placency is due to the extravagant claims
which are being made by some of our
air-power enthusiasts, who are insisting,
in magazines, newspapers, on the radio
and even through the medium of motion
pictures, that Germany can be bombed
into submission if only we can send
enough ’planes to do the job. To the lay
mind this means that victory may be
just around the corner, and that it will be
won at no more cost in human life than
a few thousand pilots and other air-crew
members.
All this adds up to a certain com-
placency, a feeling that the war is “in
the bag”—and a relaxation, even though
slight, of effort, a resentment of sacrifices
which people begin to think are “unneces-
sary.” And thereby hangs a grave danger
to the nation, and'to the men of our fight-
ing forces who depend on the home front
for their weapons and reinforcements.
Palestine Trouble Brewing.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” itinerant
correspondent C. L. Sulzberger.)
The turbulent question of Palestine and
the rival interests in that holy land of
Jews and Arabs is becoming of para-
mount importance to the United Nations.
Dangerous potentialities are shaping
themselves. While there is no reason to
anticipate an imminent explosion while
many Allied troops are present, if the
situation is ignored by the United Nations
it is likely to end in terrible bloodshed.
Already determined factions of Jews
and Arabs are secretly engaged in prepa-
rations for militant action. Arabs and
Jews have been buying arms and ammu-
nition. One observer estimates that the
Arabs have hidden 80,000 rifles and a
large supply of ammunition and machine-
guns, mortars and hand grenades.
Gun-running has been persistent. When
the Vichy French departed from Syria
they sold many of their arms to Arabs.
The Jews also are building a formid-
able secret force. It is estimated they
have 30,000 rifles and revolvers, about
2000 larger weapons, much ammunition
and grenades and infinitely greater scien-
tific resources for the manufacture of
explosives. About 20,000 young Jewish
men and women, who have been in vari-
ous Allied services, will return to Pales-
tine after the war as experts in the hand-
ling of arms.
The training of guerrilla fighters has
been proceeding secretly among Jews and
Arabs throughout the war.
Most of the Arabs’ arms are hidden in
mountain caves, orange groves and out-
of-the-way places. The Jewish organi-
sations take apart such weapons as
machine-guns and give pieces to mem-
bers who assemble when required at a
selected spot. The Jewish units are based
on cells of ten under a group leader.
Above are regional leaders and zone
leaders and at the top the triumvirate of
the High Command.
United Nations leaders cannot ignore
these preparations, which may lead to
riots and pogroms throughout the Middle
East unless the entire Palestinian ques-
tion is handled with fairness and firm-
ness.
Wishful Thinking About
China.
(Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” article
by Hanson W. Baldwin.)
China’s people are plainly courageous ;
their patient fortitude and philosophic
resignation are unmatched. But an
enumeration of her virtues should not
blind us to her weaknesses; above all, it
should not lead us to a fallacious con-
ception of Pacific strategy.
China has not won, and is not winning,
the war with Japan ; is not —in our sense
—winning battles, but losing them. She
is not now, and can never become, a
great air base from which Tokyo can be
bombed into submission—unless we can
open great new supply routes.
Nor will it be sufficient merely to
supply China. She has as yet no real
army as we understand the term; most
of her troops are poorly led and incap-
able of effectively utilising modern arms.
The truth about China is that the mili-
tary situation there today is bad, has
been bad for two years, and will prob-
ably continue to be bad for some years
to come. Japan holds nearly all the
worth-while parts of the country, all that
she wants to hold.
Japan has a virtual stranglehold on
China’s economic life, on all her princi-
pal ports and communications and—-in
the north —on some of her principal
mineral deposits. For the past two years
she has occupied vast areas without great
difficulty and without major strain upon
her man-power. The occupation has
probably profited Japan economically,
rather than drained her, and in a military
sense China has been weakening more
rapidly than Japan.
The Japanese are maintaining an active
defence and at the same time are using
China as a training ground.
The Chinese communiques are almost
worthless for obtaining a true picture.
Had they suffered even half the casual-
ties the Chinese have claimed, the Jap-
anese would by now have given evidence
of a man-power shortage. Sometimes the
Chinese report battles where there are
no battles; often they exalt skirmishes
and guerrilla fighting to the status of
campaigns.
All this does not spell hopelessness.
The Chinese spirit has not been broken.
As long as the United States fights the
Pacific war with vigoy, there is little like-
lihood that Japan can force China en-
tirely out of the war. Nor Can the
Japanese occupying force be greatly re-
duced so long as Chinese guerrilla ac-
tivity continues and Chiang Kai-shek and
the Chungking Government retain any
influence in occupied China. The simple
fact that some 15 to 22 Japanese divi-
sions, perhaps one-fourth of the Japanese
land strength, are thus tied down is
China’s great and continuing contribu-
tion to victory.
But the Japanese will never be expelled
from China by the present Chinese
armies. Hundreds of thousands of these
are guerrilla forces owing only slight
allegiance to the Chungking Government,
or are loosely organised followers of
some provincial general, fighting chiefly
for loot.
Nor can the Japanese be driven out —
as so many Americans have assumed—
by building up an air force in China.
There is no warrant in history for the
assumption that air power alone could
push back an enemy over an area as large
as that of occupied China.
Our own experience has shown quite
clearly that the Japanese cannot be beaten
by half means. Driving the 20-odd
Japanese divisions in China back to a
point where we could utilise air bases
within easy range of Tokyo would call
for the creation of a great army as well
as a great air force in China.
The plain truth is that Japan is both
a great continental Power and a great sea
Power. She must be beaten on land and
at sea. Only if Russia enters the Pacific
war can continental power easily be
brought to bear against Japan’s con-
tinental power.
Japan’s holdings are now almost en-
circled by United Nations positions. It
is our job to tighten that ring. The
Japanese citadel must be attacked from
many directions —from Australia and the
Solomons, from the Aleutians, eventually
perhaps from Russia, from India and
from China. But the main effort may
well be westward from Hawaii and Mid-
way —a direct thrust against the heart of
Japan.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
There is every indication that Hitler and his
Nazis are still determined to sell their lives
as dearly as possible, and, if they must go
down, to go down in a Wagnerian holocaust
into which they hope to drag as many of their
victims as possible. Even the most rabid Nazis
now admit that Hitler made a “mistake,” and
that his ambition to enthrone the German
“master race” as ruler of the earth has miscar-
ried. Bu| the Nazis still boast of their in-
vincibility in defence, for which the concept of
the European Fortress was to be the synonym.
There are even reasons to believe that the
German High Command is already envisaging
the possibility of being forced not only out of
Italy, but also out of France and Norway, the
southern Balkans and the larger part of occu-
pied Russia, and is taking measures accord-
ingly. These measures, it appears, consist in
the construction of an inner fortress within
the “European Fortress,” a citadel already
being referred to as a “NatioaaLßeduit,” in
which Germany could concentrate all her re-
maining strength for a holding war, in the last


Plea se .. .
sSSBS®^
m.
A
-
O
r\,
ik£
let immilies with
children huy any
available
BOIIRNVILLE
COCOA
Owing to the needs of the Services there is insufficient
Bournville Cocoa to meet all civilian
requirements. So we ask . . . please let
families with kiddies buy any
available Bournville Cocoa
. . . the Cocoa with the real
chocolaty flavour which is
so good for growing children.
I bUf,
oows*
c*
Made by CADBURY
LI 33
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH DUDMAN late of Cronulla.
—TAKE NOTICE that ALFRED DUDMAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1758 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards. It you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the First day or
November 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from C. JOLLIE SMI Hi
& CO. Solicitors* 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EILEEN IRIS QUE HEE - TAKE
NOTICE that ROBERT QUE HEE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 413 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at me
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the First day of Novembe
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition withou
charge from C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO Solici-
tors 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
. HIDE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SOIE THROATS
Carreras Ltd.— 154 Years' Reputation for Quality
#■#
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 B
desperate hope that the Allies would grow
weary of trying to storm it and consent to a
negotiated peace which would save the skin of
the Nazi chieftains. — N.Y. “Times.”
.* * * *
U.S. Secretary of State Cordell Hull and his
aides are satisfied that American policy toward
Spain had much to do with Hitler’s troubles
in the Mediterranean area. That policy en-
couraged Spain’s Franco to deny German troops
a free pathway through Spain into Spanish
and French Morocco, where British control ot
the entrance to the Mediterranean could be
threatened. With no Germans on hand to
threaten Gibraltar or to resist landings in North
Africa, the Americans and British were able to
sweep clear the south shore of the Mediter-
ranean and to get set for the invasion of Europe
from the south. Under that policy Great
Britain supplied enough coal to permit basic
industry in Spain to function at a limited level,
The U.S. supplied enough grain and other
foods to enable the Spanish people to avoid
actual starvation. The British and American
navies permitted Spanish tankers to take
enough oil and gasoline from the Caribbean
area to operate trucks and buses and to supply
basic lubricants for industry.- Hitler could not
offer as much. Yet the amount involved was
not great. In return, the U.S. and Britain re-
ceived mercury and metals and fruits and other
Spanish products on the basis of a fair ex-
change. They also received an assurance of
Spanish neutrality that since has paid dividends
in terms that are very difficult to measure. —
“United States News.”
* * * *
The Japanese are our enemy. This should
not blind us to their patience, their intelligence,
their industriousness, their obstinacy, their
aggressiveness, their arrogance and their
tremendous interest in and loyalty to their
own conception of national interest. Bomb-
ing Tokyo to bits and the destruction of
the entire Japanese Navy will not lead them to
capitulate. When the firing has ceased the prob-
lem will not have been solved. No Amgot can
take over along the lines that are being de-
veloped for Europe. The elimination of the
military clique will not uncover any of that
illusory “moderate” and “liberal” sentiment
about which we have heard. When hostilities
have ceased, the stabilisation of the Far East
will require the continued use of tremendous
military and naval forces over an indefinite
period.— From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” letter
by Hilton S. Pedley, who has long resided in
the Far East.
* * * *
Those who believe in the sudden collapse of
Germany may be right, but there can be no
certainty in such matters. Reverses, fearful
casualties, air raids that have devastated entire
cities and will devastate many more, galling
bureaucratic restrictions, overwork and mono-
tonous fare, so far from inducing a compliant
or even a sober attitude amongst the Germans,
seem to be making them more obdurate and
truculent than ever. The Allies will be for-
tunate indeed if the final campaign of the war
comes within a twelvemonth and if it is not the
hardest of all. — London “Nineteenth Century.”
* * * *
“There are symptoms of the development of
a new ‘lost generation,’ more hopelessly lost
than any that has gone before. In the U.S.A.
last year, 17 per cent, more boys under 21
were arrested for assault than the year before,
26 per cent, more for disorderly conduct,
30 per cent, more for drunkenness, 10 per
cent, more for rape. And that despite the
fact that many of this age group had already
gone to war or were productively employed.
For girls, the figures are even more startling:
39 per cent, more for drunkenness, 64 per
cent, more for prostitution, 69 per cent, more
for disorderly conduct, 124 per cent, more for
vagrancy. And these were only the ones who
were arrested.”— V.S. Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation Chief J. Edgar Hoover.
* * * ' *
American and British forces in the Euro-
pean theatre and here in the African theatre
are working together with a smooth co-ordina-
tion which I never expected to find in either
place. The French act like we do at home, and
most soldiers here are disgusted with their
political bickering.— N.Y. “World-Telegram”
correspondent in North Africa.
* * * *
There is little likelihood that the coming
battles in Europe will be fought as the cam-
paigns in Poland and France were fought.
Blitz tactics based on speeding tanks and
screaming dive-bombers gave Germany those
overwhelming victories. But the technique of
warfare has changed since then. The German
tactics are already outmoded. The dive-
bomber no longer rules the sky, and the guns
have caught up with the tank. Once more vic-
tory, as in Napoleon’s day, favors the side
with the heavier artillery. The tank retains
an important though modified place. To-*
day it is artillery that mdkes the hole in the
enemy line. The infantry moves through and
clears the way for the tanks to exploit the
breach. The prevailing emphasis is more and
more on the massed fire of artillery.— N.Y.
“Times.’'’


HKHKHI
■■
111
I
K-
U :
■
rVf
■
ms
ns
u
m
m
■ n
■
S: :
■■ ' ■;
i m
u
■
m n
m
u
sm
lil
I
ws/m
■
Ifrf
i »
mm
m
.
"Readjustment” —by Lyndon R. Dadswell. This is a work of art symbolising Australia’s coming
peacetime prosperity and happiness commissioned by Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.) Pty. Ltd,
“Peace wail hrang unparalleled
-NEW YORK CABLE,
“Undreamed-of comforts and luxuries
will replace the present austerity of
civilian life,” says a United States
Department of Commerce survey.
It adds: “Thousands of inventions per-
fected during the war, will be released
for civilian use, and remarkable ad-
vances in science will revolutionise road
and air travel.
“The new machine age in the home will
banish drudgery from housework.”
Looking ahead, the survey gives the
major potential changes as:
(1) Employment on an unprecedented
high level.
(2) Greatest productive industrial
plants of all time.
(3) National income at a peak un-
dreamed of in peace time.
(4) A tremendous volume of accumu-
lated savings.
(5) An unmeasured demand for goods
which have been denied to the con-
sumer because of the war.
The survey says the big problem will
be to translate these potentials into
realities, which is primarily the job for
private enterprise, aided and supported
by the Government.
What industry can do for the United States, industry can do for Australia.
We have learnt how to gear-up for the highest fighting standards. Stewarts
and Lloyds switched peace production machinery to war production
machinery almost overnight. We were producing shells months before
the war and before any Government request for them. We have continued
to expand our war production in a score of different ways still without
waiting for any Government requests or subsidies.
The knowledge and experience gained by almost all Australian industries,
and applied to gearing up for the highest standard of living Australia has
ever known, will make short work of that much - discussed period of
re-adjustment.
Pipe replacements in the home. We ask home users to ask for pipe replacements, and local authorities
to authorise pipe replacements, only in essential cases where repair is impossible and standards of health
may suffer. This request is necessary because war orders leave practically no pipe available for civilian
requirements.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.


m so
ICO
I_JL
SECURITY
FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF TRUSTS
The appointment of The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Company
Limited as Executor of your Will, en-
sures ample security for the perform-
ance of the trusts;
Paid-up Capital £140,000
Uncalled Capital 660,000
Reserves .. >. 160,645
£960,645
In addition the Company otters more than 65
years’ specialised experience, also continuity, im-
partiality, accessibility, secrecy, continuous audit,
moderate charges and sympathetic treatment of
beneficiaries.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free explana-
tory Booklet detailing the advantages of the
Company’s services.
IF®s>
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF uiRLCIOKS.
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuan Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.8.}
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sit 'Man Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W D. Stewart;
* R. T, Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W Svdnev Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
«
For Australia at War . . •
ẃ
Qje
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Co.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary *
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 313,017 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 871,671 3,929.978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,861 12* p,c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 12* p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 . . .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938.1,340,461 12* p.o.= 670,562 609,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,009 . . . . 8,415,358
1939.1,431,513 12* p.e.= 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share premiums, £139,073 .. .. 9,225,229
Share premiums capitalised,
£4,445,859 .. 4,779,370
1940.. 979,139 7* p.c.= 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941.. 963,279 7* „ ~ 854,770 108,509 5,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £585,282. » 4,419,908
1942.. 687,711 6* p.c.= 821,103 4,286,517
Marine insur. fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943.. 697,791 5 p.c.= 694,251 3,540 4,921,266
This great and efficient enterprise, one
of the world’s most remarkable steel-
works, has carried on another year of
vital work under difficulty. On the
output side the water-carriage of iron
ore has become a problem as reserve
stocks have been eaten into by demands
of the munitions and essential industries ;
on the financial side rising wages, un-
economical N. S. Wales iron-ore and
other costs, some a result of an inflation-
ary national Budget, were serious enough
to obtain the Prices Commissioner’s sanc-
tion to an increase in prices last October.
The co.’s steel nevertheless remains the
cheapest in the world, and, on the author-
ity of Minister Makin, the munitions in-
dustry is being supplied at cost price—
“a patriotic gesture that has been with-
held from the public too long.”
The core of the Australian munitions
industry has been the and sur-
rounding that core have been hundreds
of smaller concerns, some B.H.P. off-
shoots but many more independent except
for their raw materials and machine-tool
equipment. B.H.P.’s tungsten-carbide
plant is turning out tool-tips and wire-
drawing dies at a price cheaper than pre-
war imports. The ferro-alloy plant has
been further developed in spite of the
difficulty of keeping up supplies of the
various ores needed. The magnesium
plant is now on a steady rate of produc-
tion, and there is no difficulty in coping
with the call for this element of para-
mount importance in the present war.
B.H.P.’s work in developing the produc-
tion of new alloys and metals during the
war has been an achievement that prom-
ises much more in the peace. The co.’s
chairman expresses “deep thanks to the
many metallurgists and technicians who,
often without proper equipment, have
achieved wonders.”
Output figures are covered-up for the
duration, but an extremely heavy demand
kept the steelworks going at maximum
capacity. The demand for alloy steels
and the use of lower-grade ore, however,
“have had a tendency to reduce the ton-
nage of ingots.” Because of the shortage
of men “the employment of female labor
has been substantially expanded,”
Although construction work in the plant
has not been as great as usual, it has
been substantial, machinery for the pro-
duction of cold-rolled strip being ex-
panded, and a coal-washing plant is to
be erected in order to step-tip basic-iron
output. In South Australia ore-extrac-
tion was restricted in keeping with the
shipping available, and the blast furnace,
producing both pig-iron and ferro-man-
ganese, was regulated by the coke supply.
The shipyard was active, with several
launchings.
Australian Iron and Steel, in which
B.H.P. owns all the ords., had a produc-
tion record similar to the Newcastle
works, except that output almost ceased
for a fortnight following the flooding of
the works by heavy rain.
Rylands Bros, maintained its output,
mostly for essential services. Common-
wealth Steel worked at full capacity on
special steels, stainless steel and a
range of alloy and tool steels. The
Newcastle Chemical Co. is turning out
ammonium chloride, hydrochloric acid,
phthalic anhydride and beta naphtha.
The Australian Wire Rope Works has
developed into one of the largest things
of its kind in the British Empire.
Although the combined B.H.P. under-
takings are tremendous, financially the
co. remains a lean, tough Australian.
Shareholders have received no fat out
of the war; their income, in fact, has
suffered a substantial shrinkage, the div.
having fallen from 1\ p.c. to 5-p.c. But
the stature of B.H.P. is growing, and,
provided adequate depreciation of over-
worked plant and special munitions fac-
tories is set aside, the future of the co.
appears to be indicated by that of Aus-
tralia (politically and economically) itself.
In spite of the increase in steel prices,
production difficulties and costs remained
a heavy burden on the financial results
of B.H.P. and its subsidiaries:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings:— 1941. 1942. 1043.
Working profit. - £5,815,816 £5,229,692 £4,921,941
Diva., etc. •• 169,395 117,552 67,343
Total.. .. £5,985,211 £5,847,244 £4,989,284
Depreciation .. 2,164,905 2,404,885 2,459,538
Taxation .. .. 1,963,076 1,897,423 1,366,650
Other exes. .. 272,882 233,997 277,346
Total exes. .. £4,400,803 £4.536,105 £4,103,534
Net profit .. 1,584,348 811,139 885,750
There was a further decrease of £307,751
in gross profit, following a shrinkage of
£586,224 in the preceding term. Div. in-
come fell £50,209, in spite of the great
activity of the subsidiaries. The overall
depreciation allowance was £54,853
heavier, the increase being entirely on
behalf of the subsidiaries, the parent’s
own allowance being down £97,279 at
£1,478,082. It was a reduction of
£530,773 in the provision for taxation
that was mainly responsible for net pro-
fits being shown £74,611 better at
£885,750. No separation is made between
B.H.P.’s and outsiders’ equities.
B.H.P.’s accounts disclosed profits and
divs. as per the introductory table. Re-
serves showed an increase of £631,209 as
a result of a book surplus on marine
insurance claims. The year’s trading and
investment profit barely covered the
5 p.c. div.
Here is some indication of the consoli-
dated financial structure:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
r B.H.P. ——\ Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.
1039.. £6,671,564 £10,735,845 £2,003,958 £3,469,520
1940.. 11,396,930 6,848,610 2,039,230 3,133,970
1941.. 12.111.023 7,645,197 2,128.453 5,258,229
1942.. 13,882,889 6,818,493 2,165,696 7.094,432
1943.. 13,884,977 7,429,252 2,142,011 6,714,238
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889,677 £1,383.603 £2,202,750
1940.. 17,116,909 3,296,463 1,010.743 1,994,631
1941.. 18,360,574 4,024,461 2.368.980 2.294.477
1942.. 18,929,700 5,340,173 3,480,561 2,548,221
1943.. 18,188,610 5,069.191 3,021,412 3,291,105
* Including proportion reserves.
The reduction in stocks and stores is a
result of absorption of reserve stocks and
the sale of zinc concentrates previously
at Broken Hill. Shares in subsi-
diaries increased in the parent’s accounts
by reason of extensions to the Newcastle
Chemical Co. for defence production.
Sundry creditors include an unspecified
provision for taxation.
The board stresses the need for ade-
quate depreciation allowance with which
to face the return to peace and the vital
nature of production costs in the entire
Australian economy. So far as it can
within the limits of man-power and poli-
tics, B.H.P. is preparing surveys to meet
post-war conditions.
Meggitt, Ltd.
f Dividends-
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 p.c. = 16,368 97,245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,308 87,035
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 8| „ „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ „ 32.737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29 887 3100 7J „ „ 25.371 28,76
1943.. 30,859 3100 73 „ „ 25,371 26,377
‘Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
Several thousand acres sown with lin-
seed in the N. S, Wales wheat areas last
year was a failure owing to climatic con-
ditions and caterpillars. Until a suitable
type of linseed is available for planting,
Meggitt, Ltd., is not going any further
with the experiment. India remains the
chief source of supply, but shipping
routes became more open as the Japanese
Navy turned from offence to mainly
defence, and no shipments were lost. The
various plants were therefore able to
maintain full production, and deliveries
of linseed oil were the highest in the
co.’s history ; the demand for stock foods
was also heavy owing to seasonal condi-
tions, and inis was responsible for a
greater-than-usual proportion of the net
profit, the linseed-oil section not contri-
buting its full share owing to a long
delay in getting compensation from the
price authorities.
This production-cost problem is ex-
pected to get worse as the current year
progresses, and the board “cannot be
oversanguine as to the future prospects.”
The Government’s new subsidy scheme
that has taken the place of price-fixing
by commission is not favored by the
board, as a price-fixing formula had “at
length” been arrived at which was ac-
ceptable to all parties. Meggitt, Ltd., is
now receiving subsidies cargo by cargo,
based on the difference between a fixed
ceiling price for linseed oil and the
market value of linseed at the time of
purchase.
During the year to May 31, helped by
the already-mentioned demand for stock
food and income from outside sources,
the net profit, after sending £3OOO to staff
superannuation fund, was £972 better
than in the preceding term, representing
8.4 p.c, on capital, compared with 8.1
and 10.8 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The div. remained at p.c. all round —
the minimum rate applicable to the
£40,000 of pref. capital under the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act. The £2388 that
remained reduced the excess of goodwill
over the total of general reserves to
£26,377.
In addition to general reserves there is
a depreciation lay-by of £112,754, up
£12,627 during the year. It is attaining
substantial dimensions in relation to
fixed assets, which appear in the accounts
“at book value”:
1939. 19'41. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £867,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Inabilities .. 78,022 176,524 805,293 360,281
Depr.eo. reserve 64,639 87,874 100,127 112,754
Premises .. 85,988 98,524 100,003 99,820
Plant.. .. 129,890 140,988 143,554 145,546
Stocks .. 184,546 198,754 276,555 273,397
Book debts .. 57,300 70,461 93,942 94,164
Cash., etc. ~ 83,356 123,227 156,204 230,331
Since 1939 depreciation reserve has been
added to by £48,115, which compares
with an addition of £29,494 to the book
value of fixed assets. If the total reserve
were deducted from plant it would leave
it with a book value of £32,792. Mod-
ernisation and extension of the plant—
there are works in N. S. Wales, Victoria
and South Aus. —are being considered in
view of the growing demand. The only
major movements in balance-sheet figures
last year were in the liabilities and cash
balances—all due to mail irregularities in
the presentation of drafts for linseed ship-
ments. “Investments and shares in other
cos., at cost, less investment reserve,”
rose £20,103, to £102,244. They include
an interest in the linoleum industry
established in this country with the help
of Michael Nairn, of Scotland, to assist
in the consumption of linseed oil, an
inevitable product of linseed processing
whether the chief demand is for stock
foods or otherwise. At present the big
problem is sufficient production of both
oil and meal.
The board says that “if no further
inroads with a socialistic trend are made
upon us we are content to go forward,
trusting to our admitted efficient methods,
our experience and our policy of con-
tinual laboratory research, and look upon
the future with a certain amount of
equanimity.” Since the close of accounts
it has become necessary to ration linseed
oil, and the Directorate of Materials
Supply has assumed full control so that
“practically 100 p.c. will be used for
defence purposes.” With this the board
has no quarrel at present.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
-lay, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932. . 27,750 10 p.c. = 25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1983.. 23.416 8 ~,,20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 ~,,20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 ~,,20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1036.. 31.802 8 ~,, 20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 ~,, 20,000 2,965 12,690 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 ~,, 20,000 3.135 10.982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 ~,,20,000 4,993 11.641 328,138
1941. 30,721 8 ~,,20.000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 ~,,20,000 14,930 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334,187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c. = 20,000 2,899 330,976
Only once (in 1931) during the last 30-
odd years has this snug Rockhampton
merchandising business with strong con-
nections out back shown less profit than


n —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.X. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an(i Trade Marks. — Advt,
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your . estate in
incapable hands. Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith, Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
S[Q FTH.BO VDILL&CQ
133 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR—
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
BRANDAUiR’A
S U
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRAMDAOIIR A CO., l*i, BIKMmQHAM. KNO
Wanted.
WANTED, Manufacturing and Marketing
rights of Patent Household Appliances, Agri-
cultural or other lines. Will finance if attrac-
tive. Must be genuine vendors. —FEDERAL
MACHINERY CO., LTD., Arncliffe, N.S.W.
Position Vacant.
LONGREACH ELECTRICAL
AUTHORITY.
APPLICATIONS, closing Wednesday, 29th
September instant, with the National Service
Officer, Labour Exchange, Longreach, are in-
vited for the position of Chief Electrical
Engineer to the above-mentioned authority.
Salary in accordance with Municipal Officers’
Award—present rate £6lB per annum, house,
light and power free.
Schedule of conditions of employment may
be obtained on application to the undersigned.
J. C. PEARSON,
Longreach, Shire Clerk.
September 4. 1943.
1
mM
•: y.yx
, : y
irs
STILL
A TUBE..
THAT'S
FLAT!
This flattened, spring-like Bourdon
coil the vital core of an industrial
thermometer —is still a tube, though
the bore is a scant .002/.005 of an
inch. The Capillaries, too, used in this
thermometer, are tubes with micro-
scopic bores. These are common
examples of B.T.M’s. initiative and
enterprise in producing precision tubes
of every size and shape for every
purpose. The same initiative and
enterprise will, when freedom is won,
introduce new amenities and facilities
to life in post-war Australia.
C/.,
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A U S I.) P I Y. LTD.
ADELAIDE
R & MC.
ẅ
SHxvoidiJL'aao soniavs a v Ai Ana
STATE EXPRESS
m
a£wsujs pwade !
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now, Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
1 9590-11 42
it did last term. Owing to urgent de-
fence needs it became increasingly diffi-
cult to obtain delivery of adequate mer-
chandising stocks, and for the same
reason deliveries to outback agents and
customers became uncertain and
sporadic. This and rationing bit deeply
into turnover, and the increasing demands
of the taxgatherer and rapidly-mounting
costs added to the difficulties. So,
although there was plenty of money
about, owing to war-time contracts for
wool, meat, dairy produce, sugar and
other things, the board wrote gross earn-
ings from all sources £33,007 short of
the previous year’s figure:
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456 1939. . £100,851 £66,734
1931.. 92,044 74,472 1940.. 106,144 69,510
1933.. 81,298 57,882 1941.. 105,030 74,309
1936.. 87,592 55,789 1942.. 105,185 79,112
1938.. 101,091 65,446 1943.. 72,178 52,491
Exes., including an unspecified amount
for taxation, were pulled back £26,621,
leaving a net shrinkage of £6385. The
£19,688 of profit shown was 7.8 p.c. on
the quarter million of share capital as
against 10.4, 12.2 and 14.6 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. That was before
making visible allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc. —shown as written off in the
table—which was done with a heavy
hand at the previous balance. There was
an unexplained addition of £8325 to fire
insurance reserve in the latest term. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c., and reserves had to
be tapped for £3211 to do it and write
£2899 off the book value of fixed assets,
etc. Appearances are that half or more
of last term’s profit came from invest-
ments outside the business.
For over 40 years the cautious manage-
ment has been building up the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible and otherwise. Its
success in this direction can be judged
from the fact that paid capital advanced
from £93,750 at the beginning of this
century to its present figure with the aid
of only £11,250 of cash subscriptions,
and when the books last closed reserves
exceeded paid capital by £80,976. The
next table shows, among other things,
how the co.’s own funds and the amount
coming to outsiders are employed:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Sundry crs. . . 49,110 42,627 51,442 31,733
Tax provision 24,262 28,289 29,417 30,346
Freeholds and
plant . . 62,102 59',701 57,906 54,809
Stock.. .. 161,962 176,604 154,318 124,704
Book debts . . 59,468 43,512 56,683 50,976
Cash . . . . 39,225 37,631 44,670 42,703
Investments . . 338,753 348,189 353,144 379,862
The year’s contraction of £29,614 in the
stocks item reflects the difficulty of
obtaining and distributing merchandise
already referred to. The amount com-
ing to trade creditors was reduced by
£19,709, while £26,718 was added to in-
vestments, which consist largely of
Government securities. The already
handsome liquid surplus was further
strengthened by £8212, raising it to
£536,167.
With more money invested outside the
business (in liquid form) than in it, the
co. is exceptionally well equipped to en-
large its activities and/or adjust its capi-
tal to ensure satisfactory divs. in the
future. Much will depend upon the
nature and extent to which the activities
of traders are hedged in by Government
controls after the war.
Coalmine Workers (Pensions) Bill has
got through the Westralian Legislative
Assembly with one amendment changing
the basis of contributions by mineowners
from coal won to coal sold. The bill
is very similar to one before Parliament
earlier in the year which was rejected be-
cause the managers of the two Houses
were unable to agree on the proposal to
include surface as well as underground
workers in the scheme, and to the finan-
cial arrangements for the mineowners'
contributions to the fund. The new‘
bill still extends pension rights to surface
and underground workers. Government’s
contribution for first year will be one
quarter of the amount required or £2OOO,
whichever is the smaller. In the succeed-
ing years it will pay one quarter of the
total with the following limitations:
Second year, £2500 maximum; third year,
£3OOO maximum; fourth year, £3500
maximum ; fifth year, £4OOO maximum ;
sixth and succeeding years, £4500 maxi-
mum. Mineowners are called upon to
find two-thirds of the balance and the
workers one-third. Maximum pension
for a single pensioner is £2 a week and
for a married pensioner, together with
his wife and dependent children under
16, £4 10s. 6d. The bill is said to have
only an eye-of-a-needle chance of getting
through the Upper House.
* * * *
“O.B.”: “Golden Mile” (B. 25/8/’43)
is right, “J.H.C.G.” (B. 1/9/’43) wrong.
Hoover became manager of the Sons of
Gwalia when the co., a London promo-
tion by London and Western Australian
Exploration, Ltd., took x»ver in 1898.
Some years later Hoover, then a partner
of Bewick, Moreing and Co., London,
imported Loring, not Loreing, from
America to take charge of the mine and
to be joint general manager of B.M. and
Co.’s business in Westralia with Prichard,
another U.S. importation by Hoover.
Later Hoover sold his interest in B.M.
and Co. to Loring, who later still passed
it on to his son, E. A. Loring, now one of
two surviving partners of the firm.
Loring, senr., returned to U.S.A., and
when last heard of was managing a mine
near Virginia City in Nevada.


The more money you
spend unnecessarily,
the higher goes the
cost of living...that is
INFLATION!
Inflation puts a false value on money. It gives you the illusion of
being able to spend a lot of money—but you get much less for
what you spend. The only way to beat the curse of inflation is to
refrain from spending on non-essentials. Save your money for the
war effort. Don't spend unnecessarily. The more you spend while
supplies are limited, the more you encourage high prices. Confine
your spending to absolute necessities, and you not only can avoid
the menace of inflation, but you allow all available manpower to
concentrate on war production and essential civilian supplies.
Remember that inflation causes post-war depression. Fight this by
saving all you can and providing a substantial nest-egg for use in
the years which will follow victory.
Save every penny yon can. and
buy War Savings Certificates,
or make an Advance Subscrip-
tion to the 4th Liberty Loan!
LE 10-19
Business,Rollery,Etc.
New Freetrade-Protection Problems
During Australia’s four years of parti-
• .. a ■ u ■
cipation in the war, and especially in the
past two of them, such problems as Free-
trade and Protection have been over-
whelmed in the public mind by lend-lease,
the acute demand for production here at
any cost, price control and subsidies
manpower shortage and the difficulty ot
obtaining even essential imports because
of concentration on munitions manutac-
ture in other Allied countries and the
shortage of shipping. Australia being the
centre of operations in the Pacific war,
another factor is at work submerging our
peace-time fiscal problems also , we aie
receiving, for the moment, at any rate,
favored treatment for the sake ot the
world conflict as a whole. What sort ot
a reckoning-up there is to be later on we
don’t know. Or, at least, the people don t.
Undoubtedly there will be more than the
enemy to discuss at the peace-table.
The Bulletin has been, and will con-
tinue to be, a steadfast champion of the
development of Australian secondary in-
dustries. It has been such industries that
represent the backbone of our munitions
production. That was no accident, either,
This paper and other supporters of Aus-
tralian manufactures consistently stressed
ible defence aspect of well-chosen factory
production before this war and the last,
though it was not until the present occa-
sion that foundations had been sufficiently
well established to make a notable con-
tribution to the Empire’s pool of fighting
equipment and other essential war
material apart from wool, which has
always been a No. 1 munition, and metals,
Australian manufacturers at the present
time, so far as man-power, raw materials,
priorities and sanction of the W. 0.1. will
permit, have a big field in front of them,
Markets have opened up that previously
were outside their competitive power. But
there are now other fences in the way.
The chain-store position is a good illus-
lation of what has happened since the
war. First of all there was a quick dis-
appearance of German goods, then other
Continental goods, dollar goods, Japanese
goods and, finally, British goods. But
th i § time, because of the concentra-
tion on munitions output, Australian tac-
tQries nQ £ io ’ to take up the
slack wag ind f cated in the chain and
other stores A national programme was
undertaken t 0 discourage civilian spend-
• and the Allied Works Council and
Qther official and pr i vate ly-run war-time
enterprises made big ca u s on available
man . power and raw materials,
“Rationalisation” became as much a
y j ce ag a v j r |. ue j n Australian industry,
There wag a move Qn the part of the
WO I to wipe out established trade-
marks and goodwill, and there appeared
be an a i mos t total absence of regard
fof the future of Austra ii an industries
ifl competition with outsiders when the
war was over Possibly this was because
the Minister, Mr. Dedman, visualised the
socialisation of industry as a hoped-for
outcome of t he war in the Pacific, and
panned accordingly. “Standardised,”
socialised industry would not need trade-
marks an y more than the post-office-
owned telephone service. You take it or
i ea ve it. But in a country that needs
pr i V ate control of industry to survive
economically, over standardisation has
threatened the reputation of many previ-
G usly highly-regarded Australian produc-
tions, especially in the woollen textile and
footwear trades.
R was the board of Lustre Hosiery
which objected most appropriately to the
danger. “We appreciate,” it was said,
“the necessity for controls to assist the
successful prosecution of the war, but our
experience indicates that many of the
present restrictions go beyond this neces-
sary point, and are more onerous than
those existing in Great Britain itself. The
maintenance of initiative and enterprise
in business as a basis for the rehabili-
tation of our Australian industries in
post-war periods should be encouraged
by our Governments in every way com-
patible with the present necessities. Re-
strictions imposed beyond war-time neces-
sities and attempts at standardisation in-
stead of simplification, as instanced by
the clothing trades, appear to be an un-
necessary development of Government
war-time control.”
In Britain, where the climate is hard
for many months of the year and agri-
culture is insufficient to maintain the
population, political intelligence in mat-
ters of trade has been far more acute
Than in Australia. There has been no
offhand treatment of vital manufacturing
industries; subject to broad control, the
Government has left rationalisation of
industry largely to industry itself, and post-
war trade has been something never lost to
sight even in days like those of Dunkirk.
There has been no attempt to handicap
production on the Government’s part, and
campaigns against Capitalism have been
left to such as the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, who is reported to have said “Not
only is the capitalist system sordid: it
doesn’t even work.” Now, on the continent
of Europe, Capitalism (if Democracy must
be described as such) seems to be giving
Socialism a very hard run for its money.
With the strain of war a burden in it-
self, Australian industry has had to con-
tend with economic pinpricking and
interference almost beyond belief. Bank-
credit use has sent costs up, and so have
unjustifiable concessions to trade union-
ists, bad planning in a variety of under-
takings and wastage of labor, materials
and money. The cost of living has risen
by at least 25 p.c. —very surprising in a
country like Australia which can entirely
feed and substantially clothe itself —and
the war is by no means over yet. There
has been a refusal on the part of both the
Prime Minister and the Treasurer to admit
the dangers that are inherent in the Gov-
ernment’s overreliance on bank credit.
Politics have been too important to allow
a square shaping-up to financial problems.
Bad management of the national eco-
nomics and man-power was quickly re-
flected in the shortage of butter. It has
become necessary to subsidise the dairy-
ing industry in order to keep up supplies
essential to this country and to Britain.
Australian consumption has been
rationed. There has been a great drain
of people from the land, made more
noticeable by the unjustifiably high wages
paid in many munitions industries and
in the Government service. The essential
facilities of primary production have been
severely strained, and production, costs
are far higher than any official statistics
admit.
, It remains to be seen whether the willy-
willy of war-waste that is at present up-
setting the whole Australian economy
settles down again within a reasonable
time after the war ends. The longer it
goes on the shakier will our economic
foundations become. The rising costs, the
subsidies and the cultivated class-con-
sciousness that are all tending to impede
economical production will be a heavy
burden to take with us into the peace.
The more parasites on industry we have
to carry in the shape of a swollen civil
service and militant trade-unionists the
greater will be our difficulty in going on
producing on a competitive basis with
the rest of the world. Deadheads, go-
slow addicts, professional troublemakers
and money-wages high in figures but low
in buying-power weigh overwhelmingly
on a country’s trade. And on trade de-
pends living standards and those other
economic conditions stressed in the
Atlantic Charter.
Inflating currency, misdirection of in-
dustry, organised industrial friction and
rising costs will, when world trade re-
turns to a competitive peace-time basis,
aggravate the differences between the ad-
herents of Freetrade and Protection. It
will certainly be more difficult than ever
for Australia to contemplate any redac-
tion of tariff barriers, as a country which
cannot export at a profit cannot afford
to import freely. Envy and prejudice
alone have gained in strength as a result
of the politico-economic manoeuvring that
has been such an important part of
Labor’s war effort. There has been no
evidence of greater productivity per head
even under the spur which ope would ex-
pect the national emergency of itself to
give ; in fact, the loading rate on wharves
is said in authoritative quarters to be
down by nearly half on what it was
pre-war.
Australians can rejoice, if they want
to, in the fact that at present they
are far more regimented than they
have ever been before, and in many cases
far more than has been necessary for the
prosecution of the war. If they prefer
regimentation to freedom of enterprise
and the rising living standards that have
accompanied it over the last century —
well, they are getting it. But the waste
and high costs of production that are
travelling hand-in-hand with revolution-
ary and inflammatory principles may in
the end bring to a calamitous finish the
living standards and the White Australia
that have been a pride and boast since
the continent became a nation. We can-
not regiment, loaf, quarrel or gamble our
way into a new era of prosperity.
In the year to June 30, 1941, the profits
earned by the note-issue department
of the Commonwealth Bank were
£1,461,839. These profits arose through
the public demand for currency, the de-
mand being satisfied by the Treasury
printing notes and the Commonwealth
Bank lending them to the banking system,
the Government and public direct at
interest. Since the end of the 1940-41
year the Treasury has been called upon
to print many more notes, such has been
the demand by the people for currency.
This demand has arisen partly from the
floating nature of much of the popula-
tion in war-time, partly from the increase
in prices and wages, and partly from the
hoarding of notes, the reason for the last
sometimes being evasion of income tax,
sometimes fear of Government interfer-
ence with bank accounts. At June 30,1941,
the note issue, after nearly two years of
war, was still no larger than £67.8 mil-
lion. But a year later, following a
change of Government, the outbreak of
war with Japan and the introduction of
Treasury-bill finance of war expenditure,
the issue had expanded to £102.6 mil-
lion, and the profit thereon for the year
grew to £1,658,140. During the 12
months to June 30 last the note issue ran
up to £l4O million, and note-issue profits
were swollen to £2,247,701. Although
the issue averaged over double the
1940-41 figure, profits were not doubled;
main reason is the lower level of interest
earned on the increase in the issue. Now
the issue has grown to £l4B million.
Few countries in the world have
had a greater growth in their currency
than the Commonwealth since the
war started. The extra profit being
earned at present is not sufficient to com-
pensate for the embarrassment being
caused to the Treasury. In this country
as well as in Great Britain there have
been official expressions of disapproval
regarding currency hoarding.
The entire profits of the Australian
note issue last year, as in the preceding
year were transferred to the Common-
wealth Treasury. Half the profits of the
general department and the rural credits
department (£458,708 altogether) were
transferred to the National Debt bmK-
ing Fund.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House.
Welders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
•V APPOINTMENT,
Quality of Reproduction
For nearly half a century the world’s greatest artists
have entrusted the permanent reproduction of their
art to "His Master’s Voice”—exclusively.
Purity of tone and quality of reproduction have
therefore become a tradition with "His Master’s
Voice” ... a tradition which ensures that "His
Master’s Voice” radio sets and radio-gramophones
enable you to hear the world’s greatest artists as
they would wish to be heard.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
RADIO RECEIVERS RADIO-GRAMOPHONES
We regret that no Radiograms or Radio
Receivers are available for the time being
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incocporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R. 29/43
.. —i
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
mS
s
m
I
THE VALUE Of
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
is most pronounced
in application to
prolonged tasks
demanding great
accuracy, such as
gauging, inspec-
tion, tool
m a ki n g,
fine fitting
work, and
drafting.
WWWWWWA'W
CLAUDE NEON
LIMITED
2 ALISON ROAD. RANDWICK, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE. HOBART AND PERTH
TODaY !
Now, more than ever, industry and business NEED Fluorescent
Lighting! Fluorescent provides illumination of daylight quality
and intensity. Its low surface brightness and elimination of glare
minimise eyestrain and help avoid fatigue.
Our lighting engineers will plan an installation for you without
obligation, showing you how you can increase production in
factories and efficiency in stores and offices by the use of
Fluorescent Lighting—one of the greatest single illuminating
engineering advances of modern times.
Both hot and cold cathode types are immediately available.
Installations may be purchased for cash, or secured on a rental
basis with optional ownership.
THE "WHY” OF FLUORESCENT LIGHTING... the answer in a diagrammatic nutshell
w
Britain appears to be on the verge of
introducing a pay-as-you-owe taxation
policy. Preliminary reports indicate that
in the first instance the scheme will be
applied to 7,500,000 manual workers,
and if successful it may be extended to
the other 5,000,000 taxpayers. If “con-
servative” Britain is capable of follow-
ing in the footsteps of Canada and the
United States in this matter, why is Aus-
tralia lagging?
*.* * * *
In August Australia’s war expenditure
returned to average proportions, after a
substantial decline in July. The August
figure was £47.3 million, compared with
£40.5 million in July. Of the August out-
lay, £12.5 million was paid out of taxa-
tion and £34.8 million out of the loan
fund. Taxation is still providing less than
30 p.c. of war’s cost.
* * * *
The Division of Import Procurement,
a section of the Customs, is a study in the
development of socialisation. Nearly all
importing must now be done with the
sanction of the D.1.P., and in some things
the D.I.P. is on the way to becoming an
importing monopoly (as in the case of
cotton). Lend-lease is also its pre-
serve. Many people who have had
business dealings will tell you that the
D.I.P. atmosphere is deathly. There
is dissension between the traditional
civil servant and the “brought in”
outsider, and unionists are paid more
than non-unionists (bar returned sol-
diers) ; but whatever the feeling there
may be about the way things are done,
the public is none the better off. One im-
porter relates that he receives his invoice
from the D.I.P. requesting him to take
delivery ex ship’s slings, plus a demand:
“Bank cheque, please.” The formalities of
getting a bank cheque having been gone
through, the cheque is taken to the Syd-
ney branch and eventually a receipt is
obtained. Then there is a wait in a
queue to get a delivery slip so that the
goods can be picked up. But on appli-
cation at the wharf it is found that the
D.I.P. was so late in sending out the
invoice that the goods are no longer any-
where near the ship’s slings, but have
been sent out to a store in the suburbs.
More wasted time ; more expense. The
goods eventually in the warehouse, a
couple of months pass by without any
price being fixed by the Price Branch.
Meantime interest and storage costs
mount up. And then it may happen that
next time a shipment of the same kind
of thing arrives the price charged by the
D.I.P. will be up sharply, the reason being
that a mistake was made in costing the
first lot of stuff and that the difference
was added to the second lot. The D.I.P.
has become one of the obstinate impedi-
ments to the efficient prosecution of the
war on the economic side. So far de-
partmental monsters of this order have
mostly had to do with business and in-
dustry, and the average Australian doesn’t
give a damn about those things unless he
is directly concerned. He will be directly
concerned if development of overwhelm-
ing departments is allowed to con-
tinue on the present obvious pattern.
The big idea inside them is to dig in for
life.
* * * *
To illustrate what can happen from the
unwise or unfair distribution of money
let us take an exaggerated case. Assume
that Australia has a population of 800,
600 of whom work, 200 of whom don t.
Let it be assumed that the Government
hands out each of the 800 an equal
amount of money for a week. What is
the effect on the community as a whole?
The 200 who have done nothing to de-
serve their pay have the right to go into
the shops and buy a third of the pro-
duction of the working 600, and as the
production of the workers is all that is
available the 600 are able to buy back
only two-thirds of the things they have
produced collectively. It boils down
to this: Either a good deal of sav-
ing by the whole 800 has to take
place, or they will all be bidding
up for the limited amount of goods
and services, and inflation in prices
will take place, all because 200 non-pro-
ducers have been given money which
they did not earn. The same thing hap-
pens, though less immediately visible to
the naked eye, when men who do some
work get paid for more than they do by
comparison with others, and where a
Government creates excessive money to
finance war waste instead of taking an
appropiate proportion from all by means
of taxation. Each instance eventually
reveals that there is more money than
goods and services, and the inflation that
follows on this state of affairs means that
the producer is never able to buy back
as much as he has produced or put into
savings. For the purpose of this illus-
tration a person is a producer who does
any work for which the community is
prepared to pay directly or indirectly.
* * * *
The State of New South Wales re-
ceived £15.5 million in income tax last
year; all the other States together re-
ceived £lB.B million. Total revenue for
N. S. Wales was £76.6 million, other
States £97.4 million, aggregate £174 mil-
lion. N. S. Wales expenditure was £75 mil-
lion, other States £96.4 million, aggregate
£171.4 million. The aggregate si*rplus of
£2.6 million is misleading inasmuch as
appropriations for special purposes were
made after the ordinary Budget surpluses
were defined ; “other expenditure” (N. S.
Wales excepted) was £4.2 million above
estimates, for instance. The Common-
wealth Bank comments that “the States
have benefited considerably from the
heavy demands placed upon State rail-
ways, railway revenue increasing by £17.7
million during the year, while railway ex-
penditure rose bv £12.6 million.”


THE SERVICE MAN
End of a Campaign.
“Ek Dum”: On Thursday, September
16, at 11 a.m., Australian troops, mostly
flown into the Markham Valley, entered
Lae down the river track, after a 20-mile
push through jungle and plantation from
Nazdap.
They had encountered only patrols and
skirmishing defences. In nine days they
estimated that they had killed 500 or
more Japanese, and their own losses were
reported to be light. How many Japs were
killed by the landing force from Hopoi
was not stated. One report mentioned
1000, but there had been no suggestion
of fighting on that scale.
The Markham men were not resisted
when they t entered Lae. The small re-
maining parties of the enemy had left for
the Finisterres and Rawlinsons. They
were described by the command as scat-
tered elements —“remnants, whose de-
struction” was “certain.” All round them
lay aircraft wrecked by the systematic
bombardments from the air and from the
artillery of the force which had landed
to the east of the town on the Huon
peninsula south coast. This force, when
the Markham men entered Lae, was in
the environs of Malahang aerodrome
area a little to the east, and about ready
to invade the town on its own account.
The spearhead of the actual capturers
of Lae, empty save for an odd wounded
Japanese, suddenly found themselves
facing brisk fire. They made contact with
the artillery and air group before moving
into Lae, and early in the afternoon the
Japanese flag was hauled down and the
Australian flag hauled up.
The report of the capture of Lae was
delayed till Sept. 18, but there may have
been good military reasons.
Salamaua Falls
Salamaua had fallen three days before.
On September 13 a militia unit swam
the Francisco River —in flood—from the
Bobdubi side and captured Salamaua
landing ground, which is on the main-
land, about two miles from the main
township. In another forward move the
isthmus and the Parsee Peninsula were
taken. The victors found the single street
of the once-busy port of the goldfields
razed and the place tom to bits.
Part of the force which crossed the
river went on northward through the
native village, through the remains of the
mission station and on into the old Euro-
pean township of Kela and its ridge,
which faces Salamaua on the isthmus
across the water. It went on towards
Busama and the Bwussi River northwards
to clear up fleeing pockets of Japanese.
The Australian units which, took Sala-
maua beat the Americans in by a hair’s-
breadth. There were no Japanese
prisoners to share. General Blarney
summed up the situation:
All that was now left to do was to mop
up such parties as remained.
Thus came the climax of six months of
war in terrain the like of which no
modern force had fought in before.
From Wau to Lae
In February the enemy made an attack
—with perhaps a brigade and a bit—on
the Wau area across the ranges 35 miles
from the coast. It was fortunate that
the men of the goldfields, who had shown
the world the way in tropical air trans-
port, had prepared facilities for air land-
ings with heavy loads on their uncon-
ventional aerodrome. This enabled re-
inforcements and artillery to be flown in
quickly and neatly to augment the light
defence, and the enemy was beaten off
after touch-and-go fighting, in which he
lost about a battalion in killed—prob-
ably more.
There now began a long war tor tne
breaching of the barrier which the enemy
threw across the approaches south of Sala-
maua. The Australian force used in this
consisted of three independent specially-
trained companies and Moten’s 17th
Brigade, A.I.F. To this formation, ulti-
mately at its greatest strength under
Major-General Savige, who directed the
Salamaua battle, belongs the main glory
of the stirring little campaign ; to Us
junior officers—some of them have risen
to be seniors, old in the ways of tropic
warfare in a few months —belongs the
honor of developing most of its tech-
nique and tactics.
After the preliminary and terrible
patrol period by isolated bands of in-
dependent company men, the campaign
proceeded in three stages—the pursuit of
the enemy from Wau; the gradual
break-through to the coast; the final
period of large-scale winkling-out
came with the landing of a companion*
American regiment—equivalent to an
Australian brigade—at Nassau Bay, and
the establishment there of a sea base.
After the enemy had been driven out
of Wau Australia’s devoted little frac-
tion pushed forward against spur and
valley, strongpost and machine-gun nest,
foxhole and artillery defences, winning,
against desperate fire, to positions en-
circling Mubo from which they could
harass the Komiatum track and Sala-
maua’s environs only a few miles away.
It was not big fighting, but it was
deadly, and it lasted under hellish tropi-
cal conditions, even with the help of the
Air Forces, whose strafers and fighters
played the part of treetop artillery, and
whose bombers sometimes quarried posi-
tions out almost solidly, until the middle
of August. Then the worst was over and
the Allied forces, overlooking Salamaua
itself, could afford to wait for the en-
circling movement on Lae area to begin.
Major-General Savige—one of the
most picturesque figures of the Light
Horse in last war’s Middle Eastern
campaign, and with a fine record in
France —says that in the Jap counter-
attack on the Pimple Hill near Mubo on
May .8 180 Australians found themselves
attacked by 1200, some of whose forward
elements got within six yards of Aus-
tralian positions. The fight lasted four
days, and the enemy left 700 dead behind.
The enemy’s last counter-attack took
place on August 19 in the area of Bob-
dubi Hill, which looks down across the
Francisco to the aerodrome of Salamaua.
That date could be counted as the end
of the real fight for Salamaua, already
blasted to bits.
In the previous 105 days the A.I.F. and
the independent companies and Ameri-
cans had put the equivalent of nine
enemy battalions out of action, and the
known dead from the infantry fighting
alone totalled 1600.
Mubo and Markham
Up to its last phase the Savige Force
or its nucleus had not been engaged in
the kind of war which is run trimly from
H.Q. It was, at its heaviest, a war of
companies ; for most of the time a war
of night-sneaking patrols and of indi-
viduals who crawled through the mud
and the scrub, dodging every kind of
wild life from the scorpion to the “puck
puck” (crocodile) and every kind of
disease from homesickness to scrub
typhus.
They lived in gorges to which the sun
never penetrated, on ground covered with
slime and ooze, in valleys which for days
were full of fog, on slopes which became
a waterfall when it rained, as it did every
day. They ceased to “walk” ; they always
“climbed” or slid. Their clothes became
tatters round acres of mosquito bite and
scrub-scratch. They forgot the feel of a
razor. They were always wet. They
lived off the country.
Bombed by mosquitoes, gaunt, eternally
dirty, this little group, which began in
hundreds and grew to perhaps several
thousand men before the Americans and
some of the amenities of life arrived with
the opening of Nassau Bay, were little
known among their countrymen.
But the Jap appreciated them. He was
always in superior force ; but he never
knew when they would jump out upon
him. They haunted his environs. Months
ago they took a photographer to make
a movie of Salamaua in daylight. They
first met elements of the enemy only weeks
after he had occupied Lae and Salamaua,
when they appeared —if you please!
right out on the Markham under one of
his local H.Q., which they filled with
grenades, while their mates touched off
the adjacent bridge. They stole away
leaving their dead leader as their first
casualty.
They sneaked right into the isthmus of
Salamaua and played merry hell one
evening in the main street, and got away.
They pounced on Mubo and left warm
corpses by the dozen when there were
only enough of them to fill a tooth. And
though the Jap held the sea, the air and
the settlements of the coast with their
shelter and their labor, these Australians
were the real masters of the Komiatum
trail and the lords of its passage.
A film of Damien Parer’s, the last he
took of the campaign, was released in
Sydney last week, taken in the front lines
of the Komiatum area. Any man or
woman who can see it without tears
of pride in his or her eyes is no
Australian. It was taken literally in
the midst of battle, and it is one
of the most moving pictorial docu-
ments of any war, a vignette which
shows the lion courage, the suffering, the
dreadful fatigue and isolation of the
glorious, tatterdemalion little bands of
experienced bushmen and well-blooded
youngsters who fought it out with the
Jap in the Mubo jungles and hills and
gorges, in the rain and blood and mire.
The sites of these combats are marked
with their buried dead.
Some distinctive recognition should be
given these units. It would not be un-
suitable if, as in the Eighth Army, those
who have been with them were given a
special color-patch so that all might know
them.
Air Activity
The H.Q. Command is advertising its
knowledge of the importance of the re-
maining New Guinea bases by its persis-
tent bombing of them. In spite of the
announcement last week that the enemy
front-line air defence had been driven
across the D.N.G. border, there was
evidence that it was still at Wewak.
On Sept. 15 a heavy raid on two of
Wewak’s circle of aerodromes, Eut and
Dagua, was reported. The visitors
dropped 63 tons of bombs, left 20 out
of 25 parked aircraft burning, shot down
eight and probably another four of 40
fighters, losing only three machines.
On the following day, mention was
made of sweeps round Hansa Bay in
which the majority of 30 barges were
bombed and strafed to the bottom and
damagt was done to installations.
Next, heavy bombers with fighter
escort dropped 66 tons of bombs on
Wewak and Boram ’dromes in 15
minutes, destroying 10 bombers, setting
fire to dumps and generally playing
havoc, while the escort engaged in an
hour of wild dogfights with 60 to 70
fighters. The official account placed the
enemy loss at 59 fighters shot out of
action, including 39 destroyed for cer-
tain. The attackers lost only one fighter,
though others and bombers suffered
damage. But Jap air strength is de-
scribed by General MacArthur as “in
this theatre larger than ever.”
Saturday’s communique spoke of the
bombing of Alexishafen, in the Madang
approaches, in which 61 tons of bombs
caused heavy damage on bivouac areas
and to supply dumps. Other raiders
ranged over the whole northern arc and
as far as Macassar, where 27 tons of ex-
plosives fell on the waterfront.
The enemy’s air operations have been
peculiar. On Morobe Harbor there was
a raid by 10 dive-bombers which caused
minor damage and casualties, and the
raiders went home with two gaps in their
formation. Allied fighters shot down a
bomber and a fighter in a force consist-
ing of 15 bombers and a fighter escort
which attacked Watut. One Allied
machine was lost.
A second small raid by the enemy on
Morobe after dark caused no damage.
A similar raid under cover of night on
Darwin by 12 to 15 machines was equally
ineffective, as was one apparently car-
ried out by a couple of reconnaissance
’planes on Onslow (W.A.).
Solomons and Kuriles
Operations in the Solomons followed
the pattern of the previous week —steady
air raiding of enemy bases and particu-
larly of Vila and the crucial Buin-Faisi
area, a softening-up process in prepara-
tion for direct attack.
A South Pacific H.Q. spokesman said
in New York that intensified air attacks
had been launched on Bougainville aero-
dromes with approximately 250 machines.
Tokyo Radio reported a naval battle in
progress between New Guinea and the
Solomons in which “the Imperial Com-
mand announces that our forces are get-
ting the upper hand, while in a destructive
blow 60 of 240 aircraft which attacked
Buin-Faisi have been shot down for a
loss of only five Japanese aircraft.” A
Department of Information spokesman
said there had been no naval battle.
The Allied report was that seven out of
27 Jap ’planes had been wiped out.
Allied air raids had by the week-end
been extended to aerodromes as far north
as Kieta on Buka Passage. Preparations
for swiftly-moving events seemed to be
in progress over the whole Solomon area.
At the week-end the air war was still
growing. Allied bombers were being
attacked by up to 100 enemy fighters.
In two days the Japanese lost 39 aircraft.
On Sept. 13 Tokyo Radio announced
that U.S. machines had raided the Kuriles,
claiming that anti-aircraft fire had de-
stroyed many of the raiders, and that
seven had come down in U.S.S.R. terri-
tory. There was an admission that in-
stallations had been slightly damaged,
two transports set on fire and a fighter
lost. A U.S. correspondent declared that
the affair had been the hottest, dead-
liest and most costly aerial action in the
North Pacific,” that pilots described the
ack-ack fire as the heaviest and most
accurate they had ever seen and that 10
badly-shot-up bombers out of 20 returned,
many carrying dead and wounded. But
the raiders declared that they shot down
13 out of 25 opposing fighters. They
themselves lacked fighter cover.
There is a warning in the incident
which should not be neglected.
The Battle of Salerno.
“Ek Dum”: Looking northward from
the high shoulders of Cape Licosa
promontory, by Agropoli, the whole
scene of the Fifth Army’s fight for a
bridgehead in Italy is spread out in
panorama. There never was a grander
setting for war.
Thirty miles across the half-moon
sweep of Salerno Gulf, the cliffs of the
Sorrento Peninsula rise and tower.
They come down almost the whole
length of the northern side of the gulf
as the cliffs of Sydney’s Middle Head do,
broken here and there with a small space
or a beach into which the nimble Italians
have inserted a town, under the frowning
line of ruined watchtowers and the top-
most villages.
Salerno’s Battlefield
The battlefield lies beyond little hills
spread out in an amphitheatre. The silver
River Sele cuts into the green flats around
its mouth, bends as it goes inland, throws
off a tributary and is thrust southward
down a long valley like a sword into a
scabbard across the base of the Policastro
Peninsula.
There are the ruins of ancient Paestum,
noble even in their destruction, bombed
out of existence by the deadly malaria
mosquito of the Campagna. In the
north-east corner of the noble gulf is
Salerno itself, with its sweep of bathing
beach and red-and-white fishing-boats,
beaked like triremes.
From your perch you can see the star
of road and rail which leaves Salerno—
the route along the cliffs of the Sorrento
Peninsula ; the road and railway across
its butt, through a gorge to Nocera,
which takes you in a dozen miles behind
Vesuvius and Naples and on the way to
Rome, 150 miles away ; the road and rail
routes which make south-east across the
ranges to Campagna and Potenza and the
Gulf of Taranto in Basilicata; the road
and railway which cross the Salernian
amphitheatre by a more westward course
past the airfield at Battipaglia, where it
forks, one line going inward through
Eboli for a space, but coming back to
join the coastal main rail. This skirts
the cliffs into the toe of Italy, having
jumped the Sele at your feet and pulled
itself together for its frightened journey
southward.
Along Montgomery’s Coast
A terrible place, the toe of Italy.
Neapolitans a few years ago kissed you
good-bye as you went into it to brave the
supposed savages which infest it, and
even the express to Reggio sneaks softly
along its edges by night. . '
When General Clark with his mixed
force of British and Americans began to
come ashore on the beaches of Salerno
Gulf, they must have known that they
would face a fight if the enemy had any-
thing to fight with. The prize at stake
not merely a bridgehead but Naples with
its million people and its great port. Rome
and the whole of Italy south of the line
of the Arno.
Their preparations proved their know-
ledge of the weight of the task—the heavy
naval bombardment, the swarming fighter
cover, the barrage-balloons, the massive
nature of their equipment. But the rest
of the occupation of the toe and heel o
Italy and the establishment of control ot
the Adriatic mouth through Taranto and
Brindisi and Bari had been so easy that
every armchair strategist squealed in pro-
test when the Germans resisted, an
viewed with disappointment the P r £g res ->
of a feat which would have been hailed
as a great, swift tribute to the efficiency
of the Soviet system if it had been per-
formed by Timoshenko.
On the Road to Nocera
The Allies, ashore, in spite ot yeiy
fierce resistance, began topush in an
in every direction on a 25-mile tron .
They broke down through Battipaglia,
which is 51 miles from Salerno, or
rather through its ruins They Pushed
further inland along the Eboli and
Campagna lines. But when they rie
to push up the gorge road to Nocera,
which leads to Naples, 33 2
away, they were stopped at the two-m <.
post in the gorge by what seemed to
an irresistible force. They were with
an ace of getting out into the easy Cam-
pagna, whence they could have spread
on both sides of Vesuvius. They weie a
moment too late. , ,
The men who fought this crucial I t
battle belonged to an independent t,
and had landed north of the beacr
P In process of time, in heroic hand-to-
hand P fighting, they wiped out enemy


Divorce Notices.
TO PERCY OWEN BENNETT formerly of
30 Gloucester Road Hurstville New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ESTHER BENNETT has filed a Petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales Matri-
monial Causes Jurisdiction (No. 1337 of 1942)
praying for a divorce on the ground of your
desertion for three years and upwards Your
wife confesses adultery with one William
Frederick Mullins and asks that in exercise of
its discretion the Court will grant a divorce
notwithstanding such adultery You may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the
First day of December next and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
OTHER & OTHER Solicitors 350 George
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE of THOMAS WILLIAM
DALTON late of Rongotea in the Provincial
District of Wellington in New Zealand Farmer.
—PURSUANT to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Palmerston North on the 15th day of July 1943
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin and en-
titled to share in the estate of the abovenamed
deceased and in particular brothers and/or
sisters (or the children of such brothers and/or
sisters) of John Dalton formerly of Thomas-
town County Kilkenny Ireland but later of
Rongotea in the Dominion of New Zealand
Richard Dalton formerly of Thomastown afore-
said but later of Nelson in the Dominion of
New Zealand Catherine Rodgers (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Blue Spur Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Ellen Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Kumara Westland in the Dominion of
New Zealand Margaret Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Piper’s Flat Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand and Eliza Smith (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Melbourne Victoria Australia having
claims against the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased person who died at Foxton in New
Zealand on the 26th day of January 1941 and
probate of whose will was granted by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Palmerston
North on the 19th day of February 1941 are
hereby required to send in full particulars in
writing of their claims to HECTOR CHRISTIE
Solicitor of 69 Ridgway Street Wanganui in
New Zealand aforesaid the sole Executor of the
will of the said Thomas William Dalton de-
ceased within six (6) months from the date of
publication of this advertisement after which
the Executor will proceed to distribute the assets
of the deceased among the persons entitled
thereto having regard only to the claims and
demands of which he shall then have had
notice. DATED at Wanganui this 15th day of
July 1943.— CHRISTIE, CRAIGMYLE &
TIZARD, Solicitors for the Executor, Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
{jy
cuxt
machine-gun nests and secured control of
the defile; and to that control they
hung on for over 48 hours, without help,
without food or relief, while the German
tanks tried to make the gap and the
enemy flung in wave after wave of rein-
forcements, some of them parachutists
dropped into the adjacent plain.
Signals H.Q. was wiped out. Ammuni-
tion ran low. Once on the second day
the heavy Tigers actually broke through
the gap, but a soldier jumped from the
cliff face upon the leader and threw a
grenade into its vitals. And heavy mor-
tars stopped the rest.
On the second day at 11 p.m. they
were still fighting, hanging on against
the heaviest charge the Germans had
made, in which fresh troops were
flung against them in overwhelm-
ing force, armed entirely with automatic
weapons. The defence of the eastern
side of the gorge was overcome in the
dark ; but the fight went on across the
road all night.
Sunday morning brought relief. Shells
from the warships screamed overhead,
tearing down the cliffs from which the
Allied troops had been forced the night
before. Fresh troops arrived. The gate
was held and the crucial action won.
The Battle of Eboli
Meanwhile, for 24 miles down the gulf
the battle raged, on the ground, over-
head and from the sea. The Germans
all the way had the advantage of high
ground. This was not always near the
sea.
Though aircraft bombed the approach
roads and enemy positions, and though
a growing hail of shells screamed in from
the sea, the position was critical for days
after the landing. It was not, however,
desperate.
And the balance was with the attackers
if they could hold. For Montgomery’s
Eighth Army was roaring up through
savage Calabria, skidding round the tor-
tuous gorges, capturing the hill-enfolded
towns one after the other with little or
no resistance, but slowed up by demoli-
tions ahead.
“Another Miserable Dunkirk!”
The German communique of Sept, 13
described fierce fighting north of Salerno
at the Nocera Gorge approach, where
the gallant holding action had developed
into a large-scale battle of divisions.
South of Eboli, Berlin claimed, the Ger-
mans had gone over to the offensive.
Allied positions had been taken by storm.
British and American troops were being
beaten back to the landing points. The
Luftwaffe had repeatedly and success-
fully attacked shipping concentrations in
Salerno Gulf, had fired a cruiser and
damaged three transports.
Berlin Radio shouted exultantly that
down below the Sele River, by Cape
Licosa, units in great disorder were being
hurriedly taken aboard transports—“an-
other miserable Dunkirk!”
Montgomery’s men had passed by the
historic field of Maida the day before.
They had now occupied Cosenza, 80 miles
as the crow flies from the actual battlefield
of Salerno, and they were still surging
on, a vast column of armor, guns, bull-
dozers, lorries and jeeps, which must
have seemed endless and inexorable
among the hills. Along the coast the
Navy co-operated.
The Tables Turned
Though next day the Germans re-
ported “great success,” the encirclement
of one British and American group
and the destruction of another with a
rising tide of booty and prisoners, the
turn in the Allied favor seemed to have
come, though exactly when is not clear.
The Allies, thrown back from Eboli
almost to the beaches, after a penetra-
tion which had reached miles inland, and
which had been breached or dented by
a German wedge, were strongly rein-
forced. The Tactical Air Force estab-
lished its ascendancy, enabling the
strengthening of naval co-operation under
Vice-Admiral H. K. Hewitt, U.S.N. The
occupation of Capri—held by the British
under Napoleon’s gaoler, Hudson Lowe
—no doubt helped. It was in Italian
hands.
Reinforcements poured ashore. The
barrage increased. Warspite and Valiant
joined in. The forward areas of the
beaches all the way down the face of the
gulf, from Salerno to Agropoli, ran red
as attack and counter-attack were deli-
vered ceaselessly.
By the morning of September 16, a
week from the landing, the position
seemed safe. The bridgeheads had held.
The coastal positions were being re-
organised, the defences stiffened. De-
stroyers had come inshore to bombard
defences. The battleships boomed from
the western horizon.
Spokesmen in Berlin claimed that the
Allied ground was still being narrowed,
that the bulk of the British First, 46th
and 56th Divisions and First Armored
Division and the bulk of the U.S. 36th,
45th and First Divisions had been annihi-
lated, and that a strong British paratroop
force, which had descended on the naval
area of Castellamare, between Vesuvius
and the Sorrento Peninsula, had been
wiped out. But even their claims showed
that at points on the Sele and Colore
rivers the Allies were six miles inland.
And Berlin admitted that Allied strength
“far exceeded anything that had been
anticipated”—with Montgomery’s ad-
vancing army, Berlin said, 14 divisions.
Montgomery Outflanks Again
Before the week-end the crisis was over.
The southern patrols of the Allied Army
of Salerno, 15 miles out beyond Agropoli
on the Policastro Peninsula, had seen the
dusty spearhead of the Eighth Army
coming up the road through Vallo, 3000
miles from Alamein where it started.
It had travelled 235 miles of wild
mountain road, blocked in places by
demolitions, in a fortnight.
But it was not the first the U.S. Fifth
Army had seen of Montgomery’s men.
Even the sea had not prevented Mont-
gomery from outflanking his old adver-
sary Rommel for the fourth time in his-
tory. The Navy had landed his armor in
force on September 15 among the ruins
of Paestum, on the Salerno plain, and
on the south of Agropoli as well to clear
the way into the battle. Seemingly, it
had proved the decisive factor.
By Sept. 20 German air opposition had
almost disappeared and the enemy was
swinging his line back off the Salerno
plain to implement the defence of Naples
and his eastern flank in the direction of
Potenza.
Rommel Back to Normal
The enemy rear junctions were being
blasted. Rommel had resumed his cus-
tomary habit —he was moving backwards.
From their further vantage points that
day Allied screen troops could already
see —so far as the enormous pall
of smoke would let them—the eastern
slopes of Vesuvius ; the green campagna
beyond, fertile and crowded \ and storied
roads —to Acerra, which Hannibal devas-
tated ; to Formia, where Mark Antony’s
bravos murdered Cicero ; to the bend
where railway and road avoid the sinister
scene of the battle of the Caudine
Forks ; to the Capua of the Borgias; to
Rome itself, across the Alban Hills.
This was the first great battle in this
war fought under American army and
naval command —though it was under
the general direction of General Alex-
ander and Admiral Cunningham. The
results showed that it is not only the
British Army which can produce leaders
worthy to stand beside Montgomery and
troops fast reaching the calibre of the
British 44th, 50th and 51st Divisions.
Salerno will go down in history with
Alamein as one k of the vital battles of
the war. Its magnitude dispelled the
sneer that the Italian front is not a true
major front. Its results warn the Germans
and assure the Russians that our enemy
has a first-class major attack on his hands
in the Mediterranean.
From Italy to Hawaii.
“Ek Dum”: While fighting proceeded
fiercely at Salerno, units of the Italian
Fleet continued to sail into Allied har-
bors. Before the end of the week five
battleships had surrendered —the new
35,000-ton Vittorio Veneto and Italia
(formerly Littorio), the 26,000-ton Giulio
Cesare, Caio Duilio and Andrea Doria—
seven cruisers, an aircraft-carrier and
numerous submarines and smaller fry—
a bigger surface navy than Germany’s.
The only battleships missing were the
Roma, sunk by German bombers, and
the Cavour, sunk by British bombers at
Taranto on November 11, 1940, and
undergoing reconstruction at Trieste, now
in Nazi hands.
The Allies had taken, besides Brindisi,
Bari, the largest city on the south-
western Adriatic, a port about the size
of Brisbane, without earning much more
than a line or two of print. And the
world had seen the novel spectacle
of Italians pushing the Germans out of
Sardinia.
The Germans claimed to have occu-
pied the whole of the eastern coast of the
Adriatic, including the port of Pola —
though the Yugoslavs claimed Spalato
and much of the Dalmatian coast —to
have stationed troops down the west
border of Italy, from the Maritime Alps
to Spezia, to have taken the fortified
Mont Cenis tunnel after fierce fighting
with Marshal Badoglio’s Italians, and to
control the St. Bernard Pass, Elba and
Corsica. Berlin declared that 500,000
Italian troops had been disarmed, alleging
that others had decided to fight with the
new Fascist leadership under Mussolini,
whose orders of the day were featured
every few hours by Berlin Radio.
In the Air
The Allied air attack was intensified.
Particular attention was paid to the
approaches of northern Italy, on the
French side. Lancasters gave Modane,
near the entrance of the Bi-mile Mont
Cenis tunnel, a dressing-down. Fortresses
tackled a new lot of targets in western
and south-western France —Beaumont le
Roger, La Rochelle, Nantes, La Pallice.
At Nantes 250 were killed and 700 in-
jured. According to Paris Radio the
centre of Nantes was wiped out.
Over northern France the raiding was
fierce. For the first time American heavy
bombers were seen operating at dusk and
returning home in the dark. The suburbs
of Paris were raided by the U.S.A.F., two
aircraft factories being attacked —Paris
Radio said 137 people were killed and
435 injured.
Another R.A.F. raid blasted the great
Mont Lucon rubber factory, 40 miles
from Vichy, an Australian Stirling squad-
ron taking part. Mosquitoes were per-
sistently over Berlin and the Rhineland,
and on Sept. 18 30 enemy vessels were
damaged in raids by Coastal Com-
mand, Over 100 enemy fighters were shot
down in the battles over France in the
last four days of the week.
In Full Retreat.
“Ek Dum”: The Germans in Russia
have continued their withdrawals, which
at points were made so fast that the Red
Army seemed to have lost contact
momentarily. Nevertheless, the invaders
apparently continued in control of their
movements, and the initiative In retire-
ment seemed at every important point to
be theirs, even at Smolensk, which at the
week-end the Russians seemed confident
of taking.
On September 14 Berlin Radio an-
nounced that Bryansk had been aban-
doned in accordance with a High Com-
mand plan for “a vast disengaging move-
ment.” Bryansk is the centre of a great
railway star. It is not a large city, but
to an enemy on the offensive against
that part of Russia to the east of it, it
is of cardinal importance.
The Russians had not reached it when
the announcement of its evacuation was
given out in Berlin, but they claimed the
capture of two railway junctions across
the Desna River, which in this region is
from 400 to 500 yards wide. It was
announced next day that the Russians
were fighting fiercely along the Desna
banks and swarming across the river in
hot pursuit of the enemy. Berlin Radio
then declared that Bryansk was still in
German hands, in spite of Russian claims.
There had been no Russian claims,
though plenty from correspondents in
Moscow. Reuter’s Moscow man now
opined that there was a gigantic battle
going on along the Desna which threat-
ened to blow a hole in the entire German
defence plan.
It was not till September 17 that Stalin
issued an order of the day which read:
Our forces forced the Desna River
and, striking simultaneous blows from the
north and east, today overwhelmed enemy
resistance on the river bank and in the large
industrial centres of Bryansk and Behitza.
In the fighting for these towns six German
infantry divisions were routed.
Correspondents naturally described this
as one of the world’s greatest battles,
though in their papers Salerno, in which
six German divisions were supposedly
involved, was sneered at as a sort of
skirmish and, in some cases, as a tactical
blunder.
Before the fall of Bryansk was con-
firmed from Moscow Novorossisk had
fallen, suggesting that the enemy had
begun to abandon the Kuban. The city
was taken from the sea by units in groups
of landing barges. No civilian popula-
tion was found in it.
The resistance does not seem to have
been heavy. Marshal Stalin’s com-
munique announcing the victory men-
tioned that the 73rd Infantry Division
and the Fourth and 101st Rifle Divisions
had been routed with the Fourth
Rumanian Rifle Division —the first time a
satellite division has been mentioned for
months. Moscow Radio declared that
there were now only 21 out of about 60
still on the Russian front.
By the week-end it was reported that
the pace of the German retreat was ac-
celerating with the advent of the autumn
rains. All along the line of the Dnieper,
from north of Smolensk, from which,
bursting through the outer ring of the
defences, the Russians were about 25
miles at the nearest point, to the Azov
Sea, the German line was falling back
so rapidly that each day’s news made the
previous one’s out of date.
In most areas there could scarcely have
been heavy fighting. In some areas the
Russian radio seemed to have difficulty
in keeping pace with developments.
A Russian offensive had begun at
Leningrad.
In Berlin the idea was being encour-
aged that it was proposed to take the line
back beyond the Polish border behind the
Pripet marshes —the old Schlieffen Line,
to which it was suggested (B. 10/2/’43)
the enemy might retreat.
Certainly, if he proposes to stop at the
Dnieper, he has developed a momentum
which will make it very difficult for him
to achieve his purpose.
But he has told his intentions to nobody
save Moscow correspondents and radio
commentators, who seem to be in the full
confidence of Berchtesgaden.
In brief: —-
Latest advices from Japan have removed the
names of 4000 Australian soldiers from the
missing to the prisoner-of-war list. Many of
the boys in the Tokyo camps have received
letters. The cry is for parcels—chocolate,
bovril, tinned milk and warm clothing.
* * * *
The Thunderbolt, the world’s heaviest fighter,
mounting a 2000-h.p. engine and eight half-inch
guns, is'now in service in New Guinea. It
weighs half as much as a 21-passenger air-
liner, has a speed round the 400-m.p.h. mark
and can dive at over 600 m.p.h.
* * * *
U.S. Navy reports the loss of the destroyer
Rowan by an under-water explosion off Italy
on Sept. 11.
* * * *
“Rest assured that the landing in Italy is
not the only landing we have in mind
At Quebec the leaders and military staffs of
Britain and America made specific and precise
plans for further blows of eZjual or greater
importance against Germany and Japan, with
definite times and places for other landings
on the continent of Europe and elsewhere.”
—Mr. Roosevelt to Congress.


“BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WA
BY/THE ACRE
L
(
v.
P
cs.
o
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS 8 SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
a
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
IT IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN, IT ELIMINATES THEM
AND THE SANITARY MAN.
It runs continuously without emptying or other
THE RISK TO HEALTH, SMELLS, FLIM,"
or CLOSET PANS ABE
Its 14 year’s history proves that it is not in the sa ’ » a stigma behind them,
chemical systems which have come and gone in *^ e P® B™™ 8 ™™ ® E | D BY AN OLD
ITS EFFICIENCY AND LONGEVITY ARE! FULLY ' GfAKWTMVJiX A
ESTABLISHED REPUTABLE FIRM TRADING SINCE
PRICE, £l9/2/6 (including sales tax), plus 10/9 crating if required.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd-, ”
Queensland ’Perth.
IMMEDIATE delivery can be given.
SPORTING NOTINOS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 27,000 uncomfort-
ably crowded Rosehill on Saturday, and
a tote turnover of £54,735 was not sur-
prising. Remunerative war work is giv-
ing thousands of people much more
money than they previously had in their
lives, and many are “giving it a go” in
attempts to select winners.
The Rosehill Guineas was a clean and
interesting race. As was expected, Flight
made the running, and she led into the
straight from Mayfowl, Moorland and
War Eagle. A furlong from home May-
fowl took charge, and looked as if he
might hold oft Moorland, but, though the
latter gave Bartle some anxious moments
by hanging in, he was too solid for the
roan over the last bit. Flight hung on
well to beat War Eagle for third, and
MacArthur did best of the remainder, the
presence in the field of some of whom
was a tribute to the optimism but not the
judgment of their respective owners.
Triad, Clarion Call, Kingsdale and
Arahura were the four best-backed
horses for the Theo Marks Camellia
Stakes. The first-mentioned three never
flattered their backers, and, though
Arahura was always prominent and was
second to Fermanagh entering the
straight, she dropped back to fifth. When
Winnipeg was in charge shortly after
commencing the last furlong, a win for
him seemed almost certain, but Panchio
(O’Sullivan), after being sixth into the
straight, got a run on the rails and beat
him a head. Grand Fils, a couple of
lengths away, made a good impression,
as he came from a long way back at the
home turn to get that close. Luck in
running was against him. Even allow-
ing that she struck a little trouble.
Triad’s fourth was not an Epsom recom-
mendation. ,
Favored by a firm track Yaralla
fMcMenamin) showed his true form in
the Hill Stakes. After Nobleman had
kept fairly close to him for nearly five
furlongs, Yaralla shot away at the turn
and won by three lengths from Rimveil,
who beat Katanga a length for third.
Modulation and Main Topic were close
together throughout, finishing fourth and
fifth respectively; and, though there was
nothing special in their form, they did
better than Veiled Threat. The time,
1.45, was three-quarters of a second out-
side High Caste’s record for the track.
In the Rosehill Cup Chatham’s Choice
attempted another all-the-way win, but
Amberspear was with him at the half-
mile and the home turn. Then both
retired, and Haripur (McGrowdie), who
put in a sharp run entering the straight,
had the race won at the leger. The other
places were filled by Streamford and
Two’s Company, the latter’s finishing
effort being disappointing. Abydos ran
surprisingly well for a maiden, and may
prove a stayer, while well-backed horses
in Abspear, Ballot and Nightbeam were
never doing well enough to be winning
possibilities.
Gryphon (Munro), who was always in
a handy position, won the Encourage
Handicap in easy fashion from Betza and
Highgate. Betza, who was some distance
from the leaders at the five furlongs, ran
on well to get second, but had no chance
against Gryphon. Lavaine, a three-year-
old by Medieval Knight, displayed
enough pace to give him a chance at a
shorter distance, and Nepean River (by
Hua) made up leeway in the straight.
He is also a three-year-old. Mustang
again failed to prove that his reputation
was warranted.
Omapo (Johnson), who had been out
of the winning list for two years,
was backed from twenties down to sevens
for the first division of the Highweight
Handicap, and won comfortably after
being fifth to Bruce Wood, Royal Salute,
Irish Sea and High Flight at the straight
entrance. Bruce Wood and High Flight
filled the minor places, while over the last
furlong and a half nothing outside the
first three had a winning chance, though
Panbranch, Brazen Boy and Felt Yet ran
fairly. Irish Sea faded out in the run
home, and Walkalong never got in it.
The second division of the Highweight
went to Tahmoor (Munro), after Fervent
and Cradle Song had led for home with
St. Quentin, Tahmoor and Silverelda
their nearest followers. Tahmoor was in
front at the leger, and though Silverelda,
who went wide rounding the turn,
made a game effort she had finished her
run before the winning-post was reached.
Though third, Valiant Garde was not
dangerous. Queenslander Marcondis
shaped respectably, as did Moresby.
* * * *
Damalis, nine years old and out of the
winning list for years, staged a come-
back by defeating The Trapper and Saul
in the Mentone Cup on Saturday. No
horse in training has had a more varied
career than Damalis. He was up to
w.f.a. standard at three years, but broke
down and was missing from the race-
course for about three years. A show
horse, but unsuccessful at the stud, he
was sold in November, 1940, for lOOgns.
and gelded. Trainer H. Cousens has had
a lot of trouble with him, Damalis hav-
ing gone amiss more than once just when
on the verge of winning form, but his
perseverance has been rewarded. Dama-
lis has been backed at very long prices
for the Cups double, but his form on
Saturday was hardly up to Cup standard.
The Ritz, a Derby and Cup candidate
and, like Damalis, trained by Cousens,
won the Yarraman Handicap in good
style from Whitten and Portway. He
carried only 7.3, however, and more will
be known of his big-race chances after he
meets the best of his age at set weights
at his next start. By Gay Lothario from
Lone Star, The Ritz is a brother to Tran-
quil Star.
Trainer S. B. Ferguson landed a long-
priced double with Field Balloon (16 to
1) and Trilaw (12 to 1). Trilaw followed
up his success on the same track at his
previous start by winning the second
Dandenong Welter. He is a lightly-raced
and improving five-year-old with engage-
ments in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups. Keplerian, who upset a plunge on
True Flight in the first Dandenong
Welter, also is engaged in the Cups.
Four years old, he has won three of his
last five races, and should continue to
improve. Both Keplerian and Trilaw are
by Law Maker, Reception, recently
scratched from the A.J.C. Epsom because
transport to Sydney was not available,
returned to winning form in the Leslie
Stuart Stakes. He failed to begin with
his old dash, but finished resolutely to
win decisively from Leahero and Plica.
Amana, favorite, was a disappointing
fifth.
* * * *
Excuses do not win races, and it is
doubtful whether any were warranted in
connection with beaten runners in the
Rosehill Guineas. Moorland was doing
better at the finish than any of his oppo-
nents, and though improvement is ex-
pected in Mayfowl and War Eagle there
is no reason why the interval between
now and Derby Day should not do as
much for Moorland as either of those two.
Flight found the nine furlongs as far
as she liked, and it is difficult to visualise
her getting a mile and a half, even with
the assistance of Tribal as pacemaker.
Perhaps the latter may be Moorland’s
greatest danger. He has won at nine
furlongs, and, though advantaged by a
light weight in heavy going, the manner
in which he ran away from Katanga over
the last two furlongs of the Chelmsford
Stakes stressed the possibility of another
three furlongs being within his com-
pass. His increased weight, as compared
with the Chelmsford Stakes, may trouble
Tribal, but form in that race points to
him as most likely to prove Moorland’s
most formidable Derby opponent.
If form always worked out correctly,
several of Saturday’s runners at Rosehill
could be discarded for the Epsom. Unless
the extra furlong should be definitely
beyond Panchio, it is difficult to see how
any of the horses he beat in the Theo
Marks Camellia Stakes are going to turn
the tables on him. He will meet Winni-
peg only 21b., Triad 31b., Kingsdale lib.
and Merrimba 31b, worse, and should
again be too much for them, while
Arahura, though down 81b., will need to
do much better than on Saturday to be
a winning possibility.
Nor did Epsom candidates that ran in
the Hill Stakes really shine. Rimveil,
with 31b. less than he has in the Epsom,
was easily beaten by Yaralla, and while
Modulation was fourth with 21b. more
than his Epsom weight it was not an
effort over which it was possible to
enthuse greatly. The belief that he will
improve considerably in condition is
probably one reason why he continues so
firm in Epsom betting.
Veiled Threat (who could not have
looked better) and Dewar were outpaced
from start to finish, and it now appears
as if the former has a better Metro-
politan than Epsom chance. Dewar’s
showing was distinctly bad, and perhaps
those who discounted his Randwick win
and contended it would again require
very heavy going to help him to success
in the Epsom were on the right track.
Next Saturday’s racing at Rosehill may
do more than that of last week to put
backers on the track of the Epsom
winner.
Of the Metropolitan candidates that
ran at Rosehill, It’s Company, Ballot and
Abspear did not do sufficiently well
to enhance their prospects, and Goose
Boy’s run in the Hill Stakes said nothing
for or against him. He was outclassed
in a short-distance w.f.a. race. Grand
Fils’s third in the Theo Marks Camellia
Stakes showed that he is returning to his
old form, and in the Metropolitan he has
only 51b. more than when he won last
year. Main Topic is coming on nicely,
and should be at his best for the A.J.C.
meeting.
* * * *
Comparatively few three-year-olds have
run in the Metropolitan since the dis-
tance was increased to a mile and five
furlongs, and to win that race with 7.8
Moorland will have to prove himself
better than Main Topic, who won the last
A.J.C. Derby by five lengths from Hall
Stand. Main Topic then ran in the
Metropolitan, but was unplaced witth 7.7,
and at his next start was second with
7.11 in City Tattersall’s Cup.
* * * *
Ken Austin has decided not to send
his three-year-old John o’ London to
Australia for spring racing.
* =i= =i= *
High Caste’s brother is one of the
biggest two-year-olds in training at
Ellerslie (Auckland), and shapes as if he
will make a galloper. He has been
named Nawab, and will be raced by his
breeder, J. McGovern.
Miscellaneous
Richmond v. Fitzroy at Carlton was
Australian football at its best. Accurate
sharpshooting gave ’Roy a handy lead at
half-time, but sheer doggedness in the
rucks plus incessant attacks saw Tigers
draw level at the final change-over. The
last quarter was a test of stamina, and
’Roy’s defence crumbled before the
Tigers’ determined offensive; they went
on to win 12.14 to 8.13. Essendon and
Richmond will now meet for the premier-
ship.
* * * *
Manly won the first- and reserve-grade
Sydney Rugby Union premierships.
Manly v. East was mainly a forwards’
game ; hard, but not interesting to spec-
tators. Coxon scored a lucky try for
Manly after a scramble on East’s line,,
and Groves converted ; that settled it.
East tried hard in the second half, but
the Villagers’ cover defence, in which
fullback Biddulph shone, proved impene-
trable ; Manly 5, East nil. Randwick
beat Manly 6-3 for third-grade honors.
* * * *
Tommy Johns chased Jim Fraser for
12 rounds at Leichhardt, and had him
down for “six” in the 11th. The referee
(Elliott) called it a draw. Then the
“sports” called him nearly everything.
Bobby Fuller’s claims to a match with
Patrick were damaged at the Sydney
Stadium when Fuller was outpointed byq
Archie Rash. Rash got the decision be-
cause he had been as busy as an ant
with a breadcrumb, whereas the bout was
half over before Fuller landed a woith-
while blow.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
By “PILOT."
Novice Handicap; Extend, 1;
Royal Result, 2 ; Moresby, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Cre-
morne, 1 ; Yarras, 2 ; Castle Fron-
tenac, 3.
J. D. Single Quality Handicap:
Hall Stand, 1 ; Yaralla, 2 ; Modu-
lation or Prince, 3.
Trial Stakes: Gryphon, 1 ;
Abydos, 2 ; Puchong, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap; Main
Topic, 1 ; Goose Boy, 2; Grand
Fils or Moondarewa, 3.
Welter Handicap: Rylstone, 1 ;
Omapo, 2 ; Battle King or Silver-
elda, 3,


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The most stirring event in the lives of
Australia’s women last week was the
delivery of thousands of letter-cards from
prisoners of war held by the Japanese.
Many of these, written just after the fall
of Singapore, are 18 and 20 months old.
They hold 25 words, and are more pre-
cious to the receivers than any bejewelled
and illuminated manuscript. Many of
the senders had been tagged with the
vague, indefinite and heartbreaking word
“missing.” Against that uncertainty, the
knowledge that a family’s warrior is alive,
even though in the hands of the enemy,
has caused a wave of jubilation to sweep
this fair city—yes, and the farthest out-
back.
Dr. Dora Bye carries her precious
missive from doctor husband Lieut.-
Colonel Bye, always with her. Mrs.
Harold Bott and Phyllis Arnott are both
rejoicing over news from brothers in a
far-off land. Mrs. lan Duncan is another
with news of a prisoner-of-war husband.
Popular John Woods, whose blithesome
acting is still vivid in the memory, is yet
another whose home in Neutral Bay re-
ceived a card.
Of all flora orchids have been the most
maligned. There used even to be a school
of thought that looked upon the rose as
symbolic of the wife, the orchid of the
mistress. But the orchid, with persistent
patience, has forced itself on the domes-
tic scene. “See,” it seems to say, “I am
of a delicate and exotic beauty, but I
am a hardy creature, and will last for
days. What is more, I can be worn by
the dowager and the debutante with equal
effect. Now that democracy has made
luxuries a commonplace, I can no longer
be regarded in the light of an adventuress
or a femme fatale. I can bloom on the
cottage porch. I belong to the millions
and no longer only to the millionaires.”
The John Bissett orchid show in David
Jones’s auditorium gathered its beauties
from far and near. They were arranged
on tables and on stands carpeted with
grass, and like amiable princesses they
met the admiration of the populace. An
instance of supply and demand was given
by orchid expert John Bissett, who
pointed out that cymbidum blooms which
before the war sold from 3s. 6d. to ss.
now are priced at 7s. 6d. and 10s. Allied
service men’s purchases and the ban on
importing plants have caused a scarcity.
Camellias, pink and ivory in their glossy
green nest of leaves, were set about the
doorway. Mrs. L. F. Hawley, of Lind-
field, won the prize for the orchid
shoulder spray, while Mr. Hawley won
five prizes and a silver cup. The Kinder-
garten Union benefits from the show.
Not till Mrs. Roosevelt gets back home
will she have time to read the copy
of Bligh’s Voyage in the Resource. The
National Council of Women has it all
ready for presentation. Bligh was a
hardy and courageous soul, and the
mutiny of the Bounty and his subsequent
hardships didn’t daunt him from facing
the sea again. The book is the first
printed copy of manuscripts in the Mit-
chell Library, and contains the log of
Bligh’s voyage from Koepang to Batavia
and of his following passage to England.
The Commonwealth Government has
already presented our visitor with a
photographic copy of Cook’s diary of his
voyage to Australia.
A crowded-out Conservatorium at both
matinee and gala evening performance,
and hundreds turned away, promise well
for the Kirsova season of ballet which
commenced last Saturday. If “Swan
Lake,” danced to the music of two pianos,
does not seem quite the sensuous,
ethereal affair it is when the swan
princess and her attendants flutter
against a full orchestra of strings and so
on, the fault lay with neither the dancers
nor the pianists. The last-named, Henry
Krips and Richard Farrell, wove as rich
and subtle a tapestry of sound as the key-
boards allowed; the ballerinas were
young, fluid of movement and well
trained. But somehow to theatregoers
the orchestra is an integral part of ballet.
Helene Kirsova herself arranged
the choreography of three of the ballets,
danced the lead in “Capriccio,” was
ballet mistress for all and did a few
other jobs as to lighting and stage-
managing. “Hansel and Gretel” and
“Jeunesse” were the other two of the
four ballets. Amie Kingston, Alice Dan-
ger and Rose Sager were implicated in
the design and making of the charmful
costumes.
An important offering to the year’s
music was Beethoven’s Mass in D (Solen-
nis). This was presented by the Con-
servatorium choir and orchestra in asso-
ciation with the Philharmonic Society and
was shrined in the Town Hall. Dr. Bain-
ton and G. Vern Barnett were the night s
conductors. Isolde Hill, Raymond Nils-
son, Heather Kinnaird and Harold Wil-
liams were the soloists.
From Lismore and Melbourne and
country towns came guests to the pre-
wedding party given by Mrs. John Woods
in honor of Letti Kearns. Letti, pretty
young daughter of the P. Kearnses, of
Chatswood, last Saturday wed Dr. Don
Quirk. His father, now living at Peak
Hill, was a well-known medico at Kirri-
billi. The party was in one of the small
reception-rooms of the Australia, and
Letti sat among a covey of young friends,
each one of whom was flashing an en-
gagement ring. Mrs. Woods hostessed in
sapphire blues. Mrs. P. Kearns helped
to receive the guests.
“Belhaven for Babies” (Youth Wel-
fare Association) will benefit by a con-
cert in the Assembly Hall on the 29th of
this month. Mrs. G. Hungerford is the
organiser, and Stanley Clarkson is arrang-
ing the programme. The performers will
be Stanley Clarkson, Ethel Brunton Gibb,
Richard Farrell, Jean Grieve and
Clarence Black,
Lissome Peggy Sager, who appeared in
“Swan Lake” in the Helene Kirsova
ballet which flowed into action at the
Conservatorium on Saturday, is pictured
here. A season of nine nights and two
matinees will help establish and upkeep a
children’s playground at Erskineville.
Kirsova herself danced in her own ballet,
“Capriccio,” which is making its world
debut during the season. This was
Helene’s first public appearance since
1937, when she charmed Sydney in the
De Basil company,
At three o’clock this afternoon in the
Historical Society’s gallery, members and
their friends are gathering in great num-
ber for the opening of The Bulletin
War Cartoon exhibition. The show fol-
lows the progress of World War the
second, tragedy filmed with laughter, but
always there. Norman Lindsays and
Ted Scorfields dominate the walls. There
are 100 cartoons altogether. Baronet
Hugh Poynter will say the prologue.
Mrs. H. Getting became the wife of Com-
mot}ore Robert G. Coman, U.S.N. in the
South-west Pacific Area, last Saturday in
St - John’s Cathedral, Brisbane. She was
ihe widow of Captain Frank Getting, of
H.M.A.S. Canberra,
Mrs. Phyllis Burke, successful and well-
liked organiser for Commonwealth War
Loans, is on the sick list, and her job
in the meantime is being done by Mrs.
F. Batchelder. Mrs. Batchelder has been
close enough to the Japanese peril to
make her want to put her shoulder to
the money-spinning wheel that helps
build up munitions. Just before war
churned the Pacific to a maelstrom this
Mosman woman had gone to Santa Cruz
a s health officer. One of her gloomiest
memories is of the blackout in that out-
post. As in most of these Pacific islands,
many of the rooms of the bungalows
have walls of wire mesh, and an effec-
tive blackout was impossible, so when
night fell there was little to do but sit
in the dark with her thoughts or go to
bed. When finally they got away she
and her husband were 17 days in a very
small boat crossing from Santa Cruz to
Vila. But the voyage ended in a sort of
glory. For the last lap of the journey to
Sydney the two travelled in a warship
When the Army War Comforts
Auxiliary (Army Cafe for short) started
out with the intention of handing £lOO
a month to the Mayor’s Comforts Fund
it was felt that its high purpose was
on a par with the youth who carried
the banner Excelsior. But chairman Mrs.
Miles, secretary Mrs. Keith Morris and
the members of the committee, with smil-
ing determination, prepared and dished
out their roasts and pies and curries and
salads. Pretty soon the cafe was famous
in a small way, and 77 King-street be-
came the Mecca of the home-cookc.y
lover between twelve and two. Now the
place with its high lunch counter, its
small tables and its friendly greeting has
the air of a club. Best of all, for the
past few months the monthly cheque for
the Comforts and Patriotic Funds has
been £2OO.
- kr «.
rfOfBI Melbourne
Dame Enid Lyons had a warm wel-
come 'back to this city, not only from
the officially-welcoming but from the
many women who have been associated
with her in various organisations. There
is a general feeling amongst women that
she is a particularly happy choice as
pioneer woman M.P., because she can
claim such “all-round” knowledge, being
a good speaker and organiser and expert-
enced in the feminine spheres of family
and home. On Monday Dame Enid was
guest of honor at a civic reception at the
Town Hall in the afternoon, having been
entertained by the A.W.N.L. earlier in the
day. The Housewives’ Association relin-
quished its claim to greet her en masse
on the same day, acknowledging the city’s
right to priority.
A number of people with no official
handles have been popping up to Dame
Enid’s hotel to say how glad they are
she’s in since she arrived here on Thurs-
day night. It doesn’t seem to be a matter
of party tags, nqr feminist feeling either,
as many of the congratulatory are men.
Red Cross representatives Nora Parker
and Lorna Erskine-Wilson are busy study-
ing points about life at home that re-
patriated prisoners of war will be asking
questions about. With Mrs. Boyd Mon-
arty they will be the women members of
the Red Cross unit which will take charge
of arrangements concerning Australian
p.o.ws. in Italy, They hope that a kind
of club-cwm-intelligence bureau will be
established in the Middle East for the
men until transport home is ready, and
expect to have to give reassuring answers
to a lot of questions of the “Stands Young
and Jackson’s where it did?” order.
Announcing her engagement, with
matrimonial plans in the very near future,
is Kay Frewin, here pictured by Spencer
Shier. Fiance is Lieut. James Wilbur
Thursby, U.S. Army, son of H. E. Thurs-
by, Kansas City, Missouri, U.S.A., and
the late Mrs. Thursby. Kay, who is the
second daughter of the Rev. E. C. Frewin
and Mrs. Fiewin, St. Paul s Vicarage,
iY a e ’ B raduatec * Wlt h honors
at Melbourne Um., where she was in
residence at Janet Clarke Hall. Since
then she has been doing a war job.
Unveiling a portrait photograph of her-
self in the Travellers’ Aid rooms on Fri-
day the Lady Mayoress made one of
her characteristically neat occasional
speeches. The portrait is a tribute by the
Travellers’ Aid Committee to the work
the Mayoress has done to put its job
before the public eye and gain for it
financial support. A button day which was
shared with the Partly-Blinded Soldiers’
Fund has been held already, and the
mayoral lady expressed intention of see-
ing that T.A. funds are increased by
another before her term at the Town
Hall ends.
The first public showing of British
film “Coastal Command,” which gives
glimpses of the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. in
action during the “Battle-for-Britain”
period and after, will help Air Force
Auxiliaries’ and R.A.A.F. Locker Fund
coffers. Screening will be at the Toorak
Village Theatre on October 3. In addi-
tion there will be a stage show by
W.A.A.A.F. and R.A.A.F. personnel who
proved their talent for entertaining in
civil life, among them L.A.C. Newton
Goodson, whose voice was well known to
radio listeners before his R.A.A.F. days,
Secretaries are Mrs. G. J. Mackinolty
and Mrs. W. A. MacDonald.
It looks as if the Concerto Festival
will bring a bigger audience to the Town
Hall this year than did any previous one
of the four. Last year Red Cross and
A.C.F. funds were helped to the extent
of £4OO, and this time the total, organisers
think, will be even better. The young
things who’ve won their way to the first
<ialf-dozen and will play with the
orchestra are all well known to those who
keep an eye on the junior concerts that
have been going on through the year for
various war funds. Mary MacLeod and
Poppe Olsen were soloists in the festival
last year, and Poppe has been playing as
a permanent member of the symphony
orchestra this season. Among the six is
Manfred Clynes, who has managed to
display cleverness in Mus.Bac. and engi-
neering courses at the same time.
Shortages of men and of scenery canvas
were among the reasons for Tin Alley
Players’ choice of Somerset Maugham’s
“Constant Wife,” to be performed on
October 1 and 2 at the Union-Theatre.
The action takes place in one room
throughout, so doesn’t call for loads of
stage properties. Producer-for-the-first-
time is Les Young, who has appeared in
a number of Tin Alley shows, including
“Hotel Universe.” In choosing him for
the production job the group followed its
policy of giving new blood a chance.
Leading feminine part is being played by
Rona Connery, a Tasmanian, who has
had a lot of experience with Uni, shows
there. She has recently become an A.B.C.
announcer, among her qualifications
being a really beautiful voice.
Playing the part of Marie Louise in
“The Constant Wife” Margaret Scholfield
is taking a busman’s holiday from con-
cert footlights. She is to give a piano-
forte recital for A.A.M.C. funds at the
Assembly Hall on October 21. The
works chosen will range from Bach and
Brahms to Dohnanyi, with Cesar
Franck’s prelude, chorale and fugue as
backbone of the programme.
Hephzibah Menuhin’s concert was a
triumph for the pianist and a great lift
to Red Cross funds. Lord Mayor Nettle-
fold announced at the conclusion that
funds had benefited by nearly £2OOO. The
audience was a mixture of the musical
and those who felt that they must be
present at an Important Social Event, the
latter predominating. Effective was the
blacking-out of the hall except for a spot-
light on the pianist; equally effective the
V.A.Ds. who popped on to the stage at
the end of the recital to arrange flower
tributes in a half-circle around the per-
former.
With flight-lieutenant rank Ann Sutcliffe
becomes the R.A.A.F.’s first woman
dentist. A recent graduate of Melbourne
Uni., she comes from a family with a
strong penchant for the healing arts. She
is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. E. W.
Sutcliffe, and sister Ruth is in the
A.A.N.S., with service in the Middle
East to her credit. Younger sister, Mrs.
lan McConchie, is also a dental gradu-
ate. Her husband, Capt. lan McConchie,
took the hat-trick in exhibitions at Med.
Finals exams, two years ago, and is now
up north. Flight-Lieut. Sutcliffe is
claimed to be the only woman dental
graduate in the Australian forces.
“Watch on the Rhine,” which opened
at the Comedy on Saturday, had an
appreciative audience which was quite
in the grip of the action long before the
closing scene, though things took a while
to warm up. This is the first play for a
long time which has had any meat in it,
and the most frequent foyer comment was
“It’s good to get away from drawing-
room comedy and musical revivals for
once.”
Dutch dancers Darya Collins and
Edmee Monod have quickly accumulated
a fan circle here, and their art has caught
on with those of an aesthetic turn, though
it isn’t the sort of thing to appeal to the
vulgar herd. Their recital at the Univer-
sity Union Theatre should have the right
atmosphere, as the theatre is just large
enough to be out of the little-theatre
class and yet small enough to give that
intimate sense that ballet needs. As it
is an evening performance, people who
haven’t been able to attend daytime
recitals will have a chance of seeing them.
Like all successful dancers, the Dutch
pair have quite exceptional beauty and
grace to add to a finished technique.
The proposal for a lasting memorial to
Gregan McMahon made by Melbourne
admirers should have enthusiastic sup-
port, as few men have done more to bring
good drama to this country than he. His
shows had nothing of the “this-is-good-
for-you” atmosphere, and he produced
Shakspeare or the very modern
“moderns” with the same good stagecraft.
It is suggested that the memorial should
take the form of a bust in some suitable
spot and a bursary for the study of
dramatic literature at the University.


Nem QanAt>u4ciio*tai MeiUodi
SAVE TIME. LABOUR AND MATERIALS
IN ABMCO PREFABRICATED HUTS
m
V
1
m
mm
m
mm
m
m
m
9
m
These roomy huts
can be assembled by
unskilled labour in
a few days—giving
you safe storage for
wool, wheat, farm
produce or general
merchandise at very
low cost. All struc-
tural steelwork is of
light-gauge pressed metal; covering material is 24~gauge corrugated
iron. Floor area is 40ft. x 100 ft. Armco pre-fabricated huts are
weather- and vermin-proof, economical and durable. Write for free
particulars. It is regretted that only urgent defence requirements
can be met at the present time.
\ &MC#
ARMCO
PBE-FA BRIG AT ED HUTS
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. . SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—HAMILTON DISTRICT.
No. 1305.
TO MERTON JOSEPH ARTHUR JOHN-
STON formerly of Waihi in the Dominion of
New Zealand Hairdresser and latterly of Sydney
in the Commonwealth of Australia but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a cita-
tion has been issued out of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand at Hamilton citing you to
appear and answer the petition of ADA EMILY
JOHNSTON of Hamilton Married Woman
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the ground that a separation
order made on the 18th day of August 1936
has been in full force between you for not less
than three years and such citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence Now therefore take notice that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within forty days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or .by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Hamilton and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of
the proceedings. A copy of the said citation
and petition will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme Court
Office at Hamilton. DATED this 25th day of
August, 1943. — (1.5.) H. R. REID, Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing adver-
tisement.
WILLIAM HOLDSFORTH ADAMS is the
solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of. the said WILLIAM
HOLDSWORTH ADAMS in Victoria Street in
the town of Hamilton, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HESIELTINE TOMS late of Bombala New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that PERCY
EDGAR TOMS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2838 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Bth of
November 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from FRED A. NEWN-
HAM Solicitor 28 Martin Place Sydney— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GLADYS ANNIE WILLMOTT (formerly
Gladys Annie Workman) late of 23 Mount
Street Hurlstone Park. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM CHARLES WILLMOTT has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 395 of 1943 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney before the Eighth day of November 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from W. O. CURRIE Esq. Solicitor of
11c Castlereagh Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
:0 OLIVE JOSEPHINE TURNBULL (for-
aerly Olivfe Josephine Price) late of Barcom
yvenue Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
OHN HAROLD TURNBULL has filed a
‘etition for Divorce No. 1220 of 1943 on the
;rounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards. If you wish
o defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ley before the Eighth day of November 1943
md obtain a copy of the petition without charge
rom W. O. CURRIE Esq. Solicitor of lie
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOU TH WALES— In Divorce.
ro STANLEY DOGGETT late of Faukon-
ridge —TAKE NOTICE that JEAN ALICE
"RONSHAW DOGGETT has filed a Petition
Ar Divorce No. 393 of 1943 on the grounds
}f desertion without just cause or excuse loi
hree years and upwards If you wish to oe-
end you may enter an appearance at me
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney before the Eighth day of November 1 -
md obtain a copy of the petition without charge
,-om W. O. CURRIE Esq. Solicitor of 11c
Castlereagh Street Sydney—(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar. ...
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itcdung « r
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMEN .
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and tne
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
Dlaoed on tlio mnrkGt.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘My dear,’ said Mr. Curtis, ‘if you want to
drive a truck, I certainly won’t stand in your
way.’ ” — Magazine.
But wouldn’t that be the safest place?
*l* •f"
“No Conflict in Meat Statements.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
It’s the average steak that puts up a
tough fight.
'i* , . ,
“Qramatise a plain suit with a double jabot
of ruffled organdie.” —Fashion note.
Always remembering to let the hat
supply the comedy.
•J* 4* 4*
“Referring to his wife’s statement that he had
left home ‘without rhyme or reason,’ Murray
said that if he was five minutes late in getting
home his wife accused him of having been out
with another woman.” —Divorce report.
A Necessity.
“To ensure easy running and longer life
carpet-sweepers should be oiled occasionally.”
— Woman’s Mirror:”
“/ sweep all the carpets at our
flamin’ place,” said the man in the pub
with disgust on his face. “I get oiled now
and then in this good beery way. And
it makes me run easier, just as they say.
But though this here lubricant lengthens
me life, it causes some friction at home
with the wife.”
N. E. Bottles.
•J*
“High wind plays havoc with your locks.”
— “Women’s Weekly:”
Therefore householders should* never
get the breeze up about burglars.
Melancholiosis.
When morbid moods are long-abiding
I often think of suiciding,
But finally I turn to chiding
My fate in manner fiercely willing;
For suicide, although a blessing.
Has certain features quite distressing,
And one that I find most depressing
Is : I would have to do the killing!
T. W. NATHAN.
His wife was an incessant worry.
Home from his work he had to hurry ;
In fact, he’d be in quite a flurry
For fear his wife would give poor Murray
Curry.
H. M.
Habit.
“What right had a man who was actually
pawning his belongings to live to ask a girl
like Brenda to marry him?”— Woman’s paper.
’Twas natural. He popped his suits,
His overcoat, his rings and boots.
So , when his charmer came to view,
He promptly popped the question too.
P. P.
The Great Muss. Mystery.
[Shake up undermentioned in a hat, pick one
out blindfold; add ten, mix with the Goebbels
dictum (“if you’re going to be a liar be a real
corker”); deduct the number you first thought
of, add salt to taste, and your guess is as good
as ours.]
Berlin Radio : “Under brilliant Sturm-
truppenfuhrer August Issdamnkolde, S.S.
waffen, wearing special cast-iron boots
and heavily-starched singlets so as to
render their approach inaudible, stormed
a 24,000 ft. inaccessible eyrie near Brescia
to rescue Mussolini in the nick of time
from horrible torture. As they burst
open the enormously-strong protecting
Venetian blinds Der Fuhrer’s great friend,
who had had his usual dark black shirt
insultingly taken from him and was
allowed to wear only a light black one,
was sitting with a look of intense agony
on his face while one of his gaolers, a
Bersaglieri sprint-sergeant, was reading
him one of Emperor Charlie Hirohito’s
poems. A loud ‘Boo! ’ sent the guards
scurrying; the S.S. waffen then bore
Mussolini shoulder high down the pre-
cipitous mountainside at breakneck
speed while doing the goosestep and giv-
ing the ‘Heil Hitler!’ every ten yards
and singing ‘Horst Wessel’ and ‘Santa
Lucia’ alternately. Mussolini, who is
suffering from an elongated aorta and
an ingrowing liver, was decorated at
Berchtesgaden by our beloved FUhrer
with the Order of the Ersatz Mangel-
wurzel, Bth class. Later he broadcast to
colonists in Eritrea (if any) to hold out
until he led—or got someone to lead —
an army of liberation.”
Vichy Radio : “There is reason to be-
lieve that Mussolini, who has had his
face lifted and wears a ginger wig, long
sidelevers and a zoot suit, is now a gigolo
in the fashionable quarter of Tirana,
Albania, to which he escaped by swim-
ming the Adriatic side stroke in greatcoat
and knee-boots. Mussolini, who learned
boogie-woogie from one of his 25 mis-
tresses, a 17-year-old dancer for whom
he built a 35-million-lire marble palace
on Lake Como, dances the jitterbug best
of all the dictators.”
Ankara Radio : “Germans resident in
the Turkish capital frankly believe that,
the broadcast ‘speech’ of Mussolini is a
cleverly devised ‘canned’ potpourri of bits
and pieces from speeches made while the
Duce was alive. They claim to know that
Mussolini was killed five weeks ago, when
an angry anti-Fascist crowd pushed him
into a vat of nitric acid at Flaminmonti.
Some allege he escaped by swimming
about under the surface until his tormen-
tors departed. Germans in Ankara, how-
ever, claim that later a collar-stud en-
graved T 1 D.’ was found on the bottom
of the vat,”
Stockholm “Wattadagbladet”: -It is
learned from circles close to a high Nazi
diplomat that Mussolini, after stabbing
Ciaho, his son-in-law, with a bradawl,
escaped to Switzerland, tricking the fron-
tier guards by altering his name to Mos-
solim and wearing only 15 of his self-
inflicted decorations. He is now a yodel-
ler’s assistant in the Bernese Alps, but is
terrified to venture too far up for fear
that Gestapo agents disguised as tourists,
under orders from Himmler, who person-
ally detests him, will push him down a
crevasse.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Daylight Saving
There may be advantages in daylight
saving for city chaps, but country folk
are better under natural conditions.
Kiddies especially. Where, as often
happens, they have long distances to walk
to school, they are turned adrift at half-
past two, the hottest time of the day.
When I married (on a farm) my wife
insisted on 12 o’clock dinner. Then
zone time was brought in, and we Vic-
torians were put on to Sydney time, hav-
ing to put our clocks on 20 minutes. So
we had dinner really at 20 minutes to 12.
Then they gave us daylight-saving time.
So our clocks went on another hour, and
our 12 o’clock dinner then was ready at
20 minutes to 11 natural time. If I were
not a local preacher I would say it was
damned foolery.— Curfew (Vic.).
Power of the Press
The recent election proves that the
press cannot claim to be the moulder of
public opinion. Here in Queensland the
papers with the largest circulations were
very distinctly anti-Labor. In an attempt
to analyse the reason for this I arrive at
a theory that the language of the press
is not the language of the people.
The average man is incapable of think-
ing in abstract terms. He must have
picture language to understand completely
the ideas embodied in an argument or
theory. A point hinging on a quotation
like Norman Lindsay’s excellent cartoon
(B. 8 / 9/’43) is completely beyond him. As
for perceiving the unconscious irony in
a certain Brisbane paper’s column of
Women Warriors’ activities headed
"They Also Serve” —well, who amongst
the proletariat would bother to read
Milton while there is a racing page in a
newspaper?
English is a language singularly rich
in abstractions, such as “democracy,”
“totalitarianism” and even “service,” so
how can the vast majority hope to grasp
any type of argument except the argu-
mentum ad hominem, which usually in-
volves mud-slinging.
This is not to advocate a simpler lan-
guage, but merely to shrug a pair of
hopeless shoulders and say “Where do we
go from here?”—-O. B. Server (Q.).
Education in Politics
Some form of education in politics is
certainly necessary. “Dougall Mac-
Dougall” (B. 1/9/’43) says that those
whose opinions he sought were unable
to give reasons for their political beliefs.
Why? Because their knowledge of politics
was very limited or simply non-existent.
A comprehensive and unbiased survey
of politics would be a far more impor-
tant part of modern education, and of
far greater value to this country or any
democratic country, than any other phase
of modern or ancient history.— Bruce (Q.).
Anti-British ?
Let me admit to “Pommy” (B. 8/ 8 / ’43)
that the prejudice and suspicion he com-
plains of certainly exist, especially
towards the officer class. But members
of that class mostly invite dislike by their
supercilious and self-conscious manner of
class superiority.
Not all are tarred with that brush.
I know plenty of ex-officers of English
regiments who have settled in Australia,
assimilated Aussie ideas, dropped the
blah and baijove and are O.K.
“Pommy” picks a poor grievance when
he says he was refused a free pass on
S.A. trams because he had not served in
the A.I.F. Do pensioned Diggers
settled in Britain get free passes on
municipal trams?
Let “Pommy” understand we have
some ideals, too. Tell him to absorb
them and grow into our way of living
and he will soon find plenty of Austra-
lians of the right type who will treat him
right. After all, his forefathers made
Australia what it is today and moulded
what it will be in the future.—Descen-
dant of an English Officer (Vic.).
“Pommy” voices a complaint which
should make Australians ashamed of their
insularity. Those of us who have been
privileged to serve in battle alongside the
British units have for ever, I hope rid
ourselves of the prejudice which most of
us had.
The shedding of that prejudice was
clearly evident among my comrades a
week after we first met the Englishmen,
so much so that an R.H.A. officer re-
marked to me “Your lads are calling us
Tommies now instead of Pommies/’
I do but voice the feelings of all Aus-
tralians with whom I served when 1 say
that we take our hats off to the English-
man as a soldier and a man. It is only
a Fifth-Column whisper that England
uses only Dominion troops to fight her
battles. — One of the Few (N.S.W.).
All British
While it may be quite proper for some
of us to be more British than the British
(B. 8 /9/’43), this country’s got to learn
to stand on its own. Swaying now a little
to Britain, now a little to America,
doesn’t indicate enough strongminded-
ness to constitute a respectable national
character. A country has got to have
enough spunk to throw out its chest,
slap it, shout “This is me,” and then set
about forming other good character
traits to its credit. Telling the world to
go to hell commands respect. While all
this is going on Australia can still, like
Kipling’s Judy O’Grady, be sister under
the skin to Britain.
Stephen Leacock got the right idea of
the British Empire when he wrote of the
American Revolution: “It wasn’t a revo-
lution at all—just a sort of triumph of
British freedom on American soil.”
That’s sound sense. Development of true
national character doesn’t upset any
balance anywhere. It can’t. Because
we’re all one family, all British, whether
we’re English, American or Australian. —
J. W. (N.S,W.).
R.A.A.F. Promotions and Commis-
sions
Since “A.M.” (B, l/9/’43) disagrees
with my arguments, I feel I must clear
up one or two points about which he
seems confused.
On account of the complex and widely
varying nature of the R.A.A.F., of neces-
sity one must generalise. It is impossible
to single out one particular branch and
ask, for instance, why the bomber pilqt
is not given a commission. I grant that
his captaincy involves huge responsibili-
ties, and personally I think he should be
commissioned.
But what of the fighter pilot, the dive-
bomber, the photo.-reconnaissance pilot,
the army co-operation pilot and, not least,
the flying instructor? Each has his own
particular argument. And surely the
n.c.o. flying instructor, who sees a com-
mission granted to a pilot he has guided
through the long and arduous training
period, has an even better case than the
n.c.o. bomber captain who has to salute
the rest of his team on return from a
bombing mission.
The R.A.A.F. authorities have, after
long experience, decided a policy of
granting commissions on the broad prin-
ciples I previously indicated. They look
for ability to lead, ability to administer
(probably the most important quality and
not to be confused with the first-men-
tioned), and general character, personality
and bearing.
If the fellow who measures up on those
scores is a good pilot as well, so much
the better.
“A.M.” asks why pilots are not all
made n.c.os. at the completion of their
training. Obviously, if they have the
necessary qualities, it would only be un-
reasonable to delay the commissions of
these pilots, who will soon get them any-
way.
But all this is irrelevant. I reaffirm that
any pilot who has the goods must inevit-
ably gain commissioned rank, sooner or
later, if not straightway. In any case,
which is more important? Winning the
war or worrying and arguing about the
comforts involved in the process?—G. M.
(R.A.A.F.).
Industry or Agriculture?
The crux of “De Novo’s” article (B.
25/8/’43) is the question whether post-
war Australia will be an industrial or an
agricultural country, Australian indus-
try has expanded enormously, but we
may well ask whether that phase can pro-
fitably continue. The agriculturist, whose
first task is to supply our own popula-
tion, has suffered greatly, and we see only
too many cases of men having to give up
farms owing to shortage of man-power,
equipment, etc. While the position can be
alleviated to a certain extent by the
release of men from the fighting forces,
it is doubtful whether our maximum
potential population, estimated at 15 mil-
lions, would be sufficient to support large
industries.
There is the question of markets.
American and British industries are many
times greater than ours, and it is difficult
to see how we could hope to compete
with them for the same markets, as we
must. As after the last war, conquered
countries will probably set up high tariff
walls to protect their own shattered in-
dustries, so that overseas markets will be
open only to those \yho can mass-produce
goods at the cheapest possible rate.
The disastrous result of this policy on
industrial nations was seen in the U.S.A.
when, despite the fact that Uncle
Sam held most of the world’s gold, he
had 40 million unemployed, owing to lack
of demand for manufactured goods.
For many years Australia has been
controlled by overseas capital, and the
position is little changed now. British
and American industrialists would not
readily allow a good market like Aus-
tralia to slip through their fingers, and
we may rest assured that any attempt to
establish industries that will compete for
markets, or even supply our own needs,
will meet with great opposition.
Unfortunately, Australia’s immediate
future is bound up not with the scientist,
but with the financier, and wherever he
leads, it seems we must follow. — Penseur
(Vic.).
A Bigger Parliament
The idea that a few hundred more
members would solve all Australia’s prob-
lems seems to be as contagious as the
measles. It has been eagerly seized upon
by a variety of writers and commen-
tators as though it had been an inspira-
tion from the very sources of wisdom,
flashing new hope to a burdened country.
Commonsense would rather suggest a
drastic reduction of the already super-
fluous drones.
The 615 Commoners of the British
House are cited in favor of the increase.
These represent some 46 millions of
people. Australia, with seven millions, has
75 Representatives. If it is argued that
our continent is so much larger that more
Reps, are needed, then, by comparison,
we should have 20,000. (Heaven help us!)
Only a limited number of members
can take part in a debate on any one
subject or bill. Multiplication of mem-
bers will only delay and complicate the
business of the House. Of course, we
might tolerate a considerable increase of
Reps, if, by such a bargain, we could dis-
pense with the six obsolete State Houses.
—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Slums—and Slums
The Commonwealth Housing Commis-
sion has been taking evidence which
shows that all but 3 p.c. of people lifted
out of the slums to better conditions be-
come good tenants. The Victorian Com-
mission could have told it that from its
own experience. People at Fishermen’s
Bend came from unutterably bad
houses, but they take care of their new
dwellings and look after their gardens.
It is a reasonable inference that the
majority of slum-dwellers would react in
a similar manner.
The obvious fact is that what most of
them lacked was money. Let them have
more money and they will live in better
houses. You don’t find the people of
Toorak or East Malvern creating slums.
Then there would be no necessity for
Government departments to build
standardised “model” suburbs with
standardised gardens and standardised
architecture.—L. L. (Vic.).
Tanks and Dams
From time to time Dr. Bradfield's
scheme for watering the western areas of
Queensland comes up for consideration,
and it would seem that it is bound to be
one of the projects considered and
rightly so —in the scheme of post-war
reconstruction. Good, but to my mind
there is an alternative scheme, less expen-
sive, more practical and just as produc-
tive.
Convert machinery now used in road
construction by A.W.C., etc., to the build-
ing of earth tanks and dams throughout
the western pastoral areas. This
machinery now moves such huge quanti-
ties of earth so quickly that an earth
tank of, say, 10,000 cub. yds. could be
put down in about a week—about a sixth
of the time required by old methods.
Hundreds of these plants could be
operated by returned men, with a sprink-
ling of A.W.C. personnel for technical
direction, to put down these tanks under
Government control. The landowner
should contract with the Government for
the job, paying half cash, balance over,
say, 20 years. It should be possible under
these conditions for the Government to
contract at a price not much above 6d.
per yard, and do it economically.
Results: Plant, otherwise scrapped,
made productive ; thousands of men given
work at a decent wage ; fear of drought
considerably lessened; production in-
creased for the grazier. And last, but by
no means least, the whole country bene-
fits.—Edward W. Cowen.
Erosion
Congratulations on your Plain English
article “Land Into Dust” (B. 25/8/’43).
The menace of soil erosion has reached
such proportions that it should be treated
by the powers that be as a menace
second only to the Japs.
I’m afraid, however, there’s not a man
in the present Federal Parliament big
enough to tackle the job.
Let’s have some more of these articles,
and —who knows? —a statesman of the
John Forrest type may yet come along.—
C. A. Hartwig (Q.).
Dear Fish
Standing in front of a Perth fish-shop
listening to the comments of housewives
stricken by the sight of small fish, eight
for a bob pre-war, now selling at Bd.
each, I thought back to Mandurah and
the military call-up.
Here was a village on an estuary well
stocked with fish. Over a score of fisher-
men helped to supply Perth and other
markets. Naturally, when the hundred or
so Italian fishermen of Fremantle were
interned these Australian fishermen of
Mandurah, supplying as they were a food
so vital to all, and especially to the hos-
pitals, hoped to be permitted to carry on.
But no. The call came, and about
four, through unfitness, now remain. So
valuable boats lie perishing in the sun,
while even more irreplaceable nets are
gnawed to worthlessness by rats. And
fish-hungry would-be consumers grouch
about the presumed rapacity of fish-shop
keepers, who really are not to blame,
since the fish are not being caught.
Now price-fixing is spoken of, but
though that may bring the price down a
trifle it won’t put one more scale on the
tables of the fish markets. — Groper
(W.A.).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
Particulars of Parkinson’s disease ?
Nothing is certainly known of its cause. It
is rare before the age of 40, and from then
on its frequency increases. The disease may
take 10 years or more to run its course unless
some other illness, such as pneumonia, supers
venes. No treatment has any influence upon
the progress of the malady, but relief is
obtained from administration of hyocine hydro-
bromide or atropine sulphate under medical
supervision. Pain and sleeplessness have to be
treated as they occur. In the later stages, owing
to the patient’s inability to move freely, careful
nursing is essential.
How can small black ants be kept out of a
house ?
Trace ants to their nests and pour carbon
bisulphide down the holes. If nests are under
the house and can’t be' got at, store all food in
antproof containers, as it is this that attracts
them.
Method of making a sheepskin rug ?
Wash the skin with washing soda until grease
is out. Then nail it on to a door or some flat
boards and sprinkle with baking soda, and rub
with a brick. Keep putting soda on and rub-
bing until skin is like leather. Then mix dye
and keep dipping the wool into the boiling dye
until it is the shade desired. It takes several
days to finish off. Use about 11b. of baking
soda for the skin. Long wool is best to work on,
as it looks nicer when finished.
Brief Answers.
L.P.C.: Try D. A. Macdonald, the Causeway,
Melbourne, Cl, for fountain-pen repairs
R.R.H.: Your engraving is worth about. £l.
. ...E.G.M.: Steel reeds for looms can be got
at Australia Reeds and Healds, 515 Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne M.R.: A landowner
cannot put an electric wire along a boundary
fence if his neighbor objects, nor can he put
it along a public road A.C.R.: (1) and (2)
The record attendance at Sydney Cricket
Ground was 70,204 (June 6, 1932, at a Rugby
League football match, Australia v. England).
... .G.S.: F. R. Edwards and Son, 215 George-
strccl, and J. Mackay, Nelson, Trafalgar-street,
Stanmorc, both Sydney, make surgical boots.
....Interested Yank: Send stamped, addressed
envelope: reply too long to print A.P.:
Brent of Bin Bin’s Up the Country is out of
stock at leading Sydney booksellers.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken ve contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
Anon:
• “Up the car, up the car,
Don’t block the gangway.
Gentlemen, hurry up!’’
—Pushing them onward.
“Try not to rush the seats.”
People converge from streets;
Into the crowded tram
Clamber one hundred.
.... 1.W.: A bit more controlled, it might have
scored... J.E.A.: “Filmy gold of sunny rays to
which the sun gave birth.” No one would
expect sunny rays to come from the m00n....
B.C.McA.; Sincerity its only merit... .A.G.S.:
Don’t use guidebook tags such as “scenic
beauty”... .C.McI.: “Until a few months ago
1 had never rhymed two words and then a
trip to Sydney so entranced me I suddenly
started this sort of thing.” Alas, what pitfalls
there are in the big, bad city... .P.W.8.; Just
a kite... .L.G.: All an old story M.W.: “A
Tale from the Skies” is a blast from the depths.
. ...G.E.: At 15, even such a line as “Those
whom to duty have always stuck” is pardon-
able. .. .T.A.: Very pretty, but scarred by the
“dids”.... J.M.: Without special merit....
E. 5.8.: Light and jingly L.W.: Promising,
if you're young.... M.S.: Melodramatic... .
E.S.; Mr. Piper would be more interesting if,
instead of drooping at the end, he exploded. . ..
P.S.: Yes, he's a game old fellow. But is he
a lively and original character?


Leaflets and posters arc used to keep
workers alive to the value of safety.
Hi
■
HI : #’isi
11
I
■
V
>
H
if«n
■ ■
m
m
m
I K
i, ..;••?■
Hi
7i
■ ■' R S
i ■
hk?
M
■ > 1 1
#?£ l :J.
frvylkVM
I i
1
/
A x <
Wm
>J3|
sS* 3 ** 6 *
I
:
isi
•s*.
M
m
i
■
iiii
■
V 1
a
m
L*t
iiii
Hun
m
Mi
*
T 3
■ i
a
sP: :
mm
m
■ '■■ ■ ' - ;
On
;
m
S
H :
V:':S
• :5.
a*ii
■
lil
:Vv
si|S
mSIMSm
mm
S
mm
iiiii
i
■
PI
H
■
»VSSBS
a
v:
i
■ :"
I
m
u
m
wmm
Ski.
■:■
Hi
u
:
Reports Iron; all superintendents and foremen have
been analyzed to find out the principal danger spots.
These have been eliminated.
The human side
of accident prevention
How B.H.F. has established
such a good record in this work .
“Broken Hill Proprietary may not be the
biggest steel plant in the world, but it’s going
to be the safest!
These words were spoken in a Board
Meeting in 1921 by the Managing Director,
who had just returned from a trip to the
United States.
During the first World War. Newcastle
had seen a mighty expansion . . . production
figures had outstripped even the optimistic
prophecies of 1914. But the Managing Direc-
tor warned the Board that in the train of
increased production had come increased acci-
dents. forced absenteeism, reduced production.
A great number of the B.H.P. workers
were returned soldiers, men who had waded
through surf at Gallipoli and smashed their
way through the Hindenburg Line. They had
to lie convinced that to live dangerously is an
asset in a soldier but a liability in a worker.
Out of that meeting came a permanent
General Safety Committee. The plans that
wen' developed have ieduced enormously the
number of accidents and made less serious
many of the accidents that occur. It is a
lifetime job to keep tired or careless people
from hurting themselves, but it is a job that
is very, very worth while.
For accidents which do happen, a modern hospital unit has been installed
with ambulance station and 25 depots equipped with stretchers and first aid gear.
r :
I >*f.
k i a
Departmental Committees including workers in
the plant discuss accidents which happen as well
as those that are avoided only by good luck.
The General Safety Department sees to it
that recommendations are carried out with
the greatest possible speed.
