

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3296
Wednesday, April 14, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Jeppelts
FELIXSTOWE.
IN the second world war those seaside resorts which dot the
*■ coasts of Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex were not precisely ideal
places for a vacation. The Luftwaffe saw to this. Geographical
location rendered it inevitable, recalling the nature of the struggle
and the surprising developments of certain material instrumentali-
ties of hostilities. Nevertheless these towns on the ocean’s fringe
carried on, as best they could, all displaying that grim determi-
nation which characterised the race the world over in the life
and death struggle in which it found itself engaged. Felixstowe,
so well known to visitors from the Antipodes, is one of those
delightful health-giving centres that were truly in the “war zone*
It may be described as a sort of outer suburb of Ipswich, the
importance of which, industrially and commercially, does not
require elucidating. From a “bathing village” of comparatively
a few years ago, the present picturesque town has grown. It has
the reputation of being one of the cleanest towns in the Kingdom,
with gardens of “astonishing loveliness coming down almost to
the water’s edge.” Its arboreal wealth is, too, remarkable. The
illustration appears somewhat suggestive of locations in Sydney
Harbour and on the Auckland sea front.


Learn '
Story
a t HOMTE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
lluolclet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243 ..
AG 12
The Red Page
ELIOT AT LITTLE GIDDING.
There is a curious bloodlessness in T. S.
Eliot’s poetry which nearly always makes
it show pallid alongside the writing on
a common theme of any other first-class
writer. When The Dry Salvages was
reviewed here a few months ago, pas-
sages of it dealing with a deep sea
world were placed beside similar pas-
sages in Kenneth Slessor’s “Five Bells”
and, though no attempt was made to
overvalue the total of Slessor’s work as
compared with the total of Eliot’s, it
was clear that, quotation for quotation,
Slessor had written the richer poetry.
An extract from Eliot’s new poem
Little Gidding (Faber), on the traditional
theme of old age, invites comparison
with W. B. Yeats’s memorable “Dialogue
of Self and Soul.” Here is the extract
from Little Gidding: —
Since our concern was speech, and speech im-
pelled us
To purify the dialect of the tribe '
And urge the mind to aftersight and foresight,
Let me disclose the gifts reserved for age
To set a crown upon your lifetime’s effort.
First, the cold friction of expiring sense
Without enchantment, offering no promise
But bitter tastelessness of shadow fruit
As body and soul begin to fall asunder.
Second, the conscious impotence of rage
At human folly, and the laceration
Of laughter at what ceases to amuse.
And last, the rending pain of re-enactment
Of all that you have done, and been; the shame
Of motives late revealed, and the awareness
Of things ill done and done to others’ harm
Which once you took for exercise of virtue.
Then fools’ approval stings and honor stains.
From wrong to wrong the exasperated spirit
Proceeds, unless restored by that refining fire
Where you must move in measure, like a dancer.
And here is Yeats;
A living man is blind and drinks his drop.
What matter if the ditches are impure?
What matter if I Jive it all once more?
Endure that toil of growing up;
The ignominy of boyhood; the distress
Of boyhood changing into man;
The unfinished man and his pain
Brought face to face with his own clumsiness;
The finished man among his enemies? —
How in the name of Heaven can he escape
That defiling and disfigured shape
The mirror of malicious eyes
Casts upon his eyes until at last
He thinks that shape must be his shape?
And what’s the good of an escape
If honor find him in the wintry blast?
I am content to live it all again
And yet again, if it be life to pitch
Into the frog-spawn of a blind man’s ditch,
A blind man battering blind men;
Or into that most fecund ditch of all,
T he folly that man does
Or must suffer, if he woos
A proud woman not kindred of his soul.
1 am content to follow to its source
Every event in action or in thought;
Measure the lot; forgive myself the lot!
When such as I cast out remorse
So great a sweetness flows into the breast
We must laugh and we must sing, ‘
We are blest by everything.
Everything we look upon is blest.
And how much more vividly Yeats has
expressed it! It is the irresistible excite-
ment of Yeats’s last two stanzas that
Eliot lacks; he has little of what Hop-
kins called “the roll, the rise, the carol,
the creation” ; he does not soar to his
own great occasions, and poetry that does
not soar is—not bad but always tending
to be closer to the tranquillity of “verse”
than to the ecstasy of poetry. If Yeats
was fire along the Liliey, Eliot is candle-
light on the Thames.
Yet there is virtue in candlelight. If
it lacks the lyrical blaze of Yeats’s, his
colder vision is nonetheless genuine ; if
the attempt to “purify the dialect of the
tribe” results also in a thinning of it, his
expression remains clear and precise,
sharing with Yeats contemporary poetry’s
greatest virtue, a natural rhythm and
speech, “the natural words in their natural
order” ; and if it no longer contains the
capacity to surprise, his verse is without
the wearisome smartness that masquer-
ades as originality in many of the works
of such younger writers as W. H. Auden.
Yeats being dead, Eliot’s is the most
distinguished poetry being written today.
Little Gidding, pamphlet size, con-
cludes the loosely-linked long poem
of which three parts have already been
published under the titles Burnt Norton,
East Coker and The Dry Salvages. When
the four are published in one volume
they should make an impressive total.
The theme throughout is “The intersec-
tion of the timeless moment” ; in Little
Gidding, as in the earlier passages, Eliot
records and ponders about those moments
when a man is aware of the eternal.
Though the continuity of the thought
is hard to follow, there is nothing at all
difficult in the thought itself; a man is
aware of eternity—the timeless moment
projects into time—when he looks at the
sunset and is carried away by its beauty.
Essentially it is as simple as that. The
timeless moment is the moment of poetic
awe; and the conclusion of Eliot’s ex-
ploration of these moments (as well as
it can be summarised) is that poetic awe
is fundamentally religious awe, the poetic
moment is also the moment of divine
revelation;
And all shall be well and
All manner of thing shall be well
When the tongues of flame are in-folded
Into the crowned knot of fire
And the fire and the rose are one.
Little Gidding, like the earlier parts, is
not so much a poem as an essay on
poetry. It is extremely interesting, be-
cause the timeless moment is the core
of both art and religion; there is no
more vital subject for analysis and specu-
lation. But an essay about poetic ecstasy
is not the same thing as a presentation of
that ecstasy, involving the reader. For
that, one must read the verses of such
disregarded people as W. H. Davies,
whose lyrics amount to a series of just
such high and rare moments, which the
reader can share. Or, asking for the per-
fection one sometimes finds in Yeats,
one would ask for a Davies who thought
more and an Eliot who sang more.
Clune's Latest .
Uncle : Here, my boy, is just the book
you have been looking for. Frank Clune’s
From Tobruk to Turkey (Angus and
Robertson); lively, humorous and, as
all reviewers always say of all travel
books (only this time it’s the truth),
packed from cover to cover with enter-
tainment and adventure.
Willie (pained): No, Uncle.
Uncle (also pained): Why, you un-
grateful little hellhound, I read it myself
with the greatest interest. Mr- Clune was
six months in the Middle East as a Com-
forts Fund commissioner and —the profits
of this book having been promised to the
fund—was let loose to travel where he
liked and to talk to everybody from
General Blarney to the donkey who
shared a bolt-hole with the cook. What
sort of vermin are you that you decline
to read about the battlegrounds of the
Middle East; the historical background,
the campaigns of the present war, descrip-
tions of the desert by an author who has
visited it in person in order to describe
it to you?
Willie: Uncle, 1 am second to no
man, as you are very well aware, in my
interest in the present gigantic struggle
for the mastery of the world. But I
cannot read From Tobruk to Turkey.
Uncle: Mark my words, my lad, Mr.
Clune has got the goods. The real war
news —news, that is, of the men as indi-
viduals, how they fought, how they re-
laxed and what they thought and said
about it all, never gets into the papers.
But just consider this one out of the
hundreds of similar incidents Mr. Clune
records:
I climb over sandbags to yarn to the
39th Scottish, the boys manning the ack-
ack defences. They’re all as keen as
kelpies, and show me how their Bofors gun
works. Although they’re out on an exposed
plateau, the mortality is very slight. The
sergeant, with a strong Gaelic accent, told
me that one day a Stuka came head-on at
them, its machine-guns firing deadly bursts
all round them. The corporal gunner at
the trigger of the Bofors was a “killer,”
and he held his fire, training the sights on
the Stuka until it got within point-blank
range, then, when he couldn’t miss, he
pressed the trigger—and the Bofors jammed.
As the Stuka sailed by fifty feet overhead
the pilot leaned out and stuck his thumb
skyward in derision. “The corp.,” said the
sergeant, “was so wild that he seized an
empty shell and threw it at the Jerry
pilot.”
Willie: I grant you. Uncle, that a
collection of such anecdotes would be stir-
ring reading. I am sympathetically inclined
towards this book. But I cannot read it.
Uncle: Mr. Clune has a yarn with
war artist William Dargie, painting a
crashed Messerschmitt and sporting a
“moustache magnifique, a beaut., a real
Horse Guards’ special”; he reads the
Red Page in Aleppo with “Banjo” Pater-
son’s son; he sees 20 Fiat fighters which
have been destroyed by a tank —“A light
British tank had surprised the defenders
of the ’drome.... before they could get
into action the tank was driven over the
tails of the ’planes, destroying them all” ;
he sees the sights of Jerusalem ; he visits
Gallipoli; and he is at his best when re-
telling what A.I.F. men told him of their
experiences in Tobruk and on the other
battlegrounds of the Middle East. Now
then, you little horror
Willie: Deeply as I regret to dis-
oblige you, Uncle, and much as I am
attracted to it, I cannot read From
Tobruk to Turkey.
Uncle ; Don’t you like his humor?
Willie: Inasmuch as it is a sign of
abounding vitality, I rather enjoy it,
Uncle.
Uncle (hurt): Come, Willie, my boy,
tell Uncle what’s flaming well biting you.
Is it the way he writes it?
Willie: In general, Uncle, I find the
style a tolerably workmanlike vehicle for
the expression of a robust and unconven-
tional temperament.
Uncle : Do you, you little snake! Then
why won’t you read it?
Willie; When the author, Uncle, is
capable of writing
Many of the Mussulmen coming in from
the desert wear yellow robes which add to
the colorful scene,
when what he should say is
Many of the Mussulmans coming in from
the desert wear yellow robes which add to
the color of the scene,
1 find myself compelled, albeit with re-
luctance, to protest with all the vigor at
my command. Exuberances and even
eccentricities of style are one thing; but
mistakes in elementary grammar are
another.
Uncle ; There are few. Why not over-
look them, my boy?
Willie: I fear that, by the publication
of such lapses, the language is endan-
gered and the minds of the young are
corrupted.
Uncle: You are a little stinker, aren’t
you! How did you know that sentence
was in it, anyhow?
Willie : I cannot tell you a lie, Uncle ;
I read the volume a week ago. It ain’t
half bad.
The Laughing Refugee .
Only in one place is Hoffmeister’s
Unwilling Tourist (Lane) as funny as he
means it to be; but in that place it’s
certainly funny. His Czechoslovakian
hero Jan Prokop is in a concentration
camp in France; among the internees
there is a police spy named Eugene who
uses his position as camp barber to
wheedle damaging secrets out of his cus-
tomers. The internees take a tumble to
Eugene and exact a lovely revenge.
“Eugene, Eugene [they called to him],
Sergeant Miller was here. He orders
you to report to the major the number of
beards, mutton-chops, goatees and clean-
shaven faces there are in the camp. Also
how many brown, black, grey, red or bald
heads there are. The Department of Statis-
tics wants this report immediately. It
must be prepared by tomorrow.”
Informers have about them a certain
charming simplicity, and Eugene ate it up.
Panting and red-faced he ran all over the
camp, devotedly gathering his data. Next
morning Eugene stepped forward and re-
ported.
“One hundred and fifty beards, sir. And
iwo hundred and seventy-eight moustaches,
fourteen goatees, nine side-whiskers.”
When he got to the side-whiskers, even
Lieutenant Madrilene couldn’t stop himself
from laughing. This was the signal for the
whole camp to burst into helpless laughter.
Eugene’s pride was wounded. He was
classed ‘Unfit to Snoop’ and, by an over-
sight of headquarters, remained a prisoner
in the camp.
The blurb of Unwilling Tourist sug-
gests that Jan Prokop may be Hoffmeister
himself. Hoffmeister is a Czech cartoon-
ist, and the book records his (or Jan
Prokop’s) adventures on the refugee trail
from his native land to America. When
the Gestapo were searching for him in
Prague, he managed to escape to France
and liberty; but the French, during an
outburst of spy mania, decided that he
was a dangerous foreigner and interned
him. Interned he stayed until “one day
the frightened commandant called the
camp together and announced that the
German Army was near and that all the
prisoners would be released that even-
ing.”
A little band of friends, Jan Prokop
among them, walked through the blackout
of the June night. Over them, aeroplane
motors roared menacingly. In the dark-
ness, the rusty cranes loomed like dinosaurs
along their way. The small bundles on
their shoulders were all they took with
them On the highway sounded the
muffled footsteps of the thousands who
could play no part in the war drama,
who suddenly were placed in the open jaws
of hunger in the hell-time of destruction
and chaos.
Prokop escapes to Casablanca. And is
promptly interned again. At last, through
the intervention of the American Consul,
he is allowed to sail for Lisbon. And
from there he gets to America.
The story is lightly told and humor-
ously illustrated. There is so much under-
lying pathos that the humor generally
seems forced; and yet it’s likeable, and
a welcome relief from an overdose of
war books shrieking with venom. Hoff-
meister portrays Prokop as the Little
Man, hunted, driven, tragi-comically lost
in the whirling tide of the refugees.
There’s truth in it, and a sense of epic.
Someone like the Charlie Chaplin of
“The Goldrush,” who could mix comedy
and pathos without bitterness, could
make a fine film of it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Hesketh Pearson’s verdict on Shaw as
a playwright; from Bernard Shaw: His
Life and Personality (R.P. 7/4/’43):
Shaw was always at his happiest when
he left his own period and lived for a
while with the people of another age;
although “Heartbreak House,” “John Bull’s
Other Island” and “The Doctor’s Dilemma”
may be revived as “period pieces” quite
as often as “The School for Scandal,” “She
Stoops to Conquer” and “The Importance
of Being Earnest,” yet the most natural,
most convincing, most imaginative, least
self-conscious of his works are “Caesar and
Cleopatra,” “Androcles and the Lion” and
“Saint Joan.” These will live as long as
there is an English stage devoted to anything
better than the sort of play from which he
redeemed it. Most of his characters do
not get far enough away from himself to
attain a life of their own, and the really
vital ones, the religious and self-conscious
types, come straight from their creator. But
in the three plays just mentioned the sub-
sidiary characters catch some of the radi-
ance spread by the protagonists and the
strings of the puppet-master are fainter.
If that judgment is accepted, and it’s
pretty hard to dispute it, Pearson has
demonstrated that even to such formid-
able controversialists as Shaw and Ibsen
the doctrine of Aristotle and Matthew
Arnold still applies: the highest form
of the drama is not the propagandising
of the popular “causes” of the day, but
“the imitation of great actions.”
Does anybody read Shaw’s satire on
Napoleon, “The Man of Destiny,” these
days? When it was first written, because
it seemed a daring debunking of the
Napoleonic legend, it was sensational,
Now it is tame, even futile; the least
successful of Shaw’s historical plays be-
cause, instead of “imitating great actions”
it tried to reduce great actions to the
ridiculous. It shows Napoleon early in
his career, when he is nervous, uncer-
tain, vulgar, self-consciously rehearsing
the postures of the great man. But the
Napoleonic legend (like the Shavian
legend) is too big to be debunked. “The
Man of Destiny” is as lamentable a
failure as was Charlie Chaplin’s attempt
to reduce Hitler to the ridiculous in the
talkie “The Great Dictator,” and for the
same reason: neither Napoleon nor Hit-
ler is a comic character. Mussolini was
funny in the Chaplin film because Musso,
the sawdust Caesar, is a tragi-comic figure.
Hitler would have been funny if he had
fizzled out cheaply early in his career;
or he may even yet be q subject for satire
if he comes to some ludicrous end. But
if he manages to finish his career tragi-
cally, playwrights won’t be able to por-
tray him as a clown; he’ll be “that bad
man” in the imitations of great actions,
not a funny man. There was no real
humor in the scene where Chaplin showed
the dictator juggling with the globe, be-
cause Hitler has, as a most terrible and
tragic historical fact, been doing just that.
Some of the brightest passages in Pear-
son’s life of Shaw are the excerpts from
Shaw’s musical and dramatic criticism.
For instance: “There is nothing that
soothes me more after a long and mad-
dening course of pianoforte recitals than
to sit and have my teeth drilled by a
finely skilled hand.” And: “My regard
for Sir Henry Irving cannot blind me to
the fact that it would have been better
for us twenty-five years ago to have tied
him up in a sack with every existing copy
of the works of Shakspeare and dropped
him into the crater of the nearest vol-
cano.” Which, though pleasing for its
malevolence, should be read with Pear-
son’s comment that, whenever he men-
tioned himself in conjunction with Shak-
speare, Shaw was fated to talk twaddle.
“S.W.K.” on a horse-opera:
It is an axiom of the makers of horse-opera
fillums that the hero who supplicates for his
“boots an’ saddle,” what time he tortures a
banjo, shall be shadowed by a fat man who
makes mediocre wisecracks in a husky voice.
Andy Devine, 16st. of bubbles in a ten-gallon hat,
used an asthmatical wheeze to get laughs until
he unaccountably graduated to white-collai
comedy; and the humor fort of the mesquitc
is held these days by Smiley Burnette, another
large person whose outdoor comedy is even
feebler than was Andy’s. Smiley is specia
stooge to Gene Autry, and in “Call of the
Canyon” (G.U. Theatres) may be observed
wisecracking while Gene emits a system o
“singing” noises to suit the ambling gait of his
branch. Some shots of a cattle stampede, how-
ever, have all the dramatic vigor of a scene at
Sydney’s Wynyard station.
Hal Missingham, who shows oils,
water-colors, lithographs, pastels ana
pencil drawings at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries, makes no definite impression
in any of these media. His sojourn at
England is reflected in his water-colors,
as sparing of color as of outline,
most tangible thing in the show is Both
and Mugs,” a study in oils painted witn-
out prejudice. One of the hthograp ,
“Far from the Land of His Birth, shows
an evanescent trace of feeling.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
119 Years of Service
A
m
/
I f •"
« . ‘
FRANCE* f
r .
#T:
yy/A//,
if&V
»*
/f.
I
C*
S*
IS
frr&SS
H
o y
M
%
0
%
*im
iP
-v 3^
;|* - i
ism
$}&&&&&
■-X-.;.
».« w ' '■■w.’A
"**W, i%;.
**-.. v*.
XiV**! JSj ,
••• •• ■
m
■ -
X
:
,
a
•/Atrd&jC.
, ;/,/ s-yr /y ' * *
,- / ’ /* ’ " V- . ; ' / v •,
WAA «PE€<HfS
5HT
f\
KS
>
BY THfc MQHT M*H
im^iiUiWaiiMnn
W>r fl*»««» -Xfkt fL/kflS
a
a
VL
* BAROMETER
RISING
By Hugh MacLennan. A
romantic and exciting
novel of Nova Scotia in
both peace and war.
Price ' 8/6
Postage, s£d.
ABOVE SUSPICION
By H. Maclnnes. A secret service story in the "Green-
mantle" tradition that has made an overnight hit in
America. Price 7/6
Postage, 4Td.
OUT OF THE PEOPLE
By J. B. Priestley. This important little book deals with the
problems of reconstruction after the war. Price 4/3
Postage, 3id.
THE UNRELENTING STRUGGLE
War speeches by the Right Honourable Winston S.
Churchill. Compiled by Charles Bade and illustrated with
five half-tone plates. Price 13/6
Postage, s£d.
THE SUN CLIMBS SLOWLY
By Brigid Knight. A story of Cape Town and the Boer
rising; of the stirring and startling happenings that
led up to the South African War. Price 10/6
Postage, 4£d.
AUSTRALIA WEEK END BOOK
Short stories —bright articles—humorous drawings
by Australian writers and artists. 224 pages of
entertainment. Price 7/6
Postage, 6£d.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS BOOK DEPARTMENT
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. SECOND FLOOR Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


TOBRUK DIARY
Written while the diarist was in hospital recovering from a wound.
TOBRUK: Thirty-odd miles
of wire and a.-tk. ditch and
concrete posts. Flat, dry,
stony and arid, with only
camel-bush to relieve the white-
ness and drabness. Ruins of the
“compound,” the “blockhouse” and
buildings around Post R. 31. Miles and
miles of flat.
The town was pretty from the escarp-
ment looking down into the harbor. So
were the buildings, now scarred and
torn by shell and bomb. Great holes in
the roads. Sunken ships ip the harbor
(thirteen of them) looked grotesque. One
huge liner with her bows on the cliffs.
The Ladybird, sunk but still fighting.
The sign at the corner: “If red flag fly-
ing, stop and disperse, Air Raid.”
Dust! We lived on it. It became
part of our lives. It was in our food,
our drink. We breathed it for seven
months. It got into our bones, so that
we grated when we moved. Fine, pow-
dery and white, it was everywhere. It
permeated everything and respected no-
thing and nobody. Even when there was
no wind it was with us. If not today’s,
then yesterday’s. In your blankets, your
books, papers, food, water, and your
hair. Vehicles on the tracks were as
ships on the sea —a wave of dust,- four to
five feet thick from both front wheels.
Mines were our hidden enemy. No-
where were we safe from them. Recco,
inspection, fighting—at all times inside
our wire we trod in trepidation and un-
certainty. And the moves from one part
of the area to another! What awful sus-
pense until we got to the main road —
five or six miles of bumpy track through
many known minefields (and many more
unknown ones) and the night as black
as ink. Jerry’s mines: “Teller,” “S”
type. The Italian: “8.2” (coffin) and
“8.4” (web type). The work of the
patrols in locating these fields and trac-
ing them, of delousing and bringing them
home.
The patrols:
“Hullo, —; —? Tell Commander
I want to see him at Company
H.Q. immediately.” (The usual pre-
liminary to the issue of patrol
orders.)
“Out through R. 61 at 23.00 hours.
Back through R. 57 at 04.30 hours.
Route, from R. 61 on bearing of 252
degrees for 4300 paces, thence on
247 degrees for 1300 paces. You
should find a minefield here. You
will trace the field s.-e. for 1500
yards and determine its depth and
type of mines. Return on bearing
of 35 degrees. I will send up lights
from 04.00 hours onwards to guide
you in. Strength: One officer and
five O.Rs. Carry two tommy-guns.
Password, .
“Any questions? Time now is
. Report to me on return.”
The patrols sent out from our wires
were numerous and frequent. Every
man who went out was a hero, for even
the simplest job involved immense dan-
ger. Mines, enemy patrols and enemy
defences were likely at any time or place.
“Fire”: It was once said that there
is a lot more space than bullets. This is
quite true. Incredibly so. We were on
one occasion in the centre of what
appeared to be the end of the world.
Bullets cracked about our ears. More
still hit the ground about our feet and
all around —some single ones, but mostly
in bursts (m.-g. fire). Little puffs of dust
and a pleasant buzzing sound as they
ricocheted away! Pleasant, until nerves
began to go. There was hardly a yard
of ground that wasn’t the recipient of at
least one piece of lead in that twenty
minutes. Flashing past from all angles
came golden, red and fiery balls of
various sizes. Anti-tank projectiles, too.
It seemed that we could have reached
out and grasped them as they flew by.
One bounced down the Bardia road to-
wards our wire; it must have hit the
ground ten times before it went from
sight.
Every 10 to 15 seconds you could hear
the solid “cr —u —mp” of an 81mm.
mortar bomb bursting. Pieces of its shrap-
nel whizzed here and there with an awful
whistling sound. The mortar bomb is a
frightening thing. You can’t hear it com-
ing, and it has a peculiar sickening “thud”
all of its own. The 75mm. shell goes
crack, crack, crack, crack four times
in rapid succession—a shrill scream and
they land. Every time a shot was fired
“out there” near the enemy’s wire, the
world opened up. The amount of fire he
brought down as defensive fire was in-
credible.
The shelling was consistent and always
with us. We became used to it, more
or less. The screech of the shells (usu-
ally in groups or salvos of four to six),
followed by the crash—the mushroom-
like spread of the columns of dust. The
149 mm. were big. The “105,” too, but
the “75” was nasty—like a rattlesnake.
The ricochet of the 4 ,T49’5” off the escarp-
ment behind S.ll! How they roared and
bounced!
• • • • •
Mortars! Deadly, silent, nerve-destroy-
ing. The 81mm. “Iti” and Jerry mortars,
Nb sign except sometimes the “pop” of
the discharge a mile or more away. Then
the wait. You find yourself grasping
something hard—quite unconsciously,
with every nerve tense and taut You
kc =P ,a i kmE • unt I°°
and then there is a silence by common
consent. In each ones mind there is the
question “Is this the one?” When it
isn’t you grin foolishly and say “No-
where near us—that one! Jerry couldn’t
hit a house.”
Fear! What cowards we are! I tried
to analyse my own feelings many a time
—particularly when it became necessary
to “get into” something. I wasn’t fright-
ened of being killed. I didn’t want to be.
I was frightened of injury, because
that meant pain, I suppose. And,
above all, I was terrified of being
wounded and left out in the sun
to the mercy of the flies. Many
a night I lay and sweated in
fear of tomorrow when I might be out
there in the sun with the flies at me.
Fear of the unknown was an explana-
tion for that “before-zero” feeling. The
cause is just simple fear as we each
know it. Fear of death, injury, one’s
self; of the possibility of “letting the
men down” ; all these or some of them,
according to your nature and position,
go to make that awful, indescribable feel-
ing of alternate hot and cold spasms, of
sickening stomach and deadly heavy
heart that pounds and pounds till you
feel that you can’t stand it another
second. Yet if it is plain fear of the
material, how is it that, immediately one
gets to one’s feet and moves forward,
the body becomes almost normal on the
instant? Gone is the sickening feeling
of heart and stomach. In its place comes
the usual and normal feeling of fear as
is known at all times under fire.
MOSSIES —A DEFENCE AND A DEFIANCE
By “EN EXTRA."
NO peril of the Papuan jungle has
been more exaggerated in the
popular mind than the mosquito
menace. True, the insect is. a
vicious brute, savage, cunning and relent-
less ; true also are the reports of his
strength and size, but his reputation is
often grossly overstated. There is the
story of the two mossies who carried off
a horse. When they had wafted him
half a mile or so one of them suggested
it was time to stop to devour the spoil.
“What!” replied the other. “And risk
having one of the big blokes take him
away from us? Not me!” This yarn I
do not believe. No two mosquitoes in
this island are capable of carrying off a
horse. A dog, possibly, or a small donkey,
but a horse, no!
There is a belief widely held in the
forces that, with such a wealth of ma-
terial to choose from, the mossies, before
biting a man, invariably examine his iden-
tification disc to find out whether his
blood-group is the particular variety they
fancy. This, too, I cannot refute too
strongly. In my experience the mossie's
sole wish is to turn himself into a mobile
blood bank, and he cares not a whit
whether he fills himself with A 2, 04 or
a cocktail of all the letters and numbers
medical science has devised. Else, why
should he waste his time plunging his
proboscis into leather boots, canvas haver-
sacks, felt hats and other un-blood-
grouped articles of equipment?
I must admit to the ear-splitting din
caused by the mossies’ nightly concerts.
Many a sleepless night have I spent secure
but helpless within my mosquito net while
countless thousands of the pests held
wassail outside, shrilling savage paeans
of hate as they flung themselves against
my net or beat the air with whirring
wings in impotent, baffled fury. But the
delights of those mosquito concerts fade
into a distant memory and the chorus
becomes a mere murmur when compared
with the Billion Voices Choir to which
we are treated when out on bivouac.
To get the best effect you must take
your gun to a nice secluded spot and
site it in about six feet of long grass,
preferably right bang up against a stag-
nant, oozy creek. Thus you do away
with the necessity of waiting till nightfall
for the arrival of the mossies, as they are
already there in their hundreds of thou-
sands and, having long since annihilated
all other insect, bird and animal life in
the vicinity, are until your arrival the
undisputed masters of the terrain.
As evening approaches you get your
gun nicely bedded down for the night
and prepare for your own repose. You
clear a space about the size of a respec-
table coffin, spreading the cut grass care-
fully on the ground in the mistaken hope
that it will be softer than the bare earth ;
then with the aid of four sticks you rig
your mosquito-net and shove your
blanket and ground-sheet underneath it.
While you are doing this the mosquitoes
sense your intention and do all they can
to hamper your efforts.
While their dive-bombers zoom down
in an attempt to destroy all your handi-
work, fighter squadrons and attack
groups beset you from all sides and keep
up an incessant strafing all along your
defences. Next, heavy transport squad-
rons lumber up and try to carry off
bodily your net, poles, blanket and per-
sonal belongings. It requires all your
strength and tenacity to deter them from
their purpose, but training and discipline
must tell, and at length, panting and ex-
hausted, you stand momentarily master
of the field, your net erect and intact.
The job has only just begun. You still
have to get under the net, and an ominous
buzzing sound as of distant bagpipe
music minced through an electric fan
warns you that several thousand of the
foe are there before you. There is no
time to waste, as the routed hosts are
already rallying for a counter-attack, and
the longer you wait the more reinforce-
ments will be at hand ; so, steeling your-
self to the task, you lift up one side of the
net and roll under.
Your entry has the effect of squeezing
out from one-third to four-fifths of the
invaders, the actual figure depending on
the amount of net space you occupy;
the remainder, being compressed into a
smaller space than they consider adequate
for their needs, raise an instant and vocal
demand for lebensraum and follow up
their demand with a violent blitz upon
your person.
It is not, as they intend, a war of quick
decision. The campaign is long and
arduous, but at length, having inflicted
terrific slaughter by slapping and swat-
ting, by rolling on them, by swallowing
them, by burning them with matches and
even by outbiting them, you have the
net more or less to yourself. A few
stragglers remain, but these can be
mopped up at leisure. After a brief rest
you complete .this little job, thrust the
corpses of the slain outside your shelter
and settle down.
Greatly daring, you strip off and con-
template sleep. You don’t contemplate
long, since contemplation requires among
other things a reasonable degree of quiet.
Having failed to reduce your defences
by force of arms, the mossie hordes now
attempt to woo you from slumber by
deafening jazz-band effects.
For a while you are taken in by this
strategem, thinking it designed merely to
keep you awake, but the whole extrava-
ganza is nothing less than an elaborate
piece of camouflage to cover a sinister
attack on your flimsy citadel. Under
cover of this barrage of spurious song
and misbegotten melody, the mosquito
engineers are at work sawing holes in
your breastworks. Through the gaps
thus made there enter a few hardy com-
mandos, who work with the silence char-
acteristic of well-trained troops on a
suicidal mission.
Your first warning is when a section
of them makes simultaneous three-point
landings on the most attractive (to mos-
quitoes) parts of your anatomy. All
three points penetrate the epidermis, the
under-dermis, the five other dermises and
get well into the real you. You leap
and writhe like a startled caterpillar, and
the swishing, swatting and swallowing
begin all over again. The skirmish over,
you strike matches, find the gashes in
the net, stuff them up with grass and
compose yourself once more to the “en-
joyment” of the band effects.
After this interlude has been repeated
three or four times and is becoming tedi-
ous through repetition, and your net is be-
ginning to look like the dilapidated body
of the Straw Man in “The Wizard of Oz,”
you become aware of a new sound im-
pinging on the mosquito chorus —the
gentle patter of rain on top of your net.
A few minutes later the mossies that
have not raced for shelter are delighted
with the spectacle of a nude figure out
in the rain, dragging a ground-sheet from
beneath his blanket and attempting to
rig it up as a roof. With howls of
ecstatic glee they swoop down on that
nude figure and remind you that it is
yours, and that the sooner you get it
back into shelter (using the word in a
relative sense) the better.
You clamber back, dry your wet,
wounded person on your blanket, roll
the one in the other, hug your clothes
to you in the hope of keeping them dry
for the morrow and endeavor to shrivel
up into a compact ball in the middle of
your net space.
The ground-sheet canopy is fairly effec-
tive for a while; that is to say, it con-
trols the water and directs it on to you
in a steady stream instead of the hap-
hazard spattering manner favored by
Nature. By wriggling and squirming you
can adjust yourself so that it doesn’t all
come in on you ; and it doesn’t matter
much if it does, as you’re wet already,
and, anyhow, the mossies have been
scared away and it’ll be tomorrow in a
few hours.
This Is Not the Man.
This is not the man who laid
His hand on winds running free—
Not the man who made
The storm a dutiful child.
Into a sea mined with ice
He took no ship,
Nor ever nerved himself to
The night of jungle grip.
A towering mountaineer
He planted no record,
Crowning a peak with humiliation.
Making it the playground of a nation.
But he has come beneath the arches
Of many dawns,
Reassuring approach to
Desperate marches.
Who is hero if not he
Who, lamed by time, bears
Time as an eagle, and against the climate of age
His thin infirmity wears?
There was a day when for him
Clamored the campfire,
But now there is no scorched earth
Where leapt his desire.
But, mined from youth, his love
Is safe in frost-bitten hands;
Neither will he strew memories
To the plundering lands.
His courage flares on the night, his hope
Outshines the day, his shoulder
Drives against doom; but this not news—
Though a grave be in ambush and the heart
colder.
We, isled in calm, consider
Ulysses matched against magic seas,
Or we are dumb with Scott in the white danger
Of the Pole looking on the flag of a stranger.
But we do not follow . „ .
The old man, canoe in a roaring hollow.
We, chasing wisps of glory,
Leave him to his duel with the universe—
That is no story.
maoriland.
J. R. HERVEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3296.
Wednesday, April 14, 1943.
APRIL SHOWERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
k H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
BILLY (RISING 79).
When Mr. W. M. Hughes was member
for West Sydney he wrote a series of
newspaper articles, entitled “The Case for
Labor,” which were collected in a pam-
phlet published by the “Worker” trustees.
No one then regarded the author as a
man capable of changing his opinions
and his party. He was in the middle
forties, had been a politician for many
years and had held office for two brief
periods, being likened after the second
by a too-successful opponent to a boy
“dragged screaming from the tartshop.”
In “The Case for Labor” Mr. W. M.
Hughes figured as a writer whose convic-
tions were settled and uncompromising.
A champion of the poor against the rich,
he attributed unemployment to “private
ownership of land” and “private owner-
ship of capital,” adding to these “primary
causes” an “active cause: the manu-
facture of the unemployed man by em-
ployers of labor.”
There is no feature about the present
unsystematised methods of production so
tragic as the manner in which private enter-
prise deliberately creates for its own selfish
ends an army of unfortunates who are
chained tq their ringbolt in the industrial
Inferno by relentless necessity, as surely
as were the galley slaves of old to the oar
by fetters of iron.
To this condition slavery was prefer-
able in that “slavery did not attempt to
cloak its purpose with hypocritical cant
about liberty, nor torture its victims with
that refinement of cruelty that marks the
present industrial system.” Modern
society was, “in this respect, a polite but
bowelless fiend.” But not all the “fiend’s”
victims accepted their lot. There had
been a coal strike in N.S.W., marked
by a “wild outcry of ferocious and
savage denunciation” because the
miners had “dared to pit themselves
against the moneyed class, which controls
the press, which owns the country and
which fleeces the public, at the same time
as it befools or tries to befool them.” And
the miners and other serfs had their trade-
unions, which “have done much.” In-
deed, “unionism has come to its own.”
Unionism has lifted its head from its
own dunghill and looks abroad with sane,
serene and benevolent eye. It is thus a
great power for good, and making for the
higher civilisation. It no longer wages
guerrilla war sheltering behind rocks,
fleeing for its life into the wilds, ragged,
ill-fed, despised, outcast. Its disciplined and
well-appointed armies take the field with
all the pomp and circumstance of regular
war. It meets the capitalist upon equal
terms. It makes terms—sometimes dictates
them.
But not even unionism was or could
be “industrial man’s” all-in-all. “Smug-
faced, round-bellied men” were still his
masters. “He” had “his chance,” said
the “smug-faced, round-bellied men” ; so
in the same sense had “every pigeon rising
from the trap, as with wildly-fluttering
heart it offers up a prayer of thanks-
giving, and falls, choked with blood, to
make a sportsman’s holiday.” But
“though the day of reckoning may be
postponed, it cannot be avoided.” In
the struggle against “the lords of the
land” the Fisher Government had
“shaken the firm foundations of their
citadel to its centre.” With recognition
of the truth that production was a “social
function” “the day of the coal mono-
polist is ended ; for the community will
take control of its own business. The
essential thing is for the community to
control production.”
Complete collectivism, when we get that
far, will appear the most ordinary, natural
and inevitable thing in the world to those
who live under it. It will be as ordinary,
natural and inevitable as that a young
man who was 21 a year ago should be 22
today Modern socialism is new, and it
will not fail. For it does not fail. That is
the central fact. Socialism is here, less
robust, less complex, less comprehensive
than it will be in the years to come; but
it is here.
“The Case for Labor” had a brisk sale.
A dozen years after it appeared the
writer accepted a magnificent present
from his 1909 aversions. Though the gift
was made publicly, no list of donors was
published—a fact perhaps attributable to
their shrinking modesty or to fears of
being denounced, though not by the re-
cipient, as “smug-faced, round-bellied”
employers, or as hard-faced men who
looked as if they had done very well out
of the war—nor was the precise amount
revealed to the public. The papers made
it £25,000, but a gentleman who professed
to have inside knowledge, and who was
annoyed at having had to give up his
lien on a “Tory” electorate to which
Mr. Hughes was prudently retreating,
hissed that it was nearer £28,000.
And last week, while Mr. Hughes was
railing at Mr. Menzies and his associates
in the National Service group, ex-Premier
Mair and Mr. Eric Spooner, M.H.R.,
were heard on the theme that it is the
solemn duty of U.A.P. members at Can-
berra to rally to the author of “The
Case for Labor” so that their party might
stand four-square against socialism.
The U.A.P. is Mr. Hughes’s fifth party.
One of the original (1891) Labor mem-
bers, he remained Labor till the latter
part of 1916, when, as was here written
at the time, “the machine which professed
to control the already discredited party
that held office in the Federal sphere
caused it to split into two unequal fac-
tions.” Then Mr. Hughes formed what he
called the National Labor party and tried
to carry on with “the poorest thing in the
way of a Government that the Common-
wealth has ever had ; at a time when
Australia needs a Ministry composed of
the strongest men and the most ex-
perienced administrators in its public
life, he, in his colossal conceit, is satis-
fied, so long as he can remain Prime
Minister, that the other offices shall be
filled by derelicts.” When it was clear
that this sorry makeshift would be toler-
ated no longer, Mr. Hughes persuaded
the leaders of the Opposition to come
into a fusion Ministry.
There followed the formation of the
alleged Nationalist party, with Mr.
Hughes in control and the Liberals, who
could have ruled Australia without him
and his “ragtag of a following,” his
humble servants. In effect, a coalition
of expediency, not a coalition of prin-
ciple, and damned from the beginning.
It arrested the natural growth and de-
velopment of two parties based on oppos-
ing principles but capable of co-operatr
ing in a great emergency, and the evil
effects have not been eradicated. Aus-
tralia has since had Labor and “good-
as-Labor” parties, the latter under
various names: parties without leader-
ship, politics without principle and elec-
tions which have been just competitions
in political bribery.
It is not here necessary to go into the
history of that Hughes Government or to
give a pathological account of the mys-
terious outbreak of sickness amongst
Tasmanian Labor Senators which enabled
the Prime Minister to get a majority in
the Senate. Altered from time to time,
the combination lasted till the begin-
ning of 1923, when Mr. Hughes, having
lost five Ministers at a disastrous election,
had to make way for his Treasurer, Mr.
Bruce, who had Dr. Page for partner.
He took his reverse very badly, sulking
in his tent till publicly rebuked for his
lack of sportsmanship by an old Parlia-
mentary hand who had been one of his
most devoted followers. After that he
contrived to make a show of being a
loyal supporter of the Government, and
as such he was re-elected twice.
But in September, 1929, when Bruce-
Page’s majority had dwindled and it was
in difficulties with strikers, he threw off
the mask. A coterie of yes-men had
attached themselves to his fortunes. Sure
of their support and that of the Labor
party, he moved a vital amendment to the
Government’s Maritime Industries Bill.
It was carried, and, the business of the
House having been taken out of its hands,
the Government dissolved Parliament
and went to the country, where it was
defeated.
During the election campaign an
Adelaide daily published a revealing ex-
tract from a letter addressed to Mr.
Foster, a former Hughes Minister.
This combination must go With
God’s help I’ll make them very sorry for
themselves. For the greater part of last
Parliament I had other fish to fry, but now
I’m quite free, and, given decent health,
I’ll make our friends Janus and co. sit up.
Mr. Hughes did not bother to deny that
he had written it. He seems to have had
a notion that defeat of the Government
on the Maritime Industries Bill would
mean that the Governor-General would
send for him, but it did not work out
that way, and he was reduced to stand-
ing for North Sydney as leader of a
cave, with Labor support. He still
claimed to be a Nationalist, and had the
effrontery to protest when the National
Federation put up Dr. Nott against him ;
but he did not object to getting the Labor
vote, nor did any of his associates who
were similarly favored. A few Labor
supporters in North Sydney grumbled,
but they were swiftly silenced by the
“Labor Daily.”
Labor electors who do not like voting
for Mr. Hughes must swallow their pre-
judices and support him by their No. 1
votes. It is imperative that the Labor vote
should be regimented behind Mr. Hughes.
Regimented it was, and Mr. Hughes got
in once more.
The Government he had been the
means of defeating had had a defence
policy based, as to the army, on compul-
sory military training, and had, in spite
of sullen Labor opposition, added
H.M.A.S. Canberra and Australia to the
R.A.N, The first act of the Labor Gov-
ernment which came in with Mr. Hughes’s
blessing was to abolish compulsory mili-
tary training. This, the worst day’s work
ever done in Australia, brought no re-
membered protest from Mr. Hughes. In
point of fact he showed no particular
interest in defence for many years till
the present war loomed up, though ad-
dicted at times to empty bluster, such
as his 1938 utterance at undefended
Rabaul (“We have got our Mandate, and
all hell is not going to take away what we
have”). In 1921 and thereabouts, men,
especially naval men, were encouraged
to leave the fighting services in droves.
In the same period the battle-cruiser Aus-
tralia was placed out of commission and
then sunk, in obedience to the orders of
a naval conference to which Mr. Hughes
had sent his lackey, Mr. Pearce. Yet she
was young as battle-cruisers go, and, kept
on the strength, could have been recondi-
tioned in time to render priceless service
in this war.
During Mr. Hughes’s period in the
wilderness he gave some evidence of
being willing to join the Labor party
again, if asked. No invitation arriving,
he formed another party—the “Aus-
tralia” party. It was a flop, and in the
last scene was sued for a printer’s biff.
In gloomy silence Mr. Hughes watched
Federal Labor tear itself to pieces, and
when Mr. Beasley, at the beginning Mr.
Scullin’s own Ministerial protege, pre-
sented the motion on which the Scullin
Government was defeated, Mr. Hughes
was among the destroyers. He had an-
other “Nationalist” opponent in 1931 ;
then he threw in his lot with the U.A.P.,
which, like the “Nationalists,” had bor-
rowed a leader and other furnishings from
Labor. And though, as a Minister, he fell
out with Mr. Lyons for a few weeks, it
wasn’t because Mr. Lyons had said that
he would go out of public life rather than
reintroduce compulsory military training,
or words to that effect —to that Lyons
“policy” Mr. Hughes was a consenting
party.
And now, at nearly 79, he is behaving
in the altered circumstances much as he
did in 1916 and 1917. Instead of being
satisfied, as the twenty-months-older
Lloyd George has been for several years,
with being Father of the House and a
sentimental figure to old soldiers, he per-
sists in trying to play a part for which
his age, weariness, “good-as-Labor” pro-
clivities and incapacity to “bear a brother
near the throne,” as well as the stern
pressure of the times, unfit him. The case
against his U.A.P. “leadership,” except
in relation to the yes-men with whom he
has always contrived to surround him-
self, is that it exists in name only ; that,
self-sufficient always, he didn’t call a
party meeting for 18 months, and then
only when one was forced on him, and
that during the late session he spoke,
when he did speak (and that was seldom),
in praise or grandfatherly reproof of a
Government that was proving itself
clumsy and feeble beyond description,
leaving opposition to measures that stain
or would have stained the Statute Book
to the Opposition Senators, and that with
surly disapproval of their resolute
stand.
The 17 members who haveJkvolted
against this “leadership” have Been de-
scribed by Mr. Hughes in a fury of
denunciation as reactionaries, obstruction-
ists, intriguers, wreckers and saboteurs.
This is not quite in his form of 27
years ago. Then, when he thought he
had powers of excommunication, he thun-
dered “Jn the name of the Labor party
I cast you out, as the devils were cast
out of swine.”
Pacific Front Last
What is imposingly called “grand
strategy” insists on this, and tw r o sadly
significant statements related to it came
from General Mae Arthur and Mr. Cur-
tin on April 8, the anniversary of the
fall of Bataan. The statements took on
doubled significance from the fact that
General MacArthur’s Chief of Staff,
Major-General Sutherland, and Lieut.-
General Kenney, Commander of the
Allied Air Force in the South-west Paci-
fic, were back in Australia from their
mission to Washington.
General Mae Arthur prayed that “the
day of salvation” of the 16,000,000 souls
“in the slavery of a conquering soldiery”
“be not so far removed that they perish;
that it be not again too late.” Mr. Cur-
tin spoke of the Pacific front as a “front
of lost opportunities.”
Let us hope that it will not become
the front where we lost the war During
their advance the Japanese have been
highly vulnerable to attack, and golden
opportunities have been missed to deal
them some heavy blows. As a result, they
have been allowed to consolidate their posi-
tions, and their defeat will now be longer
and harder.
When Mr. Churchill last month took
some trouble to emphasise that the Hitler-
first-Pacific-last strategy was final and
irrevocable, Mr. Curtin had no choice
but to bow to destiny.
Mr, Churchill, “speaking with every
reserve and not attempting to prophesy,”
put the possible period for ditching Hit-
ler at “some time next year, but it may
well be the year after,” with Japan to
follow some time after that. Even if
this heavily-qualified expectation is
realised the prospect for Australia is cer-
tainly anything but comforting.
The war is well into its fourth year,
with no convincing sign yet of the ap-
proach to defeating Germany in sight.
The best that can be said of the European
part of the war is that the general situa-
tion has improved there in the Allied
favor; but that is still an incalculable
remove from final victory. Hopes were
lifted to exaggerated heights by the fine
Russian winter fighting. The Germans
have suffered heavily, but they are still a
tremendous force ; and the Russians, too,
have suffered terribly.
It is freely admitted that the submarine
war has been going badly. This has
interfered with the North African cam-
paign ; and both this campaign and the
subs, will have to be favorably settled
before combined American - British
strength can be fully turned against
Hitler on the Continent. The North
African campaign has dragged on into
the sixth month. However soon it is
finished, there is no warrant for expecting
that subsequent efforts against Hitler will
have any speedier results. The western
face of Europe —as Dieppe disastrously
showed —is powerfully defended. With
every day that African victory has been
delayed, Axis defences against attack from
other directions have been strengthened.
Wild hope is pinned on the Italians
turning it in under the first onslaught;
but there has been no sign of a rising
against Mussolini, and there is no cer-
tainty that the Italians will fight badly in
their own country. Similarly wild hope
is pinned on the dragon’s teeth of Hitler's
sowing rising up as warriors all over
occupied Europe ; but internal European
affairs have always been a mystery to
outsiders, and there could be another
surprise or two waiting here.
At the heart of it all there still remains
Germany, which last time held off a
vastly stronger total combination, pos-
sessing direct land access, for over four
years. Today there is bombing, which—
regarded as what it really is, an exten-
sion of artillery—might prove conclusive,
always provided that in the meantime
nobody finds the answer to it. Every
offensive weapon ever invented has had
an equalising counter found for it in
time.
Today this Germany at the heart of
things is a bristling fortress —a last and
powerful battlement in the way of any
early end to the European part of the
war. Then, when what all of this indi-
cates has some day been accomplished,
there will —with the present “grand
strategy” adhered to —still be Japan.
Accepting that Mr. Churchill was not
talking with his tongue in his cheek, his
pronouncement amounted to serving
Japan with notice that it had a certain
number of years in which to fasten its
grip on the wide arc of its already for-
midable defence bastion sweeping round
from the Aleutians down to the fringe
of North Australia and on into Burma.
There is no reason for believing that the
Japs are missing the opportunity.
Australian newspapers, with hardly an
exception, took Mr. Churchill’s comfort-
less pronouncement as the last word not
only in inevitability but in wisdom.
American newspapers are not so subser-
vient. In the U.S.A. the volume of doubt
is solidly increasing. All through, Ameri-
cans with sound qualifications to speak
have been warning against the folly of
permitting Japan to settle defensives
behind its chosen barriers. The last U.S.
Ambassador to Tokyo, Mr. J. C. Grew,
has carried on a ceaseless campaign over
the past twelve months to break down
complacent acceptance of the idea that
the Japs represent a comparatively con-
temptible threat that can wait.
Representative M. J. Maas has earned
on a like campaign ever since he returned
to America from active service in the
Pacific. A typical example appeared in
last week’s cables:
Time is running swiftly and alarmingy
against the United States in the Pacm •
Unless we do something to stop the JaP a “'
ese without further delay we can lose
war, and probably will. I m .| an > f v “ s
there is a stalemate in the Pacific, as s
probable, we will thereby lose the wa .
Similarly Representative Warren G-
Magnusson, who was with the U.b.
in the Pacific for six months of last >ear
as a lieut.-commander:
Time is on the Japanese side. It « be-
coming more and more apparent
toughest nut the Allies have to cr
the Japanese. Japan today, thro ugh
conquests, has available ■ rubber, >
food and other war whicn,^
properly utilised, would make
potentially strongest military nation m
world [the conviction, expressed m aimos
the same words, of Mr. Grew].
These, and an increasing humbe
other Americans along with th ,


not prepared to accept blindfold that the
“grand strategy,” which gives the Euro-
pean war priority in supplies and all else,
is necessarily sound just because Mr.
Churchill (very naturally) favors it. It will
need to be sound if the conclusive victory
aimed at everywhere is to be achieved.
The alternative would be defeat, since
anything short of utterly conclusive vic-
tory must represent defeat for the Allied
side. There is, however, a side alter-
native which is troubling thinking Ameri-
cans and which should be troubling Aus-
tralians even more. The decided “grand
strategy” not only needs to be sound ;
its results must come quickly. If the
European war is to drag slowly on for
years, with nothing more done
against Japan than this same “grand
strategy” has so far directed, the worst
forebodings about the Japs making them-
selves impregnable might come true.
That is, the Allies could win in Europe
and lose by stalemate in the Pacific. The
effects of such a conclusion can only be
guessed at. The best Australia could hope
for would be to be taken permanently
into the American orbit. Australia could
not stand in isolation, with Britain
obsessed with European connections and
commitments. Under the menace of an
undefeated Japan—which would then be
a standing threat —Australia would have
to make whatever arrangements it could,
and there can hardly be any question as
to the direction in which they would- then
have to be made.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Votes Above All.
There are many union wharf-laborers
among Mr. Curtin’s constituents, and they
are all working. There are many union
wharf-laborers among the constituents
of Ministers Ward and Beasley, but
they have all been idle. Fortified by the
example of unwhipped mobs on the
N.S.W. coalfields they staged a strike, not
against the employers, but against the
Government, the fighting services and
the country.
This was the position as stated by
Chief Arbitration Judge Piper as chair-
man of the Stevedoring Commission:
There are many factors operating on the
waterfront in Sydney which militate against
the expeditious turn-round of ships. There
are many thousands of men supposedly fol-
lowing the occupation of waterside workers
and therefore regarded as being engaged
in a reserved occupation many more
than are reasonably required. Yet it is at
times impossible to obtain enough men to
work ships.
Some men evade day work so as to get
higher rates for night or week-end work.
Some please themselves whether they come
to work or not. Unauthorised “breaks”
are taken. Knocking off early and return-
ing late is frequent, and is overlooked or
permitted, by some employers. Employers
pick their men and refuse to employ others
unless forced to do so. As a result, an
incalculable number of man-hours is lost
and vital ships are detained unnecessarily.
His Honor went on to say that, with
the introduction of a system fair to all
concerned, waterside workers would come
under the Stevedoring Commission’s
orders.
Failure to comply with them will mean
that the commission’s powers to discipline
offenders will be enforced. All persons
must realise that they will be “reserved”
only so long as they give that service the
nation is entitled to expect.
The strike followed immediately. For
once the Government summoned up a
show of courage and put service men —
some from the Ninth Division —on the
wharves. Inexperienced as they were,
the service men were soon doing better
work under the new system than the
union had done under the old “free-for-
all.” The strikers killed time by watch-
ing them and by holding mass meetings
which separated into two stormy fac-
tions, Communists and anti-Communists.
After this had gone on for a fortnight
it dawned upon Mr. Curtin that the posi-
tion combined all the elements of farce
and tragedy. He had learned also that
the strike showed every sign of collaps-
ing. So he sent a telegram to Mr. Ward:
“In view of refusal of men in the pro-
tected industry of wharf-laboring at Sydney
to continue at their work as prescribed,
I desire you take steps have their reserved
position cancelled as from Monday [April
12] at noon, they to be available thereupon
for direction in accordance with the law.
Inform union’s officers accordingly.”
Then he weakened to the extent of
agreeing to “defer action” till Tuesday,
this at the instance of Comrade Healy,
secretary of the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration, who pleaded that a secret ballot
could not be completed before that day.
Comrade Healy, described as “a Man-
chester Irishman,” is a very belated con-
vert to secret ballots.
Ministers Ward and Beasley also
veakened. Conscious of the wharf-labor
vote (Mr. Beasley was sourly reminded
of it by Mr. Lang’s paper), they had
“talks with the union officials.” After the
last of the “talks” they issued a statement
to the effect that “further investigation
of the present situation” was “advisable, ’
and that they Were satisfied, on behalf of
the Commonwealth Government, that the
‘‘suggestions of the union officials” —
“suggestions” for watering down the
Stevedoring Commission’s plan—“have
merit.” Indeed, they had “given an un-
dertaking that we will present these sug-
gestions to the proper authorities for
inclusion in the general scheme.”
Yes; Australia is “cursed with a Gov-
ernment that will not govern and an
Opposition that will not oppose”—though
it is getting the beginnings of a real
Opposition at last.
Have a Chocolate!
There is no comfort in the fact that
other countries, even the U.S.A., are
facing a food shortage, nor any in Mr.
Beasley’s confession that “Australia is
short of rural man-power, rural mach-
inery and important fertilisers” —though
not of politicians or Government em-
ployees.
There is a so-called Australian Food
Council. At a meeting on March 23 it
“decided” to “arrest the decline of pro-
duction in the dairying industry.” To
that end it ordered an “immediate deter-
mination of the question of an increased
price for butter and the scale of wages
to be paid in the industry,” and, referring
to man-power, machinery, fodder conser-
vation and the need of more fertilisers,
it requested (yes, requested) that “imme-
diate remedial action” be taken.
Who or what was to take the “immediate
remedial action” wasn’t stated, though
presumably the Curtin Government was
meant. Mr. Beasley accused dairy-
farmers who sell milking stock for meat
(no dairy-farmer would sell a good milk-
ing cow unless he had to ) of “doing a
grave disservice to the cause of the United
Nations,” and the A.F.C. directed the
Controller of Meat Supplies to “review at
once the question of adequate quantities
of meat being sent to abattoirs and
packing-houses to meet all needs.” Sur-
vey and review seem about all the council
is capable of, and the same applies ter the
Australian Agricultural Council, the
score being nil for both.
However, don’t think the A.F.C. can’t
make decisions. It has, among other
things, “endorsed restrictions on the
chocolate issue to canteens in the south
—this will mean additional supplies for
the civilian population.”
N.E.S. «si N.S.W.
“A.R.P.”: Some of us ordinary wardens
are beginning to wonder whether the
shades of Gilbert and Sullivan aren’t
running N.E.S. in N.S.W. We’ve become
so loaded down with pamphlets, memos.,
books, rules, regulations and instructions
that we need to carry a bookcase with
our other impedimenta.
Almost weekly the warden is told of
new duties he must perform ‘if and
when.” We are to be armed with some-
thing resembling a charge-sheet for use
against residents who infringe lighting
regs. which neither Mr. Heffron (State)
nor Mr. Lazzarini (Commonwealth) ap-
pears to understand or agree on. We are
to be asked to recruit fire-fighting squads
from a populace sick of the sight of yel-
low armbands and tin hats. As a crown-
ing farce, there is a competition between
various N.E.S. areas that is using up time,
labor and petrol
Orders are issued and countermanded
with maddening regularity. First war-
dens are told to take first-aid training ;
then that they should leave it alone.
Women at posts have had issues of
both N.E.S. and St. John Ambulance
certificates and badges; and there isn t
one who knows just what the regulations
allow her to do or not to do. There has
been utter confusion about manning
posts, about installation and use of tele-
phones, about wardens’ actual powers
before, during and after raids, about
what we can and cannot do in the posts,
about compensation for injuries, about a
hundred other things.
A bunch of bigwigs, marked by stars
in army fashion, careers about the place
interfering with and upsetting each other
and the warden organisation. Hel-
mets are to be branded with a variety of
colors, stripes and letters —so far there
are 25 different brands —and each post
needs a catalogue to keep track of them.
It says something for the men and
women wardens and first-aiders who give
time, money and effort to the organisa-
tion that they stoically endure the farce,
but their patience is being more and
more strained. The only thing that keeps
them going is the thought that, if real
bombs do fall, the farcical structure of
certificates, competitions, brands, stars,
regulations and counter-regulations and
everything else except the essential duty
of “protecting life and property” will
vanish with the first blast.
PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.


to
cn
v
/4k
cT-.
fit
tmtmMi&Mtemsmusm*
C. S. R. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
pl(§sbr
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE » - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE . - PERTH
P. 1-43.
Specially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exception-
ally hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
Backache, Leg Pains,
Often a Danger Sign of
Tired Kidneys
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
assist kidneys to function properly—
to discharge acids and poisons. Give
your kidneys the help they need before
it is too late.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
T
IS
Blacker
gJRICHIIR
and
jeMj
VO
N MO
POLITICAL POINTS
On the whole, the National Service
group has had a bad press. Melbourne
“Herald” was at first favorable, but after
a few days Keith Murdoch intimated that
his mind was vexed with doubts. Still,
he kept his criticism, such as it was, on
a decent level. In their hatred of Men-
zies and the South Australian .members,
two Sydney papers plumbed the depths
of provincialism and one stirred up all
the mud ilj could stir up with safety.
Lang is scoring heavily at the expense
of his enemies on the State A.L.P. execu-
tive. That concern’s nominees for Parkes
Electorate Council positions were all
licked, and Morgan, M.H.R., has been
beaten for the Reid nomination by one
Quinn, who is expected to withdraw in
Lang’s favor jf the Big Fellow doesn’t
oppose Beasley. And three of Lang’s
proteges. Senators Amour, Armstrong
and Alderman Minogue, are leading in
the ballot for Senate candidates.
With the war loan little more than
half-filled, Sydney “Sun” announced on
the authority of the N.S.W. Government
Lottery Director that his lotteries were
“booming.” His office, the gratified man
said, is raking in about £52,000 a week,
and the staff is hard put to it to handle
the crowds. There are Government or
Government-controlled lotteries in four
States, and they are all “booming,” It
is a reproach alike to the gamblers and
to the Government which lets these
shameful orgies go on while war loans
are on the market.
At the last election, Harrison had to
contend in Wentworth with the two Syd-
ney morning papers, their “outstanding
candidate” and an organisation that spent
money like water. He won hands down.
This year it looks as if he will have
against him the two Sydney morning
papers, another “outstanding candidate,”
Hughes and U.A.P. headquarters. The
result may be the same. Electorates like
Wentworth are kind to threatened men
when they have guts.
Billy is feeding an old grudge against
Harrison. That athletic Digger got in
for Wentworth in 1931 by beating Walter
Marks, who had helped Hughes to oust
the Bruce-Page Government which both
had been elected to support, and was with
him at the birth and death of the “Aus-
tralia party.” Harrison’s majority was so
tremendous (35,460 to 18,434) that the
prophet Marks never came again.
Martin Hannah is back in the public
eye as one of the leaders of a Hawthorn
Movement (Non-Party) to Promote Clean
Politics. With a flash of his old fire, he
said the A.L.P., the U.A.P. and the
U.C.P. “should be cremated and buried,
and we should start afresh.” Martin was
Labor M.L.A. for Collingwood till he
fell under the displeasure of John Wren.
Contemporaries who retained that Great
Man’s patronage are still in Victorian
politics.
The Corns, aim at forcing affiliation on
Labor, but they are adopting different
tactics in different States. In Victoria,
where the State A.L.P. is hostile, they
are running candidates against Labor
members, being after Mullens’s scalp in
particular. In N. S. Wales they are press-
ing on with a two-fisted attack, one fist
being clenched and the other clutching
an olive branch, significant of their will-
ingness to side with the State A.L.P.
executive against Lang. In Queensland
they are supporting Labor candidates
and they claim to have prevented the
defeat of the Labor man in Forgan
Smith’s electorate. The claim is bitterly
denied, but it is adding to the worries
of the Q.C.E. and the Commonwealth
Labor members, the chief of which is a
great fall in the Labor vote at all by-
elections.
Philip Goldfinch, Colonial Sugar’s g.m.,
did such good work as chairman of the
N.S.W. section of the Ministry of Muni-
tions that when he died Norman Makin,
the Minister, who rarely lets himself go,
waxed almost lyrical in his praise. Gold-
finch was M.L.A, for Gordon for two
years, 1935-37. Whether because the
“Why, it's 'Fighting Bill’ Taylor. How DO you do?”
place was unsuitable for his talents or
because the businessman-politician is
rarely a success, he cut no figure in Mac-
quarie-street, and is remembered there
only for a Labor gibe—“ Sugar Daddy.”
A Ninth Division man to Brisbane
“Courier-Mail”:
It seems funny finding so many girls and
men in shops selling lottery tickets and
trinkets while they tell us they can’t get
waitresses to serve meals. Perhaps some
of the people would rather have a lottery
ticket than a meal.
An assumption with which every Pre-
mier of every lottery State apparently
agrees.
An unexpected incident of a bad week
for the Government was a cutting rebuke
administered to Curtin by the Bishop of
Adelaide. Dr, Probin, who said in his
cathedral that he was “opposed, as many
others are, to sudden appeals to the
Christian churches for what are called
‘days of prayer,’ whether by Prime Min-
isters or others, in moments of difficulty
or fright.” The Right Rev. gentleman
added that “for the Church of God every
day is a day of prayer,” and that a “sudden
appeal” for what is already observed
“means only that people whose faith is
too dim or whose energy too small to do
their duty normally would come and do
it ineffectively under the unworthy spur
of fear.” Papers which record the Left
Wing prattle of bishops, deans and
canons will find it desperately hard to
match that.
About the only comfort the average
Australian can draw from the existing
food position is that if it keeps up much
longer he won’t have to bother about
which side of his bread is buttered.
In January, according to a London dis-
patch, De Gaulle welcomed to his en-
tourage one of those Communist Deputies
who white-anted the French war effort,
and this made a very bad impression.
Last week Churchill had to restrain
De Gaulle from going to North
Africa to talk politics while the fighting
forces there are all out against Rommel
and Arnim; and the P.M. did the job
properly. To distant observers the
strangest thing about De Gaulle is that,
though he has had many opportunities
of proving himself the master of tank
warfare he is so often claimed to be, he
has neglected them all for politics,
although .untrained for that pursuit.
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph,” on a
thrice-wounded veteran of two wars, and
a C.M.F. battalion commander since,
whose offence is that he doesn’t care for
the “leadership” of a man of many
parties, now rising 79:
Senator Burford Sampson (Tas.)/«kka,
red-faced, an officer and a gentltnWn, is
reputed to be one of the Federal Parlia-
ment’s best bores. Most frequent remark:
“As I was going up to Passchendaele with
the company,”
The trail of larrikinism is over Sydney
Sunday journalism, and that is larrikin-
ism in its lowest printed form. Only in
a Sydney Sunday gutter-rag could an old
soldier be sneered at for saying he was
at Passchendaele—if he does say it; and
if he does, non-starters could listen with
profit.
In an address to the ladies of the
U.C.P. conference Dunstan let himself
go as he had never done before. *Aus-
tralians,” he said, “are pampered and
spoilt. There is no discipline in the com-
munity, and you can’t win a war without
discipline.” In place of gratitude for
“the benefits this bomb-free country is
enjoying,” there were strikes and there
was squandermania: “while the soldiers
are fighting for a few shillings a day ex-
orbitant salaries are being paid to people
in sheltered positions,”
You would think the Federal Govern-
ment had command of King Solomon’s
mine. Instead, it is piling up taxes to pay
these expanded salaries .and talking a lot
about free handouts from the cradle to the
grave.
“Strong,” said a Melbourne man to a
State politician. “Yes,” the latter
grumbled ; “but he hasn’t to worry about
the city and suburban vote.”
Barring accidents, the two Victorian
C.P. groups, which have been sundered
for five years, are coming together again ;
and a good thing, too. Though it may
not be true, as asserted by an indignant
Westralian Agrarian member, that Labor
aims at converting the farmers into peas-
ants, the position of the land industries
is such that faction has become a super-
fluous luxury. Land men should be pull-
ing together.
N.S.W. Labor is to run Falstein again
for Watson, Maxie having survived the
pre-selection ballot. That ought to mean
a seat for th£ other side.
Morgan had to go to no end of trouble
to get the Reid nomination in 1940. Now
he is appealing again. One of the grounds
is that “the ballot at Auburn was held
in Mr. Lang’s office and was conducted
by Mr. Lang’s daughter.”
The P.M. has announced that food
rationing is in the offing and that big,
£at new ration books may be issued in
June, “The situation,” he says sagely,
“calls for the development of a compre-
hensive policy.” But he is against a
Ministry of Food, because “a Ministry
of Food would have to work through
the Departments of Commerce, Agri-
culture and Supply, now handling the
problems.”
Britain, partially blockaded by sea, cut
off from all former food supplies on the
European continent and forced to get
sea-foods at great risk, has done well
where Australia is doing badly. This
is largely due to the fact it has a
Ministry of Food with power —exercised
—to give production, processing and
distribution of food a high priority in
regard to man-power and machines.
Britain’s food machinery has never been
cluttered up and bogged down and
jammed and halted and murdered by
a confusion of Governments, each with
its marketing boards for the alleged con-
trol of everything from pineapples to
peanuts.
While service men were loading and
unloading ships at Sydney for the second
week, N. S. Wales coalminers had their
weekly issue of strikes, thousands of
South Coasters stopping work because
absentees who had refused to pay fines
had been obliged to undergo the alterna-
tive. Female members of the Iron*
workers’ Association (Red) in munitions
factories and Allied Works Council em-
ployees on defence jobs, to the number
of many thousands, were arranging for
“one-day strikes.” And in the Queens-
land Industrial Court Webb, C.J., in-
formed that Brisbane members of the
Meat Employees’ Union had refused
overtime work on New Guinea contracts,
said that they were, in effect, refusing to
“keep up supplies to our soldiers,” and
that some of them could be described as
“blackguards and moral cowards, who
have taken protected jobs and use them
as funk-holes.” And so the evil game
goes on.


Mi
look Alter What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally ... and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
News has at last been received of the
whereabouts of the Northern Territory’s
energetic Digger member, Macalister
Blain, who was missing after the fall of
Singapore. He is now reported as “a
prisoner of war interned in Borneo.”
Sergeant Ambrose Dyson, whose pro-
vocative drawings, etchings and cartoons
have been attracting people to Myer’s
mural hall in Melbourne, was 18 months
old when his father, Ambrose Dyson,
died just as his unique talent in the
black-and-white line was beginning to
develop. Then Uncle Will began to bulk
large in the artistic world of London and
influenced his nephew so much as to be
a danger to young Dyson’s own expres-
sion. Both the original Dysons were asso-
ciated with the Lindsays, and Will Dyson
married Ruby Lindsay, herself a black-
and-white artist of great promise. Traces
of all their styles appear more or less in
Sgt. Dyson’s drawings, and he had an-
other powerful teacher in his other uncle,
Edward, of Fact’ry ’Ands fame, who gave
him a slant on social problems. In a
camouflage unit somewhere in Australia,
Sgt. Dyson has been making a compost
of all these domestic elements, with his
own native observation forcing its way
into the foreground. He has the tenacity
of the family in excelsis. His Uncle
Edward fought an incurable disease for
the last ten years of his life, and Sgt. Dyson
has produced work under army camp
conditions that stands comparison with
anything that comes out of city studios.
Appointed from the Methodist Church
at Corowa (N.S.W.) to be minister at
the Australian Church, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Rev. C. Mervyn Plumb steps
into the pulpit death emptied when it
struck down the Rev. Charles Strong,
just two years short of the century. Rev.
Strong believed Australia’s only indigen-
ous church was the forerunner of an Aus-
tralian Church which would spread all
over the continent, but it never got
further than the one little conventicle in
Russell-street, overshadowed by the State
Theatre. Still, it was a most interesting
church while Rev. Strong was its in-
cumbent, and representatives of all classes
and of every shade of political and re-
ligious opinion preached there.
Sidney Dent Marchant, selected from
a bunch of applicants as town clerk,
Unley (S.A.), started crust-hunting in the
traffic branch of N.S.W. railways. See-
ing little ahead but dead-ends and buffer-
stops, he took an evening course in
accountancy, and the end of 1914 saw
him aboard the troopship Berrima fag-
ging 1.-g. problems while his mates were
trying to break the crown-and-anchor
kings. He rose from full private to two
pips before coming back, resumed his
railway job, and acquired a string of
letters after his name. Then, finding that
they had no value in the department’s
figures branch, he cut the painter to
become shire clerk at Dubbo. Next move
was to Botany as town clerk. He’s still
on the right side of 50. His father was
onetime stationmaster at Sydney.
“Old Unionist’s” tribute;
Tom Walsh (passed hence in Sydney) made
the “Australian coastal trade” service such a
paradise for seamen that Long Bay or Pent-
ridge often held a group of foreign seamen
qualifying to become citizens of the Com-
monwealth ; they cheerfully did the month in
gaol for deserting their ships, and then (pro-
vided they were not prohibited immigrants)
the slate was clean. When Walsh, in his
demanding days, got £6OO p.a. other union secs,
gasped. Walsh declared that it was worth every
bit of 12 quid a week “to look after a mob
like mine.” At a time when, because of the
strikes in which he was named as leader, the
public had an ogrelike picture of him, Tom
was probably Sydney’s prize bookworm. In
all the spare time he could make he could
be met in the second-hand bookshops sampling
pages. Probably his reading disarmed him
somewhat for his job. He had demanded and
secured concessions for the seamen fully justi-
fying what he demanded for himself; but when
he started to tell men whose appetite for con-
cessions had been whetted by victories that
they ought to be reasonable and satisfied he
lost the popularity he had once held, and was
thrown out in favor of others who pandered
to the militants. Walsh started making his own
living as a boy in his teens, and had to pick
up his education as best he could. He was
73 at the end.
Professor John Anderson, starting
spring of the Sydney row over whether
or not the young idea should be taught
religion, isn’t anything like the wild man
many who violently dislike his views may
perhaps imagine. He’s a lean, six-foot-
odd Scot with an iron-grey thatch and
a most agreeable conversational style.
The current row —which has included a
couple of Sydney Parliament motions
biffing the prof.—isn’t the first controver-
sial tangle he’s got himself into. When
he came to the Sydney professorship of
PROF. JOHN ANDERSON.
philosophy in 1927 he sent along a letter
to “S. M. Herald.” “Granny” failing to
publish it, he sent another and another.
With still no sign of life from “Granny,”
Anderson had the letters published in a
sheet of Communist tinge, and a high
wind and a fair blaze followed. Before
coming to Australia Anderson lectured
in philosophy at Cardiff, Glasgow and
Edinburgh unis., having got the main
part of his education at Glasgow.
F. L. Wiley, Vacuum Oil’s new g.m.
for Queensland, is known in the vast
north, where he was Vacuum man-
ager for five years until becoming
assistant general manager for the State
tv/o years ago. A Bananalander born,
he was with the A.I.F. in the last
shindy and joined the oil company in
1928. Reducing his golf handicap is
a spare-time preoccupation, and as a
member of Brisbane Tatt.’s he follows the
national sport.
The Bulletin’s Melbourne man was
a fair bit out in stating that William
Bradley (whose passing was recorded B.
31/3/ ’43) and Mrs. Bradley, parents of
Melbourne’s noted musical family, were
not themselves musicians. One of the
family writes pointing out that his father
was a well-known tenor for many years
in Adelaide and that the mother was one
of the Musical Gardiners.
At 76, retired sea captain Jack Bald-
win, of South-west Rocks, North Coast
(N.S.W.), is whittling for the war effort.
So far he has hand-shaped from local
timbers 200 pairs of crutches, and he is
proud of the fact that Cutler, V.C.,
accepted a pair. Besides the crutches he
has made and donated scores of cribbage
boards to soldiers’ clubs and hospitals.
His other specialty in the woodcarving
line is shaping needles for camouflage
net-making.
Professor P. W. Burbidge, Auckland
Uni., youngest of M.L. professors (he’s
Physics), lately got back to his native
heath from visiting Australia and had
a great word of praise for the progress
in manufacture of optical instruments in
the Commonwealth. With the import of
lenses difficult, he said it was surprising
how the Aussies had stepped in and filled
the breach. They would now, in addition
to providing for their own wants, be
able to supply Maoriland.
“Lord Luvus” is surprised:
Lord Nuffield’s various enormous gifts for
scholarships remind me of Melbourne’s
Sidney Myer, who, by way of benefiting the
city which provided the stage for his rise
to fortune, endowed scholarships and exhi-
bitions so that future struggling potential
Sidney Myers could have the advantages of
a university education, a benefit that had been
denied him. When he landed from Poland
Myer didn’t have a sou. I believe his first
emporium was a plain, ordinary street barrow.
Why on earth did it enter his head when he
became a leading magnate that he would have
been more fortunate if he had got a degree in
economics from the University of Melbourne?
Lord Nuffield never won a scholarship, either;
nor did he get a highly-expensive business or
scientific training at a technical college. As
Lord Nuffield has become a successful man
of business, it is reasonable to infer that he
had the very best conditions for becoming
what he is, just as Sidney Myer had the best
conditions in his barrow and his lack of an
official education. Yet, judging by their
actions, both men apparently came to the con-
clusion that they would be benefiting the next
generation by giving them exactly the opposite
conditions.
H. H. Austin, an Adelaide accountant,
holds, at 70, the odd record of having
scored half a century as secretary of the
Wyatt Benevolent Trust. He was a youth
in the office when his employer died in
1893, and, knowing the job thoroughly,
was told to carry on. William Wyatt
was a doctor who got in early in S.A.
with four of Adelaide’s original “town
acres,” now worth a lot of money ; he
ultimately left it all to help “gentlefolk
in reduced circumstances.”
Percy Grainger lately figured in one of
those American illustrated extraordinary-
happening strips as “now a saxophonist
in the 15th Coast Artillery Band.” He
played a humbler musical instrument in
the last war.
Among awards to men recently re-
turned from the Middle East is the
D.S.O. for Lieut.-Col. Thomas Charles
Eastick, of S.A. Too young to go to the
last war (he’s now 42), he began soldier-
ing at 18 and was a militia officer for 20
years. When the present fracas started he
joined the A.I.F. and was appointed to a
command in 1940, since when he has
campaigned in Palestine, Syria, the West-
LT .-COL. EASTICK, D.S.O.
ern Desert and at Alamein. In civil life
he’s a partner in the Angas Engineering
Co., Adelaide.
“General Hector MacDonald,” the play
that Melbourne producer Beresford
Fowler wrote in collaboration with Sylvia
Archer and then submitted to Winston
Churchill because the British P.M. makes
an appearance in it as a young man, is
shortly to be published, and orders have
already come from places as far apart as
Scotland, South Africa and Canada. One
Scottish lady has written to the authors
expressing amazement that “Antipodeans”
should know so much about the ill-fated
general, and another wrote from his birth-
place, Dingwall, hoping that the principal
character has been delicately treated, be-
cause he is still a national hero in Scot-
land. Still another took exception to a
line put into the mouth of Edward VII
to the effect that if Sir Hector was guilty
of the charges made against him he had
better blow his brains out.
Dr. James Lyon, the English composer
who is visiting Melbourne to conduct
examinations for the Trinity College of
Music, considers that teaching of music
to children should begin at five and not
with dead composers but the living, or
recently living, like Elgar and Debussy.
Dr. Lyon, born in Manchester in 1872,
was himself self-taught. He has pub-
lished hundreds of works and many
operas, and is one of the Old Land’s
leading musical educationists.
A par. contributor lately got his sol-
diering Lloyds tangled up, referring to
W.H. as the new adjutant-general. W.H.
is the one known as “Bertie,” who served
in the last shindy from Landing to the
end, for a time between wars was a
member of the Sydney Parliament, and
is now boxing on again. The A.-G. is
“Lofty,” otherwise Major-Gen. C. E. M.
Lloyd, who graduated from Duntroon in
1918, too late for the last show.
Ex-Bulletin cartoonist David Low,
credited even in American papers with
now being the most highly-paid news-
paper artist in the world, can also be said
to have one of the world’s plainest tastes
in recreation. Three afternoons a week
he hoes turnips.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 77, Fred. W. Lindrum,
champion billiardist in his day, father of billiard
champions Fred, Walter and Violet Lindrum
and grandfather of snooker champion Horace
Lindrum. He kept billiard saloons from Syd-
ney round to Kalgoorlie; there “young” Fred
was born.
In England, Sir Haviland Hiley, from 1913
to 1919 general manager of M.L. railways.
After returning to England he was appointed
to the Indian Government Commission on the
administration of the Indian railways, in 1923
was asked to go to Mexico to investigate diffi-
cult engineering problems, and in 1929 was
appointed railways adviser to the Rhodesian
Government.
At 48, Paraire Karaka Paikea, Minister
representing the native race in the M.L. Gov-
ernment. A descendant of the great Paikea te
Hekua, chief of the Ngati-Whatua, he had
two years at St. Stephen’s Native College,
where most bright Maori lads go, then went
to Wesley Training College (where he was
dux in 1914) and qualified as a Wesleyan
minister. Chucked that in 1925 to become
a disciple of Ratana, acting as the prophet’s
private secretary. Had three smacks at the
Northern Maori seat before he landed it in 1938.
He had been Native Minister since 1941. A
pleasant-mannered chap with a gift of oratory,
and a fine Rugby player in his schooldays.
A useful and plucky citizen was A. N.
McArthur, 61, of S.A.’s south-eastern corner.
Losing both legs at Morlancourt, he yet be-
came president of all sorts of local bodies,
racing club, hospital, district council, R.S.A.
and Caledonian Society. A specially made
small motor-car enabled him to get about every-
where. But when he finally got into a boating
accident at Robe he had no chance.
“S.A. has lost one of the greatest engineers
it ever had” is the epitaph by Angwin, the
State’s Engineer-in-chief, on C. G. F. Johnson,
his deputy, who learned his job with the famous
old-time Martin Co., of Gawler. After three
years of war service Johnson became resident
engineer of the Murray locks and constructing
engineer at S.A.’s biggest water scheme to date,
Mount Bold. Fifty-two at the end.
At 86, Archdeacon Denis O’Kennedy, parish
priest at Cowra (N.S.W.) for the last 54 years.
In. Sydney, at 59, knight Philip Henry Mac-
arthur Goldfinch, general manager of C.S.R.
since 1928 and with that co. since 1902. Son
of the late Lieut. H. E. Goldfinch, R.N., -of
Christchurch (M.L.), he was born in England,
at Gosport, and educated at Sydney Grammar.
In 1935 he took Bavin’s place in the Sydney
Parliament as member for Gordon, but resigned
a couple of years later. Appointed chairman
in 1940 of the board of area management of
the N.S.W. section of the Ministry of Muni-
tions he made a first-rate job of it, working
heroically at it right through, though a sick
man nearing the end.
In Melbourne, at 81, Thomas Perman, who,
born at Tooran Diggings, Tara (N.S.W.), was
one of a dancing trio which cakewalked from
one end of Australia to the other and then went
off to England, where Edward VII commanded
a performance. Sister Bella nearly danced her-
self into first place in the championship of the
world in London. Thomas later helped to
pioneer motion-picture shows in Australia.
At 78, in Melbourne, George Lucas, Flinders-
lane merchant and chairman of directors of
Victoria Nyanza Sugar. His brother, Edward
Lucas, once Agent-Generalled for S.A.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”: I seem to have a dim"
memory that, in the early days of 1942,
when there was a sort of panic rush from
Sydney to the backblocks in fear of the
approaching Jap, sundry politicians were
heard decrying the effect of this exodus
on public morale, and that the Sydney
Premier, Mr. McKell, was at that time
telling the world about the splendid war
effort of his Government. All of which
may- or may not be relevant to the case of
a Labor M.L.A. who has made his second
attempt to eject a tenant from a house he
owns in a Sydney suburb. He pleaded
hardship (he gets £875 a year and free
railway travel) because he has to keep
his family at a home in the country and a
son at school in Sydney. The P.M., caus-
tically remarking “You leased this house
as you were evacuating your wife and
family to Moree, and because the scare is
over you want the place back,” refused
the application.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A man charged With being
drunk and disorderly in Melbourne
pleaded by way of extenuation that he
had been born in Stalingrad and
was a nephew of Marshal Timo-
shenko ; and the beak let him off
with a caution. A few hours later
the marshal’s nephew was rearrested
and charged with making a public dis-
turbance. It then transpired that he
had a police record —not for veracity.
Fined ten shillings. Still, he had a better
reception for his story than a drunk who
was picked up by the police every Fri-
day night in Bourke-street and who
evoked only pitying smiles by his asser-
tion that he was the brother of a one-
time Lord Chief Justice of England.
When the poor chap was picked up for
the last time he was dead, and inspection
of his meagre belongings showed that he
had been telling no more than the truth.
* * # *
“A.R.P.”: It was in a demonstration
of first-aid to the injured in an air raid
and the “casualty,” a hefty lump of a
fellow, was bandaged, rolled in blankets
till he looked like a grub in a cocoon,
then placed on a stretcher. Up pranced
the two stretcher-bearers. But when
they' picked that stretcher up each
was facing away from it and each
attempted to walk away. Then the
one at the feet end woke up, dropped
the handles and turned round. But
by that time the “casualty” had slid
down and sort of folded up, so the
other bearer dropped his end and
both hastily bundled the victim back.
His language, helpless in his cocoon as
he was, made the affair a howling suc-
cess; from the point of audience interest.
ap * * *
“A Major”: Prima donnas have great
courage. Latest exemplar of that fact
is Australian singer Marjorie Lawrence.
Laid flat on her back by the paralytic
effect of a smallpox inoculation that
went the wrong way (not infantile paraly-
sis, though the symptoms were practically
the same), she did not come under Sister
Kenny’s care till she had been two
months affected —and the Kenny treat-
ment, to succeed, must (so it was thought)
commence within two weeks of the on-
set of paralysis. Though the doctors
said it was impossible, Miss Lawrence,
removed from hospital to her own home,
insisted on being allowed to get to a
piano. She could move her fingers, and
she could still sing. She was determined
to get better. So, strapped to a chair,
she sat at a piano each day, singing
“Isolde.” Her strength immediately com-
menced to improve. In a few months
she was able to resume radio and con-
cert engagements. In less than two years
—she was stricken in May, 1941 —she was
“Has the 6.30 passed yet, Steve ?”
“Not while I've been ’ere."
as well as ever. She ascribes her re-
covery to Sister Kenny’s treatment and
to “faith and prayer.” These three
agencies cured “one of the most unusual
cases in medical history,”
*.' * * *
“Zake”: In pouring icy water on a
proposal to establish a “luxury night
club” in the principal city of a country
committed to austerity, the Sydney Gov-
ernment’s Mr. Badly spoke trenchantly
of incidental fire dangers. The Hon. Min-
ister drew attention to another grave
■hazard: “With the ever-present danger
of enemy action, congregations of people,
particularly in underground places, are
undesirable.” I now expect to hear, at
the next air alert, of wardens ordering
timid women out of the underground
shelters, the construction of which has
made such a hole in taxpayers’ pockets,
so that they may find sanctuary on flat
roofs.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: A psychological trait of
the human male worth investigating is the
impulse to go out and smash a shop win-
dow when things seem wrong. I have a
theory that it was that impulse that
started the Melbourne riots in 1923. Once
or twice I’ve had to forcibly restrain my-
self from making a hash of the kitchen
“My husband's a colonel in the
A.I.F.”
“MINE'S a cook in the C.C.C.”
window when the missus has proved
particularly difficult, and I once encoun-
tered a small boy who, having been de-
tained at school and thereby missed a
free issue of boiled lollies, was about to
console himself by heaving a brick
through my front window. Now comes a
sailor who was ordered by the Court to
pay a fine of 10s. and £4 10s. damages
for kicking in a window in a picture
theatre. He said to the police “I am fed
up with the world. My mother died a
few days ago and I can’t get leave to
go home.” Probably it traces back to
primitive times, and it seems rather a
pity that the Napoleons, Hitlers and their
like weren’t supplied with a heap of
bricks and a street of windows when
frustration filled them with destructive
impulses.
* * * *
“Jackdaw”: “That’s posh,” I observed
to my neighbor the other day when he
made his first diffident appearance in his
Dedman suit. I was abused for using
out-of-date slang, and thought it advis-
able to find out something about the
word. Evidence I have collated goes to
show that it dates from the ’sixties, when
the pursers and booking clerks allocating
cabin space on the P. and O. steamers
running between Suez and Colombo
found their lives unbearable unless they
allotted it exactly to fit the grades of the
travelling Anglo-Indian hierarchy. As the
worst heat on that hot run is on the west
side, the senior nabobs were prudently
housed on the east side of the ships ; this
meant the port outwards and starboard
homewards. It wasn’t long before a code
word was privately developed amongst
the parties concerned, and the office
copies of passenger lists carried items like
“Sir John Company (P.0.5.H.).”
* * * *
“Bo”: You can get a shock even
watching a newsreel. In Cinesound’s
presentation of photographs of the
Eighth Army’s triumphal march into
Tripoli (the beauty of that city’s build-
ings comes as an eye-opener), a shot is
shown of Churchill, looking remarkably
fit and vigorous, arriving to greet and
congratulate his doughty field com-
mander. Getting out of his ’plane, the
P.M. looks around ; recognition leaps to
his eye and he holds his arms akimbo.
For one horrific moment came the
thought that the grateful Winnie
was going to embrace the quizzical-
looking conqueror, Dago fashion,
and kiss him on both cheeks. But,
striding across, the P.M. dropped
one arm and, pleasure lighting his
face, his right hand grasped that
of Sir Bernard Law Montgomery.
And it looked a real bone-crusher,
too.
* * * *
“Loc”: That Army sergeant who was
“demonstrating archery to a friend” in
Phillip-street, Sydney, had a counterpart
overseas. In Chicago, when arrested for
steadily firing arrows at his room-mate, a
man explained that he had a “keen in-
terest in the sport.” Other case_s from the
same land, though not associated with
archery, were those of a man who shot
his hotel-room full of holes to show his
60-year-old wife what he’d do if anyone
insulted her, and another gentleman
who spent a period firing through a
neighbor’s window at a can of beans
because, he stated, that neighbor had
been eyeing his (the shootist’s) daughter.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Latest victim of newspaper
propaganda is Lady Gowrie. Asked to
open a show at Melbourne Town Hall,
she arrived with a prepared speech on the
value of vegetables to the nation. Then
she discovered that it was not an all-
vegetable show, but a dispay of autumn
flowers. The G.-G.’s lady probably
recognises now that there is very little
action as a result of all this talk about
Digging for Victory. Still, her misad-
venture provides a suggestion. Why not
hold a show of the sort Lady Gowrie
thought she was attending? My next-
door neighbor loves to skite about his
majestic achievements in the matter of
tomatoes, and if he had public recognition
he would probably redouble his efforts.
% # Jfc *
“Avon” on a modern miracle:
Announcements that the millennium has
arrived or is about to arrive in any given
locality have hitherto left me cold, but a
record of recent events in M.L. has shaken
my scepticism. There was a big wheat crop
in Canterbury (they get 32 bushels to the acre
there) and a man-power shortage. So the Army
Minister said he’d put some troops on the job
—just f.a.q. troops with a big proportion
of townies. There would be charges for army
trucks and army sacks (fixed by the army
accountancy branch, which doesn’t undercharge
anybody), and a further-‘tharge at the union
rate of 2s. 3d. an hour for the labor. (The
soldiers didn’t get that, of course —just their
army pay and no overtime.) Knowing how
cantankerous Canterbury farmers can be I
would have been prepared to bet all the tea in
China that the arrangement would produce
a first-class rumpus. But no. The harvest was
got in efficiently and quickly. The farmers said
the terms were fair. They wrote comments
on the timesheets;
“Very good workers”; “very satisfac-
tory” ; “a fine gang of boys, am very satis-
fied with the work”; “a willing lot of
workers and a good lot of chaps doing a
great job”; “a good day’s work, and the
truck was very useful”; “these men worked
excellently and I have the utmost confi-
dence in recommending them ,to any
farmer.”
And army headquarters reported that the men
“enjoyed harvesting thoroughly.” They “took
to it like ducks to water.”
* * * *
“Taipo”: The Armed Forces Appeal
Boards, the M.L. tribunals that hear
reasons why men shouldn’t become sol-
diers, soon get to “know 99 p.c. of the
excuses, and can classify ’em on sight.
But they struck a new one the other day
—a chap who declared with a happy
smile that his memory was so bad that
he would be utterly useless in the Army:
When I am at work I go to one end
of the building to get a job, and when I
return to my bench I can’t remember what
I was fold to do—it’s gone in a flash. If I
went into the Army 1 wouldn’t remember
whether my rifle was loaded or not.
The board, after a little thought, decider
to let the Army decide whether it could
use the forgetful one or not.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: There were broac
smiles on Melbourne’s face when some
financial genius made this suggestion in
the “Age” correspondence column:
There are thousands of workers in the
same position as myself who, I am sure,
would be willing to subscribe to the Third
Liberty Loan more freely under certain
conditions. I have been working four
nights a week and Saturdays and .Sundays,
making around £l7 a week for about seven
weeks. I am 62 years of age, and regard
beer as a health drink. If the Government
or the breweries will give a permit to pur-
chase at market value one dozen of beer a
week for eight weeks with each £lO bond,
they will have to have a fourth Liberty
Loan to take care of the surplus orders.
The smiles grew broader when the Min-
ister of Customs took it seriously enough
to retort that, if the writer was relying
on beer as the basis of his subscription,
then the loan wouldn’t benefit, as it was
taking the country all its time to main-
tain supplies at their present level.
BORDER-LINE SEATS.
Dissolution, whenever the threat of it’s heard
In Parliament, ranks as a sinister word,
A gloomy reminder a lawmaker’s screw
Mayn’t last him as long as he hoped it would do.
And there’s always the harrowing thought of
defeat
In the mind of the man with the border-line
seat.
It’s all very well for the chap who feels sure
Electors will always respond to his lure.
That he’ll knock out all rivals for place and
for pelf,
From Gabriel down to the Devil himself.
But that pleasant conviction, so soothing and
sweet,
Is not for the bloke with the border-line seat.
He knows —though he’ll hardly admit it aloud —
That voters were ever a weathercock crowd,
That his erstwhile supporters, when next he’ll
appeal
To the polls, may be putting a spoke in his
wheel.
He can never be certain what fate he will meet,
The fellow whose percly is a border-line seat.-
He feels that, however his sails he may trim
Dissolution may spell disappearance for him,
That the swing of the pendulum, ever so sligh'
And never unlikely, may floor him outright.
An ominous outlook in truth, I repeat,
For the cove representing a border-line seat.
Politicians will always, I’m game to forecast,
Appeals to the country stave off to the last,
And the Outs will be mostly as loath as the Ins
To be taking their chances and risking their
skins.
And whenever it seems that a Parliament’s term
May be shortened a trifle, it’s safe to affirm
That the loudest of bellows, the shrillest of
- bleats,
Will come from the jossers with border-line seats.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
ON THE HOME FRONT.
The Victory suit is numbered with the slam,
It’s got it in the neck, as one might say;
Child of illustrious Dedman’s massive brain,
It’s run its course and had its little day.
Designed in some inexplicable way
To bring us nearer what its name denotes,
It fades into the dark. What’s more, perfay!
The ban is off on double-breasted coats.
This way and that the tide of battle runs.
Each morn we look for news of Romneis
The Japs, it seems, must wait until the Huns
Have been effectually walloped out
Before they cop it fairly in the snout.
Divergent views the press in plenty quotes, _
But here’s one item none has need to douni.
The ban is off on double-barrelled coats.
Our politicians bicker, snarl and groan,
And seldom meet except to stage a iow,
Conducting private battles of their own
With all the freedom acrid tongues allow.
Now we see Curtin ruffled sore, a ,nd now
Menzies and Hughes at one another s throats.
Pity such things should be, but anyhow
The ban is off on double-breasted coats.
Our Dedman knows his onions, it’s Availed.
For all his stubbornness he needs no tips
When it becomes him gracefully to yiem
And on some article relax his dj ps
Besides, there still are tapes and P> Io J s,ips ’
Hatbands and neckties waiting veto votes.
Breathe easier, you beaux! Rejoi , >
The bands' off on double-barrelled coats.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Gen. Prac,”: Yes, most typhoid car-
riers are women. The reason is, probably,
that women, especially of the fattish,
elderly type, are more subject to gall-
bladder troubles than are men, and it’s in
«an inflamed gall-bladder that typhoid
bacilli love to settle contentedly down and
breed in countless millions. The patient
thus becomes an inexhaustible reservoir
of the germs, which have often been
found right in the centre of large gall-
stones. Since many women are cooks or
handlers of food, it’s easy to see how their
contaminated hands will spread the in-
fection from kitchens or dairies. The
“Typhoid Mary” case fulfilled all the
necessary conditions. She was a
good cook, always sure of a job,
provided she didn’t discuss her medi-
cal history. For years she played
hare to the N.Y. Health Department’s
hounds, but at last they pounced on her
and put her in a comfortable cottage on
North Brother Island. She was some-
thing of a celebrity by this time and
acted as hostess to large numbers of
curious visitors. Mary’s parties always
went with * a click until she produced
afternoon tea and cakes made with her
own fair but infected hands; at that
point the guests would cough nervously
and reach for their hats. Mary lasted
very well, despite her typhoid germs, and
died only a year or two ago.
* * * *
“Tuart”; Was I dreaming or did
Churchill drop aitches in his recent
broadcast? An effect of his illness, per-
haps (I never noticed it before); cer-
tainly the making of such a speech so
soon after the doctors had done with
him must have been a strain on his vocal
apparatus as well as his intellectual facul-
ties. Of course, the aspirate presents no
difficulty to this lord of language, but I
have known politicians of no mean parts
whom it baffled always (in N. S. Wales
the line extended from ’Enery Parkes to
Thomas ’Enley), just as I have known
editors who couldn’t spell. And a dis-
tinguished Englishman in this country
belongs to the huntin’, fishin’, shootin’
school of pronunciation. As to that,
A.B.C. worthies differ as to whether a
nineteenth-century celebrity and a bird
of the same name should be called night-
in-gale or night-ing-gale ; in a Saturday
sketch they gave it both sounds. I pre-
fer “ing,’ if only because Bing Crosby
plumps for “in,” producing somehow
the dreadful impression that Mr. Crosby
prefers “nuttin’ ” to “nothing”:
A night-in-gale sang in Berkeley Squa-hare,
Nuttin’ the autumn fall of leaves....
And lady announcers, in their efforts to
be too utterly utter, pronounce “now”
“nah.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Sociological observation in
the “Sun-Pictorial” of Melbourne: —-
Absence of discipline in the home is
responsible for most of the trouble with
our young girls. A return to old-fashioned
methods might be worth while. I was one
of a family of four girls and we were made
to wear pigtails and pinafores until we were
17. Disobedience was punished by being
thrashed, stood in a corner and sent to bed
early.
This description of family life of a by-
gone era must sound fantastic to' the
present generation, born into an era when
Man-power has considerably more
authority and prestige than a parent, but
it is accurate enough. I remember as a
small. boy being invited to dinner at a
neighbor’s. The eldest son, whom I had
regarded as almost godlike, arrived ten
minutes late. He was taking his place
at the table when his mother rapped out:
“You’re late, Charles. Go to bed at
once!” Charles went off meekly. He
was an undergraduate (think of it, you
undergrads, who baited Dedman!) and
became a professor.
* +• * *
“Si Anu”: According to a correspon-
dent, a new and insidious fifth column
is attacking and undermining Australia’s
war effort in the jungle north —namely,
mildew. Tents are its particular objec-
tive, and as leaky canvas leads to damp
troops and dampness is the most con-
genial host for most tropical diseases,
medical and scientific authorities regard
the fungus as almost as great a menace
as the anopheles mosquito. Air and sun-
light, plus daily spit and polish, are the
only prophylactics. I suppose one-
third of the time of your “boy” in the
old Dutch East Indies was devoted to
combating the menace. A bachelor of
my acquaintance had an obsession for
boots and shoes. He used a couple of
pairs and kept the others for the sheer
joy of gazing at their shining surfaces.
It was harmless enough while he lived
in Australia, but when he became a
planter in Java he had to employ a “boy”
exclusively to fight the mildew that crep-
over them in “the wet.”
V * * *
“Ear Punisher”; Melbourne Man-
power more or less has the laugh over
the people who waxed facetious when it
sent out call-up notices to sundry old
gentlemen over 80. It now turns out
that employment has been found for an
octogenarian as a watchman, for a 79-
year-old as a general handyman, and for
a young chap of 68 as bolt expert in a
hardware firm. Others who had reached
the sere and yellow are working as clerks
and even in munitions, and one employer
has sent the department .this testimonial:
We can do with six more elderly men.
The five you sent me are splendid. These
men are better than all the young ones;
they stay on the job and want to get on
with it.
* * * *
“Meringlo”: Ned Kelly did not close
the Bank of N. S. Wales at Jerilderie in
1878 (B. 17/3/’43). His attentions were
paid to the old Commercial Bank, the
site ’of which is now occupied by the
local picture show. The junior member
of the bank staff, James Mackie, for 25
years before his death a year ago the
owner of Wunnamurra station, five miles
out, was the last of the old hands who
personally knew the Kellys. Less than
100 yards away from the bank site there
still stands the general store conducted
in the days of the Kellys by the father
of General Monash.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: At least one Melbourne
fuel merchant is more sensible than the
Sydney gas company described by “C.
Pipe” (B. 31/3/’43). Having plenty of
lorries and horses but no drivers, he
allows suburbanites to pick up their fire-
wood, load it on a lorry and drive the
stuff to their homes themselves if they
want to.
« - * * •
“Bernard Hackshaw”: I read in The
Bulletin “Service Department”: “If your
fruit is hanging over a neighbor’s fence
you cannot legally prevent him picking
it.” A friend of mine in Melbourne
built a thin pergola affair over his drive-
"These Man-power authorities will be the death of me, Mr. Cassidy!"
"It helps me concentrate!"
and to keep it symmetrical he had to let
18 inches of it project over his neigh-
bor’s fence amongst the shrubbery. His
neighbor approached him with a request
for the suspension of activities until legal
advice had been taken. “What for?” my
friend asked. “I don’t know whether
there mightn’t be a law giving you a right
over the land you’ve overshadowed,” said
his neighbor. Evidently he’d heard
something about “easements.”
* -M * *
“Threeball”: If you are a buyer under
the sign of the Golden Orb, uncle
may open his mouth very wide. But
he’ll listen to reason, and if you know
as much about values as he does you’ll
get a fair price in the end. A Jewish
girl told her Gentile sweetheart all about
it (as related in one of the immortal
works by “Pitcher” and “Swears”)
when she said “It’s worth six ; he’ll ask
twelve; offer him four ; you’ll get it for
seven.” The swain was meditating buying
an engagement ring from pawnbroker
Lazarus Isaacstein. He paid, if I remem-
ber rightly, eight-ten, and his girl called
him a chump. If the Gentile who enters
uncle’s door either as buyer or borrower
will realise that he is in the bazaar at
Bagdad, the year is 500 b.c. and chaffer-
ing is the soul of commerce, he may do
much better than he otherwise would.
* * * *
“Loc”: Despite their devotion to beer,
the Nazis, it is alleged, have returned
the Pilsen brewery, founded in 1843, and
in Czechoslovakia for 20 years, to its
original owners. Shares in this brewery
went to a committee of citizens under
peculiar conditions. They could remain
vested in a family only so long as one
stone of the original house of that family
still stood. Now most of the shareholding
families live in practically new mansions,
in each of which is an aged piece of rock
set conspicuously. Such stones are now
far more valuable than the rest of the
house, for since 1848 the brewery busi-
ness has grown tremendously.
%
“Pons”: Gems from the works of
Alfred Austin, eh? These may delight
“Ike Hollar” (B. 31/3/’43). The first
offering refers to the Jameson Raid of
1895:
They went across the veldt
As hard as they could pelt. -
In the second excerpt (and this is Alf at
the top of his form) a rejected suitor gets
a letter from the lady of his heart, who
tells him:
I am engaged and shortly shall be wed.
Congratulate me, won’t you? All here send
Their best regards. I fear that I must end.
And here's the moving couplet, part of
the output of 1871, about an illness which
nearly did for the Prince of Wales, later
Edward VII:
Across the wires the electric message came,
He is no better, he is much the same.
I found these precious fragments in As
We Were, by the late E. F. Benson. He,
by the way, doesn’t support “Ike Hol-
lar’s” assertion that Austin was made
Poet Laureate to keep Kipling out of
the job; Benson says that, when Lord
Salisbury was asked why Alfred had been
appointed, the old Prime Minister re-
plied “I don’t think anybody else applied
for the post.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: In his defence of the
Moral Rearmament Revue at Canberra
(B. 31/3/’43) Ivan Menzies is not very
convincing. Let his argument be applied
to a projected performance of, say, “The
Mikado”—“The actors will pay their
own expenses and will be released by
their employers for a couple of nights
because the employers recognise the im-
portance of what they are doing. Their
work is entirely voluntary, and no fees
or even overhead expenses are asked for.
The people concerned have no preten-
sions to acting, and don’t even consider
themselves amateur actors,” They might
all have “a deep love for Australia,” but
a deep love for Australia wouldn’t of
itself make a good performance ; and if
Mr. Menzies wants his message to be got
over he ought to know that he won’t
put it over by boring the public.
* * # =i=
“C.Q.”:» That artistic prejudices dan
be as ferocious as political ones is shown
by the fact that “K.” (B. 31/3/ ’43) would
willingly see Picasso, the cubist painter,
left in the clutches ©f the Nazis simply
because “K.” dislikes pictures in the
Picasso style. He might usefully
reflect that there was once a similar pre-
judice against Beethoven’s music, Tur-
ner’s landscapes and Socrates’ teachings.
Would “K.” have been on the side of
Socrates or the side of the Twelve who
gave S. the hemlock, on the side of Beet-
hoven. or the side of the critics who said
B. was a humbug, or on the side of
Turner or Ruskin if he had lived in their
times? I wonder!
# . * $ *
“Sneezy”: The trouble with general
diets (B. 17/3/’43), even those written by
professional dietitians, is the individual
stomach. Green vegetables, to the fore
in every diet chart, are indigestible by
some people. Some people thrive best
on raw greens, others on cooked. Egg
yolk is prominent on the “eat-plenty”
side of most charts. Other charts just
say “eggs” and let it go at that, although
egg-white can cause anything from hives
to asthma. There aren’t just a few “sick”
people allergic to certain foods. The
healthiest of us stay healthy longer by
the avoidance of certain foods which
might benefit an equally healthy neighbor.
Then, again, scientific views are always
changing. Even the time-old idea that
it’s harmful to drink with meals gets a
kick in the pants from an American
medical journal, whieh declares that food
is most easily digested when it is in the
stomach almost in solution.
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: The Melbourne suggestion
that every child should carry round a
card showing his intelligence quotient and
school marks (B. 31/ 3/’43), attributed to
an “educationist,” was thoughtless.
Imagine any child of between 12 and
14 finding himself tagged with an i.q. of
(say) 60, forced to display it to all who
sought to inquire and knowing that it
marked him as a dullard. All dullards
are not insensitive. The N.S.W. education
authorities recognise this, and also the
sensibilities of parents, and, though they
regularly take the i.q. of primary school
pupils, nobody can drag the particulars
out of them.
* * * *
“Niloc”: A neighbor, back on leave
from active service, has instilled into his
family the principles of guerrilla war
fare. ' Therefore, it did not surprise me
to see his four hopefuls marching out his
gate and down the road in military style.
But when the eldest, having assumed
the rank of C. 0., called a halt outside
my melon-patch, I saw that counter-
attack was in order. I arrived in time to
see the first member of the commando
coming through the fence, having re-
moved a paling. He was backed up by
volumes of encouragement from the rear.
However, on perceiving me (evidently
the enemy), he pulled out a whistle, gave
three short blasts, and hared back
through the gap after the others fast
on their y/ay to parts unknown. 1 nailed
up the loose paling.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: He wore the uniform
of an Allied navy and his knowledge of
equine lore was obviously not vast.
Twenty yards past me his moke, appear-
ing to lose all interest, stopped and be-
gan cropping the grass. As I drew level
the sailor-man gingerly disembarked,
massaged the affected part tenderly,
grinned and unburdened: “Hoss-ridin’ is
a panful business. Right?” “Panful?
Oh —painful—yes,” I agreed. He went
on: “My buddy says ‘We’ll go hoss-
ridin’,’ so we go hoss-ridin’. ‘We’ll go
this way,’ says Bud ; and what happens?
His boss turns round and goes the other,
and, boy! does that animal go fossil
I get on my boss, but he don’t want to
go no place. I tell him ‘Giddap!’ but,
nope, he just wants to eat gra-ass. So
I tie him to a fence. But does he eat
gra-ass? That’s the very thing he does
everything else but! I get on again and
what does he do? He wants to eat
gra-ass. Then I get good and mad and
kick him five times in the ribs. Hully
gee, does that boss go fasst! But he
don’t answer the helm so good—every
jump takes me further from my buddy.
All of a sudden he stops—he wants to
eat gra-ass!” Sympathising, I bunked
the sailor up, turned the moke around,
gave it a hearty slap, watched the rider
bump up the road, then resumed my
journey. At the corner I looked back.
The “boss” had stopped and was eating
gra-ass.
• » * *
“Prop”; “Every tank perpetuates the
name of the man who first made the
excavation,” says “T.P.M.” (B. 24/3/’43).
The last five I struck were called Moona-
murtie, Cocklabinna, Minnagoona, Cad-
lawirra and Leap Year. They’d been
down for about 50 years. What queer
names some of the old-time sinkers had!
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Yair,” said Dirty
Jimmy, eyeing the heaving, brown-
specked flour in the mixing bowl, “them
little evils saved me life one time.”
“Saved.be flamin’ wieevils?” someone
mocked. “Y’ musfve bin hungry.” “Yair,”
said Jimmy. “Me ’n’ a bloke called
Wallace was cornin’ down into South
Oss, through that country back o’ Lake
Eyre, when all cur blasted plant horses
took off after a brumby mob one night.
We starts t’ hoof it, makin’ for Kelow-
pinninna, an’ run out of meat. That
never worried me mate; he was one o’
them Seven-day Eventists; but we
reckoned we’re gettin’ close in when the
flamin’ flour cuts out. Two days later
I’m rummagin’ at the bottom of a ration
bag and finds three or four pannikins-
ful. We opens ’er up, an’, strike me
roan, but she was crawlin’ with evils —
not like this stuff; she was real hairy.
Me mate, poor cow, couldn’t get enough
flour out of it to save his life. But them
evils was big enough to cut steaks off.
They kep’ me goin’ right enough, but me
china, who refused to touch meat,
wriggled out. Never chuck evilly flour
out when I’m around! ”
% * * *
“Narrin”: About ten years ago I
bought a new .22 rifle for thirty bob.
The very first time I used the thing was
at a camel which was browsing on a
thorn bush 80 yards away. The extreme
range, coupled with the size of the target,
was too much for the game little rifle.
The oont rolled over, mortally wounded
by a bullet behind the skull, but my
weapon had so swelled itself for the
effort that I was compelled reluctantly
to dispose of it next day to a nigger for
three quid. With my next pea-rifle 1
naturally exercised more caution. Be-
ginning by shooting at blowflies in the
living-room, and never exceeding a range
of three feet, I gradually hardened its
barrel by progressive stages until I could
confidently fire at sparrows at five yards.
I was careful not to go beyond this limit
for nine months, after which I worked
up through starlings, parrots and rats to
crows at 15 yards. After this another
18 months of loving care trained the little
rifle to stand up to rabbits at ranges
up to a chain. If, therefore, “J.D.P.”
(B. 17/3/’43), who has seen “many a
gun ruined through being strained be-
yond its legitimate range,” is interested
I’d consider any offer he likes to make.
* * * *
“Teepee Creek”: Our softwood
Radiata or Monterey pine (B. 10/3/’43)
isn’t quite so contemptible as “Kenwood”
asserts. I’ve seen navvy wheelbarrows
made from it, the wood itself standing up
to considerable hard work. And the knots
could largely be eliminated by scientific
forestry. Commonly I see plantations of
P. radiata laid out in rows, with ample
room left for the growing tree to expand
—which is entirely a wrong procedure.
Seedling pines should be planted out so
close as almost to choke one another.
The Norwegian design is groups of nine,
forming a circular area. As the pines
grow they reach upwards, lower lateral
branches, which would grow into big de-
forming knots, being choked off in the
process. At seven years three trees are
cut. Tall, slender, almost knotless, these
make good scaffold poles ; sawn down
the middle, the twin stiles for a long
“Someone tried to bust in last night , Warder .”
ladder. The following seven-year elimi-
nation gives stout pit props, of which
millions go to Britain. Three more years
and full stature, sawing to those Baltic
weather- and floor-boards that once
were a common feature of Australian
towns.
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: But does one have
to go to “the semi-desert of the W.A.
central plateau” to find that X.O.S. spider
of “Nor’-west’s” (B. 24/3/’43)? If the
lady usually hangs head down in the
middle of her net, shaking the whole
web as a protective measure when
alarmed ; if she has brown, hairy patches
on legs whose outermost joint is long,
thin and black, like a claw ; if her under-
side shows small orange patches near
the mouth and about the joining of the
foremost pair of legs with the body, then
she has taken my hat off many times in
the mulga scrubs of western N.S.W.
Moreover, she has a web stretched be-
tween the wheelhouse and the starboard
bulwarks of my present home, and her
twin sister has a net right over the open
fore-hold. Others of the tribe live in
the willows.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I don’t know who it was
that “introduced the Indian camel with
’Ghan drivers to the arid West,” but it
certainly was neither J. Smith Roberts
(B. 24/2/’43) nor Vincent Green (B.
31/3/’43)—and I don’t in the slightest
seek to depreciate the overlandirig achieve-
ments of either. There were imported
camels, and Pathans, too, on the West-
ralian goldfields quite early in the roaring
’nineties. I can recall an encampment
of them between Geraldton and Mullewa
in 1893, and in the middle of 1894 —just
about the time Green was leaving Bourke
for Coolgardie with his cavalcade —Cue
was getting an eyeful of the exotic beasts.
the appearance of which soon ceased to
be a novelty on the Murchison. It is
quite likely, however, that Vincent Green
was the first to land a string of them
in Coolgardie. I wonder how long the
cross-continent journey took.
“Coree”: A voice from the past in sup-
port of “Walkabout” (B. 31/3/’43) as
an advocate for horses as against camels.
Eyre on his great journey in 1841 from
Port Lincoln to Albany used only horses,
and on reaching grass and water at the
present site of Eucla wrote in his diary:
At night the whole party were, by God’s
blessing, once more together, and in
safety, after having passed over 135 miles
of desert country, without a drop of water
in its whole extent, and at a season of the
year most unfavorable for such undertak-
ing. In accomplishing this distance, the
sheep had been six and the horses five
days without water, and both had been
almost wholly without food for the greater
part of the time.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “That ain’t no way t’ set
a dog-trap,” sniffed Seventyfiver con-
temptuously as I stood up and surveyed
my effort. “Well, it’s the way Spring-
jaw sets ’em,” I defended, “and he ought
to know.” “Him!” squealed the old
bloke. “Why ought he know, the blow-
hard? When he come up here to take
on the dingoes, who was it told him how
to go about the job, eh? Me, that’s
who! An’ who showed him how to foller
a trail an’ to know one when he lit on
it? Why, me, o’ course. An’ what about
me puttin’ him wise to makin’ a proper
set an’ coachin’ him in coverin’ his
tracks? Yair, an’ settin’ him right about
skinnin’ ’em an’ peggin’ the hide? An’
who was it the cow alwus come sidlin’
up t’ when he wanted help with a tough
’un, eh?” The old bloke tapped his
chest significantly. “Months I spent in
the bush with that coot,” he continued.
“Taught the ungrateful upstart every
bloomin’ thing I know about dingoes,
I did.” He paused, then spat contemptu-
ously, “Yair, an’ still the fool knows
nuthin’.”
* * * *
“Drover”: At a spot along the rabbit-
proof netting fence a porcupine had
rooted away a space along the six-inch
entrenched netting to permit an entry
into the next paddock. On his travels
the boundary-rider discovered the open-
ing and made it rabbit- and, as he
thought, porcupine-proof by rolling a
few heavy boulders on to the exposed
piece of netting. A few days later I
was with the b.-r. and on arriving at
the spot we found the stones had been
moved aside. “Give us a hand with this,”
said the b.-r.; “I’ll stop that damned
porcupine this time. I’ll bet.” Between
us we manhandled a boulder over to the
fence and blocked the gap. Next day
the boulder had been moved far enough
away to permit an entry through the
fence. Its weight was not less than scwt.
As the Hackenschmidt of the animal
world Porky stands on his own.
* * * *
“Bo”: On behalf of the Council I ex-
tend to “Eureka” (B. 7/4/’43) congratula-
tions on his brilliant suggestion that the
dingo howl should replace the traditional
“Cooee!” for those lost in the bush.
Now I am a talented dingo-howl imita-
tor —I learned the art when I was carv-
ing my big blackberry selection from
the great virgin forests west of Tennant
Creek—and, strangely coincidental, I got
lost the day after reading “Eureka’s” par,,
in the heavy messmate scrub surround-
ing my block while mustering some wild
bees. It was coming on dusk, and, de-
spite my long experience in those wild
parts, I shivered as I caught the eerie,
savage honk of a honeyeater perched vul-
ture-like on a tall, dead bluebush.
What if I broke a limb and lay helpless
at the mercy of that man-eater! I was
just about to give a “Cooee!” when I
thought of “Eureka’s” suggestion. Instead,
I gave the long-drawn howl of the native
dog. For an hour I kept up the ulula-
tion. Then suddenly there was the sound
of a rifle barking, and a bullet entered
the tree three inches from my face. I
howled again with renewed vigor, and
another slug took the heel off my boot.
I was saved! I ran toward the sound,
dodging bullets skilfully as I went. As
I burst into the open where the missus
was reloading she looked up, amazed.
“Was that you?” she said. “I thought
it was that warrigal that’s been eating
the young blackberries!” Yes, it saved
my life, and I have to thank “Eureka”
for it!
“R.M.”: Tell that doubter “The
0.D.” that a “checkle-faced cow” (B.
31 1 3/’43) is not a beast of cow-cockydom,
but a bloke that can get a total of 24 at
crib with a hand containing a “ten” card,
as he described some time ago.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Dead of thirst! It doesn’t
occur very often in this country nowa-
days, but it was always on the cards
up to 20 years ago in the outback. In
western Riverina a hat was brought into
the station, and we recalled a traveller
who’d left four days before. Jimmy the
Gov’nor led the search. Circling from
the hat in wider sweeps, he came on a
coat and his face went grim. He became
grimmer when we found the swag, then
boots, then a shirt. “They always start
throwin’ their things away when thirst
gets ’em,” he announced. We found the
poor devil, naked except for one sock,
and dead. There was a lake of water
two miles north of him, the Murray four
miles south, the homestead five miles east,
a creek six miles west. Maybe the sun
got him.
* * * %
“Mat’s Mate”: We had reached the
Murray. Mat was all for crossing it and
tramping down into Victoria. 1 was
against Victoria, holding that it was, at
the time, overrun with blokes like us.
Mat argued that there was nobody quite
like us anywhere. Anyhow, we slept.
Next morning Mat was up with the crows
and had the billy on. “Come on,” he
roared. “Let’s be up an’ over the Jordan
into the Promised Land.” “Y’ can have
it all,” I yelled back. Still obdurate, I
watched him cross the bridge and some-
what sadly went back to the camp. I
was still debating whether to follow
him when he came back, dumped his
swag and sat down. “Just got across the
bridge when I run into two females, both
with swags up,” he said. I understood.
We went north. Mat convinced that the
Cabbage Garden was infested with
women, a tribe guaranteed to scare him
off anything.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; We were surprised by
Weenar and a dozen other abos. sud-
denly breaking camp and racing down to
the beach, armed with woomera and
spear. Dividing into two lines, they ran
along the sands, then into the shallow
water. Without splashing they waded out
50 yards or so, then re-formed a line be-
hind what we now saw was a big school
of mullet. Meanwhile, the rest of the Vibe
arrived. Without undue haste these began
breaking down twiggy bushes along the
beach, using them to build a wall at each
end so that when both were completed
the school was locked in a rectangle, the
beaters forming the seaward wall. There
evidently was no great hurry, for Weenar
and his aides kept the fish from stam-
peding by gently and continuously striking
the water with woomera and spear. The
rectangle complete, the wall-builders
began to move the bushes in so that pres-
ently the corral began to take the form
of a half-circle. Finally the human wail
at the back was eliminated, bushes en-
tirely surrounded the school. All hands
then began to move the bushes, the corrai
growing smaller and smaller, the wall
denser and higher. Came the moment
when the fish realised they were trapped.
The water was thick with them. Surging
wildly, they thrust at the barrier, hun-
dreds getting gilled and caught. Scores
tried to leap, only to be knocked bade
by the flat of the woomera. Finally a
dozen men leaped into the corral, chop-
ping with the woomera’s edge. The sanu>
were piled with the silvery spoil, ana
dozens finally were left to the gulls.
ALAMEIN.
Here they are lying, young and all so still.
Resting for ever on a desert hill.
Beside the road they trod, below the braw
All ranks and races there are mingling now;
In that hill’s fold, beneath that brassy sun
. Squadrons, battalions, batteries, all are one,
Beside the Middle Sea. They bivouac
Where never voice nor bugle cries “Awake!”
These soldiers with defiance met defeat,
And here stood firm to close the long retreat.;
And here they struck, and here victorious died;
And here they lie, and swell them people’s pride.
Who is there, then, that would not choose such
death
Before long years and age’s hard-drawn breath?
A.I.F.
J.S.B.


“Old-timer”: In fear and trepidation I
put forward my very own snake yarn.
In the days when Mildura was dry—if
you weren’t a member of or didn’t know
somebody who was a member of the
Workers’ Club—two of us camped in a
tin shed on the Irymple side of the town.
My mate acquired a bottle of port, and
after we’d had a drink or two with our
Sunday (dinner we lay off in that hut and
dozed. I awoke along in the afternoon
and froze where I lay. The port bottle
was lying on its side, the cork out, and
a brown snake was testing the tipple of
the little pool on the floor. It put its
head forward, lipped the wine, hurriedly
snatched its head back, waved from side
to side, then had another taste and as
quickly snatched back. My mate mut-
tered in his sleep, the snake ignored him,
had another tiny sip, and I’ll swear a sort
of shiver, whether of ecstasy or horror,
ran down its form. Then my mate stirred,
the snake regarded him blearily, slid off
the box, took a regretful look at the wine
and made off. I leapt up and made a
swipe with a boot, but missed, and the
thing got clear into a patch of thistles
outside, drunkenly wagging its tail at me
as it vanished. My mate, an astonished
witness of my antics —he couldn’t see
the Blake —became inquisitive. I told
him what had happened. He looked at
me, hard. Then he looked at the almost
empty bottle, harder. Then he said,
“Well, I always said it was snake juice.
Gimme beer any time.” Thus I failed to
convince the only possible witness, bar
the snake, and only now, after 20 years,
am I game to tell the yarn.
* * * *
“Suburbia”: So the question is whether
horses think. My friend Joe, who trains
trotters, swears they do, and as proof
revealed that he was schooling a black
gelding three-year-old down the River-
stone (N.S.W.) road when the horse sud-
denly stopped. There didn’t seem anything
about likely to cause him to stop, so Joe
got out of the trap to take a look at
him,and,cripes! there in the grass near the
fence was a quid note. Joe picked it up,
hopped back in the trap, and the nag went
as good as gold. Joe’ll show you the
“flag” any time you like, to prove it.
“Billy Can”: Educated horses? Let
me nominate our milko’s gee-gee. He’s
been so well trained that he stops at the
silent traffic cop, looks each wajf to see
if other vehicles have the right o’
way, then moves off. I found him one
day walking round and round a real
policeman and bowing to him.
* * * *
“Flight”: The imported bee has, by
and large, certainly made a hash of the
native (B. 31/3/’43); yet there is one
region where the domesticated bloke
hasn’t yet found a footing. On the
Georgina (W.Q.) and in the Cloncurry
Ranges, where waters are few and far
apart, the hardier cuss still makes his
sugar-bag in hollow limbs and stores
his acid-sweet nectar.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Joe Dobbie earned a pre-
carious livelihood scratching in the gullies
and amongst the mullock heaps, and
spent his evenings in Doolan’s shanty. On
occasions he had fallen down abandoned
shafts on his way home and had been
rescued in a more or less damaged con-
dition, but with a drunk’s luck never seri-
ously enough to choke him off the booze.
One night he staggered out of Doolan’s
as full as a tick and started zigzagging
homeward to his one-roomed humpy.
Fearful for old Joe’s safety, one of the
chaps who lived near by hurried after
him and piloted Joe to his kipsy. He
opened the door, and Joe staggered in and
flopped on the floor with his head in
the fireplace. There was nothing but
dead ashes in it, so his escort left him
lying there. Next morning he strolled
across to see how the old chap was get-
ting on. He opened the door, to find
Joe with his head still in the fireplace
lying on his back. Apparently the sleeper
had just wakened, for, as the other stood
looking at him, Joe scuffled his head
about in the ashes and gazed beerily up
the square-shaped chimney. Then in a
resigned voice he muttered to himself
“Down another damned hole agen, blarst
it; an’ deep, too, be the look of things!
jj;
“Zake”; So “The 0.D.,” who has
never heard a grass-warbler, regards that
“You WOULD pick a time and place like this to become a mother!"
bird’s existence in our land rather scep-
tically! I don’t doubt that he hasnt
gazed on one in his many peregrinations,
because all of the warbler family are very
shy, believing in being heard but not seen.
One of our best songsters is the grass
bloke’s cousin, the reed-warbler. All of
the warblers —except the rock variety,
which favors the fastnesses of the Gieat
Dividing Range-use reed swamps and
grass tussocks for their bathroom-baii-
toning, and, except in the arid Centre, lift
up their voices in every State. Tits,
scrub-wrens and bristle birds are alt
related to the small sprites.
* * * *
“Old Priller”: Nothing new or special
about C.Q. jumbucks standing on their
hind legs to get at cut edible scrub.
In western N.S.W. sheep country every
edible scrub is trimmed off level under-
neath to a height that a sheep can reach
by rearing and plucking. Nothing to see
four or five on the hind legs, their fore-
feet resting on the trunk of the shrub,
their necks stretched up and back as they
feed. My opinion is that sheep will live
and adapt themselves where other graz-
ing animals would sky the towel.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Marty was down at the
saleyards with a hundred equine head
of his own breeding, mostly heavy
draughts. All the morning he and young
Joe had spent sorting the bunch, while
in adjacent yards other owners drafted
their nags. Midday sent the workers
trailing towards the pub for dinner all
but Marty and Joe. “What about some
packin’. Dad?” Joe inquired after a bit.
The old man felt in his pocket and pro-
duced sixpence. “Awright; y’ c’n run
“ Honest , am I beautiful or have you come straight from Darwin?”
over t’ the store, son, an’ git some
broken biscuits.” “But what about a
drink?” suggested the dry Joe. “Couldn t
we git a bottle o’ lemonade or some-
thin’?” “Lemonade!” snorted Marty.
“Throwin’ good money away, me lad,
when there’s plenty water in the tap
there! What’sa matter with y’?” An
hour later, with the sale due to start, one
of the local patriotic battlers arrived.
She did a fair business, collecting two
bob here and there; then someone
skitched her on to old Marty. The grin-
ning mob drew close. “What y’ say
for?” glared Marty, climbing down off
the fence. She told him. “An a damn
good cause, too,” he agreed, squinting
at the list. “Y’ c’n put me down fr
twenty-five quid. For if there’s one thing
I hate more’n wastin’ money,” he de-
clared, glancing round meaningly at the
fenceful of faces, “it’s a bloke that s
lousy!”
* * *
“Betcha”: It was hot and dry, and old
Sam was tailing a mob of jumbucks in a
cloud of dust. As he came opposite the
homestead I grabbed a bottle of the elixir
of life, and, striding out to the track,
flagged him. The drink went down with-
out touching the sides, and afterwards
the old chap placed the glass in a low
fork of the tree by the gate. Less than
half a minute later a mouse came hust-
ling down the tree, and true as a die dived
into the tilted glass. It didn’t take him
long to clean up the dregs; then, as
quickly as he’d come, he scurried off to
disappear in a hollow three-parts of the
way up the tree. Sam stoutly declares
it was the smell of the stuff that drew the
little cuss, and I reckon he ought to be
an authority on the subject.
» * * *
“Wang”: “I make camp one night
under a hedge in a one-horse township,”
related Dan. “On the opposite side of
the road is a hall, an’ on a board in front
of it is a notice sayin’ a fancy-dress ball
is bein’ held there that night. Not
bein’ int’rested, I turn in an’ go to
sleep. Some hours later I’m woke up be
the sounds of the revels opposite, an’ I sit
up gawpin’ across when I see a swaggie,
nosebag, billy an’ all, go inter the hall.
I wait a while expectin’ him t’ be kicked
out; but he ain’t. Blime, I thinks. I’ll try
myTuck, too ; so I bundles up me drum,
an’ ambles across an’ strolls in. There’s
a mob inside got up in all sorts of rig-
outs, an’ there’s a cove standin’ on a plat-
form yappin’. The battler I’d seen go
in is standin’ facin’ him. When / show
up the crowd gives me a great cheer, an’
the bloke on the platform beckons me
up. He screws me off, an’ then ses t’
the crowd, ‘Well, ladies an’ gents, this
competitor has made his run a bit late,
but he wins—l award him the prize fer
the best got-up male character’; an’ he
hands me a big silver cup. ‘An’,’ he adds,
grinnin’, ‘here’s somethin’ t’ put in it,’
an’ he passes over a bottle of whisky.
It’s afternoon next day when I wake up,
an’ I make me way t’ the pub. Lumme!
I nearly has a fit, for the cove behind
the bar is the judge of the night before.
He gets a start, too. ‘Spare me days,’
he ses, ‘y’ wasn’t in fancy dress get-up
at all. Y’re an impostor.’ ‘No, I ain’t,’
I ses ; ‘y’ gave me the prize without me
sayin’ a word.’ ‘Yes, that’s true,’ he ses.
‘Have y’ got that cup with y’?’ I
yanks it outa me nosebag. ‘l’ll give y’
five bob an’ a coupla drinks fer it,’ he
ses. I shoves it over an’ gets me wheel
an’ two pots. He puts the cup outa sight.
‘lt’ll do fer the next fancy-dress ball
here,’ he ses ; ‘but,’ he adds, grinnin’, ‘it
won’t be nobody got up as a swaggie
what’ll win it.’ ”
* * * *
“Duddo B.”: There was a sign over
the cocky’s gate. “No work here,” it
read. “There are seven sons and their
father for 640 acres and half the time
they’re in each other’s road and fightin’
and squabblin’ over who’ll do which.
Anybody with a good dog for sale?” We
contemplated the place of the seven sons
and, having no dog at all, decided that
there wouldn’t be much tucker on that
place and went on.
« * * *
“The 0.D.”: Can’t understand Mac
having all that trouble trying to get
sheep across a shallow creek (B. 7/4/’43).
All he had to do was carry three or four
over, then go back and urge the mob on.
Sighting their fellows over the water, the
rest would have crossed in no time. It’s
an old trick.
* * ■ * *
“Marsh”: During a bad drought in
north-western Queensland a mob of jum-
bucks were yarded near the railway
station awaiting trucking, and while slak-
ing their thirsts at the pub just across
the line the drover and his men left their
horses tied up in the sheep yards. Curses
were lurid when the men returned, and
they thought it was a poor sort of joke
to play on horses in country addicted to
flies, but an old pensioner camped near
by soothed the drovers’ wrath on telling
what he’d seen. Mad with hunger, the
sheep had taken on tucker of an indiges-
tible nature, but the best available —the
hair out of the horses’ tails. The prads
had been left practically bobtails.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: The interesting article on
the avocado pear (B. 31/3/’43) is a re-
minder that Sydney has a specimen about
15 feet high in the Botanic Gardens, just
in front of the administrative building.
Its botanic name is Persea gratissima,
the last word signifying the superlative
form of gratifying. Only other tree 1
know of is at Parramatta, in a lane off
the main street. Neither plant, as far
as I know, bears fruit justifying the speci-
fic name.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp had not long left
for the township when the swagman ap-
peared at the kitchen door ; he was dirty,
unshaven and with a nasty look iq, his
eye. Mrs. Jupp felt her heart quail as
she looked at the man and caught a
whiff of cheap wine. “G’day, Missus.
I want a billy o’ tea for me an’ me mate,
he demanded. Mrs. Jupp replied that
she couldn’t manage it. The man edged
further into the doorway. “Gaw on.
Missus; you can spare a billyful. Y’r
kettle’s all ready boilin’.” Mrs. Jupp
shook her head. “I’m nearly out of
tea and can’t get any more until next
month’s ration. Where’s your own
ration?” The man scowled. “Ain’t got
no book. Now come on —don’t keep a
man waitin’. An’ it’s no good sayin
you’ll call y’r husban’, because I seen
him go out.” Mrs. Jupp stood as if
calculating, and then shrugged her shoul-
ders. “Well, give me your billy”—thus
she acknowledged capitulation. She
sighed with relief when the man went
down the drive, and swiftly unchained
one of the dogs. An hour later Bill
came home. When Mrs. told him
of the visit he wanted to go in pursuit
and have it out with the man. “Don’t,”
said Mrs. Jupp. “There’s two of them
and there might be trouble. It’s not
worth it.” “But,” said Bill, “the fellow
can’t come and bully you when I go out.
He might come again.” Mrs. Jupp shoox
her head. “He won’t want me to make
him tea again,” she said. I made that
billyful with senna leaves.”
PAPUAN RIVER.
Now down the valley deep and wide
Swift, silent waters ever glide
In sunlight clear, through forests dim,
From mists that swirl and surge and swim.
Its source lies south, its ocean north;
But, look 1 back or look I forth,
The sunlight on the stream is bright,
Or branches shade it dark as night,
And all beyond the mists obscure:,
Nothing is certain, nothing sure!
And this is all that 1 may know
The waters swift and silent flow.
A.I.F.
T. S. BROWNING.


For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-das sing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.
LYSACHTS
£
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
:
MMMMi
r.
m.
r
IN
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHrS” WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Grow More Veges!”
“Contractor”: Twelve months have
passed since the introduction of contract
crops for the Army’s vegetables, and the
Government asserts that the system has
been only a partial success. Why? Here’s
my own case.
In common with many other patrioti-
cally - minded, politically - blinded and
propaganda-swamped but otherwise en-
thusiastic cockies I got to work and pro-
duced 95,5001 b. of beetroot, cucumber,
marrow, squash, cabbage and pumpkin.
During this period my chooks laid 50,000
eggs, but as I’d cut out the corn to grow
the vegetables I had to buy all their feed.
For the 95,0001 b. of vegetables I have
received, or shall—and some considerable
part of it is still shall —receive, approxi-
mately £3OO. An irrigation plant cost me
£loo—and, incidentally, took three months
to arrive, resulting in the loss of 900(5
cabbages—wages £25 (Land Army girls
come too high for me ; I have to do with
an old-age pensioner), fuel £2O and other
incidentals about £3O. The result may
be a net profit of £lOO, or £2 a week
for 12 hours a day, seven days a week.
I am willing to admit that the acreage
return would have been 33 p.c. higher
had the early spring not been droughty
and had I been able to afford labor to
cope with a growth of weeds when it
rained. A request at the time to Man-
power elicited the reply that I could have
my choice of one o.a.p. with stomach
ulcers or another with an unquenchable
thirst and kidney trouble, or a L.A. girl
on 12s. a day and all mod. cons. I did
without either.
I’ve a hunch there’s going to be one
more soldier and 95,0001 b. less of vege-
tables very shortly unless the powers
that be get it into their heads that bed-
rock prices make no provision for even
70 p.c. crops, no matter how competent
a farmer may be. Give the farmer a
price for his vegetables that will show
him a profit on even a 50 p.c. crop and
he’ll stick at it.
Lambs and Irrigation.
“R. Ney”: Look at John Wood, a
Pyramid Hill (Vic.) man. Six years ago
he took on an irrigable block of 306
acres, on which he milked 20 cows, ran
a few young cattle and grew crops. Since
then the area has been subdivided into
10 paddocks, and he’s used 100 tons of
superphosphate on it.
His “show” pasture is a plot of 20
acres, half sown with sub. clover at 21b.
an acre and Wimmera rye 41b. an acre
with oats ; the other half was formerly
a lucerne stand but was scarified and
sown with the same mixture at the same
rate. In 1938 he found it necessary to
rework the plot because some crabholes
had sunk.
Topdressing has been 2cwt. of super,
an acre in 1937-38 ; l|cwt., Icwt., 2cwt.,
Ifcwt., Icwt. each year since. In 1941
the plot was grazed to the end of Sep-
tember, 31 tons of hay were taken off
in November, and it carried 800 ewes
for «a fortnight afterwards. Later, in
February, 1942, it got Icwt. of super,
an acre, and was watered in mid-March
and five weeks later. From May 10 to
22 it carried 227 ewes and 40 wethers ;
from June 6 to 17, 250 ewes and lambs ;
June 18 to 26, 30 ewes and lambs; June
26 to July 9, 20 ewes and lambs ; July
26 to August 6, 220 ewes and lambs.
Spelled, it got a third watering on
October 2, and by October 14 had a
dense sward of grass and clover.
Working the rest of his 306 acres on
a sensible programme, Wood has lambed
down 500 ewes and fattened die lambs
every year. In addition, he milks 15
cows, carries eight to 12 beeves and five
or six horses.
The Pyramid Hill country is plain,
with flat grades, shallow depressions and
poor drainage. Grabholes are frequent.
A lot of the soil is of medium quality
and lends itself to improvement. Mixed
dry and irrigated farming is the general
practice, but water for irrigation isn’t
supplied as often as it might be owing
to the wide area claiming it. Cereal
farming, too, prevents intensive irrigated
farming.
The district, according to H. Hans-
low, State Water Commissioner, has still
to shake off a lot of the conservatism
“ That's to remind me which is the soup!"
natural to an old irrigation district.
There isn’t enough grading nor enough
proper check-bank and bay
a lot of water is wasted on comparatively
useless grasses.
However, many in the district ate
waking up to the wastefulness of big
and generous methods of irrigation, and
are concentrating on intensive produc-
tion from smaller areas. For this, Wim-
mera rye and sub. clover are excellent;
lucerne is a great standby, and there is
a natural coat of trefoil that only needs
encouragement, A fair basis for sowing
is a bushel of oats, 51b. bf W. rye and
21b. of sub. clover an acre.
Pink Eye.
“Myrrhee”: Pink eye has been caus-
ing a lot of trouble in the Victorian Mal-
ice this year.
A slight watery discharge is the first
symptom, sometimes with a similar dis-
charge from the nostrils. The disease
starts in the outer membrane covering
the eyeball. About 24 hours later a
whitish film begins to cover the eye, and
bloodvessels give it the pinkish appear-
ance. Sheep may be temporarily blinded
and suffer loss of condition. All breeds
are liable, though young lambs don’t
usually suffer as badly as older sheep.
A lotion: Sulphate of zinc, one heaped
teaspoon; boracic acid, two heaped tea-
spoons ; boiling water, one pint. Dis-
solve zinc and boracic in the boiling
water, allow to cool and inject a few
drops into the eyes two or three times
daily. Isolate sufferers in the shed dur-
ing the day to protect the eyes from sun-
light and allow to graze at night. Hand-
feed blind sheep.
Severe cases may continue for several
weeks. Avoid yarding sheep closely, as
it may be spread by sneezing and other
means. Treat cattle or other domestic
animals as for sheep.
Kikuyu Grass.
“H.C.”: It has proved valuable dairy
pasture in Queensland as an alternative
or supplement to paspalum. Unlike pas-
palum it keeps a good green sward going
all the year. Palatability is good and
feeding value high. All stock do well on
it and it’s useful for pig-raising.
Kikuyu will spread rapidly when the
rainfall’s only 27 inches; in rich soils
it makes a dense growth two feet high.
Surface runners and underground stems
root freely and anchor the grass firmly
in the ground, so that the turf will stand
trampling by stock or rooting by pigs.
Sow it from seed or cuttings. Cuttings
will set well till the end of June, though
the earlier the planting the better the
winter grazing. Slips need be only a
few inches in length so long as they have
two nodes. Before planting, plough and
harrow the land. Space the cuttings
about 3ft. apart, hoe the earth over them
and leave one-third of the slip out of
the soil. Firm the earth by tramping.
On good soils where there’s only a light
grass cover give the ground a shallow
ploughing* and plant the cuttings every
third or fourth row as you go.
No matter how vigorously Kikuyu
grows in Queensland, white clover sown
with it thrives. It’s also a success in com-
bating weeds and soil erosion in rough
country. Plant it amongst bracken and
the stock will trample down the fern look-
ing for it.
Give the pasture sufficient grazing to
keep the shoots short. Stimulate it with
clovers, scatter manure over it or give
it an annual disc-harrowing to prevent it
becoming clod-bound.
Kikuyu may become troublesome when
it encroaches on cultivation areas, there-
fore paddocks sown to it should be
isolated.
A Walking Horse.
“8.A.”; A good walking horse is in-
valuable on a long road journey, and
can be depended on to cover his daily
stage with less fatigue to himself and
greater comfort to his rider then when
travelling at any other gait.
Few saddle horses are as good walkers
as they should be, because they’re too
often ridden with a loose rein and be-
cause of carelessness in early training.
Keep a light, firm hold on a horse’s mouth
at all times, and in walking don’t let him
lag, but keep him at his best pace until
it becomes habitual. Don’t let him jog,
and don’t apply the pressure too sud-
denly when pulling up, otherwise the un-
expected jerk will cause the animal to
throw his head up and continue to do
so at each hard pull.
If a horse develops and persists in the
habit of throwing his head up and fight-
ing against the bit he should be worked
with a cheek martingale until cured of
the fault.
Hints for the Farm.
“B.”; Don’t burn off autumn pastures
of paspalum or Rhodes grass if you can
help it. Fired too often, soil can become
sterile or non-nutritious grasses spring up.
If they aren’t eradicated they’ll take
charge within two or three years.
“Farmer Bill”: Give young pigs the right
attention from birth till weaning. Up to
three weeks the sow supplies their full
quota of nourishment; after that the
strain must be eased. They’ll try to get
feed from the sow’s trough. Provide a
creep and they can fend for themselves.
Tempt them first with a little new or
skim-milk. When skim alone is used, add
a little molasses as a coaxer. The break
with mother benefits all round. The pig-
lets become independent and make more
rapid growth. Thrifty weaners make
profitable baconers.
“Plane Creek”: A horse suffering from
ergot poisoning is listless, breathes
slowly and perspires freely on flanks and
neck. Diarrhoea is usually present. The
nag is sleepy, but don’t let it go off.
Stable and give stimulants —black tea is
good —and a few doses of raw linseed
oil as a laxative. Rug if necessary to
keep warm.
“Myrrhee”; Deal only with an easily-
manageable area of bracken at the one
time. Cut and allow the tops to dry.
Burn when safe to do so and sow grass
seed in the ashes to catch autumn rains.
When the bracken shoots, knock off the
young fronds before they unfold with a
piece of No. 8 fencing wire. Careful
grazing is needed to make the grass stool
and prevent it seeding in the first year.
Large areas can be dealt with piecemeal
by this method.
“8.C.”: “Outback Occupations,” which
ran through the M.O.L. pages until space
restriction compelled withdrawal, is to
appear in book form about the end of this
month.


Australian, Mercantile, Land 8c Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R, SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY', MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS
IN THE NEW £100,000,000
LIBERTY LOAN
LEND 70 DEFEND
Space with Compliments of
Makers of the Economy Sauce.
ucnOtvafaeA
FOR DOM EST,r V
~'°*£*S:S
SEL MT... v „, WC£
c °nserve j^? s^ a j TU nes and
%„ ato : yOUrv^es h ut.,
fo * your radio set 13 * oeded
Uls ‘ st ojtir,.. '• •
OTBnn,
o
AUSTRALIAN - MADE
BADIOTRON
radio valves
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA). LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AC ST KALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC IKOPRIEXAKi’, LTD.
83 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Eyewitness in Russia.
{Condensed ex.racts, from a series of N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” articles written by Maurice
Hindus after his return to the U.S.A. from a
seven-months’ tour of Russia.]
Happy as Russians are over their vie-
tories, they are acutely aware that the
fighting is on Russian soil, that it is Rus-
sian cities, towns and villages that are
being devastated. Too many, too con-
stant, too poignant are the personal re-
minders. They cannot escape the photo-
graphs on the walls of a father, a son,
a husband, a brother who will never
return.
Few Russians wear mourning. There is
no law against it. When there is so much
bereavement in the country there is no
use showing it in public. But if people
did wear mourning in the capital or in
Leningrad, the streets and public squares
would be black.
* * * *
“Rzhev,” I heard an officer say, “is
a slaughterhouse. We are killing plenty
of Germans, but they are killing lots of
our men—the flower of our youth.”
It is not only in Rzhev that the flower
of Russia’s youth is perishing, and Rus-
sians know it only too well. Russia is
a land of young widows ; there are mi -
hons of them. There are even more mil-
lions of orphans.
* * * * *
It is safe to assert that no less than
4.000. Russians have already lost tneir
lives m the fighting. But this is the
smaller part of the casualties the Rus-
sians have suffered By tar the greater
number of deaths has occurred in the
German-held territories. No one knows
how many•millions of Russianshave died
prematurely in conquered territory The
estimates run from 10,000,000 to
15.000. But even if we lower it to
6.000. Russia has already lost at least
innnnnno Hvpc
’ ’* * * *
Russians are praying for the day when
they can again enjoy the hearty and
abundant meals they knew in the pre-war
days. And how they work! The eight-
hour labor day is all but forgotten.
Eleven and twelve hours is the rule in
Russian factories.
Woe to the worker who is late ten
minutes or even less! The first time he
is privately reprimanded by the super-
intendent or director of the factory. The
second time he is publicly reprimanded
and his name appears in the list of
offenders on the bulletin board. If he is
late a third time in the same month, he
is tried by a people’s Court.
If he is ever late more than 20 minutes
without the most valid of reasons, even
if it is a first offence, he must also stand
trial. He is seldom acquitted. The
penalty is three to four months of “re-
deeming labor ” ; he remains at his regu-
lar job, but from 15 to 25 per cent, of
his salary during the period of the sen-
tence is deducted as a fine which is paid
not to the factory but to the Government.
“It makes no difference,” a trade-union
leader explained, “whether the worker is
a man or woman ; he or she is tried any-
way and severely punished.”
But these severe disciplinary measures
are seldom applied. There is no need
for it. The hours are long, the food in-
ferior, the means of transportation an
agony ; but the fighting spirit of the men
and women in the factories is high.
« * * *
No one is exempt from labor except
invalids and women with too many small
children.
Last summer Moscow faced the prob-
lem of laying in fuel for the winter. Coal
from the Ukraine was cut off. Oil from
the Caucasus was needed for war pur-
poses. For the first time in years Moscow
had to be largely heated with wood. Who
would cut wood? Factory workers could
not be spared for that purpose ; so house-
maids, office workers, housewives —about
50,000 of them —were sent to the forests
for three or four months to cut wood.
Last summer we saw few children in
the cities. They were out in the country,
not on vacations but at work, cultivating
crops and gathering harvests. Provided
their health was good, boys and girls
between 12 and 16 were obliged to work.
It is because of the help they furnished
that for the first time since collectivisation
was introduced the crops were harvested
with scarcely any waste.
* * * *
There was always a stiff income tax in
Russia for people in the higner income
groups. Since the start of the war, in-
come taxes have been substantially in-
creased for other income groups.
A man exempted from military service
because of health or some special work
he is doing must pay an additional 50 to
200 per cent, of his income tax. There
is a tax on childless couples and on single
men and women of marriageable age.
The tax comes to about 5 per cent, of the
income. Unmarried women begin to pay
this tax at 18, and unmarried men at 20.
The revenue derived from this source is
used to maintain millions of war orphans.
Indirectly this tax seeks to encourage
childless couples and unmarried people to
adopt orphans. With the renewed, in-
tense emphasis on family life, the Soviets
prefer to place orphans with families
rather than in children’s homes. Once a
single person or a childless couple have
adopted a child they no longer pay this
special tax. Thus every Soviet citizen
supports children directly or indirectly.
* * * *
“I dread turning on the radio in the
morning,” said the wife ®f a commissar,
“and listening to news of retreats. If
only these retreats would end!”
Few Russians felt that Stalingrad and
Grozny would remain in Russian hands.
Baku, too, seemed doomed. With the
loss of these cities the Caucasus could
hardly be held. And it was believed in
high circles and by the man in the street
that Turkey andHapan were likely to
attack. Fear of such an attack was very
great indeed. Yet even in those crucial
days I heard no words of defeat or capi-
tulation. Russians were angry and
desperate.
* * * *
“We’ll lose twenty million lives, but
we’ll win,” I heard a naval commander
exclaim at a meeting. *
“We shall slaughter the Germans some
day, somewhere,” I heard a factory direc-
tor cry out at a mass meeting of workers.
By victory Russians mean not only
expulsion of the Germans from Russian
territory, but the destruction of Nazism,
the imposition of conditions making it
impossible for Germany ever again to
gain enough military strength to start
another war.
They mean more: the punishment of
Nazi leaders, from the highest to the low-
est, as well as the instigators and per-
petrators of atrocities in occupied terri-
tory. No less do they want a reckoning
with the home folk in Germany who de-
manded or felt grateful for parcels from
Russia —food, felts, woollens, toys and
other things looted by the Reichswehr
from the civilian population of Russia,
especially from the peasantry.
One has only to visit a liberated vil-
lage to appreciate the magnitude of the
thefts an'd cruelties of the German in-
vaders, privates and officers alike. To
Russian leaders and to the Russian
people, the peasant whose grain, potatoes,
felts and woollens are seized and who
dies of starvation or pneumonia is no
less a victim of deliberate murder than
if he were shot dead or bashed in the
head with an axe.
Official utterances in the press and
comments by the people in their homes,
offices and shops make it clear that the
Russians do not mean to leave unpun-
ished a single one of those directly or
indirectly responsible for murders of this
kind.
* * * *
Russians have no illusions of an im-
pending collapse of Germany. They
know only too well Germany’s military
and industrial power. Petty and helpless
has been Germany’s underground move-
ment. Russians have seen the Germans
in action. Even factory workers in the
Reichswehr’s ranks usually fight to the
bitter end. Among their prisoners of
war, the Russians have interviewed too
many German bricklayers, blacksmiths,
mechanics and coalminers and have read
too many of their letters and diaries to
deceive themselves into the belief that
they will rise up against Hitler and over-
throw him at some near date.
*•* * *
Never have Russians hated an enemy
with such passion and fury as they now
hate Germans. Again and again I read
stories in the Soviet press of a Russian
soldier in hand-to-hand combat with an
enemy, pinning the German to the
ground, biting bis throat with his teeth
and letting him bleed to death,
* * * *
Endless are the plunderings and degra-
dations to which the Reichswehr subjects
an occupied community. If they have
time during a forced retreat, they invari-
ably burn every home and everything
else in the village. I have seen scores of
villages which are now overgrown with
weeds, with only battered chimney stacks
marking their former location. Hitler
boasted last year that, in territory Ger-
mans would be forced to evacuate, the
Russians would find only burned ruins.
His Reichswehr has made good the
boast.
The Germans do more when they re-
treat: they drive the civilian population
ahead of them. They cannot feed them.
They have no clothes arid often no shel-
ter for them. They do not need them
—especially the children and the old
people. But if they have time and the
population has failed to hide, they drive
the people into German-held land, often
to certain death.
* * * *
These depredations and degradations,
visited on Russians only because they are
Russians, members of an “inferior race,”
have stirred Russian wrath and Russian
hate against Germans as against no other
enemy Russia has ever known.
Giraud on France’s Fall.
[Condensed from a “Life” (U.S.A.) article
by General Henri Honore Giraud, now High
Commissioner of French North Africa.]
What were the causes of France’s fall?
First, the birthrate. France even with-
out the war was on the slope of suicide.
The family was disappearing to give
place to couples without children. The
countryside was depopulating itself.
In a race formerly solid, rustic, tough
against fatigue, but where alcohol and
syphilis had opened suppurating wounds,
the skeleton shrank, the tissues became
lax, the resistance disappeared. Neither
from the point of endurance nor of train-
ing was the soldier of 1940 equal to that
of 1914. Very limited ability in march-
ing, even les§ capacity for work, insur-
mountable need of sleep—these were the
characteristics of the soldier of 1940.
Between 1914 and 1918 we made a
superhuman effort. We emerged from the
test physically and morally exhausted.
From the first to the last rank of society
people wanted to amuse themselves, or
rather to daze themselves.
What did the school teach? First,
egoism, personal interest and the cult of
envy. After that, negation of everything
spiritual, of everything divine, of every-
thing ideal. Atheism, if not proclaimed,
was at least encouraged.
Could the military service improve or
correct this education? Certainly not at


Wi
W*.
mm
■■
ssr
m
■m
mi
j-r''.
Ts*m»
<U
§
::
m
!»
YOU CAN BURN THE
CANDLE AT BOTH ENDS!
“You can’t bum the candle at both ends,” pro-
fesses the age-old proverb, but in war-time
there is no such word as “can’t”—-certainly not
in the Thompson Works. Working long hours
Thompson engineers and skilled craftsmen
have proved it. Devoting their entire energies
to the production of defence equipment they
have shown by their surprisingly enormous con-
tribution to our war effort the war-time import-
ance and value of such a peace-time organisa-
tion. To the entire Thompson staff, no burden
to ensure victory for, and the safety of, Aus-
tralian men, women end children is too great.
om
CASTLEMAINE AND WILLIAMSTOWN.
Melbourne Office:—McEwan House,
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
INVESI
ALL
YOU CAN
in the
THIRD
LIBERTY LOAN!
interest accrues from Date of Subscription
H
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Mastertwlc*
LL/l
a time when the service of one year was
practically reduced to four months.
To sum up—youth insufficient in quan-
tity, insufficient in quality. That’s what
the 20 years following the victory gave
us.
If from youth, which formed only a
small part of the army, we pass to the
entire nation, what were its character-
istics? At the base, lack of authority,
Between 1919 and 1939 in the Govern-
ment, under whatever label, we never saw
anything but parties, we never saw
France. Our officers and non-commis-
sioned officers of the reserve, who made
up the enormous majority of our staff,
did not dare to command. It was the
same from the top to the bottom of the
industrial ladder. The war of four years
taught us how to die and to suffer. It
did not teach us how to work. Until 1914
the French laborer and peasant were hard
workers. Our country was a country of
petite bourgeoisie, citizen and peasant.
where economy—by certain people called
miserliness—guided the French citizen,
The war of 1914-18 did not help to
sustain this petit bourgeois spirit. The
arrival of the Americans, their methods,
their supplies, helped considerably to
upset their ideas. Spurious luxury in-
creased. Perfumers made fortunes. The
proprietor, the worker, the foreman, the
subordinate, each one of them came to
think of pleasure first and of reducing
work to a minimum,
Not only the working hours but the
working conscience diminished. The job
was no longer the thing that mattered,
All that had gone to build up the excel-
lence of French production, its elegance,
its finish, its attention to detail, dimin-
ished or disappeared altogether. Ameri-
can methods were adopted, forgetting that
France had neither the spirit nor the
potential of America, Shortage of equip-
ment, unfilled orders, airplanes that never
materialised, obsolete tanks, munitions
that never arrived—all this was the result
of work inadequate in quantity and
qualiity.
From 1918 to 1940 France luxuriated
in every kind of regime that might be
called republican—from horizon blue to
the red Popular Front. Ministries fell
like houses of cards, scandals accumu-
lated, riots caused the spilling of French
blood, even on the paving stones of the
capital; but always the same men trod
the boards. The ruin which the Popular
Front caused France is immeasurable, but
its greatest responsibility was to teach the
people of France laziness under the gran-
diose name of “leisure.”
Let us hope that those who were
crushed on the northern battlefields by
the Luftwaffe, that those who had neither
anti-tank guns nor anti-aircraft guns nor
munitions will cry vengeance against the
idlers who neglected to make these things,
and, above all, against those whose crimi-
nal ideology and lack of responsibility
created this disorder and anarchy.
Tokyo Lament.
( N.Y. “Times” report.)
Tokyo relayed the report of a Tokyo
correspondent recently returned from
New Guinea. Tokyo has not admitted
the loss of Papua, and the correspon-
dent’s account covered what he termed
“the New Guinea operation.”
“I have been sent to several fronts in
the past, and the one thing I felt during
the New Guinea operation was that the
enemy fighting strength has been con-
stantly reinforced,” he reported.
“The enemy has added a strong elas-
ticity to his fighting character. New
Guinea is a mountainous country which
is utterly beyond the scope of the imagi-
nation of the people living in Japan.
There are mountains as high as 3000
metres (9840 feet), and between these
ranges is’a rapidly flowing stream. The
enemy waits for us to cross the bridge
we build across a valley, and as soon as
we reach the other side they ambush us
from the jungle with automatic guns or
rifles. They never come out of the
jungles, but throw hand grenades.
“I think the Australian Army has made
a very careful study of jungle fighting.
For instance, the enemy sentry builds a
seat in a large tree and shoots at us.
“Attacks by the enemy air force are
very fierce. They raided us five or six
times daily in a formation of five or six
’planes. There are rivers with swift-
running streams in the mountains, but
bridges over these rivers were destroyed
many times by enemy ’planes. Owing to
this, there have been times we could not
send for for a week or so.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
In 1942 submarines sank more ships than
our [U.S.] shipyards, with all their miraculous
achievement, were able to launch. Moreover,
the German submarine navy is today larger
than it has ever been. New submarines are
being built very much faster than we are
destroying them. The newer submarines are
increasingly formidable. Strategically and tac-
tically, the Germans are always several jumps
ahead of us. There is no prospect now of
our having enough escorts to deal with them
until the end of this year. Even this pros-
pect is at present dubious. — Walter Lippmann;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
There is good reason to believe that the
British Government’s proposal of an “act of
union” with France—put forward in June,
1940—is far from a dead letter and that it will
be revived at, or perhaps before, the next peace
conference. The proposal called for the for-
mation of an “indissoluble union” between
Great Britain and France, under a Constitution.
Foreign, financial and economic policies would
be jointly conducted. The two Parliaments
would be “formally associated.” Every French-
man would automatically become a citizen of
Great Britain and every Britisher a citizen of
France. Under an ideal world organisation
after the war there would probably be no press-
ing need for such a union. But realists are
far from convinced that the next peace con-
ference will be any more successful than the
last in organising international relations.
Should that prove to be the case, a Franco-
British union would have many things to
recommend itself to both countries. If they
could work out the details satisfactorily they
would strengthen themselves immeasurably by
pooling their empires, their finances, their
economies and their national defence. — N.Y.
“World-Telegram" Washington columnist
Philip Simms.
* * * *
In London are many Governments-in-exile.
It is not unreasonable to imagine that the
British Government is making post-war arrange-
ments with these Governments. Likewise, it
is not unreasonable to presume that the British
expect ■ these Governments to be put back in
power once Hitler is defeated. The United
States has not underwritten these arrangements,
thereby leaving some doubts in the minds of
both the British and the Governments-in-exile.
The question at issue concerns how closely to
adhere to the principle that all present political
commitments are temporary, and that peoples
are to be left , free to establish their own
Governments after the war. —“ United States
News."
* * * *
Spain, economically and politically, is in a
rather desperate situation. Germany cannot
supply Spaniards with the food and fibres and
machinery that they need. The United States
and Great Britain can. By maintaining actual
neutrality, whether or not he maintains verbal
neutrality, General Franco can be assured of
some food supplies and some other supplies.
He also is assured that the United States and
Britain will buy his surpluses, providing
Spaniards with dollars which mean far more
for their future than do any German marks or
French francs. American dollars are playing
a very important role in Spain at this time.
—“United States News.”
The alibi for not letting us use any Siberian
bases is that Russia must not be interrupted
at this time by a fight with Japan. Russia,
it is argued, must not be drawn into a two-
front war. The fact that we are in a two-
front war, and a most serious one, seems not
to matter. Rather, Russia’s sweethearts in
the United States have recently renewed their
demands that we now attack Europe in the
west, in addition to running the African cam-
paign which is chilling fuel-oil users and put-
ting motorists on their feet in the United
States. Our guess is that the Japs are now so
far extended that they would hesitate long to
attack Russia. If they should attack Russia,
they would weaken themselves still further,
meaning American and Chinese chances to
close in on Japan for the kill would be im-
proved. What is happening between Japan
and Russia is that two smart nations are keep-
ing the peace between each other because each
thinks it can gain something by not fighting
the other. Russia is thinking of nobody's
interests but Russia’s, and is demanding more
and more “lease-lend” goods more and more
imperiously, regardless of the growing size and
seriousness of the United States’s own war
effort. We think these things ought to be care-
fully considered and resolutely acted upon in
the United States. In any other country we
know of, they would have been, long ago.—
N.Y. “Daily News."


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO STANLEY MALLETT late of Granville.
—TAKE NOTICE that SARAH HELEN
MALLETT has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
86 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance before the 31st May 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from E. PAUL BRANDT Esq. Solicitor 350
George Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
To ROBERT NORMAN WILTON whose
present whereabouts are unknown. — TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in The Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane by Writ of Summons num-
bered 144 of 1943 by MARY ALICE WILTON
your wife in which she claims the dissolution
of her marriage with you and the custody of
the children of the marriage and by her Petition
filed herein she alleges that on the First day
of January 1936 you without cause deserted her
and have continuously so deserted her for five
years and upwards AND it has ordered that ser-
vice of the said Petition and said Writ on you
be effected on you by sticking up on the Notice
Board in the Registry of the said Court a copy
of the said Petition and of the said Writ and
by advertising this Notice in two issues of
“The Courier-Mail’ Brisbane and “The
Bulletin” Sydney at intervals of not less than one
week If you desire to defend the said action you
must within sixty days from the performance
of the last of the said acts enter an appear-
ance at the said Registry and in default of
your so doing the Plaintiff may by leave pro-
ceed in the action and judgment may be given
against you Dated this twenty-fourth day of
March 1943 J. S. GIBSON, Second
Deputy Registrar.
M. W. COOPER, Solicitor, Monto. Town
Agents: S. H. WALKER, AHERN &
McPHIE, Solicitors, Brisbane.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
M*"*
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possinle improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1868.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUiVIM SIdEETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
&M«
Mi
/ .- A!
S ..
i
rtWKVu
R.y>S*s
> *
i?i;i
■;.ij
Work—Save —Lend.
Fill the Third Liberty Loan.
A
A
A
A
TVS
A
r
. #
and so the Makers of
GOLDEN FLEECE
and KOOKABURRA
Australia’s Finest
TbtiMinkaMe UNDERWEAR
For Men,Women and Children
remind you that Today’s Most Essential lob
FILL THE THIRD
LIBERTY LOAN
U77-27LL
Service Department.
Information Sought.
On what grounds did Dr. Evatt press for an
increase in the price of wool previously agreed
to by the British and Australian authorities .
Under the Imperial Wool Purchase Scheme
the British Government agreed to buy the whole
of the Australian wool clip for the duration ot
the war and one wool year thereafter at a fiat-
rate price of 13.4375 d. per pound, but there
was a clause in the agreement providing for a
review of the price from time to time. Presum-
ably Dr. Evatt asked for an increase in the
price on the grounds of increased cost of pro-
duction. The price was raised by the British
Government to a flat-rate price of 15jd. At or
about the same time, the price to M.L., S.
African and U.K. growers was also increased.
* * * *
(1) Has blackwater fever been known to
occur in New Guinea? (2) Is there a known
cure for it? (3) Was research work done by
monks of a French monastery in New Guinea
on the subject of a cure?
(1) Yes. There have been many cases. (2)
No specific cure. Treatment usually adopted
is to give large quantities of alkaline fluids and
apply hot packs over the region of the kidneys.
In certain stages quinine acts dangerously and
should be given only by an experienced medical
attendant. (3) No research work of the kind on
record.
* * * *
(1) What is the cause of shortsightedness?
(2) Can eye trouble be relieved by exercise?
(1) There are two causes of shortsightedness:
(a) inherited, (b) developed or acquired through
intense close work. (2) In some cases. There
have been failures due to certain types of optical
weaknesses, also the nervous disposition of the
patient.
* * * *
Does N. S. Wales or Victoria hold rights
over the Murray River?
The whole of the Murray River between
N. S. Wales and Victoria is territory of N. S.
Wales. The southern bank of the river con-
stitutes the boundary between the two States.
* * * *
Recipe for a watch- and clock-cleaning fluid ?
Add foz. liquid ammonia to one quart
water and grate or scrape loz. common soap
into the liquid.
Brief Answers.
D.A.: A “psycho-phantasmal manifestation”
would be a ghost M.H.D.: Harden dog’s
pads by dipping in a mixture of one tablespoon
salt to a quart of water J.C.: During 1870-
71 the first storage reservoir was constructed
upon Observatory Hill, Wickham-terrace, and
ten years later an additional reservoir was
established there... .A.D.: For demonstrations
you could use a Mason jar, suitably covered
to exclude light C.N.: Try weak oxalic
acid for the obstinate stains V.S.: “Dan-
cette” is an architectural term, applied to a
form of zigzag moulding found frequently in
ancient buildings... .K.L.: Enlargements may
be given a diffused effect by the use of fine silk,
placed in the path of the light.. . .N.T.L.:
Sponge the inside of the gas mask with a mix-
ture of one part lysol and one hundred parts
water... .A.L.: Sweet-potato weevils are often
carried over winter in the seedbed. , This,
therefore, should be located as far as possible
from the main beds, and the tubers used should
be destroyed as soon as young vines are obtain-
able.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
M.A.C.: —
Rommel’s defeat in Tunis
Proves again that no one immune is.
H.S.: —
Be it noted in the calendar
That, in the middle of the war,
Sydney wharf-laborers in gangs refused to mix.
Which in the gizzard sticks.
D.M.E.: The cliches kill it... .C.M.D.;
You’ve a long way to go J.R.: Keep
coming G.R.F.: The style’s archaic
A.E.S.: Uproariously feeble J.E.C.: Vague.
C.W.A.: Amiable doggerel E.C.S.:
Rhymes atrocious J.P.G.: Both have their
moments D.8.M.: Its only merit is the
quotation from Mark Twain E. 0.: The
sixth line’s pleasantly original; the rest con-
ventional J.F.: That call has been blown
on many trumpets M.R.: Not taking any
shares in “Goldmine”... .H.S.: You never say
“Ere you a halo don”; why write it?....
W.M.8.: From “this dust” to “share” it’s
good L.W.: The “essence of sincerity” isn’t
enough L.R.P.: Not in the best of causes
can you rhyme “devil” with “Yellow Peril”....
F.McG.: All froth and no beer J.F.: Like
the picture, but not the moral... .S.S.: Ele-
mentary J.H.A.: Not a song but a sermon.
R.S.: “Denoting a battle had begun” is
not “free verse” but indifferent prose
W.A.R.: Hitler will never be forgiven for some
of the poems that have been written about
him.


IF ITS A
nmuMOK
PROBLEM
■s
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
ludo wicis
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOVICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
LEATHER
BELT I N G
POL L E Y a
COUPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
Ptouurp
TRANSMISSION
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims. vnmvson
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F W. Duesbvry; Sydney Sa V
R. A. MANZIE. Managing Director. Sydney.
'Phone (three lines): 157361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Stre t, . __
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends >;
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 p.c. = 37,500 4,360 762,274
1933.. 73,078 36,000 5 „ „ 87,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 ~„ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7J „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 „ „ 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1939'. .139,216 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 4,210 776,858
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
Surplus sale investment, £6450 .. 2,028,157
1940. .128,634 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment outside interests, £9986.. 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. =90,000 20,213 2,066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 2,056,990
Adjustment outside interests, £4892 ..2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 .. .. 2,067,339
1942. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
* Excluding specific reserves until 1940. f Eliminat-
ing outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
Huddart Parker’s two passenger-and-
cargo vessels and half-dozen freighters
don’t comprise the largest fleet on the
Australian seaboard; they are one of
the most conservatively valued, standing
in H.P.’s accounts with tugs, lighters and
sundry plant at £442,792, a figure the
main unit alone couldn’t be replaced for.
And compensation still to come on one
of the older units lost by enemy action
early in the last term can be expected to
reduce that figure further. Moreover, no
local shipowner can exhibit such a robust
array of supporting revenue-producers, at
the head of which is a parcel of Consols
in excess of a million and a quarter.
Indeed, these and other investments con-
tribute three-fourths of consolidated pre-
tax profits; Coal interests are Hebburn
(four-sevenths share = £400,000), Metro-
politan (controlling interest) and J. and A.
Brown (£16,173 holding). A fifth interest
is held in Australian National Airways,
Tasmanian Steamers is half-owned and
Bay Steamers controlled, and there are
other investments like Amalgamated
Wireless and Melbourne Steam in which
the extent of H.P.’s stake isn’t known.
In the interests of rapid ship turnabout
—like crowded overhaul and docking
facilities, a great waster of effective ton-
nage —all aspects of sea transport are
now under the co-ordinating direction of
Supply Minister Beasley. Such inter-
state vessels as hadn’t been requisitioned
for Navy purposes had previously been
put under control of the Shipping Control
Board on a charter basis, owners continu-
ing as managing agents. Coal production
and distribution are also under direct
Government control, northern mines
being required to sell their outputs f.o.b.
Newcastle at fixed prices to the Com-
monwealth. On the whole, the black
mineral was less profitable last year,
while the rise in costs H.P. is required to
bear and the loss of the vessel mentioned
didn’t help shipping earnings, either. Also
taxation and other things caused a drop
in general investment income £110,530
(down £14,043).
In the final analysis, and allowing for
reserve movements, H.P.’s equity in
group earnings ran out £14,797 lighter
at £125,416, equal to 12.7 p.c. (against
14.7 p.c.) on its £750,000 of ord.
capital after the prefs. had been attended
to ; 12 p.c. again went out. The result
would have been £14,727 lighter still but
for a cut of that much in the combined
tax allocation (£77,326). Still, these set-
backs don’t detract from the long-run
prospects, while depreciation (£116,794,
practically unchanged) is being comfort-
ably looked after. During the year the
board sold some fixed assets, chiefly Mel-
bourne property, at a capital gain of
£5457, and reserves also scored by £4892
as the result of an adjustment between
H.P. and outsiders’ interest in undis-
tributed profits.
Consolidated finances afford fine secu-
rity against uncertainty:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1941. 1942.
Huddart Parker.. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 418,529 423,635 422,912
Sundry creditors!.. 278,029 301,645 420,771
Inter-co. balances! • 13,161 5,854
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 536,127 630,299
Ships, plant, etc... 1,156,457 1,009,800 903,597
Government sec. .. 1,281,935 1,327,730 1,386,730
Shares, etc. .. 764,975 772,041 803,972
Stores . . .. 77,223 81,924 80,190
Sundry debtors ~ 200,485 284,539 348,022
Cash . , . . 56,601 . 82,798 126,982
Inter-co. balances! 4,811
* Including proportion undivided profits. ! Including
taxation. ! Due to valuation in balance dates.
With the holding of Consols exceeding
its capital, H.P. shouldn’t experience
finance difficulties when making such
shipping replacements as the misfortunes
of war may render necessary, though
these are likely to be costly. Apart from
this exceptional liquidity, there is scarcely
an item among the remaining assets that,
on the board’s own admission, isn’t
fortified with inner provisions.
N.S.W. Mont de Plele
To R«- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 6,919 2i p.c. = 7,500 37,394
1933.. 7,377 2| „ „ 7,500 37,271
1934.. 14 204 4.3 „ „ 13,125 1079 38.350
1935.. 19,629 6 „ „ 18,000 1629 39,979
1936.. 23,186 7 .. „ 21,000 2186 42,165
1937.. 26,521 8 „ „ 24,000 2521 44,686
1938.. 29,589 9 ~ ~ 27,000 2589 47,275
1939.. 35,214 10 „ ~ 33,333 1881 49,156
Share premiums, £12,686 .. .. 61,842
1940.. 38,587 10 p.c. = 37,500 1087 62,929
1941.. 35,188 10 „ ~ 37,500 60,617
1942.. 28,770 8 ~ „ 30,000 59,387
Rationing, austerity .ynd other things
that are accompanying the war effort are
affecting this old and well-established
moneylending concern, now experienc-
ing difficulty in getting out its funds.
Pockets on the average are better lined
than formerly, production of many things
bought usually with borrowed money has
been restricted, while even taxes can be
paid on a t.p. basis. Generally, it may be
said that incentives to “raise the wind”
occur less frequently. So, instead of
lending freely to the public, which is
both its chief purpose and desire, the co.
is now placing funds with its bankers and
in Government loans, which suggests that
the pathway to profits and dividends will
for a time be less interesting. As it
is, and treating taxation of £4688 short-
provided for in 1941 as applicable to
that year, the board in the last two
periods has milked reserves in covering
the dividends declared.
Last term, after providing for bad and
doubtful debts and rebating interest on
current loans, gross earnings were figured
at £53,221 (down £5945). Exes. (£24,451)
climbed £472. Net result of £28,770
(down £6418) equalled 7.6 p.c. on capi-
tal, and compares with "9 .4, 10.2 and 10.6
p.c. back to 1939. A cut from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c. was made in the div., a payout
which took £1230 more than visibly
earned.
Reserves visible at £59,387 are none
too stout in relation to paid capital. It
is likely, though, that the co. is padded
internally, for in the past it has taken
some nasty bumps without giving (in
figures) even one croak of anguish.
Further, much business nowadays is done
through subsidiaries, all trading profit-
ably and whose earnings have been taken
credit for to the extent of dividends
declared;
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £375,209 £376,309 £375,290
Liabilities .. 31,216 84,747 16,626 20,343
Freeholds, etc. 69,913 68,908 68,429 68,000
Advances .. 281,813 343,779 260,350 228,943
Cash 121,918 134,518 129,947
Cash . . . . 1,688 4,692 12,693 43,130
Subsidiaries*.. 121,918 134,518 129,947
* Shares and advances.
Drop of £31,407 in advances and decline
of £4571 in subsidiary interests reflect
the shrinkage in business. Cash and
similar items increased £30,437 to
£43,130. Needless to say, finances are
comfortable —a bit much so for a money-
lending institution.
Headquarters are at Sydney, and there
are eight branches in N.S.W. metropoli-
tan and country areas, two at Melbourne
and another at Brisbane. Clamlike
silence is preserved about subsidiaries,
whose business has been maintained
while the parent concern’s advances have
contracted £114,836 since outbreak of
war.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
To Nominal
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 7,187 Nil ‘ 7,187 58,241
1934.. 5,016 Nil 5,015 63,256
1935.. 23,045 4 p.c. = 20,000 3,045 66,301
1936.. 34,006 5 „ „ 25,000 9,006 75,307
Unexplained reductions, £1126 .. 74,181
1937.. 55,936 6 p.c. = 30,000 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 74 „ „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. .. 104,732
Pref. Ord.
74 p.c.
Sj £>
1939.. 67,403 10,547 74 p.c. = 37,500 19,356 124,088
Unexplained addition, £29,775.. .. 153,863
Written off shares, £2OOO .. ..151,863
Sale of Far East patents, £50,000 .. 201,863
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,655
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „ ~20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 24 „ ~12,500 1,612 207,092
Production depends greatly on expendi-
ture by public bodies, which has dwindled
to next to nothing. So the co. is now
relying largely on orders for defence pur-
poses, and in the last six months of the
latest period 91\ p.c. of the business dealt
with was labelled accordingly. The
organisation has been declared “pro-
tected,” though that these days isn’t
necessarily much of a safeguard as
regards either equipment or labor.
In other directions the war has cramped
the co.’s style severely. Its interests in
Singapore, Malaya, Hong Kong and
Manila, which were developing rapidly.
are temporarily up in the air. Hume Pipe
(Far East), Ltd., using its parent’s and
Hume Steel patents, was turning out
cement and asbestos products, castings,
steel drums, nails and screws. Also, pro-
duction of glass bottles and sheet-glass was
in the offing. Further, in the Philippines,
production of most lines by a new ven-
ture in which the Far East co. received a
vendor consideration of £38,500 was also
proceeding with pep.
After providing £24,202 for deprecia-
tion and setting aside £29,000 (up £11,500)
for taxes, profits shown by the parent
last term were £22,550 (down £8713). No-
thing came in from the pups, which con-
tributed £17,237 the year before. Pref.
requirements mopped up £8438, leaving
the equivaelnt of 2.8 p.c. on ord. capital.
That compares with 4.5, 6.1, 11.7 and
10.4 p.c. back to 1938. Ord. handout
was 2-\ p.c., and a mere £1612 was left
for reserves. Deducting outside interests,
combined net profit of the co. and its
subsidiaries is shown £21,404 lighter at
£22,375; results of Hume Pipe (Far
East), Ltd., since March, 1941, were not
available
Issued capital was £500,000 for many
years. It increased to the present £612,500
when the Far East co. was taken over
for £112,500 in p.c. pref. shares—
three for every two Far East shares;
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £608,900 £612,500 £612,500
Liabilities .. 87,220 113,385 234,556 209,863
Freeholds, etc. 70,766 73,862 75,743 75,854
Buildings, plant,
etc. . . 232,786 189,442 164,295 147,520
Stocks . . 76,527 95,773 108,771 82,138
Uncompleted
work . . 27,160 40,659 30,093 15,921
Book debts . . 102,051 112,973 143,585 147,506
Advances subsid. 124,294 94,244 174,488 211,945
Cash, etc. •• 20,672 25,589 19,723 1 4,733
Shares in other
cos. & invests. 124,719 67,919 68,519 69,019
Shares in sub.
cos. .. 168,9 0 0 281,53 7 2 81,537
The advances shown take in loans of
£51,890 to Hume Pipe (Far East),
£135,110 to Hume Steel, £2689 to other
cos. and £22,256 on an asbestos deposit
in Maoriland which is being worked on
a share basis with Hume Steel, in which
co. Hume Pipe has a writtan-down ord.
holding (apparently included with “shares
in other cos.”) of £165,000. Book
values of subsidiary shares are £216,024
for Hume Pipe (Far East) and £65,513
as to others.
As for Hume Pipe, interests valued
at over £267,000 must be retrieved from
enemy-occupied territoiy, and adjustment
of asset values appears unavoidable.
Altogether, a good deal depends on the
war and the progress thereof. Britain
has also promised, for what it may prove
worth, to render Asian cos. all aid of
which she feels able in the period of
reconstruction. The parent’s local busi-
ness at the moment isn’t being main-
tained, but the Steel co. appears busy
enough.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends
Ist 2nd _
Prefs. Prefs. Written Efr-
Aug., Loss. 6 p.c. 7i* p.c. Ord. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves.!
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. • • 202,387
From internal reserves, £0732 .. 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,18-
6i p.c. 3 p.c.
1938.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 7,771 36,934
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,73*
1940.. 56,061 18,000 19,360 Nil 8,274 53,161
3 p.c.
1941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8.485 59,706
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,473 64,328
■f Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Operating a big department store at
Railway-square, the co. has substantial
connections at Wollongong, Newcastle
and elsewhere, and is also interested in
Bon Marche, just up the street in Broad-
way and still clearing up pref. arrears.
Business on a t.p. basis has been a feature,
but is now difficult to service, and mail-
order dealings, previously extending out-
side N.S.W., have been restricted. Sales
otherwise have fallen* owing to quota
reductions, coupon-rationing and scarcity
of stocks. Some good-selling furniture
lines have been declared luxuries and
their manufacture prohibited; flow of
essential furniture has been cut to a
trickle, and that of poor quality.
Retailers like Marcus Clark are thus
in the position of a hungry horse sepa-
rated by fencing from a field of oats.


INVENTORS—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Auvr.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
ate tit an
n FINE HOTEL
A liotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotels, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
lit
T n 7
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
To-day’s World makes
YOUR WILL 1
AND YOUR EXECUTORS
even more vital matters!
Important at all times, the making of your
Will and the choice of your Executor are now
more serious responsibilities than ever before.
War inevitably brings increased risk of personal
attack, property destruction and the death of
private executors.
Place your affairs in safe, independent hands by
appointing The Union Trustee Co. your trustee
and executor. Then you can be certain that your
wishes will be carried out exactly, always.
Sound advice provided now by unbiased experts
may save your dependents needless difficulties in
later yea>rs.
Write, ’phone or call NOW for full particulars.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885 ,
The only Trustee Company hatnng offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales. Victoria and Qu
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE!
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E..
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C.
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
m
m
o-.
•I
GET THE BEST FROM
SHED MANAGEMENT.’
YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
3s. 6d., POST FREE, "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
c
ol*
\\
L
LT
Ni
/
/
£1
:J
A
%
m
I'Mi
%
£
■
IT
/e?
* • •
There’s a job to be done .. . let’s do it promptly and
thoroughly. Let’s fill the Liberty Loan. Every pound you can
save is needed, to back up the gallant efforts of our fighting
forces. They’re not shirking! Surely we, in our way, can
make sacrifices for the achievement of an early victory. After
all, we’re only asked to lend —not to give —and we’ll be all the
better off when peace comes again.
INVEST ALL YOUR SAVINGS IN THE
THIRD
LIBERTY
LOAN
£100,008,000
11 f T
Purchasing power in good measuie is
available in public hands, but cannot
fed. Objective, of course, is to keep down
the consumption of certain S° obs n f
serve man-power and divert m
the war effort. Slowly but surely outlets
for public spending or investmen
tightening up or closing altogether.
Quota restrictions and rationing h
Marcus Clark in the last three month
of the 1942 period. Sales then fell away,
but the unrestrained buying scramble in
the first nine months lifted Sydney reta
sales generally during the full penod by
7 p.c. Net result for Marcus Clark, after
providing for “very heavy” taxation, was
£62,603 (down £1932). Depreciation ac-
counted for £B473—shown as written oft
in the table—and the amount available
for distribution was £54,130 (down
£1920). That was sufficient to cover
pref. divs, and show 4.1 p.c. on or .
capital, as against 4.5, 2.5 and 1.4 p.c.
back to 1939. The ords. got 3 p.c., as
in the previous year. , ,
Since the close of accounts the co. s
old store, which has lately been „
tenanted, was taken over for a £3o,v)uU
service hostel at a rental of £ios per
week. What former tenants were paying
isn’t known:
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,035,895 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages.. 530,360 507,769 477,020 430,024
Other debts 114,094 109,800 210,646 106,300
Freeholds .. 656,687 671,860 680,618 686,074
Leaseholds. . ' 4,426 4,026 3,626 3,42 >
Plant, etc. 68,540 67,071 58,668 54,506
■Stocks . . 191,117 181,360 243,956 26d,860
Book debts 556,368 559,774 583,330 475,77 a
Shares, etc. 125,947 118,913 117,532 112,892
Cash, etc... 12,916 6,388 20,878 33,a80
Debtors’ balances are well down by
£107,555. Movements of this sort are
rather general these days. The inflow
of cash there was applied mainly in re-
ducing mortgages by £26,496 and other
xiebts by £54,296. Cash items moved
up £12,702. The more or less liquid
surplus is £168,346 (up £7848).
A problem now confronting the board
is to reduce expenses to conform with
the slimmer turnover. Much expendi-
ture is no longer within the co.’s con-
trol, and other must be incurred because
of regulations and so on. Staff is a
further problem that may easily grow
worse, and Minister Dedraan has also
to be reckoned with.
R. Ellerton Binns has succeeded knight
Frederic Hamilton as chairman of Wiluna
Gold Corporation, London (the holding
co.). Hamilton, who was the first chair-
man and made way for the late John
Agnew, remains on the board by special
request. Binns is a member of the firm
of McCarthy and Binns, consulting en-
gineers to the corp. for some years. About
1939 Binns gave a bleak report on the
Wiluna mine. Later he became a direc-
tor. He told shareholders at the annual
meeting that major development work
during the past year was in the main
workings on the East lode and No. 2
West lode at depth. The life of the mine
was more than ever dependent on de-
velopments at depth in these workings ;
outlying deposits of ore were nearing ex-
haustion. Labor shortage and resulting
operating problems had now caused the
suspension of all development work,
Binns added that wages, transpor-
tation> fuel and other c.osts con-
tinued to exert increasing pressure, while
the burden of taxation was heavy. With
development suspended, any further de-
ierioration of this position could result
only in a serious decline in production
and profits. The future was so obscured
prediction of either * e
life of operations or profits. At October
31 last net cash in the hands of the
operating co including Australian war
loans and gold in transit, after allowing
for debts in Australia, amounted to
£A791,663, equivalent to £633,000 ster-
ling. Mt. Charlotte mine, Kalgoorlie,
said Bmns, had been closed down in
consequence of shortage of labor, stores
and mining supplies. An agreement has
been concluded whereby the option is
held in abeyance, the position being sub-
ject preview every six months.
Edjudina Consolidated (W.A.) gave up
some time ago because funds were ex-
and more could be raised in
London. It now reports a loss of £2035
sterling for the last year it carried on, and
adds that portion of the plant has been
commandeered by the Federal Govern-
ment and t h at negotiations as to the price
f further units are proceeding.


STATE EXPRESS
///
a£umyspieaie I
m
Money Buys Munitions.
COME ON, AUSTRALIA!
Let’s fill the THIRD LIBERTY LOAN.
1 9 B ® 0-11 42
'T\l AT
An Executor’s Task
is an Expert’s Task
Executorship is not a task lightly to be imposed upon anyone. It is not_ always
a kindly act to appoint a friend to carry out the responsible and onerous work
associated with the administration of an estate. With the best intentions in
the world he can fail to perform the duties in the best interests of the
beneficiaries. He may not survive the completion of his task and your affairs
can pass into the hands of one in whom you would have less confidence.
The obvious thing is to appoint an expert executor who dies.
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. is a permanent institution under experienced
and capable direction. If you would like to have details of the service which
it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the necessary information.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H.. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
1 bridge street
PHONE: B 7901.
SYDNEY'-
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4-43
Business,Rollery,Etc.
World Currency Control
Both London and New York have now
put forward schemes for post-war inter-
national money control. They are tenta-
tive plans only, and while the New York
proposal comes from the Treasury, that
from London is apparently the brain-
child of Lord Keynes, and “has been put
forward by direction of the British Gov-
ernment for discussion by the United
Nations.” The British Government “is
not committed to the principles or details
of the scheme. Any proposals for a satis-
factory international monetary mechan-
ism after the war can only be framed
after full consideration of all the aspects
of a difficult problem.” However, the
plan has already been discussed as to its
technicalities with the Dominions and
India, as well as with “representatives of
the European Allies.” It has been “com-
municated to the representatives of other
United Nations.”
The official definition of the chief pur-
poses of the proposal is as follows:
(1) To provide a generally acceptable
means of payment between nations.
(2) To ensure that any alterations which
take place in the exchange values of
national currencies are made as the result
of an orderly international procedure and
not by unilateral action.
(3) To relieve from excessive strain any
nation which is suffering from temporary
difficulty in meeting its obligations to
make payments abroad, at the same time
subjecting it to a gradual pressure towards
restoring a position of balance.
The matter has been the subject of a
White Paper, and the proceedings, so far
as they have gone, were announced in
London and Washington, as well as in
Canberra and other appropriate centres,
last week.
Most international trade problems arise
from countries that are weak politically,
economically or productively endeavoring
to keep up to the living standards of
countries that are better situated in these
regards. Often the countries that are
stronger endeavor to press exports upon
these weaker countries as well, and, unless
these weak countries receive the assist-
ance of loan money or special trade con-
cessions in the fhatter of their own ex-
ports, the position soon comes where
they can’t pay, and exchange diffi-
culties arise. No matter what inter-
national monetary arrangements are
made, the fundamental difficulties of trad-
ing between countries will remain so long
as their internal weaknesses remain.
Internal difficulties often exist in coun-
tries which, basically, are strong and eco-
nomically wealthy. Through unbalanced
matters of domestic economy certain in-
dustries may be in a weak position, and,
politically, they may be exceedingly
troublesome. Great efforts may be made
to increase the export trade of such
industries because of the employment in-
volved. What amount to subsidised ex-
ports may be arranged, with “dumping”
in other countries. This “dumping” is no
respecter of nationalities ; wherever the
tariff wall is inadequate, dumped goods
find their way in. Wittingly or unwit-
tingly, some countries endeavor to use
other countries, as markets, to get them
out of difficulties caused by uneconomic
production at home. The matter may be
almost entirely unsatisfactory to everyone
in the long run, but it is much easier for
the exporting Government to blame some
circumstance outside its own country
than it is to blame the various conflicting
interests at home.
In contrast with rich countries which
may attempt to assist their weaker indus-
tries by “forcing” exports, there are
poorer countries which use their stronger
industries to the fullest extent in order
to get precious foreign exchange needed
to buy essential raw materials. Thus,
prior to the present war, Japan used its
silk and cotton-textile industries to the
fullest possible extent in order to get
funds to buy petrol, rubber, wool, rice,
iron ore, etc. Japanese goods were
dumped all over the world until a selec-
tive tariff was used in many countries to
prevent this sort of thing.
In international trade economic war-
fare has been as common as any other
kind of warfare. There is great free-
dom of individual action in matters of
ordinary trade, and the interests which
are at odds with each other may be partly
within a country and partly outside it.
The issue becomes far more tangled than
when one country is ranged against an-
other in actual war. In peace-time all
kinds of conflicting private interests may
be damaging the national economic struc-
ture and its trade relations with other
countries.
With the many problems of a political
as well as an economic kind, any
international clearing union will have
an extremely difficult task confronting
it. It is stated that the British scheme
now put forward is, in effect, an attempt
to apply domestic banking principles to
the international field. But it is admitted
that the analogy is not perfect; prob-
lems of “discipline” and management are
difficult to solve satisfactorily.
Some of the mechanics of the British
proposal have been explained. Where
countries which have been overbuying
from others are forced to borrow, the
funds of “bancor,” or international
money, held by creditor countries will,
of course, increase ; it is suggested that
such creditor countries use these accumu-
lations of funds either to spend more
abroad or lend more abroad. This is a
recognition of the fact that, in certain cir-
cumstances, creditor countries can never
get paid by some debtor countries with-
out reciprocity in trade or investment.
Voting in matters of management will
depend largely, though not entirely, upon
the value of international trade trans-
acted by each co-operating country.
Private banks in each country will trans-
act their business in pounds, dollars, etc.,
but the Government, as agent for the
international bank, will convert these
into “bancor.” Any alteration of the ex-
change rate of a country will be done
under strict control, and speculation ex-
tinguished. Countries that are overbuying
can be checked. The “bancor” unit will
have a basis of gold (alterable), and every
country will have the right to sell gold to
the union, but not the right to get gold
for the return of “bancor.” Countries
will not be allowed to outbid the union
for gold in their private capacity, but will
otherwise be free “to make as much or as
little use of gold” as they think fit.
It is said that the plan will not call for
special economic or financial sacrifice
from certain countries. No contribution
will be asked from the Budget or tax-
payers of any country. “The plan recog-
nises the high prestige value still enjoyed
by gold and its convenience for certain
purposes, but it does not put the fate
of the international money at the mercy
of the vicissitudes of the world’s gold
supply, nor give any countenance to the
idea that the value of that money is de-
rived from the possession of a gold back-
ing.”
The Washington plan calls for a stabi-
lisation fund “of at least $5OOO million,”
with votes in proportion to subscriptions,
but no Government to have more than
25 p.c. of total votes. It appears that the
United States wants 25 p.c. voting power ;
if so, without its vote any matter of
major importance cannot be agreed to,
as an 80 p.c. vote is required in such
cases, though in less important matters
a simple majority suffices. Members are
required to make at least half initial sub-
scriptions to the fund in the form of gold
or Government securities. No loans
will be made. There is to be a new
10-dollar international money unit called
the “Unitas,” which will not be coined,
but will be redeemable in gold transfer-
able among members.
It is possible that neither the British
nor the United States plan will be both
workable and acceptable in their present
shape. It is certain that a legal or mathe-
matical formula alone will not solve inter-
national trade problems. But once an
international clearing-house and confer-
ence-room was established the credit
problems of all countries could be dis-
cussed, and if properly balanced world
trade is sought by the nations, then some-
thing like it could be achieved within the
scope of physical possibilities. While
both Britain and the United States rpay
each feel that, by equity, they should
have the greater say in the conduct of a
world clearing-house, from the odtset a
spirit of give and take is a fundamental
necessity to the success of plans of this
nature. The basic principle of world
trade, up to the present largely ignored,
is reciprocity.
In the unstable and fluid condition of
industry and politics in Australia at
present unfair and widely-divergent rates
of pay are going to tens of thousands of
people. Men who have been pushed
around from one job to another may be
working long hours for a few shillings
above the basic wage; on the other
hand, youths under 21 who have been
assistants to some variety of tradesman
for a few months may be getting easily
double the money. Unskilled older
men could often do the work just as well
with a couple of weeks’ experience, and
in their case families would probably be
benefiting as well as the man himself.
Rafferty rules seem to govern the ad-
ministration of these matters. The dis-
turbing mess-up is traceable to an extent
to political control, also to the division
of political control, as well as the con-
cessions to unionism and smaller indi-
vidual bodies of workers in the case of
special, unattractive jobs. At the same
time, even in the cities, men taken from
private employment and put on to*
A.W.C., departmental or other “pro-
tected” spend most of their own
i le discussing in wonderment the
almost violent contrast in conditions
under which various types of men work.
And that is leaving the services out of
the conversation.
* * * *
During February the increase in de-
posits in Australian savings banks was
the record figure of £9.8 million, against
£8.7 million in January and £3.1 million in
December. Total deposits are now £327.5
million, up £64.4 million in a year. Infla-
tionary wage rates, rationing of food and
clothing, the curtailment of luxuries and
inadequate support of war loans are re-
sponsible for the great recent increase in
the balances in people’s savings-bank ac-
counts. The hoarding of notes is still
going on, too, but at a reduced rate. It
is of interest to record that during the
present Government’s term of office
savings-bank deposits have only once
shown any reduction during the period
of a loan flotation, whereas in the day
of Menzies and Fadden there was evi-
dence of loan support from s.-b. figures
at every float.
* * * *
Not so long ago an Australian shipping
co., to please the unions, added a third
cook to a crew. The freighter on its
next trip went to the same port as pre-
viously. With 50 p.c. more cooking staff
the overtime worked in the galley was
over 50 p.c. higher than for the preced-
ing trip! It can hardly be argued that
one extra mouth to feed, and that of
a cook, in a crew of 40 or so could in-
crease the amount of cooking and clean-
ing required by more than 50 p.c. If so,
if a few more cooks were put on the posi-
tion would soon be reached when the crew
would have to help cook for the cooks.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 tor particulars
A V STS ALIAS LIFE BLOOD
mm
Arteries of water! These are the pressing
need of Australia if it is to achieve its right-
ful place among the peoples of the world.
It must conserve its water supply for its
people and provide bountiful irrigation for
millions of thirsty acres. With modern Cater-
pillar Diesel and Waugh & Josephson Earth-
Moving Equipment, building a large dam or
a pipeline across country or providing an
irrigation scheme . . . once the work of years
... is now possible in months.
In constructing vital water supply schemes
Caterpillar Tractors, wielding big, brutish
bulldozers, clear away trees, stumps and rocks
and remove millions of yards of earth to build
the dams. Multi-scooped ditchers powered by
Caterpillar Diesel Engines, cut the trench for
the pipeline. Then the tractors, with winches
and sidebooms, swing the pipe into position
for welding, cradle it for doping and wrap-
ping, lower it, cover it . . . backfill the trench.
In water conservation and irrigation, as in a hundred other
essential tasks that go towards building the pride and prosperity
of a nation, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson
Earth-Moving Equipment have cut costs to a fraction of
what could be achieved by older methods... and
wasting time or manpower.
CT.S-33-42
CATERPILLAR
■f- M
vi £Sfl ,
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-
MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY.
Unwin', Bridge Rd„ St. Peter,, SyM.y. 'Phone: M 3321; Mo.fliiii St, Gunnedeb
Phone: Gunnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rath bone, 57 Cambridge
St South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. Phone: Port Macquarie
bi V Mr D McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone: J 1456; Rankin Street, Innisfail. 'Phone: Innisfail 475
LTD.
im
Si
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
ij-ea/d d/i idaUcip
ml mttdUy
Australia needs every penny you
can afford to carry this fight
to Victory. Lend all you can
to the Third Liberty Loan.
SO 6 5
The Loan .
The response to the loan remained
disappointing at the beginning of the
week. The greater part of £4O mil-
lion was still being sought. War workers,
as a body, apart from those in the ser-
vices, don’t seem fully awake to what
the occasion demands of them, me
majority are making money out ot
this war; the extra they are making,
and something more, should all be going
back into the effort. Savings-bank de-
posits and notes held by the public show
a picture of the people growing richer,
while we all know, from the rationing
of nearly everything and the waste ot
war, that the country is really growing
poorer. It is an absurd picture, and it
spells danger. Australians will have to
pay for this war by taxation, lend-
ing or inflation. Inflation will cost them
the most and it may take their jobs from
them as well. The remedy and the duty
are to support the loan.
Shareholders in N.Z. Perpetual Forests
(in liq.) will receive scrip in N.Z. Forest
Products to the nominal value of £79,625.
Shareholders on the Australian register
will come in for 8683 prefs. and 27,595
ords. Originally, N.Z. Perpetual Forests
paid capital was £197,536. More than
this has been returned.
$ * * *
Some of these overnight-experts in the
Department of This and That are fuming
and fussing over the qualities of certain
Australian products. Salt, for example.
Now salt is sodium chloride in any coun-
try, and it’s nasty stuff to store, but offi-
cialdom recently decreed that quantities
of it be packed straight into steel drums.
Of course, after a few weeks there wasn't
nearly so much of the drums left as there
had been at the beginning, and flustered
condemnation of the vicious, hungry
nature of the Australian salt was heard.
Other drums “processed” to prevent cor-
rosion had to be dumped because they
would have contaminated the salt. Much
of the Government’s handling of salt-
production and -supply is preposterous.
Much of the handling of many things is
preposterous.
* * * *
Sales by Imperial Chemical Industries
of Aust. and N.Z. were a record last
year. Defence took the greater part of
the turnover, and net profits were lower.
Demand for the co.’s plastics exceeded
supplies, and manufacture of synthetic
resin for dental plates has commenced.
Substitutes for rubber insulating material
are on the way, and formaldehyde will
help in the making of other plastics.
Many other new lines are being made. A
5 p.c. dividend to ordinary shareholders
was capitalised and the money kept in
the business to finance additions to plant
and premises.
# * * *
A large supply of flints for kitchen and
cigarette-lighters has been made available
out of a refugee cargo. Matches are still
very short.
The Federal Government has been
accused by Paterson and McEwen,
Ms.H.R., of taking over private prop-
erty and not paying for it. Shipping and
rU ral property were both mentioned. In
matters curren t production the Gov-
ernment j s a i so a bad pay sometimes,
thoU gb the Wirraway has now gone out
G f production, many of the originals have
t t been p a iq f or according to the
Auditor-General. The same sort of thing
applies to some other industries, though
there are also reports of perfectly satis-
factory dealings with the Department of
Munitions.
* * * •
Prime Minister Curtin has announced
that he has no intention at present of
asking the British Government for an
increase in the price of wool.
Judge O’Mara, in the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, has come to the con-
clusion that Waddingtons Pty., Ltd., in
a matter where employees refused to work
overtime except at rates conceded by the
co. in 1942, disregarded the wage-pegging
laws and that employees disobeyed the
National Security Regulations in asking
for higher remuneration. The co. is en-
gaged in war work.


THE SERVICE MAN
Shifting His Weight.
“Ek Dum”: The Pacific war is still in
a reorganisation stage.
The enemy is busy shifting his weight
from one foot to the other. He has
found his left leg in the Lae-Finschhafen
area sinking in a bog of Allied resistance.
Supplies on the way to Lae are destroyed
by the flying ants. Land patrols of bull-
dog ants (A.I.F. variety) are conducting
voracious campaigns round Mubo on the
very edges of his foothold. They have
streamed across the Papuan border from
the Buna area and are steadily gobbling
up Jap posts along the Waria-Morobe
district. At the present rate it will not
be long before the Japanese invasion
south of Vitiaz Strait can be marked off
as sunk.
The enemy, returning to an old love,
is trying to rest his invasion weight on
the Madang-Wewak area. It was at
Madang early in the last war that a
couple of Japanese cruisers were dis-
covered. They had gone there and had
taken possession of it under the impres-
sion that Madang was the capital. For-
tunately for Australia, their map was
about 30 years out of date —Madang had
been the capital in very early days. And,
anyway, the German Administration had
surrendered formally to General Holmes.
Madang, laid out in the German time,
is like a vast garden, with beautiful walks
and palm-trees which are apt to drop a
large ripe nut on the head of the un-
wary pedestrian. The harbor is dotted
with islands, and is both commodious
and lovely. The town hospital was one
of those prepared for aerial war long
before Japan attacked —its floral red cross
in the garden was something no “(T’
fighter pilot could miss. Twelve miles
away is the great mission of Alexishafen,
almost a complete civilisation in itself.
The coast beyond is sparsely settled, and
the next big settlement is Wewak, dis-
trict H.Q. of the Aitape district, very
difficult to get at by land from the south
and south-east, since it is beyond the
great Ramu and Sepik rivers and
a large stretch of scarcely-controlled
country. Moresby is within bomber
range. It is also as accessible as Rabaul
to Kavieng and Truk.
The South-west Pacific Command
seems to realise to the full the dangers
of allowing organisation of Wewak and
Madang to proceed, especially since
mastery of the Sepik would permit the
river to be used as a road far into the
interior of the island. To this area and
to the feeding centre at Kavieng the main
attention of the Allied air forces con-
tinues to be attracted.
Madang and Wewak Bombed
On April 7 a destroyer and two cargo
vessels were bombed off Kavieng. Next
day heavy units blasted Kavieng’s new
aerodrome at Panapai, where there ate
protective dispersal pits for 50 bombers
and 50 fighters, with runways to match.
Then, during three hours on Friday,
Madang was hammered in its heaviest
doing-over. Long-distance fighters sowed
65,000 bullets in the town, and bombers
smashed six aircraft, sank a power barge,
blew up dumps, damaged the wharf, fired
buildings at Amron mission in the out-
skirts and set fire to a barge and de-
stroyed others at Alexishafen, where the
enemy has turned the old German mis-
sion landing strip into a 1500-yard run-
way.
On Saturday Madang was blasted
again and Wewak was as thoroughly
treated. Apart from heavy damage to
its facilities, a 1000-ton cargo ship was de-
stroyed at the jetty, another ship was
damaged by a 5001 b. bomb, and a 1500-
tonner, some miles offshore, was set
on fire. A dump was blown up and
searchlights and a.-a. batteries put out of
action. The only ’plane which tried
interception was shot down.
The only large raid on Allied bases
was an attack by 45 bombers and fighters
on Oro Bay, where an Allied vessel was
forced on to the beach. Thirty bombs
were dropped. Allied ’planes shot 23
enemy ’planes out of action, destroying
five dive-bombers and 12 “Os.”
Tn the north-west Allied activity con-
tinued in the Dutch New Guinea area
and the adjacent islands. Timor had a
visit from Hudson bombers at the week-
end. The pattern of the attacks suggest
the nature of Japanese strategy. The
Arus and Dutch New Guinea seem to
be designed to form a slice of the New
Guinea sandwich.
Piecemeal, the enemy foothold con-
tinues to grow like sand in a flooded creek
being piled up against an obstacle. It
is doubtful whether any conceivable air
attack can alone effectively deal with the
growing menace. The only way in which
the Jap’s southward effort can be made
to wither and die is by cutting the main
sea and land arteries which link him to
Japan.
In the Solomons
In the Solomons the Japanese Air
Force has renewed its activity on a large
scale.
On April 9 it was reported from
Washington that 50 Japanese bombers,
escorted by 48 “O” fighters, had made a
major attack on U.S. shipping near
Guadalcanal. The U.S. report was that
21 “Os,” five dive-bombers and ten other
’planes had been destroyed for the loss
of an Airacobra and six Grumman Wild-
cats.
Tokyo’s version was that an Allied
fleet had been attacked off Florida Island
on April 7 and that a cruiser, a destroyer
and 10 transports had been sunk and
three transports damaged. It was further
claimed that 33 Allied ’planes were shot
down and that only six Japanese dive-
bombers, which deliberately crashed into
their objectives, were lost.
At the week-end an official U.S. Navy
communique described the raid as the
heaviest made by the enemy in the South
Pacific. It placed the number of enemy
machines shot down at 34 —at least six
by ack-ack —and admitted the loss of a
destroyer, a corvette, a tanker and a small
fuel boat.
Mr. Fraser announced that the corvette
was Maoriland’s gallant little Moa, which,
with her sister Kiwi, earned the personal
commendation of the C.-in-C. of the U.S.
Navy area. Admiral King, for sinking a
large Japanese submarine. Mr. Fraser
said that five brave lads were missing,
seven wounded and seven injured.
Less than a month off the anniversary
of the battle of the Coral Sea (May 7),
the enemy .strongly holds the North Solo-
mons and is showing signs of an immi-
nent major effort to make progress to-
wards Australia or south Allied bases.
Tunisia's Great Battle.
“Ek Dum”: The second Allied offen-
sive in Tunisia began on Monday, April
5, with a terrific air attack which reached
from the Wadi Akarit and the El Guettar
region to Naples, Messina, Sardinia and
Trapani.
On that day the R.A.F. and the
U.S.A.F. announced the destruction of
153 enemy ’planes—the greatest number
destroyed on any front since the Battle for
Britain, except for one or two days in
Russia. A thousand sorties were made
in the Mediterranean. It was a terrible
day for the Luftwaffe and for Sicilians
and Southern Italians, who were seen
streaming headlong out of cities and
towns with their miserable belongings.
Nearly 300 aircraft were caught on the
ground and dozens were left in twisted
ruins.
The path across the Sicilian Straits was
marked by blazing pools of petrol on the
surface of the water where lumbering
Axis transports had gone down —18 of
them were reported by the Americans to
have been wrecked in one epic fight. All
the week the Moroccan air was black
with fresh Allied bombers coming in from
oversea supply bases and others swarm-
ing northwards in formations like the
migrating bird flocks which should now
be winging their way into the northern
spring. Over the Sicilian Straits 67 more
’planes were claimed by the Americans
on April 11.
At sea, the Admiralty reported, equal
activity was shown. Naval support was
being given to the Eighth Army. Two
enemy tankers and a supply ship under
escorts were torpedoed and a new Italian
cruiser hit, causing an explosion. Several
small vessels were in Tunisian waters.
In a raid on Maddalena (Sardinia) the
Italian heavy cruisers Trieste and Gorizia
were hit. Reconnaissance ’planes later
reported that one cruiser appeared to have
sunk.
Rommel’s Line Broken
The Eighth Army, having rested and
consolidated after its fatiguing 12 days
of fighting and disposed its artillery oppo-
site Rommel’s holding line along the
Wadi Akarit, 15 miles or so north of
Gabes, began its fresh attack in the early
darkness of April 6.
The enemy was posted along the wadi
for about 12 miles, his right flank on a
salt lake, his left at the sea. There was
little to relieve the frontal landscape,
except two hills held by the enemy north
of the wadi.
There was no finesse about the Eighth
Army’s attack. However strong he might
be, Rommel was in a precarious position.
The American Fifth Army’s Second
Corps was about 40 miles away on his
right flank. It was having a hard time
because, apart from other difficulties, it
was fighting across the run of the ranges.
But at any moment it might be heavily
reinforced, either from Montgomery’s
mobile formations, via Kebili and Tozeur,
or from the north.
The Eighth Army had pushed some
force into a position from which it
could threaten the enemy’s right flank ;
and if, from-there, it could junction with
Patton’s Americans, as Rommel must
have known all too well, combined mobile
divisions might pour down into his rear
defences and catch him in a sandwich.
General Montgomery did not waste
time on niceties. He served notice on the
Axis to quit Wadi Akarit by blowing a
hole in the middle of the enemy line with
a concentration of 500 guns followed by
eager British and Indian divisions. At
4.30 a.m. the whole Eighth Army was
pouring forward through a wide gap,
while Rommel attempted to stop the leak
by furious counter-attacks designed to
hold back the advance while he got away
the bulk of his supplies and armor.
At the same time swarms of Allied air-
craft were punishing his retreating
columns and making his rearward aero-
dromes inoperable.
Soon General Montgomery had a
bridgehead 12 miles deep in Rommel’s
country. That slippery gentleman must
have thanked his stars that the coastal
plain widens out beyond the wadi, and
that he had a prospect of dispersal which
afforded him a chance to partly neutralise
air attacks and enable him to prevent the
American-British flank junction from
breaking behind him.
At the same time this freedom of move-
ment gave him only temporary advan-
tage, since if forced to make an early
stand before he reached the Susa region
he would be bound to defend a consider-
ably longer line than at his first attempt.
To offset this added responsibility, he
would be able to pull in some flank guard
forces from the hills, though this in
return would send fresh Americans and
French pouring down into the coastal
plain.
By April 7 General Montgomery was
able to say that the break-through opera-
tion had been a success: “My troops
fought splendidly. The fighting was as
tough as anything since El Alamein.”
His forces had breached the anti-tank
ditch, 25ft. wide and 12ft. deep, and the
moat on the seaward side of the main
road which the enemy had formed in the
wadi. They had scaled the 700 ft. hill
of Roumana, which stands out of the
plain like a fortress, in spite of mine
fields, inside the rings of which they
found Italian machine-gunners who evi-
dently had been fenced in to stay.
They were soon all over Tebaga Fat-
nassa, the second enemy-held hill.
They did all this after an advance of
6000 yards across open country, mostly
by compass-bearing and in the teeth of
deadly flanking fire, and they did it mostly
at the double, so that within 2\ hours
after the fight began they were consoli-
dated in the principal main objectives.
By April 8 British advance guards were
halfway over the 70 miles to Sfax, while
the U.S. Second Corps mopped up in the
El Guettar ranges. Algiers Radio re-
ported that after the Akarit engagement
the Eighth Army had about 9500 pris-
oners in its hands, mostly Italians.
General Montgomery was driving hard
while his flankers scoured the western
foothills and attempted to get behind the
fleeing enemy. By 1.30 a.m. on April 9
the Axis was being chased out of
Mahares. At 8.15 a.m. on Saturday,
April 10, the British were in Sfax.
Back to Susa
On April 11 the bulk of the Axis forces
were reported to have passed Susa, 140
miles from the Akarit line. The Eighth
Army’s van was 30 miles behind them,
and a British armored spearhead, backed
by Home Counties regiments of the First
Army, was forcing its way out of the
mountains, where the Americans had
been unable to break through, to threaten
the retiring flank, with U.S. and French
troops on the wings. These troops had
burst through the Fondouk block and
were menacing the holy city of Kairouan.
They looked as if they might cut off
Rommel’s rearguard.
The enemy did not wait to establish a
main defence line south of the Kairouan-
Susa road at the Sidi el Hani salt marshes,
as it was thought that he might do. He
did not even delay to lay minefields.
The rate at which he was leaving
materiel and Italians behind, however,
seems to indicate that he may not
have intention of making any main stand
before he reaches the strong line in
the environs of the Tunis area —Pont du
Fahs, Zaghouan-Hammet or Enfida-
ville, where some of the highest moun-
tains in eastern Tunisia bar the way.
Zaghouan is a pivotal point from which
main road, rail and—'equally or more im-
portant the aqueduct run to Tunis
down the valley of the Meliane, the
second-biggest river in Tunisia.
At_ Enfidaville there is a strong posi-
tion in a gap behind a salt marsh beside
the sea.
The future of the southern drive, how-
ever, is dependent on many factors, for,
though it has been a focus of attention,
its operating theatre is only one corner
of a vast concerted battlefield which
reaches far into Italy, and which since
the beginning of last week has always
been alive.
Anderson on the Majerda
The movements of General Anderson’s
First Army are of at least equal import-
ance. During the fight at Akarit part of
it was moving against antagonists not so
tough as Rommel’s Afrikakorps but in
tougher country, and making good pro-
gress with comparatively small loss.
Having pushed to within 30 miles of
Bizerta on the north, General Anderson
suddenly shifted his weight southwards
and struck down the valley of the
Majerda, the biggest stream in Tunisia,
on a nine-mile stretch between Medjez
el Bab, which is on the river, and under
40 miles from Tunis by the main road
and Beza along the main Algerian road
to the north-west.
He seemed to have progressed a dozen
miles by April 10, having, on Tuesday,
taken the dominating heights ten miles
west of Medjez after an organised pitched
battle, and pushed to within 25 miles of
Tunis down the Majerda valley, despite
last-stand efforts by Stukas. Some of
the Stukas, in their excitement, bombed
their own panzers.
By April 12 all southern Tunisia below
Sfax and the Faid Pass was in Allied
hands, save for odd pockets, British and
American troops which poured through
the Paid Pass reached La Hencha, 27
miles north of Sfax, contemporaneously
with the Eighth Army.
Axis Fears
Both the Germans and Italians ad-
mitted the gravity of the position. Rome
Radio has been in a state approaching
hysteria. Berlin acknowledged, through
several channels, the importance of the
Eighth Army’s break-through. Official
spokesmen mentioned “the overwhelm-
ing superiority of the enemy [Allied]
forces.”
The whole trend of official German
propaganda was devoted towards pre-
paring the people for a position in which
the Tunisian forces might be locked in
and unable to escape. The word “Stalin-
grad” was mentioned several times, and
Goebbels and his henchmen appeared
more worried about Tunisia than about
Stalingrad.
Instead of the patent exaggerations and
flamboyant admissions which accom-
panied the fall of that Russian strong-
hold, there is a grim hint inherent in
everything said about Tunisia, that this
is not an action in which a German army
is being deliberately sacrificed for a use-
ful local objective, but one in which
tragedy for Axis plans is inherent.
The blame is being placed on Italy’s
shoulders. Tunisia has (to German
spokesmen) become “the Italian front.”
Italians, viewing the smoking ruins of
their Sicilian and Italian cities, have good
reason not to deny this interpretation!
There is obviously no concert between
Axis commands in the matter of com-
muniques. The Germans, while admit-
ting retreats, emphasise that these are
made “according to plan to avoid en-
circlement.” The Italians admit that
“German and Italian units have at certain
points become isolated from main bodies
by the enemy advances.”
The fight is not over by a long chalk.
The Germans are probably losing more
armor and guns then they can afford, but
the Bizertan fortifications are very
strong —probably as strong as anything
outside Europe —and are not likely to be
given up without a serious struggle. The
forts will take a lot of pounding, both
from the air and heavy guns.
Retreat across the sea will be almost
impossible, unless the Italians can win
a major naval battle and the Luftwaffe
something outsize in air victories which
will enable them temporarily to domi-
nate the straits. This contingency seems
to be provided for.
Enemy sources report the movement of
three battleships Nelson, Rodney,
Malaya —and ancillary flotillas out ot
Gibraltar, with a huge convoy containing
25,000 men, including air reinforcements,
early in the week. And no doubt theie
are men and ships and machines in pro-
fusion coming in along the American
supply lines and from the Middle East.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to shaie in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
nnvnne knowing his whereabouts, please com-
Scale S MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat. Victoria?
BLACK-LAMONT —Archibald Black married
Jane Lament, resided Rothesay, Scotland, about
1850 Their children or descendants (advantage)
write MR. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
urgent.
BRIEN. —Patrick Brien emigrated from Ireland
to Australia about 50 years ago, brother of
Bridget, or his descendants (advantage) write
MR TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide, urgent.
RING ROSE. —Will any P £ rson knowing
whereabouts of the issue of RICHARD or
THOMAS RINGROSE, who were born be-
tween the years 1800 and 1810, and who at one
time resided in the Caster district Lincolnshire,
please communicate with the PUBLIC 18bs
TEE of N. S. Wales regarding the estate of
ELIZABETH MEALING?—W. B. GEODES,
Public Trustee, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
S(fyine/td SiotjcU ffiupi# efhtu
While Axis strength can only dwindle.
Allied power grows steadily.
Coastal communications along the
whole breadth of North Africa are now
controlled by the Allies, which six
months ago held only the Nile Delta
roads. In importance, the results of the
African winter campaign transcend any-
thing which has happened in the Rus-
sian winter campaign in respect of their
effects on the war as a whole.
The Campaign in Arakan.
“Ek Dum”: In December New Delhi
H.Q. announced that “some of our troops
in the last few days advanced southwards
from the Arakan frontier into West
Burma and occupied the Maungdaw-
Buthidaung area.”
Maungdaw is on the Arakan coast,
about 60 miles below Chittagong. From
it Western Burma’s only railway line runs
inland about 12 miles crow-fly to Butm-
daung.
The Japanese had fortified this area
after the British had left it last year,
but they made no initial resistance, re-
tiring through or hiding in ricefield and
rain forest. The small British force con-
tinued down the coast into the peninsula,
whose tip ends about 50 miles below
Maungdaw, at the mouth of the Mayu
River. A road follows the coast all the
way down into this peninsula. It ends at
Foul Point, about 16 miles as the crow
flies from Akyab, which is on the other
side of the Mayu estuary.
It seemed unlikely (B. 23/12/’42) that
this expedition was meant as a main in-
vading force to begin driving the enemy
out of Burma. Apart from the small
size of the army used and its sketchy
equipment—by modern standards of
fighting weight—the Arakan Yoma, which
fences off the coast from the Irrawaddy
Valley, is a difficult obstacle to climb,
especially when the passes are com-
manded by an enemy with plenty of re-
sources and adjacent aerodromes. The
Irwin force was rather intended defen-
sively, to keep enemy fighters out of
range of Chittagong and Calcutta and
vital lateral communications of the
Assam front; to prevent his establishing
frontier bases from which he might harry
the Chittagong province by land ; to make
Akyab useless to him by constant short-
range bombing and blasting, and to get
close enough to the Irrawaddy bases —
Magwe (120 miles) and some others —
to worry the enemy with fast short-range
aircraft.
From the beginning nobody in India
seems to have treated the adventure with
more respect than any hill frontier paci-
fication —the battle for Buna received
more space in the Calcutta papers.
On the Mayu
As the expedition progressed, its main
drive became a twin operation, one party
going down the left bank of the Mayu
River until it came up against Japanese
positions dug deeply at Rathedaung and
thoroughly fortified. Rathedaung is about
32 miles from Buthidaung, and about 25
from Akyab, straight line. Not only
was the village area strongly defended,
but it was commanded by strong defences
in strategic positions in the hills over-
looking the township from the north and
north-west.
To cover the left flank of the Rathe-
daung operation, another British force
went inland from Buthidaung railhead
across the Mawdok Range, which is about
2500 ft. high at points, and descended to
the Kaladan River, which runs into
Akyab Harbor. This was a fearsome
operation which took several weeks.
The force cut through jungle and rain
forest reminiscent of the foothills of New
Guinea below Wau. With its mules and
light guns it got where it wanted to get
and fulfilled its purpose for a time at
least.
On Donbaik Front
The right wing of the advance down
the Mayu Peninsula had its own prob-
lems. It was advancing between the Bay
of Bengal and the river, over both of
which the enemy had immediate, com-
mand, into the fire of Akyab aerodrome.
It was confined in a strip of land which
was less than 12 miles across at its
widest and for most of its length less
than eight miles.
The amount of assorted scenery packed
into this peninsula is almost beyond be-
lief. All the way sighing bamboo clumps,
rank undergrowth and disorderly hill
timber tumbling down from jagged hill-
tops jostle the murmuring surf of a wide
shore. And malaria has everywhere to
be reckoned with.
Most of the route was roadless in the
ordinary sense, but the Irwin force made
good use of the beach and spewed out
roads behind it in a column of dust
which seemed to belie the fact that this
is 200-inch rainfall country. For the first
time in history this wilderness heard the
roar of the distressed motor lorry above
the gentle murmur of the bay surf, and
smelt petrol.
About ten miles from Foul Point, at
the end of the peninsula, the main
Japanese defence position was en-
countered at Donbaik village. The
enemy’s right flank rested on the tangled
hills; his line ran to the sea in a nullah,
with an open field of fire in the disused
paddy fields in front, studded with fox-
holes cunningly concealed to bring ad-
vancing infantry under a raking cross-fire.
Nature had dotted about a few clumps
of trees, ideal cover for snipers and soon
availed of by both sides. Beyond the
hills along the Mayu River to the east
was another defence line which prevented
General Irwin’s men from taking the
enemy in the rear if they should capture
Donbaik. Anyway, even if the Donbaik
line were broken, it seemed that there
would be a long series of similar posi-
tions all the way back to Foul Point at
the peninsula tip. The British soon
secured heights commanding Donbaik.
On both sides of the river, at Rathe-
daung, to the north-west, and on the
peninsula all the paraphernalia of modern
battle was soon in being. The light mule
gun, the Bren, the Vickers and the rifle
replaced the roar of the tiger and the
trumpeting of elephants, not long ago
common sounds, with their own superior
civilised noises. Very lights shot into the
sky at night, illuminating the jungle weirdly,
and sometimes there were staged attacks
with all the formal procedure of bar-
rages laid along the tiny fronts, dive-
bombing by Blenheims, with the bayonet
to follow. They were administered by
famous British regiments, two of which
landed beside the Anzacs on Gallipoli,
and their staunch Indian comrades, who
have a heart for cold steel which no Nip-
ponese is ever likely to develop except
when fighting civilians. .
In the early days of the expedition
there must have been anxious moments.
In respect of equipment, it was devil
take the hindmost” for a time. With
enemy aerodromes almost in sight of the
British front, no British aerodrome and
the ack-ack batteries perforce lagging
behind until the track would carry them
and their supplies, the Jap could have
attacked almost at will. As in New
Guinea, he showed a curious lassitude
in some of his air operations, and by the
time he had made up his mind to a seri-
ous onslaught there were Bofors in posi-
tion to shoot down a few of his ducks
when they came over in low formation.
Later, the expedition had the satisfac-
tion of hearing regularly overhead the
whirr of flocks of Hurricanes and Blen-
heims passing over to deliver curry in
Akyab and points beyond.
The River War
Halfway through the season the sea
and river war came into full swing. At
first, the only craft owned by the invad-
ing British and Indians were local sam-
pans and catamarans. The enemy was
so superior then that the order was that
sentries should fire on any motor craft
sighted, and the enemy was able to use
the river for reinforcement and mobility.
Late in January small craft of the
Royal Indian Navy turned up and did
a bold and efficient job, both as fighters
and as common carriers. Many a Jap
now lying in the mud along the mangrove
edge was sent there by the R.I.N. free.
Some of the main positions of the
enemy were overrun, but as the rainy
season approached he began to reach the
climax of his counter-measures which had
called for herculean labor in scrub-
and hill-crawling and gun-hauling. By
playing the same game as the British
flank-protection'group had played across
the hills to the Kaladan River, he suc-
ceeded in crossing the Mayu, in spite or
the R.l.N.’s armored craft, breaking a
considerable force into small parties, as
in the Owen Stanleys, and securing posi-
tions to dominate the road down the
peninsula. .
According to a New Delhi commu-
nique of April 7, the British retired to
a line to the rear of Donbaik. The new
line seems to be a few miles on the border
side of the Rathedaung positions and
about 15 miles from the railway. It is
within 45 miles of Akyab via Foul
Point. .
The Japanese, while, as it seemed,
strangely sore and angry, claimed to have
“routed” the Irwin force, and in particu-
lar to have pinned the Sixth British
Brigade against the coast, wiped out a
large part of it and captured the remnants
along with the commander. Brigadier
George Cavendish.
The Rains Coming
It was officially announced that the
positions from which the withdrawal was
made would be untenable in any case
during the rainy season. The chota
bursat —little rain—is almost due, and
from the moment that breaks until next
November about 200 inches will fall, and
land campaigning in most of the area will
be out of the question except for seals
and hippopotami, of which there are none
in the Indian Army.
The smallest nullahs become roaring
torrents and the narrowest creeks wide
rivers; and the malaria mosquito be-
comes king of the air, while the leech
thrives below with every other form of
noxious life which Burma knows, from
the 12ft. king cobra downwards. It is
officially suggested that still further ad-
justments will be needed in positions be-
fore the rains come.
Whatever the political reactions in
China and other parts of Asia, the cam-
paign has achieved its main military ob-
jectives. It kept a lot of Japanese fight-
ing who might have been digging or raid-
ing or interfering with the preparations
for next year’s main offensive in the
Manipur region.
And the respite gained from an aerial
point of view and the damage done to
the vital Akyab ’drome and the disloca-
tion of the port must have made the
venture worth while, if losses have not
been too heavy.
When the Irwin force left the Chitta-
gong border air defence of the big Ben-
gal cities had only begun to be effective,
but a military' observer, writing in the
“Times” of Jan. 22, after making a tour
of Calcutta’s batteries, declared that
“after London and Malta, Calcutta is as
well defended as any city in the Empire,
to say nothing of its fighter squadrons
and balloon barrage.” Most of the air
defence units in Calcutta served through
the Battle of Britain—-they are mainly
Cockneys whose heart is in their work.
One of the units, among the first terri-
torial regiments to specialise in air de-
fence, had a score of 48 aircraft in the
Battle of France.
Generally speaking, every building in
Calcutta seems to be beautified with
Bofors guns manned by eager Punjabis,
Rajputs, Sikhs or British. So far, raids
have not been very successful.
In Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Unofficial reports of large-
scale operations in some sectors of the
Russian front may be discounted. The
truth seems to be that what has been
happening, except in the Kuban area,
amounts to patrol or raiding work, fierce
at times, but not on a large scale.
Back of the front, however, the com-
batants are rushing up men and materials
for the major battles which must take
place so soon as the ground becomes
reasonably dry. The German concentra-
tions are mainly in the Bryansk-Orel and
Donetz areas—on the country which can
be expected to dry earliest, the Central
Russian uplands and the Donetz plateau.
Presumably Russian concentrations will
have to be organised to meet the menace
inherent in the possibility of the exten-
sion eastward of the two great horns of
the enemy, which project north and south
of the Kursk salient. Such an exten-
sion on the scale of that which reached
Stalingrad last year would threaten to cut
not only the Volga but also Moscow’s
most direct connection with the great
Magnitogorsk industrial area in the
Urals.
The Volga itself is open for the first
time since the beginning of December,
indicative of the fact that the spring is
remarkably early. On April 9 the first
tankers were reported to have entered
the river from the Caspian.
In the Kuban bridgehead the Russians
are still making some progress among
the lakes and swamps which have become
unfrozen, their areas swollen by heavy
rain. Berlin H.Q. asserted on April 6
that attacks were being fruitlessly
made by several divisions which were
being held up by German and Rumanian
troops.
The Germans appear to have with-
drawn along the Black Sea littoral to the
forest belt south of the Kerch Strait and
as far into the Taman Peninsula as they
can without bringing the strait under
artillery fire. Whether the Russians can
push the enemy out of his bridgehead on
the Caucasian side of the strait is the
test of the strength of the offensive. The
present advances in swamp country have
no greater significance than those in some
of the swampy parts of the Leningrad,
Volkhov and Ilmen districts.
The northern sector of the front is
shrouded in mystery. One Moscow Radio
report spoke early last week of Soviet
tanks breaking across the Neva. It had
been thought that the offensives which
opened the perimeter of Leningrad early
in the year had cleared the enemy well
away from the Neva, which spans the
few miles between the capital and
Schlusselburg at the s.-w. corner of Lake
Ladoga.
A German communique reported a
withdrawal —“to shorten our line” —at
Staraya Russa, where the German Six-
teenth Army was last winter partially sur-
rounded. Except in a Sydney paper, there
was no suggestion that Staraya Russa
itself had been abandoned. Moscow
made no such claim.
The only thing clear about Russia is
that somewhere within the next three or
four weeks crucial fighting will be in
progress. Where, when and how no
“experts” outside the High Commands
know ; and perhaps even they are not
sure, since one side may steal the initia-
tive in some forest sector where a blow
is not expected.
In brief:
Army Minister Forde placed Australian
casualties in New Guinea to April 11 at 6212
—2llO killed in action or died of wounds and
sickness, 3833 wounded in action and 269 miss-
ing. General Blarney had said the previous
week that 3000 Australians had been killed in
New Guinea.
Members of the A.I.F. in the Middle East
earned 2088 decorations, including six V.Cs.
« » * *
Heroes of the “Sparrow Force” in Timor,
largely Westralians, arrived in Adelaide
recently on leave after 12 months of guerrilla
warfare, from which they were calmly carried
lip me from positions facing overwhelming Japa-
nese forces. They arrived in good spirits, full of
laughter at the Japanese attempts to persuade
them that the war was over, and noting that
Australian food was a bit rich after buffalo
meat, maize cobs and rice.
* * * ♦ ■
Allied bombing, mainly carried out by the
R.A.F., has continued almost round the clock
in northern Europe. Targets included docks
and shipping at Brest; engine works at Ant-
werp, where the Germans reported “a heavy
civilian toll”; rail targets at Dieppe and Le
Treport; steelworks and power plant at Caen;
engine sheds at Namur, and various French air-
fields.
On April 8 a heavy raid was made by the
R.A.F. on the Ruhr in bad weather. It cost the
R.A.F. 21 bombers. A further nine “heavies”
were lost on April 9 during the 58th raid
on Duisburg, Germany’s greatest inland port
and western clearing station. Eight bombers
were casualties in the savage raids over the
Ruhr, but a strong force of Mosquitoes which
attacked industrial targets near Cologne came
home intact. On April 10, in heavy cloud,
south-western Germany was again battered.
Eighteen bombers were reported missing.
The constant attacks seem to be having pal-
pable effects on German nerves. Goebbels had
to do some soothing, and for the first time
it was admitted that the Allies were able to
do “appreciable damage from the air” and that
Germany’s military commitments made it im-
possible for the Luftwaffe at present to con-
sider reprisals.
* * * *
After a seven months’ lull U-boats are in
action off the U.S. Atlantic coast. A medium-
sized merchantman was torpedoed in that area
early in the month.
* * * *
Exit H.M.S. Harvester, destroyed during de-
fence of a convoy after she had depth-charged
and rammed a U-boat and started for home
under her own steam. The Free French
corvette Aconit destroyed the crippled U-bqat
and another. Harvester’s former captain,
Arthur Tait, R.N., killed last month, was
attached to the R.A.N. in 1932-34.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
:/J i » ii ,1,,
»#•»
*lllll
HU
nil
ill
ill
Modern high-clrss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams. Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT CHARLES APPLEYARD late
of Sydney New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that FRANCES RHODA APPLEYARD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1540 of 1941
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th of June 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from FRED A. NEWNHAM Solicitor 28
Martin Place Sydney .-Kl.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MAURICE GEORGE MEASOM late ol
Enmore in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that THERESA MEASOM has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2507 of
on the grounds of desertion without any cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fifth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from HERALD BRUCE BRIERLEY AND
ENGLAND Solicitors of 109 Pitt Street Syd-
ney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER FORBES GUMMING for-
merly of Artarmon near Sydney.— TAKt
NOTICE that JANE MARGARET GUM-
MING has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2096 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years an
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office King Street
Sydney by the Thirty-first May 1943 and obtain
a copy of the petition without I rom
NORMAN DAWSON THOMAS of 51 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney Solicitor, (1.5.)
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
O CECIL RUPERT lIARRIS formerly
f North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE , tha
•LORENCE OLIVEA HARRIS has filed
'etition for Divorce No. 316 of 1943 on
rounds of desertion without just came or
use for three years and upwards o w
a defend you may enter an appearance at ui
Mvorce Office King Street Sydney by the Ms
Mvorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Space in the official stand and facilities
in the paddock were less than usual at
Randwick on Saturday, owing to accom-
modation being necessary during previous
days for soldiers who, working on the
wharves, were doing a bit extra in the way
of war effort, and doing it well. There
was an attendance of about 42,000, in-
cluding service men —who, very properly,
are admitted free —and a tote turnover
of £86,000. Results of the last three
races so greatly favored the books that
it put most of them, in the position of
making further liberal contributions to
war funds.
Liverpool Handicap running further
emphasised Hall Stand’s pace, but, though
he led round the turn. Flying Knight had
his measure immediately the straight was
entered. At that stage War Effort, Win-
nipeg and All Love were also con-
spicuous, but though half a furlong from
home Flying Knight (McMenamin)
looked a winner the stronger-finishing
Magi (F. Smith) dead-heated him in the
last few strides. Magi’s form—she was
a 33-to-l chance —was a surprise, but not
more so than that of her stable-com-
panion Davinia, who came from a long
way back at the half-mile to get third.
Mildura’s fourth was a good effort, and
Winnipeg’s fifth said a lot for his chance
of winning at a shorter distance. A sur-
prising feature of the race was the in-
different displays of Riverton, Panchio,
Arahura, Hesione and Merrimba. River-
ton, however, met with a little interfer-
ence at barrier-rise and Panchio got away
rather badly. All Love again tired to
nothing after doing well for about five
furlongs, and Hesione, despite good track
work, never ran worse.
Backers of many Doncaster Handicap
and Sydney Cup doubles received another
shock when Moondarewa never threatened
danger in the Autumn Cup and Baroda
weakened into third place after looking
a winning possibility in the straight. Fly-
ing Shuttle and Angus, in the turn, made
the early running, and Angus and Hieron
led into the straight. Abspear ran his
customary good race to get second, but
had no chance against Eureka (Knox),
who went right away from his followers
at the winning post. As he was last at
the half-mile it was good form. Ex-
cuses were made for Moondarewa, but
he was not doing really well at any part
of the race.
Yaralla turned the tables on Katanga
in the Chipping Norton Plate, but Veiled
Threat (F. Shean), who finished behind
them at Rosehill, was too good for both.
Yaralla was the early leader, and turn-
ing for home Modulation was nearest
him, then coming Gold Salute, Katanga
and Veiled Threat. Modulation was un-
equal to running on, and Yaralla, being
unable to respond when tackled by Veiled
Threat a furlong from home, was easily
beaten. In passing Yaralla Veiled
Threat slightly interfered with him, but a
protest was not considered worth while.
Katanga scarcely did as well as expected,
and, while Grand Fils shaped fairly. Gold
Salute, Dashing Cavalier and Dewar did
nothing to enhance their prospects of
success during the next fortnight.
In winning the Fairfield Handicap
Moorland (J. Turner) proved himself
quite as good as supposed. No. 26 at
the barrier read like a great disadvantage,
but, though some distance back in the
early part and wide out at the turn, he
put in such a solid run in the straight
that he won by half a length from Clarion
Call, who was ahead of him a furlong
from home. Fine Art, improving upon
his previous form, was always prominent,
and his third gives him a chance ol
shortly compensating for his failures.
Mayfowl’s backers had the unpleasant
experience of seeing him go up on his
hind legs and swing away as the barrier
rose, with the result that he was hope-
lessly left. Though the field was above
the average in class, very few outside
Mayfowl and Moorland were soundly
backed. Among the unplaced division
Estborough showed his customary pace,
leading into the straight, and Flight was
prominent throughout. Warlock, Falcon
Knight and War Eagle were always
well placed, while of Payten’s trio —Van
Eyck, MacArthur and Hecuba —the first-
named did best.
Jymjon (L. Duncombe), as winner of a
mile welter, was something backers did
not expect, as rough as 100 to 1 being
laid against him. However, after War
Bird, Guild Hall, Boorchief and Pannett
had comprised the leading division at the
turn, Jymjon ran to the front a furlong
from home and lasted long enough to
beat Fearless Fox a head. The others
were headed by Easter Time, Abydos,
Afloat and Boorchief, and any of the
last-mentioned three is a possible winner
in the near future.
When Gay Revelry convincingly won
the Ascot Autumn Cup at Mentone on
Saturday, it was his second success from
12 starts this season. Strangely enough,
his previous win—in December —was also
an Ascot Cup. As his form between the
two events had been moderate, Gay
Revelry was not greatly fancied and
started at 14 to 1, A fair way back early,
Gay Revelry'gradually improved his posi-
tion, and turning for home he was follow-
ing the leader, Watchguard. Halfway
down the straight he dashed past Watch-
guard and went on to a comfortable win
by two and a half lengths from the un-
lucky Art Union, who finished strongly
half a head in front of Watchguard. Gay
Revelry, who is a four-year-old horse
by John James from Gayscene, is owned
by Dr. and Mrs. J. G. Sheahan and is
trained by H. W. Gabell.
Art Union is a consistent and versatile
horse. Since his last win, which was in
a sprint, he has been placed in good class
events, including a third in the Futurity
Handicap. Despite his speed, he got a
long way back in the early stages of the
Autumn Cup, but was making ground
rapidly at the finish. Watchguard, who
showed his first glimpse of form for a
long time, weakened after he looked the
winner turning into the straight. The
V.R.C. Derby winner Great Britain opened
favorite at 5 to 1, but eased to double
that quote. He finished in the middle
of the field, and needs further racing to
bring him to his top. Primavera, backed
from 8 to 1 to favoritism at fives, was a
great disappointment and failed to repro-
duce form in keeping with her recent
efforts.
Orteli, who has been out of the win-
ning list for a long time, staged a suc-
cessful comeback when she downed the
equal favorites, Distinction and Plica, in
the Devonshire Handicap. It was her
first success since she won the Standish
Handicap in January last year. Plica
turned into the straight with a handy
lead, but was then challenged by Dis-
tinction, who soon got the upper hand.
Distinction looked to have the race in his
keeping when Orteli came again, and,
slipping through on the inside, the mare
won by a neck.
Grey Box won his second race when
he defeated the disappointing Meadow
Gold in the Shrewsbury Handicap. The
outsider, Water Wings, was third. Grey
Box won in good style and shows promise
of staying ability. He cut down Meadow
Gold in the straight and streaked away
to win by two lengths. He is trained by
the former crack jockey, W. Duncan.
Grey Box was well ridden by R. Heather,
who enhanced his prospects of overtaking
H. Badger at the head of the winning
jockeys’ list when he scored a double by
winning the Ancaster Handicap on Vale.
Vale, who had not won a face for a long
time, and who was defeated in a minor
event at Ballarat a fortnight ago, landed
a successful betting plunge. From 20' to
1 she was backed down to 6 to 1. The
hot favorite. Charming Lady, was well
clear in the straight, but she failed by a
head to hold the fast-finishing Vale.
Not Guilty won his first race and gave
punters a shock when he won the Cath-
cart Trial Hurdle from Catapult and the
well-backed Gay Invader. Meenan had
a most difficult ride on Gay Invader, who
slowed almost to a walk at nearly every
hurdle.
The last race, the Moodemere Welter,
of 13 furlongs, provided the most thril-
ling finish of the day, High Falutin’, an
aged Windbag gelding, getting up in the
last stride to win by half a head from the
favorite, Blue Glide, The pacemaker,
Jerry Cronin, was only half a neck away
third. The winner gave a fine exhibition
of stamina, as, half a mile from home, he
was fourth-last of the field of 21.
* * * *
Some of those backers who have taken
Doncaster and Cup doubles at as short
a price as 25 to 1 had nothing on which
to congratulate themselves after Satur-
day’s racing at Randwick. Benefited by
his race in the Liverpool Handicap, an
extra gallop or two and less use made
of him than in the Liverpool Handicap,
Hall Stand may do better in the Don-
caster, but as he did not last quite six
furlongs, and drops only 21b., his pros-
pects of success at a mile do not now
appear particularly bright. Mildura,
meeting him only a pound worse, should
again beat him. In the way of a clear
run Hall Mark had every chance last
week, and there is less excuse for him
than for Riverton, who, owing to a bump,
was unbalanced almost from barrier-rise.
Another thing is that Riverton will be
better suited by eight furlongs than the
shorter distance. It was the final furlong
that stood to him in the Villiers Stakes.
The form of Merrimba, with 41b. less than
his Doncaster weight, was quite as dis-
appointing as that of either Hall Stand
or Riverton. Like Riverton, however, he
will find a mile more to his liking than
seven furlongs. Magi has a pound more
than in the Liverpool Handicap, but,
sticking to figures, is entitled to be given
an excellent chance of beating again most
of those which finished behind her last
week. However, the fact of Davinia being
so far forward as third suggests the pos-
sibility of last Saturday’s form proving
somewhat unreliable.
Gold Salute, Sir Neith, Nightbeam,
Warbird, Nobleman, San Sebastian,
Valve, Faerie Queen, Boorchief, Milanji,
Afloat and Pannett are among those
which will have to make considerable
improvement to effect a surprise. One
of that lot may, but I think Merrimba
and Riverton most likely to prove last
week’s running incorrect.
It might be advisable to overlook
Moondarewa’s complete failure in the
Autumn Cup. He looks well, and his
form was not in keeping with his track
work. It must be admitted that his drop
of only a pound will have to do a lot for
him, as Eureka fairly ran away from him
and everything else over the last furlong
on Saturday. Although penalised 81b.
Eureka still has a very comfortable
weight for a five-year-old. He now has
7.9 against the 7.5 with which he won.
If Baroda wins the St. Leger his weight
will go from 7.9 to 8.4, and that may
stop him. If beaten in the St. Leger he
will not be a very good Cup proposition
even with his original weight.
Veiled Threat, who could not look
better, has 71b. more than when he won
the Anniversary Handicap, is up to the
weight and can get the distance. If the
going is good he should play a very
prominent part. Dewar did nothing on
Saturday to recommend him, but Grand
Fils is improving, and will meet Veiled
Threat 161 b. better than in the Chipping
Norton Plate. Wellesley’s showing in
the Cabramatta Handicap did not put
him. in the light of a Sydney Cup possi-
bility, and, as bearing on that race, the
form of Eureka and Veiled Threat stood
out from the others of last week’s com-
petitors.
* * * *
Moorland’s win on Saturday was im-
pressive and he now looks like being an
odds-on chance for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Hard luck for D. Lewis to lose
him after assisting in his selection as a
yearling and developing him at the com-
mencement of his racing career. Clarion
Call is not in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
His second in the Fairfield Handicap did
not leave him far behind Moorland in
merit. He carried the same weight as
the latter, and, as he is a gelding, was
meeting him 31b. worse than w.f.a. At
the barrier Moorland was No. 26, but as
Clarion Call was No. 20 he had no
marked advantage in that respect. Van
Eyck showed himself better than his
stable-companion MacArthur, and Flight
did better than any of the fillies. May-
fowl practically took no part in Satur-
day’s race and is still likely to be
reckoned Moorland’s most dangerous
opponent in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
* t- * *
Backers’ opinions concerning the prob-
able result of the Doncaster vary, and
on Monday Mildura and Triad were
most fancied, with Riverton nearest
them, and then Hall Stand and Kings-
dale. Veiled Threat was the popular
selection for the Sydney Cup, Moon-
darewa, Abspear and Eureka coming
next.
In a Leichhardt bout billed as for the
featherweight championship, Harry
Cohen, cleverer and stronger, pre-
vailed over Dally Moran. Moran took
heaps of punishment, being floored thrice
by perfectly-timed rights to the chin and
a left to the body, but the game lad was
still on his feet and fighting feebly at the
final bell.
It was like old times to see a straight
left used so well as Joe Grant used it
against Tommy Johns at the Sydney
Stadium. Had he sustained his early
speed Grant would have won a one-sided
decision, but he tired, and blood pouring
from a gashed lip in the eighth brought
the end—at the referee’s instance. Johns
was the stronger of the pair, but his
methods were comparatively crude.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Vaucluse Handicap : Abydos, 1 ;
Warbird, 2; Usher or Petruchio, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Moorland,
1 ; Mayfowl, 2; Flight or Van
Eyck, 3.
Autumn Plate: Veiled Threat, 1 ;
Katanga, 2 ; Abspear, 3.
Doncaster Handicap: Merrimba,
1 ; Riverton, 2 ; Triad or Magi, 3.
A.J.C. St. Leger: Modulation, 1 ;
Baroda, 2 ; Lady Hamilton, 3.
City Handicap; Fearless Fox, 1 ;
Eureka, 2 ; Grand Fils or Jymjon,
3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The shade of the recruiting sergeant
was revived when two stalwart lasses
stepped up to window-shoppers outside
several of Melbourne’s big stores and
suggested joining the Land Army. Just
a pleasant hint was given about the use-
fulness of the organisation, with particu-
lars for possible aspirants. Refusals
were politely accepted and the unenthusi-
astic were provided with a pamphlet on
the subject just in case. Verbal appeals
were backed up'by some stores with win-
dow displays of plaster ladies in the over-
all suits and broad* hats of the Land
Army’s very fetching new uniform, sur-
rounded by wheat sheaves and pumpkins
and little bags of linseed and lengths of
flax.
When “no bread” joined the other
negatives last week some housewives
took to baking their own, but most
women didn’t get beyond the stage of
saying “Doesn’t one get bored to death
with scones?” One of the queer things
about shortages is that they make people
want to hunt out and consume in any
quantity anything in short supply. The
scarcity of tomatoes and carrots did
more to make Melbourne vitamin-con-
scious than the stream of expert advice
that’s been pouring over the city for
years. What is needed now is a shortage
of beet and spinach. They were far
too easily bought last winter for the
average shopper to take any interest in
them.
The Social Service Scholarship decided
on as a memorial for the late Lady
Huntingfield is approved by all the
organisations interested in perpetuating
her memory. Details will depend on the
results of the drive for funds ; £lOOO is
aimed at, but if twice as much results
an additional scholarship can be pro-
vided. The training of a skilled social
worker will be of use to the community,
and it is likely that there will be a big
response to the appeal. If only one
scholarship can be provided it will be
given alternately to the training of an
almoner and a social worker or as the de-
mand for either one becomes urgent.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes is chairman of the
Fund Committee, with headquarters at
the Town Hall.-
Mathematics stand high among the self-
confessed weak subjects of the feminine
sex, but the delusion that the female mind
cannot grasp such subjects at all has had to,
take a lot of hard knocks lately. Aerodyna-
mics, for instance, is a highly mathemati-
cal branch of technics, but in it Betty
Gent has won a travelling scholarship
from Melbourne University. Cambridge,
spiritual home of the mathematician, is
the ultimate destination of the winner of
this prize, but Miss Gent will remain here
for the present. She is doing important
work with the C.S.I.R. and at the Uni-
versity. She is a daughter of L. Gent,
Town Clerk of Footscray, and Mrs,
Gent, and is at present a resident tutor
at the Women’s College.
Pleasant women with country peaceful-
ness in their eyes came down to the U.C.P.
(Women’s Section) conference. They
debated in an upstairs room at the Assem-
bly Hall while their menfolk tore into
political problems downstairs. Mrs.
McNiff, re-elected their president, kept
order when debate grew lively and the
conference raged on such subjects as de
facto wives and refusing to serve women
with the Demon Drink. The liquor sub-
ject was launched by good-looking Mrs.
C. J. Dennis (daughter of just dead Dr.
Syme, who raced as “Mr. Rawdon”).
Mrs. Dennis was so indignant at restric-
tive legislation about women and drink
that she brought forward the motion de-
claring this an infringement of woman’s
civic rights, but weight of opinion was
- that this war-time restriction was one
which had to be put up with for the sake
of the weaker sister.
A feature of the conference was the
high standard of the speeches and the
lack of shyness in candidates for office.
Other women’s organisations always seem
to feel that to oppose a woman holding
office is a personal affront to the office-
holder ; but in the U.C.P. women put
up as candidates without any diffidence
on that score. Each candidate for office
as her name was called came to the plat-
form and gave an account of herself and
arrher qualifications.
All preparations are in hand for the
Music in Schools Conference, scheduled
for next month at the Emily McPherson
College of Domestic Economy. Arrange-
ments are the responsibility of the ener-
getic J. Sutton Crow, acting-director of
the University Con. It seems that for
a decade musical folk have been troubled
about the lions that beset the path of
the promising pianist, fiddler or singer.
One lion is the commercial exploitation
of infant prodigies, youngsters who
should be in the schoolroom and play-
ground. Another concerns the teaching
of music in schools. It is hoped that the
coming conference will be able to draw
up plans for the teaching of music in
schools as a fundamental subject, not
just a fancy extra of no importance what-
ever.
General Blarney’s wife made Mel-
bourne prick up its ears when she an-
nounced that she was taking up hospital-
visiting up north. Ever since she returned
from abroad the Blarney lady has been
anxious to resume the visiting of sick and
wounded in hospitals which was, she said,
the greatest happiness of her life in
foreign parts. Having Mrs. Boyd Mori-
arty with her should give the general’s
lady a chance to confer with a much
experienced hospital visitor on the inevit-
able problems which will meet her.
An engagement of University interest
is that of Pamela Hebbard and “Billy”
Davies, both graduates of the “Moderns”
School and enthusiasts for French Club
activities. Pam, an old Fintona girl, won
the Mollison Scholarship and the Wyse-
laskie in her finals year, and shared the
Higgins Poetry Prize. Her fiance is also
a Mollison Scholarship winner. During
her course Miss Hebbard was a resident
student of the Women’s College.
Among last week’s weddings that of
Beatrice Caddy, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Arnold Caddy, Chandpara Tylden,
and Christopher Olsenl Melbourne
Grammar School master, was of interest
to a wide circle of friends. Bridegroom
-is the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Olsen, of Dumfriesshire, Scotland.
A piano recital for Red Cross funds
is to be given by Mary Kiernan, here pic-
tured by Broothorn, at the Assembly Hall
on April 28. A pupil of Biddy Allen,
Mary is an old girl of Sacre Coeur, and
until war broke out was studying at the
R.C.M., London, under Felix Swinstead.
Family is all musical. Father Esmond
Kiernan has always been a great sup-
porter of concerts, mother is gifted musi-
cally, and sister Marjorie, now Mrs. Pitt,
plays a flute in the Melbourne Conser-
vatorium Symphony Orchestra. Brother
Peter plays the ’cello and brother John,
just now on service abroad, plays the
piano on his peaceful days. Mary owns a
piano once the possession of Dame Nellie
Melba and autographed by the diva.
Similar circumstances produce similar
reactions, so it is not surprising that
Gwen Bessell-Browne’s little book of
verses, just published, should have more
than a hint of the spirit of Rupert
Brooke. Titled The Road to Kokoda,
it has none of the “on service” flavor
one might expect from the title, but the
verse is written from the woman’s angle
throughout. The first and last poems are
dedicated to the author’s airman husband,
and a tiny verse is addressed to her baby
son.
From Sydney
When soldier lads are hymning the
praise of the shallow papier-mache foot-
bath and the relief it brings to tinea-tor-
mented feet, they can think of the Red
Cross workers who, year in, year out,
keep up the never-failing supply of such
Red Cross equipment. The depot at 20
Young-street (as well as the one in
Oxford-street) is a hive of industry—a
hive without buzz, for smoothly laying
sheet of paper to sheet of paper, rein-
forcing it with special paste, is a work of
close concentration. The weekly number
of articles turned out at the depot is
mostly a matter of their size. A week
when the order is for kidney bowls, or
those small bowls, lobelia-blue outside
and daisy-white within, the numbers go
rocketing up. But when an order comes
in for large trays, naturally the going is
slower.
Everything is built over a mould, and
the design is according to Army and
Navy regulations. When finished the
trays are painted white till they shine
like enamel. Some of the smaller trays
are gay with wallpaper. One of these,
on active service for three years, came
into the depot the other day for slight
repair. And what complaint can be made
about that? Splints for the leg and
splints for the arm are made here, and
a few months ago part of a lower arm
was made and is now being worn by and
giving comfort to a wounded warrior.
Large-size washbasins and instrument
baths are other equipment for soldier
hospitals. One’ of the beauties of the
papier-mache article is that it can be
flown to the battle fronts and dropped,
if necessary, without fear of breakage.
Jean (Mrs. T. H.) Bryce is the organis-
ing secretary of a Red Cross headquarters
younger workers’ committee arranging
a performance of Handel’s “Messiah” to
be given by the Royal Philharmonic
Society at the Sydney Town Hall next
Saturday night. Lady Wakehurst will be
present. This is the first occasion for
many years that “Messiah” has been pie-
sented in Sydney at Easter, and the book-
ing plan at Paling’s is filling rapidly.
Special concessions are being made for
parties. The presentation of “Messiah”
will be under the direction of G. Vein
Barnett ; soloists, Elsie Finlay, Peggy
Dunbar, Stanley Clarkson and Reginald
Willoughby. The Red Cross wili benefit.
The Red Cross headquarters younger
workers, who 13 years ago were given an
annual quota of £3OO to raise, have
voluntarily increased the amount each
year until in 1942 they handed in £2050.
The members (who are all business girls)
have set themselves to exceed even this
amount in 1943,
Lots of jam were put on at the C.U.S.A.
Air Force unit’s new establishment at
19 Rowe-street last week. The stuff, iri-
descent and translucent, was in glass jars
and was for sale. Many women arrived
with a pot of one sort under the arm
and went away with a jar of another’s
making. Jam and flowers and engaging
knick-knacks were being sold for the par-
ticular cause of No. 19. This is the circu-
lating library, which sends away more
than 1000 books every month to all parts
of Australia for men and women in the
services.
There was celebration within the poin-
settia-red door of the library on the
unit’s second birthday. Mrs. Geoffery
Hughes, her pencil-slimness in a frock of
pleated white silk, which in turn was
topped by a blue apron (till the
moment of welcoming the official party),
did her president-act with the competence
gained in almost four years of war work.
She received books with the one hand
and guests with the other. She confided
that when books arrive that are consid-
ered too feminine in appeal for the soldiers
they are earmarked for the W.A.A.A.F.
This doesn’t mean that only sissy read-
ing matter is sent to the girls. All books
and magazines arriving at the library are
bound in deep-red and deep-blue; and
C.U.S.A. appeals to its friends to keep
up the supply by sending along books or
a subscription.
After Monsignor Clarke had spoken
everybody stepped from the small shop
that is the library to the small shop next
door, empty and lent for the occasion.
Here was tea, prideful decoration of the
table a cake glittering with white icing,
lit by two red candles and decorated with
aeroplanes and aviators. The cake was
set on a blue dish. The candles had been
painted red by Constance Hughes. Red
candles, seemingly, have vanished for the
duration. The window of No. 19 is un-
mistakable. It is set with an aerodrome
to scale, complete with every detail. Con-
stance and her young brothers are respon-
sible. Mrs. W. Hegarty, C.U.S.A.’s presi-
dent, cut the cake.
“Sixty pounds for curtains alone, but
how much for Curtin’s Loan?” asks the
Girl in the Flat Opposite, discussing Syd-
ney’s proposed new luxury night club.
There really doesn’t sound to be much
leisured ease about the publicised arrange-
ments. Cover charges are to be five shil-
lings an hour. But these covers can in no
way be said to apply to the decorations,
which are to be nudes. The whole tempo
of the night is to be set to clockwork.
There are to be clocks on each table.
Girl attendants will punch tickets show-
ing when customers sat down. At the end
of an hour they pay up. It sounds as
conducive to a world-forgetting-by-the-
world-forgot atmosphere as sitting in a
stationary taxi with the meter ticking
away with maddening regularity. It may
be the management’s idea of luxurious
ease and joyous abandon, but “too much
like Monday morning and punching the
bundy,” sums up the Girl in the Flat
Opposite.
Latest beauty t© arrive at Red Cross
special-appeals rooms for the china and
glassware sale is a set of green Rocking-
ham coffee cups and jug from Miss
Twynan, of Queensland. Two Chelsea
candlesticks from the same generous
donor are on their way. Mrs. Gordon
Wesche has also handed over a set of
Rockingham plates. Altogether, there
are now 300 gifts, precious and useful,
harvested. Among these are five dinner
services and bits of French fireproof
china, including the now-unprocurable
casserole. The old-fashioned china soup
tureens will make appeal; so will the
60 dozen tumblers. They will serve as
a reminder of the good old pre-drought
days.
Lady Wakehurst will open the display
on May 11. For a week, on payment of
a small sum, the treasures can be viewed
at David Jones’s auditorium. On the
18th and 19th Max Lawson will auction
them in his high-voltage fashion. During
the preview well-knowns, such as Thea
Proctor, will be invited to arrange flower
compositions in the beautiful vases and
jugs that will later be auctioned. Does
anyone, incidentally, long for a plate with
the arms of Catherine the Great blazoned
thereon? Then let her to this sale.
Mrs. H. F. Creswick, Chief Comman-
dant of Red Cross Women Personnel, has
been in Sydney for the past two weeks on
Red Cross affairs. She is a forceful and
sincere speaker, and her address to the
N.S.W. Divisional Council this week was
an outline of the work of the Red Cross
companies throughout the Common-
wealth. The Macquarie Club was her
home while she was in Sydney.
Since the annual meeting of the Fel-
lowship of Australian Writers Flora
Eldershaw is the society’s president; vice-
presidents, Dulcie Deamer, Miles Frank-
lin, Bartlett Adamson and Dalby Davi-
son. George Ashton is again the secre-
tary, and Alec Booklak the treasurer.
Over a number of years the Society
for Crippled Children has stretched the
helping hand to the young afflicted of this
State. That its work has been of prac-
tical help was shown yet again at the
annual meeting last week. No fewer
than 20 young men who, as children,
were ministered to by the society are
now members of Australia’s fighting
services. Coue could teach nothing to
the youngster who grimly sustained 60
operations for osteomyelitis, and finally
was fit to join up with the forces.
President of the society Henry Brad-
don had quite a proud note in his voice
when he told of the activities of the
society’s proteges. During 1942 38 boys
and almost as many girls had begun
their studies at technical colleges.
Lady Wakehurst was one of the
day s speakers, and was a supporter of
the suggested hospital for incurable cases.
Mrs. Bernard Muscio, president of the
Central Council of the Women’s Aux-
iliaries, and Kate Ogilvie, Sydney Hos-
pital’s capable almoner, also stressed the
need for such a home.
The Maoriland scene is just as crusted
with women in uniforms as the Austra-
lian, to judge by a letter from an old
Bulletin friend:
Cocktails are brought by a woman waiter,
your tram ticket' clipped by a woman con-
ductor, your luggage entrained by women
porters, letters delivered by female posties,
parcels’By women van drivers. Women police
arrest drunks. Then, of course, there are tens
of thousands in the W.A.A.F., W.A.A.C.,
W.R.E.N. services. Less than one-halt the
women in the streets are in the old-time
fluffies, though the shops seem as full of glad-
rags as ever.


WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
McMahon’s Hair Restorer is used for bald patches, alopecia
patches, dandruff, itching and dryness of the scalp, and
falling hair.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/-
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally, post 5/6 to the wholesale distributors,
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY., LTD..
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. v
sd
PREVENTION OF TYPHOID
CLOSET PANS ARE THE MAIN SOURCE OE INFECTION.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IMMEDIATELY RENDERS AEE MATTER INNOCUOUS.
It is not just a modified closet pan, but is
A COMPLETE SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF.
Does not require emptying or other unpleasant jobs.
ELIMINATES GERMS, SMELLS, AND FLIES.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Any Handy Man Can Instal It. Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE: Family Size. £l7/17/6 (plus 25/- war surcharge), f.0.r., Sydney.
(Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.)
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone: 81032. Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane; Harris Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
m
m&mf:
tic
mm
Agents :
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
4
.... J
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S. 161.
Icami
mm
m
'
mmmm
m m
m
mmmm
m
The “EUPSON”
HIGH-SPEED
9'A Inch ENGINE LATHE
EVERY "Hopson" High-Speed 9i-inch Engine Lathe
which we manufacture goes to Munition annexes
or to establishments engaged in the making of
Materials of War.
The "Rapson" embodies all the best ideas of a
master turner evolved during his 50 years' practical
experience in general engineering. For instance, all parts
of the Headstock are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED to provide
Vibrationless Operation at All Speeds. All Gears have been
MACHINE GENERATED for smooth meshing.
The "Rapson" 9i-Inch is a fine, sturdy Lathe which has been
specially built for accurate and efficient service, and may be
used for all Sliding, Surfacing and Screw Cutting operations.
Sole Selling Agents all States;
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Manufactured by
m
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG. CO. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET
VALLEY. BRISBANE
aavtfj
m
m
&
Mar^
SMOKE-OH!
“Make your hair glossy, your cheeks pink
and your eyes bright by eating two raw carrots
every day.”— Woman’s paper.
Ah, yes, girls; that’s the way to catch
some young donkey!
4* 4* 4*
“Lifting her blue eyes, the girl studied the
stern portrait of Hindenburg hanging lopsided
in a large tinsel gold frame.” — Story.
Perhaps the old marshal was too shy
to face the painter.
•f. .J. .J. A
The Task Ahead.
The general squared his shoulders and
a look of grim determination came into
his steel-grey eyes,
“Now that I’m home on leave,” he
said in a commanding voice, “I want you
to understand this: I’m going to have
this house run as I want it! I don’t
want to be harsh, my dear —just firm. I
know I’ve let you rule the roost pre-
viously, but those day v s are past. You’d
better realise that I’m going to be master
in my own house! Let that sink in!
“Now you run along and get me my
slippers and one of those cigars from
the dressing-room; then go and lose
yourself while I have a read!”
Suddenly he slumped into a chair.
“Aw, what’s the use?” he continued to
soliloquise. “These practice manoeuvres
aren’t like the real thing! When I get
home tomorrow and face the old woman
I bet I lose my nerve as usual! ”
T.W.N.
*l* *s*
“N.S.W. railwayman may now grow vege-
tables instead of flowers in their station
gardens.”
Those who wish to remain neutral will,
of course, grow cauliflowers.
“The Judge expressed surprise when an appli-
cant for divorce said his wife and her mother-
in-law ‘fought like a pair of old hens.’ ”
Strangely, ’Sonah didn’t remark “Well,
that beats cockfighting!”
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Big money for band men.” — “Sun.”
Legal Clobber.
“A witness ordered to leave the Supreme
Court because he was not wearing a tie.”
This recalls very poignantly the ex-
periences of my Uncle Wilberforce, who
combined a taste for dress reform with
the habit of becoming involved in liti-
gation at every available opportunity.
His first encounter with the sartorial
niceties of the magistrate’s court was
when he sued a boilermaker’s assistant
for alienating the affections of his
second wife. He appeared in court
in a shirt "with no collar or tie, and
claimed, when rebuked by the magis-
trate, that he was trying to prevent him-
self from getting hot under the collar.
Uncle’s somewhat bizarre sense of
humor then took a hand. When he stood
in the box as plaintiff in an assault case,
he wore boxing gloves, salmon tights and
cricket boots. In this case, the fact that
he committed the sartorial crime of wear-
ing spats as well was probably the cause
of his removal from the court.
His most striking appearance was when
he was charged with embezzlement. To
assist in maintaining an air of innocence,
he appeared in the dock wearing a long
white nightdress belonging to his fourth
wife, a pair of property wings and a halo
made of No. 1 Admiralty Mixture brass.
Now he wears a drab outfit, designed
long ago by one of his Majesty’s servants,
in a place where no coupons are re-
quired.
Plum.
•I* * *l* 4’
“She told him her name was Bee, and
she was down from the country. In the morn-
ing he missed a wallet containing £2OO in
notes.” — Police report.
- “Melted ice-cream should never be thrown
away.”— Adelaide “Radio Call.’’
At least, not from the front row of the
gallery.
*l* 4*
“Most men are authorities on women’s hats.”
— Woman’s paper.
“Marie still -stuck to him in spite of his
ragged clothes and dilapidated appearance.”
—Magazine story.
She must have been getting all his
coupons!
•t *J* •5*
Sh!
“Fifth Columns are built on rumors,” says
a writer.
Stick strictly to facts. Don’t spread
the furphy that schooners are to be made
available all day on Mondays, Wednes-
days and Fridays as N.S.W. coalminers
may strike because oyster patties aren’t
served with middies on Tuesdays and
Thursdays.
Be careful not to lean on the fence
and tell the cove next door you backed
three winners last Saturday when, in fact,
you merely toted the third horse in the
Flying. Remember, the enemy listens
and will bite you for a couple of quid
the moment you set foot in the kitchen.
If you hear that the corner grocer’s
got a supply of smokes, stoutly deny
rather than credit it. Then assume a
series of cunning disguises and snathe his
entire stock for yours truly before he
wakes up,
Percival.
Initiative.
“He was eternally ordering her to do things
for him, until finally her patience gave out
and she gave him poison.”— Crime story.
A hundred times by night and day,
“Do this for me!” he used to say.
At last she took a sudden whim
And did for him !
T. W. N.
They’d faced the music, feeling glum.
Old tunes they’d had to know about.
But extra notes will give them some-
Thing nice and new to blow about.
E.
He thought this little Bee a honey.
Because a smile or two she flung him;
But now he’s waiting for his money —
Her name was Bee, and how she stung
him!
H. M.
Let conscience, lady, be your guide;
Don’t be too ultra-smart or high-hat.
Reflect, your husband’s qualified
To recognise a spruce and spry hat.
So pocket your conceit and pride —
Forswear the tiles that horses shy at!
P. M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per lino.
Twelve-ten a Day
Set down “Somewhere in Australia”
where news is scanty and slow in coming,
we were interested in the report of Audi-
tor-General Abercrombie that waterside
workers were paid 17s. 6d. an hour, en-
abling them to earn £l2 10s. a day, on
a ship being salvaged off the Victorian
coast. We were also interested in Mr,
Curtin’s explanation that wages were paid
“according to the award under which the
men worked.”
If Mr. Abercrombie had given further
details he would have mentioned that
men returned from the Middle East were
working alongside these stevedoring
plutocrats. They had no awards under
which to work. Their job was constant
at 6s. 6d. a day.
The comment by the general secretary
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation
that the wharfies were risking their lives
is calculated to make even the dourest
Aussie smile. They were down in the
hold lifting cargo from the beached ship
into slings. Up on deck A.I.F. men were
unslinging it and sending it down chutes
into army trucks below. Sight of some
cases of ammunition caused the wharfies
to stop and consider holding a meeting-
Earning up to £6O a week on their own
say-so, they could contemplate asking for
a higher “risk” rate! Returned soldiers
were handling the cases of “ammo.” as
if it were confetti.
Perhaps we should not tell the returned
Ninth Division of such things as these.
Let them find out, as we had to from the
time we returned a year ago. — Spreljay
(A.1.F.). ____
Civilians in Khaki
We have been having a bad time
lately, we civilians in khaki—clerks,
cooks, storemen, artisans, horse-transport
drivers and the hundred-and-one other
miscellaneous employees of the Army
doing humdrum jobs in the back areas
of the war. It was no great matter that
“Mac Fergus” (B. 17/3/’43) dubbed us
“ersatz soldiers,” but now we feel that
the Prime Minister himself pointed at
us when he said at Canberra:
I say there are a number of men in uni-
form who have done nothing more than
the civilian has done, except wear a uni-
form.
Ninety-nine per cent, of us are “B”
class men and the odd one per cent, is
only with us until drafted to an opera-
tional area. We are not fit for that. A
great many of Us wear the ribbons of
the last war and are “B” class on account
of middle age and its infirmities. The
remainder are the unfit of this genera-
tion.
It is alleged that we enjoy all the
glamor and privileges of a uniform, but
are not fighting men. True; but we are
willing to fight if the necessity arises. We
cannot go to the war, but we are here
if the war comes to us. We are organised
as troops and under military discipline.
As civilians we should not be so. Defi-
nitely we are part of Australia’s armed
forces.
In a humble way, too, we are making
sacrifices, we middle-aged men. Not all
of us are stationed in the cities, handy
to our homes. We are in the camps.
We have exchanged our pleasant cot-
tages and cosy beds for tin huts and a
board floor to sleep on. We see our
folk once only in three months —no small
matter to a home-loving man —and we
travel two or three hundred miles in the
discomfort of crowded leave trains to
do it. We have renounced “for the
duration” Mum’s dainty meals and white
tablecloths; we eat instead “good plain”
Army tucker off tin plates, and then
wash up the plates ourselves. Little
things these, but remember we have out-
grown youth’s love of adventure and dis-
dain for hardships.
Not so trivial is our sacrifice of inde-
pendence and individualism. In the
Army we must “live with the herd” and
do as we are told, we who for the 30
years between wars had made for our-
selves each a niche in life according to
his liking—home, friends, work and pas-
times.
We in no way consider ourselves as
giving the nation better service than the
thousands of civilians regimented into
the C.C.C. or into war industries, but
we feel that there is injustice in turning
on to us a spotlight of mild scorn because
we wear a uniform and they do not. A
uniform is not all glamor and privilege.
—Harold T. (N.S.W.).
Food-growing by the Army
Australia is said to be heading for a
serious food shortage in the next year or
two. If that is so, why is not some prac-
tical effort being made to avert such a
tragedy?
We have the land, the sunshine and
the man-power. Do we lack will or
initiative? When I say man-power I do
not suggest that men should be diverted
from the manufacture of essential war
materials, but what is wrong with the
idea of our soldiers growing most of their
own foodstuffs?
Most of our big military camps in the
country have many acres of land suitable
for vegetable-growing or even pig- and
poultry-raising. Thousands of men in
"....And tell them you have to do ninety days and we can't
spare an escort.”
our army are well versed in farming,
and if only one hour per day were de-
voted to such work many tons of food
would be produced.
Proof that much can be done along
these lines can be found at various con-
valescent homes for soldiers, where not
only do the men take a warm interest in
the gardens, but grow more vegetables
than can be used by staff and inmates. —
Viking (Tas.).
After-war Utopias
Reviewing Fascism, Nazism, Commu-
nism and the milder form of totalitarian-
ism we have in Australia in bureaucratic
control by means of boards (all four sys-
tems aiming at the complete subordina-
tion of the individual to the State), I
somehow wonder if mankind has arrived
at the evolutionary point, long ago
reached by the ant and bee, when all
individual initiative ceases, the entire acti-
vities of life being absorbed in the collec-
tive will of the community. For that is
exactly what happens in the hive and the
ant mound.
Coincident with the resistance of Com-
munist Russia against the aggression of
National-Socialist Germany one fre-
quently hears that type of Australian who
delights to think of himself as the under-
dog hailing as the coming of a new Mes-
siah the advent of a universal Commu-
nism. By some queer kink these people
think they will enter into a sort of indus-
trial heaven, where there will be plenty
of food and money, with the minimum
of work.
Being themselves of an undisciplined
mentality, they fail to grasp that all these
State-domination systems carry with them
as their first essential an iron discipline.
The worker works, and works just where
he is ordered to work. One couldn’t even
be a hobo, for that, by its tacit denial of
discipline, would be rebellion. As for
pay—well, the history of mankind shows
that the quick brains have always pro-
fited at the expense of the slow brains.
And that still maintains in the ant nest.
W. C. C. (W.A.),
Equal Opportunity?
A notion that ought to be debunked
is that Australia is a country where there
are equal opportunities for all. Equal
opportunities for all exist only in a coun-
try where every child gets the same up-
bringing, attends the same school, and
has parents of equal wealth and social
position.
Lately an English visitor said that he
found more class distinction in Australia
than existed in England. If that were
true it would only prove that the pupil
had outstripped his tutor. There is no
possibility of this country developing
into a real democracy, with a semblance
of equal opportunity, unless we make a
start with a common school for all chil-
dren, regardless of birth or wealth, where
they should be compelled to attend until
they reached the leaving age of, say, 14
years; after that the parents would be
allowed to do what they wished with
them regarding their education from
then onwards. The fact that the young-
sters had spent eight or nine years at
school together would give them some-
thing in common, and would lessen, if
not erase, their class consciousness. They
would get to know each other, at least.
The grading of children of five or six
years of age into different schools accord-
ing to the social or financial status of
their parents is altogether wrong.
The State-school product has grown
up with a feeling of inferiority, and the
public school or college child with a de-
cided sense of superiority. Surely a bad
foundation on which to build a Great
Democracy. One result of this class-
conscious business is party politics, which
makes it possible for more than
3,000,000 out of a population of 7,000,000
to have no effective representation in the
Parliament which governs their country.
Merit and hard work should be the
passport to high positions and privileges ;
not class, be it high or low. — Karoot
(Vic.).
The Lame Dog and" the Fat Sow
The Dairy Industry Assistance Act was
designed to help the lame dog over the
stile.
The £2,000,000 a year was little enough,
even to start with, considering the extent
of the industry and the rough handling it
had received from droughts over the
years ; but the method of its allocation
quite cancels out the spirit and the
letter of the Act. As discussed and ac-
cepted by the House, the bill provided
for the subsidy to be spread over produc-
tion figures for the year, but, just as
droughts are zonal in their incidence, the
allocations were definitely understood to
be on a zonal adjustment. This purpose
was not only directed in the bill but con-
firmed in the appointment of Mr. C. C.
Sheehy, an authority on equalisation, to
assist the Tariff Board in drawing up a
formula.
Although the areas suffering most in-
tensely from drought were well indicated
by Dr. Page at the time, viz., from
Cooma to Mackay, the lame dogs—the
“underdogs”—of the industry, so helpful
in propaganda, seem to have been for-
gotten in the wild rush, “one in, all in,”
when the meagre subsidy was announced.
The request by the industry for a flat-
rate distribution of the subsidy—accepted
by the Tariff Board —was coupled with a
further request that the period of appli-
cation be changed from October 1 back
to July 1, thus letting the early-spring
dairymen of the southern States in for a
cut. A conditional request that another
£500,000 be provided for this alteration
was also made. The Tariff Board, to be
fair, granted half this request and passed
the other half on to the Treasury, by
which it was rejected. This further les-
sened the chances of the “lame dogs” by
letting the “fat sows” of the south in
on to the subsidy swill before the
dogs could possibly “make it” in any
season.
The present drought conditions in most
areas of N.S.W. (now short of butter)
enable us to see the amount of actual
“assistance” available under the D.Q.A.
Act for those in need of it. An authori-
tative statement from Central Rivers
states “the average family income is now
only £2O per month, and soon that will be
reduced to half.”
This means that the subsidy, which
works out at five-sevenths of a penny per
pound of butter, is worth just eightpence
per day for each family where the nefed
is greatest. Where good seasons prevail
and the need is less, subsidy payments
increase in proportion.
It is clear now that, under this rough-
and-ready method of allocation, the sub-
sidy is doing more harm than good to
the industry, inasmuch as it provides a
political excuse for dodging a major
problem.—J. McL. (N.S.W.).
One for the Pay Office
1 was discharged from the forces medi-
cally unfit on February 24. Thirty-
three days’ leave was granted. On
March 22, seven days before I was
finally discharged, I received a registered
air-mail letter from the Army Pay Office
containing a detailed statement of my
earnings and allowances and a notice
advising that a cheque in final settlement
had been banked to my credit.
I have often heard and read of army
red-tape and long-windedness in its settle-
ment of claims, etc. I found promptness
and efficiency. —Reg M. McAuliffe (Q.).
Women and Beer
I wonder if the fixers of beer quotas
took into consideration the quantity
being consumed by women these days.
Once upon a time a bottle or two
would be taken home for Mum and the
girls or for the little wife, and it was
appreciated, but things are different now.
As no bottles can be bought for love or
money Mum and the girls and the little
wife go to the hotels. And do they drink
it from nice dainty little glasses? Not on
your life —from handles and schooners,
and some will order pints if they can get
them.
The chap who leaves his work or
office at 5 p.m. and wants his two
or three handles before going home often
has to fight his way into a saloon or
front bar and stand and wait in a queue,
because all lounges and such places are
full of females.—J. H. W. (S.A.).
•
Patent Medicines
Debating the patent-medicines regs. in
the Reps., Morgan (Lab., N.S.W.)
sounded the well of truth when he said:
“The positive suggestion of ability to cure
contained in advertisements of patent
medicines in many cases contributes as
much to the cure as the medicine itself.”
Writer recalls a past era of infrequent
mails in the outer saltbush. On a diet
of meat, bread, tea, tobacco and cascara
we were often “a bit off.” We read
patent-medicine ads., not having much
else to read anyhow, and, like Mark
Twain, discovered complaints hitherto
unknown. Game to try anything once, we
experimented extensively with various
alleged cures. I suspect the only thing
wrong with us was the absence of cows
and cabbages.
Faith is a fine quality, said to “move
mountains,” but Mr. Dedman’s disclosure
of loz. Epsom salts in 4oz. water as an
external application for goitre places a
heavy strain on the faithful.
Nevertheless wide discretion is needed
in the weeding-out process. Many lines
of proprietary medicines have a high
pathological value and are a boon to
poor folk. No Minister should have sole
say in the withdrawal of regularly-used
satisfactory medicaments and so force
on those people added expense for
doctors’ prescriptions and dispensing.—
R. Edwards (Vic.).


#
tjsm
Wk
■' f.
M
' X-> ;
W* BS&S
i '
Ih
liliii
m
mßalm
Xi
X..
■ V y>
X
■
come
They gave him the highest post in the land when it held for its bearer only pain, labour and sacrifice.
He took it, and then challenged his countrymen to shoulder the cloak that he was prepared to wear.
Shall we in this far distant land, who, in the midst of war are free of so many of its horrors, turn
deaf ears to this clarion call? Our response —if we are true men —is the utmost that is in our power
to give . , . men, money, food, munitions and weapons of war . . . these we must send in an
ever" flowing stream to the battle - scarred frontiers of the British Commonwealth.
With action as well as words let Australia say: “We accepted your terms, we are fulfilling our promises.
So come on, Australians ! Invest all y ou can save in the
THIRD LIBERTY LOAN
