

sd
f
sdf
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
VoL 64. No. 3299
Wednesday, May 5, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE PLANE-TREE IN CHEAPSIDE.
A MONGST the many charms of London arc
its trees and flowers, and the fact that
they are to be encountered in the most unlikely
places lends an added interest to their dis-
covery. For example, there is the plane-tree m
Cheapside and the flowers in the publishers’
window-boxes in Warwick Square. Trees such
as the one illustrated grow mostly in old for-
gotten churchyards—relics of the days when
London was smaller —and the plane-tree in
Cheapside is on the site of the old churchyard
of St. Peter at the Cross. The value attached
to this ancient tree is shown by the fact that
it is stringently protected in the leases of
neighboring buildings. Many of these build-
ings are old and, as can be seen from a plate
on its wall, the shop on the right of the illus-
tration claims to be pre-fire, but authorities
consider this claim to be very doubtful.
In addition to its age and beauty the
Cheapside plane-tree has a further distinction.
It is mentioned in the “Reverie of Poor Susan”
by that great lover of flowers and trees,
William Wordsworth.
It is interesting to note that the bombing
of London is bringing to light many flowers
and shrubs which have been unknown for
many years. Altogether about 95 different
kinds of flowers and shrubs are today flourish-
ing on the bombed sites. Basing their expecta-
tions on this fact, botanical experts are hoping
that this spring may bring forth a flower which
has not been seen in London for 277 years —
since the Great Fire in 1666. The flower
which they are anxiously expecting is called
Sisymbrium irio or, to give it its English name,
“London Rocket.” According to ancient
records it was growing in abundance in 1666,
but was apparently destroyed by the fire. The
plant grows to a height of about 24 inches
and it has a white flower. Should the plant
bloom it will be an outstanding event in the
history of British flora.


B^J«geg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, vrithout obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
Intimations of Mortality.
When a poet reaches maturity and,
consciously or half-consciously, discovers
what he really wishes to say, one nearly
always finds him saying the same thing
over and over again. He has a certain
point of view to offer, a certain revela-
tion to make, or, if you like, a certain
line” to sell. Auden’s “line” is social
satire; Eliot’s, “the intersection of the
timeless moment”; Hugh McCrae's,
physical and spiritual joy.
J. R. Hervey’s “line” is Death. He
does not seem to be altogether aware
that that’s what he has to sell, for in a
poem called “Pylons” he writes:
In their strong journeying they have left me
behind
To gather what good I may
In the hungry fields, clutching my defaced
heritage,
My rest the ruins of an elder day;
which could mean that he regards him-
self as a nature-worshipper, a pantheist
—which he is not —or that he leaves to
Day Lewis, Spender and Auden, who do
attempt to follow the pylons, the real ad-
venture and advance of poetry, content-
ing himself with byways, ruins, outworn
modes of being. But the very reverse
is true. Pylons or no pylons, the great
realities of life are still birth, mating and
death; and though it may be as well for
a poet to say something about pylons
occasionally (the pylon-poem is almost
compulsory these days, as once the sky-
lark-poem was) it is Hervey’s theme of
mortality, not the irrelevant pylon, that
is of fundamental and eternal importance
to humanity.
But, whether or not he’s aware of it,
Death —or, more accurately, Duality—
is certainly his theme. Of the 50 pieces
in his New Poems (Caxton Press, Christ-
church, N.Z.) 17 are directly concerned
with death and nearly all the others de-
bate some aspect of the eternal duality—‘ l
Joy and Pain, Good and Evil, Beauty
and Ugliness, Love and Hate.
Coming on “Woman Dying Over the
Way”—
I drink the sun, I handle
The friendly tool, I eat,
But the woman has her candle
And a cold and clutching sheet;
on “The Interloper” (it first appeared in
The Bulletin) based on the fact that “in
certain ancient feasts, at the height of
the merriment, a corpse was solemnly
carried in as a reminder of man’s
mortality”; on “A Poet Dies”; on
“Threnos”—
Each day sees die the lonely leaf, sees die
The perfect paw, the unobstructed wing;
on “An Aged Woman Sitting at Her
Door” ; on “The Mourners Return” ; “At
the Grave of Jessie Mackay” ; and on
“Two Old Men Look at the Sea” —
How shall we live and hold, how love and
handle
To the last beach the dark and difficult glean-
ings?
For so must we come, hugging our recompense.
To the unfeeling shore, to the bleak admonitory
tide,
Our fear being as a hand that cups a candle
Against the winds that whiff away pretence,
And the sea whose sentence strikes like a leaden
wave;
coming, as it were, upon so many corpses
at the feast, one is reminded of the Eliza-
bethans : Shakspeare’s sonnets and trage-
dies, or the dramas of Webster—
A dead man’s skull beneath the roots of flowers.
Though there is a great similarity be-
tween Hervey’s and the Elizabethan ob-
session with mortality, there is also a
great difference. Despite some lip-service
to conventional religious belief, Webster
was a profoundly gloomy fellow, as pessi-
mistic as Euripides.
We are only like dead, walls or vaulted graves
That, ruined, yield no echo. Fare you well.
It may be pain, but no harm, to me to die
In so good a quarrel. Oh, this gloomy world!
In what a shadow, or deep pit of darkness
Doth, womanish and fearful, mankind live!
The Reformation had shaken the founda-
tions of the universe ; the Elizabethan
tragedy closed in the overwhelming and
final darkness of the tomb. Hervey,
on the contrary, comes out again into the
sun:
Let the birds unconfined
Release the sheltering mind,
And let the trees toss down
A sleep upon your heart’s demented town,
For war is the winter season, yet on this hour
Comes glittering a gust of summer power,
For so beauty again
Scatters the omen from the stooping brain.
In Hervey’s verse, as in Eliot’s, re-
ligious faith and poetic faith (Eliot would
say they are one) coalesce to set up
against earthly darkness an image of joy
in eternity. Into the “winter season” of
mortality flash intimations of the im-
mortal spring. There is laughter :
Crashing the walls and bearing away the
manacles,
A light breath, a faint and foolish chime,
Laughter that subjugates the threats of time.
There is courage, the high courage of the
airman, the humbler courage of humanity
in the blackout of war:
Guard then the impish gleam, the starved taper,
For so the scowling night is mocked and hope
Enticed from sleep. Your feeble dream
.Shall rock the citadel, your candle
Resolve the reeking maze,
Define
The candid path, the laughing leagues of praise.
There is beauty, the indestructible
memory of moments of revelation:
Then, if the snow, may I not still retain
Visitations of sight that blew
From buried moods and dark anonymous days—
A crystallisation surviving the flare of pain
And blind offensive of time? Thus my dreams
come,
An army upon disaster’s snarling drum:
What should I fear, though Babylon burn,
For whom the stars return?
There is delight in the spectacle of life,
affirmation of both the glory and the
tragedy of
Life that is hammer and fire.
And so, in the last word on life and
death, when “A Poet Dies”;
.... now the poet more deeply goes
Into the dream he knows.
Confining himself to variations on this
single theme of Duality, Hervey puts
forward in New Poems a coherent philo-
sophy laudably concerned with funda-
mentals. It makes a fine book. There
is, nevertheless, a danger in singing the
one tune ; the danger of repetition. There
are three ways of avoiding that trap:
constantly to expand or deepen the
theme, as Eliot has done; to pass from
phase to phase of the theme as did Yeats,
continually changing text and method,
even if the philosophy remains the same ;
or to turn to the long poem—narrative
or dramatic —whereby as many tunes can
be played as there are characters. Con-
fident in versification, showing in many
of these short poems a sense for scene
and character, and having an awareness
of death that should be extremely use-
ful for tragedy, Hervey has all the equip-
ment for that adventure into narrative or
drama which may of necessity be his
next step.
Gibbings on the Wye.
It’s impossible to read a book as
pleasant as Robert Gibbings’s Coming
Down the Wye (Dent) without wishing
that it was a book by an Australian
author about an Australian river. Except
for the steadily-mounting total of Charles
Barrett’s nature-studies and an occasional
surprise such as Elyne Mitchell’s Austra-
lian Alps, Gibbings’s type of documen-
tary writing—an evocation of the spirit
of the earth, animated by descriptions of
its birds, beasts, fishes and flowers and
enriched by local history—is so rare in
Australia that hardly the beginnings of
a tradition have been established. The
English (or the Welsh or Scottish) scene,
re-created in dozens of books each year,
is more of a reality in Australia, as far
as the literary tradition makes it so, than
the Australian.
As the publishers of Coming Down
the Wye have discovered, this sort of
documentary writing has a special value
in war-time:
Times of stress and turmoil usually lead
to a rediscovery of the peaceful delights
of our home country, and it was hardly
surprising that Robert Gibbings’s Sweet
Thames Run Softly should appeal to a
nation at war. Not even the publishers,
however, anticipated that it would jump at
once into the best-seller class and continue
to sell as steadily after two years as it
did when it first appeared.
Without sentimentality and without
earnestly laboring the point. Sweet
Thames Run Softly offered to the people
at war a picture of what they were really
fighting for: their own country, im-
memorially lovely and as deaf to modern
Englishmen as it was to Shakspeare or to
Wordsworth. John Pudney’s collection
of country sketches The Green Grass
Grew All Round, recently reviewed here,
was a similar attempt to reveal the Eng-
lish heritage to a nation fighting for it;
and Coming Down the Wye, though it
rarely mentions the war, is yet another
attempt —and likely to be every bit as
popular as was Sweet Thames Run Softly.
Written by an Australian about some
corner of the Australian earth, a book such
as this would do infinitely more to re-
inforce the spirit of the nation than any
angry pamphlets about the New Order,
any journalistic slang-whangings about
Malaya or any earnest radio talks about
our virtues, our failings or our duties.
Australia, in short, needs to be written
up; not by propagandists, but by a dozen
or a score of writers who love the land
as simply and as wholeheartedly as
Charles Barrett does or as Gibbings loves
the waters of the Wye.
Nor, if Gibbings’s technique is adopted,
is the writing-up at all a difficult job.
Except that he’s more of a naturalist, and
so has more to say about the scenes,
plants and creatures of the river, he uses
very much the method Halliday Suther-
land did on his Hebridean excursion: sits
him down by the Wye and lets his mind
wander over all the earth. For instance,
he begins a chapter with the statement
“There are plenty of lakes in Wales” ;
proceeds, properly, to talk about lakes ;
then about various “Ladies of the Lake,”
bringing in a list of supernatural medi-
cines, supplied by a nixie, for calming
irritability of mind, reducing fatness, pre-
serving chastity and coping with “reptiles
in the stomach” and “a worm in the
tooth” ; then visits a church and con-
cludes with a couple of anecdotes re-
called from his boyhood in Ireland;
As the sexton walked up the aisle with
the collecting plate, he would polish the
plate with his elbow or the tail of his
coat. He could always count on a shilling
from the sour spinster, but the children
seldom rose to more than a few coppers
between them. Sometimes they did not
even manage that, and then the old man
would look across to me and shake his
head sadly. Once, when a . stray visitor to
the church put in half a crown, he looked
at the coin for a long while, then bowed
deeply to the visitor.
There used to be unorthodox incidents
in those out-of-the-way churches in Ire-
land. One minister that I knew slipped
one day as he was stepping up to the lec-
tern and only saved himself by clutching
the brass eagle with both arms. Regain-
ing his balance, he turned to his congre-
gation and remarked in a confiding tone,
“I’d have been down but for the blessed
old bird.” Then he went on with the
lesson.
Gibbings has several anecdotes about
Eric Gill, describing the remote Llan-
thony Abbey where Gill lived for a few
years:—
It is certainly as cold a spot as any
anchorite could wish for. I can still remem-
ber the dinners by candlelight at the long re-
fectory table, everyone wearing overcoats
or shawls, while members of Gill’s family
took it in turn to read the Epistle and
Gospel for the Day and a chapter from
the Martyrology. But if the stone floors
were cold, hearts were warm; Eric was as
lovable a man as you could meet.
And Eric Gill’s refusal to be highfalutin
about his work reminds him of Constable
and Turner:
We all know the old tag that art is not
inspiration but perspiration. Blake, when
looking through one of Constable’s
sketch-books, exclaimed with enthusi-
asm, “Why, this is not drawing, but
inspiration.” Constable replied, “I never
knew it before; I meant it for drawing.”
Turner, when pressed to speak at the
fashionable gatherings of his day, would
merely reply that painting was a “rum go.”
Incidentally, since Gibbings sets a pre-
cedent for digression, and also for volu-
minous quotation, it might be mentioned
here that Eric Gill’s Last Essays (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson) —pleasant reading,
but adding little to Gill’s well-known
views on Catholicism, industry and
craftsmanship—has this fine summing-up
on art and propaganda, applying just as
well to political as to religious propa-
ganda ;
All our works are in their true nature
evangelical; they have for their object,
their final cause, their end, the winning
of beatitude But it is necessary to avoid
the implication that, because all work is
of its nature evangelical, therefore we
must always be consciously thinking of it
as such. Provided that we know it to be
so and order our lives accordingly, we
may well forget all about it He preaches
best who does not know that he is
preaching and, even, he loves best
who does not know that he is loving.
And thus we may go on to say that those
works are best which are not labelled
holy, which are holy in their nature and
without advertisement.
All of which, like Gibbings’s quota-
tions from Jeans about the stars and from
some American publication on the man
who thought a bowl of freesias “stank”
and the lady who couldn’t smell them at
all, is a long way from the Wye and
from Wales ; but the river with its weeds
and flowers and birds, its fishermen and
its poachers meanders pleasantly through
the book, and there are plenty of grim
Welshmen who sell their wives in the
market-place ; poetic Welshmen who say
such things as “The oak-trees and the
firs on the hills are borne down under
the weight of the ice that is on them ;
they are no colder than my heart”;
humorous Welshmen who, when offered
five shillings by an eccentric clergyman
to marry the ladies with whom they are
living in sin, are perfectly willing to get
married and remarried as many times
as they can fool the old man ; and alto-
gether unusual Welshmen who, when
asked if they have ever heard phantom
bells ringing in the water and if their
lake is not celebrated for its miracles,
reply, briefly and pointedly, “Bunkum.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Emotionally as well as factually the
newsreels have presented the war far
more effectively than does the exhibition
of “British War Pictures” at Sydney
National Gallery. Much of the work,
traditional or experimental, is trivial;
much is about the level of students’ exer-
cises and some is almost tragic in its
ineptitude. There was more freshness,
more life in the Australian service men’s
show: they were, frankly, youngsters
adventuring in expression, not profes-
sionals pretending to turn war into art.
What happens when a painter of R.A.
status sets about being an official war
artist is exemplified in Charles Cundall’s
big canvas, “Hampdens. The Take-off.”
Here is a beautiful coastal scene —even-
ing, some time before sunset. Sky, sea,
terrain are all delightfully painted. And
in the foreground are a few bombers,
fantastically out of tune with their en-
vironment. Cundall is more at ease in
“Minesweepers,” where the war-time
function of the ships doesn’t alter their
familiar aspect as trawlers. Marine
painter Charles Pears has a smack at a
modern sea battle, and his “Jervis Bay
Action” is doubtless an accurate tran-
script of what such an affair could look
like on a sunny day. There is a blazing
steamer in the centre and another ship
is being bombed, surrounded by tall
- spouts of water the shape of cypresses.
But the general effect is that of a pretty
scene, and it conjures up no more feeling
than would a view of a regatta. Roy
Nockolds’s fine picture of a patrol ’plane
over the coast at night is only inciden-
tally a war painting. There are some
good portraits in the traditional vein:
but portraiture has no essential link with
war.
Experimenters such as Paul and John
Nash find themselves severely hampered
by the necessity for bringing their work
into some relation with facts. Paul’s
aeroplanes are as depressing as ill-nur-
tured pumpkins and John’s affection for
etiolated hues makes his dockyard fire a
cold affair.
The anecdotalists and the decoratists
who can get a good poster out of war’s
mechanism (such as Keith Henderson’s
“Air Gunner in Gun Turret. Night”)
seem most at home in war artists’ khaki.
Feliks Topolski, with his rapid shorthand
way of sketching (he’s now with the
Polish forces), comes near the ideal in
his ability to give the sense of a situa-
tion. The most successful attempts to
evoke some sympathy with war’s vic-
tims and some admiration for the forti-
tude and heroism of the people are the
drawings (for lithograph) of Ethel
Gabain. She is not hampered by
the current British convention that it is
a shameful thing to be able to draw, and
she finds her subjects in the streets, in
air-raid shelters, amid the ruins of
bombed homes and among pathetic little
bands of (awful term!) “evacuee” chil-
dren.
Echoes of the generation of artists to
which Longstaff, Davies, Phillips, Fox
and Streeton belonged are in the show
at the Athenaeum, Melbourne, of Mrs.
J. M. Muntz Adams’s lifetime of paint-
ing. Those were the days when artists
didn’t rush to an exhibition with their
first picture, but served some appren-
ticeship to painting. An octogenarian
now, Mrs. Adams has long since set
aside the palette, but there is a fresh-
ness of observation about some of her
little sketches, if not her finished por-
traits, which saves them from being dated.
Backstage and frontstage impressions
of the ballet by Daryl Lindsay, John
Rowell, Ruth Shackel, William Dargie
and Alan McCulloch have been adorning
the foyer of His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
during the Borovansky season. To in-
vite a test like that requires a high de-
gree of courage or something—how many
artists would like their landscapes to be
set up in the face of Nature when Corot
himself said that when he was in the
fields he was filled with despair at his
pictures? Few of the paintings give back
the rush and excitement of the dancing,
and those that partially succeed are the
least pretentious. In some of Ruth
Shackel’s brief sketches little has been
attempted and something caught.
“C.B”; The only pub blatantly open
after hours in Melbourne is “White Horse
Inn,” at His Majesty’s. This no doubt
accounts for most of its popularity; it
is also the best-dressed show for a long
time. Citizens who have exhausted their
clothing ration can sublimate by survey-
ing musicomedy Swiss fashions, and it
seems to put them in the requisite tor-
giving mood with regard to the singing.
Don Nicol’s amiable fooling, however,
keeps the pot of amusement boiling, and \
the dancing of the Tyrolese ballet is
astounding.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
119 Years of Service
m
WITH THE MAYY AMD THE ARMY
ARMY OFFICERS
Officers' ■ Double Breasted
Greatcoats. Lancer front and
deep tum-back cuffs. British
Army pattern. 240 z. proofed
greatcoating. Ready to wear.
Coupon free. Send particu-
lars of height, also chest
and waist measurements over
tunic. Price £6/3/6
NAVAL OFFICERS
Navy Blue Regulation Coating
is put into these Naval Officers'
Greatcoats. Non-metallic lace
on shoulder straps. Coupon
free. If you are not able to call
personally state height, chest
and waist measurements
over tunic, together with
branch of service particulars.
We post free to any address in
Australia. Price £6/3/-
OPEN AN ACCOUNT WITH US. It makes
shopping a pleasure and saves valuable time. Our
Credit Manager, Head Office, Third Floor, will
make the necessary arrangements for you.
LONG SLEEVES
ALL WOOL
All Wool Pullovers for men
in a medium winter weight
with ribbed turned over
collar and long sleeves.
Colours are Mid Grey,
Navy, Blue, Grey and Fawn.
Sizes Men's OS EXOS
Prices 17/6 18/6 21/-
9 coupons
m
m
10 STYLES
High Grade Shoes by
leading makers, in
Black Box Calf in full
and half sizes. Finest
grade leathers and
genuine welted soles
of solid leather. 39/6
12 coupons.
In Black, Tan and
Brown, made on a
good fitting last in
full and half sizes.
Stout sewn and
standard screwed
soles of solid leather.
Price 27/6
6 coupons.
OFFICERS'
BOOTS
flfl
■
ap 5
m
® Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
Phone M 2401 (Day and Night) Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.O. Sydney


THE MAN WHO KNEW HORSES
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
CHARLIE started for the stable and
walked back again half a dozen
times while he tried to make up
his mind whether to begin sowing
his wheat or to wait another week for
rain. He was well aware that Mrs.
Charlie was watching him, expecting him
to make the wrong decision, so when
Dyason arrived in his car he welcomed
the interruption.
Dyason was looking for a stray horse,
and wanted Charlie to help him. Charlie
had a great reputation as a finder of lost
horses.
He soon impressed Dyason with his
ability by discovering footprints and
other traces at every crossroad. They
followed the clues for about eight miles,
but lost the track at a junction where
one road led into town and the other
round it. Charlie was all for going into
town and making inquiries, but Dyason
was against it. “She’s a sprightly young
draught mare,” he said. “She’d be scared
to go through the town.”
“All the people who can’t find horses
without my help,” said Charlie, “have
ideas like that. You never know what a
horse will do.”
They argued about it for a while, then
decided to speak to a man who was
fiddling with a car a short distance from
the corner. He looked worried, but
brightened when they explained their dif-
ficulty. “Yes,” he said, “I saw your
horse just outside the town as I came
along. When you’re going in you might give
me a lift. I have to get a part for my car.”
They took him along, and everybody
felt very pleased until they got to town
without seeing any horse.
“It must have shifted,” the man ex-
plained. “Thanks for the ride, anyway.”
He jumped out of the car and quickly
disappeared.
Charlie chuckled loudly. “We’ve been
diddled,” he said, “but now that we’re
here we might as well make some in-
quiries ; the Royal is the best place.”
Dyason went, but very reluctantly. He
wanted to rush off again after a couple of
beers and a quick look round, but that
was not Charlie’s method. “I’ve found
more horses in pubs than in any other
place,” he explained. “Sooner or later
you meet all the men who know horses
in here. It’s just a matter of staying
long enough.”
Dyason left it until he’d had much
more beer than he wanted, but Charlie
didn’t make a single inquiry of all the
people they saw, and at last Dyason
became very impatient. A man came in
wearing a leather motor coat. “Let’s ask
him,” Dyason suggested,
“It wouldn’t do any harm,” Charlie
admitted indulgently.
The man had seen a horse. ,
“Along the Tarumba road,” he said.
“What color is the one you’re looking
for?”
They gave him a detailed description,
and after considering it carefully the
motorist gave his decision. “It’s your
horse all right,” he said. “She’s about
nine miles out, just opposite the farm
where there’s an avenue of pines.”
Dyason thanked him, and smiled
triumphantly at Charlie. He hurried out
and Charlie followed slowly.
“It just might be your horse,” Charlie
said.
“Of course it is,” Dyason asserted. “The
description tallied, and it’s on the road
back to the farm where I bought it.”
SURE enough there was a horse oppo-
site Melville’s farm, but it was a
black gelding instead of a bay mare ; it
had a white blaze on its forehead, while
Dyason’s had none ; and it hadn’t a single
white sock, while his had four.
“Perhaps it’s shifted again,” said Charlie.
Melville, who was working in the pad-
dock just off the road, gave a snort of
contempt when they asked him.
“That’s the only horse that’s been here
today,” he told them ; “but you couldn’t
expect one of those hundred-mile-an-hour
motorists to see what color it was. If
he’d seen a donkey or a zebra he’d have
been just as sure it was your horse.”
“Did you see her?” Dyason inter-
rupted him. “A young draught bay mare
with four white socks?”
“Branded L over a half-circle,” Mel-
ville continued the description, “with a
collar scar on the right shoulder and a
docked tail.”
“Yes, yes,” said Dyason. “Which way
did she go?”
“I saw her on Tuesday a week ago.
You were bringing her home from
McDougal’s sale. You were riding a
chestnut gelding with a silver mane,”
“Hell, I know that.” Dyason was peev-
ish. “Have you seen her since?”
“She hasn’t come back this way,” Mel-
ville assured him. “I’d have seen her by
day or heard her by night. There was a
piebald along on Friday at 9 a.m., and
a light bay hack on Saturday at 4.30 in
the afternoon. Two cows with Jersey
markings came past yesterday, and a
black-and-tan kelpie this morning with-
out a collar.”
They hurried away before he could
remember any more.
‘ ‘ j T seems to me,” said Dyason, “that
* ever since we’ve started asking people
we’ve done nothing but waste time. We
should have taken the other turning
instead of coming into town. We’ll go
back there' now.”
When they reached the town Charlie
urged strongly that they stop to make
more inquiries, but Dyason kept on
going. They explored the other road,
but only discovered evidence that the
horse hadn’t been along it.
“The only thing left is to go right out
to the place where I bought her,” said
Dyason.
“She can’t be there,” Charlie assured
him, “unless she flew—she didn’t go this
way or past Melville’s.”
“There are lanes,” Dyason said obsti-
nately.
“I think we ought to go back to town
again first,” Charlie advised, “even if it’s
only to get more petrol.”
“Blast it,” said Dyason, staring at his
indicator; “I’m nearly at the end of my
month’s ration.”
They went back to town, got their
petrol and had some lunch. Then Charlie
asserted himself and led the way to the
Royal for more inquiries, but during the
time it took to consume four beers in
Charlie’s leisurely manner no one
appeared whom he wanted to interview.
“It’s too early for the fellows I’m think-
ing of,” he told Dyason. “They’ll be
along soon. I’m going to wait.”
“Well, I’ll go and do some shopping,”
said Dyason, who had had more beer
that day than he usually drank in six
months, “I’ll call back in half an hour.”
FAYASON was delayed, and it was
nearer an hour when he got back.
At first he could not see Charlie, but
presently he spotted him in the centre
of a particularly noisy and hilarious
group. The men were of all types, but
mainly the sort Dyason didn’t care to
know; they looked like wood-carters or
road-makers, and even if they did know
horses they looked to be much more in-
terested in beer. It took Dyason quite a
long time to catch Charlie’s eye, and con-
siderably longer to induce him to come
out from among his friends and speak
to him. When he did there was a cer-
tain unwonted grandeur about his gait;
he had a benevolent smile fixed on his
face, and his eyes were inclined to roll
unexpectedly. He took Dyason by the
lapel and said confidentially “Have you
heard this one: A Waaaf was taking an
air-marshal from one aerodrome to an-
other. When they were miles from any-
where the car stopped”
“Now, look here”—Dyason shook him-
self free—“are these the men who know
where my horse is?”
Charlie shook his finger warningly in
Dyason’s face and whispered “I’m hot
on the scent. Just leave me with them
for another little half-hour.”
Dyason backed away indignantly. “I’m
going now, whether you come or not,”
he said. “If I find the mare I won’t call
back for you.”
Charlie laughed patronisingly in his
face ; “You’ll come back all right,” he
said, “and when you do you’ll find your
little mare tied up to a verandah post just
outside this hotel.”
Dyason gave a snort of disgust and went.
HE drove along devious lanes, look-
ing for clues as Charlie had done,
but feeling very helpless and rather fool-
ish ; then he drove back to town. He went
to the Royal, but Charlie was not there.
He had left some time ago “to look for a
horse.” They suggested that he look at
the Shamrock. From there the trail led
to the Queensland, the Railway and the
Empire. At each place he was told that
Charlie’s gang was “looking for a horse,”
and each time they laughed more. When
it became dark and he still hadn’t caught
up with Charlie he decided that he was
only making a fool of himself. It was
abundantly clear to him that, as a horse-
finder, ChaVlie was a fraud. He told his
wife that and much more as soon as he
got home.
A t three o’clock in the morning
** Dyason was awakened by a terrific
din. His dogs were barking with so much
fury that his wife was sure the worst
was going to happen to her turkeys. She
made him get up to protect them. He
took his gun and a torch. He quietened
his dogs and listened. Down the road
he heard the “cloppety-clop” of a
“sprightly young draught mare” coming
at a canter, and a familiar voice, some-
what befuddled and broken by the
rough gait of his mount, singing lustily.
Towards a New Order
By RANSOME T. WYATT.
IT was in the fifteenth year of the
second world war. In the fight for
democracy and freedom all sem-
blance of liberty had gone. A thou-
sand boards had issued a million regula-
tions. The people’s lives were regi-
mented from the cradle to the grave—
only cradles and graves were both
scarce: for cradles permits had to be ob-
tained from the Board for Boosting the
Birthrate, and graves came under the Inter-
pretation of Interments Inhibition Order.
Printing presses were exclusively
engaged upon the issue of ration books,
coupons and regulations relating there-
to. Radio programmes were devoted
solely to the promulgation of orders and
regulations and the hourly amendment
of each. Recruiting for the army and
for the Civil Construction Corps was at
a standstill, for the new departments had
already absorbed all available labor.
Munition works had been switched over
to the manufacture of staples and similar
gadgets to hold together the masses of
regulations and ration books.
Inspectors of this and that, second only
to the Taxation Department in numbers,
were in such demand that they were
subject to numbered priorities. Some
of the smaller departments, number-
ing only a couple of thousand em-
ployees each, had to share their out-
side staff. An inspector might police
the Provisional Standardisation of All
Lawn Mowers Act (P.S.A.L.M.) in the
forenoon, the Waters, Aerated, Regula-
tion of Density of Gas (W.A.R.D.0.G.)
in the afternoon, whilst on Sundays and
holidays he would earn double pay by
lending a hand in the administration of
the Restraint of Exuberance of Domestic
Pets Act (R.E.D.P.A.C.T.).
The censorship had been progressively
tightened up, and it was now an offence
to suggest that a regulation was unneces-
sary or redundant. Parliaments, Federal
and State, had doubled their numbers
with the growth of the Ministries and
departments, and it was an unfortunate
family which could not boast of at least
one member of Parliament. All these
members, too, doubled their emoluments
by membership of at least five advisory
committees, overriding councils, commis-
sions, cartels or panels, issuing in their
turn a spate of contradictory mandates,
edicts and ukases.
It was almost a paradise of bureau-
cracy.
Almost, but there was a rift in the lute.
Hr HERE came a day when the Deputy
1 Assistant Controller of Industry and
Trade summoned to conference the heads
of various rationing and controlling
departments. He addressed the gathering
with the solemnity born of the occasion.
“Do you know?” he asked, “that this
Ministry has not proclaimed a new con-
tr °T-u or a wee k?”
The gathering was astounded. Its
members looked at the D.A.C.0.1.T., at
the floor, at the ceiling, at each other
and at the vast files of gazetted regula-
bning the walls.
ioothpicks? timidly queried one of
the m°re insignificant officers.
Covered, barked the Controller, by
and MS e etto‘ a m o%r P d r ers” CtS UtUiSati ° n
Orders.
Humor? was the apologetic sugges-
tion oi another.
The Controller choked. “I thought,”
he said acidly, “that even the heads of
war-time departments realised that we
do not knowingly infringe upon the re-
sponsibilities and duties of other depart-
ments of equal status. Humor is gov-
erned by R.0.M.L.1.W.T., the Restraint
ot Mirth and Laughter in War-time, an
order ot the Censorship Department.”
“Kissing?” ventured another.
“Reaily, gentlemen,” said the Con-
trolier, “even the office boy knows of the
mass ot legislation governing promiscu-
ous osculation issued by the Amatory
Relations of the Sexes in War-time sec-
tion of the Department of Public Health.”
The gathering subsided into uneasy
silence
“I think I’ve got it,” suggested Ambrose
Sebastian Shellback at last. “Let us con-
Ireland ration‘All Pleasures of the People
Not Otherwise Regulated or Controlled.’ ”
“H’mph,” said the Controller reflec-
tively. “All Pleasures of the People Not
Otherwise Regulated or Controlled—
A.P.P.N.0.R.0.C. They’re good initials.
How do you propose to implement it?”
“Well, sir, we should want a hotel.
There’s only one left in Sydney, but I
suppose we could have that. Then we
should want an outside staff. I suppose
25,000 would do for a start. Of course,
when we are fully organised and are
visiting every home in the Common-
wealth we shall require 250,000 or so;
but by that time we would be a Ministry,
not a department, so the priorities should
be all right ”
“You’ve got the right idea,” said the
Controller. “Very well, Mr. Shellback,
co ahead ”
A GOOD public servant, Ambrose
Sebastian Shellback resumed here
and requisitioned there. In a few weeks
he had his hotel and his inside staff
—he commandeered the printing presses
of the one newspaper which had
so far been left undisturbed, and
poured out upon a bewildered and
bemused public regulations upon regu-
lations, amendments upon amendments,
schedules and appendices galore.
The general public had not the slightest
idea what was to be controlled or what
their ration tickets would cover, but
then Ambrose himself had no .clear idea
at this stage. When he surveyed the field
left to him he found all the other boards,
commissions, committees and panels in
full control of everything tangible that
could be controlled or rationed,
.. Ve ry well.” he said, “we will control
the intangible ”
, And it was so. He appointed his 25,000
inspectors, gave them their instructions
and awaite d results,
t-™ x*
elT’v 5 ' Came ’ rationing system was
chaotic regimentation at its worst. Evety
was allowed six hours recreauon
per da 7’. F f each ho A ur there WaS ,
P re ( s ™ bed f P leasu . re - Any amusement
°“ ts ‘ de of . f 1056 hou , rs ®rj ar >' ra l’ fro h m
the P resm Ption was forbidden. Punish-
"tents were fines and imprisonments, plus
forfei ulc ° f , ratlon for certain
P enods and . pleasures. Courts of sum-
mary junsdtction dealt with offenders m
wholesale batches A man who gave up
hls s f at “ a tram t ,O “ oldlady p [“;
secuted because he did not surrender bn
c™P?n entiUmg him to an hour of self-
satisfaction Two women discussing
fair operations were fined because their
musical entertainment-organ recitals
coupons were exhausted. A father taking
hls children for a walk in the park was
arreste , d because tbat hdur ! h( ? uld haVe
been devoted to the study of the Mims-
L ry of ProP a g a nd a s pamphlet on the
. Regimentation of Proletariat Pleasures
m Naz i ; co ntroll e dCou n tn es . An entire
Wom , ens f Guild filled -paffol wagon
on f day for havi “ 8 s P? th f e ®, hourS
ms t ea d of one in Social
But Ambrose Sebastian Shellback went
to ° far - He forgot his public-service
training and traditions. He did worse, he
developed a sense of humor, a fatal mis-
take for a P ublic servant. He ignored
the fact that d °S does not eat dog. He
Clt ed the Parliamentary draftsman to
a nswer charges of using language to <us-
gmse thought without at the same
handing in a year’s supply of coupons
covering the use of mechanical, jigsaw
aQ d. other puzzles He obtained a con-
viction, but the subsequent appeals even-
tually reached the House of Lords, which,
of course, quashed the original conviction.
In the meantime, in Australia, th £
matter became an election issue. The
Government was utterly routed, The
first dawnings of a New Order were re-
vealed in the retirement of Ambrose, the
dissolution of his department and t e
abrogation of all its regulations. W
public-service circles, “what gave ns
to no little surprise, nobody seemed on
penny the worse.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3299.
Wednesday, May 5, 1943.
IMPENDING PUSH ON THE EASTERN FRONT.


The Bulletin
iThe National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
RIFT IN THE LUTE.
Relations between the exiled Polish
Government and the Government at
Moscow were abruptly severed in conse-
quence of a Polish request for an In-
ternational Red Cross inquiry into a Ger-
man allegation that 10,000 Polish officers
were murdered by the Russians in the
Smolensk region before the invader took
possession of it. This, Moscow asserted,
was evidence of “accord with Hitler’s
Government,” itself guilty of “an ap-
palling crime against Polish officers” and
of “a farcical investigation,” and in keep-
ing with an attitude so hostile that it
amounted to a discontinuance of the
Russo-Polish alliance.
To the Churchill Government the
breach is as embarrassing as anything in
the history of British diplomacy. On
August 25, 1939, Britain entered into an
Agreement of Mutual Assistance with
Poland, and there is nothing in that in-
strument which admits of its sanctioning
the transfer of any part of Poland, as
Poland existed then, to another Power
without the express consent of the Poles.
Unable to prevent the Nazi-Russian parti-
tion of Poland in September, 1939, its
Government assured the stricken people
that it would see them righted. Their
Premier, General Sikorski, has placed on
record a conversation he had with Mr.
Churchill on June 18, 1940:
The General: “Tomcyrow I return to
face my army. What am I to tell them?”
The P.M.; “Tell them that we are their
comrades in life and death. We shall con-
quer together or die together.”
“On that,” said General Sikorski after-
wards, “we shook hands. That handshake
meant more to me than any treaty of
alliance or any pledged word.”
Came the German attack on Russia
and Mr. Churchill’s pledge of full support
to that country given on the same day
(June 22, 1941):
Any man or State that fights against
Nazism will have our aid. Any man who
marches with Hitler is our foe.
Two days later Mr. Eden announced
that the Soviet Government had “ac-
cepted Britain’s offer to send military
and economic missions to Russia,” and
had “made it plain that collaboration
would be of a mutual and reciprocal
nature.” At the same time, he contra-
dicted a Nazi lie that the U.S.S.R. had
“tried, in agreement with Britain, to stab
Germany in the back,” saying that,
though “we would have welcomed an
agreement, the Soviet Union was not pre-
pared to negotiate, being anxious not to
introduce embarrassments into its rela-
tions with Germany.” An “agreement
for joint action in the war against Hitler-
ite Germany” was signed on July 12.
In the character of mutual friend the
Foreign Secretary then tackled the knotty
question of a Russo-Polish agreement.
In this he was successful, but when Gen-
eral Sikorski and M, Maisky, the Soviet
Ambassador, came to terms, M. Zaleski,
then the Polish Foreign Minister, said he
would resign rather than become a party
to such an agreement; and resign he did.
The agreement was nevertheless signed
in the British Foreign Office (July 29,
1941), and General Sikorski forthwith
disclosed the “honorable terms.”
(1) The U.S.S.R. Government recognises
that the Russo-German treaties of 1939
regarding territorial changes in Poland
have lost their validity.
(2) The Polish Government declares that
Poland is not bound by any agreement
with any third Power against the Soviet.
(3) The U.S.S.R. Government consents to
the formation of a Polish army on Russian
territory under a commander appointed
by the Polish Government, after consulta-
tion with the Soviet.
(4) The Polish Army to be represented
on the Russian Supreme Command.
(5) Poland and the U.S.S.R. agree to
support each other in every way against
Hitlerite Germany.
(6) The Soviet grants an amnesty to all
Poles detained in Soviet territory.
The agreement signed and sealed, the
gratified Mr. Eden, thinking perhaps to
heal the wounds of the Zaleski faction
and bring it back into the fold, handed
General Sikorski a Note in these terms:
In conformity with the provisions of the
Agreement of Mutual Assistance between
the United Kingdom and Poland of August
25, 1939, His Majesty’s Government has
entered into no undertakings towards the
U.S.S.R. which affect relations between
that country and Poland. His Majesty’s
Government does not recognise any terri-
torial changes which have been effected
in Poland since August, 1939.
Informed of everything, and expectant
of a visit from Mr. Eden, M. Stalin held
forth at “a Celebration Meeting of the
Moscow Soviet of Working People’s
Deputies and Moscow Party and Public
Organisations” (November 6, 1941):
We have not, and cannot have, any such
war aims as the seizure of foreign terri-
tories and the subjugation of foreign
peoples, whether it be peoples and terri-
tories of Europe or peoples and territories
of Asia, including Iran. Our first aim is
to liberate our territories and our peoples
from the German Fascist yoke.
We have not, and cannot have, any such
war aims as that of imposing our will and
our regime upon the Slavonic or other en-
slaved nations of Europe, who are expect-
ing our help. Our aim is to help these
nations in the struggle of liberation they
are waging against Hitler’s tyranny and then
to leave it to them quite freely to organise
their life on their lands as they think fit.
There must be no interference whatever in
the internal affairs of other nations.
December, 1941, found Mr. Eden in
Moscow discussing with Messrs. Stalin
and Molotov “the conduct of the war
and the post-war organisation of peace
and security in Europe.” There were
further talks in London, and the nego-
tiations flowered in the twenty-year
treaty of alliance “against Germany and
all those States which are associated with
her in acts of aggression in Europe.” It
was signed by Mr. Eden and M. Molotov
on May 26, 1942. Of special interest to
Poland is Article 5:
Hie High Contracting Parties, hav-
ing regard to the interests of the security
of each of them, agree to work together
in close and friendly collaboration after
the re-establishment of peace for the
organisation of security and economic
prosperity in Europe. They will take into
account the interests of the United Nations
in these objects, and will act in accordance
with the two principles of not seeking
territorial aggrandisement for themselves
and of non-interference in the internal
affairs of States.
Perhaps in intelligent anticipation of
what was coming, Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill inserted in the Atlantic Char-
ter an expression of their “desire to see
no territorial changes that do not accord
with the freely expressed wishes of the
peoples concerned,” and of their “wish
to see sovereign rights and self-govern-
ment restored to those who have been
forcibly deprived of them.” What came,
and that with remarkable suddenness,
though the British (but not the Ameri-
can) press put the soft pedal on it, was
a brisk Russo-Polish war of propaganda
and counter-propaganda ; and it has been
raging ever since.
Alleging that the Poles had “a pro-
Fascist policy of rapprochement with
Germany before the war,” Moscow ac-
cused their Government of cherishing
designs on U.S.S.R. territory as far as
the Dnieper, and of “breaking the united
front of Slav peoples in their struggle
against the German invader.” It claimed
for the U.S.S.R. Estonia, Latvia, Lithu-
ania and other parts of the Czarist empire,
above all “the Ukrainian and White Rus-
sian lands” occupied by Red troops dur-
ing the joint invasion of Poland, they
having been incorporated in Poland by
“imperialists” in denial of “historic rights.”
The Polish Government denied all the
charges, and demanded the post-war
return of all pre-war Polish territories,
invoking in justification the agreements
with Britain and Russia, the Anglo-
Russian alliance and the Atlantic Charter.
The efforts of both parties to the war
of propaganda and counter-propaganda
were designed chiefly to influence Ameri-
can opinion. Both have a lively sense of
American might, of American responsi-
bility for the re-creation of the Polish
State and of the powerful Polish elements
in the American population. There are,
in fact, several active Polish parties in
the U.S.A., and by at least two of these,
which stand for a Polish republic “one
and indivisible,” General Sikorski’s Gov-
ernment has been condemned on the
score of being too partial to Moscow.
Americans not of Polish descent exhi-
bited little interest in the territorial
claims. But they and the entire Jewish
community were stirred by an incident
which did not figure in the official propa-
ganda—the putting to death in Russia of
the two Polish Jews Alter and Ehrlich,
Socialist-Labor leaders with distinguished
American friends, which was admitted
only after —and long after —U.S. Labor
leaders, “columnists” (notably Mr. Gram
Swing) and Mr. Wendell Willkie himself
when he was in Moscow had made un-
availing efforts to secure their release.
Obviously Goebbels, in launching the
story of the Smolensk massacre, was try-
ing to exploit the feeling excited in the
U.S.A. by the execution of Alter and
Ehrlich, heightened as it was by the long
and strange concealment. Guilty of so
many atrocities on their own account, the
Nazis will find no Anglo-American
market for a Goebbels atrocity story.
Bitter incredulity is, in fact, the natural
and universal reaction in English-speak-
ing countries.
It was no doubt injudicious of the
Polish Government to ask for a Red
Cross inquiry, with the Nazis in full con-
trol of the witnesses and the “evidence,”
without securing the sanction of the British
Foreign Office and the American Depart-
ment of State. All the same, a liberal
allowance should be made for its feel-
ings as the recognised organ of a nation
which has suffered the accumulated hor-
rors of invasion, exile, captivity and en-
slavement, and there can be no disputing
its right and duty to interest itself in the
fate of the officers alleged to have been
massacred, to the point of trying
to have it cleared up. According
to the Polish Minister to Australia,
the Russians have held “about 8000
Polish commissioned and non-commis-
sioned officers,” among them “several
generals, about 60 university professors
and 400 doctors,” for 18 months, and
repeated requests for their deliverance in
the terms of the July, 1941, amnesty —
indeed, all inquiries as to their where-
abouts, if any—have gone unanswered.
Returned Diggers and airmen who have
found the Poles good fighters and good
fellows will marvel that so many of them
should have been held as prisoners in
Smolensk in July-August, 1941 (the
evacuation of Smolensk was announced
by the Russians on August 15), and will
not be so mystified as the carping Mos-
cow correspondent of the “Times” as
to why the Polish divisions which
joined the British imperial army in the
Middle East “showed overeagerness to
quit Russia.”
It is an unfortunate business altogether,
and thrice unfortunate for Mr. Eden.
On that gentleman will fall the task of
effecting a reconciliation which will be
no empty form, and that in such a way
as to preserve the authority of the Polish
Government and save his own Adminis-
tration from angry charges of throwing
the Poles to the wolves because they are
weak, in the process violating its solemn
engagements, so often reaffirmed. If he
can bring it off he will be justly acclaimed
as the greatest Foreign Secretary of all
time.
Montgomery's Men.
For a month or two now the British
Eighth Army arid First Army have been
fighting their way not only towards the
cliffs and beaches of Tunisia, but even
into cable-column headlines. Just as sig-
nificant of the soundness of the British
performance in North Africa has been
the silence of the Left and the typewriter
strategists, though one of these came up
with the familiar fling at J. Bull as re-
cently as April 23, commenting in a cable
on “the hidebound conservatism which
has refused for years to recognise the
value of air-borne forces after develop-
ment by Russia, Italy and Germany.”
This echoes the article in which the
Left peer Lord Strabolgi qualified for a
bunch of carrots by alleging, as Lord
Lovat paraphrased it, that British “mili-
tary defeats were due to lack of faith
in British generals —bad generals be-
cause they were professional soldiers.”
The Left lord further sneered;
The British Army has had two victories
to its credit, against the Italians With
these exceptions, against both the Japanese
and the Germans the British Army has
only chronicled a dismal record of failures.
That, with much more in the same
vein, was published in an American
paper when British and American Army
and Navy chiefs were working out the
plans for the invasion of French North
Africa.
It is just as typical that nothing now
comes from this Left lord and others of
his kidney but silence. An apology and
confession of ignorant blundering would
be the last things they could rise to.
The fact is that British military leadership
and fighting quality have been proved as
good as ever they were; and the leaders
are professional soldiers.
Mr. Churchill pointedly touched on
this after the Eighth Army’s sweep across
from Egypt to Tripoli:
Let me also pay tribute to that vehement
and formidable General Montgomery, a
Cromwellian figure, austere, accomplished,
tireless, who has attracted to himself in
extraordinary measure the confidence and
devotion of his army.
To which Ninth Division Diggers,
who helped vitally in breaking the Ger-
man defences at Alamein, would unani-
mously say “Hear, hear,” whatever they
might feel like commenting on the
fact that Mr. Churchill made no
mention of the Australians’ part;
an oversight—not the first—no doubt
due to the fact that ■ the Austra-
lians, after their heroic and costly
shock fighting had opened the way, were
withdrawn, and did not go on to Tripoli.
Of the Eighth Army troops he did see
there, Mr. Churchill said:
I have never seen troops march with the
style and air of this desert army. Talk
about spit and polish! The Highland and
New Zealand divisions paraded after their
ordeal in the desert as though they had
come out of Wellington Barracks.
Among them the British-bred troops
and their leaders —objects of contempt to
the carrot-chewers —had accomplished a
military achievement comparable to any-
thing in British or any other history.
Starting in from where the powerful
German forces threatened early conquest
of all Egypt, the Canal and beyond, they
made their break-through on November
4. By November 10 they had thrown the
Germans back 270 miles to the Egyptian
frontier. They reached Tobruk (98 miles
on) on November 13 ; Benghazi (another
360 miles to the west) on November 20;
Agedabia (103 miles) on November 23 ;
Agheila (69 miles) on December 13;
Nofilia (102 miles) on December 18 ; Sirte
(94 miles) on December 25 ; Buerat (58
miles) on January 2 ; Misurata (112 miles)
on January 19; Homs (60 miles) on
January 20.
In three months they were more than
1300 miles from their starting point, had
inflicted 80,000 casualties in killed and
captured, and had destroyed or captured
upwards of 500 tanks, 1000 guns, thou-
sands of transport vehicles, almost
countless small arms and huge quantities
of stores. They had done it all in con-
sistently bad weather —rain, sleet and
bitter cold. But for the deluge which
fell in the first week Rommel’s remnants
would never have reached Libya.
Backing this superb achievement was
the work of the British Navy, which,
with the usual perfection of organisation,
turned up at ports along the way with
supplies, tanks and fresh weapons, prac-
tically coinciding at each place with the
arrival of the advancing troops. On
land, before and throughout the advance,
similar British thoroughness in organisa-
tion backed up the fighters. The 120,000
lorries involved the supplying of 2000
tyres daily. For days before the attack
originally began (October 23) 4000 tons
of supplies was being delivered daily
behind the British lines. Every day the
troops waiting to attack got through 2400
tons of stores. When the attack started
field guns alone fired 1000 tons weight of
shells an hour. In the first month of
the advance no fewer than 1000 tanks
were dragged out of battle, repaired and
sent back to fight.
The quality of the British generalship
was seen at its highest when five Italian
divisions were left cut off in their original
positions, so that the main objective—the
pursuit of Rommel’s German forces—
would not be interfered with, except by
the weather. Capping everything—and
silencing the then blatant critics —was
the fighting quality of the men, shown
from when a correspondent looked on
“the yellow, ragged ridge of Alarnein,
swarming with barebacked Australian
troops,” till Mr. Churchill saw the re-
maining conquerors in Tripoli. There
was the fiercest of fighting on the way,
none fiercer than in the preliminary stage,
near where “the Australians kept hacking
and hewing away around the Hill of
Jesus.” One day there Rommel sent up
a squadron of his tanks.
They held their fire until they were right
up to the shallow trenches the Australians
had dug into the gaudy yellow rock. Then
the leading Nazi commander fitted one of
his tank treads into the nearest trench and
ran along trying to crush the men beneath
to death. It nearly succeeded. Some were
crippled. But most of the Australians
simply thrust their faces and bodies into
the sand and got out of it somehow. It
was a simple brutal act, and it made the
Australians so angry that there was horrible
fighting on the Hill of Jesus after that.
There was horrible fighting when the
Germans “came across the pink rocks
of Alamein in the night shouting ‘Hitler!
Hitler! ’ ” and “had the bad luck to run
into the New Zealanders, who had been
trained almost exclusively in the use of
the bayonet for months on end.”
The weather subsequent to the break-
through was sheer bad luck, which British
generalship and the troops had to rise
above; but there were turns of luck also:
To the incredulous joy of all who
watched, twenty-two Stukas dived magnifi-
cently but mistakenly on to their own
much-bombed infantry. Men beat one
another’s backs in ecstasy By all that
wias holy, they did it again. They jettisoned
their bombs all over their brethren. They
blew their own lines practically off the
face of the map I saw strong, silent
sergeant-majors pounding the earth in an
ecstasy of delight.
Most of the way the going was won
only by fine generalship and sheer hard
fighting —“By heavens,” a sergeant who
took part in it has written, “those Ger-
mans stood and fought!” All the more
credit to the conquerors the carping
knowalls had so persistently held up to
ridicule! Conquerors of the same ordi-
nary splendid kind are still there, hack-
ing away in the same tough sort of fight-
ing for Tunisia. Typical of them there.
An English unit followed within a hun-
dred yards of the creeping, barrage, ine
unit had only had three days’ rest in p lol *-
than five months’ fighting, and mustered
even cooks and drivers for the initial
charge....A fresh Scottish unit took over,
supported by heavy tanks, which blasted
the enemy strongpoints from close range.
A second English unit reinforced the Scots,
and carried the assault to the high ridges.
No words can properly pay tribute to me
“P. 8.1.,” who refused to quit until me,
had won.
It must be galling to the erstwhile
sneerers to see these stirring reports in
the same columns that only a little tun
back displayed their sneers at tn
“hidebound conservatism ot unm
generalship and the British Arrays dis
mal record of failures.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Further Action Deferred."
“ Smith’s Weekly” had a visit at its
Sydney headquarters from two military
officers, who served on it two copies of
an Order made under National Security
(General) Regulation 71.
The paper had published what it de-
scribed as “extracts from Australian Can-
teens’ Board balance sheets.” These, it
seems, are Military Secrets (why they
should be is itself a Military Secret),
and under the Regulation 71 Order it
was required to divulge the name of its
informant and to “furnish and produce”
“all documents, letters, writings and
papers of all kinds relating in any way”
to the article on canteens balance sheets,
and “all information” pertinent to the
article, “whether obtained in writing or
orally, in the possession or control” of
the proprietary or any of its employees.
A protest was made to Mr. Forde, then
in Westralia, Mr. Forde professed ignor-
ance of the “inquiry,” and promised to
have “the complaint investigated” when
he returned to Melbourne. Meantime, a
united roar went up from the Sydney press.
It reached Mr. Forde when Mr. Forde
reached Melbourne, and Mr. Forde forth-
with announced that he had “called for
a report on the matter,” and “hoped to
have it in a few days.” Until it was re-
ceived and digested, Mr. Forde said,
“further action” against the paper would
be “deferred,” and, though “everyone will
recognise that the Government must take
a very serious view of any unauthorised
disclosure of Military Information,” he
had issued an instruction that “no Army
Officer may visit any newspaper office
to interrogate anyone about sources of
information” without his authority.
This is Mr. Forde all over. Always
responsive to roars when kudos can be
gained by yielding to them. He was
equally obliging in the case of the two
Communists who carried on a vile
“anti-imperialist war” and “recruiting-for-
the-Revolution” campaign. One of his
first acts as Minister for the Army was
to have them released from detention
over the recommendation of an impar-
tial committee —an act of folly from
which many evil things have sprung.
Strange things go on in Mr. Forde’s
department, with or without his know-
ledge. Last week a radio announcer who
has a military job had to stop reading
the Freedom broadcasts from prepared
manuscripts, though these broadcasts do
no more than put the case for free indus-
try and institutions, ending with the sing-
ing of “Rule, Britannia.”
There is no veto on Labor politicians
on home service plying their trade of
Labor politics, nor are jockeys in uniform
or bookmakers who do something or
other in the Civil Construction Corps
debarred from swelling their incomes at
Randwick. Indeed, the prevalence of ser-
vice jockeys, bookmakers, bruisers and
footballers who are permitted to make
Sydney their headquarters and go after
the money while scores of thousands of
other Sydney men have to do their service
in remote and often inhospitable places,
with no chance of adding there to what
the country pays them, is a standing
mystery.
Sydney Loafies.
It is now evident that you can vote a
Sydney wharfie back to the job but you
cannot make him work.
It makes grim reading that last week
“gangs of R.A.A.F. men and naval rat-
ings” were on the water front doing what
loafing regulars declined to do. Service
men —including these —have had their
training interfered with or suspended in
order to get this labor done. Some of
these men of the R.A.A.F. are at or
close to the end of their courses and will
shortly be thousands of miles away risk-
ing, and perhaps losing, their lives.
They are bitter, and no wonder. It
is making cynics of potential fine Diggers
and airmen. They enlisted to fight—
volunteered for it —and here they are, to
their astonishment and chagrin, suddenly
conscripts!
So that those already risking and losing
their lives in the fighting areas will not
be doomed by lack of essential materials,
these chaps are compulsorily doing what
the Sydney loafers refuse to do. Then
these men are to go on and risk and lose
their lives to, among other things, pro-
tect the precious skins of the loafing
brand of Australians.
No wonder at all that they are asking
themselves questions—questions which
Mr. Curtin, currently talking about all-
out effort from the distant other side of
Australia, would do well to tune-in to.
Victoria's Solemn Farce.
In a subdued study of the position in
State politics, after eight years of a
Country-party Government in which
Greater Melbourne, with more than half
the Victorian people, has had no repre-
sentation, Melbourne “Herald” noted
that “at the last State election 390,000
Labor votes returned 22 members,
360.000 U.A.P, votes 16 members and
200.000 U.C.P. votes 24 members.” With
the increase of electoral population in all
the Greater Melbourne constituencies
and the decline of electoral population
in most of the country constituencies,
the travesty of representation is likely to
be more fantastic than ever after the
June polls.
Labor and the U.A.P. draw most of
their support from Greater Melbourne.
When the Chief Electoral Registrar pub-
lished his appalling electoral-roll statis-
tics, the consciences of both party execu-
tives began to prick them. The U.A.P.
secretary, Mr. Maltby, glumly pointed
out that since 1940 suburban Prahran
had had an increase of electoral popu-
lation nearly equal to the number of
electors represented by Education Minis-
ter Lind in Gippsland East. Mr. Holl-
way morosely remarked on the “big dis-
parity between city and rural voting
strengths,” mentioning Gippsland East
(7481), Swan Hill (8931), Ouyep (8928),
Waranga (8565) and Dandenong (39,704),
Boroondara (38,969) and Oakleigh
(38,914). Labor-leader Cain was moved
to anger by Premier Dunstan’s assertion
that “redistribution of seats would cause
a further drift to the city.”
The Premier believes that there should
be democratic government in Italy and in
Germany, but holds that government of the
many by the few must be the order .of the
day in Victoria.
This assumption of political virtue is be-
lated. For seven years or so Mr. Cain’s
party acquiesced in government of the
many by the few without ever once stipu-
lating for redistribution. It could have
defeated the Government on the redis-
tribution issue two years ago, when the
Independent, Mr. Macfarlan, put it up
to the House, but it stayed its hand.
At the recent State A.L.P. conference,
Mr. Cain was authorised to form a
minority Government to bring about re-
distribution, provided the A.L.P. execu-
tive agreed. The U.A.P., for its part, is
going to make a song about redistribu-
tion during the election campaign. It is
improbable that anything will come of
these manoeuvres, for both parties may
be expected) to shrink from bringing
about another election.
Free Speech—for Whom?
There was a brawl at Sydney Trades Hall
last Thursday night over a motion to can-
cel the affiliation of the Workers’ Edu-
cational Association with the Labor
Council —a motion put and carried by
Reds who alleged that a W.E.A. lecturer
had indulged in “unfair criticism of
Soviet Russia.”
The W.E.A. is an extension of the
Sydney University. Founded about 30
years ago, it is financed by the Govern-
ment and has no political affiliations. It
conducts University Tutorial Classes
under these conditions:
All classes are open to any adult who
may wish to join. No formality is necessary.
Anyone is welcome to attend. The winter
course for 1943 comprises 14 lectures, and
the fee for the full course is 7s. 6d.
The lecture which upset the Corns, and
the State Labor (“Hands Off Russia”)
“party” was entitled “Political Theories
and Movements of Today,” and the lec-
turer did no more than analyse Soviet
policy.
But on 23/9/’42 the W.E.A. received
from the State Labor “party” an order to
withdraw the lecture at once or risk “a
campaign.... to expose W.E.A. as anti-
Soviet provocateurs” and “secure dis-
affiliation of trade-unions and other pro-
gressive bodies”; and the Red press
o Continued on page 8.)
UNION RULES.
“If I am convicted and sent to gaol I demand that every unionist stop work.” —Howl of a union secretary charged with whipping up a defence-workers’ Strike.
“You put me in clink for bein’ A.W.L. an’ I’ll call out the Australian Army!”


DOAN’S
OINTMENT
The well-known remedy for
Piles, Eczema, and Skin Irri-
tation.
If you suffer from any form of
Piles or Irritating Skin trouble
use
DOAN’S OINTMENT
Recommended the world over.
Sold by Chemists and
Storekeepers Everywhere.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Make Certain of
YOIIR ESTATE
in the Uncertain Years ahead!
1943
Your responsibility for the welfare of
your dependents in the years ahead was
never greater than at present.
Make your Will NOW—or bring it up to
date—choose a trustee and executor that
is experienced, independent and always
available—such as The Union Trustee!
Expert guidance of well-trained officers
helps you to interpret your wishes exactly,
and the Company’s reputation is a practi-
cal guarantee that your instructions will
be correctly carried out in administering
your estate. Write, phone or call now.
The. Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
The only Trustee Company having offices each mth its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E (Chairman); Colin A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.Ls.fc.,
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
fs
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
venomously attacked the W.E.A. On
this, the W.E.A. report for 1942 remarks:
One can excuse the abuse which has
been hurled at the association and the writer,
recognising the emotional reaction of many
Labor men and women, as well as Com-
munists, to anything critical of Soviet
Russia. But it is difficult to excuse the
publicity given to resolutions alleged to
have been passed by organisations which
have never been in any way connected with
the W.E.A resolutions which, on in-
quiry, we find the organisation alleged to
have passed them knows nothing at all
about.
The W.E.A. further remarks that “the
right to examine critically and to freely
discuss all issues is not only sound edu-
cational policy ; it must be a fundamental
principle with any progressive democratic
Labor organisation.”
But Corns, and fellow-travellers stand
for only one kind of “free” speech.
They are “free” only to support Com-
munist “ideology” and practice. He who
travels with Corns, may have “free”
thoughts, but only if he keeps them to
himself. He is not even in the position
of the French soldier, menaced with in-
stant murder by the butchers of the Revo-
lution, to whom one of the butchers said
“We don’t punish opinions—only the
results of them.”
Incidentally the Sydney branch of the
Australian Journalists’ Association has
voted for affiliation to this intolerant
Labor Council, as also has the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation; and the Labor
“Standard” gleefully predicts that the
N.S.W. Public Service Association “will
favor affiliation by a large majority.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Viewing its labor-union world Aus-
tralia sees (1) a Government of shreds
and patches; (2) Communist factions;
(3) anti-Communist factions. The Gov-
ernment is afraid to govern, the Commu-
nist factions are unwhipped mobs led by
wreckers, and the blows aimed at them
by the anti-Communist factions glance
off and hit the country.
When a pressman asked Hughes in
Melbourne if there was any truth in a
Sydney rumor that Theodore was going
to lead the combined Opposition at the
next election, that master of wisecracks
replied: “If you had told me that Jupi-
ter arrived in Melbourne on the train
this morning and was coming to see me
I could hardly have been more sur-
prised.” The people wouldn’t be a bit
surprised if they heard that Billy had
formed another party.
May Day went off with a bang in
Moscow, Sydney and Melbourne. In
Sydney “7000 unionists marched and
30,000 gathered in the Domain” to
demonstrate “solidarity” and listen to
spouting about the need for a second
front in Europe. In Melbourne some-
thing similar happened. If the war
against Japan was mentioned in Moscow,
Sydney or Melbourne the fact wasn’t re-
ported. In Sydney on Monday 30,000
metal trades workers refused to work,
not to demonstrate “solidarity against
Fascism,” but because Anzac Day hap-
pened to fall on Easter Sunday. And the
Government in the city where this hap-
pened busied itself with plans for “a
big War Loan Lottery.”
Egged on by Sydney’s “Sunday Tele-
graph,” which periodically brands its
Canberra aversions as “Anglophiles” (yes,
Anglophiles), Ashley, the P.M.G., sternly
announced that he had called for the
facts about the people behind “Freedom
broadcasts” from commercial radio
stations, and would expose them if he
thought fit. The “Freedom” people stand
for free enterprise and for loyalty to Aus-
tralian and British institutions, and wind
up by singing not the “Red Flag” but
“Rule, Britannia.” Is that their offence?
Curtin took no part in the May Day
circus. On the contrary, he drafted and
sent a goodwill message to the Polish
Consul-General—it was Poland’s Libera-
tion Day—referring with real feeling to
the “comradeship between the A.I.F. and
the Polish Army, cemented by their
common experience in Tobruk.” He
knows, however Reds may rage, that the
Diggers have lots of time for the Poles.
Queensland Labor had just torn off its
hat to throw it in the air after holding
the Barcoo Assembly seat against a
“Free Labor” man and an Independent
when the returns from the Brisbane City
Council elections arrived. They showed
that Lud Mayor Chandler had gained an
absolute majority of 48,845, that his 13
C.M.O. (Citizens’ Municipal Organisa-
tion) men had all been re-elected and that
Labor had lost one of its six (6) seats.
Whereupon Labor shoved its hat on again
and went away to do some deep thinking.
At the U.S. Congressional elections the
Republicans made a point of the charge
that the President and his New Dealers
were far too indulgent to labor-union
bosses and “militant minorities,” and it
had a palpable effect on the constituen-
cies. On May 1 half a million coal-
miners, led by John L. Lewis, and trying
to cash-in on stocks being low, especially
in the iron and steel industries, went on
strike. Though their earnings average
$45.55 a week, and though the employers
are bound by a Washington edict limiting
wage increases to 15 p.c. above 1914
pay—one of the Government’s anti-infla-
tion measures—they demanded another
$2 a day. The President at once placed
soldiers in control of the mines. What-
ever the result, he does stand up to his
responsibilities.
Lang in an exultant mood;
The annual conference of the Victorian
A.L.P. rejected Curtin’s Conscription Act.
It booted out the Communists. It reaffirmed
its faith in Labor’s traditional policy.
So Labor is a traditionalist party. And
there was more;
The voluntary system has always evoked
the most' magnificent response from free
Australians.
It’s a wonder John Thomas never tried
it in the trade-union and taxation fields.
“The ‘Age of Gold,’ by Shostakovitch, is a sort of comic strip for the orchestra, com-
posed with much less talent than is needed in a Walt Disney studio for Donald Duck.
There is no evidence that Shostakovitch possesses more talent than a number of English
composers—and at least one Australian —who can scarcely get a public hearing.” —Neville
Cardus in “S. M. Herald.”
“I demand that this Cardus be deported. We won’t have Fascist criticism here!”
Nowadays speculations about Finnish
policy form no inconsiderable part of the
cables. An interesting, and perhaps signi-
ficant, fact not mentioned by the specu-
lators is that on March 5 a certain Sir
Henrik Ramsay became Foreign Minister.
The title is real, Henrik having been named
Sir Henrik by a pre-war British Govern-
ment for services rendered as shipping
man to Anglo-Finnish trade. His fore-
fathers, of course, were Scots. Visiting
Sweden, Sir lan Hamilton formed the
impression that nearly half the Swedes
were of Scottish descent, and Finland,
once part of Sweden, shared in the Scot-
tish invasion.
A committee of scientific experts hav-
ing recommended compulsory pasteurisa-
tion of milk as the best means of fore-
stalling another typhoid epidemic, the
Victorian State Cabinet has been discuss-
ing the subject. The discussions were
necessarily academic, since the Common-
wealth controls man-power and equip-
ment. Another argument for a single
Ministry of Health.
The voice of W. A. Chaffey, M.L.A.,
wasn’t heard in the recent Sydney Parlia-
ment discords over Professor Anderson
and compulsory unionism. But Chaffey
wasn’t idle, as Queensland “Courier-
Mail” notes:
One of our most skilful and resolute
jungle fighters is Sergeant Chaffey, member
for Tamworth (N.S.W.). Time and again
he has penetrated the Japanese lines and
brought back vital information.
And he can’t go into recess whenever he
feels like it.
Counting Chaffey as U.A.P. (probably
the last has been heard of his obscure
quarrel with the party to which his father
belonged), four of the 16 U.A.P.
Assemblymen have seen active service in
this war. Not one of the much more
numerous Labor Assemblymen of mili-
tary age (party total, 55) has had this
experience.
Ward, invading Westralia with the
usual equipment of mud, aimed some of
it at “certain employers trying to em-
barrass the Government by provoking
discord in industry.” Challenged to name
them, he muttered something about its
taking “less space to name those who are
co-operating with us.” Presently he
shouted something about “executives”
(also unnamed) having been found in
pubs (unspecified) “raided at my orders.”
Curtin could have told him that pitiful
slush like that never goes down in the
West.
A 40-year-old conductor was knocked
off a Sydney tram and killed on Easter
Saturday. A victim of the deadly foot-
board, which, though in one way and
another it has been the means of killing
scores of tramwaymen, never seems to
interest Labor Governments, of the vile
manners of the selfish type of passenger
and of the chaotic control of transport,
he leaves a widow and 12 children.
Delegates from the Munitions’ Union,
whose secretary, Sharpley, is out against
Labor-member Mullens in Footscray,
were excluded from the Victorian Labor
conference, and there is a dreadful row
about it. Calwell, M.H.R., to whom
Communists are Red Fascists, volun-
teered “the reason for such exclusion”:
The Communists and near-Communists
who constituted the majority control in the
Munition Workers’ Union forced an amal-
gamation with the non-affiliated and Com-
munist-controlled Ironworkers’ Union.
Other people were under the impression
that it was the other way about; but
Calwell should know. Anyway, members
of the amalgamated unions are just
pawns in a dirty game.
Ward threatened the Westralians with
“nationalisation” of banking and mines.
It is to be hoped that no fed-up listener
mentioned National Security Regulation
77. That was the regulation which settled
the coal strikes by edict, after Ward
had settled them by his Woolloomooloo
diplomacy, whereupon the Government
and the Miners’ Federation settled them
by their “peace code,” which various
modes of settlement have been followed
by a plague of workstopping that might
give any friendly sojourner the impres-
sion that the workstoppers are trying to
settle the gas-fuel industry, railway trans-
port, munitions manufacture and the
country.
From under the Vaucluse water-tower:
Somebody found a copy of Sydney “D.T.”
festooning a lantana hedge in our subbub
last Wednesday morning. It contained a full-
page editorial (“The U.A.P. Is Dying of Fear
and Antemia”). All very flapperish and boring,
but there was local interest in this gem: “Re-
member the ‘Read This, Mr. Menzies’ edi-
torials? Remember the campaign with which
we tried to convince the electors of Wentworth
that there were better politicians than Mr.
Harrison?” Ay, Wentworth remembers that
campaign, and remembers the “outstanding
candidate” whom the “D.T.” and “S.M.H.” put
up as “a better candidate than Mr. Harrison.”
On the winds that sigh up from Ben Buckler
across the graves of the Fairfaxes and down
to Phillip’s Landing Place were borne the dread-
ful tidings that he had polled 13,099 of 62,650
effective votes.


...
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Anglican Bishop of Adelaide Bryan
Robin introduced an entirely new touch
into a recent circular letter to his flock.
After dealing with “St. John ante por-
tam latinam” and other “feasts,” he
ended with the human touch: “I would
like to thank the clergy and others for
their consideration in leaving me so
largely free from correspondence during
the holiday which I have had. We have
made the most of what looks like the last
of our united family holidays, since two
of my boys hope to have joined up with
the Royal Australian Navy by the end
of this month,”
It has been noted that, whereas Roose-
velt always addresses Churchill as Win-
ston, Churchill always speaks to Roose-
velt as Mr. President. The distinction
was carried further in the arrangements
prior to their Casablanca powpow, Roose-
velt being coded as “Admiral” and
Churchill as “Commodore.” Then in
Africa the President was referred to as
“A 1,” the P.M. as “B 1.” Churchill,
incidentally, has a double in New York,
one Dudley Field Malone, lawyer and
former Collector of the Port of New
York. When they first met in 1922
Churchill demanded ■ “Where have you
been all my life, brother?” The resem-
blance is so convincing that Malone,
though he has never appeared in a film
hitherto, has the role of Churchill in a
movie called “Mission to Moscow.” An
American scribe also sees a remarkable
physical similarity in Churchill and Rus-
sia’s U.S. Ambassador Litvinov. “Each,”
he says, “resembles a humorous, deter-
mined and shopworn cherub.”
Australian Minister to Washington
Owen Dixon, back on his native heath to
talk things over with the P.M. and co.,
had a moment or two of embarrassment
one evening in America, according to a
U.S. press report. Turning up at Spring-
field (111.) to deliver an address, he dis-
covered at the last minute that he’d for-
gotten to bring along the pants of his
dress suit. Helpers darted off to raise a
pair, and eventually borrowed a fit from
a local clothier. There was a sequel a
month later in the form of a polite item
in a N’York paper from its local corre-
spondent: “A Springfield clothier asked
today if it would be all right for him
to get back the pair of dress trousets he
lent Sir Owen Dixon, Australian Minister
to the United States, at the Lincoln Birth-
day celebration. Those who scurried
around to get the pants for Sir Owen
forgot to return them, the clothier says.”
Captain Morgan, who got a D.S.O. for
his fine work as skipper of the Awatea,
sunk by German ’planes while landing
troops in North Africa, already held the
D. won with the R.N.R. in Q-ships
in the last war. Born at Lyttelton (M.L.),
he went to sea in the windjammer days,
and at the time of the Boer War was an
ordinary seaman. As a master he joined
the Union co. in 1909, and, apart from
his last war service, he has been with the
Red Funnel line ever since ; he has com-
manded every ship of importance in the
company’s fleet. The Q-ships he was with
sank three submarines, and he was on
one Q-ship that was sunk. He has the
sea in his blood, his father, Captain R.
E. Morgan, having been a mercantile
marine master.
“Wester” remembers: —-
Stanley Drummond (B. 28/4/’43) went
through western N.S.W. 15 or 16 years ago
something like a gentler sort of willy-
willy that comes at dawn, rattles the
washhouse roof and departs again. Only
Drummond returned, again and again, and
each time he made a bigger noise and
drew more people—and cash —into the orbit
of his circumambulations. The adult eyes
of western N.S.W., which had become accus-
tomed to childish eyes weakened by sandy
blight, to cripples, to chronically ailing young-
sters, found themselves being focused on these
things by the shock-headed man with the dream
in his own eyes. Before long it got that way
that you never knew when the Drummonds,
man and wife, were likely to bob up and re-
mind you again that the suffering children
deserved better; as for his wards, hundreds,
suddenly revived, were yelling their way to
the coast, to sea-bathing, to specialised medi-
cal treatment, to recovery and coming back
to the west full of strength and able to foot
it with their healthy fellows. A stream of coin
began to flow out of western pockets—Sydney
found itself contributing, and the Drummonds’
health scheme had achieved national promi-
nence. Drummond himself was born at
Attunga (N-S.W.) and got his great idea while
working for the Far West Methodist Mission.
He arrived in our town late one day, had a
meeting organised and successfully conducted
that night and was found about midnight look-
ing for a place to sleep. He hadn’t “given it
a thought.” Actually, the Drummonds’ home
for the past ten years or so had been in the
classic Australian tradition, under their hats.
The A. W. Anderson who lately shot
up on the political landscape with his
One Parliament for Australia movement
—launched at Lismore (N.S.W.) last Sep-
tember —has been known in Sydney for
20 years or so as the Sausage King. Not
many have had a tougher time in youth
A. W. ANDERSON.
than Anderson had. As a boy he helped
his father market-garden in W.A.; then he
chopped wood and became a navvy on
the railways. At 20 he bought a butcher’s
shop of sorts —it cost him his total wealth,
£l2 10s. Up to then the nearest thing
he’d done to cutting a pound of steak
was a stretch of sleeper-cutting. He
bogged in and learnt the aproned craft,
being taught the inner mysteries of the
sausage art by Frank Rea, afterwards
Mayor of Perth, In 1918 he headed for
Sydney, and started to string up sausages
at the corner of George and Bathurst
streets. Today his business has a turn-
over of £1,000,000 a year.
There’s at least one notable addition
to the 1943 British Who’s Who— General
Douglas MacArthur makes his first ap-
pearance there. General Eisenhower isn't
in, nor is Henry Kaiser. Harry Hopkins,
Roosevelt’s personal friend and offsider,
finds a place, as also do Edward R. Stet-
tinius, Averell Harriman and Admiral
Stark. The biggest increase of space goes
to Stalin, who jumps from five lines to 40,
with all his titles strung on. Generalis-
simo and Mme. Chiang Kai-shek appear
for the first time. Musso., Goring and
Ribbentrop get a mention. So does
Hitler.
Air-Commodore Lukis’s pair of face
handles must have bristled when he took
the salute at Melbourne University of
what must have been one of the most
varied collections of recruits (W.A.A.A.F.
and R.A.A.F.) that have ever qualified for
commissions. They included an ex-film
actor who had once been a member of
the Royal Malta Regiment; a talented
young woman meteorologist; a former
woman teacher of psychology at Sydney
University ; and a man who speaks Japa-
nese like a native. They will all go to
ground-staff duties.
Leonard Mann has gained the Crouch
gold medal 'from the Australian Litera-
ture Society for the best book of verse
written in Australia in 1941 with his
Poems from the Mask. His stark descrip-
tion of experiences in the last war in
France, Flesh in Armor, won the society’s
gold medal in 1932. Since then Mann has
published two more novels and a book
of verse, and has appeared in industrial
cases at the Arbitration Court in Mel-
bourne—he’s an LL.B. of his home-town
university. He wrote his latest collec-
tion of poems in the intervals of a war
job with aircraft production.
A few months back a par. here re-
corded the flying achievements of two
sons of Arthur Paape, of Dunedin
(M.L.). Both have been reported missing.
One, J.M., a pilot-officer, was an Otago
’Varsity B.A. and holder of the Diploma
of Education. The other lad, A.M., a
squadron-leader, was barely out of
his teens when he won his D.F.C.,
and a bar to it came when he
scored a hit from 450 feet on a de-
stroyer escorting the Gneisenau and
Scharnhorst. In a letter to his parents
in February of this year, he said he had
been in more than 60 sorties, and
was then flight commander in an
Australian Lancaster squadron.
Referring to the death of his
brother, he wrote: “He gave his
life so that men and women and
children can enjoy lives in a free
world living their lives in their
own way, without fear or sorrow.
We know what we are fighting
for, the risks we run, and the
pain and sorrow that lies in store
for us all, and I hope it can be said that
we face it without flinching.”
Retired from the job of Comptroller
of Accounts for the U.S.S. Co., Welling-
ton (M.L.), F. Turner, after 56 years. He
kicked off with the Sydney branch, and
after ten years of it went to Strahan
(Tas.). He hopped the pond in 1900 to
head office, then at Dunedin.
Pilot-Officer James Halls Crabb,
awarded the D.F.C. for high qualities
as a navigator, enterprise and resource-
fulness with new apparatus, is a Mel-
bourne Boys’ High School product who
enlisted in the R.A.A.F. from a desk in
the Colonial Mutual, Melbourne.
“El V.”: Brisbane’s Archbishop Wand is the
second occupant of the see to be translated to
one of the old historic English bishoprics and a
seat in the Lords. A recent predecessor, St.
Clair Donaldson, son of the first Premier of
N. S. Wales, went to Salisbury in 1922, and
was mentioned as a possible successor to the
Canterbury see when Lord Davidson retired
from the archbishopric. 11l health stood in
his way. Until his death, visiting Queens-
landers of whatever class or creed received a
warm welcome at his bachelor palace in
Salisbury. Dr. J. C. Wand, who becomes
72nd Bishop of Bath and Wells, was a tutor
at the Sarum (Salisbury) Theological College
when Bishop Donaldson was inducted at Salis-
bury. He is a distinguished church historian,
an erstwhile Fellow, Dean and Tutor of Cecil
ARCHBISHOP WAND.
Rhodes’s old college at Oxford—Oriel—and
University lecturer in church history. He goes
from one of the youngest Anglican sees in the
Empire—founded a.d. 1905, in the reign of
Edward VII —to one of the oldest, founded in
a.d. 909 by Edward the Elder. And he be-
comes the patron of 63 ecclesiastical livings,
the prebendaries and canonries of his cathedral
and the archdeaconries of Bath, Wells and
Taunton. He also acquires the extraordinary
signature: “John Bath and Well.”
Australia would have shown a tidy
sort of loss if the move to replace U.S.
Minister Nelson T. Johnson with Eddie
Flynn had come off. At a time when it’s
highly important to have as much expert
information as possible on the Far East,
Johnson is worth his weight in tenners.
He has now been on the U.S. foreign
service for 36 years ; had early wide ex-
perience in China before his recent six-
year term as American Ambassador
there; served in Washington with the
handle of Far Eastern Expert; from
1925 to 1927 was chief of the Far Eastern
Division of the U.S. State Department;
then, after two years as Assistant Secre-
tary of State, was back in China again
on his Ambassador job. As well, he was
for a period inspector of U.S. diplomatic
and consular establishments in Eastern
Asia, his job being to visit every spot
where the U.S.A. has representation. He
knows personally every important per-
sonality in Eastern Asia.
Giraud, escapologist:
The good showing that French troops have
lately been putting up in North Africa can be
largely credited to the confidence they have in
General Henri Honore Giraud, who over the
past quarter of a century has become almost
a legendary figure to French fighting men. He
has had an extraordinary career. In 1914 he
got out of Germany by kidding he was a
butcher’s offsider. As a captain in command
of a company of Zouaves he was soon after,
wards wounded in the lung, left in the field
for dead and captured by the advancing Ger-
mans. He had scarcely recovered when he got
away, part of the time carrying a fellow-officer
who had been wounded in their flight. When
they bagged him again in the present war the
Germans took greater care of him, shutting
him up in the fortress of Konigstein, from
which it took him two years to escape. This
time he quitted in the manner of the French
escapees in probably the greatest of all war
movies—“ Grand Illusion” —making his way
to Switzerland. He, however, went most
of the way by train, passing himself off as a
Swiss salesman and chatting in good German
with Nazi officers on board. He got to North
Africa for his present job disguised as an old
woman. A ’plane flew him to a French port
and he was then taken in a rowing-boat to
a British submarine. It nearly ended in tragedy.
Stepping on to the sub., he slipped into fhe
rough seas. The sub. crew saved him, to land
him safely in North Africa only a few hours
before the U.S.-British landing.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, W. E. Sampson, 65, instructor
in printing at Melb. Technical College for
more than 20 years.
At Dutson, near Sale (Vic.), Thomas Alfred
Robinson, who turned from rearing human
plants for the Victorian Education Department
to acclimatising Australian flora on his farm
at Dutson. Botanists regarded his garden of
over 500 varieties of native flowers as one of
the finest in Australia. It kept him alive to 91.
At Perth, Stephen J. Decks, who gathered
an 0.8. E. for very useful work done up and
down the Far East in the 1914-18 war. An
Englishman, he was a fine talker and a con-
firmed traveller; there was very little of this
globe he hadn’t set foot on.
Mrs. Bowes Kelly, at Malvern (Vic.). Her
husband, who died in 1930, was one of Austra-
lia’s leading mining magnates and was an
original shareholder in the Broken Hill syndi-
cate and in Mount Lyell. A son is p.o.w.
At Geelong (Vic.), at 83, Robert Thomson,
master butcher and stock judge, and a familiar
figure at Sydney and Melbourne agricultural
shows for two generations.
In Melbourne, Mrs. R. G. Money, wife of
the editor of the “Listener-in” and a one-
time well-known figure on the concert platform.
She was one of Prof. Marshall-Hall’s most
talented piano students. Two of her daughters
were on the stage under the names of Marjorie
and Helene Jacoby; Marjorie was in J.C.W.’s
Gilbert and Sullivan co.
In Sydney, at 61, Colonel Robert Sydney
Sands, managing director of the John Sands
printing and stationery co., which his grand-
father established over a century ago. He had
been talking on the ’phone just before the fatal
seizure. Born in Sydney and educated at The
King’s and at All Saints’, Bathurst (the school
that produced both Australia’s war historians,
Bean and Long), Col. Sands started soldiering
as a bugler, was commandant of concentration
camps early in the last war, and later travelled
widely about the world on 'secret-service work.
He was a great host and generous to a fault.
His son, Sgt. Robert Sands, is in the A.I.F.
In Sydney, James Quintrell, who put in 27
years on Misima Island, Papua, was under-
ground manager of Cuthbert’s Misima g.m.
practically ever since it was a mine, and was
widely known to mining people of Sydney,
Broken Hill and North Queensland. A sen is
on war work in England.
At 65, at Cockle Cove (Queen Charlotte
Sound, M.L.), Professor John Ernest Lelliott
Cull, formerly civil engineering prof, at Canter-
bury College. He was assistant engineer to the
Auckland Drainage Board, 1910-12, Auck-
land Harbor Board inspecting engineer, 1913,
and Public Works designing engineer, 1914-29.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“H.S.G.”: “T.McN.” describes the im-
pulse to smash windows and wreak other
destruction as “a psychological trait
worth investigating” (B. 14/4/’43). But
there’s nothing very peculiar or obscure
about it. It lurks in most people. I know
quite a lot of chaps who have to fight
hard to conquer the desire to throw a
ripe egg into a revolving electric fan. At
Mersa Matruh I found the remains of a
paintshop in a ruined building. On a
bench was a large glass jar containing a
black, inky fluid. My eyes glistened as
I picked up a nicely-balanced rock and
threw it with greater relish than I’ve ever
thrown a hand grenade. The glass shat-
tered with a satisfying explosion and
made a mighty fine blot on the wall. At
Tobruk I was going for a sWim with
some cobbers when we passed a build-
ing that was seemingly roof-, window- and
doorless. Shorty, a nuggety, weather-
beaten veteran of forty-odd summers,
suddenly spotted a large complete window
pane. “Gripesl” he cried excitedly, “I
haven’t heaved a rock through a window
since I was a kid! ” He dived for a gibber,
and so did all of us. Shorty beat us to
it, and he beamed with proud satisfaction
as the pane shattered into a thousand
fragments. The Western Desert’s a great
place for getting rid of destructive im-
pulses.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Though wax vestas are
now fairly plentiful, the old habit of
striking them on the walls of buildings
has not been rediscovered. During their
former popularity the walls of most Syd-
ney buildings were unsightly with criss-
crossed match-striking marks ; special suf-
ferers were the bases of the pillars of the
G.P.O. colonnade, a favorite rendezvous.
The sign “Do Not Strike Matches,” once
a common one on city walls, has
long disappeared, and the population has
got so used to striking matches on the
box that there is not likely to be need for
its reappearance.
* * * *
“Loc”; The act would not have dis-
graced vaudeville, but the applause
George-street was scant. A cyclist (foot-
power variety, now very prevalent), his coat
folded over- the handlebars, noticed that
the weather was not as warm as it might
have been. So, pedalling steadily and
rapidly amid the traffic of Sydney’s busi-
est thoroughfare, he took up the garment,
put it on with the grace of a matador,
and then, thoughtfully combing his hair,
disappeared in a mill of traffic.
* * * *
“Sharkeater”: Tell “Niloc” (B,
21/4/’43) that vitamin shark-fishing isn’t
an American invention. It is quite an
industry in Australian waters. The game
had its birth not in the U.S.A., but in
South Australia, where Fauldings, the
cosmetics people, and the fishing villages
of Robe (where R. Mclnnes is reported
to be using Zane Grey’s boat on the job),
Kingston and Beachport are deeply inter-
ested.
$ * # #
“X.S.”: A bigger mystery than the
theft of two pictures from the Nat. Gal-
lery in Melbourne is the disappearance
of the bull and peasant sculpture which
for many years occupied a larger space
in one of the foyers than its artistic merits
warranted. Some time ago the piece
was offered to the committee of the Agri-
cultural Show. Possibly that body of
experts objected to it on anatomical
grounds. Anyhow, an artist swears he
has seen the bovine and his keeper in
a monumental mason’s yard.
* * * *
“Max M.”: Army life is inculcating in
thousands of young Australians a never-
before-exercised taste for reading. For
lack of trashy stuff that, by habit, they
would have turned to in preference, many
of them are delving into better-class
works, even “classics,” and, to their sur-
prise, not only liking them, but opening
up surprising new vistas. But the great
“An' I did SO wanter put some money into war bonds”
educator is letter-writing. Not being per-
mitted, in most cases, to state details of
their whereabouts, peregrinations and so
on, any amount of men and women are
looking about them for things of which
to write home. They are studying other
people, the animals and plants around
them, the sea and the sky, where before
they just “noticed” them. Lately I have
read a description of a storm, written
by a former bricklayer (“got to fill up a
letter somehow,” he said sheepishly when
he asked me to read through and “see
if it was all right”), that was reminiscent
of Conrad. Another chap, a painter
house, not easel), had a go at describ-
ing a particularly beautiful tropic sunset,
and made a first-class job of it. Both of
them had frequent recourse to my Web-
ster. Thus, of course, are writers and
artists discovered to themselves.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Noblesse oblige ? Safe-
breakers raided a Collins-street cafe, ran-
sacked the manager’s office, took £l5 and,
foiled in their attempt to blow the safe
“Naw, missus, yer can't see Mister Prendergast — 'e's dahn below feedin'
’is fice!”
open, left a typewritten note: “Danger.
There is gelignite in the keyhole.” There
was; and it took an explosive expert to
remove it.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: That Auckland (M.L.)
magistrate who so outspokenly con-
demned the crazy condition of liquor-
licensing legislation (B. 21/4/’43) has
since gone further and told the N.Z. Alli-
ance a thing or two —an act of daring
never previously equalled in the Wow-
sery Isles. Occasion was the receipt by
Luxford, S.M., of a letter from the Alli-
ance secretary advising the Court to order
that liquor seized in sly-grog cases should
be destroyed, not sold. Remarking that
this was an illegal attempt to influence
the magistracy, and that the letter might
be “the subject of other proceedings,”
Mr. Luxford said further that the Alli-
ance shared with any member of the
public the right to criticise the judgment
of any Court either in the .newspapers
or in speeches delivered in public, but it
must not seek to bring pressure privately
on individual Judges or magistrates. All
Courts are very touchy on the subject
of letters addressed to the Bench on
matters in litigation, and the law and
practice in this regard have been fre-
quently stated in M.L. But never before
has the N.Z. Alliance sustained such a
wallop.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland is taking its price-
fixing legislation much more seriously in
this war than it did in the 1914-18 period.
Then a test prosecution over the sale of
a Big Ben alarm clock foundered on legal
rocks. One of the pioneer dses in this
war was that in which a Wellington
jeweller was charged with selling a wrist
watch to a soldier at £7 10s. (pre-war cost
price was not much over 205.). Defence
relied upon the fact that the vendor had
guaranteed the watch for a longer-than-
usual term of years, and contended the
guarantee was worth £2. The magistrate,
after hearing all the evidence, said that
it seemed the same guarantee early in
1939 was valued by the vendor at only
3s. Minimum penalty (fine of £5O) was
imposed.
* * * *
“X.S.”; In opening the new police
headquarters in Russell-street, Melbourne,
Chief Secretary Bailey might have
dropped a tear for the glories that have
been supplanted. The huge 11-storey
building, with its fashionable yellow brick-
work and its modern fixings, has cost
£90,000, and will run away with another
£30,000 before it is completed, but it
involved the destruction of the old blue-
stone barracks, which, grim as they were,
had much architectural charm about them'
whereas the gimcrack-looking new erec-
tion hasn’t any. Moreover, extensions
demanded the sacrifice of one of the
city’s oldest historic mansions, or what
was left of it. Originally the home of a
prosperous doctor, it must have at one
time been regarded as the last word in
“colonial” elegance, since it was con-
sidered good enough for the Duke of
Edinburgh to stay there when he visited
Melbourne. Later it became a boarding-
house for theatrical people, and the negro
comedians Pope and Sayles used to sing
in its bathroom. During the depression
several score unemployed took posses-
sion under the very noses of the con-
stabulary, and when they were eventu-
ally evicted took nearly everything of
value. Its fapade, sadly mutilated and
deprived of its balconies and cornices,
was one of the best examples of Georgian
architecture in the city. Like most of
Melbourne’s beautiful old carving, it has
gone to the crushing mills to make road
. fillings.
* * * «
Beppo Nillidotti enters a protest:
What-a ees da country come-a to, no? I’m
in-a da shop window arrange-a da banan’, da
egg-a fruit an’-a da pine when a beeg-a bloke
come in. I tell-a heem I got-a da choice local
tomat’, but he chop-a da speech short. “Leesten,
Spiggotty,” he say, “you’ve en-a-leested, but
you don’t-a know it!” I.ask-a heem what-a
da new joke. He come over, feel-a da muse’,
say “You-good fer tickle da banj’ and swing-a
da Mad Mick, eh!” I tell-a heem “I play
‘Funiculi, Funicula’ an’-a ‘O Sole Mio’ ver'
good on-a da banj’; no compreda da Mad
Mick.” He tell-a me I soon will, I got-a to go
work for da Civil Allied Construction
Corpse. Corpo di Bacch’! What-a of da fruit
shop? Tony, Giuseppe an’-a Alfredo good-a
fer sell to custom’, but dey buy-a da crook
stuff. Maria, she a dud at-a da market.
Sapristi! Da Nillidotti family dey-a go broke.
Basta da Theodore! Basta da Bellemore!
Basta everyone-a!
A PAIN IN THE NECK.
“Having heard T. S. Eliot, described as the high
priest of ‘modern poetry,’ declaiming some of hi
verses over 8.8. C., I hereby reaffirm my convictioi
that ‘modern poetry’ is a pain in the neck.”
— “Tuart” (B. 28/4/’43).
.h® thrill to the core, as a fellow may do
When melody rippling and rich,
True “deep-chested music,” comes out of the
blue
To gladden, entrance and bewitch?
Did he listen, intent on not losing a line,
To the poet declaiming with zest
Choice gems of the fancy that sparkle and
shine.
Fine sentiments aptly expressed?
High hopes such as these one’s reluctant to
wreck,
But all he acquired was a pain in the neck.
The harsh, rugged words and the ramshackle
rhymes
Seemed art misapplied and misspent;
And he found himself musing morosely at
times
About what the devil was meant.
“Soft Lydian airs” appeared utterly wrong
To this minstrel’s peculiar taste;
He looked for the jewels of legitimate song
And all he was proffered was paste.
No tremor of pleasure was his—not a speck—
Just a throb of disgust and a pain in the neck.
As beauty in tatters and rags may impress,
Fair forms with adornment dispense,
He might have excused the disorderly dress
Of the verse for the sake of the sense;
But that was so cryptic, involved and obscure.
Disguised with such infinite care,
It was hard for the average man to be sure
What it was —or if any was there.
Like Browning’s effect upon Gilead Beck,
The only result was a pain in the neck.
Here’s a moral for all of you modernist birds
Who bats in your belfries have got:
Remember that poesy’s the music of words,
And tuneless outpourings are not.
No bays on your brows will the minstrelsy bind
That fails to be ringing and clear,
That doesn’t appeal to the heart and the mind,
And grates on the listening ear.
Your craze for new fashions ’tis time you
should check
If they’re merely conducive to pains in the
neck.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE CARICATURIST’S DESPAIR.
“John Wilkes was a man of sprightly conver-
sation and engaging manners, but his face was so
hideous that the caricaturists of the period were
forced, in their own despite, to flatter him.’’
— Macaulay.
Our black-and-whiters have an easier job
Than those who plied their craft beyond the
sea
When George the Third was monarch, and the
mob
Roared itself hoarse for “Wilkes and Liberty.”
They never get—one fancies it would break
Their honest hearts —a dial, map or phiz
That ingenuity could fail to make
More hideous than it is.
Our men of light and leading—legal “silks,”
Soldiers and politicians, Church and Stage-
Present, ’twould seem, no problems such as
Wilkes
Provided for the artists of his age.
Homely they well may be —and often are—
But those who into print such “chivs”
transfer
Find it no effort in particular
To show them homelier.
But stormy Wilkes, when Farmer George was
King, .
No malice could contrive, no art devise,
To metamorphose into anything
More mirth-provoking in the public’s eyes.
Nature had done its worst. He stood secure
From all the figures of his day endured.
A chap who is himself a caricature
Cannot be caricatured.
Here was a demagogue—unique, I guess
Who feared no artist’s bitterness because
The craftiest couldn’t help but limn him less
Instead of more repellent than he was.
Nathless, perhaps, it’s well for him he s not
With us today. Conjecture baulks and bilks
If one dispassionately wonders what,
When properly into his stride he got,
Frithy could do with Wilkes.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Jamwood”: The Corns, having cap-
tured the Eureka Stockade for their
deadly dull propaganda, and an A B C.
young man having made it thp subject
of a very solemn play, complete with
male chorus (when I heard it performed
the leader of the male chorus won by
a length), the debunking of that overdone
episode is due once more. It was done
by a long-ago Bulletin man by stating
the bald facts in simple sentences:
There were no Australian-born among
the “rebels.”
It was a fight by foreigners for nothing
more than the abolition of the diggers’
license fee —a fight in which the steady-
going men of Ballarat did not join.
There were about 250 men on each side,
and the scrap lasted exactly 25 minutes.
The effect on political developments in
Victoria was negligible.
If Lalor could revisit the glimpses of the
moon he would grin at being claimed by
the Corns, as one of themselves. A
Liberal in the Irish tradition, he took
a subordinate part in the reform move-
ment which was carried to a successful
conclusion, 24 years after the Eureka
scrimmage, under Graham Berry’s leader-
ship. He was one of Berry’s Ministers,
and he wound up as Speaker. Between-
whiles he was a mining investor —in the
current jargon a “capitalist.” Indeed, all
“the men of Eureka” were “capitalists.”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”; Mr. Dedman, in one of his
periodical panics, has been threatening
Melbourne householders with billeting
of civilians, because of the house short-
age. But is there really any shortage of
living accommodation? There are thou-
sands of old houses, vacant shops, aban-
doned woolstores and antique buildings
of all sorts with empty rooms in them
that could be made use of if people
hadn’t the same conventional attitude to
their habitations as they have to second-
hand clothing. Artists long ago realised
the possibilities of such places, and with
the aid of kalsomine, paint, old tapes-
tries from the markets and so forth
converted some of the most unpromising
of them into studios which became the
envy of their flat-living neighbors. The
arty crew did the same in London, where
they made the stables of lordly mansions
so attractive that mews made habitable
became a fashion. In Melbourne, of
course, there are residential restrictions,
but these could be and should be modi-
fied.
* * * *
“Doric”; May a Pommy try to explain
to “Ike Hollar” (B. 7/4/’43) why so many
dialects persist in the British Isles? Once
upon a time England alone was divided
into seven "kingdoms and subdivided into
many feudal districts. Natural and poli-
tical frontiers prevented the people from
travelling free or far. Severe winters dis-
couraged nomadic habits. The language
of any isolated community tends to be-
come inbred, with resultant “local”
idiom, tone, twang, drawl or accent.
Feudalism has gone, but the weather
remains, and agricultural-cum-industrial
conditions still compel the natives to stay
put, talking their parochial mother-
tongue. In Australia opposite conditions
have produced the opposite result. The
absence of any real winter permits entire
freedom of movement. Pastoral pursuits,
plus fires, floods and droughts, have com-
pelled migrations over wide spaces.
Intercourse between States and between
town and country has had a levelling
effect on language and inflection. But
don’t run away, you Australians, with
the idea that you speak English better
than the English do,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: One doesn’t have to take
Heath Robinson seriously ; but his idea
of Australia probably is that of most of
his countrymen. In a new “Sketch” pic-
ture he imagines a party of English
scientists tunnelling through the earth till
finally they break through into daylight
in Australia. How do they know where
they are? Well, the only things in sight
are kangaroos and cricketers.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne Uni. is a whale
on psychology these days. Decks were
cleared for two days recently at the
physiology classroom and students were
initiated into the Rorschach Ink Blot
Tests. Blots of different colors are
dropped on a piece of absorbent paper
and the paper is then folded. Slides are
made and the results are thrown upon a
screen for 40 minutes, while the student
writes down his impressions- Here is one
interpretation by a sprightly student :
“This symbolises the downfall of evening-
dress. Two gentlemen attired in evening-
dress are tearing up their top-hats in
anguish. Between them floats a pink bow
tie. Behind them is a hatchet already
red with the blood of others of the same
ilk.” The test is supposed to provide a
guide to the strength of imagination and
the tendencies of the student. There is
a story that Victor Hugo amused him-
self after the same fashion —he worked
on his blot accidents with the brush and
turned them into pictures. Anyway there
are pictures that might have been made
that way preserved in the house he occu-
pied in Paris. But their importance lay
in the fact that a famous writer did them,
not in their artistic value. M. Hugo’s
fancies were very stilted.
“8.H.”; In one of the “psycho-
logical” tests administered by the
Australian Council of Educational Re-
search to Melbourne undergrads, to
discover “special aptitudes” the vic-
tims were asked to arrange the sen-
tence “Bricks does ladder together
holds mortar,” so that it would make a
rational question with one word omitted.
The answer is “Does mortar hold bricks
together?” Other questions were: Do
you get stage-fright? Are you lonely when
you are with friends? Are you self-con-
scious about your appearance? Are you
downhearted and do you lie awake at
nights worrying about examinations?
After reading the examination paper I
wondered what significance these psy-
chologists would attach to the answers if
a student replied “yes” to all the questions.
Nellie Stewart always got stage-fright,
Byron was self-conscious of his clubfoot,
any young man feels lonely at a party if
his girl-friend isn’t present, and a youth
who has had it drummed into him that
if he fails to get his degree he must
be lazy and ungrateful would be very
likely to lie awake at nights worrying
about examinations.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The compartment was
full of Melbourne citizens speeding home-
“That’s all I can do now , lady. I’ll try and get back Friday fortnight.”
wards after the day’s business. “They
seem to be very concerned about the
Japs at present,” said one citizen over
his “Herald.” “Yes ” replied another.
“They even think there is a possibility
of invasion.” The old lady in the corner
looked round sharply. “Yes,” she
snapped. “And just as they land you
men will have a general election.”
“W.L.8.”: Tell “J.H.M.A.” (B.
21/4/’43) that James Ruse is not buried
in St. Peter’s Churchyard at Campbell-
town. His grave is in St. John’s Catholic
Cemetery on the hill about three-quarters
of a mile away. When I was there some
years ago the quaint wording on the
epitaph to him who sowed the “forste”
grain was still legible.
» * * *
“Bo”; As the world’s prize aleck,
commend me to the playboy millionaire.
One Tommy Manville, who had the mis-
fortune to be left three million dollars
by his “asbestos king” father, and who
makes the collection of alimony papers
his hobby (he has kissed good-bye to a
third of a million already, paying off ex-
wives), was pottering around his luxury
estate in the U.S. when he found some-
thing wrong with the hot-water service.
With that brilliant ingenuity that distin-
guishes playboy millionaires, he started
to look for the leak in the gas-heater
by the light of a match. He got off easily
—when the heater exploded it didn’t even
knock him sensible. But the shock sent
him to bed. Thereupon to the aid of the
stricken plutocrat rushed a blonde named
Bonnie, who advanced ferociously upon
the brigade of nurses that had been sum-
moned to minister to him and took over
the noble work herself. Despite this, the
alimony-fancier recovered, and, in grati-
tude for Bonnie’s self-abnegation, decided
to marry her (having recently divorced
his sixth wife). No doubt Tommy thought
the flaxen-haired one’s, face somewhat
familiar. It transpired she was his fifth
wife, and will become his seventh. After
the divorce—it is anticipated that the
remarriage will last fully six weeks —
Tommy is expected to benefit a little by
experience and keep a diary.
* * * *
Daryl Lindsay defends his judgment in
the case Oil v. Water-color:
There is an element of truth in the argu-
ment of “Spoke” (B. 7/4/’43). I agree with
him that a fine work of art should be judged
irrespectively of the medium. Nevertheless, it’s
only in rare instances that a water-color by an
eminent modern or old master is more highly
valued than an oil by the same hand. Cot-
man, of course, is a good example to the
contrary, but then Cotman was pre-eminently
a water-colorist, so that he doesn’t affect my
argument. Nobody in his senses is going to
suggest that a poor oil is more important than
a good water-color simply because it is
an oil. If we take two of the painters men-
tioned by “Spoke,” Claude and Turner, both,
superb craftsmen in either medium, I say defi-
nitely that the best oils, by either of these
masters are more significant —more important
if you like —than their best water-colors. I do
not maintain that a picture should be appraised
by the amount of skilled labor that goes to its
making. My contention is that, generally speak-
ing, the scope and intention of even the finest
water-color is necessarily reduced (not only in
size) by the limitations of the medium. Water
colors have to be used at great speed, with
a more or less hit-or-miss technique, even in
the hands of a master water-colorist like Wilson
Steer. To sum up, the best water-colors usually
consist, and rightly, of a single note played
on the landscape. A deeply-felt and carefully-
considered oil painting of the same scene might
be compared to a full chord. Or let us say
that a water-color, no matter hovP exquisitely
rendered, is to an oil what a verse of lyric
poetry is to a play by Shakspeare. For this
reason, I consider myself justified in referring
to the greater “importance” of an oil painting
as a major work of art. Re monetary values,
by the way, if “Spoke” were to study the prices
given for water-color drawings by Rembrandt
and Gainsborough he would realise that, high
as they are, they are not comparable to the
enormous sums paid for oils by those artists.
* * * *
“B. Hackshaw”: The Atlantic Charter
will probably be used to justify all sorts
of queer acts; but perhaps the quaintest
comes from a correspondent in the
“Argus.” He objects to those critics
who want “swing” music stamped out.
“Swing is a source of enjoyment to
numerous people,” he says, “and basing
my answer on President Roosevelt’s Four
Freedoms, who are its calumniators to
order people’s lives about?” But as for
the “hotting-up” of the classics, “the
perpetrators of that unpardonable sin
ought to be shot.” The “hotters-up,” if
they are up to snuff, will claim that they,
too, are well within the ambit of the
Freedoms.
* * * *
“Sturt”; The war has brought the
sporting game of snooker into relation-
ship with the Salvation Army. Govern-
ment House, Adelaide, has handed over,
with Premier Playford’s approval, the
table and all accessories from Marble
Hill, the Governor’s summer residence in
the hills, “for the duration of the war,
for the use of members of the forces at
the Red Shield Hostel.” That brings
“the Army” upsides with the Y.M.C.A.,
whose rooms have for many years been
a training ground of billiardists.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Yes, our liquor laws are
crazy (B. 21/4/’43). Licensing police
raided a sly-grog dump in Melbourne and
arrested 1980 bottles of beer which was
being sold at 3s. 6d. and 4s. a bottle. Yet
when confronted with this instance of
the failure of repression, the wowsers
promptly demanded a further issue of re-
strictions, and a Social Services Commit-
tee went a bit further by demanding that
the curfew be rung at midnight to make
young folk go home to mummy.
» * * *
“F.S.”: I doubt whether Prof. Theo-
dore Sizer, of Yale, knows much about
pictures (B. 21/4/’43), but he was cer-
tainly right when he criticised the bad
lighting of our national art institutions,
which in this matter have usually fol-
lowed the worst London models. It
took years of protest to induce the
trustees of one of our leading galleries
to remove the brass guard rails whose
reflection glistened handsomely in every
picture. One morning an attendant
hurried up to the director of one of our
city galleries and told him that two
drunken men were making a public dis-
turbance in Room 6. The director dis-
covered that the custodian’s agitation
had been caused by the unusual spec-
tacle of two quite-respectable-looking
persons who were lying on the floor
with their chins on their hands contem-
plating a famous canvas, that being the
only position from which it was possible
to see the picture free of light-glare.
“Oh,” said the director, recognising two
of Australia’s leading artists, “you’d
better leave them.” One of the recum-
bents became a trustee.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Five Diggers and four Arabs
washed 300 sheets a day as part of (he
blitz on Rommel. Their mobile lauhdry
had come to grief on its way, and the
work had to be done by hand. So the
Diggers took thought. It was easy to
pinch a garbage-can and four metal soup
bowls while the mess sergeant had his
mind on weightier things. The bowls
were nailed to the four ends of two
crossed sticks to act as suction caps. By
moving the invention up and down in
the garbage-tin full of soap and sheets,
and imparting pressure on a home-made
wringer with a spring from a wrecked
Jeep, the speed of washing operations was
vastly improved.
* * * *
“T,”: On its record, even if tlhe extraor-
dinary Berlin and Rome tributes to its
prowess are left out of account, the
Eighth Army is the best of its size in
the world. Yet it is only a few months
since Sydney writing boys were sneering
at it and demanding (Sydney writing
boys are daisies at “demanding”) that
Russian generals should be requisitioned
for Egypt to teach “the British military
pundits” their business ; and young Mr.
Aldridge kindly “explained” what the
trouble was with the Tommy —unlike
the Red Army soldier, he had not been
“taught what Fascism is.”
Tell this to the Tommy and he would get
the speed and anger of hatred; the virility
of a new life; the toughness of a man de-
termined to destroy if it means winning
the war.
How the Geordies and the Highlanders
and the Kiwis must have laughed at this
fustian if it was read out to them!
Young Mr. Aldridge is now a “Time”
correspondent in Moscow. “Time” be-
longs to the Luces, Henry and Clare, who
seem to be anti-British one day and pro-
British the next.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: What’s become of “I
wish you meant it,” once the piece de
resistance of feminine repartee? I can
remember at least one girl whose entire
conversation seemed linked to the phrase.
It gave place to the equally idiotic “Not
in these clothes!” (“trousers” was the
correct version; but women found the
more general application less embarrass-
ing) ; and some years later “Aw, go and
have a bath! ” held the field. These inane
catch phrases usually come out of some
play in which they fit some situation in
a way that .appeals to the patron. Then
they are “plugged”. (to use a song-trade
term) by the young and brain-free till
the world grows aweary of them.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” dips into the En-
deavour’s domestic affairs:
In the journal kept by Sir Joseph Banks of
his voyage with Cook in H.M.S. Endeavour,
now in the Mitchell Library at Sydney, a
couple of passages present an interesting pic-
ture of his quarters aboard the little ship. The
first of these tells how they looked on a stormy
night. “My bureau was overset, and most of
the books were about the cabin floor; so that,
with the noise of the ship working, the books,
etc., running about, and the strokes our cots
or swinging beds gave against the top and sides
of the cabin, we spent a very disagreeable
night.” The second gives us a glance at the
Great Cabin as the Endeavour was nearing the
coast of Maoriland. “Now Ido wish,” he re-
flects, “that our friends in England could, by
the assistance of some magical spying-glass,
take a peep at the situation: Dr. Solander
sits at the cabin table describing; myself at my
bureau journalising; between us hangs a bunch
of seaweed; upon the table lie the wood and
barnacles; they would see that, notwithstand-
ing our different occupations, our lips move
often; and, without being conjurers, might-
know that what we were talking about was
what we should see upon the land which, no
doubt, we shall see very soon.”
* * * *
“Niloc”: Brendan Bracken, the British
Minister for Information, used to be a
journalist. He recalls with mixed emo-
tions an article of his which was accepted
but not printed straightway as the editors
considered it untimely. The long-awaited
day arrived when his effort seemed pub-
lishable, and it was printed. But by then
Bracken was chief of censors, and he
was forced to censor his article. He
says he never used a blue pencil with a
heavier heart.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: Intoxicated by the suc-
cess of a couple of repair jobs on the
kitchen utensils, young Jack became con-
vinced that a first-class plumber was
wasting his time as a wood-and-water
joey. When the cartshed tank rusted
through he broadcast his ability to make
one good tank out of the several dere-
licts about the place. Somewhat doubt-
fully, the boss |ave him the commission
—as an overtime job with a couple of
quid hanging to it. It was a race against
time and the elements, and the first night
after the finished article was erected rain
fell in a deluge. At daylight Jack was
up and out to view his handiwork. He
met the boss returning. “How is she?”
he asked. “Jack,” drawled the trump,
“I’m afraid you made a mistake with
the overflow pipe. You’ve put it at the
top.” “Well, that’s where it should be,
ain’t it?” Jack wanted to know. “May-
be,” grinned his nibs. “Maybe, but it
might have been better at the bottom.
That’s where all the water’s coming out.”
v * * *
“Anthropo”; An odd characteristic of
the Australian aboriginal when first en-
countered was his disregard for trinkets
and personal ornaments. True, he
favored the boring of the septum of the
nose, in the opening of which he de-
lighted to carry an eagle feather, a bird
bone or even a smoothed stick; upon his
arm he wound a crude sort of armlet,
consisting of many turns of string spun
from possum-wool interwoven with the
longer staple from the heads of his female
relations, and around his waist he wore
a belt of the same kind. But for the
white man’s gewgaws he cared nothing.
Beads and mirrors he accepted without
any show of eagerness, and soon dis-
carded them. Even his womenfolk were
indifferent. Those early settlers who
arrived with sackfuls of trinkets thinking
that they could thus induce the unsophis-
ticated savage to turn field laborer were
grievously disappointed: That largely
explains Binghi’s early unpopularity.
What could be done with an aboriginal
who had nothing to trade, who declined
to work and who regarded with scorn
the choicest products of Brummagem?
* * * *
“Snobby”: I’ve seen hundreds of sheep
caught by their fetlocks in the forks of
trees, but I’ve never seen a goat in that
predicament. Bill and Nanny, after they
have had their fill of the leaves, jerk back,
lifting their hooves free of forks and
other obstructions, and drop to the ground
well out from the trunk of the tree. Sheep
slide their hooves down the trunk.
* * * *
“Arev”: Murphy’s bull was repeatedly
getting through the fence into Bill Jupp’s
paddock. Mrs. Jupp was scared and Bill
was kept busy chasing the marauder out
and mending the fence. Murphy didn’t
seem to mind. “Set the dorgs on him!”
was all he said when a complaint was
made. The day after one severe bout on
his fences Bill was returning from the
township when he saw the bull in John-
son’s paddock. He knew that Johnson
was a hard man and there would be
trouble for Murphy if the owner of the
paddock became aware of the trespass.
Bill leaned on the fence and looked at
the bull as it contentedly feasted on John-
son’s lucerne. A chap would be a poor
neighbor if he didn’t do a good turn
when he had the chance, Bill told him-
self, so he let down the sliprails. It
wasn’t an easy job, Johnsqn’s lucerne
being more satisfying than Murphy’s
scanty grass, but at last Bill managed to
get the bull into the road. Unfortunately
one of Johnson’s cows went out also. Bill
chased her back, after much manoeuvring,
but by then the bull was on its way to the
township. Bill had a heart-breaking chase
before he turned it, and it was dark by
the time they made Murphy’s paddock
again. As he passed the kitchen on the
way home he called out, and Murphy
sauntered to the door. “Hey! I’ve just
brought your bull home. Found it in
Johnson’s paddock. I had the dickens
of a job.” “Not my bull, Bill,” Murphy
said. “Sold it to Johnson this mornin’.
I didn’t like it frightenin’ your missus.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: All right,
“Boxer,” you tell us how you can extract
water from needlewood (B. 7/4/’43).
I’ve chipped axes cutting the tree for
cabinet wood, and have used up a whole
afternoon grubbing its roots for pipe-
making. It’s the toughest wood I know
outback, Cape York Peninsula ironwood
included.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Eyes closed, flanks gently
heaving, the kelpie bitch lay full stretch
while her eight sightless puppies drank
their fill. Sounds of water pouring into
“ Don't shoot. Rod—it's the sarge.”
a kerosene-tin came from the direction
of the windmill. In a twinkling the bitch
was alert, ears pricked, eyes turned full
stretch toward the sound. With a
stealthy movement she rose, seized one
puppy and moved with it swiftly under
the stables. The procedure was repeated
seven times. Then Dad arrived with the
can of water. “What the hell?” he
grunted, gazing into the empty kennel.
A search failed to locate the family, so
Dad used the water to fill up the chook
dishes. Two weeks later he discovered the
hiding place. As he was searching under
the stables for eggs two lamplike orbs
gazed into his from a dark, inaccessible
corner. When his eyes became accus-
tomed to the darkness he could just make
out the outlines of the bitch and her off-
spring. “Well, what do you know! ” said
Dad to nobody in particular. “She re-
membered me drownin’ the last lot and
wasn’t goin’ to be caught again. Well,
a bitch with her brains couldn’t help but
have good pups, so I’ll let ’em live.”
Next morning mother and her family
were back in the kennel revealing no
signs of apprehension.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The earthworm digs
burrows both to find food and for protec-
tion from centipedes and suchlike scav-
engers. When rain comes the burrow is
apt to become flooded, and during and
after heavy rain worms can be seen on
the surface, mostly in a half-drowned
condition. That may explain why
“Boxer” (B. 24/3/’43) saw those worms
trying to crawl in a shade temperature
of HOdeg. Possibly, having been driven
to lower ground by the drought, they
were endeavoring to regain a higher zone
before the floods came. Which would
place earthworms on that long list of
animals and insects able to forecast the
weather.
* * * *
“Essie”; The mickey or “noisy miner”
(B. 17/3/’43) has another call beside that
querulous chiding one. His danger signal
is a short, shrill, oft-repeated whistle ; at
the first piercing notes his feathered cob-
bers will dart post-haste for cover to
evade an invisible and often imaginary
enemy. Even the farmyard fowl will
forget its dignity in its haste to reach
shelter. More ' than once while ’roo-
shooting I’ve cursed the little grey sprite s
mania for tapping out danger signals.
I’ve crawled and wriggled my way to
reach a spot within reasonable range of
an “old man” unconcernedly sunning
himself on the side of a ridge, only to
hear a shrill twit-twit-twit-twit from a
near-by dump of timber, and then to see
the ’roo bound away over the ridge.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was tacking
a piece of hide on his boot as I pulled
up and swung over in the saddle. “See
here,” I complained, “that small paddock
on the creek is crawling with rabbits.
It’s as bare as a table. You’ve got to
do something about it right away.” That
brought him up, thumb hooked in his
belt. “Yes?” he challenged. “Them
brutes put ’emselves there, didn’t they?
Took possession like they owned the
place, an’ reared fam’lies be the dozen.
They starved out me poddies, and they
made holes in the fence for me to mend.
They undermined the creek bank, broke
the wall of me dam an’ et everythin’
they c’d chew, roots, bark an’ bushes in-
cluded. An’ now, when they’re faced
with starvation, you tells me I should do
somethin’ about it! ” He spat disgustedly.
“What I say is let the cows do somethin’
about it theirselves. I don’t care.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Ash from a silk turban
might stop severe bleeding (B. .31/3/ ’43),
but here’s an even simpler remedy. I’ve
seen gushing wounds stopped by plung-
ing the gash in the floursack ; and flour,
besides being coagulative, is also asceptic.
The pure germ of the wheat, ripened in
sunshine, is protected by its husk until
the moment it is crushed, and then further
protected by its density as a powder
stored in bulk. But it must be plain
flour, for self-raising varieties contain
chemicals.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Brumbies can sometimes
put up an excellent performance in going
without a drink (B. 31/3/’43), but no
horse can compare with the oont trained
to the job. With the Elder Expedition
of 1891, under the command of Dave
Lindsay, 42 camels travelled 550 miles
of desert in 35 days on only seven gallons
of water each. On one stretch they went
18 days without a drink. In 1896 David
Carnegie travelled with camels from
Coolgardie northward to Hall’s Creek,
over 1000 miles ; on at least two occa-
sions the oonts went nine days without
water. Instances could be multiplied.
The Australian-bred camel is a much
better beast than any met with in the
Middle East. And a camel needs to be
trained to do without water. Given
access to water he will drink every day
just like the horse. Back in the early
days at Coolgardie Faiz Mahomet’s
camels, even when spelling, were given
a drink only once in four days and were
kept fit to take the track at a moment’s
notice. Often they trudged a hundred
miles with a load of four or five hundred-
weight without getting a sip.
* * H= *
“0.-t.”: Tell “Horseless Horseman”
(B. 28/4/’43) that the horrid yells he
heard in the Ninety Mile Bend weren’t
night hawks fighting but the “murdered
woman” owl using what talents he has
to scare his prey rigid and thus make it
easy for the pounce.
jf: :p :ft
“The 0.D.”; Excuse my persistence
about getting sheep across water (B.
28/4/’43), but when Snowy and I got
into the Merran Yarran country after
the stragglers we had five rising creeks
between us and the stock route. There
was a bridge over the last one. At the
other four crossings we bundled the jum-
mies up on the bank, grabbed four or
five, carried ’em across, dropped ’em and
slithered away out of sight, leaving the
dogs to harry the main bunch. That was
all, until we got to the bridge. There
they baulked properly. We manhandled
a few across ; the rest ignored ’em. By
main strength we pushed a big section
halfway across that bridge; then they
jumped and scrambled through the rails
into the creek below and went out on
the correct side. Seeing this, Snow called
me oft and rushed behind the mob, and
we got them over that way. Those blanky
sheep had got so used to getting wet
crossing creeks that they baldly refused
to cross any other way.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; The west coast of the
continent has scarcely any bivalves except
the thinly distributed deposits of rock
oysters with shells as hard and craggy
as the reefs to which they cling. But
there is one univalve worthy of note.
It is called the mutton-fish, though
heaven knows why. Often as big as a
man’s fist, the whole underpart of its
body is a foot which it uses to crawl
around the reefs. When at rest the foot
draws up into the shell, which then fits
down close to the rock, defying bird,
fish or crab to lift it. Man can do it if
he can take the muttony by surprise. A
quick jab with a pointed lever does the
trick, though if the “fish” is warned it will
part with its shell before releasing its
foothold. The thick, black slime which
covers it can be removed by a brisk rub-
bing with sand. Boiled, it is possibly the
toughest sea-food on earth, but a good
hammering softens it so that, when fried,
it is as dainty as the choicest snapper.
V * » #
“Old-timer”: The big tank was low
and sheep were bogging, so a gang of us
went out to mount a guard. Long Tom
and Red Louis didn’t turn up till after
dark, both well stung, so we left ’em
in camp and went to the tank. About
midnight Curly boiled the billy, and
brought back hot tea and an idea to
relieve the monotony. We lashed Long
Tom to a length of duck board fastened
to four oil-drums and cast him adrift
on the tank ; then we carried Louis down
and laid him on the bank. Around 4 a.m.
the chill awoke Louis and he called “Hey,
Tom! ” Out of the darkness came Tom s
voice, “Blimey, I’m all tangled up or
somethin’; give us a hand, Lou.” Louis
arose and peered into the dark, then
stepped forward, found the water, backed
hurriedly and stumbled round to the
other side of the tank. No Tom ; so he
called, and Tom answered from the way
he’d come. “What’re y’ playin’ at?
Louis demanded. Strange sounds from
Tom and then a mighty splash, and we
had to rush into the water to rescue him.
Louis, galloping round the tank in the
dark, couldn’t make it out because, hav-
ing got Tom free, we stood still up to
our knees in the water and held him,
listening with glee to Louis’s threats and
urgent questions. Then we sneaked out
and into the scrub with Tom. Louis
must have been thinking it over, for he
suddenly raced up the bank. Go fr \ r
lives! There’s a flamin’ bunyip or some-
thin’ an’ it got poor old Tom.” Tom
jumped up and raced after Louis, wn
ran the faster. We left ’em to run them-
selves out. It was six miles into town,
and Tom didn’t catch Louis till he got
to the pub.
AIR RAID TEST AT NIGHT.
Like a golden shield on its bare brown shoulder
The hill heaves up the disc of the moon;
The dim light glimmers on grass and boulder,
Sun-warm still; but the air grows colder,
And even deposes afternoon.
Seaward the searchlights’ long pale fingers
Fondle the face of the sky; the thud
Of heavy guns resounds from the slope
Of sandhills where the wan light lingers.
Soon to be drowned in the moon’s white
flood.
Long clouds like silver zeppelins sailing,
Laden with rain or death; the cry
Of the mopoke lost in the siren’s wailing—
But searchlights before the moonlight paling
Leave no mark on the brilliant sky.
And these will endure: the sandhills, lying
Like bands of frozen foam along
The dark sea’s edge; the mopoke’s crying;
The moonlit sky, with soft clouds flying
Across its face; all these are strong
To outlast the man-made years of slaughter—
After the conflict, Time will show
This moonlight dreaming on the water
As it dreamt ten thousand years ago.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


“Hey, you blokes are dead!
“No we're not — we're a tank!
“Well, I'm an anti-tank gun!”
“Horseless Horseman”: Outside the
delicensed pub at Wolfram Camp (N.Q.),
a tall kangaroo-shooter watched the entire
population—l 7 men, two women and a dog
—collect their stores from the buckboard
horse-coach, then he advanced towards
the driver and asked: “Where’s my
meat?” Old Bill had a look in the empty
buggy before replying: “Can’t make it
out. It was on at Dimbulah, but it’s not
here now.” Next morning the tall fellow,
his saddle-horse tied ! to the, near-side
leader, rode on the seat on the way back
listening to Old Bill’s 40 years’ history of
the road. Presently they came to a bag
lying on the track, and as the coach
pulled up Old Bill remarked casually;
“Well, well, all the years I’ve been on
the road I’ve never lost a thing.” “You
well lost this, all right,” retorted the
other. “Oh, no,” drawled Blil. “That
wasn’t lost —it only fell off! That some-
times happens, but somebody always
seems to find it!”
* * * *
“Old Priller”: Of course I knew that
the trees on western runs were trimmed
to make the sheep stand and develop
their hams (B. 28/4/’43). Why, it was
on our place that Murmurin’ Mick in-
vented "a special trimmer. He got the
idea in a Greek cafe in town, and per-
suaded the boss to buy him half a dozen
small electric fans. These he coupled in
series after removing their guards,
mounted them horizontally on a movable
platform, connected it to a 2-h.p. engine,
sharpened the blades and away he went.
It saved an enormous amount of time,
and might have made Mick a fortune only
that he got a bit mixed one day, turned
the plant upside down and was last seen
disappearing in a cloud of dust
in the direction of whatever’s on
the other side of the globe from
Euston (N.S.W.). If ever you visit Prill
Park, get ’em to show you the permanent
waterhole which marks the spot where
Michael and his tree-trimmer vanished.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Gilbert, the half-caste
horse-tailer, bet three doubters a pound
each that he’d kill, skin and dress a sheep
and cook and eat two chops from the
carcass in under four minutes. Scorning
to avail himself of the cook’s fire Gilbert
set one going whilst the sheep was bleed-
ing. He was watching the chops grilling
when the overseer warned him that time
was nearly up. “I like my chops well
done,” answered Gilbert carelessly with-
out bothering to look at the watch. Soon
he whisked the chops off and a few
seconds later was tossing the bones to his
dog. As he swallowed the last mouth-
ful he looked up. “Well, I reckon that
ought to land the three pounds,” he
drawled. From go to whoa the watch
had registered 3min. 32sec.!
* * * *
“Bo”: “The Streak,” who worked the
sheds in season and did a bit of splitting
Qther times , was 6ft> 3in . and l 0 stone
and bone . He was sit-
. , ... „ •
ting outside his humpy one evening p
ting an edge on an axe when the trooper
from Sinkorswim rode up. He was look-
j ng f or a horse thief who had broken out
of the lockup. Had “The Streak” seen
. . F nrbo.
any suspicious characters around? The
long un pondered. Yes, ne d struck
cove on his way back from the gully that
afternoon. Clean-shaven bloke wearing
a check shirt, an old felt hat, riding a
bay mare with three white socks. “Was
he a fellow about your own build?” asked
'rooper
• ’ rd was y a bit over six
an> dead skj y
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The four marriageable
daughters of old Schultz were un-
deniably interested when we arrived for
the harvest. Schultz gave us a two-room
hut to doss in, and when we came in
from the paddock the first night that hut
had been swept and furbished ; theie were
fresh curtains at
the floor and flower . y , •
a vase °^ er the firep ace > , i
live as a hound to signs of danger slowly
surveyed the place and without, a word
blgan to throw things F ; ( ,k
Aw, I said, seeing Them sjrls
B°>ng : n only tryin .
to make us comfortable ” MaUooked
sfid B “WeU g no woman e P ver made me
comfortable be throwin’ flowers around,
an’ when four of ’em start it’s time I
wasn ’ t here. I might stand one or two
but j a j n ’ t backin’ meself when they
co^e in mobs.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The new John had tightened
up on the Sunday trade at the pub, and
even dwellers a few miles out could no
longer get away with it as “travellers
the new man had f m r^c u the
ban seemed to i whose
saddler worst of all. wmnathiser
losses made him a g y P
with Josh, got fed up in ,
saddler s whmgmg. , a Y
you can t get it on Sunday why don t y
take enough home on‘ *
last Y ? he demanded m exasperation,
Josh looked peevedhe. sari,
y know how hot it gets here, h s ,
with stiflm, m oggy uig .
once or twice, but, blime, it didn t las
tiU . Suttday-ho* could a man nsk it
gom bad on him overnight.
« Co * ky n « : The mong that can best
be relied on to keep marauders from the
orchar d or hen coop is a cross between
a g re yhound dog and a bull-terrier bitch,
j t j s f as t 5 makes a good yard dog and
tackle anything. The terrier imparts
the fighting spirit, and the other hall
supplies the keen sight and the pace,
There’s nothing to rave over in the look
0 f the pups, leggy, with big heads, but
they’re intelligent, and, trained to hunt
well apart and at signal close in, they 11
surprise even the hoariest pessimist,
* * * , *, .•
‘Boxer : The
sheep 1 ever w , , ’ .
Hermidale (N.S.W.). He could count
10,000 sheep an hour through a 9ft. gate
and back himself to get the right number,
and he had no need for the pack of cards
with which some counters tick off the
numbers.
i* % * *
“S.H.C.”: Dick, my cobber, got a job
with a small sheepman on irrigation. One
day a crusty old ewe Dick was trying
to round up jumped into the channel and
swam across to the other side. Just then
the boss drove up, accompanied by a
couple of strangers. Said he: “You’d
better get over the bridge an’ bring her
back.” Dick was hurrying back to the
yard. “I’ll leave her there t’ drain,” he
said, offhandedly. The boss, a self-con-
scious sort, didn’t like being talked back
at in front of the strangers and said,
“Don’t talk to me in that tone, and do
as you’re told.” Dick eyed him and the
strangers, a slow grin spread on his dial
and he answered, “Sorry, sir, I forgot
meself,” and he promptly turned and
plunged into the full channel. Wading
across, he grabbed that ewe, dragged her
back through the water and up to the
boss, forced her on to her front knees,
and said, with water running from him
and her, “Now, you apologise, you old
so-and-so or I’ll chuck you in again.”
The boss fled to the car and went out the
gate at 40 m.p.h., convinced he was em-
ploying a madman.
* * * *
“Marsh”: I have an idea that the abos.
learned the art of getting fish with a
minimum of effort from the pelican
family. It is when the waters in outback
lagoons are getting low that the big-
billed birds reap their harvest. Forming
up in line in the shape of a boomerang
each a few yards from the next a mob
of pelicans set off for the shallows flap-
ping their great wings as they go. Yellow-
bellies, alarmed, dart straight ahead before
the splashers until by the time the shallow
water is reached the pelicans are in
amongst them.
* * * *
“B. 4”: The publican had been
frothing about the frequent disappear-
ances of the morning’s milk. Suspicion
fell on the village loafer, who frequently
cadged a matutinal nip of rum from early
seekers after a hair of the dog that bit
them the night before. Becoming garru-
lous after a couple of stiffeners, the loafer
remarked that rum went well with milk.
When asked the source of his supply he
cryptically stated “Oh, I manage.” Early
next morning Bung asked him if he had
seen any dead cats about. “No, I didn’t,”
replied the cadger. “Well, tha cats have
been drinking my milk, so I put poison
in the jug to settle them.” The tired
one turned pea-green about the gills and
gasped that he was “crook.” “Here,
drink this quick,” said Bung, and
down the sneak thief’s throat went
a ready of salt and water, followed by
a chaser of mustard mixture. The gang
in the swim then opened his face and
ran a greased turkey feather up and down
his throttle. After these ministra-
tions had had the desired effect they
followed with a stiff dose of croton and
castor oil, which kept the loafer in full
retreat for a couple of days. Looking
as though he’d been “on it” for a week
he at length emerged. First to spot him
was the cop, who ran him in.
* * * *
“A.D.”: Wilson was never tired of
boasting about his gamecock. “I’ve got
a quid to say he’ll down all comers,” he
said one night. “It’s a bet,” Casey said ;
“my bird will clean up your gamecock, and
you after him if you like! ” The contest
was arranged for the following Sunday
morning in Casey’s paddock. Wilson
arrived early with his prize-fighter.
“Now, Casey, fetch out your champion,”
he drawled sarcastically. First of all
Casey cleared the ground of all spec-
tators. “My bird requires plenty of
room,” he said. Then .he opened the
gate and an aggressive-looking emu
bounced into the arena. Wilson beat his
own gamecock to the fence.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Although I never heard
of the fathers at the Daly River
(N.T.) mission keeping pet monkeys (B.
21/4/’43) I often heard the Daly River
blacks speak of monkeys that lived in
the jungles of the Anson Bay district.
“Close-up all same possum, no more
possum,” was their fairly accurate de-
scription. If there are monkeys they
were probably brought across by Malay
or Macassar fisherfolk, who have made
regular trips to the N.T. coasts for cen-
turies, and who certainly brought the
seeds of tamarinds and of mangoes to
the north.
* * *
“Toothless T.”: There seem to be a
funny lot of blokes breakin’ out as Abo-
liars lately. I don’t mind that, but some-
body ought to rise up and educate ’em.
Take “Loc” (B. 28/4/’43), who spins a
wild yarn about a bent rifle shootin’ at
angles an’ then tries t’ tell us the bloke
found a 10ft. carpet snake lashin’ into
eggs in the fowlhouse. Doesn’t he know
that no respectable carpet snake eats
eggs? The albumen stiffens the contort-
ing muscles peculiar to the python and
renders it unable to constrict. Anyhow,
how does “Loc” reckon a carpet Blake
constricts the eggs? The things’d break
too easy.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: My thanks to “Zake”
(B. 28/4/’43) for his detailed description
of the grass-warbler. Though I’d never
seen one, I had a feeling it was that sort
of bird. I’d be glad to follow “Zake”
into its haunts, but I’ve got a minor
stomach ailment and the doc. has warned
me off malt-’n’-hops for a year. Anyhow,
we’d have to have old Dad Wilson —he
started this —with us, and I disremember
where the old coot has got to.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad arrived when the quar-
terly horse sales were about halfway
through, and immediately made his way
to the yards. Some time later he pre-
sented himself at Ryan’s pub with a wide
grin on his whiskers, “Y’re lookin’ pleased
with y’rself,” commented Ryan. “What
about?” “Jest beat that hungry blighter
Murphy in a deal,” replied Dad. “There
was a mare put up an’ I bid ten quid for
her. Murphy’s there, an’ he bids eleven,
an’ we keep at it till she reaches twenty
quid, when Murphy quits, an’ she s
knocked down t’ me. I didn’t partickerly
want her ; but when I see Murphy’s after
her I got me back up. I wasn’t goin’ t’
let Murphy outbid me. I’m goin’ back
now t’ see how the mis’rable hound’s
takin’ it.” Half an hour later Dad came
tearing into the pub again, his whiskers
bristling and his eyes glinting fiercely.
“Have y’ seen that cow Murphy about?
he bellowed to Ryan. “No,” said Ryan,
drawing a pot and shoving it in front of
Dad. “Why?” Dad glared madly around
the bar. “The dirty double-crossin’
schemer,” he gritted ; “wait till I see him!
That mare I outbid him for wus his ; he’d
bought her for a tenner earlier in the
sales!”
“Did you get a permit to hold this procession , lady?”
SONNET.
Now frangipanni and magnolia fill
The air with drifting sweetness; from the reef
The sea’s old song of mingled joy and grief
Lilts shoreward with long waves that pause and
spill
White petals on the sand; great blossoms thrill
To urgent whisperings of an amorous thief,
A little wind, light-fingered past belief,
That, kissing, steals their perfume, and is still.
Now speak the guns; across the startled sky
Red arrows slant; white questing blades of
light
Pierce to bewildered stars that surely cry
On man who desecrates God’s lovely night.
Then, shrieking through the rent clouds, from
the height
Death swoops, and by the quiet sea men die.
A.I.F.
A. S. T. ALLAN.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J- Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. pbst free.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH. •
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON U S TJJ K ’^ D
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. FALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
ZL,. aoJSTSIS*SS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Gram and Sheep.
“R. Ney”: The call now is for more
mutton from the Victorian wheatbelt,
and something should be doing at this
time of year about fodder reserves and
fodder crops.
W. B. Miller, a State senior agricul-
tural inspector, has some suggestions:
Sow now as much oats or other cereals
as possible to provide a winter pick until
the natural grazing comes on in early
spring. It can be done quickly and fairly
cheaply, and if it’s possible to get grain
or hay from the same paddock next
Christmas all the better. In the main oat
country in the south of the State there’s
bound to be a reduction of acreage owing
to man-power shortage, lack of manures
and higher priorities for such crops as
flax, so northern farmers can’t expect
the normal fodder supply from the south.
It’s on the cards that the wheat country
might have to supply fodder for the south.
Don’t spare the seed when sowing. In
most wheat country the rate should be
at least 601 b. of oats to the acre, and
heavier sowing is justified if Winter graz-
ing is wanted. There won’t be any super.,
so the risk of a rank crop is out. Use
early-maturing varieties if possible,
though any cereal sown early will give
more feed than self-sown or natural graz-
ing. If autumn rains are late, risk oats
in dry soil. After the rain you might be
too busy on the wheat paddocks.
Sow the wheat early. Then, most
likely, there’ll be a pick from it in
winter which may make all the
difference to the lambs. There’ll
probably be a loss of yield, espe-
cially in the Mallee, but fat lambs
are likely to be more profitable than
wheat over the 3000-bushel quota.
Owners of large areas limited by the
wheat quota could consider letting smaller
men in to grow fodder crops on some
sort of a lend-lease scheme. The same
applies to owners of big wheat plants
who won’t be able to use the machinery
to the full this year.
Winter Shearing.
“Sheepo”: In colder zones shearing
losses can with care be reduced to a
minimum “off the board.”
If space is available beneath the shed
or in it keep sheep shorn in the late
afternoon under icover for the night.
If there’s not room take them to the
nearest sheltered paddock. Don’t bother
about the distant paddock that has good
shelter. If sheep become heated off shears
through fast travelling and do not have
time to cool down before sundown the
night chill will have deadly effect —if
they’re in good condition the kidney fat
is apt to freeze, and that means many
deaths.
To take shorn sheep straight off the
board whilst rain is falling is risky unless
timber is close at hand. If no shelter is
available close at hand it’s safer to keep
sheep from the last run in the counting-
out pens as long as they’re in good condi-
tion.
Safest plan if no space is available is
to risk running put of sheep next day
should those in the yards get wet, and
leave space when penning-up the woollies
for shorn sheep from the last run. It’s
better to prolong shearing than to lose
shorn sheep.
Rotational Grazing.
“H.C.”: If pasture paddocks are built
up with grasses and clovers in early
spring and given the right rotational
grazing they can be used through the
winter without extra cost or labor.
J. Johnstone, of Manurewa (M.L.), set
aside seven paddocks grazed fairly close
from end of winter until about mid-
spring, then began the first rotation. He
put the stock into one paddock each day
and made the round of the seven pad-
docks in a week. He returned them to
No. 1 paddock, where a week’s growth
had accumulated, and left them in it for
two days, and then did the same with
each of the other paddocks. Next time
round each paddock got three days’
grazing. Thus each rotation took a week
longer than the previous one and the
stock were taking a month to make the
full round by early midsummer.
Once this point is reached there’s a
month’s growth in cfne paddock, with
evenly diminishing quantities in the other
six. Distributed over the whole farm, this
“Wanter be in front or sit behind an' belt 'im alorng, Ma ?”
averages a fortnight’s growth —equivalent
to six weeks’ growth on one-third of it.
The pastures don’t reach the flowering
stage or suffer injury from weather and
feed is A 1 quality.
In late autumn Johnstone reverses the
procedure and shifts the stock each fifth
day. This allows the carrying forward
of a fortnight’s growth over the whole
farm. When the growth fails he shifts
the stock each fourth day, then every
third and second day. By the middle
of winter they are being shifted each day,
and then grazing is abandoned for the
time being.
Pasture management can’t be a sub-
stitute for hay, but it makes less hay
necessary and requires no labor for pre-
servation of feed or serving it out.
A Good Milker.
“Billy the Kid”; It’s a wonder more
Australians, both in city and country,
don’t look to goats for the milk supply.
Nanny is far less trouble to feed than a
cow, and her milk is nutritious and plen-
tiful. If the milkers are properly fed, it
takes a good palate to pick the difference
between goat’s milk and that from a cow.
Goat’s milk, having an alkaline re-
action, curdles lightly and in small curds
in the stomach. Gow’s milk, with an
acid reaction, makes large, hard and
tough curds and is harder on the diges-
tion. The butterfat content of goat’s
milk is around 5 p.c. and the milk is
readily separated in an ordinary separa-
tor. The cream makes white butter
which tastes no different from cow butter.
Its high casein content makes it splen-
did for cheese.
A pure Saanen doe will give a gallon
of milk a day ; any good Saanen should
average three quarts. That, of course,
depends on feeding and regular milking.
An average milking period is seven to
ten months; often it is much longer.
Forget the idea that the goat is a
scavenger. It’s a browser rather than
a grazer and prefers leaves and twigs to
grass, but is readily adaptable to hand-
feeding and grazing. It likes leaves from
vegetables, lucerne and chaff. Six to
eight goats will do well on the feed for
one cow; a good milker needs up to
91b. of feed a day. Oats, bran, maize,
linseed meal, etc., help to step up milk
yield. Where there’s good grazing, give
up to 21b. of concentrates a head a day
and feed individually. It shouldn’t cost
more than 3s. a week to feed a goat for
a return of five or six gallons of milk.
Goats are seldom troubled by disease.
They do suffer from intestinal worms,
but good feeding and treatment will get
rid of them, and grooming and washing
with sheep-dip will keep them free of
lice. They need shelter from wind and
rain, but that’s about all. Bucks should
be kept away by themselves ; the nanny
has no smell and can be made a pleasant
backyard pet.
Wounds in Horses.
“Plane Creek”: A horse with an un-
protected wound on leg or foot risks
tetanus every time he walks over moist
earth or horse-manure, for that’s where
the germ lives. Open cuts which can be
easily cleaned don’t suit tetanus at all,
but wounds caused by nails, stakes, pieces
of wire and bits of iron, in which dirt
and foreign material can lie, are havens
for the germ.
Clean all large cuts with warm water
once or twice a day, depending on their
position and liability to infection ; then
paint with pure kerosene. Stockholm tar
makes a good dressing when a wound is
healing nicely. If flies are bad, leg
wounds are better covered by a bandage.
Dab minor cuts with kerosene or Stock-
holm tar.
Most dangerous is the puncture that
does not bleed freely. Syringe it out with
hydrogen peroxide or salt and water, and
open it out with a sharp knife if pos-
sible. After it’s clean plug the wound
with a kerosene-soaked bit of wadding.
Move the nag to a grassy paddock or a
loose-box and cover the floor with clean,
split sacks if the wound is in or near the
foot-failing that, wrap the injured part
with sacking. Clean the wound each day
and put new antiseptic wadding in it
until it has almost healed.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: If the autumn break
comes late dry grass is not sufficiently
nutritious to balance soft new growth,
and lambing ewes and weaners need sup-
plementary feeding. Lucerne hay and whole
grain are best; |lb. will fully maintain a
pregnant ewe, but if there is any paddock
feed 2oz. to 4oz. a day is enough. If
grain is fed alone lime is necessary at
the rate of 11b. to 1001 b. of grain if fed
in the trough, but when fed on the ground
the lime can be fed as a lick mixed with
equal parts of salt. A permit for salt
will be necessary.
“L.C.”: M.L. farmers are substituting
whey for molasses in silage at the rate
of 13gal. per ton of green material. The
effect is practically the same, as the whey
is rich in sugar of milk. The British
Department of Agriculture is using whey
paste in silage with satisfactory results.
“Kyabra”: I’ll guarantee this for a
horse with a sore back: Get a
sugarbag, a chaffbag, needle and
twine and a tin of black boot
polish. Cut the sugarbag lengthwise into
three equal strips and the chaffbag into
strips the same size. Then sew a pad,
using ten thicknesses of chaffbag strips
on each side of one sugarbag strip, thus
having a long pad with a channel in the
middle. This channel rides over the sore
under the saddle-cloths and keeps off
friction and lets in air. Cover the sore
with boot polish before going out and
on letting the hack go. One of these
pads will stand daily use for six months,
and you cure the neddy’s back while
riding him.
“Plane Creek”: Vitamin A is plentiful
in animal fats, yellow corn and green
stuff. Shortage of it lowers a hen’s
resistance to bacterial diseases. Green
feed every three days is best. A patch
of silver beet is a boon. It will grow
well in fairly rich soil despite heat and
drought. “Bird’s-eye” chillies are also
worth growing. Fowls are very fond of
the chilli leaves, which are produced in
profusion throughout the year. Minced,
cooked liver, cod liver oil and milk are
also rich in vitamin A.
“L.C.”: Destroy weeds and rubbish
likely to harbor pests around orchard
trees. Take out diseased or worn-out
trees and burn them. Prune trees that
have shed their leaves at the end of May.
Land for new trees can be got ready now.
Make first cultivation deep enough to
upend the weeds. Follow up with a cross-
ploughing and harrowing deep enough
to clear out the roots. After that plough
and cross-plough to a fine tilth.
“B.”: Cream from cows fed wholly
on Poona pea develops a taint. Ring a
change of pastures. Graze the herd on
the pea immediately after milking and
withdraw from the paddock three hours
before the next milking.
“Pat Ater”: There is an ample supply
of swede turnip seed, but seed of carrots,
cabbage, beet and lettuce is likely to be
short in N. S. Wales. With field crops
leave every third row of carrots and beet-
root, when grown in 12in. rows, to
mature after thinning out to 12in. apart
to allow good development. - That would
ensure each grower’s own seed supply at
least. Cabbages can be cut for use —the
best heads —and the stumps replanted
during winter 2ft. apart for seed.
“S.T.S.”: Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) wants
to know if any other part of Australia
can beat the cereal-growing record of
the late Alwyn Mudge, who at one time
had under crop 8000 acres of wheat, with
2000 acres more of either oats or barley.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Treatment for footrot?
If using a trough the main thing is to con-
tinue with the treatment. Run the sheep
through at least once a month; in some cases
fortnightly treatment is necessary. For the
bath, bluestone, about 6oz. to the gallon,
gives good results, while a mixture ot
quicklime, sulphur and a small amount of
arsenic is good, too, and the sheep won’t drink
it. If the sheep are badly affected, direct appli-
cation is the only method. Melt lard and add
arsenic and flowers of sulphur in the propor-
tions of 4-4-1. While still hot, add kerosene
until the mixture is of the consistency of tar.
When using, pare the hoof and brush on the
mixture. Then dip the hoof in boiled linseed
oil or shellac to protect the dressing from wet,
and keep the sheep in a dry place for about
an hour until the shellac or oil is dry.


WOUIDH
t '■
mm
n
m
«■ ,. y i
m
to *mo ewsme
moueie /umys use
Mobiloil
T/te Wor/ds
sua/ity 0//
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Australia).
4
Mob
U
VACUUM
PRODUCT
BUY
ond hold
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
M 36
!(Bs
• J*.?
Vm.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for May or June, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Fighter Views Home Front.
[Extract from an address by U.S. fighter
pilot of two wars Capt. Eddie Rickenbacker
at a joint session of the U.S. Legislature. He
was speaking of the American home front, but
his comments seem to have a rather wider
application.]
“To those few scumunistic, synthetic
Communists in labor, commerce and
Government who are so prone to smear,
I say go back to Russia where you will
find millions of men and women willing
to die and starve for their country in
turning Hitler’s hordes from their land
—there you will find how transparent you
are.
“Or, better yet, those of military age,
get into uniform and pay your share of
the obligation for the privileges you are
enjoying. Go to the hell holes of the
Pacific or the battlefields of North Africa
and learn to use bayonets on the Ger-
mans, Italians and the Japs.
“We hear a lot nowadays that in this
war there must be ‘equality of sacrifice.’
“The phrase is false and demagogic—
a hollow mockery. With what bitter
laughter it must have been greeted at
Guadalcanal, in New Guinea and
Tunisia.
“What sacrifice can you or I make that
deserves to be mentioned in the same
breath with the sacrifice of the boys in
the hell holes of the Solomons?
“Who dares to talk of sacrifice when he
reads of the bodies of our young men
A fleet of five capital ships, seven air-
craft-carriers, 25 cruisers, 94 destroyers
and 44 submarines, with a swarm of
accompanying merchant cruisers, cor-
vettes, minesweepers, trawlers and
drifters, all under a United Nations flag,
would be a heart-stirring sight in any
of the earth’s troubled waters. There
is such a fleet, and it lies at the bottom
of the sea, with thousands of brave men
around it. It represents the British losses
in this war. The capital ships have been
replaced, the cruisers nearly so, the de-
stroyers and submarines more than
replaced. There is no replacement for
the men who died. They are the sacrifice's
offered by Britain to keep the enemy
from her own shores and from ours, to'
maintain sea-borne commerce, to save
the oceans for human liberty. — N.Y.
“Times.”
being crushed under the weight of Ger-
man tanks into the mud of Africa?
“Yes, sacrifice by putting a little of
your swollen pay into the safest invest-
ment in the world. Sacrifice by not tak-
ing your family out for a ride on Sunday
afternoon. Sacrifice by agreeing not to
strike, but, of course, you can stay away
from the job as many days as you want.
“There would be no union profiteers,
no union abuses, if it had not been made
clear by our public authorities that there
is today one standard of justice and public
decency for the common man and another
standard for the union few.
“I speak on behalf of the millions of
honest men and women in unions who
want their unions to sttind clean and re-
spected before the bar of public opinion.
“I speak on behalf of our future leaders
—our boys in Africa, in Australia, in
Guadalcanal, New Guinea, the Aleu-
tians, Iceland, England, China and India.
“I say that this bloody war can be won
only if we at home show that we deserve
to have it won. Only if we have the intes-
tinal fortitude to throw out the profiteers,
punish the shirkers and demand that there
shall be a single, not a double, standard
of justice—an even distribution of sacri-
fice on the home front imposed with a
degree of political courage at home com-
parable to the moral and physical cour-
age being shown by our men abroad.”
U.S. Post-war Pacific Bases.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report.)
Assurances have been received from
China, Australia, New Zealand and the
Netherlands that they are willing to col-
laborate with the United States in polic-
ing the Pacific after the defeat of Japan
and to make bases available for this pur-
pose.
Representative Warren G. Magnuson,
chairman of a House Naval Affairs sub-
committee which is working on a pro-
gramme for post-war establishment of
a network of island bases across the
Pacific, states that the programme is being
formulated simultaneously with negotia-
tions by the State Department looking
to the same end. Secretary of the Navy
Knox has stated that the United States
must have a chain of bases in the Pacific
so as to form an iron ring around Japan
and thus quarantine further aggression
from that quarter.
New Zealand Minister at Washington
Walter Nash started the ball rolling by
saying that he believed his country would
be willing to grant bases for a policing
job in the Pacific just so it was done
reciprocally.
JVIr. Magnuson said he was sure that
the use of bases which the United States
now equips in Australia and formerly en-
joyed in the Netherlands East Indies
would be continued after the war, and
indicated that the countries involved were
ready and willing to participate in such
an arrangement.
“I have talked to five or six Chinese
also, who are in close touch with the
Chungking Government,” he added, “and
they inform me that China will welcome
United States naval and air bases close
to the China coast after the war.
“We want only such rights as are
consistent with the responsibility we are
going to have in maintaining the peace
of the Pacific,” he said. “With our Navy
and our Air Force, as well as man-power,
we naturally will be called upon to do a
larger share than anyone else.”
“The Pacific will be our post-war re-
sponsibility. There are those who say
this programme smacks of Yankee im-
perialism. That is not true. The United
States wants nothing but to assure a
peaceful Pacific. The islands we must
obtain are only the tools necessary to
carry out our responsibility.”
Fears About Russia.
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment.)
Fears and suspicions about Russia are
based primarily on two considerations.
The first is that Russia will use Commu-
nist groups in other countries as instru-
ments of ideological conquest. The
second fear is that the Power which has
the greatest share in victory will also
dictate the peace, and that Russia, hav-
ing the power, will also use it for con-
quest, or at least for gaining “strategic
frontiers.” In this connection we cannot
fail to note Washington dispatches re-
porting that the Soviet Embassy is circu-
lating an English translation of an edi-
torial from “Pravda,” asserting an em-
phatic claim to Bessarabia, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania, on the ground that
they are legally a part of Russia. This
is a claim that our [U.S.] Government
has not recognised.
Against these considerations stand
others to which it is necessary to call
attention, for the benefit of Europe and
of the United Nations, including Russia
herself. These considerations are based
on the binding engagements, pledges and
ideas with which Russia has been waging
a war of life or death on the political and
propagandistic front. Here the record is
clear, and that record, embodied in pro-
nouncements by Stalin and Molotov, in
international treaties and agreements,
shows:
1. That Russia has obligated herself
to conduct this war as a joint war of all


... dipt into the future, far as human eye could see,
San the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be ;
Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails.
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales."
—Tennyson
Writing
NEW CHAPTERS
IN AVIATION’S HISTORY
. Australia*s Empire-Aviation Pioneers
In unceasing united effort the
entire Qantas organisation,
working with the Allies, is play-
ing a vitally important part in
the service of the Nation at War.
T o the achievements of the past,
new chapters are being added
in aviation’s history, as Qantas
aircraft fly urgently needed war
equipment right into fighting
zones .. Qantas personnel com-
plete many hazardous tasks ..
Qantas plant works night and
day on overhauls and mainten-
ance to keep vital aircraft ready
for the air.
Today, in its essential Merchant
Air Service operations, Qantas
is overshadowing all past per-
formances of 10,000,000 miles
flown in the last 20 years.
Pioneer of overseas routes and
chosen instrument of the
United Kingdom and Austra-
lian Governments in operating
them, Qantas Empire Airways,
now devoted to the winning
of victory, will be more than
ever qualified to play its part
in the tremendous develop-
ment of post-war aviation.
Qan
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
«*
Sydney . Melbourne Brisbane •£.
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space by the Manufacturers of
df
RE6?TRADE MARK
EE
CE
• • . ■.
the United Nations against Nazi-Fascist
aggression and to eschew any aggression
of her own.
2. That Russia has accepted the prin-
ciples of the Atlantic Charter, which pro-
vides, among other things, “no aggran-
disement, territorial or other; no terri-
torial changes that do not accord with the
freely-expressed wishes of the peoples
concerned; respect for the right of all
peoples to choose the form of govern-
ment under which they will live ; res-
toration of the sovereign rights and self-
government to those who have been
forcibly deprived of them.” Binding
Russian engagements to observe these
principles were laid down in both the
Anglo-Russian Mutual Assistance Agree-
ment of May 26, 1942, and in the War
Aid Pact between Russia and the United
States of June 11, 1942, and it was on
the basis of such acceptances that both
America and Great Britain agreed to ex-
tend material and other aid to Russia—
aid which she solicited, aid for which
Stalin expressed public gratitude, and aid
which helped to make the Russian vie-
tories possible.
In these circumstances it seems clear
that further and more explicit agreements
are necessary in order to give concrete
meaning to the Atlantic Charter and to
erect a common defence system for the
future. In this connection it would be of
great immediate value if the Congress of
the United States were now to adopt
some resolution pledging the United
States formally to acceptance of joint
responsibility for the maintenance of
peace in the post-war world. The pas-
sage of such a resolution at this time
would help to quiet fears abroad that,
when the war is over, the United States
will return to its old ways of isolation—
leaving its present Allies no realistic
alternative except to look to their own
defences and strategic frontiers at the
expense of principles.
Troops None Too Many.
[ln the editorial from which this extract is
taken “Life” (U.S.A.) opposes suggestions that
the proposed U.S. Army will be too big and
also gives armchair strategists who favor send-
ing Allied troops on foredoomed missions some-
thing to think about.]
About 60 p.c. of the proposed U.S.
Army, or about 4,750,000 men, can be
sent overseas by the end of 1944. This
sounds like an enormous force. But exami-
nation leads to no dreams of grandeur,
A big deduction has to be made for the
overseas air force. If this is estimated
at 1,000,000, that would leave about
3,750,000 men in the A.E.F. ground
forces. From that total, by War
Department estimates, there could be
created about 100 strictly combat divi-
sions (principally infantry and light artil-
lery) consisting of about 1,600,000 men.
This front-line nucleus is what we really
mean when we talk about a U.S. Army
of 8,200,000 men. Yet this nucleus is in
fact dangerously small. The number of
Axis divisions in the European and Afri-
can theatres (Germany and her satellites,
but exclusive of Japan) is now estimated
at 483. These are all combat divisions
similar to the 100 that the U.S. is muster-
ing—infantry, mountain, amphibious, air-
borne, armored, motorised, etc. Against
this huge force our European Allies, in-
eluding Russia, have only 321 combat
divisions. If to these we add the 100
U.S. divisions in action by 1944, we shall
have in the European and African theatres
a total United Nations combat force of
only 421, or 62 fewer than the Axis.
Of course, Russia remains something
of an unknown factor. How many troops
she is holding in the interior and on the
Pacific has never been disclosed. But
the fact is incontestable that Germany
can fight a defensive war against Russia
on the Dnieper or the Dniester, and still
outnumber, on the western front, the
British and American armies combined,
Finally, we cannot use all of these 100
divisions against Germany. Some must
go to MacArthur, some to Burma and
so forth. Far from being an overwhelm-
ing horde, the proposed army will be a
small striking force, which can win in
the end only through superb training,
keen intelligence, unflinching courage-
and the mighty air arm that we are
creating.
The New Torpedoes.
(From an article by Hanson Baldwin, Navy
correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”)
A modern torpedo not only tears a
gaping hole in a ship; it frequently
smashes it apart or breaks its back. The
Japanese have used torpedoes with great
effectiveness and destructiveness. Eight
hundred and fifteen pounds of explosive
—not TNT, but an explosive which is
detonated more uniformly and hence has
greater destructive power—is actually
enough to smash through any protection
yet devised.
The torpedo is a more accurate and a
more stealthy weapon than it was in
the first World War. The Germans have
employed many of the so-called “electric”
type, powered by storage batteries, which
leave no telltale wake of bubbles and
hence strike silently and unseen. Others
have magnetic detonating devices which
detonate the torpedo when it approaches
within the magnetic field of the target.
This means that a direct hit is not now
necessary (though, of course, still desir-
able) ; severe damage may be inflicted
by an explosion underneath the hull of
the ship or near by.
And submarines can now fire their
torpedoes “blind” with some accuracy ;
by the use of accurate sound gear, an
expert commander is sometimes able to
secure a hit against a convoy without |he
use of the periscope.
To add to the complexity of the prob-
lem, the Germans are apparently using
some submarines powered not by the
conventional diesels-on-the-surface-and-
batteries-when-submerged installation but
by a so-called oxygen-hydrogen engine
that serves for both submerged and sur-
face cruising and eliminates the heavy
and dangerous storage batteries.
Thus, despite the thought, energy and
effort being put upon the defence against
the submarine and the torpedo, the
offence still has a good many basic ad-
vantages which make the submarine
problem a difficult one to solve.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
It is no secret that the Army [U.S.] expects
that casualties may reach 100,000 a month a
bit later; that this war is going soon to become
very costly in lives.—“ United States News.”
* * sje *
There are four things out here [New Guinea]
which everybody admires: the jeeps, the
Aussie infantry, the U.S. Medical Corps and
the natives, known as “boongs.”— American
war correspondent George Moorad.
* * * *
Canada’s war-fostered industrialisation, in
two years, has provided the groundwork for
one of the brightest futures of any of the
warring nations, according to the best opinions
of economists. The country formerly had to
lean on others, England and the United States
principally, but is rapidly trimming that de-
pendence. In addition, Canada has been meet-
ing almost half of the war cost by current
taxation and claims its war financing has set
“a better record than that of any other coun-
try.” To do it, income taxes have increased
steadily to where they are now billed as “the
highest in the world in many income brackets”
—but it means that much less to pay after the
shooting dies down. — N.Y. “World-Telegram”
financial writer.
* * * *
Poland’s Prime Minister, General Sikorski,
in an interview said; “The secret Russian
radio in Poland —the Kosciuszko station—is
always appealing to Poles for a general up-
rising and demanding that I issue orders to
that effect. I cannot give an order for a revolt,
because I would risk drowning my nation in a
sea of blood. Now is not the time. Already
the percentage of Polish blood spilled is tre-
mendous—lo to 15 per cent. The Russians
have dropped some parachutists in central
and eastern Poland. They are not so much
guerrilla leaders as leaders of internal political
warfare. They have been organising Commu-
nist cells, but so far, however, without any
results. Despite contrary reports, it is not true
that our Government has given instructions
for fighting them actively. If there are any
local incidents they are spontaneous. Under-
hand propaganda is using falsely this argu-
ment, but the Polish Government has only had
recourse to an official protest against foreign
elements intervening in the internal affairs of
the Polish State.” — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.’'’
* * * *
There’s boundless appreciation here [Wash-
ington] of Russia’s part in the war, but many
admit privately she’s a very difficult partner.
If President Roosevelt and Prime Minister
Churchill criticised Russia as freely as Stalin
does the United States and Britain, the grand
alliance would go up in smoke in 60 days, they
say. Stalih’s failure to endorse the Casablanca
“unconditional surrender” pact is regarded here
as no accident. Nor was his omission of any
mention of aid from his Allies. Third Inter-
national propaganda technique is to convince
the world that the “bourgeois” democracies are
impotent and that Communism is the only hope
of tomorrow. — Scripps-Howard Washington
staff column.
* * * *
Japan maintains 80,000 troops in Burma —
more men than she has in any of her other
newly-won possessions. The task of maintain-
ing them is no small drain on her resources,
because they are at the end of long lines' of
communication. One effect of the constant
bombing of Burma is already becoming plain.
Bombing has compelled the Japanese to live
off the country, to commandeer and loot its
immediate resources to such an extent that few
Burmese can retain any illusions about the
benefits to be derived from membership in the
“co-prosperity sphere.” In more ways than
one the air war over Burma is good political
warfare on the part of the United Nations.—
“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
“Though China is the largest and oldest
country in Asia, it is not' for us to talk boast-
fully of her right to a position of leadership
among the Asiatic countries. We shall do well
neither to underestimate nor overestimate our
own importance and dignity.”— Chiang Kai-
shek.
* * ♦ *
“The Americans and British are willingly
committing violent actions on the battlefields.”
—Tokyo Radio.
* * * *
As a “legendary hero and symbol of sublime
patriotism,” Yugoslav patriot leader General
Draja Michailovich has been awarded the
French Croix de Guerre. The citation came
from another stalwart foe of the Axis, General
Charles de Gaulle, on behalf of the Fighting
French.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It slowly is being revealed that one of the
great approaching conflicts of viewpoint is that
of Chiang Kai-shek and Josef Stalin. Stalin
has ideas of what has to be done once Japan
is defeated in the Far East that differ very much
from Chiang’s ideas. — “United States News.”
* * * *
If English genius is to vie with the genius
of France and Germany—if the primacy of
English political wisdom and the one-time glory
of English verse and prose are to come again,
the change of temper brought about by the
Battle of Egypt must, as it were, rise upwards.
The nation is far ahead of its leaders. Cabinet
Ministers make speeches that no one wishes
to hear. Ecclesiastics talk about housing and
the profit motive when a spiritual message is
required. And the literati persist in the mass-
production of the frothy pabulum that leaves
the hungry public hungrier than it was before.
A few isolated men of letters and of religion
are grappling earnestly with the modem Crisis
in Britain, but there are, as yet, no signs, as
there are in France and Germany, that the
crisis will be mastered in the only way it can
be mastered, in the way that must be our way
also —a sustained critical outlook, a deepening
of the inner life, and the recognition of eternal
values.— London “Nineteenth Century” editorial.
* * *
What Gandhi needs is some red roast beef
in his innards and three slugs of American
whisky a day to make a man of him. — N.Y.
“J ou rnal-A m eric an ” coin m nist.
* * * *
It would be arrant nonsense to ascribe
Russia's glory to the present political system
and to “social causes.” The real roots of Soviet
heroism and unity of the people are to be
found in the history of that people, which
has known how to repel and expel every
foreign invader since days immemorial. “May
you be inspired in this war by the courageous
images of our great ancestors.” Stalin said so.
In Moscow. On November 7, 1941. — George
Soloveytchik; London “Nineteenth Century.”
* * * *
“Popolo d’ltalia,” Mussolini’s own newspaper,
has dropped its long-standing slogan “Vince-
remmo” (We will win) and adopted a new
one. The slogan now: “Non vinceranno”
(They shall not win). — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“Child mortality in France has increased by
more than 50 per cent. A recent survey in the
southern part of France has shown that the
proportion of children with vitamin deficiency
is over 60 per cent. Recent medical statistics
prove that French youth —13 to 19 —is pro-
gressively and mercilessly invaded by tuber-
culosis. A great French medical authority told
me that all the progress achieved in the last
30 or 40 years to conquer tuberculosis is today
reduced to naught.” — Prof. Andre Morize, of
Harvard, a Frenchman.


Missing Friends.
Would anyone knowing the whereabouts of
FLORENCE COLLIER, wife of LESLIE
COLLIER, formerly of Palmerston North, New
Zealand, draper, please communicate with the
undersigned?—C. J. O’REGAN, Solicitor,
Wellington, N.Z.
MAY STRACHAN, last heard of at Kowhai,
Waimata Valley, Gisborne, New Zealand. —Any-
one knowing the whereabouts of the above or
her family communicate to her advantage with
Norton Smith & Co., Solicitors, 39 Hunter
Street, SYDNEY.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND—ROCKHAMPTON— In Divorce.
TO ETHEL LUCAS formerly of Rockhampton
in the State of Queensland (but whose present
whereabouts are unknown) wife of Alfred James
Lucas of Rockhampton aforesaid Storeman. —
TAKE NOTICE that an Action No. 6 of 1943
has been commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Rockhampton by peti-
tion filed therein writ of summons and con-
current writ of summons issued thereout on the
Ninth day of March 1943 by ALFRED
JAMES LUCAS of 83 Derby Street Rockhamp-
ton in the State of Queensland Storeman claim-
ing a dissolution of his marriage with you on
the ground of your desertion AND if has been
ordered that service of the said writ of summons
the said concurrent writ of summons and of
the said petition on you by filing and sticking
up on the Notice Board in the Registry of the
said Court a copy of such writ of summons
a copy of such concurrent writ of summons and
an office copy of such petition and the affidavit
verifying the same and by publishing this notice
once in the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper pub-
lished in Sydney in the State of New South
Wales shall be good and sufficient service of
the said writ of summons and the said con-
current writ of summons and of the said petition
upon you If you desire to defend the said
action you must within Thirty days from the
date of the last act done in compliance with the
said order enter an appearance at the said
Registry and in default thereof the said
Alfred James Lucas may by leave of the Court
or a Judge proceed therein and judgment may
be given against you in your absence. DATED
this Fourteenth day of April, 1943.— (1.5.) F. J.
RUSSELL, Registrar. REES R. & SYDNEY
JONES, Solicitors for Plaintiff, 178 Quay
Street, Rockhampton.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
n.m. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, '42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the rpplication
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT —9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... 1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds,”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne,
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
P 1 ? 336 send me > Post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MINI).
Name
Address
m
m?'
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
IT
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5064 6
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
(1) If a student matriculates in Queensland
this year can he apply for entrance to Sydney
Uni. or is he restricted to Q’land? (2) If, after
matriculation, a boy enters one of the forces,
will his pass hold good on his return to civil
life? (3) What are the prospects in Australia
for a student who takes a degree in agricul-
tural science or forestry?
(1) A matter for Sydney Uni. to decide
after application, has been made. (2) Under
the statutes of the University of Queensland
a candidate who qualifies for matriculation in
accordance with the regulations in force at the
time of doing so may complete his matricula-
tion and become an undergraduate member of
the university, at any time, on signing the
matriculation book and making the required
declaration. (3) Can’t prophesy as to post-
war conditions. A professor of agriculture or
principal of an agricultural college might offer
a useful opinion.
* * * *
Are objects seen through the eyepiece of a
theodolite meant to appear upside down ? If
so, why?
The simplest form of telescope in common
use consists of only two lenses, an objective
and an eyepiece. This arrangement produces
an upside-down image. If it is necessary to
see objects the right way up, as in a sailor’s
telescope, it is necessary to use two more lenses
in the 'middle of the instrument to invert the
image again. This means that the instrument
has to be longer and heavier than before. For
some purposes it does not matter if the image
is upside down, as in astronomy or surveying.
Hence the theodolite shows an inverted image.
* * * *
What names were given by the ancients to
the southern constellations?
Ara, the altar; Argo, the ship; Cants major,
the great dog; Canis minor, the little dog;
Centaurus, the centaur; Cetus, the whale;
Corona australis, the southern crown; Corvus,
the crow; Crater, the cup; Eridanus, the river;
Hydra, the water snake; Lepus, the hare;
Lupus, the wolf; Orion, the mighty hunter;
Piscis australis, the southern fish.
* * * »
Details of the Cullinan diamond?
The rough diamond, weighing 3026 carats,
was three times larger than any previously
found. It was named after the chairman of
the mining company, but at the request of
George V was renamed “The Star of Africa.”
Bought for £150,000 by the Transvaal Govern-
ment, it was presented to Edward VII. It was
taken to Amsterdam for cutting and was there
cleaved into two gems of 1977! and 1040!
carats respectively. The first, a pendeloque,
is now in the sceptre, while the second, a
square gem, adorns the crown.
* * * *
Details of the benzol treatment for blue-
mould in tobacco?
The liquid is poured into a series of tins
about an inch in depth, which are evenly spaced
among the seedlings on supports a few inches
above the level of the beds. The beds are then
covered and the tins are removed on the follow-
ing morning. The treatment is commenced
shortly after the plants are up and about two
weeks prior to the date when infection might
otherwise be expected, and is continued until
the seedlings- are ready for planting. The tins
are selected so that the aggregate surface area
of the liquid is approximately 1/100 of the
•area of the bed. Thus, for a bed 25ft. by 4ft.
the total area of exposed liquid would be one
square foot, and this could be provided by
eight tins each approximately Sin. in diameter.
Better control results from the use of a large
number of evenly distributed tins than where
only a few tins with the same total evaporating
surface are employed. It is estimated that
about two gallons of benzol are required per
week for each 100 sq. ft. of bed, the tins being
refilled each night.
* * * *
How to break in a trap-dog to prevent it
being trapped?
Using a very old, weak trap, set as usual
and deliberately walk past it in such a manner
that the pup following you will step in. Being'
weak, the trap won’t hurt him, and in a short
time that pup will dodge traps.
Brief Answers.
H.L.: Henneberry and Carroll fought three
times. Henneberry won their first bout on a
knockout m 13 rounds. Carroll won the other
two (15-rounders) on points... .C.W.: Permits
not granted in such circumstances N.R.:
A suitable oil for mahogany would be raw
linseed oil, well rubbed in. For a cleansing
oil, try half raw linseed and half kerosene with
a dash of turps Rub hard to polish L.S.:
Headquarters; 7 Wynyard-Street, Sydney....
S.: The A.B.C. runs regular auditions Of all
types during the last full week of each month.
K.L.; Lord Darnley was the father of
James 1....P.5.: Ask your Storekeeper about
floor-stains, which are probably hard to get.
A solution of Condy S crystals, followed by
rubbing of raw linseed oil, may suit
F.E.S.: Get in touch with the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, 314 Albert-
street, East Melbourne H.M.: The Master
in Lunacy may obtain an order for mainten-
ance by the wife of her husband patient from
justices, but it is not customary for him to do
in the circumstances mentioned... .K.EJC.:
late manufacturers you mention are prevented
by Government restrictions on transport from
delivering their wares through N.S.W O.B.:
Refer to the publishers, John Murray, 50 Alber-
marie-street, London, W. 1... .S.H.D.: (1) and
(2) Yes. Right of occupancy of home is no
bar to pension if otherwise eligible A.G.:
Rusty spots should be rubbed bright with car-
borundum paper, and cracks and blistered
paint should be stripped down to the bare iron,
B.V.: Arnica is the name of a genus of
plants of which the dandelion is a leading
example K.W.: L.A.C., in the case you
mention, would be the abbreviation for Licen-
date of the Apothecaries’ Company D.L.:
When the plough is not in use keep mouldboard
and share thickly greased with oil or petroleum
jelly. This will prevent parts rusting and drag-
ging in the soil, preventing a clean furrrow
finish R.T.Y.: Cartoon appeared January 13.
H.G.: Information on its way.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
CJ.O.:
Mother, dear mother, come home to us now,
The clock in the steeple’s struck one;
You promised, dear mother, that you would come
home
As soon as you’d wiped out the Hun.
O.W.: Some feeling; the rhyme scheme’s
elementary M.P.S.: Same theme’s been
better treated before N-V.G.: Rhyming of
“find” with “ironed” is enough to send the
Religious Editor on a three weeks’ blironed.
B.P.: Metre jingly, language hackneyed.
L.G.: Instead of smoothly finishing, your
sentences explode into dashes... .J.E.P.: Hardly
a theme for humor C. 1.: Why say “to
answered be” when you mean “to be an-
swered”? G.E.J.: Slight A.C.McI.:
Heavy weather L.H.D.: Modelled on Kip-
ling’s “1f”... .P.McM.: Good point ; but the
verse lacks meat G.R.: The first line con-
tains a cliche, the second an incorrect rhyme,
the third a painful inversion and the fourth
is trite... .A.A.: There’s no real picture of
the plain... .Y.P.: “When once that wolf had
sup.” If the office boy has not yet go, this
will be post back at once E. 8.: Cut the
“rare substance,” which is uiiconsciously funny,
and try elsewhere Peter: Been reading
Goldsmith?


Can you
rely upon
an individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge.. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom —misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and ... the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon:
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Cajrital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart < Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. j
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B-E.; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager. W. Sydney Jones, Manager; K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1933.-24,514 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. 21,250 3,264 55,966
1934.. 32,331 7J „ 7J „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7J „ 7J „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Insurances surrendered, £2OOB . . 77,363
Written off, £2900 74,463
1936.-21,127 7f p.c. 7f p.c. 22,822 72,768
1937.. 31.827 7J „ 7| „ 24,412 7,415 80,183
1938.-29,437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939.. 32,338 8 ~ 8 ~ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940.. 32.730 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000.. 112,188
1941.. 27.909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29.964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
Pref, div. subject to 22J p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
“Your board,” says the report,, “is still
concerned at the general increase of
Government restrictions on industry such
as ours. We appreciate the necessity for
certain controls to assist the successful
prosecution of the war, but our experi-
ence indicates that many of the' present
restrictions and suggested restrictions go
beyond this necessary point and are more
onerous than those existing in Great
Britain itself. The maintenance of
initiative and enterprise in business as a
basis for the rehabilitation of our Aus-
tralian industries in post-war periods
should be encouraged by our Govern-
ments in every way compatible with the
present necessities. Restrictions imposed
beyond war-time necessities and attempts
at standardisation instead of simplifica-
tion, as instanced by the clothing trades,
appear to be an unnecessary development
of Government war-time control.”
The complaint is perfectly legitimate.
Australia has been the plaything of ex-
perimentalists for 18 of the worst months
in its history. Efficiency has had to give
way to the demands of the bureaucrat
and the doctrinaire, and, in the midst of
their appalling blundering and delay, they
advocate, unabashed and unashamed, a
“new order” for Australia of their own
design! Wage-payers and the middle class
of the Commonwealth have been singled
out for the rough end of the stick.
Treated as a necessary evil, they have
suffered most from restriction, taxation
and overloading. They have been ex-
ploited by a tyranny of weak, socialistic
and vote-struck government.
Lustre Hosiery would be quite happy
to be back on the job of supplying
civilian requirements if there were no
war to worry about. The board is con-
cerned about the difficulty of maintain-
ing supplies to its ordinary customers
and keeping its trade-names in the public
eye. About two-thirds of the normal
male staff is either in the forces or on
war work, and a large proportion of the
remaining male and female staff is mak-
ing textile munitions in Lustre factories.
These include men’s and women’s hose.
But the restrictions on styles and types
for the civil trade have imposed unneces-
sary obstacles in the way of the manage-
ment both for the present and the post-
war period. There is much in the argu-
ment for simplification instead of stan-
dardisation, And when the labor, if any,
saved by standardisation is set alongside
the labor wasted by trade-unionism, so
unchecked that it has gone almost insane
in some industries, “standard clothing,”
etc., becomes a mockery.
Lustre’s vigorous silk-stocking and
lingerie trade has largely gone for the
time being/and a little rayon is finding
its way into the p. and 1. figures as well.
They have fallen since the war, and not
only have they dropped, but the £ s. d.
in which they are calculated has lost
about 22 p.c. of its earning power also,
partly because of avoidable inflation
caused by Government mismanagement
of the public finances. But where it has
been in the power of the Lustre co. to
protect the interests of its shareholders
it has done so. Last term gross profits
declined by £21,989 to £136,232, but the
move was accompanied by a cut of
£23,973 in exes. (£106,328, including de-
preciation, taxation and directors’ fees).
Including the unexplained addition of
£6O to reserves, net profit was £2055
better than in the preceding year at
£29,964, and equal to 9.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 9 p.c. in the pre-
ceding year and 10.7 p.c. in 1940. The
all-round 9 p.c. div. was maintained,
and, bringing directors’ fees into current
p. and 1. instead of charging them to
appropriation after the annual meeting,
and writing off £442 of “trade marks
and patents,” reserves, less intangibles,
stood at £113,103.
The allowance of £25,302 for deprecia-
tion (down £588) is reflected mainly in
plant account:
1938. , 1940. 1941. 1942.
Ord. capital. . £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928 31,928 31,928 31,928
Overdraft .. 72,740 163,243 82,817 77,218
Creditors .. 37,016 68,855 59,098 58,305
Tax provision 16,597 37,731 41,794 42,550
Freeholds .. 122,381 122,847 123,207 123,469
Plant.. .. 164,725 133,485 128,674 107,902
Stocks .. 159,158 332,250 262,202 290,862
Debtors .. 108,275 115,820 101,649 78,733
Cash, etc. . . 509 3,287 10,712 20,878
Shares subsid. 10,452 15,206 25,341 25,210
The rise in stocks (up £28,660) is because
of higher cost of raw materials. The
fall in debtors “reflects a reduced turn-
over due to man-power restrictions on
production.” Although the outside debt
is substantial, finances remain comfort-
able and improved last year. The new
Newcastle factory is operating satisfac-
torily on an enlarged basis, and the three
subsidiaries —Lustre (N.Z.), Ltd., Silktex,
Ltd., and Sphinx Engineering Pty. —all
showed profits.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
/ Dividends N
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
£ £ £
1934.. 126,487 8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 6i „ 6&7 „ *91,410 893,502
1936.. 119,541 ~ 6&7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £lOOO .. .. 910,101
1937.. 182,863 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,942 989,022
1938.. 153,870 7* „ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
1939.. 162,995 .7£ „ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Co. absorbed.
Added purchase a/c, £24,225 .. 1,078,778
Net additions reserves, £229,957 .. 1,303,735
Divs., etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446.. 1,296,289
1940.. 94,860 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 90,867 1,300,282
Added purchase a/c, £9709 .. .. 1,290,573
Net additions reserves, £109,678 ..1,400,251
1941.. 114,580 6.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 112,389 1,402,442
Added purchase a/c, £10,217 .. 1,392,225
Expenses debenture issue, £10,868 .. 1,381,357
Net additions reserves, £97,799 .. 1,479,156
1942.. 103,204 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,204 1,479,156
Expenses debenture issue, £4911 .. 1,474,245
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£74,459 1,399,786
Net additions reserves, £109,521 .. 1,509,307
1943.. 104,423 5| p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307
t After deducting intangibles (now £122,653).
About four years ago this big electric-
supply concern became subject to State
control in matters of policy, but the
management was left free to carry out in
its own way those difficult technical prob-
lems of detail which spell efficiency or
otherwise in such an undertaking. The
State is represented by a commission
whose job it is to supervise co-ordination
and extension of the supply of current
and to fix prices thereof on a basis de-
signed to cover costs, plus depreciation,
plus enough profit to pay contract rates
on pref. money and give the ords. 2 p.c.
more than is to be had from Common-
wealth loans issued for voluntary sub-
scription during the previous year. Also,
the Government enjoys the right to buy
the business in 1945, or any later date,
in exchange for State-guaranteed deben-
tures. A couple of years back the chair-
man reckoned assets would fetch
£250,000-odd more than their book value
if taken over. This possible deferred
capital profit gives the ords. added in-
vestment interest.
But when the public policy is to keep
interest low, and when the cost of
living is being forced up under pressure
of inflationary war finance, the ords. find
themselves saddled with a dividend for-
mula which operates counter-clockwise
to the formula used to calculate wages.
Since the close of accounts in 1940 the
ords. have suffered a 10 p.c. 9ut in divs.,
whereas at Sept, last the average hourly
wage-rate index for the Commonwealth
was over 10 p.c. higher than the average
for 1940-41, and the composite retail price
index showed an increase of 21 p.c. over
the same period. The cost of living has
kept on rising since, and is likely to con-
tinue unless something is done to mop
up the expanding surplus spending power
of wage-earners. Compulsory loans are
one method which would serve a good
post-war as well as immediate purpose.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, £122,007 (3.2 p.c. of the
cost of fixed assets at the end of Jan.,
1942) was provided for depreciation.
Exactly enough remained to cover the
moderate 5J- p.c. to the ords., plus pref.
requirements. The net addition of
£109,521 to reserves represented the de-
preciation allowance, less loss on assets
disposed of during the year.
The co. is the executive factor in a
scheme for extending the supply of cur-
rent over the s.-e. portion of the State
from Gympie to the N.S.W. border, and
it holds a long-term franchise covering
the Tweed River district as well. An
idea of how the work is being pushed
ahead is provided from the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Capital .. .. £1,398,226 £1,937,345 £1,945,879
Debentures .. 500,000 912,000
Sundry creditors. . 179,925 185,499 257,362
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 2,180,699 3,776,917 4,124,197
Stock . . . . 120,912 286,363 352,138
Book debts, etc... 190,639 83,386 143,220
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 235,874 7,160 57,241
Over the last four years £1,943,498 has
been spent on additional plant and the
extension of mains, etc. Last term the
outlay was £347,280. To meet this, carry
an extra £65,775 of stocks, add £59,834
to debtors’ balances, etc., and £50,072
to the cash holding, the board issued
£412,000 of 4| p.c. stock and debentures.
More money will be wanted as work
proceeds, and an issue of share capital is
contemplated toward the close of the
year. In their class the shares have much
to recommend them.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, D i vi dends s
A B
Prefs. Prefs. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500. Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5*69 12,920
1937.. 10,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082,9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4,950 5011 3,608
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8,250 5949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4500 8,250 1809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4,950 1494 12,860
Net reserves are rather light on, and this
and the keenly competitive nature of the
clothing trade —men’s shirts, collars and
pyjamas are the co.’s specialties—largely
explain the run of moderate earnings.
The financial storms of the early ’thirties
punched holes in the co.’s umbrella, en-
gulfed all visible provisions against a
rainy day and caused a partial washaway
of capital as well. The years since have
been mainly given to honoring pref. obli-
gations and retrieving the position, and
it was nine years before the board felt
justified in breaking the ords.’ fast; their
average meal since has been 4 p.c.
The tailless and otherwise standardised
Dedman shirt has shown no considera-
tion for the finer feelings of Black
Brother adorning the co.’s well-known
trade emblem. Under a rationing sche-
dule which requires surrender of an
eighth of one’s coupons for a shirt and
customary two collars civilian business
has become a relatively small side of
things, factory capacity being given over
principally to low-profit defence orders.
These have assumed such proportions
that stocks of imported raw materials for
civilian purposes have “accumulated tem-
porarily,” and heaven knows the supplies
available have been slender enough.
The changed nature of demand is
apparent in both gross earnings (£66,412)
and selling and other exes. (£53,387, in-
cluding £4755 for depreciation), down
£49,745 and £46,130 respectively. The
resultant profit slip of £3615 reduced the
earning rate on ord. capital from 6.1 p.c.
to 3.7 p.c., and there was no alternative;
but to cut the div. to 3 p.c. Taxation is
particularly onerous. Notwithstanding
that £30,000 was earmarked for the pur-
pose at the ’4l balance, another £4500
—charged back here —was declared
necessary to cover the year’s bill.
The accumulation of civilian materials
should be no load to carry and has
caused no financial embarrassment:
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities .. 133,714 131,897 41,937 73,815
Tax provision 3,016 14,503 30,160 2<,4/-
Premises 109,767 103,571 102,723 101,825
Plant, etc. .. 52,005 46,883 44,902 42,023
Book debts .. 95,313 114,551 78,343 36,072
Stock.. •• 104,129 143,966 95.339 177,243
Cash, etc. .. 16,665 6,556 26,230 13,203
Altogether, stocks last year lifted by
£81,804, of which all but £31,878 was


PATENTS.—Have you an idea -worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
'fcj
m
9 f
S.V
mm
m
smvtmoA
Don’t leave the adminis -
tration of your estate in
incapable hands . Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith. Boy dell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
SmiTtLBOVDIUeCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR—
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCIC” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney. #
As an aid to
DAILY REGULARITY
and good health
try
Dr. Morsel Indian Root Pills for
Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Sluggish Liver, and similar little ills
of life.
D 5 MORSE’S _ ~ ,
Indian Root
Qfor PILLS
Buy War Savings Certificates,
&
IT
IF
mil IUNSMMW
rOBIE**
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
<{ -9/HSUO 9/1191/
S.l 3 IMO oni
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
leather
BELTING
pULL E Y »
f ID '^Si*
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
tii * &
LUDOWICJS
POWER
TRANSMISSION
5£
E
Sf
_; ' w J*JSI
found without outside assistance. Re-
duction of trade debtors provided
£42,271, and cash balances, etc., £12,9//.
Demobilisation of upwards of three-
quarters of a million men and depletion
of both civilian and retail stocks will
eventually involve a big clothing demand.
Also a subsequent slackening in which
those who brace themselves now will fare
best.
Misima Island, out of which Cuthbert’s
Misima Gold Mine has extracted more
than £175,000 in divs., lies 150 miles
almost due east from the entrance to
Milne Bay. Compulsory evacuation of
the island took place in January, 1942,
and the flow of divs. ceased at an inter-
esting stage of development of the north-
ern leases. At the annual meeting in
Sydney last week chairman Gordon
Carter said that when the position in the
south-west Pacific had sufficiently im-
proved the board anticipated receiving
permission to send to Misima a small
maintenance party to prepare for the
return of the mining team. From the
meagre information available there was
reason to believe that the property was in
fair condition and had suffered little. The
company would probably be able to
live within its income until operations
were resumed. The liquid position might
be further strengthened by about £4OOO,
and perhaps by £BOOO, because antici-
pated liabilities provided for in 1942
might be avoided.
* * * *
Perth shareholders of Sons of Gwalia
had an aggressive roll-up the other day;
bricks were thrown at the London board
for holding back the payment of a long-
overdue dividend and the aiming of more
was threatened if a distribution was not
promptly made. It was unanimously
agreed that accumulated profits now
greatly exceeded all possible war-time re-
quirements and contingencies.
* * * *
Discussing the good and the bad at
the London meeting of Paringa (W.A.),
chairman C. S. Beale said that the with-
drawal by the man-power authorities of
40 p.c. of its mine workers had given
the co. a nasty jar. Fortunately it pos-
sessed a modern milling plant and drew
the bulk of its ore from comparatively
shallow levels, with no water troubles.
So far profit-earning capacity had not
been seriously affected, but there was still
the danger of a lowering of output, with
consequent rising costs. Where restric-
tion • was felt most of all was in
the suspension of development. This
held up the active policy, pursued
in recent years, to replace ore ex-
tracted for treatment, and to open up
more than had been taken out. Share-
holders, however, could comfort them-
selves with the reflection that the mine
was well developed, and that there was
a substantial tonnage of broken and
proved ore. Reserves of an average grade
of 6.3ldwt. were now equal to 3\ years’
supply for the mill. Beale announced
that the co. had acquired the Maritana
group, which is close to Kalgoorlie s
eastern boundary and about two miles
north of the Paringa mines, which are
at the north end of the Golden Mile.
Dry blowers did well on the Maritana in
the early days, but no one else has since.
* * * *
“O.B.”: State Premier Willcock is
“most seriously perturbed” at the man-
power authorities’ announcement that a
further large number of goldminers are
likely to be withdrawn from Westralia
to assist in making up national re-
quirements. Willcock says that if the
implications of this statement are borne
out it will be a staggering blow to the
State, and, while war necessities must be
paramount, some regard should be had
for the State’s economic position. The
“West Australian” says that something
more convincing than the stereotyped
phrases of the man-power people is
needed to justify further inroads upon an
industry to which Westralia must look
for its capacity ta reabsorb in normal
life soldiers and workers temporarily
engaged in defence works. Already gold-
mining has contributed more than 70 per
cent, of its personnel to the fighting forces
and to other industries. The less than
30 p.c. who remain are either rejects or
men over military age, and to denude
the industry further would make an infi-
nitesimal contribution to industrial war
work. Elimination of even a small per-
centage of the waste of man-power in
the services and in “essential” war indus-
tries would make a vastly more effective
contribution to the solution of the prob-
lem than the destruction of the Westra-
lian goldmining industry could achieve.
Production and dividend prospects of the
big mines there are largely conditioned
by the labor supply, which has become
difficult in view of the demands of the
man-power hunters. Take the Lake
View, By the end of last financial year
nearly 50 per cent, had enlisted or had
been taken, and a further 10 p.c. have
been called up since. As a result, chair-
man Christopherson warned shareholders
at the annual meeting to expect a further
reduction in production, profits and divi-
dend for the current year. Last year the
dividend on the co.’s 4s. shares was low-
ered from 50 to 37i per cent.
* * * *
From the address of chairman R.
Ellerton Binns at the annual meeting of
Wiluna Gold Corp. in London:
The ore treated during the year amounted to
550,467 tons, averaging 3.lBdwt. per ton.
Compared with the previous year’s throughput,
this represents a reduction of 22,500. in ton-
nage and o.4Bdwt. per ton, or over 13 p.c. in
grade. On the other hand, the overall gold re-
covery at 80.9 p.c. shows an improvement of
3.1 p.c., an achievement which, in the face of
the lower grade of the ore treated, as well as
the generally adverse operating conditions,
is not only highly satisfactory, but reflects
great credit on the management. In order
to assess its importance, it must be ap-
preciated that, had recovery remained at the
level of the previous year, the net profit now
reported would have been reduced by no less
than £A26,000, or 11.33 d. per ton of ore treated.
Unfortunately, this saving, while very grati-
fying, was by no means sufficient to counter-
balance the rise in working costs and the
appreciable drop in the grade of ore treated,
although the position was ameliorated to some
extent by a higher recovery of antimony. Thus
if the results be compared in more detail with
those of the previous year, it is found that
working costs, including 9.8 d. per ton devel-
opment expenditure, were 18s. 11.2 d. per ton
of ore treated. This represents a rise of
Is. 3.2 d., to which must be added 3s. 6.6 d.
per ton—the equivalent of the reduced yield
value consequent on the lower grade of ore
treated during the year—making a total of
4s. 9.8 d. per ton. This amount is reduced by
the value of the higher overall gold recovery
attained, equivalent to 11.3 d. per ton, plus 6.6 d.
per ton, the value of the higher antimony re-
covery, giving a net figure of 3s. 3.8 d., which
is the amount by which the working surplus
per ton of ore treated is reduced, that is, from
10s. 4.4 d. per ton (yielding a working surplus
of £A297,292) in the previous year to
7s. 0.6 d. per ton (yielding a working surplus
of £A194,012) for the year under review.
Ore reserves at March 31 last were estimated
at 835,000 tons of an average grade of 3.3dwt.
per ton, a reduction in tonnage of 280,000 and
in grade of o.2dwt. per ton. Towards the end
of the financial year the labor shortage, result-
ing from the heavy call-up for war services,
became so acute that the company was forced
to suspend all development work.
Star Explorations, Ltd., London, first
a re-treater of old tailings at Kalgoorlie,
and since an investing concern with
world-wide interests, has issued another
annual financial statement. This shows
a profit of £325. Bank overdraft still
stands at £36,700. Investments valua-
tion shows a drop on book value of
£30,580. Co. was once mostly interested
in Westralian mining shares. Now it isn’t.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“ BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WATER
v BY/iTHE ACRE
v
O
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS 8 SON Pty. ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRAN DA(J Firs
m
ex**
at*
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BEJIHDAOKE * CO.. LttL. BXKMIHOHAM. KNO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
swwr
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
,
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
,W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Changing World
Apart from the upsetting of the
lives of the peoples of warring nations
caused by the physical impact of war
itself—the taking of men for the fighting
services, the disturbance of transport by
enemy attack and diversion to military
needs, the use of labor and materials for
war instead of civil production, and the
shortages and makeshift arrangements
that are a feature of every major war—
this war has accompanying it many other
changes of a political, economic and
scientific character.
Dealing with the last first, invention
has undoubtedly gone on at a fast pace
during the past four years. No less im-
portant than new invention has been the
development of ideas and inventions in
existence when war started, but never put
to a full use. Synthetic rubber, for in-
stance, commercialised only in Axis coun-
tries prior to the war, may be a major
American activity before the war finishes.
Whether it will prove to be a mere war-
time expedient when the full natural-
rubber production of Malaya again be-
comes available to the Allied Nations
remains to be seen; it may turn out to
have been ahead of its time. But its
potentialities are certainly not fully
measured up at this stage of the under-
taking, and big capital investments any-
way are not readily abandoned, especially
if they can be used to make jobs for out-
of-works.
Plastics in a great variety are prom-
ised when the war finishes. Bake-
lite and other plastics were well
enough known before 1939, but mould-
ings huge by comparison with those we
have been accustomed to are indicated
by comment from those who should
know. Transparent plastics are promised
in place of glass in motor-cars, and en-
tirely plastic bodies are forecast. Lamina-
tions of plastics and wood that will com-
pete with the structural metals have been
mentioned in the United States.
Dr. Charles M. Stine, vice-president of
the Du Pont concern in the U.S.A., fore-
casts, in the post-war period, unbreak-
able glass, glass that will float, wood nhat
won’t burn, petroleum spirits that will
make present motor-car engines out of
date, and a new type of automobile that
will be in the 1960’s of ordinary-rate de-
velopment. Nylon, that remarkable pro-
duct which was beginning to enter domes-
tic, life in stockings and other things just
before the war, will be followed in the
peace by shoes that contain no leather,
window screens that contain no wire and
machinery bearings that contain no metal.
The light metals, aluminium and mag-
nesium, have had their outputs multiplied
since the outbreak of war. Germany was
first to see the potentialities of mag-
nesium as a strengthening and lightening
element in steel and other alloys, but the
United States is now the premier world
producer. And in Britain and other coun-
tries the industry has also been devel-
oped greatly. Stainless steel will probably
bo used lavishly when peace comes. Du
Pont speaks of the substance becoming
“a common roofing material.”
In Britain photographic processes have
gone ahead rapidly. Film emulsions of
exceptionally fine grain have been devel-
oped, and the production of first-class
lenses stepped up. Great advances have
been made in diesel engines, which may
play a big part in post-war civil aviation
owing to their economy and reduced fire
risk. Radio location has opened up pos-
sibilities in the field of civil air transport
that were undreamt of when war started,
reducing as it does the danger of bad-
weather landings. British aircraft occupy
the leading place in the world today, and
no doubt an eye has been kept on the
commercial possibilities of tomorrow as
well. Rolls-Royce engines set a standard
that has not been overtaken.
A banking authority in New York has
pointed out that the 1914-18 war divided
the world into two trade groups—cen-
tral Europe and the rest. Central
Europe was forced to search for syn-
thetics, while the Allies had access to
the raw materials of the world, ham-
pered only by shipping difficulties. Over-
production of raw materials was a fea-
ture of the post-war Allied economy and
one of the great problems of the depres-
sion in the United States. As to syn-
thetics, with few exceptions these did
not survive the first world war, either
because of inferiority or cost in relation to
natural products. In the opinion of the
National City Bank, this time “the syn-
thetics and substitutes are not inferior.
Through chemical research and technical
emcieucy tnese syntUetics have been
given properties which make them often
better fitted to certain special needs than
the natural products.” It adds that
“World War No. 2 has accelerated the
trend—on the way before the war in
fibres and plastics—from natural to
made-to-order products. Synthetics
complicate the return to a peace-time
economy, but are here to stay.”
More particular reference is made to
textile fibres. Wool and cotton produc-
tion of major exporting countries has re-
mained at a fairly constant level, with
stocks accumulating because of the ship-
ping scarcity and blockades. New
countries are experimenting with cOtton-
growing, On the continent of Europe
synthetics have also taken the place
of wool, but, except for the accumu-
lation of stocks, post-war markets for
this product look more hopeful than in
the case of some other raw materials.
Nylon is largely replacing silk in the
United States. In general, the longer the
war the greater the gap between synthetic
and natural production is likely to be,
and the more difficult will it be to recon-
cile the old interests with the new when
the war is over.
In the reconciliation between the old
way of living and the new —that is, where
the new way is clearly permanent—
finance will have a special task to per-
form. Rule-of-thumb methods and stand-
ards will have to go overboard, and a
scientific approach made (or, if that
phrase is disliked, commonsense and
method applied) to the problems of pro-
duction and distribution, and political
questions will arise out of the vested in-
terests that may have to suffer. Vested
interests will include not only the so-
called capitalist” but also the trade-
unionist whose particular class of work
is going to be affected. An example
readily to hand is the-N. S. Wales coal-
miner, who has attempted, with some
effect, to prevent the mechanisation of
coalmining, notwithstanding how greatly
the price of coal enters into the Cost of
power and, therefore, production generally.
The application of intelligent financial
assistance to post-war industrial confu-
sion is not going to be any easier than the
direction of similar assistance to war-
time problems. In Australia we have seen
war-time finance operating almost upside-
down—great credit expansion during a
period of intense man-power shortage and
light money taxation of wages when the
war burden is the greatest and most obvi-
ous physical tax this country has ever
seen. The reason for this wrong-way
finance has been largely political, and it
would be a long shot to gamble on the
chances of having a better Government
after the war unless the political intelli-
gence of the people is awakened much
more alertly than it has been in the
immediate past.
There is no doubt, however, that, ma-
terially, we will have far greater oppor-
tunities after the war if we are intelligent
enough to make proper use of them. The
world has increased its Capacity to pro-
duce things, and it is on the political
and economic side that we are inclined to
fail. This failure is in a great measure
due to a decline in public interest in
national affairs, probably in part because
complicated system of government
arising out of bureaucratic sway in nearly
every country and partly out of the dis-
tractions created by the progress of in-
vention and living standards themselves.
Mechanisation and mass-production have
had a dubious influence both on the edu-
cation of the people and the type of litera-
ture, including the newspapers, that they
read. Centralisation of manufacture,
though a source of industrial efficiency,
has its social drawbacks.
The British Empire in particular will
have problems of its own when the last
German and Jap are disarmed, Britain
has almost exhausted its investments in
the United States, and a good deal of its
wealth has passed to that country and
Canada. The United States will most
likely be more industrialised than
ever, and in less need of Empire-
produced goods than pre-war. The
position of British shipping and aerial
services has still, of course, to be
defined, but Mr. Churchill the other day
was emphatic in his remarks about future
control of the colonies, and these include
Pacific and Atlantic islands likely to be
of great future value in aerial transport.
Nevertheless, airport facilities granted in
the great terminal countries are the main
consideration, and prior to the war the
Empire suffered from the effects of Gov-
ernment-subsidised foreign shipping, and
similar efforts may be made to protect
airlines in the post-war world.
Under pre-war financial conditions, the
problems of international trade that’will
follow this war would appear to be over-
whelming. Hence discussions already to
make “realistic” the basis on which post-
war trade will be conducted. As has been
stated here before, the main problems of
international trade arise out of internal
political and other affairs in indi-
vidual countries, and the prerequisite to
settling international problems is first of
all settling internal ones. The action of
Hitler in invading other countries in
order .to satisfy political considerations at
home is not without parallel in world
economic matters.
Austin Howard-Smith, at the annual
meeting of Howard Smith, Ltd., last
week, warned shareholders that the basis
on which the Government was paying for
coal and shipping services would have
serious effects on finances, etc., of the co.
unless some readjustment was made.
Shipowners now have claims before the
Shipping Control Board for an increase
in rates and allowances to restore part of
the pre-war margin of profit, “all of
which has been swallowed up by in-
creased costs.” The co.’s shipping sub-
sidiary, Australian Steamships Pty., de-
pends for its earnings upon the margin
(if any) between charter income, plus
allowances, and costs of running the
ships. In 1941 a loss was shown, and in
1942 profit was sufficient to allow depre-
ciation at only a moderate rate, “with-
out any provision for replacement at in-
flated prices or for the accelerated deteri-
oration under war-time conditions*” As
for coal, prices received by colliery
owners had been pegged at the average
received for Maitland coals in 1940, plus
actual increases in costs —when approved.
Mr. Howard-Smith claimed that any im-
provement in financial results that might
have been expected from increased out-
put had been nullified by absenteeism
and strikes.
At the meeting of Caledonian Col-
lieries, in which Howard Smith, Ltd.,
owns over three-fourths the capital, the
chairman added a warning that the prices
and costs inflation on the coalfields could
only react detrimentally on the industry
and its employees. It. was hoped that
the Government’s price-pegging and
subsidy proposals would be effective in
stabilising coal prices, wages and con-
ditions in the industry for the duration
of the war. It is a hope which many
outside the coal business will share. In
the absence of flow oil and anything
much in the way of hydro-electric power,
Australia relies to a great degree on its
coal resources. It is imperative that the
industry be run efficiently and economi-
cally in the interests of all other indus-
tries and the general standard of living.
Cheap power has made countries great
in the past. The effect of dear power
should be obvious to any thinking person.
* * * *
In only one European country—Por-
tugal—is food-rationing not in force.
Out of the other countries, Britain and
Ireland are the only ones in which bread
is not rationed. In Britain, Ireland, Den-
mark, Sweden, Switzerland, Bulgaria and
Rumania potatoes are not rationed.


lODINE
An official army pamphlet to troops
in the tropics states that a soldier
should carry a small bottle of
lODINE not only for bites, cuts and
wounds, but also to make jungle
water safe to drink by putting three
drops of lODINE in their water
canteen and waiting 30 minutes
before drinking.
NATIONAL SECURITY SUP-
PLEMENTAY REGULATIONS
mention that lODINE must be
provided in FIRST AID equip-
ment.
lODINE
A most effective antiseptic and a
great protection against infection.
lODINE costs little, but its anti-
septic value is incalculable.
IODINEi FOR A.R.P.
There's a MEDICINE CHEST in your
lODINE bottle—learn how to use it.
Write for a Free Copy of
“HEALTH HINTS FOR WARTIME”
lODINE EDUCATION BUREAU
London.
Representatives:
R. DUNDAS SMITH & SON,
44 Margaret Street, Sydney.
a scrap
of paper
.... but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD.
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter in 1835.
The liability of the members is limited.
THE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital . .
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
£4,500,000
2.500.000
2,000,000
4.500.000
£13,500,000
ONE HUNDRED AND NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 12th OCTOBER, 1942.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, 25th MARCH, 1943.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 12th October last, with the Profit and Loss Account for the year
to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian, and New Zealand rates and taxes and making a
transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for all bad and doubtful debts has been made, and
after taking credit for £20,000 Income Tax overprovided in recent years, the net profit for the year amounted to £188,570/ 7/11.
To this has to be added £215,600/5/- brought forward from the previous year’s account, making a total of £404,170/12/11. From
this £81,562/10/- was paid as an Interim Dividend on 2nd October last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum ot
£110,250 to pay a Final Dividend of 3/6 per Share, less Income Tax at 6/- in the £, making, in all, £191,812/10/-, equal to 6/- per
Share less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of 6 per cent., less Tax. There will remam £212,358/2/11 to
be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London, Australia and New Zealand, on 26th March.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: —C. G. Hamilton, Esq., and A. Whitworth, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths & Co., offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last Report, the West End Branch, at 17 Northumberland Avenue, London, W.C.2, has been closed and
also twenty-five branches in Australia in accordance with the official policy with regard to Rationalisation of Banking.
4, Threadneedle Street, London, 15th March, 1943. A. WHITWORTH, Chairman.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
From October Ilf, liFfi, to October 12, Iblfl.
Profit^orT^yea^to^ctob 0 ™ 12, 1942, after deducting Rebate ( £7940/16/4) on Bills current at Balance date, and
after making a transfer to the credit Of Contingencies Account, out 0 f which account provision for all Bad
and Doubtful Debts has been made .. • •
SS:
I, Charges of Management—
Australia and New Zealand — , , . „ K 0„
Salaries and allowances at 229 Branches and Agencies .. .. £583,571 5 6
General Expenses 131,000 19 10
Salaries and allowances ®
General Expenses, including Directors’ remuneration 36,670 0 ir
£215,600 5 0
£1,533,036 9 9
£787,488 5 9
tl. Rates and Taxes — , ...
Australia, New Zelaand and London (after taking credit for income tax overprovided
in recent years —£20,000)
556,977 16 1
1,344,466 1 19
188,570 7 11
£404,170 12 11
From which deduct:
Dividend paid October 2, 1942 ..
Dividend payable March 26, 1943
£81,562 10 0
110,250 0 0
191,812 10 0
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
£212,358 2 11
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 12, 1942.
7
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. •• •• ? ■ - • • *
Deposits at Interest ..
Current Accounts .. • • • • ■ • • •
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit, and other Accounts,
including provision tor contingencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per contra
£ ft. d.
2,697 (l 0
22.154,532 13 4
29,022.455 12 5
6,313,686 19 10
432,678 0 1
Capital:—
900,000 shares of £6 each, fully paid
(There is under the Charter a
reserve liability of tile Proprietors
Of £5 per share.)
Reserve Fund (used in the business of
the Bank) ..
Currency Reserve (used in the business
of the Bank)
Dividend payable March 26, 1943 ..
Profit and Loss Account Balance ..
£68,526,050 6 8
£4,600,000 0 0
2,500,000 0 0
2.000,000 0 0
110,250 0 0
212,358 2 11
• 9.322,60S 2 11
£67,848.65S 8 7
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes and Bank
Treasury Bills —'Australian and New Zealand ..
Special Wartime Deposit Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia
British Government Securities
Australian and New Zealand Government Securities, and
other Investments, including Tax Reserve Certificates
Bills Receivable and Remittances in transit
Advances to Customers, and other Accounts
Liability of Customers for Acceptances as per contra
London, at cost, less amounts written off ..
NOTE: The Australian and New Zealand assets and
liabilities are included at the par rates of
exchange and the net difference which would
have arisen had they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the Balance Sheet ia
covered by Currency Reserves.
£67,818,658 8 7
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books of the Bank in London and with the Returns received in London from
the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the Bank Balances, Bills Receivable, and Investments held in London.
Having obtained all the information and explanations we have required we report that, in our opinion, the above Balance Sheet is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our information
and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books in London and the Returns received from the Branches.
London, 10th March, 1943. DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
There are evidence and relics of
unionistic spite and “discipline to be
found in most States, N.S.W. in particu-
lar. Men have been kicked out of
unions and a check kept on them for
the remainder of their lives because they
dared to have the courage of their con-
victions in thought and deed. While
clamoring for better living standards all
the time, such improved standards V eing
based on increased production and better-
managed distribution, trade-unionism has
been often unashamedly an advocate of
go-slow, cutting directly across improved
standards of life, which depend on the
fruits of labor. Trade-unionism can only
be of permanent benefit to unionists
when it ensures something like a “fair
go” for them. If they get better than
a fair go, then their numbers are so
great that the country can’t pay the extra
and the whole economy falls down, drag-
ging unionism with it. The record be-
hind some big Australian unions is so
bad that they are revealed as being totally
unfitted to carry their at-present limited
responsibility. Some even express more
loyalty to foreign forms of government
than they do to the Throne, Should
trade-unionism become compulsory
throughout the Commonwealth it is not
difficult to see the futility and oppression
that are likely to attend the lives of tens
of thousands of Australians. Australia
is already governed to a large extent by
trade-union bosses, with ghastly finan-
cial and other effects. The war effort
under Labor government has been a
floundering one, weak and expedient to
the point of silliness in several things.
There has been a pandering to the sel-
fishness of the voting majority that is
based on deception and humbug and the
propagation of class-distrust.
*** 0 *
Britain’s latest Budget is for the fifth
financial year in which war has entered.
It is notable for the high proportion of
expenditure that is being met from
revenue. Since the outbreak of war 44
p.c. of all expenditure has been met from
revenue, the ratio having risen from 36
p.c. in 1940 to 46 p.c. in 1942. In the
Commonwealth the position has drifted
in the opposite direction: in 1941-42 the
Budget was 50 p.c. revenue-financed,
while for 1942-43 early estimates were
for 46 p.c. revenue. Actually, the posi-
tion has got worse as the year has gone
on; whereas it was estimated that
revenue would figure to the extent of 32
p.c. in war expenditure alone, in actual
fact revenue has not provided for more
than 18 p.c. of Australia’s war outgo dur-
ing the nine months to March 31. Aus-
tralia should have been able to do much
better than Britain in paying for war
immediately; we have not the overseas
commitments of Britain, nor has our war
burden generally been any heavier.
* * * *
“F.M.8.”: M.L. has been cited by
both advocates and opponents of
compulsory unionism. The Labor Gov-
ernment in 1936 passed an amend-
ment to the Industrial Conciliation
and Arbitration Act providing for
compulsory union membership on the
part of workers subject to an award or
industrial agreement. Result was that
union members doubled in a year, and
by the end of 1939 reached 254,690. Since
then there has been a natural decline,
due to those called up in the armed
forces. Actually, the number of unions
as compared with 1935 has increased by
only 35, many of the mushroom unions
that sprang up in 1936-37 having been
submerged by amalgamations. Despite
the 1936 Act, unionists represent only
50 p.c. of the total wage-earners in the
Dominion. The effect of compulsion has
been resented by many, who object not
to unionism but to the compulsion. Since
1935 there has been a very steady and
alarming increase in industrial disputes.
The 1934 figure of 10,393 working days
lost has increased to a loss of 53,801
working days, whilst the wages lost exceed
£60,000. Formerly many who now have
to take part in a dispute settled their griev-
ances amicably with their employers.
* * * *
The United States Senate has unani-
mously agreed that President Roosevelt’s
right to devalue the dollar should
be removed. The matter will now be
referred back to the House of Represen-
tatives. The Administration asked for
an extension of the devaluation power as
part of the bill to extend the operation
of the President’s £2OOO million exchange
stabilisation fund. Henry Morgenthau,
Secretary to the Treasury, was in favor
of the extension of both powers on the
ground that they could be used against
nations embarking on competitive depre-
ciation of their currencies. Senator Taft
led the move to kill the devaluation
clause, and made the point that reduction
of the gold content of the dollar would
affect people who invested money in war
bonds. Renewal of the President’s exist-
ing stabilisation fund is regarded as a
possible basis for the U.S. contribution
to the world currency plan advocated by
Mr. Morgenthau and discussed in these
pages recently.
* * * *
At the end of March savings-bank
deposits were £8.6 million higher than at
the end of the preceding month. During
February the increase was the record
figure of £9.8 million, but on March 16
the Third Liberty Loan opened for £lOO
million, and in view of this it is surpris-
ing that there was not a recession in
March deposits, instead of an increase of
8.6 million. Total savings-bank deposits
are now £336 million. Since war started
the growth has been £91.2 million, equal
to 37 p.c., as against an increase in living
costs of 22 p.c. T


THE SERVICE MAN
In Coral Sea Week.
“Ek Dum”: Last week only a mutter
of thunder and distant lightning flashes
indicated the presence of the storm which
is gathering north of this continent —
long-distance reconnaissances, a covey of
bombers swooping on some too obviously
busy Japanese station, the rathole jungle-
and-gorge scrapping of the terrible coun-
try south of Salamaua in the Mubo area.
In this week there falls the anni-
versary of the Coral Sea battle, and the
War God’s Weather Bureau has plenty
to tell of the impending tempest, both in
fact and prophecy.
It was hard to believe on Sunday after-
noon, looking over the flurry of Soviet
flags in the Sydney Domain, the large
crowd—mass target for bomber attack —■
and the shining waters of Sydney
Harbor and the Pacific, that out there,
somewhere along the lifeline from Aus-
tralia to America, the enemy had
“launched a submarine attack in some
force” — grim statement and warning
from General MacArthur’s headquarters.
Japan’s Threat
While Sydney Domainers shouted for
a Second Front in Europe, the savage,
threatening tones of the Chief of the
Japanese Press Bureau were heard over
the air: —
The establishment of great strategic bases
north and north-east of Australia, in the
East-Indies, in Timor, in New Guinea
and in the Solomon Islands, to the very
shores of Australia, is finished and will
pave the way for the unprecedented and
enormous operations of offensive which
are shortly to be carried out. In all centres
the counter-offensives of the enemy have
been crushed, and in the vast 3100 miles
area over which Japan has established her
bases her offensive will begin. Australia
is in a nervous condition she fears
Japan’s might with good cause.
From many quarters come indications
that a major Japanese offensive may
begin.
There is the sea war off the very coast-
line behind which Communist-led iron-
workers and sheet-metal workers loafed
on Monday in insolent defiance of their
country’s need and their own engage-
ments.
There is the statement emanating from
Korean sources, which have proved excel-
lent weathercocks, that Japan has reached
a point of strength at which even the
invasion of the American continent is
contemplated. There is a knowing in-
sistence from Berlin that the Aleutians
will soon be a major battle area, and that
Uncle Sam proposes to begin an offensive
against Japan from that point. And
there is the warning from Colonel Kay,
aide-de-camp to the Governor of Hawaii,
that “the danger in the Pacific is so im-
mediate and so terrific that its real nature
cannot be disclosed until steps are taken
to meet it.”
Strips for 1500 Aircraft
There is the revelation by Minister
Forde of figures which have for a long
time been getting between those who
have known them and their sleep: —
A constant menace hangs over this coun-»
try while the powerful Japanese nation has
control of the seas to the north of Aus-
tralia. This has enabled the enemy to
concentrate more than 200,000 men and
sufficient airfields and strips to accommo-
date more than 1500 aircraft in the perim-
eter of islands from Timor to Rabaul.
Reconnaissance reports indicate increasing
activity in building additional airfields.
And there was the raid on Darwin.
It is, of course, a mistake always to
take at face value the assertions of
leaders charged with the conduct of a
war. Much is said to deceive the enemy
and by the enemy to deceive ourselves.
But it is always wise in war to pre-
pare for the worst; and even the best in
the war before us will call for sacrifices.
The minor battle to throw the enemy
out of a small corner of Papua, one in
which not much more than a single divi-
sion of the enemy was involved, cost Aus-
tralia and the United States more than
10,000 casualties. The small affair on the
Mayu Peninsula cost a brigade.
Figures from U.S.A.
General Somervell, Commandant of
the U.S. Army Service Forces, has said
that Uncle Sam is getting to the South-
west Pacific every ’plane, tank, gun and
round of ammunition which it is humanly
possible to send —that, of course, is con-
ditioned by the Beat Hitler First policy.
The general added: “We cannot allow
fireside strategists to stampede us into
neglecting one theatre for the sake of an-
other.” He promised that the Southern
Pacific would “not be neglected” ; and
he believed that Uncle Sam’s Allies
“would be provided with their capital
needs by the end of 1943.”
In the matter of aerial needs in Aus-
tralia, the end of 1943 might conceivably
be too late. And the demands for added
supplies do not come from fireside strate-
gists. They come primarily from fighting
leaders.
Figures issued by Mr. Stettinius, Con-
troller of Lease-Lend aid, show how true
was the warning of Mr, Curtin in Perth
on April 30 that “Mr. Churchill and
President Roosevelt had decided in agree-
ment with Russia that the general stra-
tegy should be the defeat of Hitler first
and that the maximum of strength was
to be exerted in the European zone and
the minimum in the-Pacific.”
Mr. Stettinius said that of Lease-Lend
help 38 per cent, in the last three months
had gone to Britain, 31 per cent, to Rus-
sia, 16 per cent, to North Africa and the
Middle East, 14 per cent, to the Far East,
including India, and 1 per cent, to other
areas, including the South-west Pacific ;
and Britain had sent as much to Russia
as the United States.
The distribution of American supplies
in the Pacific is not, of course, fully de-
ducible from this, because it gives no
indication of what supplies have been
sent or fighting outfit provided for Ameri-
can-held bases—for the United States
Navy, Army and Air Force in such
crucial sectors as Hawaii and the string
of communication islands beyond it on
the Australian route, the Solomons, New
Caledonia, the Aleutians. Its signifi-
cance is in its application to the fact that
there are 800,000 Australians under arms,
or one-ninth of the whole population, and
to aerial developments.
Supply and Fighting Man-power
By reason of the vastness of the stra-
tegic front and the long distance from
the northern defensive fringes to the
centres of manufacture, Australia is faced
with problems which no other country
has or can have to face. It cannot hope
to cope with the supply needs of an army,
air force and navy on the present scale
even if it had the machinery with which
to apply man- and woman-power. It needs
armed might on that scale. But it must
divert from manufacture sufficient per-
sonnel to provide the transport and facili-
ties without which fighting men and arms
alike are useless against invasion—roads,
the supply of trucks, the construction of
a vast network of aerodromes, of dumps,
of housing and water supply for tens of
thousands in regions where, a year or so
ago, there were only trees and sometimes
not even a mudhole.
Ammunition, guns, tanks in quantity,
transport vehicles, a large initial quantity
of ’planes can best be supplied across
the Pacific, where facilities already exist.
And, for practical purposes, it is no
use supplying them later, even if Aus-
tralia could do it on the needed scale.
The training of armies takes a long
time. Divisions cannot be turned out in
fighting trim under months of hard work.
They cannot begin to be turned out until
they have full battle equipment, with
a sufficient reserve of ammunition to
allow of wastage on a war scale. And
if they are not trained now, even assum-
ing that the Japanese sit on the defensive
in the south until the United Nations are
ready to begin the war against them, they
will have months to go when the real
attack comes before they reach an Eighth
or First Army standard to take their
places in a front line.
The Importance of Australia
This continent is as important to the
Allies as any other. Lose it and they
lose a vast field of industry, enough labor
and machinery and fighting man-power to
make the difference between victory and
defeat in the Pacific, control of all South
Pacific routes, of great harbors, huge
training grounds, vast quantities of
minerals. Capture of Australia would
release huge quantities of Japanese ship-
ping and men, make the Japanese
southern flank safe, shorten the Japanese
lines of communication in general and
give them many invaluable resources in
food and textiles which neither friend
nor foe can g'et elsewhere —wool, for
example—besides extending the ambit of
Japanese operations to the Antarctic, the
shores of Africa and throughout the
whole of the West Pacific.
While it is necessary for the quickest
ending of the war that Australia’s man-
power shall be instantly ready when the
call for offensive comes trained,
equipped, munitioned and with the trans-
port plant at hand—this is not the first
essential for defence.
The lessons of Pearl Harbor, of the
• Doolittle raid on Nippon and the Dar-
win raid have not sunk into sufficient
responsible heads. Without enough land-
based fighters no coastal town of Aus-
tralia is safe. Pearl Harbor and the Nip-
pon affair proved the possibility of using
heavy bombers from aircraft-carriers.
They proved also, as did Darwin, that
lack of abundant fighters instantly avail-
able can cost many lives and vast dam-
age. The ’planes which wrecked Darwin
would have never got near the place had
there been sufficient ready fighter defence.
’Planes, ’planes, ’planes are the first
essential, particularly the long-distance
fighter, the torpedo bomber and light
bomber. These are the weapons which
we must have to give us time to train and
pile up munitions.
And if our overseas Allies can give us
nothing else they must make an effort
to give us these for the sake of their own
growing forces, for the safety of their
valuable naval and cargo ships, apart
from any purely Australian consideration.
Pacific Operations
Last week’s raids covered almost the
. whole area of the northern perimeter and
reached out to the backblocks of Dutch
New Guinea. Timika, Trangan Island,
the Arus, Amboina —on which one of
the heaviest attacks was made —Koepang
(Timor), Madang, Wewak and other
points were visited ; but there was no
heavy strafing or bombing. Reconnais-
sances penetrated as far afield as Bima
in the Dutch East Indies. Off Monok-
wari, in the Dutch N.G., a 5000-ton
vessel was left sinking by the stern dur-
ing the week-end.
Presumably most Allied strength in the
South-west Pacific is being devoted to
the silent submarine war by which, it is
announced, Japan is trying to cut
the U.S.-Australian communications —an
ominous move, obviously preliminary to
some other objective.
Following the occupation of Funafuti,
American Liberators raided the phosphate
isles of the Gilberts near the Equator, and
several attacks were made on new and
old bases in the Solomons.
One batch of five U.S. fighters reported
destroying five out of 30 “O” fighters
for a loss of two.
Heavy Loss at Darwin
After a lull since March 25, when the
enemy sent 25 bombers and 24 fighters
over Darwin and had two bombers and
12 fighters shot down and several others
damaged by the Australian Spitfire squad-
ron, another heavy raid was made on
the town at 10.15 a.m. on May 2,
The enemy used 21 bombers, escorted
by 30 fighters, which attacked from
26,000 ft. Not much ground damage was
done, but the Spitfires, obviously out-
numbered, had a bitter battle to drive
the attackers off. They shot down or
damaged 13 enemy ’planes. G.H.Q. de-
scribed our own air losses as “heavy,”
though several pilots whose ’planes were
lost were rescued.
Onward in Tunisia.
“Ek Bum”: The Tunisian campaign is
notable for many factors —the swiftness
of the advance ; the concerted nature of
the actions ; the unity with which varied
national commands have proceeded ; the
almost offhand way in which divisions
and corps have changed their sectors.
Operations began with the Eighth
Army striking 200 miles south of its
present position and with the American
Second Corps, on its flank, forming the
perpendicular of the box in which the
Axis armies were contained. Adjoining
the Americans further north were the
French in a section facing east towards
the coast. Angling away to the west and
north in a wide arc which finished many
miles west of Bizerta was Anderson’s
First Army, reinforced by some French
or North African French troops and
withdrawing cagily in the direction of
Algeria.
This movement was too much even for
the Axis to swallow whole, but its leaders
were deceived to some extent. Arnim
could not resist the temptation to drive
back the Guards, the Hampshires, the
Lancashire Fusiliers, whose history had
begun before the first Schickelgruber
began to grub his shale, and who in
battles of Marlborough’s day had saved
early German allies from rout.
But the British suddenly gave up being
droved. As Rommel raced up the coast
with Montgomery’s legions hanging on
to his ankle, they became drovers them-
selves. They hustled the Germans east-
ward along the coast to the region of
Cape Serrat, and then left the French
Moroccans to continue pushing in the
direction of Bizerta. They themselves,
while holding the enemy further south-
east, were able to detach respectable
forces which passed through the Ameri-
can sector at the other end of the line
round Fondouk, towards which the
French of Giraud’s second force were
already squeezing from the Ousseltia
Hills. The First Army men broke into
Kairouan and the coastal area.
As the Eighth Army swept northward
to Enfidaville, the First Army went back
to its central sector, the Americans passed
northward round its rear, and the Ous-
seltia French wheeled northward and
began to press into the difficult hills
towards Pont du Fahs and the Zaghouan
region, which is a key point on the east.
The only army which retained the same
relative position in the battle as at the
beginning was the Eighth Army, which
continued straight up the coast past En-
fidaville, after reaching out to grab Tak-
rouna Hill, at the junction of the Enfida-
ville-Pont du Fahs and Enfidaville-Zag-
houan main roads. Itself, it followed the
coastal railway with no pause until it
was in sight of Bou Ficha, 20 miles north
of Enfidaville.
It is doubtful whether any battle in
history has seen such swift, neat and suc-
cessful change-abouts along a line which
has been constricted from 400 to 130
miles long.
The array of forces when the re-
arrangement was completed was —from
the Gulf of Hammamet westward —
Eighth Army; rearmed French (making
a bloodstained way across the Tebessa
mountains towards Pont du Fahs in
one of the most difficult bits of terrain to
be faced); First Army (pressing for-
ward into the Majerda River valley be-
tween Bou Arada and a position in the
Majerda mountains, n.-w. of Medjez el
Bab).
Here Patton’s Americans linked in,
trying to fight their way through a gap in
the Majerda hills to Mateur, south of
the Garaet-Achkel and Bizerta lakes
which guard the Bizerta fortress
approaches from the Tunis and Medjez side.
On Patton’s left flank were the French
Moroccans on the Tabarca-Bizerta
coastal road, to the north side of Lake
Garaet-Achkel.
Eighth Army’s Drive
The key movement in the phase which
was taking place during the past week
was that of the Eighth Army. It had vir-
tually turned the Axis left flank, and
would soon have the choice of two valley
routes to the Gulf of Tunis. If it moved
quickly enough—and how quickly it
could move the enemy knew full well —
it might get behind some of the Axis
divisions under attack by the First Army
and the French.
The Axis armies were in a bad way
strategically, more especially as the
moment the Eighth Army’s coastal opera-
tion was brought to a stage beyond En-
fidaville the First Army delivered an
almighty blow in the Medjez el Bab-Bou
Arada sector in the centre, almost forc-
ing the collapse of the defence, while
the French, pushing towards Pont du
Fahs on a 15-mile front, got back some
value for three years of patient and re-
vengeful waiting. They fought as did
their fathers of the Marne and the
Argonne.
For the first time since 1918 was wit-
nessed the heartening spectacle of Ger-
mans retiring precipitately before French-
men on a substantial front. It was no
strategical withdrawal, as had been the
case in one or two earlier Tunisian re-
tirements.
The last week in April, 1943, marked
a turning point in the French history of
the war, which may be marked down in
French calendars for many a day.
Anderson Strikes
By April 29 the First Army had deter-
mined the general necessities of Axis
movements by driving a bulge into the
centre of the Axis line along the Majerda
River. It finished the capture of Long-
stop Hill to the n.-w. of Medjez, broke
across the river into the Majerda Valley
halfway to Tebourba, cutting the railway,
and from Bou Arada went up the Massi-
cault Valley, on the more direct road to
Tunis. This valley is on the east of the
Majerda River valley, divided from it by
a narrow range of bare, rock-crowned
hills—something in conformation like
the Flinders ranges in S. Australia, but
on a smaller scale.
The manoeuvre was in effect a pincer
movement. It was supported by French
pressure on the right flank pushing
towards Pont du Fahs and the bunch of
roads, aqueducts and railway which
tangle themselves together near there as
the land falls down into the Tunisian
plain. This French operation again w as
in effect a double-barrelled pincer drive,
which could swing its point either east or
west at a suitable time, linking with the
Eighth or First Army accordng to neces-
sity.
Great Work by Moroccans
The Moroccans and the Americans to
the n.-w, were, of course, acting as a
separate pincer, which would ultimately
close on the gap between Bizerta s
guardian lakes at Ferryville.
The Moroccans were making quickest
progress. By April 29 they were only 11


CO
urn
miles from Ferryville and 15 miles from
Bizerta. The First Army had pushed
halfway from Medjez to Tebourba, was
within about 14 miles of that town, less
than 18 miles from Djedeida, and only
21 miles from Tunis itself.
Djedeida is the most important point
short of the main objectives. It is on
the Majerda River, about 12 miles from
Tunis. Capture of it will mean the
throttling of the whole of the Tunisian
northern communication systems. The
terrain beyond in every direction still has
its difficulties, but none is provided by
Nature to compare with those already
overcome.
The American troops, however, made
an important advance in tough country
before the week-end, and were at last
apparently able to dominate Mateur.
General Alexander sent them congratu-
lations.
An Orderly Retreat
Though the British and French ad-
vances had been swifter than could have
been expected, there was no sign of
demoralisation in the Axis. The strength,
command, armament and plans of the
German-Italian forces seem to be a
profound mystery to correspondents. One
school believes that Rommel has fled the
country and is immured in a sanatorium
suffering from liver and nerves. Another
has sent him to an important command
in Russia, Still another has wounded
him for the ninety-ninth time. And there
is considerable divergence of opinion as
to whether Kesselring, Arnim or Old
Nick himself is in command in Tunisia.
But there is no mystery about the effi-
ciency of the enemy’s organisation, his
fighting qualities or his adaptability. Tak-
ing time factors into account, he must
have proved tougher and put up harder
resistance, and therefore suffered heavier
losses, than on the open Don fronts.
Every inch that was defendable in the
past week he has defended, from box
positions and from wadi defences con-
sisting of bunkers and pits, laid to suit
the contour of the country at every com-
manding point of vantage.
When the Eighth Army formations
paused after their exhausting advance
beyond Enfidaville the enemy hurled his
weight at them and forced them back
some distance, though they had regained
the lost ground by May 1. And his
strong, savage counter-attacks retook
more than once the main frontal spear-
head positions on which the First Army
was trying to consolidate before its
descent on to the plains.
When he was driven out into the open
he came back with offensive blows and
a technique with which the veterans of
Alamein were familiar —the fierce sally
of tanks in strength, often followed by a
taxi rank of mechanised infantry armed
to the ears with automatic weapons and
a.-t. defence.
The pitched battles being fought by
these kinds of unit are fought out with
every kind of weapon, from Flammen-
werfer mounted on tanks to tooth and claw.
The result has alway been the same. Eng-
land’s secret weapon, the British foot
soldier, the last influence to be thrown
into every great campaign, proved as
usual decisive.
Patient, fearless, tireless, grumbling
cheerfully, their ranks mown thin, the
British infantryman and sapper dug up
or rushed the endless minefields, charged
cheering down wadis, up hills, into holes
along ways slippery with blood. Machine-
gun crews melted before Tommy’s shower
of grenades. Italian hands went up in
clumps and Germans screamed in flight
before his wicked bayonets. Everywhere
he must have paid dearly but he did not
mind.
Maoris at Work
Tommy found fit mates in the
Maoris with the Eighth Army, to whom
belongs the glory of the scaling of the
topmost heights of the decisive Takrouna
Hill on April 19, a story which a British
general declared “sounded like fiction. ’
The general may not have been at Bardia.
Nine Maori warriors, after all the offi-
cers of their company had been killed or
wounded, found a nest for themselves
on top of the 650 ft. hill, bristling with
Germans and Italians. Fifty more fought
their way through to their mates after
the enemy had failed to dislodge them in
a whole day’s fighting, during which those
above were stalked, hunted, rushed
at, while howitzers and machine-guns
pounded those below.
Of the nine original men there were
six left on the hilltop when their com-
panions clinched their gains. The slopes
around them were strewn with corpses.
Despite the grim fury of the attack,
despite pattern bombing, the harassing
of his rear sea communications, the
knowledge that populations behind are
hostile, that the sea is cut off, the enemy
continued to maintain a slow and orderly
retirement, laying his mines, covering his
movements with well-concerted ai tillery
bombardments, giving way nowhere with-
out exacting cost.
On April 29 he held less than 2000
square miles of Tunisia, instead of
the 35,000 square miles odd in his
clutches a month ago. And after his
furthest-flung formations had been torn
to pieces he was about to face a decisive
battle which he would have to fight to
a finish. , .
In the next fortnight the bloodshed in
Tunisia will be without precedent in the
history of Africa, unless there is a sudden
cave-in of the enemy.
Great Movements at Sea
At sea and over it the Tunisian com-
bat continued fierce and continuous.
At the week-end the Admiralty an-
nounced the sinking of 25 ships in the
Mediterranean—ten by submarines be-
tween Axis ports, the rest by submarines
or aircraft on the Tunisian supply route.
This brought the number of Axis vessels,
great and small, destroyed in the Medi-
terranean since the beginning of the
Tunisian campaign to nearly 200.
As well as the destruction of the 1001st
Axis ’plane from the island, Malta an-
nounced the sinking of 1,000,000 tons
of enemy shipping since the outbreak of
war by ’planes based on the island.
An Australian squadron shared in
Malta’s glory. “Their work,” said Maori-
land-born Vice-Marshal Park, who com-
mands the R.A.F. there, “is not spectacu-
lar but most intricate, and is one of the
most hazardous jobs in the Air Force.
They are a fine squadron, doing a grand
job.”
Berlin shows great anxiety about Brit-
ish offensive action at sea. It quoted
on April 30 a report that 150 landing
barges loaded with commando troops and
escorted by an aircraft-carrier had passed
into the Mediterranean, followed by 23
tankers and merchantmen escorted by
destroyers and patrol vessels, and later
by the battleships Rodney and Malaya,
the battle-cruiser Renown, the aircraft-
carriers Illustrious, Furious and Argus,
four cruisers and eight destroyers.
On May 1 Algeciras reports advised
Berlin that there were 67 Allied merchant-
men in Gibraltar getting ready to move
out, and that 20 ships had reached Gib-
raltar that day, their decks packed with
landing barges.
Germany and Italy wete busy at the
week-end studying the condition of their
defensive nether garments.
In Tunisia, and on its approaches and
communications, the Axis may soon be
fighting on two fronts.
Devil's Diary.
“Ek Dum”: Last week’s raids included:
April 25: Widespread attacks on road,
rail and canal transport in Belgium and
northern France. Barges, bridges, lock-
gates, trains and goods yards were among
the targets.
April 26: Night attack on Duisburg—
the 59th. Duisburg, Germany’s largest
inland port, is on the Rhine, about 10
miles west of Essen, and in the centre of a
great group of industrial cities which are
almost like sections of a single city—Essen,
Diisseldorf, Dortmund, Cologne, Bocham,
Krefeld, Wupperthal and a dozen more.
The moral effects of large-scale attacks
on any of these must be tremendous,
since a whole ring of other big centres
holding millions of people, as far out as
Minister on one side and Aachen on the
other, must hear the execution in progress
and see the flames and smoke rising. In
the April 26 raid 30 tons of bombs per
minute were dropped for 45 minutes, and
the R.A.F. described it as “one
heaviest raids yet made on Germany.”
Lancasters —including an Australian
squadron —Stirlings, Halifaxes and the
old reliable Wellingtons took part. A
pilot’s account of Duisburg after the
event was that it looked like “a cauldron
bubbling with angry, molten metal,
which spurted up every now and then as
more bombs were dropped.”
The Germans reported that Miilheim,
which lies across the Rhine from
Cologne, and Oberhausen also were
bombed, and estimated that the three
raids cost the R.A.F. “at least” 16
bombers. The R.A.F. estimate was 17,
against eight lost in the last raid on
Duisburg on April 9.
As 75 per cent, of all Rhine cargoes
are handled through Duisburg, Berlin’s
shrieks of rage and hate are understand-
able, though, according to the Luftwaffe
estimate, the raiders expended over 1200
tons of valuable high explosive on “resi-
dential areas, hospitals and public build-
ings and caused civilian casualties.”
Essen “National Zeitung” remarked
that “the limit of endurance” was being
reached for the people of the Ruhr. A
grain of salt is needed to flavor such
statements.
April 26: A high level raid by U.S.
bombers on Bari the previous day.
April 27: R.A.F. heavies operating from
the Middle East visited Bari at night.
Though neither of these Bari raids
compared in size or intensity with the
northern European raids, Uncle SanTs
spokesman said that the 70 U.S.
Liberators, carrying 150 tons of bombs,
had “nearly blasted Bari air base off the
map” in the American daylight visit. He
claimed that the hulks of 50 ’planes were
afterwards noticed on the ground by re-
connaissance pilots and that “not a square
foot of the aerodrome or adjacent space
appeared to escape destruction. These
were terrific explosions, and fires com-
pletely covered the area.” British claims
in the low-level raid the next evening
were milder. Bari is a large city of about
250,000 people on the Adriatic and a
sort of aerial Clapham Junction for Italy,
about equidistant from all points on the
country’s defence arc.
One British bomber was lost.
April 28: The R.A.F. attacked Wilhelms-
haven and at the same time carried on
large-scale mine-laying operations in the
Baltic. In the two operations, 23 ’planes
were lost.
April 30: Essen had its 54th R.A.F.
raid. More than 10,000 tons of bombs
have been dropped on Essen —the world’s
most blasted city. Thirteen bombers did
not return.
The Russians reported raiding Konigs-
berg, using a giant bomber —“a flying
battleship.” The German version was
that the attacks by the R.A.F. on Wil-
helmshaven were “heavy” but sporadic,
and that they did slight damage. Bomb-
dropping by “isolated” and unidentified
machines Ih East Prussia was mentioned.
The British operations over the Baltic
were directed to the hampering of U-boat
training and -of the sea routes by which
supplies are sent to the eastern front.
The areas are packed with air defence
ships under an umbrella of night fighters.
All through the week there were con-
tinual R.A.F. and U.S. fighter sweeps
over northern France. German activity
over Britain was light.
Helsinki to the Hellespont.
“Ek Dum”: On the eve of May Day
Berlin unofficially reported that an un-
expectedly heavy attack by the Russians
had opened in the Kuban Peninsula, Of
this Moscow said nothing, though its
radio mentioned an air battle in which
116 German ’planes were shot down
within 24 hours. Berlin then mentioned
signs of another Russian offensive
between Orel and Kursk. Again Moscow
said nothing.
Moscow seemed concerned with the
north rather than the south. It spoke
of ominous preparations before Lenin-
grad, and Communist papers in Sweden
hinted at the possibility that Germans
from the south and Finns from the north
would join in an assault on the city.
If the Finns have any such intention, it
will mean a complete change of front.
Facing Turkey’s Shores
Stress continues to be laid by corre-
spondents in Ankara on the abnormal
grouping of divisions in the Balkans and
on their movement toward Thrace and
the Aegean coast. All the dispositions
suggest attack rather than defence, and
there are tales of long strings of landing
barges moving down the Danube, round
which are all the arteries of activity lead-
ing from the Reich,
It cannot be overlooked that the Axis-
held country nearest to the Dardanelles
on the European mainland is only 30
miles off, and that the Axis controls the
Aegean Sea.
A desperate throw to attack Turkey
and the Middle East by sea and land is
by no means out of the question. Fail-
ing victory in the U-boat war on Britain,
such an attack, aimed at capturing Per-
sian oil supplies and Suez, threatening
Egypt and Africa once more, breaking
Russia’s main supply line and giving Ger-
many Indian Ocean submarine bases, is
one of the German High Command’s
few possible bets.
The capacity of the modern power
barge to carry troops is something not
to be underrated. There are instances in
this war in which 150 troops have been
carried over 400 miles of open sea within
30 hours.
Because of the nature and extent of
the coastline of Asia Minor and of the
communications behind it, several simul-
taneous attacks from the sea would put
a heavy strain on Turkish resources,
which could not be supplemented quickly
from Syria. This would be especially so
if at the same time Turkey’s only bit
of Europe, which is open and suitable
for dispersed tank warfare, were directly
assaulted by the mass of the Bulgarian
Army.
At the same time, Germany may fear
Allied landings and be guarding its flank.
German Strength in U.S.S.R.
In Russia last November, Stalin esti-
mated German divisions at 179, with
Italians, Rumanians, Hungarians and
others bringing the total Axis force to
240 divisions. On Feb. 23 he announced
that 112 of these 240 divisions had been
routed and smashed, and quoted enemy
casualties as including 700,000 killed and
300,000 taken prisoner—the equivalent
of 67 divisions at full strength.
Moscow last week officially estimated
German strength on the Russian front at
250 divisions ; so that, on Russian figures,
apart from the repair of his battered ori-
ginal army, the foe has been able to bring
his divisional forces up to a strength
greater than last November.
However, in his May Day order of the
day, in which for the first time he ac-
knowledged the efficacy of Allied efforts
in the west, Stalin called the German
plight “critical” and described Hitler’s
armies as “shaken” and “facing catas-
trophe,” though “not yet defeated.”
If Moscow’s estimate last week was
accurate, the enemy actually had a reserve
of over 100 divisions, ready or nearly
enough ready to fling against any attack
from across the Channel, without dis-
turbing the armies actually in garrison
positions in western Europe or bringing
a single division from the Russian front.
The actual policy of the enemy on the
Russian front appears to be the same as
last year ; the same policy which Rommel
attempted to implement in Tunisia —to
persuade his antagonists to strike first
and display their strength at a point most
suitable to the German plan.
No Time for Undue Optimism
One of the most dangerous fallacies at
present is that born of the exaggerated
reporting of the Russian winter cam-
paign, that German power is badly on
the wane. Some of Hitler’s Allies are
not in good shape, but all the chances
are that Germany’s actual strength, mili-
tary, undersea and industrial, is at its peak
or just past its peak, even if the national
morale may be on the down grade.
The power of the Reich to resist
remains to be tested to the full. The
real fighting power of Japan has not been
tested at all.
These assumptions are the only safe
assumptions, always remembering the
enormous growth of Allied power and
its swift catching up with the Axis enemy.
In brief;
On April 29 one of the few surviving
veteran Empire flying-boats of Qantas made
a forced landing on the sea in the north, and
seven R.A.A.F. men, four U.S. service men
and two members of the crew were lost with
the abandoned ship. Seventeen service men
and the rest of the crew were saved after 17
hours in the water. Two R.A.A.F. men were
seriously injured. The captain of the boat was
the gallant and tenacious A. A. Koch, who was
shot down in another flying-boat off Timor
on Jan. 30, 1942, and was bombed out of
hospitals in Koepang and Darwin afterwards.
Only after the war will it be possible to tell
what Australia owes to the Qantas boats and
their devoted crews.
Two other air accidents were repotted last
week. Sergeant-Pilot Robert Munro, R.A.A.F.,
was fatally injured and Pilot-Officer Wilbur
Baker, of Perth, injured in a crash during a
training flight on April 27. An R.A.A.F.
transport ’plane which had aboard a crew of
three and two U.S. servicemen and which
disappeared, apparently near or in the Burra-
gorang Valley, during a flight from Sydney
to Wagga had not been found at the beginning
of the present week.
* * * *
An R.A.F. Beaufighter has put up a record
for speed in attrition near Cagliari (Sardinia) —
five Ju 52 transports shot down in 10 minutes.
* * * *
Canadian airmen "have joined in the attacks
on Japanese bases in the Aleutians, which have
been bombed 60 times in the past fortnight.
* * * *
Fighting in Arakan last week was limited
to patrol actions and penetrations, but heavy
air attacks were made on Jap positions and
towns in Burma. Rangoon docks suffered the
heaviest raid.
* * * *
The Japanese are said to be using 40,000
troops in “the biggest offensive for months”
in the Taihang Ranges along the Honan Shansi
border; but a Chinese force, coming up in
their rear, was declared to have saved the situa-
tion after fierce fighting. The attack was com-
bined with a new general air offensive.


Missing Friends.
ESTATE W. S. FORD deed.—Would MRS.
DOROTHY CASHION (nee Lawrence) or
MRS. MAY FYFE (formerly of 47 Francis
Street, Manly) or anyone knowing their where-
abouts please communicate with HAROLD T.
MORGAN & SONS, Solicitors, Box 195
G.P.0., Sydney, when something will be heard
to their advantage?
If Mrs. SYLVIA ETHEL BARR, formerly
Miss Sylvia Ethel Mackley, of Greenland Dam,
near Horsham, will communicate with the
executors of the Will of her late Mother Mrs.
Fanny Mackley, she will learn of something
to her advantage.— R. J. WILMOTH, Solicitor,
Horsham, Victoria. §
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAE KEATING late of Premer.—TAKE
NOTICE that RAE SIDNEY KEATING has
filed a petition for Divorce No. 2059 of 1936
on the ground of desertion for failure to comply
with a decree for restitution of conjugal rights
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Cour
King Street Sydney by the 3 °th June J 943
and obtain a copy of the said petition without
charge from MESSRS H. T. MACREADY
and ERIC JONES Solicitors 133 Pitt Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The totalisator turnover at each meet-
ing upholds the contention that there was
never more cash betting (books as well
as tote) on Sydney racecourses than this
season. Since its commencement the
machine turnover for 16 days at Rand-
wick is £1,292,508 against £966,925 15s.
for 23 days at that track last season. The
autumn meeting of two days was held at
Rosehill a year ago, and gave the A.J.C.
an additional £60,855 10s.
In the 1940-41 season there were 34
days’ racing at Randwick, with four days
for the autumn as well as the spring meet-
ing. At the autumn fixture £272,131 10s.
went through the machines, Sydney Cup
day being responsible for £90,864 15s. The
four days of the spring meeting gave
£186,924 10s., and the 1940-41 total
was £1,226,786. With half as many days
this season, Randwick is already ahead of
that figure, and unless something unfore-
seen happens the remaining three days
to be raced at headquarters should take
the total to a million and a half for 19
days.
Such figures, however, are not surpris-
ing when it is remembered that for the
past year or two so many men and
women have received much greater wages
than at any previous period in Sydney,
and when it comes to “giving a go” to
their additional money women are not
behind the men, especially as tote bettors.
* * * *
M. Poison, representing the Maharaja
Gaekwar of Baroda, gave £4145 for six
yearlings—two colts and four fillies —at
the recent sales at Randwick. Poison
will train them next season, and in pur-
chasing four fillies evidently kept his eye
on the fact that there are now some very
valuable races restricted to horses bred
in India. Later these fillies will be used
at the Maharaja’s stud, and may give him
something equal to Princess Beautiful,
India’s best of her age. The highest-
priced of the Maharaja’s purchases was
the 950gns. brother to Mayfowl (Beau
Pere-Grey Port). At Bombay on Feb-
ruary 20 Princess Beautiful won her
fourth classic, the Eve Champion Stakes
—equivalent to the Oaks at Flemington.
Ridden by E. Britt, she started at 20 to 1
op, and beat the second horse by 12
lengths.
n * * *
Notwithstanding that difficulties asso-
ciated with transport prevented the Lynd-
hurst Stud (Q.) youngsters being offered
at Inglis and Son’s yearling sales their
prices did not suffer. A boost for The
Buzzard’s stock was unnecessary, but
they received it when Yaralla, Falcon
Knight and Katanga won on the con-
cluding day of the A.J.C. meeting. Tra-
gopan’s brother topped the Lyndhurst lot
at 1700gns. He should stay as well as
Tragopan, and it is to be hoped his buyer
receives fitting reward for his pluck. As
a rule, however, buyers of high-priced
yearlings have little cause to congratulate
themselves on their judgment.
* * * *
Abspear won the Sydney Cup with 8.9,
but though that was a good effort it can
be claimed that the honors of the A.J C.
meeting were really with Katanga. Pos-
sibly he was a shade lucky to win the
Autumn Stakes, but in that he gave
Veiled Threat and Yaralla 31b., and met
Abspear on level terms. At his second run
he successfully carried 10.1 (minimum
7.0) in the Final Handicap. It may be
contended that our horses are not up
to the standard of some past years, but
it takes something good to win under
the same weight conditions as Katanga.
Costing 450gns., Katanga has always been
trained in Sydney by B. R. Payten, and
has won 13 races.
» * * »
Racehorses in the estate of the late
E. J. Watt sold well last week, consider-
ing they fell short of expectations at the
A.J.C. meeting. G. Price had the team
in good trim, but Riverton’s form in the
All-Aged Stakes left him below first-class,
and as Bulancer did not act up to the
promise he gave earlier in the season he
did well to make 1150gns. Baroda is a
probable winner of handicaps up to a
mile and a half, but at HOOgns. he was
not given away, nor was Abydos at
1650gns. The latter, though promising,
is still a maiden, and when at his last
start he was fourth in a mile welter he
was in receipt of 51b. from Jymjon
(winner), 211 b. from Fearless Fox and
131 b. from Easter Time. In the circum-
stances he cannot be overweighted in an
ordinary handicap, but when his chance
of winning one is bright it is probable he
will be at a price that will necessitate a
big outlay on his owner’s part to cover
what he cost.
Forfeits and sweepstakes greatly helped
to swell the prize-money distributed at
the A.J.C. autumn meeting. The amount
from those sources was £2645. Added
money was £20,250, making a total of
£22,895 for 13 races. The most success-
ful owners were: “R. Parade,” £426z
10s.; J. Higgins, £2962; B. H. Crowley,
£2175; “S. J. Ande” and “J. Inswool,”
£1974 ; and Mrs. C. H. Hicks, £1692.
* * * *
In Sydney entries are so numerous that
many trainers cannot get starts with
horses they fancy. In Melbourne the
position is even worse. There are 254
nominations for the six races at Men-
tone next Saturday, and the smallest
number in any is 26 in the Boisdale
Hurdles. In Melbourne, as in Sydney,
some men who once had fairly large
teams find there is more money in work-
ing in ammunition plants than in train-
ing horses.
Decision by the V.A.T.C. not to alter
the Caulfield Cup distance, \\ mile, was
surprising in view of the controversy
before and after the corresponding race
last year. Tradition notwithstanding, it
is generally agreed that the l|-mile start
at Flemington affords too short a run
to the first turn, and that the scramble
for positions in a large field entails risks
to horses and riders. At the time of
writing, however, it had not been an-
nounced whether the V.A.T.C. committee
had reserved the right to change the dis-
tance if circumstances made an altera-
tion advisable. Williamstown R.C., which
also races at Flemington, earned com-
mendation by increasing the distance of
its next Cup from 12 to 13 furlongs. A
cleaner race should result.
Zonda, one of the best mares seen in
Melbourne in recent years, ran her last
race when she finished unplaced in the
Underwood Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday week. She is to be retired to the
Shirley Park stud of her owner, Mr. G.
R. Nicholas, and next season will be
mated with imported St. Magnus. Zonda
won eight races and £9565 in stakes. All
Veil, to whom Zonda finished a close
third in the 1941 Newmarket, also has
departed from the Australian racing
scene. He has been sent to Maoriland,
where it is probable he will be retired to
the stud.
Critics are speculating on the weight
Winterset will receive in his next race.
He comfortably won the Easter Steeple-
chase with 12.13, and, even allowing that
the opposition will be stronger next time,
is sure to get above 13st. If he wins he
will be the first Flemington steeplechase
winner with over 13st. for many years,
dan Robert carried 13.9 to success in
the spring of 1927. Following the threat
to ban Winterset from racing in the sub-
urban area if he offends again at the
barrier, his owner has informed the
stewards that he is agreeable to the geld-
ing being hurdled off at the start of his
races. Both he and his trainer consider
that unusual circumstances caused Win-
terset to lash out at the start of the Easter
Steeple, and are confident there will be
no repetition.
Contrary to expectations, entries for
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups will
close, as usual, on the first Tuesday in
June. With little likelihood of inter-
state representation, it was thought nomi-
nations would be deferred until a later
date. Early entries will at least be appre-
ciated by doubles bookmakers, and, after
all, nobody is forced to take a double.
Prize-money for the Melbourne Cup has
not been fixed, but the Caulfield Cup
remains at £6500, with £l5O war bonds
in lieu of the customary trophy.
,m , ,
After racing at the Albury Cup meet-
ing this week, Saul, winner of an Austra-
lian Cup and G.N. Hurdle, will walk
more than 200 miles to Mentone to con-
tinue his preparation for the National
double. Hiking has become fashionable
among racehorses in these days of re-
stricted transport, and apparently it does
them no harm. In any case, Saul will
make the trip in easy stages. Zalmon,
who races in the same interests, left Mel-
bourne last week-end on a walk to Albury
to fulfil his Cup engagement in that town.
Mcßae considers that Saul, if reason-
ably weighted, may be a danger to Win-
terset in the G.N. Steeple. He has not
raced over fences, but has schooled well.
♦ * * *
Count Fleet, at 9 to 4 on, won the
Kentucky Derby last Saturday. He is by
Reigh Count, and before he raced as a
two-year-old his breeder, J. D. Hertz,
tried to sell him for $4500. A light and
ordinary-looking colt, much heavier in
front than behind, and with breeding that
did not make special appeal, no one
wanted him at that price, or less. He was
then raced by Mrs. Hertz, and, winner
of 10 races and placed in the other five
in which he started, earned $75,245
(approximately £A22,880) at two years.
He won a mile race in 1.34 f, a record
for a two-year-old. The Derby, which
carried a total of a little over £22,500
added money, was Count Fleet’s second
important win this season.
* * * *
• So far few purchasers of the higher-
priced yearlings at last season’s sales at
Randwick have cause to congratulate
themselves. Some of those which have
won two-year-old races were not cata-
logued, and are raced either on lease or
by their breeders. Mayfowl was sold
privately. The Beacon, at 500gns., is the
highest-priced winner sold at auction,
and of those at a medium figure Moor-
land (210gns.), one of Felcrag’s first
season’s progeny, has given a very satis-
factory return. Two bargains were
Clarion Call and Flight at 70gns. and
60gns. respectively. Twenty-seven two-
year-old races have been run in Sydney
this season, and winners sold at auction
are as under;
Gns.
The Beacon (Brueghel-Lady Canberra) .. 500
War Eagle (Manitoba-Gneiss) .. .. 475
St. Quentin (The Buzzard-Calculate) .. 390
Haddon Hall (Hall Mark-Queen Balak) .. 280
Moorland (Felcrag-Bower Belle) .. ..210
Craglia (Felcrag-Cornelia) .. .. .. 120
Clarion Call (Simeon’s Fort—High Ho) .. 70
Flight (Royal Step-Lambent) .. .. 60
• * ♦ #
At the Bombay races on Feb. 20 the
Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior made a
record for any owner in India. His
horses won five races* in succession, 11
being the smallest field, and only one
was absolute favorite. Roberts rode the
five winners.
* * * *
English breeders believe there is room
to strengthen that country’s stallions. A
syndicate recently made an offer for
Bahram, who was bought by an Ameri-
can syndicate about two years ago. The
members of the latter unanimously
turned down the offer.
* * tt *
At the annual meeting of the English
Thoroughbred Association in London
the chairman, Lord Rosebery, expressed
regret that the Ministry of Transport
found it impossible to allow jumping
meetings to be held during the recent
winter. It was a severe blow to smaller
owners. He then continued:
It is a mistaken idea to think that be-
cause the majority of horses raced are
geldings that steeplechasing is of no value
to breeders. Brown Jack started under
National Hunt Rules, and, although he
was a gelding, his subsequent performances
helped breeders in the mating of their
mares. Wrack, who was a stallion, made
his name as the champion hurdler of his
day, although he did win a few races on
the flat. He was sold on those perform-
ances to America, where he was most suc-
cessful as a sire.
* * * *
It is stated by the “Thoroughbred
Record” that 17,413 races were run on
recognised American race tracks in 1942,
and that 6799 horses, or about half the
number of starters, won them all.
* * * *
Women’s activities in the racing world
are extending in America. At the recent
annual meeting of the Californian
Breeders’ Association two —Mesdames
W. Gaffers and J, Rolph—were elected
to the board of directors.
* * * *
A glance over the yearling sales list
of between 20 and 30 years ago empha-
sises the fact that Australia has had its
share of indifferent imported stallions. In
some cases the prices realised by the
earliest of their progeny were surpris-
ing, and it would be possible to com-
pile a long list of high-priced yearlings
that never proved worth as many shil-
lings as they brought guineas. The
names of several once-boomed sires
never even crop up in the pedigrees of
present-day winners. It has not been
unusual for some breeders to bemoan
their bad luck in getting a low price for
a yearling that turned out well, but, on
the whole, buyers have far greater cause
for tears.
* * * •
In chatting about his success with a
small team, a horse-owner recently re-
marked “It is claimed I don’t know much
about training. Perhaps not, but I do
feed my horses, and that is why I have
had results.” Rough comment on some
licensed trainers who are not in that
happy position, but nevertheless not alto-
gether wide of the mark. Some owners
give preference to trainers content to
take horses at a comparatively low fee,
and they cannot well expect their horses
to get the best feed.
* * * *
The Aga Khan is credited with having
a specially good chance of winning this
year’s English Derby. His colts Umid-
dad and Nasrullah are the early favorites.
Another of the Aga Khan’s three-year-
olds is the 8200gns. yearling purchase
Hyderabad (brother to Sun Castle), who
has not yet raced. Owing to hard ground
he was not trained last year.
♦ * * »
J. Adams was the most successful
jockey in America last year. Up to the
end of November he won 218 of the 1011
races in which he rode. Adams, how-
ever, is discredited by some American
critics on the score that most of his riding
was done where the opposition was weak.
* * * *
There is still plenty of money in South
Africa for bloodstock. Lenin, an ex-
ceptionally good racehorse in that coun-
try a few years ago, was recently sold
for 10,000gns. in aid of a war fund.
Miscellaneous
Dead-game and willing to fight any-
one at any time, whatever the handicaps.
Dally Moran, the Sydney featherweight,
is heading for serious trouble. Coming
in as a substitute, he went 12 rounds
with Reg Tozer (9.2 f) at Leichhardt, but
suffered a grievous hiding, taking too
many head punches. The lad should be
saved from the probable consequences
of his own dauntlessness. Though this
is a Labor country, there is no workers’
compensation for burnt-out or punch-
drunk pugs.
Like Tommy Burns long ago, Vic.
Patrick has discovered in the Sydney Sta-
dium ring that it is no good fighting
bigger men. Patrick’s best poundage is
9.8, but he built himself up to lOst. to
meet Les Sloan (10.7), and did not dis-
play his usual speed. Certainly he out-
pointed Sloan for six rounds, and had
Les down for “eight” in the fifth; but
in the seventh his left bicep—injured in
'the Melbourne match with Sloan last
November—began to swell again and
he found himself unable to use his left
for defensive or offensive purposes. Thus
wide open for right leads, which did
a lot of damage—they started the young
man’s left ear on the way to becoming
a “cauliflower” —Patrick surrendered at
the end of the ninth.
* * * *
Only Manly has won both its matches
in the Sydney Rugby Union competition.
Randwick, which a week previously had
blacked-out Drummoyne, couldn’t notch
a point against the Villagers. For the
rest, Saturday’s games were fairly close
and almost all after the same pattern—
hard-slogging forward encounters played
out in mud and rain. At North Sydney
half-back Gibbons, returned from the
Middle East, led his side to victory and
made a grand personal contribution:
Manly 12, Randwick nil; East (Dunsmore and
Fagg, recruits to the back line, from Duntroon,
showed out well) 17, Parramatta 6; Gordon
10, St. George 3; North 14, University 6;
West 3, Drummoyne nil (blanked again).
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Trial. Stakes: Sir Galahad, 1 ;
Submission, 2 ; Dundalk, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Tribal, 1 ;
Air Lord, 2; Fine Art or Moresby, 3.
Turf Club Flying: Pinero, 1 ;
War Effort, 2 ; Usher or Guild Hall,
3.
Canterbury Handicap; Wellesley,
1 ; Shining Night, 2; Fearless
Fox, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Petruchio,
1 ; Irish Sea, 2; War Spear or
Diadem, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Response, 1 ;
Windbrook, 2 ; Tragopan, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The first A.B.C. orchestral concert of
the season went all Russian, with “The
Internationale” and a programme of Rus-
sian composers’ works. Though critics
frowned, Shostakovitch’s “Age of Gold”
was greeted with a fusillade of applause
from all parts of the Town Hall —packed
out. In fact, the orchestral concerts seem
likely to be the most popular entertain-
ment of the year. Already the whole
season of eight concerts is practi-
cally booked out. Bernard Heinze
was the conductor, and Jeanne Gautier,
in a long and swayingly full frock
of midnight blue, wa£ the soloist
in Stravinsky’s violin concerto. Fashion
among the audience seemed like the
man in the song who wanted to go
yet wanted to stay. About 25 per cent,
of the women wore dinner frocks and
velvet or fur capes. The others were in
day dress, North-Shore-liners being
noticeable for their rich display of
orchids. The reason was the Killara
market for the Y.W.C.A., at which the
blooms had been sold by the dozen.
In less than three hours the market had
scooped in over £25.
One of the youngest eighty-year-olds
in Australia, knight Henry Braddon, was
completely surrounded by birthday par-
ties last week. The Rotary Club gave
a celebratory lunch, complete with cake
and 80 candles. Sydney’s Town Hall
held a reception in his honor, there was
a dinner party, and preceding that there
was a gathering at the Pickwick Club.
Joint hosts at the Pickwick were the
Red Cross Society, Rotary, Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, English-Speaking
Union and the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children. Of all of these Henry
Braddon has been a very active and in-
spiring member during a great number
of years. The clubrooms buzzed with
congratulations as 150 members of the
organisations drank the veteran’s health
in sherry or pineapple juice. There was
no presentation, at the guest of honor’s
own wish; subscriptions will go to the
buying of a new presidential chair for
the board-room of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital. But there was a red
rose for him. Mrs. Robert Dixson pre-
sented it and pinned it in his lapel when
she made her prologue as chairwoman
of the committee which organised the
reception.
Among the guests was an attractive
girl, one of the first protegees of the
Society for Crippled Children. She was
there at the guest’s special invitation,
having come on from the office where
she is a stenographer. Mrs. Harold Bott,
very smart in brown linens, was there ;
so were Mrs. Wallace Turner, of the
E.-S.U., Mrs. Muscio, Miss Kate Egan
and Miss Mary Fairfax, the medical
super, of Crown-street, Dr. Freda Roach,
the hospital’s matron and sub-matron,
Mrs. E. I. Proud, and Mrs. Falkiner Blax-
land. Colonel Spain, J. Reid Hill and
Padre M. Campbell were among the
speechmakers.
A pretty and graceful bride was June
Chamberlain when, on father’s arm, she
stepped to the altar of St. Mark’s at
Darling Point to wed her Major A. W,
Alison, of Dungog. June, daughter of
the C. W. Chamberlains, was a
just-beginning social butterfly when
war broke out. After that it was V.A.
work and the blood bank at Sydney
Hospital for two and a half years. The
’groom, just returned from the Middle
East, was one of the Tobruk “Rats.”
Before the war he was a keen polo-
player and played with the Wirragula
team. June’s wedding frock was softly
golden, and her waist-length tulle veil fell
from a coronet of orange blossom. Her
bridesmaids were Helen Carr and Wendy
Yates, whose dressing was a contrast in
pastel pinks and blues. The reception
was at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
With his feet on an impressive square
of carpet, a semicircle of padded leather
chairs filled with animal-lovers at the
back of him and rows of green wooden
chairs in front of him occupied by the
same type of humane citizen, Minister for
Health Clive Evatt declared the Kindness
to Animals Week Poster Exhibition open.
The walls around him preached this
lesson in pen, pencil, crayon and brush.
The horse, the dog, the cat, the bird have
an army of champions. Some ’of the
children have even kindly remembered
the giraffe, and are seen, on step-ladders,
in the act of valeting or feeding him.
One small girl impartially declares: “Be
kind to birds and bears.” The caitiff who
leaves his dog without a drink or in-
adequately housed is figuratively spat
upon.
Chains, too, are looked upon with
abhorrence. A dachshund with tears well-
ing from his eyes is shown manacled
with gyves that might have an anchor for
pendant. Small girls and boys, oblivious
of the whims of food controllers, urge
“Give him plenty to eat.” One partisan
commands: “Give your cat plenty of
meat and milk.” Everybody loved the
drawing of the braw Scot complete with
kilt, sporran, a Harry Lauder stick with
a bird on the hand and dogs fore and
aft of him. In the midst of world car-
nage the exhibition has a balm for the
troubled mind.
Six hundred of this State’s babies are
striving to top the poll in the Red Cross
Baby Competition. Fond mothers,
aunties, godmothers and family friends
are pushing the candidature as well
as the pram of their particular
entrant, and great will be the rejoic-
ing on June 18 when the final deci-
sion is made, branch baby vying with
branch baby. First of all will come the
election of each branch baby king or
queen. This entirely depends on the
number of votes at one penny each
scored by the entrants. The winner gets
£5O prize, donated by Johnson’s Baby
Powder, and the branch to which the
mighty atom belongs gets £5OO for its
funds. Already the money is rolling in
from this competition, which is the back-
bone of the next Red Cross Day, June
18. The committee is working to make
this a record achievement. Mrs. Frank
Penfold Hyland is the busy and capable
president. John Lee photograph.
Market Day at Scots College, one of
Saturday’s attractions, brought in £450.
There are 700 of the school’s old boys
at the war, and the college supports five
prisoners of war.
The R.S.P.C.A. shop run in conjunc-
tion with Be Kind to Animals Week was
opened last Friday. The shop, which is
at 533 George-street, just past the Regent
Theatre, will remain open until May 14.
Ladies’ committees of the various centres
are taking turns in attendance. Here
lunches will be served from 12 to 2
o’clock, and morning and afternoon teas.
Hot scones will be a special feature.
Cakes, jam, clothing, novelties, flowers,
pot plants, garden produce, honey and
so on will be sold. Social secretary Mrs.
Wakeham is having a busy time.
From Melbourne
Though a publicity department is taken
as a matter of course by most organisa-
tions these days, the Legacy Club makes
a point of going about its job without
any blowing of trumpets. Its work is
well enough appreciated by returned men
and those interested in their welfare to
make public appeals unnecessary. Latest
activity has been the buying and equip-
ping of a residential house for children
wishing to board in the city, or those
who have to be parted from their mothers
for a time. The problem of caring for
children in these circumstances has been
a very difficult one lately, as boarding
accommodation is overtaxed. At Holm-
bush, as the house is named, situated
near the intersection of Bourke and
Gotham roads, Kew, any Legacy boy
(provision for girls will come later) who
cannot be properly cared for at home or
wishes to board while attending classes
in the city can find a homely and wel-
coming atmosphere. Children travelling,
too, will be able to stay overnight if neces-
sary.
Though business in general is in the
doldrums, restaurants are booming, and
patriotic fund raisers have not been slow
to recognise the fact. Already it is pos-
sible to eat a meal in a good cause (pro-
vided, of course, one can get in) at
several spots in the city. The latest
group to join the ranks of good hosts is
the auxiliary to the old-established Dis-
trict Nursing Society. A growing short-
age of wool to knit Comforts Fund and
Nursing Society garments, the staple war-
work of the auxiliary, made members
consider other channels of usefulness.
A luncheon room proved the most popu-
lar suggestion with members, and plans
are now well under way. Site chosen is
in the After Care Hospital’s building,
Victoria-parade. Members expect near-
by flat-dwellers, servantless bachelors and
possibly some city workers who have
only a short tram ride to make as diners.
A special feature will be home cooking
by members and particular attention to
the compilation of interesting menus. It
is intended to depend solely on voluntary
aid.
It is realised now that a lot more can
be done with the backward child than
most people dared hope a few decades
ago. The Travancore School for men-
tally defective children has proved what
an amazing job can be done with even
the markedly subnormal child, and there
are lots with just under-normal minds
who are found to be very dexterous at
domestic work and monotonous jobs that
the more complicated mind finds trying.
The Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de
Paul, whose blue-robed figures and
winged Norman peasant caps are one of
the sights of the city, where they have
charge of St. Anne’s Girls’ Hostel, have
now taken up the problem of mentally
defective girls, a ‘much-needed service.
The old Brighton home of Tommy Bent
is to be the scene of their labors.
The C.W.O. (writ large, the Catholic
Welfare Organisation) is a constantly ex-
panding affair with some very dynamic
personalities at its head. President Mrs.
J. J. Daly, pictured here by Spencer
Shier and noted for energetic social-ser-
vice organising, is still full of projects,
latest being a special recreation centre
for merchant-navy men, at present
catered for in general service centres.
The president gives all the credit for the
smooth working of the big welfare net-
work of the C.W.O. to her voluntary
workers. The organisation includes 16
service huts in different parts of the State,
an inquiry bureau for information con-
cerning prisoners of war and another
dealing with hospitality for troops. Only
three staff members are paid. Comforts
for troops are provided by an auxiliary
with a centre in every parish, and are dis-
tributed through chaplains. Total tally
to date is £50,000 worth of comforts and
additional collections of knitted things for
the Red Cross and Comforts Fund.
C.W.O. is keen on “good-neighbor”
policy, and makes drives for other wel-
fare organisations on street-collection
days. It has raised £9OOO thus. Huts and
comforts are, of course, for all service
men in uniform.
Chatelaine of the Velasquez Galleries
Stephanie Taylor is telling Melbourne
what it ought to know about health by
the agency of a Poster Exhibition calcu-
lated to imprint the necessity for health
precautions on the mind of the most
heedless. Subjects included prevention of
factory accidents, elements of diet and
precautions against various infectious
diseases. Concerning the vitamins and
carbohydrates Health Minister Mackrell,
though all in favor of the exhibition,
pleaded in his opening speech that the
“inside” sometimes did know best, any-
way after the 40-year mark. An adjura-
tion to eat boiled wheat had caught his
eye and roused not altogether happy
memories of early years spent in South
Africa, where it was a usual adjunct to
the Boer farmer’s table! The Minister
said he was certain boiled wheat wasn’t
good for him.
The exhibition is to aid the Oppor-
tunity Clubs, which aim to bring to slum
children both health and training for jobs
which lead out of hopelessness. Active
president Dr. Ramsay Mailer was
present to say a few words about the
credit due to the clubs for improving
community health. They had first popu-
larised the Oslo lunch and had served
thousands to needy children over the last
few years. His collaborator on health
questions, City Health Officer Dr, Dale,
was there, too, giving the exhibits a
searching study. He is one of the
speakers on various aspects of health who
are to attend the exhibition and give
talks each day at 3 p.m.
Congratulations and good wishes are
showering in from all quarters to “Titia”
Knox and fiance Major Henry Steel,
South Staffordshire Regiment, who an-
nounced the good tidings at the week-
end. Patricia is daughter of Brigadiet
E. G. Knox, Director-General of Public
Relations, and Mrs, Knox, Walsh-street,
South Yarra, and has had experience as
war correspondent, seeing the north from
the woman’s angle. The women’s ser-
vices and colleagues of the D.P.R. are
very heartily wishing the pair the best,
as “Titia” is popular with her colleagues
of the press.
Her wedding following within a fort-
night of engagement has meant a rush
of preparations for Margaret Symons,
whose marriage to Lieut.-Col. Robert
Vial, D. 5.0., will take place at St.
Andrew’s, Brighton, on Saturday. In
spite of the speed necessary Margaret
has conjured up formal cream satin,
though the wedding guests will be close
friends only. Both bride and ’groom
are well known among the ski-ing fra-
ternity, and were in pre-war days among
the really hardened mountaineers who
preferred the perilous primitiveness of
Mt, Hotham to the more civilised spots
for the snow sports. Margaret, who has
been doing a war job of late, is the only
child of Mr. and Mrs, C. A. Symons, of
Dudley-street, Brighton, Lieut.-Colonel
Vial has seen service in the Middle East,
where he won his D. 5.0., and is the
second son of Mr. and Mrs. M. Vial, of
Riversdale-road, Camberwell.
The fact that a bride of last week,
Alice Henty Hindson, for her wedding
to Norman Tait, wore the lovely wedding
veil which had first in this country been
worn by Mrs. Francis Henty in 1842 is
a reminder that rare old lace is more
plentiful in Australia than in most places
except the U.S.A., which has recently re-
ceived some of England’s loveliest pieces.
These were sold there for the Red Cross.
Here many a girl wears a veil that was
woven for great-grandma in some Irish
or Belgian convent and treasured by the
family through bushfire and flood. More
and more old lace has reached Australia
since European and Asiatic turmoil, and
among it are historic bits from castles
and mansions now just a heap of ruins.
Among the bright young things who
have been taken over for keeps by ofir
Allies is Marie Stable, married at St.
Peter’s, Toorak, to Capt. Thomas
O’Mahoney, who hails from New Jersey
(U.S.A.). Daughter of Lieut.-Colonel
L. R. D. Stable, at present a prisoner of
war in Malaya, and Mrs. Stable, Marie
is on the way through a Social Science
course at the Melbourne Uni. with a pre-
liminary year of Arts subjects to her
credit. Whether or not she will continue
her course will depend on the military'
duties of her husband. The wedding
gown was an informal short-length, duck-
egg blue costume with jersey turban.
Her death in Canada the other day re-
called to many Australian women the
memory of a very picturesque per-
sonality, This was Dr. Cora Hind, of
Winnipeg, who came to look over our
wheat fields and agriculture on her way
back from Europe. She had very tren-
chant views and expressed them most in-
cisively. She was a little woman and
habitually wore high boots and a short,
stubby suit, but though over 70 she was
as spry as a girl. She could, it was said,
run her eye over a crop and tell the
yield to a bushel or two. She was mod-
estly using her talents for a Canadian
paper when Washington discovered that
her figures were nearly always right.
The American Ball on July 3 (the
fourth is a Sunday this year) promises to
be as good as those of previous years.
The Children’s Hospital has always bene-
fited by big sums from its American
Women’s Auxiliary, and last year’s ball
broke the record for size of takings. The
committee is hoping to present an even
more striking balance sheet this year.
Chairman and honorary organiser of the
ball this year is Mrs. Norman Picot,
publicity secretary for the Children’s Hos-
pital. American by birth, she is well
known here for her ability and her apt
speech-making at the functions she opens
for the Children’s Hospital Welfare Fund.


W/h
Established 1808 in Beign of George 111.
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTtf.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
. PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
as' 'j.
iff
v-
Qu
■VS VJWs
V.
msmt
■“TSC
minim
mmm
MMMEi;
X
easgocmt^B
n
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager - - N. L. Beavor
YOU COULD HAVE A BATHROOM
LIKE THIS
8
SI
8
mm
mm
■eg
SS
is
18
i
Si
Think of the improvements
which could be effected in your bathroom by Masonite
Temprtile . . . the board which resembles tiling but
which goes on the wall in sheets . . . which takes any
finish, is waterproof and easy to keep clean. After the
war . . . this could be one of the things you can do
with your savings. Just now, of course, the Masonite
boards are only meeting Service requirements.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SA Vi FOR IT*..
AND BUILD
0
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD ....PRESDWOOD
TEMPRIIEE. ... QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre,
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
* INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
MAI 3-43
SMOKE-OH!
“As she stood to mount her horse, every
curve of her sinuous form was revealed by
her habit.” — Novel.
One of those habits that show up.
4* »b *b *b
“The lightweights spent more time in talking
at one another than in trying out punches.”
— “Sun.”
Fans called it a chatterboxing contest.
4> 4* 4*
“Everything Horace tried was a pronounced
failure.” — Short story.
Well, at least, he could claim he had
made a success of failing.
■i* *b *b
“New film star wanted to be a doctor.”
— Woman’s paper.
Murder in the Garden.
“Summonsed for having poisoned two of
his neighbor’s female cats, a man said in a
Sydney suburban court he did it because their
amours had kept him awake at night.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
' Into the field two champions in war
come slinking over from the place next
door, while Tabitha, the guerdon and the
prize, surveys the twain with lambent,
tranquil eyes.
The noise resounds —the battle and the
broil—as when a rusty axle cries for oil;
the combatants exclaim aloud in pain,
while boots and brickbats fall around
like rain.
The victor rises from that stricken field
and calls upon his fair reward to yield ;
but, yielding to a different repast, it seems
that Tabitha has supped her last.
Blum.
•b *b *b *b
“Customs officers figure it out that corsets
are uplift to morale.” — “Daily Mirror.”
They certainly make molehills out of
mountains.
•b 4* *b *b
“This thought struck me the other day as
I was peeling potatoes with the force of a dire
revelation. ’ ’ — “A ustralian Journal. ”
Most people still use the ordinary knife.
Love and Economics.
“Girls doing overtime on this job earn as
much as £9 12s. 6d. a week.”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph.’
I’ve finished my affair with Nancy. 1
hated doing it, but it was a cruel neces-
sity. You see, she’s on one of those war
jobs getting £9 12s. 6d. a week, and I’m
only a poor starving freelance with a
weekly income of 17s. 6d. —and that’s
during good times! We’d had a lot of
fun together, loved each other despe-
rately. But you can’t ignore the economic
angle. It was no good—it just couldn’t
go on.
You couldn’t expect me to continue
in those circumstances, could you?
Not after meeting Eva! You see, count-
ing overtime, she’s on £l2 10s. a week.
Nat.
V *r V V
“American found to have two hearts.”
—Cable item.
That takes some beating!
*!• *b
“Watch, wristlet, nickel, last week, Atchison-
street. Reward.” — Suburban rag.
Another war-time ersatz?
Of Course.
"We talked of course.” “Of course —but
talked of what ?”
“Now, don’t be silly. I’ve just told you.”
“Rot ! —
Ah, now I see ! As followers of horse
Your conversation was, of course, of
course.”
B. B.
At first she thought a scalpel she’d have
wielded.
Until to lures of Hollywood she yielded ;
But now, when through some amorous
scene she struts,
She makes the cautious censor give the
cuts.
DIZZY.
Shirt Story.
My faith in dreams, I fear, must go.
I dreamed that, on the racecourse track.
When I had lost my shirt to Mo,
He handed me the coupons back.
B. B.
Quite Wrong.
“When anything goes wrong in the home it
is frequently the fault of the husband.”
—Woman writer.
“How do you make out it’s my fault
if you happened to lose your purse in
town today?” I asked mildly.
“Of course it is!” asserted Maria. “If
you hadn’t been so mean about the extra
money I needed for the accessories for
my new frock I would have got them last
Tuesday. Then I wouldn’t have been in
town today ; and I couldn’t have lost my
purse in town today if I hadn’t been there,
could I?”
“But” I began.
“And then,” pursued Maria relentlessly,
“the way you left home this morning
without having any breakfast upset me,
and it is no wonder I”
“Don’t forget,” I interrupted, “that
you got up too late to get me any;
and”
“Well, whose fault was that but yours?
You kept me from going to bed early.”
“Well, I like that! You wanted me
to take you to the pictures and I did.”
“Aitchem, you’re just trying to pick
an argument, but I’m not biting. I know
whose fault it was, and nothing you can
say will alter it. So there! ”
H. M.
Scoutcraft.
“A Red Army scout, Jacov Chikakov (30),
bachelor, stayed for days in the frozen carcass
of a horse just in front of the German lines.
At another time he established his position by
boring under the snow and cutting his way into
a stump from the bottom. Chikakov’s one
great fear is of catching cold.” —“ Daily Mirror.”
Stout as are these feats —though it
would be interesting to know if Jacoy
burrowed into the stump with a knife
or a fork—they pale into significance be-
side those of Aussie scouts. Here are just
a few examples as described for the
“Daily Come-on” by Foggabolla Furfee,
the famous correspondent, somewhere in
the south-west Middle East:
“During my tour of an operational
area I heard from one unit of an amaz-
ing piece of work by one of their num-
ber, Private Shanktugger. While worm-
ing his way towards the Jap lines he came
across a gigantic boa constrictor making
in the same direction. Taking a deep
breath he allowed himself to be swal-
lowed whole. His keen eye told him it
was night when the inside of the great
snake went two shades blacker, and he
sawed his way out with his nail-file.
“Patiently using the same implement, he
felled a hollow pandanus palm, which he
slipped on like an overcoat. There being
no eye-holes in the trunk he had to make
his way to a Jap camp half a mile away
by dead reckoning. Five minutes later
he was standing 4ft. from the Japs’ com-
munal rice pot. Then, as the cook bent
to recover a dropped spoon, our scout
in a flash discarded his tree, donned an
asbestos suit and secreted himself in the
flames beneath the pot. Then, imitating
a salamander during the mating season,
he beat out a Morse message against the
bottom of the pot with his iron rations,
so strongly that it was picked up two
mountains away and led to the Japs being
wiped out,
“Another dazzling instance of jungle
scoutcraft was told to me by the mates
of Corporal Spilker, who penetrated the
Jap lines carrying great boulders in front.
behind and at his sides, thus looking
exactly like an outcrop. Stifling the mor-
tal fear that gripped him of contracting
dandruff, the corporal, once inside the
Jap lines, camouflaged himself as a log.
Hearing the enemy approach, he lay re-
cumbent, and a tired Jap soldier sat on
his face for 25 minutes, compelling the
scout to breathe through his ears. Later
still, disguised as an Australian soldier,
he lured the Japs into an ambush by
making a noise like a bottle of sake.
“Perhaps the best bit of desert scout-
craft was performed by a twice-divorced
sergeant from Billygoat Flat. At Wadi
El Bab he was sent out to discover the
strength of the Italians opposite. Digging
up a large cave, he dragged it up the
wadi, and when he heard Italian rein-
forcements moving up he pulled the cave
on top of him and waited. The Italians
entered the cave. He waited an hour,
and, fearing a cramp, bit his way through
the stone floor, stealthily removed the
contents of the leader’s pack and secreted
himself therein. Boring eye-holes in the
canvas flap with his leather watch-strap,
he was able to observe all movements.
He burrowed his way back to his own
lines through a sandstorm by using his
tied bootlaces.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Holidays and Working Hours
The principle of “staggering” hours of
work in order to relieve the strain on
transport should be applied more widely.
National security and the need for the
most efficient use of resources demand a
revision of the general attitude to hours
of work.
As far as possible, all hours should
now be working hours. Public holidays
should have been abandoned long ago.
We cannot afford a repetition of the dis-
gusting orgy of Easter travel. The general
week-end break, too, continues to invite
our enemies to take us off our guard.
Hitler’s repeated week-end strokes traded
on this custom. The Japs chose a Sun-
day to bomb Pearl Harbor, and are said
to have threatened, perhaps not entirely
facetiously, to invade Australia on a rac-
ing Saturday. Any day on which there
is a general stoppage of work is a day of
national unreadiness.
Moreover, our traditional habits cause
economic waste. Even on working days
the customary morning start and even-
ing knock-off mean that transport facili-
ties are fully used only at peak hours, and
remain largely idle at other times. Fewer
trains, trams and buses would be needed
if traffic were more evenly distributed
round the clock, as it would be if shift
work became the rule in all enterprises
which could be adapted to it. Productive
machinery, too, would be more fully
utilised if this were done.
Every worker, of course, needs his
weekly break. But why should so many
have it at once? Surely a day off is more
valuable if others are at work. It is said,
for example, that one of the causes of
absenteeism is the difficulty of shopping
or obtaining personal services (such as
haircuts) during other than working
hours. Necessary recreation, too, could
be obtained more conveniently under a
system of staggered working days.
Above all would be the gain in
security. The nation would be alert at
all times. With every day a working day,
and hours of work staggered from early
morning until far into the night, Australia
would never be off her guard. Officers
and crew of a ship keep watch all round
the clock. Should not the nation at war
do the same? — Arc (N.S.W.).
Nurses and Others
I am a vegetable-grower and my pro-
duction is severely curtailed by all sorts
of transport restrictions. Consequently
I was somewhat staggered the other day
when a niece of mine blew in looking
very nice in a V.A.D. uniform and told
me she and a number of her fellow-
V.A.Ds. had been sent over from S.A.
to a Victorian camp to have three weeks’
training in marching and saluting.
What marching and saluting have to do
with nursing I am unable to fathom.
Florence Nightingale didn’t know much
about them. —C. R. (Vic.).
While civilian hospitals are going
short of probationer nurses as well as of
wardsmaids and domestics, the flapper
press is still glamorising the V.A.Ds. and
other service women. “S. M. Herald” of
April 6 contained a puff about a certain
corporal (yes, corporal) of the Women’s
Army who, after 14 months’ “experi-
ence” in a military hospital, can now tell
the world that “many of those I’ve had
to treat [Me] for malaria have been
through the New Guinea campaign.” The
same’ young lady is also privileged to
“treat,” on her hospital train, headaches
and colds, and to do minor dressings.
Along with this puerile publicity is a
photograph of this doubtless very esti-
mable young woman posing in front of
two soldiers.
It is high time to end all this cheap
journalese with its vulgar adulation of
the unskilled. These girls would be doing
much better for themselves and the com-
munity if trained as probationers in civi-
lian hospitals.
It is hardly fair to blame them. They
are invited to “join up,” the monetary
and other inducements are good, and the
cheap publicity flatters them. But no
honor is given to girls learning to
become nurses in the well-tested but dif-
ficult way. Their rewards are disgrace-
fully inadequate in times when unskilled
labor can command exorbitant wages and
luxurious working conditions.
So serious is the shortage of nurses in
civilian hospitals that all trained nurses
up to the age of 60 have been called upon
to register. This may be with the ob-
ject of conscripting them for work in
these understaffed civil hospitals. But
these ex-nurses will tend to refuse their
services under present conditions for the
following reasons:
1. Married nurses are not eligible for
Army service (unless they married while
actually in the Army). These women
reasonably feel that, if they are disquali-
fied from the services, they should not be
expected to take the leavings.
2. As probationers and wardsmaids are
scarce, they will be called on to do not
only the skilled nursing duties, but also
the chores of the wards.
3. In spite of their training and experi-
ence, it is doubtful if they will receive any
consideration in the matter of deferred pay,
pensions, canteen services, etc.
The remedy is simple and obvious
enough ; let the married and older-trained
nurses do the comparatively easy work
in the military hospitals, preferably in
their own home towns, and fill the vacan-
cies in the civilian hospitals from the
ranks of the V.As. and Women’s Army.
After the war, these young women would
have a calling to follow instead of being
thrown on me labor market, and the
married women can return to their homes.
—Med. (Q.).
Preference to Soldiers
An aspect of preference to returned
soldiers which has been overlooked is the
case of the qualified tradesman or execu-
tive who, before the Man-power authori-
ties got properly on to their job, joined
up with the A.1.F., and in three years’
service has lost ground or at least re-
mained stationary so far as his trade or
profession is concerned. How will such
men fare in the race for promotion to
higher positions as compared either with
men who were already in a reserved
occupation, and were thus exempted from
service, or with others who, having some
slight knowledge of a trade, found their
way into a reserved occupation and, hav-
ing secured themselves, proceeded to
acquire additional skill?
1 am not stating the case for the man
called up for militia service, who in many
cases had the choice of which branch of
the service he should join and who is,
as the result of service in a technical unit,
in a better position to establish himself in
a trade when he returns to civilian life
than in pre-war days.
Undoubtedly the man who has been
absorbed into munitions is going to
acquire a greater occupational skill than
the man who has nothing but front-line
service to his credit, and the fighting
soldier will therefore be seriously handi-
capped so far as promotion in his own
particular sphere is concerned.
As a matter of abstract justice, it is
not sufficient merely to give the returned
man preference. His future promotion
must be assured, with no penalty for hav-
ing left off to defend his country.—
A. J. S. (W.A.).
Wanted—Qualified Politicians
Our elective system heretofore has
merely amounted to “government of the
people by some of the people for some
of the people.” That's not democracy.
The physical welfare of mankind is
efficiently taken care of by highly-trained
medical and surgical personnel. The poli-
tical welfare of mankind will never be
efficiently governed until politicians are
trained in politics.
Let us hope that the day will cease
when politicians are drawn from persons
who have failed in private enterprises.
It is not sufficient that a democratic
Government should be composed of all
shades of opinion ; rather should it be
by qualification, plus majority vote. Be-
cause, in a country where education is
practically free, the legislators should be
drawn from those best fitted to legislate
—the trained minds. —C. Robinson (Q.).
Australia’s Empty Spaces
In suggesting that we begin now to
plan for the reception after the war of
large numbers of desirable immigrants,
“Advance Australia” (B. 7/4/’43) assumes
the restoration of the status quo.
Commonsense demands, and security
from future wars demands, that national
interests shall be subservient to global
interests. The unified planning and con-
trol of distribution which the Allies find
necessary tor the successful conduct of
global warfare will be equally needful in
post-war days for global welfare. This
will entail the establishment of some kind
of Central World Committee of Rational
Organisation, and Australia would natu-
rally have representation thereon.
National wishes would by this com-
mittee be viewed in their relation to
world welfare ; and Australians in their
plans for after the war must remember
this, for it entails some modification of
Australian policy which we must prepare
ourselves to adopt. Timothy Tywire
(S.A.).
And the Next £100,000,000?
It must be patent to all by this time
that to wage this war we must call up
money as well as man-power. We have
already swallowed the dose of compul-
sory service ; why boggle at compulsory
loans?
This war can be financed, as Britain is
proving, by:
(1) Taxation to the limit of endurance,
so that posterity will be spared as much as
possible the burden of today’s misfortunes.
(2) Compulsory loans, to ensure a steady
and controlled flow of loan money and to
provide the whole nation with deferred
pay against the lean days to come.
(3) Voluntary loans for those citizens
who can and will do more than their
share. Thank God, there are plenty such
in Australia!
—Harold T. (N.S.W.).
Lottery Prizes
Despite the urgent need of finance for
war purposes lottery prizes are still tax-
free. As very few people are short of
ready cash these days, why not pay at
least half of the major prizes in war
bonds?— Petermac (N.S.W.).
Recipe for Austerity
Calvin Coolidge in his Presidential
days said that the progress made by the
early settlers in New England was due
to four principles: “Eat it up,” “Wear it
out,” “Make it do,” “Go without.” This
is austerity in plain English, and we can
apply it in Australia. —A. H. P. (Tas.).
Body-snatching
The body-snatching business carried
on under the name of “Man-power pro-
cedure ” is the most wasteful part of
our war effort.
I am in the Army, as a volunteer, so'
it is not a case of sour grapes ; but ray
honest opinion is that, apart from the
soldiers engaged in the actual fighting,
quite 50 p.c. of the rest of the Army
could be demobilised at once without in
any way impairing the war effort. This
applies also to the women whom I have
seen at work.
It is the old business of counting heads.
There are far too many men and women
in the Army, all paid for full-time
duty, who never put in a real day’s work
in return for the pay. The work is
not there to be done, and things are so
inefficiently organised that they get in
each other’s way.
I quote an instance of another sort,
typical of the body-snatching procedure.
“X,” a lad of 18, was called up, and, in
spite of obvious flat feet, attested and
mobilised. He has now been six months
in the Army, during which period he
was on active duty for two months. The
other four months he spent in a conva-
lescent depot where they tried to correct
his flat feet. This effort failed, so he
has now to be provided with a sitting-
down job in an office already over-
crowded with men and women “soldiers.”
My paybook shows that the Army has
paid me nearly £3OO for the work I have
done since I joined it. To be candid
1 have not earned that money. I have not
loafed on the job, but the work is simply
not there to be done. I am sure I could
give a far better return to the country
making munitions, but the Army will not
let me go, though I am 46 and have not
done more than a few weeks’ active sol-
diering since I joined.
My case is typical of those of hun-
dreds of others, men and women, both
young and not-so-young. If there were
a vigorous pruning-out of Army person-
nel and the unnecessary members drafted
into munitions works and sweeping Army
administration reform undertaken, the
war effort could be vastly improved. For
every soldier who goes to a theatre of
war to fight the Japs there are about
seven who do not go, not through any
fault of their own. These seven remain
behind —filling in forms and filling in
time. —Miles Ingloriosus (Home Forces,
N.S.W.).
The Milk Went Sour
Sydney’s million and a quarter people
were just saved from a milk famine by
the advent of rain. The shortage had
all the familiar appearances of previous
shortages—a dithering Milk Board,
lumbering attempts to get more milk,
political promises and side-stepping,
threats to strike by men deprived of milk
at work, fatuous statements by the Milk
Board chairman.
In the midst of it all arose the voice
of S. M. Cottee, a vigorous youth of
80-odd summers. The northern N.S.W.
cow country simply rings with echoes of
the work of Cottee in milk pioneering.
He was a prime mover in co-operative
movements and in most of the general
advances of the milk industry over more
than half a century. When he launched
into manufacturing with fruit juices, lun-
cheon spreads and so forth, he was just
as successful as he had been with milk.
He has made a close study of the whole
problem of milk supply and distribution
and he has a workable plan that would
put 9000 more dairymen into production.
Well, Cottee arose and said “I can
arrange to get from the Lismore district
all the milk necessary to relieve the whole
situation.” What did the Milk Board
do? Did it say “Right, Cottee, you’re
the man we’ve been looking for. Go
ahead”? It did not. Its chairman, A. A.
Watson, who has been a civil servant all
his life, replied: “An experimental con-
signment, arranged by the last board,
from Kempsey, was a failure... .did not
arrive in good condition apart from
other considerations, the cost of transport
would be greater.”
There’s a moral in this. It is: No
matter how much you know or how great
your confidence in that knowledge, never,
never try to advise the chairman of a
commodity control board. —S.H. C.
(N.S.W.).


press no
(riggers. but
vV v 4 T
v L
.."V? :
■ I h
- - expert, dexterous
They are fighting in battle against the Japs
on the Workshop Front. Day in, day out,
they are handling the tools that guarantee
accuracy to a thousandth part of an inch
and better. On their work depends the
quality of the ever-increasing volume of
equipment needed by our Fighting Services.
No honours, no decorations, no medals
come to the men and women in our
Workshops—but they are truly soldiers of
this war. On them, on the skill of their
hands, Australia depends, and they will not
let Australia down.
DIE
I U I
Collingwood,
Victoria
Allenby G
ens
South
str
