

ĥ
h
h
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3304
Wednesday, June 9, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RYE CHURCH AND CLOCK TOWER.
PHE town of Rye is on the Rother, about
two miles from the coast and 72 miles from
London. In the time of Edward the Confessor
Rye was a fishing village, but by 1086 it was
probably a port, and a charter of Richard I
shows that by the reign of Henry II it had been
added to the Cinque Ports. The Cinque Ports
were a group of towns in Sussex and Kent, and
consisted originally of Hastings, Romney,
Hythe, Dover and Sandwich. To these five
ports. Rye and Winchelsea were afterwards
added.
It was the duty of the Cinque Ports to supply
ships and men for the King’s service, and in
return they enjoyed privileges which were set
out in a charter granted by Edward I. This
was surrendered to the Crown in 1688, and by
a number of Acts of Parliament the adminis-
tration of the Cinque Ports was brought into
uniformity with the rest of the country. The
Lord Warde of the Cinque Ports (now an
honorary office) resides at Walmer Castle.
Amongst the many interesting objects to be
found in this historic town is the church and its
clock tower, shown in the illustration. The
clock is of the sixteenth century, and is remark-
able in that it has a pendulum 18 feet long
which swings inside the church.
Like many of the coastal ports which were
subject to raids from the sea. Rye was once
strongly fortified. Remnants of the old fortifi-
cations still exist, and one of the most interest-
ing is the Land Gate, built by Edward 111.
One curious feature about Rye is the number
of French names to be found amongst the
inhabitants. This is doubtless due to the
proximity of Rye to the French coast and to
the traffic between it and France in the Middle
Ages, when a large part of that country was
under the suzerainty of English kings.
Towards the end of the sixteenth century the
decay of Rye as a port began. It was caused
by the silting up of the harbor, and, despite
efforts to check this. Rye never recovered its
ancient prosperity.


Learn
StorM Writing
kJV uI Vi at how:
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovt obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney ’‘Bulletin,'’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
Japan and the Elizabethans .
The publication of Professor A. L.
Sadler’s Selections from Modern Japanese
Writers (Australasian Medical Publishing
Co., Ltd.) tempts me to confess that lately
I have been extremely interested in
Japanese literature. Before Igo any
fuither, I had better make it clear that,
reading Professor Sadler’s translations, I
was struck dumb with admiration and
delight when, rendering into English an
article on the prevalence of leprosy in
Japan, he contrived to make the Japanese
author declare “In proportion to its popu-
lation, Japan can be described as a first-
class leprous country.”
I first encountered Professor Sadler’s
selections some months ago when, in an
identical lormat, the same publisher
bi ought out a booklet in the original
Japanese for the edification of students
at Sydney University. Finding them only
slightly less incomprehensible than
Finnegans Wake or Ezra Pound’s Cantos,
1 wished then that a translation had been
provided ; and now that the translation
has appeared I wish it had a prefatory
essay, for, lacking that, one cannot be
certain that these astoundingly naive
political essays and these feeble little
stories are fairly representative of the
contemporary Japanese mind. Presum-
ably, though, they are. In his brief intro-
ductory note Professor Sadler says the
selections “may serve to give the intelli-
gent non-specialist some insight into
Japanese mentality as revealed by various
representative people.”
When I say that the political articles
struck me as astoundingly naive, I am
not indulging in nationalistic jeering. It
is an honest critical opinion, as detached
as I can make it. Here, for instance, is
a paragraph from an essay on “European
Clothes and Japanese Clothes,” written
by a Japanese Bachelor of Science;
The easy accommodating way we slip on
a “Haori” when it gets a bit cool in the
evening or put on another lined kimono
when we are going to take a night train is
a thing foreigners never dream of: it is
quite peculiar to Japan. And one can only
teel sorry for the wealthy Russian who
wastes a thousand yen on an overcoat.
Then, it is very difficult to wear anyone
else’s European garments, in fact, quite
impossible except for people whose figures
are very similar. In Europe people cannot
go out in their elder brother’s best clothes
or wear their late uncle’s suits. In other
words, European dress is positively lacking
m adaptability both as regards change of
climate and of figure. And it is astonishing
w^a * : ex t en t this quality of adaptability
differs when our “Geta” are compared
with shoes. A pair of Geta will fit anyone,
but if shoes are a half-size out they are
of no use. And such a story as that of
the foreign king who searched for a girl
and was able to pick her out from all the
girls in the country by one shoe she had
left behind demonstrates this unaccommo-
dating quality.
When all these things are considered
this adaptability of Japanese dress is a
great source of contribution to the reduc-
tion of our cost of living. And, leaving
this out of consideration, the foreign
dressed gentleman who has a European
scale of expense on a Japanese income is
certainly deserving of ridicule. In com-
parison with the loose, gay and informal
dress of the Japanese, Europeans look as
though their bodies were encased in armor.
Among animals, too, the lower types have
the outside of their bodies covered with a
shell, a sign of their incomplete evolution,
and from the mere look of the clothes
of Europeans one can conclude how primi-
tive are their ideas.
If you examine that quotation de-
tachedly you won’t find anything
ludicrous in a patriot’s plea for the wear-
ing of the national costume. The refer-
ence to Cinderella—even if you can’t help
grinning at it—is unimportant: we might
ourselves deal as oddly with a Japanese
legend. But the concluding sentences
are, of course, naive almost beyond
belief. Unless the B.Sc, was intending to
be humorous (probably he wasn’t; but
this is where a preface by Professor
Sadler would have helped) the essay
could have been addressed only to an
audience with the mentality of school-
children.
And a Doctor of Literature, one finds,
backs up the naivete of the Bachelor of
Science to the extent of advocating the
adoption of a child-mentality throughout
the State:
Our people have now been given a Con-
stitution and so may participate in the
government of the country, but this is only
like a child being permitted, when he grows
up, to take some part in household affairs.
The spirit of these two political
articles is exactly in accord with the
spirit of Japanese art and literature as
we have so far known it: both are
essentially primitive, essentially childish.
Once again, I am not using that word
‘childish” as a nationalistic swear-word.
The poems of W. H. Davies and the
talkies made by Walt Disney, both of
which I like enormously, are also essen-
tially childish. But I was staggered recently
when, reading an otherwise excellent
book by lan Morrison, I came across the
statement that Japanese culture was “not
less in stature than that of a country like
England, merely different in kind.” For,
purely on critical grounds (as one might
say that, lacking a Shakspeare and a
Dickens, the Australian culture as a
whole cannot yet compare with the Eng-
lish) I have always been convinced that
Japanese poetry and painting are far less
in stature than those of any European
country.
Values are in the melting-pot these days.
Nobody, since Freud discovered that
Childhood is Everything, has been quite
sure that a finger-painting by some inno-
cent aged five isn’t as good as a Rubens
or a Turner. Nobody, since we discov-
ered the Primitive, has been quite sure
that something hacked out of rock by a
savage for a tribal totem isn’t greater
than a sculpture by Praxiteles. The arts
have been looking for a new “kick” :
that is one reason why we have always
overrated Japanese art. Secure in our
own tradition, we have been generous
in appreciation of the efforts of
primitive peoples struggling towards
civilised expression: that is another
reason why we have alv/ays overrated
Japanese art. The prints and the little
butterfly hokku poems have certainly not
been crudely primitive. They have been
charming. But a blackbird’s song is not
a symphony by Beethoven ; a three-line
hokku is not a drama by Shakspeare.
Various travellers have made much of
the fact that everybody in Japan enters
for the annual poetry competitions: so,
in many Australian schools, do all the
children. It is only because the hokku
is such an elementary verse-form that the
whole populace has been able to prac-
tise it successfully.
But not all the political articles in Pro-
fessor Sadler’s booklet are in accord with
this spirit of childishness. In view of the
Japanese military successes, one cannot
dismiss as naive—even though one be-
lieves it is doomed to disappointment—
one writer’s ambition to make Japan “the
England of the Orient”; nor another
writer’s plea for a colonial empire on
the model of the British Empire ; nor yet
another writer’s extremely interesting
warning to the Japanese people that one
of their characteristics is to plan for
quick victories, be satisfied with “a single
brilliant exploit,” instead of planning far
ahead. Nor is there naivete in such an
analysis as “It is this capacity to walk
freely in the modern world with a
national structure that has come down
from the most remote ages that is the
strength of our people.”
It doesn’t need Professor Sadler’s trans-
lations to tell us that Japan has
awakened nationally and militarily. And
it’s because I have thought that a cultural
awakening might have coincided with the
national and military resurgence that I’ve
been looking for information about
modem Japanese literature.
Japan has had the Renaissance and the
Industrial Revolution together. Recall-
ing what the Renaissance alone produced
in art from the Elizabethans when the
English of that day, like the Japanese of
ours, awoke from feudalism, I had been
wondering whether some Japanese Shak-
speare (with a Marlowe, a Greene, a
Forde, a Dekker, a Massinger and a
Webster for company) had sprung into
being.
If Professor Sadler’s selections can be
taken as fair evidence (and, again, I pre-
sume they can) the new Elizabethans have
not yet made their bows. The short
stories the professor has translated are
feeble ; far more primitive, in form, tech-
nique and characterisation, than would
have seemed possible ; far more childish,
far more primitive as an art form, than
the pleasant but slight little hokku poems.
There is a story called “An Old Man.”
The old man takes a concubine ; as he
does not wish her to hunger for his death
(when she will receive his property) he
sets a limit of three years to their affair,
at the end of which period she will get a
house and property; at the end of the
three years, she does not wish to leave
him, and she stays on with him for a
couple of years until he dies. That —in
its essentials —is the whole story.
There is a story called “Seibei and the
Gourd.” A boy has a passion for polish-
ing gourds; his schoolteacher and his
father, thwarting his youthful artistic
tendencies, forbid the hobby; the boy
takes up drawing. That —in its essentials
is the whole story. It may be intended
as a simple moral lesson to inartistic
parents.
There is a long, rambling, possibly
autobiographical story about a child
who saw a maid crying because she was
about to be married, it has some docu-
mentary value; it may have auto-
biographical interest; but as a work of
art it seems completely without validity.
There are no Elizabethans here. And
that, from the national viewpoint, is im-
portant. Only in the arts can a nation’s
real spirit, real character, real worth be
properly estimated. England is Shak-
speare and Wordsworth, Fielding and
Dickens. Japan is—not very much so
far.
There are, however, two stories that,
as works of art, are worth reading. One,
The Shop-Boy’s God,” telling how a
shop-boy whom a stranger treated to a
feast gradually came to regard his bene-
factor as a god, would make a pleasantly
ironical little comedy if it were less awk-
wardly told. The other, “Laughter,” is
very nearly an excellent comedy. It de-
scribes two boy pages at a palace cere-
mony, a vigil beside the body of a dead
Shogun; all the great dignitaries are
there with the two boys, and everybody
is supposed to keep wide awake during
the prolonged vigil; an old man nods
and nods, and the point of the story lies
in the efforts of the two boys to keep
themselves from giggling as his head
hovers above the bars of a brazier. It
is funny to read and is marred only by
its conclusion, which (one of the boys
having been strangled) appears to be a
moralistic reproof to the men of the bad
old days. Forgetting the crudity of the
ending (as is only reasonable ; one has to
allow for a little crude moralising in most
European and American short stories
these days) here is a good short story.
Not remarkable; but good.
Two interesting deductions can be
drawn from it. First, the touch of child-
ishness is still apparent; both “Laughter”
The Shop-Boy’s God,” the only
stories with any literary merit, are about
children. The Elizabethans dealt with
weightier themes. If there is a literary
renaissance indicated here, it is still far
from maturity.
The other point is that both these
stories are ironical and critical in tone.
In The Shop-Boy’s God” there appears
to be a concealed attack on poverty and
on the slavishness of the Japanese popu-
lace ; presumably the author himself was
as amused as a Western reader would be
when the shop-boy “swallows submis-
sively. In “Laughter” there is an aston-
ishingly direct attack on the formalities
of the palace.
Summing up Selections from Modern
Japanese Writers as a whole, one finds,
therefore, the tradition of childishness
broken violently and dramatically in the
political writings, mildly and tentatively
in the literary. The Japanese have begun
to run militarily before they have learned
to walk culturally. Japan has had too
much Industrial Revolution and not
enough Renaissance. If, as I believe, it
was the fact that they could produce
Drake and Shakspeare together that made
the Elizabethans a great people, the
Japanese have a very long way to go
And the journey will be all the longer in
that the literary emergence, liberal in
character on the evidence of Professor
Sadler s selections, is likely to have been
hampered by the creed which the Jap-
anese hold officially in common with the
Nazis and the Communists that “The
house [i.e., the State] does not exist for
the individual but the individual for the
house.”
Since they have not got Shakspeare
and Drake together, it’s tempting to infer
that the whole structure of the Japanese
nation is unstable. The nation as a
whole may be too infantile to sustain the
gigantic dreams of the militants. But
these are complicated matters. A child
with a machine-gun could have given
Shakspeare a lot of trouble. All that I
wish to establish in this article is that,
to one “intelligent [I hope] non-special-
ist,” Selections from Modern Japanese
Writers has demonstrated that the Jap-
anese are not the Elizabethans. And if I
am all wrong in my deductions, that is
Professor Sadler’s fault for not having
written the essay I hope he will write
covering the whole field of contemporary
Japanese literature.
MACH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Adelaide Repertory has staged the
Sumner Locke-Elliott back-stage drama
“Interval,” written in Sydney but with a
London theatre as the scene. Noblet and
Joy Watson had the biggest chances as
the jolly young author and actress who
are both completely spoiled by a big
success; with Ruby Litchfield as the
faithful presswoman who gets him in
the end. Clever character sketches were
given by Florence Brown and Elizabeth
Campbell, Cecil Reed and Don Gilham.
“Interval,” which was reviewed on the
Red Page when the Commonwealth Fund
published it imbook form some months
ago, is a promising bit of work. It has
the disadvantage of all plays about
players, which, like all novels about
novelists, are remote from life; it is
imitative, and the London background is
unnecessary. But it is well constructed,
and it has wit.
Not counting “Mo,” who is a pheno-
menon defying classification, George
Wallace is the most typically Australian
of Sydney Tiv.’s comedians, and for that
reason he’s always good company—even
though his gags in the current “Target
for Delight” are about as elderly as the
Oldest Continent itself. A good all-
round programme is given a certain wist-
ful romanticism by Edgar Vernon, who
produces eggs from unexpected places in
extraordinary quantities. He should, per-
haps, offer his services to the Egg Board.
A.B.C.’s orchestral programme at
Sydney Town Hall opened inauspiciously
with a presentation of Elgar’s No. 1
“Pomp and Circumstance” march that
was all cymbal clashes and gritty noises.
The “Elegy” of F. S. Kelly, scored for
strings and harps, which followed, gained
by contrast —a quiet, stately declamation,
each period of which reverberates as if
through a series of vast empty halls. That
completely admirable violinist Thomas
Matthews, one of the few this Page has
heard that interpret Delius not only with
intelligence but with infinite relish, was
heard in the English composer’s Violin
Concerto, in which conductor Bernard
Heinze and all his orchestra gave of their
best, and provided the soloist with the
sort of background he deserves.
Madame Ivlarianne Mathy presented
“promising artists from her singing
studio” at Sydney Con. In addition to such
well-knowns as Elsie Findlay and Ruth
Pearce-Jones there were some pleasing
offerings from mezzo-soprano Edna
Dermody and from Madge Fox, described
as a coloratura soprano. The real colora-
tura exponent of the evening was Eve
Medina, who gave an aria from Maillart’s
“Dragons de Villard” very easily and
wittily. A good bass-baritone, Alan
Knight (R.A.A.F.), not programmed, in-
jected the rousing strains of Handel’s
“Honor and Arms” into the proceedings.
Hector Linkler proved himself the world’s
most unobtrusive accompanist.
“F.S.”: A concert by Edward Goll at
the Assembly Hall in Melbourne was in
honor of President Benes, of Czechoslo-
vakia. Himself a Czech, long resident in
Melbourne, and with probably the
greatest number of admirers of any Mel-
bourne pianist, Goll led off with the same
magnificently rugged interpretation of
Bach’s Chromatique Fantasie and Fugue
that he gave 20 years ago in the Town
Hall. A Chopin panel concluded with a
fine rendering of the C Sharp Minor
Scherzo, and the second half was a string
of those tender, humorous and delicate
pieces, mainly by modern composers,
which Goll does so well.
At the talkies:—■.
Paramount’s colored musical “Happy Go
Lucky” (Sydney Prince Edward), offering beach-
combers and a millionaire on a tropic isle,
screwball songs and a cascade of clever wise-
cracks to camouflage the tenuousness of the
plot, is brightly entertaining and rendered even
more so by the fact that Dick Powell does
little singing. Rudy Vallee again turns in a
good blase performance.
Vassiliev, who teaches art at the
school run by Neild on the lines of the
famous A. S. Neil at Warrandyte, Vic-
toria, has been holding a show at Rid-
dell’s Galleries, Melbourne. Whatever
may be said about the quality of his
work he follows the sound artistic dic-
tum of dealing directly with his environ-
ment. You see the children clearing
scrub, trundling barrows, building their
own schoolhouses, bathing, blacksmith-
ing, and in one picture two girls appear
to be involved in a hair-pulling contest.
A vigorous life is suggested, which has
something of the naive quality of the
exhibition pupils of the school held some
time ago in the same place. Not quite
so, for it is given to few adults to be able
completely to recapture the innocent eye
of childhood.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
h
h
To those who are unable to call on
us, we would offer the Self-measure-
ment Form. When you order this
way you are assured of individual
service as satisfactory as a personal
visit to this store. Write for your
Self-measurement Form.
h
MILITARY OFFICERS'
GREATCOAT
Ready to Wear
Double-breasted. Lancer fronts,
British Army pattern, deep turn-
back cuffs. 240 z. proofed Great-
coating. Price £6/3/6
Officers' Shoes, made from grained,
imported Zebu in Tan and Black.
Extra stout genuine welted soles. Full
and half sizes. Price 49/6
12 coupons.
MILITARY
OFFICERS'
UNIFORMS
Tunic and slacks, correct
in detail and tailored in
our best possible manner.
No extras to pay for. Any
additional style features.
Price £7/19/6
All uniforms coupon free.
• Men’s Department—Ground Floor •, George Street
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


JOLLY
By BRIAN JAMES.
JOLLY was sick, very sick, and had
been so for days. He had once been
a fine, big, upstanding bay, but that
was long ago. There was no polish
on his coat now, no lustre in his eye. Old
George couldn’t believe it. He spoke
to Jolly in as low tones as he was cap-
able of using—confidentially, soothingly,
coaxingly. All the rhetoric and eloquence
he affected and loved so much dropped
Irom him now. Even Jolly seemed to
understand—as if he were trying to say
that he was just as sorry for George as
George was for him.
When Jolly had first gone off his tucker
George was not even worried about it,
and rather importantly announced to
Billy Hornett and others that “Jolly was
somewhat indisposed, and, on grass or
in stable, disinclined towards his food.”
The stable, by the way, was an affair
made of bark, saplings and gum boughs.
Billy Hornett came along and squinted
at Jolly. He then said “Bots!” with great
determination. Then “Drench him! It’s
bots!”
“ my word,” said George indig-
nantly, “no horse of mine ever yet had
the bots. Nor shall Jolly be drenched! ”
Others came as Jolly got worse, and
they said this and that variously, but
were in complete agreement that George
was a stubborn mule. Paddy Griffin even
offered the advice that the only decent
thing to do was to shoot Jolly and be
done with it. A nasty old man was
Paddy, who understood so much of others
that he knew how to hurt.
George gave Jolly nearly a pint of lin-
seed oil out of a stone bottle, but it didn't
seem to do him much good. Then George
went down to John Henry’s and cut a
bag of green barley. At length he per-
suaded Jolly to try an unwilling mouth-
ful. But the old horse had no appetite.
He half-chewed the barley and left it
dangling from his mouth. George care-
fully cleared it away. All the time, in
a kind of crooning tone, George kept
saying “We’ll soon be better! We’ll soon
be better, old boy!” Then he rubbed
Jolly’s loins with turpentine till he almost
made bare patches, for Jolly had seemed
to indicate that he had pain there, and
George had diagnosed it as “some bad
form of kidney trouble.”
Andy McNair came down and advised
getting the vet.
“No,” said George proudly, “I want no
veterinary surgeon. I will nurse him
myself.”
Andy didn’t understand and went off
in disgust. Why all this bother about a
horse, anyway? And what had George
done with a horse for years and years?
George did nurse Jolly. He built a big
fire at a safe distance from the “stable’’
and sat up two nights. At intervals he
rubbed Jolly’s loins with the wretched
turpentine, kept the bag rug securely on
him, and from time to time tempted him
unsuccessfully with water, with barley,
with lucerne chaff. Early in the third
night Jolly gave a sudden shiver,
lurched forward as though starting a run
and fell near the fire. He was dead before
he hit the ground.
|T took George a long time to realise
1 that Jolly was dead. He just sat by
him.
So it had come to this at last! It
always does, of course, sooner or later.
But it was hard to believe that old Jolly
could be dead. Old Jolly! George calcu-
lated in a numbed sort of way. Yes,
Jolly was thirty-one. Pretty old fot a
horse that. It meant that it was just
twenty-eight years since he had bought
Jolly. He was fairly young himself then,
and things were different. He was able
to afford the big price Bowman asked
for Jolly, and he bought a spanking new
tipdray and shining harness at the same
time. There was no end to the gold on
the Grey Box then—or there didn’t seem
to be.
Was there a finer horse or better turn-
out on the whole place then? George
remembered how proud he was as Jolly
stepped it out, neck arched, with a good
ton —and more than that, too—of wash-
dirt for the puddling machine down at
Willow Ponds Creek. There wasn’t a
horse to outpace him; certainly not a
horse to shift a bigger load—not that he
ever gave Jolly anything beyond his
strength. And didn’t that flash Tom
Harvey, of the Wallaroo mine, want to
buy him ; held up a fistful of notes—fifty
of them? George still remembered his
exact words; “No money of yours, Mr.
Harvey—or of anyone else —buys the
horse from me! Ton my soul,it doesn’t!”
George felt proud in his simple way of
the dignity of that refusal.
Those old mates on the Grey Box claim
—the last worth-while claim he ever
worked—had gone this many a day.
Charlie Lennon and Tom Lackey were
dead long ago. Decent fellows always.
Johnny Kerr had gone back to Scotland
and had never been heard of since. Billy
Barton—once gaoled for robbing the
shanty, after the shanty had robbed him —
good-hearted, foolish Billy! They found
him shot dead in his hut in Noonan’s
Gully a few years ago. If you only
knew what was coming. But what differ-
ence would it make, except to make you
miserable.
The Grey Box petered out at last.
They all peter out at last. After that
he and Jolly, between times, had carted
posts or road metal from the big Wal-
laroo dump for the long white road to
Summerlea.
How the farmers wanted to buy Jolly!
It seemed to annoy them that he should
have such a fine horse. As if he’d sell
Jolly! Often they wanted to borrow
Jolly when he was idle for weeks at a
time, but no one ever did borrow him,
not even the best of them. Sometimes
George worked with Jolly on a farm
rather than refuse lending him. Not that
Jolly was really a good farm horse, or
George much of a farm worker. They
were both a bit above that sort of thing.
The years slipped on and the Grey
Box had but a dozen huts left on it;
and a dozen old men in the dozen huts,
living it out on their last field. Old Jolly
had seen it out with them to the end—
or almost to the end. He was as much
a part of the great days that were gone
as any of the dozen.
"THE night grew colder. A thought
1 came to George; he got up and
fetched two blankets from the hut —
strong grey old blankets and not over-
clean —and he spfead them over Jolly.
It seemed the proper and natural thing to
do. Then George put his cast-iron kettle
on the coals, and after a while it sang
and bubbled and spat jerkily into the
fire, but George forgot to make the tea
he had intended making.
He’d put Jolly down the last shaft he’d
sunk —years ago now, with Billy Barton.
A rank duffer it had turned out—not a
color in it. Paddy Griffin had said he
knew that before they started, but that
was like Paddy,
The .morning came at last, chill and
with wisps and streaks of mist over the
Willow Ponds, and young Jack Ryan
came by and George said “He’s dead!”
Jack didn’t talk much for once—he
saw too much in old George’s big, round
face. “I’ll get John Henry to give a
hand,” he said.
Jack told John Henry to take two
draughts up to old George’s, then he
went over the creek to Billy Rosen’s to
get a bottle of wine. Billy brought two
bottles from the cellar and came along
himself.
When he and Jack got back to the
Grey Box John Henry had dragged Jolly
close to the mouth of the old shaft.
“You’ll skin him, George,” said John
Henry, “before you tip him in?”
“No!” said George. “I’ll not skin
him.”
“I’ll do it for you, George, if you
don’t like to. The skin’s worth ten to
fifteen bob.”
“I’ll bury him now,” said George.
“Now, and in his native colors.”
Jack Ryan told George not to wait.
They’d put Jolly into the shaft. But
George wouldn’t hear of it. Perhaps he
suspected there was some scheme to skin
Jolly after all; more likely he wanted to
see Jolly buried.
It was no easy job in that broken
ground, but they got Jolly as near to the
edge as it was safe for the other horses.
Then Jack Ryan cut a slope, and the
four of them heaved and lifted till Jolly
slid down the shaft with much scuffling
of stone and clay, and bumped on the
bottom.
“Thank you,” said George. “I’ll fill
in the shaft.”
Billy Rosen filled four mugs with wine
and handed them round. George took a
sip from his mug and poured the rest
down the shaft. “For Jolly!” he
explained.
Billy Rosen said “We’ll leave the other
bottle at the hut, George. It’ll help to
cheer you up.”
George paused in his unsteady shovel-
ling and reverted to something of his old
pompous .style: “I thank you, Billy.
But, no. At this moment it is not the
cup that cheers that I need. And I deem
unwarranted its adventitious aid,”
OLD George didn’t last very long after
that. He was quite cheerful, but
his old-time forceful gusts of laughter
were missing.
Paddy Griffin called to see him, and
could get little sense out of him. “The
old fool is fretting over that old crow-
bait of a horse, I do believe,” said Paddy.
But there were some points Paddy missed
at times, wise as he was.
Jack Ryan found old George one day
quite delirious. They took him into the
hospital at Summerlea, and there George
died—for much the same reason as Jolly
did.
"YOU NEVER CAN TELL WHAT A COOK WILL DO.”
By RODNEY TAYLOR.
TONY was a small rag of a man with
a thin, expressionless face and a mop
of dark hair that blew untidily over
his forehead. His hands were always
grubby, his pants baggy and dirty. He
wore a grubby hat balanced on one side
of his head and a soggy home-made
cigarette drooped perpetually from his
lips. He was at home in the cookhouse,
because the cookhouse was smoke-grimed
and greasy and always covered with a
drifting film of dust. He moved, or
leaned, in this atmosphere with lazy
indifference.
He rarely washed. In the mornings
he would turn out of his bunk wearing
everything but his boots, rub his eyes
with a grubby hand and grumble because
he had to be up an hour ahead of the
other fellows to prepare their breakfast.
Once, when the sight of Tony, grubbier
than usual, and stirring a dixie of tea
with his bayonet, had become too much
for them, several of the lads threw
a few dippers of cold water into the tea
and tipped it over him. Then they picked
him up with an exaggerated display of
gingerly disdain and dumped him in a
gasoline drum of water. As far as the
other members of the company knew it
was the first complete immersion Tony
had had since we left Australia.
Tony was not happy in the army. The
war had reached out with merciless
fingers and plucked him from the kitchen
of his father’s cafe in one of the back
streets of a seaport town. He had been
called up because he fell naturally, if a
little reluctantly, into the under-twenty-
five age group. The commanding officer
of the training company to which he was
drafted, realising that nothing short of
reincarnation would make a soldier of
Tony, made him a cook.
When it became generally known that
we were bound for active service, Tony
set up a whining campaign of protest.
He was paraded to the commanding
officer. But it was of no avail. Tony
had to go north because, to quote an
army truth, cooks are as scarce as good
cooks.
\A/ HATEVER his feelings were, how-
vv ever, Tony was proud of what he
called his “integrity” as a cook. Bully
beef, dehydrated vegetables and canned
beans do not offer a great deal of scope
when they have to be served three times
a day for months on end, but Tony de-
veloped odd tricks in camouflage which,
although they deceived the eye rather
than the palate, at least showed that he
was trying. It was the one thing in
which he showed the rudiments of a con-
scious thought. He was anxious to please
the lads.
His undisguised terror when enemy
bombers came over seemed impossible
to change. At the first suggestion of a
red alarm Tony would dive head first
out of bed, scattering gear and mosquito-
nets right and left as he dived frantically
for the nearest slit trench. When the
other fellows wandered over, usually well
after the ack-ack guns had opened up,
Tony would be shivering in the trench,
his nose pressed well into the mud. He
would wince as every burst sent a blast
of air flying over the trenches, and when
it was all over he would slink back to
bed without a word and lie there
trembling. He was not in the least
ashamed of his terror. “What,” he asked,
“would you blokes do without a cook?”
RADUALLY, it seemed, the constant
V - J ragging about his grubbiness made
some impression on Tony’s slow percep-
tion. The metamorphosis from grubbi-
ness to a half-washed state was hastened
when one of the officers told Tony that
if he didn’t clean up both himself and the
cookhouse he’d clap him on hygiene
duties. It’s a way the army has—an
inversion of the, principle that hygiene
begins at home.
Tony began to shave every day. Oh
several occasions he brushed his hair and
deliberately, if not efficiently, he washed
his pants.
If a change came over Tony’s person
it was as nothing to the change which
occurred in the cookhouse. Tony was
scared of the hygiene job. He scrubbed
the cookhouse from the rough wooden
benches to the sago-palm walls. He
scrounged timber and iron from here and
there, erected shelves and a new fireplace
which he covered with sheets of gleaming
galvanised iron. He shouted and whined
at the natives as they polished the tin
plates and mugs to a mirror finish. Tony
really did make a job of that kitchen, and
when the transformation was complete
he stood outside with a proud grin on
his face and then went over to the gaso-
line drum and completely immersed him-
self in water —voluntarily.
The cookhouse became Tony’s castle.
He tended and cleaned it lovingly like
an old maid stroking a cat. He was loath
to leave it, even to go to bed.
When enemy ’planes came over and
the lads yelled “It’s on, boys!” Tony
would dive as usual for his slit trench,
but now and again he would bob up from
the hole like a frightened rabbit to dart
a quick apprehensive look at the cook-
house, which stood out from the trees,
its iron roof gleaming silver in the moon-
light.
“They’ll get that silver barn of yours,
sure as hell,” someone would yell, and
Tony probably lost a good deal of sleep
over that thought.
IT was usual when enemy ’planes raided
the area, diving low over the trees as
they searched for a target, to man the
four Vickers guns on each side of the
camp. On the fateful night when they
blew Tony’s cookhouse down, four of
the more reckless members of the com-
pany crouched low behind their guns
waiting for the ’planes that droned above
to sweep in a dive for the camp lines.
Tony was in his slit trench, his nose
pressed into the mud. He forgot even the
cookhouse when a brace of Zeros
screamed low over the area raking the
lines with their machine-guns. There was
no doubt that they had spotted the silver
sheet that was Tony’s cookhouse, and as
they dived they poured a hail of lead
into it, smashing the bamboo walls and
scattering tins and saucepans in all direc-
tions.
Tony by this time had raised his eyes
to ground level, and they were wide with
terror.
At that moment the mounting scream
of a heavier ’plane coming in to make a
kill rose above the din of crashing tins.
“The hounds!” Tony yelled in a
whisper ; “they’re blowing the cookhouse
down.”
The men who earlier had manned the
machine-guns, acting on the principle that
in the face of such odds discretion was
the better part of valor, had left the guns
and were in the trenches. Tony was out
of his trench before anyone could stop
him. He dived across tha clearing, danc-
ing right and left in a mad fandango as
bullets spattered all around him. He
reached the nearest gun, just by the cook-
house, as the screaming bomber ap-
proached the end of its dive. In an in-
stant, shaming the drillbook by at least
10 seconds, flame spurted from the
muzzle of the Vickers and a hail of lead
poured into the dark-lined fuselage of
the ’plane.
The first burst must have hit the
loaded bomb racks. There was a terrific
explosion and a blinding flash of flame
as the whole area burst into an inferno
of sound and fury.
"P HEY found Tony later, the wreck of
1 the cookhouse scattered around him
and a mess of condensed milk and de-
hydrated potatoes streaming down his
solemn face.
“They can’t blow my cookhouse down
and get away with it,” he growled as they
pulled him out of the wreckage.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—No. 3304.
Wednesday, June 9, 1943.
MUSICAL CHAIRS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp
G.P.O.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
A WELCOME CHANGE.
In the address broadcast on March 21,
Mr. Churchill, “speaking under every
reserve and not attempting to prophesy/’
said “We might beat Hitler some time
next year,” though “it may well be the
year after” ; and, having beaten Hitler,
“we shall immediately proceed to trans-
port all the necessary forces and appara-
tus to the other side of the world.” But
not all the forces and apparatus left after
“Hitler and his powers of evil have been
pounded into death, dust and ashes.”
For “there will certainly be large num-
bers of British, and also (no doubt)
United States, soldiers whom it will not
be physically possible to employ across
the vast distances and poor communi-
cations of the Japanese war.”
There will certainly be large numbers of
men who will have to be brought back to
their families and jobs after full provision
has been made for garrisoning the guilty
countries certainly a partial demobili-
sation.
Nor would Britain have only to grapple
with the “partial demobilisation,” the
choice and distribution of garrisons and
the related problems of organisation and
transport. There would have to be a
Council of Europe, and perhaps a Coun-
cil of Asia; and “we shall also have the
heavy task of trying to avert widespread
famine in the ruined regions,” involving
more problems of organisation and trans-
port, as well as strenuous exertions in the
field of diplomacy. And all “while the
war against Japan will still be raging.”
In other parts of the speech there were
fine passages which were praised on both
sides of the Atlantic ; but that part had
a bad reception in the United States. It
grated on those Americans who have
felt all along that Japan is America’s
principal enemy, and that the main object
of America’s war should be the destruc-
tion of Japanese militarism. They are
to be found in both parties and in all
States. General Mac Arthur is their hero,
and whether he recalls in his sensitive
English bitter memories of Bataan and
Corregidor, or whether he puts the case
for more aircraft in the South-west
Pacific, they give him unfaltering support.
“Here,” they say in effect, “we have a
general of genius. Let him have the
forces and equipment he asks for and he
will avenge Pearl Harbor and send the
Japs packing back to their islands, to be
finished off there. That, in the main, is
what we are fighting for —not to be
dragged at the heels of British policy, nor
to make Russia supreme in Europe and
put it in the way of becoming supreme
in Asia, while maintaining its neutrality
and fisheries agreements with the Japs.”
Mr. Eden encountered the full force
of this feeling when he visited the U.S.A.
He seems to have moderated it somewhat
by judicious words, but another explosion
occurred when the people learned that
the airmen captured after the raid on
Tokyo had been murdered in cold blood.
In the cries of horror that went up there
was a curious insistence on the note that
the nation already had the right instru-
ment of vengeance in General Mac-
Arthur, properly supported. Said Mr.
James Farley, formerly the President’s
Postmaster-General and party chairman,
and his opponent for the 1940 nomina-
tion :
We should devote unlimited power to
supplying General MacArthur with the
necessary ’planes and equipment to bring
this war against Japanese brutality to its
earliest possible conclusion. We can’t beat
,^ aps W ' t ' l a few sticks and stones,
there can surely be no one in America
today who would hesitate to provide those
lighting the Pacific war with every possible
bit of required equipment.
Said Mr. Charles R. Gay, president of
the New York Stock Exchange:
This clearly indicates the type of people
we are fighting. More ’planes and equip-
ment for General MacArthur!
Then Senator Chandler spoke with
great force, and, on one point, with aston-
ishing ignorance of the English, on the
position in the South-west Pacific, as out-
lined by General MacArthur (“barring
our submarine activities the Japanese
have complete control of the sea lanes in
the Western Pacific and of the outer
approaches to Australia”) and General
Blarney (“this is the main enemy front,
and the Japanese are massing an army of
200,000 men and a strong force of aero-
planes ; our first need is more aero-
planes”). Senator Chandler is an “Ad-
ministration” Democrat from Kentucky
and a power on the Senate’s Military
Affairs Committee. Saying that “the crisis
must be very great for MacArthur to
speak so,” he announced that he would
“call for a revision of United States war
policy to the extent that adequate forces
be poured into the Pacific conflict.”
It is obvious that the high officers who
recently visited Washington, headed by
Generals Kenney and Sutherland, have re-
turned to General MacArthur with a pessi-
mistic report—a report that they were
unable here to obtain assurance of the sub-
stantial air strength that MacArthur re-
quires to avert a disaster, a catastrophe, a
debacle in the vital southern salient of our
Pacific war.
This is one of the strangest situations in
history. We are turning virtually all our
attention to Germany, a remote and
hemmed-in enemy, a foe that cannot assail
our homeland, while an enemy who is
peculiarly our own enemy, who has a
comparatively unguarded field in which to
move, is regarded as unimportant.
If the Japanese establish bases in North
Australia, United States forces must be
withdrawn from Guadalcanal. We must fall
back to our Midway Island defence line
once again, with our one sea-lane to Aus-
tralia in constant danger.
Now and in the future the collision with
Japan must stand as America’s own war.
We are lacking any assurance of all-out
effort against Japan when Germany’s de-
feat is made final. We have had assurances
in the other direction from the British
Prime Minister, who said there must be a
partial demobilisation of British forces as
soon as Germany is beaten.
There is a very large element in this
country who once proclaimed that the war
with Germany was England’s war. There
will be a very strong element in England
after Germany is beaten who wifi insist
that the war in the Pacific is America’s
war. And so it is and will be. We can
take it for granted that when the fighting
in Europe is over, and India is made
secure, we will face the last great struggle
with Japan virtually alone.
Referring afterwards to this speech,
which, although almost ignored in Aus-
tralia, made a great impression in
America, Senator Chandler said he had
been prompted to deliver it by the failure
of his efforts and those of Congressmen
who thought like him “to act quietly in
getting things done for the war in the
Pacific. We hope,” he proceeded, “to
raise a strong enough voice in the Senate
to influence a change. We are moved by
MacArthur’s appeal. Once he called to
us from Bataan and Corregidor, and we
did not send him help. It cannot be, after
that great tragedy, after we have had
more than a year in which to prepare,
that he is calling us in futility again.”
Dr. Evatt was on hand to testify that
“inadequate supplies” had “kept the
United Nations from gaining the full
benefit of the Coral Sea, Midway,
Guadalcanal and other victories” —“in-
adequate” partly because “allocations of
materials have not always come through
on time.” On land, as in the air, the
victories were due to “quality, not quan-
tity.” And Australians had done
their share; “in the desperate and bril-
liant fighting in fever-stricken parts of
New Guinea,” four-fifths of the vic-
torious troops were Australians. General
MacArthur, for his part, had “used
aviation in a way to confound and dis-
may the Japanese,” but in the Battle of
the Bismarck Sea and other battles the
United Nations forces employed were
“outnumbered two to three times.”
Mr. Churchill, arriving in Washington
while Dr. Evatt was there, spoke like a
man who recognised that the American
people-proud of the great victory in
North Africa and generously appreciative
of his own contribution to it, as well as
those of Alexander, Montgomery, Cun-
ningham, Tedder, Coningham and their
men, but uneasy and resentful in respect
of the war in the Pacific—had to be care-
fully handled. He committed himself to
the doubtful proposition that defeat of
Germany would infallibly mean defeat
for Japan ; and, always optimistic about
the outlook in these parts, he declared
that the Japanese threat to Australia had
diminished.
There are two versions of what he said
on this point: (1) “It is less severe than
when I last saw you in this [White House]
room” (June, 1942); (2) “it is consider-
ably less than in December, 1941.” Per-
haps both opinions were expressed.
Neither can possibly be held to outweigh
the judgment of men with far superior
opportunities of judging.
An unfortunate reference to “the great
armies standing ready in India to march
towards the Rising Sun and open the
Burma Road” led to nasty animadver-
sions on the small amount of aid given
to China and to the failure of the second
campaign in Burma. A statement that
“the major part of the American forces
is employed on the Pacific front” was
characterised by Senator Chandler as
“demonstrably incorrect, unless the West
Coast of America is included in Mr.
Churchill’s estimate.’’ The Senator in-
sisted that he spoke as an admirer of
Mr. Churchill, but he professed “equal
admiration” for Australia and New
Zealand (“Australia has earned all the
help we can give her”), and he pro-
nounced it “imperative that the confer-
ences on strategy should result in the
United States employing its full weight,
with any assistance which Britain is able
to give, in defeating the Japanese
Empire.”
They didn’t go that far, but, by and
large, they were more encouraging to
Australians and New Zealanders than
any previous series of meetings. There
was no more talk from Mr. Churchill
about a partial demobilisation, a Council
of Europe and all the rest of it “while
the war against Japan will still be raging.”
On the contrary, he assured Congress
that “the British” would “fight alongside
America against Japan while breath re-
mains in our bodies and blood flows in
our veins,” and that “it is agreed between
us that we should at the earliest moment
....begin the process,/so necessary and
desirable, of laying Japanese cities and
other munition centres in ruins.” To the
pressmen at Washington he said “The
war against Japan must be prosecuted
with the greatest vigor.”
The President and I have been talking
a great deal about that, and have reached
a conclusion which I think is sound. The
war will be waged with equal intensity on
both fronts, and a very great deal of effort
will be applied.
Questioned about bombing bases in
Siberia, the P.M. said that, while it was
“no secret” that the Allies would like to
have them, his Government could not ask
any more of Russia while Russia was
“holding the weight of 218 Axis divi-
sions,” though “Russia must know that
Japan is watching her with a purely
opportunist eye.” And mention of the
order dissolving the Comintern brought
the reply “I like it.”
Mr. Curtin sees in the Washington
decisions “absolute and complete support
for the contentions of the Australian
Government,” and a knockout blow to
“the influence of a school of thought
that was making it possible for Japan
to use Germany to fight a delaying action
so that Japan might acquire an invincible
defensive position.” He can fairly claim
credit for a stand that has had surpris-
ingly little press backing, but it is too
early to assume that the “Beat Hitler
First” strategy is finished, and the danger
that the Japs may establish “an invin-
cible defensive position” remains. For
15 months they have been in unchal-
lenged control of Malaya and nearly all
the islands between Asia and Australia.
During a transition period which must
have been difficult for them as well as
the people of the occupied countries,
they have seldom been subjected to the
interruption of an exploding bomb ; in
the great centres of population, never.
Children mature quickly in those parts,
and, given four or five years, the enemy
may command the support of millions
of young fellows who will have forgotten
the whites or will remember them only
with bitterness implanted in their minds in
Japanese-controlled schools. It would be
dreadful to have to lick them in order
to liberate them.
U.A.P.-U.C.P. Policy.
It has come to this in Australia, that
whenever a political announcement is now
made the average person views it for a
start with intense suspicion. He knows
that he has been made the guinea pig
for repeated injections of humbug. He
has witnessed the nasty spectacle of a
responsible Minister mouthing mean un-
truths and the Prime Minister remaining
mute until driven to a grudging correc-
tion, whereupon the responsible Minister
brazenly repeated the mean untruths. Also,
the average person has seen necessary law
enforced drastically against some, and
either not enforced or waived altogether
for others.
The upshot of it all is that this average
person has 'become a cynic. So much so
that if those mainly responsible for this
evolution had had any psychological
nous they would have let the other side's
recent joint statement of policy pass with-
out comment. Then those who took the
trouble to read it would have done so w : th
a measure of cynicism. Instead, when
they saw it greeted with a variety of
derisive noises, peevishly uttered, the
automatic reaction was that there must
surely be something in it. An examina-
tion shows that there is enough in it to
suggest that that feeling will probably
grow between now and election time.
There is in it the customary amount of
big talk about the war effort that could
be taken for granted, except that the
other side has made a loud song on this
theme, and would have sung even louder
if such padding had been left out. The
fact regarding “a maximum effort in
conjunction with the Allied Nations in
conducting the war, the pooling of
resources and a concerted strategy,” and
suchlike, is plainly that Australia has no
choice and wants none.
Another part promises “Constitutional
and Governmental reform.” Its fault in
the context is that it is an unravellable
mass of vagueness. “The simplification
of the machinery of government by the
transfer of requisite additional functions
from the States to the Commonwealth”
could mean anything —or nothing. The
riders, or afterthoughts, to it —“removal
of ill-conceived and overlapping regu-
lations” and “freedom from doctrinaire
socialistic restrictions” —have a touch o
concrete in them, but need reinforcing.
“Finance and taxation” includes the
promise of pay-as-you-go, which would
win a thumping majority if it were iso-
lated and put to a national vote; other-
wise this section is mostly generality.
Ditto “country development,” “post-war
reconstruction” and other odds and ends.
Mixed in with this stuff is a fair enough
sprinkling of concrete, including the pro
posal for a war-time Government repre
sentative of all parties; a return to
arbitration, with “the prohibition under
suitable penalties” of strikes ; promised
opposition to compulsory unionism.
Many of these and other proposals
listed represent distinct divergence from
Labor policy under their various heads
and especially from Labor policy as ii;
has been interpreted and enforced by
certain Ministers over the past year—
sound enough indication of what these
same Ministers would be only too willing
to do if a return of Labor at the next
election gave them the excuse of having
a mandate. They are, however, mainly
differences of political color on specific
issues, and no doubt the country coulc
still rub along no matter which brand it
got. They were wholly things to be
expected, with nothing very exciting or
surprising about them at all.
This cannot be said of the sundry
entries that can be pieced together from
the U.A.P.-U.C.P. joint statement under
the heading “Defence.” This really gives
the other side something to answer. In
its total sum it is one of the most re-
assuring statements on this particular
issue that Australia has ever had. It
rises above politics. It is a national pro-
gramme, with marks of statesmanship
about it. Hitherto it could always be said
without question that this non-Labor
side’s defence record has never been as
bad as that of the other side. If, elected
to office, it carried this programme
through, it would earn ranking as a truly
national Government by fhis alone.
One proposal is the “creation of one
Australian Army as a single instrument of
war to serve in any sphere for the defeat
and destruction of the enemy.” This,
concrete enough, is not merely a diver-
gence from Labor policy ; it is something
totally different. It is an acceptance of
the principle—which the Labor side
has not accepted even yet—that the
doing of a country’s war job should not
be left to the voluntarily willing, but
should be shared alike by all available
fit men, and should be done, not within
any restricted boundaries, but wherever
it best can be done. Once this principle
has been properly enforced it will remain
fixed, matter-of course national policy, as
it is in America, Britain, Russia and else-
where. It will put a needed end to the
wretched business of the rest of the
country —politicians included —skulking
behind the A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and R.A.N.,
while the same lot of these go into
actions over and over, not only thereby
doing an utterly unfair share, but know-
ing, as they are doing it, that strikers and
other enemy-co-operators of the home
front are grinning at their share of the
luck.
This part of the new U.A.P.-U.C.P.
programme is certain of the support of
practically all who are carrying the un-
fair burden, and should be as certain of
the support of everybody fit to be called
an Australian. The same can be said
of a related part of the programme:
The re-establishment of men and women
of the fighting services in civil life, in-
cluding a just repatriation scheme of pen-
sions and benefits to service men and
women and their dependants, and to mer-
cantile marines and civilians injured
through war operations. Preference of
employment to members of the Navy, Army
and Air Force.
What is most remarkable, about this is
that it should need stating at all. Yet
there is very good reason for its being
laid down. A Sydney Government of the
same political color as the present Com-
monwealth Government lately chose the
thick of war-time as appropriate for try-
ing to get through a measure which would
have given any coldfooter, provided he
was a unionist, preference over a service
man who had fought for the country for
years, however he may have personally
suffered by that service. This attempt to
make a law of gross injustice was
scotched, as far as the Leg. Council
could scotch it, only because the
State branch of the R.S.L. saw the
drift of the thing in time. Apart
from this practical example, it is evident
from the utterances of present Common-
wealth Government spokesmen that this
Government looks on the problem of jus-
tice for service men and women after the
war as wholly a matter of reward. Logi-
cally carried out, this policy would
amount to giving some sort of helping
hand only to those who had been front-
line troops. Nothing can be too much
to do for these, but the hand must be
extended to all now wearing uniform, a


necessary provision which appears to be
S in the U.A.P.-U.C.P. joint pohey
All past performance considered, the
most impressive piece of the joint policy
is that headed “Post-war Defence Not
a word on this has been uttered by the
other side, and it is sare enough betting
that nothing concrete will be. The
U.A.P.-U.C.P. statement specifically
undertakes
The continued provision of adequate
Australian defence, including a permanent
naval and air force establishment, and the
maintenance of a policy of universal mili-
tary training.
This is good, but it still lacks one
thing. There is no provision for pro-
hibiting any temporary crowd of seat-
warming politicians from ditching it.
As it stands it could last five
years, ten years, and then be wiped
out in a few minutes by any clumsy
bunch of supposed statesmen. Now,
while the rightness of it and the
need for it must be evident to every-
body who isn’t mentally deficient, a
sound defence system should be irrevoc-
ably established. It should be put out-
side the range of Parliament, fixed into
the Constitution, to be interfered with
only by referendum.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Famous—and Sweated.
Whatever the rights or wrongs of the
dispute between Senator Ashley’s De-
partment of Information and certain
photographers and journalists employed
by it, it must have come as a shock to
many to learn that men like Parer and
Silk, who had risked life and health in
battle areas to get pictures, were paid so
miserably by a Government whose pay-
ments to C.C.C. men and “liaison officers”
and other people not, and not likely to
be, in battle zones have been a subject
for awe and profanity on the part of
taxpayers.
Parer, whose Kokoda Trail and Bis-
marck Sea battle pictures attracted the
attention of the world, has let it be
known that his weekly wage was £9 12s.
6d.; with allowances, £l3. Any number
of wharfies draw twice as much. People
like Garden, whose Government jobs
have been created for no particular
reason other than to provide them with
jobs, would sneer at £l3 a week when on
their travels.
It would be interesting if Parliament
could get from Senator Ashley, as
responsible Minister, the amount being
paid, say, to Mr. Alwyn Lee, sitting
pretty in New York, where his wife also
works for the American “Life” and
“Time” interests. Or that paid to Mr.
John Fisher, the Communist who went
to Vladivostok in a Soviet vessel on some
business of his own, and, casting up in
Moscow, was appointed press attache to
the Australian Legation there, Mrs.
John Fisher being also put on the
strength. Neither of these young men
has ever faced the same risks as
either Parer or Silk, and neither has ever
done a fraction of what the others have
done for their country. In fact, Mr.
Fisher denounced the war as “imperi-
alist” before it became a “holy war,”
though it was noticeable that Mr. Fisher
and friends left Russians to do the
fighting.
Australia can’t afford to starve its good
men financially. It has lost far too many
to other countries through the same prac-
tice. Parers, Hurleys and Silks are rare
fruit worth cultivating and encouraging.
Labor's First Knight.
“Whitaker’s Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage and Companionage,” with the
dinkum oil:
There are with us nine leading Orders
of Knighthood—the Garter, the Thistle,
St. Patrick, the Bath, the Star of India,
St. Michael and St. George, the Indian
Empire, the Royal Victorian Order and the
British Empire (this last being open to
Ladies). To this we may add Knights
Bachelor, though not a constituted Order.
The Garter, the Thistle and the St.
Patrick are reserved for the nobility, a
commodity which Australia has never pro-
duced. In practice the Orders for which
Australians with knightly ambitions may
qualify are the Bath, St. Michael and St.
George and the British Empire, plus
Knight Bachelorships. In the course of
years this country has had a liberal issue
of Ks.B, and Ks.B.E., but Australian
admissions to other Orders, Bath particu-
larly, have been rare.
On the recommendation of the Federal
Labor Government, which previously had
no use for titles, Mr. Frederick Geoffrey
Shedden, “C.M.G., 0.8. E. (Secretary De-
partment of Defence, War Cabinet and
Advisory War Council and Civil Mem-
ber of the Defence Committee),” has been
created a Knight Commander of the
Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael
and St. George ; decorations, “the Badge,
Star, Collar, Ribbon, Mantle and
Chapeau.” That is Whitaker again with
the good oil:
The Badge is white enamelled and resem-
bling a Maltese Cross, but with seven arms
instead of four. On one side it represents
the Archangel Michael encountering Satan,
and on the other St. George and the
Dragon. Around each of these designs is
the motto “Auspicium melioris aevi” (The
token of a better age); above the whole
Badge is a crown attaching it to the Collar.
The Star of a Knight Grand Cross con-
sists of seven rays of silver spreading like
the Badge, and with narrow rays of gold
between, whilst in the centre is the figure
of St. Michael with the motto, and the ex-
tremities of the four arms of a cross pro-
truding from beneath, to halfway across
the rays. That of Knights Commander is
smaller and of only four rays.
The Collar is made up of crowned lions
(the two in. the front having wings), Maltese
Crosses and ciphers of the letters SM and
SG, with a crown in the front centre
slightly within the circle; all gold except
the crosses, which are of white enamel.
The Ribbon is of Saxon blue with a
scarlet stripe; the Mantle is of scarlet
satin lined with blue silk.
Very pretty; and perhaps when the
new K.C.M.G. appears among them on
ceremonial occasions Mr. Ward, Mr,
Dedman and Mr, Don Cameron will ac-
cept the motto as a symbol of their
“order” —the “new” one. He is no doubt
a very worthy public servant, and their
Government must have a great opinion
of him to have so broken with the party
tradition of hostility to titles.
But reverence for heads of depart-
ments, Defence in particular, is a charac-
teristic of Labor, and along with it goes
the treatment of organised Government
employees as members of the privileged
union aristocracy. The last Labor Gov-
ernment was perhaps too distracted by
internal strife to think of having its Sec-
retary of Defence raised to the knightage,
but the gentleman got £525 a year more
than the eminent First World War com-
mander responsible, as Inspector-General,
for the army, and when the depres-
sion came all the departmental clerks
were kept on at full pay while warrant
officers, and presently commissioned
officers, were ruthlessly “rationed.”
This spirit animates the present Federal
Labor Government and the N.S.W. Labor
Government as well. That Government
has abandoned its oft-advertised plan of
wresting control of the Government rail-
ways from Commissioner Hartigan, who,
when the railways were notoriously los-
ing hundreds of thousands a month,
awarded members of his office staff sub-
stantial increases which had to be found
by the taxpayer. Recently in the space
of 15 minutes it put through all stages of
a bill giving State Government employees
assurance of their jobs should they stand
unsuccessfully for the Commonwealth
Parliament. At Canberra it has become
a regular practice to discriminate between
unionists and non-unionists in pay and
travelling allowances.
The general effect of this kind of thing
has been summed up by Spooner, M.H.R.,
in rasping words:
Within the past year more liberties have
disappeared than the public thought pos-
sible. The bureaucrats are becoming asser-
tive. Some of them make statements of
public policy. Some of them conduct
controversies with public men in the press.
They assume the functions of Ministers of
the Crown. This can only happen in a
democracy if Ministers are too weak to
manage their own affairs.
It is improbable that Spooner, M.H.R.,
will sport the Badge, Star, Collar, Ribbon
Mantle and Chapeau while the People’s
Party has the ordering of such things.
Preference to Corns.
At times the question arises whether
the sayings and doings of Labor Minis-
ters proceed from inborn stupidity or are
results of ordinary minds being flabber-
gasted by the difficulties of running a
war without experience of war or ad-
ministration. They say and do such
fatuous things!
For example, Mr. Scully, commissioned
to educe order from the chaos of food
control: “Australia’s food position is the
best of any country, and will show an
improvement soon.” This when butter,
in consequence of sheer Labor misman-
agement of prices and farm labor, was
about to be rationed, and when house-
wives in Mr. Scully’s own spiritual home,
Sydney, were at their wit’s end to get
milk, eggs, fruit and vegetables for their
children! Fancy telling them that !
And there is the matter of newsprint.
It is no mystery that all established Aus-
tralian newspapers and magazines have
been drastically reduced in size, with
corresponding reductions in staffs, and
that many of them would have had to
suspend publication but for the organisa-
tion of a voluntary pool. Yet, with the
newsprint position still bad and the out-
look uncertain, to say the least, the
Federal Labor Government has issued
licenses for the resuscitation of four
specimens of the Communist press which
was outlawed in 1940 for its anti-“imperi-
alist”-war poison. And out of its treas-
ured stocks the pool has been ordered
to find 82 tons for Communism imme-
diately.
“It is a breach of the undertaking given
to the newspapers,” said Mr. R. A. Hen-
derson, president of the Australian News-
paper Proprietors’ Association, and “a
breach of the spirit of the National Secu-
rity regulations governing newspapers.”
While “a state of emergency” exists in
the Australian newspaper world, the Gov-
ernment “gives a revolutionary organisa-
tion favored treatment, and, at the ex-
pense of existing newspapers, furnishes it
with the ways and means of furthering its
activities.” An indictment so unanswer-
able that no Minister has attempted to
answer it.
One of the favored sheets brags that it
came out surreptitiously while it was
under the ban, and that “the editorial staff
has been increased.” Another has been
licensed for Melbourne, where the Com-
munists are in the last stage of a bitter
fight to unseat eight Labor Assembly-
men. In Sydney the A.L.P. executive
takes credit to itself for having, at a con-
ference addressed by Mr. Curtin, kept
Communists out of “the movement” ; in
Melbourne the A.L.P. executive and Min-
isters have to struggle for existence against
Communists to whom their Federal Gov-
ernment has granted newspaper and news-
print privileges (among them the privi-
lege of putting on men of military age)
denied to all other Victorian publica-
tions !
Labor-member Mullens, M.L.A., whose
seat is threatened by a “reserved” speci-
men of Red-racket unionism, could give
a bitter twist to his statement that “Com-
munism is a protected industry.”
A Stand for Freedom.
That’s what ten women and one man
are making in a Sydney munitions annexe
where 780 unionists went on strike be-
cause the 11 refused to join the union.
Union bosses, particularly “Balance
Sheet” Thornton, are dreadfully con-
cerned because it’s the first serious chal-
lenge that the New Unionism has had to
face.
The 11, among whom is the wife ot
Mr. Cassidy, K.C., normally wouldn’t be
at that kind of work. They took it on
to assist the war effort. They might have
joined the union but for the May Day
stoppage. After that manifestation of the
insolence of union bossism, they refused
to accept dictation from Communists and
union bosses whose patron saint is Mr.
Ward. The pertinent facts are subjoined:
Except for a minor dispute over an incompre-
hensible Women’s Employment Board rule this
is the company’s first strike. About 30 per-
sons, including members of the Ironworkers
Association, worked on Axis Day, and there
were resignations from the union because ot
the lawless and unpatriotic stoppage. A shop
steward warned these sturdy characters that
they would be “disciplined” by being forced
to hand their earnings for the day to some
charity—possibly the “Aid Russia” fund.
On May 5 an Ironworkers’ Association dele-
gate issued an ultimatum: “Join the union or
there’ll be a strike within 24 hours.” On May
6he altered the date to May 14. On May 11
came a threat to call a strike unless women
were paid 90 p.c. of the male rate under the
W.E-B. rule. The company replied that, until
the legal position was straightened out, they
couldn’t do this without violating the Common-
wealth Governrpent’s wage-pegging regulation.
Two shifts accepted this statement and the
union delegates said there’d be no strike.
Then a shop steward was dismissed on the
ground of disobedience, and an attempt to call
a strike to have the fellow reinstated failed. The
management was then informed that unless all
hands joined the union there would be a strike;
and a strike there was. Work ceased on May
15, but some non-unionists and unionists who
had resigned kept on. On May 24 the strike
was extended to a subsidiary and to the main
plant. On May 26 the matter came before
Federal Arbitration Judge O’Mara. On May 31
Judge O’Mara, saying that the non-unionists
were “not responsible for the hold-up of im-
portant war work,” and that “under the exist-
ing law they are free to decide for themselves
whether or not they will join a union,” an-
nounced that he would send the papers to the
Prime Minister.
That same day the company asked Man-
power to release 42 employees, all strikers, be-
cause of reduction of shifts. Also on that day a
conference with Mr. Ward began, Mr. Jock
Garden in the chair. On June 1 each non-
unionist received a telegram from Mr. Belle-
more; “Concerning present dispute, you are
directed to attend at Man-power office at
11.30 a.m.” Each replied: “Regret cannot
attend today; suggest appointment tomorrow;
please notify.” Next, a Man-power official
visited the factory to investigate the applica-
tion for release of the 42. On June 2 a
Trades Hall meeting decided to continue the
strike and to ask Mr. Curtin to “utilise the
Government’s powers.” On June 3 Mr. Belle-
more arrived at the factory and, in reply to a
question, said “1 have power to send you to
Bourke, if necessary.” But he didn’t subject
any of the dauntless 11 to the exercise of this
“power.”
And that is how the thing stood at
the beginning of the week. The Eleven
stand firm. The Court has put it up to
the Prime Minister, and it is for the
Prime Minister to make the next move.
CHARGE OF THE KNIGHT BRIGADE.
“Conferring of titles is anathema to ‘the movement.’”
Trade-union leaders on the knighthood given to-a civil servant at the instance of Mr. C urtin.


10
o
m
m
■ i
C. S.R. MSB WALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
Specially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exception-
ally hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE • - PERTH
P. 1-43.
d'tamM&C'
dinapps
fj
M. Moss 4 Co. Pty. Lid..
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
“1 do not withdraw one word of what
I said about the Brisbane line.” Thus
AVard in a broadcast speech reported ver-
batim in Lang’s “Century.” Menzies
replied acidly that Ward, as Ward, was
unimportant beyond the confines of
Yarra Bank and the Sydney Domain, but
he was a Cabinet Minister, and in this
matter must be taken to be the P.M.’s
spokesman. Then the P.M. was heard
from at the Sydney Labor Conference —
to the effect that “before the war with
Japan the home-defence plan was de-
featist in outlook and preparation.” That
ought to mean that Fadden, Menzies,
Hughes, Spender and McEwen will walk
out of the Advisory War Council this
week.
The Communist cry in Victoria is
“Out with Dunstan and the U.A.P.!”
There are nine Corns, in the field, and
not one is opposing a Dunstanite, the
members marked down for destruction,
if the “party” can bring it off, being Holl-
way, the U.A.P. leader (he is in the
R.A.A.F.), Cremean, the deputy Labor
leader, and seven other Laborites. In
Oakleigh the Corns, are trying to thrust
their support on Reid, the Labor M.L.A.,
and Reid has angrily rejected it and them.
Cremean recalled in Clifton Hill that
“when bombs were raining down on
Britain Communists were sabotaging the
war effort and inviting Britain to make
peace with the Nazis,” adding acidly “You
can’t trust Communists as far as you can
see them.”
Hollway’s speeches are bright features
of an otherwise drab campaign. An
idiotic Communist allegation that the
U.A.P. was “sabotaging the war effort”
prompted the U.A.P. leader to mention
that 10 of the 16 Vic. U.A.P, Assembly-
men are returned soldiers. He could have
added, though he didn’t, that he himself
is a service man. It was stupid of Labor
to oppose Hollway in Ballarat, He has
heaped coals of fire on its head by asking
electors to give Laborites preference over
Corns.
At the State A.L.P. conference in
Sydney Curtin got a 2-to-l majority for
his militia-service plan, even though he
hinted that the fixed geographical limits
might have to come unfixed. Endorsed
also were the expulsion of Lang and the
exclusion of the Communists, whose
“united-front” friends were defeated “on
t! e voices.” So were Lang’s friends,
though he had far more supporters than
the Corns. John Thomas is now expected
to form another party.'
During the year to March 31, 1931.,
the (Labor) Minister of Labor announced,
5403 persons were prosecuted and
punished for having absented themselves
from or been “persistently late” for
work. In Britain, of course —that
wouldn’t happen in ten years of war
under Ward, the Workstoppers’ Friend.
Watkins, M.H.R., one of the party from
Canberra which has been taken round
the British factories, workshops and
shipyards, reported at the end of the tour
that he hadn’t seen one man loafing. He
has seen thousands loafing in his own
country without uttering a word.
The Sydney Minister for Justice pro-
poses a Factories and Shops Amendment
Bill in which the “fencing off of all
dangerous parts of machinery” in wool-
sheds shall be required. It’ll be interest-
ing to see how it’s done, since the only
moving part near enough to the shearers
or shed-hands is the hand-piece. Maybe .
Mr. Downing has had the wool pulled
over his eyes.
The editor of Sydney “D.T.” brought
to bed of apother litter of articles on poli-
tics :
If Labor goes hard to the left its oppo-
nents will go hard to the other extreme,
end democracy, tolerance, the rational com-
promise and the liberal open mind will die
swiftly in the no-man’s-land between them.
There’s been a “no-man’s-land between
them” for many years, inhabited by the
silent and powerful ordinary Australians
of all classes. They can still be depended
upon to apply the corrective of the ballot
box.
In an extraordinary letter to a Reuter
man at Moscow, Stalin wrote that the
dissolution of the Comintern was aimed
at gathering patriots in all freedom-loving
countries into “a common onslaught
against the common enemy Hitlerism”
(also called “the Hitlerite tyranny,” “Fas-
cism,” “the Fascist beast” and “Fascist
oppressor” ; the Jap beast was not men-
tioned). It was designed also to “expose”
and “put an end to”:
(1) Lies of Hitlerites to the effect that
Moscow “allegedly intends to intervene in
the life of other nations and to Bolshe-
vise them” ; (2) the calumny of the adver-
saries of Communism within the Labor
movement that Communist parties in
various countries are “allegedly acting,
not in the interests of their people, but on
orders from outside.”
Judging by last week’s events, “the calumny
of the adversaries of Communism within
the Labor movement” still sways (1) Vic-
torian Labor, (2) N.S.W. Labor and (3)
British Labor, whose executive has coldly
repeated its refusal to admit the Corns.
Defending his Milk Board, the chair-
man of it told Sydney the other day that
the board was “doing everything possible
to ensure the equitable distribution of the
available supplies of milk.” Just to make
it equitable it ordered a cut of one-fifth
in some rations and one-third in others,
though accepted milk measures are by
fourths and eighths. If the Egg Board
adopts the same plan a man will be in
a pretty mess trying to mix two-thirds
of an egg in three-fifths of a pint of milk
for an egg flip.
Argentina has had a military revolt,
and now has a military Government, with
General Arturo Rawson, of English
descent, as President instead of the un-
popular Castillo. The new outfit is
“pledged to a policy of American soli-
darity, with continued neutrality for the
present.” That is better, though expec-
tations were pitched higher. Concern at
the increasing military importance of
Brazil and Chile, fed with arms by the
U.S.A., may have had more to do with
the upheaval than hostility to the Axis ;
but it seems fairly clfear that the Argen-
tine forces want to be on the winning
side, and are positive it won’t be the
Hitler-Musso.-Tojo side.
The French now have a Committee of
National Liberation, with Giraud and
De Gaulle as joint heads, presiding at
alternate meetings, and representatives of
both groups as members. One of the
Giraudists is old General Georges, who
was Gamelin’s second-in-command; the
most notable De Gaullist is Catroux, now
Governor-General of Algeria, Peyrou-
ton having offered his resignation to
Giraud and De Gaulle simultaneously.
Always the optimist, Churchill feels that
“French unity has been achieved,” but
Washington, never keen on Dt Gaulle,
spoke very harshly of some of his sup-
porters in a broadcast from its Office of
War Information.
The coroner’s verdict in the Marjorie
Norval affair was that the evidence did
not enable him to say whether the girl
was alive or dead. It did enable him to
say that he didn’t believe J. F. Barnes,
M.L.A., whose “evidence,” of which
Barnes had bragged so often, boiled down
to the silliest of bluffs, for which he
earned a taste of Boggo-road gaol as well
as a £lO fine. “The Bundaberg bomb-
shell” he was called till he fizzled like a
damp squib.
Ward was first elected (in March, 1931)
as a Langster, and as a Langster he helped
to defeat the Labor Government that
Curtin supported. When “unity” was
effected under Curtin’s leadership, he
became a Curtinite, and efforts to induce
him to twist to Lang and Beasley when
they formed their “non-Communist Labor
party” were unavailing. However, he
twisted to Lang on the militia-service
issue, and the name Ward has figured on
Lang’s Conscription Barometer as the
No. 2 “anti” for months. Now, with
the N.S.W. A.L.P. conference declaring
for conscription. Ward will have to twist
again.
The closing days of the first ration-
book period brought another outbreak
of hysteria among people with more
silver than sense. In Sydney especially
they bought wildly, madly, in a multitude
of cases things they didn’t need and
couldn’t use. Federal Labor thought it
was very clever when it came out against
post-war credits. In trying to be indul-
gent to its supporters it did many of
them a disservice, and the country as well.
Empire service casualties for the first
three years of the war, sickness figures
excluded, have been calculated at 514,993:
92,089 killed, 88,294 wounded, 226,719
missing and 107,891 prisoners. New-
foundlanders and Southern Rhodesians
included, 73,477 of the killed were
Britons, 6192 Australians, 3286 Indians,
3219 Maorilanders, 3142 Canadians, 1439
South Africans and 1334 colonials. Totals
were: Britain, 275,844; India, 101,979;
Australia, 53,959 ; colonies, 30,829;
South Africa, 22,615; New Zealand,
19,345. Missing numbered 226,719, and
Indians (Hongkong and Singapore Royal
Artillery included) headed this list with
86,289, which is surprising. Many of
them may be in Jap prisoners-of-war
camps.
Temora branch of the N.S.W. Farmers
and Settlers is asking for a national
farmers’ union, with compulsory mem-
bership. Farmers would enjoy produc-
ing their union tickets every time they
deliver wheat to the silos or apply for a
fuel ration.
Lord Chief Justice Hewart, being dead,
yet speaketh:
It is the rule or the supremacy of the
law, administered by independent Judges,
that is the basis of our constitutional
liberties. Arbitrary power is certain in the .
long run to become despotism, and there
is danger if the so-called method of adminis-
trative law, which is essentially lawless-
ness, is greatly extended, of the loss of
those hardly-won liberties which it has
taken centuries to establish.
Ward’s idea is that Judges are “servants”
of the Government; and they were —in
the Star Chamber time. The new social-
ism impersonated by Ward and Dedman
is just the old tyranny, centuries and
continents removed.
In one of his fine novels Disiaeli noted
a “curious trait” in the history of
Britain: “the depositary of power is
always unpopular ”
Power was deposited in the great barons;
the Church, using the king for its instru-
ment, crushed the great barons. Power was
deposited in the Church; the king, bribing
the Parliament, plundered the Church.
Power was deposited in the king; the Parlia-
ment, using the people, beheaded the king,
expelled the king, changed the king and
substituted an administrative officer. Power
was deposited in Parliament, and Parlia-
ment is becoming more and more un-
popular It is impossible to resist the
impression that Parliament, the last de-
vourer, is also doomed to be devoured.
In this country trade-union bossism seems
to have cast itself for the devouring part.
N.S.W. coalfields blatherskites and
mobs killed a once-great export trade and
lost a lot of the trade with Victoria, that
State being driven into exploiting its
brown coal and water-power. A further
ioss is likely from the same mad cause,
for gas production from brown coal is
being seriously discussed by Victorians
in the gas business. S.A. also has plenty
of brown coal, and both States and the
West are sick and tired of being at the
mercy of union mobs who won’t even
work 36 hours a week for Australia (and
that at wages so high that boys get 265.
lid. a shift) when Australia is in deadly
danger.
It now turns out that the gentleman
who sobbed “My country, O my coun-
try!” was an Australian businessman who
had striven for 27 days and nights to cope
with the forms he had to fill in before
being allowed to hire a second-hand type-
writer.
To none of the Little Peoples do
Britain and America owe more than they
owe to Norway. When Norway was
barbarously invaded it had a merchant
fleet of 7,000,000 deadweight tons. Of
this the invaders seized 1,600,000 tons,
and they have since sunk 2,500,000 tons ;
but, with contributions from grateful
Britain, the surviving ships carry on, and
have been in everything. An American
admiral has testified that the worth of
Norway’s ships and seamen to the
common cause can be reckoned at “far
more than a million men.” One of the
first duties of the western democracies
after the war will be to put the grand
little Norse nation back on its feet.
A Melbourne citizen of some tonnage
came forward with a plan of education,
a principal item being that attendance at
night schools should be made compulsory
for 14-16 boys and girls. It should be
made compulsory for all politicians up
to the age of 60.
Customs Minister Keane learned “with
alarm” that rooms were being let for as
much as 12s. 6d. a week. The Trades
Hall in Melbourne remarked that the
Senator was drawing it mild, instances of
two and even three times that figure
being common knowledge in those parts.
Keane then had visions of a nation-wide
registration of all persons who let or
sub-let rooms. Registers, conferences,
boards, commissions, regulations—how
this Government loves ’em!
There are two Premier Dunstans. One
is bitterly resentful of Governments that
compel farmers to take out licenses to
produce wheat or potatoes. The other
regards with satisfaction his own proposal
to compel city chaps to take out licenses
to produce factory goods. When they
meet they must have some difficulty in
recognising each other.


- •
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped-
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Maoriland’s Waitaki Boys’ High
School has celebrated its diamond jubilee,
Frank Milner in the forefront with his
37 years as rector. The school, a couple
of miles from Oamaru, had a splendid
record in 1914-18 and is eclipsing it
in the present fight. Seven hundred
out of 1000 old boys served in the last
war; 80 decorations, including a V.C.,
and three foreign honors came its way.
Fourteen hundred old boys, of whom 750
have gone overseas, are in M.L.’s second
army. Top-rankers up to now include a
major-general, four brigadiers and 15
colonels.
James Francis Murphy, C.M.G., the
appropriately - named Commonwealth
Food Controller, is a man of 50 whose
energy doesn’t seem to have been im-
paired by a lifetime spent in the civil
service, or else he must have had a lot
of it to start with. Born at Carlton and
educated at Christian Brothers’ College,
South Melbourne, he went into the Home
and Territories Department in 1910, was
on the Migration Commission (1927-29)
and went through the P.M.’s Depart-
ment into the Department of Commerce.
He has been secretary in Commerce
during the war and got fair train-
ing for his present post building up
emergency food supplies. Now every
town throughout the country has emer-
gency supplies, and there are upwards of
FOOD.
70 special depots whose total value is
from seven to ten millions. It will be
Murphy’s job to cut a path through the
jungle of departments to the producer
on the one hand and the consumer on the
other. If that conjunction takes place it
will be like the meeting of Livingstone
and Stanley.
Adelaide found some notable veterans
for the Empire Day ceremonies. Banning
was in the Burma campaign of 1889 ;
Black went with Wolseley to the
attempted relief of Gordon in Khartoum,
1884 ; Currell served in H.M.S. Monarch
under Charles Beresford; and Home
goes back to the Egyptian campaign of
1882.
Billy Brown, who was opening bat with
Jack Fingleton for Australia in the good
old days when Test cricket was the main
“war” news, was among the latest batch
of airmen to get their wings at an
R.A.A.F. station. Talking to the boys
one night he told a yarn of an urchin
who approached him for his autograph.
Brown obliged. Later the same day the
same boy appeared with the same request.
A bit astonished, Brown again obliged.
But next day, when the autograph-hunter
again appeared, Brown couldn’t help say-
ing “Gosh, son, I didn’t know I was that
much of an idol.” The kid looked at
him indifferently. “It ain’t that,” he said,
“but me mate has one of Don Brad-
man’s autographs an’ he’s offered it t’
me f’r ten o’ yours.”
Frederick Geoffrey Shedden, C.M.G.,
0.8. E., who figures in the feat of getting,
as a civil servant, a knighthood under a
Labor Administration, first saw the light
at Kyneton (Vic.) in 1893. Kyneton
Grammar and Melbourne and London
universities fashioned his education until
he became a lieutenant in the old A.I.F.
From 1924 to 1929 he was Military
Accountant, then secretary to the Defence
Committee and finally secretary to the
Defence Department (1939). In between
he has attended the Imperial Defence
College, conducted research on the finan-
cial side at the War Office and the British
Treasury and been adviser on a string of
world conferences.
Considering what all-in scrappers they
are, it comes as a surprise that Maoris
hadn’t added a V.C. to their list of war-
won decorations till that highest honor
was awarded to Second-Lieut. Moana
Kiwa Ngarimu for great heroism in the
closing stages of the Tunisia fighting.
Ngarimu led his men through heavy mor-
tar and machine-gun fire in an uphill at-
tack, was first to the top, single-handed
wiped out two machine-gun posts there,
and died dauntlessly firing a tommy-gun
from the hip.
Organist Joseph Massey :- —
Having played Te Deums' for nearly 80 out
of his melodic 88 years, Joseph Massey has
finally closed his chantbook. Twenty years ago,
after serving 23 years as organist at St. Andrew’s,
Sydney, he felt due for the discard, and re-
tired. But he came back to play at the funeral
services of his two immediate successors,
organists Mewton and Dr. Haig, and remained
at the cathedral till the appointment of the
present occupant. He had an active retirement,
and did his “bit” at St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
taking the seat of the regular organist while
the latter was away with the A.I.F. until
failing eyesight overtook him several months
ago. His father before him was an amateur
organist, his brother is at Newcastle Cathedral,
while his son Victor, at All Saints’, Wcollahra,
still plays on.
A grandson of old Bulletin contribu-
tor John Farrell, Joseph A. Macinante,
is doing pretty nobly in the scholastic
line. Lately graduating in engineering
with first-class honors at Sydney Uni.,
he collected the Charles Killing Gradua-
tion Prize in mechanical engineering, and
is now doing hydraulics research at the
Uni., with a Commonwealth Science
Scholarship and the William and Jane
Graham Scholarship by way of additional
encouragement. At Sydney Tech, he
gathered the Spence Prize for maths, and
the College Bronze Medal. Also in his
bag is the P. N. Russell Scholarship in
mechanical engineering.
Made M.A. by Oxford, where he has
been lecturing in W.E.A. tutorial classes,
as well as lecturing in general subjects in
all parts of England to service men profit-
ing by the British Army educational
scheme, A. L. Gordpn Mackay was
originally a junior with the W. F. Larke
firm, of Sydney (now Larke, Hoskins).
Mackay gathered his B.A. at Sydney Uni.,
going there as an evening student, and
when he got his degree left for active
service in 1916. Other trailers to his
name include M.Econ., M.Litt. (Cam.)
and Diploma Ed., the whole decorated
with the D.C.M. For a while he lec-
tured at Adelaide Uni., and subsequently
was Professor of Economics at Rangoon.
Scholarship is well and truly in the
blood: his grandfather was Dr. J. E.
Moulton, of Tonga and Newington Col-
lege, one of a very brainy group of
brothers, including Dr. Fiddian Moulton,
of Cambridge Uni.; Professor Moulton,
of Chicago Uni.; and Lord Fletcher
Moulton, well known on the Eng-
lish Bench and Bar. A brother of
Gordon Mackay, R. W. G. (“Kim”)
Mackay, is in aircraft manufacture in
England, while sister Sheila Mackay is
with the Ministry of Information, Edin-
burgh, and last year did three months’ N
British propaganda work in the U.S.A.
Tasmania’s Brigadier John Field, who
recently got a D. 5.0., did fine work in
the Middle East before capping it with
further sterling performance at Milne
Bay. A Bachelor of Engineering, he
holds the post of lecturer in engineering
drawing and design in the Tasmanian
University ; he’s been granted leave of
absence for the duration. Despite his
interest in engineering he was noted in
pre-war days for his support of the
P. 8.1., always advising young chaps to
join infantry units.
The recent presentation of a Victory
flag by Washington to Wilfred White, of
Boston (U.S.A.), links with Williamstown
(Vic.). White, who is president of
Kelvin and Wilfred O. White, designers
and manufacturers of nautical instru-
ments, and holds a high position in the
U.S. Maritime Commission, is a son of
William White, who established his ship-
yard at Williamstown in the early days
and pioneered shipbuilding in Victoria.
The son went to Scotland to study in the
laboratory of Lord Kelvin, where the
mirror galvanometer, which made sub-
marine telegraphy possible, was invented.
Subsequently Wilfred White went to
Boston and founded the firm whose
instruments guided Peary to the North
Pole and Byrd to the South Pole and
did yeoman service on battleships and
merchantmen in the last war, as they are
doing in this.
He owned Winalot:
These days the name of E. K. White con-
jures up the Liberal-Democratic party, which,
restricting its ambitions to N.S.W., aims to
come out fighting in the Federal elections.
Some 29 years back White himself came out
of his corner up Gosford way rearing for fight.
The war had broken, and, as he puts it, “Like
a lot of other chaps, within 24 hours I went
down to join up.” They were extra fussy at
that stage of the scrap, and knocked him back
on a minor defect. When he’d got over the
surprise it made him laugh. He touches 6ft.,
tips the beam at about 15st. solid, and was the
local champ, up his way on the 12in. cut and
the 100yds. swim, as well as doing a bit of
bike-hurtling. He gave it another fly, and was
turned down again. Then a chap gave him a
pointer or two on the art of enlisting, and,
braving the docs, once more, White passed into
the A.1.F., saw his first battle in France with
the grand old 4th Batt. and became adjutant
to Iven Mackay. He holds the view, held by
a good many others competent to judge, that
Mackay is one of the finest soldiers this country
has ever had the luck to own. Warfare o’er,
White took over his late father’s timber busi-
ness, and got hold of that pretty fair sort
of horse Winalot, on which he had a grand
clean-up at Warwick Farm, when Winalot (at
twenties) walloped one of the tidiest fields that
ever stepped out at that address. Among other
performances Winalot won a Warwick Farm
Cup, Sydney Cup and St. Leger, and White
gathered in a roll that Jack Rice couldn’t have
jumped over. One who has always used the
region above his ears to think with, from when
he was putting one over the army quacks to
when he got interested in Sydney Harbor’s
Kurraba Point during the depression, White
in 1936 got into the Australian-American co-
op. movement as a foundation member and
today is its president. There’s now ground
for calling the movement a world classic in
co-operation. Its president’s daughter Babette
E. K. WHITE.
has gone to America to marry a U.S. lieut.,
and son Baden (19) has wired his father from
Canada: “Received wings and commission. Got
engaged. Send £100.”
If all the organisations to which Andrew
Albert Osbom belongs were placed
end to end they would almost be as long
as a politician’s tongue. His latest post
is South Aus. rep. on the Australian
Dairy Produce Board —a three-year term
that will be nothing new to him ; he was
on the board from 1935 to 1940. He is
also chairman of the Wholesale Milk Dis-
tributors’ Assoc, and of the Dairy Pro-
duce Equalisation Committee. That
would be enough for most men, but
Osborn also manages to be a member
of the S.A. Egg Board and of the Metro-
politan Milk Marketing Committee. By
way of a change he includes also the S.A.
Defence Foodstuffs Committee and S.A.
ANDREW ALBERT OSBORN.
Pastures Improvement Committee, and
just so that he won’t have to stand about
leaning against lamp-posts and chewing
straw he’s manager of the Dairy Produce
Dept., S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Now 47,
he hails originally from Broken Hill and
started toil there as an office boy. Accord-
ing to Coventry, who drew him, he knows
more about horses than an inhabitant of
the raceless State has any right to know.
Into the silepce:
At 79, Major-General Richard Herbert
Fetherstoh, one of Melbourne’s most distin-
guished obstetricians and gynaecologists. He
was Director-General of Australian Army Medi-
cal Services throughout the last war, was vice-
president of the B.M.A. and president of the
Victorian branch, and once represented Prahran
in the Leg. Assembly.
At 72, in Melbourne, George Cockerill,
the editor and leader-writer whose fight for
Australia’s Protection policy earned him the
nickname of “The Thunderer.” Born at Ben-
digo, he was successively on Bendigo “Inde-
pendent,” Ballarat “Star,” Melbourne “Age,”
Sydney “D.T.” and Melbourne “Herald.” He
wrote several books, one of which, Scribblers
and Statesmen, is in the press, and a stack of
short stories as exclusively devoted to Aus-
tralia’s Cousin Jacks as Oswald Pryor’s sketches.
In England, at 77, Arthur Mee, editor of the
“Children’s Newspaper” and creator of the
Children’s Encyclopedia, possibly one of the
most permanent and valuable of best-sellers.
Mee entered journalism at 16, edited Notting-
ham “Evening News” at 20 and later joined
the Harmsworth interests. “
In S.A., after a long illness, Arthur Robinson,
of the old Werocata station, and member of
the State Parliament since 19t5, except when
in 1928 it appointed him to the Federal Senate
to complete the term of Henry Barweil, then
moving to London as Agent-General.
Musical-comedy conductor Mervyn George
Henry, at Hobart, aged 68. He was 42 years
with the legal firm of Dobson, Mitchell and
Aliport.
At 65, Prof. J. E. L. Cull, a native of Christ-
church, where he held the chair of civil
engineering at Canterbury Uni. After the big
’quake at Napier in 1931 the Government got
Prof. Cull to report and devise a code for
rebuilding which is now in operation.
At 63, Col. J. W. Hutchen, C.M.G., C.8.E.,
one of the first off in 1914 with the N.Z.E.F.
He saw service in Egypt and on Gallipoli, and
was later paymaster at headquarters in London.
Subsequently he was sec. to the Samoan
Administration, and in 1921-23 was Deputy-
Administrator.
Harriet Stirling was one of a famous old S.A.
family, her father Professor Edward, her uncle
Lance President of the Leg. Council —one of
the rare cases of two brothers each earning a
title. Miss Stirling made the care of children
her life-work: the first woman member of the
State Children’s Council, and one of S.A.’s
first women Js.P.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”: Before me is a circular
from one of Australia’s seven Health
Departments— which isn’t stated, the only
means of identification being the cryptic
sign JS. 18/5. It is headed “War-time
Nutrition,” and in it somebody referred
to as “National Doctor” gives these rules
for children’s health, “simple to follow” •
(1) Give them all the body-building and
growth-promoting foods they should have
—one to one-and-a-half pints of milk each
day, as many eggs as you can buy (up to
at least five a week), cheese and meat
occasionally. (2) An orange a day. Oranges
at 3d. each are good value. If they cannot
be afforded give 4oz. of raw swede or raw
tomato juice. Give salad vegetables at the
beginning of each meal. (3) Avoid fried
foods. (4) Don’t give too much starchy
food—bread, cereals, puddings and the
like. (5) Ban pepper, mustard and vinegar.
I hope this circular reached all the
mothers in Sydney at about the same
moment. I like to think of three or four
hundred thousand women all speechless
with indignation.
#
“Ike Hollar”; War means better and
brighter business under the sign of the
three gold balls. People go to Uncle for
articles they are denied elsewhere, and
Nunky can find a buyer for practically
everything he has got, so he now lends
money on goods formerly cold-shouldered
—such things as radio sets, spectacles
and even false teeth. Of course, there
are new worries. Uncle now has to in-
spect the identity cards of those who
pawn goods with him, and the old plan
of being Bill Smith on pawntickets has
gone by the board.
* # . sje *
“Clooter”: Brisbane City Council has
been querying an amount of £9l 15s. 4d.
“travelling time” for five C.C.C. men
doing work which the council’s Works
Department was conducting for the
A.W.C. The five travelled from their
suburban homes to the job, and had been
led to expect 3s. an hour travelling time,
with tram fares additional where they
exceeded 6d. a day. One bloke had 75
days at 90 minutes a day, £l6 16s. 4d.,
plus tram fares for 13 weeks at 2s. 3d.
a week, £1 9s. 3d., a total of £lB ss. 7d.;
another’s bill for 82 days was £2O Is. 6d.;
two ethers claimed for 83 days at £2O ss.
lid. and £2O 17s. 2d. respectively, and
one for 82 days at £l2 ss. 2d. I, fresh
from being told by the boss that nine-
tenths of the rise in screw he has handed
out under the award will go in taxation,
should like to enlist under Ted Theo-
dore’s banner.
♦ Sfc * *
“Hamfat”; There used to be two
schools of thought among stage-managers
as to the pause for the laugh (B.
26/5/’43). Some allowed the laughs or
“hands” their space only when they came
spontaneously; others made the pauses
deliberate as baited hooks to catch
plaudits. In nine cases out of ten audi-
ences took the hint of the allotted pause,
and, as audiences seldom remember any-
thing but the frequency with which they
have laughed and applauded, the policy
seemed to pay.
* * * *
“Duck Creek”; In a jingle about
Parkes’s cider jug (B. 2/6/’43) “Iford”
wonders what may happen in the future
to “a tankard once possessed by Lang,
a teapot used by Bill McKell.” Will any-
body worry? It’s always puzzled me as
to what became of the busts of him who
was greater than Lenin which festooned
Sydney when I arrived in the place. I’d
not heard of Lang, and when I sighted a
row of the things in an Oxford-street
window and wondered aloud who he
might be the resultant rush to deal with
me nearly stopped the traffic.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; The Japs who have been
trying to force their way to Chungking
via the Yangtze Gorges took on a very
stiff military task. For centuries the
Chinese conducted a large river traffic
above Ichang by towing junks up the
terrific rapids by man-power. The cur-
rent is so strong that several hundred
“Can anyone tell me what I’ve done Wrong ?”
coolies toiling along the banks were re-
quired to keep an average-sized vessel
moving at a snail’s pace, and there is
scarcely a rock that hasn’t been beaconed
by wrecks a dozen times over. Then,
many years ago, an English skipper suc-
ceeded in getting a steamer to climb the
torrent. There was a long war between
the coolies and the new form of trans-
port ; finally steam won. But though
the stream may be said to be navigable
a military expedition advancing along
the river, the banks of which are hun-
dreds of feet high in places, would have
a plethora of those suicidal elements
which' are said to be so attractive to the
soldiers of Nippon.
* * * «
“Oxmead”: The word “unbending”
in last week’s Bulletin (apropos of Joe
Darling, cricketer and politician) reminds
me that its use brought some entertain-
ing comments from the late Wilfred
Whitten, founder and for many years
editor of “John o’ London’s,” who had
some reputation as an authority on Eng-
lish as she is wrote. “To unbend” really
means “to bend” he once commented.
So it does sometimes, but quite as often
not. It is curious that it can be em-
ployed to convey absolutely opposite
meanings without anybody being puzzled
which should be attached to it. When
Macaulay wrote (in the Essays) of “stern,
unbending Tories” we know perfectly
well that he means “unyielding” or “un-
relaxing.” And when he wrote (in the
History, touching the recreations of
Charles II) that “the common people
always love to see the great unbend,”
we see just as clearly that be means “re-
lax.” The explanation, of course, is that
the metaphor in the first case comes from
an upright figure or a knee, and in the
second from a bow, which is only in
action when bent. The word must occa-
sionally give foreigners a headache,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; A recent Red Page lament
that we have “hardly the beginnings” of
a love-your-own-riverside tradition such
as that shown in the charming books by
Gibbings about the Thames and the Wye
might have spared some praise for E. J.
Brady’s old River Rovers, which handles
most lovingly the Murray from its snag-
strewn upper reaches to its broad lake
finish. Always readable, the book is get-
ting a fresh historical value now that the
old river has been given a new mouth and
in its middle section various locks and
fruitgrowing towns which would astonish
any revisiting “rover.”
* * :}c (:
“Pappagallo” rises above his rheu-
matics :
A paragraph headed “New Record for
Shorthand” woke some memories. It told of a
Sydney cop who writes 220 words a minute,
and “has four cups, two gold medals and the
Pitman Shield” to prpve it. Smart lad! Try
repeating over and over again as fast as you
can the sailors’ formula for counting seconds —
“one chimpanzee, two chimpanzees”—and
you’ll have difficulty in hitting anywhere near
220 words a minute. Two-twenty is a fancy
speed, and the orator has not been born who
could sustain it. The panegyrist of the police
prodigy remarks that Alfred Deakin “streaked
along at 250 to 300.” I took Alfred many
times, and he was only a difficult speaker
to anybody who did not know his habits and
his punctuation. He had a sort of wave motion.
His actual delivery sometimes reached 180, but
his average over quarter of an hour was rarely
more than 150-160, and from a ' shorthand-
writer’s viewpoint he had the advantage that
his enunciation was clear and even. George
Reid was much harder to take because of the
thin timbre of his voice. Holman was faster
on the average than Deakin, and more diffi-
cult to take because of his deceptive habit
of seeming to be about to stop and then going
on as fast as ever. The most difficult speakers
I encountered were: (1) Lord Chelmsford, the
fastest; (2) Cardinal Moran; (3) Joe Lesina,
M.L.A. for Clermont; (4) Lord Carson; and
(5) Queensland Premier Kidston. Kidston did
not speak much more than 100-110, but he
spoke three words at a time, with a sharp, long
pause which brought your wrist up with a jerk.
“Spokeshave”: A friend who ordinarily
wears his locks long turned up the other
day looking like a convict. “What on
earth have you done to your hair?” I
asked. “Had a haircut,” he said. A few
days later I met him again. “Goodness
gracious,” I said, “your hair looks shorter
than ever.” He looked embarrassed. “So
it is,” he said. “The trouble is that my
barber is the only man I can get a packet
of fags from in Melbourne, and I don't
like to ask him for another unless I first
have a haircut.”
* * * *
“Peter”: A word in praise of this war’s
“Returned” badge. Surmounted by the
Crown it bears the Digger’s glittering
bayonets (not the rising sun as some
mistakenly believe), the Navy’s mud-
hook, and in the background the wings
of the R.A.A.F. On the base is a
boomerang bearing the legend “Returned
from Active Service.” A neat quip, that,
and thoroughly Australian.
“A Major” on a musical controversy:
From Tasmania, voiced by George Limb,
whose views have been given a good deal of
space in the Hobart “Mercury - ’ and Launceston
“Examiner,” comes a vigorous protest against
“an official attempt to establish McCormack's
‘Advance, Australia Fair’ as the Australian
National Anthem.” Mr. Limb, who is lecturer
on music at the Teachers’ College, Hobart, and
who claims that his views are supported by Con.
Directors Bainton (Sydney) and Davies (Adel-
aide), makes it a strong point that “Advance,
Australia Fair” is based on a German folk-
song, “The Magic Inn,” composer unknown,
which Brahms took the trouble to harmonise;
that it is inferior to the original, and that both
“Waltzing Matilda” and Carl Linger’s “Song
of Australia” have better claims musically and
sentimentally to be selected as Australia’s
national tune. With Mr. Limb’s contention
that “Advance, Australia Fair” is musically un-
worthy few musicians will quarrel. As to its
origin, while the “Magic Inn” starts similarly
it is in a different metre. As suggested in The
Bulletin years ago McCormack’s inspiration
was probably an unconscious recollection of
Pierson’s “Ye Mariners of England,” in the
same key, same metre and very close in melodic
outline all the way through. But as a rival
candidate to anthem honors “Waltzing Matilda,”
a humorous ballad, in waltz time, doesn’t
appeal. An anthem must be solemn and digni-
fied. If “Advance, Australia Fair” is played
very much more often in pitcher palaces,
where patrons are expected to rise respectfully
to it, we’ll be stuck with it. It isn’t musical
or literary merit alone that makes a national
anthem. Main factors are associations,
accumulated through persistent usage. The best
literary job in that line was Julia Ward Howe’s
“Battle Hymn of the Republic,” but it never
even looked like displacing the older-established
“Star Spangled Banner” and “My Country,
’Tis of Thee.”
* * * *
“Ad”: A new crime has been found
in Port Adelaide —drinking beer in a
hotel bedroom at 3 p.m. on Saturday.
The men said they had bought it before
2, and thought that, as boarders, they
were well within the law. The P.M. said
“It is not for me to criticise the policy
of the Legislature. I must give effect
to the Act” ; which he did by administer-
ing conviction without any penalty.
“S.T.S.”: The bad luck of the honest.
An Adelaide driver found in his taxi
diamonds worth £lOO, and hastened to
the owner’s hotel with them. As he after-
wards explained to the Court, “She was
so delighted that she really forced me to
have a glass of rum ; and then the police
arrived.” Five pounds and costs for “un-
lawfully obtaining liquor at 8.35 p.m.”
“ I'm terribly sorry—I was so interested in what you were saying!"
OLD-FASHIONED PUNISHMENTS.
r ~ official investigation into outbreaks at the
Industrial School for Girls at Parramatta found
that one or the causes was that the staff had been
■deprived of the right to use old-fashioned corrective
measures’ with their charges.”
Authority sagged and discipline bent
When old-fashioned ways of punishment
J hat our fathers favored were found to be
At odds with the New Penology.
Now moral suasion, some folks compute,
is a satisfactory substitute
For the physical pressure once applied
io an erring youngster’s receptive hide,
Ihe stem corrective that hit the spot,
Ihe argumentum ad —you know what!
Old-fashioned methods! What memories
Surge up of novelists’ dominies,
rhwackum, who in Tom Jones appears,
Or Doctor Swishtail and Wackford Squeers;
Of the youthful nephew of Ingoldsby
Who sat and who walked uneasily
For long hours after the smart was spent
Ot the age-old method of punishment.
How many an urchin his stars may praise
lhat he lives in these more enlightened days!
There were old-fashioned ways of corrective, true,
And a fairly old-fashioned place for it, too;
But our age grows steadily more humane
And jibs at inflicting bodily pain.
Our gaols, once places for fume and foam,
Grow ever liker to homes from home.
A comforting thought, I’m well aware,
For which of us knows that he won’t be there
In some dim future he can’t foresee,
And be glad of the New Penology.
That to spare the rod is to spoil the child
As musty rubbish will next be styled,
And as outworn heresy ’twill be ranked
For boys to be walloped or girls be spanked.
In the bright new world that’s ahead, no doubt,
This sort of thing will be counted* out. .
Yet I can’t but think, when into my head <
Come certain things that I’ve lately read, *1
That a sharp and simple deterrent went
With one old-fashioned form of punishment.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
GONE WITH THE WIND.
“Oratory is a lost art in tills country.”
— “O.F.M.” (//. 2/61 ’.JS).
There are public speakers, devil a doubt,
Who can prose and chatter, babble and
screech,
Chaps who can pay chin-music out
In rushing torrents of turgid speech.
They can drone or bellow, prate, plead or
preach,
Yell commendations or howl dispraise.
But where are the heights men used to reach,
Our orators of the bygone days?
We note no lack of the leather lungs,
Or the blasts and blizzards of heated air,
But where are the witching silver tongues
And the ringing clarion voices, where?
Where are the phrases rich and rare,
The apt and the telling metaphors?
Out on these dealers in blither and blare!
Where are .our old-time orators?
Now there are little but bludgeon blows
Dealt or dodged in the party fray.
Where are the former fencers, those
Subtle and skilled in the rapier play?
Where are the Alfred Deakins, say.
Wizards with words whom we used to know?
Where are the magic spells that lay
In the oratory of the long ago?
Where are the men it was well to trust,
The shining stalwarts in platform wars,
Trained in the science of cut-and-thrust,
Where are the old-time orators?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Tuart”; “The object of this war is to
make sure that everybody in the world
has the privilege of drinking a quart of
milk a day.” That was said by Vice-
President Wallace to Madame Litvinov,
and though Roosevelt’s deputy has smee
protested that it was “half serious halt
humorous,” he will never hear the end
of it. Going to Costa Rica, perhaps in
the hope of escaping from the swarm ot
critics, the Vice-President spent a night
in a little greaser town. Throwing open
his bedroom window in the morning he
saw opposite him a shack decorated with
the sign “Leave Two Quarts This Morn-
ing!” Lie, I suppose, but a good one.
¥ ¥ * *
“Jamwood”: Apropos of pub-names,
why has Australia so many Palace
Hotels? Its only palaces are episcopal,
and I am sure none of the Palace Hotels
was so named as a compliment to the
crozier or in the hope that the bishop
would drop in occasionally for a quick
one and recommend the joint to thirsty
friends. Yet they are to be found from
Sydney to Perth and on to Kalgoorlie.
Pretty good pubs, I suppose, but, going
on my experience of five States, nothing
palatial about any of them except the
name.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Jurumudi”; According to Melbourne
“Herald,” “music while you work” in
Australian factories is giving a powerful
stimulus to war production. The
idea is as old as human effort. The
Chinese wheelbarrow coolie provides the
music himself, with an obbligato from
the ungreased wheel of his vehicle. Un-
like the Australian programmes, which
are of the “pep” variety, the Celestial
worker invariably sings lugubriously
about the distastefulness of hard work,
the poor return in money and the diffi-
culty of finding enough food to fill his
belly; but the result seems to be the
same. The strangest specimen of the
land chantey I have come across was
that used by Javanese working on
the roads in the old days of Dutch con-
trol. The Paul Robeson of the gang used
to sit on the roadside and sing a verse.
At the concluding words the workers
raised their picks and held them in that
position while he sang another. Then
they allowed the picks gently to descend.
They patiently waited until the singer had
got through another verse and then swung
their picks up again. Similar perform-
ances, with music and poetry discarded,
have been witnessed in Labor-ruled Aus-
tralian States, particularly in doubtful
electorates.
¥ ¥ * *
“El V.”; There has been a Partridge
case (B. 2/6/’43) in the U.S.A.; but they
do things differently over there. The
Book of the Month Club chose as
its volume for May a novel by Mark
Aldanov, The Fifth Seal. At once Com-
munists started yelling that the novel was
“subtly and viciously anti-Soviet.” Let-
ters, resolutions, protests, all couched in
the stereotyped jargon, with sentences
about Fascist conspiracies and the Clive-
den set, poured in. The 8.0.M.C. sat
calm until the powerful Book and Maga-
zine Union joined the hue and cry ; then
Christopher Morley, the 8.0.M.C.’s
editor, sent a wire:
Assume principal objection is to chapter
where Commissar Duglash, Georgian rene-
gade, makes his burlesque of Stalin.
The president of the B.A.M.U. replied
promptly and ungrammatically:
Other passages equally objectionable as
the one you mention.
Then America burst into a roar of laugh-
ter. There was no such character as
“Comrade Duglash, Georgian renegade,”
nor any burlesque of Stalin. And, emi-
nently assisted by the Com. agitation,
Aldanov’s novel is selling like hot cakes.
¥ * * *
“Bumpkin”: If farmers in these days
of government by regulation didn’t have
a sense of humor the insanity statistics
would increase out of all proportion.
According to Oldham, member for
Boroondara (Vic.), a dairy-farmer applied
for kerosene as a drench for his cows and
ran into the usual rationing trouble. In
reply to the questionnaire as to the “item”
for which the oil was wanted, he replied:
“Jersey, bovine type, two horns, tail, four
feet and fitted with the usual milking
equipment, model 1940: Seating capacity,
two.” On the line for mileage he en-
tered: “The vet. gave her one quart of
kerosene and she ran four miles. Cannot
gauge speed as vet. hasn’t caught up with
her yet.”
* ¥ * ¥
“Pawang”: Wholesale tuberculosis
tests, which it is proposed to apply to the
entire population, are no new thing.
A fair time back tests for t.b. were taken
of undergraduates at an Australian uni-
versity and it was found that 97 p.c.
had it. A friend of mine, who is now a
farmer, works ten hours a day and
ploughs a magnificent furrow, was one
of the tainted.
“Bohemian”: One of those seeming
miracles that confuse the medical pro-
fession has occurred in M.L. An inmate
of the Auckland Blind Institute had lost
his sight 17 years ago as the result of
sleeping sickness. He could not move
his eyelids. He was run over by a motor-
lorry, rendered unconscious and taken
to the hospital. When he recovered
consciousness he had recovered his sight
and could move his eyelids. A medical
specialist explains it all by saying that
the phenomenal nervous shock of the
accident so upset the blind man’s whole
system, mental and physical, that “new
conditions had been created.”
* * * *
“K.Y.”: “Bless ’Em All” is nearing
30 years of age, tell those who have been
discussing its origins. Fred Godfrey
wrote it while serving in the old R.N.A.S.
at Dunkirk in 1916. In a concert party
there it was sung by Archie Glen, the
“bibulous comedian,” and also by Billy
Bottomley and Charlie Folcher, with
Godfrey playing the piano. Soon every-
body knew and sang it, and the title
phrase passed into soldier phraseology.
At concert parties up the line, and no
ladies present, “Bless ’Em All” became
a sort of national antffem, but in its raw
state it did not occur to Godfrey as a
publishing proposition. It was left to the
ingenuity of young Jimmy Hughes, Frank
Lake and Mr. Vanlier, of Keith Prowse,
to make it so respectable that it might
be given at a vicarage tea party.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: What has become
of the redheads? When I was a boy
“I don't think the union would approve of this, Joe."
redheaded citizens pervaded the com-
munity. The citizen with the fiery thatch
and ziff to correspond usually answered
to the name of MacTavish or Rafferty
if he didn’t happen to be an O’Houlihan
or a MacPherson. One of the most im-
pressive scenes in my memory was a,
march of copiously-bearded Caledonians,
redheaded almost to a man, led by 12
fiery-polled pipers with their luxuriant
whiskers falling in bronze-red cascades
over their sporrans, what time the pipes
skirled the wild reel or the wailing
coronach of their native glens. The
Gaels have increased and multiplied in
the land, but the crowning glory of the
race has departed, and a copper-topped
MacTavish or O’Houlihan is now almost
as hard to find as a blue-eyed Chinaman.
¥ * * *
“M.D.”: Not all refugees are such
poor lingual scholars as “Hamer’s”
friend (B. 19/5/’43). I know one—a
Czarist refugee from the U.S.S.R. Near
the tail-end of the great depression, in
an endeavor to impress Sergei with our
erudition, I persuaded him to accompany
me to a lecture at the University. The
theme was the economics of slumps, and
the lecturer claimed that “crises come
and crises go, but this appears to be a
chronic crisis.” This assertion met with
general approval except from Sergei, who
turned to me and whispered, with more
contempt than my next-door neighbor
has for the Militia Act, “A chronic
crisis!”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: That Maoriland libel suit
about a Second Coming prophecy (B.
2/6/’43) reminds me. 1 was in China
when a young missionary got a similar
bee in his bonnet, even convinced some
bishops, and caused such a stampede in
his province that the military had to be
called out. The Government finally
transferred him to Shanghai, where he
disappeared from history. The belief in
the thousand years of Christ’s Kingdom
on earth is based on Rev. xx, 1-5, and
has periodically caused convulsions in
Europe, and worst of all in Russia, where
the national hysteria reached great
heights. In the eighteenth century whole
villages immolated themselves en masse,
and huge crematory vats were built, over
the walls of which children helped their
parents, and parents their children.
* * * ♦
“Niloc”; In Australia tobacco-chewing
had a vogue long ago, but it went out
with snuff-taking. War industries, in
which workers must not smoke, have
altered all that, and the day may come
when an Aussie will be able to rival the
performances of Mr. Scadder or the best
of Mark Twain’s Old South characters.
Under “No smoking” signs powerful
jaws are being developed.
¥ * ♦ *
“Peter Piper”: Production temporarily
ceased in a Sydney munition annexe
when two girls quarrelled and started
a Donnybrook. Another girl inter-
vened, also the forewoman. Finally
all four were scratching, thumping and
tearing one another’s clothes. Brawny
males stood helplessly by; A.R.P. was
summoned and turned on the fire-hose,
and four drenched wild-cats chucked it
in, but not before one had fallen and
broken an arm. A broken nose was
another injury suffered. Now the rest or
the staff know what General Sherman
meant by his incisive description of war.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The controversy raging
in Melbourne on the booze question is
confined to two parties, which, curiously
enough, both accept the major thesis that
alcohol is a poison. The difference be-
tween them is that one party doesn t
drink and the other does, though
admitting such indulgence to be sinful
and unhealthy. There is a third section
that doesn’t agree with either of the
others, but regards beer, whisky and wine
as beneficial beverages. Being quite con-
vinced, this section has nothing to argue
about, so doesn’t argue. Unfortunately,
because it doesn’t argue it isn t heard.
¥ * * *
“Tasser”: Attempts by some Hobart
citizens to have the old Theatre Royal
taken over and run as a municipal
theatre stirred Lud Mayor Soundy, who
is also an M.H.A., to outline a post-war
plan to enlarge the city’s Town Hall for
the purpose. He foresaw a new concert
hall and theatre capable of seating 1500,
and said that when the council found a
new site for the Public Library (ground
and building of which belong to the city,
though the building was erected from
Carnegie Trust funds) the Town Hall
could be enlarged over the area now oc-
cupied by the library. It’s refreshing
to hear an Australian city mayor say that
“civic obligation includes cultural ad-
vancement: the life of the community
is not limited to gutters and road works.”
¥ * * *
“Uramao”: A sober account of
the woman buried a century and a quar-
ter ago on Campbell Island, 400 miles
south of M.L. (B. 17 / 3 /’43), is set down
in a book entitled Flotsam and Jetsam
(1832) in the Hocken Library, Dunedin,
in which it is stated that she was a Nor-
folk Island woman whom Captain Hazel-
burgh, the discoverer of the Campbells,
had taken aboard. Both were involved in
a boat accident there, the skipper being
drowned. The woman was saved, only
to die shortly after. Hazelburgh named
the island after his employers, Robert
Campbell and Co., of Sydney, and the
harbor after his ship Perseverance. An-
other account says that on one of his
trips to the island he took an absconder
from the penal settlement at Sydney Cove,
Helen Parr, who was drowned in a boat
accident. Sir James Clark Ross, returning
in the Erebus from the Antarctic, called
at Campbell Island. He wrote concern-
ing the woman buried there that she was
“a Frenchwoman who had been acci-
dentally drowned by the upsetting of a
boat in the harbor.” The yarn about the
lady being a natural daughter of Bonnie
Prince Charlie is a much later invention.
“Bohemian”: For the last 60 years or
longer attempts have been made to prove
the existence of a pre-Maori people in
the Shivery Isles. Though the Maoris
are emphatic that when they arrived they
saw no trace of any indigenous race, now
and then there pops up something in-
dicative of former human inhabitation.
The latest is the finding of two skulls in
the Marlborough district. Cranial
measurements are said by some authori-
ties to indicate that the skulls belong to
a race that either died out or left two
thousand years ago. Others say these
may oe Maori skulls which had been
thrown in a river and subjected for a
long period to the action of water and
collision with submerged rocks.
He :Jc Jic
“Pawang”: Officials in the Perth
office of the Rationing Commission were
astounded when a centenarian from the
old-world suburb of Guildford came in
for a new ration-book. She surprised
them further by remarking that she
came to town by herself whenever
she felt like it. This war has pro-
duced a lot of similar
surprises. A woman of 70
in a munitions factory in
Melbourne has refused a
light job and insists on
working her machine like
the others. I know a man
of 86 who after his day's
work rides a motor-bike
to the pub every even-
ing for a pot before
dinner. 1 had an aunt
who went to her first
picture show at 96 and
enjoyed it without glasses.
All of which seems to
show that the genera!
attitude to age is all
wrong. Such instances
would be more numerous
if families didn’t coddle
aged parents as if they
were invalids, which is the
best way of killing them
off. New that most of the
families in my district have
been drafted willy-nilly
into war occupations at a
distance the old folk have
been able to escape from
their armchairs.
#
“T.8.H.”: The treat-
ment of malaria by quin-
ine substitutes is not the
recent development that “Lao-dah” (B.
19/5/’43) supposes. Synthetic prepara-
tions under the names (amongst others)
of plasmoquine and atebrin were first
put on the market by Bayer as far back
as 1930. On the advent of war they be-
came enemy products and were replaced
by British preparations —the best known
being fracquine and quinacrine. These
names did not take, however, and medi-
cal men have now gone back to the
original German ones. As to quinine
itself, it is still a necessity. The modern
method of treatment of malaria is by a
combination of quinine, atebrin and
plasmoquine spread over a period of 15
days. Atebrin has an action similar to
quinine, while plasmoquine is not cura-
tive (it acts only on the sexual forms of
the malaria parasite) but diminishes the
relapse rate and the chances of trans-
ference of the infection. Quinine is still
used in prophylactic or suppressive treat-
ment.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: “Thistlebrook’s” assertion
(B. 26/5/’43) that the country ranged by
the Kellys had been fenced, grazed and
tilled by the small farmer almost a
generation before Ned and his cobbers
took to the bush is wide of the mark. I
don’t know what its condition was in the
’seventies, but in the early ’nineties at
least two-thirds of “the Kelly country’
was wild bush. Half the Strathbogie
country had been taken up by selectors,
but the Wombat Ranges were occupied
only by an occasional prospector or dingo-
stiffener, and the country from the Wom-
bat to the King Valley was without even
those visitors. The squatter period had
not “ended well before the arrival of the
Kellys at Greta,” nor had the bitter and
sustained squatter-selector feud. Many
runs were still occupied when the cen-
tury was closing—Seven Creeks, Faith-
ful’s Creek, Strathbogie, Honeysuckle,
Warrenbayne, Gowangardie, Nalinga and
others.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: During the 1914-18
rumpus, when every town and townlet
staged a button-selling day every week,
it was nothing to meet a bloke on the
track with his hatband, swag-strap and
coat lapel festooned with colored buttons
celebrating all sorts of “days” from Red
Cross to “our Italian Allies.” Nowadays
nobody ever wears a button longer than
is necessary to get past the sellers with-
out having to buy another. The change
didn’t altogether please “Happy” Haw-
kins. Down in his Murray bend “Happy”
was dodging along regardless, and didn’t
discover the new war till it was nearly a
month old. “Strike me,” he said with a
gleam of interest, and headed back to
his camp. There he rooted among a heap
of old horseshoes, boots, bottles, tins,
rabbit pelts, cod heads, broken traps,
wire, illustrated papers and so forth, and
dragged forth an ancient cardboard box.
From it he took 23 last-war buttons, some
rusty and some glorious, attached them
to his person and headed back to
town. “It ought to gimme a flyin’ start
if they offer a prize for the bloke with
the most buttons,” he muttered, but
though he paraded the streets few gave
him a second look, and in the end he sold
the lot for one and fourpence to a mild
drunk bitten with the souvenir craze.
“Tally”: So Bill Davis (B. 5/5/’43)
must put his sheep through a 9ft. gate
to count 10,000 in an hour. Up here
at Dirranbandi (Q.) our best man counts
15,000 full-woolled wethers per hour
through a sft. gate, and he gets the tally
right. He uses neither a pack of cards,
a pocketful of pills nor any other such
thing when keeping his own tally, but,
like most good counters, he prefers a
tallykeeper.
“Betcha”: This new crop of sheep-
counters make my own efforts look pretty
feeble. It takes me all my time to count
the mob through a drafting race, and
swinging the gates on only three yards
i. needs concentration to keep a correct
check on one of the drafts. I’ll admit,
too, that I was one out the day the ear-
less ewe came through. But I’ll still see
fly count all yards separately and cor-
rectly while handling a three-way draft.
* * * *
“Enmac”: They were mad verses, and
when they appeared in The Bulletin
some years ago they left me guessing:
Scot to the dimp, the fearful Drask is dumb:
The scarlet wardles tabble to the drum.
O’er all the wiguous heath Taraxacum
Gathers the crampion garr.
It’s easy now to imagine Taraxacum as
an ardent patriot exhorting the tribes to
rally in defence of their heritage ; for it
is the family-name for the Russian dande-
lion, which is being tried here as a source
of rubber.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Flies were bad and we
welcomed the wolf-spider when it de-
cided to use the sunny side of the kitchen
dresser as a hunting-ground. It was not
unhandsome, a light-brown in color, with
an overall span of nearly two inches, its
body delicately balanced on eight arched
legs and carrying all the signs of speed
one marks in the greyhound and the
thoroughbred horse. Disdaining a web
it hunted in the open without camouflage
or concealment. The unwariness of the
flies was amazing. Immobile as though
graven in stone, the wolf waited.
Presently along came a fly moving aim-
lessly right up within a couple of inches
of the waiting killer. Suddenly the wolf
sprang, seized the fly with one of its fore-
legs and passed it instantly to a pair of
tiny tentacles which fed it to the mouth.
There was no sucking of juices as with
the web spider; the wolf’s jaws masti-
cated as diligently as though it was chew-
ing steak. Its appetite seemed insatiable,
and on a ledge below the hunting-ground
odd parts of fly gradually accumulated.
* * * *
“Chuck”: The camp was out of meat
and Kelly promised a fish supper. For
three hours he played a spinner, then,
discarding the line, resorted to sterner
measures, still without success. He’d just
blown the tenth hole when Jim rode over
the ridge with a hopeful “Any luck?”
Kelly’s snort would have shamed an un-
broken two-year-old. “Not yet,” he
roared, “but, by cripes, I’ll get one or
I’ll blow up the whole flamin’ river!”
“Sure y’re puttin’ enough stuff in?” Jim
asked as he left. Kelly pondered awhile,
grabbed a 71b. treacle-tia and rammed in
the plugs. The charge brought Jim spur-
ring back in time to see a wet and be-
draggled figure sort itself from the cas-
cading scenery. “Told you I’d get one
or I’d blow up the whole river!” called
the human wreck. “Well,” pointing to
some fragments of fish that were sliding
down the bank, “I done both!”
* * * ♦
“Anthropo”: In North America the
bison, once found in millions, disappeared
practically in a generation with the com-
ing of the white man ; and the beaver,
which once owned all the waterways of
the same continent, now has to be rigidly
protected. In Africa elephants, herds of
which once made the plains of the Dark
“This war's livened things up all right. I hat's second time 'phone's rung
this Week.”
Continent thunder beneath their tread,
now need to be sought over thousands
of square miles before they’re found in
sufficient nupibers to provide a camera
shot. But in Australia, with its peculiar
antipodean perversity, the coming of the
white produced just the opposite result.
In Westralia a kill of 100 kangaroos
at a waterhole or tank in the north
3n a single night is not uncommon,
and a few years ago a machine-gun squad
was called upon to thin out the emus
along the southern wheatbelj. Croco-
diles, too, have vastly increa*sed in the
northern rivers. When the whites first
came neither ’roos nor emus were plenti-
ful. One reads of journeys into virgin
enuntrv when nn frame was sighted on the
country wnen no game was sign tea on me
march - “ was ? fficult t ?. l,ve . on
‘ he , co “ ntl Tf% The blacks, expert hunters,
ke P‘ a “ wlld ** at a Io T ebK ,
“Naturala”: Cats, too, remember how
earlier litters were destroyed (B. 5/5/’43)
and will make careful efforts to Conceal
the newcomers. I’ve known regular fire-
side-haunters take to the bush just prior
t 0 turition and kee , hei J r k fc ns
hid< f en untU they were V c ld enough to
hunt £or themselves. Even if the frus-
,rated materna , instinct were „ ot suffl .
ciently slrong to int the loss on an
anima J rs me a ory> p the milk fever from
wske wou | d inevitably suffer would
j, e an add j(j ona i S p ur in any event it’s
kea rtless to take away the whole of a
ftter- Leave two o£ the kittens
» * * «
“B. A. Ker”: “Dishonesty doesn’t pay
in the racing game,” declared Plug; “I
found that out when I was doing the little
bush meetings with Bonzer. That hadn’t
always been his name, but I’d made a
fair job of the dyeing, and we generally
cleaned up before anyone got wise. At
Boolerwang we did the usual, unharness-
ing Bonzer from the sulky, pulling burrs
off him, and rubbing him down with a
bit of bag. The bookie lapped it up
and we helped ourselves to a tenner’s
worth at fives. Bonzer was three
lengths ahead with a furlong to go, when
I happened to turn around to see the
bookie vanishing in the scrub. He covered
nearly three miles before I was close
enough to reason with him. Then he got
up, spat out a couple of teeth and handed
over his bag. Now if he’d been honest
he’d have saved two teeth and a bagful
of oscar, because Bonzer put his foot
in a rabbit burrow ten yards from the
post!” “But you did all right out of
dishonesty,” Bert butted in. Plug eyed
him balefully. “What, are you one of
them flamin’ moralists?” he snarled and
strode out of the bar.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Strike me fat, this coun-
try’s coming to something! Five-foot
whipsnakes writhing through the Abo.
pages. Angora goats getting themselves
hung up in mulga by the horns and flying
corellas being struck by lightning in mid-
air, all in one week (B. 2/ 6/’43)! I might
have accepted the sft. whippers ; I might,
with an effort, have digested the stricken
corellas, but I will not believe that any
goat is silly enough to stick its horns into
the fork of a tree and get hung up.
Doesn’t “Walkabout” know that the
spirals on the horns were put there to
enable the wearer to withdraw from any
untenable position?
* * *
“Louden”: Taking a mob of shorn
ewes and lambs from the shearing-shed
one evening, I noticed a lamb, evidently
hurt in the branding race, dragging its
hindquarters. I carried it on the saddle
and put it down with the rest of the mob
near permanent water in the back pad-
dock, and left it to take its chance. About
three, months later, when riding through
the back paddock, I saw a lone weaner
on its knees feeding. As I came near it
got on to its feet, elevated its stern and
shuffled off on its front legs. Permanently
paralysed in the hindquarters, it lived
until the following autumn, when it fell
a victim to the green blowfly and was
destroyed.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Provided the castaway
has a billycan, or even a big bailer shell,
and the means of making fire, he needn't
starve anywhere on the Australian coast.
Every kind of Australian shellfish is
edible, and even where there are no
oysters, mussels, 1 cockles, whelks, peri-
winkles or muttonfish there’ll always be
chiton, a many-segmented univalve which
has the widest range of all shellfish. Nor
are seaweeds to be despised; a man
might survive on boiled kelp. There are,
too, plenty of edible weeds —almost all
of the more. delicate kinds boil well.
Fresh water may be found by digging in
the sand just above high-water mark.
Further inland it may be salt, and even
then steam from the briskly-boiling billy
may be condensed at night by lifting it
from the fire and covering it for a few
minutes with a sheet of metal, or even a
flat stone. There will be sufficient drops
that can be licked off to keep a man alive.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d got a job work-
ing for one of them wordy sort of blokes
who’d been to college and who was
always firing off hi§ mouth, letting big
words float around as easy as shelling
peas. Me and Mat gave him his head,
though we were never sure when to laugh
till we learned to watch his eyes and see
if he expected it. We got along all righ
till one night we’re sitting round the fire
and he’s talking about mankind. “You
take Mat there,” he says. “A splendid
specimen of Homo sapiens physically
but obviously his mental architecture has
been sadly” Just about then Ma
rose up and floored him. “Gripes,”
mourned, surveying the ruins, “anothe
good job gone west. Why didn’t you
watch his eyes, you big hump?” “I wa\
watchin’ ’em,” defended Mat, “an’ when
he got to that hummo sateens word they
flickered. No man can call me that an
let his eyes flicker. Get your swag.”
* * * «
“Wang”: We’re squatted round the
campfire one night an’ one chap is givin
lip to one of them mushy sentermenta
songs about dear old mother, how they
love her, an’ longin’ for a sight of the
dear old home. He’s puttin’ his soul intei
it, an’ just as he finishes a hard-dialled
tough-lookin’ coot pushes his way intei
the circle, wipin’ his eyes. “ ’Scuse me,’
he says, “I wus camped under the hedge
over there an’ heard you singin’, so
strolled along to listen. I wish I hadn’t
now.” “Why?” asked someone. “’Cos
I wouldn’t have heard that there song
Them sorta things has bin in my minc
for the last twenty years—them roses an
things—an’ I’m makin’ back home again
It makes me feel sorta sad an’ upset.’
“Go on,” ses the songbird ; “where yoi
been for the last twenty years?” “In
quod,” ses the sad bloke. “In quod?’
yelps the singin’ chap. “What for?'
“For crackin’ me missus,” says the othei
an’ slips away snifiin’ hard.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Certain forms of vege-
tation are an infallible guide to the
quality of underground water (B.
12/5/’43). She-oaks don’t necessarily in-
dicate that water is close to the surface,
but they do show that it will be fresh if
it is there. The Geraldton manna gum of
W.A. —it’s really a wattle—indicates that
fresh water is close to the surface when
it grows luxuriantly in the right type of
country. So do the corkwood-tree and
the coastal “swish-bush” in similar situa-
tions. The river redgum ( E. rostrata)
when found growing well in areas of
low rainfall, at spots like the cone of
dejectment where a creek comes out of
a range and loses itself on a plain, is a
sure indication that you don’t have to
sink far to get water containing less than
a quarter ounce of solids to the gallon.
And the water-rush is known to every
bushman as an indication of good water
only a few feet from the surface.
“Edjudina”; In really parched coun-
try the tree roots don’t carry any
surplus water. In country tempor-
arily dry, roots may yield a fair
sip, but then so will certain spots
along the beds of dry creeks. Where
sizable trees grow alongside the creek
edge is a likely place ; also where rock
dips and the bed is heavy with sand. The
rock forms a saucer retaining some water,
while the loose sand above minimises
evaporation. Where two streams join
is another likely spot, for the converg-
ing currents, working over the ages, have
most likely dug down to the heavy clay
subsoil or rock and so formed a reservoir.
The chief fault with root water is that
it is seldom palatable to a man who has
been on tinned and dried food for some
time. Barcoo generally has him, even
though he may not know it. And a
barcoo stomach —a condition brought
about through lack of fresh vegetables—
is always queasy. I could never keep
root water down, and I’ve seen other
desert prowlers affected the same way.
* * * * -i
“Arev”: Bill Jupp had taken a fancy
to Murphy’s roan mare, but Murphy
didn’t want to sell —until the day when,
driving home from the township, her head
went into the air, her nostrils quivered,
her whole body trembled, and she set off
at a pace that would have won the
Bungaroop Cup. Murphy pulled at the
reins, but he might as well have tried to
hold back a cyclone. At last, quiver-
ing violently, the mare came to a
standstill in Murphy’s yard. It took
nerve to approach her head and
unharness her, but Murphy did not
want to see the jinker kicked to pieces.
When at last she was released and led
to the paddock, Murphy sauntered over
to Jupp’s. Bill was mending a fence near
the road, “D’ y’ still want to buy that
mare of mine?” Murphy asked. Bill
stood upright. “Yes, I’m still interested.
What about seven quid?” Murphy didn I
stop to bargain. “You’d better call and
get her tonight,” he said. “She’s in the
paddock resting after a run this morn-
ing.” Bill nodded, “Yes, I saw you driv-
ing home.” Murphy stared. “Yes,” Bill
went on, “I had to laugh at you hanging
on for your life. It was that breeze from
the south that did it —she got a sniff oi
those lions in the circus down the flat.
No wonder she went mad!”
THE SECRET.
On this brink of wildernesses,
Numb with its awe I stand; my eyes
Feast, as moon-shafts gild black tresses
Where tumbled heads in glory rise;
Hark! through leagues of emptinesses
Soars some lost wanderer of the skies.
Through the bracken, through the heather,
Hush! see shy bushland creatures stir,
Clan of fur and clan of feather;
Soft, slow pad-pad, strange phantom-whirr;
Big red Too and joe together
(Poor moon-eyed owl, they’ve frightened
her).
Far below me, smooth and mellow,
Twines the ribbon of the river;
On her bosom, bland and yellow,
Lies the moon, peach-ripe, aquiver;
Wild dog howls —his distant fellow
Sets the midnight stars ashiver.
Wild yastitude of gum and peak!
Civilisation’s sickening rod
May strike in vain; the joy I seek
Eternal lies, beneath, untrod;
My solitude . . . One petal speak—
The mountains, trembling, echo, “God.”
A.I.F.
L OUIS H. CLARK.


“Zake”: Breakabrumby was a Jong,
straggling township, its one street like a
dog’s hind leg, so that Mick Ryan’s pub
at its extreme eastern end wasn’t visible
from Barney Flynn’s hostelry at the
western end. The Bungs had a friendly
arrangement whereby either would give
a piece of hanging hoop-iron three
clouts with a mallet if a casual mill-
hand or a stranger lobbed in with a good
cheque. The custom served its purpose
for years till one week-end Long Joe and
Billy the Bite took up their abode on the
outskirts of the town. A few days later
when Mick was away for a couple of
hours his hoop-iron gong gave out three
reverberations, and half an hour later
Joe and Billy were imbibing freely at
Barney’s on the strength of the cheque
they’d “left at Ryan’s.” A minute or two
after their bibulous departure Barney’s
hoop-iron gave forth just as Mick lobbed
back at his tonic depot. They were still
sleeping it off when Mick and Barney got
together.
% 5£
“E. & O, E.”: At Heka, n.-w. Tas-
mania, a creek which ran past the back
of a house suddenly disappeared ; the
woodheap and a growing tree 20 feet
high went with it. The house remained,
overlooking an apparently bottomless
hole 25 yards across and 45 yards long.
The district is full of caves, and it’s sup-
posed that one of them collapsed, the
creek probably joining up with the stream
that flows out from the Gunn’s Plains
caves.
* * * «
“Merriwa”: By the time the fire was
got under control it had converted 20
square miles of good dry pasture into a
black carpet patterned by blazing fences
and smouldering stumps. Here and there
a gaunt chimney surrounded by twisted
iron and water tanks bespoke tragedy.
The fighters came from near and far,
and towards the close of the second after-
noon 200 tired, red-eyed men had stopped
the demon 100 yards from old Lot Broad-
acre’s house and farm buildings. They
were removing some of the grime and
sweat from their faces when a lorry
arrived bearing a hogshead of beer, gift
of the town’s hotelkeepers. Lot strongly
objected. “No strong drink has ever
been swallered on my property,” he de-
clared righteously, “and I ain’t goin’ to
break me law now for no man.” “What
about Wilson’s paddock?” asked one of
the men, indicating the adjoining prop-
erty. “No,” broke in Lot. “I’ve got a
mortgage on that place, and the same
with Boigbeat’s on the other side, and I
have the roads leased all round.” The
ominous silence was broken by a sudden
crackling as the fire got moving again.
Big Fred was the first to move. “Well*
come on, lads,” he said. “We’ll mop up
that beer at Miklins’s along the ridge.
If the nor’-wester don’t come up you
might be jake. Lot, though it usually
springs up about this time of day. Of
course, if you feel like relaxing your
laws as well as springing a hogshead on
your own account we might be persuaded
to save your outfit,” Lot looked at the
fire creeping nearer. “All right, you win,”
he growled. “But, mind, I’m not drink-
ing any!”
sk
“Drover”: The last lot of washed wool
I saw (B. 26/5/’43) was about 1910; it
came from Langi Willi station in Vic-
toria, and sold up to 4s. 6d. a pound in
London. The usual method of washing
on the sheep’s back was similar to that
described by “Padflogger,” but there was
another method which often caused heavy
losses. The sheep were first packed tightly
into a sweating room and later sprayed
from overhead spouts first with hot soapy
“’ Struth, you put me in mind of Churchill with that cigar!"
water and then with warm clean water.
They were then packed into the sweating
room again for the night. Only good-
conditioned sheep could stand the ordeal,
and even among these deaths were often
high. The introduction of scouring plants
ended washing. It was an unnatural
method at best, although it had one big
advantage over scouring, in that the
washed wool was much easier to sort
at the manufacturing end. Of course,
even the cleanest washed wool had still
to be scoured prior to manufacture.
« * * #
“Bo”: Old Andy Brannigan, who had
lived in his kero.-tin-and-sapling shanty in
the hills for more years than anybody
around could remember, was found dead
in his bunk one morning by a passing
dog-stiffener, and the trooper came out
to take the remains in to Drearyhole,
There wasn’t a coffin to be had within
70 miles, but the blacksmith offered to
“knock one up if I can scrounge a bit o’
wood from somewhere.” Next day the
little cortege followed the bullock-dray
which did duty as a hearse on its short
journey from the pub to the graveyard.
On the dynamite-lid coffin, in bold tem-
plate letters, were the warnings “Use no
hooks” and “Stow away from boilers.”
“That ought to suit old Andy, anyway,”
remarked Tom Barber. “He was always
a careful cove.”
* * * *
“Looby”: The weather was the sub-
ject, and ’Orrible Oswald was certain that
“There’s never been such weather as we
had one year back at Crazydump. Rain
“Private Nixon, report to the cookhouse —they're short of firewood
and sunshine all at once.” “Nothing un-
common in that,” said a nark. “Oh,
no?” snapped Oswald, “Well, this rain
was so strong it washed all our hens
away. They laid their last eggs as they
swirled into the flood, and the sun was
so strong it made the water so hot that
those eggs were washed up hard-boiled
two miles away.”
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: It was just on dusk
when Warroo Walters crossed the Iron
Bridge at Forbes and dropped his swag.
Round a turn in the road he sighted the
magic word “Hotel” and decided to camp
and drift up there later. Thus it was that,
keeping a wary eye out for Johns, Warroo
an hour or so later gave a couple of ten-
tative raps on the side door. He heard
a scurry inside and then silence. He went
back to the front and saw that the light
inside had gone out. He wenf to the
back, where a large and malevolent cattle-
dog prepared to greet him. Falling over
the fence, Warroo rattled the couple of
bob in his pocket, spat, thoughtfully eyed
the spout of smoke that arose from the
ground and again tried the side door.
This time an anxious voice inside asked
“Who is it?” “Me, Walters. I’m travel-
lin’.” The door opened and he was
dragged inside, only to find the place had
been delicensed for years and was now
a bagman’s camp, those inside having
thought he’d come to throw them out.
He nearly did, too, when he thought of
what he’d gone through.
“Walkabout”: It was raining and just
on midnight when Larry stumbled in
under the grandstand at the showground.
“Where’s your swag, mate?” one fellow
asked as Larry scraped a bit of straw to-
gether for a bed. “Swag?” said Larry.
“Y’ don’t need a swag where I come
from. I’ve been outback amongst the
wild blacks, where a man has to do all
his travellin’ at night and sleep in the
daytime. What do y’ reckon a man’d
want a swag for out there?”
“23-24”: Drop a tear for the passing
of Chillagoe (N.Q.); the State smelters,
the reason for its existence, are to close
on June 30. Chillagoe supported 1500
people, exclusive of politicians, in the
days when the Calcifer, Tea Tree,
Otho, Ruddygore, Zillmanton, Mul-
diva and Redcap claims were yielding,
but most of the high-grade ore is done
now, and the smelters have been treating
stuff from other parts. The place is still
good to live in, growing a lot of its own
tucker and proudly boasting that Sunday
is the only day you can’t get beer. There
are the Government-built homes, too,
with all mod. cons, and cheap rent. But
about the only occupation left for the
population left is to spend its time explor-
ing the caves, which Chillagoeans reckon
superior to those at Jenolan (N.S.W.) and
Margaret River (W.A.).
* * * *
“Eureka”: The John rode up just as
Dad arrived from the back paddock with
his pack of dogs, “You’ll have to register
two of those dogs,” he said. “The law
is that where a man owns more than
two dogs but uses them in connection
with his work two of the dogs must be
registered.” “All right,” Dad replied, “just
point out the two that’s got to be regis-
tered —I’m sellin’ a couple to Jim Scobie
this week, an’ it may as well be them as
any of the others. He’s got more cash to
chuck away on registrations than I have,”
* * * *
“Loc”; Timber takes in colors from its
surroundings as it stands, giving them
out again when burnt. Wood from hill-
tops which get plenty of sunlight burns
with bright orange and yellow flames,
while that found in gullies goes up in
blue and purple.
Jk 5k #
“Jonnick”: During the last war there
were thousands of axe-handles made from
Australian timbers. And good stuff they
were —comparable with hickory, ash or
any other handle wood. At a seaside
cottage let to short-term tenants, many
of them city axemen who on sinking the
head deep into a white-gum log wrenched
sideways, I had a stick of Victorian
mountain-ash serve for 13 years. Now
it has been replaced by a stick of W.A.
hardwood which gives promise of a
similar period of service.
* * * •
“8.G.”: In the year ’O9 I “swamped”
my way from Day Dawn (W.A.) to
Onslow with three camel teams. They
were all branded COB, and must have
been those Jimmy Nicholas brought from
India, They had been carting to Sand-
stone until the railway went through to
Mt. Magnet. There were no bulls or
cows among them, and most likely they
had been gelded after arriving in Aus-
tralia. I have never heard of that opera-
tion in a Moslem country.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Ma returned from the city
with a headful of new ideas in the .culi-
nary line, and a few days later began
putting them into effect. A tour of the
garden produced a carrot, a turnip and
a bunch of cabbage leaves. After a
lengthy session with the grater she at
midday presented Dad with a Whole
swarm of vitamins in colorful array. The
old man gaped at the collection, opened
his mouth to speak, then, thinking better
of it, sat down to dinner. All attempts
to draw him failed, and after hastily
gulping the meal he stumped outside in
dignified silence. Ma still plumps for
modern dietetics, claiming that a salad of
raw vegetables occasionally is good for
a man, but Dad never goes off without
cutting the stove-wood now.
ON THE TOORAWEENAH ROAD.
There is no “me” when the night comes down
And the blue-white skylights name,
For I am one with the tumbled peaks
Neitner time nor man can tame.
And i am one with the river’s tide
And one with the west wind s sigh,
And I can call to the earth and air
With the curlew’s wistful cry.
These hills have stood since the dawn of days
Aloof from the plains below,
As the bushmen stand in the crowded ways
Where the tame men come and go.
And never the hills have yielded yet,
And never the bushman yields;
For where’s the hand that can tame the rocks
Though it rule the conquered fields?
And he who hjis known the kiss of frost,
Savage and sharp and keen,
Will ride again to the lonely place
Where he and the hills have been,
To be with the Warrumbungle peaks
All one in the living space,
And ache, as the peaks, for the heights beyond
And the sky’s unravished face.
There is no fret in this old desire.
That I have shared with the hills,
To march through the sounding vault of night
On tracks where the stardust spills.
And there is no “me” when night comes down,
, Its cargo of dreams to load,
For I am one with the dreaming peaks
On the Tooraweenah road.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.
COAST BOAT.
1 have seen her riding the green swell
At the jetty’s end . -
While the great crane swung slowly out ana
down ,
Heavy with crates; and the seamen, brown
As pennies, worked on her scrubbed, white
decks
And the air was thick with her dark, coal smell.
I have heard them saying as she heeled
In the wind-racked bay:
“She’ll never put out,” but her engines roar
Made steadfast answer. To the listening shore
The wail of her sirens came. Black smoke
belched , , , . .
From her rolling funnels as she lurched and
reeled.
(The busy fisherfolk go out
Across the polished bay.
They trail the silver mullet shoal
That steels the breakers where they roll
From glassy green to grey.
This silver slither in the wet
Crisscrosses of the tar-dark net
Will fill her jfiold today.)
(The busy farmers tend the hills
Above the polished bay.
They sow the rows of pallid grain
In furrowed farmlands, through the rain
And days of blue and grey.
This herd atop the green hills rim
Will fill (he milking cans abrim
And send full cans away
On cream runs to the factories
Where butter slabs and rounds of cheese
Will fill her hold today.)
She comes no more with her dark, coal smell,
Smoke smudging the sky;
Her crates are matchwood on strange yellow
san( J S
And the great crane rusts slowly where it stands.
She steers no course by the cool white stars,
She rides no more on the long green swell.
N.S.W,
JOAN McEWEN.


SIGHTS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
*» 5 ■ ■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHTS" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Murrawong”: They attracted more
graziers than for several years past. For
good sheep from well-known studs com-
petition was keen and prices good, but
there was little demand for anything else.
Quality was much the same as last year.
At the opening merino sales 1200
guineas was got for a Bundemar ram,
and the stud sold others at 700, 450, 400,
350 and 325 guineas. Haddon Rig, Wah-
woon and Burrabogie rams also made
good prices. There was no blind rush to
ouy, however, and some lesser sheep did
not find a bidder. A number of sheep
were out of place with bad heads and
horns and poor covering lacking evenness.
One noticeable feature was the absence
of fine and superfine woolled rams. Most
of the studs which used to supply them
are no longer represented, and only one
stud had sheep of the type at the Sales.
The demand for fine wools was definitely
limited, as the general demand is for big-
framed, plain-bodied, strong-woolled
rams. There were fewer medium-type
rams.
Sheep Pups.
“Kiwi”: Give the pup a name and
teach him to answer and to lead. Tie him
up for brief periods only ; the feet of any
growing dog are ruined if it’s constantly
on the chain. At six months use a lead
in getting the pup under command,
and make the lessons short. Don’t
hurry or worry him. If he sulks on
the lead give him a spell. At the start
let him run on his own. When an-
other dog’s used he runs with the
dog and not on the sheep.
James Lilico, the well-known
Maoriland breeder, gives the first
lessons on a few sheep in an enclosed
space. He puts the sheep against a
fence and then moves them gently to
induce the pup to stop them. If the
pup rushes he isn’t severe; no pup
likes strong checking. Be patient in
getting the pup to approach the
sheep quietly.
Use a fence to train the dog to run
from either hand. Get him keen on
stopping the sheep when they start this
way or that, and he can be turned from
left or right hand alternately. Once
this idea’s gripped move the sheep out
from the fence and use the hand to send
him to head them in the open. Give him
a turn when there are a few sheep in
sight that can’t get away. Gradually
lengthen the runs, but never run a pup
on the blind.
There are no hard-and-fast rules for
heading. If the dog is to bring in sheep
out of sight start him on a wide cast to
allow for room to come in. If he has
an eye he casts of his own accord once
he sights the sheep. Train him to stop
after heading them. After that the
training becomes largely commonsense
and practice.
Wheat Position.
“Ben Cubbin”: Last year’s U.S. wheat
crop of 981,000,000 bushels pushed the
total of stored grain up to 1,608,000,000.
A rise in maize prices resulted in more
wheat being fed to stock, and there were
bigger grain and flour exports. It is
believed that this season demands at home
and abroad will amount to nearly
1.000. bushels, so that the carry-
over by June 30 will .be about the same
as last year, 627,000,000 bushels.
Canada has taken off a record
593.000. bushels and expects a carry-
over of 700,000,000 bushels as against
424,000,000 last year. The U.S. may have
to draw on some of that for stock feed-
ing, but since the total carryover will be
around 1,250,000,000 bushels the wheat
position is regarded as “quite comfort-
able.”
Plans are being discussed for rushing
wheat to countries freed from Axis con-
trol, apparently in the belief that it won’t
be long before there is an opening on the
European mainland, but there is an
exportable surplus in North Africa and
there is a dearth of grain ships. Aus-
tralia and Argentina will both have
claims to any European market, and
when war stops there is likely to be a
rush to grow wheat in Russia and the
Danubian countries.
At the beginning of May Australia
had about 207,000,000 bushels of wheat
on hand. All the evidence points to-. a
“Hurry up and close that door before y' let the insecks in.”
greatly-reduced crop area this season,
and some authorities even predict a cut
in the carryover after next harvest. No
serious attempt has yet been made to
turn any of the surplus into stock feed,
though the risk is growing that a lot
of the wheat will become feed for weevils
and mice.
The Wheat Board confesses to over-
drafts totalling about £30,000,000 on
various pools, claims that losses from
weevil since it took over in 1939 are only
a small fraction of a penny a bushel and
that it has made wheat available for
grinding into stock feed to replace bran
and pollard shortages. It also got in
early on the wheat-sack market and
covered the country’s requirements for
the next 15 months, which means a sav-
ing of about £1,250,000 already, the price
in Calcutta being the equivalent of £1 a
dozen to farmers here.
The Canadian Wheat Board has been
ordered to permit the marketing of
durum (biscuit and macaroni) wheats
grown last year. Previously sales had
been limited to 14 bushels per authorised
acre, but the 2,000,000 bushels thus
released didn’t relieve the shortage.
Macaroni is regarded as a valuable food
which can be a substitute for meat, a
notion the Australian wheat authorities
might interest themselves in, since durum
wheats can be grown here.
Maize Storage.
“Hortus”: The N.S.W. Marketing
Bureau estimates the State maize crop at
3,100,000 bushels, and some of it should
be stored.
Many growers won’t store maize be-
cause of loss through mould and weevils.
To beat mould don’t tank grain with a
moisture content above 14 per cent. If
in doubt send a small sample to the
Department of Agriculture for testing.
Weevils won’t trouble growers on the
northern tablelands, Inverell and s.-w.
slopes. If they are present use small
airtight tanks and fumigate with carbon
bisulphide. Weevils can’t live without
oxygen. Carb. bisulphide gas is in-
flammable, highly volatile and heavier
than air. It sinks to the bottom of the
tank. Pour on top of grain or place the
liquid in a shallow lid or saucer on the
top. Seal the tank thoroughly. Don’t
smoke or let any naked light come near
the gas.
Try small-capacity tanks. To break
into a large tank may necessitate re-
fumigation. A 1000-gallon tank will hold
about 130 bushels of maize, and £lb. of
carb. bisulphide will do the job.
If carb. bisulphide can’t be got place
a lighted candle on top of the grain and
seal the tank. This burns out the oxygen
and forms carbon dioxide, in which
no insect life will exist.
Pneumonia in Pigs.
“Plane Creek”: It either kills or
cripples. If a pig doesn’t go ahead
quickly after an attack put it out of its
misery.
The germ is always waiting in the
respiratory passages. It goes into action
when bodily resistance falls through
exposure to rain, draughts, faulty feed-
ing and lack of exercise. Cold is the
worst thing. The trouble isn’t hard to
recognise. The pig goes off its tucker
and acts as though exhausted, coughing
and breathing heavily ; water runs from
eyes and nose, temperature soars. The
pig may die within 24 hours. Isolate it
at once. Give clean water or milk and
some light, easily-digested tucker. If it
dies burn the body or bury it in quick-
lime.
There’s no cure; go for prevention.
Keep the pigs in good health by feeding
them well and allowing them plenty of
exercise, preferably in grazing paddocks.
Poorly-drained, draughty sties are death
traps.
Burn sties that have housed sick pigs
and plough and lime the ground. Wash
concrete or brick sties thoroughly with
boiling water, and spray with strong
disinfectant.
Guinea Grass.
“Plane Creek”; It first showed up in
the watercourses along the C.Q. coast,
quickly worked its way up minor gullies,
many of which are bone-dry for half the
year, and moved into heavy, black-soi
cane paddocks and rocky ridges, startlin
farmers, who classed it as yet anothe
creek-flat grass. It shot up on scrub burn
meant for bananas, and canegrowers fea
it more than nut grass.
The grass grows Bft. to 10ft. high o
moist creek flats, but it is a drough
resister. There is no* evidence that it
a soil-spoiler, but it should be kept ou
of cultivation paddocks. Quick growing
free seeding and long enduring, it ca
be checked by heavy frosts. It’s a favo
ite for chaff-making in C.Q. and goes we
with maize stalks, canetops, cowpea
elephant grass, etc. At no stage of growt
is it dangerous to stock. Patches can b
heavily grazed for years. Stock love it.
Propagation is possible by seed or roo
Stir the surface soil and broadcast th
seed thinly, or sow in shallow depres
sions 12in. apart in rows 12in. apart. ]
the seedlings come up thickly transplan
some of them to prevent overcrowding
Plant rooted sections 6in. to 12in. apai
in rows the same distance apart, Guine
grass is well worth trying, especially i
districts wher ePanicum muticun elephan
and Kikuyu grasses do well.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Test a cow’s general healt
by running a hand over her. The hid
should be soft, supple and sufficient!
loose over the ribs to enable a firm hole
to be taken. The coat should be clean
A tight leathery skin, closed pores and
dirty coat mean internal disorders o
malnutrition. Better feeding and a minera
mixture containing phosphates, iodine
and calcium may help.
“Goulburn”: When feeding saccaline
to dairy cows add lib. of either linseed-
meal or cottonseed-meal to every 151 b
of saccaline, or 21b. of bran to 151 b. oJ
chaff saccaline. Saccaline is very low in
protein.
“Mt. Boppy”; A cubic yard of well-set
pit silage weighs about half a ton. A
pit 65ft. long, 21ft. wide and 6ft. deep
measures roughly 300 cubic yards and
would contain about 150 tons of silage.
“Canbelego”: Plough deeply and early
for maize. At Grafton (N.S.W.) experi-
ment farm trials over seven years showed
that maize sown on land ploughed in May
yielded 59 bushels 71b. per acre compared
with 54 bushels 161 b. from land ploughed
in June and 48 bushels 351 b. from August
ploughing.
“B ”: Give piglets too much and they
turn against their food. Long periods
between meals cause trouble. Feeding
little and often turns out the better pig.
Mix the ration just before it’s wanted
and remove the left-overs before the
fresh food’s served. See that every pig
gets its share.
“B.”: To oil a tarpaulin stretch it out
on the floor of a shed and paint each
side once with two parts of raw and one
part of boiled linseed oil, adding enough
yellow ochre or vegetable black to give
it the right color. Work it well in and
allow ample time to dry. For the second
coat mix two parts of boiled and one
part of raw oil and enough vegetable
black to color. When the job’s done in
winter, add a little terebene to help the
drying.
“Peapod”: The M.L. Agricultural De-
partment expects to have 3000 acres
leased in the Auckland province alone
during the coming season to grow vege-
tables for the forces. Women will supply
most of the labor, and each worker is
expected to be able to tend seven acres.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. X. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s, 6d. post free.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL 4.GENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
hĥ
h
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
fron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTROM
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
“ACTION”
N.S.W. Air Raid Warden’s Official Magazine
says . . .
TORCHES recor de(T in the
1 The only cas L p 'plane’s recent
P -ThtS n t g over Sydneyr^nnd
badly gash«l her ie„
the air raid shd carry ing a
Possibly the Ja > , he accident hap
flashlight "_hci really dat '
pcned. H ,.f aeciSs of » ****
night, mo taken place • •
nature may have lf wardens
It would be a g°od the * ir area
spoke to houscho! t have thert
A rnake sure tnax. • order.
SmC^ibfe a refills have weakene
Stor'd bo renetved. , ..
heir
[rots
s of
.nee.
nach
soup
ways
L go
ieat,
uids
and
vita
Ma,
Die*.
Depar-
porat
her
deticj
and should bef e^ mnch as the
Daylight savi »> resulted
Sid -sre
Check your flashlight immediately!
When buying refills ash for
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
THE EXTRA LONG LIFE BATTERY
When you can see-
You're Safe!
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Hitler’s Long-war Plan.
(Condensed from an American “Legion Maga-
zine” article by Wythe Williams and William
van Narvig.)
Hitler still confidently expects to win
his war. The German military believe
they can last out a long war if the Nazi
party supplies the facilities it has under-
taken to deliver. And the German people,
though grumbling, still prom-
ises of their political and military leaders.
These definite conclusions result from a
study of factual reports from reliable
anti-Nazi sources within the Reich and
subject territories. ft
The only important modification in the
original Nazi war pattern is that Hitler
and the German people are no longer
confident of a quick victory. Today the
Supreme Command aims at emerging on
top after a grim war of attrition which
may run into years. All its current plans
are predicated on this conception.
Colonel-General Franz Haider, Chief
of the General Staff, was the first to put
forward the new proposal which has now
become the keystone of Nazi warfare.
A collapse of the Soviet Government
after it had weathered the first storm,
Haider argued, could no longer be ex-
pected. Resumption of offensive warfare
in 1942 along the entire front would sap
German strength beyond the danger
point. Germany was in for a long war:
if she expected to emerge victorious her
first consideration was to hold the Fort-
ress Europe at all costs. She must build
an agricultural and industrial “Arsenal
of the East”—the key to eventual Ger-
man victory. Unless this plan was carried
out, Haider predicted disaster.
Hitler accepted the new plan. The
territories designated as the Arsenal of
the East were placed under Nazi civil
control. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and
White Russia were lumped into the
colony of Ostland. To the south, the
colony of Ukraine was called into being.
To the east, a protective cordon of terri-
tory under direct military administration,
including the permanent East Wall forti-
fications, was laid out.
Meanwhile, General Haider executed
his 1942 military campaign. Virtually
its sole objective was to secure the
Ukraine against Russian attack, the Ost-
land being considered relatively safe.
Hence the push to the Volga and the
Caucasus. In conformity with their man-
power-conservation policy, the Nazis em-
ployed an increasing number of Italian
and Rumanian contingents, whose casual-
ties on the southern front amounted to
75 per cent, of the total.
But on September 1 last General Haider
was removed as Chief of the General
Staff. Colonel-General Jodi, now the
Reich’s dominant military figure, took
over. Jodi had been busy working
out a strategic plan of his own. He
accepted the principle of a war of attri-
tion as evolved by Haider, but added to
it a number of features predicated not
so much on European as on world stra-
tegic considerations. Reduced to simple
language, the nine points of the Jodi plan
are:
1. Hold the Fortress Europe and its
approaches (including the Tunisian bridge-
head).
2. Convert Europe into a single military
and economic unit.
3. Concentrate all sea warfare on the
submarine weapon. Increase the construc-
tion of new U-boats to at least 250 a year,
or five times the expected maximum losses.
Since a U-boat sinks an average of 100,000
tons of shipping during its lifetime, this
will compel the Allies to build 25,000,000
tons of shipping annually if they are to
keep pace.
4. Conduct all future actions against
Russia from a negative point of view—that
is, destroy rather than absorb Russian
means of existence so as to create an
ever-increasing strain on Anglo-American
replacement capacity.
5. Shift the centre of Reich war industry
to the east and immunise facilities needed
in the west by constructing concrete under-
ground workshops. Forget about urban
residential districts —their bombing will
speed the eastward stream of the working
population.
6. Increase alien participation in whatever
fighting in Russia will be deemed neces-
sary, thus conserving German man-power.
7. Husband the Luftwaffe’s offensive
power, especially in flying personnel, so as
to store it up for the day when the Allies
undertake their big attempt against the
Fortress Europe from the west. Do not
be goaded into purely retaliatory air offen-
sives.
(g, 8. Maintain and increase the quietly
functioning information channels from the
United States. Do not antagonise the
American people unnecessarily with indus-
trial sabotage or token bombings. It is
more profitable to sink the finished Ameri-
can products in the thousands ot mifes of
vulnerable sea lanes than it is to hamper
their production at home.
9. Concentrate propaganda to America
on this sinking wastage, pounding home
facts and figures. Then the American
people will wake up to the fact that the
products of their toil are thrown to an
insatiable Moloch and that they are be-
coming a nation of paupers. This trend
will increase if the Anglo-American attempt
against the Fortress Europe is made and
repulsed with bloody losses. The way will
then be open for an understanding.
Such, in substance and actual citation,
is the Jodi plan. General Jodi has told
the Nazis in unmistakable language that
its success is entirely contingent upon
their organisation of the Arsenal of the
East and the outcome of the greater Ü-
boat campaign.
The Nazis have undertaken to deliver.
-U-boats are being launched at a rate of
almost one a day. Fresh crews are in
constant training. Vast new underground
garages, virtually indestructible by bomb-
ing, are being blasted out of rock or
built of concrete walls 10 feet thick.
The U-boat itself has been given more
efficiency, cruising range, armament and
manoeuvrability. It is now of such
ceptionally sturdy construction that it can
submerge to 600 feet, beyond the limit
of ordinary depth charges. Diesel engines
of a new design eliminate heavy electric
motors and storage batteries, thus provid-
ing greater manoeuvrability as well as
additional space for torpedoes. Smaller
tubes permit standardisation of torpedo-
manufacture for aircraft, torpedo-boats
and submarines. Retractable deck guns
can open fire almost at the split second
of coming to the surface, with the fire
power of a corvette.
These new U-boats no longer hunt
singly or in small packs, but frequently in
flotillas of 12 or more. The originator
of this hunting tactic, Admiral Karl
Donitz, has been made Grand Admiral
of the German Navy.
The Nazis are also feverishly active in
building their Arsenal of the East. They
have thrown their full organisational
effort into Ostland and the Ukraine, send-
ing in an agricultural population of more
than 800,000, .recruited in central and
western Europe. They are drawing on
Russian prisoners of war and on the
native population. Four out of every five
women under 50 years of age in occupied
Russia have been harnessed for hard
physical labor. Children 12 years old
and up —sometimes even younger —must
put in a full day’s work.
Thus we see the Fortress Europe, as
envisioned in the Jodi plan, protected in
the west by a formidable triple chain of
fortifications from the North Cape of
Norway to the Spanish border, now being
augmented by similar ramparts along the
French and Italian Mediterranean coasts
to Greece ; defended in the east by a
belt of hedgehog defences on the Russian
front maintained by the Wehrmacht with
a prodigious sprinkling of satellite
soldiery and pushed forward gradually
year after year; in the centre, the huge
sweatshop of a continent at war; and,
to feed and maintain that sweatshop, an
Arsenal of the East based on ruthless
exploitation of the soil and its children.
Air Power Limits.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. “Times”
North Africa correspondent .)
With thousands of ’planes in the air
and their results dramatic in the extreme,
the impression might have been given
abroad that air power decided the issue
when the Eighth Army broke through
enemy lines at Wadi el Akarit and the
Tunisian campaign began to take on a
new complexion.
No one will deny the great part that
aviation has played. Yet in North Africa
it has been demonstrated that, whatever
their future possibilities, ’planes alone
cannot decide an issue. They are super-
mobile artillery of advancing or retreat-
ing infantry, as destructive a force as
naval ships. They fly fast when there is
no opposition in the air. In fact, they
may play almost a lone part on the sea,
although not in ground warfare, and are
essential when the enemy has ’planes in
the air. In other words, they act as artil-
lery or any other essential arm of the
service on land. Armies can no more
advance without ’planes than they can
without heavy artillery, and the lack of
both when the enemy is in possession is
catastrophic.
Here we have seen air power used at
its best under Air Marshal Sir Arthur
Tedder, No one who has watched it at
work can deny its effect on morale or
its destructiveness. Similarly, no one
who has seen aviation in action from
underneath can fail to realise its limited
effect at this stage of its development.
The writer has seen Axis aircraft score
direct hits on a rail station, and seen the


“Pass the hat for
• your credits *
mmm. i
m
m
mm
m
y*
1
H
In war, as in sport, it is teamwork
tkat counts. Production, transport, armed forces and
the mighty pattern of modern war organisation form
a whole that works to one end—maximum striking
power ! All these factors have one thing in common
their cost comes high, particularly when seven million
people wage a full scale war. It’s up to each one of us
to see that it is met. It’s our job and our privilege
to buy National Savings Bonds and War Savings Cer-
tificates so fill the hat for your credit’s sake, and
lend, lend, lend!
This advertisement is inserted by the
-
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
Breks Trousers Sovereign Hats
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys to filter from the
blood Uric Acid Poisons, which cause
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, and
other ailments caused by disordered
kidneys. They make you well and
keep you well.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
me repaired within eight hours, before
we had equality, let alone overwhelming
superiority. He has seen troops rally
after three straight days of bombing and
seen convoys move with the loss of rela-
tively few vessels, despite aerial activity.
Much of discussion about air power
has come from German demonstrations
in Poland and France and American
demonstrations in the Pacific theatre. Ex-
cept second-hand, this correspondent
knows nothing about these, but he does
know what has occurred in this theatre,
which, since the Luftwaffe and second-
arily the Italian Air Force have been
fought, provides a preview of Europe.
What his observation, which is com-
mon to reporters on the ground, amounts
to is this: Aviation or the absence of it
can slow the enemy, hamper him and
increase the tempo of retreat of forces on
the ground through attacking supplies
behind the lines and lessening, although
not eliminating, their Row. It can aid
ground forces by knocking out artillery
emplacements to some extent, although
not completely. It can aid in demoralis-
ing the enemy.
What Air Marshal Tedder achieved is
the breakdown of the rapidly growing
theory that air power is all. He has used
air power in its proper perspective to hit
the sea lanes, landing fields of the enemy
air force and ground installations with a
proper distribution of heavy and medium
bombing aircraft, plus fighter aircraft
and those tied directly to ground opera-
tions. As in Tunisia, that should prove
a big help when we go into Europe.
Hate Wins Few, Victories.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article.)
Undoubtedly, there are plenty of
reasons to hate our enemies. The people
in the occupied countries of Europe who
live under the Nazi terror, which has
murdered more than 3,000,000 innocent
people, can be relied on to hate their
oppressors. Those who know what the
Japanese have done to captured soldiers
and civilians could not exclude hate from
their hearts if they wanted to.
But this has not much to do with win-
ning the war, and certainly nothing at all
to do with making the peace. In the
last war there was a “Hymn of Hate” and
the slogan “Gott Strafe England!” de-
signed to stimulate the population to
struggle harder. Whether they did or
not does not make much difference, be-
cause the war was won by the Allies.
There were, to be sure, atrocity stories,
most of them of dubious authenticity,
but the mood of the Allied peoples re-
sponded far more to Woodrow Wilson’s
interpretation of the war as a crusade on
behalf of democracy for friend and foe
alike.
Unfortunately, at the Versailles peace
table considerable hate got into the de-
liberations, and that hatred and humilia-
tion, probably more than the peace terms
themselves, account for the rise of Hitler
and the Nazis. But even Hitler got the
point of the futility of hate as a force
for winning wars. All his early cam-
paigns were conducted with the
semblance of high regard for the peoples
or the conquered countries, who were
represented as the victims of stupid war-
mongering leaders. German soldiers took
Denmark and Norway with their bands
playing festive music. In France and
Belgium they distributed chocolate to the
children and were meticulously polite to
the civilians. Of course, the Nazis adopted
more brutal methods when the conquered
peoples refused to be hoodwinked, but
Hitler’s early conduct reveals his under-
standing that hate was not enough. In
Russia the Nazis from the first adopted
ruthlessness, thereby arousing in the
Russians the fanatical zeal which has
proved Hitler’s undoing.
War is a grim and unpleasant busi-
ness, and hate blazes up inevitably before
it is over. But the words of Mme. Chiang
Kai-shek, whose country has ample
cause for bitterness, that “recrimination
and hatred will lead us nowhere” are a
telling rebuke to those who urge hate,
even synthetic hate, as a national policy.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
New York “Times” correspondent Frank
Kluckliohn was gaoled for 10 days in North
Africa by the British Army. He impugned the
motives of British military leaders. He tried to
send a service message to his paper in New
York— nipt for publication but for the editor’s
information to this effect: “The British are
using other troops to do the dirty work in
North Africa, so they can march up the coast
to victory.” It is suspected that Kluckliohn
heard this tale of criticism from some dis-
gruntled French or American soldiers and sent
it on. But the censor caught it, and referred
it to Gen. Montgomery, who is a rigid dis-
ciplinarian. Incensed and infuriated at the
utter ralsity” of the story, he is reported to
nave said: “They call me a martinet; well, by
God, this time I’ll behave like one.” So he
threw Kluckhohn in the clink for 10 days
When Montgomery commanded the Third
Division in France, before the fall, he called it
the Iron Division, and took great pride in the
ability of his men to do all the dirty work
of war. Comrades say he has the same feeling
about his Eighth Army.— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
5Jt JjC $ 5P
In some of the official conferences on post-
war adjustment, the view is being expressed
that Russia will be about the only victor who
can accept reparations from Germany after this
war. The reason is that Britain and U.S. will
only be building up a competitor if they insist
upon receiving large quantities of goods
from Germany, and will run into objections
from domestic manufacturers. — “United States
News.”
* * * *
It is fitting and inevitable that the,final de-
cision in this war, as in the last, should again
fall in the west. For a while it seemed as if
the decision might fall in the east, where many
battles have been fought between European
and Asiatic forces, and especially between Slav
and Teuton, in the past without ever producing
a decisive result. Now, unless all signs de-
ceive, the present titanic struggle in the east
has also ended in a stalemate. For it seems
apparent now that Germany cannot defeat
Russia, and that Russia cannot defeat Ger-
many.—N. Y. “Times.”
* * *
One day Washington got a radiogram from
General MacArthur, in Australia, asking for
several thousand special devices for his ’planes.
The standard equipment he had would not work
well, and he wanted replacements—fast. It’s
28 days by freighter from San Francisco to
Australia, but in exactly two days 14 hours
after General MacArthur sent his radio mes-
sage an Air Transport Command ’plane landed
at his headquarters with 5000 pounds of these
devices. “Direct from manufacturer to con-
sumer,” you might say. Up in Alaska a 24-
bed hospital was burned to the ground. The
Air Transport Command flew in a brand-new
hospital, complete from roof to thermometers,
in 36 hours. In Libya the first fighting ’planes
to arrive soon encountered trouble from sand
sifting into one part of the mechanism. A
factory expert was flown in from the States —
he inspected the damage, sketched a “sand
shield” suitable for the part. And in two weeks
from the first hurry call 2000 of these acces-
sories (which nobody had ever heard of be-
fore) were in Libya from a factory in the
Middle West. — Major William N. Vickers, in
N.Y. “Herald Tribune’' supplement.
* * * *
The layman looks at a Flying Fortress and
sees one sleek, streamlined machine. An air-
craft builder looks at the same Flying Fortress
and sees 110,000 separate parts, welded and
together by thousands of men and
women, most of whom never saw the inside
of a bomber until less than a year ago. The
110,000 parts flow together in continuous
streams, which have to join at the right moment
somewhere along the assembly line, or else
there is a slowdown or a stop in production.
A good share of the parts are not made in the
factory assembling the ’plane; they flow from
6000 plants scattered over the United States. —
Leading U.S. ’plane manufacturer Donald W.
Douglas.
* * 4= *
The strategy of hunger is a Nazi invention —
the most devilish of all. Nazi scientists con-
tend that in the long run starvation does not
lead to revolt and revolution, as optimistic
observers in the Allied countries believe, but
to apathy and submission; that hunger will
accomplish what terrorism and execution squads
fail to do. When unemployed Czech and
French workers refused to accept jobs in Ger-
man war industries, their families’ rationing
cards were taken away. After some time they
were informed that there was plenty of food in
the Rhineland, Silesia or some other German
industrial centre. In many cases they finally
were willing to become slaves. Even heroic men
cannot bear to see their beloved ones die of
slow, painful starvation. — Joseph Wechsberg;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” supplement.
* * * *
“The Japs heretofore have needed the
$10,000,000 in fish they get off Kamchatka
Peninsula, but this year they have all the food
they need in conquered territory. But they
can use the weather stations there to watch
over the Aleutian Islands.” — Alaskan priest
Rev. Bernard R. Hubbard, commenting on the
Russian-]apanese fishing agreement recently
renewed.
* * * *
In the United Kingdom many people appear
to think that when Hitler and Mussolini have
been disposed of it will be a simple matter
to crush the Japanese. This is wishful thinking
of the most dangerous kind. — From a Man-
chester “Guardian *■’ article by H. G. Wood-
head, editor of “Oriental Affairs.’’’
* * * *
"There has been lots of discussion as to
whether our claims of enemy losses are credit-
able,” said Maj.-Gen. Eaker, commander of the
U.S. Army Air Force in Britain. “I am quite
certain our claims are high. In fact, I have
no doubt they are. There is no way to check
them exactly, but an enemy ’plane attacking our
formations is fired on by several ships, all of
which claim him. The important thing to re-
member is that claims don’t make the slightest
difference. The enemy knows how many of his
craft are knocked down, and it doesn’t make
any difference what we say.”— London corre-
spondent, U.S. United Press.


■ 8a
cue*
OLe
<d 35
FACING N PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . , . yet
it is merely ‘round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
TAF WENTWORTH
in Ljctue^ PJ-
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
25th May, W,S.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The audited Statement of Accounts' for the
year ending 31st March, 1943, together with
the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports, have
been printed and sent on to Shareholders
I accordingly propose that they be taken as
read and, if you agree, will later move their
adoption.
Perusal of the Accounts will show that the
Company has more than maintained its gross
earning capacity, and it is gratifying to re-
port an increase in turnover as compared with
previous years. This increase has been
brought about principally by improvement in
seasonal conditions, creating more activity
in our Branches, where sales of stock have
considerably increased.
SEASONAL CONDITIONS.
The year 1942 commenced with a poor carry-
over of feed, and graziers were in an anxious
position when excellent rains fell during the
months of May and June. These rains were
accompanied by most favorable weather con-
ditions, resulting in a prolific growth of grass
and crops in most areas. The season, after
some fluctuations, finished satisfactorily; in
fact, in some areas it was considered one of
the best for many years.
As a result of good prices for wool and fat
stock, graziers generally had an excellent
year, but at the moment the position is again
giving cause for anxiety. The water position
is worse than usual, and a large number of
graziers in Riverina and Northern Victoria
are hand-feeding their stock.
WAR-TIME CONTROLS.
War-time financial control has caused re-
striction of business in various channels, the
objective of Government being the mainten-
ance of financial stability by stemming the
inflationary trend. With the heavy war ex-
penditure to which Australia is now commit-
ted—about five hundred and fifty millions per
annum—such controls are essential, and, sub-
ject to the imposing of the least possible hard-
ship, must be recognised as the soundest
method of dealing with the present situation,
however irksome they may be.
We are certainly fortunate in that our
Wool has been sold for the duration of the
War and one year thereafter at 15.453 d. per lb.
Australian currency, which has given a con-
siderable measure of stability to Australian
finance as well as to the industry, in that it
means a return of about 70 millions per
annum, in addition being the main factor to
this country in providing London funds.
RESTRICTION OF PRODUCTION.
I would like to say a few words about re-
striction of production in primary industries
as has been suggested from time to time: —
The Pastoral Is our principal income-pro-
ducing Industry, and today Australia possesses
about 125 million sheep. Droughts and other
visitations of nature, over which we have little
control, deplete our flocks from time to time.
and at present additional difficulties hare
appeared, such as lack of man-power and of
superphosphate. Such causes as these have
always been limiting factors, unfortunately,
without any planned restrictions, and it is to
be hoped there will be no interference in this
respect. Many men have a lifetime —and some
families generations—of experience in this
Industry. They can be safely trusted to
carry out national requirements at this period
(when advised what is necessary) and, at the
same time, maintain production to the highest
degree, consistent with prudence gained by
experience.
I make this suggestion to Governments
that planning to reduce the cost of production
would be timely in this industry.
EARNING CAPACITY OF SHARE-
HOLDERS’ FUNDS.
Total taxation amounts to £3 13s. Od. por #
cent, on the subscribed capital, after adding
Payroll tax of £2,800 to the amount provided
for Income Tax, whilst the return on Share-
holders’ funds used in the business is £3 Bs. fid.
per cent.
I would point out that, although since the
outbreak of war there has been a rise in all
Arbitration Court Awards and increases in
all running costs, our business charges have
in no way been raised to the grower, and 1
am sure that Wool Growers and Stock Owners
will appreciate that, whilst we endeavor to
conduct our business as efficiently as possible,
the fact that we can only earn £3 Bs. fid. per
cent, on Shareholders’ funds is a striking
indication that their business is being carried
out for them at extraordinarily low rates
during this war period.
STAFF.
I would like to express our appreciation to
the Staff for their willing and efficient co-
operation during the year. Difficulties and
man-power problems are continually arising,
as the result of war-time emergency conditions,
but I am happy to say that they are being
met with a spirit of goodwill, which is grate-
fully acknowledged by the management.
We have now 40 per-cent, of our permanent
Staff away on active service.
It is with great regret that I report that
Flight-Lieutenant Hector C. McKenzie has
been killed in Egypt.
I am pleased to report the return of Gunner
Alister Cameron, \Vho was wounded at Tobruk
and discharged as unfit for further active
service; He is now in charge of our Casterton
office.
I have now to' advise that your Directors
recommend the payment of a final dividend
of per cent., making a total of per cent,
for the year.
I append a short statement by our Senior
Wool Valuer, Mr. Geo. Ramsden, in reference
to the appraisement of the last year’s Clip.
I will now formally move the adoption of
the Report and Balance Sheet, and will ask
some Shareholder to second the motion, when
the matter will be open for discussion.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, *42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER— I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May. ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
case, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, '42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
woman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelraan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Aame
A ddress
151
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Savage Messiah, by Ede, The Bush-
ranger’s Sweetheart, by Hume Nesbitt, and The
White Peacock, by D. H. Lawrence.—3349.
To buy Diesel Engineering Book (with
Answers), also Diesel Refrigerator Book, both
by Audel. —3350.
Information Sought.
(1) Can the Director of Man-power or his
deputy force any person (male or female) to
undertake any prescribed work? (2) Must the
person comply with such directions ? (3) Can
the person so employed change his position by
means of a mutual agreement between himself
and employer ? (4) What persons are exempt
from the provisions of the regulation?
(1) Under Regulation 15 of the National
Security (Man-power) Regulations the Director-
General of Man-power may direct any person
resident in Australia to engage in employment
under the direction and control of the employer
specified in the direction or to perform work or
services (whether for a specified employer or
not) specified in the direction. (2) Any person
on whom a direction is served is bound to
comply with it and with all proper instruc-
tions given to him in relation to the said em-
ployment, work or services by the employer or
other person specified in the direction. (3)
Neither the employer nor the employee may
terminate the employment without the consent
in writing of the Director-General or a person
authorised by him. (4) (a) The representatives
in Australia of the Governments of foreign
countries and the King’s dominions outside
Australia; (b) foreign Consuls; (c) members of
the defence force and the women’s auxiliaries
connected therewith, prisoners of war and in-
ternees and members of the armed forces 9f the
United Kingdom, other parts of his Majesty’s
dominions and foreign Powers associated with
his Majesty in the present war.
What is the nature of the legal powers exer-
cised by the Egg Marketing Board in N.S.W. ?
Regulations made under the Marketing of
Primary Products Act specifically include pro-
ducers who own or control 20 or more adult
female fowls, and all eggs save those required
by a producer for his own use for food in his
family or for incubation for the purpose of
increasing his flock. The board was formed
to stabilise the market for the poultry-farming
industry generally and in the course of its
business has occasion to stabilise for the
poultry-farmers in respect of eggs diverted to
uses other than the local market but for which
producers are paid the full local market prices,
irrespective of the realisation. The funds' to
enable the board to meet the costs of this
equalisation are collected from the industry pro-
portionately to the quantity sold.
What are the conditions of Rhodes Scholar-
ships ? What education is necessary to partici-
pate in examinations for the scholarship?
The Rhodes Scholarship is tenable at Oxford
University. One scholarship a year is assigned
to each State in the Commonwealth. Candidates
may have graduated or have completed portion
of a degree course. Recommendations are
made to the trustees by a selection committee.
Secretary to committee in N- S. Wales is Dr.
R. B. Madgwick, University of Sydney.
(1) What are the recognised proportional
stakes in the game of solo whist (generally
known as plain “solo”) ? (2) Name of the
Russian composer who is reported to have
written a symphony during the bombardment
of Leningrad and to have drawn inspiration
from the noises? (3) What noted composer of
the classical school died this year?
(1) The usual Australian form of solo, a com-
bination of solo whist and auction bridge, is
not prescribed for by the recognised card
authorities. Ratio of stakes is somewhere
round: Solo and other bids up to eight, one
chip less than the number of tricks actually
taken; little misere, four chips; misere, nine;
abundance, 12; open misere, 18; abundance
declaree, 24. (2) Dmitri Shostakovitch. (3)
Sergei Vasilievitch Rachmaninoff.
(1) An elderly married couple (with children)
in N.S.W. are jointly paying off a Rural Bank
house. What would the other’s legal position
be if one dies? (2) What would be the posi-
tion if the couple lived in Q’land and were
without children ?
(1) If the couple own the property jointly,
then on the death of one the other takes the
whole of the property. Absence of will or
existence of children makes no difference. (2)
Tire position is the same. o
What would be the probable results of a race
between man and horse over distances of one
furlong and one hundred yards?
Basing ideas on the fact that 15sec. is good
time for a horse over a furlong while 20sec.
would be better than good time for a man,
the horse would win in a canter at that dis-
tance. Over the hundred, both man and horse
would be slower relatively, as both would lose
time j n starting, but it is unlikely that a man
would be able by quicker starting to make up
for the horse’s extra speed, once the latter was
started.
D • f Answers
Drier Answers.
H.L.: (1) Born Sydney, June 2, 1920. (2)
Victor Patrick Lucca. (3) First fight at Carlton,
Sydney, May 24, 1941, when he knocked out Les
Schocker in fourth round... .W.J.: Seeds of
tbe 30 avocados could probably be obtained
f rom the Queensland Agriculture Dept
JK B . The Australian Community, A Critical
Approach to Citizenship, price 3s. 9d., is
obtainable from Angus and Robertson, Syd-
RT . For and concrete work t he
ma t e rials must be free from vegetable matter
a nd clay F.L.: Prices for kangaroo skins
are: Medium to large, 49d. to 120 and.; small,
25d _ tQ f 12d . to 76d- Large scrub
walfaby are worth 15d . to 2 9d T.S.: Giant
or Mammoth Russian sunflowers carry a head
up to 15in. in diameter, with a large seed,
j b js variety, being inferior to the white and
chequered type, has an oil content of about
onJ 2g while the latter may hold almost
p. c ..*. F . L .A.: If the wool needs washing,
do £ before tanning ... . D . N . ; Fungus diseases
are responsible for serious losses in pears when
cool . st £ red f j periods... .F.F.: No
knowled of that ver se....J.G.: A person
]iable t£ f register who fails to do so (there-
fore without an identity card) can be prose-
cuted-- -LC : A good home-made tick
serum j s obtained by washing 11b. bracken
f em (plants complete with roots), then
thoroughly pulverising and boiling same in one
quart of water for half hour Drain off
? emair) - liquid and adminis ter (cold) one
t9 ui M nnn r ifnl hnnrlv to the animal FC •
Sormafion unattainable CAL A V None
StaStos* it
ol me mam booksellers nas it.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
j g ;
"‘Much!” Have you ever heard it used
And wondered what it meant?
It’s the appendage of orations enthused,
A word that’s heaven-sent,
“Much!’’ With its applications divers
„ Used to ,
of necessity converted,
“Much!” Is used by politicians
When speaking of their aim
And when discoursing about conditions
D .'' of hoof ”
From a one . hoJse, doubtless.. /.E.F.S :
aii entitled or
£ll PO«M orp e ?u' noem
fa MfSS? lv sSttoeS *Tr - A Stfp™
wr^n y g ’ Watties* waiatahsi
drougb t s , and floods have been observed before.
A.G.R.: Might be better as a sketch or
b
short story A.D.: Don't know where you
could publish them K.H.: Sentimentalised.
J.W.: Find some less-hackneyed rhymes,
M.H.: Call again M.N.: Only in the
second stanza is it real and original K.T.:
Deadly dull J.S.P.: Egbert Eggwqg isn’t
amusing, and we don’t like people addicted to
“edicting.”


&
\T
vQj/HtK TRANSM
robiem
m
s
Illustrating
tbe LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
5 U 0 9/iaCf
s.i 3 imoani
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
leather
BELT I N G
PULLEYs
i
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
m
m
LUDOWICI'S
PfiUt/TP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
'THAT
The
An Executor’s Task
is an Expert’s Task
Executorship is not a task lightly to be imposed upon anyone. It is not always
a kindly act to appoint a friend to carry out the responsible and onerous work
associated with the administration of an estate. With the best intentions in
the world he can fail to perform the duties in the best interests of the
beneficiaries. He may not survive the completion of his task and your affairs
can pass into the hands of one in whom you would have less confidence.
The obvious thing is to appoint an expert executor who never dies.
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. is a permanent institution under experienced
and capable direction. If you would like to have details of the service which
it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the necessary information.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
%
Burns Philp Trust
C O A\ PANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. S»DII E I r
PHONE: B 7901. ' Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4-43
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. To
Feb., Profit. 4 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,609 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,986 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
64 p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
® 7 p.c.
1937.. 254,383 235,333* 1
To special centenary fund, - 4,995,914
£20,000 J
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939’., 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,458 5,009,809
1941.. 188.129 191,333 5,006,605
6 p.c.
1942.. 174,068 169,000 5,068 5,011,673
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
Australia’s most blatant political
opportunist. Minister for Labor Ward,
recently talked about socialising the
banks and other things. Exactly what he
meant he didn’t bother to explain. But
Prime Minister Curtin made it quite
clear that there was no Cabinet sanction
for Mr. Ward’s statement. Later,
Treasurer Chifley, outlining the Govern-
ment’s post-war plans, said “Australia
would want neither a go-as-you-please
economic freedom nor continued
restraints and directions.” He further
added “it is the broad aim of our recon-
struction policy to give greater security
of employment and to raise the standard
of living.” With these statements nobody
will quarrel on the broad ground of
principle. The vital factor will be the
methods adopted in implementing such a
policy, and what these methods will be
remains to be seen.
The wings of the trading banks have
already been clipped closer than those of
most other traders. Indeed, the banks
are the only traders for whom a profit
ceiling has been fixed by law, the upper
limit being the average annual trading
profit for the three years to August,
1939. And in calculating that limit no
allowance is made for increased taxation
or the leap in costs due to the war.
Also, the trading banks are obliged to
keep in step with the central bank in
matters of policy relating to advances,
buying public securities, and interest
rates —-the maximum rate chargeable is
5 p.c. Further, their surplus investible
funds (the growth in Australian deposits
since August, 1939) have to be deposited
with the central institution at a nominal
rate of interest —now 15s, p.c.—and all
foreign exchange transactions are con-
trolled by the central bank, too.
Both earnings of the trading banks and
their power to influence monetary policy
have been thus effectively tethered by
regulation, while the central bank,
charged with carrying out the monetary
policy of Parliament, has been given
wider control over credit and, within the
limits of its influence, power to deal
with encroachments by private enterprise
on labor and materials needed by the
Government. Until such time as restric-
tions on lending to the public and invest-
ing in Government securities, etc., are
modified or removed, so as to permit the
banks a little relief from the growing
burden of taxation and costs, so long will
their profits remain at a low level. To
help lighten the load, trading hours have
been shortened and, where there has been
overlapping, branches have been closed.
The trading banks were an important
factor in the smoothness with which trade
and industry switched from peace to war
conditions. Also, big changes in the
nature of industrial production and
increasing volume of output have been
achieved despite overlapping and waste
and muddling and inefficiency arising out
of ignorance and inexperience of director-
ates, boards and departments set up by
the Government to operate the network
of controls and restrictions that now
hedge in all but war activity. In the
post-war reconstruction much will depend
upon finding a correct balance between
the freedom necessary for the people’s
self-respect and the control necessary for
their well-being. From the banking aspect
of our many-sided post-war problems
best results will only be obtained if all,
or most, of the fetters now binding the
trading banks are removed.
How well equipped the Union is to
assist customers is seen in the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
1939. 1941. 1942.
Notes .. .. £7,556 £7,538 £7,530
Rills, etc. .. 1,667,251 2,292,879 ) roCI „ 00 ,
Deposits • .. 38,743,599 45,075,396 j
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 13,530,269 23,072,051 31,881,292
Advances .. 35,483,941 32,803,515 29,365,377
Premises .. 538,546 617,186 682,045
Expansion of £5,442,652 in the combined
bills and deposits figures is due partly
to growth of current accounts and partly
to provision for contingencies, previously
deducted from advances in the published
sheet. Restricted lending and prompt
payment for primary products shows up
in the contraction of £3,438,138 in
advances. Including £3,940,000 special
war-time deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank, liquids (up £8,809,241) were equal
to 60.3 p.c. of liabilities to the public.
A very strong position, but it means low
earning-power.
Last year’s net earnings were only 4.3
p.c. on capital, or a mere 1.9 p.c. on capi-
tal and reserves combined. A point was
chipped off the nominal rate of div.,
reducing it to 6 p.c., equal to 5.9 p.c. in
Australian currency after allowing for
exchange and English taxation at ss. lid.
in the pound. But share premiums make
the div. worth little more than half the
rate received on most of the £4,000,000
of share capital.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 6| p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 63,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 .. .. 58,292
Written off, £3258 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. .. 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. .. 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. .. 61,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,268 50,353
Share premiums, £65 .. .. 50,418
Insurance claims, £1.279 .. .. 49,139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
Insurance claims, £l2o£ , .... 46,479
1939.. 14,807 6 p.c. = 14,963 46,323
Insurance claims, £1224 .. .. 45,099
1940.. 18,604 6 p.c. = 14,963 3,641 48,740
Share premiums, £45 .. .. 48,785
Insurance claims, £1053 .. .. 47,732
1941.. 14,635 6 p.c. = 15,000 47,367
Capital profit, £20,465 . . .. 67,832
Premium reserve disappears, £862.. 66,970
Insurance claims, £2176 .. .. 64,794
1942.. 9,384 4 p.c. = 10,000 64,178.
Ferry traffic is to be brought under the
direction of the Federal Road Transport
Commissioner. The nature and extent
of this control haven’t been announced,
so their effect remains to be seen. How-
ever, in these days of Government-con-
trolled everything, except costs (with
which the trader is left to struggle), it is
doubtful whether anything better than
the present 4 p.c. need be looked for.
Another matter of importance to share-
holders will be the amount the co. is
allowed to set aside for depreciation of
its chief earning asset, ship property, etc.
Last term the best revenue-producers—
the two showboats specially fitted out for
harbor tourist traffic —were requisitioned
just before the busiest part of the season.
Negotiations for compensation, expected
to be on a rental basis, are proceeding.
Loss of takings from this source was only
partly recouped by substitution of ordi-
nary ferries. Also, two boats from the
Milson’s Point run and three that were
out of commission were sold to the Gov-
ernment at unstated prices. Payment was
received for two of them, and a capital
profit of £20,465 (Is. 7\ d. per pound of
paid capital) showed up. The subsidiary
also made a capital profit of £2647 on
sale of two new tugs and 34 lighters to
the Government.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the parent and its offshdot:
Sydney Ferries and Subsidiary-.
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £201,155 £249,387 £250,000 £250,000
Net reserves*., 62,276 52,309 63,319 72,109
Creditors! . . 25,092 33,540 32,470 28,438
Landed property 107,286 95,182 89,609 86,947
Ship property 131,904 202,852 178,318 153,355
Plant & wharves 12,949’ 9,750 8,217 7,002
Stocks & stores 8,227 9,542 14,075 15,673
Debtors . . 20,230 17,610 25,36‘J 29,156
Cash, etc. .. 14,481 7,790 27,710 62,164
* After final divs. f Including’ taxation.
The year’s net reduction in the book value
of ship property was £24,963. Although
the fleet is valued well below either re-
placement or market value, the fact that
the co. operates a public utility has
already resulted in Government interfer-
ence, which may mean more moderate
divs. than were received during the past
decade. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£78,555) was
£43,871, thanks to the sales already men-
tioned. And final payments are still to
come in. v
When the books closed there were 29
vessels in the fleet, of which 26 were in
commission. Chief runs are Mosman,
Cremorne, Athol, Neutral Bay and Lane
Cove. Last year the factors enumerated
produced the sharp contraction of £5251
in the profit figure, which includes trans-
fers from the insurance fund and what-
ever the wholly-owned subsidiary. Har-
bor Land and Transport Co. (paid capi-
tal £107,008), may have sent along. After
deducting the £2176 that came from the
insurance fund, the parent’s profit (£7208)
was only 2.9 p.c. on capital as against
5.4, 6.9, 5.4, 4.9, 4.6 and 4.2 p.c. back
to 1936. Combined depreciation was
£9320.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 366 Nil 81,407
To stafi fund, £B3l 80,576
Written off, £9000.. .. •• 71,576
Profit.
1934 .. 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund. £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 .. 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 ... . • 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. - • 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 .. 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
S'hare premiums, £5OOO .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
Permewan Wright and Subsidiary.
1940 .. 2,734 2 p.c. = 4,000 113,208
1941 . . 22,717 8 „ „ 16,000 6717 119,923
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 118,522
1942 .. 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
Taxes charged to reserves, £2OOO . . 118,774
1943 .. 16,392 64 p.c. = 13,000 8392 122,166
Trade-union secretaries arid “friends of
the movement” may be astonished to
learn that every one of this “capitalist”
concern’s branch managers under the age
of 34 has either enlisted or has been
called up, and last year managerial
changes were necessary in 21 of the 39
branches. The reduced staff has its
normal work to do, plus the job of in-
terpreting and trying to carry out the
“numerous regulations which govern
trade today.” Quite a few of these regu-
lations are window-dressing to catch the
eye of militant trade-unionists and pacify
them. Others are just red-tape run riot.
Some are essential.
In addition to the back-country
branches —20 in N. S. Wales and 19 in
Victoria —there are central premises in
Melbourne and Sydney. Trade in civilian
goods fell away last year, but dry con-
ditions in the early part of the term
brought an increased demand for pro-
duce. The fall in one was almost offset
by the other. But, after making pro-
vision for bad debts, gross earnings of
the co. and its subsidiary, P;W. Pty., were
£4300 lower at £167,329. Though ordi-
nary exes, were restrained, the co. came
in for both uniform and State tax on its
previous year’s earnings because it does
not balance on June 30. Charging the
extra to insurance reserve, net profit was
up £l4O at £16,392, and equal to 8.2 p.c.
on capital, compared with 8.1 p.c. and
11.3 p.c. in the two preceding years. The
div. was reduced from 7 p.c. to 6i p.c.
It is pleasing to see that there has been
some steadying in earnings. The co., as
a back-country produce and station
supply merchant, with carrying and
agency connection, has suffered from a
drift of people from the outback and from
the rationing or shortages of petrol, tyres,
clothes and food. Thus it has been im-
possible to reap the expected benefit


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Conunonweaith and foreign patents. Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
#
DAYIKS & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, SCO Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ĥ
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
Department 27,
9 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office;
GEORGE S HU'fITM MdEETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
Tl, e “United” ia an Australian Institution
A O DAWSON. T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager, Asst. Gen. Manager.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the Estate of ALEXANDER FERRIER
DICKSON, late, of Wau, in the Territory of
New Guinea, Miner, deceased, who died on
31st October, 1941.—NOTICE is hereby given
that an Order to administer the abovementioned
Estate was granted to me on the 25th day of
May, 1943. All persons having claims against
the estate as creditors, next-of-kin or otherwise
should submit same, verified by affidavit or
statutory declaration to me on or before 25tn
August, 1943, after which date I will proceed
to distribute the said Estate having regard
only to the claims of which I shall have had
notice in writing. All persons owing money to
or having knowledge of possession of a Will
or property of the deceased should give notice
to me forthwith. —G. T. WELLS, for the
Curator of Intestate Estates, New Guinea,
Department of External Territories, Canberra,
A.C.T.
THE AUSTRALASIAN INSTITUTE OF
INVENTORS AND PATENTEES (IN
LIQUIDATION).
NOTICE is hereby given that an application
will be made to the Honorable Harold Sprent
Nicholas, Chief Judge in Equity, on the
Twenty-sixth day of July, One thousand nine
hundred and forty-three, at 10 o’clock in the
forenoon, at the Supreme Court, Sydney, for
leave to make a call on all the contributories
of the said Company, and that the Liquidator
of The Australasian Institute of Inventors and
Patentees proposes that such call shall be for
an amount of Three pounds three shillings
(£3 35.) from each contributory in accordance
with the Memorandum of Association of the
said Company. All persons interested are en-
titled to attend at such day, hour and place
to offer objections to such call. DATED this
First dav of June, One thousand nine hundred
and forty-three. —ALFRED J. R. PARSONS,
Liquidator.
For Australia at War . . .
ESTABLISHED 1920
Ofe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street. Valley, Brisbane
Commonwealth Australia
' t^Sgp f
RATIONING COMMISSION
BUTTER RATIONING
FARM OR DAIRY BUTTER
Notice to Farmers
1. A farmer or other person who
produces butter for consumption
other than by his own household
must, before 19th June, 1943,
apply to the Rationing Commission
for registration as a Producer of
Farm or Dairy Butter. Application
forms are obtainable at any post
office.
2. A farmer or other person who
produces butter and supplies it to
CONSUMERS must collect current
“E” coupons for all butter supplied
whether by sale, gift or exchange.
One coupon must be obtained for
each half-pound of butter supplied.
NOTE; In all cases the coupons
must be cut from the customer’s
Ration Book, and under no circum-
stances must loose coupons be ac-
cepted.
At the end of each quarter each
producer must submit a return
showing the number of pounds of
butter supplied and the number of
coupons collected. These coupons
are to be forwarded with the re-
turn.
3. Until June 30th, 1943, a farmer
or other person who produces butter
may supply farm or dairy butter to
a RETAILER, or a BUTTER
AGENT or BUTTER FACTORY
without collecting coupons. The per-
son supplied must, however, give
the farmer a dated receipt slip set-
ting out the amount of butter sup-
plied. These receipt slips will be
forwarded by the farmer along _ with
the return and coupons mentioned
in paragraph 2. By June 30th, 1943,
all persons trading in farm or dairy
butter must be registered with the
Rationing Commission and coupons
must be collected by producers in all
cases where the person supplied is
not so registered. After that date
the receipt slip given by such regis-
tered persons must set out the regis-
tered number of the person supplied.
4. A farmer who obtains for re-
sale butter made by any other
farmer must register as a Dealer in
farm or dairy butter. Application
forms are obtainable at any Post
Office.
5. In order to be in_ a position to
supply necessary particulars to the
Rationing Commission a farmer
must keep a record of all butter
supplied by him.
6. To supply butter otherwise than
in accordance with the Rationing
Regulations is Black Marketing.
“Butter Rationing Means Butter for Britain”
CUT THIS OUT FOR REFERENCE
THE
/f// 0 in 0^
The sort of world
WE WANT
IN this world of violence and of change, the people with a
* fighting purpose —with clean-cut objectives are m e
position to win through to Security and the sort of world y
want.
We Australians can have the sort of world we want if we are
prepared to make sacrifices for it in the living of our ay
lives.
There are two immediate objectives worthy of us:
(1) to strengthen our fighting arm,
(2) to avoid the economic error of thinking that we can take
more out of a pint pot than we put into it.
The means of achieving both objectives are the same: Work,
Wisdom, Thrift, and a spirit of Co-operation. There are no
alternatives.
The members of the A.M.P. Society (numbering about one family in every
three in the Commonwealth) aim at financial security for themselves and
their families, and are prepared to make sacrifices to attain it. Their
contributions to the Society’s funds range from a shilling a week upwards,
but so widespread is the co-operation, so vast the membership, that the
Society’s income last year was £17,315,000. and its assets are valued to-day
at £140,000,000.
Last year the A.M.P. paid out £8,250,000 in benefits to members and their
beneficiaries, but m addition it has been, and still is, putting £500,000 a
month into the War Loans. To date it has lent £50,000,000 to the
Commonwealth. Its ability to help its members and the Nation grows
from day to day. It has a fighting purpose that is based on Work, Wisdom,
Thrift and Co-operation. What the A.M.P. has achieved is a signpost for
■ the Nation as a whole.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
n Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
A W Sneddon, F.T.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A E Webb, Manager tor New South Wa.es.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
From the capital, fixed-asset and book-
debt expansion of the past few years. A
feature of last year’s activities, however,
was the financial consolidation;
,—Perm. p - - &
1934 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 38,025 215,719 184,628 147,373
Taxation prov. 1,800 6,080 -7,794 J >
Property & plant 66,093 137,183 180,177 125,586
Hook debts .. 103,646 230,671 200,443 151,92.
Merchandise .. 58,490 141,479 1j8,217 1' >■
Shares other cos. 6,900 11,899 on ’ 7 , n
Cash, etc. .. 6,528 13.755_ 17,560 30,701
The reduction of £79,518 in debtors was
attributable partly to the stabilisation of
rural products prices and to a falling
turnover at the end of the term. Bad
debts and depreciation “have been fully
provided for.” The increase of £21,773
in stocks was mostly because of the es-
tablishment of emergency reserves. But
the co. was able to increase its holding
of war loan and cash by £13,141, at the
same time wiping £37,255 off the out-
side debt. Shares represent the holding
in Murray Shipping, which paid £777
(two years at 6 p.c.) otf its prefs. in April.
The 20s. shares now stand at near their
maximum price of 235. They have risen
with a scrip-starved market over the past
12 months.
Placer Development
At April 30, 1942, Placer Develop-
ment (registered in Vancouver, 8.C.)
held 300,000 shares of Bulolo Gold
Dredging, issued capital of which is a
million shares of $5 each. At the time
of Japan’s entry into the war. Placer
drew 80 p.c, of its income from the
New Guinea subsidiary. Bulolo’s oper-
ations continued from June 1, 1941, to
about the middle of January, 1942, when
Jap ’planes destroyed the three freight-
carrying aeroplanes on the ground at the
Bulolo aerodrome.
This information was released at the
time by the Commonwealth Government,
together with the fact that the Japanese
had invaded and occupied Lae, on the
coast, where it is presumed the co.’s
warehouses, landing and other equipment
have been destroyed.
All property damaged or destroyed by
military operations or enemy action is
covered by Australian war-damage insur-
ance, retroactive to January 1, 1942.
Claims, however, will not be paid until
after the war.
A preliminary claim totalling £538,426
Australian, covering damage to field plant
and equipment, has been filed. This claim
will be subject to revision when the dam-
aged items can be inspected. In the
meantime, the amount of the claim has
been set up in the co.’s accounts as a
deferred asset, and other assets corre-
spondingly reduced.
As provision against the uncertainty
of the future, the directors of Bulolo
have made an appropriation of $2,000,000
Canadian from p. and 1. to a war contin-
gencies reserve. In addition, overhead
expenditure has been curtailed, and direc-
tors’ fees have, for the time being, been
reduced by half.
During the period June 1, 1941, to
Jan. 21, 1942, the eight Bulolo dredges
dug 11,526,000 cubic yards of gravel for a
recovery of 102,691 fine oz. gold and
46,2840 z. silver, of a total value of
$3,887,235 Canadian, the net working
profit being $2,354,644.
The reserves at May, 31, 1942, are
estimated at 129,000,000 c.y., together
with a further 21 million c.y. which will
be handled by sluicing.
The issued capital of Pato Consoli-
dated, now the most immediately use-
ful contributor to Placer’s income,
remains at 3,200,000 shares of $l,
of which 1,150,000 are held by Placer
Development and 1,150,000 by Oroyille
Dredging and its associate, Pato Mines
(Colombia), Ltd., both of London.
Pato’s five dredges (in Colombia,
South America) operated throughout
the year, handling 15,444,000 c.y. for
a gross recovery of $2,700,801 (U.S.),
equivalent to 17.48 cents (U.S.) per c.y.
Including 1,243,000 c.y. handled by the
co.’s five hydraulic plants, the total yard-
age and recoveries for the period were:
Cubic yards handled .. .. .. 16,687,000
Fine ounces of gold recovered .. 88,108
Grains of fine gold per cubic yard . . 2.53
Total value with gold at $35 (U.S.)
per ounce .. .. .. $3,083,782.45
Value per cubic yard (cents) .. .. 18.48
Total operating costs, including
expenses outside Colombia, but before
allowance for depletion and depreciation,
amounted to 10.9 cents (Canadian) or
9.9 cents (U.S.) per c.y. Of this 2.9 cents
(Canadian) per yard was paid to the
Colombian Government by way of taxes
on profits on the sale of gold and the
exportation of funds.
Further development and check-drilling
carried out during the year established
Pato gravel reserves on April 30, 1942, as
follows: ,
Value,
C.y. U.S. Cents.
Closely drilled and fully de-
veloped .'. .. '• ■ 372,511,000 15.5
Scout-drilled and partially
.developed . - • • 174,243,000 12.8
Total estimated reserves .. 546,754,000 14.6
Drilling of the partially developed
ground and the prospecting of untested
areas is proceeding.
The large areas immediately adjoining
Pato on the downstream side, and which
are under option jointly and equally to
Placer Development and Oroyille Dredg-
ing on a royalty basis, are being continu-
ously tested in line with the option agree-
ment. Should the results of the drilling
be satisfactory the options will later be
transferred to Nechi Consolidated, which
was incorporated in British Columbia
some years ago to operate this area.
Capital of Asnazu Gold Dredging,
also in Colombia, is 45 p.c. Placer s,
Dredge No. 1 operated throughout
the year, but owing to difficult dig-
ging the yardage handled was below
normal. The construction of
No. 2 was completed in October,
1941, since when it has been operating
satisfactorily, handling a large yardage.
Combined yardage and production of the
dredges:—
Cubic yards handled .. .. • • 2,541,200
Gross recovery, gold at $35.00 (U.S.) .. $800,221
Oz. of fine gold recovered .. • • • • 22,863.47
Grains per c.y. .. • • • • ■ • i.SA
Placer has Australian interests in the
shape of Rutherglen Gold Dumps (64
p.c.), Gold Dumps Pty. (83.3 p.c.) and
Clutha Development, Operations in the
main have been suspended owipg to war
conditions.
Placer’s div. rate has dropped to 50
Canadian cents a share, compared vvith
$1.20 before war came to the Pacific.
The market for the shares now is well
above that of early 1942.


h
-
lit?
4 : :
mm
♦
111
W
m
mm
: : :
Mil
:
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
Ruwolt’s are Major Co-ordinating Contractors for Victoria,
who, together with many Sub-contractors, are producing
these Guns.
In common with many good Australians we are now mainly
engaged on munition work.
Although so engaged we are also able to execute much of
the important requirements for the essential metal, paper
and rubber industries, hydraulic presses, crushing plants, etc.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victories Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
-V
m
E NT,
Un-l
city
in war.
in peace
THE NAME TO REMEMBER
IS
HIS MUSTERS VOICR
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. {lnc. in England). HOMERUSH. N.S W
R2BA/43
Busniness,Rollery,Etc.
Canada Says “Work and Save”
Australia has a population of just over
seven million, Canada* close on twelve
million. Australia is part of an actual
fighting front, while Canada is not. The
Commonwealth has had to feed, clothe
and generally provide for many more
fighting men than Canada, and a bigger
proportion of its man-power is in uniform.
It is also true that geography, enemy
action and strategy have been all against
Australia since war came to the Pacific.
But, in addition, internal politics have
been a grave hindrance to the efficient
prosecution of the war and the main-
tenance of the best standard of living in
the circumstances. It is because of this
grave political failure in Australia that
many people will be interested to hear
of Canada’s war effort. In Canada poli-
tics are far more stable than here, and
sheer idiocy in industrial matters is not
tolerated as in this country.
In presenting his last Budget Canada’s
Finance Minister was able to say:
There has been a far-reaching and
important change in the distribution of
income in this country. On the whole,
the directions of the change have been
desirable and the Government has wel-
comed and facilitated it. The increases,
by and large, have gone to those who
needed them most. But we have reached
a point when the demands of some Labor
representatives and of some farm repre-
sentatives cannot both be satisfied. Ability
to resolve group differences is the deci-
sive test of democracy. Nothing will
frustrate our striking force so much as
internecine strife over economic and
financial advantage. Nothing will so be-
little us in the eyes of those other
Canadians who offer as a contribution to
victory neither economic nor financial
sacrifice but life itself.”
The Dominion has now passed the
point where it can in a short time in-
crease total output by any large amount.
What one group may gain by pressing its
advantages of the moment other groups
lose. Corporations have had increased
profits reduced by taxes and compulsory
saving to a level not higher than 70 p.c.
of pre-war standard profits. This is the
most severe and rigid ceiling in force.
The middle and higher income groups —
as in Australia —have been taxed to the
point of very definite reductions in cus-
tomary living standards. Average earn-
ings of wage-earners are at the highest
level on record. But —and here is a very
important thing—in a period in which
Australian living costs rose by 22 p.c.,
Canada’s went up by only 17 p.c.
Canada’s war expenditure for 1943-44
is estimated at $3890 million, plus $lOOO
midion “mutual aid” to the Allied
nations. Ordinary expenditure is put at
$6lO million. Taxation revenue is esti-
mated to produce $2752 million, includ-
ing $225 million of “refundable taxes,”
otherwise post-war credits. Of the entire
Budget outlay of $5500 million, taxes and
post-war credits will look after just over
half. War outgo and mutual aid is
equivalent to £llB a head in Australian
money ($3.55 to £1). During the present
financial year it looks as though
Australia’s war outgo will run to
£77 a head. Though price levels
for some things in Canada may be
higher than in .the Commonwealth, it is
clear that Canada is in no way behind us
in war production. And only 40 p.c. of
our war costs are being met from revenue,
against Canada’s 50 p.c. revenue and
p.-w.c. So much for the apologies and
“explanations” of Canberra and the Com-
monwealth Bank Board.
During 1942-43 Canada borrowed from
the Royal Bank of Canada and the char-
tered banks a net amount of $983 mil-
lion. Finance Minister Ilsley has said:
“The plain fact is that we have had to
depend too much on bank borrowing....
If the Government borrows from indi-
viduals the Government spends the
money and the individual does not. If
the Government borrows from the banks
the Government spends the money, but
the spending of others is not reduced.”
Australia’s “Government” keeps as quiet
as possible about its dangerous use of
bank credit. Bank-credit finance looks
after about 20 p.c. of Canada’s tvar
spending, compared with about 40 p.c. in
Australia.
Ilsley—one of the outstanding Min-
isters of his kind in the Empire—in his
Budget speech said: “Financial measures
are but one of the means through which
we link the whole war programme to-
gether. They are instruments and not
ends in themselves. They are instruments
which must be used wisely lest we frus-
trate our efforts now and sow the seeds
of intolerable conditions later.” He went
on to say;
Financial measures are one of the means
through which each person has his share
m this war. Taxes and loans are not ex-
actions from the people by a Government.
They are weapons which the people through
their elected representatives and the free
methods of democracy have fashioned for
their own use and their common purpose.
We cannot all man guns and ’planes and
build ships; we cannot all build guns and
planes and ships, but the Canadian people
have shown by the reception which has
been given to each succeeding war-time
Budget that they are ready to wield these
weapons, each according to his strength
and all against the people’s enemies.
Can anyone imagine our Chifley saying
that, let alone preparing it himself? More
in his line is talk about “judicious use of
central bank credit” for any financial
problems that confront him, and “we
must learn to control central bank credit
and use it for the well-being of the
people.” This is promised for after the
war, too, when the banked-up, inflated
war-time “savings” of the people will be
an enormous credit factor in themselves.
When Chifley says “there is a lot of dif-
ference between morphia taken to ease
P a in and that taken to cause a suicide,”
by “pain” he would seem to mean those
“intolerable conditions” which Ilsley in
Canada is endeavoring to avoid right
from the start. Chifley’s finance is already
doing a good deal to “frustrate our efforts
now.” Dopey is the word for it —the
dope principally bank-credit “morphia.”
In Canada the volume of nearly all
major production has increased greatly
since the war started. This applies to
manufacturing (more than doubled),
mining, forestry, agriculture, fisheries,
electric-power output and construction.
The national income rose by 64 p.c. be-
tween 1939 and 1942. Geography and
population have helped. So has sane
financial management.
Well-managed as the Dominion’s war
effort has been, Ilsley makes no bones
about the difficulties still ahead:
Costs are pressing upward against the
price ceiling, causing many producers to
find it difficult to work beneath such
ceiling. Demands continue to be made
for increased wages, and labor costs have
a tendency to rise despite all efforts to
stabilise them. The purchasing power in
the hands of the public is already excessive
m relation to what there is available to
buy, and appears likely to grow more ex-
cessive. In short, we find that the forces
making for inflation are present on a large
scale. The pressure is held in check only
by the rigor of our existing taxation, by the
willingness of Canadians to save on an un-
precedented scale, and by our price control
and wage control.
Canada has deliberately avoided war
time increases in sales tax and customs
duties. Right from the start of the wat
it realised the inflationary dangers in
such taxes. In Australia they were the
first items raised by weak Governments
General sales tax is now 124 p.c. here
special 25 p.c.
At the time of the third Canadian Vic-
tory Loan, in October-November, 1942
temporary paid staff, including salesmen
on commission, numbered 15,500, anc
voluntary workers many additional thou-
sands. Overall cost of these loan cam-
paigns is 1 p.c. Interest offered is 1| p.c
for 34 years, 3 p.c. for 14 years. The
Dominion has arranged some New York
loans, from five to 15 years, at from 24
to 3 p.c. Over 80 p.c. of Canadian
public subscriptions in November las
were to the longer-term loan. There
were altogether 2,041,610 subscribers for
$991.5 million.
The fourth Victory Loan, just filled
brought in $1268 million from 2,264,764
subscribers.
On March 31 this year the Canadian
national debt was $7861 million, on
which the annual interest bill is $205 mil-
lion, an average of 2.6 p.c., compared
with 2.9 p.c. a year previously. Out-
standing obligations guaranteed by the
Government were $716 million.
During 1942-43 Canada lent Britain
$7OO million, and advanced $l3l million
to the Canadian National Railways in
order to redeem or repatriate railway
securities.
Canada’s Federal Government pays out
less than £9 million a year in old-age
pensions. In Australia, population seven-
twelfths that of Canada, the bill is just
on £2O million. On the other hand,
1914-18 war pensions cost the Common-
wealth £8 million, Canada £ll million,
with another £4 million for treatment and
after-care of returned soldiers.
“The pay-as-we-earn method of assess-
ing tax,” says Mr. Ilsley, “enables us to
avoid the lag in the payment of tax under
our present system —a lag which now
amounts to about eight months, a prob-
lem to those suffering or expecting to
suffer a reduction in income. The dif-
ficulties in the present system are most
serious in the case of those whose in-
comes cease or decline severely bcause
they enter the armed forces, lose their
jobs, retire or die.... Pay-as-we-earn
will make it possible in future to adjust
our income-tax rates and Collections
more promptly when changes in economic
or other circumstances make such adjust-
ments desirable. In this way it will make
the income tax a better instrument of
fiscal policy in helping to maintain full
employment.”
The Canadian Finance Minister’s final
message to the home front should go also
to every Australian, particularly those
along the waterfront: “What our fight-
ing men achieve they cannot achieve
alone. It must be shared by the farmer


mm
:.s».
mtm
mmk
W&ii
m*
m
ss
m
m
j&rr-
m
mmm
Mi
■X'H-
SERVICE
EVERYWHERE
Specialised vehicles of many kinds are amongst
the separate items of war equipment now being
made by General Motors-Holden’s Limited in-
stead of motor vehicles for civilian use.
To the Army’s transport in the field, prompt
and reliable service by mobile workshops is as
necessary as the service rendered by motor ser-
vice stations at home to essential civilian
vehicles.
The unit illustrated above is a mobile workshop
designed by Army engineers to provide front-
line “service” for the machines on which the
troops depend in this mechanised war.
These workshops are of very compact construc-
tion. They generate their own power and carry
all the equipment necessary to handle practically
any kind of repair or maintenance job in the
field. They are now being built in quantity by
General Motors-Holden’s.
In addition to vehicles of this and many other
kinds, General Motors-Holden’s, in association
with other manufacturers, are producing a com-
plex range of war equipment, including aero
engines, aircraft fuselages, wings and fuel tanks,
bomber parts, 25-pounder gun-howitzers, anti-
tank guns, bridging pontoons and boats, tents
and haversacks.
Victory is our Business
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Serve and Save . . . Buy War Saving Certificates
J C 767-22
v. *
■
iii
'Wm.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
h
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £10
National Savings Bonds.
at his work, the mechanic in the shop,
the housewife in her home—in short, by
every Canadian. Their achievements will
be shared by each Canadian who, this
year and to the end of the war, carries
out unswervingly, skilfully, relentlessly
the watchwords of this Budget: Work
and save.’ ”
The Commonwealth’s Treasury-bill
debt on April 30 was £273 million, up
£lBB million in a year. It is estimated
that the Budget “gap” for the current
financial year will be £390 million, and
so far public borrowing has looked after
only £lB3 million of that, apart from the
small support given in the way of war-
savings certificates. It looks as though
bank credit will figure for at least £2OO
million in the “gap,” and that is assum-
ing that no bank credit has been used
to fill up any shortages in public loans.
* * * *
Shareholders in D. Mitchell and Co.,
Sydney and Newcastle, have agreed to a
reduction in their capital from £1 to
9s. 6d. a share, the 10s. 6d. having been
lost or is unrepresented by available
assets. Out of a total of 500,000 shares,
225,000 have been issued. The loss of
capital occurred over a long period.
* * # *
The dying days of the old clothing
coupons were hectic ones in Sydney.
Shopkeepers didn’t seem to want to do
business, except some anxious to get rid
of old stock. A salesman in one big city
store pitched a tale to a customer about
how the old coupons would be no good
even to the retailer after Saturday ; “The
warehouses, won’t take them,” he said.
A report that retailers may bank old
coupons up till June 30, and afterwards
may draw on their bank balance irrespec-
tive of the period to which the coupons
belong, seemed far more likely. On
Friday morning at one counter a smartly-
dressed woman customer was buying
underpants for a man who was with her.
She was airing her grievances to an audi-
ence. “This rubbish!” she said. “Look
at the price of it! We’re munition
workers, we are, doing 12 hours a day,
and what these retailers are charging us
is just blood money. The rich people
are ordering suits right and left, and
look what they offer us!” (It looked
like Dedmanised “standard” stuff.) An
elderly gentleman, evidently not a muni-
tion worker, in a hurry to be off, became
very curt. “I wish you’d shut up,” he
said. “Otherwise none of us will ever get
served.” A frustrated undies-buyer was
typical of many. “I’ve got 32 couppns
left,” she said, “and I’m not going to give
a damn one of them back to Dedman.
I’ll burn them.”
* t * *
House linen and butter (half a pound
a week) are new rationed items. House
linen must come out of clothing coupons,
and the 112 coupons may have to serve
for more than a year,
* * * *
Maoriland’s external trade figures for
the financial year 1942-43 (M.L.'s
financial year ends on March 31 and
trenches on two farming seasons) show
a balance of exports over imports of
close on £l5 million. The previous year
the balance was £lB million, in 1940-41
£23.3 million and in 1939-40 £14,1
million, all of which reads much more
prosperously than the 1938-39 figure of
£3.4 million. Factors in the change
have been better prices - for exports and
constriction of opportunities to import.
But imports have been creeping up, for
reasons not unconnected with defence,
and in the 1942-43 period they exceeded
by nearly three millions the previous
record made in 1937-38.
* * * *
The United States Senate has approved
the pay-as-you-go income-tax plan,
passed by the House of Representatives
the day before, Rupil disowns the plan,
but, basically, it possesses much of his
original idea, A large proportion of
lag-year taxes is wiped out, though that
makes no difference to current payments.
The taxpayer gets the benefit of the
scheme when he retires, goes abroad,
suffers a fall in income or becomes un-
employed. His estate is also to the good
when he dies. Canada has picked the
best title for the scheme —it is calling the
one operating in the Dominion “pay-as-
you-owe.”
* * * *
Regarded by Authority as an unessen-
tial industry is professional photography.
It has already received the attention of
the Man-power men, and it is under-
staffed in relation to the work it has to
do, work precious to mothers, wives and
sweethearts of service men. To cut out
studio photographs would arouse wide
resentment, especially in view of the flour-
ishing nature of “protected” radio stations
and other entertainment and “morale”
services that are beamed upon by official-
dom.
The maximum and minimum prices
fixed for N.Z. Forest Products ord,
shares on Australian ’Changes are
6s. 9d. and ss, 9d. respectively. Buyers
have recently been offering ss. 3d. for
the ords. and 7s. 3d. for the prefs., with
sales at 6s. 9d. for the ords. in Mel-
bourne, The original bonds, later con-
verted into shares for the most part,
were placed by N.Z. Perpetual Forests.
$ * * *
Limit prices for used cars have been
reiterated by Prices Commissioner Cop-
land. Referring to black-market activi-
ties, he again mentioned the top prices
payable: Vehicle up to a year old, 90 p.c.
of list price when new ; one to two years,
85 p.c.; two to three years, 80 p.c.; three
to four years, 75 p.c.; four to five years,
65 p.c.; five to six years, 55 p.c.; six
to seven years, 50 p.c.; seven to eight
years, 40 p.c.; eight years, 30 p.c. These
prices are the best that the Government
will pay for such vehicles. In view of
the inflation in values generally they are
not high figures ; in fact, when set along-
side the amount paid by the Government
for the hire of vehicles they are aston-
ishingly small. The contrast between
conditions of Government hire and out-
right purchases has been one of the won-
ders of the present war.
* * * *
Special war-time deposits lodged by
the trading banks with the Common-
wealth Bank now exceed £lOO million.
They are equivalent to about a quarter of
all the deposits in the hands of the trad-
ing banks. In the last quarter of 1938
the trading banks held £2OO million of
interest-bearing deposits and £ll9 million
of free deposits. In the last three months
of 1942 average fixed deposits were £194
million and free deposits £225 million.
The last half of 1942 was the first occa-
sion in recent Australian history on
which current accounts have exceeded
fixed deposits in volume. Advances by
the trading banks to private industry
have been on the decline since 1939, and
are now the lowest since 1934. Deposits
at £446 million are by far the highest on
record.
* * * *
There is one thing that the Australian
soldier gets plenty of, and that’s praise.
But praise and criticism are both cheap
at the present time; in fact, they repre-
sent the formalities of the hour. Praise
or criticism isn’t going to do an Austra-
lian soldier much good when he is up
against fanatical and cunningly equipped
Japanese in a New Guinea jungle. He
wants comrades and officers who under-
stand bush, jungle and Japs ; in addition,
he vitally wants supplies. Blundering
bureaucrats tangled up with “forms,’
“requisitions,” “memos,” “procedure
and politics aren’t going to help the get-
ting of these supplies to our troops in
the quickest and most effective way. Nor
are strikes or Wardism, nationalisation
or compulsory unionism. All this stuff
S bSThe point~it is political oppor-
tunism that is getting in the way of the
the way o£ supplies
to the fighting fronts. It is time Australia
grew up and opened its eyes to realities.
“Most of those who believe that the
war will be finished in 1943 and that we
should be careful lest we put forth too
great an effort are the same persons who
Thought it had finished and we had lost
m 1940.'’’-Ilsley, Finance Minister of
Canada.


THE SERVICE MAN
To Be "Greatly Increased."
“Ek Dum”: Very little happened last
week on the South-west Pacific war
fronts. Except for one or two days, bad
weather inhibited large air operations.
Mr. Churchill has laid stress on the vital
need, before any operation across the
Narrow Seas, to have tides, winds and
weather perfect for the occasion.
With the long sea distances to be tra-
velled in any major operations in the
Pacific, it is infinitely more difficult to
concert plans. One bad storm across a
long communication line, one downpour
flooding vital aerodromes, and the effort
may fail.
And if stormy winds and rain and
cottonwool tropical visibility can prevent
bombing and reconnaisance, as happened
last week, the stern difficulties ahead for
those who actually have to carry out the
huge drives against enemy-held territory
for which amateur strategists pray every
evening must be clear to all.
Before the bad period set in the heavies
had a busy time. In the six days ended
on the morning of June 1 100 tons of
bombs were dropped on Lae, the last
in two consignments, delivered by Libera-
tors in a morning, which weighed 36 tons.
The same afternoon a Fortress crew
reported having beaten off 16 “O” fighters
near Finschhafen, wrecking four, vitally
injuring another and sending a sixth into
a steep dive into the clouds. The Fortress,
badly battered, limped home with three
of the crew wounded.
There were light raids and reconnais-
sances in the north-western sector, as far
afield as the fringes of the Spice Islands.
In the Solomons U.S. bombers and tor-
pedo bombers damaged a Japanese cor-
vette off Bougainville and sank a de-
stroyer.
On Attu, Uncle Sam’s troops continued
to mop up.
Enemy Strength Growing
Speaking at the A.L.P. conference in
Sydney, Mr. Curtin stated that Japanese
strength in the South Pacific was grow-
ing. The enemy, he said, was consoli-
dating, and a system of air strips and
bases which he had developed from Timor
to the Solomons gave him great mobility
and power for attack. The P.M. de-
clared that the aim must be to pierce the
arc of bases held by the Japanese to
force their withdrawal or isolate them in
sections for later destruction.
The P.M. announced that as a result
of representations of the Government and
General MacArthur, which were sup-
ported by a mission to Washington
headed by General MacArthur’s Chief
of Staff, considerably increased assistance
for the South-west Pacific had been
promised.
The number of American air-combat
squadrons in the South-west Pacific area,
he proceeded, slightly exceeded the
number of R.A.A.F. combat squadrons ;
but “the strength of American air forces
in the South-west Pacific area will be
greatly increased in the near future.”
Moreover, Dr. Evatt was “negotiating
for increased aircraft for the R.A.A.F.
to enable us to double its strength as
speedily as we can train personnel.”
A Lancaster Arrives.
The arrival of a British Lancaster with
its Australian crew of eight and carrying
Lord Burghley, Controller of Repairs and
Overseas Supply, and Group-Captain C.
B. Wincott, of the British Air Mission
in Washington, as passengers, was man-
aged in the usual British fashion.
The crew selected were a party of Aus-
tralian “pathfinders” whose duty has
taken them as far afield over Europe as
Pilsen on many missions in which they
have established firemarks to lead the
following squadrons to their targets.
Members of the crew have been 40 times
over Germany and Italy, and were in the
1000-bomber raid on Cologne last June.
The captain is Flight-Lieut. P. S. Isaac-
son, a Victorian 22 years old, who has a
D.F.C. and a D.F.M., and all the States
except Queensland are represented among
the rest of the crew.
The Lancaster flew the 14.000 miles
from Britain across the Atlantic, America
and the Pacific in seven hops; actual
flying time, 72 hours. This gives a glimpse
of what civil flying will be like after the
war, and of the possibilities of the All-
Red route via Canada, as compared with
the “direct” route from London via Sin-
gapore and the north.
The Lancaster is roughly 27 tons, is
slightly smaller in wingspread than the
Short Sunderland and about the same as
the Fortress. But it carries over eight
tons of bombs, nearly double the load
of the Fortress. Its top speed, around 300
m.p.h., makes it a prodigy in its load-
carrying class. Its range is 3000 miles.
With its ten guns it is a difficult proposi-
tion for a fighter to tackle, but its size
makes it a mark for flak.
Its parent firm is Avro, which gave
the R.A.A.F, its first two-engined
machines—the Anson G.R. aircraft,
which arrived just before the war, and
whose loaded weight was one-sixth of
the Lancaster’s.
The Lancasters are among the fastest
“heavies” in use over enemy territory.
One of their first exploits, the roof-high
bombing of works at Augsburg, and one
of their most recent, the breaking of the
Ruhr dams, earned V.Cs. for the leaders
of both expeditions.
The Empire's Lost 500,000.
“Ek Dum”: Casualty lists to September
3, 1942, made available from Canberra
last week, disposed of the sneer
frequently heard on Communist plat-
forms that Russia had borne the whole
burden of the war and that Britain had
left the Dominions to do the Empire’s
fighting.
The British toll of human military loss
—apart from civilians killed in the Battle
for Britain and elsewhere —totalled
275,344, of whom 73,477 were killed,
50,163 wounded and the remainder
prisoners or missing. For the rest of
the Empire—Canada, Australia, N.Z.,
S’Africa, India and the colonies —the
casualties were 239,149 killed, wounded,
prisoners and missing.
Australia stood next to Britain among
the self-governing Dominions, with
53,959 names in her lists, including 6192
killed and 15,700 wounded, 24,193
missing, the bulk of them in Japanese
hands, and 7874 known to be prisoners.
Mr. Curtin declared that Australian
losses to the end of March were 10,253
killed, 21,914 missing, 24,303 wounded
and injured, and 10,721 prisoners of war.
The change in the balance of figures be-
tween prisoners and missing was mainly
due to the issue of Japanese prisoner
lists.
In effect losses from September 3, 1942,
to March 31, 1943, sickness figures
excluded, were 4061 killed and 8603
wounded—the tolls of Alamein and
Buna—making the total casualties round
67,000.
Mr. Forde declared last week that the
Japanese held 1195 Australian officers
and 22,053 other ranks. The actual num-
ber missing on all fronts of whom there
is no news at all was 12,819,.
India’s fine divisions rival in the variety
of their experience that of the A.I.F.
They fought from Thailand to Singapore ;
from Sidi Barrani to Tunisia; from
Keren to the Red Sea, and on half a
dozen other fronts, including Iraq. They
have had to write off permanently or
temporarily 101,979 officers and men, but
these included only 3286 dead and 9168
wounded. The loss of 86,289 men
“missing” is not explained—probably
Burma, Malaya and Hong Kong
accounted for most of them.
Maoriland’s figures for the three years
were 3219 killed, 2860 missing, 7178
wounded and 6088 prisoners. But Mr.
Fraser last week brought the statistics up
to date, and showed how heavily the
Maorilanders paid for their proud per-
formance in the battle of Alamein and
the Mareth Line, in both of which they
formed the spearhead of a decisive opera-
tion, and again in the final push of the
Eighth Army past Enfidaville.
The Libyan-Tunisian campaign cost the
grand little Dominion 2449 killed and
4629 wounded, and brought its casualties,
including 496 debited against the
R.N.Z.N. and 2622 against the Air
Forces, to 25,372.
Canada came off fairly lightly with
10,422, including 3142 dead, mostly killed
at Dieppe, but it was not for want of
trying. It was the 2nd Canadian Division
which held the English shore on some of
the narrowest part of the English Channel
after the fall of France and Dunkirk.
S. Africa, even including the disaster of
Tobruk a year ago, has had only 1439
killed and 3229 wounded, plus 13,350
missing and 6088 prisoners.
British casualties, apart from the
Dominions and colonies, to the end of
the battle of Tunisia, including those at
sea and in the air, now approach 330,000.
Forward Towards Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: Unmindful of past
descents on Europe, military commenta-
tors have become convinced that an
Allied landing in Italy is imminent and
that as soon as the first tank is ashore
the victory is won. The Italians are said
to be in a state of defenceless terror,
“quaking as never before.” It is pointed
out that in the last week of May 1450
tons of bombs were dropped on Italy.
Dortmund received more in an hour.
Certainly Rome Radio is helping to
develop the belief that Italy is cracking,
but newspaper translators are apt to
forget that a step-down transformer is
needed to reduce the voltage before the
superlatives of the Latin languages can
be given their true significance in Eng-
lish. The Frenchman who says he is
“desolated” means that he feels a faint
regret; and the Italian radio uncle who
declares that Messina is a ruin after a
high-level raid by a few dozen bombers
lasting a few minutes may mean only that
the edges are knocked off the city, with
some loss of life. The strong call to the
Italian people by the Government “to
emulate the people of Britain, who re-
fused to give up in 1940,” is more signi-
ficant.
Pantellaria will be taken. It has not
only been heavily bombed from the air
but battered by the R.N. But this island
is not as important to an invasion of
Italy as Malta. It is only 30 miles round
and has little aerodrome space. Its popu-
lation is only 7000.
It is difficult to believe that conquest
or even a landing in Italy will be achieved
without severe fighting and loss of life.
Certainly the effort will call for the use
of considerably more shipping than has
been used to date, and considerably larger
trained forces than those available at
present in Tunisia,
At the moment, if there is an attempted
invasion, the brunt will have to fall on
the British and the Canadians, together
with the comparatively small formations
of French, Poles, Greeks and other Euro-
peans who have been in Britain for the
past three years.
Except for the single corps which learnt
bitter lessons in Tunisia, and which rep-
resented perhaps an eighth of the total
forces used against Von Arnim and
Rommel, there are as yet no large num-
bers of U.S. troops trained to the level
of first-class European troops.
American Prophets’ Opinions
The British, as usual, are doing little
talking about their intentions. Some
Americans have struck a warning note.
Brigadier-General Noce, of the U.S.
European staff, described as “an amphi-
bious warfare expert,” spoke interestingly
on June 3. ,
“Invasion operations,” he said, “have
begun and we are quite obviously leading
off with the air weapon.” In his judgment
the “next phase of the combat” would be
“the final phase.” But he added;
Wherever we invade Europe we shall
need not only landing troops and fighting
troops but a great artery of supply in order
to build railroads, highways and airfields.
We have to convert a hostile beach into a
port of entry. When you remember that
we must do this instantly, you get a glimpse
of what we are doing.
A Smuts speech, generally a harbinger
of attack, pointed to an early landing on
Pantellaria, and attempts on other Italian
islands are possible. But any invasion
of Europe proper will be delayed as long
as can be and until as much pounding of
European cities as is deemed necessary
has been done.
Here the British have been thorough.
In North Africa the final and always deci-
sive bombardment phase was preceded by
a long, patient and terrible blasting-out
of enemy communications and bases.
This can be compared to the heavy pun-
ishment of the Ruhr and adjacent indus-
trial and transport centres/ an area as
large as from the Hawkesbury to the
Shoalhaven and from Windsor to the
sea in N. S. Wales, containing well over
half of all Germany’s mineral and general
heavy industrial resources.
With adjacent country, it is the key
communication channel for German
defence against invasion of the continent
from Britain. Its canals, roads and rail
affect the defence of Germany at every
north-western point.
However, a good deal more pounding
is likely before an attempt is made at a
North Sea or Channel landing, unless
British air-power has an enormous superi-
ority and German air-power is finished.
From the size of the combats on the
Russian front and the nature of the Ruhr
defence, there is no evidence of this.
General Arnold, Chief of the U.S.
Army Air Staff, supports the view that
the battle of western Europe will be
mainly an air war aimed at putting the
finishing touch to already vast and deci-
sive destruction by bombing and strafing.
He told the graduating class at West
Point:
We are going to end the war and end it
soon by bombing military objectives
Such operations in the end will cut down
casualties by hundreds of thousands.
If it is intended to reach the stage of
invasion this year in the north, autumn
seems most likely, since establishment on
the eve of winter would give the Allies
several months during their building-up
period in which raiders of shipping,
whether from the air or at sea, would
be at the worst advantage. Also, the
barrage would have to slacken or be
called off in the winter, and the enemy
would have a respite to repair damage.
And respites are bad.
The U-boat War
Progress is undoubtedly being made.
Not only has the Mediterranean come
under British control and Germany’s
largest industrial district been heavily
punished, but latest news about the
U-boat campaign is the best for months.
According to Mr. Alexander, First Lord
of the Admiralty, May was the best
month of the war in the battle of the
Atlantic and for the number of U-boats
destroyed.
It looked, he said, as if the number
sunk would exceed the number which the
enemy had been able to bring into the war
that month, and the number of U-boat
kills in the previous 12 months exceeded
that in the whole previous period since
September 3, 1939. The record for the past
six months had been 25 per cent, better
than for the previous six months, and
the number of U-boats in the Atlantic
appeared to have decreased in the past
two months.
There have been times when British
leaders have been jubilant about the
impending defeat of the U-boat campaign
—Mr. Churchill in his heyday as First
Lord early in 1940 seemed convinced that
the menace was over; and at the end of
1941 he announced another turning point
in which the sinkings had ceased to ap-
pear lethal.
This time, however, the atmosphere of
optimism has a different flavor.
The monthly destruction of enemy
boats has not been small —about 20
definitely sunk per month for some time,
apart from a much larger number dam-
aged and sent to repair shops. The May
figure officially is not given, but an un-
official estimate of 30 can be taken as
fairly trustworthy.
German claims to sinkings have sunk
to under 300,000 tons for May—about
half the average for the rest of the year.
There has been no suggestion of large
sinkings from Berlin for weeks —they had
long been a weekly feature of enemy
communiques.
Some time ago. Admiral Cunningham
announced that new devices were being
applied with great success to the de-
struction of U-boats, and this is now con-
firmed by the Germans themselves.
In Hitler’s personal official organ,
“Volkischer Beobachter,” Captain Ru-
dolph Khrone, of the Naval Staff, wrote
last week that the Allies possessed a new
long-distance submarine detector, and that
they had succeded temporarly in disturb-
ing the Reichsmarine’s strategical and
tactical plans in the U-boat campaign.
He added: —
It is to be hoped that German industry
will be successful soon in finding new
weapons to meet the increased enemy de-
fensive strength at sea. It is necessary
for us to develop new tactics.
It is the first admission of the kind
which has been made.
Whatever the intentions about invasion
of Europe, there is no doubt that at pres-
ent the Axis is well on the defensive in
every sphere, except perhaps Russia.
Russian and Tunisian Lessons.
“Ek Bum”: The third or last week in
June seems to be the German deadline
for serious attack on the Russian front.
Last year, outside the Crimea, there was
no German offensive action on a large
scale until June 19, when the drive to
the Volga began. The enemy waited until
the mud was clear all along the line and
the second seasonal Don floods had com-
pletely subsided. The fierce battles before
Kharkov were generated not by him but
by the Russians, who struck on May 12.
This year the Russians have not hurried
matters outside the Kuban area, where
they have thrown wave after wave of
forces against the Germans without much
perceptible progress.
The Kerch Battle
The first real sign of general heavy
warfare along the whole front came last


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELEANOR AUDREY HAIDLE late ot
33 Fitzroy Street Milson s Point. —IANt
NOTICE that BURT ALEXANDER HAI OLE
has filed a Petition for Divorce N 9. 787 of 1942
on- the grounds of adultery with J. MAD-
DOCKS If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the First day ot
September 1943 and obtain a copy ofthe
petition without charge from VINCENT J.
BRADY Solicitor 60 Hunter Street Sydney
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
h
week. It looked like the preliminaries to
the real thing, because the enemy en-
livened the week’s propaganda with a
flood of picturesque tales, seeking to pin
the attention of both the Russians anti
the world to the Kuban front.
In these there was a defiant and chal-
lenging note which, at the same time,
seemed deliberately designed to leave the
Russians under the impression that they
can force the Kerch Strait. The points
at which Russian progress has been made
do not favor the suggestion, and Rus-
sian propaganda indicates that the Red
Army knows it.
Anyway, an attempt to retake the
Crimea with no approach save that across
the Kerch Strait would be suicidal. The
Strait at its narrowest is two miles wide ;
at its widest 20 miles.
The defence positions on the Kerch
Peninsula are very strong. The enemy
could bring forward reinforcements and
reserves and supplies much more easily
than the Russians operating across the
Strait and the Azov Sea.
If the Germans succeeded in a drive
across the Don in the Rostov area the
whole Russian southern rear would be
in danger and the Red Army forces west
of the Strait would be in a trap. The
Russians have twice learnt the dangers
of the Kerch Peninsula to a force whose
communication lines cross the Strait—
once at the end of 1941, when their
superior forces were smashed, and again
in the battles of May 4, 1942, onwards,
when the Germans claimed to have taken
169,000 Russian prisoners in the few days
in which the peninsula fell into their
hands.
The Enemy Moves
A strange feature of the communiques
in the past few days has been the claim
by each side that the other is doing the
attacking. A sorting-out presents the
situation fairly logically.
Towards the end of the last week in
May there was a great deal of roving
air reconnaissance in force which natu-
rally each side tried to prevent. The result
was that there were fairly large-scale dog-
fights, and the usual bombing of com-
munications. The Germans then began
a series of heavy bombing attacks at
widely divided points, not on communi-
cations but on main frontal defences.
In each case these air attacks were ac-
companied by some ground activity. The
most northerly was Leningrad, where
enemy bombing on a large scale is un-
usual, it seeming to be the High Com-
mand’s ghastly plan to reduce that city
by starvation and to take it as little
damaged as possible. The ajr attack
there appeared to be decoy action.
The other two attacks were in those
sectors in which a Russian salient had
been driven into the German lines.
One was against the Russian positions
round Velikiye Luki, the most western
point held by the Russians.
This, accompanied by ground fighting,
heavy but fitful, also looked like decoy
action, since it was difficult to understand
why, if the enemy proposed to assault the
deep Kalinin sector, he should have
chosen the bottom instead of the neck ot
the bag, though the reason might lie in
more favorable terrain. It seemed as if
he was here again trying to draw as many
Russians to that point as possible—the
same game as in the Kuban and Lenin-
grad. ,
Meanwhile he launched an air attach
on Kursk —described as “the heaviest
which any Russian town has suffered
—with 500 ’planes. If this is the heaviest
attack of the Russian war it belies all
previous accounts.
It was reported that it cost the enemy
162 ’planes and that he “failed to make
a Rotterdam of the town.”
On June 6 the Germans announced
that 1000 tons of bombs had been
dropped on Gorki (Nijni-Novgorod), a
big communication and armament city,
on the Volga, 200 miles or so north-east
of Moscow.
The Russians reported retaliatory raids
on the same scale on Orel and Bryansk,
but claimed that they lost only one air-
craft in each attack.
The Kursk Salient
Kursk is a city of about 120,000 people
in normal times. It is on the great iron
belt which is threaded by the Orel-Khar-
kov railway. The enemy abandoned it in
ruins, scarcely fighting for it, late in the
winter campaign. It sits squarely in the
middle of the mouth of the salient which
the Russians drove into the German face
between Kharkov and Orel. The dan-
gerous position of the Russian armies in
this area has been pointed out here
several times. The enemy, south of the
“bag,” showed his power of initiative
even before the winter ended by his re-
taking of Kharkov, by his rebound to
the Donetz after taking up the slack of
the Russians’ Dnieper-bound drive, and
by his firm and sudden stoppage of the
Russian momentum along the Taganrog-
Stalino line.
He showed himself equally powerful
in his ability to control his other great
claw holding the Orel-Kharkov “hag,
built along as magnificent a series of
communications as any army could wish
—the main railway line threaded on great
bases (Minsk, Smolensk and Bryansk),
with starlike branch lines from every-
where to everywhere, and parallel roads
and railways running in exactly the direc-
tions needed to produce the greatest
economy and flexibility of man-power
and supply distribution.
This northern claw was greatly
strengthened by the forces withdrawn
from Vyazma and Rshev late in the
winter. This retirement was represented
by most correspondents as another great
Russian victory. It is evident that the
war-hardened and wary young Russian
generals of the new era had to exert all
their skill in following the enemy into
thawing swamps and to the very edge of
the higher and better ground on which
he was reinforcing himself on the
Smolensk-Orel line.
The retreat was so swift that at times
they had difficulty in keeping contact;
because the initiative was in enemy hands
they could not inflict great casualties.
But they dare not let go of the German
tail; for if they did the enemy might
throw the forces which he had wrested
from the northern Russian grip bodily
upon the north of the Kursk “bag,’
matching the blow which recovered Khar-
kov, and which was threatening the
Donetz defences further south.
This might have meant disaster for the
Russian armies. Even though their ad-
vance left some of the Russian forma-
tions literally “in the drink” when the
swampy forests thawed out, they had to
follow the course which they did follow,
but at which less courageous men might
have baulked.
The Napoleonic Years
History will probably describe the
years 1942-43 as the “Napoleonic” years
of the present war. It has been the
fashion to deride Napoleon for his defeat
in Russia, which was a victory of the
elements that destroyed his horse trans-
port rather than a military one for the
Russians. Marshal Stalin pointed out the
other day that out of his polyglot armies
the Emperor actually took only 143,000
men on his march to Moscow.
The strategy and tactics of Napoleon’s
great days have come into their own
again in the last few months on every
front. The first great German victory in
the war —Germany’s against France
was built partly upon Napoleonic tactics,
but the Germans themselves seemed to
lose sight of the significance of their
method when they beheld the moral
effects of the diffusion of armored forces
over France after the Sedan Gap break-
through. They had employed the same
methods of diffusion in Poland; they
used them with success in Russia only
so long as they faced the clumsy general-
ship of civil-war marshals and while they
were able to oppose, all along the line,
in ideal tank country, tank divisions to
tank brigades unsupported by artillery
of sufficient calibre and mobility for anti-
tank defence.
They were able to continue the disper-
sion policy last year, their spearheads
improved by the use of powerful mobile
artillery blocks which moved as swiftly as
tanks and acted in unison like a single
gun with innumerable barrels.
Napoleon and Alexander
With the North African campaign the
clock moved back. There is no diffi-
culty in guessing what textbook Alex-
ander and Montgomery carried in their
knapsacks in Egypt and Tunisia. The
devastating concentration of artillery and
aerial firepower; the swift-moving, power-
ful secret force hurling itself suddenly
on or round a flank ; the headlong, irre-
sistible onslaught of infantry, acting in
concert with the flanking force, at some
central focus point upon an enemy
stunned by the blows of the artillery con-
centration and staggering already; the
duplication of the general concentration
at all local points of attack ; the instant,
ruthless and detailed pursuit and mop-
ping up before the foe could re-form or
rearm —these were the features of Ala-
mein, of Mareth and of other Tunisian
battles.
They were Napoleonic methods adapted
by modern British military genius to the
new and more copious armament and to
cavalry and artillery tactics which did not
need to conform to the limitations of the
timid nature and lack of “engine power”
of the horse and bullock.
Exit the Guerrilla
The passing of the last phase of dis-
persed mechanical warfare on all fronts
—the phase in which it was argued that
guerrillas could hamstring armies, and
that any citizen with a heart full of Com-
munism and a pickle-bottle full of petrol
could defeat a mechanised enemy—was
probably written on the hills of the
Tunisian “box” during the advance of
the Eighth Army.
The effects of what happened there
touch not only the African war, but the
whole war on existing and future fronts.
The American Story
The tale has been told with generous
praise of the British soldier by the Ameri-
can correspondents on the spot, as they
pointed the contrast between the older
methods used by the Americans and the
new used by the experienced British.
The descriptions by these writers —and
there were many of them —are in strange
contrast to the horrible blah of Holly-
wood emanations which at present dis-
grace Australian picture screens, and
which depict the Tunisian campaign as
being almost bare of British soldiery ex-
cept for a few Indians and others tailing
along behind the victorious U.S. troops
under a cloud of U.S. fighters and
bombers.
One American writer on the spot de-
clared frankly that “the first major
action in Tunisia involving U.S. troops”
was a “defeat”—the setback from Paid
to Kasserine Pass; the second the
failure to make any appreciable headway
in the hills of El Guettar—a disappoint-
ment ; and the third—the delaying of the
British troops in the Fondouk Pass
through U.S. weaknesses “downright
embarrassing.”
But he points out that from these
actions, seeing the British units, with
their experience, doing what they them-
selves failed to do, “U.S. troops gained
humility, determination and the realisa-
tion that all the fine points of war can-
not be learned on a training ground.”
The same U.S. troops proved that they
had learned well from the British instruc-
tors who were sent to help take them in
hand, and from the British example when
they later made their splendid break-
through on the northern Tunisian line.
A British major summed up the new
methods of the British and the reasons
for their success:
The only way is to pick a single objective
and hit it with all you have. This morning
American infantry and tanks were spread
out all over that hill trying to take the
whole of it at once. It is not a question
of courage. You just can’t do it that way.
Alexander has made that just as true in
battles as in local engagements.
A correspondent who watched another
operation wrote: “These [U.S.] boys had
been storming these hills for three weeks,
trying to get to the coast and get in Rom-
mel’s rear, but the Germans refused to
budge until this morning, when they fled
before Montgomery’s powerful advance.”
Decisive Battles to Come
In Russia the present movements sug-
gest that the lessons which Alexander
and Montgomery have retaught have
been learned in other quarters. On the
Eastern front each side is looking for the
point at which the greatest centralised
concentration of force can be applied in
conjunction with a secretly placed diver-
sionary flank attack, at the same time
trying to prevent the other fellow from
making a similar concentration by worry-
ing him all the time.
The change marks a return to the day
of the big decisive battle, as opposed to
the series of dispersed battles.
Already the guerrilla has disappeared
as a major figure in the legends of Rus-
sian correspondents —the Germans are
giving him far more attention than the
Russians; and scorched earth has been
relegated to history.
All this is to the good, now that the
Allies have the strength to do the punch-
ing and several fists —naval, military and
air—to do it with. The new strategy and
tactics developed in Africa should con-
siderably shorten the war, even if they
delay actual fighting while concentrations
are being assembled.
In brief:
The R.A.F. dropped 12,500 tons on Ger-
many in May, against 11,000 in April and 8000
in March. There were no raids on Germany last
week, but Sicily, Sardinia and Pantellaria suf-
fered. The Neapolitan air base at Foggia had
three heavy attacks in 96 hours up to June 2.
Naples before the week-end had its 71st raid,
and with almost every raid the bombs pre-
sented get bigger and better. British long-range
fighters were as far abroad as the /Egean Sea,
wnere they sank some small ships. And Malta
had a raid, a faint ghost of the kind of thing
Malta used to call a raid. It was driven oit
nonchalantly.
* * * *
Spezia, the great n.-w. Italian naval base,
raided five times from the British Isles by the
R.A.F., had its first raid from North Africa
on June 5. The crews of the Flying Fortresses
claimed severe damage in a six-minutes’ attack
on the battleships Littorio (battered in Taranto
on Nov. 12, 1940),' Vittorio Veneto (which
figured ingloriously in the Cape Matapan battle)
and the new Roma, all in the 35,000-ton class.
A heavy cruiser and a merchantman were also
reported hit, and great fires were started in
oil depots and naval installations. The raiders
returned without losing a machine.
s(i * * *
Britain has suffered small, desultory raids
in the past week by anything up to 15 machines,
but the damage was spiteful rather than serious.
* * * *
It was a sad week for big flying boats. The
brutal shooting down of a big civil passenger
boat —which was carrying, among a dozen
people, two tiny children and the well-known
actor Leslie Howard —over the Bay of Biscay
sent a thrill of horror and repulsion through
the civilised world. It was a breach of mtei-
national law, but so is the sinking of unde-
fended passenger ships. On June 6, a NX.A.r.
flying boat with a crew of seven and eignt
passengers was reported missing.
* * * *
Evidence before the XJ.S. Senate Commit-
tee declared that the west coast of the united
States had been attacked three times —twice
apparently by ’planes from subs., once by
shelling from a submarine. One attack was
made in June and the other in September last
year. . *
* * * *
Monsoon rain stopped all fighting among
the Arakan patrols last week, but the hardy
R.A.F. men kept at it. Besides Australians they
include a good many Maorilanders. There
were seven of the latter among the 14 Hum
cancers who staged a surprise party for the
Jap bombers that recently visited Chittagong,
the balance consisting of Donald McDonald
of Sydney, five Britons and an Argentine. Two
of the Maorilanders lost their machines but
were escorted home safely. One hit the wing
tip of an adversary. Out of 31 enemy bombers
and fighters the Hurricane men bagged 15 and
the ack-ack gunners blew up another two.
* * * *
The Japanese advance in Central China turned
out to be almost a duplicate of last year s
drive which overran some of the Chinese centra!
food lands and then stopped. Chungking says
it was brought up with a heavy pit and five ot
its divisions surrounded. Groups of up to
4000 «of the enemy were reported to be bottled
up. The U.S. Air Force reported on June 3
that it was inflicting heavy damage on the re-
treating enemy, and Chinese General rl.v-
nounced that its forces had retaken an important
point on the outskirts of Ichang, the mam
Japanese operating base in Central China on the
north bank of the Yangtze.
* * * *
Maoriland troops are now garrisoning Nor-
folk Island (where the A.I.F. Major-General
Rosenthal is Administrator) and Tonga. the
little Dominion also has forces in New Cale-
donia, and is bearing a lions share of Fiji
defence, apart from its part in the Tunisian
campaign. Its effort for a country with so small
a population must be unique in world history.
* * * *
The Admiralty at the week-end reported the
sinking of six more Axis supply f }P S an( J
tanners in the Mediterranean, two ot them as
far north as the Corsican Channel.
* * *• ,*
According to Reuter, warships of the R.A.N-
are again operating in the Mediterranean and
the crews “include some of the Commonwealth s
most experienced seamen who have seel ?.
at Singapore, in the Dutch East Indies an
the Pacific.”
* * * *
The first V.C. awarded to a Maori goes to
Second-Lieutenant'Moana Kiwa Nganmu, who
lost his life in the Tebaja Gap in Tunisia, when
he led his men through an intense mortar and
m-g barrage to the crest of a hill, personally
wiped out two m.g. posts, rallied his men
against several fierce counter-attacks, and, twice
wounded, “died defiantly facing the.enemy with
a machine-gun on hi. hip.” He had won his
commission on the field.
* * * *
U.S. subs, report the sinking in Far Eastern
waters of a destroyer, a large tanker, a large
cargo ship, two medium cargo ships, a small
cargo ship, and a medium transport, besides
damaging a couple of other ships.


m
Ss
' &.
■‘•y. .
m ■
lag® s
■ M'M
- ■ - SR»
£fc : : : .v
■
W:|:¥:¥:j
Sf*'
■mm
m*
mm
mmm
’ S ¥
■I
sm.
wmm
Sra«Ss®ssSKlSW
mm
iiiiiiiP
■
3®g S® g
-.■■.•:■■■■■■ •
J ' X , ■¥» ' A ¥.
¥ % ©S M.
, . ' " v i SBS«SS
, •■''/$ '■ '■'[■ x'f
~ < v v ¥ ' v £
V/ >
- bj'-.f' i / ? |? *
—-w. . ....... .¥■ ' ;>I;
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m j-i
- ■:
#l!»f HI
i!#lll*f Ml
■ miw-m p||
Jllll
Hill
it
lit!
m
f m
(15
f
PV
M w<
I
.. 1
%
iHaO is
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra. *
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Australia has produced no outstand-
ing horse this season, and, unless one of
the rising three-year-olds develops cham-
pionship form, only the arrival from
Maoriland of Kindergarten could raise
the Melbourne Cup to something like its
customary level. Last year Kindergarten
was weighted at 9.13, and this time may
get 31b. or 41b. more. If Kindergarten’s
connections are satisfied, it can be taken
for granted they will make every endeavor
to get him across. There should not be
much difficulty in that respect.
Winterset, Australia’s champion fencer,
and favorite for the G.N. Steeple, affords
an instance of the money that can be
won with a good jumper—£5090 of his
total earnings of £6226 has been won
over hurdles and fences. Present owner
“H. J. Ascot” has found him a rare bar-
gain at the 350gns. he paid for him in
May, 1941. For “Ascot,” Winterset has
won nine races and £4060 in stakes alone.
He is probably better now than when
he failed in the G.N. Steeple last year,
and his earnings should be increased sub-
stantially before the end of the jumping
season. He will have perhaps only one
more race, and at the most two, before
National day. Winterset is still behind 11
horses in the list of Australia’s greatest
stake-winning jumpers. Mosstrooper
leads with £14,191, followed by Roisel
£11,295 and Pooley Bridge £8049.
Contrary to expectations, Sydney
owners nominated extensively for the
Melbourne Cup. They were prepared to
pay entry fees of £2 on the off-chance
of their horses developing form suffi-
ciently good to warrant a southern trip,
and, even more important, that there
might be modification of existing
transport restrictions. Unless these re-
strictions are relaxed, inter-State' overland
travel for horses will be out of the ques-
tion. Inter-State owners, however, were
alive to the position when they nomi-
nated, and no refunds of entrance fees
will be forthcoming from the V.R.C. if
they are forced by circumstances to stay
at home. One or two applications of a
similar nature were received by the
V.R.C. last year, but were refused. «
F. Douglas, rider of three G.N. Hurdle
winners, has returned to the saddle in an
endeavor to win that race for the fourth
time. He retired about 10 months ago,
and meantime has been working his own
mixed-farm property at Cannon Creek,
Victoria. His farm adjoins one owned
by successful jockey R. Bailey, who has
retired for the duration. Douglas won
the G.N. Hurdle last year on Saul, and
has. been engaged for the same gelding
in the big race next month. A fall from
Reef at Moonee Valley last Saturday
week, when he resumed riding, did not
dampen Douglas’s enthusiasm. He is as
keen as ever, but, at the same time, has
lost none of his keenness for farming.
His return to the saddle will not interfere
with his farm activities.
* * * *
Several Sydney-trained horses have
done their full share of racing since the
beginning of this season. Angus and Tel
Asur take first place in that respect, each
having started 23 times, the former for
one win and the latter for three.
Merrimba, with 20 races, and Cadger,
with 19, have been kept busy, and scored
a win each. Enderby, another total-
ling 19 starts, has won twice. Guild
Hall and Grand Fils have each won three
of their 17 races. Magi has returned two
and a half wins for 18 starts, and War
Trophy one win for 17, Of those which
have also done a lot of racing Abspear
and Modulation have the excellent
average of five wins each in 15 starts.
Salivant has done more racing than some
of those mentioned. A few of his 22
starts were in Newcastle, where he was
trained until recently. Four times a
winner, he has more than paid expenses.
* * * *
The large entry for the Victoria Derby
(98) and Oaks shows the club lost nothing
by keeping those races open until within
five months of their decision instead of
closing them a year and five months be-
fore they were run. In Australia very
little pre-post betting is done on Derbies,
and it is one case, at least, in which
nothing is gained by following English
precedent of early entry.
* * * *
Comparatively few horses last long
near the top of the tree. Of 34 horses
weighted at over eight stone for last
year’s Melbourne Cup eleven are engaged
again this year.
* * * *
In the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle
Race Saul has 11.11 against the 11.1 with
which he won last year, and Isambard
(second) has 11.5 against 10.13. Winter-
set has 12.7 in the G.N. Steeplechase, the
weight he carried into third place last
season. Parentena (winner) has gone up
to 9.13, a 101 b. rise, and Victory March
(second) has advanced from 9.11 to 10.4.
* * * «
It was some time since we heard any-
thing about Reading, now rising seven,
and, according to the American writer
“Roamer,” L. B. Mayer was understood
to have sold him last year. The writer
quoted is of opinion that Reading was
trained too soon after his arrival from
Australia, and would have done better if
given more time to acclimatise. Reading’s
only win was on the turf track at Arling-
ton (Chicago), 8y furlongs with 8.2, and
his eight starts in America gave a win, a
second, three thirds, and three times un-
placed, for $6300 (about £A1915). One
of his thirds was in a race in which he
carried 8.12, and the time, 2.2-5, was a
record for the Arlington turf track.
* * * *
Although placed at a mile and a
quarter, Merrimba has generally found
it a trifle far. However, the Rosebery
Flandicap gives him his chance at that
distance. Third in the Doncaster with
Bst., he was subsequently fifth in the Final
Handicap, U mile, with 8.10 (7.0 mini-
mum), and has 101 b. less on Saturday.
Merrimba likes Rosehill, though, for
that matter, it is the same with Shining
Night and Wellesley, who are among his
probable opponents.
New York commenced its racing sea-
son at Jamaica on April 8, and notwith-
standing that parking enclosures for cars
were closed, and other difficulties placed
in the way of motorists, there was an
unexpectedly large attendance of 26,400,
the tote turnover on seven races being
$1,308,919 (about £A398,130). Most of
those present reached the course by train.
After the second race there was a tote
strike, 30 clerks quitting work, and in
sympathy with them 12 barmen also
struck. The places of clerks and barmen
were quickly filled. As the Saratoga
meeting has been transferred to New
York owing to transport difficulties, that
city will have 180 days’ racing in a little
over seven months this year. At Belmont
Park (New York) attendances do not
equal those at Randwick on big days,
but at that track last week there was a
tote turnover of $2,699,000 (about
£A820,000) for eight races.
» * * *
Count Fleet has put up a record for
an American three-year-old by winning
the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness, Bel-
mont Stakes, the Withers and Wood
Memorial Stakes. As a two-year-old he
earned $76,245 (about £A28,190), but
that amount is dwarfed by his wins
this season. His sire, Reigh Count
(Sunreigh-Contessina), who also won the
Kentucky Derby and the Coronation
Cup in England, did stud duty this year
at a fee of £152.
% * * =H
There are 324 entrants for the Mel-
bourne Cup, against 284 last year, and
313 against 264 for the Caulfield Cup.
Sydney owners have contributed so
freely that they evidently believe the war
will go so well for us during the next
four months that transport restrictions
will be eased by the beginning of Octo-
ber. Let us hope they are correct. As
usual there are many seeming “impossi-
bilities” among the entrants, but that was
generally thought of Colonus when en-
tries closed for last year’s Melbourne
Cup, and as late as the end of September
the winning two Cups combination of
Tranquil Star and Colonus was at 1250
to 1 in Sydney, possibly longer in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Owing to the shortage of labor on
stud-farms breeders, as well as owners
and trainers, would welcome a change of
the conditions debarring geldings from
Derbies, St. Legers and some two-year-
old races. Geldings are easier to handle
anywhere than colts, but, as matters
stand, breeders cannot afford to send
many geldings up for sale. A buyer
naturally wants a chance of winning rich
young races, therefore must give colts
preference, and in consequence gelding
prices suffer. It cannot be claimed that
the banning of geldings from Derbies and
St. Legers has caused a greater demand
for the winners of those races for the
stud. Up to the present the most
achieved by the ban is an increase in Aus-
tralia’s inferior stallions. When our
breeders wish to improve their bloodstock
they still look to England.
* * 4!
B. Payten’s two-year-olds have not
done so well this season as in some in
the past, but the probabilities are that
two or three will fare better as three-year-
olds. Next season he will again be
numerically strong, the yearlings in his
stable being as under:
Ch. c., Brueghel-High Mary.
Ch. c., Brueghel-Aulone (700gns.).
B. c., Brueghel-Bren (550gns.).
Br. c., Burhan Aii-Care Free.
Br. f., Burhan A!i-Mincc Pie.
B. c., Le Grand Duc-Atalanta (650gns.).
B. c., Golden Sovereign-Modiste II
(1500gns.).
B. c., Sylvandale-Gravure (600gns.).
Br. f., Marconigram-Panooka.
Miscellaneous.
About 18,000 went to Essendon ex-
pecting to see the ’Dons put Footscray
through the hoop. But ’Scray took
hold of its old opponents and worried
them out of the match, 16.18 to 16.10.
Thus Essendon went down for the first
time this year, and, since the astounding
Hawthorn cheerfully belted “Sowth” by
12.13 to 10.15, Hawthorn and Essendon
now share the lead. Fitzroy drubbed
North Melbourne, 23.12-10.13; Rich-
mond accounted for Melbourne, 21.15-
17.11 ; and St. Kilda got a win over Carl-
ton, 13.14 to 12.8.
♦ * %
Manly’s fine Rugby Union side has
been beaten at last —by University.
Superior on the day in backs and for-
wards, Uni. scored 16 points to six, finish-
ing with four tries to Manly’s one. Other
games:
East 9, Randwick 3 (East was lucky); .St.
George 6, West 3; Parramatta 11, North 5;
Gordon 21, Drummoyne 8.
* H= * #
Jim Fraser, a lightweight from the local
Police Boys’ Club, outpointed Ron
Warner at Leichhardt in one of the most
exciting contests seen at that suburban
stadium for many months. As the third
round was ending an inside right counter
flush on his chin floored Fraser, and he
would have been counted out if the bell
had not rescued him. Not completely
recovered, Fraser was punched from
pillar to post in the fourth, but, with re-
gained strength and unimpaired fighting
spirit, he had the better of most of the
other rounds, Warner being often reduced
to hanging on. Hence Fraser was well
entitled to the decision he received,
although many galleryites noisily dis-
approved of it.
« * * «
Newcastle (Tommy Hunter) and Bris-
bane (Laurie Petersen) supplied the com-
batants at the Sydney Stadium, and they
made the fight interesting. Leading with
the right—Petersen is a mollyhander —
Hunter was well ahead on points at the
end of the seventh round, but the Queens-
lander won all the rest. Though a draw
would have given satisfaction, Petersen
was awarded a hairline decision.
FOR ROSEBERY
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Nursery: Joygiver, 1 ;
Sir Francis, 2 ; Cockcrow or Kings-
ford, 3.
Novice Handicap: Padalong, 1 ;
Wilberforce, 2 ; Cape Hero, 3.
Flying Handicap: Hesione, 1 ;
Winnipeg, 2 ; John Halifax, 3.
Three and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Aquatic, 1 ; Guild Hall, 2;
San Sebastian or Kimbell, 3,
Trial Stakes: Etching, 1 ; Vala-
roi, 2 ; Makatha, 3,
Rosebery Turf Club Handicap:
Merrimba, 1 ; Shining Night, 2;
Wellesley, 3.
Lakes Welter Handicap; Many
Ways, 1 ; Response, 2; Faerie
Queene or Bona Fide, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The fashion for gay colors that was
welcomed by war-torn England as an
expression of good heart seems to be
catching on here. Formerly winter was
regarded as naturally a season of grey-
ness and drabness in clothes. Now the
plaid coat in the liveliest, most eye-catch-
ing stripes and checks is all about city
streets, and the damsel who doesn t appre-
ciate lines and squares goes forth in un-
patterned cloth bright tomato-red or
heart-warming chartreuse yellow. Fashion
experts in older lands have repeatedly
argued that bright attractive clothes wear
just as long as drab and dreary habili-
ments. Now that rationing rules out that
new coat for mid-season, it’s being found
that a good hearty color in the old one
prevents one getting bored to death
with it.
Suggestion from the powers that be
that the shops may be closed at 4 p.m.
as part of a plan to stagger working
hours and ease peak traffic periods on
trams and trains is causing discord on the
feminine front. Office girls object to the
hour from five to six, in which most of
them do their shopping, being denied
them. Girls in factories whose work goes
on till six or half-past, on the other hand,
are prepared to cheer for any plan that
will reduce the home-going crush. The
home-keeping woman, whose excursions
into the city the 4 p.m. closing hour is
probably designed to check, is feeling,
like A. A. Milne’s Alexander Beetle, that
everyone’s blaming her, and wondering
whether anyone is really efficient enough
to get her shopping done before the late
afternoon.
As the dead-line for using the old
coupon-book drew near it was noticeable
that the biggest crowds were always in
the departments which demanded the
smallest coupon snippings, and stockings,
shoes and gloves vanished like summer
rain. Lace counters were denuded by
buyers with one or two coupons left who
felt satisfied with a yard or two of lace
which looks a good coupon’s worth, even
though it probably will lie unused in the
bottom drawer till the next Red Cross
jumble sale. Knitting-wool drew the most
persistent crowds. Judging by the amount
bought, not only the troops but the
civilians will be clad in wool from top
to toe this winter.
The Navy’s appeal, officially the
R.A.N. Relief Fund drive, was launched
on its way by Lud Mayor Nettlefold on
Friday, with State-wide echoes. Pro-
gramme of doings to help the cause in-
cludes a showing at Toorak Village
theatre on Sunday, June 13 (box plan
at theatre and at appeal headquarters,
269 Collins-street), of “Kokoda Trail,”
commentary by William Courtenay. The
Royle lady is especially interested in this •
bit of the drive. A Market Fair in the
Town Hall is planned for June 17, it
being left to individual auxiliaries to
equip the stalls,
A stall of special interest at the fair
will be one displaying toys made by naval
men who are doing this work as a means
of aiding convalescence. Hospital authori-
ties are enthusiastic about this handcraft
work. They say that, in addition to coax-
ing faculties back to normal use, it brings
to the surface unrealised talents in the
men which they themselves feel surprised
and pleased about. A man may find in the
glint he can give to a flannel elephant’s
eye and the twist he puts in its teeth a
streak of unsuspected genius. The toys
collected for the stall show this clever-
fingeredness is widespread. There is
humor in the faces and lineaments of the
animals that reflects the gay spirit of the
service man even in the hospital ward.
Since war started the various animal-
lover groups in this city have clubbed
together to look after the interests of
horses in war zones. The Purple Cross
League, which is, for horses, Red Cross
and Comforts Fund rolled into one, meets
each week for bandage-rolling and the
making of fly-veils and other horsy com-
forts. Special job on hand at the moment
is the provision of boots, just like
auntie’s “elastic sides,” for New Guinea
service horses who are suffering from
ankle wounds. The purpose is protec-
tion against mud. There is hope that
friends of Dobbin will club together to
provide a mobile X-ray outfit for horses.
The Emily MacPherson College of
Domestic Economy has proved its worth
to the community many times since war
started. Training of teachers in country
centres in big-scale cookipg, in case of
having to deal with temporarily homeless
children, was one of its services. Also,
students of the college have given help
to many patriotic organisations in mak-
ing of comforts, helping with the domestic
e of equipping hotels and the like.
Now they have come to the Rationing
Commission’s aid with a book of “mak-
j ng . over ” patterns to help women to con-
serve materials. Designs have been
bought out by students, and all sugges-
tions i nc i u ded in the booklet have been
su hj e cted to the test of practical experi-
gnce>
xhe o p en i n g day of the District Nurs-
Society’s Auxiliaries’ cafe boded well
£ or f uture success, the lunch hour bring-
*ng a £ u q house. The auxiliaries work
£ or war com f or t s as we n as for the
soc j et y s an d members feel that raising
£ unds is more to tke po j nt than making
g armen £ Sj no w that wool and other
materials are so scarce. President of
auxiliaries is Mrs. Mortimer Robb,
pictured here by Broothorn, who has a
name £ or making social services run
efficiently. She was one of the band that
esta bii s hed Navy House, in which she
stiU takes a . strong interest. The color
scheme of walls and tables of the new
cafe is creamy-yellow, and, reward of
much hunting and patience, a matching
set of yellow china has been collected.
On the question of evening dress Mel-
bourne opinion seems to be changing.
Time was when the little black, high-
necked frock was de rigueur, and then
there was an outbreak of tailored, long-
skirted suits with very chic jackets. Last
week at their respective concert appear-
ances Rita Miller and Isabel Biddell both
wore semi-crinoline, low-necked, full-
skirted frocks sweeping the ground. Rita,
at the concert she and Raymond Lam-
bert arranged for the men and women
of the services, sang in a black lace
creation, the skirt in tiers, with a red rose
caught in one tier and another rose at
the decolletage of the quaint bodice.
Isabel wore her black net with a pat-
terned floral spray showing dimly beneath
the folds of the skirt.
Lonely hearts there are aplenty ip Mel-
bourne, women who wait from mail to
mail for news of prisoners of war. Some
of them retire into their shells and resist
efforts to make life easier for them, but
others are bravely keeping in step with
the city life and getting ready to greet
the men when they return with faces on
which their worries are not written in
heavy lines. Of these latter are women-
folk of prisoners of war who fought in
Crete and Greece. They have a meeting
place in the city, and there each Friday
they cook lunch and eat together, talking
over the letters that have come and dis-
cussing ways of getting more cheer and
comfort to the men in prison camps. All
the men write in glowing terms of Red
Cross parcels.
Appointment of Mrs. A. E. McKenzie
as kindergarten supervisor and of Mar-
jorie Stewart as play leader at the
National Fitness Council’s Centre brings
a strong Caledonian strain down to
Fishermen’s Bend, to its notable benefit,
nae doot. At Fishermen’s Bend is
located Melbourne’s most interesting
sociological experiment, with houses,
play centres and public gardens all laid
out according to an ideal plan. Follow-
ing a plan of encouraging co-operation
between parents and teachers, Mrs.
McKenzie met the mothers of kinder-
garten youngsters at a social gathering
in the newly-built Community Hall.
An 0.8. E. goes to Mrs. Sarah Powell,
of Whitehorse-road, Ringwood (Vic.),
who, at 80, is probably the oldest woman
to get it. She was active in patriotic
efforts in the last war and for 21 years
has been president of the Sailors’, Sol-
diers’ and Airmen’s Mothers’ Association.
Her eldest son served in this war and the
last, her second son was killed in the
last, her youngest is in the R.A.A.F., and
a grandson is p.o.w. in Malaya.
Edith Olive Howat, elder daughter of
the Mount Ridley Howats, and Patrick
Andrew Bell, son of Mrs. J. Bell, of
South Yarra, are receiving congratula-
tions upon their engagement. The
Howats are stalwarts of the hunting
world, and when the war is over and hunt
clubs gather again someone from Mt.
Ridley is sure to be among those present
at the various meets.
From Sydney
Last Thursday afternoon the little Red
Cross cafe in George-street sparkled like
a ruby. All down the narrow room the
ivory tables threw into relief the deep
red of the linen cloths smoothed cross-
wise upon them. Bright lights shone
down, while outside the winter dusk
gathered, curtaining the day. There was
the thrill of excitement through the room
which was peopled by the cafe’s volun-
tary workers. It was their hour. All the
year they have worked, cooking meals in
the tiniest of kitchens, briskly serving
hundreds, washing dishes and at the end
of the day doing a laundry act among the
towels.
But, as president of the cafe Muriel
Higman pointed out, their labors and
good nature had their reward. The
profits for the year were £l5OO, and a
cheque for this amount was handed to
Lady Gowrie. This was her first visit to
the cafe, mid the cheque which she re-
ceived, on behalf of the Red Cross, really
did seem to surprise her. Last year the
cafe netted £lOOO, an increase of £5OO on
its first year. Sartie Russell, one of the
original workers and still a regular, was
among people congratulated. Flowers
were poinsettia and wine and white
chrysanthemums.
When the wicked queen of the night
is heard warbling on the vocal Everest
of high F that “Vengeance of hell is boil-
ing in my bosom,” the singer will be Con-
stance Pickworth, and the occasion (or
occasions) that of the presentation of
“The Magic Flute.” Mozart’s delightful
opera will be produced at the Con. by
the Con. opera school for a season be-
ginning next Saturday. Hilda Mulligan's
will once again be the experienced hand
behind the production, and* Roland
Foster will be the director. Constance
Pickworth has studied in England and in
France, and did some broadcasts in Paris
not long before Europe cracked asunder.
She has been heard in Sydney over
National stations, and her notes are con-
stantly heard at concerts arranged for
good causes. She is a popular artist at
camp concerts for the soldiers. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Week-end rhyme:
Now butter is rationed from coast to coast
(The coupons are lettered E),
If you pile the pats on your breakfast toast
It’s bread and scrape for tea.
The talents of Young Australia are now
getting some of the recognition they
deserve. Last Saturday night at the Town
Hall 15-year-old Allison Nelson was the
solo pianist with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. The work was the Saint-
Saens Concerto in G Minor. Allison, in
her short lilac frock and beribboned fair
hair, looked and sounded like a bit of
spring. Percy Code was the conductor.
A.B.C. heads were there in force, from
Chairman Cleary down. Pianist Kath-
leen Dempsey, herself to appear with
the orchestra later in the season, was an
applauder. Admiral Feakes and his wife,
the Walter Swinsons, Mrs. Victor White,
the Justice Roper couple, Mrs. Rex
Bennett, Con. Director Bainton and the
Hope Gibsons were there.
A new method of exporting wine to
Australia achieved a highly commendable
result last week. With true generosity a
<moup of airmen in Great Britain decided
to link up one of England’s few remain-
ing bottles of French champagne (1928
vintage) and the great drought now being
endured by citizens of Australia. With
this end in view they and no doubt the
Commons and the Lords decided to
dispatch the wine by air. Thus it came
about that a Lancaster bomber of high
power and gigantic dimensions was
chosen as the first flying bottle depart-
ment the world has known.
It and its precious cargo arrived
safe in Australia. A crew and a
passenger or two of unquestioned honesty
were hand-picked for the great enter-
prise. Lord Burghley (British Controller
of Repair and Overseas Supplies) and
Captain C. B. Wincott, R.A.F., no doubt
saw to it that the bottle was kept at the
right “inclination.” Flight-Lieut. Isaac-
son captained the Lancaster by way of
the Atlantic, Canada and the Pacific
without a drop of the champagne spilled,
without a scratch on the gold foil. This
opens a new vista in the fields of com-
merce, and answers the question of what
to do with bombers when the war is
over.
Photographs of the King and Queen
and Winston Churchill smiled benediction
at the entrance to the W.A.A.A.F. exhi-
bition last week. This was in David
Jones’s auditorium, which was gala with
flags and thickly adorned with Waaafs
and Raafs throughout. It had a spirited
opening and a floor space congested but
sociable-like. Lady Cowrie made a
speech, and words of praise were also
spoken by knight Donald Cameron, chair-
man of this State’s R.A.A.F. recruiting
drive. Group-Officer Clare G. Stevenson
also lifted her voice. Mrs. Bertie Kelly and
others active in keeping the Comforts
Fund pot boiling were seen.
W.A.A.A F. Flight-Officer B. Tassicker,
in charge of the demonstration last Wed-
nesday, merited a special salute. With
an unruffled smile she answered the same
type of questions from the unknowledge-
able visitors over and over again. “Yes,
the parachutes are of pure silk,” where-
upon the woman inquirer almost always
went across to the table where the ivory
folds of a parachute were being mani-
pulated, leaned over the barrier and
rubbed a finger caressingly and enviously
against the fabric.
Died recently, Mrs. Iva Clarke, some
few years ago a popular newspaper
woman of this city. She was on the
staff of the “Daily Telegraph” and
later “Country Life.” She was a Maori-
lander, and had friends throughout
Enzed, particularly in Dunedin and Auck-
land. She had a soprano of fine quality,
and her singing of Alfred Hill’s “Waiata
Poi” would have satisfied even the com-
poser. She leaves a daughter (Mrs. W.
H. Burke) and two sons, one in the
Department of Defence, another in the
fighting services, sorrowing.
Consider the ram. He toils not, neither
does he spin nor weave, yet it is doubt-
ful if Solomon in all his glory could have
obtained a higher cash-buyer. The sheep
sales were the event of last week, and
the pretty creatures showed their form
at the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile, at
Goldsbrough Mort’s, the Commonwealth
Wool and Produce Co.’s and similar
salons. The ram, like works of art, is
sold for guineas. One Bundemar Baron
changed pastures at 1200 guineas. Special
interest for women in this year’s sales
was the fact that different graziers had
given rams to be sold in the interest of
the Land Army Central Welfare Fund.
Lady Cowrie went to the N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile to see the sale of the first
ram for this fund. Knight Norman
Kater was the giver; and the amount
gained was 35 guineas. Three Land
Army girls were in attendance, and
country visitors were pleased to have this
get-together with representatives of the
L.A., which will eventually mean so much ,
to Australia’s war effort. Another ram,
the gift of the F. E. Body Estate, brought
150 guineas. Mrs. Geoffrey Killen, of
Moonagee, Nyngan, organised the L.A.
sale.
Mrs. John Dent is back in Sydney after
journeying with daughter Alison to Bom-
bay, where Alison became Mrs. Keith
Waller in St. Thomas’s Cathedral. Quite
a matey at-home feeling warmed their
hearts when they found the knot was to
be tied by Padre R. P. Stacey Waddy, one
of the well-known family of this State.
The bridal array was a putty-colored
frock worn with a tiny hat all of feathers,
brown bag and brown shoes. Of the
three pairs of brown suede gloves that
had been sought and found in Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth, no trace was to be
found on the wedding morn, so Alison
“made do” with her brown service gloves.
Mr. Waller is attached to the Australian
Legation.
Wrans are very pleased over Lady
Gowrie’s accepting an appointment as
honorary commandant in the Women’s
Royal Australian Naval Service. Min-
ister for the Navy announced the new
appointment recently, adding that Lady
Gowrie’s association with the W.R.A.N.S.
would be an inspiration to all its
members.


YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space with Compliments of
Makers of the Economy Sauce.
DANDRUFF GOES . . .
After a few applications of McMahon’s Hair Restorer
. . . leaving the scalp clean and fresh. McMahon’s is
quickly effective for scurf, itching and dryness of
the scalp and for falling hair. Good, too, for cradle-
cap . . . because McMahon’s may be used on the
tenderest scalp.
McMahon s Hair Restorer promotes growth, keeps the
hair lustrous and soft.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores.
h
Wholesale Agents: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd., 054 George Street, Sydney.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
IT IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN, IT ELIMINATES THEM
AND THE SANITARY MAN.
It runs continuously without emptying or other unpleasant jobs.
THE RISK TO HEALTH, SMELLS, FLIES, GERMS, INSECTS, AND DISCOMFORT
OF CLOSET PANS ARE ELIMINATED.
Its 14 year’s history proves that it is not in the same category as the many other
chemical systems which have come and gone in the past leaving a stigma behind them.
ITS EFFICIENCY AND LONGEVITY ARE FULLY GUARANTEED BY AN OLD
ESTABLISHED REPUTABLE FIRM TRADING SINCE 1937.
PRICE, £l9/2/6 (including sales tax), plus 10/9 crating if required.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd.,
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Soarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian Producers
Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerncy & Co., Ltd., Perth.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY CAN BE GIVEN.
y;
m
%
\
%
■ m
//
S3S
&
NEW INDUSTRIES ARE BORN
IN THE CRUCIBLE OF WAR
In the midst of the maelstrom
of war, with destruction on all
sides, there is nevertheless the
compensating factor of new
production. To meet the
Nation’s needs, great changes
must lake place in industry!
And so it has been in Australia,
the engineering ability and
inventiveness of this young
country has risen to meet the
challenge.
For instance, the modern plant
of Tecnico Limited, like so
many others, is doing work
today comparable with preci-
sion engineering carried out
anywhere in the world. Parts
are dynamically balanced, sur-
faces analysed and many intri-
cate machining jobs, such as
gear cutting and precision
grinding, are performed.
We are proud of the fact that
Tecnico is in the vanguard of
industrial development.
■
TC.4.43
mam
■
*
"M
I Oi
*
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWiCK SL. MARRICKV1LLE
I N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211
SMOKE-OH!
4* 4* 4* 4*
' She was a flat, angular woman with an ex-
tremely affected manner.”— Biographical item.
Perhaps she put on side to compensate
for her lack of front.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Film Star’s Husband Wins Wings.”
— Heading.
For a flight to Reno?
4* 4* „4* 4*
“After the war patriotic racing fans will
again collect at Randwick.” — Radio speaker.
Not if the bookmakers can help it.
4 1 4* 4* +
“A combination cigarette-lighter and torch
had been introduced by a Sydney inventor.”
—Weekly paper.
The torch may enable smokers to find
their matches.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man named John Halff has been granted
a divorce in Texas because his wife nagged
him when he had a drink, though he drank
very little.” — “World's News.”
Tram Tricks.
‘Tram jumps rails.” — “Sun.”
Some trams have an unfortunate pen-
chant for these gambols. I remember
when I was driving the old 5.25 jumping
jack from King’s Cross. One May Day,
hiccuping its way down Bayswater-road
on elliptical wheels, to the accompani-
ment of groans from several seasick pas-
sengers, it deliberately leaped the rails
and tried to dance around a pole. I went
into a near-by hostelry in search of
advice, and when I came out the tram
had sat down in the gutter, quite regard-
less of the traffic jam it was causing. An
officious inspector endeavored to lay the
blame for these troubles on me. We had
a very heated quarrel, and, of course, one
of us had to go,
I now travel as a passenger.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Girls don’t object to good advice.”
. —Woman’s mag.
No, but they positively resent getting a
wrinkle or two.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most husbands come to their senses.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Too late, sister, too late!
“Statesman Alive—Not Dead.”
— “Sun” heading.
No, not Canberra; President of China.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dip the chops in oil or dripping.”
— “Woman.”
Once you have tried this radical new
method you will never again use shaving
cream.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can I escape indigestion?”
—C orrespondent.
Don’t eat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Edna sprang front the chair. Yes, un-
doubtedly there were foolsteps on the gravel
path.”— Woman’s paper.
Her husband at last.
The Bluebloods.
“Creation by the Federal Labor Government
of a civil-service knight in defiance of all the
party’s cherished principles has ‘astounded’
trade-union circles.”
Possibly this is the thin edge of the
wedge, and the rise of a new aristocracy
sponsored by the representatives of the
horny-handed will be only a matter of
time. The replacement of one of the
party’s chief planks, which has been
found to be badly infected with dryrot,
by one aiming at the development of
a blue-blood strain seems to be imminent.
Perhaps in the future we may be reading
something like this;
A slab from Who’s Who :
“Blinks, Ist Viscount, cr. 1946, of
Ultimo. .William (“Billo”) Robert. Ed.
Limehouse and Soho. Organising sec.
N.S.W, Porridge-stirrers’ Union. Appren-
tice porridge-stirrer, 1904; journeyman
porridge-stirrer, 1910; shop steward,
1912. Sacked for urging fellow-employees
to make lumpy porridge, 1913. Org.
great Porridge-stirrers’ strike, 1915. Non-
starter 1914-18 war. Recreations : Talk-
ing, designing improved ballot-boxes.
Publications : Pamphlets on need to
nationalise porridge industry, attacks on
Fascist bosses. Club: Trades Hall.”
Another from the Court Registrar:
“The Australian College of Arms yes-
terday announced the arms and device
selected by the newly-created Earl of
East Sydney (Eddie Jawed). They are:
Ist and 4th or, a non-service chevron,
gules. East Sydney; 2nd and 3rd argent,
a chief vairee or and gules, over all a
streak crimson, Eddie. Crest : Out of a
ducal coronet per pale gules a goat trail-
ing several regulations rampant. Sup-
porters: Dexter, an absentee, go-slow
loafer argent; sinister, a large red her-
ring attached to line, Brisbane. Device :
‘The Boss is a Cow.’ ”
Another from the “Evening Bun”:
“Addressing a ‘Friendship With Tibet’
rally in the Domain on Sunday afternoon
Lord Adam Dourdial made a violent
attack on what he described as the smug
hypocrisy of the U.A.P. hoi polloi, who
claimed that Australia had little, if any,
interest in what the Tibetan workers were
thinking. That was the attitude of base-
born minions of greedy capitalist
squealers. Since he, Lord Adam, had
been elevated to the House of Peers he
had worked ceaselessly to bring Tibetan
coolies to this country to improve their
living standard. Our land was big enough
for all races and colors, so long as they
were committed to the class war and
world revolution. After a white-anting
tour of industrial areas in the north Lord
Adam proposes retiring to his country
seat to devote himself to organising a
Hands-off Patagonia campaign.”
80.
Out of Time.
“1902: Queen Victoria still on the throne.”
—Neville Cardus, in “S.M.H. ’■’
Neville, the deadly sin that moves your
hate
In orchestras, for which you’d relegate
Disorderly musicians to the shelf,
Of that you stand convicted, square and
straight.
You’re “out of time” yourself.
T.
Halff liked his drop of half and half ;
His better-half objected.
Half} felt like half the hearty Halff
He was, e’er she elected
To wed him. Now the knot’s in twain:
Halff is a whole Halff once again,
H. M.
Overtime.
I tossed and turned and couldn’t sleep,
So, desperate, I counted sheep ;
Though I on principle abhor them,
I herded them into a shed
(In fancy, as I lay abed)
And reckoned nigh three hundred head.
But morning came with sleep no nearer.
For, being by pursuit a shearer.
What time I counted them I shore
them !
P. O. M. C.
Final Course.
“Respondent said her husband, a chef, car-
ded on with other women. When She told him
she was leaving he thrashed her.”
—Divorce report.
This fellow cooked her goose, it seems,
And made a hash of all her dreams.
Before she skipped to cut her worry
He dished it out and gave her curry.
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Literature or Litter
The present scarcity of new books and
periodicals need not be an unmixed evil
to an old man. For many years I have
glanced almost daily at my bookshelves,
longing for leisure to re-read the Im-
mortals instead of floundering through
the spate of mere reading-matter that
rushes from the press to the sea of
oblivion.
About a year ago, being Short of
escapist stuff, 1 picked up a recent book
of essays by one of our professors and
became aware that the writer’s charm and
sparkle were due largely to the fact that
almost every sentence contained an allu-
sion to something penned by the Masters
who wrote not for an age but for all
time. The essayist must have read and
remembered all the worth-while books,
and he evidently took it for granted that
his readers had done likewise.
The mention of the scenes and charac-
ters that had thrilled me aforetime
stimulated my long-repressed desire to
renew acquaintance with my treasured
but dust-covered volumes. Since then I
have been revelling in an orgy of re-
union with heroes and villains that are
the prized friends or pet aversions of
every true bookworm.
If the scarcity of pulps or slick mystery
stories permits or compels others like
myself to read for the first or second
time priceless literary works of the
centuries that have gone, the influence
for good in the creation of a brave, new
post-war world will be in direct ratio to
the number of happy hours so spent. —
Utopian (S.A.).
State Elections
“Bozo” (B. 12/5/’43) wants identity
cards produced by voters when they go
to record their preferences and thinks
that voters who forget to bring them give
ipso facto evidence that they are not suf-
ficiently intelligent to deserve a vote.
But why all this fuss? Anybody who
could get excited over the issues involved
in the forthcoming Victorian State elec-
tions ought to get his head read. The
only candidate in whom I can feel any
interest up to date is the one who an-
nounces that, although he is seeking elec-
tion, he will seek to abolish the institu-
tion to which he is seeking election. Un-
fortunately, he doesn’t belong to my elec-
torate.
I will go along and vote and I will
take my identity card with me, but I
would be bluffing myself if I told myself
that I was doing so for any other reason
than to avoid the fine the complacent
legislators impose on anybody who omits
to commit the absurdity of voting for
their absurd institution. —L. L. (Vic.).
Education
Election candidates in Victoria are
promising reforms to be made in the
building and staffing of schools. Such
promises usually are made at such a
time, but is there any real enthusiasm
for education? Some well-known schools
in Melbourne have been taken over by the
Government with barely a protest from
educational authorities. And this is done
when there are many huge buildings in
the city more suitable, including beer
palaces. Also, there are skilled teachers
doing clerical work in uniform while
children suffer through lack of their
services.— Teacher (Vic.).
“Miles of Red-tape”
I took on war work in 1941, leaving
my young brother to carry on our two
farms of 1300 acres. My father, an
invalid, can do little. In May, 1942, my
brother was called up by the Army, leav-
ing my father to battle on alone. Appli-
cations were made for my brother’s
release to do seasonal work and harvest
the 1942 crops, but these were all re-
fused. He has since joined the A.I.F.
With the worry and struggle, my father
is very ill awaiting a serious operation in
Sydney.
With hardly any crop sown on these
1300 fertile acres, my piggery and sheep
stud sadly neglected, no maintenance of
fences, soil erosion going unchecked, and
a powerful farm plant and tractor lying
idle, I asked Man-power to let me return
to those farms and get them into produc-
tion. In these last few days I have waded
through miles of red-tape and tramped
through miles of offices of every sort.
Then I get out into the sunshine (at least
that hasn’t been “controlled” yet) and
read that food is scarce and must be
rationed. —C. H. S. (Vic.).
Be Fair to the Land
“Lao-dah” cites the killing of a com-
paratively few acres of land by modern
get-rich-quick methods of vegetable-
growing (B. 19/5/’43). The wheatbelts
have their story of soil impoverishment,
too, and that story began with the first
settlers. Where a 10- or 12-bag crop was
no uncommon sight, six bags to the acre
is rarely grown these days.
The soils were enriched originally with
the decayed matter of the forests. Trees
and deep-rooted plants, reaching down,
brought up the goodness of the subsoil
and spread it in a fertile surface layer.
Cleared and cultivated it needed little or
no manure to yield heavy crops.
Super, was used, not in trying to main-
tain the soil in its virgin state, but be-
cause it helped the growth of grain.
Today much of the land is sick from
the excesses it bore in producing tons of
wheat. The cardinal rule of all farming,
to restore what has been taken from the
land, has been neglected.
Civilisation can’t wait for Nature’s slow
“Gad! Too little, too late!”
process of re-enrichment, so the farmer
must bring the land back by synthetic
means of manuring and wise cropping. It
will take some years of endeavor, but the
success of future generations of farming
lies in this direction.
Wheat production must soon come
back to the ranks of profitable industry.
The shades of prosperity will rest with
the man who treats his land with the
respect it deserves. — Esk D. (Vic.).
A Wheat-belt Memory
“W.C.C.” (B. 12/5/’43), who mentions
the “tragic fiasco” of group settlement in
W.A., could have gone further and told
how the settlers on the Mitchell-scheme
country, W.A., got inflated ideas of their
importance through senseless approaches
by aspiring politicians fishing for their
votes.
Writer was present when one of these
disturbing gentlemen frothily proposed
to increase the settlers’ livestock by
several cows and horses, and assured
them of larger sustenance and more con-
genial supervision (a suggestion of fore-
men with dinkum Governmental sym-
pathies).
If we are to go through this sort of
thing again, finally to find, when the moon
has not been delivered, that the settlers
have gone sour on the job and joined the
city population, we had better not waste
our time and money. Rather encourage the
genuine farmer and orchardist to do more
by taxing him less and reducing the
number of inspectors and controllers and
of edicts compelling him to keep his land
clean of pests while alongside him Gov-
ernment land reeks with them. — Adsum
(W.A.).
Save Rubber on the Farm
If a motorist wants a car tyre, he must
hand in an old one. This should apply
to milking-machine rubber. It would be
quite simple to compel farmers to hand
in a foot-length of old milk-line rubber
for every foot purchased, and an old
inflation for every new inflation.
Cockies are using old rubber
milk-lines and gutta-percha rubber in-
flations for lighting the fire at milking
time. Very little milking-machine rubber
finds its way to the reclaiming works. —
Juppy (Q.).
No Lights on the Farm
R. H. Gordon, writing from W.A.,
laments the lack of lamps (B. 26/5/’43),
but the lack of kerosene is far more
serious to farmers. In my N. S. Wales
dairying district we have to be in the
milking-yard before daylight. Kerosene
lanterns are our only means of lighting,
and now we find it impossible to buy
kerosene or candles, and equally impos-
sible to milk and feed cows in the dark.
Unless we can get kerosene within the
next week or two, we will be unable to
get the milk to the train in lime to supply
the city, and citizens will find their milk
supply still further reduced. — Tired of
It (N.S.W.).
Milk and Disease
The typhoid epidemic now abated in
Melbourne has shown again that a city’s
milk should be pasteurised. This offers
protection from such milk-borne diseases
as scarlet fever, septic sore tnroat, undu-
lant and typhoid fevers.
Much more is needed in milk sanita-
tion than merely keeping things clean. A
cow’s udder may become infected with
organisms capable of causing human dis-
ease, and no amount of care in handling
milk from such an animal could make
it safe.
A recent outbreak of scarlet fever in
the U.S.A. was traced to cheese made
from raw milk. A cow on one of the
farms sending milk to the factory was
found to have an infection of the type
associated with scarlet fever. Some of
these disease-producing organisms were
incorporated in the cheese, where they
are able to live for three months or more.
Some of the milder cheeses are eaten after
only three months of ripening.
In raw milk there may be germs
from persons with colds, sore throats,
discharging wounds or from persons who,
though apparently healthy, are carriers
of such a disease as dysentery or typhoid.
The fact that so many outbreaks of
typhoid have been traced to a carrier
show the human tendency towards care-
lessness in observing the fundamental
rule of hygiene that, before starting work
and after any interruption, food-handlers
should scrub their hands and dry them
on clean, individual towels. Dietist
(Vic.).
Fuel Economy
Coal Commissioner Mighell might well
direct his request for fuel economy to
City Councils and other public power-
providers.
Brisbane Council was reminded of the
waste of current entailed in not switching
off at least a portion of Brisbane’s many
thousands of street tights, particularly in
the suburbs, on moonlight nights. The
official reply was that little or no saving
would be effected by doing so.
Vet for months Brisbane shops have
been forbidden to light up their win-
dows so as to conserve current. —Mark.
Patch (Q.).
Sole Leather
Rosevear, M.H.R., Controller of
Leather and Footwear, has announced a
reduction in the allocation of sole leather
for military requirements from 80 p.c.
to 55 p.c., 40 p.c. now going for civilian
needs and 5 p.c. for industrial purposes.
This will give the public the idea that
better footwear can be expected from
retailers shortly, but does not express the
true position, which is known to tanners,
manufacturers and shoe repairers.
Until a few weeks ago manufacturers
and repairers received limited supplies of
sole leather bends of 101 b. to 141 b. for
use in civilian shoes, but now Mr. Rose-
vear’s department demands nothing
over 101 b. be supplied to manufacturers
or repairers.
A deputation of Brisbane repairers was
recently informed that sole leather of a
thickness 10 iron or over (an iron is
l-48th inch) is now reserved for service
requirements. A repairer showed me sole
leather of the maximum thickness, nine
iron (less than |in.) which he will be per-
mitted to use, commenting “1 couldn't
be sure of leather like this giving more
than three weeks’ wear in a pair of men’s
shoes.” —En Verite (Q.).
“First and Last”
Diogenes looking for an honest man
would have full play for his pessimism
in Australia today.
Beating the restrictions on petrol,
drink, tyres, betting, travel, food deli-
veries, rationed goods, choice of occupa-
tion, strikes, holidays and all the rest is
assuming the proportions of a national
pastime.
There always are scrimshankers and
moneygrubbers who will try to get
around these things, but other people
are at it now. Persons who even a few
months ago obeyed restrictions in the
conviction that they were necessary to
help the country and its fighting men can
now be heard boasting of how they are
getting round them.
The cause? Obviously a Government
that issues forests of regulations against
strikes and won’t enforce them; that
makes flesh of one section of the commu-
/ nity and fish of another; that permits
highly-placed authorities to muddle things
up and then engage in press or radio con-
troversies ; that gives socialist doctri-
naires an open go and turns a blind eye on
Red racketeers —a Government, in short,
that has at last convinced the majority of
Australians that pandering to political
supporters is the first and last “Labor
principle.” —O. T. (N.S.W.).
Tobacco
“A. 5.8.” (B. 26/5/’43) should use the
past tense when he talks about the
abhorrence of smokers for Australian
tobacco. Ninety per cent, of Sydney
smokers would welcome Aussie leaf in
any form ; it would be preferable to the
rubbish we are forced to use.
What “A. 5.8.” is probably driving at
is that our manufacturers (unlike those of
some other lands) lack curing experience.
But that will come.
The war has largely helped to correct
the unfriendly attitude of mind adopted
by many Australians, bush and city, to-
wards commodities produced by their
fellows. We have the goods ; what is
wanted is a little more enterprise and
* forbearance all round. Two Wars
(N.S.W.).
“Visions About”
A. A. Griffiths, a Toowoomba man
who has visions of developing the north
by a network of railways, has offered
what he claims to be a workable way
of eliminating redundant Governments:
The States to be divided into provinces
or smaller States. Each province to return
a suitable number of representatives to
Canberra—say, three to the Reps, and one
to the Senate. Such members to be also
the administrative body of their particular
province.
For Queensland he sees the provinces
as: Brisbane; South-east, with Too-
woomba as centre; South-west, with
Charleville ; Coastal, with Bundaberg ;
Central Coast, with Rockhampton ; Cen-
tral West, with Longreach ; North Coast,
with Townsville ; North-west, with Hugh-
enden ; and Far North Coast, with Cairns.
It has its points, but the Common-
wealth Constitution would have to be
altered first. And Griffiths would need
to leap State boundaries, because the
South-east, for example, would have to
take in part of N. S. Wales. Such
schemes must begin from a continental
viewpoint. —Balander (Q.).


They are the peoples of Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India and the British Colonial
Empire who are partners in the struggle against the evil tyranny of Nazi-Fascism. They span the world:
they tap its resources. They are linked together by sea-power and air-power for co-ordinated attack and
defence at all points of the compass. Behind these massed forces of liberty is the industrial might of the
Empire, resting on inexhaustible supplies of raw materials, the superlative quality of its products, and of
the men who make them. This is the front behind the front, the foundations of the great fortress of
which Britain is an advanced post. Throughout the Empire, Imperial Chemical Industries has its associ-
ated companies, its factories and its agents whose energies and products are to-day mobilised in support
of 500 million people in their fight to preserve freedom from disappearing from the world.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & A NEW ZEALAND LTD.
