

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3330
Wednesday, December 8, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TINTAGEL.
CORNWALL RUIN OF KING ARTHUR’S CASTLE.
ONE might spend a long holiday in England visiting all the
haunts associated with King Arthur’s Knights. In Winchester
they will show you the Round Table, but at mention of the King
it is of Tintagel that one immediately thinks. It was in this headland
rock fortress that Gorlois the mighty duke lived with his wife, the
fair Ygraine, until that unhappy day when he went out to do battle
with Uther Pendragon, who deprived him of his life. Ygraine’s
son was the prince who became King Arthur. So this castle,
bequeathed by the same Gervase of Canterbury who left a hundred
other fortresses spread throughout England, is permeated with the
romance of the Arthurian legends. Disappointing as a ruin,
Tintagel seems to make of the ancient monarch nothing but a rough
chieftain stripped of his spell and with no Excalibur but a common
spear. But there is another Tintagel JIUT, spun out of verse and
music, preserving for all time the Arthur of the loman ic -■ >
Lancelot and Guinevere and the Quest of the Holy Grail, an _
has been inspiration for Spencer and Swinburne and a
Arnold and for Tennyson, who wrote in Morte d Aitnui.
The sequel of today unsolders all
The goodliest fellowship of famous knights
Whereof this world holds record. Such a sleep
They sleep—the men I loved. I think that we
Shall never more, at any future time,
Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds.
Tintagel sleeps on, dreaming of bygone days and well may it be
that here springs the inspiration of modern knighthood, the bower
of which has been called the few to whom so much is oweu by
so many.


liMi
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
IMy Same
My Address
S.B. 243 AGE
The Red Page
AUTHENTIC ABO.
Perhaps not meaning to be take
literally, Professor A. P. Elkin describe
Taboo, by W. E. Harney (Australasian
Publishing Co.), as a “book of shor
stories.” It would be just as accurate to
call it a book of psalms or a novel in 2
chapters.
Two or three of the chapters are shor
stories, “The Secret” a particularly gooc
one. Also, every chapter contains a story
of some kind, from sharp, illuminating
anecdote to discursive narrative. Bui
with the few exceptions, short-story form
simply isn’t there.
Which doesn’t matter a paspalum seed
The book is a most interesting and enter
taining presentation of aboriginal charac
ter and abo. lore, written from first-hand
knowledge and showing sound under
standing. It is not one of those Pitt-stree
bushman efforts to glorify the abo. into
a heroic figure (by white standards) such
as he never was, never aspired to be anc
wouldn’t comprehend.
Harney has lived in Arnhem Land for
about 20 years. He has been especially
moved by the perhaps unavoidable injus-
tice of punishing natives for infringements
of white men’s laws where there has been
no infringement of the only laws they
can understand, their own. The injustice
from the abo. point of view, as Harney
very simply and effectively shows, cuts
even deeper. Not only might there be no
infringement by the abo. of his own
laws; there might be —nearly always
would be—a positive direction under
those laws. The white would have to cal
the result murder, but the abo. would
understand it only as a clear directive
from his own tribal laws. He would do
15 years for it, as incapable of understand-
ing why as a hawk or an emu would be.
Harney does not suggest that, there-
fore, an abo. who kills another abo.- —or
a white, for that matter —should be set on
a gum-stump throne and treated to a
feast of roast goanna. He is not that
sort of sentimental interpreter. Without
liking it, he accepts the inevitable in the
general clash of white and abo. What he
mamly seeks to do is to explain the abo.’s
case. It might be ambiguous to describe
Harney as a missionary, since he thinks
no higher of the missionary approach to
the abo. than of the official approach ;
but that is really his role. He is a liaison
missionary between, explaining the abo.
character to whites, but without senti-
mental falsification.
“Nance” —one of the chapters that
might reasonably be called a short story
—is an explanation of the amoral nature
of the female of the species. Nance is
no more immoral than a bird. She is a
child—literally a child—of ages. “The
Rainmaker” explains away the “mysteries”
of suchlike native “magicians.” Simply,
the rainmaker is a success in his
profession because he knows the signs
that nature gives, and his “magic” is just
the reading of those signs. He doesn’t
set his magic” working till the signs tell
him for certain that there’s rain about.
This is somewhat different abo. inter-
preting from that which sets the abo. up
as a shining bronze god, differing from
whites only in the color of his pelt and
the loftier nature of his character—
analagous to the “nature” writers who
give creatures human characteristics and
make them, in their self-communings,
conversations and soliloquies, masters of
the English language. The result is some-
thing incredible. In Harney’s friendly
presentation the result is a recognisable
being. Perhaps he is oversimplified, but
at least he is something the reader can
see, hear and believe in.
There is a similarly natural quality
abput Harney himself. He gets his effects
by literary methods as simple as the
methods his abos. usually use to get a
feed. His quality is clarity. He thumps
the tub and moralises and indulges
in misquotations and bush philosophis-
ing, and he has no literary subtlety to
speak of, but the characters of his abos.
and whites come out very clearly the
whites, for a change, not all the bad eggs
that usually have the job of heightening
contrast against natives, resort to which
case-loading is itself always a serious
admission of a bad case. Harney has a
good case, and it’s all one to him if the
white contrasting in it is a reasonably
decent chap—in fact, so much the better.
There’s nothing of the usual bad egg
white about Bill Nevins, who had the
very best of motives in selecting some
abos. who were good toilers and starting
them off to make themselves a com-
munity vegetable patch. What Bill didn’t
appreciate was that even in this simple
and hospitable enterprise he was barging
up against tribal laws and native charac-
ter evolved by the long operation of those
laws.
For a start, a stray abo. family group
happened along and proceeded to hang
around waiting for the prospective feast.
Ned, appointed overseer of the com-
munity patch, could do nothing about
them because, as he explained to the boss,
the head of the intruders was an uncle
of his named Joe, and it would be a
breach of tribal law to hunt him away.
Then the small abos. started eating the
green watermelons and throwing others
about —a great joke, not strictly peculiar
1° small abos. Here Ned could do
nothing because the children were out-
side his degree of relationship. Then all
the abos. began mustering for a big fes-
tival, to commemorate the huge supply
of food on hand by the natural abo.
ritual of eating it; using the supply as
needed being mere white-fellow business
—in short, hoarding.
Next in this saga of a vegetable plot,
an old woman walked over one of the
biggest pumpkin patches, which made
Ned thenceforth refuse to have anything
more to do with it, the old lady being
his mother-in-law, and the patch now, by
her trespass, rendered taboo to Ned. For
some reason, which may have been
merely temperament or may have been
dictated from the dark ages, Joe now be-
came annoyed and threw the whole
garden into “karawade,” which meant
that if any of the women that season took
of the fruit thereof and did eat
what happened to Eve would be an
honorable discharge compared with what
would happen to them.
Not out of his turn, Bill—the decent
white bloke who started all this—-also be-
came annoyed and smashed a pumpkin
over Joe’s head. By way of retort Joe
sang magic into an old woman and
caused her to die. This started a fight, in
which a native was speared, the murderer
clearing out into the bush and becoming
a source of annoyance to Bill for some
time afterwards as a killer of his cattle.
The final pumpkin being at least
understandable and human—and Joe’s
skull being apparently good and hard,
anyway—Bill is a happy relief from the
usual run of whites in such books.
Another of Bill’s kind in Harney’s
interesting gallery started out with great
advantages over Bill. He’d had some
anthropological training, was firmly con-
vinced that with the right teaching the
small abo. could be “brought over to our
ways of life,” and, thus equipped, started
in to teach. He put a taboo on pidgin,
and generally got along wonderfully till
one day, when his enthusiasm had
mounted high and the monsoon had
come, half his pupils were missing. An
old native woman enlightened him: “You
see that grass. Well, him got ’em little
fellow seed. That seed him talk talk,
goose been layem plenty egg longa
swamp. Well, that easy, ain’t it? Black-
fellow, pickinini, all about go out longa
swamp, eatem egg. Bye and bye egg
finish, all about come back.”
What could be more natural or
proper? And so it will be again, Harney
knows, when a certain flower shows out
and tells them of plenty of bees’ nests out
there in the bush. Harney chuckles to
himself—not at the teacher’s discomfi-
ture nor Bill’s, but wholly because he
knows the abo. character and enjoys it.
Mostly his stories are good campfire
yarns, all the more interesting and infor-
mative for being discursive. “The
Secret” has the literary quality and the
short story essential of form as well. Its
narrative and theme have to do with an
abo. named Frog—a king for a’ that—
who kills another abo. and is being taken
along in to get the usual fifteen years,
when, swimming a flooded river beside
the policeman who’s arresting him, he
dives under the water meaning to
escape. When he comes up he sees the
policeman in difficulties, rescues him
and, when he goes for trial, is
pardoned.
Later Frog has a fall on his head
from a horse, which everyone accepts as
accounting for the fact that he’s now
always laughing to himself. Frog knows
better; he’s laughing at his secret. The
whites thought it was great courage on
his part that made him save the police-
man, whereas, Frog knows, it was fear.
This is a great joke, and Frog goes on
laughing at it to himself, till one day he
sees a white child about to be bitten by
a tiger-snake. Frog rushes in, saves the
youngster, but is himself bitten. Then
light and a great disappointment come to
him. Dying, he realises that it wasn’t
fear that made him save the child, and,
therefore, it must have been not fear but
courage that made him save the police-
man. The whites had been right; the
joke was on Frog himself.
The editor of the next Coast to Coast
Australian stories should be able to get
something out of Harney, and anyone at
all should be able to get a lot out of
Taboo and out of the book which the
introduction mentions is being prepared
by Harney and Professor Elkin —the
author’s expert literary godfather, Elkin
being Professor of Anthropology, Uni-
versity of Sydney.
Louis Esson.
“Dear Louis: Here it is then, this col-
lection of stories which you have so
warmly encouraged. Your encourage-
ment has even gone so far as to resist the
inclusion of any story by Louis Esson, a
writer whose less successful works you
have always condemned with much
greater harshness than you would show
to those of anyone else.”
Thus Nettie Palmer “To Louis Esson,
By Way of Preface” to An Australian
Story Book.
Louis Esson died on November 27 at
Potts Point, Sydney, in his 65th year,
and those who knew him will remember
him most for the three characteristics
revealed in Nettie Palmer’s dedication.
His devotion to the cause of Australian
literature was long and constant, his kind-
liness to his contemporaries was prover-
bial, and there was no critic more severe
to his own writings than himself.
In his encouragement of young and
unknown writers he was like Bertram
Stevens, of whom Norman Lindsay once
said: “He was at the beck and call ’ of
every Australian writer of his time.”
Louis’s small King’s Cross flat was a
meeting place for many well-known and
unknown writers, and many of the latter
left manuscripts for Louis to look over.
With the exception of Dowell O’Reilly
no other Australian writer of note pub-
lished so little. Louis wrote prodigiously
in his earlier years, but, like O’Reilly,
withheld most of his writings from pub-
lication. Even William Baylebridge, a
ruthless destroyer of his own manuscripts
and suppressor of his own books, pro-
duced more in printed form.
Esson’s Bells and Bees (Melb., Lothian,
1910) is a slim volume of 44 pages ; his
Red Gums and Other Verses (Melb.,
Fraser and Jenkinson, 1912) runs to 48
pages. Both are rarities today. His best-
known verses, “Brogan’s Lane,” “The
Old Black Billy an’ Me,” “Cradle Song,”
“The Shearer’s Wife,” “A Camel Driver,”
“The Splitter” and “Whalin’ Up the
Lachlan,” have all found their way into
various anthologies. This is as he saw
his “Shearer’s Wife”:
Before the glare o’ dawn I rise
To milk the sleepy cows, an’ shake
The droving dust from tired eyes,
Look round the rabbit traps, then bake
The children’s bread.
There’s hay to stock, an’ beans to hoe,
An’ ferns to cut i’ th’ scrub below;
Women must work, when men must go
Shearing from shed to shed.
I patch an’ darn, now evening comes,
An’ tired I am with labor sore,
Tired o’ the bush, the cows, the gums,
Tired, but must dree for long months more
What no tongue tells.
The moon is lonely in the sky,
The bush is lonely, an’ lonely I
Stare down the track no horse draws nigh
An’ start... at the cattle bells.
As a perusal of old Bulletin and
“Lone Hand” files will show, Esson wrote
also larrikin ballads such as “Brogan’s
Lane” and verses with Eastern themes
such as “Opium Pipe” and “Bazaar of
Death.”
Esson, who was born in 1879-—the same
year saw the birth of Norman Lindsay,
C. E. W. Bean and P. J. Hartigan (“John
O’Brien”) —broke into The Bulletin
during the early years of this century,
writing as “Ganesha.”
Former Bulletin editor S. H. Prior
used to tell a story of an Esson contri-
bution. Louis wrote some political verse
in which three or four early Federal
members were disparaged. One line
didn’t scan, and James Edmond sub-
stituted Gibb for another who was
in the pillory. Only when an indignant
protest came over the wire from Mel-
bourne did Edmond realise that Esson
had been made to say uncomplimentary
things about a newly-acquired stepfather.
Esson came to Australia as an infant
from Scotland, was educated at Mel-
bourne University, worked a while with
the Public Library and then returned
overseas. There he met Synge and Mase-
field and formed a friendship with Yeats,
who advised him to return to Australia
and write of Australian subjects. Back
here he wrote verse and articles for the
“Lone Hand” and continued the interest
in the stage that had been whetted by
Abbey Theatre productions in Dublin.
He was closely associated with both
Gregan McMahon and William Moore in
their first Melbourne non-commercial
theatrical ventures, and he initiated the
Pioneer Players, a society of actors and
dramatists formed in Melbourne in 1922
with the object of producing original
work.
Esson wrote 15 short plays, of which
five have so far been published in book
form, a sixth appearing in the anthology
Best Australian One-act Plays, 1937. Writ-
ing of “Dead Timber” in The Bulletin
of January 11, 1912, the Red Page man
of that day said that it had “the sim-
plicity, the inevitability, of art. Hardly
a word is overstressed. The picture—the
desolate picture of this slab hut in the
middle of a half-cleared selection in the
Gippsland bush—is painted without a
false note. The impending tragedy of
the bush, where dead timber shuts in
souls that are dead timber, hangs over
the first few words of dialogue, and yet
Esson has for the audience a dramatic
surprise—the tragedy is not the tragedy
they carelessly might suspected.”
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
In the second week of a remarkably
successful run in Melbourne the Boro-
vanskys put on two new items. In “Les
Sylphides” Laurel Martyn, Dorothy
Stevenson and Corrie Loder were suffi-
ciently alluring to distract attention from
the. lack of -an orchestra to interpret
Chopin’s music. “Facade” was a bur-
lesque, and sometimes a burlesque of a
burlesque, with the background of
Walton’s eccentric music. It showed that
the company isn’t short of clever dancers.
“Let’s Face It” —why? J.C.W. revival
at Melbourne Majesty’s, it’s said to
be a musical-comedy adaptation of
“Cradle Snatchers,” a straight play
which caused such a violent reaction 15
years ago in Melbourne that a couple of
policemen were sent by the Chief Com-
missioner of the time to pass moral judg-
ment on it. The Chief Commissioner
took the precaution of going himself the
previous night in case he might find him-
self in the unfortunate position of having
to ban the piece before he saw it. As it
happened, the policemen were so sick
with laughing that they could hardly make
the necessary notes about it. There
seems nothing much to laugh at in the
adaptation. Some of the dancing is
clever.
Nightly at Sydney’s Theatre Royal the
machinations of a right scurril rogue to
have his kinsman’s head roll on Tower
Green are being thwarted by the com-
mendable if un-yeomaniike action of
Sergeant Merrill of the Guard in con-
niving at the gallant Colonel Fairfax’s
escape—a goodly tale, salted with the
buffoonery of merryman Ivan Menzies
and No. 7863 of the Merrie Jestes of
Hugh Ambrose. Such rousing choruses
as “The Screw May Twist” beefed out
by ye beefeaters with admirable vim.
“F.S.” on some war art:
The mediocrity of the exhibition of official
war art sent out by the British Ministry of
Information and hung at the National Gallery
in Melbourne is possibly explained by the
official attitude described in the foreword to
the catalogue of the exhibition: —
For many years British artists have had
nothing to paint. The walls of the Royal
Academy were annually invaded by the
same landscapes; the same unclothed
maidens standing at the same pool; the
same lobster on the same plate; the same
flattered peeresses; and the same idealised
peers. It was obvious that theme was
secondary to technique. Now, for the
first time for many a year, our artists
have been plunged violently into life.
These pictures are the first fruit's of their
experience.
Unfortunately, if an artist can’t paint a
lobster, a peeress or an unclothed maiden well,
being violently flung into a tank battle or an
air raid won’t t'each him to paint better. He
will bring no more skill to the one than the
other. Despite their terrific and sometimes
horrific subject matter, these pictures are just
as dull as any R.A. show pre-war. Perhaps
the dullest is Sir Muirhead Bone’s “Return
from Dunkirk,” a tremendous enough subject
if ever there was one.
At the talkies:
Andrew Johnson, Lincoln’s Vice-President,
who took over the White House chair when his
friend Abe was assassinated, is the subject of
a well-done biographical, “ ‘Tennessee’ John-
son” (G. U. Theatres), dealing mostly with the
phase in the Presidential career of the ex-
tailor’s apprentice wherein he was tried by the
Senate on a charge of breaking a law in the
making of which his own power of veto had
been overridden. Lionel Barrymore makes
Johnson’s inveterate enemy Stevens live, and the
up-and-coming Van Heflin sinks his teeth into
the meatiest" role of his career. The Chief Jus-
tice at the trial is an outstanding characterisa-
tion by Montague Love, who has passed on
since this film was made.
Vaudeville mostly holds the boards in “Some-
thing to Shout About” (State), a fast-moving
backstager assaying high in gurgles and galump-
tiousness. Janet Blair does the songandance,
and Don Ameche talks at 250 w.p.m.; but the
show belongs to The Bricklayers, a performing
troupe of nondescript dogs who do everything
from riding scooters to building a house.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE"
l
A2A~~~
if
'V
Or
*rf
J-,*
Cty-
X
&*
"V
«
/■^
V
v-
O
-■v
s.
<-<r
36
loA®
W® 1
vet
me
nd
uul®
OIS
rn.o
eWt
line
aid
at®
diatn
all
G\ass® s
au
lot
lul
dt® 5
as
attd
36/
ase
llYtaq
lout
VetY
etc
ut® s
Uagu
dets
G 3=
cues
tea
Tlvese
pxtce
7%
raap
Letts
ittsis
ettt
detu s
Ixatstes
get
Lola
utetu
Hot
Sir
clot®
xtteas
pitt
iLouY
all
osP®
£Ut
floor
lot
ixd
siq^
also
Grow
latlt ng
OpU c
J2A-
K
....
■
llliil
i
.: : :; * ■' *.■: :: : .'* :v •
Imlmi
IHHH
3
H
m
m
s»
II
$
5
1
m
m
m
.
WM
m
r*
l
0
Envelope Shape Hand-
bag. Nicely made of em-
bossed linen. Fitted with
small purse and mirror.
A choice of Black, Navy,
Red or Brown. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price .. 29/3
Neat Handbag in Beige
Tapestry on strong chro-
mium mount. No fittings.
A useful size. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price . . 19/11
" Creation Dances," by
Phyllis V. Campbell. A
delightful collection of
verse. Just published.
Price, 6/-; postage, 2£d.
"A Book of Verse," by
Charles de Monchaux.
Illustrated by Herbert
Moesbury. 7/6; post., 2£d.
"This is Australia," by
lan Mudie. 3/6; post., 2-£d.
"Adagio in Blue," by T.
Inglis Moore. 6/-; p., 2£d.
• Books —Second Floor.
Useful in the home. Tea-
pot Stand, consisting of
fancy tile in wooden
frame. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price 3/6
Glass Tray with two metal
handles. Size, 18 x 12 in.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 31/6
• Fancy Goods —Ground Floor,
Pitt Street. Freight NOT paid.
i’Vi
W-'M
M:
A&r
tmm
REFILL
J.
<7OIUJ
• Chemistry and Perfumery
—Ground Floor, Pitt St,
Freight NOT pair.
£-
Colgate's Shaving Stick and
Refill. The shaving stick is
presented in a Blue bakelite-
container and the refill en-
sures lengthy shaving ser-
vice. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, set 2/10
"Palace" Shaving Cream.
Large jar. Softens the beard
and soothes the skin. At
Anthony Horderns'. Jar, 1/3
"Lournay" Toilet Soap. A
perfectly milled soap of ex-
ceptional quality, possessing
the distinctive fragrance of
Lournay. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price 1/7
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


No Use Fretting, Love
By MARGARET TRIST.
t ‘ I T’S no use fretting, love,” said Lila,
I picking and choosing among tea-
| towels in an attempt to determine
if one was by any chance a little
less soiled than the others.
“That’s all right for you,” moaned
Mrs. Selby. “You’re only his aunt. I’m
his mother.” The tears charged over her
fat cheeks and were caught dismally in
an already sopping handkerchief.
“Aw, break it down, Mum,” muttered
Ken, trying not to appear embarrassed at
his mother’s display of misery. “A chap’s
got to get married some time.”
“But need it have been today?” she
wailed. “Today! I been looking forward
to today for weeks. Kenny’ll be home
the fifteenth, I kept saying. My baby
Kenny. I’ll have him to meself for ten
days. And now”
“Can I get you anything?” asked Lila,
concerned at her sister-in-law’s renewed
howls.
“No. I’m not worth getting nothing.
I’m not even worth being told when me
own son’s getting married. I might have
gone to the wedding and. shamed him.”
“Aw, Mum, it wasn’t that”
“Well, what was it?”
“There wasn’t time. .Doris met me
and we decided right off. It seemed a
shame wasting time with a wedding when
we could have the whole ten days together
for a honeymoon.”
“Honeymoon?” demanded his mother
belligerently.
“Yes.” Ken smiled uneasily.
Mrs. Selby plunged her face into her
hands and rocked backwards and for-
wards, her subs shaking her unwieldy
body.
Kenny swallowed and looked upwards
at the flyspots on the roof, then at his
Aunt Lila absent-mindedly drying plates.
She met his eyes, half-smiled, thought
better of it, and glared ferociously at him,
her eyes small and green under their
shaggy brows, her mouth drawn tightly
over her badly-shaped false teeth.
Kenny smiled at her. “Not you, too,
Aunt Lila,” the smile seemed to say.
Her mouth relaxed. “You shouldn’t
have,” she said weakly. “Look what
you’ve done to your mother.”
EN looked. He was suddenly resent-
-1 ful and began walking up and down
the untidy kitchen. “There wouldn’t
have been more fuss if I’d been killed,”
he said. “Aw, dry up, Mum. I’m going
if you can’t be reasonable.”
Mrs. Selby looked up. f ‘Who’s been
unreasonable?” she demanded. She bent
again to her weeping.
Ken kicked at the table leg. The
table top itself was stained and littered
with dirty plates and food scraps. Shelves
were cluttered, cupboard doors hung
open, revealing the salvage of years.
Even through the thick soles of his boots
he could feel grit on the floor. “I’ve
never seen this kitchen clean in my whole
life. What does everyone do around
here? Isn’t the place ever tidied?”
“There’s never no time,” said Lila.
Mrs. Selby wailed louder. “After me
working meself to the bone for him,” she
cried. “That’s what you get through rear-
ing children decent. My kitchen’s dirty,
is it? I’m not taking that from no son
of mine.”
“Well, what are you going to do about
it?” he asked.
“You get out, smart aleck. Get out
and never come near me again,” she
flared at him.
“Oh, Katie,” cried Lila, “you don’t
mean that none. Kenny”
“Suits me fine,” bragged Kenny. “So
long; remember me in your will.” He
dashed at the kitchen door and grasped
the doorknob firmly.
His mother gave a wail.
“Kenny! ”
“Oh, Kenny, love,” breathed Lila.
Kenny turned. His Aunt Lila was fan-
ning his mother, her small sparse frame
*in its skimpy frock agitated as it wielded
the tea-towel, her fuzz of dyed red hair
bobbing up and down, wild and grotesque
against her bony face. She had the
vitality and persistence of a mosquito
against his mother’s indolent bulk.
“Well?” he said.
“Kenny. Don’t go.”
“I’ll stay if you’ll talk sense.”
“Yes, stay, love. She’s upset, that’s
all, can’t you see? You put it over on
her so sudden. She’s still thinking of
you as her baby. First the war got you
and now this woman.”
“I’Ma man,” thought Kenny. “I belong
f to war and women.” Aloud, he
said: “Can I bring Doris in?”
“Doris?” said his mother feebly.
“My wife,” he told her firmly.
“Oooh, Kenny, you’ve done it again!”
cried Lila. “Can’t you be more careful?
Look, she’s fainted.”
“She’ll come round.” He opened the
door a few inches. “Doris,” he called.
Mrs. Selby opened her eyes reluctantly
as Doris came through the door. She
took her in at a glance, measuring up
her youth, her timidity, her appealing
glance towards Kenny, her soft prettiness.
“I can manage her,” she thought. She sat
up, motioning Lila back to her dish-
washing.
“Doris, this is my mother,” said Kenny.
“And my Aunt Lila, Dad’s sister.”
Doris wasn’t interested in Lila, but
kept her large brown eyes on Mrs. Selby.
“You’re not mad with us?” she breathed.
“Of course not. Boys and girls will be
boys and girls.”
“Oh, it was nothing like that”
Her mother-in-law chuckled fatly.
“Come here and kiss me, love,” she said.
Out of the corner of her eye she watched
Kenny and saw him swell with mascu-
line dominance towards them all. Doris
went to her readily and took her caress
eagerly. Mrs. Selby kept her arm around
the girl, holding her lightness against the
heaviness of her own breasts. “Skin and
bone,” she thought contemptuously; “a
poor bit of stuff, like old Lila there.”
“What a trick to play on us!” she said
aloud. “What’s your father going to say
when he hears of this?”
“Dad,” Kenny grinned at his mother.
“I guess, old girl, you know he’ll say
just what you say.”
Mrs. Selby smiled reservedly, loath to
let a newcomer in on one of her own
and Kenny’s private jokes. »
“He’ll get an awful shock,” said Lila.
They talked amiably for half an hour.
At last Doris drew away from her
mother-in-law, abandoned her small-girl
acquiescence, and patted her hair with the
authority and confidence of young
womanhood.
“Come along, Kenny,” she said. “We’ve
got to be going.”
“Going!” exclaimed Mrs. Selby.
“Where have you got to be going?”
Doris and Kenny looked at each other.
“We’ve booked up at a pub in town,”
said Kenny self-consciously.
“Is that all?” laughed his mother.
“Well, what’s the rush? Any old, time
will do for that. Lila and I figured a
thing or two out when you rang up and
broke the news. We couldn’t be at the
wedding breakfast”
“There wasn’t any,” interposed Kenny.
“But we could do the next best thing.
We put our heads together. What would
Kenny like best on his wedding night, we
asked ourselves. Why nothing’d please
him better than to have all his old friends
and relations here to wish him luck.
“So you see, Kenny, you can’t go ;
there’s a party for you.
“Just a little evening for you and
Doris.”
“You’re a trump, Mum,” said Ken
hollowly, looking upwards again at the
flyspots on the ceiling, but not daring to
glance towards Doris, standing passively
beside his mother. In her young face her
mouth was full and soft.
K/T RS. SELBY sat in a chair by the
IVI piano, her feet keeping time to its
thump, her hands, with their cheap rings,
resting on her knees. Her gaze moved
up and down the room. It was a long
room, narrow, with worn green linoleum
on the floor, ridged by the floorboards
underneath, and big windows oppres-
sively curtained. The chairs had been
placed flat to the wall to allow space for
dancing.
She could see the whole of it from
where she sat, and watched vigilantly to
see that no young couples sneaked out
the side door; that Lila and that friend
of hers did not talk their heads off; that
Harry, her husband, did not take people
aside to tell them of the highspot of his
life, the recent extraction of his teeth,
that people who liked one another did
not get too close ; that sworn enemies
sat side by side. ,
She watohed, too, Ken and Doris, sit-
ting together on the other side of the
room. She stood up and crossed to them.
“Here, you two, what do you mean sit-
ting there? It’s your party, isn’t it? Get
up and enjoy yourselves.”
They looked at her. “We’re all right,”
said Ken briefly.
“Don’t you like dancing, Doris?”
“Not much.”
“Oh, what a shame! I think a bit of
dancing’s nice for young people. Kenny
likes to dance, don’t you, love? Now,
there’s Maisie sitting all by herself. You
used to be struck on her ; why don’t you
go and dance with her?”
“Aw, Mum, I don’t want to.”
“You was always dancing with her one
time.”
“Well, I don’t want to now.”
“It looks funny you sitting here and
her sitting there and neither of you danc-
ing. Besides, it mucks up the party. You
got to keep the guests entertained is what
I say. Doris wouldn’t mind, would you,
Doris?”
Kenny half rose. Doris said nothing
but kept her eyes fixed on him. He sat
down again.
“You’re spoiling the party,” said Mrs.
Selby furiously. “What’s come over you,
Kenny? You usen’t to be one for sit-
ting around while there was fun going.”
“But I’m tired. I’ve been travelling for
days.”
' “Being tired shouldn’t stop you talking
to people. Look at poor Aunt Totty.
You’ve not said half a dozen words to
her. She used to be good to you when
you was a little fellow.”
LILA felt cautiously for the flower
tucked stiffly in her hair.
“I’m real pleased you could come,
love,” she said to Gladys, her girl friend,
a careworn female of forty who had dis-
posed of two husbands and was keeping
out of the way of a third, but who still
wore pink dresses and the manner that
went with them, and threaded pink rib-
bons amongst her carefully-rolled curls.
“What, me miss Kenny’s wedding
party! ” exclaimed Gladys. “I’d still have
come if I’d had to’ bust for it!”
“The notice was so short.”
“Couldn’t be helped,” Gladys replied
philosophically. “Weddings are all rushed
these days, I don’t know what’s coming
over young people. Nothing less than
marriage will do them.”
“You weren’t so slow yourself.”
Gladys sighed. “It was my soft heart
always did for me,” she said.
“Come along, girls; no sitting in cor-
ners. Who’s going to dance with me?”
“Go on, Glad.”
“No. You.”
“Who wants to dance with their own
brother?”
“Isn’t she awful, Harry?” Gladys stood
up and pushed her handkerchief down the
neck of her frock. They moved away
over the ridged green floor. “Wasn’t it
a shock about Kenny?”
“Yes. Pulled it off sudden. He always
was a nark, young Kenny. Katie’s not
too pleased, but she’ll come around.
Notice anything about me?”
“Oooh, Harry, you’ve got no teeth!”
“That’s right. Pyorrhea,” he said briefly
but proudly. “Everyone of them sound.
Just get an eyeful of Totty and Ag and
Bessie. What do those old girls get out
of parties, do you reckon?”
What does anyone get out of parties?
wondered Gladys as Harry’s inexpert
arms piloted her among the dancers,
mostly young people with a tendency to
sway deliriously and gurgle the words of
the songs at one another. Why did one
come out alone at night, fighting for a
place in crowded trams and buses, wan-
dering in high-heeled, uncomfortable
shoes along dark, unfriendly streets? She
sighed. Did one still expect something
of life at forty with three unsuccessful
matrimonial ventures behind one? Un-
fortunately one did; but what? She
sighed again.
“Cheer up,” said Harry. “What’s the
matter?”
“I was thinking life is sad.”-
“My oath! And there’s young Kenny
without an idea in the world what’s before
him.”
“He’ll find out.” Gladys shook her
head dismally.
“I’m beginning to enjoy this party,”
said Harry.
LILA sat by herself on the seat. She
didn’t mind, because she’d been sit-
ting by herself on seats all her life. Parties
were lovely. There were the music and
the dancing, the people talking and laugh-
ing and quarrelling. After a party you
either loved people or hated them. It
gave you an interest in living. This party
was quiet. Everyone seemed tired. It
had flowed along evenly for hours with-
out developing one way or the other.
Even Katie was lying low.
“She’s got something up her sleeve,”
thought Lila. “Maybe it’s time I started
on the supper, but I better ask her first.
What you do in this house is just what
you oughtn’t to do.” She started towards
where her sister-in-law sat beside Kenny
and Doris. But before she reached them
the three stood up. Mrs. Selby gave a
howl. Lila hurried forward.
“Oh, dear, whatever is it?”
“It’s Doris. She says she’s going.”
“What, by herself! ”
“No. She’s taking Kenny, too!”
“She’s not taking me,” said Kenny im-
patiently. “We’re going together.”
“But you can’t go before supper!” cried
Lila. .“Why, there’s to be speeches and
the two bottles of port.”
“It’s too late. I told Mum before that
the last train went at eleven. She wouldn't
hurry things up.”
“Perhaps you could get a taxi,” sug-
gested Lila.
“Perhaps we couldn’t,” said Kenny.
“What then?”
“Oh, dear,” murmured Lila.
Mrs. Selby sank to the seat. “Let them
go. Kenny don’t care about his mother
now that he’s got someone else. My
heart’s fluttering something awful.”
“What’s up over here?” Harry joined
the group, with Gladys in tow.
“Kenny’s upset me' again,” moaned
Mrs. Selby.
“He apd Doris’s going,” explained Lila.
“It’ll spoil the party,” said his father.
“Oh, they’re not much use to the
party,” cried Gladys. “Bridal couples
never are.”
Doris said nothing, but stood poised
ready for flight.
“We’ve got to catch a train,” said
Kenny.
“Maybe you could stay the night,” his
father suggested brightly.
“Now 7 that’s an idea, Kenny!” His
mother came to life. “Your father could
sleep on the bunk in the kitchen, you on
the settee here and Doris in with me.
Think of what it would save you. Those
city pubs rook you right and left. It s
too much for anyone just on a soldiers
pay. And then you could have the
speeches, too. A wedding night’s nothing
without speeches.”
“We’ve got to go, Kenny,” said Doris.
“Good-bye, Mum,” said Kenny.
“What! You’re going?” f .
“Aw, now, no fuss! We’re catcnmg
the train, and that’s all about it. bee
you all another time. Come on, Dons.
He took her arm and steered h £r acros .
the room. They slipped quietly throug
the door and were gone.
“But, Kenny” •
“It’s no use, Kate ; they’ve got thei
minds made up.” ,
Mrs. Selby wailed. “Kenny! My b a *
Kenny! You call yourself a man, Ha y
Selby! Fancy letting your son treat me
like that!” ,
Harry blinked. “Now, now,
He was always headstrong, Kenny,
can’t blame me for that.”
“Maybe I can’t,” sneered his wife,
wait till I get my hands on that D° - ■
One of the quiet kind. Says nothing
does what she wants to just the same.
“Perhaps I’d better start the supper,
said Lila. . ,
The party was brightening, Oiaay
tapped impatiently with her foot to
time of the music. ,
“What’s the use of supper?” sal “ . '
Selby. “What’s the use of
The world’s gone to rack, and rum.
can’t even make your own chiidre
as you want them to do. What’s the u -
having children? All they do is go
get married!”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3330.
Wednesday, December 8, 1943.
IN A PERSIAN GARDEN.
Ah, Franklin! Now with Winston we conspire
To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire,
Should we not shatter it to bits, and then
Remould it nearer to the heart’s desire?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; *Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New .Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THIRD YEAR.
The war in the Pacific has entered upon
its third year. It begins with the Japanese
still in possession of vast tracts of
British, American, Australian, Dutch and
Portuguese territory, together with a great
part of China, while French Indo-China
and Thailand are also theirs for all mili-
tary purposes. Attacking treacherously,
as they did at Port Arthur in 1904, and
masking the most flagrant of their out-
rages by an appearance of diplomatic
negotiation, they caught all the adver-
saries they challenged unprepared to meet
their onslaughts. In a few terrible months
they inflicted on the white race the great-
est defeats it has suffered at the hands of
an Asiatic Power since the Turk entered
Europe, and for the victories they gained
over the British Empire and the United
States there is no parallel in history.
Beating them back has been a slow
and costly process, though marked by
glorious deeds on land, on sea and in the
air. Only from Papua have they been
driven out completely and finally.
As the second year of the war drew to a
close, the A.1.F., hating learned the hard
way how to beat the enemy at his own
game, expelled him from the heights
above Finschhafen—a truly wonderful
feat of arms in which the resourcefulness
and grit of A.I.F. non-coms, and privates
were nobly exemplified. And “the great-
est and most powerful armada of fighting
ships ever assembled in the Pacific for
one operation” (the words are those of
Archer Thomas, a Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” correspondent) covered American
landings in the Gilberts. In this mighty
force were “battleships” firing 16-inch
shells, “aircraft-carriers and heavy and
light cruisers in greater strength than that
of the United States Fleet before the
war.” And Betio, “a speck of an island
2\ miles long and 100 to 800 yards wide,”
part of the Tarawa atoll, was “subjected
to the fiercest naval and aerial bombard-
ment ever delivered in the Pacific” ; as
stated by Colonel Knox, 2900 tons of shells,
bombs and .150-calibre bullets. Yet
when the landing forces had done their
job and Betio and Makin were in Ameri-
can hands, Major-General Julian Smith,
the officer commanding the landing
forces, “expressed the opinion that longer
and more concentrated preliminary
bombing” would be “necessary” on the
next occasion of the kind “to avoid too
heavy losses.”
Whenever the Japs are trapped like
rats they sell their lives dearly. On these
atolls they had constructed a maze of
defences so tough that gunners were
among those who “survived the hell of
steel and explosives that was poured into
the islands,” and “scores of boats, special
landing craft, Sherman medium tanks
and light tanks were put out of action
by shells.” The task of landing on
Tarawa was assigned to “a division of
marines,” and when the gallant fellows
reached the beaches “Japs rose from their
pillboxes and barricades and poured a
withering fire into landing vessels and
men, wiping out a large proportion of
the attackers in the water and at the
water’s edge.” Other craft were stranded
on the coral reef by an unfortunate shift
of wind. But wave after wave of marines
landed and tackled Japs posted behind
“concrete-and-log barricades” and in
“deep dugouts and concrete gun emplace-
ments.”
It took three days to overcome the
resistance on Tarawa. At the end of
the three days an escort carrier had been
sunk, withheavy loss of life, and “bodies of
marines were lying in large numbers along
. the beaches, in the water, in wrecked land-
ing craft and on top of barricades,” with,
among them, “hundreds of Japs, blasted
to pieces, burned and shot.” A last
desperate remnant had fought with bare
hands. In the furious fighting 1092
Americans were killed and 2680 wounded.
But a splendid chapter had been added
to the proud annals of the marines and
engineers, and by their exertions and
those of their companions a distinct
strategic advantage had been gained.
Meanwhile Mr. Churchill, Mr. Roose-
velt, President Chiang Kai-shek and
galaxy of generals, admirals, air-force
commanders, Ministers and Ambassadors,
“the greatest array of Allied leaders ever
gathered together,” were assembling at
Cairo for a conference. The subjects
for discussion were “the crushing of
Japan and the settlement of the Far
Eastern world after the war.” Reporters,
pardonably nettled at a premature dis-
closure of news for which Reuters and
the British censorship were blamed, gave
the impression that there was something
of a picnic atmosphere about the affair.
There was nothing of the picnic quality
in the resolutions arrived at, nor can it
now be complained that there is a failure
in some quarters to realise that the Jap
is a most formidable enemy, whose con-
quests, by their very nature, are far more
menacing than Hitler’s.
In the official bulletin issued from
Cairo it was stated that “the several mili-
tary, missions have agreed upon future
military operations against Japan” and
that the representatives of Britain, United
States and China had resolved “to
bring unrelenting pressure against their
brutal enemy by sea, land and air.” They
are “fighting this war to restrain and
punish the aggression of Japan. They
covet no gain for themselves and have
no thought of territorial expansion.” But
they plan
To strip Japan of all islands seized since
the beginning of the war of 1914-18, in-
cluding those contiguous to Australia —
the Marshalls, Carolines and Mariannes.
To compel the restoration to China of
Formosa, Manchuria and the Pescadores.
To free Korea .and the whole of the
territories overrun in the present war.
“With these objectives in view,” it was
added, “the three Allies, in harmony with
those of the United Nations at war with
Japan, will continue to persevere in the
serious and prolonged operations which
will be necessary to procure the uncon-
ditional surrender of Japan.”
To this programme there may be objec-
tions such as arose when the term “un-
conditional surrender” was used at Casa-
blanca. They need not be discussed here.
The important thing, for the moment, is
that the three Powers principally engaged
in the war against Japan have, for the
first time, subscribed to a declaration that
the war will be waged with all their forces
to the bitter end; and their war aims
are such as to render continued Rus-
sian isolation difficult, if not impos-
sible. But Australians and New Zea-
landers are left to wonder why there was
no representative of either Dominion at
Cairo, and, with Americans, why General
MacArthur, who has had more experi-
ence in fighting the Japs than any other
land commander, was absent from pro-
ceedings with so obvious a bearing on the
South-west Pacific command, even if this
was not the case at Casablanca.
R.S.L and Militia.
Diggers at their R.S.L. Congress in
Hobart “considered from all angles” and
with “exhaustive discussion” the ques-
tion of admission or otherwise of returned
militia to League membership. They
ended by passing the buck to themselves,
deferring the matter to their Congress in
Adelaide next year. It is a tougher ques-
tion than it might seem, and one that is not
merely a domestic issue for the League.
On the face of it, the League is in a
paradoxical position. On the one hand,
it supports conscription; on the other,
it excludes conscribed returned soldiers
from membership, though these might
have seen far more real front-line service
than many who would be eligible for
membership, and might be wearing
decorations to prove it. Taking a general
onlooker’s view, that is a preposterous
position ; but it is not, as the hasty might
assume, wholly accountable for by the
fact that the League, as now constituted,
consists exclusively of volunteers, chiefly
A.I.F.
That, no doubt, carries its weight, but
there is a good defence. For one thing,
League members cannot simply ignore
whatever may be the feeling of the present
A.I.F. on the question. And, as anyone
who has had anything to do with Aus-
tralia’s assorted army knows, feeling there
is. There must be so long as one part of
the army consists of volunteers enlisted to
fight anywhere and the other part of men
called up for service and then, by Act of
Parliament, permitted by a majority of
A.L.P. delegates, restricted in their fight-
ing within specific map boundaries. The
present A.I.F. are naturally proud of their
volunteer status —a pride that would have
been a tough obstacle to overcome if
the One Army proposal had been carried
at the elections ; possibly it accounted for
many A.I.F. voting against that proposal.
From official communiques it is clear
that the great bulk of the fighting falls
to the A.1.F., though it is also clear that
militia units have fought very well. The
present A.I.F. feeling—not restricted to
the A.I.F. —is that the militia should be
given equal opportunity for fighting. If
that should be’brought about, the ques-
tion of A.I.F. joining in with militia in
the League might be simplified to some
extent. It would not be altogether re-
solved. The A.1.F., having fought as
volunteers, would still feel the difference.
They could not be blamed for that, any
more than present members of the League
who may wish to keep their organisation
restricted to suchlike volunteers can be
blamed. It is natural and human.
In deferring the issue till their next Con-
gress delegates might have been inspired
by the hope that by then there will be
no militia left at the fighting front who
have not made themselves eligible for
League membership by joining the A.I.F.
Such a development would conveniently
solve the problem—that is, provided the
League wishes to continue as an organ-
isation restricted to returned A.I.F. and
other service men similarly qualified. The
League, thus constituted, has all along
served the purposes and lived up to the
ideals of its founders. It insisted on those
who had fought for the country being
fairly treated by the country, and, as well,
it put forward and supported —even if
vainly—measures for the national good ;
among them, national security.
Probably the League could continue
to act as an excellent national institution
on such lines without change. Yet, unless
it is to remain a limited, select organisa-
tion of volunteers, by its very existence
perpetuating the limited volunteer prin-
ciple for fighting total wars, the League,
like Australia’s whole national approach
to taking a fighting part in war, would
seem to be due for change. On this issue
the League and the national outlook are
interlocked. Despite the fact that the
League sensibly favors all-out compul-
sory service as the only rational way of
now waging war, while Australia, per
vote, prefers to leave the bulk of the
fighting to volunteers, both the League
constitution and Australia’s war outlook
are carryovers from the past.
The League’s constitution was drawn
up in 1916, and it remains substantially
unaltered. To change it on the militia
issue would be to revolutionise it com-
pletely. It, like Australia’s outlook on
the fighting of total wars, dates from
when wars could be fought by small,
select sections of communities on remote
battlefields, without the belligerents’
home-fronters ever hearing a shot fired or
having their normal way of life interrupted.
Though both League and Australia
may appear reluctant in different degree
to face all the implications of the change
in the waging of war, neither should need
telling that change has taken place. The
League has long since recognised it in
giving its support to all-out compulsory
service. If it is not now prepared to
underwrite that support to the extent of
endorsing the logical outcome—by abol-
ishing all distinction as between the volun-
teers and the compulsory servers —it has
a reasonable ground for this stand. It holds,
in effect, that such a lead should come
from (the country through its Government.
It is the present Government’s policy
that there should be the division in the
fighting services, and this the country has
endorsed. This being so, it would be an
extraordinary step for # the League to
declare that, as far as ’it is concerned,
there is no division. As there would not
be if the country and the Government
were not shackled to the past. Apart
from the small extension of militia-ser-
vice boundaries, both the Government
and the country, cling to the concept of
fighting a total war on a volunteer basis.
In Britain —to use only one country as
example—there is no division of volun-
teers and conscripts in the army. Con-
sequently there are no headaches on this
score for the British Legion, the counter-
part of the League. In Britain any man
who has been with the colors for three
days is eligible for Legion membership.
The result is that any service man who
stays out does so on his own account, not
because he is banned. Simply, in Britain
there has been full recognition of change,
the implications have been accepted, the
country is organised for war from top to
bottom in accordance with that accept-
ance, and the Legion’s plan of organisa-
tion is the natural outcome.
The League may be said to be consti-
tuted by one word —“returned.” How-
ever the militia question may eventually
be decided, many thousands who, as
every League member realises, are doing
absolutely essential jobs in the A.I.F. and
the R.A.A.F. in Australia are excluded
from League membership by that word.
Yet these men are volunteers. If the
country and, after it, the League really
accepted all the implications of total war
—as Britain and, consequently, the
Legion have accepted them—this paradox
would not exist.
Unless the League somehow gets over
both this and the militia hurdles, the
militia, returned and others, will eventu-
ally be supplemented by that large body
of Volunteers whom the League now re-
jects because they are not “returned,”
and an organisation composed of all these
together could well dwarf the League in
size and influence. Most probably such
an organisation would be every bit as
solidly for future national security, and
for compulsory national service as vital
to it, as is the League, without being in
the League’s paradoxical position of hold-
ing apart from compulsory-service men.
If that situation should come about, the
alternative organisation would have the
important advantage of not being by its
very nature a perpetuation of the out-ot-
date voluntary method of fighting wars.
United as one single organisation, the
League and all these others which the
League’s constitution now excludes from
membership could make up a most valu-
able influence in the shaping of national
policy, without becoming at all party poli-
tical. One thing such a united organisa-
tion could ensure would be that for future
occasion the country would, from the
very beginning, accept the position that
war now demands total national effort.
The obligation to serve would not be
restricted to a particular section, but
would be spread over all. There could
be no such anachronism as Australia’s
divided army. There would be no such
confusion as the part-only acceptance of
the implications of total war has caused
on the Australian home front. The coun-
try would go to war from the start on a
true national basis.
"Tail-end Tommy."
For weeks before the Allied landings
on Choiseul and the Treasuries and
Bougainville, U.S. Army and Navy
bombers ranged from Ballale and Kara
and Kihili, the Japanese airfields in the
southern Bougainville area, north to Buka
and Rabaul and Kavieng, and further
north in wide sweeps over the waters
between New Ireland and Truk. On a
continuous and ever-increasing schedule
since the landings, they have hit hard at
attempts to send relief to the Jap garri-
sons remaining in the Solomons. In their
highly-successful campaign to neutralise
the enemy’s airfields they have struck
at runways and dispersal areas, have
plastered supply dumps and coastal bat-
teries, driven convoys scurrying back to
his bases. Their losses have been aston-
ishingly light.
There’s a Liberator, a 824, that hasn’t
got back home yet. But it’s on its way
—staying off for a while at a field further
up the line till it can be patched up suffi-
ciently for the last lap. And its crew are
taking back a story that will keep the mess
talking—at least, until the next big job.
It was “Tail-end Tommy” of a flight
of 18 Liberators which went to attack
a convoy north of Kavieng. The pilot,
Captain O. G. Adams, followed the other
’planes in on his run, but before the
bombs were dropped he was jumped by
13 Zeros. He scored a couple of near-
misses on one of the transports —so pear
that they broached her plates and left her
settling in the water. But by that time
his ’plane was badly battered.
In their first swoop the Zeros had sliced
its left rudder almost in half and cut
through ailerons and control lines. Most
of the instruments were rendered useless.
One of the motors was smashed by ex-
plosive shells. It was impossible to bank
the ’plane, and it could be turned only
by skidding sharply, which meant a seri-
ous loss of altitude and would expose
belly and broad wings to the Zeros.
Adams was unable to follow the rest
of the flight out. He held his ’plane to
a straight course while the gunners tried
to beat off the attackers.
The tail gunner sent one of the Japs
smashing down into the sea. But his
turret was shattered, his gun put out of
action, himself badly wounded. One of
the waist gunners dragged him back down
the ’plane and carried his own .30 calibre
along to the tail. The belly turret was
shattered in a couple of places. But it
continued firing and brought down an-
other Zero. The Japs’ bullets*were tear-
ing a pattern in the Liberator’s fuselage.
For 35 minutes the fight went on,
Adams still holding his course and
struggling to keep his ’plane flying ; then
the rest of the flight came sweeping back.
The Zeros veered away and off. By that
time, six had been shot down and others
were making heavy going of their efforts
to escape.
' Adams still had the task of getting his
’plane back. The squadron-leader spoke
over emergency radio ; he would send the
rest of the flight on and try to shepherd
Adams in. Another member of the crew •
had been wounded. The others tossed
guns and gear overboard to lighten the
’plane.
The squadron-leader flew alongside
calling speed and direction. Unable to
turn, Adams and his crew would need to
make the'nearest field straight on. Visi-
bility was bad. There were frequent rain
squalls.
Long before they neared the field they
had to pump the flaps down to try to
decrease the landing speed. The wheels
had to be cranked down by hand. There
were no brakes. They saw the field, and
started to glide in. A rain squall blotted
it out. They continued coming in.
The ’plane settled down and ran the
length of the runway. Then the nose
wheel crumbled and she slithered a few
feet along the coral to a stop.
Ten minutes later a ground crew was
at work on the job of getting the machine
ready for the long trip home^
JOHN BRENNAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Japs in Timor.
Ten days after the Pearl Harbor crime
Australian and Dutch forces landed in
the Portuguese part of Timor as “a pre-
cautionary measure against a Japanese
attack, which was believed to be im-
minent.” This was stated by Dr. Evatt in
the House on February 25, 1942, and he
gave further information, interlarded with
brisk comments on the attitude of the
Portuguese Government.
No violation of Portuguese sovereignty
was at all involved. We believed that we
were acting in accordance with what Por-
tugal itself wished. When Portugal pro-
tested violently we were prepared to re-
trace our steps in order to avoid embar-
rassment between London and Lisbon. An
agreement with the Portuguese Govern-
ment was made for the withdrawal of the
occupying forces, provided Portuguese
forces were sent to carry out the defence
of the colony against Japanese invasion.
Then “the very event we had foreseen
and sought to guard against” occurred.
With “the full knowledge” that forces
were “actually en route from Portugal to
Timor” the Japs attacked Dilli, the capi-
tal, on February 21.
The Portuguese Government formally
protested to Japan against this cynical
attack. It will be interesting to observe
whether the Portuguese troops will now
insist upon the evacuation of Dilli by Japan.
It was to become obvious that they
hadn’t done so —neither the army of
Timor, which consisted of seven officers
and 368 men, of whom 298 were natives,
nor the “relieving” force. After a pro-
longed voyage, in the cdurse of which
sailing orders were changed, the “reliev-
ing” force cast up somewhere on the
African coast, and there it disappeared
from the chronicles of the times.
Meanwhile the island became the scene
of a grand display of A.I.F. heroism and
endurance against odds. The noble story
cannot yet be fully told, but the part of
it that came out stirred the blood like
the sound of a trumpet. Over the facts
of the Japanese occupation as it con-
cerned the local governing authority and
the islanders a thick veil of silence was
drawn till it was lifted recently by Dr.
Salazar, the Portuguese Prime Minister.
Under the mild rule of the Dutch and
Portuguese life passed pleasantly in
Timor. With the Japs came famine,
rapine and murder. “Supplies,” said Dr.
Salazar, “were cut off, was para-
lysed, the harvest ruined.”
There were robberies, destruction, devas-
tation; Dozens of people were murdered
priests, doctors, civil servants and private
citizens.
In May, 1942, the Japanese closed down
the radio station, and since then the colony
has been isolated from the homeland, but
it can be affirmed that there have been in-
surrections among the natives, who were
perfectly peaceful under our rule. The
Governor is still in Dilli, and, through
the Japanese, has recently reported some
amelioration of the general situation re-
garding public health, order and supplies;
but we do not know if and how the ad-
ministration is carried on or to what extent
Portuguese sovereignty has been reduced,
despite the Japanese Government’s re-
iterated declarations of respect for it.
We can contact Timor only through Aus-
tralia. Thanks to the generosity and
humanitarianism of the Australian Gov-
ernment, more than 500 people from Timor
took refuge in Australia, having saved
nothing but their lives.
So to the work of Hubert Murray and
his men in Papua, which bore precious
fruit in a desperate emergency to which
other Australians, fighting desperately,
proved equal, there have been added
deeds of valor and compassion which
will be remembered with gratitude in
Timor.
According to Reuter, “Dr. Salazar’s
revelations deeply shocked the people of
Portugal.” A Lisbon daily is quoted as
saying that “to get Timor back and exact
complete reparation for violence and
crime, Portugal must be ready for any
sacrifice.” It can’t do much against
Japan, but every little helps.
Owed to the Services.
All who take an interest in ensuring a
fair spin for service men and women
when the fighting is done should pick
up some points from President Roose-
velt’s November 23 message to Congress
on benefits for serving Americans and
their dependants.
Congress, as the President mentioned,
has already enacted a “generous pro-
gramme,” including life insurance at low
premium rates for members of the U.S.
armed forces in amounts not less than
$lOOO and not more than $lO,OOO per
person. Nearly $90,000,000 of this in-
surance has already been applied for.
The U.S. Government guarantees pay-
ment of premiums on commercial poli-
cies held by members of the armed
forces while in service ; 56,276 applica-
tions by service men for relief have
resulted in premiums on $135,582,000
insurance being guaranteed. Other bent
fits already operating:
Hospital and medical care for all veterans
of the present war. Vocational rehabilita-
tion and training of those suffering from
disability incurred in, or aggravated by,
military service. Men rejected for military
service because of physical or mental de-
fects, or discharged because of disability
existing at the time of induction, are
eligible for training to fit them for employ-
ment. An increase in pensions. Re-employ-
ment rights. Maternity care for wives
and infants of enlisted men.
“However,” President Roosevelt told
Congress, “I believe that we must go
much further” to enable service men and
women td “get a job or continue their
education or to pick up the threads of
their former lives.” First in his recom-
mendations he placed “mustering-out”
pay to tide service men and women over
the difficult readjustment from military
to civilian life. For those unable to get
jobs the President recommended unem-
ployment allowances “until they can
reasonably be absorbed by private in-
dustry.”
To qualify for the unemployment
allowance, those unable to find work
would be required to register with the
U.S. Employment Service and would
have to be willing to accept available
suitable employment or engage in a train-
ing course to prepare them’ for such em-
ployment. The mustering-out pay would
be for a specified period, but the unem-
ployment allowance would be continued
as long as necessary.
“The Congress will agree, I arti sure,”
President Roosevelt concluded, “that this
time we must have plans and legislation
ready for our returning veterans instead
of waiting until the last moment. It will
give notice to our armed forces that the
people back home do not propose to let
them down.”
That should apply in Australia, also.
Lcmda. Senator.
A threat of “Government control”:
If was announced last week that Abram
Landa, Labor M.L.A. for Bondi, had -been
appointed to the Sydney University Senate in
succession to Archibald Howie, who in his life-
time was at the opposite pole in politics. Also,
on the same day, that the Teachers’ Federation
was coming out for radical changes in the
teaching of history, “for too long dominated by
University lecturers.”
The conjunction of these items suggests that
there is a danger of the University coming
under Left-Wing control.
The Teachers’ Federation sends delegates to
the Sydney Labor Council, always stiff with
Communists and fellow-travellers. Its delega-
tion joined in a Labor Council effort to boy-
cott the University’s W.E.A. because a W.E.A.
man had lectured on the Russian Revolution
without a full issue of servility.
Because of a revolt of fair-minded teachers
the Federation’s share in the boycott had to be
dropped; but this was done very sourly by the
would-be boycotters, and the charge that the
teaching of history has been “dominated by
university lecturers” is evidently a consequence.
If history were taught on Marxian lines, “eco-
nomic interpretation” and all, some people
would no doubt be satisfied.
Just before Japan came into the war the
Teachers’ Federatidn was a party to a cam-
paign aimed at securing two unnecessary
appointments to the Sydney Law School, but in
that case Abram Landa (“Abie” to J. T.
Lang since the interesting pair quarrelled)
took the initiative. Abram alleged in the
Assembly, as “the sole representative of the
faith to which the gentleman belongs,” .that
“certain members of the University Senate” had
“adopted the Nazi and Fascist tactics of trying
to get rid of fit man for the simple reason that
he happens to be a Jew.” “Young and
brilliant,” a professor in New Zealand, the
gentleman ha 4 been recommended for a Sydney
law professorship by the professorial staff;
but “someone saw fit to give notice of rescission
in order to prevent the appointment of a very
learned and able man.”
If the Senate continues to pursue those
tactics I will take another opportunity to
have its action fully investigated. This
Parliament cannot allow any display of
Nazism or Fascism in the seat of learning
in this country.
Thereupon C. Evatt, the Minister of Educa-
tion, said he would “bring the matters referred
to by the member for Bondi to the immediate
attention of the University authorities,” adding
with a warning note that “the Government has
inadequate representation on the University
Senate, which controls staff appointments.”
It was soon shown that there was no war-
rant for Landa’s foul charge. Without
reference to the legal members of the Senate,
among whom were Justices Halse-Rogers
and Davidson, of the Supreme Court, the pro-
fessorial board had recommended Landa s
protege and another applicant, both residents
of New Zealand and both 34 years of
for Law School professorships. All the legal
members of the Senate protested that to give
life positions to these strangers would be unjust
to two able Australians on service, and therefore
beyond the range of personal interviews such
as had been granted to the applicants from
New Zealand. They were also of opinion that
the Law School could be carried on without
permanent appointments in war-time. This was
made evident when, because of service require-
ments, the number of law students dropped
from 265 in 1940 to 70, girls included. There
were corresponding falls in other States, and
the Perth University closed its law school for
the duration.
Nevertheless, the Landa agitation, supported
by the Government and the Teachers’ Federa-
tion, succeeded. C. E. Martin, the Attorney-
General, made his appearance on the Uni-
versity Senate as a Government nominee, and
the legal objectors to the appointments of the
young men from New Zealand, were outvoted.
The upshot, as far as the Senate was
concerned, was that Justices Halse-Rogers and
Davidson and Professor Peden, the former head
of the Law School, resigned. There is no record
of Abram’s having apologised to them or with-
drawn the vile allegation that “certain members
of the Senate have adopted the Nazi and Fas-
cist tactics of trying to get rid of a man for the
simple reason that he happens to be a Jew.
Now Abram sits in one of the places that
these distinguished Australians adorned. His
professorial protege, Julius Stone, was, he
said, “associated with the Labor party in New
Zealand,” but, judging by sentiments expressed
>»in Sydney, the professor, an academic Leftist
and an uncompromising Zionist, must have
found New Zealand Laborism decidedly slow.
With the Teachers’ Federation joining in the
Labor Council vendetta against the W.E.A.
and hurling scorn at university lecturers who
teach history, particularly Soviet history, and
with C. Evatt crying out for Government
control of the University every time Dedman-
Wurth quotas are mentioned (in no other State
is there any squealing about the quotas), it
looks as if “Government control” is destined
to come. As Sydney Labor politics are de-
veloping that will sooner or later mean Left-
Wing control.
DECEMBER 7, 1943.
"Honorable samurai must pull self together. Instructions are to fight thousand rounds.”


C. S.B.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers. ,
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
• “IB TASK THAT
FEW MEN WANT’
If you are an Executf, this book will interest you
No one welcomes the obligations imposed by executorship, especially in
these days when exceptional conditions make financial and business matters
particularly complicated. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited has produced
for the guidance of executors and administrators a special brochure entitled
" The Task that few Men Want," dealing with the Company's special service
in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration of Estates.
This is available to you on application. Write or call for your copy.
DIRECTORS—James Burns ■ Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
/ Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B ' GP-0m s V dn ®y-
BP 36-43
POLITICAL POINTS
“The United Nations have made good
all merchant shipping tonnage lost from
all causes since the beginning of the
European war.” Colonel Knox, a care-
ful man, said it last week ; and it’s a
horrible Pearl Harbor anniversary
thought for Hitler and Tojo.
U.A.P. members in N. S. Wales, Fed-
eial and State, are dismally wondering
where they stand as a result of the recent
manoeuvres. They went to bed one night
U.A.Ps. and woke i|p Liberal Democrats.
After another period of slumber they
reached for the morning papers and found
that, the Lib. Dems. having seceded,
they had become Dems. Billy must be
a prey to tumultuous emotions. In the
dizzy whirl of Sydney politics he has been
Labor, National Labor, Nationalist, Inde-
pendent Nationalist, Australian-party,
U.A.P., Liberal Democrat and Democrat.
The Australian Country party has
been resuscitated by delegates from the
N. S. Wales, Victorian, Queensland and
Westralian C.P. organisations, with Fad-
den, as leader. Addressing the delegates
at Melbourne, Fadden said;
We, as a Country party, should be and
must be as much interested in ths progress
of our country towns and cities, and the
secondary industries we can bring to them,
as we are in the primary industries them-
selves.
That is true, and the resuscitation is a
very proper outcome of the U.A.P. sui-
cide in N. S. Wales.
One of the queerest documents of the
age is the manifesto of “the American
Resettlement Committee for Uprooted
European Jewry,” which demands “the
transfer of the Uprooted Jews to Palestine
and of the Palestinian Arabs,” the whole
million, “to Iraq.” Published in the New
York “Times” (October 4) just when Dr.
Steinberg had arrived with the report that
the Labor Governments concerned were
willing to hand over a huge hunk of
Kimberley to Jewish settlers, it contained
this disconcerting admission:
Except for the Jewish colonisation of
Palestine all the other attempts failed.
This is true of the colonisation undertak-
ings in the Argentine, Biro-Bidjan, the
Dominican Republic and elsewhere.
Biro-Bidjan is the bit of Siberia set apart
as an “autonomous region” for Jews.
For a time they flocked to it, but, great
as its powers are, Moscow couldn’t keep
them there.
Mosley was a strutting fool, and per-
haps a dangerous fool; so there was
warrant for “detaining”* him in the
desperate emergency of 1940. The Gov-
ernment would have been at least equally
warranted in “detaining” Communists
who whispered treason in London shelters
during the blitz. But when the desperate
emergency passed it should have either
put the fellow on trial for his life or
released him. Doctors reporting him a
sick and broken man, it finally let him
out under surveillance, the conditions
being extraordinarily strict. Straightway
there were Communist demands for the
head of Herbert Morrison, the Home
Secretary, and, fellow-travellers and Left-
wing newspapermen joining in, the out-
cry was heard round the world. Morri-
son stuck to his guns, the Government
and the House of Commons stuck to him,
and, though the howls and threats have.
not subsided, the incident is over. Can-
berra should note that Westminster and
Whitehall still hold to the tradition and
practice qf responsible government, with
no craven surrender to mobs.
One of the men from the first A.I.F.
brigades to leave Australia in this war,
now home for his first Christmas leave
in four years, remarked:
I’ll be Santa Claus for the first time since
1939 for my three kids.
Dedman is expected to do something
about it at once.
Just by way of a change, the Full High
Court has upheld a Canberra regulation.
It means that a Commonwealth ban on
certain State holidays is valid and bind-
ing on State Governments. Anything
binding on State Governments is to be
welcomed.
Canberra having, as usual, surrendered
to a Miners’ Fed. ultimatum (“Remove
Brockman!”), A. C. sometime
secretary of the Miners’ Fed., with a
chequered career in Labor politics then
and since, is now chairman of the Central
Reference (Coalmining) Board. If the
gentleman finds argument confusing it is
HERESY HUNT.
“When Hitler held half the world in thraldom it was England who, taking her
courage in both hands, held him at bay. England, not America, which was willing
but not ready; England, not Russia.”-Anglican Bishop Hilliard, Sydney.
to be hoped he won’t suffer a lapse of
memory and hurl himself from the Bench
witll the cry “One out, all out!”
Dieppe, Salerno and Betio tell the same
grim story —q landing on a beach with
prepared defences manned by a deter-
mined enemy is a blood-bath. But the
withers of Communists and fellow-travel-
lers are unwrung and the safety of their
hides is gparanteed, so the cry for a
Second Front on the Channel coast is as
loud as ever.
After the war, according to Smuts in
another speech at Westminster, France,
Italy and Germany won’t amount to a
row of pins. Britain will have “glory,
honor, prestige” and —poverty; “she will
be a poor country,” But Russia will be
“mistress of the Continent,” and supreme
in Asia also, “because the Japanese
empire will haVe gone.” If the Boer sage’s
prophecy is borne out reputations that
now stand high will have a great fall.
Lang is the latest to discover that the
Communist conspiracy here and develop-
ments abroad have placed the White Aus-
tralia policy in peril; and glib Left-
Wingers on Government payrolls are get-
ting in some insidious work. Curtin
should have been at the Cairo confer-
ence, if only to hold a watching brief for
White Australia.
According to Melbourne “Herald,” the
inter-State A.L.P, conference to begin
in Sydney on Saturday is
to decide whether the Government is to
be free to act and plan with the breadth
of thought and vision necessitated by Aus-
tralia’s post-war problems.... or is to re-
main tied to the outmoded planks of a
sectional party platform.
On performances the sectional party
platform should win on a technical k.o.
From a U.S. “calendar of significant
events”:
December 7, 1916. —Lloyd George became
Prime Minister.
December 7, 1941. —Japanese attack Pearl
Harbor.
The first event was bad for militarism
without faith or pity. The second will
be worse.
Mr. C. Evatt, the Sydney Minister for
Education, lends a responsive ear to
Sydney organisations concerned about
children of women war workers:
I entirely endorse the attitude that the
Federal Treasurer should provide finance.
Said finance —£110,000 was mentioned —
is to provide nursery schools and play
centres. But why should Mr. C. Evatt,
whose own Treasury is bursting with easy
money, put the hard word on the Com-
monwealth Government, which has an
immense deficit and is hard put to it to
raise war funds? Presumably because
Mr. C. Evatt is Mr. C. Evatt and, like
the other members of his Government,
saturated with the provincial spirit.
If it could plead nothing else in its
defence, the N.S.W. Leg. Council, which
the McKell Labor Government wants to
abolish, would have justified itself by its
refusal to allow the McKells to force open
voting at mayoral elections. Downing,
the McKell leader in the Leg. Council,
had the face to assert that secret voting
led to corruption. He didn’t say that
open voting led to intimidation —of anti-
strikers. Councils may now please them-
selves whether their voting is open or
secret, something for which they should
thank the Leg. Council.
Announced on 3/12/’43 that “a further
cut of 50 p.c. in egg supplies to the pub-
lic will be imposed in the Sydney metro-
politan and certain other areas from
Monday.” Since it was almost impossible
in the districts mentioned to buy an egg
for three weeks before that, it will be
interesting to find out what authority
regards as 50 p.c. of nil.
One C. G. Hill, “chairman of the
provisional council of the N.S.W. Demo-
cratic party” (late U.A.P. and Common-
wealth “party”), lets himself go: -
It has been said that a community always
gets the Government which it deserves.
It is equally true that in the next few
months this State will get the Democratic
party, which it deserves.
But has the State really been as guilty as
all that?
From all sections of the community,
service personnel included, the Victorian
Housing Commission has received letters
complaining of the shortage of houses,
estimated at 70,000, and in its. annual
report the Commission gives a solemn
warning that civil discontent is rising.
Premier Dunstan’s retort was that im-
mediately Loan Council approval was
obtained the work proposed under his
£15,000,000 Housing Bill would be under-
taken. That, of course, is subject to re-
lease of man-power and materials —no
more under Dunstan’s jurisdiction than
the next offensive in New Guinea.
There were several shocks for Com-
munists in a judgment delivered at Mel-
bourne last week. For objecting to the
“amalgamation” of Thornton’s Federated
Ironworkers and Sharpley’s Munition
Workers, the Victorian Arthur Lewis,
well known in Labor politics, was “sus-
pended” and subjected to other pains
and penalties. Corns, being after the
scalps of “objectors” everywhere. Lewis
took his case to the Arbitration Court,
and Kelly, J., ruled:
That, being a “financial” Munition
Worker, he was improperly suspended.
That his nominations for office as presi-
dent of the Victorian branch and as dele-
gate to the Federal Council were in order
and must be put to a vote of members.
That meetings purporting to be of No.
2 branch suspending Lewis and of the
management committee in Sydney dissolv-
ing the clerical sub-branches in each State
were illegal, void and of no effect.
So the individual unionist contending
against Red bosses and mobs is not with-
out legal rights, though union law and
enforcement don’t go nearly far enough.
Colonel McCormick, the Chicago
newspaper owner, reported to be angling
for the purchase of an Australian paper,
has an extraordinary idea about Rhodes
scholars. It is that Rhodes “conspired”
—presumably with other persons, but
they are unnamed —“to launch a poli-
tical revolution; his Oxford scholar-
ships were intended to establish
a secret society aimed at extending
British rule throughout the world, and
particularly over the United States.” As
“evidence” the kunnel named “49 Rhodes
scholars and 14 other Oxonians on the
Federal payroll,” who are alleged to “in-
sist that the United States as a sovereign
nation must cease to exist; it must be-
come the tail of the British kite in any
post-war world acceptable to them.” In
Australia Rhodes scholars have cut no
figure in public affairs, and at least two
have turned Communists.


EXB3§42
LOOK Through These Glasses
aft Everything You Buy !
i
# From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
Extde BATTERIES
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A brainy man of the law goes to Ottawa
with the transfer there of Dr. William
Anstey Wynes, of the External Affairs
Department, Canberra, Adelaide-born
and a product of St. Peter s College and
Adelaide Uni., he gained his LL.B. with
honors in 1931 and LL.D. in 33, later
becoming lecturer in law there. Ad-
mitted to the Bar in ’29, he practised in
Adelaide before going to Canberra. He
wrote Legislative and Executive Powers
in Australia, published in 1936. He s now
35.
“Old Thirteenth”: All old Fourth Bri-
gade Diggers will regret the passing of
Padre Wray. Right through Gallip. he
did a grand job with the 13th Battalion.
I remember when he, with Padre Gillison
(Presbyterian; later killed at Hill 60
rescuing wounded) and Padre Power
(R.C.), addressed the brigade on the theme
of bad language. Padre Wray was a
big man, and he towered on the ledge in
Rest Gully as he told the troops he did
not object strongly to “the clean Aus-
tralian swear-word bloody,” but wanted
them to cut out “filthy language.” After
the other padres had added their appeals
Padre Wray wound up with “Now, I warn
you, boys, if when going through the
lines I hear any of you using filthy words
I’ll take my stick to him.” It mightn’t
have been the threat of the stick, but,
at any rate, the very rough stuff dropped
out of the vocabulary of the old Fourth
Brigade, though it remained as tough a
mob as any the Turks and Germans en-
countered.
On Christmas Day the Apple Isle’s
Auditor-General, Fred J. Batt, will have
a 70th birthday and 51 years of service
in the State Audit Department to cele-
brate. Lately he’s been very much out
of favor with the Government, result of
his adverse 1943 annual report.
“El V.’s” reminiscence:
Tommy Ryan, only man to hold two Par-
liamentary seats —in S.A. and Victoria—at the
same .time, had a well-deserved reputation for
handling rough audiences in last-war time. He
was then a brisk, black-haired little fellow whose
speech-making at times approached the qualify
of oratory, and it was his boast that the wildest
crowd could not stop him speaking. When he
came to Brisbane in the rowdy second conscrip-
tion campaign, he found waiting for him a
challenge to speak at Enoggera Terrace in Jack
Fihelly’s roaring Paddington electorate —if he
could. Tommy accepted. I was his whole
trembling retinue. We made the platform in
safety. The chairman-elect was not there —
he had discovered an urgent engagement. The
local committee all had jaundice or something.
Ryan gazed down on a sea of faces eager with
anticipation of things to come. O’Flahertys
and O’Tooles filled the back benches armed
with tomatoes, bags of flour and rotten potatoes.
1 turned a pale green as I looked upon what
seemed to fill Tommy only with professional
delight. After gazing on the scene in ecstasy
for a minute he hopped off the platform, filling
me with the alarming thought, that he’d decided
to run for it. Put he hadn't. As all eyes fol-
lowed him he reached the back doors and
slammed them shut. Then a voice like the blast
of the Queen Mary’s siren floated up from the
very midst of the Tomato Guards and Potato
Pioneers: “Gentlemen, you will notice that I
have locked the doors so that this audience
will have no chance of escaping till I have
finished what I have to say to it.” Tommy then
spoke for over an hour from the back of the
hall. There’s not much fun in throwing
tomatoes at a speaker at two yards’ range.
A refreshing example of candor was
given by Major-General Dewing, liaison
officer between the British, Australian and
American armies, in opening the show
of British war art at the Melbourne
National Gallery. He said that all. he
knew about art was what he had learnt
in the’quarter of an hour’s conversation
he had just had with director Daryl Lind-
say. The major-general, who came to
Australia five months ago, had a dis-
' tinguished career in the 1914-18 war, and
commanded a division before Dunkirk in
this one.
“Cauboy”; The Duke of Gloucester’s
liking for horses is at least as strong as
his liking for motoring (B. 24/11/’43).
The coming Governor-General made no
bones about it when he was here on his
other visit. Ercildoune, Victoria’s show
station in the Western District, was put
at his disposal. On the evening of his
arrival all the leading townsfolk and half
the sassiety of Melbourne were in the
big hall to meet him. There was the
usual expectant pause when the presen-
tation ceremony was over. Then the
duke’s voice could be heard remarking:
“And now could I look at the stables?”
Tunney:
Meeting Gene Tunney at a shivoo in Sydney,
flanked by an assortment of diplomatic per-
sonages and suchlike, Frith found the former
heavyweight champ, easily the most impressive
character in the gathering. There has been
plenty of dispute about the “long count” de-
cision at Chicago, when Tunney retained the
championship by beating Dempsey on points,
but the big New Yorker must have been a
better scrapper than the antis have tried to
make out. He has a fine-looking phiz, and
there isn’t a mark on it —devil a hint of a
cauliflower or even a dented boko. Moreover,
FORMER CHAMP.
that wasn’t his only meeting with Dempsey.
They had met previously at Philadelphia, a
10-round open-air scrap in the rain, and Tunney
won on points, as he subsequently won the
other 10-rounder at Chicago, the count in this
latter scrap being extended by Dempsey’s re-
fusal to go to a neutral corner. Tunney made
a huge pile of money out of the game, and
married an even bigger swag of it. He was
lucky in his managers, and also in the mateship
he struck up with Jimmy Bfonson, when Bronson
and Tunney were soldiering together in the last
war. Bronson, who became his chief second,
is one of the top dogs in American stoush.
Having made his pile, Tunney had the good
sense to get out after giving Maorilander Tom
Heeney the father of a licking. Probably the
most intellectual of all world champs., Tunney
can give as good a dissertation on Shakspeare
as on boxiana. It is said of him that in his
ring days he studied the theories of stoush
as laid down and practised by the past masters,
and that he fought more on theory than any-
thing else. If so, judged by the look of him
and the lining of his wallet, it’s a good recipe.
His name, incidentally, isn’t Gene. He was
christened James Joseph, Gene being a toddler
brother’s pronunciation of Jimmy.
MX. Government’s recent passing of
the Service Men’s Settlement and Land
Sales Act, designed to prevent post-war
exploitation of Diggers, made it neces-
sary to appoint a new Judge of the
Supreme Court to preside over the Land
Sales Act, and G. P. Findlay, an Auck-
land barrister, was the choice. Before
moving to Auckland 20 years ago, he
practised law in Te Kuiti, where he was
Mayor. He’s been president of Auck-
land’s Law Society and Aliens’ Registra-
tion Authority. The Findlay Cup per-
petuates his name and enthusiasm for
Ru£by in the King Country.
Lieutenant-Commander Robert Hart,
of Brighton (S.A.), recently one of 14
to receive accelerated promotion in the
R.A.N.V.R., has been given command
of an American-built 1000-ton fleet
mine-sweeper. Hart joined the R.A.A.F.
in 1939 and transferred to the R.A.N.V.R.
in 1940, serving under Lieutenant-Com-
mander Charles’ Gassen, R.N.V.R., on
Atlantic convoy work. Latterly he had
been first lieutenant on a corvette. Be-
fore the war he was with Dalgety’s in
Adelaide,
From John Brennan:
Missionary from Maoriland A. W. Silvester,
44 years old, thinning in the thatch, short-built,
wiry and aggressive, was waiting on Vella
Lavella to welcome the American invasion forces
when they came ashore on August 15. He had
been nine years on the island as superintendent
of the Methodist mission, and, though the
Japs had been scouring the jungle looking for
him, the only Japs he’s ever seen have been
prisoners of war. Silvester sent his wife and
family to Auckland before the war came to the
Solomons, and on the arrival of the Japs he
himself took to the bush. His closest call was
on March 7, 1943: the natives where he was
staying told him that some Japs were coming
towards them. “The Bish.,” as he’s affection-
ately known to the Americans, buck privates
and generals alike, went out through the plan-
tation and over the hill three minutes ahead ot
the Japs; they fired a volley after him. The
one thing that made it possible for him to re-
main on the island was the unvarying loyalty of
his “boys.” His educational work had to be
suspended, of course, but religious services were
still held every Sunday. It was Silvester and
his “boys” who Cared for the survivors of the
cruiser Helena, lost in the Kula Gulf battle
of July 12 until their rescue. When the Ameri-
cans came the natives sent, per Silvester, the
message: “We will sacrifice everything that
appears over and above the earth to hasten the
return of peace to these islands.”
The man who put up an Atlantic
record by flying a Liberator non-stop
from Montreal to ap English airport in
11 hours 35 minutes. Captain Richard
Allen, is a young Melburnian who has
done a lot of flying. He was one of the
first in the ferry services which early in
the war carried supplies and equipment
to advanced flying bases in France. Be-
fore that he was flying in New Guinea,
and earlier still, having gone to England
to study cotton and lost interest in it, he
bought a Gipsy Moth and ambled out
uneventfully to Adelaide. Then he
joined Imperial Airways and was flitting
around the Middle East when the war
called him to Britain. He went to Canada
with the late Duke of Kent to in-
augurate British Overseas Airways, and
was made ferry superintendent of war
’planes. Educated at Melbourne Gram-
mar, Allen has two R.A.A.F. brothers.
Awarded the Peter Nichol Russell
award of the Australian Institute of Engi-
neers —the highest at the institute’s dis-
posal—Edgar Gowar Ritchie, for 28 years
engineer-in-charge of Melbourne Water
Supply. Previous recipients were Dr.
Bradfield and Monash. E. G. Ritchie is
72. His father was Victorian Minister of
Railways.
Appointed a Melbourne National Gal-
lery trustee, Leonard Vivian Biggs is the
second newspaperman of distinction to
attain to that position. Editor of the
“Age” from 1927 until a couple of years
ago, he is an Englishman of long jour-
nalistic experience. He joined the
Middlesex “Gazette” in 1893, was sub-
editor of the London “Critic” and in
1899 came out to David Syme’s journal
and stuck there till his retirement, ex-
cept for an interim when he organised
the National Union. On the literary side
he raised the “Age’s” Saturday supple-
ment to an easy top place among Mel-
L. V. BIGGS.
bourne dailies. An active churchman, he
was a lay canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral
for 10 years.
The lectures Lawrence John Hartnett,
managing director of General Motors-
Holden’s and Director of Ordnance Pro-
duction, has been giving on his recent
tour of Britain, Canada and the U.S.A.
have been raising audience enthusiasm in
Melbourne, as they should, considering the
sweep of background Ifarnett can conjure
up. He’s one of the most-travelled execu-
tives in Australia. After gaining a lieu-
tenancy in the R.N. Air Service in the
last war he went to Singapore as manager
of Guthrie’s motor division. Then he
represented General Motors in India, was
managing director in Stockholm, in Wel-
lington (MX.) and in Melbourne. In
1934 he visited the U.S.S.R. at the Soviet s
invitation. He has done two world tours
while the present war has been on.
A director of transport to whom the
war has brought some sweeping changes
is Charlie West, of Wirth’s. In the palmy
days of peace he travelled an average or
20,000 miles per annum by road, sea and
rail with the performing lions, the call
with six legs and all the rest. War-time
exigencies have forced the Greatest Show
on Earth to rely on elephant-power, and
Charlie recently concluded a 1243-mile
tramp from Melbourne to Sydney and
back without a puncture or a blowout.
One of the strangest sights Melbourne
offers is when the convoy passes through
the city after midnight (by regulation),
each pachyderm swinging a red lantern
aft—literally a tail-light. West joined
the circus as a gaslight boy in New Zea-
land and has stayed with it ever since,
except for an interim of overseas service
in the last war. He appeared in the ring
at Olympia, Melbourne, the other even-
ing to receive a gold watch.
After 12 months’ war work as Director
of Agricultural Organisation, Dr. Allan
H. Callaghan is taking over again as
principal of Roseworthy Agricultural
College, S.A. N. S. Wales-born, he’s a
product of Bathurst High and Sydney
Uni. (Rhodes scholar in 1925). After-
Oxford he specialised in research in the
N.S.W. Agricultural Department before
going to Roseworthy in 1932. He’s 40.
Ending his soldiering after 45 years of
it, Adelaide-born William C. ,N. Waite
saw service in the S’African War, on
Gallipoli and in France, where he gained
D. 5.0., M.C. and rank of lieut.-colonel.
Since the outbreak this time he has been
Director of Recruiting in S.A. and has
lately been Camp Commandant at Way-
ville. Between wars he’s an auctioneer.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 67, Alfred William Staple-
ton, well known to a previous generation of
theatregoers. He trod the boards with J.C.W.,
Hugh Ward and Ben Fuller.
Accidentally killed in New Guinea, Lieu-
tenant-Colonel John Benedict Bolger, of Mel-
bourne, one of the younger officers who emerged
from Duntroon to serve in this war. With
the artillery in the Middle East he was badly
wounded. He returned with the 7th Division
and went to New Guinea. Killed on the same
occasion, Lieutenant-Colonel Edward John
Marston, who joined the A.I.F. as a captain,
saw service in Malaya, escaped from Singapore
and landed per raft on Sumatra.
At 96, Edward Fitzgerald Armitage, of Mary-
borough (Q.), one <pf the last links with the
early history of Wide Bay and thereabouts.
Coming to Queensland as a youth, he lived on
stations and in timber camps, and once, while
relieving a mailman who had had an accident,
was instrumental in capturing a bushranger
known as “The Wild Scotchman.” Later
Armitage turned to station and sawmill manag-
ing, built a bridge over the Mary River, break-
waters near the mouth of that river and tele-
graph lines in the west, north and centre of
Queensland.
In Adelaide, Miss Amy Tomkinson, eldest
daughter of Samuel Tomkinson, a Bank of Aus-
tralasia manager of last century, and herself
a great worker in all causes for the advance-
ment of women. Her sisters, Maud (well known
in Melbourne) and Mary, have died also during
this year.
In Adelaide, at close on 70, C. P. Wood-
cock ; born at Maryborough (Q.); in the Aus-
tralian Artillery from 1896, with service in
S’Africa; O.C. Fort Largs in S.A.; service in
France; secretary of the Red Cross in S.A.
from 1924 till his death.
At 74, Ernie Jones, who played for Australia
in 18 Tests against England, taking 60 wickets
for a 29.28 average. In Sheffield Shield cricket
he took 209 wickets. Touring with Test teams
to England in ’96, ’99 and 1902, his great year
was ’99, when, in a match against the South
of England, he bowled W. G. Grace in both
innings—for five and 47—and again in the last
match of the tour for seven and 29. In the
second Test that year he greatly helped towards
Australia’s 10-wickets win by taking seven for
88 and three for 76, England’s side including
MacLaren, Fry, Ranji, Jackson, Hayward and
Jessop —the cream of England’s batsmen.
In Brisbane, at 88, soldier and journalist,
Major-General Spencer Browne, who as a boy
knew Gordon and Kendall and was later a
friend of Brunton Stephens and also of Thomas
Hardy. Born at Oaklands (N.S.W.), Browne
at 21 was editing a paper at Townsville (Q.).
Subsequently he edited the old “Observer” in
Brisbane, and was for a while on a London
paper, but most of his journalistic career was
with Brisbane “Courier”; he was still on this
paper at the end. He went to the Boer War
as a major and returned with a C. 8.; com-
manded Queensland’s Light Horse regiments;
had charge of A.I.F. training in Egypt in the
last war, and organised the camps at Salisbury
Plains and Weymouth (Eng.).


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
3k Sfs 5*
“A Major”: Controversy continues to
rage around the claim of McCormick’s
“Advance, Australia Fair” to official re-
cognition as Australia’s national song.
Interest in the subject was flagging when
A.8.C., which has been using the
tune to introduce its Australian news
broadcasts, offered £l4O in prizes to
stimulate the composition of something
of a bit better calibre. Such authorities
as Bernard Heinze, Dr. Arundel Orchard
and Ignaz Friedman gave the undertak-
ing their more or less qualified blessing,
and those interested were just settling
down to wait till January 26 next,
when A.B.C. will show off whatsoever
jewels it has been able to inspire, when
the Motion Picture “Industry,” in con-
ference with Information Minister Cal-
well, produced a scheme to play three
national airs—“ God Save,” “The Star-
spangled Banner” and “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair” —at all “sessions,” thus giving
McCormick’s tune the status of an
anthem. Only demurrer from the enter-
tainment-mongers at time of writing had
come from Harald Bowden, of “the
Firm,” who doubted that the public
would receive with wild hysterical glee
the news that it would have to stand
up to three outpourings of patriotism
every time it went to the pitchers.
* * *
“Avon”: Many Maorilanders who
were prisoners of war in northern Italy
have made their escape into Switzerland
—a lot of them got a spot of Italian
assistance just before the surrender—and
"Pardon me, lady, but are you reading that paper?”
according to a report recently received by
the M.L. Government these men are
being very well treated. They are in-
terned, of course, but their camps are
administered as far as possible by “senior
British officers.” They are allowed pay
—2s. a day for privates, 3s. for sergeants
—food is good, International Red Cross
supplies clothing and “it is hoped to oro-
vide facilities for amusement and recrea-
tion, including opportunities for the men
to participate in the winter sports for
which Switzerland is so well renowned.”
If the Switzers take on the Maorilanders
at ski-ing they may get a bit of a shock.
The Southern Alps provide as good a
training ground for that sort of travel
as do the northern ones and Maoriland
mountain dwellers, like the Swiss, take to
skis !it the age of three or earlier. If any
of these have got to Switzerland they
should feel quite at home.
* * * *
“Sacerdote”: One of the most re-
spected citizens of our town has left us.
He had resided in our midst more than
10 years, was a living example
of moral rectitude, conducted
his business honestly, gave
handsomely and worked well
for local progressive endea-
vors. He held high office in
one of the churches and was
popular with children, adults,
animals, sports, radicals and
wowsers. One morning he
failed to appear. After a time
local anxiety impelled the
police to force his front door.
The search revealed all the
signs of hurried departure, A
crumpled paper on the living-
room floor bore the message,
in crudely-printed words:
“Clear out at once. We
Know All—J., K. %nd R.”
Inquiries revealed that half a
dozen other people in the
street had found similar notes '
in their letter-boxes, put there v
by three small boys playing
Guerrillas versus Quislings.
It shows that skeletons may
lurk in unexpected places.
“Tasser”: That eminent Australian
naturalist-author Charlie Barrett has
been ambling about our Island with a
view to writing a book about it. He told
a Hobart “Mercury” man, among other
things, that “From the little I have seen
of Tasmania I am convinced that it is
going to challenge Bali as paradise for
tourists.” Any day now I expect to see
the young Tasmanian female, barefooted
and wrapped in a sarong, undulating back
and forth on the front lawn with the bed-
room jug on her head, determined to de-
velop the figure and carriage of the Bali-
nese girl. But I question whether the
climate will co-operate.
, * * * *
“S.T.S.”: C. B. Fry was, unlike some
other English writers, scrupulously fair
to Ernie (“Jonah”) Jones, dead in S.A. —
at 74, the papers said. “I saw plenty
of Jones’s bowling,” Fry wrote in one of
his books. “I never received a ball
from him much more than waist high.”
This was in the first Test of 1899. But
Shrewsbury was left out of this, and “We
nearly left out William Gunn as well”
(which, Fry says, in 1938 would have been
equivalent to the dropping of both Ham-
mond and Leyland). For the selectors
recalled that both those champions had,
on first meeting Jones’s bowling in 1896,
deliberately—as he vouches —tipped a ball
into the slips and started for the pavilion
even before it was held. “That Sheffield
Park wicket must have had a sandstone
subsoil, so viciously did the ball fly.” Fry
vouches also for the ball that then
“slipped” and went through Grace’s
beard. “W.G. topped the twenties, and
his huge chest was black and blue. Jack-
son made a score, and had one of his
ribs broken. Ranji made 80, and flicked
‘Jonah’s’ fastest rising ball off his nose.”
It was Jones’s first appearance. He was
a grand field and an engaging character
altogether.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: The Supreme Court of
Queensland recently endorsed English
precedents in a case in which the Com-
monwealth sought to recover £6OO or so
damages from a citizen who was alleged
to have run over an airman. The sum
was made up of hospital expenses and
loss of the airman’s services. The Court
ruled that the engagement between ser-
vice men and the Crown was voluntary
on the Crown’s part, and therefore no
contract existed as between master and
servant. The only count on which the
Commonwealth got a verdict concerned
compensation for damage to uniform.
« * * *
“Red Tape”: Austerity high-priest
Dedman has on hand the awful duty of
reprimanding the Government publicity
agent responsible for the war-savings cer-
tificate advertisements which represent
“It's quite an experience to be shorn by one of those land girls!”
Santa Claus, whiskers and all, soliciting
business inside a border of holly leaves
and bonbons. Dedman regulations make
it an offence to “publish any advertise-
ment relating to or intending to promote
the sale of any goods which contains any
matter directly relating to Christmas....
or the practice of giving Christmas gifts.”
Santa, to Deddy, is a case of “Oh, no, we
never mention him —his name is never
heard.”
* # ❖ *
“Looby” takes part in a solemn Sydney
ritual: —t
The Fourth Liberty Loan —beg pardon, the
1000th N.S.W. Government lottery closed with
a crash which nearly jarred the teeth of Syd-
ney’s populace. The crowd on the steps at
opening-time on the second (and last) day was
even greater than usual. A man’s gold cigar-
ette holder fell to the floor and was squashed
fiat in an instant. A girl had her hat knocked
forward till she was blinded by it. Reefing it
off, she threw it right out over the crowd to
where she evidently thought her sister was
standing on the footpath. Then she shouted
“Oh, Mister, get your foot off that hat. Elsie,
where are you? Mister, get your foot' off —I
thought me sister was there” and, turning,
she tried to descend through the uprising mob.
Result, she was forced backwards into the Lottery
office (it has a formidable staff, all qualifying
for pensions) and sat down abruptly with a
sounding thump. A man helped her up and she'
boxed his ears. A woman had been knocked
over on the steps; when she finally got her
precious ticket she put it in her bag, squared her
shoulders and said “Now I’m walking all round
this place till I find the man who knocked me
down and I’m going to slap his face off.” Argu-
ments in queues were even thicker than usual.
One bloke said to a butter-in “Go on, get out
of here. I’ve been watchin’ you. You’ve been
pokin’ in all along the line.” The guilty one
flared like a wax match. “Don’t you go telling
me I’ve been butting in,” he roared. The first
man didn’t answer. The butter-in said nastily
as he moved off “Anyway, you won’t win any-
thing; you’ve got a rotten sort of face.” The
first man left the queue immediately. “Come
outside,” he said, “and I’ll improve yours.”
When last seen the butter-in was putting on
pace through the back door. Yes, the 1000th
N.S.W. Government lottery was something to
remember if the scenes at the closing of the
Fourth Liberty Loan are best forgotten.
* * * *
“Lance-Gunner”: X struggled to the
bar at a Sydney racecourse, sevenpence in
hand. My firm but polite “One beer,
please,” repeated several times, was
ignored by the barman, though he pulled
twos and threes for thirsty punters all
around me. At first I thought he was
ignoring me to discourage me drinking
with the flies, but there was more to it
than that. The refrain “Two *nd one,”
“Three and one” that brought results
while my “One beer, please,” met cold
disdain had me puzzled, until I heard
one eager thirster elaborate it into “Two
and one for yourself” and saw the bloke
in the white coat accept money for three
drinks and serve two. I tried a couple
more times for my solitary beer, but the
barman was too busy attending to the
“two-and-oners” to hear me. Finally I
shoved across the sevenpence, saying
“None and one for yourself,” and walked
off, still thirsty.
* * * *
Getting a drink in the Solomons:
Water, of course, is the staple, but though it
rains at least once a day, and often half a dozen
times, a drink of water in forward areas is
as hard to get as dry matches. Where it can
be had it’s so chlorinated as to be normally
undrinkable.
And trying to make coffee with it merely
produces an oily liquid in which the chlorination
is more noticeable. The Americans’ iced tea
is laced with sugar; this, by some strange
chemical reaction, usually coagulates the
chlorine. Tea, as made by the Maorilanders,
is the nearest approach obtainable here to the
nectar of Elysium. It is good as served by the
Y.M.CA. secretaries —they’re the one Comforts
organisation, American or Maoriland, that func-
tions in battle areas, and at Soanotalu and on
Sterling Island, in the Treasuries, Patrick G.
Parker and Charles H. Rawlings, of Hastings,
were brewing a hundred gallons a day. It is
better when made out of water from a small
Italian-made pump and purifier captured in
Libya by the Sixth N.Z. Field Regiment and
brought to the Treasuries. It doesn’t use
chlorine.
Tomato-juice (too thick), pineapplerjuice (too
sweet) and grapefruit-juice (just right) are to
be had in some quantity. The last-named mixes
astonishingly well with torpedo-juice—the pure
alcohol which drives the torpedoes—when,
through devious and highly-illegal channels,
that can be had. It’s a potent concoction with-
out effect the morning after.
Coca-cola, rarely seen, is a prime favorite
with Americans. One of the most amazing
features of the war in the Pacific, though of
minor importance, is the manner in which
strong and able-bodied Marines yearn for their
next bottle of “Coke.” In conjunction with
rum, which is rarer, it is drinkable but un-
necessary.
Substitutes for real drinks are occasionally
to be found. They’re of doubtful quality,
though one plant for the manufacture of Raisin
Jack, a fermented extract from cooking raisins,
earned the proprietor a small fortune and a
discharge—dishonorable, but never to be under-
rated in value. Overconsumption of his product
found hospital-ship berths for some of the
customers.
Supply of real drinks varies greatly, and
variation in market prices is even more marked.
Beer ranges from 10 cents the bottle to $1 (not
unusual) and up to an all-time high at $5.
(Exchange rates are 6s. to the $.) Gin, rum
and brandy are round $lO, though they fetch
higher prices in some localities. Whisky, Scotch
in particular, brings a high premium; prices
go from $5 to $25, to $75, to $lOO.
Shortages in supply are for the most part
beyond the control of anybody in the area. Not
to be held blameless is the commanding officer
of a very small and isolated N.Z. unit' which
received its first beer ration for months on
election day. He ruled that, since hotels at
home are closed on polling day, the beer should
not be made available for 24 hours.
AIDS TO MORALE.
“The playing of ‘Advance, Australia Pair’ in con-
junction with ‘God Save the King’ and ‘The Star-
spangled Banner’ at picture shows will assist morale
and help to develop, an Australian national spirit.”
—Minister for Information Calwell.
“Considered as music the song is of a distressingly
low standard, as every qualified critic has been at
pains to emphasise.”— -“S. M. Herald.”
Queer thing, morale, but anything that gains it
Some extra stiffening can scarce be wrong.
One Minister assures us beer sustains it,
Another puts his money on a song.
In times like these there’s no well-meant sug-
gestion
That can be brushed aside or taken amiss.
And, for myself, I should be loath to question
Either hypothesis.
Pipe up, you talkie-theatre musicians
Who earn by divers instruments your oof!
Along with old, well-seasoned compositions
Let’s hear a lowlier lyric hit the roof.
However scant its merits, its inclusion
Will make it' clear, when pride of country’s
shown,
We, too, possess a metrical effusion
Our own, our very own.
What though the words seem somewhat trivial
patter
And at the air disdainful critics snarl,
Such disadvantages are no great matter ,
As long as it encourages morale.
The sentiment’s the thing! And Calwell’s notion
I take to be, when this is understood,
That lot of hearts will beat with loyal emo-
tion —
Or, if they don’t, they should.
Swanky and song! Perhaps there’s nothing
harder
Than to decide which has the more appeal
As stimulants to patriotic ardor
And adventitious aids to eager zeal.
Withal, I’m not suggesting for a minute
Either will hit the spot and ring the bell
Unless the beer has got some stingo in it—
Aye, $nd the song as well!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE LEVELLING TURF.
“The Turf is a great leveller. Some professional,
business and social lights....in the hope of gaining
information. will fraternise with individuals to
whom they would scarcely accord a nod of recog-
nition elsewhere. —Sporting Notions , l/18/’iS.
Shun not that somewhat seedy-looking cuss,
The tout with furtive eye and stealthy tread —
It’s not his fault that Nature framed him thus —
And keep in memory what Shakspeare said
About “the toad, ugly and venomous,
That wears a precious jewel in its head."
Besides not being tailored a la •mode,
He may have that in common with the toad.
A suit' of clobber that’s a trifle old,
A tile that’s over-wobbly in the brim,
May hide (and often does) a heart of gold
Or, better still, a brain as cute and slim
As ever a suspicious Jew cajoled
Or soaked an Aberdonian for a jim.
Looks are deceptive. Who except a goat
Would judge a sausage by its overcoat?
He may have something, you may well believe.
That’s positively worth your while to know,
A scrap of knowledge up that shiny sleeve
Convertible into a wad of dough.
Some info, that will help you to achieve
A pleasant triumph over Ikey Mo.
And send you home in vastly merrier mood
Than if your splosh on stiff ’uns had been
blewed.
Poor is the dignity that can’t unbend
When simple courtesy looks like to pay.
It’s commonsense to greet him as a friend
Through whom some profit may accrue today.
He needn’t take it that you’ll condescend
To treat him in the same familiar way
Tomorrow. ’Twill be mere acquaintanceship
More likely, till you want another tip.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Pip”: In my experience every man in
the army owns a nickname. “Blueys,
“Curleys” and “Chillers” abound; but
corruption of surnames is still more
common. Smith is invariably
Robinson is “Robbie,” Jones is Jonah.
A warrior whose name is not known
is “sport” or “George” or occa-
sionally “Joe Blue.” Possessor of a
cake from home promptly becomes
“mate,” but if he’s an old hand he re-
sponds coldly “No mates. Anybody
with a film star’s name gets his name-
sake’s handle. So a Tracey is “Spencer,
, a Powell is “Bill” and a Bennett is
“Joanie.” A lad with the initials S.S.
is, of course, “Steamboat.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Preaching to a congregation at
Scots Church in Melbourne on an
occasion of interest to our Allies, the
Rev. Dr. Boreham related how, when
shown round the British Houses of Par-
liament, he paused in the Peers’ »Corridor
before C. W. Cope’s fresco “The De-
parture of the Pilgrim Fathers. We
have a copy of this picture in oui
National Gallery,” said Dr. Boreham
proudly. “Excuse me,” said the guide,
“you have the original in Melbourne ;
this is a copy.” Whereupon, Dr. Bore-
ham added, he felt prouder than ever.
The rev. gentleman’s pride in this artistic
treasure isn’t shared by the National Gal-
lery Trustees, who have long since rele-
gated Mr. Cope’s masterpiece to the base-
ment.
* * * *
“Spoke”: The Bulletin’s suggestion
that Australian vignerons should seek a
reputation for their wines under Austra-
lian titles instead of slavishly adopting
European designations such as “port,
“burgundy” and “champagne” recalls
one early attempt of this nature. A
grower at Glenrowan (Vic.) called his
excellent vintage “Ned Kelly’s Blood.”
Has anybody heard what happened to it?
M= * * *
“Toreador”: Ack-I-Foofs who were
in the Middle East will help to remove
“Avant’s’* doubts (B. 10/11/’43) as to
the human body’s ability not only to con-
sume salt water but to derive benefit
therefrom. We proved this while we
were in Palestine training on long
marches in a severe summer. We were
encouraged to dissolve a dessertsponful
of salt in our water-bottles and to sip
the solution during spells to, replace salt
sweated out, and to minimise muscular
fatigue and cramp. The idea was very
unpopular at first, as the brine was found
most distasteful, but those who per-
severed with the formula soon got used
to it and swore by it. I recall a day
when the temperature in Cairo was an-
nounced as 119 deg. (not out of the way
in that climate). We marched all day
under the sun and all the usual thirst-
quenchers were tried —oranges, lemons,
grapefruit, etc. The men who finished
the freshest were those who stuck aus-
terely to salt water. Its effect on their
endurance and stamina was distinct.
m< * * *
“Half-pint”: A remark by a Cold Tea
orator that if drink were abolished in the
precincts of Parliament and if more
abstainers were elected as legislators Par-
liamentary business “would be conducted
with greater calmness and reason” got
me thinking back. One Perry, M.L.A.,
an anti-booze fanatic who, amongst
other oddities, used to burn copies of
The Bulletin and other papers he con-
sidered immoral every Sunday in the
Domain, hurled the only water-bottle
ever used in the N.S.W. Assembly as an
offensive missile. One of the few ink-
pots that have made a similar journey
was heaved by “Tomato” Jessop, who
was a president of the Rechabites; and
it was Bruntnell, M.L.A., general secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance
before his election, who gave an exhibi-
tion described by another M.L.A. as
“the greatest display of screaming hys-
terics ever heard in this House.” Very
little “calmness and reason” about those
episodes.
* Mt * *
“Blackwood”: Where do authors get
their plots? I’ve rubbed shoulders with
an exact parallel to Somerset Maugham’s
Red. A jackeroo on our Queensland
property ran away with a good-looking
young lubra, and it seemed a case of
genuine mutual affection. Then he went
to the war, returning with a bride. They
went into business down south and he
made money. Twenty-three years latei
he revisited his old Queensland district
to inspect a cattle property prior to buy-
ing it for his son. He had become fat
and coarse with too much booze. The
owner of the property offered him hos-
pitality, and he was served by the owner’s
abo. servant. She was wrinkled, huge and
hideous, and neither of the former lovers
recognised the other. The auctioneer,
who had lived in the same township for
half a century, recognised the name on
the contract and remembered the early
association.
M: M! * *
“Nakhoda”; Despite “Javanese” (B.
24/11 / ’43), the natives of Java do go gay
on occasions, and at weddings I have
seen them get blithered. A wedding cere-
mony lasts three days and three nights,
and possibly “Javanese” attended only
the beginnings of the proceedings, when
the party was just warming up, Javanese
are also a most peaceful race ordinarily,
but at the end of the fasting months
when there are friendly contests between
the champions of various villages with
split canes for weapons, I have seen more
blood spilt than could be seen in 10 years
in Sydney and Melbourne boxing halls.
« * * «
“Shanghailander”: “Tuart’s” remarks
about Tribich Lincoln (B. 24/11/ ’43) re-
mind me that?for several years before
Pearl Harbor he was a familiar figure in
Shanghai, where he strode about in the
long grey habiliments of a Buddhist
monk, often accompanied by female
familiars, also white. He was remark-
able for his fine head ; in fact, he was a
fine figure of a man. You would not
have been able to state definitely that he
was a Jew. He wore beard and mous-
tache. His rugged, noble features and
long, sensitive fingers (his hands were
always well tended) prepossessed one in
his favor. When I last saw him, a few
months before Shanghai fell to the
Japanese, he was in the best of health.
As a Buddhist abbot he would have
access to Free China through the
Japanese lines, and, with his record of
treachery, I imagine he made full use of
“Knock again, Joe —they may be upstairs."
unique opportunities. It would, therefore,
be of interest to many Far Easterners
to know the manner of his death and
whether it is genuinely documented.
Otherwise many of us will remain con-
vinced that Tribich, under some other
name, is still playing the old game of
selling information to the highest bidder.
M= M= * *
“Ex-Vic.”; There are small differences
in idiom among Australians, though there
are no variations in accent (B. 24/11 / ’43)
and no dialects such as distinguish the
Devon man from the Lancastrian or the
Virginian from the New Yorker. There
is, however, a general difference between
country and city Speech here, the aver-
age countryman using a slow drawl. In
my time in Victoria the popular horse
conveyance was a gig or jinker; in
N.S.W. it’s universally a sulky. I never
heard the girl-friend called “a good sort”
until I crossed the Murray, and I always
pick a Croweater when I hear him say
Adeelaide against the eastern Ad’laide.
“Bumpk”: I have met only one fellow
South Australian who said “Where’s it
to?” His parents—Cornish, I suppose—
also used the phrase “I’ll come and see
you while tomorrow.” As for being able
to tell the State of an Australian by his
speech I have never been able to do it,
except to some extent by the names they
give fishes. Even that is an unreliable
guide, for said nameS'don’t merely change
from State to State but from port to port.
Also a variety of vernacular titles is given
to the sparrow. But I have never detected
much difference in the accent spoken or
the phrases used from one State to
another.
M= * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Hist” is not wise in object-
ing (B. 3/10/’43) to the jingle of “Back
the attack” as a stimulant for the loan.
The value of rhyme for this kind of
purpose has long been recognised in
England, where the demand for more
battleships some years ago was im-
mensely helped by the steady urging
We want eight;
We won’t wait.
Last time I was in London one theatre
found “‘My Son John,’ still running
on,” its best advertisement. But a jingle
is perhaps at its most effective in helping
the memory. The date of pretty well
every long tour I have made is pinned
down by, for instance, “in ’29 we crossed
the Line,” Some of the jingles are too
trivial to bear quoting—but nonetheless
effective for private use. Examination
coaches swear by rhymed tags, too —or
used to do so.
.. * * * * *
“Spokeshave”: A broad smile recently
spread along the Inky Way in Mel-
bourne. It is the invariable custom of
the more dignified of the local dailies,
when they receive an official invitation
for their representatives to attend a
dinner “at 8.30 to report the speeches,”
to retort that they are not able to accept
an invitation under those degrading con-
ditions. The reporters must share the
wine and wittles if they are to give the
speeches their attention. The other even-
ing, however, the newspaper proprietors
themselves threw a banquet to the visit-
ing Canadian pressmen at Menzies, and
the obnoxious formula was appended!
* M= *
“Alex”: The folly of paying lads in
their teens wages out of all proportion
to their needs or expectations has at
impressed itself upon the judiciary. A‘
Maoriland Judge who had before him a
17-year-old charged with breaking and
entering discovered that the youngster
had developed expensive tastes on a wage
of £4 a week. He therefore, as a condi-
tion of probation, decreed that for the
next three years the young fellow must
bank all wages he receives in excess of
50s. a week. And at that it should be
remembered that not so very long ago a
boy of that age, living at home, would
think himself lucky to draw ten bob each
Friday.
Me * * *
“Adelaide”: An Italian gardener in
S.A. has had steady ill-luck since his inti-
macy with a girl (also Italian) of 15.
First, his offer to marry her was de-
clined ; next he got eight months’ jail for
what the law humorously calls an
“assault” ; and now her father has re-
covered £l2O damages for “loss of her
services.”
* M< * ♦
“Skyrider” does some overhearing:
I wonder what sort of place Australia appears
to most of the visiting Yanks. Finishing a
fwo-bob meal in a Sydney feeding-place the
other day (a meal a Londoner today would
give a lot more for, if he could get it) I listened
to the prattle of a Sydney girl to an Allied
warrior who evidently knew scarcely anything
about Australia. “What’s the country like
’tween here and Melbourne and Adelaide?” he
asked. She wrinkled a very attractive forehead.
“Just hills and sea,” she answered. I visualised
the lookout from above Stanwell Park and the
view from Sublime Point and groaned inwardly.
“Just hills and sea! And ain’t there different
gauges on the railroads?” asked our Ally.
“Oh, yes,” said Miss Sydney. “Every State has
its own gauge.” “You don’t say! Not as
handy as with us. We’ve lots of companies,
but all the same gauge.” “Oh,” she countered,
“we have the same sort of trains, you know.”
About this time I could see our Ally deciding
that Miss S. was one of those Sydneyites that
only Sydney know, and he quietly shunted the
trains out of the way. “I’ll say this, anyhow,”
he generously conceded, “your trams put it
all over ours.” “Not our old ones?” she
asked. “Yes, the old ones. Gosh, our city
trams are all rattle and darned little else.”
Allied stocks slumped, but Allied honesty scored
with the girl. “All right,” she said. “Just
for that I’m paying for my lunch.” I
wish I could show that earnest inquirer what
real trams are like. But I can t take Allied
airmen across to Adelaide.
* * * *
“K.”: Old-fashioned newspaper writers
who didn’t appreciate the varied resources
of the King’s English were wont to say
that a coalmine, during a hold-up in pro-
duction, had “stopped.” They used
“stoppage” (unimaginative fellowg) as a
noun. xThe other day a Sydney news-
paper mentioned a northern N.S.W. mine
as having “stoppaged.” That’s what 1
call literary grace.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The proposal to establish
a chair of psychology at the University
of Melbourne reminds me of a young
couple of my acquaintance who, when
they married, equipped themselves with
a stock of works on psychology, especially
with regard to children. In a few weeks
they were boring their friends to extinc-
tion with accounts of the libido, the
super-ego, the unconscious, the latent
and manifest content of dreams and the
(Edipus complex. A couple of years
later I met the husband and asked him
how he was getting on with his studies.
“Oh, them!” he snorted. “We read the
lot, but when we got a baby it didn’t do
anything that was in them!”
* * * *
“Pawang”: The fixing of “ceiling
prices” on objects of art at auctions has
put a sudden stop to a frenzy of specu-
lation in Melbourne, but it produced some
extraordinary results at the sale of the
effects of a company director’s widow.
Bids for a three-stone diamond ring
" had soared to £525 when the gent, with
the hammer announced that the ceiling
had been hit, an independent valuer hav-
ing fixed the bauble’s worth at
that figure. Eleven excited
bidders had a contrary opinion,
and 17 people disagreed with
the valuer’s opinion that a dia-
mond star brooch was worth a
mere £l2O. The price of a
few shillings set on a Charles
I silver Apostle spoon caused
such an indignant protest that
the auctioneer agreed to accept
further bids subject to the
approval of the Prices Com-
missioner. The bidding stopped
at £22.
* * *
“Nicky”: Tell “Tonsi” (B.
3/11/ ’43) to take a trip to the
land of the pineapples and see
a real long bridge. What’s a
mere 4000 ft.? Stretching across
Moreton Bay and connecting
Sandgate and Redcliffe is the
longest traffic bridge in Aus-
tralia. It is known as the
Hornibrpok Highway and is
close on 9000 ft. long. Built
of wood and concrete sup-
ported on 290 concrete piles,
the bridge cut down the dis-
tance from Brisbane to Red-
cliffe by eight miles. Certainly
it has no outstanding architec-
tural features, but when you
cross it you wonder if it’s ever going to
come to an end.
* * *
“X.S.”: Victoria’s worst level-crossing
smash —when a bus and a train collided
at Wodonga in May and the driver and
24 passengers, largely soldiers, were
killed—had an aftermath in the courts
the other day when a jury, after deliberat-
ing for three hours, found for the wife
of a victim against the owner of the
vehicle, damages being £ll5O. The Vic-
torian Railways Commissioners were
exonerated.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is showing itself con-
sistent in its objection to lotteries. Two
men have been fined for “publishing an
advertisement” of such things by leaving
pamphlets in Adelaide’s suburban letter-
boxes, The prosecution made it clear that
lotteries are in S.A. a “common nui-
sance” by law; and that it is an offence
there to have anything to do with them,
even with those promoted in a State
where they are lawful.
* * * *
“Silly Point”: Sorting out some old
books, I came across a volume of The
Popular instructor and absorbed the
dinkum oil about the game of cricket.
Here’s a sample: “When a ball is struck
by the man on the batting crease, the
fielder who is nearest to the place where
the ball is likely to pass or to fall shall
remove himself as rapidly as he is able
to that place, using his best endeavor
to prevent it from passing. If the ball
should happen to be in the air [but see
‘Bump Ball’] and the fielder shall take
it in his hands without allowing it to fall
to the ground, he will then appeal to the
umpire by saying ‘How is that, Mr.
Umpire?’; whereupon the umpire will
say ‘Caught out’ -[but see ‘No Ball’]
and the batter will retire to the pavilion.”
Nicely put. Now, whenever I watch a
cricket match I note how the fieldsmen
“remove themselves as rapidly as they
are able.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Feed was scarce, and the
wood-and-water joey got orders to fix
up a trough and feed the house cows
with chaff and hay every night after
milking. The bovines took to hanging
round the feeder, which was close to our
hut. Their bellowings, pawings and
rushings interfered with our cribbage,
our yarns and our sleep. We sooled the
dogs on to them, hurled sticks, stones and
imprecations, but it did no good. Then
Little Curl cased himself in a chaff-bag
and went hopping towards the cattle in
the half-light of a dying moon. They
stuck their tails out and left hurriedly in
the general direction of Westralia. Curl,
carried away by his success, hopped after
them as far as the woolshed and met the
boss, returning per horseback from the
town and slightly pickled. The boss took
one look at the bounding bundle, dropped
from his horse and tore to the home-
stead. Curl got out of the bag and
raced to the hut. A few minutes later
the blast of a .12 bore rocked the night
and we rushed forth to discover the boss
prowling round the shed. “ ’Struth,” he
gasped, “keep your eyes open, fellers. I
just seen the biggest blanky frog in
Riverina hoppin’ past the shed!”
* * * *
“Sarina”: Trust a Queensland bush-
man to know what to do in an emergency.
Walking along the Scotchy Pocket road
near Tiaro, one J. Bambling found a
small bridge burning. He had no vessel
with which to carry water, nearest being
a few hundred yards off. Nevertheless,
he put the fire out with water—fie used
his boots!
* * * *
“Wang”: “On the tramp one time,”
related Dan, “I strike a little one-horse
tpwnship an’ make fer the pub. I’m just
in front of it when a tall bloke in a
striped guernsey comes rustlin’ out of the
bar door, and after him a big red-faced
bloke in shirt sleeves. It’s Bung, who
plants a boot hard on the stern of the oilier
bloke, who shot forward like a rocket
an’ landed head first into me, knockin’
me kickin’. The other bloke got fer his
life, and as I lay there groanin’ an’
squirmin’ Bung comes hurryin’ across, a
scared look in his eyes. ‘Are y’ hurt?’
he asks, anxious. ‘Hurt!’ I ses, venom-
ous; ‘me blanky ribs is stove in. An’
you’re t’ blame, blast y’!’ I groans an’
feels meself, an’ the pubkeeper begins t’
look scared. ‘l’m orful sorry, ole feller,’
he ses ; ‘is there anythin’ I can do t’ help
y’?’ ‘Well, I’m feelin’ pretty crook,’ I
tells him. ‘Dunno whether I ain’t got some
infernal injury; but a drop of somethin’
or other might ease the pain a bit.’ ‘Let
me help y’ up,’ he ses, ‘an’ I’ll take y’
inside.’ After a lot of trouble he
manages t’ get me on me feet, an’ care-
fully pilots me inter the bar parlor. He’s
still green about the gills, thinkin’ I might
snuff out on him, I s’pose. Fer the next
half-hour he keeps shovin’ brandies inter
me. Be the end of that time I tell him
I’m feelin’ a bit better an’ I think I’ll
make a move. He seems damned thank-
ful t’ hear it, an’ after a pretty broad
hint from me he springs a bottle of
whisky for the track. I’m just passin’
the bridge just outside the township when
a tall bloke in a striped sweater comes
up, takes a screw at the bottle an’ starts
goin’ lemons because he was wantin’ gin
an’—eh? O’ course he was me China!
Who did y’ think he was?”
# * * *
“Chuck”: Dan’s about the most even-
tempered bloke on earth. In all the years
I’ve known him I’d never seen him do
his block over anything, so I was sur-
prised to come on him pounding Lippy
with a whole-heartedness that left no
doubt of the issue. “Blimey!” I gasped
to Jim, “how’d it start?” “Aw, the fool
wus lookin’ for it,” drawled the joyful
audience of one, “Dunno what it was
about exactly—l only arrived in time t’
see ’im pitch the branding-iron at Dan
an’ call *im a cockeyed bandicoot an’
a few more things. Dan didn’t take no
notice, so he went on to say ’e was a
yeller-bellied snake.” “An’ Dan resented
it?” I asked. “No,” explained Jim, side-
stepping the rolling combatants; “he jus’
grinned an’ went on workin’. That sort
o’ finished Lip, an’ he yells ‘You ! Gripes,
y’re no better’n a blasted coal striker!'
An’ Dan floored him,”
* * * *
“Sylvester Salt”: Mention of pain-
killer (B. 3/11/ ’43) reminds of how that
once mighty medicine has now passed
almost out of fashion. The time was
when bottles of it decorated every drug-
gist’s counter and every storekeeper’s win-
dow and no well-regulated household
could be without it. As a cure-all it
stood alone. Did the patient complain
of stomachache? A few drops in warm
water with a little sugar was sure to set
things right. Did he have the spews (that
was the crude old English term we used)?
The same few drops in warm water
but without the sugar also set tilings right.
But the drug’s noblest victories were over
the toothache, A drop on a pellet of
cottonwool inserted into the cavity soon
told the most insurrectionary nerve where
it got off; and it was almost equally
effective when rubbed liberally on
gum or cheek. Many a time I found
blessed oblivion with jaw and cheek burn-
ing like a living flame. Some people again
believed in painkiller as a sure remedy
for rheumatism, well rubbed in. Was
there any ache or pain it wouldn’t cure?
More than once I saw a cheque-busting
shearer, just on the verge of the d.ts.,
pour the best part of a bottle down his
throat, and a few minutes later wade into
a slab of underdone steak, at which his
whole being would have revolted had not
the overdose of liquid flame enabled his
interior to take a fresh grip on itself.
♦ * * *
“Tut tut”: Let me smite the sublime
egoism of “8.A.K.” (B. 3/11/’43) in his
belief that a certain “secluded spot en-
closes probably the only dogs’ cemetery
in Australia.” Perth has had a canine
cemetery for years, and a public one
at that, where anyone for a small fee
may obtain a plot wherein to inter the
remains of Tiny or Carlo, and later erect
a small tablet commemorating the virtues
of the deceased. And I shouldn’t be sur-
prised if other capital cities also pos-
sessed them. For it certainly is a prob-
lem nowadays what to do with a canine
cadaver. Class-conscious dustmen simply
refuse to take them ; nor does the modern
sanitary flush pedestal offer the resource
of its cruder but more cavernous pre-
decessor. Some unscrupulous souls, find-
ing themselves laden with the corpse of
a small canine, have been known to make
same into a neat parcel which might be
conveniently left in the tram or bus or
the waiting-room at the station. But
most dog-lovers revolt at their late pet’s
body wandering graveless around the city.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I suppose the name of
Adam Lindsay Gordon will never be
cleared of the stigma of association with
the libel “Australian flowers have no
scent, Australian birds no song” (B.
24 /11 / ’43). Yet actually he never said
anything so sweeping. I have often won-
dered how human dullness could be blind
and deaf to the significance of the quali-
fying adjective “bright,” with the added
emphasis derived from repetition, in the
two lines:
In lands where bright blossoms are scentless,
And songless bright birds.
Obviously the stress is on the “bright,”
especially when it is taken in its proper
context with the preceding couplet.
Marcus Clarke, in his preface to Gor-
don’s works, admittedly does speak of
“our flowers without perfume.” But the
poet can’t be held responsible for that.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: “B.’s” centipedes (B.
10/II / ’43) are in the tiddler class. Dur-
ing the rainy season when the white-ants
are busiest, you’ll find yellow ’uns up to
9in. long committing mass murder under
any N.Q. dwelling, which wouldn’t last
a season without their help. Eight inches
seems to be the average length and 50
legs the limit. The number of termites
one of them can stow away has caused
speculation as to whether the stomach of
the centipede has caoutchouc properties.
The only N.Q. householder who is likely
to kill one and send it in spirits to the
War Inventions Board to find out
whether the ’pede is a potential source of
tyres is a Proserpine man. Sucking at
a t waterbag one hot day he swallowed
one. The wriggler, crawling round, ex-
ploring his quarters, sent the toiler hurry-
ing for the musfard. The emetic caused
the centipede—an eight-incher—hur-
riedly to make the return journey,
“B. A. Ker”; While centipedes are
under discussion has anybody known
their sting to be fatal, as is generally
supposed ? Although for years I’ve
worked in places where the creatures
abound I’ve only seen two persons
bitten. One, a juvenile cobber, trod on
one of the big blue-green species and was
stung on the little toe. As the kid was
Ack Willie from school (how I came to
be there has nothing to do with the case)
the only treatment applied was a swish
in the creek; but after ten minutes’
apparent agony the victim suffered no
ill-effects. The other occasion was when,
20 years later, a tent mate suddenly sat
up, in his bunk, swearing fluently and
rubbing his head. Investigation showed
a six-inch blue-green ’pede op the
blankets and distinct punctures on the
mate’s head. An hour later the vic-
tim was suffering excruciating pain, and
though Condy’s had been applied he 'had
to be rushed to hospital, where he was
kept for a week. The doctor’s explana-
tion : “It depends on the condition of the
patient—and, of course, where he is
bitten,”
* * * #
“Lower Tops’l”: At Kent Bay, Cape
Barren Island, the crew of the 80-
ton brig Nautilus from Port Jack-
son established a sealing depot in 1798,
erecting huts and sowing crops. Soon
other Sydney vessels engaged in sealing
thereabouts, and within two years run-
away convicts and sailors brought the
estimated population in the strait to 200.
These independent men, from the tim-
bers of the East India Company’s ship
Sydney Cove, wrecked at Preservation
Island in 1797, fashioned double-ended
boats and sailed from island to island
clubbing seals. By 1803 Governor King
reported that catches were so heavy that
the sea-efephant had been exterminated
and the seals had been so harassed that
the Sydney vessels were abandoning the
area. The runaways, taking Tasmanian
gins for consorts and looking to the
newly-formed Port Dalrymple for sup-
plies, then entered on a lurid era, com-
bining piracy with sealing. Pursuing the
fur-bearing animal, they were the first men
to land at Port Phillip and in Western
Victoria—European-built huts at Rye
erected before 1803 are evidence of this
—and within the next decade so
thoroughly were seals hunted in Bass
Strait that more than a century has
elapsed before any appreciable increase
in their numbers has taken place.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Worst thing that I know to
start and spread a bushfire is the grass-
tree, When it is well alight the gum in
the trunk explodes and scatters cones and
fragments over a wide area. The burning
cones will roll down a hill or even along
level ground with a stiff breeze behind
them, setting fire to anything that will
burn. I’ve seen a billycan blown off a
fire made from a grass-tree by an unwary
newchum.
* * * *
“Zake”: For versatility you’ve got to
go far beyond where the pavement ends.
The pubkeeper at a little township in the
Liverpool Range country out from Quir-
indi (N.S.W.) held down the jobs of
postmaster, undertaker, storekeeper,
baker, taxation expert and insurance and
stock agent. He was also local corre-
spondent for a couple of near-by rags,
was chairman of the race club, member
of the local school board and share-
farmer ; and, incidentally, he was an ex-
shearer, ex-miner, ex-schoolteacher, and
had put up (unsuccessfully) five times for
Parliament. Like many another Bung I
have met, he was a teetotaller. And he
always seemed to have time to spare for
a yarn.
“Longbow”: Some of the lads of our
unit went shooting, and killed a ’roo in
whose pouch they found a fair-sized joey.
A bit conscience-stricken, they stripped
the skin off the whole front of the ’roo,
and carried Joey back to camp in the
pouch. They nailed the skin to a post,
and Joey still uses the pouch ; after wan-
dering about camp for a while he will
hop into it for a sleep. The lads
taught him to leap into an open haver-
sack when held invitingly open before
him. One day the cook, who was fairly
fat, bent down to pick up something.
Joey, hanging around for titbits, and see-
ing the inviting opening of the baggy
apron, took a flying leap in. A startled
bab fell backwards, and so shut the open-
ing in the apron, and Joey, sensing some-
thing wrong, started to kick his way out.
The racket attracted a crowd, and when
the apron’s waist string broke the
hilarious crowd saw a terrified joey
appear from under the bottom of cookie’s
apron, and bolt for his home on the post.
* * * *
“O. Pip”: Viewed from surrounding
hills or the sand dunes which separate it
from the sea, southern Queensland’s
“paddymelon-hole country” appears as a
fine series of flats level enough for a
landing ground. A man approaching
across it appears to move crabwise and
rolling, with his head bobbing like a
cork in a stream. Reason is that the
ground is honeycombed with hip-holes,
which the small marsupial lines with grass
or leaves. Tufts of coarse grass separated
by channels 18 inches deep and a foot
wide, which have evidently been cut dur-
ing the rainy seasons, leaving miniature
islands between, convert it into real
“devil-devil” country. In winter when
the long grass is burnt off these can be
seen and used like steppingstones; but
when high grass conceals them it is
doubly treacherous. Yet cattlemen
muster there, and even chase dingoes
over it. Some of the worst of it is where
the Malolo and Maroochy rivers flow
into the sea north of Moreton and
Bribie islands.
OLD HOME WEEK.
In good old Parkes, in good old Parkes, or
Yass or Goolagong—
You take your pick and I’ll take mine, for
purpose of this song—•
The summer days are warm and kind, and
warm and kind the sound
Of voices talking in the street about our daily
round.
They speak the language that I know, like me
they bear the marks
Of easygoing country life acquired in good old
Parkes
(Or Forbes or Yea or Underbool, or Hay or
Sale or Angledool).
I see them, aye, I see them, all the faces that
I knew,
Although the kids are growing up and old
friends growing few.
The days go by, go creeping by, and where’s
the need for speed
Without a tram or train to catch, or Bundy
clock to heed?
And I know this easy freedom is the same old
brand that marks
The treasured town we came from, and that
goes for good old Parkes
(Or Cairns or Clare or Manjimup, or Bright
or Boort or Walpeup).
1 can see it, I can see it, the place where I
was born,
Brown in the dusty afternoon or dew-clean
in the morn; •
The children dawdling off to school, the head-
stones on the hill,
The little shops that line the street, the steam
above the mill.
I hear cicadas, dogs and cows, and all the
noise that marks
The round of fond familiar things I heard in
good old Parkes
(Or Quom or Ayr or Boyup Brobk, or Bourke
or ISlhill or Chinkapook).
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“’ Ere , male , y’ better take y'r bedding; y’ll probably be out a couple
o’ nights.”
“Arev”; “The trouble with us country
people is that we don’t appreciate the
beauty around us,” Bill Jupp said, “The
city people look out of their windows,
and all they see is chimneys and other
people’s backyards.” Bill waved his table
knife. “Look at the view we’ve got —
green paddocks, miles of trees and a
chain of blue mountains in the distance.
And how often do we pause to admire
it? We just take it for granted—that’s
all. A spell in a city flat would do some
of us good. Then we’d appreciate the
beauties of the bush.” Bill looked up
from his dinner as the land girls re-
turned from a trip to the township. Jean
uttered cries of admiration outside, and
Betty hastened to the door. “Just come
and see the most beautiful sight you’ve
ever seen.” Bill pushed back his chair;
he was first at the door. “Just look,”
Betty went on ; “isn’t that a lovely pic-
ture? Like a host of white flowers burst-
ing into bloom on everything in sight!”
Bill’s jaw dropped. On the shelter trees
in the paddock, in the growing crop and
on the haystack picking out the grain
was a huge flock of white cockatoos.
“Them blasted pests around again,” he
growled. “Bring us the shotgun, Jack!”
* * H= *
“Bo”: Spragg came around a corner
of the farm building just as a hefty boy
of 14 was wrenching the stick from the
hand of the thin, miserable woman who
had been chastising him. They were still
struggling when the boy’s 15-stone father
arrived. Pa got the sljck and started
lamming into the lad with great enthusi-
asm. The thin, miserable woman protested
volubly; but, the protestations falling on
deaf she immediately flew tooth and
nail at the big man, who promptly turned
from finishing the chastisement of the
boy to defence against this attack. Soon
he turned to the offensive and started
pasting his missus, whereupon Spragg
hopped in. The fervor with which the
lady had torn into her lord to relieve her
offspring was as nothing to the fury with
which she now clawed at Spragg; and as
Spragg overbalanced and hit the ground
he was fallen upon by the boy, who joy-
fully proceeded to sink an excellent set of
teeth into the nearest portion of his
anatomy. Then paterfamilias recovered
and started booting the boy, and the
woman turned once more on the father.
Spragg eventually managed to escape
with half a shirt and one leg of his pants
intact. He has vowed for the future to
leave triangular domestic stoushes strictly
to themselves, unless he lobs among a
community of dwarfs.
♦ H* * Hr
“Betcha”: Was riding the short cut
through Dobbie’s lower paddock when I
came on the old coot standing beside the
carcass of a big Hereford bull and laugh-
ing like mad. “Look at him,” he roared
heartily. “That’s the second I’ve lorst
this week, t’ say nothirp of a coupla
steers.” I stared at the dead bull and back
at Dobbie. “A bloke can’t make more’n
a bare living at this game nowadays,” he
went on, “no matter what he does.”
“N-no,” I murmured uneasily; “but I
daresay you’ll replace ’em all right.”
“That’s just it,” he burst out afresh,
banging his kqee. “It’ll cost me close on
a hundred quid t’ replace them bulls.
Can’t get ’em round here, so it’ll mean
travelling exes, an’ wages f’r a bloke t’
look after the place while I’m away, ’n’
everythin’.” He went into another
paroxysm. “They put it all over me
most o’ the time, but, cripes! I enjoy the
joke when them blokes get stung. Half
the year,” he explained, weakly holding
his sides, “I sweat f’r the money they take
off me; but there” —giving the carcass a
parting kick —“there’s another one old
Treasurer Chif. won’t get.”
* * ♦ ‘ ♦
“Tartan”; Jim the fencer had collected
his cheque from the station after six
months’ solid toil, and proceeded to the
nearest bush pub with a burning thirst.
He passed his cheque over to Bung and
led off by having a few pots in quick
succession. Then, still reasonably sober,
he wandered into the pub yard. It was
when aerial barnstorming was popular
and a pilot was taking passengers for a
’plane ride at £2 for ten minutes. Jim
was ripe for new adventure, so he ducked
back into the bar and demanded “two
quid out of me money.” Bung stared
back and asked him what he wanted it
for. Jim told him. “What!” snorted
Bung. “Don’t be such a damned fool!
Your cash won’t last y’ any time if y’
waste it on silly things like that!”
* « * *
“T.C.”: That expert bushman (and
crib player) “The 0.D.” has been wonder-
ing why the goanna stays put when the
kookas go in to the attack. Doesn’t he
know that the go. has no alternative? It
too has a soft underbelly, and while it
can, and does, weather a spasmodic attack
from a jackass or two even though it is
jolted round the trunk of the tree as much
as six inches at a time r any attempt to
turn and run for it is fatal. Not all dead
trees have hollow limbs. It is when the
tree is sound, the go. tough and the
kookas in force that comes slowly
to the reptile.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; “Herbert Dawsoh” (B.
24 /11 / ’43) is obviously a plains country
cattleman in thinking that cattle can’t
grow to maturity while still “cleanskins.”
He can be pardoned for not knowing that
in the Cox’s River depression beneath the
Kanangra Walls in N.S.W. mountain
country there were cattle running wild
within those natural bastions of 3000-odd
feet sheer cliffs and precipices. In that
run of Nature’s own fashioning Mick
Maxwell ran his surplus stock, and
periodical expeditions were made to
brand those which could be mustered
while tucker and time permitted. Many
young bulls (I use the term advisedly
this time, instead of the despised “steer”
which so irritates “H.D.’s” cattleman sus-
ceptibilities) and heifers escaped the
round-up and were often gathered in on
subsequent expeditions when a mob was
brought in for sale or for killing. The
men who rode out after them were
superb riders whose bushcraft was learnt
within 100 miles of Sydney and not far
from those contemptible Nepean areas
of “H.D.’s” reference —but not on the
dairy farms.
He * * * .
“Mat’s Mate”; Rolling happily along
Prince’s Pier, Port Melbourne, Mat was
accosted by a leery-looking individual
who said “Hullo, matey, just finished a
cruise?” Mat blinked at him. “Too
bloomin’ right,” he said. “Cashed up, eh,
matey?” went on the other. “Lookin’
for a bit o’ fun, eh? Among the girls,
what? I bet you’re a goer, matey, what-
ho! Well, you come with me, I know
me way abart here. I’ll show you some-
thin’.” Mat blinked •at him again.
“Listen,” he murmured. “The cruise I
just finished was from up above Quam-
batook, in the hay country. You’ll show
me somethin’, will y’? Well, let me show
you somethin’.” And he rucked the right
sleeve of his coat and showed the leery
one a fist like a ham. Whereupon Mat
found himself alone.
* * H= *
“Lower Tops’!”: Like the cen-
tury-ago tonguers mentioned by
“Colonial Cove,” Black Louis and
his offsider (B. 20/10/’43) had a
sideline also. It was fishing for
deepwater trumpeter, the finest of
all Australian fish, in 20 fathoms
off The Pyramids and elsewhere
.about Port Davey’s storm-lashed
entrance. Catches, which were
retained alive in a well, could be
made only in good weather, so
the two, being old whalemen, kept
a weather eye lifting for the last
of the Tassie whaleships which
cruised off near-by South-west
Cape, where the sperm whale, on
his annual migration route from
east to west, dawdled feeding on
squid. These whaleships almost
invariably towed their catches to
the bold, awe-inspiring, mountain-
surrounded southern arm of Port
Davey, known as Bathurst Har-
bor and often described as Aus-
tralia’s only *fiord. And there at
Sarah Island, the favored haunt
of the tonguers, the thump of
their hammers as they headed up
casks of oil once reverberated through
the near-by grey-quartz slopes of tower-
ing Mt, Misery on the islet. Some years
ago I saw the rusted iron trying-out pots
-—the blubber-scavengers’ tools of trade,
* * * *
“D.A.”; That yarn about the head-
less snake remaining alive till sun-
down had its genesis in that old
bit of hoodoo that the worst of
the poison in snakebite lets up after
sundown, when it is safe to let the bitten
man sleep. In the old days I have seen
them walking a snakebite victim up and
down a verandah for hours on end. What
those poor devils suffered through fear
of death plus reeling heads and tottering
limbs can be imagined, and all for
nothing.
“Quick, Albert —lend us your comb!”
“M.U.R.”: A hot, drowsy Sunday
afternoon on the station. Doll, the old
cart mare, had found that it was cool in
the laundry, so she stood with her head
and shoulders inside the door, lazily
switching her tail and dopping with her
~ . % . „ +l f Q r. c
hps at a fly or two. Boozer, the Queens-
land heeler, came idly along, stopped,
nipped in with his inimitable, silent, side-
long rush and chopped her heels. He
dropped as she lashed out, then up and
chopped her again. Doll plunged
ahead, there was a crashing and a
smashing of tubs, tips and boxes
inside that laundry, a burst of pro-
fanity from the homestead, a clamor
from the assorted dogs about the place
and the boss burst forth, armed with a
shotgun. By this time Doll had some-
how turned round, realised that she
was where she shouldn’t have been and
poked an inquiring equine face through
the laundry door as the boss charged
towards it. He stopped in his tracks,
stared at that face and backed away.
“Strike me up a ruddy gum-tree,” he
roared, “the flamin’ old thing must think
she owns the place. Get her out, boys,
get her out!” It took all hands to per-
suade her to leave through the narrow
doorway and by the time it was done the
hot, drowsy Sunday afternoon had be-
come a hellish era of sweating, panting,
profane men. And that heeler lolled
calmly under the tank-stand and grinned.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Gourmands of Australia’s
arid interior eat and eat till the
skin of the stomach is too distended to
hold more. They then sit in front of a
fire and rub goanna fat on their bingies
till relief ensues. However, the sight of
more meat provided by allotted hunters
stimulates them to fresh efforts and
excesses till, gorged to repletion, they are
helpless in distended agony. A hole is
then hurriedly scooped out and the glut-
ton placed therein on his back. Hot earth
or sand is then spread on his belly, and
partially stuffed bucks take turns in doing
a two-step on the equatorial protuberance
until gratified grunts proclaim the success
of the hoof massage. The stowage capa-
city of these boongs, developed by the
exigencies of their environment, enables
them to tide over a long period of famine
till the next gorge arrives.
* * * *
“Wester”: Joe Blake, sft. 6in. long,
sinuous and brown, awoke from a nap
in the cool shade among the roots of an
old river gum on the eroded river bank.
He fixed his beady eyes on two creatures,
large and noisy, who had come to the
patch of grass beside his resting place.
They were close together and every now
and then their heads touched and Joe
heard a smacking noise. Mistakenly, he
took this to be a menace to his own
peace, so gathered himself together and
rushed forth. He heard a shriek, saw a
confused picture of moving bodies and
whirled himself into a deeper, darker
hole down the bank. From there he saw
one of the creatures floundering in the
water while the other pulled it out, then
watched them go disconsolately away,
muttering at each other. And Joe may
or may not have grinned.
# * * *
“Sycamorus”; The young lad from the
adjoining property was skiting about his
knowledge of the divining rod, -Old
Rager took it for a while, then spilled
some real bush Tore. “I’ve been using
the divining rod for over 60 years,” he
said, “not for finding water for stock but
for advising people where to build then
homes. People sometimes build a house
over a running stream and they get
everything from rheumatics to constant
colds. A tree with mistletoe on it is sure
, 0 fee growing Qver a s(ream j knew a
man wko j lac j g o jt re ; j used the rod and
found he was living over water. He
m oved and got all right. Even houses
which are built on the top of a hill are
not always high and dry. The rod has
divined water beneath them.” The old
chap was dead serious, too.
THE SAILOR.
My love he was a sailor lad,
He sailed the Indies seas,
Gull-grey his eyes, a laugh he had
As fresh as a salt breeze.
An orchid all a-mottle
From his first journeying,
A ship in a bottle
And a pierced silver ring
He brought to me as token. Oh, merrily to sing,
The ship in a bottle and the pierced silver ring!
He told me tales of blue lagoons,
Bright bird and bamboo tree
That murmured to the low-hung moons
Soft plaints unceasingly.
“Whatever else betide,” he said,
“Alter next journeying,
A cottage on the hillside
And a gold wedding ring
I’ll give to you as token.” Oh, dreamfully to
sing,
A home on the hillside and the gold wedding
ring!
My ,love he was a sailor lad
(No braver men than these),
Not ’mid soft waves, where chance he had,
But in the cold north seas
The sly torpedo struck him,
And in their cruel grip
The floating icebergs ground
The planks of his strong ship.
This grey mom for a token (how heavily they
swing)
The church belts’ strokes, like lead, for the
Requiem ring!
N.S.W.
NORA KELLY.


but civilian requirements ol
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used
types are available, but if the particular
valve you want is not obtainable, con-
sult your Radiotron dealer regarding
an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREJ3,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUICKond DEADLY
with
CVanogaS
- KILL THOSE RABBITS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No
and safely destroys rabbits and all
waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Scrub Bulls.
“Beefo”: It would benefit Australian
beef if it was compulsory to register all
bulls, the bulls to be up to a certain
standard. There are plenty of studs in
Australia breeding high-quality bulls, yet
there are cattlemen who will keep as
future sires bull calves that “look all
right” at branding time. The dams may
be known, but there’s no knowing for
certain whether the sires were scrubbers
missed at previous brandings. This bad
practice invariably brings about a run-out
herd. It takes years to out-breed the bad
influence of a scrubber on the herd.
In every herd fresh blood must be
introduced from time to time. This is
impossible whilst home-bred bulls are
used as sires. Culling of breeders goes
for naught unless top-line sires of un-
doubted breeding are used and every
scrub bull given a bullet. In unfenced
country the big “mickey” is always a
problem, and often one that has evaded
the branding yard for a couple of musters
will have sired heifer calves that later on
show their inferiority and throw stock of
their own poor type unless culled out.
If Australian beef is to take its place
alongside Argentine at the Smithfield
market cattlemen breeding store bullocks
for fattening will have to keep an eye on
their sires. No price stops Argentine
breeders from buying the sires they need,
and Australia will have to work on
similar lines if its beef is to sell abroad.
No matter how severe the culling, it’s
wasted while scrub bulls are kept in the
herd.
Pasturing Pigs.
“Sarina”: In their wild state pigs are
wandering animals living on grasses and
roots, bathing in streams or resting in
cool places. That is why pastured pigs
are far more healthy and active than sty
pigs. I don’t say that pasturing will put
a lot of condition on pigs. It won’t, be-
cause there isn’t the nutriment in grasses
and roots that there is in grains, grain
products, milk, etc., but pasturing will put
the average pig’s system in a condition to
derive the maximum benefits from his
tucker when placed in the fattening pen.
For this reason every farmer who keeps
pigS should provide pastures for them.
Strong-growing grasses like couch and
paspalum are very nutritious and can
stand up to a lot of grazing and rooting
in rich, moist land. Pigs will sometimes
eradicate native and imported weedsjrom
cultivation paddocks, at the same time
manuring the paddocks. If a cultivation
infested with nut grass is ploughed
lightly, and pigs are let in they will eat
the nuts or bulbs and wipe out the nut
grass.
Sweet potatoes and Jerusalem arti-
chokes are good root crops for pigs,
which will harvest them cleanly and pre-
vent them infesting good land.
Best possible pig pastures are lucerne
and Kikuyu grass, the latter for the
tropical and sub-tropical coast of Queens-
land. Both like deep, light soils which
give scope for their strong root systems,
and they’re drought resistant. Only thing
likely to knock them out is too early
grazing ; they must be given time to con-
solidate.
An electric fence will hold pigs on any
area. Provide movable shelters and light
troughs for feeding ; extra food must be
given to pastured pigs, especially young
pigs and pregnant sows. A few shade
trees and a shallow waterhole with a
sandy bottom are of immense value.
Pasture Trials.
“R. Ney”; The C.S.I.R. has been
looking into grass problems in three
States for the Australian Wool Board.
At Walebing (W.A.), which has a 17£in.
“If she don't come out within the next 'arf hour y' better go in for 'er."
rainfall, early sub. clover was mixed with
Wimmera rye, with perennial veldt grass
and with Phalaris tuberosa in three
stands on a pasture paddock which was
fallowed. All three stands were estab-
lished, and in November last year they
cut 26cwt., 15cwt. and 9cwt. of hay per
acre respectively. At Avondale experi-
ment farm it was shown that late sowing,
with oats as a cover crop, beat the spread
of capeweed, but both the late sowing
and the oats almost beat the pasture
grasses. •
In Queensland, where it had been
generally believed that heavy rain went well
down into the black-soil country and that
deep-rooted perennials could reach the
stored moisture, it was shown that the
water from more than eight inches of
rain went down no more than three feet
and that Mitchell grass doesn’t benefit
from deep moisture.
On Mitchell grass a sheep to 3-l\ acres
was all right, but a sheep to 2\ acres
was too much. There was little difference
in the effect on the grass between a six-
months’-grazing, six-months’-rest rotation
and continuous grazing.
But there was an important difference
between the three rates of stocking on
the liveweight of the sheep. At a sheep
to acres‘the liveweight was highest,
at one to five acres it was slightly, but
significantly, lower, and at one to 2\
acres the weight was markedly lighter
over the two years of the test. In the
two shearings the same result came from
the wool cuts, the difference between the
light and heavy grazing ranging from lib.
to 21b., but there was no difference in
wool quality.
In N.S.W. trials with lucerne under
irrigation at Griffith showed that it gave
consistently better yields than a mixture
of perennial rye, cocksfoot and white
clover, and that temperature affected
lucerne yields much more than heavier
waterings. On these irrigation areas, it
was easier to establish the Wimmera rye-
sub. clover mixture than the P. tuberosa-
sub. clover one.
Beating St. John’s Wort.
“Mannus Murph.”: It looks as though
the C.S.I.R. has found an insect to do
to the wort what Cactoblastis did to
prickly pear. Chrysolina hyperici, a leaf-
eater, has spread along the Ovens Valley
and German Creek (Vic.) and is rapidly
cleaning out the wort there.
The C.S.I.R. turned five species of
insect, all imported from England, loose,
but on first sight they apparently failed
to survive. The climate was blamed and,
since southern France had a similar cli-
mate, Chrysolina gemellata, a leaf-eater,
and Agrilus hyperici, a root-borer, were
got from there and liberated in 1939
near Mudgee (N.S.W.) and Bright (Vic.).
Both are multiplying, but have not had
time to have any marked effect on St.
John’s wort.
Meantime, Chrysolina hyperici, turned
loose near Bright in 1934, suddenly
bobbed up in large numbers for eight
miles along the Ovens Valley. Dense
colonies are wiping out the wort; small
areas are already clear and in a pad-
dock which had been thickly infested
complete control was gained in two years.
The three bugs look like settling the
wort’s hash, a promise that should raise
cheers in parts of Victoria and particu-
larly around this Tumbarumba (N.S.W.)
district, where the yellow-flowered pest
has been an eyesore for years.
Spinifex Feed.
“Sheepo”: Touching on the investiga-
tions that were carried out by the W.A.
University into the grazing possibilities
of spinifex (B. 10/11/’43) it is surpris-
ing that the seeds have been neglected.
There must be food value for stock m
spinifex seeds. I’ve seen sheep apparently
existing on the seeds alone during
drought and have had experience of
their worth with horses.
When floods held up the camel team
carrying feed for three horses we’d been
training for a race meeting outback we
resorted to the only tucker available,
half-green Mitchell grass in lieu of chaff
and spinifex seeds as oats and com. The
prads won five races out of six starts at
the two-day meeting against horses that
had been on the best for weeks. _As a
commercial proposition the gathering of
spinifex seeds presents difficulties, but
with a few lubras available —as we had—
it’s worth while to have a few bags «f
the seeds collected and stored away for
working horses during a lean time.
A Lease-lend Machine.
“H.S.T.”: Meet the Meeker harrow,
supplied on lease-lend to help Australia
grow vegetables in a big way. It’s for
making a fine seedbed for small seeds.
Four rows of 9in. flat discs are
mounted in a wooden frame, 6ft. by sft.
6in. At the fore end of the frame are
two rows of nine and ten discs respec-
tively, eight inches between the axles on
which the discs are mounted, six inches
between the individual discs. Midway
in the frame is a grading board at an
angle of 45deg. which smooths and
levels the soil surface. The rear rows of
discs, again eight inches apart, number
20 and 19, spacing between discs being
That’s all.
Run over the land as a final prepara-
tion before sowing carrots, beetroot,
silver beet, onions, etc., it leaves the fine
tilth you expect to get in the backyard
garden with the help of a garden rake.
It should be just the implement to en-
sure a good strike when sowing lucerne.
Arrangements are in hand to build these
harrows in Australia from the American
pattern.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.A.M.”: What about giving elephant
grass a trial? It grows in the dry regions
of Rhodesia when no other vestige of
green is to be seen, makes an excellent
fodder and can be grazed in rotation ; fed
right down, it is ready for the stock again
in three weeks’ time. It is also grown in
Canada.
“L.C.”: Embrocation won’t heal
saddle sores. Clip the hair and apply a
blister. Mix one part biniodide of mer-
cury, four parts lanoline and four parts
lard; rub in for 10 to 15 minutes. If
a second blister’s needed don’t apply till
the effects of the first have worn off.
“L.C.”: When cannibalism and feather-
picking break out among the poultry, try
salt. If the diet’s an all-mash one, sprinkle
a thin layer on top —just enough to be
seen. If both mash and grain are fed,
double the amount.
“B-gar”: When a horse is hard to
catch place the off-side hobble strap on
as usual and run the bare hobble chain
round the near leg, buckling the strap
to that on the off leg. At first the prad
may make an effort to get away, but he’ll
soon feel the chain “biting” and will
stand and permit himself to be bridled.
I’ve never known the method to fail.
“Agro”: Make the crow trap sft.
square and 4ft. high. Cover sides and
top with wire-netting. On the top make
a hole about 7iii. round. Immediately
below this on the ground inside the cage
place an egg. The egg will lure the
crow through the opening at the top, and
it won’t get back. Put a small log on top
for crows to land on. Fix a door to the
side of the cage to remove birds. The
trap should be in a secluded spot.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ™nks hav~
taken the Pelman
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmdnists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —34th April, ’43: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER —22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.
CLERK —Ith April, ’43: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —11th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and nty aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER—Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupi to ge
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Peltnan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
157
V-
m
<$>
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • .
Always smooth
KIW
i
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years* Reputation for Quality
##
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 8
The Moscow Agreement.
(“ Wall-street Journal” comment .)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
About the truest characterisation of the
results of the Moscow conference is to
say that if Messrs. Hull, Eden and Molo-
tov had reached no agreements the con-
ference would have been a disaster for
the United Nations. Figuratively speak-
ing, the conferees succeeded in building
a bridge over a wide and turbulent river.
Nobody knows whether the bridge will
prove strong enough to bear up under
all the loads of conflicting national aspira-
tions that must attempt the passage.
The structure of amicable consultation
created by the Moscow declaration seems
to have the required strength. For say-
ing no more than that about it this news-
paper will doubtless be accused of per-
verse sourness and lack of understand-
ing, in the midst of a world-wide jubi-
lation that condemns our caution. But
this all but universal acclaim of the suc-
cess of the conference is, in some part at
least, an emotional reaction from the
widespread fears which prevailed at its
beginning.
Beyond all question it is a victory for
civilisation ; it may well prove to have
been a turning point in man’s age-old
struggle up from savagery. We need not
forget, however, that civilisation needs to
win not one victory but a whole series
of campaigns, both military and diplo-
matic. In both fields there is still a great
deal to be done.
Spring Hopes.
(From "United States News.”)
Spring, 1944, is the most widely-
accepted surrender date in the German
war. That is the estimate of the best
informed, the composite of official judg-
ment. It could come much sooner. It
might be delayed until summer or
autumn. But spring is the time most
mentioned.
That’s when full-scale invasion is very
probably to be under way. It will fol-
low a winter of intense suffering in
Germany or bomb blasting such as the
world never before has witnessed.
Hitler’s armies will stand defeated, his
air force destroyed, his submarines largely
driven from the seas. Many German
cities will be ruined, industries will be
weakened. Germany will feel very much
alone as satellites give up. The idea is
that not even Hitler’s tight dictatorship
can stand in the face c ' those conditions.
It is expected that Hitler will be done
away with.
Then surrender would follow. It is
doubted that Hitler himself ever would
surrender. He’s top fanatical, too
personally determined not to permit
another 1918. He isn’t making any real
peace overtures at this time. He may
never make them. That is to be the task
of those who follow Hitler.
Pilot Tells of Raick.
(From a letter home written by an R.A.F.
pilot, Flying-Officer Sam Glasgow.)
This is a great life, but it will certainly
be swell when it is all over; oh, I hope
it doesn’t last too much longer. But we
must stay till it is truly over. Fifty-five
aircraft missing the other night., That’s
a lot. of fellows ; close to five hundred,
plus terribly expensive bombers, but it
must be worth it, I trust so.
You know, this air warfare is a crazy,
strange game. It’s mighty interesting, but
damn hard on the nerves. Ninety per
cent, is luck and 10 per cent, skill. I
mean night bombing. You are with fel-
lows at 8 p.m. and then at 4 or 5 a.m.
they just aren ? t around. I always wonder
why I wasn’t around. Al has always
said the same thing. You will remember
he is my skipper. By the way, he wants
me to tell you that he accepts your in-
vitation and will be over after the war.
You would love him. He is a grand
fellow, one of the best. We still have
five of our crew together.
[Note. —“Al” was killed in June.]
You mentioned the drinking. This, of
course, is one of the big problems in war-
time, and with any group of fighting men.
Personally, I stick to beer and have found
the English war-time beer better than
most of the water. It is not an easy thing
to discuss wisely, because so many things
enter into it. There is always the ques-
tion of sleep. I know some fellows that
just cannot go to sleep without some
help; then they don’t have the wild,
crazy dreams. There is the problem of
keeping up your nerve, which is abso-
lutely essential. One becomes hardened
to certain things, but it is mighty hard
to keep from thinking about some of
the awful things we have seep, and many
drink to keep from thinking.
Every now and then I begin to think
about the fellows I have met during these
three years. These fellows it has been
my privilege to have as friends, the best
that God ever made. Most of them
have gone west. I only wish that their
loved ones could have known them as 1
did • how proud they would be.
People who do not know may think
it is great sport to go on night Ops in
a heavy bomber. All I can say is that
they should try it some time. It’s the
loneliest* feeling there is. You feel as if
you are the only kite flying and just you
and vour crew way up in the never-never
land Y You may fly for an hour and the
only sound is the low roar of the motors,
You soon learn when to speak and when
Pvprv nnp nf the crew, if they ve
been together, can sense if something is
wrong—no one has to say a word. Then
from out of nowhere all hell seems to
brel loose and fingers of light claw
after you and you twist and turn, watch-
ing the flaks on the ground and telling
the skipper where the flak is going ; then
it mav die down as you get back on
and a strange relief
come over the crew; relief but no relaxing,
We go on and our target is reached
and bombed, then back across Hunland
through more searchlights and flak and
night-fighter belts. You may see a k.te
blow up not far away and you get a dry
salty taste m your mouth wondering, as
you see one of your own coned m search-
lights and getting pounded by flak,
Then out over the sea, and hour
or so the English coast, and you than
God that while
country its home and friend; are th .
Well soon be warm and ha
coffee with rum in it and a bed a nd so
sleep I. hope they all got back You
ask the fame> andi it■ b 430 base —a o od
mg. One hour ana men to case 0
show, but got the
England floats by u Jnd’woods
lovely English fields and lakes an •
The; little farm. cottages.nM
cool, clean morning mist. Hying
city and many P eo P le at rbin all
there ; they, too hav \°een wodi g
night making ’planes and bombers, etc.
They have ?omethmg m common wr*
us, those night workers. At i y


1
JOBS
A
'J
mLKt£~TAIKJ£ SOS
Viose amaztnq duptexshort-wave portables, carried
on sotdiers' backs in actuat combat—are kepi in
action by fonq-iastinq Eveready batteries' A
YOU CAN HELP US IN
OUR WAR JOB!
Go easy on your flashlight batteries so
we keep our Fighting Boys supplied.
The best way to make your flashlight
batteries last longer is to keep flashing
on and off when you use them. If you
leave your flashlight burning for minutes
at a time you wear out your batteries
sooner.
EVE READY
4TBADC.-MARK
The extra long life battery
GOING PLACES!
How about
YOU?
}j
\
>
The gallant airmen of the R.A.A.F., flying the
world’s finest aircraft, are "going places”. More
and mote young men are requited to train as AIR-
CREW. How about YOU? Whatever your present
occupation, reserved or otherwise, make application
to join the R.A.A.F, . . .
For training as Pilots, Navigators, Wire-
less Operator-Air Gunners, age limits
18-32 years.
JOIN THE
WRAAF
AIR CREW
Apply personally or by letter to your
nearest R.A.A.F. Recruiting Centre or
local R.A.A.F. Committee.
RAAFS-26
land and go to the interrogation room,
then have a meal, then off to bed.
You return again, and then, because
you are one of the lucky, one day they
tell your crew that they are screened for
a rest, and it’s all over for a few months.
We are glad, but sad at the same time.
That is about all there is to it.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Our editors constantly warn us and we con-
stantly warn ourselves that Washington corre-
spondents should not go out on a limb. It is
a good rule, particularly if broken occasionally.
I see a limb and I can’t resist climbing out
on it. For better or for worse, I ask that no
net be put underneath. That limb is that the
great national debate whether the United States
will enter the peace wholeheartedly and, per-
mitting the phrase, whole-hog—a debate which
has not really begun—is all. over, and the de-
cision already in. The decision is: YES —fully,
faithfully, decisively. That’s ray limb, and if I
can’t hang on to it I’m willing to hang from it.
—Roscoe Drummond; “Christian Science
Monitor” ■Washington correspondent.
* # * *
“You can take my word for it, the gallant
fight of the Fifth and Eighth Armies in Italy is
a small engagement compared to the gigantic ex-
pedition which will one day, and we hope not
too many months hence, be set against conti-
nental Europe, an expedition made up of air-
planes, bombers, fighters, ships, tanks, guns
and men —thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands
of them —streaming on to the continent.” — U.S.
General Arnold.
* * H= *
“Earl Browder [U.S. Communist leader] has
been wrong all his life. He was wrong when
he _ refused to serve this country, which he
claimed was his, in 1917, when he was con-
victed as a draft dodger. He was wrong when
he perjured himself to get a passport to Russia.
He’s probably wrong now” [in predicting that
Russia will never permit use of bases for air
attacks on Japan].— Warren H. Atherton, new
commander of the American Legion.
* 4= * *
The air assault on Europe before long will
be in a final pre-invasion stage. The big war
push is not far away, not many months in the
future. This will be the real thing, the drive
to wind up the European phase of the war. It
is likely to be costly. It must start as a giant
amphibious operation. Its initial drive will in-
volve far more than the 75,000 men and 2000
boats that invaded North Africa, or the 175,000
men and 3000 boats that invaded Sicily. U.S.
is to contribute to this second front': —(1)
Leadership: U.S. General Marshall will com-
mand European operations. (2) Man-power:
A large proportion of invasion troops; also
air forces in action that rival or surpass the
British. (3) Materials: The vast accumulation
of war materials now piling up will then see
use; will be poured out lavishly to bring an
end to the war. It must be realised that U.S.
is facing its first big war losses since the Civil
War; that operations will be on a scale greater
than in U.S. history.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
In 1942 Congress appropriated $21,000,000
for the single item of aerial cameras for the
Navy and Marine Corps alone. At the be-
ginning of the war these little gadgets cost $4lOO
each, but production has brought the price
down to $2700. General Arnold, of the U.S.
air force, says you can count the ties of a rail-
road track in pictures shot by one of these
telescope-lens cameras from a ’plane flying 300
miles an hour at 35,000 feet altitude—or over
six miles in the air.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune•”
supplement.
* * % *
If you look closely at the service ribbons and
decorations worn by some of our U.S. high
ranking officers—including Chief of Staff Gen.
Marshall —you will note that something new has
just been added. What’s happened is this:
When Germany and Italy declared war on us
after Pearl Harbor, off came the Italian decora-
tions awarded in World War I. When Italy
surrendered to Gen. Eisenhower and took herself
out of the war, the Italian ribbons went back
on. — Washington columnist John O’Donnell.
* * * *
Germany proper is to receive this winter a
greater weight of American bombs than has
been dropped all summer on western Europe,
including Germany, by American ’planes.—
London correspondent, N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Fifty-eight per cent, of the voters questioned
in a Gallup poll say they believe the U.S.A.’s
greatest problem in the next Presidential term
—1945 through 1948—will be jobs. Only 13
per cent, gave first place to the problem of
drawing up a lasting peace.— N.Y. “World-
Telegram:”
* * * *
“I already have told the British and Ameri-
cans my army is ready and will begin to fight
when the first Allied division lands in Yugo-
slavia. What we are going to do then will
completely put in the shade the efforts of the
Partisans [led by Gen. Josip Broz, known as
“Tito”] because it will not be an improvised
Partisan war but' a battle by a well organised
and 'equipped regular army to liberate the
country.”— Gen. Mihailovich.
* * * *
For a quarter of a century we have witnessed
a campaign for the extermination of God in
Soviet Russia —a campaign that has met with
the usual impediment of bootlegged worship in
barns and caves among those who loved God
more than they feared Stalin. Suddenly, in
the midst of this war, of an association with
Great Britain and America, of lease-lend and
the need for favorable public opinion, the Pat-
riarch of Moscow is seated upon the throne of
the religious and is permitted to chant “The
Lord have mercy upon us!” But that is not
religious freedom. It is a recognition that after
a quarter of a century of godlesSness in Russia
God still lives in the Russian heart. It also
recognises that the godlessness of Russia has
antagonised more Americans and Britishers than
the economics of Communism. Again, in all
that has been written about religion in Soviet
Russia, nothing has been said about the open-
ing of religious schools, seminaries, convents,
talmud torahs and yeshivas. These are more
essential than the churches and cathedrals. As
it is today, only old people in Russia have
had the benefits of religious education. Youth
has gone the way of Bezbozniki, the godless.
God has been an opiate for the masses, not
the comfort and hope and saviour of the indi-
vidual. Even those who mystically crave the
mercy of the Deity have had no opportunity to
read and study.— George E. Sokolsky; N.Y.
“Sun.”
* * * *
Even if the President wished to retire the
decision is virtually out of his hands. The
vast array of his camp followers, knowing
that they are out on their collective ears when
the President goes either by defeat or retire-
ment, are capable of generating an enormous
pressure.— Charles Hurd; “American Mercury.”
* * * *
The great expansion of American shipping
all over the world which has resulted from the
war will be continued after the war, whether
or not other nations want to “co-operate,”
Rear-Admiral Howard L. Vickery, vice-chair-
man of the Maritime Commission, said in his
first press conference since returning from
Great Britain. Admiral Vickery said he had
told the British shipping operators “that we
[Americans] have become a maritime nation
and we intend to stay one—that we could do
it by co-operation and if they didn’t intend
to co-operate we would be one, anyhow.”—
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * # *
The weaknesses of limited military alliances
have often been demonstrated, but the only
alternative is a real system of collective security,
with teeth, with concrete responsibilities, backed
by the determined will of the peoples involved.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune,” replying to criticism
of a proposed post-war U.S.-British military
alliance.
* * . * *
Regarding atrocities committed by the Nazis
in invaded or occupied territory—“massacres
and cold - blooded executions” Messrs.
Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin issued a separate
joint statement. The guilty persons, says this
document, will be sent back after their uncon-
ditional surrender to the scenes of their crimes
for trial and punishment. Such guilty persons
include German officers and soldiers and Nazi
party members who have been responsible for
or “have taken a consenting part” in these
crimes—a pretty broad definition. This threat
is far different from President Wilson’s Four-
teen Points proclamation which helped under-
mine the Kaiser’s Government and end World
War No. 1. Wilson held out hopes of leniency
to influential Germans who would help throw
out the Kaiser. It remains to be seen whether
this Churchill-Roosevelt-Stalin threat will en-
courage the Nazis and most of the German
soldiers to fight to the bitter end, on the theory
that surrender will only bring them to criminal
trials at the hands of the people they have out-
raged.—N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
The American people might be shocked to
find out how many of them would be hit in
their pocketbooks by peace. It is not too much
to say that a majority have profited financially
by the war. Many have had to work harder,
many have had higher living costs without in-
creased incomes. But, for America w .
war-time has been a boom-time. —‘ Christian
Science Monitor.”
% % % *
A military-political observer, just back from
overseas, claims we could pulverise Germany
inside of six weeks if Russia would give us
air bases, which she won’t. — N.Y. ‘ Daily
News.”
* Jjc * *
Reports from Moscow say diplomats found
that Stalin took the same stand on the Baltic
States at Moscow as in the past —that they
were no more up for discussion than is the re-
turn of Texas to Mexico. The Baltics, in the
Soviet view, were carved out of the old Russian
Empire when she was helpless in the last war,
and were constructed by British imperialists to
shut Leningrad from the sea. Stalin made clear
he* would not allow foreign States along the
Gulf of Finland. As reported here in 1942,
Molotov got an agreement from the British
for return of the Baltics and one-half of Poland
to Russia. But the U.S. objected. Diplomats
conclude that Hull withdrew that objection, fell
back on our declaration at Riga of April 6,
1922, when the Baltic States were first recog-
nised. “It is entirely possible or even probable
that sometime in the indefinite future these
so-called States may once again become an in-
tegral part of Russia.” — Drew Pearson; N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Unfortunately, very little attention was given
[at the Moscow conference] to the war against
Japan. Russia still stands apart from it. Care-
ful consideration was given to the treatment to
be accorded the Germans who are responsible
for atrocities in Europe, but nothing was said
about the brutalities of the Japanese, which
surely have been far more revolting. Americans
would prefer not to believe that the war in the
Pacific is to be borne by them alone, but it
must be said that our allies are giving us
precious little evidence that they mean to
shoulder their share of the burden. — Chicago
“Tribune.”
* * * *
Representative Allen, Republican, of Illinois,
polled 168 of the 206 Republican members of
the House and found overwhelming support
for Governor Dewey, of New York, for the
Presidential nomination. Governor Dewey re-
ceived 89 votes; General MacArthur 30,
Governor Bricker of Ohio 12, Senator Taft of
Ohio 10, Governor Warren of California six,
Wendell Willkie six, Governor Green of
Illinois three, Senator Vandenberg of Michigan
three, Governor Saltonstall of Massachusetts
three, Governor Stassen of Minnesota two,
Senator Brooks of Illinois one, with three
members undecided. — U.S. Associated Press.
* * * *
The Four-Power Declaration of Moscow, it
is now definitely learned, was written in the
U.S. State Department and adopted with only
slight changes in the text and none in the set
of principles. The drafting was the product of
months of discussion and composition by two
committees, which were merged last spring
and in June completed the document that
Secretary of State Hull took to Moscow
Washington cotrespondent N.Y. “Times.”


EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eijes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
NOTICES.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1943.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1944;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
Sciid Actt
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney. '
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1943, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1907-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1944; subject'
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney,
%
swno chviivw
no
'<Ji
*’9
»W/19 38 OS
r
m
m i
wno
WQNji
■
dO 1
mo
■P
.
IV 3MIHIS AVW
OFTEN CAUSES
TEETH TO LOOSEN
AND FALL OUT.
Don’t take chances with
tender gums that bleed a
little when you brush
your teeth.
This may be the first
warning sign of Pyor-
rhea.
If neglected—this dread infec-
tion often leads to soft, flabby
gums; vile pus that forms
around the teeth sockets —until
even strong and healthy teeth
loosen and fall out.
Save your teeth—
Guard your gums Now
with Forhan’s.
Porhan’s is the FIRST and
ORIGINAL toothpaste for both
massaging gums to be firmer
and cleaning teeth to their
natural brightness. Forhan’s,
too, helps remove acid film that
so often starts tooth decay.
Ask your Chemist for a tube of
Forhan’s Toothpaste to-day.
Only original Forhan’s Dentifrice con-
taining a special anti-pyorrhea astrin-
gent.
JL/sian Agents; The Sheldon Drug Co., Sydney. Price, 2/4. Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
Does BOTH Jobs . Cleans TeetfcSqvcs Gums
J
A
:
11
-4
m
mm
i
PKVtt'V'SS
W/AV
w*
SB
1
'E; \T.
m
ism
9&
■ :r
- 5=
m
m
m
ill
M
K
m
■
■
Hi
nsi
: W : *
■
H.X /
CRMCO
l '\ \\\V\ \W
STEEL packs a
Projectiles need a protective package . . . and CRMCO Steel
Sheets are fabricated into these boxes that carry cartridges
and shells from factory to firing point. There’s a potent punch
in every one of these packages ... a ton of trouble for the
enemy against whom these projectiles will be directed.
And in this, as for a score of equally vital purposes, CRMCO
Steel Sheets serve Australia’s war-time needs . . . just as they
will serve industry in the peaceful post-war years.
CRMCO STEEL SHEETS
df
/I $O/
bmmUWW€M44b
ROLLING MIUS PTY. LTD.
PORT KEMBLA, NEW SOUTH WALES
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Over the Range (Idriess), Grimm’s
Fairy Stories and Hans Andersen’s Fairy Stories.
To°buy Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman.
—3404.
Educated man (57), active, non-drinker, seeks
light work, office, shop, etc., part time or whole.
Refs.—3405,
Words of “Banjo” Patersons poem com-
mencing “ ’Twas the man from Eaglehawk who
got the cycling craze,” and words of old song
commencing “Footsore and worn, all spent
with heavy toil, Two tattered lads sat resting
on a stone,”—3406.
Information Sought.
(1) What is meant by the term “national
income”? (2) What is Australia’s national in-
come ? (3) What proportion of this is accounted
for by wool production?
(1) National income is the current money
value measured over a stated period of all
finished goods and services produced, less in-
direct taxes included in that money value, and
less the value of depreciation and maintenance.
(2) National income in 1942-43 was computed
to be £1,223,000,000. (3) Wool production
accounted for 6 p.c. of that amount.
Figures of U.K. coal imports and exports
from 1935 to last available statistics?
Year. Imports (c.ii.)'. Exports (f.0.b.).
1935 .. .. £20,000 £32,000,000*
1936 .. .. 32,119 29,299,239
1937 .. .. 23,790 37,653,529
1938 .. .. 14,739 37,406,306
1939 .. .. 18,760 38,258,793
1940 .. .. 34,000 f
* Approximate, f Provisional.
In an English paper recently it was reported
that a celebrated soprano — at' a concert—sang
the Shadow Song from Meyerbeer’s “tatter-
demalion” opera “Diporah. v Why tatter-
demalion ?
Can’t say, unless it is because this essay of
Meyerbeer’s in the French manner is the most
uneven of his operas, “a thing of shreds and
patches” in which there is hardly a trace of
unity, and in which genius continually jostles
elbows with mediocrity.
What are the sashes the King wears across
his uniform and what do they signify?
On appropriate occasions the King wears
across his uniform the broad ribbon of any one
of the Orders of Knighthood (each Order has
a ribbon of a different color). The wearing of
this ribbon by the King indicates that his
Majesty is Sovereign Head of such Order of
Knighthood.
Some biographical details of the poet Robert
James Crawford?
Eldest son of Robert Crawford, of Rooty
Hill; first' child of family of 12. Born at
Downside, N.S.W., in 1868. Ed. King’s School,
Parramatta, and graduated in Arts from Sydney
Uni. in 1912. Settled on a farm but had no
luck, so became a clerk and conducted a type-
writing business. Died at Lindfield on January
13, 1930. First publication, Lyric Moods;
Various Verses, Richardson, 1904. Was a fre-
quent contributor to The Bulletin.
(1) How to carve a leg of mutton ? (2)
Wfmt is a saddle of mutton?
(1) Place with small end to left of carver.
Cut several slices in thickest part, going down
to bone and detaching by slipping knife under-
neath. Continue by cutting slices alternately
from each side of cut. (2) Consists of whole
upper back portion, including both loins.
How to preserve tamarinds and dates?
Tamarinds: Pick when ripe and steep over-
night in cold salted water (a mild brine). Next
day drain, put into cold water, and simmer till
tender. Then put into syrup made by boiling
lib. sugar to each pint water. Soak till
clear, drain, roll in sugar and dry in sun.
Dates: Dry ripe fruit on trays and sun for some
weeks, bringing them in each night. S.A. or
Q’land Agricultural Department probably has
more details.
How to clean a smoky and greasy wall be-
fore painting?
Brush with hard broom, then wash down with
hot water and soda (one oup washing soda to
one gallon wafer), and finally with clear hot
water. Mop off liquid and paint when dry.
Who won the fight a few years ago between
Kui Kong Young and Max Richards? What
was the date, and was it their only contest?
Young outpointed Richards in 12 rounds at
Sydney Sports Arena on April 6, 1939. This
was their only contest.
Brief Aiiswers.
C.M.H.: (1) Second construction is better.
(2) “Joe Blake” is rhyming slang for snake
Alan: It is still illegal to use motor spirit for
launches G.R.: The arguments are quite
reasonable... .E.D.: You should approach
the Department of External Affairs
C.R.C.: Outback Occupations is available
in book form at Robertson and Mullens
(Melbourne) and Dymock’s (Sydney) for
3s. 6d Currawilla: (1) Alter the original
entry, (2) No mountain in Q’land is high
enough. (3) Try 24 Piccadilly-arcade, Sydney.
J.J.C.: What Bird Is That? (12s. 6d.) and
Old Eko’s Notebook (3s. 6d.) are available
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .McC.:
You are not entitled to wear 1914-18 ribbons
unless you embarked for service overseas
S.McL.: Five and two are seven is correct,
because the two figures constitute a plural
R.G.McF.: The order was held up owing to
postal delay R.A.S.: Leach’s Australian
Nature Studies, Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Plants, In-
sects and Fossils (12s. 6d.) is available at Angus
and Robertson’s, Sydney... .J.A.L.: The
Typist’s Treasury (4s. 3d.) is stocked by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney.


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
H. D. GIDDY, Chairman. Hon. Sir Frank G. CLARKE, M.L.C.,
Vice-Chairman. T. C. ALSTON. General Sir H. G. CHAUVEL,
G.C.M.G., K.C.B. H. G. DARLING, Sir JAMES A. M. ELDER, k.b.e.
D. YORK SYME.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1943
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital-
-300.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each ; £3,000,000 0 0
875.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each 7,000,000 0 0
£10.000,000 0 0
Issued Capital-
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each fully paid £2,000,000 0 0
600.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each, £5 paid .. 3,000,000 0 0
Paid Up Capital £5,000,000 0‘ 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) 3,300,000 0 0
Final Dividend Proposed 125,000 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 148,105 7 4
Total Shareholders’ Funds £8,573,105 7 4
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities,
including Provisions for Contingencies 66,Q84,039 15 10
Notes in Circulation 47,507 10 0
Balances Due to Other Banks 447,757 3 3
£75,152,409 16 5
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc.) £2,019,300 17 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £4,964,989 7 7
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 932,892 3 8
Balances With and Due from Other Banks 263,085 19 0
Money at Short Call—London 375,000 0 0
Treasury Bills—Australian Government 7,370,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills)
at or under market value—
i. Australian Government Securities 9,747,807 15 2
ii. Other Government Securities 1,451,158 14 0
iii. Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities’
Securities 326,650 0 0
Special Wartime Deposit Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. .. 2,689,477 710
. £43,267,061 7 3
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted, after deducting
provision for debts considered bad or doubtful .. 30,199,491 9 1
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites, at cost less
amounts written off 1,380,650 11 1
All Other Assets 305,206 9 0
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss figures
are stated in Australian Currency.)
£75,152.409 16 5
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £2,019,300 17 6
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on
the books at (he Head Office and with the certified returns from the
branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations we
have required and wc are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and
Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and of the results
of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by
the books of the Company.
Melbourne, 4th
S. J.
J. R.
November, 1943.
WARNOCK, F.C.A.(Aust.) 7
BISHOP, F.C.A.(Aust.) J
Auditors.
i
3 J
YEs:."'tkrf
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. J
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PJSBJK.INS. General Manager,
yOte
f iL att
e FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for Instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Ut
c§>.
T n 7
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Aust., Ltd.
• Parent’s Figures.
Net , Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1933.. 241.919 10 p.c. 4 p.c. = 243,626 —, 137,975
1934.-287,929 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 .. 107,229
1935.. 120.016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 183 10 „ 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 414.702 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.-417,650 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 61,054 333,119
1940.. 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 93,909 427,028
1941.-381,369 10 „ 7 „ „ 356.596 24,773 451,801
1942.. 768 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,282 94,486 546,287
1943,-386,293 10 „ 5 ~ „ 281,282 105,011 651,298
! Goodwill ( £354,377 in parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
Before the war tyres accounted for about
half the turnover, with rubber footwear
second on the list; defence contracts
amounted to no more than about 12 p.c.
of sales. Now “our mills no longer
manufacture for civilian requirements.
Anything we are selling comes out of
stock, which, by the way, is shrinking
visibly in both raw and fabricated lines,”
says chairman W. A. Watt. Such are the
changes in direction and nature of con-
sumption and production brought about
by Government controls and restrictions
in order to keep our fighting forces
armed, equipped, mobile, etc. Peace-time
production gave a war industry as big as
the people wanted it to be; direct con-
trols had to be invoked to make it as
large as it was required to be for war
purposes.
However, output of the half-dozen
factories—-three each in Melbourne and
Sydney—of this well-handled organisa-
tion continued to expand, thanks to the
management’s foresight in building up
large stocks of raw materials. When
Japan occupied Malaya and the East
Indies, about 90 p.c. of the world’s supply
of crude rubber was abruptly cut off;
and enough of the American synthetic
substitute is not yet being produced to
fill the gap. Also, the shipping position
has increased the difficulty and cost of
getting cotton from U.S.A., Egypt and
India. Zinc oxide, an activating agent,
is now produced locally, and so are the
tar distillates, used as softening ingredi-
ents. But sulphur, for vulcanising, and
carbon black, which increases tyre wear,
both come from U.S.A.
Despite the buoyancy of costs and
narrow margin on defence as against
civilian sales, net earnings advanced,
which suggests the increase in turnover
was substantial. Allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, and after making an
unspecified provision for taxation and
striking off £134,556 (up £7521) for de-
preciation, the parent’s own accounts
showed net earnings £10,525 better at
£386,293 —from trading £332,221 (up
£2282) and from investments £54,928. (up
£3423), together less £856 reserve move-
ment. Chief subsidiary is Barnet Glass,
paid capital £750,000; other interests in-
clude a holding in Bradford Cotton. The
£386,293 was enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rate (10 p.c. —£93,000)
and show 7.8 p.c. on the £3,765,655 of
ord. capital as against 7.5, 7.6, 9.5, 8.6
and 8.5 p.c. back to 1938. The div.,
from which a couple of points were
chipped in the previous term, was kept at
5 p.c. Actually the position was a little
better than the parent’s accounts indi-
cated. Combined figures for the entire
organisation show net earnings at
£390,951, up £20,024. That was after
allowing £142,546 (up £9492) for depre-
ciation and making whatever provision
was considered necessary for the tax-
gatherer.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures for
the organisation disclose a very healthy
financial position:-
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital— 1939. 1942. 1943.
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 222,379 27,328 25,951
Reserves! .. .. 692,281 901,959 1,010,045
Liabilities.. . . 290,564 1,149,679 279,547
Tax reserve .. 112,270 239,099 254,368
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,216,009 1,039,667 1,026,676
Plant, etc 1,054,565 804,447 748,062
Stocks .. .. 2,116,460 3,359,112 1,907,092
Debtors .. . . 916,925 939,513 884,656
Investments, etc... 6,265 207,865 222,865
Cash, etc.. .. 217,977 65,641 878,404
Rationalisation acc. 46,137
Goodwill .. . . 630,830 740,124 739,708
* Includes share undistributed profits. ! Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
Outstanding feature last term was the re-
duction of £1,452,020 in the stocks item.
This was accompanied by a contraction
of £870,132 in outside liabilities (the over-
draft of £779,045 at the previous balance
was wiped out) and a growth of £812,763
in the cash holding, etc. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£3,613,470) was £191,078. The
stock position suggests that civilian re-
quirements are likely to recede further
into the background. And it is difficult
to say when much relief in this connec-
tion might be expected ; when the conflict
in Europe ends, we will probably still be
at war with Japan. . .
The parent’s own finances show a simi-
larly strong position. Its cash holdings
total £620,000-odd, while debtors’ bal-
ances alone more than three times cover
the amount coming to outsiders. The
board expects®to finance the move from
Montague to Beaumaris without asking
shareholders for anything.
Just before the war advances in itiodern
production methods rhade reconstruction
of the Montague factory (Melbourne)
necessary. The most satisfactory solu-
tion was to move to a more suitable loca-
tion. So it was decided to transfer the
works from Montague to Beaumaris,
some 20 miles or so down the bay, where
land has been bought for the purpose and
a Dunlop industrial centre, including a
housing scheme, etc., for employees, is to
be established in accordance with latest
world developments. It is proposed to
go ahead with the scheme as soon after
the war as considered propitious. To
effect the transfer, which should benefit
both employees and shareholders, without
seriously interfering with production will
call for careful planning and time, prob-
ably several years.
Foy and Gibson (W.A.), Ltd.
f Dividends———
Year Net Pref. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary, serves. ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £12,319.. .. .. 12,319
1937..41,303 8,092 5i p.c. = 11,906 7
Interest payment vendor, £10,693 j
10,612 1,707
1938.-43,031 13,500 54 p.c. = 19,330 10,201 8,494
1939.. 40.001 13,500 5| „ „ 19,439 7,062 15,556
1940.. 40.621 13,500 54 „ „ 19,483 7,638 23,194
1941.. 34.951 13,500 5i ~ „ 19,484 1,967 25,161
A.R.P. expenses, £5691 .. .. .. 19,470
1942. 13,500 5i p.c. = 19,484 14,171 33,641
1943. 13,509 5i „ „ 19,484 10,181 43,822
To superannuation fund, etc., £2OOO .. 41,822
Toy’s, of Perth, are experiencing similar
supply difficulties to Finney’s, of Bris-
bane (B. 7/11/ ’43), In general set-up,
indeed, the two outlying States of the
Commonwealth exhibit considerable simi-
larity. Both communities of great area
and population-scatter, the pre-war de-
velopment of the economy of each was
around rural and mining industry. The
resultant smallness of their industrial base
has not only precluded their participation
in much of the war-time expansion en-
joyed by other mainland manufacturers,
but has created a dependence on inter-
state imports which is exceedingly incon-
venient in the present period of short sup-
plies and congested transport.
Isolated shipments from Britain are
still filtering through, but, even when
available, trans-border movement of
many local goods has been banned alto-
gether, and included in these have been
some popular lines. Toy’s chairman says.
Still, the big Melbourne store of similar
name, which conducts its own woollen
mills, has been a good parent on the mer-
chandising side, and, though of restricted
coupon-purchasing power, the gain of the
West in service personnel has done some-
thing to offset the impact of clothes-
rationing on civilian sales. Aided by
drastic economies, the co. thus managed
to keep the slip in ’43 profits down to
£3990, leaving them still in excess of
those for any pre-1942 term. After meet-
ing pref. charges, the contraction in ord.
earning power was from 9.5 p.c. to 8.4
p.c. Tax was partly responsible, calling
for £28,905 after adjusting the pre-
vious term’s figure for £3016 over-
provided. Prudently, the management has
revealed no haste to push the ord. div.
beyond 5\ p.c., and £2OOO this year is sent
to a superanuation and insurance fund.
With goods and money crossing the
counter simultaneously, credit-trading has
been reduced to a shadow of former
dimensions, and this partly explains the
healthy accumulation of cash now on
exhibition:
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £577,762 £579,263 £679,263 £579,263
Liabilities .. 45,023 59,322 37,274 36,327
Freeholds . . 369,298 359,551 358,953 358,953 .
Plant, etc. . . 42,479 54,156 61,327 45,979
Stocks . . 164,065 211,994 175,188 173,028
Debtors . . 59,740 50,424 21,104 5,850
Cash, etc. . . 33,517 27,579 87,611 120,383
The balance of liquid resources reflects
war-time reduction in the stock-holding
and careful financial control. The small-
ness of outside liabilities is due to
managerial policy of settling overseas
purchases on the knocker and local ones
within a month. Resultant cash discounts
help keep mark-ups competitive, while
recognition of the sales power of attrac-
tive premises is evident in the recent
modernisation programme, completion of
which has had to be stood over.
In the seven years since the business
was floated into a public co.', Toy’s
(Melb.) retaining a majority ord. holding,
reserves of £41,822 have been accumu-
lated after meeting preliminary exes.,
vendor’s interest and A.R.P. outgo
amounting to £28,703 in the aggregate.
Those results, of course, have been ob-
tained with the economic barometer set
fair to fine; the public co. has yet to be
tested in a period when the needle swings
the other way, a time in which com-
munities dependent on world markets and
prices for primary produce aren’t con-
spicuous for stability. Just at the
moment extension of the list of coupon
goods is further hobbling demand and
sales, and compensating avenues of
economy on the other side of p. and 1.
must rapidly be turning into blind alleys.
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Loss. Ords. Def.* Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Establishment and formation, £20,426.. 20,426
Forfeited shares reserve, £250 .. •• 20,176
1939!. 1,188 Ml Ml — : 21,364
Profit.
1940.. 10,429 Ml Ml 10,429 10,935
8 p.c. 52 p.c.
1941.. 30,530 20,000 6,515 ,4,015 6,920
37.6 p.c.
1942.. 26,904 29,000 4,702 2,202 4,718
61.9 p.c. Reserves.
1943.. 32,979 20,001 7,739 5,239 521
* Including undistributed equity in profits.
f 6i months.
Still quite a rookie in the industrial army,
this Newcastle fledgling appears to be
rapidly qualifying for proficiency pay.
Some classy connections are enjoyed, the
co. being a foster-child of sorts of
Masonite (U.S.A.), enjoying the financial
blessing of Australian Consolidated In-
dustries and having its distribution
handled by Colonial Sugar, itself a pro-
ducer of insulating fibre board. The.
newness of the field found sales in the
early months sluggish, but with the
advent of war the co. became feverishly
active on defence orders, which, of
course, aren’t the most profitable things.
Still, it is indirectly popularising the co.’s
products in the trade, and, with an eye
to the arrears of home-building to be
caught up on when peace comes, adver-
tising of £23,500 has been incurred over
the past two years in keeping the name
Masonite familiar to other sections of
the public.
Investment attractions of the scrip,
however, are detracted from by a capi-
tal structure which entitles £12,500 worth


STOPvDUßßupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEE APPEIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
LET
CARRYTHE
BURDEN
TO
Established 1808 In Kelgn of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia k New Zealand.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Uudford, Manager.
Telephone 8WX931 for particulars
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ * * *
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an#* Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
(Dividend No. 53.)
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of
Directors has decided to recommend at the
Annual Meeting of the Company, to be held
on 17th December, 1943, payment of a final
dividend of 25% (1/- per share) in respect of
the year ended 30th June, 1943, less United
Kingdom income tax at 7/2 in the £ (4.3 d. per
share), the net amount of dividend being 7.7 d.
per share sterling. This dividend makes a total
distribution of 37i% for the year ended 30th
June, 1943. Subject to confirmation by the
shareholders the dividend will be payable on
26th January, 1944, to all persons registered
as holders of shares on the Australian register
on 11th December, 1943. The transfer books
will be closed from 13th December to 15th
December (both days inclusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited.
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 29th November. 1943.
Head Office: Melbourne.
A Record of
Service and Progress
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1943 SHOWS THAT THE
SOUND PROGRESS OF THE T. & G. HAS BEfiN WELL
MAINTAINED.
SERVICE— The T. & G. is a Mutual Life
Society. In the forefront of its ideals it places
fair dealing and service to its Policyholders. During
last financial year over £3,170,000 was paid to
Policyholders—more than £lO,OOO every working
day in the year.
POPULARITY -The esteem in which the
Society is held is, shown by the fact that during
the year many thousands of existing Policyholders,
in addition to new members, purchased protection
for themselves and their dependants. In all,
100,450 new Policies assuring £10,654,229 were
effected, while the total Assurances in Force
increased to £ 111,015,786.
SECURITY —The assets, which are held in
trust to meet Policy liabilities, now exceed
£42,350,000 invested in first-class securities.
WAR EFFORT —Over 1,600 members of
the Society’s Staff have enlisted for war service.
The Society has invested to the limit of its capacity
in the various War Loans in Australia and New
Zealand, the sum of £4,090,000 being contributed
during the past year. Every premium paid and
every new Policy effected strengthens the Society’s
support to the War Effort.
THE T. &G. SERVES THE NATION.
IT SPECIALIZES IN GROUP, PROBATE, ENDOWMENT
AND CHILDREN’S ASSURANCES ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
X
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
of deferred shares to 50 p.c. of profits
after the ords. have had 7 p.c. These
2s. 6d. deferreds also have the right to
elect three directors in a board of
seven. In the first place Masonite (U.S.)
was given the right of subscribing them
in cash in return for manufacturing rights
in Australia and Maoriland for its
pressed-wood building and insulating
materials. A year ago the American co.’s
holding was only 53,334 of the 100,000
issued, A.C.L’s investment subsidiary
owning 10,000 of the remainder, together
with 38,513 ords. Two of the deferreds’
representatives also come from the A.C.I.
directorate ; the third is secretary Bran-
dreth.
Profit advances in the first table need
to be considered along with tax alloca-
tions, which advanced from £2500 in
1940 to £36,611 for the term just closed,
including provision for the payroll im-
post. Demands during the year reached
a stage requiring expansion of “temper-
ing” facilities, and resultant economy in
working was one of the factors holding
back the pressure gauge of costs to only
a “slight increase.” After £7410 more
tax and £7705 extra depreciation
(£18,882), net for the period ran out
£6075 better at £32,979, divisible £25,240
(10 p.c., against 8.8 p.c.) among ords. and
£7739 (nearly 62 p.c.) among deferreds.
Ord. holders got their third 8 p.c., leaving
£5239 to put by on their behalf. The
new Eldon sawmilling subsidiary showed
a. loss of ,£8 for its first period; but its
main purpose is to guarantee log supplies
for the parent, and further plant is being
put in.
With reserves only now nosing in front
of preliminary exes., not treated as an
asset herein, dividend policy appears
liberal; its justification apparently lies
in a comfortable liquid position as the
result of adequate capital resources at
the beginning and depreciation balances
subsequently accumulated:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £262,470 £262,507 £262,507 £262,507
Creditors .. 11,245 6,741 10,700 11,491
Tax reserve .. 19,500 23,500 33,000
Freehold and
buildings . . 59,447 60,356 64,970
Machinery, plant
& fittings . . 155,674 133,544 127,295 110,841
Stocks.. .. 33,231 45,308 41,042 47,772
Debtors . . 4,430 18,670 16,918 24,089
Cash (Scinvestments 419 41,715 46,255 67,734
Sub,sid. co. .. 12,266 11,120
Stocks and debtors indicate something of
the upsurge in trade in the latest 12
months, when, despite extensions, fixed
assets moved down by almost the full
amount of the depreciation provided.
Altogether, the surplus (£128,104) of more
or less liquids over trade creditors bene-
fited by £34,589.
The rare sharemarket spectacle of scrip
on offer at minimum limits, with no
takers, was presented by Cocks Eldorado
(Vic.) last week. Among gold-dredgers
the co. receives favored man-power con-
sideration because of a small quantity
of tin in the wash. Profits, however,
have disappointed ; for the year to Sep-
tember, they shrank from £21,218 to
£8415, of which £1241 came from invest-
ments. Turnover (2,079,500 c.y.) was
affected by the hardness of the terrace
wash encountered in working out the
north boundary, and recoveries and mine
costs also conspired against earnings, the
one with a decline from 6.86 d. to 5.57 d.
per c.y., the other with a growth from
4.2 d. to 4.33 d. Allowing for the 6d. diy.
payable today in respect of the past year’s
operations, 3s. of the ss. 6d. being asked
for the shares is represented by assets
of more or less liquid character. Dredg-
ing reserves appear good for about 6}
years.
* * * *
Making the best of things at the North
Kalgurli meeting in London, chairman
C. T. Ley said the effect on last year’s
revenue by the serious decline in through-
put from 205,155 tons to 108,665 tons and
in gold production from 63,337 fine oz.
to 40,7180 z. was softened by an increase
of more than Idwt. in the grade of ore
treated and a fall in Westfalian expen-
diture on the smaller tonnage from
£292,940 to £172,552. As a result
the year’s gross profit was £186,917,
against £159,355 the year before. With
taxation in Australia on goldmining cos.
now confined solely to the gold tax, the
full rate of U.K. income tax would have
to be deducted in the future. For the
year under review, however, a small bal-
ance of Dominion relief due to the co.
permitted tax being deducted from the
latest Is. dividend at Bs. 10|d. in the £.
The accounts included £2589, co.’s share
of profit from operations on the Oroya
North block leased to Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie. Ley added that development
work on the North Kalgurli group was
restricted, but results obtained were satis-
factory, particularly from the East lode,
which held out great hopes for the future.
A small tonnage of exceptionally rich
ore had been broken from the Boundary
lode.


Ruwolt
mmmm
mLismmm
mm w:
1
oi
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square Inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by, Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Christmas Gifts ES
that help
win the war
tea • •
VBSSX? S*W
rar»
|j[*>
fiCSf
&%1
IAV
r *J
m
m
y
N A?.*P> AL
VlNc s
saving
i v r 'NC S
rational
t A *XI& c s
a?l
X-
a
v
/
r
/
SN\
w
V
v \rs& 5 * .»$*
;;jy
•T?’
W
1
ro
fay >f
Make yours war-winning presents this Christmas, ()/')
Give 5/- National Savings Stamps, War Savings
Certificates, or several 6d. War Savings Stamps.
These are the fashionable patriotic presents this
year.
5/- National Savings Stamps May he Used:
1. Full booklets of 40 stamp:* pay for a £lO War Bond.
2. In filled pages (of 8 stamps—£2) they may pay a
deposit (while a loan is open) or an instalment on
a Bond at any time.
3. In filled pages of 8 stamps they may be credited to
a Savings Bank Account-
Buy them for yourself and give them as presents this
Christmas.
5/- National Savings Stamps
At Savings Banks or Money Order Post Offices
anywhere.
C 9-26 ~x
mm
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Keeping the Peace in Mind
The other day The Bulletin received
a letter from a man in the trade com-
plaining about the deterioration in quality
of Australian worsteds and woollens used
in men’s suits. His complaint was one of
many such —not all applicable to suit-
ings, but the majority having to do with
the Government “standardisation” of
clothing of some kind. One of the
reasons for complaint by clothing manu-
facturers about the low-quality products
they are forced to turn out under orders
from the Department of War Organisation
of Industry is that they come in for all
the abuse and backwash that arises when
the goods are sold. Firms which have
been at pains in peace-time to build up
trade-niarks and goodwill see their repu-
tation endangered by official planning-
gone-mad. And nowhere along the line
does the war effort or the nation benefit
by much of the W. 0.1. planning.
This is the complaint against the
standardisation of suitings:
Is there any justifiable reason for the
poor quality of present-day standardised
suitings? Before the war mills in Aus-
tralia were manufacturing worsteds and
tweeds of a very high grade. We still grow
the wool, we have the craftsmen and we
have the machinery and organisation to
provide the user with a good-wearing cloth.
But the standard cloth made to the speci-
fication of the Rationing Commission is an
economic waste. It is disgusting to the
man who has to buy a suit and provide
coupons and cash for an inferior article.
The cloth does not warrant the use of scarce
linings and good labor necessary to tailor
the suit, which probably will have a life
only of months. A cloth costing perhaps
3s. a yard extra would give a year or
more’s wear. It took the mills many years
to win the public over to “Made in Aus-
tralia” suitings. NdW Government-con-
trolled production is far from the best that
could be done in the circumstances. Opera-
tives are losing interest in their product,
which wears badly and does not keep its
shape.
“An economic waste.” That is only too
true of much “rationalisation.” But
another danger stressed is the prospects of
our industries in the post-war period.
Upon our industries will depend our
capacity to give employment, and it is
quite plain that manufacturing will have
to occupy a prominent place in our post-
war economy in view of the war-time
development of synthetic raw materials.
It is only self-destructive,, therefore, to
reduce the quality of our factory produc-
tion to ap uneconomic and unflattering
degree.
In addition to the damage done by
Government insistence upon shoddy
manufacture, a problem which our local
production will have to contend with will
be inflation in costs. , Inflation in this
country has been considerably greater
than in New Zealand and Canada, and,
though Britain’s visible inflation has been
greater, much of Britain’s burden of costs
will disappear with the reopening of
world trade routes. Australia’s produc-
tion and living costs are not principally
a result of overseas factors; we have
created most of our problems in«our own
war-time management. But we are
greatly dependent upon world prices
when we come to sell our surplus produc-
tion abroad or even when we produce
for our own use in competition with
overseas interests. Hence the great need
for minimum of inflation in costs of our
production.
Already the problem of costs, stressed
here for years past, is one that is worry-
ing the Government. Our cost-of-living
index has become pretty much a fiction
inasmuch *as a number of items are en-
tirely or frequently unprocurable and
substitutes may have inflated in price to
a much greater degree. Nevertheless,
acting on this index which is not really
representative of living costs after
a long series of rises, the Govern-
ment has reduced both the basic wage
and the old-age pension. Considering
the times, the hardship caused by the re-
duction is probably not one to which
exception can be taken, and had a ceil-
ing, been put on both wages and pensions
when they were considerably below what
they are now everyone, nationally as well
as individually, would have been better
off. At it is, the situation has de-
veloped large prickles, and our aggres-
sively but erratically “yoomanitarian ’
Government is doing a bit of economic
backing and filling and trying to play the
story “down” as much as possible.
Post-war reconstruction must take into
account the importance of industry.
Plans for after the war should take as
much notice of our pre-war problems as
it does of present artificial conditions.
Now we have an economy controlled in-
ternally by Government regulation and
an external economy controlled by lend-
lease and similar war-time arrangements.
Both conditions represent a state similar
to martial law rather than the normal
workings of democracy. We must plan
with an eye to the ultimate return of free
enterprise.
An American authority says that the
prospects of providing a high level ,of
employment in the post-war period are
encouraging because of the huge accu-
mulation of war-time savings ; as in Aus-
tralia, in the U.S.A. they are the greatest
in history. But in these savings there is
danger as well as favorable possibilities.
This spending power increases the neces-
sity of making materials and man-power
available as early as possible “in order
that industry may turn out goods in
abundance and thus keep prices within
reasonable bounds. A high and fragile
price structure must be assiduously
avoided.... Our primary task is to main-
tain a high level of marketable industrial
output. From this flow productive jobs,
profits to industry and revenue to the
Government.”
Continuing, the First National Bank of
Boston says: “One of the basic requisites
is that our economy be kept within
reasonable balance in order that the
various groups may exchange goods and
services with each other. As a result of
the abnormal conditions created by the
war serious maladjustments have taken
place on a large scale through spectacu-
lar increases in certain commodities as
well as in wags rates. Since wages con-
stitute the major element of costs they
must be flexible; otherwise the high
compensation of the few will imperil the
jobs of the many.” That jcommentary
on United States problems -is on all fours
with opinion expressed on this page con-
cerning Australian difficulties almost
since the war began.
Other comment is equally relevant:
Management will have a difficult task to
get its house in order after the war be-
cause of the artificial conditions under
which it has been operating. During the
war period the principal task of business
has been to turn out an unprecedented
volume of war goods to meet the virtually
insatiable demand of its chief customer,
the Government. Costs have been of
secondary importance, with the consequence
that waste, extravagance and slack methods
have prevailed. In the post-war period
costs will have to be reduced in order
that consumers may be able to purchase
the goods available. Nothing should be
allowed to stand in the way of the restora-
tion of keen competition, as this is the most
effective means of bringing about a robust
economy. *
The Government through its policies and
attitude should create a favorable atmo-
sphere for business enterprise, which in the
final analysis represents the aggregate
activities of the people for making a living.
Our economy is so intricate and delicately
balanced that it can be thrown out of gear
and stagnate when industry, the principal
segment, is subject to harassing and un-
necessary restrictions, and when profits, the
mainspring of economic activity, are subject
to constant attack.
In our post-war planning it should be
realised that there is no easy way out of the
problems that confront us, nor are there
any short cuts that we can take. We must
realistically come to grips with our prob-
lems and concentrate our efforts on re-
leasing the creative forces of private enter-
prise.
In Australia during this war there has
been far too much evasion of problems,
the Prime Minister showing more skill
in his political manoeuvring than in his
administration. There has also been too
much bureaucratic interference with the
methods of industry. It has been said of
Labor-party economic policy that the
idea is to go on regardless of ultimate
consequences and to leave the cleaning-up
of the final mess to some other Govern-
ment. In this case Government adminis-
tration has embraced such a huge pro-
portion of our economy that waste and
mismanagement have brought their prob-
lems much more rapidly than would be
the case with Budgets of pre-war size.
The situation in Australia has become
so serious that the playing of politics
should be abandoned entirely. Our
standard of living and our democratic
way of life are both endangered. The
more avoidable economic difficulty we
get into the greater is the danger of
totalitarianism replacing free enterprise


For Australia at War . . .
o
o
o
*3
✓6
o
£
*C£ TO'^
OYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES . . BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does ho possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWINQ
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
df
‘‘from the drum to the
points where
lubricants are vital
to machine
performance and life
ALEMITE
Since the day Alemite revolutionized the lubrication of
moving parts, Alemite must also must be credited with the
advances offered to the automotive industry and to the great
army of service stations using Alemite equipment.
Alemite Barrel Pumps—heavy duty, air-operated on high
and low pressures are capable of handling all types of
lubricants (heavy and light bodied, viscous or fibrous types)
from 400 lb. drums.
A Motor Oil Pump for volume delivery from a 55 gal.
drum of motor oil or fluid gear lubricant to crank cases,
housings and large bearings operates on 100 lbs. of air:
pressure—weighs only 50 lbs.
Plan to modernize with Alemite Service Equipment.
ALEMITE
_ Reg.U.S.Pot.Off.
lubrication
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
V
mm
n
m mi
sa
s
. :-:5 :
|Hp&'
Stes
OIN
when the peace conies. There is always
a section of the community which de-
lights in the exercise of “controls.” The
sicker our economy becomes the greater
the excuse for the exercise of such “con-
trols.” Yet those who enforce controls
rarely have any understanding or sym-
pathy in the matter of actual production.
Red-tape is no background for the con-
trol of industry.
Maoriland ’Changes
Under the stimulus of a keen buying
demand and in the absence of capital
flotations through war-time restrictions,
the sharemarkets in M.L. continue on the
upgrade. Many recognised leaders have
soared to record levels, and most indus-
trials have long since passed pre-war
“highs.” Yet, despite the absence of
control and ceiling prices as in Aus-
tralia, there has been no marked infla-
tionary trend. Buyers, while eager, have
exercised some restraint and appreciate
their freedom to fix their own values.
Most spectacular advances have been in
the shares of the big Auckland insurance
companies—South British and New
Zealand—which have world-wide con-
nections. South British 10s. shares have
reached an all-time record of £3 135.,
while New Zealand’s £1 issue stands at
£4 6s. 9d. Both cos., while reporting
record premium incomes, have warned
shareholders of the transitory nature of
war-time profits and the desirability of
a steadier trend.
Bank deposits in M.L. rise higher and
higher, and a few weeks ago were re-
ported at £lOB million. With interest
rates shaded down to a low level, owners
of securities bought when conditions
were more favorable are disinclined to
part with their holdings, and those who
are prepared to sell are in a position to
demand attractive terms. Australian
securities continue to command a pre-
mium, and, since business in this category
is confined to shares actually in the
Dominion, demand greatly exceeds
supply. Scrip like Anthony Horderns’
and David Jones, which used to tqrn
over frequently on the Auckland and
Wellington Stock Exchanges, is rarely
quoted except when an odd seller comes
forward, probably as the result of the
liquidation of an estate. Colonial Sugars,
G. J. Coles and Sydney Woolworths,
together with the Australian banks, enjoy
the largest turnover under war-time control.
In a hesitating, blundering way the
Federal Government is approaching the
matter of pay-as-you-go taxation. It is
incapable of doing a thing promptly
simply because a thing happens to be
right and nationally desirable. All the
political and bureaucratic angles have to
be examined first. The old charge that
Labor cannot govern remains true.
* * * #
Taxation, State and Federal, ran to
£39 7s. 6d. a head during 1942-43.
Allowing for reimbursement to the States,
the Commonwealth got £3l 19s. 3d., of
which £l5 18s. 2d. was income tax. Pay-
roll tax was another £1 9s. a head. Aggre-
gate tax collections for the year were
£283.5 million.
* * * *
On October 31 the Commonwealth
Treasury-bill debt had risen to £341.3
million, an increase of £B2 million since
June 30. Thus, during a third of 1943-44
the Treasury has had recourse to 80 p.c.
of the bank-credit finance which it aimed
to use during the whole year—the Budget
estimate was £lO3 million for the whole
of 1943-44. The raising of £125 million
by public loan (with the assistance of
considerable savings-bank support) since
the end of October may help to ease this
dependence of the war effort on bank
credit. The Fourth Liberty Loan was
the first public borrowing operation of
the current financial year.
♦ * * *
The Associated Chambers of Manu-
factures have asked Treasurer Chifley to
consider the difficulties that confront in-
dustry as a result of the extraordinary
technical and financial problems arising
out of the war, and which so far have
not been sympathetically considered by
the taxation authorities. The Associated
Chambers consider it necessary to make
room in the income-tax law for:
(a) Provision to cover deferred mainten-
ance of buildings, plant and machinery.
(6) Provision to enable replacement of
obsolete machinery and to make necessary
alterations and extensions to existing fac-
tories.
(c) Provision to meet post-war loss in
stock values.
(d) Provision for purchase of stock for
the post-war reconstruction.
In regard to ( a ) it is maintained that
equipment is being subjected to more
than normal wear and tear, and that
when the war ends “very considerable ex-
penditure will be required to restore it to
pre-war standard.” Reduction in expen-
diture on maintenance has also fictitiously
enlarged profits, with the result that
money which would otherwise have
been used for maintenance goes out
in taxation. It is contended that reserves
should be made now for plant recon-
struction and allowed as deductions from
taxable income. In general, it is claimed
that the placing of industry in a
position to undertake adequate post-war
reconstruction should be a major re-
habilitation policy, which, to be success-
ful, must operate sufficiently long before
the end of the war to enable the neces-
sary reserves to be provided.
* * * *
During October, when the Fourth
Liberty Loan was afloat, the increase in
savings-bank deposits fell to £6.4 million,
compared with increases of £lO.l mil-
lion and £11.7 million respectively in the
two preceding months. The number of
subscribers to the war loan was 560,000
or thereabouts—far short of the 750,000
target aimed at.
* * * *
During the year to June 30 last the
Commonwealth Savings Bank alone put
£32 million into Government securities,
mostly war loans. The Savings Bank of
South Australia contributed £4.7 million
to new loans, apart from conversions.
The increase in money at short call, etc.,
in the case of the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank suggests that further financial
assistance was given to the Common-
wealth Treasury during 1942-43. The
pity of it all is that the people who de-
posited the money with the savings banks
didn’t instead put it directly into war
loans.
* * * *
The manufacture of sulphate of
ammonia on a large scale after the war
is planned by Electrolytic Zinc. The
output will make Australia independent
of overseas nitrogenous fertilisers, says
Colin Fraser, the co. using the at-
present wasted sulphur by-product of the
zinc-refining works. These works are
the second-largest in the world ; exten-
sions are being planned.
* * * *
The cost of reverse lend-lease may
exceed the Budget estimate of £lOO mil-
lion, according to a report from
Treasurer Chifley. Up to August 31 last
total cost to the Commonwealth was
£78.7 million, of which £13.2 million had
been in respect of the months July and
August. Although the rate of expendi-
ture during these two months is below
£lOO million a year, the Prime Minister
says that “present expenditure trends and
the heavy commitments before us indi-
cate that this figure will be reached, and
may be exceeded.” He added that “there
are many forms of aid which cannot be
expressed in money values, and this
applies to a variety of services which are
rendered by Australian departments. As
a contra to this some of the works
carried out are for the joint use of Aus-
tralian and American forces, and an ad-
justment will need to be made in the re-
ciprocal lend-lease figures for this.” It
is difficult indeed to put a precise money
value on lend-lease transactions. The
only approximately true method of
keeping a record would be, in army-style
accounts —a record of things lent or
leased instead of money figures. The
exchange rate of $3.29 to the Australian
pound is unfair to this country so far as
foodstuffs and many articles of clothing
are concerned. What is to happen
in the washing-up of lend-lease accounts
after the war remains a matter for much
woolly argument on the part of the
man in the street. To begin with, the
idea was that there would be no mone-
tary settling-up. There may, however,
be a political settling-up.


THE SERVICE MAN
On to Wareo.
“Ek Dum”: Huon Peninsula and
Bougainville experiences are pointing the
lesson that the Jap is a tough foe to
catch and kill off.
Salamaua and Lae were taken after
heroic efforts. It was reported that only
600 fugitives had escaped and were being
mopped up in the mountains. Then one
arm of the Australian attack went up the
Markham Valley, and there was little
resistance, except by Nature, until an
area valuable to the security of the enemy
was reached. The drive then was tem-
porarily halted —for what reason is not
clear as yet.
The right fork of the advance swung
round to Finschhafen. In 75 days an
offensive perimeter north of the anchor-
age about seven miles long had been
established in rain, mud and jungle.
The enemy fought with surprising
weight and bitterness. He is still within
seven or eight miles of Finschhafen. He
was found in surprising force at Sattel-
berg. After weeks of toil, during which he
forced his way to the coast, giving our
men a very tough contract, Sattelberg was
assaulted. It was blasted, shelled and
bombed, and devoted infantrymen, with
tank support, climbed the slippery, pre-
cipitous jungle-covered mountain spurs,
tearing and burning out Jap perimeter
positions one by one until they reached
the fringes of Sattelberg. A single com-
pany entered the remains of the mission
station.
He had suffered heavy losses. One
statement is that from September 22 to
December 3 1848 dead Japs were counted,
apart from those blown to bits and those
wounded and retrieved. But his forces
were not destroyed. They had been found
in such strength as to cancel early esti-
mates of Finschhafen numbers: 1500 was
one ; 3000 another.
Sattelberg taken, it was clear that the
enemy was still formidable at Wareo, a
point where many trails join seven miles
to the north-east, and that there he was
again prepared to fight.
His nearest coastal supply depot at
Bonga, five miles north of the Ninth
Division’s original landing point of
Scarlet Beach, was cut off along the direct
route by an Australian force which had
been flung across the trail. This force’s
hold on the trail position did not become
fully secure until Sattelberg fell, when
supply lines to Finschhafen were opened.
It was relieved after ten days of virtual
isolation. During that time it was in con-
stant bitter action in a space 150 yards
by 100 yards, with Japs on every side,
communications with H.Q. being limited
to radio and the air,
Three days after the occupation of
Sattelberg, which dominates most of the
positions immediately to the north, A.I.Fr
detachments were close to Bonga, and
next day they occupied the village and
reached the Kalueng River beyond it,
without meeting resistance.
Madang Bombarded
»Meanwhile, a big step forward had
been made by the Navy. For the first
time warships entered the Vitiaz
Strait to bombard Sio and surround-
ing areas, which constitute the main
base port for the Finschhafen area. There
followed the bombardment of Gasmata
and Madang for the first time.
To reach Madang the naval forces
need to pass for 160 mile’s beyond Finsch-
hafen, and, since one of the attacks was
said to be made in the early morning, to
return to base by daylight, after having
negotiated the tortuous channels leading
to Madang.
On the Doorstep of Wareo
The Finschhafen perimeter now had
been pushed forward considerably, but
part of it was still on the Sang River.
The front ran roughly through the jungle
from Cusika, the most forward post on
the coast at the mouth of the Kalueng
River, along the Wareo track for a couple
of miles, then bent back to the Sang and
west up the spurs to Sattelberg. A road
block on the Bonga track prevented the
enemy from surging down to the sea.
Before the week-end a bridge held by
the enemy on the Sang had been taken,
and three columns were converging on
Wareo up three separate trails.
One, from Sattelberg, had covered a
considerable part of the seven miles
which separate the two positions, and its
forward spearhead was on the outskirts
of Wareo. A second detachment came up
the trail from Bonga, breaking up enemy
rearguards. A third, starting from the
Finschhafen perimeter, was moving up
from the Sang. This is in somewhat
better country—-for a beginning—than the
others. Inland, the terrain is cliff and
jungle.
At the same time, apart from naval
shelling, bases which might be sources
of help to the enemy in the Eastern Huon
were attacked in concert with the mili-
tary and naval operations.
More Shipping Destroyed
All the way from the Kaevieng area
to Gasmata air action of some sort
was almost continuously in progress.
R.A.A.F. Beauforts in a dark-night raid
damaged shipping north of Rabaul, in-
cluding a destroyer. Wednesday’s com-
munique reported that 46 tons of bombs
had been dropped on Cape Gloucester,
which absorbed another 146 tons later
in the week. One of the bases which
might be expected both to support Wareo
and to interfere with naval raids along
the Vitiaz Strait and Maclay coast, it is
about 50 miles, crowfly, from Wareo.
Gasmata —150 miles from Finschhafen
—apart from its bombardment by naval
units, was bombed, and other harassing
attacks were made on barges at Borgen
Bay, Rein Bay and Garove and Rooke
Island installations.
Late in the week a 10,000-ton steamer,
apparently a fully-loaded transport, was
sunk near Kaevieng, a large tanker was
left in flames and two destroyers were
seriously damaged by 5001 b. bombs.
R.A.A.F. Beaufighters destroyed a small
steamer and three barges off the south
New Britain coast. Wewak was served
with 110 tons of explosives and incen-
diaries, distributed among supply dumps,
and 10 out of 40 enemy fighters were
shot down during an attempt at intercep-
tion for a loss of two machines—the
enemy was noticed firing on the para-
chuting crew of one, a Liberator,
In the Solomons
Action in the Solomons was almost en-
tirely confined to round-the-clock strafing
and bombing of enemy bases and harbors,
from Kieta to Buin, with the object of
disorganising enemy operations against
the Empress Augusta landing. There was
a great deal of air activity, mainly Ameri-
can, round the newly-established peri-
meter, but little land action, though in
the communique of December 4 elements
of U.S. ground forces were reported to
have raided enemy lines south-east of
Torokina, destroying quantities of
artillery ammunition, small arms and
other supplies and inflicting sharp losses
on enemy troops.
Escorting dive-bombers attacked enemy
positions at Mosigetta and medium units
co-operated in other adjacent areas. The
land forces in their raid killed about 200
Japs; their own losses were light.
Another German Retreat.
“Ek Dum”: Having thrown a bridge-
head across the Sangro near the sea, i.e.,
on the Adriatic side of the Apennine
region, the Eighth Army began to exploit
the crossing. It expanded the action
along a 35-mile front and north-
ward in an engagement comparable in
size with the Mareth Line attack.
The Eighth has begun to acquire some-
thing of the atmosphere of El Alamein,
for Freyberg and his Maorilanders re-
turned to the fold, refreshed and rearmed
into an even stronger armored formation
than that which was part of the bursting
force at Alamein and the outflanking
force on the Mareth Line.
The bridgehead extended several miles
inland across the main road to Sulmona
and Avezzano, centre of a great part of
Rome’s water supply. The Sulmona road
from the Adriatic runs almost *ht right
angles to the sea, and parallel to the
Sangro, into the centre of the Italian
peninsula, and then turns sharply north at
almost another right angle to reach Sul-
mona, after junctioning with the highway
from Castel di Sangro and Isernia. The
Germans at the week-end were fighting
desperately to keep control of this road.
The line of the Eighth Army reaches
roughly from Castel di Sangro, which is
on the southern side of the Sangro River,
to the Adriatic, and it is exerting pres-
sure along two coastal roads, one
towards Ortone and Pescara, the other
directly to Chieti, south-west of Pescara ;
also —through the Canadian Division —
against Castel di Sangro and the crossing i
to the coastal road junction.
None of the three flanking roads pro-
vides smooth going for a heavily-armed
attacking army heavily resisted. The
hills along the Adriatic side come
tumbling down over clay and rubble sur-
faces to the sea, and General Mont-
gomery’s coastal goal, Pescara, 20 miles
from San Vito, the little port which the
British have captured and passed, is shut :
off from the south by promontory hills
through which the railway dives several
times with abandon, even before it
reaches Ortona, about four miles on the
way to the Sangro mouth. Ortona’s
main town itself is linked to Ortona-by-
the-sea, its marine half, by a funicular
railway. The coastal route, however, is
the easier ; and also the best strategically
and tactically, since sea transport and
naval units can give support. The Eighth
Army is, however, making full use of the
road to Chieti, slightly inland. Here on
Dec. 6 it was about \2\ miles from the
town and the main road across Italy to
Rome.
Pescara is a small medieval sort of
town beside beautiful pine woods, and
Italians give it a halo because D’Annun-
zio was born there. General Mont-
gomery probably thinks as highly of it
as the Italians, because, once there, he
is at the end of a lateral road which goes
reasonably straight across the peninsula to
Rome.
Once he has control of that road he is
behind all the German positions facing
the Fifth Army. Unless the Germans get
out quickly along the Tyrrhenian coast,
they are likely to find themselves walled
off on the low malarial lands which
Pompey divided a couple of thousand
years ago for his returned-soldier-settle-
ment schemes —they turned out like most
soldier-settlement schemes.
The Canadians in the centre and their
British support are facing a different route
from the coastal one. Castel di Sangro
is a pleasant enough place. Its counts
figure in old Italian poetry in the same
way as the Scottish border barons. It
is dominated by a castle perched on a
hill which hangs over the peaceful,
ancient town, much as the Mother Moun-
tain hangs over Rabaul.
Once across the river northward the
road and rail enter a sort of switchback
career to Sulmona. They dive along
cliffs and into tunnels, and they pursue
fugitive-looking towns along the valley of
the Gizio to steep hilltops, where they
look like cats which have been chivvied
up a pole—as indeed they were in the
days when the countryside was domi-
nated by the two terrible Angevin fami-
lies of Caldora and Cantelmi. The latter
claimed direct descent from Scotland’s
King Duncan, victim of Macbeth
On this route almost every forward
move is enfiladed, but this does not matter
in winter, for the Russian steppes are a
circumstance to the Gizio country.
One of its passages through the Piano
di Cinquemiglia—Five Mile Plain —is
celebrated for the fact that it has swal-
lowed thousands of wayfarers in its bliz-
zards. The Prince of Orange lost 500
German soldiers, frozen or eaten by
wolves, there in 1529. Charles V built
shelter towers stocked with food across
it, but brigands got the food and the
wolves used the towers as shelters. Only
a fireside fusilier could look forward with
equanimity to fighting his way through
this country in winter even today, much
less to negotiating in snow and mud the
road which seems to do a trapeze act on
to the sill of Sulmona.
Terrible for attack, it is even more ter-
rible for a winter retreat by troops
assailed on both flanks.
So soon as the Fifth Army gains
momentum up the Liri Valley, as it
showed signs of doing when it made some
small advances after the Eighth Army
shock, its artillery will be within reach
of the right flank of the enemy opposing
the Eighth Army.
And the British pursuers, Canadians to
a large extent, and Gurkhas and other
hill-bred Indians, understand cold.
As a preliminary to the retreat just be-
ginning the Eighth Army has given the
enemy a bad artillery battering, and
powerful air support is being used.
The Germans are said to have about
14 divisions, about 230,000 men, in fron-
tal positions. Their retreat is stubborn
and slow, and there is nothing to justify
the claim made in some excitable quarters
that their “winter line” is shattered. It
is difficult to believe that they->chose
such country with weak flank defences
and so susceptible to rear attack from
the sea as a final main defence position.
There are better lines capable of being
used more cohesively further north.
Berlin Bombed Again.
“Ek Dum”: Reports from Hitlerland
last week sounded as if the Germans
were too much occupied with the results
of another meeting between the R.A.F.
Lancaster squadrons and the citizens of
Berlin to worry about Cairo or Tehran
agreements on future action, important as
these may be.
Normally Berlin puts a good face on
its sufferings. So far from there being
any sign of grovelling fear on their radio,
the enemy seems to show himself, if not
as tough and resilient in such matters as
Londoners, at least tough. But the day
after the last Berlin raid on the night
of December 2 every voice on the Berlin
shortwave circuits sounded weary and dis-
couraged and hoarse with smoke and
sleeplessness.
The attack was complementary to the
previous one. A large force of Lan-
casters, including all the Australian Lan-
caster squadrons, was used. Within half
an hour 1500 tons of bombs were dropped
on Berlin’s central portions and factory
rings, in spite of a desperately heavy de-
fence which turned the upper air into a
real battleground.
Berlin made preparations for the attack
ahead of time. Miles out ’planes at high
altitude dropped slow-falling flares to
light up the incoming bombers for the
defending fighter squadrons. Heavy
fighter defence was combined with some
of the heaviest flak seen in any raid, and
losses were substantial from this main
raid and lighter among the fast-flying
Mosquitoes which plastered other Ger-
man objectives.
From all operations 41 bombers did
not return. Berlin was seen by rear gun-
ners, however, looking like the dying
remains of a giant’s campfire—a great
blanket of black and grey with huge
embers flaring up all over it.
On the evening of December 3 Berlin
got ready for another ordeal, since a
large force of Mosquitoes and Lancasters
was reported on the way. But the Lan-
casters sheered off to the south-east and
dropped 1500 tons of bombs on Leipzig,
site of Germany’s great industrial fairs
and a strategic military base, and caught
it with little fighter protection, as its in-
terception squadrons had been ordered
hurriedly to Berlin, which was attacked
only by Mosquitoes. The High Com-
mand made the unusual admission that
“devastation” had been caused by the
main attack in some parts of Leipzig.
Twenty-three British bombers were lost.
The raid marked a new stage in the
aerial offensive. It was the longest-
distance raid carried out by so powerful
a force in any theatre of war —Leipzig
is 600 miles from the British coast and
more than 700 miles from the big
northern British bases —and the first
large-scale operation in which feint
attack was used to draw off defences.
Henceforward the strain on Luftwaffe
fighter squadrons will be immeasurably
increased and the enemy will be con-
strained to increase his defence of main
bases for the Russian front, such as
Dresden and Chemnitz, which are only
a few miles further than Leipzig.
Apart from the night raids, air opera-
tions were widespread. The largest day-
light raid was carried out by U.S.
Fortresses in the course of a three-day
attack which reached from Bremen to
the Ruhr. It was made on Solingen, a
cutlery and special-steel city. Thunder-
bolts and Lightnings destroyed 20 inter-
cepting German fighters, and the big
bombers accounted for three. The day’s
operations —not limited to Solingen
cost the Americans 27 bombers and 14
fighters.
German raiding over Britain was con-
fined to reconnaisance units.
Rain and Mud in Russia.
“EkDum”: Most of the Russian front for
the past few days has been a sea of mud.
The Germans have little to say
about the Russian war —sometimes their
broadcasts in English have failed to men-
tion it, except to remark that the con-
dition of the countryside in some sectors
precluded fighting. The only amplified
discussions from the German side have
come from Paris Radio, which said late
last week that the Russians had
launched an offensive against the Orsha
front, in the Smolensk area, with 250,000
men, and from D.N.8., the German
newsagency, whose commentator de-
clared that the Red Army was employing
in those operations 22 rifle divisions,
five armored brigades and 200 tanks—
the equivalent of one tank division not
fully equipped and 400,000 men. The
familiar claim was made that the de-
fenders had “sealed off penetrations.”
Moscow Radio at the week-end con-
firmed the news of this offensive. ,
Further south, between the Pripet
and the Beresina, the Russians announced
more progress towards Jlobin. But the
enemy in the Gomel sector is resisting
fiercely, and in part of this district the Rus-
sians have not yet reached the Dnieper.
Moscow said on Dec. 3 that clearer
weather had made the resumption of
the offensive possible in the Dneprope-
trovsk-Nikopol sector and also in the
Kremenchug-Snamenka salient. It seems
to have permitted also reapplication of
the German pressure in the Korosten-
Brussilov sector, south-west of Kiev.
Korosten was in German hands. The


Public Notices.
I, GEORG KRUG, of German nationality, bom at
Harburg, Germany, and resident six years and nine
months in Australia, now residing at 129 Victoria
Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PTE. HERMAN COHN, of German nationality,
born at Treptow a/Toll, Germany, and resident five
years three months in Australia, now residing at 6
Hopetoun Street, Petersham, N.S.W., at present
serving with the A.M.F., intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JULIE ELSBERG, of German nationality, born at
Iserlohn, Germany, resident five years in Australia,
now residing at 109 New South. Head Road, Edge-
cliff, intend to apply for naturalisation under, the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, VICTOR STABLER, of Austrian nationality, born
at Prague, Czechoslovakia, and resident over five
years in the British Empire, the last four years nine
months in Australia, now residing at 7S' Gray Street,
Kogarah, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, HUGO SABATZKY, of German nationality, bom
at Koealin, Germany, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 17 Penkivil Street, Bondi,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I,' LADISLAS LOUIS WEISZ, also known as LESLIE
LOUIS WHITE, of Hungarian nationality, born at
Budapest, Hungary, and resident three years and ten
months in Australia, previously 19 months in
England, now residing at 14 Balfour Road, Rose
Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALBERT SEGAL, of French nationality, born at
Oran, Algeria, and resident 14 years in Australia,
now residing at 68 Enmore Road, Enmore, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO COLIN ALEXANDER MACKAY late of Port
Bourke Station Bourke in the State of New South
Wales Station Employee.—TAKE NOTICE that
GAISTEY EMILY MACKAY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2510 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Ofilce Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 31st January 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from L. G. B.
OADDEN Solicitor of 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
sfyyte/td cloyedeßujile Shut
enemy claimed to have stopped, with
heavy artillery fire, an attempt to break
through Perekop into the Crimea.
Reading between the lines, the enemy
is still able to launch counter-attacks
powerful enough to halt heavy and fast-
moving Russian drives and to produce
reserves when and where they are needed.
It should be a warning that he is far
from crushed, even if Hitler has lost all
hope of ultimate victory.
Referring to his operations in the
Zhitomar-Kiev region, the enemy alleged
that between November 9 and 28 the
Russians lost more than 20,000 killed,
4800 prisoners, 600 tanks and 1500 guns.
The Fourth Phase Begins.
“EkDum”: Two years after the affair of
Pearl Harbor the world is seeing the open-
ing of the fourth phase of the war of civil-
ised nations against Japan and Axis allies.
The first months of the Eastern war
were remarkably like those of the Euro-
pean war. Japan in three months swept
the whole of south-east Asia and the
Aleutians area into the “Co-prosperity
Sphere” and provided springboards for
assaults on Australia and far-north
America. Five months after the attack
on Pearl Harbor the actual preliminary
move for the invasion of Australia was in
process of being made. The Japanese fleet
was on the way to take Moresby and/or
perhaps some North Australian port, and
out to secure control of Torres Strait. The
Coral Sea battle stopped the operation.
It is astonishing that so little emphasis
is laid in Australia on the effects of the
Coral Sea battle. It was fought within
long-distance-aircraft range of our shores.
Even today the details of the inspiring
fight which saved this country and of the
forces engaged are not publicly known,
nor is it realised that the part of the
navies has been paramount in the South
Pacific ; but the forces were very power-
ful on both sides. The Coral Sea battle
and the Solomon Islands battle off Savo
last November are the two great engage-
ments of the war in this area,' and the
Coral Sea battle was the more important.
It was the first great defeat which the
Japanese experienced. It wrote finis to
their plan of expansion. May 7, 1941,
may be written down as the end of the
first phase of the Pacific war, the phase
of Japanese conquest. Any further ex-
, pansions were small and impermanent.
Parallel with the attempt to invade
Australia and secure the islands to the
east of it as steppingstones to Honolulu
and the American coasts, a second Axis
plan was in operation.
Via Russia to India
In the beginning of the second phase
of the Eastern war emphasis began to be
laid on this plan. With Britain steady
and secure as a rock, the attempted
invasion of the far-south Pacific abortive
and proves in the north Pacific cruelled by
the results of Midway, the one bet worth
anything to Germany and Japan was a
vice-like movement in which Germany
would sweep across the Middle East,
via Suez, and shatter the heart of Allied
communications, robbing India and Aus-
tralia of the chances of help, naval or
otherwise, from Europe; and Japan, ex-
ploiting the situation at the end of 1942,
would strike at isolated India, Ceylon
and possibly Westralia. Russia would
be attacked from the rear, as well 'as
from the front. The whole of Africa
and the border lands of south-west Asia
along the European frontier would be
encircled. China could be crushed.
There seems little doubt that this phase,
though it reached maturity only well on
in 1942, actually began with the invasion
of Russia on June 22, 1941. This in-
vasion was planned primarily not to de-
stroy Russia so much as to provide a
corridor to complete the encirclement
of the Middle East. The Schiidekopf
maps in the textbook issued to German
officers under staff training before the
war —they have been here described more
than once —make this clear.
The attack on Russia was a means to
an end. The real objective was the British
Commonwealth, as witness the correla-
tion of the timetable and the direction of
the German attacks.
First came the importation of Italy
into the picture to give Germany ap-
proaches to Africa. Next, the Balkan
countries were invaded so as to control
the zEgean and Dardanelles and prevent
British attacks upon the German rear
when Russia was invaded. Next came the
drive to the Caucasus.
Equivalent of 100 Divisions
At the same time Rommel was* sent
to Africa with the Ajrikakorps and
picked Italian divisions to drive to Suez.
The huge organisation needed to land
165,000 British and American troops in
Sicily has been stressed again and again.
The drain on enemy resources involved
in keeping something like 400,000 men on
a front-line basis in Africa —part of the
front line at the period of crisis was 1500
miles from the base ports —has never been
stressed. All the fuel oil and the bulk
of the armament, much of the transport
equipment, nearly all the aircraft refit-
ment necessities, most of the tanks —
certainly all the heavy tanks —had to be
brought from Germany, throwing* a tre-
mendous burden on German rolling stock
and man-power. Everything carried had
to be defended over long distances of
sea and air, and, from the Ruhr
to Egypt, it had to be carried a
distance equal to that from London to
Constantinople by sea and land together.
True, the burden placed on the British
defenders was far greater. But the de-
termining factor was British ability to
meet the strain. It was, in fact, the con-
sideration which made the second phase
of the Eastern war and of the world war
the crucial phase.
Heard often was Communist yowling
that the British effort in Africa was keep-
ing only 17 divisions of the enemy en-
gaged in But by actual destruction
in death and capture, apart from the Luft-
waffe and those lost at sea or who
perished in the desert, the Allies wiped
out the equivalent of 30 enemy divisions
in Africa, with nearly all their equipment,
between October 23, 1942, and May 15,
1943. The strain on German man-power,
transport, shipping and air defence in
maintaining the forces used in Africa,
across the sea and along the distant trails
of Libya must have been equal to the
strain of rtiaintaining another 80 to 100
divisions on the Russian front, across the
flat Polish lands, over which railway
transport could be supplemented by every
kind of carriage from lorry to bullock-
cart.
Another Naval Decision
The modus operandi of the second
phase of the Axis attack on civilisation
reached its culmination in further Axis
naval defeats, which paved the way for
land defeats:
(1) Sir James Somerville’s efforts blocked
the westward naval moves of Japan against
Ceylon and India in battles of which almost
as little is known as of Coral Sea,
(2) Allied naval-air operations kept the
convoy routes open to Russia. The attacking
of these convoy routes called for the use cu
considerable Axis air power. The huge help
sent to Russia rounded off the Russians’ own
extreme efforts in supply and turned the scale
and blocked the German drives at every point
—an effect contributed to by the need imposed
on Germany of feeding the African campaign
and of providing daily increasing air and
coastal defence in the west.
(3) The same naval power which had blocked
the Japanese naval drives in the battles of the
Bay of Bengal and the Coral Sea and enabled
the- Allies to face out the defence of Malta
and North Africa and defeat the ends of the
U-boat campaign, which was to throttle Britain
in particular, now made it impossible for the
enemy to continue a naval policy on a grand
scale, except in the U-boat campaign.
(4) British development of radio-location had
revolutionised Allied naval and air defence,
particularly defence against submarines.
The second phase ended with the
enemy still on the offensive and engaged
in three far-flung land drives. One had
reached the Volga; another was within
60 miles of Alexandria. , The thunder of
German guns could be heard in Cairo.
To Burma, from Siam, the Japanese
were building a railway and pouring in
arms and equipment. And a Jap column
had passed the Owen Stanleys in an
attempt to do by land what the Navy
had failed to do in the Coral Sea battle.
The second phase closed some time be-
tween July and October, 1942. Its sig-
nificance again unnoticed by history, the
tide turned again at its furthest limits in
Australian-zone waters. The snatching
back of Japanese-held positions in the
Tulagi-Guadalcanal area, the defeat at
Milne Bay and the driving back of the
loribawa Japanese column which was
sitting at the gates of Moresby were the
signal shots which marked the turning
over by the Allies from the defensive to
the offensive.
Alamein’s Guns Open
The third phase began on October 23,
1942, with gunfire at Alamein. That marked
the turning point of the war in the Euro-
pean zone. Montgomery’s pillar of fire,
whose core consisted of the steely
force of Maorilanders from the very
furthest-flung corner of the British Com-
monwealth, broke through the German
centre on November 4-5.
The next day German communiques
announced that powerful Russian forces
were assembled across the Volga, 75
miles below Stalingrad. Some time in
that week the Germans began their re-
treat from the Kalmyk area in Russia.
On November 19 the battle of Stalin-
grad and the long, and general German
retreat to the Donetz began.
While that Stalingrad battle was in its
first throes, a great naval battle was
fought in the Solomons —one of the three
naval battles of modern times in which
it could be said with certainty that two
first-class battleships were destroyed.
They were both Japanese. The heroic
A.1.F., back from the Middle East, was
in the environs of Buna.
The Allies had joined hands with their
French friends in North Africa. The
French Fleet had ceased to be a potential
Axis asset. Its immobilised ships at
Dakar, at Casablanca and Alexandria
were added to Allied strength. The rest
were at the bottom of Toulon Harbor
or battered to pieces in Casablanca.
Rommel was racing back to Tripoli and
Tunisia as fast as the mud would let him.
All this vast change had been worked in
a month.
Progress Consistent
Progress has been constant. The delays
at which armchair critics and Berlin Radio
have carped have been the minimum halts
consistent with prudence and effective
preparation, the replacement of material
and the resting of naval and merchant
marine crews and reconditioning of ships.
Thus the third phase of the war is end-
ing on the anniversary of Pearl Harbor.
During its crowded 12 months:
(1) Every part of the Allied Dominions has
been secured from attack, except perhaps
Britain, against which effective assault is never-
less a far remoter possibility than in 1942.
(2) The U-boat campaign has been almost
completely inhibited, and Allied naval and mer-
cantile marine construction has been developed
to such an extent that U-boat attrition, even
if its previous extent were doubled, could
never catch up with the increase in British,
Canadian and U.S. shipbuilding. .
(3) Africa is clear of the enemy. Malta is
free. The Mediterranean, outside the TEgean
and the inner Adriatic, is British. The routes
through the Indian Ocean are under Allied
control. The accession of the Italian Fleet and
the disposal of the French Fleet give the
Allies ships to burn. From 400,000 square miles
of scorched Russia the enemy has been rolled
(4) Italy has changed, sides in the war. A'
third of that country has been taken from the
German occupiers. The enemy’s hold on Greece
and the Balkans is being badly shaken. The
Mediterranean campaign, which began at the
gates of Cairo at the end of the second phase,
on Pearl Harbor day has reached the gates of
Rome. . • , , ,
(5) Germany’s main cities and capitals have
been and are being torn to pieces.
(6) Instead of the Japanese sitting at the gates
of Moresby, the Allied Navies and Air Forces
are this week hammering at the gates of the
inner ring of defences in the Bismarcks, threat-
ening the hold of the enemy on the South-west
Pacific area. Further north, Lord Louis Mount-
batten at one end and Admiral Nimitz at the
other are sitting ready to begin the squeeze
which will cut the new Japanese “Empire in
halves. The lock of the eastern doorway of
their attack has already been picked m the
Gilberts. The threat to Alaska through the
Aleutians has been removed.
The Cairo Conference
The fourth phase of the war may be
said to have been born at the conference
of Allied leaders*in Cairo. It was the
largest Allied conference ever held, the
first in which General Chiang Kai-shek
took part. The British delegation num-
bered 201, including 58 naval representa-
tives, the American about 100, the
Chinese 20. The gathering included the
whole of the Chiefs of Staffs Committee,
which designs the Anglo-American war,
the Chinese commanders, the Com-
manders-in-Chief in every fighting zone
except the Honolulu area and the South-
west Pacific, together with the British
Foreign Secretary, his permanent Under-
secretary and the American Ambassador
to Moscow.
P.M. and President moved on to Iran
to meet Marshal Stalin with plans for the
East Asian war ,cut and dried, their ob-
jectives framed and announced so that
the Russian delegation will find the Far-
Eastern war policies of the Allies settled.
Russia’s Position
There is no disguising the fact that the
importance of the Cairo Conference will
be governed by what happened at the
conference with Marshal Stalin. Hitherto,
Russia has demanded and received huge
help from her Allies, but in the conduct
of actual operations has adopted a policy
of complete isolation.
If the parties to the Cairo Confer-
ence can break through this absolute iso-
lation, it will shorten the war immeasur-
ably. The crucial need in Europe is
eastern air bases. Given air bases in
Russia in the spring the R.A.F. can do
what the Russians have no hope of doing
—blast out the great bases of the Ger-
man rear by night bombing; attack the
Balkans by air from two sides; dis-
organise the Balkan traffic lines and
waterways; give full air suppoit for
Balkan landings. ,
An agreement which will allow the
Allies to co-operate within Russia would
assure victory in Europe in 1944. Victory
in Europe and Russian co-operation to
the extent of allowing the Allies to use
Russian railway lines to base attacks on
Manchuria and Japan proper would put
a completely new complexion on the
Eastern war.
If the granting of these facilities can
be achieved the effect on Axis morale in
all quarters will be tremendous ; the mili-
tary effects decisive.
Such an agreement would assure that
the fourth phase of the war is the final
one.
British Air Ministry estimates of losses of
bombers operating from bases in Britain:
Jan. 1-June 11. June 12-Nov. 30.
British .. 917 1272
American .. 106 723
Total, 3018.
This means the loss by death or capture of
from 21,000 to 25,000 men, apart from wounded.
The loss of machines is small compared with the
damage done to German industry, and, being
under five per cent, of the total machines used,
shows a remarkable proportional reduction of
losses since 1940-41.
* * * *
In a disastrous aircraft crash in New Guinea,
Lieut.-Colonel E. V. perrey, R.A.S.C., an officer
of great experience with war vehicles and a
veteran of France, Dunkirk and the Middle
East, who was a member of the British Mili-
tary Mission, was among the killed —15. Other
valuable officers who lost their lives were Lieut.-
Colonel J. B. Bolger (29), a Duntroon man
who was wounded in Syria jtwo brothers are on
service with the A.1.F.); Lt.-Colonel E. J.
Marston, an original member of the Second
A.I.F. and sometime Assistant Deputy-Director
of Ordnance in Malaya (he survived from a ship
sunk by bombs after he got away from Singa-
pore); Major J. F. McCarthy; Capt. W. G.
Campbell; First-Officer J. Henderson and
Engineer K. Little, of the aircraft crew, with
Flt.-Sgt's. L. H. Jenke (S.A.) and N. G. Ewan
(S.A.). Two U.S. Red Cross correspondents,
Robert E. Lewis and Harry H. Po£\jgue, and
four unnamed personnel completed the sad list.
* * * *
U.S. Army casualties on all fronts to Nov.
15 were 94,198; those of all services, 126,969.
In Italy 1811 U.S. Army men have been killed,
7091 wounded and 2670 are missing. In Jap
prison camps 1610 Americans are known to
have died.
* * * *
The Japanese hold 592 British Army officers
and 32,274 other ranks, 189 R.N. officers and
1707 ratings.
* * * *
The Burmese front showed livelier activity
all through the week. Raids .included a savage
Allied attack on the Rangoon area, and the
first Jap attack since January on Calcutta.
$ * * *
In an eight-day battle over three Allied con-
voys in the North Atlantic, British and U.S.
aircraft destroyed six U-boats and drove off
nine others. No ships were lost in the convoys,
but one British Liberator, captained by Wing-
Commander R. F. Longmore, son of the Aus-
tralian-born Air Chief Marshal Longmore, was
shot down.
r-f * * *
The Admiralty report's the loss of the de-
stroyer Hurworth.


Australia
is a Food
Arsenal of the
Allied World!
Australia has a key role in
the global strategy of the
war—to produce and send
away greater quantities of
food than ever before.
Part of this food must go,
not to increase but merely
to maintain the slender'
rations of the British
people. Part must go to
feed a giant Pacific offen-
sive. Part must go to the
Allied forces in the Medi-
terranean area.
A great united national
effort is needed to meet our
food commitments. We are
all in duty and honour
bound to produce more and
consume less.
How You
Can Help
1. If you have a garden, start a vegetable plot
now. It pays. 2. Keep a few fowls—they’ll
supply you with eggs and an occasional
chicken to supplement your meat ration. 3.
Avoid waste. Cook only enough for one meal.
Plan your meals for the best nutriment value.
FOOD is the Highway to VICTORY
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control ,
¥l-27
tiTHITE Hon®
"iokh Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London* •
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Victoria Park meeting at Rosehill
on Saturday did not attract the large
crowd customary at recent fixtures at
that track, but the racing was excellent.
Only one first favorite was successful,
and in Boomanulla the club’s new handi-
capper, H. Frank, gave the books the best
winner they have had for some time.
Riverton’s showing in the Flying Han-
dicap unpleasantly surprised his backers.
Fourth to Milanja, Martheus and Noble-
man (Darke) after going nearly half a
mile he failed to run on, finishing a long
way back. Milanja, who may not be long
in returning to the winning list, led Mar-
theus and Nobleman into the straight,
but the last-named was in charge a fur-
long from home, and won comfortably
from Merrimba, though the latter made
up a lot of ground from the turn. Davinia,
in third place, also finished well, after
being slow in fairly finding her legs.
Hydra was slow to commence, and
then, after being prominent halfway down
the straight, weakened at the end.
Edigram (Mulley), who ran up to
Chatham’s Choice at the turn, finished
strongly to win the Tuff Club Handicap
from Faerie Queene, who was third at the
turn. Halfway down the straight there
was so little in it.between Edigram, Chat-
ham’s Choice, Faerie Queene and The
Gambler that each was a possibility, but
Edigram lasted longest. There was merit
in his win, even though many of Faerie
Queene’s backers thought she should have
beaten him.
A 71b. allowance for his apprentice
rider, Swinton, stood to Invictus in the
Juvenile Handicap. Fourth to Gay King,
Samoyed and Union Jack into the straight
he was a winner commencing the final
furlong, Gay King (by Coronation) in
third place shaped promisingly, as did
Union Jack (Flight’s half-brother) and
Prince Galahad. Invictus, who was a
llOOgns. yearling, is by Golden Sovereign
from Gaterina (imp.), by Prince Galahad,
a son of Prince Palatine.
Supreme Lady and dapel, the two best-
backed runners for the Nursery Handi-
cap, were failures. • The last-mentioned
did display some form, but Supreme Lady
was not sighted, and the winner turned
up in her 20-to-l stablemate Ducal Gem
(Shean), who was not troubled after
fettling My Win at the turn. Lady Bar-
lene cut My Win out of second place,
*nd Silver Field (by Nuffield) did best of
the remainder. Bred at Kia-Ora, and
sold for 800gns. as a yearling, Ducal
Gem is a half-sister, by Le Grand Due,
to Evergreen.
Beau Rasade tried to win the En-
courage Stakes all the way, but was
easily beaten by Cordale (J. Thompson),
who had his measure at the leger.
Medieval Queen, who, as usual, was slow
in finding her legs and was among the
backward division at the turn, ran third,
succeeded by the three-year-old Thanks
America (by Constant Son) and Mark
Hua (by Hua), both of whom will im-
prove. Cordale is a natty three-year-old
by Conspirator from Lady Rossendale, by
Rossendale from Gidgiel.
Boomanulla (Hogg) was a surprise
packet in the Three-year-old Handicap.
His previous form did not suggest that
he was of much account, but getting to
the front in the straight he lasted long
enough to win from Castle Frontenac’s
stable companion Annie Laurie, who did
not get clear until rather late, and was
probably unlucky to lose. Beacon, who
did the pacemaking, was a good third,
and then Marlume, a Marconigram colt,
West Point and Van Eyck were promi-
nent to the turn, but could not see it out,
while the favorite, Haddon Hall, got into
so much trouble that his failure was ex-
cusable. Yaralla’s well-grown sister
Kardinia was a runner, but did not dis-
play any of her brother’s pace. Though
unplaced, Code*— hampered in the
straight—and Chatster ran sufficiently
well to be worth keeping in mind. Booma-
nulla is by Pantheon from Margarethal
(Valais-Manganui), dam of Merrie
Miller.
Glendower’s (Bartle) bad luck must
have been greater than generally noted
when he was unplaced at Randwick a
week earlier. He ran away with the
Welter Handicap after High Flight and
Haripur led into the straight. In third
place Air Link finished fairly after fail-
ing to get near the front along the back.
Dick Whittington was well placed at the
turn, as was Bragger, but in getting
fourth Sir Tennyson finished better than
any of the unplaced lot.
* * * *
Peter, one of the most improved stayers
in training, followed up his Mentone win
by defeating Azores and Valour in the
£750 Benevolent Handicap at Flemington
on Saturday. A five-year-old gelding by
Peter Pan from Sequoia, he is a bargain
at the "240gns. paid for him by Mrs. D.
W, Reddan about a year ago. Peter ran
surprisingly well in the Melbourne Cup,
and it is likely now that he will be rested
until it is time to begin a preparation for
the Australian Cup.
H. Badger, premier Victorian jockey
for five successive seasons, was given, a
warm reception after his win on Canada
in the Lowan Handicap. It was his first
success since he resumed race riding on
Melbourne Cup day after a motor acci-
dent that had kept hip out of the saddle
since the end of February. A leg which
was broken on that occasion is still
massaged daily. Badger is an. idol with
Melbourne race crowds, and, having re-
turned to form, will quickly regain his
former public following. Canada was
heavily backed down to 7 to 2, and
finished too* well for his 50-to-l stable-
mate Antos.
■ Beverley May and Ellipsis gave
bookmakers 100-to-l “results” in their
respective races, Beverley May, a filly
by Portofino from Lady Ormsby, com-
bined speed and gameness to win the
Maroondah Handicap for two-year-olds,
and is a bargain at her yearling price of
75gns. Her trainer, S. E. Murphy, a son
of successful trainer Steve Murphy,
served for about two years with the
A.I.F, in the Middle East. Ellipsis, sur-
prise winner of the second Buxton Han-
dicap, had raced only once previously—
unplaced in a Maiden Plate at Geelong.
Trainer F. Hoysted was preparing him
for jumping races, and he had schooled
over hurdles and fences. He is a five-
year-old gelding by Parenthesis from
Laira.
Cacique, backed from 15 to 1 down to
6 to 1, improved on his Mentone form
of a week earlier by defeating Phillip
(100 to 1) and Leahero in the Highweight
Handicap. His stablemate The Trapper,
also starting at 6 to 1, finished eighth.
Legion Chief, winner at Mentone a week
earlier, reproduced that form in outstay-
ing Helianthe and Grecian Rule in the
first Buxton Handicap. Legion Chief was
weedy as a young horse and developed
splints when last in work, but he is free
of trouble now and should keep on im-
proving. All Saints, 20-to-l winner of
the Catani Hurdle, improved on his form
at Mentone a week earlier. He finished
fourth, about 12 lengths behind Silgaro
at Mentone, but, with 101 b. the better
of the weights, defeated Silgaro by four
lengths on Saturday.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing at Newcastle and
Rosehijl discounted the chances in the
summer handicaps of two previously
fancied horses —Main Topic and Riverton.
Main Topic’s showing with 9.9 in City
Tattersall’s Cup threw doubt upon his
ability as a weight-carrier, and that was
emphasised by his Newcastle failure with
9.8. The longer distance may be in his
favor in the Summer Cup, but his 9.7 is
likely to 'prove a load. It is customary to
talk of the poor company figuring in
distance races at summer meetings in
Sydney. That should favor the top-
weights, but in the last 20 years there
has not been a place-getter in the Sum-
mer Cup with as much as 9.0,
Riverton’s run in the Victoria Park
Flying Handicap was distinctly poor, and
a fortnight’s interval may not permit of
much improvement in his condition. He
drops 21b. in the Villiers, against Noble-
man’s 61b., Merrimba’s 21b. and Davinia’s
41b., so figures are against him. An addi-
tional furlong would seemingly not have
enabled either Merrimba or Davinia to
beat Nobleman at Rosehill, though
Davinia came from a long way back, and
of last Saturday’ls Villiers runners at
Rosehill Nobleman and Glendower stand
out. The trouble with the latter may be
that he is possibly much better at the
welter than the ordinary scale. Grand
Fils, third in last year’s Villiers with 8.1
—he has 7.11 this time —is improving,
as is Hydra, though the latter may
scarcely have time to reach his best by
Saturday week. The Red Cross meeting
will enlighten backers more concerning
Villiers and Summer Cup possibilities
than anything that has happened since
spring racing at Randwick.
Enderby’s second in the Newcastle Cup
with 8.2 was a good effort, but it scarcely
pointed to him as the probable winner
of the Summer Cup with 7.11. Third in
that race last year with 6.11 he was
beaten by Lambeth (7.7) for second. This
time there is only a pound between them,
and Lambeth, the younger horse, should
have made greater improvement.
* * *
No man can make a marked success
of training unless he has the right material
to work on, but, at the same time, long
association with racing tends to the con-
clusion that “licensed horse-minders” will
always greatly outnumber real trainers.
* * * *
Bearing on tote betting it is not un-
usual to hear the comment that “it is the
same money turning over and over.”
Probably right to some extent, but, in
the main, wide of the mark. Assuming
ss. units total 40,000 on the first race,
and of these 5000 return dividends and
winners double their stakes, 30,000 units
are still required to bring betting pn the
next race up to the same level as on the
previous one. If backers who collected
put the full amount of their dividends
on the succeeding race the same money
would again be going through the
machine ; but very few backers play up
all their winnings on the following race.
The tote bettor who has reached the last
race without drawing a dividend of any
kind would be hard to convince that it
is the same money playing all the time.
His experience does not uphold that idea.
The same could be said of money bet
with bookmakers, and would be equally
incorrect.
Ji: * He *
The hooting habit at Sydney race-
courses is rather amusing. If any promi-
nent rider wins a couple of races he is,
on returning to the weighing-yard, met
with yells of “Good boy ; they can’t beat
you.” If later on the same day he is
beaten on a short-priced favorite loudly-
voiced doubts are likely to be thrown
on his honesty or else he is accused of
going to sleep. Neither racecourse
approbation nor condemnation should
weigh greatly with owners, trainers or
jockeys. It’s all a matter of cash with
those who cheer or hoot.
Miscellaneous
Displaying form far below what he
had shown in previous contests, Ern
Clingan was outfought by A 1 Walker at
Leichhardt. Walker kept on after rounds,
but did no damage in these spasms. A
straight right to the chin shook him in
the fifth and right uppercuts rattled him
in other rounds, but his right played
havoc with the Clingan countenance, and
he was a decisive winner on points.
Recently announced as about to retire,
Norm Harvey had another bout with
Bob Turner; at Sydney Stadium. It was
Turner who retired —at least, for the
night, with some assistance. A right to
the chin floored him for “nine in the
third round, and another right knocked
him out.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOTr
Trial Handicap: Marquis, 1 ;
Goya, 2; White Feather, 3.
Voluntary Aids Handicap: Hawk
Craig, 1; Bravo, 2 ; Prince Verity, 3.
Florence Nightingale Handicap:
Royal Peer, 1 ; Sincerity, 2 ; Code,
3.
A.I.F. Quality Handicap: Pan-
chio, l ; Yaralla, 2; Kingsdale or
Nobleman, 3.
Red Cross Cup: Ron Rico, 1 ;
Modulation, 2 ; Cream Puff or Lady
Hamilton, 3.
Diggers’ Highweight Handicap:
Glendower, 1 ; Air Link, 2 ; Pall
Mall or The Champion, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Giving is going to be mostly a
family affair this Christmas, as it’s realised
that indulgence in buying the rather
futile collection of oddments that go by
the name of Christmas presents in ordi-
nary years does the war effort no good
at all. With only three coupons as the
tally on its head the slipper has become
the inter-family gift par excellence. But,
alas, the glamorous Cinderella ones —
heelless mules and satin-and-swansdown
affairs— r are gone from the shops, and
buyers must turn to good warm Aunty
Jane sorts that make six o’clock on a
winter’s morning not quite so bad for the
war-worker.
One-day shops and markets, in busi-
ness for patriotic funds, are able to turn
to good account the human race’s passion
for grabbing as much as possible of any-
thing there isn’t much of. There’s more
than that, however, in the rush to buy
the hand-made and hand-sewn things sold
at these affairs. To a great extent it’s
a tribute to the excellent value offered,
and to the fact that coupons aren’t asked
for. Case in point was Silver Door’s
record one-day-sale total of £l6OO. The
shop was very largely stocked with
solidly-made, if luxurious, clothing,
coupon free. People were quite happily
paying up to six guineas an article for it.
Free Kindergartens benefited.
If Father Christmas loses his way on
the night of the 24th or just can’t re-
member where Jimmy Smith’s living
now, he’ll find still functioning at the
midnight hour "the A.C.F. Hospitality
Bureau, a fount of information as well as
of hospitality. Voluntary workers at the
bureau are making late nights of both
Christmas Eve and the Day in case a few
service men with nowhere to go should
turn up on last-minute leave. The
bureau is putting in overtime finding
billets with fun and hominess for ser-
vice lads and lasses on Christmas leave.
It’s hoped that lots more offers of hos-
pitality will be made, as the need is
great.
With year’s end in sight the Hospitality
Bureau’s organiser, Mrs. Tony Riddell, is
sending out paeans of praise to the many
individual women and clubs who’ve been
on the list of regular hostesses throughout
the year. As they’re too numerous to
be thanked by letter, she’s breathing her
acknowledgments in a few ears and
hoping the message will go the rounds.
The bureau has been pleased to discover
that the reason many hostesses have
dropped out of the roster is that the
service boys they’ve looked after have
made a permanent friendship with them,
and come back each leave to the same
home.
The development of an industry from
home beginnings is marked by the instal-
lation of machinery at the Herbs for the
Fighting Forces Auxiliary depot in the
grounds of Government House. The
auxiliary deals with the supply of herbs
to all Commonwealth forces, as well as
Allied and British naval units this side of
Gibraltar, and it has been found that the
demand is now too great to be met en-
tirely by hand. The new machines will
thresh, blend and pack herbs. The scheme
was started by Mrs. Sheila Monks as a
purely individual venture, and she is still
in control of the organisation. Her hope
is to make herb preparation a returned-
soldier industry after war, with the object
of benefiting particularly men who are
not completely fit. In pre-war days
commercial herbs were all prepared in
Europe.
The Angliss lady on Friday entertained
at a Christmas party representatives of
nearly 60 organisations interested in child
welfare. The lunch, at the Victoria, was
an exceedingly nice one, and the men
and women collected there represented all
phases of work for the young, delegates
including Greig Smith, who has for so
many years done such sterling work for
Victoria’s charities, Mrs. T. a’Beckett,
who has battled in season and out for
free kindergartens, Miss Mary Lush, an-
other great kindergartener, and clergy
and workers of every denomination which
supports children’s institutions. All are
looking forward to a conference on child
welfare early in the new year.
A rustic setting was chosen by Joan
Barnes and Bill Gray for their wedding
on Friday last. Spot was the little stone
church at Doncaster, near the home of
the bride’s parents, Major and Mrs. J. F.
Barnes. The event was squeezed into a
brief span of leave from service duties,
and both were in uniform, bride in
A.W.A.S. khaki, and ’groom, who is the
eldest son of Lt.-Col. and Mrs. W. M.
Gray, of Sandringham, in newly-donned
Air Force blue. He lately transferred
from A.1.F., with which he saw service
in Greece, Crete and Libya.
Patricia Tait, daughter of the John
Taits of the well-known clan, announces
her engagement to John O’Shaughnessy,
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. P. O’Shaughnessy,
with the wedding date fixed for early in
1944. Betrothal was sealed with a very
fetching ruby and diamond ring, a great
“find” in these days when the newly-
engaged young man has to search all
corners of an almost ringless world.
Patricia, who’s been dong a war job and
helping to keep the home fires burning, is
following four sisters up the matrimonial
path. Two are living in England at the
moment.
fhe Matthews pair will open the
Beethoven season in Melbourne on Satur-
day, the 11th, and in recitals on the 14th
and 16th will cover the violin sonatas, to
the great satisfaction of the musical, as
they are not heard here too often.
Pianist Mrs. Matthews (Eileen Ralph on
the programme) is here pictured by John
Lee. The pair’s matrimonial as well as
musical partnership goes back to the days
when both played in Myra Hess’s
National Gallery recitals which kept
English music ' alive when the war
threatened to engulf it. Apropos of
galleries, Mrs. Matthews’s hobby is col-
lecting postcard prints of famous pic-
tures. When travelling, as the pair
generally are in these days, she displays
them under the glass tops of hotel-room
tables.
In spite of the speeding up that war
has given to most matrimonial plans Joan
Isaacson’s six-day engagement (announced
on Saturday, and the lass is to say “I
will” tomorrow). is something of a
record. Bridegroom is Lieut. Richard
Beck, • A.1.F., and Joan, who is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson of this city and sister of Flight-
Lieutenant Peter Isaacson, skipper of the
Lancaster bomber, is an Awa. Before
joining the service she was engaged in
photography. She has put her know-
ledge to good use in her service work.
Addressing the medical women’s dinner
last week Dr. Edith Paterson, of cancer
research fame, revealed herself as having,
like many of her sisters, a propensity for
leaving things in trains, trams and buses.
“Left on the seat” was the text of her
speech for the evening, a bright and very
human chat about the effects of the blitz
on the British people. The Paterson pair,
when being interviewed, always face re-
porters in duo, so that one knows what
the other has said.
Gertrude Healy’s string orchestra
which played at the Albert-street Con.
do last week showed with what aplomb
the very young can take the strain of
public performance. Though mostly
teen-age and even under they took the
stage like veterans. Specialising with
young people, Gertrude Healy is in the
van of those who want orchestras estab-
lished in every school and suburb because
that is the best way of training both
students and audiences in musical appre-
ciation. As a conductor she wields the
baton with either hand, and has that
rarity among women conductors a really
neat back hair-do.
Good news for her many friends in
Melbourne comes from Sybil Willey, re-
cuperating in Queensland from a recent
illness. Medical powers that be have said
that she’ll soon be well enough to go on
with her singing career and her voice has
lost nothing of its quality. A Melba
Scholarship winner of a few years ago,
she is one of the most popular of this
city’s young singers, combining an un-
usually fine mezzo-soprano voice with a
pleasing personality.
From Sydney
Next Saturday afternoon Admiralty
House will be the trysting-place of friends
of the Y.W.C.A. War-time services in
particular will benefit from the afternoon,
which is to be one of music. Baritone
Arnold Matters and pianists Frank Hut-
chens and Lindley Evans are on the pro-
gramme. After the music there will be
tea. Subscription is one guinea a ticket.
If Laurence Macaulay ever gives up
his job as treasurer to the Society for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind Children
he should make a name for himself as
a theatrical director. Last week the Scot-
tish Society and Burns Association, under
his guidance, put on a programme of
Scottish folklore and song with an inti-
mate charm. The big reception-room of
the Overseas Club was the spot chosen
for this St. Andrew’s Day celebration.
Around the piano were grouped in easy,
friendly fashion the night’s singers and
entertainers. The compere would start
the ball rolling saying: “You mind that
song of Bobbie Burns’s, Elsie?” and Elsie
Findlay without more ado would sing it.
The other programme-tfiakers took their
turn in the same fashion.
»Lord Wakehurst was one of the con-
tributors. He came with a rather big
book which held Scots stories and
legends. He read with just the right touch
“The Black Dog’s Day,” a story steeped
in the mystic and the fey. Lady Wake-
hurst, too, was at the party, and
thoroughly enjoyed the whole night,
especially • the history of the Black
Watch told by a veteran. When the vice-
regals were departing the word was
quietly spoken and the company began to
sing in a whisper “Will ye no come back
again?” When they reached the door the
old Jacobite song rose in volume, and the
Governor turned his head to say “Indeed
we will, if you will have us.”
Gifted and attractive Marie Bremner
(below) will be the soprano in the
A.B.C.’s presentation of Handel’s “Mes-
siah” on December 14. The Town Hall
will resound to the uplifted voices of 350
performers. Vivian Peterson will con-
duct. Evelyn Hall, Edward Smith and
Stanley Clarkson will also sing solo num-
bers. Marie Bremner is now starring in
the Gilsullivan season at the Royal. It
yvill be interesting to watch the transition
from these gaieties to the solemnities of
oratorio.
Dame Constance D’Arcy, the newly-
elected deputy-chancellor of the Uni-
versity, was the guest of the Society of
Women Writers last Thursday. The
dining-room of the Chelsea Club was
filled to capacity, so eager were the mem-
bers to congratulate the popular doctor
on her distinction. As far as can be
found out, Dr. D’Arcy is the only woman
deputy-chancellor of a university. That
it is the one she graduated from gives
just the right touch. The Dame, very
smart in a black suit and small black hat,
had pinned a spray of mauve blooms on
her lapel for the occasion.
Her speech was a delight. It took in
the whole of womanhood while
apparently concerning itself only with the
writers of the sex. One sage touch was
that she thought that perhaps women of
old wrote under men’s names because,
being women, Jhey knew they revealed
themselves in their work. President
Nora Kelly introduced the speaker, the
Countess de Vilme-Hautmont spoke the
thanks and Dame Mary Gilmore, being
persuaded thereto, gave speech, giving
yet another proof of Dame Constance’s
popularity and worth. When some years
ago women became fellows of the Senate
some of them were appointed, but Dr.
Connie D’Arcy was an elected member.
Sculptor Theo Cowan, Grace Scobie,
Mrs. Greg McGirr, Mrs. A. G. Thomas
and Mrs. H. Twigden were old friends
who came to applaud.
Sydney journalist Marie Marshall is
being bombarded with congratulations on
her dog book, Tony Tithers, which
appeared in the shops last week. The
story of Tony’s life is written with such
affectionate detail as to suggest it is a
good deal biographical. Children of ail
ages will love this story and the illustra-
tions which plentifully be-star it. The
drawings are by the writer’s artist
brother-in-law John Magrath, now serv-
ing with the A.I.F.
Mrs. Foster, busy with two recitals
by her own students and a joint
one with husband Roland’s pupils, took
time to stage a pre-wedding tea for
violinist Norma Cox. The entrance hall,
the lounge and the dining-room of the
Foster flat looked like a setting for the
Lily Maid of Astolat. They were massed
with November lilies with stems yards
long, or so it seemed. Rust bottlebrush
stood sentinel at vantage points. The
tea was a gift one, and the guest looked
very pleased to receive tea, jars of green
peas, 'various meat pastes, handbags,
mixing bowls and a shopping bag (with-
out which no woman is the compleat
housekeeper these days). Shortly after
Christmas Norma has her matrimonial
rendezvous with Corporal Thomas James
Bartley, of Brisbane.
When Authority told Santa Claus to
“move on” it forgot to forbid the
Christmas-tree to grow. This oversight
is responsible for the 18-footer which is
already beginning to fruit, and will be in
full bloom in the Town Hall on Decem-
ber 17. The glittering beauty will be
star attraction around which will be
grouped toys and fairings gay and blithe
for the children, more useful for mothers.
There are to be 10,000 lucky shilling
packets, redecorated and new toys,
second-hand books. The prizes for lucky
numbers will make the home-maker s
eye glitter: a Royal Doulton dinner-
set, a set of enamel saucepank, em-
broidered curtains, a gold watch and a
tea and coffee set. The Norman Nock
lady is the president of the committee,
Miss Leo Wray the organiser. Doors
open at ten o’clock, and Lady Wake-
hurst makes official speech at half-past
two.
Evelyn Ippen and Bettina Vernon
were responsible for the choreography
and dress designing of “L’Aiglon,” pre-
sented at the Conservatorium in aid of
French prisoners of war. The sympathy-
arousing story of Napoleon’s son, the
eaglet who visioned greatness for his
country but who was already doomed,
was well conveyed. Trafford Whitelock
was the Chancellor Metternich of the
piece. The good cause was benefited by
a crowded house. Lady Wakehurst was
in the audience. With her were Peter
Lubbock and Joan Holman.
From a small shop in Rowe-street to
every military camp in Australia, yea,
and to the literature-hungry boys fight-
ing in the North, neatly-bound books
are dispatched regularly. This is the
C.U.S.A. Library, and to raise funds to
keep the service going the workers have
opened a Christmas-gift shop. Here are
presents for all the family, from baby
upwards, and as some of the prices are
as low as two shillings nobody’s purse
is strained. Specially noted were the
writing-pads with covers of prints of the
Old Masters, some old Doulton pieces,
and a family of dolls. Pots of mint jelly
and pickles tied up in transparent
wrapping are attractive-looking and eco-
nomical gifts.
End-of-the-year drinks for members of
the Royal Historical Society and their
friends were neither meagre nor sumptu-
ous-just a nice even tenor of sherry and
fruit drinks. It was an affair with as
mellow an effulgence as that streaming
through a stained-glass window.
President Alfred Stephen and secretary
Price Conigrave saw that drinks and
guests circulated, though Judge Max-
well and Dr. George Mackanness
(just back from conferring in Tasmania)
yarned in the same spot for at least 20
minutes. Mrs. Mackanness was one of
the day’s hostesses, and Mrs. Innes was
the centre of a Port Moresby group. The
services were represented; and Aubrey
Halloran added an extra spot of bright-
ness to the society’s rooms in History
House.
Untold numbers of Australia’s citizens
owe a debt to Sister Alice Giles, of
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. For 27-
years this devoted nurse has given cheer-
ful service in this vast maternity hospital.
Here she commenced her training, and,
going through every phase of the work,
has of late years been a sister tutor to
trainees. She believes that modern
equipment makes the lot of the nurse of
today an easier if not a happier one than
fell to the beginners of her own time.
There was a great rally at the Fullarton
Memorial Hall, opposite the hospital, one
night last week, when the nursing staff
and the honorary medical staff surrounded
her with a farewell party, garnished with
presentations.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch;
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need*
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
FAMOUS SAUCES BY
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
GEAR LEVERS
ARE NOT GADGETS
It’s a fact that Ford V-8 and Mercury cars can be
started off in top gear. You can take our word for that.
But, as you value your vehicle, don’t ever treat it so
callously.
We are prone to forget that the engine turns at
more or less constant speed. It is the function of the
gear-box to apply the engine ’s ‘ ‘ turning force ’’ to the
wheels as conditions require.
A car with a three-speed gear-box gives you three
ways to apply that force. Each gear “ratio” is put there
for a purpose. You shouldn’t expect top gear to do
the work of second, or second to do the work of low
gear. Use each gear for the job it was designed to do.
When moving off, get the most out of each gear
before moving into a higher one. You can sense when
to change if you listen to the engine “surge.” When
that surge seems to flatten out and reach its peak, it’s
time to change.
Most hills can be taken in top gear. But pushing
your engine to its limit won’t get you there any faster
in the long run. When climbing a grade, or turning a
corner, don’t be reluctant to change down, ‘ 1 Hanging on
in top” strains engine and transmission system. It’s
steady, even driving, not bursts of speed, that counts.
intelligent use of the gear lever will lengthen your car’s life.
Ford Transport Conservation
Series —No. 7
d
Issued by Ford Motor Company ■
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve motor vehicles —
a vital national asset.
/ . t
BUY WAR BONDS AND HASTEN VICTORY
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. In Vic.). Eeg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted, woman over 45, for Grill Jloom.”
— Daily-papeifaidvt.
No chicken.
* * *
Even a sweet young thing can have a
bitter experience.
❖ " 4* ❖
“In the first' 50 pages of the book the mur-
derer strangles at least a dozen characters.”
—Book review.
A real breath-taking thriller.
“Greb broke my nose in the first round,
and opened both my eyes in the second.”
—Gene Tunney in Sydney “Sun.”
Well, that was asking for it!
•b *l* *!•
“Chiropodists Want Board.”
— “Argus” heading.
Contending, doubtless, that it will help
to put them on their feet.
Like every other Canberra resident, Mr.
May is fond of its flowering trees.”
— Woman’s paper.
The blooming politicians, however, are
not so popular.
•b •b -•&
Seizing a trowel she wiped her face and
hands .’’—“Sun. 1 ”
Some of ’em certainly do put the paint
on thick,
*b *b *b
Futurity.
Perchance the whole creation moves
To some far-off divine event;
Yet still would I be quite content
E’en were it slipping off the grooves.
I care not what the final close
Of this old universe may be;
Tonight is greater far to me.
My oath! I’ve got a meet with Rose !
T. W. N.
Strictly Not Speaking.
“A woman told the Sydney Divorce Court that
the serious arguments in her home started when
she told her husband that she refused to speak
to him again until he had apologised.”
It can happen that way.
“I-refuse to speak to you again. I
won’t as much as open my mouth to
you,” says Maria in moments of
belligerency.
Curbing the impulse to ask “Is that a
promise?” I merely register a silent hope
that she means what she says.
“No ; I wouldn’t waste my breath on
you,” says Maria. “After what you have
done I certainly intend never to speak
to you again.”
Not knowing what I have done —or
rather not knowing which of the things
I may have done that she’s heard about
—I keep a discreet silence. A guessed
defence only lands you in a mess, anyway.
“But I really did think, Aitchem, that
before you did such an underhand thing
you’d have thought of your wife and
family. I did give you credit for a little
decency; although I ought to have
known”
By-and-by I draw Maria’s attention
to the fact that it is 11 p.m., and as she
has been not speaking to me for three,
hours and a half she must be tired.
“Don’t you dare tell me the time. I’m
not speaking to you,” says Maria.
I wait until I think she has had time to
get to sleep and then I go to bed myself.
But she wakes, and when I remind her
about the not-speaking business she
starts in real earnest.
Ultimately I find that she wants a new
handbag, and when I spar up for it she
graciously consents to get back on speak-
ing terms again.
H. M.
Double Disaster.
“Neat tailoreds were popular at Flemington.
White hat's, always a good, bet, adorned many
heads —in fact, many women were hatless.”
— Woman’s paper.
Though looking smart in tailored skirt
It’s painfully apparent that.
What time Jim Punter staked his shirt,
His missus bet (and lost) her hat.
PERCY.
Coalminers on Campaign.
11.
The members of the Miners’ Battalion
were lolling on the river bank. Some
v/ere desultorily fishing, but most of them
were sitting around languidly discussing
their grievances. They had been on strike
for a week. On one occasion they had
lined up for parade, but before the n.c.os.
could call the roll they had retired again
to discuss a resolution that (a) the Min-
ister for the Army and the G.O.C. should
be brought before the Strike Committee
to hear its proposals for setting up
machinery to end disputes in the fighting
industry; ( b ) demands be presented that
whenever the battalion happens to be
on strike orderlies from other near-by
units be detailed off to bring rations to
and cook for the strikers wherever they
happen to decide to fill in their strike
time.
As they idled there their 0.C., Colonel
Wells, came up. “Good day, boys.
Enjoying yourselves? You know, you
really should be back. I believe the unit
on our left flank can’t move against the
Nips on the ridge ahead because your
not holding the line would leave their
. right flank up in the air.”
Private Skiphand stood up. “Look
here, Wellsey,” he said truculently, “are
you tryin’ to urge the blokes back to
fight? How do we know the mob on
our left have all got union tickets? For
all we know, they might be a bunch o’
‘scabs’! An’, get this —we don’t go back
till Private Pitprop, the senior shop
steward, gits the adjutant’s job!”
“But the adjutant was specially lent to
the battalion because of his wide experi-
ence and record”
“Just because he had two years in the
Middle East and eighteen months here
in the jungle an’ got an M.C. an’ bar
don’t mean he knows as much about go-
slow tactics as Private Pitprop, does it?
Has he ever thought up a decent excuse
for a strike since he come to the batt.?
No! Well, if he’s not sent back an’ Pit-
prop put in his place we don’t go back,
see?”
“All right, all right, men! I’ll arrange
it. Only do come back. Now, is there
anything else you’d like?”
“Plenty, Wellsey, an’ see we get ’em.
We want time an’ a half durin’ strikes
for the inconvenience we’re put to ; no
red-ink entries in the paybook of anyone
who gits aimed into the boob ; double
time Sundays an’ holidays, with special
war loadin’ for runners, wirin’ parties an’
stretcher-bearers; an’ the settin’ up of.a
Infantry Reference Board, with the bat-
talion reservin’ the right to strike if the
shop stewards’ committee don’t agree with
its findin’s.”
“Granted, though J don’t think the
G.O.C. will like it.”
“Oh, he won’t, eh?” spoke up Private
Dogsbody. “We’ll see about that. The
trouble with that old blank is that he
thinks more of winnin’ the war than of
gettin’ us increases in pay an’ better
workin’ conditions.”
Next day the whole battalion reported
back for duty, but on getting orders to
move up to battle position the men held
a stop-fight meeting outside the cook-
house, when it was found they’d have to
traverse some kunai. which was over the
height set by the shop stewards. This
was straightened out when the O.C, prom-
ised to send native laborers to cut the
grass to the required height.
As they were waiting around for the
work to be finished, Cpl. Ledswinger,
who had been reading a newspaper,
jumped up. “One out, all out, blokes!”
he announced. As the troops slung down
their equipment, Col. Wells came up and
asked what was the trouble,
Cpl. Ledswinger pointed to the paper,
“It says here that a bloke named Harry
Smith is bein’ divorced by his missus,
We had a Harry Smith a deputy once at
Richmond Main. He shifted to Victoria
about 15 year ago, an’ this notice is in
a Victorian paper. It must be him all
right. WeTe strikin’ in sympathy.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Money Cheaper than Blood
Professor Wadham, acting chairman
of the Rural Reconstruction Commis-
sion, says the Bradfield scheme to divert
coastal waters to Centralia is imprac-
ticable owing to costliness and difficulty
of transport. But it should not be over-
looked that the Bradfield scheme is the
genesis of a defence plan—if we don’t
establish a substantial population in the
North the world will say we have no
right to hold it, and some other Power
will try to step in. If we shirk our obli-
gation to develop our northern fringe it
is going to cost a substantial quantity of
Australian blood as well as money to try
to hold it.
Irrigation is one of the most reproduc-
tive of developmental works. When
Australians emerge from this war they
are not likely to baulk at putting up the
cash for any sound scheme that would
help avoid another catastrophe, particu-
larly a scheme that is reproductive.
Money is cheaper than blood.
If the professor had been on tour with
the Eighth Army across Africa he would
have learned something of the efficiency
of modern transport. No part of Aus-
tralia is more than 600 miles from the
nearest point to the sea, and our longest
lines of transport need not mean more
than moderate charges. Eight years ago
Nairn Bros, plied sleeper-trailer buses,
57ft. long, between Baghdad and Damas-
cus, the 600-mile trip being covered in
15 hours. Automobile engineering has
advanced many strides since then. —
K. Me (N.S.W.).
Settling Coastal Land*
People who are looking towards the
Kimberleys and western N, S. Wales to
accommodate settlers after the war seem
to think our coastal country in temperate
parts is fully settled. It is not. To get an
idea of just one narrow ribbon, travel by
train to Murwillumbah in the Tweed
River district, N. S. Wales, and see how
much spare land there is. And I do not
mean land that can never be settled.
Some of it is dry country, that around
Grafton being an example, but it is not
so dry that it will not grow some payable
crop.
All that is necessary is reasonable
access to markets for particular types of
crops. The markets are already there.
The removal of preferential freight rates
on the railways and restrictions on motor
transport would help. As to the actual
growing of crops, the Agricultural De-
partment is more than willing to help
prospective farmers in selecting crops
suitable for the soil.
What worries many people is that the
young men will not stay on the land.
Who says they won’t if conditions are
reasonable? Avoid overcapitalisation (the
curse of our farming country) and
give the farmer a reasonable price for
his crop and the young men will stay
put. It is not ten years since there were
900 people balloting for one choice
block in southern Queensland. —C. L. T.
(S.A.).
Padres and Their Rank
Apparently “Commonsense” (B.
17/11/’43) has not made very extensive
inquiries about the ranking of chaplains.
An arriiy chaplain has always been a com-
missioned officer in the A.1.F., but at the
request of the chaplains-general badges
of rank were not worn from just after
; the end of the 1914-18 war, the idea
being that a man had less diffidence
about approaching a padre without pips.
This, of course, was a fallacy, for the
whole matter of contact depends on the
padre. A fool who is inaccessible because
of rank will not have his foolishness re-
moved by omitting his rank badges.
I found that I had to explain my way
into areas controlled by other than Aus-
tralian forces. After the first Bardia
show my duties took me to Australian
wounded in British and a Scottish hos-
pital. It was almost a fight to gain entry
until I was known. Our own troops
recognised us readily by the “tramlines”
on our shoulders, but one padre in the
King David Hotel, Jerusalem, was mis-
taken by a British officer for “a kind of
warrant officer in mourning.” Slight in-
convenience in the course of duty or in
certain clubs and hotels was not a worry
to us. The real trouble was from petty
officials in the A.I.F. and A.M.F., most
particularly in Australia. The evidence
Of authority had to be displayed to con-
vince some of these gentry that a padre
had a job to do and authority to do it.
Eventually, in self-defence, the badges of
rank were restored.
A unit padre, fourth-class, ranks as
captain; senior of division, third-class,
as major ; senior of corps, second class,
as lieut.-colonel, and senior of army or
A.C.G. as colonel. The respective chap-
lains-general have the rank of major-
general.
The rankings are purely relative, and
the padres’ official designation is .either
chaplain or senior chaplain. They have
no executive authority.— Padre (N.S.W.).
North Queensland Development
On the Atherton Tableland there are
waterfalls capable of generating electrical
power sufficient not only to deal with all
the wool Australia can produce, but to
supply power to many other manufac-
turing industries. And the climate is ideal
for woollen mills.
That should mean a hydro-electric
scheme that would create an asset the
value of which would far exceed the cost
of construction.
Manufacturing industry, following,
should bring to the North something like
the population it is capable of main-
taining, employing returned soldiers for
preference, as this area seems likely to be
“The cox'n sent me down to clean up the mess—come on, ’oo’s first?”
ar all times Australia’s front line of de-
fence.
Scrub-bashing machines, now used by
Allies in war work, will clear more land
in a week than an unaided man could
conquer in a lifetime, and the resultant
rich cleared land would multiply a hun-
dredfold the food production of the area.
An assured market would be available
on the spot, where, producer and con-
sumer being together, it would be pos-
sible to eliminate many of the middle-
men who increase cost to consumers and
reduce return to producers.—N. E. L.
(Q-).
Selling Young Stock
Strong are my doubts about this food
“control” when I see poddies and
vealers being sold each sale-day. I can
still buy a sucking-pig, and dairymen are
encouraged to sell their cattle for beef
and get munition jobs. If those poddies,
vealers and sucking-pigs were allowed to
mature they would help a lot next year,
and prohibition of the sale of dairy
cattle would safeguard against a shortage
of milk. —A. W. (Vic.).
Wheat Production '
The licensing of farmers and the ration-
ing of superphosphates are having a baleful
influence upon the production of wheat
which in time will lead to an acute short-
age for our own markets, with a corre-
sponding rise in price. If the present
situation continues the time will come
when there will not be sufficient grain
grown to meet our own demands, to say
nothing of the overseas market.
What is going to happen when the war
ends and the liberated people need food?
We should produce all we can and be
ready for that day. There is already a
big shortage in world production owing
to the captive peoples as well as the war-
ring nations being unable to till the same
acreage as formerly, to say nothing of
the grain destroyed through the burnt-
earth policy.
To my mind curtailing production of
foodstuffs is all wrong. We know only
too well what this has done to the egg,
dairying and vegetable industries. Where
the natural law of supply and demand is
interfered with there are bound to be
periods of plenty interspersed with
famines.
These evils lead to black-marketing,
with the consequent increase in price,
causing many to be deprived of essential
foods. Not so long ago everyone who
owned over 19 fowls was compelled to
register with the Egg Marketing Board,
causing wholesale depletion of flocks,
with its resultant decrease in production
of eggs. Only those with very short
memories have forgotten the havoc
wrought by the Apple and Pear Board ;
although this is not operating now we are
still paying exorbitant prices for apples.
Let all produce as much as they can.
We’ll need it both for ourselves and the
liberated peoples of other lands. —
A. E. K. (S.A.).
Fresh Food for the Troops
“Bumpkin” (B. 17 /11 / ’43) has the
right idea. A depot for the disposal of
surplus vegetables in the vicinity of the
markets should have defence establish-
ments as No. 1 customer.
Despite the .glut of vegetables troops
in southern areas still receive cabbage
ex tins and peas of the dried variety in
lieu of fresh greens. Similarly with
meats ; portion at least of that served
continues to arrive via the can.
■ Tinned and dehydrated vegetables and
meats are indispensable in operational
areas. Often they are in short supply,
and this not because of transport diffi-
culties. Why, then, issue them to troops
in southern areas? The fresh article is
more nutritious and more palatable.
Canning is a costly process, and to incur
this expense to serve foodstuffs to person-
nel in the very areas where these food-
stuffs are produced is neither logical nor
economical. — Stanus (Vic.).
War News
I wonder how many Australians, like
myself, are heartily sick of the way in
which the Russian war is reported.
Newspaper readers, fed on a spate of
Russian victories, are becoming impatient
of the slow, unspectacular progress we are
making in Italy and New Guinea.
Surely it would be possible to give more
space and prominence to the war in the
Pacific, without giving a distorted
view of the relative importance of the
events in each sphere. Aren’t our lads
and our allies in N.G. and thereabouts
fighting on the most difficult terrain in
the world? Is not their enemy courageous
and tenacious to the point of fanaticism?
Why then are their achievements always
regarded as much less important to Aus-
tralians than those of Russians, who have
no part in the war in the Pacific.
Must we get to Tokyo before we are
permitted to thrill with pride at our own
soldiers’ courage and endurance?
R. B. L. (Tas.).
International Problems
We won the last war militarily, but we
lost the peace. That will happen again
unless post-war problems are tackled on
a broad international basis, unless we
have permanent international collabora-
tion. If we do not attain this we shall be
plunged into another world war.
It is up to the people as well as the
politicians to see that after victory there
is not obtained merely another truce. The
people as well as the politicians must be
unremitting in their permanent peace-
building. We can do this by making our
wishes adequate and clear; by choosing
men for our Governments who are not
mere feather-nesters, but clear-thinking,
world-condition improvers.
Take one question that will face the
post-war world. Only a dunderhead can
fail to deduct that the yellow races have
learned from the whites lessons in organ-
isation, warfare, education, etc. China,
our present ally, will be a big Power
after the war, and the peace that follows
our victory will have to be a peace suit-
able not only for us but for China. It is
one of many problems that will call for
some hard thinking and courage perhaps,
but a problem that will have to be faced
unless we allow ourselves to “drift on”
to another world war. —S. C. W. (Q.).
Education in Politics
Those correspondents who urge that
some form of education in politics is
necessary may be glad to learn that it is
available. The Army, through A.E.S.,
makes provision for this.
A.E.S., in its Discussion Group Ser-
vice, amongst other subjects, provides an
instructive 11-chapter series of pamphlets
on “The Australian Political Scene.”
Possibly the civilian education services
do something similar. Gunwheel,
A.I.F. (New Guinea).
Political Qualifications
Few people would quarrel with
“Arthur’s” contention (B. 10/11/’43) that
only qualified persons of good moral
character should be permitted to stand
for Parliament; but how does he propose
to ensure this in practice? What is a
man of high moral principle?
Many a political criminal, prepared to
plunge a country into the midst of
bloody war or revolution, might be ad-
judged a paragon of morality on the
evidence of his private conduct. And
who is to decide when a man is qualified?
Certainly not the schoolmasters:, they
had Winston Churchill near the bottom
of the class. Hardly the universities:
numerous professors with the letters
which bespeak lofty intellectual achieve-
ments are almost entirely lacking in plain
horsesense, if we can judge by their public
utterances. And surely not the party in
power or a board chosen by them: that
would be tantamount to laying out the
red carpet for a dictatorship.
No, imperfect as it admittedly is, the
only practical way (and, much more im-
portant, the only safe wly) of electing
Parliamentary representatives is our
present method. — Ajax (S.A.).
Hillbillies and Their Fans
I’ve just listened to 30 wailing, sobbing
minutes of hillbilly “music” because I
wanted to find some reason for the im-
mense popularity cowboy music enjoys
among Australian citizens. I didn’t find
it. Always the theme of the songs dealt
with the old homestead or a broken-
down hobo wending his way sorrowfully
homeward, after a life of hair-raising sin,
to ask mother’s forgiveness. Jammed
in between each verse were a bar or two
of yodelling ; then back the singer would
go into another verse dripping with syn-
thetic grief,
I’ve asked radio announcers and pro-
gramme arrangers—l’m on beer terms
with a number of them —why they put
such tripe on the air. “Because,” one
of them told me once, “if we didn’t the
listening public would run us out of
town. They demand the stuff in the
country areas. An announcer opened
the mike during his hillbilly ‘session’
one day and made a sarcastic remark
about the record he’d just played. I’m
not kidding you,” he continued, tapping
my shoulder, “when I say those listeners
positively slew that chap’s reputation. He
had to leave that district and find a job
in another studio.”
Maybe somebody can give me one good
reason why these “hillbilly” ballads are
becoming the most popular feature of
Australia’s musical fare.— Najbaro (Q.).
In Defence of Bing
In defiance of the wish of the vast
majority of the listening public, some
people want to ban Bing Crosby from
the air. That majority rule in a democ-
racy is something that should prevail is
an idea quite foreign to them.
Food and literature provide handy
analogies. If you don’t like cream puffs
you don’t have to eat them. If you don’t
like Edgar Wallace or Nat Gould you
don’t have to read them. If you dont
like Bing or Kate Smith or Tommy
Dorsey or even Richard Crooks, you
don’t have to listen. As the late Will
Rogers said, “I’ve got no patience with
anyone who hasn’t sufficient energy to
twist a knob.”- —WX 36336 (W.A.).


No Medals for Mother
k:*
Mtwmofy
ra
:
■ m$
r*
V
/
mm
" r
' *:
W
. ESBMraj ■
ilSPi^
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
of? to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—
and the ' planes! -
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe .
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pty., Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London.
