

gf
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3332
Wednesday, December 22, 1943.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
Seppelts
HEVER CASTLE.
HEVER CASTLE, near Edenbridge, Kent, is chiefly noted as
having been the seat of Sir Thomas Boleyn, the father of
Anne. When Anne was seven years old she was appointed maid
of honour to Henry VlIEs sister Mary, whom she followed to
France, where she was educated. After her return she became
maid of honour to Katharine of Arragon, the King’s wife. She
was the gayest and most beautiful lady of the Court, and when
she found she had attracted the King’s attention she retired to
Hever, whither Henry followed her. If .the King did not pay his
visits in secret, he certainly went without state, and the story goes
that he used to sound a bugle to let her know of his approach.
After the execution of Anne and the death of her father, the King
claimed Hever in right of his wife. It was settled on Anne of
Cleves, who after her divorce usually lived there. On her death
the Hever estates were sold by royal to .Sir Edward
Waldcgrave, Lord Chamberlain to the household of Queen Mary,
who on the accession of Elizabeth was divested of all his employ-
ments and thrown into the Tower.
In 1745 Hever was bought by Timothy Waldo, clerk of the Salters’
Company. The last descendant died in 1840, and the name and
estates, valued at £lBO,OOO, passed to the Reades, who called them-
selves Reade-Waldo.
Hever Castle could never have been very large ; and yet it was a
stronghold embattled to resist attacks, with a moat, a wooden and
an iron portcullis, an oak door, gate, and directly under the battle-
ments is a series of bold projections —“machicolations —from
which melted lead could be poured upon the heads of assailants.
The dining-hall, Anne Boleyn’s bedroom and Anne of Cleves’ room
are well preserved.


' Stoni Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
TOO Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit M
advertised in the Sydney •‘BulUlin.’ > ’
My Name
My Address
SB - 243 AGE
The Red Page
THE SONGS OF CHRISTMAS.
Through all her long history the
Church of God has been a singing church.
From the time when Miriam the
prophetess, sister of Moses and Aaron,
took a timbrel in her hand and led the
women of Israel in a dance and song at
the overthrow of Pharaoh in the Re
.Sea;
Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath
triumphed gloriously: the horse and his
rider hath he thrown into the sea,
and Deborah sat on a rock, her hancs
clasped on the hilt of her sword, drip
ping with the blood of her enemies, anc
howled her triumph to high heaven:
Was there a shield or spear seen- among
forty thousand in Israel? .. . Until that I,
Deborah, arose, that I arose a mother in
Israel,
through all the pages of Israel’s history
the conquests of Joshua, the victories o
David, the glories of Solomon, the sor
rows of the Captivity, the rejoicings o '
the Return, the patriotism of the Macca
bean rebellion (James Edmond one
wrote a column on the Red Page abou
the songs of the Maccabees) are all com
memorated in song, and those songs
which we call the Psalms, enrich all Chris
tian worship today.
For the greater part of Christendom
every Sunday is a Christmas Day, for th
three lovely songs of Christmas which
Saint Luke incorporated in his Gospel are
to be found in all liturgies. There is the
song of the old priest Zacharias:
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel: for
he hath visited and redeemed his people,
and the hymn of the Holy Mother:
My soul doth magnify the Lord: and my
spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour,
and, of course, the last song of the agec
Simeon;
Lord, now lettest thou thy servant de-
part in peace: according to thy word.
For mine eyes have seen: thy salvation.
whilst at the holiest moment of its wor-
ship every Sunday three-fourths of Chris-
tendom echoes the song of the angeis
in the paddocks at Bethlehem;
Glory be to God on high, and on earth
peace, goodwill to men.
Christmas would not be Christmas were
it not for its hymns. From the dawn
of the Faith until now saints and poets-
famous scholars and unknown writers,
distinguished composers and village musi-
cians have combined to cast into verse
and harness into song the Gospel story
of the Babe of Bethlehem.
The divisions of Christendom are
grievous, yet sometimes it seems as if
the things which unite are greater than
those which divide: all Christendom
sings these songs, Roman Catholics,
Greek Orthodox, Anglicans, the Protestant
denominations and the Salvation Army,
and all with very little thought as
to who wrote them, how they came
to us or who composed their tunes.
Yet that history is worth a little attention;
for amongst them we shall find hymns
which were already old when Alfred the
Great ruled in Saxon England or when
William the Conqueror came to its shores.
One was written by a Spaniard, yet it
is sung in England, France, Germany and
Italy.
Easily the most popular of all Christ-
mas hymns, and one with a strange his-
tory, is the “Adeste Fideles,” “O Come,
AH Ye Faithful.” Its lines do not
rhyme, a fact which escapes notice even
by people who know it well. Its history
is obscure: it was probably written in
Latin, in France, for some French com-
munity. It was brought over to England
and set to music there, probably by John
Reading, organist of Winchester College,
all about 1680. Apparently at this time
it did not catch on in England, and was
little known and used. It was carried
back to France, where it became instantly
popular, and where the tune was known
and still is known as “Air Anglais,” the
“English Tune.” It was sung in 1797 at
the chapel of the Portuguese Embassy,
where Vincent Novello was organist; but
its real use in English-speaking commu-
nities dates from 1841, when Canon
Oakeley, then vicar of AH Saints’, Mar-
garet-street, London, introduced it. It
sprang into immediate use. Oakeley fo
years later was received into the Roma
Communion and became a canon o
Westminster.
There is one verse which for som
reason rarely appears in English versions
See here th’ Eternal
Word of God Incarnate
Leaving His throne and state in heaven abo
Hides from our eyes, ’neath
Veil of flesh, His brightness.
O come, let us adore fiim, etc.
“While Shepherds Watched The
Flocks by Night” was written by Nahum
Tate (1672-1715), poet laureate and pat
author of “Tate and Brady’s” paraphrase
of the Psalms. Tate was dissolute,
drunkard, yet he wrote this wonderfu
hymn.
There is something rather striking abou
the words of this hymn. They avoid th
mistake which nearly every Christma
hymn repeats. In the Gospel only on
angel speaks to the shepherds, and th
angels sang their song, not to the shep
herds, but to God.. Nahum Tate knew
his New Testament. The familiar tun
“Winchester Old” first appeared in Este
Psalter in 1592.
No one seems to know how “Hark! th
Herald Angels Sing” got its first tw
lines ; what Charles Wesley wrote wa
“Hark! how all the welkin rings.” Prob
ably no other hymn has been so muc
altered by subsequent editors, curiousl
enough to the improvement of Wesley’
original. The present tune was not fitter
to the hymn for nearly a hundred year
afterwards. Before that it was sung
one of the tunes to “Jesus Christ Is Risen
Today.” Another tune that was triec
and which appears in some old hymnals
was Handel’s “See the Conquering Hero
Comes.” Mendelssohn wrote a tune
“Festgesang” which he wanted to see
published with English words.
Just about then the Tractarian move
ment in the Anglican Church was bring
ing about brighter hymn-singing. Some
genius (said to be W. H. Cummings in
1855) fitted Mendelssohn’s tune to Wes-
ley’s words, with the result that the com
bination achieved a favor surpassed by
only one or two hymns in the language
Mendelssohn died in 1847, so it is un-
likely that he ever knew of the combina-
tion.
Christians, Awake, Salute the Happy
Morn” is a deservedly popular Christmas
hymn. It was written by John Byrom
who lived from 1660 to 1763. He first of
all studied medicine in London and then
taught shorthand. The story goes that
his little daughter asked him to write a
poem for Christmas. He did so, and on
coming down to breakfast she found an
envelope on her plate marked “Christmas
Day for Dolly.” It was the MS. *of
“Christians, Awake.”
Byrom wrote two large books of
poetry, but little besides this hymn is
remembered. The tune “Yorkshire” was
composed by John Wainwright (1723-
1768), organist of Manchester parish
church. On the anniversary of the writ-
ing of the hymn Byrom and his daughter
were awakened by the sound of singing
beneath their windows. It' was Wain-
wright and his choir rendering “Christians,
Awake.”
It is impossible to mention here every
Christmas hymn. The following, how-
ever, are in general use amongst all
denominations: “O Little Town of
Bethlehem,” by Phillip Brooks, an
American bishop who lived from 1835
to 1893 ; “It Came Upon a Midnight
Clear,” by Dr. Sears (1810-1876), an
American Unitarian; “Once in Royal
David’s City,” by Mrs. C. F. Alexander
(1823-1895), wife of the Irish archbishop
df that name and author of many popu-
lar hymns such as “There Is a Green
Hill”; “Angels from the Realm of
Glory,” by J. Montgomery, a Moravian
(1771-1854); and “Behold the Great
Creator Makes,” by Thomas Pestel, chap-
lain to Charles L
Some lesser-known but still widely-
sung Christmas hymns are translations
from very ancient sources. Such are
“Come, Thou Redeemer of the Earth,”
said to have been written by Saint Am-
brose 1600 years ago ; “Jesu, the Father’s
Only Son, a translation by John Mason
Neale of an Anglo-Saxon MS. at Dur-
ham ; “From East to West, from Shore
to Shore,” written by Sedulius about
a.d. 450; “A Great and Mighty
Wonder,” by Saint Germanus (634-734);
“Let Sighing Cease and Woe,” a trans-
lation from the Latin of C. Coffiq (1676-
1749); and “Of the Father’s Love Be-
gotten,” by the Spanish monk F'rudentius
(340-413), author of the well-known
Epiphany hymn “Earth Has Many a
Noble City.”
Not many modern Christmas hymns
are in general use. There is one by
Laurence Houseman, “The Maker of the
Sun and Moon.” Christina Rossetti is
represented in several hymnals by “In the
Bleak Midwinter,” and Swinburne
wrote one Christmas hymn, “Thou Whose
Birth on Earth.” For the main part,
however, Christendom has remained
faithful to the old favorites.
There are, however, many modern
carols. Our medieval forefathers were
not ,so solemn in their religion as we are.
A carol was originally a song of joy
accompanied by a dance; the lilting
measure of many a carol suggests this.
They were and are popular songs, lyrical
poems and ballads, religious in purpose,
mostly upon sacred subjects, but deliber-
ately without the dignity, formality and
solemnity of hymns. They abounded in
the Middle Ages, all but disappeared at
the Reformation, and came to their own
again with the Tractarians.
John Mason Neale, who wrote “Good
King Wenceslas,” did much to revive the
carol. Of the older carols “In Excelsls
Gloria” and “The First Noel” are uni-
versal favorites. Of modern carols in
the ancient style “Good King Wences-
las” is perhaps the best known. Of
recent compositions Christina Rossetti’s
“Love Came Down at Christmas” and
Frances Chesterton’s “How Far Is It to
Bethlehem?” are delightful.
RANSOME T. WYATT.
Service Men’s Poems.
Syrian Damozel.
EX-SIXTH AUST. DIV,
The laughing girls
Are lovely there
Where kings and churls
Discarded care.
But gay or not
The world may see
That sweet forgot
Propinquity.
Those lips demure
So sweet to kiss-*-
A touch, I’m sure,
Of English miss.
That laughing glance
She flings again
Came first from France
Or sunny Spain.
This bold and fair
With siren’s eye,
Brunhilde’s hair
Or Lorelei!
Briton and Frank
Once passed that way,
Loved, laughed and drank
Their little day.
Last year We passed
And kissed the fair.
Who’ll be the last
Crusader there?
R. S. BYRNES.
Alamein.
I took the desert road today and went to Ala-
mein.
Anyone could pass it by—nothing but a name
Where the desert meets the dunes. Had the
battle been
A thousand miles or years away, the place
would be the same.
Death and terror joined to make a cordon on
the plain;
Mighty steel could not prevail, or mortal being
pass:
The Bedouins and camels pad along the tracks
again,
There are children in the Arab tents and poppies
in the grass.
The road, unheeding, passes through. Out on
either side
Rusty wire has made the fields Hell or Heaven’s
ground,
Where they buried mines and men. Crosses for
a guide
Mark a friend or mark a foe in every rubble
mound.
I wonder if another Christ had come again to
stand
Beside me where the ridge commands the
dreary scene below.
Stretch to Eastern graves, to Western graves a
hand,
Say “The Master bids, you rise; renew your
flesh; and go”—
Would a holy joy be theirs, or would a whisper
rise —
“This is peace; the paltry span of years that
would have been
Are meaningless. Content! Content! The
flesh of mortal guise
Somewhere must be earth again ... As well at
Alamein.”
R.A.A.F.
J. A. HENDERSON.
Returning Patrol.
Beyond the place where the tall palms rise
We pause and listen: but how can we search
For the sound that tells where our unit lies—
How can we hear when our senses lurch
Back through the jungle along the way
We have come since we did the bloody job
We were sent to do? We are far astray;
And we cannot think, for our temples throb,
And our spirits droop, and our muscles ache.
There are the palms, and the creek lies here.
And the trail we blazed through the Laulau
brake
In our going out must be somewhere near,
And the tall tau-tree near the ford we crossed.
And the sago swamp ... But the rest is lost:
For we see not jungle, nor creek, nor track;
But the men who went with us and come not
back.
A.I.F.
BROWNING.
Lines from a Hospital Bed.
I have known Beauty when, with sleepy mind
I ve raised the window for the morning Heht
Or stood by quiet rivers softly flowing, ’
And heard their sibilant gossip—without’know
mg,
Joined in a paean of praise; with trees at night
baid a mysterious prayer; lain in the grass
And watched contented sheep, and let timp
pass ...
One day, one day, when all the world was kind
And I have known (this said in silences)
Love that has swept the cryptic fastness of mv
heart 1
Which, in raped secrecy, grown suddenly old
And now, inert with numbness from the cold
Has cried itself to sleep .. . Hush! Far anarf
hrom the glooming fever of bloodied skies,
Soft-voiced, but strong, with shining pilgrim
eyes,
Truth has escaped his prison of high fences!
he will build a temple now for poor
Old Peace, cold and unpensioned, in which tn
live:
With three great domes for Beauty, Song and
Laughter,
And rows of seats for the crowd that followed
after,
Candles to burn for the name of those that give
Strbphes of Chastity in high-roofed choirs
And from the nave the shouting of the
shires ...
Where Sorrow knocks, unheeded, at the door.
Then 1 have known-blood spilt upon the
hearths
Of Austral homes, whose splendid sons have
died
With hand uneasy on the bayonet,
And hearts so strong in death are beating yet;
Lips that are burnt and broken, but have cried:
“This is my home, my country, these my kin!
Many I’ve killed, but killing is not sin
If these my kindred keep its peaceful paths.”
Yes, these I’ve known—hated and loved un-
priced
By Time, who has stopped my holding them.
And these were comrades, proud-eyed men
Who laughed with the hideous cackle of the ,
Bren
(Some wore the thorns of Mercy’s diadem).
These, that are lamps blown out by gusty rain,
Have bought our freedom’s freehold with their
pain,
And helped un-nail the Body of our Christ.
A.I.F
MAURICE BIGGS.
Fighter Pilot.
Among colossal solitudes of space
Above the tangled systems of the world
We learn to Jive who also learn to die.
Earth’s warriors who see God face to face,
Our playground is illimitable sky
Where deep in furious combat we are hurled.
Among the clouds in breathless hide and seek
Sometimes we hear the dusty planets speak.
Life has no gift so fine as this to give—
The ecstasy, the burning of the blood,
When aerodrome, then earth to leeward slips,
And, rushing towards the sun, one hour we live,
Above the world, the masses and the mud,
Brushing the cheeks of Death with careless
lips!
R.A.A.F
K. COLLOPY.
Jungle Jingle.
There’s a bird that laughs like Popeye,
There’s a bird that has a note
Which sounds as though a pitch-pipe were
Stuck deep within its throat. . ,
There are trees that take to dancing
In the darkness of the night; A
There are trees that lean and whisper,
Then spring apart in fright I
As their sly, malicious gossip
Is revealed in the moon’s light.
Oh, life is full of sudden spills
As we do many a Burke-and-Wills
Over the greasy, muddy hills.'
There are whispers, there are chirrups,
There are rustlings in the grass.
The mountain tracks wind up and up
To a dim, elusive “pass.”
There are swamps and swollen rivers;
There are mud and heat and rain;
There are small, persistent insects
That we light against in vain: |
We cannot catch the cursed things,
We cannot ease our pain.
We know fatigue’s deep, inner core;
We know new pity for the poor
Young cove who sang “Excelsior.”
There are boongs who beg for “kai-kai,
Anzac-wafers, bully-beef,
A stick of black, boong twist
To still their vocal grief.
There’s everything that riles a man
And not one bit of joy;
The human being’s quickly swamped
In a witless hobbledehoy , h
Whose vacant stare and drooling mount
Would win no Helen of Troy.
But jungle-juice we have, a jar,
So we don’t care. Sing lah-de-dah,
The jungle’s sending us ga-ga.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.
New Guinea Nocturne.
The camp is deathly still tonight—
No fronds are moving in the breeze,
The palms are drinking in the light
White wine of moonbeams, and the sea
Break sibilantly soft on shore,
Some fireflies flash, then nothing more.
No, nothing more that I can see,
And what I hear may not be sound
1 cannot tell, for memory
Has me in thrall, and I am bound
About with phantom bonds of song
Of long ago. A whole life long.
And so tonight shall be for you .
Alone —your fair hair etched in mist,
Soft-camco'd, shall all night through
Beside me lie: your lips star-kissed,
Parted in song: and we shall be
In love through night’s eternity.
A.I.F.
ESAU.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
f
gf
A. Lightweight Bowie
Hunting Knife with brass
guard, 5-inch blade and
solid leather sheath. At
Anthony Horderns'. 16/6
B.—For moments of relax-
ation, these Sandals for
men, in a choice of Black
or Brown Grain Calf. All
sizes available. At An-
thony Horderns'. .. 17/11
8 Coupons
F.—Boys' Ploy Suits. Sizes 0
and 1. British Hollyette wash-
ing fabric. Strong, cool and dur-
able. Price 8/6
5 Coupons
PHONE;
M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
'sJxZsMstXyVuS 'l^y^LsOCC'S
"THE SENIOR STORE"
a—Boys' College Grey Suits.
All wool, and a solid quality.
Cut and made by Anthony
Horderns'. Sizes range from 5
19 Coupons
D.—Boys' Khaki Military
Cadet . Shorts. Double
waist straps. Full cut for
comfort. Sizes 25 to 32in.
waists. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price 7/6
4 Coupons
E. Boys' School Knic-
kers. All Wool Australian
Tweed. Made with one
pocket, belt loops, and
strong linings. At An-
thony Horderns' ... 9/11
7 Coupons ?
(Unillustrated)
Boys' College Grey Knic-
kers. All wool Worsted
with strong linings, one
pocket and belt loops.
Sizes 4 to 13. Price, 12/6
7 Coupons
Sizes 14 and 15 ... 13/-
10 Coupons
• Boys’ and Men’s Wear
Ground Floor, George Street
to 13. Price
52/6
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


CHRISTMAS MAY
By MARGARET TRIST.
SAMUEL woke
to the shrill
blowing of
trumpets.
squeakers and tin whistles.
Dawn had not long broken. Grey
shadows filled the corners of the bed-
room, and through the open window he
could sec the sky, a clear, light blue that
was almost white. In it a star lingered.
Samuel grunted and rolled over. so
that his good ear was buried in the pil-
low and his deaf ear was uppermost to
the din. But the sounds grew louder,
and other sounds joined them —shouts,
laughter, the rat-tat-a-tat of a toy drum,
the tinkle of a tricycle bell, the pop of
bursting balloons. The clamor invaded
every particle of air, making a cloud of
sound against which Samuel’s deaf ear
was not proof. He rolled .out of bed.
His wife was already up. There was a
hollow in the bed where she had slept,
and her cotton nightdress lay in a
crumpled heap on the pillow.
By the time he was dressed it was light
and there was a glow away to the east
where the sun would soon rise. The
early-morning air was cool and light, but
the breeze had dropped. “It’s going to
be a scorcher,” Samuel muttered to him-
self as he stepped out on to the verandah.
The verandah was strewn with toys.
An expensive doll dangled its elegant legs
over the side of an ornamental pram. A
“trike” lay on its side, while a meccano
set spread itself over an incredible
amount of floor space. A train, its en-
gine already battered, lay derailed among
a mass of lines and signals; blocks and
the animals from a Noah’s Ark were
scattered everywhere. There were colored
balls and a cricket set.
It seemed to Samuel that as he entered
the kitchen a whirlwind struck him.
“Merry Christmas, Daddy.”
“Merry Christmas, Uncle. Merry
Christmas, Samuel.”
“Merry Christmas,” growled Samuel.
“We’ve got presents for you,” shrilled
Jenny.
“Yes, we bought them with our own
money,” cried David.
“Yes, with our own money,” reiterated
Jenny.
“You didn’t!” shouted Jim. “You
borrowed it from Mother. It was only
I bought with my own money.”
“And me,” yelled lan.
“And me,” cried Rosemary.
“And me,” from Eleanor,
“Oh, you fibs!” roared Jim. “It was
only me.” •
“I bought you a” began Timothy.
“Sssh!” the other children cried in
unison, and David added “Let him open
them himself.”
Above their heads Samuel’s eyes met
those of his wife. “I can’t bear getting
presents,” growled SamueL He tore
eagerly at strings and wrappings, bring-
ing to light an overwhelming variety of
pipes and pipe-cleaners and cigarette-
lighters and even a cigar. Being a non-
smoker, Samuel was filled with a strange
emotion. His wife’s voice rescued him
from himself.
“Better go and milk, Dad,” it said.
“Then we can have breakfast over early.”
SAMUEL stamped out of the kitchen,
the children following closely behind
him. The dew still clung to the grass.
He strode across it. After him the
children tumbled, their bare feet dancing
on the wet grass, their pyjamas and
nightdresses whipped about their slim
bodies. The air was shrill with the noise
of trumpets. They piled on top of the
cowyard fence and sang lustily while
Samuel milked. “The First Nowell” rang
out on the morning air. All unwittingly
Samuel milked in time.
After breakfast the business of the day
started. The dinner had to be prepared.
“Looks as if we’re feeding an army,”
said Samuel’s mother-in-law with satis-
faction as she mixed stuffing in a bowl.
The stuffing was very special. Gran was
the only one who could make it. At
least, they all pretended she was. It
wouldn’t do to let an old lady feel too
useless on Christmas Day.
“We are, just about,” answered Doris,
one of the sisters-in-law. “Let me see.
There’s the seven children for a start,
and the three men, and four of us girls,
and Gran. That’s fifteen.”
“And you never know who might drop
in,” said Molly. “One Christmas I
remember”
They all started remembering things,
Gran especially. Gran remembered a
lot of things which had never happened,
but they all forbore to tell her so.
“I’ll die,” said Molly, “if those
puddings don’t turn out all right. I went
and used that new recipe of Flo’s instead
of my old one.”
“It’s a good recipe, that,” put in Flo
quickly. “I’ve tested it.”
“Yes, it might be a good recipe for
you, but you know how it is sometimes
when someone else uses it. They use
the same ingredients and do the
things, but it doesn’t turn out the
same.”
“You should always stick to your own
recipe,” said Gran severely.
CAMUEL was at a loose end. The
w —' other men snoozed on the side
verandah, but he was not given to snooz-
ing in the daytime. His idea of a good
day was one filled to the brim with hard
work. But, of course, you could hot
work on Christmas Day. His mother had
taught him that, and it could not be
gainsaid. He compromised by fetching
the Dutch hoe and searching diligently
for weeds in the orderly front garden.
The day was filled with hot, gold sun-
shine. The sky was clear and very blue.
There was no wind or breeze of any
kind. “Real Christmas weather,” re-
flected Samuel, mopping at his forehead.
A movement caught the corner of his
eye. He turned to see a big black snake
wriggling its way from under the house.
It stopped to sun itself luxuriously on
the warm, brick path, stretching so that
its red belly showed.
“I suppose I’ll have to shoot it, Christ-
mas Day and all,” thought Samuel. He
called : “Jim, fetch my gun and the cart-
ridges!”
After the sound of the gunshot had
died away and the pieces of snake lay
writhing on the path the day seemed very
quiet.
In the sitting-room there was an organ.
Flo played carols and the children sang.
The sounds floated out to Samuel.
In the kitchen Molly watched the boiler
and muttered “If only I’d used my
own recipe.” On the side verandah
Mark, Jessie’s husband, slumbered
noisily. It was noon on Christmas Day.
The long table on the side verandah
was already set. The womenfolk bustled
to and from the kitchen bearing dishes
of nuts and fruits and sweets. Gran sat
at the end of the table solemnly folding
paper serviettes. The children and the
remains of their Christmas stockings were
scattered over the floor. Small Jenny
lay face downward, her tummy bare
against the cool, green linoleum. She
played with a gollywog that Gran had
made from an old black stocking several
years before. A pleasant smell pervaded
the air.
Samuel stepped from the heat of out-
doors to the shade of the verandah. He
sank into a low, tin-backed rocking-chair
to cool off. He placed his hat under his
chair. At one end of the verandah there
were grapevines; bunches of green fruit
hung among the thick, green leaves. The
fruit and the leaves were very still.
Somewhere a blowfly buzzed lazily.
Timothy was blowing the water from the
tin dishes underneath the legs of a
verandah-safe.
Molly came hurrying from the kitchen.
Her face was red 'and her hair was damp
on her forehead. She wiped her hands
on her apron before taking it off and
stood for several seconds, her gaze rov-
ing over the table. Then she beamed.
“We can all sit up now,” she said
genially.
The children immediately came to life.
Flo began passing plates through the
kitchen-window. Steam rose in the hot
air,
“T~HIS is my fortieth Christmas
* dinner,” thought Samuel, sitting
down to his turkey. “Where on earth
has the time got to?”
“Are you enjoying your dinner, Dad?”
Molly asked after a while.
“It’s not bad,” grudgingly conceded
Samuel.
“It’s a real good dinner,”, put in Gran
quickly. “This turkey is done, to a turn.
And the ham is just right. I couldn’t
have managed it better myself, and the
Good Lord knows I’ve cooked enough
hams in my time.”
“It’s the baking that does it,” answered
Molly self-righteously. “I always”
Samuel stopped listening. Why women
always wanted to spoil good food by giv-
ing a description of how it was cooked
beat him.
The pliddings were, after all, a great
success. They were eaten, hot and
plummy and anointed with brandy
sauce, on a broiling day in a wide, brown
land called Australia because once, long
ago, the diners’ forebears had partaken
of them in a small, white land called
England.
“That recipe,” announced Flo trium-
phantly, “could be made up by a child
and still turn out good. 1 reckon it’s
about foolproof.”
A look of faint surprise flitted over
Molly’s placid face.
When they had all finished Molly said
“Well; Christmas dinner’s over till next
time.”
“There mightn’t
be a next time,”
growled Samuel.
Samuel kept his liver
where his soul should have been. It was
somewhere in this vicinity that the
pudding was settling.
It was a drowsy afternoon. Outside
the heat lay in a golden haze over the
paddocks. The vine-shaded verandah
was cool and pleasant. Samuel dozed
fitfully in his chair. Now and again he
started up suddenly and groped for his
hat, only to settle himself again when he
remembered. It was Christmas Day and
you did not work on Christmas Day.
SO you sat meekly in a chair, and one
half of your mind slept, while the
other went back over the years till all the
other Christmas Days you had known
formed a pleasant jigsaw puzzle in your
brain. Looking back, they were like mile-
stones standing in a shining white row;
the ones just past looming largely and
clearly, the faraway ones merging with
the distance. You remembered so much
that you grew confused and tired and
were just about to fall wholly asleep
when the rattle of teacups came to your
ears, and you realised that it must be
six o’clock and time for the ritual of
cutting the Christmas cake ; and, perhaps,
after all, you had slept some of the time.
When they had had tea and the
children were tucked in bed the grown-
ups sat on the verandah. The night
smelt of dew. No one spoke very much.
Eating consistently all day is very hard
work. Besides, all had their memories,
a little walled garden inside themselves
where they alone could walk.
“Next Christmas,” Molly said sud-
denly, “I’m going to make that recipe of
Flo’s up again, but I won’t put so much
spice in it.”
Far away a sheep bleated. The sound
made Samuel restless. He stood up. “It’s
time we were in bed,” he said. He felt
very cheerful. Th prospect of three
hundred and sixty days of hard work
lay ahead.
Once in bed Samuel rolled over, his
good ear pressed to the pillow, his deaf
ear uppermost. There was no need for
this precaution. The trumpets and
squeakers and whistles were lying
abandoned on the verandah. Most of
them would never sound again.
“Next Christmas” murmured
Molly.
The words penetrated Samuel’s con-
sciousness. He muttered darkly and fell
asleep.
The household slumbered peacefully
in the hush of the Christmas Night.
OVER THE MOUNTAINS
By “G.G.”
IT was nearly dark, and we couldn’t
see the horseman over the creek, but
we heard the sticks breaking, small
stones rolling and the soft clip-clop of
unshod hooves on the track.
Above the chorus of barking at the
hollow log near the creek where Father
was tying up the dogs, we heard him call
a greeting.
Mother stiffened. “It’s Ted!” she said
in disgust. “I hope your father doesn’t
ask him to stop.” She hurried towards the
house. “There’s no meat, and I’ve washed
the blankets on the spare bed,” she told
herself in a worried tone, I hurried on
to meet the visitor —they were few
enough at our place.
Ted was sitting on his horse talking
to Father. “Didn’t see anything of Harry
Jackson? I was to meet him here at sun-
down to see him about a horse.”
“No. Better get off, Ted, and wait.
He might come,” Father said doubtfully.
Ted loafed. He rode from house to
house, staying a day, a week ota month,
according to the welcome. He always
expected to meet someone about a horse
or a dog. Everyone liked him, but he
never worked, so that when people grew
tired of his cheery company they asked
him to help with fencing or ringbarking,
and Ted left next day.
Ted got off his horse and, as he and
Father sat on the woodheap, asked for
a pipe of tobacco. He must have dropped
his at the last gate, he said.
Presently a smell of fried onions drifted
out, and Father invited Ted to supper.
“\ \/HIGH way are you making?”
* * Mother asked Ted as I helped her
lift the table back against the sofa. We
were short of chairs at our place.
“I’m just gettin’ me blankets and a few
things together, and Tm goin’ through to
Victoria,” Ted told her cheerfully, “Don’t
suppose I’ll be round these parts again.”
“Which way you goin’?” Father
looked at Ted with new interest.
“Out through the mountains, between
the rivers. Black Mountain way,” Ted
told him.
Father was excited.
Le your horse go after Ted
and 111 raw you a map. I know that
country like the back of me hand.
Mother sighed, and looked m the boiler
where we kept our bread.
After supper Father worked with a
bit of paper and a stump of pencil, and
drew hismap.
You 11 stay the first night at Ingebyra,
then make down on to the Jacob River.
Camp there. And hoppe your horse
You got hopples? There s brumbies all
through that country. You’ll have to
watch your horse or he’ll clear out with
them ~
They talked for hours and hours.
Next day Father didn’t go on with the
chock-an’-loc fence he was putting up
round cow paddock ™ sCdfed's
horse with a set of shoes he had for our
chestnut mare.
“Your father’s crazy,” Mother said.
Next day they hunted out an old saddle-
bag and did it up with soft soap. They
put on new buckles, and it looked fine
on Ted’s saddle. Then Father gave Ted
a pair of greenhide hobbles.
We killed a sheep that night, and after
supper we sat on the verandah in the
moonlight, and Father told Ted about the
big mobs of bullocks he’d helped to take
through the mountains down to Mcl-
bourne when he was a young fellow.
Next morning Ted packed up. Father
gave h m°he blankets P off the spare bed
and the billycan mother used for the milk,
And he filled the saddlebag with bread
and meat and tea and sugar, and Te
rode off.
We stood outside and watched him go,
a nd at the top of the hill Ted wave
to .u s -F a ther waved his hat an_ n*oier
said E°or Ted. I hope
a new leaL
'-pHE house seemed empty and lonely
[ t Tec| and Father sat on the
dh most * of the day smoking and
lookinq p the m the way Ted had
Even Mother seem ed to miss him ;
and that night when the dogs howled
Father said jt was a bad sign .
a man logt his horse in that COU ntry
between the rivers he’d never get out,”
he said gloomily . “There can’t be much
d 8 k thro y ugh the mountains now,
and the rivers mi^t be up ... We’ll never
„
Kn ° * . ,
Next morning Mother sent me down
the creek to Riley s to borrow some tea.
Father had 8 ”S r^r^inltTlev’s
Ted. As I pulled the mare up at Riley s
d oor I saw Teds horse feeding on the
flat. I staring ;.it seemed sc.queer
to see him there. is. Y
a " d asked me * get off a ? d “ me “l
“We ve got Ted stoppm with us to
a bit, she told me. It s lonely here to
me and the boss since the lx>ys wen
down the country sheann. Ted came
yesterday lookm for Harry Jackson, but
we got him to stop. The boysll be home
next month, so led says hell stay an
cheer us up till they get back. * Now,
it your mother sent you over
lor?
I was nearly too scared to tell them
about Ted when I got home. I kOT
there d be a row about the blankets. But
Father didn’t say much; 1 think he was
glad He d been worrying about the map.
thinking he might have drawn it wrong.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3332.
Wednesday, December 22, 1943.
CHRISTMAS LEAVE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ‘’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralja : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.O.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE FOOD FRONT.
Asking Australians to “accept rationing
cheerfully,” the Prime Minister stated
early this month that, “despite rationing,
the estimates of production are still only
87 per cent, of the requirements neces-
sary to meet all obligations.” He
described the “battle of food” as “per-
haps the most vital battle of all as we
enter the third year of the Pacific War.”
Referring to “very heavy- commitments
to Australian and Allied troops,” Mr.
Curtin said that either these troops would
have to go on short rations or else “the
British people would be unable to con-
tinue their paltry ration of from -jib. to
|lb. of meat a person a week” if ration-
ing here were eased. As with meat, so
with eggs, butter and the like: “there is
a very acute food problem of which the
people must become keenly conscious.”
Pressing the appeal, Mr. Scully said Aus-
tralia is now feeding “the equivalent of
12,000,000 people, and every day we are
called on to feed more men.” What Mr.
Scully described as “the greatest agricul-
tural planning effort in Australian his-
tory” was being made in order “to meet
the demands on us for food for the
British people, for the Australian and
Allied forces in the Pacific and for the
home front.”
Because of what, in a masterpiece of
understatement, Mr. Scully described as
“food difficulties,” India “has received,
170,000 tons of Australia’s wheat in the
last year.” Of wheat, though output has
fallen heavily this year as a result of
Scully measures, “we still have plenty.”
High “targets” have been set for meat
and other products. How far off these
“targets” are—whether a year or two
years or more —Mr. Scully did not say.
He did mention that there were likely to
be “target shortages” ; the “target” in
milk products, for example, would “not
be achieved without colossal effort,” and
even then the result would be “short of
our total minimum demands.”
Made by way of inducing Australians
to accept present shortages and to pre-
pare them for meat and other ration-
ing looming ahead, these statements
apparently referred only to immediate
obligations. Widening the field of view,
it could be shown that, even if shortages
here were to become doubly worse and
rationing doubly stringent, Australia
would still be a lucky land. That is,
lucky in its natural endowments and in
the quality of the men (and women)
left on the land ; it is unlucky in the
politicians who have added to the im-.
mense difficulties of the land men not only
by stodgy, unimaginative inaction but by
crass bungling.
In India, Mr. Amery told the Com-
mons, 8000 persons died in Calcutta
alone, “directly or indirectly due to star-
vation,” in the month ended October 15,
with then “no prospects for immediate
reduction of the famine ravages.” The
grim shadow of what has happened in
India hangs over other countries.
In April the Director of the Interna-
tional Commission for the Assistance of
Child Refugees stated that in Europe a
whole generation of children is slowly
dying from starvation. “Hundreds of
thousands have already perished, and even
larger numbers will be lost.”
I have seen these children, and grown-
ups as well, in all stages of starvation.
Some were racked with tuberculosis, which
is quickly fatal where undernourishment
exists, and others have distended stomachs
and swollen limbs, which tell the same hor-
rible tale.
At the worst period of undernourish-
ment after the 1914-18 war German children
were receiving twice as much as large cate-
gories of children, women and unemployed
people in France and Belgium are receiving
at the present time.
When we stop to realise that the people
of the occupied countries have been suffer-
ing from starvation through a very much
longer period of time, we can see how great
the deterioration may be.
Another observer has estimated that, of
the more than 300,000,0.00 human beings
in occupied and enemy Europe —
232,000,000 in Germany’s subjugated and
allied countries, and 72,000,000 in the
Reich itself—“at least 10 per cent, are
already doomed to die of starvation or
of diseases resulting directly from malnu-
trition.”
It forces this vast tragedy into the
starkest relief when Australians, most of
whom had hitherto thought of themselves
as inhabiting an inexhaustible tuckerbox,
are told that only by special efforts,
and the acceptance meanwhile of further
shortages, can this favored country fulfil
■ even its immediate and limited obligations
to its own and Allied armed forces, to its
home front and to Britain. If the war
suddenly ended, what could Australia
spare to save the almost countless starv-
ing and undernourished?
This question is not one to trouble
Australians only. So much has been
written and spoken elsewhere, as well as
here, of the Allied aspiration to free the
world from want that to many—especially
those most in need—the aspiration has
been accepted as a concrete promise.
This, in comparison with actual possibili-
ties, is being noted with some dismay in
America. The “United States News” has
pointed out that, whereas it will take
about $5,000,000,000 worth of food in the
first post-war year “to provide a minimum
diet for the world’s hungry people,” fhe
U.S.A. may be able to supply only
$300,000,000 worth, over and above what
the army can spare. As well, huge sup-
plies of medicines will be needed to
counter the effects of the years of starva-
tion and malnutrition and combat pos-
sibly worse epidemics than the widespread
influenza, which has caused many hun-
dreds of deaths in Britain itself, and “seri-
ously affected war production,” and thou-
sands of deaths in Italy, where “the death
roll may rise to an unprecedented figure.”
And the “United States News” estimates
that it will take $800,000,000 to provide
the simplest clothing for the 50,000,000
people expected to be in need of it, and
that supplying “even one-fourth of this
need” would mean rigid clothes rationing
in America. Further, billions’ worth of
materials and machinery will be required
to rebuild devastated areas. The U.S.A.
“is not in a position to do this job on a
Santa Claus basis. It is going to want re-
payment for effort spent in rehabilita-
tion.”
In North Africa, where specially
favorable conditions prevailed, a good
feeding and rehabilitating job was pos-
sible. Enough, however, was learnt there,
and still more in Sicily, to convince realis-
tic observers that, even without such
hindrances as official bungling, “rash
promises to feed the world” —there has
been a multitude, with Mr. Wendell
Willkie leading—“could never have been
fully kept.” Says the “Saturday Evening
Post”; —
People everywhere, but especially inhabi-
tants of the Nazi-occupied countries, con-
tinue to envisage gigantic argosies of food
ships awaiting surrender-day in our harbors,
all ready to sail eastward to fill Europe’s
famine-shrunken stomachs.
There will be no such vast argosies.
Food for these colossal relief projects
does not now exist, and cannot be grown
and husbanded against the coming of peace.
A tragic prospect for the doomed mil-
lions whichever way it goes. Mean-
while Australians, merely in order that
closer and immediate obligations may be
met, are asked to take in the belt another
hole or two. This would be accepted in
better spirit if it could be felt that it was
a contribution towards building up the
huge supplies that will be needed to feed
liberated Europe. When such official
admissions are made as that N.S.W.
butter production is down 20 p.c., and that
in a flush season, “the best on record,”
it is recognised to be an aftermath of the
bungling that has characterised Australian
food-front “control” over the past two
years, bungling accompanied and empha-
sised by a welter of humbug, from the
vehement denials of Mr. Fadden’s August
statement that the Government would
introduce meat rationing, through Mr.
Scully’s repeated glowing reports of pro-
gress, to Mr, Forde’s fatuous assurances
that he has the farm-labor situation in
hand —land men are to be released from
the services at the rate of 2000 a month!
Mr. Curtin added a large mound to this
mountain of humbug by claiming before
his bosses at the Canberra conference
that he had had to decide between “being
short of vital needs in 1942 or being short
of food two years later” —a suggestion
of calm choice, calmly taken, which would
amuse if it did not infuriate producers and
consumers alike.
Despite—not thanks to —its chosen
Government, which, so far from calmly
planning things two years ago, acted
then in panic and has since merely hum-
bugged and bungled through to the pro-
posed (previously denied) meat rationing
and the present and future shortages
(glut one day and none the next) —
despite all this Australia, in a wide com-
parison, still looks a lucky land, in
a position to spare at least a Christmas
thought for the luckless of other lands,
even though neither it nor its allied part-
ners may ever be able to translate the
thought, the good wishes and the
promises into anything quite as substan-
tial as the poorest Australian Christmas
dinner.
In Yugoslavia.
While the parties to the Declaration of
Tehran were pledging themselves “to
make a peace which will command the
goodwill of the overwhelming masses of
the peoples of the world.... dedicated to
the elimination of tyranny, slavery,
oppression and intolerance,” another
Government shot up in Yugoslavia.
There was already a Government in
exile owing allegiance to the young King
Peter, and with General Mihailovich as
Minister of War. There were also two
armies, composed of General Mihailo-
vich’s Chetniks (an old Serbian term
for patriot) and General (now Mar-
shal) Tito’s Partisans, not counting
“an Albanian guerrilla army”.—presum-
ably fighting for its own hand —nor Croat
and other bands fighting for the Germans.
It is the Partisans who have set up the
new Government. Their leader, now
styled President of the Yugoslav National
Committee of Liberation, has had various
names, and even his nationality is un-
certain, but his admirers, among whom
there are many Left-Wing Writers in
Britain and America, have agreed to call
him Marshal Tito and to hail him as a
Communist hero. He controls a so-called
Free Yugoslav Radio, over which he not
only flays Hitler, Peter and Mihailovich,
but scolds Anglo-American worthies
when the caprice seizes him.
In October Mr. Roosevelt presented
four Liberator bombers to the first Yugo-
slav combat unit in the U.S. Army Air
Force. The transaction had nothing
whatever to do with Tito, but according
to the New York “Herald Tribune”
(October 26) that gentleman objected in
terms worthy of “Second-Front” Browder
and Curran themselves.
We consider this a blunder which cannot
be allowed to happen. The Yugoslav
people have every right to expect' that sup-
plies of arms will in the future be handed
over to the Yugoslav People’s Army of
Liberation, which alone is fighting the
enemy. Mihailovich is openly serving the
enemy.
Mihailovich replied that Tito’s Parti-
sans were not only attacking Mihailovich
Patriots but were claiming victories over
the Germans which Mihailovich Patriots
had gained. In the region of Nova Varos,
a Serbian town, for example: —
While we were fighting the Germans far
from the town Partisans entered it, attack-
ing our forces there. Three days later
fheir radio announced the capture of Nova
Varos, although they were thrown back
by our units on the day they arrived there.
We liberated Nova Varos.
In the same “Herald Tribune” a lady
war correspondent, Sonia Tamara, gave
the substance of a Cairo interview with
a Mihailovich officer who told her many
things, these among them: —
Although King Peter is frying, by re-
shuffling his Cabinet, to bring the two fac-
tions together, the breach between them is
too wide; fighting in which men, women
and children on both sides were killed
cannot be forgotten.
In July, 1941, Mihailovich tried to unite
all factions in the country, even the Croats,
to fight against the Germans. But the
German attack on Russia had awakened
a belief in a Russian victory.
Many Leftist bands, led by Communist
students organised in a Serbian jail, got out
of hand. Complaints of attacks on monas-
teries, of murders of officials of towns and
villages, reached Mihailovich’s headquarters.
Mihailovich asked to see Tito, and they
met in September, 1941. Tito said he had
arrived “from way up”—meaning Moscow.
He was conciliatory, and wondered at
what he called the “bloodthirstiness” of the
Red students. The officer added: “This
contrasts sharply with Tito’s words last
summer that he who cannot kill father,
mother, wife and children is not a real
Partisan.”
But the accord reached was broken by
Tito’s men, who continued to persecute
the “bourgeoisie,” charging that they were
fifth columnists. In October, 1941, Tito’s
forces walked out on Mihailovich’s men
during a siege of an enemy-held Serbian
town, Kraljevo.
Now the breach cannot be healed.
Mihailovich groups in Herzegovina are
fighting both Partisans and Germans. And
“how can we forget ‘the dogs’ graveyards’
which the Reds left in Montenegro before
they had to retreat from there? They
were graveyards of all those somewhat
better off.”
Mr. Churchill has spoken in fatherly
terms of the young King, and with appre-
ciation of the efforts of the men who
kept resistance alive in Yugoslavia after
the dark days of April, 1941. It is not in
his nature to forget that they changed
the policy of Yugoslavia, at the risk of
suffering the deadly blows which fell on
their country, against opposition from
the extreme Right and Left. In those
days nobody had heard of Tito, who pre-
sumably was merely a unit in the world-
wide horde of Communists shouting
“Stop the imperialist war!”
All along, thanks to Mr. Churchill,
Mihailovich has received a measure of
British support. But on the propaganda
side he has been ill-served compared
with Tito, and he has had critics even
in official quarters, especially B.B.C., as
well as the open enmity of the Leftists—
Australian Communist attacks on him
are ferocious. A statement that he pro-
posed to hold his hard-won ground until
the Allies landed an army of invasion,
whereupon he would launch an offensive
with all his forces, led to his being furi-
ously denounced and invidiously com-
pared with Tito, who, it was said, on the
evidence of bulletins from both sides,
was hitting out in all directions.
General Maitland Wilson, Commander-
in-Chief in the Middle East, chose this
moment to address what was described
as “a strong warning to General Mihailo-
vich’s Chetnik guerrillas” (Mihailovich
claims that they are trained soldiers of
the Serbian army) “to stop fighting the
Partisans.” “Certain men,” the general
declared, are “dishonoring the name of
Chetnik ‘by helping the Germans in their
vain attempts to subdue the forces of
liberation.”
Every man who, from whatever motive,
helps the Germans is an enemy of the
United Nations, and will be regarded as a
traitor to his country if he does not
immediately desert from the German service.
And so, of course, he should be; but
Mihailovich has always denied that any
of his soldiers has helped the Germans.
From his headquarters there came a bitter
protest against the shift of British senti-
ment and support to Tito. “Yugoslavia,”
he said, “ranged itself on the side of
England when England was alone on the
battlefield. Is the change deserved by a
nation which has suffered proportionately
greater losses than any other country?”
Meanwhile there occurred the losses of
the Dodecanese islands of Kos, Leros
and Samos, into which ill-protected
British garrisons had been thrown, and
General Maitland Wilson’s efforts to ex-
plain them away were somewhat clumsy.
These islands secured—and it looks as if
they will have to be taken and firmly
held, and with them Rhodes and Corfu,
before an Allied invasion of the Balkans
becomes practicable—the enemy turned
savagely on Tito. That leader described
the attack as “a large-scale offen-
sive against the liberated territories,”
launched after the concentration of
“strong forces in all sectors, particularly
in Bosnia and Croatia,” and he declared
that “Albanian quislings, Bulgarian units,
Croat terrorists and Chetniks are fighting
with the Germans.” While the good
wishes of the United Nations go out to
all men fighting against the Germans,
whatever their politics, it is possible that
Mihailovich’s objections to premature
offensives and occupations will be mili-
tarily justified.
Two official statements of the British
attitude have been offered recently. One,
made by Mr. Richard Law, was to the
effect that Britain was giving “much
more aid to Tito than to Mihailovich,
because the Partisans’ resistance to the
Germans is so much greater.” The other
came from Mr. Eden, who revealed that
“a military mission, under the leadership
of Lieutenant Fitzroy MacLean, M.P j
has established most excellent relations”
with Tito. He added that, since it was
“clear from all reports” that “the Parti-
sans are containing and engaging a large
number of German divisions, we are doing
all we can to support thqm and supply
munitions” —and that, of itself, is sound
military policy.
Admitting “a little internal confu-
sion,” not to be wondered at “after
three years of enemy occupation,” the
Foreign Minister said; “We, in conjunc-
tion with our Allies, are now working to
bring together all, in and putside Yugo-
slavia, to fight the common enemy-
High as the heavens his name will be
shouted if he succeeds. As to the politi-
cal future, “it is for the Yugoslav people
the moment their country is liberated to
choose the form of government they
desire” —which is scarcely calculated to
allay the resentment and fears of King
Peter and his supporters.
Simultaneously with the Eden state-
ment Moscow Radio announced that the
Soviet was sending a military mission to
Yugoslavia. It claimed for “Yugoslavia s
new leaders significant success in unit-
ing all the national forces in Yugo-
slavia” ; but pointedly excluded Mihailo-
vich : “The activities of Mihailovich s
Chetniks, who, according to reports, have
so far not helped, but rather harmed,
Yugoslavia’s struggle for liberation, can-
not but meet with a negative attitude on
the part of the U.S.S.R.” Tito’s National
Committee of Liberation had previously
asked for Lend-Lease aid and represen-
tation on the Allied Mediterranean Com-
mission and the European Advisory
Council.
As the lady war correspondent
with philosophic detachment, after P re ‘
sending the Chetnik officer’s story °
the Tito-Mihailovich war, all this “ s h e< ?
some light on the mentality existing 1
many German-occupied European coun-
tries and poses problems which will con-
front the Allies as they drive the enemy
out.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Bosses Decide.
The Commonwealth Labor Government
has received its instructions from the
Federal A.L.P. delegates. Since the
proceedings were closed against the
public and the “capitalistic” press, some
of the instructions are not at present
clear (the mist may be dispelled by some
privileged Labor paper), but a general
effect is that the Government is to go
after the orp-ntpct number nf vntps And
arter me greatest number of votes. Ana
there are to be more votes than ever, the
Government — here apparently reluctant —
having been commanded to enfranchise
hnvs and rrjrlc nf is iQ nnH on
boys and girls of 18, 19 and 20.
Among the delegates were enthusiasts
for the nationalisation of banking, the
early “implementation” of socialism and
t L. 'i ~■/ £ o . A , • n
abolition of the Senate. Abolition of
a Chamber in which Labor will have a
majority after June 30, for at least three
years and perhaps longer, did not com-
, •. F •
ma J or fiy» politicians,
and the other proposals were so plainly
loaded with dynamite that the Govern-
ment was granted permission to hedge,
Ordel ’knT
uraer, and as a first step the Govern-
ment, “when competent,” is to “declare
a minimum wage rate for male and
female laKr.r” nA in Ao rW.'l iiriiLi Arbi
mai labor, and to the devil with Arbi
tration Courts.
Indeed, the Government is to be re-
quired to do almost everything for “the
„ . r , * , ,i ■
workers except spoon food into their
mouths and rock them to sleep. Pre-
sumably this New Order, when instituted,
“ ed *° be defended. but on defence
not a word was said.
One of the features of the conference
was a long speech by Mr. Curtin on
imperial and international relations. With
unconscious humor the one war Prime
Minister who has stuck in his country,
refusing all opportunities of meeting other
war Prime Ministers, said “No machinery
of Empire co-operation could be superior
to or more satisfactory than periodical
conferences of Prime Ministers,” and
«Tn. i- , ... , n
again There can be no substitute for
conferences of Prime Ministers on ques-
tions of major Empire policy.” When
Mr. Menzies read these remarks his com-
ment was stinging, but the approval of
the delegates was unanimous and em-
phatic. It is now expected that Mr.
Curtin will go abroad with an A.L.P.
guarantee against a palace revolution or
a repetition of the unhappy experiences
that befell Mr. Scullin.
"An Absolute Lie."
From John Curtin, Prime Minister;
I refer to the cartdon published in your issue
of December 15 on page seven. The cartoon
shows the Prime Minister’s office closed while
seated waiting outside is an officer of high rank
clearly upset by what purports his inability to
consult with me on matters vital to the conduct
of the war. The cartoon states that the office
is closed for five days and unless the A.L.P.
bosses are obliging may be closed for a longer
period.
The impression on the minds of your readers
is obvious; the Prime Minister of Australia
is neglecting his duties and Army Commanders
are being frustrated thereby in the efficient per-
formance of their duties.
Plain language is called for; the cartoon is
based on an absolute lie. Even the most super-
ficial inquiry by any member of your staff re-
garding what I have been doing in Canberra
this week would have enabled The Bulletin
to realise that the cartoon was grossly at vari-
ance with the facts. The accusation against
myself is unpardonable.
The Bulletin, in reply, with an expres-
sion of regret that the Prime Minister
should take it that way:
Having been editor of a weekly paper for
many years, Mr. Curtin knows that ideas for
weekly-paper cartoons are roughed out several
days before the things are published. As one of
the six Westralian delegates he knows that the
conference was to have been held, and did
actually begin, at Sydney. The page containing
the cartoon objected to was sent to the printer
while the delegates were discussing the shift to
Canberra.
Suppose they had decided against it. Would
Mr. Curtin have resigned as delegate and re-
mained in Canberra? Or would he haVe given
up to the party what the country could (and
can) fairly claim for itself?
In a Labor “Standard” report dealing only
with the December 14 proceedings at Canberra
(they went on for three more days), it is stated
that “one of the first motions was on a proposal
that the Press be admitted,” and that “the pro-
posal was turned down,” although Mr. Curtin
was “known to be in favor.” Also, that among
the committees “elected to consider grouped
items on the agenda paper” was the gen-
eral committee, 'to which Mr. Curtin was
elected: “Messrs. Kelly, Calwell, Reid, Shand,
Curtin and Dwyer.” Mr. Churchill is presi-
dent of the Conservative party, and it is on
record that during the war he addressed the
Conservative Association at a conference. But
it has never been stated that he was “elected”
to a general committee or that he held him-
self in readiness to take part in the proceedings
when called upon.
Christmas, 1943.
Early in 1942 it looked as though the
only sort of Santa Claus likely to come
down the chimney that year was a little
yellow man waving a Rising Sun flag
and shouting “Banzai!” He came over
the Kokoda trail on the way to Moresby
and ran into a real Digger welcome. By
23/12/’42 “Ek Dum” was telling of his
defeat there, of operations at Buna and
Cape Endaiadere and of our patrols
“touching” enemy outposts in the Lae-
Salamaua area. On Christmas Eve
General Blarney complimented the A.I.F.
on its grand work, but said that the war
would be so long that he “could not see
the end of it.”
How sound that prophecy was, and is,
can be assessed from the fact that nearly
a year passed before that same Lae-
Salamaua area was cleared of the Jap.
He has proven hard to shift from other
spots in his northern ring around this
country, but he is being shifted and, were
General Blarney to prophesy again, he
might say that he could catch a glimpse
of the “end of it.”
In many homes there will be absent
faces of boys lost or still fighting in
defence of their country. There will be
wistful thoughts for the men of the
Eighth Division imprisoned by the
Japanese, but, whereas last Christmas
their fate was a mystery, this year some-
thing is known of them. A few families
have had the joy of reunion with
prisoners repatriated from Germany, and
many battle-tried veterans of the Middle
East and New Guinea are home on their
first Christmas leave. To them and to
their comrades in the services, Australian
and Allied, we owe not only our freedom
to grumble about the shortage of this or
that, but our freedom to take this
Christmas without fear, with the cer-
tainty of final victory and with the hope
that it will not be distant.
Grim Coincidence.
It has been revealed that there was influ-
enza in Europe when the war entered
upon its fifth year, as there was at the
corresponding period of the last war. The
King has had it. Possibly Mr. Churchill
was sickening for it when he set out -oi
Persia.
The first announcement that there was
an outbreak in England was conveyed
in the cautious statement that in the week
to December 4 there had been 709 deaths
“in the principal towns of England and
Wales/’ There followed an official ad-
mission that the outbreak was “seriously
affecting war-production,” and that there
w'ould be “a total mobilisation” to fight
it. Then it was given out that the number
of deaths for the week to Dec. 11 was
1148, And a bad epidemic in Germany, a
worse one in German-controlled Italy
and an extensive one in the United States,
though there “in a mild form,” were re-
ported.
The 1918-19 influenza struck in three
waves. The first appeared in Europe in
May-June, 1918, and was at first de-
scribed as “like a mild attack of measles
without a rash,” though it caused many
deaths; in Australia deaths from influ-
enza rose from 168 -in 1917 to 848 in
1918. The second wave whirled round
the world, killing far more people than
had been slain in battle or died of wounds.
In Australia the mortality was 11,552,
about half the number perishing: in N. S.
Wales, where rigorous precautionary
measures had been taken, even to com-
pulsory wearing of masks, a requirement
not exacted in other States. “The out-
standing difference between these waves,”
an authority wrote, “was the marked ten-
dency to pulmonary complications and
the high deathrate of the second.” As
for the third wave, it “had no distinctive
character, though pulmonary compli-
cations and fatal cases were fairly
numerous.”
It is now winter in Europe, where un-
told millions of people are undernour-
ished, ill-clad, ill-housed and short of
fuel. In Australia, as in other countries,
{Continued on page 8.)
DRESS REHEARSAL.
“Now, John, you are to imagine I’m Churchill, Forde is Smuts and Don Cameron is Anthony Eden.”


U<i
'5
C. S. R. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
P L
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
THAT*
Estate Administration
demands specialized
knowledge
Friendship is not a qualification for executorship. With the best intentions
in the world, your friends are not necessarily the most competent people to
be entrusted with the administration of your affairs in the best interests of
your beneficiaries. Do not burden them with unfamiliar tasks. Place the
responsibility where it belongs—in the hands of Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited, where your estate will have the advantage of the cumulative experi-
ence and specialized experience of competent directors and capable
executives. Ask for particulars of the service we offer.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COM-PAIMY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
np 41-43
it was in the autumn and winter that the
last pandemic took its most terrible toll.
A Stockholm account of the present Ger-
man outbreak notes “a surprisingly large
number of fatal cases among young men
and women working in factories.” All
the world over, young adult groups were
the principal sufferers in 1918-19. With
grim memories of what happened then,
the Australian health authorities have
promised that every precaution will be
taken. Absolute prevention may be be-
yond their power, but hitherto their meas-
ures against the introduction of air-borne
disease have been effective ; and, taking
only one of the sulfa drugs, they are better
equipped than in 1918-19.
POLITICAL POINTS
Bespeaking A.L.P.-conference support
for his projected referendum —he secured
it, though there seem to have been some
very natural objections to the proposed
five-years’ limit —Dr. Evatt contended
that there was “an unanswerable case”
for the 14 points. So the original 14-
points doctor thought, but in his case
there was an answer—a lemon.
Calwell, when a private member, at-
tacked the daily newspapers and the cen-
sorship. Now Minister of Information,
he is attacking the newspapers and de-
fending the censorship. He was answered
in Sydney by Eric Kennedy for the News-
paper Proprietors’ Association. Each
gentleman insisted that he could wipe the
floor with the other if the censorship
permitted.
As everyone anticipated, Opposition
members of the N.S.W. Leg. Council
threw out the bill designed to “reform”
their House out of existence. It was a
queer measure, one proposal being that
someone or other should stand for and
represent at his own cost territory larger
than two States, but McKell professes to
be aggrieved at its rejection. He is giving
the 150 legislators a long pre-Assembly-
election holiday to get over it.
Most of the stout fellows in the landing
at Arawe were Texans, and a correspon-
dent who accompanied them noted that
in appearance and manner they were
scarcely distinguishable from Westralians
and Queenslanders. The same thing was
remarked by Woodrow Wilson long ago.
Texans are a fine fighting people, sus-
tained by a deep loyalty to their State and.
Union. It made a unique contribution to
industrial history when the leaders of
the unions and the employers’ organisa-
tions went to the Governor’s office and
pledged themselves and their members to
give their full support, sans strikes and
lockouts, to the forces of the United
States for the whole period of the war.
In a solemn concluding clause, they in-
voked the Divine blessing on the agree-
ment they signed and sealed.
S. Storey, one of the British pressmen
recently in Australia,
“welcomes Australia’s development of
secondary industry,” but “urges that post-
war development should be concentrated on
logical industries, such as newsprint, tin-
plate and steel,” and not on those, such
as textiles, dependent on high tariffs.
In other words, you colonials can grow
the wool and well make it up and sell it
back to you.
Rejecting a Queensland motion for the
initiative, referendum and recall, an
A.L.P. conference majority pointed out
that the thing was already part of the
platform. So it is, and has been for
about half a century. But it is only there
to be taken out and inspected for white-
ants every ten years or so.
Premier Playford, of S.A., who has had
to contend with obstacles to his plan for
mining Leigh Creek coal, Canberra being
among them, has come out with the sharp
retninder that his State is desperately
short of coal, having only three weeks’
supply for its railways. Also with a
crusher: “It is not a question of whether
South Australia can afford to develop
Leigh Creek coal, but whether it can
afford not to do so.”
Pestilence is the incalculable factor in
war. It strikes at the guiltless as well as
the guilty, though, blind instrument of
an outraged Nature, it might conceivably
spare the men of blood who in their reck-
lessness and ruthle&ness set up the con-
ditions in which pestilence breeds and
spreads. It is devoutly to be hoped that
the war-racked world will be spared
another scourge like that of 1918-19. If
it came humanity would be engulfed in
a common disaster in the presence of
which armament programmes, plans of
campaign and conferences of the mighty
would be as reeds that shake in the wind.
In the kingdom of the one-eyed:
In October trade-union bosses, with Thornton’s
Red Racket mob in the forefront, “called upon
employees of the two biggest steelworks in Aus-
tralia to leave their jobs to attend' Stopwork
meetings.” They obeyed, and the Curtin Gov-
ernment, though it leans heavily on 8.H.P., did
nothing to protect it or punish the leaders of
the lawless proceedings. The Newcastle men
“Synchronously with the news of a cure for cancer of the prostate gland, Dr. Edith
Paterson, wife and assistant of Dr. Ralston Paterson, the cancer authority, was refused an
air passage from Australia.”
“Sorry, doctor, but your wife’s not a film star or a politician.”
were told by one of these leaders that it was
“a historic day for Newcastle —the first time
for many years work at B.H.P. has been brought
to a complete standstill.” At Port Kembla
the Red Racket cry was that “unless an early
reply is received t'o our demands” (one was for
the dismissal of Justice Cantor, of the State
Industrial Court) “there will be another stop-
work meeting and probably a proposal for a
continued strike.”
The strike arrived last week, the pretext being
that a staff man was doing blast-furnace work
at Newcastle. Maintenance men joined in, and,
stating that the safety of blast furnaces was
involved, the company announced that work
would be curtailed until a guarantee of fidelity
to industrial awards was forthcoming. An
order for resumption was issued by Justice
Cantor at a compulsory conference, marked by
a Thornton threat, “I am not certain what will
happen” if the men were refused pay for work
unperformed. The company protesting that un-
checked strikes or slopwork meetings might
mean permanent damage to the blast furnaces,
the Government came in with a National
Security regulation ordering immediate discon-
tinuance of “the lockout.”
So we proceed some furlongs further towards
industrial anarchy, with Communist workstop-
pers in control.
Britons of consequence, while full of
admiration for Masaryk, Czechoslo-
vakia’s G.0.M., never had any use for
Benes. It is 21 years since lan Hamilton
said “When Masaryk goes Benes will not
last long, nor Czechoslovakia either.”
Lloyd George wrote: “It was a misfor-
tune that Czechoslovakia was represented
at the Peace Conference not by the wise
Masaryk but by an impulsive, clever
politician who did not‘foresee that the
more he grasped the less he could re-
tain.” Now Benes has brought off an
alliance with Russia, designed presum-
ably to restore pre-war boundaries and
renew Czech control of unappeasable
minorities. A bitter Polish comment on
the invitation to Poland to come in is
“Give us the same terms, pre-war boun-
daries and all, and we will sign to-
morrow.”
The secretary of the Melbourne Egg
Board has angrily condemned the deci-
sion to remove from board control all
persons running 40 or fewer “adult,
domesticated female fowls.” He holds
that the result will be that people who
happen to know a poultry-owner will now
get all the eggs they want, while others
go without. Well, that’s better than the
way it was under board control, when
almost everybody went without.
Fines of £l5 have been imposed on
young women in Sydney, who may not
have had 155., for “having disobeyed
Man-power directions.” Serves ’em right
for not being coalminers!
Of a Dulwich Hill (Sydney) corporal,
back from a German prison camp, it has
been written that he is one of six brothers
in the A.I.F. Two of them have been
p.o.w. (one still is—in Japan), and their
sister is in the A.W.A.S. This appeared
along with reports of preliminary pro-
ceedings against Sydney hotelkeepers
alleged to be concerned in vast black-
market operations. Two are “licensees,”
aged 24 ; a third, aged 29, is described
as “manager and bookmaker.” No com-
ment, the cases being sub judice, but no
embargo on long, long thoughts.
Whether or not he has gained in wis-
dom with years, H. G. Wells has not lost
his talent for invective. Mosley he
described as “a contemptible unoriginal
ape, a symbol of corruption and crazy
Fascist filthiness, to condone whom is to
condone essential evil.” A Conservative
M.P., Commander Bower, rather spoilt
it by pointing out that “Fascism is a
political disease of the Left, a manifes-
tation of frustrated socialism,” and that
Mosley, like the Red Fascists who demand
his imprisonment without trial, was essen-
tially a socialist in a hurry. Certainly he
was a Labor M.P. for seven years (1924-
1931) and a Labor Minister (Chancellor
of the Duchy of Lancaster) part of the
time.
A queer case of suicide was that of a
Sydney radio actor, aged 31. Caught up
in the army, he said he couldn’t bear the
thought of being among so many people
and living on a reduced income, so he put
his head on a railway line when a train
was coming. He left a message objecting
to the Government’s apparent lack of
regard for the Actors’ Equity, one of the
Left unions, and bidding “the workers”
to remember that they owned Australia.
The poor devil was an academic Leftist.
Academic Leftism, though some of its
votaries are terrible far-away fighters,
doesn’t seem to promote moral stamina.
At the instance of the out-and-outers
from Adelaide, our Federal A.L.P.
masters decided to extend the franchise
to cockerels and flappers at 18. The re-
port coincided with an account of the
pranks of kids on N.S.W. coalmines who
summon and spout at pit-top meetings
“as the afternoon shift is about to be-
gin,” and “stop work because they
object to doing jobs which have been
done by boys without complaint for
many years.” No doubt when these
yahoos get the vote some of them will be
carried into Parliament on a wave of
cockerel-and-flapper feeling, and a new
horror will be added to public life. It
was thought that even our A.L.P. masters
would have more sense.
The Commonwealth Coal Commission
is the latest to have a crack at the house-
wife. In a display advertisement two are
shown shaking an admonitory finger and
indignant rolling-pin at a somewhat
startled coalminer. Caption: “You can’t
heat water with heated words!” Mes-
sage: “You can’t save coal by blaming
others for the shortage.” The commis-
sion, however, evidently believes in truth
in advertising—the somewhat startled
coalie isn’t working.
R, I. Herriot, the S.A. Soil Conserva-
tor, made a good point when he told a
meeting of valuers that they’d have to
take erosion into consideration when
valuing a farm’s improvements and
general worth. It’s an aspect that ought
to be kept in mind by those politicians
playing with dreams of settling returned
soldiers on duststorm country after the
war.


EX 14-42
Let’s Coll a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . for long, hard service. In
this way, you help Australia’s war effort.
tzXlbe BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Lei this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retiring next month. Chief Justice
Frederick Mann, K.C.M.G., C.J. of Vic-
toria since 1935 and Lieutenant-Governor
since 1936. Starting out as a clerk in the
Crown Law Department, he went off to
the Boer War with the Fourth Australian
Imperial Rifles, which got him a wound
but lost him his public service promotion.
He resigned, qualified as a lawyer in
spare time and began a legal practice. In
1919 he succeeded the late Leo Cussen as
Acting C.J. on the Supreme Court Bench,
was knighted in 1933 and in 1935 suc-
ceeded the late W. H. Irvine as C.J.
His wide interests outside the law include
hunting, yachting, botany, geology and
Australian bird-lore. Now 74, he was
born at Mount Gambier (S.A.).
Though he seems a shy sort of bloke,
Sydney’s Lud Mayor Bartley, elected for
the second time without Labor opposi-
tion last week, has a way with him and
knows how to act when the need
arises. He proved this one blazing day
when he arrived at the Vaucluse
public school (he was then mayor of
that suburb) and found about 30 head
of assorted male parents shedding rivers
of sweat as they whaled into the beaten
clay of the playground digging air-
raid shelters. He gave them a pained
glance, got into his car, went away and
presently returned with a load of the
sort of thing a sunburned, sweat-stained,
toiling citizen wishes for. Some of them
had to be helped out of the trenches, but
after sampling Bartley’s largesse they
went back, and Mad Mick and Banjo flew
to such purpose that on the distant Bondi
heights they thought it was a duststorm.
Squarely built and quiet, Bartley likes
turf and yacht racing, and his was the
only voice heard urging that all profits
from the restored “raceless Saturday”
meetings should got to patriotic funds.
“Plug Ugly”: The late great Australian
cricketer, Ernie (“Jonah”) Jones (B.
8/12/’43), was also an above-average
footballer, playing Australian rules for
South Adelaide. We knew him as “Pie-
bald” as well as “Jonah” in those days.
Half his hair and moustache was white,
the other half black —at least, until he
went to England. When he came back
with the Test team he was “Piebald” no
more.
From John Brennan:
At the time of France’s collapse Captain
Paulus P. Powell, newly-appointed chief-of-staff
at Admiral Theodore S. Wilkinson’s headquarters
of the South Pacific Amphibious Force, held a
watching brief to protect the interests of Ameri-
can nationals in Europe. Lisbon was the last
remaining door to the continent and was flooded
with refugees of all nationalities, many of them
penniless and without passports or identification
papers, and all clamoring for transportation
out of Europe.
One morning Powell saw a large, mournful-
looking negro, without shoes or hat, his trousers
tom off at the knees, his shirt hanging on one
button, lounging at the end of the pier. He
was gazing wistfully at Powell’s ship and the
Stars and Stripes fluttering from its flagstaff.
“What you doing?” asked Powell.
“Ah’se just waitin’, suh, an’ watchin’,” said
the negro. “Suh, Ah is scared.”
“But where you been?” demanded Powell.
“Ah’ve been eberywhere, suh”—the negro
nodded towards the north. “Up there when
them Germans is cornin’ those French folks
just take a-hold ob this nigger; they gives me
a gun an’ they gives me a uniform and they
puts me with a lot ob other niggers what I
couldn’t even talk to and they sends us up an’
tells us to fight. But them Germans just keeps
on cornin’, an’ after a while when Ah sees them
white folks leavin’ Ah just throws that gun away
and Ah takes off that uniform and then Ah
takes these two feet and Ah puts them on that
road and, suh, here Ah is.”
“All right',” Powell told him, “you’re identi-
fied. Go aboard.”
Since Pearl Harbor Powell has been chiefly
commanding transports in the Pacific. Between
wars his experience was with destroyers and
cruisers. He graduated from Annapolis Naval
Academy and served in the first World War on
the battleship New Mexico. From 1934 to
1936 he was on the China Station, War Plans
Officer on the staff of the Commander-in-Chief
of the Asiatic Fleet. He brings a wide know-
ledge of naval matters in the Pacific —and a
keen sense of humor —to his new job.
The other principal in a golden wedding
in Maoriland, C. of E. Archbishop
Averill, is a native of the same town that
produced the late R.C. Archbishop Red-
wood Stafford (Eng.). Archbishop
Averill, who succeeded Archbishop Julius
as Primate of the Anglican Church in
M.L., retiring in 1940, possesses a jolly,
round face, and once, while attending the
Anglican Synod in Dunedin, he hailed a
cabby and told him to drive to the
bishop’s palace. The Irish cabby took
one look at his fare and straightway de-
livered him at the R.C. bishop’s address.
R. W. McLeod is elected the new
Moderator of the Presbyterians in S.A.
in succession, to the orator Blanchard,
who came from M.L. McLeod, who is
38, was born at Geelong, and trained for
the ministry at Ormond College, Mel-
bourne,
S. has installed a new brigadier in
charge of its Salvarmy work. C. J.
Brimblecombe moves across from Tas-
mania ; but he learnt his job in Vic-
toria, where he specialised in religious
and musical editorship,
Sidney Downer, who has at last been
heard from as a prisoner in Jap hands,
after being missing for nearly two years,
is a grandson of John Downer, K.C., a
long-ago Premier of S.A., in whose study
the first draft of Australia’s Constitution
was hastily drawn up during a Federal
Convention. Before enlisting Sidney was
on the staff of Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Fred Downer, his father, a lawyer, was
its chairman of directors; and also,
shortly before his death a year ago, suc-
ceeded Barr Smith as chairman of Elder
Smith.
L. V. Biggs, 12 years editor of Mel-
bourne “Age,” and now Melbourne Art
Gallery trustee (B. 8/12/’43) has been
allowed no peace in his retirement. He
was a member of the special committee
which inquired into Metropolitan Board
of Works affairs, and St. Paul’s
Cathedral has collared him as a lay
canon. With Keith Murdoch, of the
“Herald,” L.V.B. and ex-Senator R. D.
Elliott, owner of a chain of country news-
papers, the press is well represented in
Melbourne’s National Gallery affairs.
South Aus., which had already pro-
vided a tiptop war artist —Ivor Hele, who
did some vigorous work on the Diggers’
North African scrapping—has appointed
another, Lieut. Geoff Mainwaring, now
in his early thirties, with two years’ sol-
diering experience in the A.I.F. artillery.
SOUTH AUS. WAR ARTIST.
in which he finished up as a sergeant.
Like Hele, he has the vigorous style best
suited for Digger depiction. Before join-
ing the A.1.F., Mainwaring was a teacher
at the S.A. School of Arts, where he
received his training. He’s represented
in the Adelaide Gallery.
.Two Parliamentary housekeepers will
go into retirement shortly James
Matthews, the white-haired custodian of
the Legislative Council in Melbourne,
and Herbert Osborne, who does the
domestic chores for the Legislative
Assembly. Matthews has occupied his
seven-roomed flat for 40 years; Osborne
his for 30.
“El V.” meets a new member:
There may have been a willy-willy around
when Frith inspected the sober countenance of
C. F. Adermann, M.H.R. Adermann is anything
but wild and woolly—a lean, flat, muscular slab
of a Queenslander whose even temperament was
not disturbed when he emerged as the one man
to win a seat from Labor. Maranoa had pre-
viously shared its favors equally between parties
—Jim Page (Lab.) had held if for 20 years and
J. A. J. Hunter (C.P.) for 19 years, after
which the electors found three years of “Bris-
bane Line” Baker enough. Adermann has a
good record in consistency and in public ser-
vice. He is a straight-out Country party man —
ADERMANN, M.H.R.
the only pure merino from Queensland, whose
other representatives at Canberra have a dash
of Nationalist strawberry or roan, or of piebald
breakaway C.P. In private life Adermann is a
farmer at’ Kingaroy in the rich red peanut
country. His excursions into public life are
locally reckoned to be the outcome of public
spirit rather than ambition. He made his
debut as a shire councillor —and soon became
chairman. He also is chairman of the Peanut
Board and of the South Burnett Broadcasting
Co. A religious man, one of his concerns is a
“session” for Sunday-school children which he
organised. His first essays in the House and the
party room have marked him as a man of sound
if unspectacular ability and shrewd common-
sense whose outlook is typical of the sober,
solid core of rural life that has done so much
to make Australia prosperous and secure.
Awarded the D.F.C., Flight-Lieutenant
Peter Siebert, of Adelaide, is one of two
brothers to receive this decoration. Join-
ing the R.A.A.F. in 1940, he completed
his training in Canada, and served in Eng-
land, Africa and the Middle East, where
he was wounded last year. He is now an
instructor in England. His brother,
Flight-Lieutenant J. A. Siebert, awarded
the D.F.C. in 1940, was subsequently
posted missing in 1941. They are sons
of Frank Siebert, a leading Adelaide
undertaker.
The skull of an abo. from Whymoul
is going up in the world. Born in a
Bulletin “Aboriginalities” par., it figured
in youth in an A.B.C. short-story broad-
cast, and now, in its triumphant maturity,
grins in a dramatic short filmed by the
Charles E. Blanks co. John Nugent Hay-
ward has the principal role in the film ;
Ray Darling directed, T. Higgins photo-
graphed it and R. D. Hansen adapted
the story about the direful and ghostly
events that occur when gentlemen outback
interfere with abo. burial grounds. The
original creator of the skull is Charles
Shaw, of The Bulletin staff,
Ben Roberts, member for Wairarapa,
steps into the shoes of defeated M.L.
Minister of Agriculture Barclay. Roberts
should be good in the job. A Liverpud-
lian, aged 63, he arrived in M.L. in 1907,
farmed successfully, especially with Jer-
seys and tomatoes, and was provincial
president of the Farmers’ Union. He
tried to enter Parliament per medium of
two constituencies adjoining his own, but
failed till Wairarapa returned him in
1935.
“Ek Dum’s” portrait;
Ismet Inonii was, when I last saw him,
own Turanian brother to W. M. Hughes as
W.M.H. was before the last war. About the
same size, he has about the same hair-do,
the same deafness and the same consequent
metallic groping air about his speech. And
he favored the same oratorical stance, with
the right hand Napoleonically disposed upon
the midriff for a start, and the same habit of
picking up papers as if they were dead rats
with his left. The Ismet Pasha of the last
war, Turkey’s President had a German mili-
tary education. He speaks German like a
German and French like a Frenchman. Kamal
Atatiirk jumped him up from a junior colonelcy
to chief of staff, and he stopped the Greeks
in their bid for Eski Shehr and the Ana-
tolian line at the two battles of Inonii junc-
tion, from which he took his modern name.
He stuck to a superior enemy at Kutahia until
he was nearly wiped out —Kamal had difficulty
in hauling him off—and licked the Greeks in
the three weeks’ battle of Sakaria for the
communication knot of Gordium which settled
the freedom of Turkey. Turning to diplomacy,
he signed the armistice at Mudania, thus ending
nine years of hostilities for his country. He
had asked for the evacuation of Thrace by
the Greeks and of Constant, by the Allies and
got both, under conditions. When the Allies
met at Lausanne to fix the final peace—
it was Poincare’s last and Mhsso’s first great
diplomatic appearance—Curzon, in the chair,
read an eighty-minute protocol telling Turkey
the terms it was proposed to impose. At the
end, he asked little Inonii whether the document
was clear and whether he wanted to know any-
thing to clarify it. “Yes,” Inonii is reported to
have said, “I should like to 'hear it read more
loudly. I am hard of hearing and have not
heqrd a word.” Then he himself produced most
unusual terms for a vanquished nation —Turkish
sovereignty of Anatolia, capitulations, non-
Moslems to lose special privileges, international
control of the Ottoman debt to cease, control
of Dardanelles subject to some reservations.
Curzon said: “The man bargains as if he were
selling carpets,” and, after months of wrang-
ling, decided to treat him in the time-honored
fashion of leaving the bazaar, expecting the
salesman to follow. Inonii, instead, went home,
took a pasting from his own people, and in
the end finished the negotiations with almost
everything he had asked for—what Kamal called
“the greatest diplomatic victory in history.”
He was the natural successor to Kamal. He
is the last survivor of the diplomats who negoti-
ated the last peace.
Feted by units of all the services before
leaving the Middle East to return to M.L.,
Chief Matron E. M. Nutsey, of the
N.Z.A.N.S., had four and a half years’
service in the last war, and volunteered
immediately when this war started.
Awarded the decoration of Associate of
the Royal Red Cross in England and an
M.B.E. in the Coronation honors, she left
the matronship of Auckland Hospital for
her second war.
Reached his 78th milestone hale and
hearty, Thomas Kaunis, lifeguard at St.
Kilda Baths, Melbourne. For 45 years
he has kept a watchful eye over hordes
of swimmers, and has lost count of the
numbers he has fished out of the water,
though it’s reckoned that he saved 500
lives in his first 20 years of service. Since
teaching children to swim came into
vogue the rate has dropped ; even babies
scarcely cause him any anxiety these days.
Known as the Unsinkable Man, Tom was
born on Ter Schilling Island, off the coast
of Holland, and served in the Nether-
lands Navy before coming to Australia.
The tremendous changes wrought by
war have destroyed most of the primi-
tive glamor of the “Dead Heart,” and
the two Melbourne artists who first
astounded city folk by the strange shapes
and extraordinary colors they found there
are grazing other pastures. John A.
Gardner has abandoned his caravan and
camels for a dairy farm in Victoria’s
Western District, where a full-blooded
Binghi would cause as much surprise as
a white man once did in the Never Never.
His studio is an old storehouse. Rex
Battarbee, his colleague, though some-
where in the Centre, is on a war job
for the duration. Battarbee’s pupil,
Albert Namatjira, the first aboriginal to
learn to paint his native country in terms
of art as it is taught in Melbourne, is still
painting somewhere in the desert behind
the Hermannsburg Mission. He is ex-
pected to hold another city exhibition
shortly. His first, at the Fine Arts, sold
out completely.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 82, Frederick Ashley Thorpe,
chairman of the N.S.W. Ambulance Transport
Service Board.
In Adelaide, at 51, Sidney Dent Marchant,
who only last May went from the town clerk-
ship of Botany, Sydney, to a similar post at
Unley (S.A.). After last'-war soldiering, in
which he rose from private to a commission,
he left N.S.W. Railways to become shire clerk
at Dubbo, moving from there to Botany. His
father was a onetime stationmaster at Sydney.
At 80, Frederick Chapman, Victoria’s eminent
palaeontologist. A member of that Bohemian
coterie the Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club,
he won the J. K. Moir Natural History
Medallion for 1940.
At 67, Frank Wood, former manager of the
Union Bank in Adelaide. His only son, Pilot-
Officer F. A. Wood, was among the first
Empire air trainees to go from Australia to
Canada.
In Adelaide, at 84, Joseph William Gilling-
ham, founder of , the Gillingham printing firm,
and also a founder of the Methodist Ladies’
College.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ek Dum”: It is no wonder to any
seasoned traveller that Churchill caught
pneumonia on his long, swift journey to
Tehran. The adjustment from the
warmed rooms of London in November
to the almost-sea-level desert climate of
Cairo and then to the high, clear, cold
winter climate of Tehran, after crossing
the 9000 ft. Alvand Range, is enough to
try the constitution of even a young,
active man with time to look after him-
self. Tehran lies on a high plateau against
the foothills of the Elburz Range. It is
only about 35 miles from the base of
Demavend, 18,600 ft. high. Once in that
region I spent Anzac Day in a blizzard
with the mercury 14 below zero. On
May Day we chopped hunks of ice
off a radiator 8000 ft. up in the
“See anything promising, Bud ?”
Anti-Taurus. Ten days later the set-
ting was Baghdad at 112 deg. Nor-
wegian national day (May 17) was cele-
brated digging the car out of the snow
on the Alvand Range. On Empire
Day (May 24) we had pumping hearts
from the altitude on the road to Tehran
in a temperature in the nineties, and a
freeze of the Central Australian variety
brought down on the Demavend breezes
at night. One advantage the P.M. had
that we of the Stone Age of 16 years or
so ago didn’t have. If we had been men
on the edge of 70 and had collected pneu-
monia our chances would have been
limited. But sulfa drugs have weighted
the balance heavily in favor of ageing
patients.
* * * #
“Tuart”; Though there are signs of a
revulsion of feeling in Sydney, at least
in some quarters, against Bung and the
Bookie, they are still idols to daily and
weekly papers. A Bookie who runs rather
seedy Sunday shows for a pet charity,
and who was privileged to get labor and
building material, denied to the houseless,
for a totally unnecessary diving pool (with
background of girl), gathered about him-
self other patrons of his pet charity and
sent round the hat. Whereupon the doting
“Sun”: —
Most men in the hall were publicans,
business sportsmen and bookmakers.
When something or other needs a hand,
these men are the salt of the earth.
I demur to the salt, while admitting that
they get a great deal of our sugar. But
this passionate devotion doesn’t extend to
service men. The same paper—and others
—“exposed” a young soldier-politician
(there are precious few) whose bail was*
estreated after a night out, a triviality
which would never have been published
in days when there was some charity in
journalism. And a V.C. of the last war,
a wonderful fighter whose personal
tragedy is that he wasn’t kept in the army
—he enlisted before he had learned any
other trade—figured as having been
“bound over” in a case of no importance
—and that in a “Newsletter for Service
Men.”
* * * »
“C.Q.”; Dedman is Father Christmas
to artists. The picture-buying boom—
due to the fact that there is little else to
buy—has reached such a pitch in Mel-
bourne that galleries have to ration the
works of established painters. Because of
complaints from buyers that when they
turned up at openings of exhibitions
every canvas had been sold, one manager
now prints on his invitations; “No sales
prior to opening date or time.”
* * * *
“Spoke”: Melbourne citizens who
daily take their place in queues for milk,
tobacco, vegetables, the last apple left in
Australia and other necessities of exist-
ence read with mixed feelings that the
machinery of the law had been set in
motion to bring to justice a man who
passed a £1 note to his wife, standing in
a tote queue at Flemington. Under the
Act it is unlawful for a person to take
precedence over anyone else in a tote
queue, and by handing money to some-
one in the queue a person standing out-
side the line would gain such precedence,
And a considerable section of the force
i s detailed off to police the Act.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Musing on the decline of
the Australian stage, on which so many
golden girls and grand actors charmed
and instructed us before it was miserably
sacrificed to the movies—-O memories of
the Broughs, Boucicault, Titheradge, Rig-
nold, Hilda Spong, Pattie Browne, Nellie
Stewart, Florence Young, Carrie Moore,
Lauri, Riley, Brownlow and those en-
chanting choruses and ballets!—l read
in an American paper that of 922 in-
comes of $75,000 and upwards declared
to the U.S. taxation authorities in 1942
Hollywooden actor-rs and actorines drew
215. Never in the field of human enter-
tainment was so much paid to so many
for so little.
* * * *
“Hist”: Should General MacArthur
buy a “ninepenny Macarthur stamp” to
get an eyeful of this John Macarthur with
whom, according to “C. 8.” (B.
15/12/’43), Melbourne stamp fans have
“If you’re not Santa Claus, who the hell are you?"
been confusing him he’ll be astonished
—because the “gentleman represented”
on that stamp is neither John nor Doug-
las, but a fine upstanding merino ram.
The stamp is one of a set of three issued
in 1934 for the Macarthur centenary;
hence “the Macarthur ninepenny.” Aus-
tralia seems to be following the British
precedent of confining the portraiture on
its stamps to reigning sovereigns. The sole
exceptions so far are the Sturt Centenary
stamps, issued in 1930, which depict that
explorer. Allegorical designs are, of
course, in a different class.
* * * *
“Bo”: The stout old dame with the
bulging string bag toddled up to a
George-street vegetable stall. She ran an
exploratory hand over the tomatoes and
peas, turned a dubious eye on the beans,
snapped a few and said to the barrow-
man: “Are y’ sure they’re all young?”
“Young, missus?” the vendor of veges
roared in a voice that could have been
heard at Darling Harbor. “Why, if y’
shove y’r lug against ’em y’ll hear ’em
callin’ for their mothers!”
* * * *
“Pawang”: Your true-blue bureaucrat
loves repression. Manufacture of Christ-
mas toys for the Melbourne market
largely got into the hands of foreigners,
who were making rubbish worth a# few
pence which shops were selling at up to
half a guinea. Authority announced in
Melbourne (but apparently not in
Sydney) that nobody could make a tin
tank or a woollen bunny except under
permit. Hence hundreds of people who
may have loved to make toys and been
able to make good ones in their spare time
were obliged to desist or operate on the
black market. Hasn’t officialdom learnt
anything from prohibition in America?
What should have been done was
to lift the repression and let anybody
and everybody make toys until the market
was flooded. Plenty of toys would have
meant low prices and a smaller demand,
because it is a curious fact about human
psychology that the more difficult it is
to get a thing the more people seem to
want it. Damage to the war effort?
Bunkum! The notion that the entire
population is concentrated on the war
effort and mustn’t be diverted is an offi-
cial superstition. I questioned a dozen
of my acquaintances as to what they did
with their leisure. All but one employed
it at being entertained in one way or an-
other ; and most forms of entertainment
immobilise war effort.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: A Brisbane advertis-
ing agency engaged a lad who, although
willing enough, was a bit dull. Sent to
deliver some radio copy, he was in-
structed, in the event of the office being
closed, to “stick the copy in the letter-
box.” He returned and was questioned.
“Yep, the joint was closed, so I stuck it
in the letter-box as you told me.” Next
morning the G.P.O. rang up and wanted
to know what the agency meant by
putting radio copy in a pillar-box—did
it think the G.P.O. was a broadcasting
station or something? Then the boss
sent for the office-boy.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; According to a memo-
randum submitted to Melbourne’s city
fathers by the Town Clerk a continqpus
shopping or business area is more attrac-
tive to the public than one broken by
non-commercial buildings, and he wants
the Town Hall removed—also, presum-
ably, St. Paul’s, the Public Library and
the National Gallery, which likewise affect
the commercial activity of the city. I
should like to ask Mr. Wootton why, in
the forgotten days of peace, 99 travelling
Australians out of 100 went to Paris in-
stead of going to a more purely commer-
cial city like Chicago. In Paris there was
a Ministry of Fine Arts which jealously
preserved every ancient building, church,
cemetery, old street or square where
Victor Hugo or Anatole France once
lived and wrote, whether it was in
the way of commerce or it wasn’t. Even
ancient places of business like the Flea
Market were maintained in the heart of
the city.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; There is nothing very new
about Basic English. The principles which
underlie it were evolved by professors,
whereas Basic Malay or bazaar Malay or
Malay pidjin arrived accidentally, because
foreigners were too lazy or contemptuous
of the native lo learn the proper language.
In Basic English there are only 15 verbs
—“to go” has to do yeoman service.
Similarly, in Basic Malay there is only
one word for “to carry” ; in pukka Malay
there are at least 20. There are different
words for to carry at arm’s-length, on
the shoulders, on the head (a popular
method of transport), in the arms as a
baby, on the back, in the hand, on a stick
and so forth and so on. In short, Basic
Malay is an attenuated poor relation of
the language of which it is a shadow, and
Basic English bears much the same rela-
tionship to the English pf Shakspeare.
* * * *
HISTORICAL.
“Beer-drinking has been a part of British national
life from time immemorial.” —\Senator Keane.
You’ll find it chronicled in history’s pages
And emphasised in Bacchanalian chants.
Our sturdy ancestors, all down the ages,
Rejoiced in thirst-allaying stimulants.
But, Senator, you seem to have omitted,
Through inadvertence p’raps, to make it clear
That many centuries -arrived and flitted
Before they hit on beer.
The Saxons banked on mead in horn and flagon*
To wash their victuals down and banish care.
I warrant they’d have deemed the water-wagon
An utterly preposterous affair.
There was no stingo, marked with X’s triple,
Chaps in the Middle Ages could attack,
Nothing that even Falstaff found to tipple
More heartening than sack.
The warriors who battled for the Roses
Had certain drinkables, no doubt, of sorts,
But lived a lot too soon to dip their noses
In brown October served in foam-crowned
quarts.
Ale certainly existed. In torrential
Fashion it may have flowed, and doubtless
did.
But could it hit the spot without th’ essential
Amari aliquid?
Not until bluff King Hal found it expedient
About as often as he wished to wive,
Did that quite indispensable ingredient
For genuine beer on England’s shores arrive.
Not until good Queen Bess had elbowed bottles
Of French and Spanish vintages aside,
Did Britons start to lubricate their throttles
With malt and hops allied.
Well, here’s to Father Noah who invented
One means to lighten human lives a lot!
And here’s to him who barley first fermented,
Some primitive Egyptian, was it not?
And here’s to him (despite sour wowsers’ cen-
sures)
Who glimpsed, in Tudor times, what hops
would mean
In adding piquancy to modest quenchers!
And, lastly, here’s to Keane!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE BLACK MARKETEER.
You might place him, 1 think, pretty high on
the list
Of crooks who the foes of their country assist
When they find in the war, with its stress and
its strain,
A chance for iniquitous personal gain.
A menace and curse, it’s abundantly clear,
And a rotten bad hat is the Black Marketeer.
While others are risking, anear and afar,
For victory all that they have or they are,
Each trying and doing his best and his bit,
He’s artfully scheming the law to outwit
And his pockets to line, with a gratified leer
As he tots up his takings, the Black Marketeer.
In various guises and places he’s met
And everything’s fish that comes into his net;
He’s up to his neck in a lucrative graft
Begotten in cunning and cradled in craft.
Wherever there’s shortage of whisky or beer
You needn’t look far for a Black Marketeer.
Jt isn’t too easy his capers to check,
For he’s eyes in the back of his head for a ’tec.
And ’twill take something more, one imagines,
than fines
To make him abandon his knavish designs.
A term in the jug, howsoever severe,
Is surely the due of the Black Marketeer.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Hamer”; More or less in the inter-
ests of the war effort my refugee friend
had been swung into the Christmas
poultry business. “Now I spik de Eeng-
leesh ver’ well,” he said, “bud he buzzles
me. Ven der vowl has all ees leaders he
is undressed ; but I haf do say do der
kustomer he is dressed ven no clothes
on he has.”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: National anthems (B.
8/12/’43) don’t come into vogue by
official ukase, contrary to Minister Ca!-
well’s opinion. France’s spirited air is a
good example. Composed by Claude
Joseph Rouget de Lisle, an obscure officer
of engineers stationed at Strasbourg in
1792, it happened to be sung by a party
of revolutionaries from Marseilles when
they made a violent entry into Paris. Its
strains rose once more on the air when
the mob attacked the Tuileries. It had
to have such associations before it could
be accepted by a nation dedicated more
or less to the ideals of egalite, fraternite
and blowing up things. If Mr. Calwell
wants to surround his choice for Australia
with similar associations he will first have
to give up his official position, form a
secret society and start leading it on for-
lorn hopes by attacking established insti-
tutions. If he succeeds it won’t matter
what tune he uses.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: The Perry referred to by
“Half-pint” (B. 8/12/’43) was never able
to put M.L.A. after his name, although
he had several tries. The one who threw
the water-bottle in N.S.W. Assembly
would smile broadly in the Elysian
Fields if the par. describing him as a
temperance fanatic could reach him
there. Their respective Christian names
were George and John.
* * * *
“Simon”: The mild summer so far has
been marked by fewer surfers on Sydney
beaches. We Sydneians are not entitled
to our claim of being ardent surfers until
we learn that the ocean is not affected by
slight changes of local temperature. The
water here never falls below 57 degrees
nor rises above 72 degrees. The tempera-
ture of the ocean even in the tropics
never exceeds 78 degrees. With a body
temperature of 98 degrees it will be natur-
ally unpleasantly cold going in, but the
surface heat is quickly reduced until at
65 degrees on a cold day you could draw
the waves around you with the welcome
embrace of a blanket. It is well over 60
years since I had my first plunge, under
supervision, in a basin, but I still surf all
the year round and maintain that there
is little noticeable difference after the
first plunge as the seasons come and go.
Daily papers do much to retard the all-
round-the-year practice by printing in
winter shivery pictures of “icebergs” in
trunks. They are not icebergs. Icebergs
are mostly under water. Sydney’s “ice-
bergs” are mostly out of it, judging by the
pictures.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Touching these minor dif-
ferences in idiom (B. 8 /12/’43), before
World War 1 “Blue” or “Bluey” for a
redhead like myself was virtually un-
known in Westralia, where I spent my
schooldays. In my progress from class
to class I was always “Ginger.” Not
until I migrated east (and, incidentally,
learned to call the triple-spiked thorn,
always “double-gee” in Westralia, “bindi-
eye” in N. S. Wales and “jo-jo” in Vic-
toria) did I become “Blue.” Apropos,
you can always pick a Queenslander in
another State by his felt hat. The brim
is noticeably broader, and the dint seldom
varies from the conventional deep furrow
straight along the centre of the crown.
* * * *
F. B. Williams (Bakersfield, Cal.): This
Christmas will be the hundredth anniver-
sary of A Christmas Carol. Dickens
wrote it, a biographer notes, “to pay out-
standing debts,” and it has left the world
in his debt for all time. I know that Aus-
tralian seasons are the reverse of ours.
When Christmas arrives with you it
is summertime. But the way this
old world is shrinking these days the
seasons are coming To mean less all the
time; so the date is what will have to
count. I suppose that, summer or not,
you celebrate the Christmas season in
Australia. It seems to me that something
should be done about the 100th birthday
of the Carol. And probably the greatest
honor that could be paid would be to
read it. Dad always read the Carol to
us on Christmas afternoon, and I’ve read
it every year or heard it read in full for
many years past. It has always helped
me feel more kindly toward those about
me, and I think it would be a good thing
if more persons came in contact with the
Spirits of Christmas Past, Present and
Future. Thanks, and, of course, we are
proud to have you Australians fighting
with us.
* * * •
“Looby”: I’ve heard so many stories
against Uncle that I record the follow-
ing with pleasure, I sailed into the
pawnshop to get my fountain-pen out of
the safe, as editors and friends (note the
distinction) object to pencil. The ticket
said five bob and a bob for interest, so
I placed six bob on the counter. Uncle
looked at the ticket and read the date;.
then he said there was a mistake: “In-
terest should only be sixpence; here’s
your change.” I was so overcome that I
nearly fell forward into the case of false
teeth.
* * * *
“Condo. Way”: One of the things that
struck me unpleasantly in Sydney was the
harsh, strident voices of its citizens. After
the slow, quiet drawl of the back country
I got the impression of being shrieked
at every time somebody spoke to me.
But it wasn’t long before I caught myself
using the same tone of voice, and then I
realised that to make yourself heard in
Sydney’s narrow streets against the roar
and grind of trams, the shuffle of count-
less feet and the skirling of countless
tongues trying to get a word in, you’ve
got to be strident or remain silent. And
no silent man can prosper in this city.
* * * *
“Hamley”: My newspaper informs me
that, on arrival in New York, the British
press delegation recently in Australia told
reporters that “the average Australian”
was “becoming more world-minded.” He
may be, but what I’d like to ask those
delegates is where they ran across an
average Australian. Surely not among
the hordes of journalists and politicians
who infested them while they were here.
Sometimes I’ve tried to identify an “aver-
age” Australian, but, except in a sort
of racial casualness, a love of horses and
“What’s it to be, Aubrey—you or the tomato ?”
beer, I’ve never struck one who could
be taken as an average. Which is prob-
ably why, despite all our shortcomings,
we can produce persons like the Digger,
Melba, Darcy, Bradman, Edgeworth
David, Norman Lindsay, Professor Mur-
doch and countless others.
* * * *
H. B. Paterson (A.1.F.) winds up the
debate:
Am sorry to have to contradict various con-
tributors who hold other views, but there never
was any such person as “the Man from Snowy
River.” My father told me this a number of
times, and I suppose he should have had a
rough idea, considering that he wrote the poem.
Claimants to the honor have been dying off
in considerable numbers for some years now.
I remember one small town writing to my father
asking him to compose an epitaph, as they
wished to erect a monument to a local celebrity
who, as everyone knew, was the original “man.”
My father’s attitude was “let ’em all claim it
so long as they’re happy.” He could not re-
member any definite incident which gave him
the original idea.
* * * *
“F.”: Meat rationing is going to have
repercussions. In our butcher’s the other
morning I was surprised to see one man
order 301 b. of meat, and even more sur-
prised to find that it was his weekly order,
all for his own consumption. He is a
sleeper-cutter who spends the whole week
in the bush, and he has meat, bread and
tea every meal. I’m afraid that it will
• be no use telling that man —and scores of
others like him —that his physiological
needs will be satisfied by 2|lb. of meat
a week, and that he can make up the
balance with vegetables and fruit and
made dishes. He can’t get the substitutes,
and wouldn’t eat them if he could, be-
cause for 30 years his inner works have
become accustomed to the carnivorous
diet. I suppose he will buy his meat
direct from a farmer, and I suppose the
farmer will risk black-marketing as the
lesser of two evils. He will be fairly safe
selling his sheep. I can’t see Curtin’s
“inspectors” disguising themselves as
sleeper-cutters and bushworkers and
going out into the bush to get convic-
tions-—not so long as there is a pub in
Castlereagh-street, anyhow.
* # ♦ •
A Jap Pete who operates a
heavy artillery piece that has dropped a
few shells into the Empress Augusta
beachhead, Bougainville, has been of
more nuisance value to the enemy than
of any really destructive worth. His
“barrages” have amounted to a couple
of dozen shells in the early evening and
another 20 or so just before daylight;
then a lull of three or four days while,
apparently, he dismantles his weapon and
lumps the whole thing and the ammuni-
tion he needs three or four miles through
the jungle to a new position. On one
occasion he was unwittingly helpful. Just
after his popping-off had begun one
night one of his shells landed alongside
a hospital tent under which a couple
of marines, shell - shocked during a
heavy barrage of mortar-fire the previous
day, were lying in a trench. The shell-
crater came within 18 inches of the tent,
and the sides of the trench caved in,
burying one of the patients. He was dug
out in time, and next morning he was
ready for duty again. The second shock
had cured him of the effects of the first.
* * * *
“Matros”: “Dicky Sam” may have
been current slang last century for a
native of Liverpool (B. 1/12/’43), but
“Scouse-eater” is this century’s denomina-
tion, especially among seafarers. It’s de-
rived from lobscouse, that old sea dish of
meat stewed with vegetables, biscuits or
anything else that might be going bad.
Lobscouse to the sailor is as stew to the
soldier. Dana ate it when he sailed before
the mast, and the hands on the most
modern oil-tanker still have it several
times a week. I have seen the dish in
Australian, British, Norwegian and
Danish ships, and why the “Poolies”
should be distinguished as “Scouse-eaters”
I don’t know.
* * * *
John Brennan from the Solomons:
In its sudden, surprising access of civilisa-
tion the experience of Guadalcanal has been
the almost complete reverse of the norm. It
had its war first —a large-scale affair of ’planes
and battle-cruisers, amphibious tanks and
flame-throwers —and then came roads and office
buildings and airfields, telephone exchanges,
electric fans and electric razors, washing
machines, iceworks, moving pictures, no-park-
ing notices and a radio station. The island
has been visited by politicians, a President’s
wife and a radio commentator. The last great
benefit of civilisation has come just one year
after the Japs were cleared from the island-
labor-union troubles.
The radio commentator was welcomed with
pomp and ceremony. A figure of some tonnage,
he was to broadcast his impressions of Guadal-
canal to a waiting world, and, being kind, he
arranged for a musical introduction; pianist
and singer. He announced the performers with
a kindly tribute to the culture of this newest
of the world’s civilisations. The singer’s voice
was vibrant with nostalgia for the land from
which he had come. “You have lighted the
road leading home,” he sang. The Great Man
told of his experiences, thanked his listeners
for their indulgence and promised that his
voice would soon be with them again. The
broadcast was over.
Five minutes later a fell message came from
San Francisco—after the first bar of music
the whole programme had been cut. The
American Federation of Musicians, run by one
Petrillo (“Czar” Petrillo), had not been notified
that the musical couple would perform. In any
case there was no record of their having paid
union dues.
* * * *
“Pip”; Double-headed-penny jokes
give me a pain in the neck. Spinning
with two pennies is a rarity ; three pennies
give a result every time. When spinning
with either two or three coins they must
be faced tails up, and a good “ringie”
will always check to see that they are. A
dishonest “ringie” could whip in a
“double-header” for a fellow-swindler,
but with dozens of pairs of eagle eyes
on the job the chance of being torn to
pieces is too great. In any case, since
the runner of a game usually collects 2s.
in the pound from every third successive
head his profits are good enough with-
out risking his life. “Double-headers”
are as dead as the dodo ; they might have
tricked the old man, but then he and his
contemporaries were sitting shots for
everything from thimble-and-pea to the
three-card trick.
* =H * *
“Petermac”: Taxis are not the only
public vehicles benefiting by the war
boom. Sydney’s sole hansom cab is doing
a roaring trade. Patrons are mainly
Allied service men enjoying a ride in a
vehicle that has long since vanished back
home.
* * * *
“Avon”: The Secesh party in Westralia
has something very near a counterpart
in Maoriland, where the South Island
periodically announces that its injuries
and disabilities are too grievous to be
borne. Main points in the indictment
of the North Island are that the upper
half not only contains the capital (Wel-
lington), two-thirds of the popu-
lation and the largest city
(Auckland) but has a practical
monopoly of overseas shipping
terminals and far more than its
share of public expenditure. To
this is added, in war-time, the
fact that the North draws
thousands of workers from the
South to engage in services
necessary to the military effort.
Conferences in Dunedin and
Christchurch have lately been
letting off steam and calling
down vengeance, encouraged by
a South Island Cabinet Minister,
O’Brien, who remarked sagely
that “a squeaking wheel gets
grease.” Of course, the “solid
South” already has a good deal
of grease. That’s where the
money settles and where the
head offices of' all the biggest
businesses are domiciled.
* * *
“Snowy” Baker, from Los
Angeles, with a touch of nos-
talgia ;
1 see the old Red Rag now and
then. I haven’t forgotten the old
sports or the old Australian ways.
Boxing has changed; the boys give
and take more punches in 10 rounds
than they did in 20 rounds in my
active days, 1900-1920. Americans
prefer Roman-holiday methods to
science. They demand action, and
boxers provide it or don’t get engage-
ments. Mexicans are coming into the
picture; we have more than a dozen
good Mexican boxers in Los Angeles and Holly-
wood. They have the build, and display rare
courage and fine stamina. But every day good,
bad and indifferent pugs are joining the colors
or going into one or other war-factory jobs.
One day one has a main event and four pre-
liminary bouts arranged; a few days later the
10 scrappers are in the Army or Navy. Of
course, that’s as it should and must' be.
My main activities as a director of Los
Angeles Athletic Club and allied clubs —in-
cluding Hollywood Athletic, Pacific Coast, Deau-
ville Beach and Riviera Country—concern the
physical fitness of members and their children.
We consider it the duty of every child and
adult, not actually at war, to do their home
job as best they can and exercise that they
may be fit and ready for any emergency. Thou-
sands of past and present club members arc
on active service.
My direct work at the Riviera Country Club
is as equestrian director. We have stabling
for 500 horses, four turf polo fields, a steeple-
chase course (mile and a half), three jumping
courses, three show brings— one of turL two
of sand —a half-mile sand exercising track and
a bridle path around the ground 4f miles long
and 16ft. wide. And there is a golf course of
18 holes considered by pro. golfers one of the
four best in the world.
We play polo, youths, men and women,
every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday through-
out the year, and hold a monthly horse show
for members, their families and friends. The
grounds run to 400 acres, and there are more
than 50 miles of picturesque mountain and
canyon riding country adjoining. The club
itself is situated at Pacific Palisades, near the
Pacific Ocean, about 16 miles from the centre
of Los Angeles, and is on a main boulevard
from city to ocean. There is a big Spanish-
type clubhouse, modern and residential.
My home, where I live with my wife and two
daughters, is in Los Angeles, near Hollywood.
I have an Australian-type cottage on the Riviera
grounds, The Gunyah. It serves as an office
and meeting-place for polo players and riders,
with a good spot for a little game of two-up
with friends, and is surrounded by eucalyptus-
trees, some 60ft. high, and overgrown with
passionfruit vines, wattle-trees and Aussie
shrubs. These Australian trees, shrubs and
vines were grown bV me from seeds that my
mother sent from Sydney 12 years ago. The
inner walls of The Gunyah are decorated with
equestrian and athletic pictures and photos.,
boomerangs, abo. spears, stockwhips, nullas and
womerahs. I wish you could see it!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Norther”: An Ally on leave and see-
ing the country drifted into a Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) pub and called for a
drink. Then he had another. While he
was dallying with his third a heavy sound
caused him to look round, and he found
himself sharing the bar with the pub’s pet
pony, a beer-lover in for its morning pot.
At first our Ally thought he had ’em,
but the Bung quickly explained. “Well,
dang mah hide,” said the Ally; “I’ve
drunk vfath all sorts of two-legged critters
in all sorts of places, but this is the first
chance I’ve had to drink with a foqr-
legged one. Give mah buddy a drink.”
Bung expostulated, explaining that the
pony was a pet and there was no need to
waste money on it. But the Ally was deter-
mined. “Always sorta reckoned I was
pretty good,” he said. “I’ll drink this
animile under the table or bust.” Later
they led both to the pony’s yard and left
them to sleep it off, declaring a dead heat.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We awoke in our camp
under the bridge on Christmas morning,
broke and hungry, and sadly surveyed the
day. We knew, through having prospected
it the night before, that there was little
hope of free food or drink in the hamlet
up the road. While Mat moodily put
the billy on I raked our pockets for a
few crumbs of tobacco. Then there rode
to the bridge a youth with a merry eye
who hailed us and said “Hey, you blokes,
don’t forget t’ doll y’rselves up an’ be
up at the pub f’r dinner. The publican’s
turnin’ it on f’r all hands t’day.” Our
spirits enormously uplifted, we dived into
our swags, got out clean shirts and
changed into our best clobber. We were
at that pub the moment the dinner gong
rang and made for the dining-room. Not
much effort had been made to decorate
the place, and we couldn’t help noticing
that, except for the publican and his
family and a couple of obvious boarders,
we seemed to be the only outsiders. How-
ever, if the rest of the hamlet preferred
to celebrate at home that was their busi-
ness, and it left the more for us; so Mat
and I went for the doings in good style.
We called for liquid refreshments and
got them, had three helpings of every-
thing and then, replete, went and lounged
on the verandah. Came the publican
with queries as to our destination and
business. We had no destination and no
business. Whereupon that publican rose
up and demanded 15s. Mai explained
about the youth and the invitation. Stav-
ing off apoplexy by a miracle of self-
control, . Bung went cursefully inside.
Presently his daughter appeared and tear-
fully asked us to leave as quietly as pos-
sible ; the whole thing had been staged
by that merry youth as a reprisal, he
having been warned against wooing the
girl. “Well,” said Mat as we drifted
happily back to the bridge, “it’s the first
time Santa Claus ever rode up to me on
a horse, it’s the first time I ever got a
free beano out of a love affair and it’s
the first time I ever felt kissing a
girl.”
* * * *
“Strait Pirate”: “You’re not eating
peaches with cold meat, potatoes and fish,
are you?” we asked the old salt who had
the varied assortment on a plate before
him. “Hum,” he grunted ; “what’s the
difference between mixing ’em on deck
and in the hold?”
# sfe
“Wippegong”: Usually there’s no
pleasure in looking down on old friends,
but when those friends are rivers you’ve
followed from the snow to the sea it’s
different. From the air the Hume Dam
marks a clear-cut division between the
beautiful Upper Murray Valley and the
endless bends which, beginning in earnest
below Albury, wind down in wondrous
"He says he's from the Entertainments Unit, and he's playin' in 'The
Mikado' in half an hour, but I'm takin' no chances!"
variety toward the sunset. Skirting pas-
tures and vineyards and wheat, the Old
Man plunges into the great redgum belt
below Tocumwal, swings south, then
sprawls into Moira Lakes, with their water-
weed quilt of pea-green and grey, soft
purple and blood-red —from 5000 ft. in
the summer sun of the plains the tones
are glorious. From there the Echuca
bend is clear, and you catch a glimpse
of the green patchwork around Kerang ;
at Swan Hill you see a sample of what
Mildura holds in store; a great sweeping
area of ordered, eloquent prosperity ; an
example of what can —and must —be
done with the western rivers. So to Ren-
mark, the cliffs and Murray Bridge, with
Tailem Bend a gleaming angle and the
lakes lying in wait beyond. The ’Bidgee
is best at Burrenjuck ; from far above
it is a noble setting. A few minutes from
there and you’re over the beautiful loop
at Jugiong, sometimes decorated by an
animated snowstorm —white cockatoos
on the flats. Unless you know where to
look you might miss the channel slipping
away at Berembed, but you can’t miss
its work ; there are few lovelier patterns
than the M.1.A., through broken, fleecy
cloud, when the rice is pure gold. The
Lachlan lives through extremes. Last
autumn above Forbes it wound through
miles of flooded paddocks, but below
Hillston it wriggles forlornly past piti-
less, scalded claypans, and you can under-
stand that often it hasn’t enough force
left to reach the ’Bidgee. But it’s over
the Darling that you see what water really
can do when time is of no account what-
ever, Bean’s Dreadnoughts of the Dar-
ling should be reprinted, this time with
aerial photographs. Those bends must
be seen to be believed.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Always thought
albatrosses were too wary and graceful
at flying to become involved in traffic
accidents, but in Bass Strait recently a
large man-o’-war bird came down wind
on us in broad sunlight, banked, baulked
and clouted our wireless aerial, breaking
it, together with its long; double-jointed
wing. The big fellow, white except for
his zigzag brown stripes and black tail,
thudded on deck, and we measured his
wing-span as 12ft. 4in. Fishermen at
Queenscliff (Vic.) say such happenings
are not unusual. While steaming out to
sea on dark, early mornings the large
gliders have been known to bash into
forestays, nearly ripping the masts out
of boats and more than often dislodging
chain-plates. Perhaps these fliers are too
intent on watching prey to notice on-
coming boats ; either that or they are bad
judges of pace.
* * *
“B. 4”: “Horseless Horseman” (B.
24/11/ ’43) is absolutely correct about
the nesting rat’s ability to scare
the daylights out of a galloping
moke striding over its hideout. The
sudden sidelong bound of the startled
prad has spilled many a careless rider.
This ’roo rat, after scraping a hole, nips
off a load of grass, sits astride the bundle
and, jamming its tail between its legs,
hops home with the hay to cover the
trench. When scared out it never returns
to its bush bungalow, but erects another
residence. This bilby, when hopping, car-
ries the right arm dangling, and when
hard pressed by a dog pats the ground
to break off at right angles in a series of
zigzag rushes, which finally land him
safely in his home log. Two good dogs
may effect a catch ; for one the job is
hopeless. On the Lower Cooper (Q.)
another rat ’roo, the octacunta, can race
up to ten miles without a break-; it needs
relays of fast horses to run down this
flying midget,
# $ * $
“Pine Creek”: Regret that “Nor’-west”
(B. 13/10/’43) is incredulous of the
facts regarding the abo. method of mak-
ing fire. Yes, both hands were employed
in the manner indicated, as that boong
squatted, hams on heels, the toes of his
mundowies gripping the ground, while the
reciprocating engine above rocked back-
wards and forwards as the boomerang
edge sawed its way deeper into the
blackening and finally smoking length of
soft, partially cleft, wood firmly pegged
below him. When the tinder glowed he
■ suddenly sat bestride the length in order
to bring his bellows to bear on the hearth.
Ignition started, he lifted the pegged
length and fed the flame with twigs and
sticks. Often noticed the bucks carrying
a length of she-oak with blackened grooves
among the null as in , their belts. Each
notch represented a fire, and betokened
the owner’s prowess as a “bouri-man.”
The saw would be indifferently a rose-
wood wommera or a brigalow boomerang.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Horses have a love for an
early-morning camp, but old bushmen
hold as infallible the rule that a prad
which lies down at sunset is ailing or will
develop an illness of which this is
first symptom.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: A Glasgow poacher
gave me a lesson in how to catch trout by
hand in Loch Lomond. It was in the
dark of the night; lying flat on his
stomach my fisherman reached down
where the bank fell away steeply. Work-
ing along a foot at a time he presently
came to a stop and about a minute later
lifted a big fish quietly out of the water.
And so on until his bag contained a
dozen or more. It was simplicity itself,
he explained ; trout when resting for the
night like to hug a perpendicular bank
about a foot or so below the surface. A
hand feeling gently along finds the
sleeper and gently caresses and tickles
until a good grip can be got on the gills.
Then up she comes. Scotty thought the
game would be new to me, but it was
just the same method we kids had used
in catching big perch in the old rain-filled
quarry-holes around Ballarat. The only
difference was that we made our catches
in daytime, the water being milky and
opaque with suspended clay.
* * * •
“Carmi”; Whenever he was left near
the house an old black gelding contrived
to open the back gate and would gorge
on the young leaves of a loquat-tree.
Dozens of horses have broken into the
yard before and since, but none has
taken as much as a mouthful of loquat
leaves. It has been suggested to me that
the leaves had some alcohol-producing
content. In prickly-pear country horses
develop a craze for pear-fruit and at
length give up all other food, dying in
a contented kind of alcoholic daze.
* * * 9
“Redcliffe”: The morning after a
severe overnight thunderstorm in our s.-e.
Queensland town, the greenkeeper noticed
a possum electrocuted on the electric
wires. On taking it down he found a
baby possum, still alive, in the pouch.
How it escaped sharing the fate of its
mother is a mystery. f
* * * *
“A.C.M.”: “Te Aute” (B. 1/12/’43)
reminds me of a different scene of shear-
ing. From a small croft in the Scottish
West Highlands the shearers, who were
the neighboring farmers, set out walking
to the holding yard in the hills, where
the sheep had been collected with the
assistance of collies. They were preceded
by the “slipe,” which is two rude spars,
acting as shafts, joined at the back with
cross battens, on which food, necessary
implements and furniture were strapped,
to be drawn by a sturdy horse up the
rough way of unroaded hills. The fur-
niture consisted of shearing tools, shaped
like a wishbone, with cross spars and an
extension at the base forming a seat. On
arrival, and after a dram had been duly
downed, each grabbed a sheep, dumped
it on the stool, and, having taken his seat
and made sure that the pipe was drawing
well, started with the shears. Proceed-
ings were often interrupted by some
gossip, who would hold down his sheep
with an elbow while with waving pipe he
emphasised his retailing of news or views.
There was no tally of 250 per man, nor
was there need, but the shearing did
bring forth a spirit of true friendship
and help and many an expression of
deep philosophy and religious feeling so
natural from those Highlanders.
>K * * *
“X.S.”: A controversy has arisen in
Melbourne as to the number of full-
blooded Binghis there are sitting in com-
pounds in Victoria or gazing with melan-
choly eyes on the streams they are too
dispirited to fish while they munch
Government rations. According to the
Commonwealth Year-Book the figure is
77, but the Aborigines’ Protection Board
estimates it at 41, of whom 35 are
registered at Lake Tyers. Percy Leason
combed the State very thoroughly when
he set out to paint his celebrated series
of portraits of full-bloods. Having keen
eyes and an inquiring disposition, he
elicited from a lot of his sitters that there
were white connections in the family-
tree which the individual who was listed
as a full-blood had often forgotten. After
an intensive search, which involved
much travelling, Leason narrowed the
number down to 32.
* * * *
“Naturala”: My experience of centi-
pedes is that they generally house them-
selves under damp and rotting wood or
other decaying material of a cellulose
nature. So it is interesting that “B.” (B.
10/11/’43) should dig them direct from
the soil, and from some soils more than
others. No doubt they go underground
in pursuit of the earthworm, one of their
main foods ; hence it is the high worm
population per cubic yard in different
soils that accounts for the varying num-
bers of centipedes in different localities.
They favor the underside of decaying
wood to feed on the wood louse.
It is a pity the centipede is poison-
ous, and as such is apt to be
destroyed on sight, for it does valu-
able work in keeping down insect pests,
devouring not only larvae but also adult
insects which it captures asleep as it
prowls around foraging at night. In
common with the spider, the fly and the
ant, the centipede is an inhabitant of
every region outside the Polar circles.
EMERALD ISLAND.
[Sealers landed oh an island in the Southern Ocean
100 rears ago, and named it Emerald Island, because
it was so green. But no survey ship or any other
vessel ever found it again, though it is marked on
many maps as lying south of the Campbells in
latitude 60deg,]
Lost in the mists of “What-has-been”
Somewhere exists an island green;
Set in a realm where seas are blue,
Never the helm brings it to view.
Shipmasters seek for it now in vain,
Beautiful freak on an ocean plain.
Sea-winds sang on its mountain brow,
The surges rang—where are they now?
Once in a while t in the years to come
Emerald Isle may call them home.
Ghosts of the whalers went there, ’tis said,
Hard-bitten sailors when they were dead,
Steering lost ships by sun and star,
Threaded the rips where the perils are.
Past lonely isles in the snow-swept scene —
Emerald smiles from her bushlands green,
Lures with her beaches’ silver sand.
Grassland reaches from hill to strand,
Tropical flower and icy foam;
Every hour she was calling them home.
Harsh islands lie by the tracks that tease,
The Bounties near by and Antipodes;
Islands of storm the Campbells are.
There it was warm and moon and star
Shone through a mist all calm with light
And the waters kissed as they met the night;
Was it a dream that made men trace
Its glow and its gleam in that barren place?"
Was it a vision? Did gods of brass
Laugh in derision (o see it pass?
Marked on the maps yet never found.
Some day, perhaps, a keel may ground
On a sunken peak where the island lay,
Or a captain seek it and gladly say
“1 have found what was lost!” —Maybe it
went
As a passing ghost of a continent.
Over wild seas the tempests blow
Seeking their ease where there is no snow;
And the old ships know, when no more they
comb
The winds that blow, it will call them home.
Sealers who stood there long ago
Swore it was good and sweet to know.
Sea-monsters knew safe v shelter there.
Now the sea’s blue lies everywhere,
Now the sea mists drive on in clouds,
Now the storm twists the crying shrouds.
Only in death did the whalers know
Balm of its breath and its waters’ flow —
Earth’s happy smile and singing foam,
When Emerald Island called them home.
N.S.W
WILL LAWSON.


“Zake”: Tim Heffernan came out of
his regular half-yearly bender with his
usual alcoholic vow to destroy himself.
Knowing his weakness, some of the lads
of the village followed him as he raged
down to the river from the pub. It being
a hot day it was really a pleasure to go
in after Tim when, after a few
maudlin tears and a sentimental last mes-
sage to his “old lady,” he cast himself
in. At Tim’s third attempt it was young
Hogan’s turn to go and pull him out.
Hogan, a hefty youth with a flare for
horseplay, rather overdid it, and Tim
got a mouthful. As he came spluttering
up he turned a vicious eye on his
rescuer, then turned solemnly to the
laughing mob on the bank. “Ish attem-
hic-ted murd’r, shash wash ish,” he said;
“thish schwine’s tryin’ drown me!”
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”: Legends die hard. On
the grave of Dan Morgan the bushranger,
who was buried in Wangaratta (Vic.)
cemetery in ’65, there isn’t a blade
of grass. Various legends grew around
this curious fact, which was attri-
buted by many to the supernatural. All
the pretty stories, however, have now
been knocked on the head by the revela-
tion of an old resident that his grand-
father when sexton of the cemetery had
tipped a bag of salt on a patch of St.
John’s wort growing on Morgan’s grave.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Carrying water in a
boot, is it (B. 8/12/’43)? Driving in to
the township on a day when the tempera-
ture was well over the century a north-
west Queensland cattleman had a mishap
with his car, and after toiling hard in the
scorching sun he drained the last drop
from the waterbag. Tossing the empty
“Me flamin’ two-up arm!”
bag to .the station abo. who was with him,
Shorthorn told him to fill it at a well
they’d passed about half a mile back.
There wasn’t a bucket on the windlass
rope, and not until the boong returned
with the full bag did the cattleman notice
the abo. had forgotten to take a billycan
to lower down the well. He asked him
how he’d managed to fill the bag. With
a grin the abo. pointed to his foot. “Bin
tie boot longa rope,” he explained;
“plenty trouble, but I send him down
two-three time an’ fillum bag all right.”
After that Shorthorn decided he wasn’t
thirsty.
* * sfc #
“Bo”: Piggott was returning from
Boorabilla at a leisurely pace in the trap,
and just as he crossed the culvert opposite
the lower end of Joe Cahill’s property he
heard cries for help. Hopping out, Piggott
got through the fence and found Cahill
pinned by a moderate-sized branch of a
tree that he had felled. Joe, large and
bull-necked, with a chin shaped by
Nature for aggression, was the shyest and
most apologetic man for 50 miles
around. His usually brick-red face was
now grey with pain. Piggott took a
quick look and with bushipanlike effi-
ciency set about freeing the victim. When
he got him out he found Joe’s leg was
fractured in two places, and soon he had
fashioned rough splints and made him
as comfortable as he could. “I didn’t
hear the crash of the tree,” remarked
Piggott. “You must’ve been lying here
for a while.” “ ’Bout an hour,” replied
Joe. Piggott stared. “But I was past
here half an hour ago,” he said, “I didn’t
hear y’ yellin’ out.” Cahill blushed like
a schoolgirl. “Aw,” he said, “I see y’
had the missus in the trap with y’ an’
by the way she was clobbered up an’ y’
were hurryin’ I tipped y’ were goin’ fer
the train because it’s Tuesday an’ it was
due 20 minutes after y’ passed here, so
I knew y’d be back shortly! ”
“Billy See”: If barracoota nowadays
will come up to a stationary boat and
bite avidly at a small piece of wood
jigged over the stern (B. 17/11/ ’43) then
the Bass Strait fishermen of other days
must have wasted a lot of energy. The
only run I ever had with the torpedo
fish was out one day with old “Queens-
cliff Bill.” Bill’s outfit was a stout 30ft.
cruiser and four strong lines, each baited
with a 6in. chip of either soft red cedar
or California redwood. As the chips
trailed 20 yards* 1 behind the speeding
cruiser the ’coota rose and snapped—
with such savagery that sharp teeth be-
came embedded in the soft wood and
the owner found it impossible to disen-
gage. Hauled in, the ’coota was gripped
firmly behind the gills while the wood,
used now as a lever, forced its clenched
jaws open. Quick work ; one man watch-
ing two lines caught the yard-long fish
just as fast as he could toss one line back
and drag the other one in. But if old
Bill had only known that he could have
caught the same amount of fish with his
boat anchored—well!
“Fancar”: “C.C.’s” par. (B. 24/11/’43)
a(joui Ernest Giles’s hardy mare recalls
another tough horse in the history of
Australia’s exploration Sturt’s Roan,
which, at the most desperate stage of his
Centralian expedition in 1845, was turned
out to die on Cooper’s Creek. Fifteen
years later Howitt found the old horse
alive and well. Roan is still remembered
by Roan’s Plains, and one of its stalwart
mates, Bawly, gave the name to Bawly’s
Plains. Perhaps this last expedition of
Charles Sturt might have ended in tragedy
as well as disappointment had not the
explorer so carefully picked each of his
11 horses for stamina and strength. Ac-
cording to Darling Downs reminiscences
of Leichhardt’s equipment, *the livestock
was far too casually chosen. Still, five
of the recalcitrant mules lost on Leich-
hardt’s second expedition found their way
back to settled districts, and were subse-
quently handed over to the explorer to
share with ten others of their kind the
mysterious tragedy of his last expedition.
* * * *
“Snowy”: That yarn of “C.E.’s” about
snakes never dying of their own accord
(B. 17/11/’43) set me thinking. I find
I can’t recall ever having found a dead
snake that looked as if he had died of
old age. Left to himself, Joe seems to
grow steadily bigger each year. In the
Upper Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.) there
are red-bellied blacks well over 6ft. long
that must be due for the old-age
but the few I’ve met were sleek and lively’
I’m wondering just how long, barring
accidents, a bush snake lives and why
we never find any dead ones.
“B. A. Ker”: Known generally
as “Tosser” Ross on account of
his alleged practice of tossing a
coin to decide whether the old
moke should have a feed or an-
other drink of water (some even
hinting at a double.-header penny),
the old skinflint wasn’t above get-
ting a bit of cheap agistment by
letting a neighbor’s rails down.
Going around the paddocks un-
usually early one morning the Holt
boys discovered old “Bones” tres-
passing and, tempering justice with
mercy, gave him a whacking big
feed of chaff while carrying out a
little artistry with white paint.
When the replete animal was re-
leased on the road every rib was
carefully picked out, the word Aus-
terity flowed in bold hand down
each flank and a pair of huge spec-
tacles (to see him through till his
next feed, as the youthful surrealist
explained) ringed his eyes. Several
hours of work —and pints of kero-
sene —only partially removed the
decorations, and the moke was
still somewhat conspicuous as old
“Tosser” drove into town. Everyone he
passed stopped and grinned broadly ; but
when a passing motorist poked his head
out, yelled and pointed, the old chap
let his wrath loose, then whipped up in
disgust. A couple of loungers outside
the pub sprang to life gesticulating, only
to be left behind in a cloud of dust and
abuse. A woman pointed and screamed
something. Then it was old “Tosser”
felt something warm beside him and
looked down —a spark from his pipe had
settled on the sulky seat; the vehicle
was ablaze beneath him!
“Balurga”: Packsaddle “trees” are at
a premium these days, and it is a wonder
some enterprising bushman has not com-
mercialised the del-del. The wood of
this lovely tree is excellent for that pur-
pose, being hard, yet light and springy
and very durable. Tail 'and multi-
branched, the del-del, a native of Cape
York Peninsula (Q.), has a deeply-grooved
bark and light-green, glossy leaves which
grow in the shape of a six-fingered hand
and contain a milky fluid ; it produces an
exotically-scented white flower.
* * * *
“Jachris”; You can’t beat these United
States engineers. The progress made with
the building of roads through the swampy
country at the back of Empress Augusta
Bay has been astonishing. As I write, a
little over a month since the original
landing, there are miles of all-weather
highways which carry two lines of traffic,
a constant stream from dawn till dark
of heavy trucks, tractors and amphibious
tanks hauling supplies and equipment
towards the ever-growing line of fortifica-
tions which mark the perimeter of the
beachhead. But up beyond the line, along
the; tracks leading to the Allied outposts,
there are .still long stretches of boggy,
marshy ground which the trucks have
churned into a thick, heavy mud, two to
three feet deep, which parts a little, then-
forms in round behind and sweeps up
over axles and bumpers. At those places
tractors maintain a day-long patrol, drag-
ging the trucks through, with the thick
mud flowing away on each side like the
bow wave from a ship. The tractors go
up and back, up and back through the
bog. It’s not unusual to see a tractor
with a train of four or five large, six-
wheeled trucks, all hooked one behind the
other, forging a way through the bad
places. With a little imagination it is easy
to picture the peaceful conquests that
will be effected in the islands when Jap
militarism is no more.
* * * *
“Carmi”: Here on the Darling Downs
a good year for thistles is a good year
for butterflies. The chequered swallow-
tail, one of the most resplendent of
southern Queensland’s butterflies, takes
its nourishment mainly from composite
flowers, but will always leave the most
exotic blooms of that order for the
humble Scotch thistle. Incidentally, my
trellis of English honeysuckle when in
full bloom does not attract nearly so
many of the more beautifully-hued butter-
flies as a near-by clump of Scotch thistle.
* * * *
“Botano”: The curious point in the
list of similarities between s.-e. Australia
and the Speck (B. 10/11/’43) is that it
emphasises the much greater differences
which exist as between the flora of s.-w.
W.A. and the regions mentioned. West-
ralia has 18 species of eucalypts, but
none of them can be said to bear any but
a distant family relationship to those
of the eastern side. And it must
have taken veritable ages for such a
fundamental diversity to have come
about, for the vegetable world, unless
urged by man, brings about changes
within itself much more slowly than
the animal. Although it must have been
“ It's carry in this inseparable-corn*
panions business a bit too far!”
quite a time since Bass Strait washed its
way through and made Tasmania an
island, for perhaps a million years before
that an enormous gulf bit into this con-
tinent from the Southern Ocean, taking
within its maw the whole of the present
Nullabor Plain, extending as far west-
wards as Coolgardie and covering the
whole of the lake areas of W.A.’s eastern
goldfields areas. Thus the two floras of
this continent were divided by a vast
area of sea bounded on the north by the
tropical line of Capricorn: which again
gives an inkling of the immense age of
this island of ours, for where that sea
rolled is now high, dry land. And we
have two distinct temperate zone floras,
which, although all members of the one
family, are as different as though they
had evolved on separate continents,
* * * * .
“M.U.R.”: A farmer’s wife in the
Victorian Mallee fell sick for a few days
annually. In a moment of confidence her
husband told me that the sickness hadn’t
appeared until after she’d told a neighbor
woman of how she’d been bitten by a
snake when a young woman. The
neighbor said she supposed the poor dear
got sick every year. The victim con-
fessed with some astonishment that she
didn’t. The neighbor was even more
astonished, but recovered sufficiently to
warn the victim to watch for the recur-
ring sickness. It duly appeared, which
goes to show what credulity, a desire for
exhibition and auto-suggestion can do.
♦ * *
“B. 4”: “Herbert Dawson’s” rumi-
nations (B. l/12/’43) on the indif-
ference displayed by Dad Bovus to
the welfare of his progeny may be
attributed to the fact that bovine
government is founded on a matri-
archal basis. The bull, avid for his
own contentment, warns the nippers not
to approach by a truculent shake of his
head. In between musters the tendency
of station cattle is to form separate herds,
each under the control of a bull, whose
principal obsession is to keep trespassers
off his towrai, the immediate care of the
calves being relegated to the province of
the matrons. Note the arrangements made
by the cows in dog-infested country when
the feeding-ground is remote from the
water. As the herd plods the track to the
waterhole one or two cows with young
calves will pause under a tree a mile or
so from the drinkery. Other mothers
will nose their nippers towards this
nucleus of protection, and the waiting mob
then resumes the march to mollify their
thirst. They return and hang round
while the sentries assuage theirs ; then all
return to the feeding-grounds, having cir-
cumvented the waiting dingoes. Years
ago it was a common sight on unfenced
runs to see bands of 20 or 30 scrub bulls
living amicably together until mating time
dispersed them. Under controlled condi-
tions this practice does not obtain ; but
the obsolete custom could be adduced in
support of “H.D.’s” contention of the
bull’s indifference to the plight of the
missus and kids.
CHRISTMAS TIME.
The bells ring over the wheatfields,
The dumb sheep camp in the shade,
The cattle blow in the water
Where stately egrets wade.
And south and west and northward,
The far horizons run.
And the vast, brown country shimmers
Under the ardent sun.
From Moresby down to Leeuwin,
From Broome to Derwent’s shore,
This is the flame month burning
The harvests ripe once more.
On beaches gold in the morning,
On plains where the heatwaves fall,
On mountains blue in the noontime,
Our brown-limbed children call.
So make us a song of Christmas
From wind in forest lyres,
Tuned to our long seas’ rolling
And strong, clear magpie choirs;
Give it the heat of December,
The sweep of stars at night,
Set to the pulse of summer
In the land of our delight.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


I
gfg
...... but civilian requirements of
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used
types are available, but if the particular
valve you want is not obtainable, con-
sult your Radiotron dealer regarding
an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PIY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1803)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MORES,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH wXUES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
EJHBBEmSISH - kill those rabbits
with CVANpGAS manpower
OUlCKand DEADLY
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No
and safely destroys rabbits and all
waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Parasites of Sheep.
“Sheepo”: Most sheep in Australia
are infested at certain periods, and as
no one drench is capable of combating
all the different worm species, graziers
should not only know the worms but as
much as possible about the treatment for
each. Points to remember are:
(1) Lambs and hoggets are more sus-
ceptible than older sheep. Watch younger
sheep and drench early before they are
heavily infested.
(2) Make certain of the species of
worms before drenching, and find out the
most effective mixture to use.
(3) One dose won’t clean out the
worms. Drench again in a week or ten
days ; a third dose a fortnight later won’t
come amiss.
(4) In known worm-infested areas
regular monthly doses repay the tirhe
taken and catch any fresh infestation.
(5) Always drench bought sheep before
placing them in paddocks; though the
previous owner may have declared them
free of worms.
(6) Because sheep and/or lambs don’t
show signs of infestation is nothing to go
on. Gatherings of the droppings should
be made regularly and sent away for
analysis if a microscopic examination
cannot be made at home.
(7) Avoid overstocking, especially in
worm-infested areas. For obvious
reasons the more congested the sheep the
more the eggs dropped and the greater
the infestation.
(8) The healthier the sheep the greater
the power of resistance. It is easier to
keep sheep free from infestation than to
free them after infestation. Every grazier
should have at least one of the various
C.S.I.R. bulletins on internal parasites.
The Tamarisk.
“Hux”: It flourishes in many arid
parts of the earth and is well able to
stand up to the dry conditions of western
N.S.W. R. I. Herriott, S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, believes it has a
great future. Cuttings brought by Essing-
ton Lewis from California in 1936 and
planted at Whyalla (S.A.) are now over
3.oft. high.
This type is Tamarix aphylla and
should not be confused with Tamarix
gallica, a much smaller species. The
foliage is she-oaklike in texture and forms
one dense mass of bright green from the
ground up. An ideal Shelter belt or wind-
break, it is a splendid shade or orna-
mental tree. Once established its timber
becomes an asset. Some authorities
claim that it provides good fodder.
The tamarisk grows easily from cut-
tings or transplants. While early spring
and autumn are the best planting times,
cuttings get well established round late
December or early January if well
watered. If possible strike in kerosene-
tins, using 60 p.c. sand and 40 p.c. loam,
and leave from two to three inches only
of the cuttings above the soil. Green
shoots appear two weeks later.
When transferring to permanent posi-
tion cut the bottom from the tin and
slide the plant through with the earth
around the roots. Don’t manure at the
start. When about 18in. high prune back
to one selected shoot and tie to a stake.
Guards are necessary to protect it from
stock.
Lime with Manure.
“Pat Ater”: There’s no ground for the
belief that it’s better to allow two or
three weeks to elapse between the addition
of lime to the soil and the digging-in of
nitrogenous manures. Why the inter-
val?
Unless heavy rain fell or the ground
was copiously watered unlikely in
preparation—lime would be in much the
“When are youse two gain' t ’ make up and be friends ?”
same state after the interval as if it were
dug in with the manure.
There is a danger, when digging-in
lime with manures containing ammonia,
of the possible liberation of the
ammonia as a vapor by the action of the
lime on the manure and its consequent
loss.
What happens when lime and manure
are mixed together and dug-in immedi-
ately? Unless the animal manure was
very fresh and wet —about the only state
in which it contains much ammonia or
nitrogen—there would be practically no
loss by vaporising. Even with fresh cow
manure and hydrated lime (the only kind
likely to liberate it) only a trickle could
escape between the mixing and immedi-
ate digging into the soil.
Any further freeing of ammonia is
actually beneficial. Modern soil science
has proved that the soil holds ammonia
“even more retentively than water
does.” So that the free ammonia
then in the soil is more readily turned
into nitrates or is taken up in solution by
some plant roots as a ready-made food.
There need be little fear of any great
food loss through contact even on the
surface of lime and fertiliser mixtures —
even those containing ammonium com-
pounds—or blood and bone, sulphate of
ammonia, etc. Only hydrated lime would
affect sulphate of ammonia, and by the
use of ground limestone (or carbonate of
lime, a splendid form of lime to use in
soil preparation, even though slower of
action) no loss would be suffered.
Unless lime can be added at least one
month before planting, when its proper-
ties can be more readily available and its
effects more patent to the plants, then
don’t waste time, but “dig-in together”
immediately. A week or so either way
makes little difference. Finally, don’t
spread lime on the soil surface and leave
it there for days, a plaything of wind and
rain, likely to “crust” and become useless.
Para Grass.
“Plane Creek”: North Queenslanders
call it “wonder grass.” It is the largest
of the immense couch family, and has the
same characteristics as common couch
(Bermuda grass)—indestructibility and
high food value. It is ideal for sandy
creek banks and marshy country on the
tropical Queensland coast.
It spreads quickly and hangs on to the
occupied ground. Shoots from the run-
ners grow 3ft. to 6ft. tall, depending on
soil and moisture. Para grass doesn’t
stand up well to heavy frosts, being a
tropical grass. Its greatest growth is made
during the warm weather ; during winter
and early spring it makes little progress.
I’ve found that burning the old grass
in spring results in a thick crop in
summer. It is a very quick grower, but
is unable to cope with guinea grass.
To propagate, remove 12in. rooted sec-
tions from the runners with a sharp knife
and plant them as you would sweet-
potato cuttings in rows. They will soon
establish themselves during damp, humid
weather. Be always alert for runners of
Para grass travelling from river banks
into cultivation paddocks, for it is hard
to eradicate. As with ordinary couch,
deep ploughing of infested ‘paddocks
merely severs the runners and distributes
them further afield.
The Farm Workshop.
“E. 2”: Every farm should have one.
Machinery well tended will make up the
outlay by giving longer life and less time
lost through breakdowns. An infinite
variety of jobs can be done to ensure
greater efficiency and economy about the
farm, most of them during wet weathe
when outdoor work is held up and in
time which would otherwise be lost.
A good roomy shed with plenty of light
and locked against stock is best. Along
one wall a bench, solidly constructed, will
take the vice, emery wheel, etc., and leave
a clear space for planing and woodwork.
Plenty of shelves, partitioned, make it
easy to keep tools and parts ready to
hand.
Set the forge well apart from any ob-
struction, with the anvil close by, leaving
plenty of clearance for working. If power
is available, have the transmission rigged
overhead to save floor space and incon-
venience.
The novice hand will most likely be
clumsy and rough at first. It pays to do
one job thoroughly rather than rush
several slapdash jobs. Experience is
gained only by practice. If possible, a
good workman to put him through his
paces will start the newchum off in the
right fashion, and, after passing the initial
stages, learning and a reasonable amount
of skill should come easily.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: If pigs don’t get enough
vitamin Ain their diet they suffer. Leafy
and green lucerne-hay or -chaff supplies
it, and they have other valuable nutri-
tive qualities. Growing pigs and breed-
ing pigs will eat up to ilb. of lucerne-
hay or -chaff per head daily. Introduce it
gradually.
“Sarina”: A keen demand exists for
chillies, easy to grow in the tropics and
prolific croppers. Plant above frost level,
preferably in rich, scrub soil. Drought
makes them look sick, but they soon re-
cover after a storm. Seed may be sown
at any time, but spring and summer
sowings are best. Varieties: Chinese
Giant and Ruby King (large and mild).
Bird’s-eye, Small Chilli and Long Red
Cayenne (small and hot). Transplant
seedlings 4ft, to 6ft. apart.
“Viliami”: Give the tick-bitten dog
six drops of tincture of aconite in lOoz.
(a tablespoon) of water and repeat the
dose next morning, not before. If the
dog be poisoned dose him freely with
pure salad oil or melted lard made warm.
When giving the aconite pull the lower
lip out a little at the side of the mouth
and allow the fluid to flow in gradually.
Keep the animal out of draughts and
quiet.
“B-gar”: When thinking of burning off
felled scrub make sure weather condi-
tions are favorable and that the timber is
dry enough to ensure a good burn. Burn-
ing off should never be done on windy
days, and, no matter how light the breeze,
always burn off into the wind. A fire
fanned by a breeze cannot make a thor-
ough burn.
“F.J.S.”: “Sarina” (B. 10/11/’43)
seems a bit out of date. He says over-
seas buyers like porkers from 601 b. to
901 b. dressed weight and local buyers like
’em from 601 b. to 801 b. Bacon for ex-
port he puts down at 1201 b. to 1601 b.
dressed and for the local market up to
1601 b., with a lower price per pound.
Doesn’t he know that pig owners are
unable to market porkers at less than
801 b. dressed and that the fixed price for
bacon up to 2001 b. dressed is 9d. per
pound?
“Graz”: The Commonwealth’s sheep
population at end March was 124,610,000,
over 500,000 fewer than in 1942, but
13.550.000 more than in 1939. Cattle at
14.005.000 increased 445,000 for the year
and 1,144,000 in the last four years.
Grunters at 1,563,000 are up 86,000 on
last year and 407,000 since 1939. Horse
figures, which continue to decline, totalled
1,518,000. Australia has 809,000 fewer
noddies than 20 years ago.


thaa fhee.
f 1
I
J
FLEET OWNERS
TRUCK OWNERS
CAR OWNERS
EVERYWHERE ... are relying on
SHELL MOTOR OIL
to maintain their Engines in perfect
running order and for regular vehicle
maintenance insist on
SHELL SPECIALISED
LUBRICATION
Available at All Leading Garages and Service Stations.
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
lys^ghtt's
4.
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT
Fencing Wire
j
j»
mm
'
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Balance of Power.
[Cables have referred to an article in the De-
cember issue of London “Nineteenth Century”
in which the editor, F. A. Voigt, attacked
Britain’s policy of “appeasing Russia and
America” while neglecting its own vital interest
in maintaining the balance of power in Europe.
The “Nineteenth Century” article here con-
densed deals further with that important
subject.]
It is fashionable to dismiss the balance
of power as an obsolete doctrine. It is
not a doctrine. It is, for Great Britain
and the Empire, the immutable condition
of survival.
Any Power that becomes undisputed
master of the European mainland can
become master of the British Isles. This
is an old truth, and was familiar to the
last generation. The German menace
displayed it anew. But now it is being
forgotten. If it fades out of the national
consciousness and ceases to inform
national policy, then the days of Eng-
land’s greatness will be over.
England has no one permanent foe in
Europe, for none of her vital interests
conflict with the vital interests of any
European Power. Her only foe is that
Power or that coalition of Powers which
may endeavor to dominate Europe.
Against that foe she must always be
ready, always be strong and always have
allies. As her foe varies, so her allies
vary. The foe of yesterday may be the
ally of tomorrow and the ally of yester-
day the foe of tomorrow.
The power of the British Empire plus
the power of continental allies will, if
the Empire is strong, always balance the
power of whatever Powers seek domina-
tion. No one Power can prevail over the
rest of Europe plus the British Empire as
long as the Empire is strong.
This simple mechanism is the balance
of power. It exists by virtue of the im-
mutable physical realities. Neither the
League of Nations nor any system of
collective security nor disarmament can
change these realities. As soon as the
balance of power is challenged every col-
lective system will collapse and England
will, if she is not to perish, make the
counter challenge. She did so in 1939.
Hitler’s main purpose in going to war
was to subjugate the European mainland
and then to open up Russia for Ger-
man colonisation. Had England re-
mained neutral he would have been suc-
cessful.
But she would then have been at his
mercy or at the mercy of his successor
—in any case, at the mercy of the Ger-
man nation. The Germans, having im-
posed peace on Russia, would have
commanded the narrow seas of the Medi-
terranean. Nothing could have saved
England from destruction—except the
goodwill of the Germans. And on that
goodwill there can be no reliance. In-
deed, no nation (the English alone ex-
cepted, perhaps) would, if able to grasp
so rich a prize, refrain —the richest prize
that would ever have fallen to any con-
queror.
It was to avert this fate that England
went to war in 1939. It is to avert a
similar fate in future years that the bal-
ance of power must always be maintained.
The political complexion of those that
threaten the balance is quite irrelevant.
Had Germany been the home of en-
lightenment, progress and political free-
dom, had she been a model democracy,
and had England been cursed with a poli-
tical system as abominable as Hitler’s, she
would nonetheless have been under the
absolute necessity of maintaining the
balance, for survival must always come
first, political complexion second.
The peace that will end the Second
World War must be such that the balance
of power will be restored and will be
preserved for generations to come. This
must be the primary war aim and peace
aim of Great Britain and of the Empire.
All other aims are secondary or irrele-
vant —or, in so far as they obstruct and
obscure the primary aim, a deadly
menace.
Turkey and the War.
[Some Turkish-held reasons for hesitation in
coming into the war, as interpreted by London
“Times” correspondent in Turkey.]
Thanks to the Allies’ ungrudging assist-
ance in war material and supplies,
Turkey’s national defence is today very
efficient for defensive purposes, but could
not be considered adequate for an offen-
sive war.
The Axis forces are very close to the
Turkish frontiers from the Aegean Islands
to the Bulgarian border, and would be
able to attack Turkey and certainly to
destroy by bombing some of her more
vulnerable towns, like Istanbul, before
the Allies could move their forces to
Turkish assistance, handicapped as they
are by inadequate land transport facili-
ties and by the Axis possession of Crete
and the Dodecanese, with the result that
Germany would be provided with a suc-
cess she so sorely needs for home con-
sumption.
After four years of neutrality it would
be difficult to persuade the Turkish people
to join the war now without being
attacked, and knowing as they do that
their Government fosters no ambitions
for territorial acquisitions.
Supplies to MacArthur.
( From an article by the Washington syndicate-
writer David Lawrence.)
Whatever supplies are sent to the
Pacific, either for General MacArthur or
for Admiral Halsey or for any other
regional command, are the result of a
decision by the United States Joint Chiefs
of Staff.
This board consists of General Mar-
shall, Admiral King, General Arnold
and Admiral Leahy. Its decisions are
dictated by what the group feels are the
necessities of strategy at a given moment
in all theatres of the war. Any insinua-
tion that personal or party politics influ-
ences the decisions in any way is a re-
flection on the judgment of these four
men and an implication that they would
acquiesce in such intrusion of personal
or party politics by anybody.
These comments are occasioned by the
evident impression being spread that
General MacArthur isn’t getting enough
supplies, and that the reason is some-
how attributable to neglect, the theory
being that to build his prestige is to make
him a strong rival nominee in a contest
with President Roosevelt in 1944. Any
idea that the war is being conducted on
such a petty basis does a grave injustice
primarily to General Marshall and
General Arnold and Admiral King and
Admiral Leahy. Anyone who knows the
sterling character and independence of
each of these men and their devotion to
military duty must resent the inferences
and innuendoes.
This correspondent is equally convinced
that all the implications that have been
distributed concerning General Mac-
Arthur’s alleged political ambitions are
not in any way encouraged by him be-
cause the general is not that kind of an
American. As long as he wears the uni-
form of his country he will not indulge
in political activity, no matter how much
others may see fit to use his name for
political purposes without his authority.
The impression that General Mac-
Arthur isn’t getting a fair deal must evi-
dently prevail at his headquarters in the
South-west Pacific, because the press dis-
patches of the correspondents there seem
also to convey scepticism and doubt.
Here in Washington careful investigation
does not in the least substantiate such a
suspicion. If General MacArthur doesn t
have more ’planes at hand, it’s because
General Arnold wants to use more ’planes
over Europe. If General MacArthur
doesn’t have more naval forces, it’s be-
cause Admiral King is following the
strategy —which all the best minds in our
Navy have combined upon—to use them
elsewhere in the Pacific for the time being.
That’s all there is to the story that can
be told now without advising the Japanese
in detail of our plans.
Problems in Burma.
(“Christian Science Monitor" report .)
The logistic problems involved in a
major push against Burma are tremen-
dous. \
According to the best available infor-
mation the Japanese forces in Burma
number around 150,000, of which only
about 60,000 are believed to be first-line
combat troops. Against this figure the
Allies have an estimated 1,000,000 well-
trained and well-equipped troops in India
ready for action, and at least another
150,000 British and Americans who prob-
ably can be brought from the west.
Yet comparative figures tell only part of
the story, for the logistic factors of dis-
tance, terrain, supply routes and com-
munications reduce the number of com-
bat troops at Lord Louis Mountbatten’s
disposal to the number he can supply in
Burma.
For the first month or so of a Burmese
campaign the Japanese undoubtedly
would enjoy a numerical advantage.
However, much of this advantage could
be offset quickly if the invaders could
maintain air superiority comparable to
that enjoyed by the Allies in Tunisia and
Sicily. Such superiority would enable
Lord Louis to solve many of his supply
problems with air-borne transport.
Brigadier Wingate proved conclusively
in north Burma that long-distance jungle
penetrations could be made with purely
air-borne supplies. The relative cost of
sustaining by air large, long-distance
penetration parties is not so great as
might be supposed. One squadron of 20
transport ’planes can maintain one bri-
gade in action and supply it with all the
heavy equipment that can be used effec-
tively in jungle operations.
Be all this as it may, the forthcoming
fighting in Burma should provide Ameri-
can, British, Indian and Chinese military
ingenuity with its outstanding challenge
of the global conflict. From the moment


S'
? / ?'
H* 0
wr.'M ?•;*},
Where there’s
a child
there should be
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Bournville Cocoa is a grand
food for growing children.
Milk in itself is a valuable
food, but when Bournville
Cocoa and a little sugar are
added, you obtain forty-five
per cent, more nutriment than
from milk alone. Moreover,
OvL7j^
in Bournville Cocoa you pro-
vide a drink that is welcomed
by children who often refuse
milk. The rich, chocolaty fla-
vour of Bournville Cocoa is
the secret. There’s no other
cocoa like Cadbury’s Bourn-
ville Cocoa.
Made by CADBURY makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate--
k
N
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
KIN
i
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years* Refutation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 B
Lord Louis gives the order to go the
Allied forces will be up against not only
a fanatical enemy but as peculiar and
a cpf rrtnrh’tirtns as anv mili-
dimcult a set ot conditions as any mm
tary expedition in history has had to
mee t
. ,
Brigadier Wingate summed it up when
he told his men: “What you will need
more than anything else is character,
initiative, guts and independence.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The New Dealers are still afraid of Mac-
Arthur as a 1944 political factor. We think
he would be ill-advised to run for President or
Vice-President if we are still fighting Japan in
1944; but various public-opinion polls show
MacArthur gaining in popularity with the voters
all the time. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
The worst example of German vandalism since
the burning of the University of Louvain library
in the First World War was the deliberate set-
ting on fire, with gasoline and hand grenades,
of the precious and extensive library of the
Royal Society of Naples, which comprises four
scientific and philosophic academies. With
equal thoroughness and ruthlessness, the Ger-
mans burned out all the administrative offices
and other rooms of the University of Naples,
the third oldest and one of the largest institu-
tions of learning in the world. — N.Y. “Times”,
war correspondent in Italy.
* * * *
Whatever other branches may do to soften
up and break down the enemy, the war will
be won when the infantry, en masse, enters
the enemy’s last stronghold. On the way to
this victorious encampment the foot soldier
fights and bivouacs in fearful heat or cold, in
seas of mud, hurricanes of sand or dust, en-
during hunger and thirst and cruel fatigue,
torment of insects and the threat of wounds
and death. For elite divisions there is little
repose and sometimes 100 per cent, casualties
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
An infallible method of detecting a veteran of
the South-west Pacific campaign is to approach
and say confidently “Australia.” The bona fide
veteran will respond as follows: “Yum-yum”—
if he is the quiet, contemplative sort —or “Yee-
e-e-ow” —if he is an honest extrovert. This re-
action, which may be accompanied by other
audible signs of pleasant recollection, is not due
entirely to Australia’s salubrious climate or to
the cute wallabies and koala bears which are
native there. Rather, it is the G.l.’s enthusi-
astic endorsement of the beautiful sheilahs, or,
as they put it in Brooklyn, the dolls. — George
L. Moorad; “Saturday Evening Post:”
* * * *
The “black market” in American newspapers
and magazines in Lisbon has reached a point
at which up to £l5 is being paid for a single
issue of certain newspapers from New York.
This is due to the fact that the American
daily press is not on sale in this country,
while the ever-increasing eagerness of journalists
and agents of a certain belligerent country to
get copies has sent prices rocketing. These
men’s touts approach Clippers on their arrival
with ridiculous offers for any paper they may
be carrying.— London “Times” Lisbon corre-
spondent.
* * * *
Russia and China have long-range plans for
large-scale industrial development when the war
is over, the Twentieth Century Fund says in a
report. The goal of Russia is to lead the world
in per capita production of many basic neces-
sities and consumer goods. China is planning
an extensive programme of modernisation and
industrialisation to bring the living standards
of her people up toward European levels, the
report says. However, the Nazi invasion of
Russia in 1941 destroyed a large part of what
the Russians had built up. In the European
part of Russia, at least, the situation at the
end of the war will be comparable to that of
1922-23, when Russia, as a result of war and
revolution, was at the lowest depths of economic
exhaustion. The accelerated economic growth
of the Asiatic regions of the Soviet Union
has compensated to some extent for the de-
struction in European Russia. — “Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
One of the busiest ships afloat is a British
merchant vessel, the 12,000-ton tanker British
Confidence. She possesses a sea mileage record
which, having regard to her comparatively slow
speed, is probably unequalled. Since the war
began she has steamed nearly 243,000 miles.
To collect and discharge her vital cargoes of
aviation and pool petrol the British Confidence
has visited 15 countries, including Australia,
Malaya, India, Ceylon, the United States and
North Africa. The petrol carried amounts to
250,000 tons —75,000,000 gallons, which have
fed the engines of bombers, tanks and motor-
trucks in every part of the world where British
fighting forces are placed.— London “Times.’''
* * * *
A new American super-bomber carrying more
explosives and having greater range than any
existing warplane is in actual production, and
an unspecified number of the new giants have
been delivered to the „Army. Dwarfing the
Consolidated Liberator and the Boeing Flying
Fortress, the new dreadnought of the sky is
reckoned to be capable of bringing the inner-
most production centres of Hitler’s European
fortress and the Japanese Empire within reach.
The ’plane has been identified as the B-29 by
the Army weekly newspaper “Yank” in a recent
article which said: “A new super Fortress,
the B-29, is being built which will have a
greater bomb capacity and longer range than
any existing bomber.” — U.S. Associated Press
Washington correspondent.
* * * *
The perambulating Senators made a few
statements about bases and Lend-Lease and
post-war shipping which started the Anglo-
phobes off, and things went from bad to worse.
When the Chicago “Tribune” dragged out the old
chestnut, originally sponsored by George Syl-
vester Viereck, to the effect that the Rhodes
scholars were in a conspiracy to bring the
U.S.A. back into the British Empire, the nadir
was reached. You might have thought that the
war was over and America had no further use
for its allies. The British are wise enough not
to reply to most of this bilge. Mr. Churchill,
to be sure, did make a gag about American
politicians fighting as hard as the soldiers, and
was promptly accused of “meddling in Ameri-
can affairs” by the same groups which
habitually tell England what to do about her
affairs, from the slums of London to the de-
pressed classes of India. But for the most
part they are silent, presumably on the theory
that you can’t do anything about the Chicago
“Tribune,” et al, anyway. On the whole,
we have a notion that the people who held
out against all that Hitler could throw, while
we were debating whether to win the war with
allies or lose it alone, are entitled to something
better than the kind of bchind-the-hand buzz-
buzz-buzz that has been going round recently-
—“ Saturday Evening Post.”


“Freedom from Fear and Want” by A. E. Harvey. This is the fourth of a series of paintings symbolising
Australia’s coming peacetime prosperity and happiness, commissioned by Stewarts and Lloyds Aust. Pty. Ltd.
m
r' i
'i -
mm ■
m
m-
I
mm
mm
I
m
i
m
i : \
m
A
m
jgg mm
; :
4 .
m
m
MM
.
■
P
n
■
SIXTH PRINCIPLE OF THE ATLANTIC CHAPTER
. . to see established a peace which will afford to all nations the means of dwelling in safety within their own boundaries ,
and which will afford assurance that all the men in all the lands may live out their lives in freedom from fear and want".
Industry, too, has a Charter!
On August 14th, 1941, somewhere on the Atlantic,
Britain’s Prime Minister and America’s President
formulated “certain common principles on which are
based the hopes for a better future for the world”.
You, the people of Australia, and we, the
Industries of Australia are feverishly working for
that better future now . . .
But after Victory is Won, the big job must fall
mainly upon the shoulders of Industry.
When, way back in 1939, long before Japan
entered the war, Stewarts and Lloyds began making
shells instead of pipes, they did so without Govern-
ment subsidies or urgings. As they tackled the job
of war, so will they tackle the job of peace.
And this time, the peace will not be lost. Already,
Australian Industry is formulating far-reaching plans
for peace-time production ... for the quick con-
version of shells into water pipes . . . tanks into
motor cars . . . tommy guns into television sets.
Industry tomorrow will he confronted with the
biggest job in history ... to create employment
for all . . . for only employment for all can bring
“freedom from fear and want” .
We believe Industry will fulfil that promise.
# * *
Water Pipe Replacements in the Home. Because of the urgency of
defence requirements, these can be made only in essential cases where repair
is impossible and standards of health may suffer. Make application to the
Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board, or to your local authority for any
pipe replacements you may consider necessary.
Stewarts and Lloyds (Australia) Pty. Ltd.


f
■ ' v
m-vm
I
JL . J
& • ■
k
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
<*
\v\ c
o*
to* e ’
cH* 1
d»
\a^ v
V-*
sV*
V*
\P
Cl
to c
*0
o l
V>e\
o*
i\v* 1
<e
S>S e
ol
\v*
Of 1
e«
■
aw
\a**’
%©v
o< e
’V
Jtvo'f
<o
to*
y
CV
&
v°
e>
VvOX
o.^
Vi®*
pflt
srf
u/fi
lS
w 3
ro
9&
W l '
:- ■'-'
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
■ESf
INSULATED
CABLES
(Ptoduc&on’ v/
"Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 439,616 5 p.c. = 439,900 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 -5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,835
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 H ~ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6 „ „ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ „ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341.052
1940.. 544.770 6 „ „ 526,800 17,970 6,359,022
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526,800 20,323 6,379,345
1942.. 548,004 6 „ „ 526,800 21,204 6,400,549
1943.. 543,004 6 „ „ 526,800 16,204 6,416,753
Money, man-power and productive
resources have been all effectively har-
nessed to the war machine. It took time,
but it enabled the Allied nations to pass
from the defensive to the offensive, thus
opening up a view of the road to victory,
which appears longer in East Asia and
the Pacific than in Europe. While the
struggle with Japan continues, the harness
—controls of all kinds and taxes and
loans—remains upon us. Still, the com-
plex pattern of peace needs to be woven
now, if needless confusion and suffering
are to be avoided later. •
The trading banks are controlled by
the Treasury through the central (Com-
monwealth) bank. They are obliged to
lodge surplus investible funds with the
institution, thus diverting any in-
crease in their deposits since 1939.
Advances to traders and others; which are
their chief earning asset, are strictly con-
trolled. Purchase of Government securi-
ties is allowed only with permission of
the central bank, thus preventing the
trading banks from influencing interest
rates, etc., by open market operations.
And the upper limit of profits has been
fixed at the average for the last three
pre-war years.
Under present conditions s banking
figures no longer faithfully mirror the
cross-currents of trade activities. They
are affected mainly by the impact of
Government policy in financing the war
effort. The most marked trends —com-
mon in all countries at war —are con-
tinued rise in deposits and fall in
advances, the result of central-bank-
credit finance of war - budget deficits,
increased production on war account and
high prices. Here are the Wales’s
balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital £8,780,000 £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes .. 81,159 81,110 81,099
D e p o s its,
bills, etc. 111,769,712 143,729,693 165,208,043
Liquids .. 30,193,019 60,659,789 73,309,949
Deposit* .. 452,211 14,564,893 32,298,770
Advances .. 93,077,235 80,298,371 71,408,877
Premises .. 3,300,000 3,600,000 3,600,000
* Statutory deposits Australia and N.Z.
Last term a growth of £21,478,350 in
deposits, etc., was accompanied by a con-
traction of £8,889,494 in advances and
expansion of £30,384,037 in liquids.
Statutory deposits with central banks in
Australia and N.Z. (up £17,733,877)
amount to ' nearly one-third of total
liquids —i these deposits carry less
than 1 p.c. interest. The holding of
Treasury bills (£20,350,000) increased
by £8,045,000, and of Government
securities (£25,426,855) by £7,341,594.
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 63.9 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
etc., and advances to only 43.2 p.c. of
deposits, or about one-half the 1939 ratio.
The position is one of great strength and
low earning power.
In accordance with official policy 71
branches and 13 agencies put up the
shutters last term, making total closures
since war began 117 branches and
126 agencies. Still, after providing for
taxation and other contingencies, exes,
won the race by a clear £5OOO, leaving
net earnings at approximately 6.2 p.c, on
capital or a mere 3.6 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined). It
is a very low return for efficient service.
The new payments by credits instead of
by cheques, recently introduced by the
Treasury, should help to keep overhead
in check during the current term. The
div. was kept at 6 p.c,, and better need
not be looked for.
As for post-war reconstruction, the
battle lies ahead. The Government has
announced its aims—a high and stable
level of employment and rising living
standards with which nobody will
quarrel. The most disquieting feature
about the standard of living is the con-
tinued rise in costs, to which the Govern-
ment has contributed handsomely, and
which it recently sought to check by the
price “ceiling” method. In a balanced
economy, to which we will have to return
after the war, a rising standard of living
depends upon efficiency and reduction of
costs. The most valuable contribution
the Government can make to these ends
is to ensure that trade and industry
retain sufficient flexibility to enable them
to adapt themselves effectively to what
promises to be a highly competitive post-
war world. Social-security measures will
neither increase nor maintain the standard
of living. They will only help to cushion
the bump, which threatens to be most
severe when the period of reconstruction
and new post-war shortages ends, and
further shifts in employment occur and
old trade rivalries reappear. If such ser-
vices absorbed more of our resources
than we could afford they would reduce
the standard of living.
As for employment, the first essential
will be smooth transfer of men and
women from the forces to civil occupa-
tions, Some will remain in the services
on garrison and other duties, others will
have their old jobs to return to, while
many will have to be placed in new
employment. Of the many, most of those
in the younger age-groups have had little
opportunity to learn a civil trade or occu-
pation. Hence the importance of sub-
sidised vocational training for the young
soldier after discharge from the forces.
After the last war there was oversupply
of unskilled labor, and Australia leant
heavily on John Bull’s counter to sup-
port it. Also, the question arises as to
who will be first home to gather the
plums. It all calls for a very carefully-
considered and equitable plan of demobi-
lisation. New employment will also have
to be found for a number of munition
and other war workers, for the artificial
markets created by the war will dis-
appear.
However, the end of the war will set
up a new series of shortages. Men will
be wanted in the building trade, in rural
occupations, for public works, social
services and education, as well as for all
ordinary trade and industrial activities.
If demobilisation is protracted, as seems
likely, maintenance of employment should
not be our major difficulty. Long-term
maintenance of employment goes hand-
n-hand with international, seasonal and
other conditions. What they will be
remains to be seen. Another aspect of
the position will be the difficulty of
quickly getting a volume of goods and
services to match current incomes plus
accumulated spending power in the shape
of bank deposits. This is likely to mean
only partial relief from most of the
present irksome controls, though the in-
centive which made them tolerable will
have passed.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£• £ £ £
1932.. 60,069 21 p.c. = 63,071 7,881
Unexplained reductions, £1,129 .. 9,010
1933.. 38,133 1-| p.c. = 30,499 7,634 1,376
m Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 3J „ „ 85,397 2,715 1,339
1935.. 123,681 5 „ „ 121,996 1,585 2,924
Tax refund, £2,332 .. .. .. 5,266
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5,970
Unexplained addition, £2,187 .. 8,167
1937.. 158,878 01 p.c. = 158,594 284 8,441
1938.. 159,331 61 „ „ 158,694 737 9,178
Deitg Houses and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends ——■, Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1939. .171,552 0j p.c. = 158,594 12,958 399,933
Unexplained reductions, £7556 .. 392,377
1940. 3000 61 p.c. = 160,891 19,110 411,487
Unexplained additions, £lO2B .. 412,515
1941. .193,818 6000 61 p.c. = 160,891 26,927 439,442
Unexplained additions, £20,539 .. 459,981
1942. .183,551 6000 6$ p.c. = 160,891 16,660 476,641
Unexplained additions, £29,213 .. 505,854
1943. .181,546 6000 6£ p.c. = 160,890 14,656 520,510
* After deducting outsiders’ proportion,
t Subject to intangibles.
Since the close of the financial year
this organisation has come to an agree-
ment with the Prices Branch out of which
stabilisation of prices is expected without
sacrifice of reasonable profit margins.
The board reports that it has been able
to maintain, and even increase, stocks of
essential drugs. The Drug Houses chain
itself has been producing important alka-
loids made from Australian raw materials,
and supplies during the past year came
freely from Great Britain, as well as lend-
lease shipments from the United States.
It is now becoming difficult to obtain
export licenses from Great Britain. This
may mean additional work for the D.H.A.
research sections, which have been
doing such good war-time work up
to date. The monetary value of the
co.’s stocks on hand has now reached
record proportions, so that the national
position, looks comfortable enough.
It is now 14 years since half a dozen
of the leading drug houses in the Com-
monwealth got together in order to reduce
competition, overlapping and overhead.
D.H.A. was formed, paid capital even-
tually expanding to £2,575,244, all but
£lOO,OOO of it (6 p.c. prefs.) being in ord.
money. Capital is entirely represented
by shares in the operating cos. (book
value £2,598,700). The trading cos. are;
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Felton, Grimwade
Dental Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; A. M.
Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide and
Brisbane; Felton, Grimwade and Bickford,
Ltd., Perth; Taylors, Elliotts and Austra-
lian Drug Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhamp-
ton and Townsville; L. Fairlhorne and Son
Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
There is manufacturing as well as whole-
saling involved there. Slump sent origi-
nal plans astray for a while, but the co.
made a quick recovery in the subsequent
period of pre-war prosperity, the 6f- p.c.
div. having been established in 1937 and
never altered since. The war-time experi-
ence of D.H.A. has been better than the
majority of cos., though the ord. div. is
one not calculated to attract adverse poli-
tical attention.
Last year’s trading results of the group
showed little change. After setting aside


SOME COMMON SENS?
ABOUT
gf
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Tlnn** nn nlcrlif. nftA-r -n?rrV*+
Don't get up night after night because 6B
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered fromi these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take Immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay In the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
(excess uric acid.
Don't delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
eoesf
A
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
ing the scalp_ clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon's is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Crale & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anti Trade Marks. —Anvx,
For Australia at War . . ,
Tq
0
O
D
&
£
O
TO'^
Qje
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
T. & G. Mutual Life Society
SOUND PROGRESS.
The Sixty-seventh Annual Meeting of the Society was held on
Thursday, 16th December, at the Society’s Head Office in
Melbourne.
Man-power.
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:
“Of the manifold problems which have con-
fronted the Society during the past year none
has proved more difficult than that of Man-
power. Further substantial releases having in-
creased the number to nearly 1700, it has not
been possible to give to Policyholders the same
efficient service as in normal times or to devote
as much time to New Business, although the
demand for Fife Assurance undoubtedly existed.
As to this disturbance of the Society’s normal
activities, there is no complaint. On the con-
trary, the Society has always shown a readiness
to co-operate with the requirements of the
Director-General of Man-power. I would,
however, sound a note of regret that there had
not been sufficient Man-power available to
divert into Life Assurance more of the surplus
money in the hands of the public which had
been wasted on non-essentials. Such a diver-
sion would have resulted in even larger sub-
scriptions by the Society to War Loans and
would have operated as a counter to inflation.
New Business.
“100,450 policies assuring £10,654,229 were
completed in the Ordinary and Industrial De-
partments, no fewer than 31,955 policies paving
been taken out by existing members. In the
Accident Department New Business for Sums
Assured totalling £2,427,106 was completed.
The decrease in the New Business must be re-
garded as the measure of the Society’s contri-
bution of Staff to the War effort.
Income and Payments to
Policyholders.
“The Income had grown to £7,424,880 —an
increase of £317,545 for the year. £3,170,147
was paid to Policyholders, of which £2,130,912
was paid in Maturity Claims. Death Claims
increased by over £58,000, due to war casual-
ties. The expenses were substantially lower
than for the previous year, not only the exten-
sion of business expenses, but also the manage-
ment expenses. The Board decided to transfer
a further £lOO,OOO to the General Contingency
Fund.
Assurance Funds.
“The Funds showed a good increase of
£2,681,349. To explain the nature of these
funds I would draw an analogy between the
Society’s business and that of a Superannuation
Fund, which is comprised of a number of mem-
bers who co-operate for their mutual protection
and provision of mutual benefits at retirement
or death. There are points of similarity and
features common to both a Superannuation
Fund and a Mutual Life Society. In each case
the funds are held for the purpose of meeting
liabilities to the members, while the funds
belong solely to the members and to no other
persons. A Life Society is not a wealthy insti-
tution as some people imagine. The funds
of this Society, £40,889,551, required for meet-
ing claims, are held in respect of more than
1,200,000 policies, and the average amount of
funds heM per policy is obviously very small
indeed. The investment of the funds benefits
the community in many ways.
War Loan Subscriptions.
“More than £10,000,000 had already been
subscribed to the War Loan issues in Australia
and New Zealand, £4,090,000 being contributed
last year. The amount in Government and
Local Body Securities is now 63.5 per cent, of
the total asset's. The board is prepared, as a
contribution to post-war rehabilitation, to em-
bark on a Housing Scheme on a large scale.
Before the war the Society granted loans to
thousands of it's members for the acquisition
of homes, but what is now contemplated is
greater than anything heretofore attempted.
As the Society is purely mutual, members will
expect to have first claim on the funds when
the time is opportune for the Society’s plans
to be put into operation.
The Actuary’s Report.
“Owing to the large contributions to War
Loans there was a reduction in the interest
rate to £4/6/0 per cent, on the Mean Funds.
As this downward trend may continue for
some time, and in view of the additional burden
of war claims, the Actuary had recommended
that a further reserve of £185,000 be made for
unforeseen contingencies and the possible con-
sequences of the war. Reversionary Bonuses
on the same scales as for 1943 to participating
Policyholders had been approved. These
Bonuses will be credited in the Society’s records
to participating policies and will commence to
operate from Ist January, 1944. The special
reserves will remain in the Society’s Funds
and will have the effect of increasing the interest
earnings for the benefit of Policyholders gener-
ally.
Staff.
“As already mentioned, there is a large
number of the Field Staff in the Armed Forces,
while of the Indoor Staff only a small number
of men with special training has been retained.
To the relatives of those members ‘of the Staff
who have been wounded or killed on Active
Service, the sympathy of the Board is extended.
The Board also appreciates the efforts of the
present Staff, particularly those who have been
called upon to perform many extra duties.
“The Directors mourn the loss of Mr. P. R.
Sutherland, who had been a Director for more
than 20 years. The Board appointed Mr. Hugh
Gerner Brain to fill the vacancy and considers
that the Policyholders are fortunate indeed to
have his valued services.”
The retiring Directors, Messrs. R. McDonald,
A. R. Stewart and H. G. Brain, and the retiring
Auditors, Messrs. A. McK. Hislop Ind C. A.
Holmes, were re-elected.
£58,441 for depreciation (up £3058), the
holding co.’s equity in the earnings of
the group was £2005 lower at £181,546.
But that was after £29,213 (up £8674)
was dropped without explanation into
general reserves. Of the profit £19,332
(up £2986) came from general invest-
ments, The total was equal to 7.1 p.c.
on ord. capital, against 7.2 p.c. in the
year preceding. Visibly the margin tor
reserves was not high, but the position
seems to be well in hand.
Foundations of the business are prob-
ably much solider than they have ever
been. A long war like the present one
must have made the co. more self-reliant
than before ; the spread of manufactur-
ing activity is indicative of this. Many
lines previously imported are now being
made here, and, though some of these
activities will die with the war, the
D.H.A. organisation will be all the
stronger for the experience.
The continued growth in stock values
is principal feature of balance-sheet
figures:
D.H.A. AND SUBSIDIARIIES.
Paid capital— 1939. 1942. 1943.
D.H.A* .. .. £2,439,912 £2,575,244 £2,575,244
Outside interests 79,111* 4,124* 4,336*
Mortgages .. 75,400 87,687 89,639
Sundry creditors 698,191 1,217,470' 1,181,097
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 716,537 738,091 1
Plant, etc. .. 152,926 120,710 f
Shares, etc. . . 76,489 87,052 84,949
Stocks . . . . 940,800 1,352,137 1,418,773
Book debts . . 886,355 948,222 806,685
Cash, etc. . . 17,429 94,018 143,786
Suspense account 14,194 74,254 53,604
Undistinguished
assets .. . . 719,772 770,180 770,180
Goodwill, etc. .. 261,937 263,137 263,137
* Including proportion of undistributed profits.
In present circumstances this stock ex-
pansion is a healthy sign. Growth last
term was £66,636, Against this increase
there was a drop of £141,587 in debtors,
probably because of the growing amount
of Government buying. The cash and
war-loan holding rose £49,768, and the
amount owing to outsiders was brought
down by £84,421 to £1,220,736. The big
outside debt has been a feature of the
war-time accounts ; it has accompanied
the growth in stocks.
One of the world’s richest in its hey-
day, the famous Martha goldmine on the
Thames fields (M.L.) is, on the authority
of the chairman of the co., “nearing the
end of its long life.” No computation
has been made of what the mine has
netted shareholders in divs., but the yield
in bullion from the formation of the
Waihi co. in 1887 till now cannot be far
short of £23,000,000. In 1936, when the
lateral exploration of the mine was virtu-
ally completed, there was evidence that
payable quantities of ore were diminish-
ing rapidly and that future development
lay in operating low-grade ore. Since
then returns have gradually dropped, the
end being hastened by substantial in-
creases in costs of labor and materials
and in crushing taxation, including the
much-criticised gold-export duty.
Spectacular days for the Martha mine
were between 1906 and 1910, when there
was a scramble for Waihi shares. In
that four-year period nearly 2,000,000
tons of ore was treated for no less than
£4,532,618. It is hard to believe that,
after the original prospectors walked off
the Martha lode disappointed men,
experts reported unfavorably on the
mine. Only when a co. was formed by
Adam Porter in Auckland were batteries
erected and gold-winning begun in
earnest. Even then a period of setbacks
followed, the mine being let on tribute.
It was not until 1890 that the Waihi co.
purchased the Martha Special Claim and
crushed ore from it. There was no look-
ing back after that.
* H= * *
First Hit’s net profit from Westralian
goldmining fell from £15,600 in 1942
(it was £22,187 the year before) to £4950
this year. Gross value of production was
£28,796, compared with £41,271. Costs
rose from 80s. Bd. to 101 s. 3d. Working
exes, took £16,510 and development
£6935. Ore reserves are estimated at
5395 tons (8335 tons in 1932), of which
485 tons assaying 12.1dwt. a ton are
broken, 2290 tons assaying 12.9dwt. are
positive and 2620 tons assaying B.46dwt.
are probable. Despite these setbacks the
co. has its tail well up. Board has
authorised the continuance of the inten-
sive development which has been carried
out for some years on a set plan laid
down by consulting engineer K. J. Finu-
cane, and, mindful of the failure of
two years of development to expose a
major shoot, is on the lookout for some-
thing new and promising. Shareholders
have already received two interim divi-
dends of 3d. on account of this year, and
will get a third as a Christmas box to-
day, December 22.
* * * *
Youanmi Gold Mines, formerly
operating near Sandstone (W.A.), re-
ceived £A50,000 from the Australian
Ministry of Munitions for its plant, and
practically all stores have been sold
and paid for, those on hand being valued
at £4OO. Co. now holds £5tg83,637, of
which £64,000 is on deposit in Australia
and £15,000 in war bonds. Present annual
administration expenditure, London and
Australia, estimated at £lOOO, is covered
by interest on deposit and investment.
A transfer of Australian resources to
London is prohibited by the Australian
Government. In the circumstances, the
board says that it is unable to make any
recommendation concerning the co.’s
future activities. Shareholders are re-
minded that pref. shares have priority in
a liquidation over ords. as regards re-
payment of capital, and that in the event
of winding-up pref.-holders will get some-
thing and ord.-holders nothing. Co. was
formed in 1934. It has 500,000 10s. pref.
and 3,493,000 2s, ords. No dividends
have been paid.
* * * *
From London:
Recapitalisation of Zinc Corporation, men-
tioned by chairman J. R. Govett at the annual
meeting and to be submitted to shareholders
as soon as it is approved by the British
and Australian authorities, has aroused keen in-
terest. The “Financial Times” says that one of
the ideas put forward in the market regard-
ing the scheme is that the two classes of shares
will be merged. On that assumption the rela-
tive dearness of the ordinary shares could be
explained. For the purpose of apportioning the
one-class capital between the present preference
and ordinary, the prefs. might be regarded as
being on a 5-p.c.-yield basis (as regards their
fixed dividend) and the ord. on a 7 p.c. Then,
on the basis of the latest dividends of 30 p.c.
on the £1 prefs. and 20 p.c. on the 10s. ords.,
the prefs. might be considered entitled to over
£2 of the capital against £1 for each two
of the existing ords.


m
1
-m
■»
/ i
m
vj n
Hi
/.
/
cfI NE^ C
MEETS THE NEED
While we are at war, your country calls for Cane-ite
for use in various structures indispensable to the
fighting forces for hutments, refrigeration, and cold
storage. The same reasons which make Cane-ite the
choice of the services—-its insulating properties, its
ease of handling, its strength and rigidity, and its com-
paratively low cost —commend it to you for post-war
use in the home you will build or modernise.
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Marketing
CANE-ITE • MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
CA3-43
v *•*
s*s«
v\ ■*«asc
aau-^6-
\ ✓
5<
s*»* 4
mi J Sand
DRIVING, SIFTING, STINGING . . .
a swirling cloud of minute, sharp particles
search every crevice of clothing, shelter
and machines. When protected by
ALEMITE 4«6uc*tcoH SYSTEM
the mechanized piece of equipment is fortunate: —
if a grit particle should find its way into an Alemite
fitting, the next ALEMITE pressure lubrication serv-
ice will drive out the intruder together with worn-
out grease and debris particles—conditioning the
gear or moving part with fresh, vital grease or oil.
CONSIDER ALEMITE FOR THE FUTURE:
Automobile, Truck and Tractor Assembly: Heavy Duty
Machinery (as in construction and contracting) Indus-
trial Machinery, every type, light and heavy production.
ALEMITE
(Ua.u.S.Po).O(f.
LUBRICATION
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
■
£
&
m
TH
Z£l/Njj
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Changing Vista
Australia stands at the most interesting
period of its development. Its white popu-
ation of seven millions has been the
largest thing of its kind to be directly
threatened by Japanese barbarism, and
though escape from that barbarism is this
time assured, according to the Prime
Minister, the country remains regimented
and militarised on a scale scarcely imag-
ined by anyone prior to this war. Under
the urgency of the need for defence, and
later under our obligation to assist in
the offensive against Japan, old customs,
industries and rights have often been
submerged by the processes of mobilisa-
tion and war-organisation generally.
The population has had to throw much
of its property, rights and freedom into
a national pool and rely on the Govern-
ment to take therefrom a fair share for
war purposes and to safeguard the rest
in the interests of the owners. The Gov-
eminent has had neither the capacity on
its own account nor the civil-service
organisation behind it to see that this
has been done properly and fairly. Not
only has this been evident in the taxa-
tion scale, so far as people’s money is
concerned ; it has been apparent in the
treatment of man-power also. Leaving
army matters out of it altogether, men
in labor corps far from home com-
plain that the right of looking after
themselves that has been taken from
them has not been adequately replaced
Governmentally even in matters of medi-
cal attention and appropriate transport
home in cases of serious sickness. Gov-
eminent regimentation that has taken
the place of
at times irresponsible and often ineffi-
etent. And it has been weak as muc
das been narsn.
It remains to be seen what influence
this war is going to have on the national
and political outlook of the average Aus-
tralian. The brutal nature of the con-
flict with the Japanese in itself is going
to have its influence ; then there will be
the matter of the distinction between the
A.I.F. and the militia, the high pay to
some workers in comparison with others,
the shameless strikes and holdups,
the attempts by the A.C.T.U. to extract
extra money and extra leisure out of a
country fighting for its life, and the
alacrity with which the Labor party
generally seized the opportunity pre-
sented by the National Security Act and
the pressure of the war to get in political
changes that are mostly sectional or para-
sitical. The doctrinaire has been given
his head.
Industrially and financially Australia
has been upended by the war. We have
had many new kinds of work to do,
and never has greater interest been taken
in our production possibilities by over-
seas interests, especially by the United
States. Lend-lease between ourselves and
the United States has brought particularly
intimate associations. The rural indus-
tries have been denuded of man-power,
and hundreds of thousands of men have
been taken from their homes to serve in
the forces or in the C.C.C. The war to
Australia may mean the opening of many
new development possibilities or it may
merely mean great unsettlement both of
minds and national economics. It may,
and probably will, mean something in
between these two things. What is per-
fectly clear at the present time is that we
have had the unsettlement of minds and
economics on a wide scale, whereas the
new tasks our industries and our man-
power have undertaken have mostly a
war-time basis, with their peace-time
prospects yet to be revealed.
After the devastating Civil War in the
’sixties the United States saw great poli-
tical tumult, much corruption in com-
merce and Government sectionalism
merce and Government, sectionalism
gone mad and great play on a highly-
strung public feeling by political oppor-
tumsts of the time. Without saying that
Australia in this war has suffered to the
extent that the eastern States of America
suffered during the Civil War, there !S no
doubt that this country is going through
the most testing period of disruption in
its history so far In the midst of
national and personal sacrifices very un-
evenly distributed, the forces of expedi-
epee, ignorance and evil are having
unusual play.
The United States, after the Civil
War, had many new circumstances to deal
with. Tariff policy became a political
issue, and the industrial revolution that
had taken place earlier in Britain began
to have its influence on American manu-
facturing, creating new labor problems,
Many disturbed years followed, but the
discovery of gusher oil and the evolution
of uses for it had a deep influence on
the future of the country. Factory ac-
tivity expanded tremendously, including
the production of steel. At the same
time, although the 1914-18 war brought
an entirely new economic balance be-
tween the Old World and the New,
American politics remain one of the
wonders of the-world to this day.
The epd of the present war threatens
to bring to Australia both tariff problems
and industrial problems. Tariffs are
likely to be influenced both by inter-
national commitments not yet publicly
discussed and by the depreciation of our
currency that has resulted from war-time
financial methods. Industrially we are
likely to be up against a revolution in
overseas manufacturing technique, new
products of widespread adaptability,
while amongst ourselves there threaten to
be labor troubles arising out of sectional-
ism and selfishness, aggravated by the
brain-scrambling and dictatorial behavior
of several trade-union movements. The
inflammatory, illogical and often down-
right lying nature of the teachings of
some of these unions can best be seen in
the publication of one—the “Iron-
worker.”
In spite of these problems which can
be seen ahead Australia is quite rightly
going on with its plans for the post-war
period. It is doubtful, however, whether
Grovernment planning is taking full cog-
nisance of the problems in front of us,
some of which have been largely its own
creation. The Prime Minister, speaking
on the matter of bank-credit use for post-
war reconstruction and attraction of
migrants, was merely the flatulent poli-
L' 013 "- “s airy references to he use of
bank Credlt as a means of tacklm S a dlf ’
ficult task amounte d to an evasion of
concre^e problems by putting forward an
abstract “ so i ution ” that in any case is
most i y ill o g ica L
jf Australia contemplates increasing its
population after the war without the aid
of big imports? t he housing of the in-
crease the deficiency in housing that
exists among the present population, the
equipment of new industries and the re-
habilitation of old will mean that much
Q £ tbe work now done j n the name of
war w j P bave tQ be done in the name of
reconstruction.
We know very well how much our con-
centration upon war has reduced our
living standards. Similar post-war con-
centration upon the increase of housing
an d production facilities would have a
like tendency, though ultimately this self-
denial would add to our material well-
being and comfort, whereas war expendi-
ture from an economic view is largely
waste.
And whether we work on what are
known as capital goods or upon consumer
goods, improved living standards ulti-
mately depend upon increased produc-
tivity per person. The aid of machinery
an d invention may help in this produc-
tivity, but if a shortening of working
hours occurs and inflation in our cur-
rency takes place we may find, on the
one hand, that increased production per
head is not up to the indicated rate, and,
on the other, that production in terms
of money is not as cheap as it would
otherwise be.
Furthermore, there has been a tendency
during this war to increase the ratio or


NOW AVAILABLE
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
TO ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" trucks have
been specially imported by the Government as a
Defence measure to ensure efficient road transport
within Australia. These vehicles are equipped with
sturdy, full floating, 2-speed rear axles; imported
all-steel cabs; imported platform bodies with skid
strips, coaming, front loading board and rope rails;
detachable dropsides and tailboard or triple-purpose
stakesides, and other approved essential body types.
Capacities up to tons.
Deliveries of these vehicles can now be arranged for
essential users who obtain the necessary "Permit to
Acquire" from the Emergency Road Transport Board.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained from our branch in the
Capital City of your State, or from any Authorised
Metropolitan Distributor for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ONCOBPonaTeo in vicTpntA)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
•JK-
||p
XT.
■m:
MO.
Trfljz
I#
s*/^5
&n
SS*.
SM'
K-, -
THE
DE HAVILLAND
WORLD FORMATION
Great Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, South Africa
on
J)n the attach to-day
the trade routes op the future
DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT
DE HAVILLAND ENGINES
D£ HAVILLAND PROPELLERS
TAKE YOUR PLACE IN THE R.A.A.F.
AIRCREWS ARE WANTED URGENTLY.
D.n. 10
non-productive citizens. Partly because
not enough money was taken directly
from the people to finance the major part
of the cost of the war a great maze of
legal controls has been instituted, and
these controls have needed administering
and policing.
If people had less money after pay-
ing their taxes and that is at least
a logical situation to visualise in
war-time, when the country is becom-
ing poorer because of the waste
of war —there would have been smaller
need for rationing, less need to control
black-marketing. As it is, there is far too
much spending power about. In addition
to the need for policemen to look after
our economics and our multitude of
National Security Regulations, a number
of Government departments have almost
gleefully expanded the scope of their
activities and the size of their staffs. These
socialistic barnacles are often inefficient
as well as non-productive, and are re-
vealed quite frequently as obstructions to
productive industry as well as parasites
living upon it. Every now and then we
see Government departments clashing
among themselves, as in the instance of
the Division of Import Procurement defy-
ing the price ceiling set by the Prices
Branch. Both these institutions, inciden-
tally, are sections of the Customs.
A Wanning for Australia
Addressing the Optimists’ Club in Wel-
lington, Leslie Lefeaux, ex-governor of
the N.Z. Central Reserve Bank, said that
“there is not the slightest doubt that pre-
war New Zealand was heading straight
for the financial rocks, despite favorable
weather, and it was only the war which
saved the Dominion from serious embar-
rassment.” Referring to the fact that dur-
ing the years immediately preceding the
war export seasons were comparatively
good, and yet the country was living
beyond its income, Mr. Lefeaux pointed
out that eventually overseas balances be-
came exhausted and New Zealand credit
was so seriously damaged that it became
impossible to raise an ordinary loan any-
where abroad.
The principal cause was undoubtedly the
tremendous rate at which new money was
being poured out, especially during the
second half of 1938. This in turn created
a demand for imported goods which could
not be met out of funds available overseas,
while a serious decline was brought about
in the real value of money in the country,
including savings.
Turning to existing problems, Mr.
Lefeaux expressed an opinion that has
found much support in these pages in
regard to Australian conditions: —-
I think there is too great a tendency to
ignore the achievements of the past and to
demand the scrapping of whole systems be-
cause of a comparatively few defects. New
Zealand is essentially a young country,
still in a comparatively early stage of
development. It is far too early in the
Dominion’s history to develop a safety-
first mentality. Youth suggests vigor and
enterprise, not fearing to take risks pro-
vided there is a reasonable prospect of an
advantage t'o be gained.
Referring to cardinal features of the
Maoriland economy the ex-governor of
the central bank said:
I do not wish to criticise the principle
of guaranteed prices as such, but I do say
that it is financially unsound to fix the
price paid for export commodities at a level
considerably above the price likely to be
obtained overseas, and to finance the differ-
ence by newly-created credits. I am far
from being opposed to good housing; but
I do say it is unwise to finance such schemes
with paper money, and thus again inflate
the currency. I do not for a moment con-
demn all public works provided they are
within the country’s power to finance out
of current or prospective income, or out
of capital. Such expenditure, however, de-
sirable it may appear in itself, is only
justifiable if it can be afforded. Any
arrangement which draws people away from
productive industries to more attractive"
work of a non-productive kind is posi-
tively dangerous, as it places a heavier
burden of overhead charges on a diminish-
ing production.
Mr. Lefeaux said he had previously held
his peace in regard to these contentious
subjects because of the nature of the
times. “But,” he added, “I think they
should be examined now, calmly and dis-
passionately, not for any purpose of re-
crimination, but as a guide for future
action.” Australia would be better off
also for calm, dispassionate discussion
of its economic position, taking into con-
sideration such things as the bank-credit
debt, the real costs inflation, post-war
plans and the housing recommendations,
W. C. Taylor, N.S.W. vice-president of
the A.L.P. and a member of the Com-
monwealth Bank board, said at the party
conference that existing controls over
finance and banking were working
towards the fulfilment of Labor policy
on finance matters. In spite of a typical
demand from the S.A. delegation that the
Government cease raising interest-bear-
ing loans and taxes on wages and salaries
and instead obtain “whatever money it
requires in the form of interest-free
credits from the Commonwealth Bank,”
it was merely decided that, “in order to
implement the party’s financial policy, the
Commonwealth Government be requested
to take appropriate action to give effect
to Labor’s banking policy.” Apparently
the headaches Treasurer Chifley is having
with the realities of finance discouraged
any “costless-credit” fantasies. Other
“economic” recomiliendations were a 40-
hour week six months after the war, uni-
versal 14 days’ annual leave, creation of
a new Department of Post-war Planning,
a nation-wide (but unhurried) campaign
for socialism, National Security Regu-
lations to be altered to permit fixation
of minimum male and female wages by
“declaration,” an increase in invalid and
old-age and pensioners to be
allowed have an income up to the basic-
wage rate. There were also suggestions
of “prosperity” and “war” loadings to
the basic wage, but the conference was
generally declared to be a moderates’
show. Pay-as-you-go taxation was, how-
ever, again left in the air. Canada,
Britain and the U.S.A. have it.
* * * *
The New Zealand sharemarket deals
in a number of representative Australian
stocks, and there are some Maoriland
issues, chief of which are insurance cos.,
listed on Australian ’Changes. The Aus-
tralian market is rigidly controlled by
the Treasury, with absolute ceilings in
force or in prospect; in M.L. the market
is free, as it is in London and New York.
Although Maoriland is not such a repre-
sentative financial centre as Australia, it
is across the Tasman that Australians
have to look in order to gain some idea
of open-market appraisement of their
securities. The difference between Aus-
tralian and Auckland prices is astound-
ing. In the case of the Bank of
N. S. Wales £2O shares, Auckland’s
quote is £34, against the Sydney
ceiling of £27 10s. Huddart Parker’s
Australian ceiling is 475., N.Z. price 625.
Morris Hedstrom cannot be sold above
235. in the Commonwealth ; in N.Z. there
have been sales at 345. Here is a repre-
sentative list:
Aust. N.Z.
Ceiling Open-market
Price. Price.
Bank of Australasia.. £B/14/- £9/7/6
Commercial of Sydney £l9/1/- £2O/15/-
Bank of N.S.W. ..£27/10/- £34
Union Bank of Aust. £6/17/- £7/13/6
N.Z. Insurance .. 70/3 85/-
Queensland Insurance 52/6 61/-*
South British Ins. .. 63/- 72/3
Huddart Parker .. 47/- 62/-
Aust. Consolidated Ind. 50/6 56/-
B'ritish Tobacco .. 47/6 57/9
Broken Hill Prop. .. 40/- 45/-
Bums Philp .. .. 54/- 61/6
Colonial Sugar .. £5l/5/- £57
Howard Smith .. 23/3 24/6
Morris Hedstrom .. 23/- 34/-
* Buyer.
Australian prices which are on a par
with New Zealand quotes are these for
Tooth’s Brewery, Dunlop Rubber and
Electrolytic Zinc,
?|S j{s
A would-be property buyer, observing
the new rule whereby Commonwealth
securities in a specified proportion to the
value of the property being bought must
also be acquired and deposited with a
bank, made the necessary negotiations
with the delegates of the Treasury, He
was eventually given a form to be filled
in and deposited, with his war loans, with
a bank, the bank to notify the Treasury
when everything had been carried out.
Although, according to the terms of the
form he had to sign, he would irrevo-
cably have committed his securities to
the Commonwealth Treasurer’s pleasure,
there was no guarantee whatsoever that
he would be given permission to carry
out his property deal. Having had pre-
vious experience of perfectly straightout
cases of money being owed to citizens by
the taxation department taking a year
or more to be squared up, he declined
to part with any securities to the control
of the Government until such time as the
application forms are altered and bind
the Government to return them where
property deals don’t go through.
* * * *
The Savings Bank of South Australia,
which is guaranteed by the Government
of that State, had on its books the record
number of 404,922 accounts at June 30
last. The number of new accounts
opened was 53,374, which was also a
record. Deposits, which slowly increased
from £22.3 million in 1936 to £25.4 mil-
lion in 1942, last year leapt by £6.2 mil-
lion to £31.6, million. The average de-
posit rose by £l2 to £7B. Significant of
the increased money in the hands of
wage-earners is this trend in average of
deposits. Since 1940, although there has
been an increase of 38,955 in the total
number of accounts, there has been a
fall of 17,552 (to 222,653) in accounts
showing a balance of less than £2O. In
the £2l-£5O category there has been an
increase of 13,097 (to 54,706), in the £5l-
- a rise of 15,425 (to 42,896), in the
£lOl-150 9837 to 24,778, and in the £l5l-
- 5134 to 13,666. The deposit-classes
above £2OO all show increases.


THE SERVICE MAN
Closing In.
“Ek Dum”; On December 12 U.S.
heavy bombers from the South Pacific
dropped 50 tons of bombs on Imeiji, the
nearest approach to a honest-to-goodness
island in the 30-mile-by- 12-mile atoll of
Jaluit, which forms the administrative
centre of the Marshalls.
Jaluit lagoon is deep and well sheltered
for the most part. Jaluit (JRX) Radio
station is the centre of a Japanese air
communication centre. The main facili-
ties are on Jabor Island, by the south-
eastern of the three entrances to the
lagoon.
Raids on various Marshall Islands con-
tinued throughout the week.
It was reported that on December 11
an Allied destroyer had bombarded the
Jaba River mouth, east of U.S. positions
at Empress Augusta Bay, where the
enemy had moved in supplies under cover
of bad weather. All through the week
the monotonous dropping of relatively
heavy bombloads on the bases of the
Bougainville-Buka areas continued.
The December 15 communique from
South-west Pacific H.Q. reported that 248
tons of explosives and incendiaries had
been showered on the Gasmata area.
Gasmata is the halfway house, by air
and sea, from the Huon Peninsula. It was
the first steppingstone used by the enemy
in his progress towards the New Guinea
mainland. With two adjacent stations
slightly to the east —Lindenhafen and
Ring Ring—it has beep turned into a
substantial base or depot. Mainly it has
been the prey of R.A.A.F. Beauforts,
which have been sweeping the approaches
on each side for a month. Next to
the Cape Gloucester area diagonally
across New Britain, it was the main
target on the island in the last month.
It collected about 450 tons of bombs in
three weeks.
On December 16 a communique an-
nounced :
Our heavy units attacked Gasmata aero-
drome with 28 tons of bombs. Strong
forces of our heavy, medium and attack
’planes, with fighter escort, struck the
enemy’s defensive installations at Arawe
throughout the day; 356 tons of bombs
were dropped and over 174,000 rounds ex-
pended in strafing. Amalut Plantation
and Pilelo, Arawe and Kumbun islands were
devastated by heavy concentrated attack.
Many fires and explosions' were observed in
villages and in the plantation. There was
no interception and all our ’planes returned
safe. In these operations R.A.A.F. Beau-
forts, Beaufighters and Kittyhawk fighter-
bombers played their part.
There had been no indication that
Arawe was more than a “wayside inn”
on the enemy’s air-and-sea route to the
Maclay coast and the Finschhafen area.
It is about 90 miles from Finschhafen
across the Vitiaz Strait, and a few miles
west of the Pulie River, from the mouth
of which the first crossing of New Britain
—to Rein Bay—was made by the Ham-
burg-South Seas expedition in 1909. The
D.O. at Gasmata crossed over virtually
the same route in 1920.
The land to the immediate east of
Arawe plantation juts out in a broad
peninsula bluff having its termination in
Cape Merkus. It is east of this that the
Pulie River reaches the sea. The coast
is deeply indented, giving good shelter
for the enemy seaplanes which have used
it for operations against our Ninth Divi-
sion. Off it lie several groups of islands
which, part of the plantation area, are
covered in palms—the Liebliche (Charm-
ing) Isles, the Kauptemetis and others.
These shelter a good anchorage. Before
the war there was an airstrip at Arawe,
but this was its most civilised facility.
Strategically, it was most important as a
starting point for cutting off the whole of
the western end of New Britain by a 70-
mile drive to Rein Bay. This would
isolate the Cape Gloucester and Borgen
Bay areas.
Rein Bay, once reached, across the
island, is only an easy step from Talasea
and the Willaumez Peninsula. From
Merkus and Mowe Harbor, a bit to the
east, is only a hop to Gasmata.
The conquest of an island —especially
an island like New Britain, which has
only two towns, Rabaul and Kokopo,
and a few harbor stations and nothing
but wild mountains and wilder natives
in the centre —is mainly a matter of the
conquest of its coasts.
Arawe Invaded
When sections of Lieutenant-General
Krueger’s army followed up the bombing
by landing at Arawe and took over the
Merkus Peninsula, the attack on New
Britain began on Dec. 15, the day after
the bombing. It marked the entry of
Allied troops into the true volcanic zone
of the Bismarcks —the western end of
New Britain is as full of volcanoes as
the east —and placed them at last on the
same earth as Rabaul.
A large convoy, commanded by Rear-
Admiral Barbey, carried the landing force
under powerful naval escorts and air
umbrella. The flotilla reached Cape
Merkus in the dark of the morning of
December 15. The force was the first in
the South-west Pacific to be equipped
with full amphibian transport. These
vehicles formed the spearhead of the in-
vasion.
First the “buffaloes”—tanks —waddled
ashore, leaving furiously churned-up
waters behind them, and began to lay
down a barrage across the base of the
peninsula. Next the “alligators,” long fel-
lows built for troop-carrying, made the
shore and paddled into the bomb-torn
bush and palm like dachshunds on rollers,
stopping here and there to deposit an
ack-ack gun, which became ready for
service in a few minutes. Lastly came the
“ducks”—trucks—with personnel and
stores ; then all the heavy cargo of attack
and the boats. %
Little Resistance
There was no resistance td the armored
van of the landing force as it reached (fry
land. It occupied in a few minutes what
seemed a completely deserted shore. A
little inland, however, small rearguards
were encountered, and about 20 of the
enemy were wiped out. A new field gun
had been abandoned near the waterside.
On the east of the Merkus Peninsula, in
the area from which the two expeditions
crossed the island, Texan troops, covered
from sea and air, attempted to land from
boats, but were caught by an ambush,
probably intended to protect the inland
track and Pulie River crossings , for
retreating comrades. The Texans were
sprayed in a cross-fire by enemy m.-g.
posts from 50 yards’ range. This part of
the expedition, suffering casualties and
with half its boats riddled, was compelled
temporarily to retire. Pilelo Island, on
this side of the peninsula, was quickly
taken and the few Japs on the island
made prisoners.
By the evening of Wednesday the fore-
shores all round Cape Merkus swarmed
with steel behemoths and sweating
soldiery.
The islands which formed the break-
water of Arawe Harbor had all been occu-
pied. Heavy guns were in position every-
where. The command had reason to be
satisfied that a substantial force had gone
into occupation with lethal casualties no
larger than would be expected in a small
patrol skirmish in major warfare.
Practically the only losses, indeed, were
those suffered by the Texans, who had
55 men killed and wounded.
By the week-end substantial progress
had been made towards the Pulie River
mouth, and the Americans had captured
Umlingolu, south-east of the Pulie en-
trance, and looking eastward across a
broad bay to the valuable Mowe Harbor.
Umlingolu is about five miles from the
point where the “buffaloes” made their
first landing.
Jap Air Attacks
Extensive precautions had been taken
in the landing fleet against Japanese air
attack, which seemed strongly possible
in a position between Cape Gloucester
and Gasmata and Rabaul. No attack
came until the first ack-ack guns had been
in position for about 20 minutes; then
the enemy tried a swirling raid with 40
bombers and fighters. The fighters came
rocketing in through heavy gunfire, but
there was little damage— two landing
craft hit but far from wrecked, a
few men slightly wounded. A landing-
craft gunner bagged an “O” fighter and
a shore ack-ack gun destroyed another.
From then onwards, land actions hav-
ing been reduced to little more than en-
counters with snipers, Jap air attacks
were incessant, but they were reported to
have achieved little on December 16 and
17, and they cost the enemy 24 machines
for certain and probably three others.
By December 20 it was certain that the
beachhead was firmly established, and
that control of the Vitiaz Strait was as-
sured. And every effort was being made
to blow Cape Gloucester area installa-
tions out of existence.
Tokyo’s Version
Tokyo Radio, having alleged that 18
Allied ’planes were shot down for a loss
of two Jap machines in a raid on Rabaul
on December 17, admitted, for the first
time since the war in the New Guinea
area began, that gains of importance had
been made by Allied troops.
It declared that the Allies were
attempting to inflict a heavy blow on"
Japanese strategic positions in the Pacific,
and were in a position to attack Rabaul
from four directions and threaten
Japanese bases on the New Guinea main-
land from the sea. Now (it said) the
Allies had the opportunity to lay down
airfields on New Britain:
We do not underestimate the threat to
Rabaul. Rapid progress by the Ameri-
cans, however, is unlikely because of the
roughness of the territory of New Britain.
The enemy claimed that during the
Arawe landing a large Allied transport,
four smaller transports, 55 large and
some smaller landing barges were sunk.
At Rabaul Jap shipping concentrations
seem to have melted awtfy. A light naval
force there last week in composition
sounded almost like a typical Japanese
evacuation force. Indeed, there seem to
be comparatively few of the enemy left
south of the Rabaul line.
If there is any Japanese detachment
on Bougainville capable of offensive
action it will be surprising, and still more
surprising if there are more than patrols
on Choiseul, further to the south-east.
New Guinea and the Solomons
In other parts of the 1000-mile attack
arc in the Solomons-New Guinea sector,
actions on terra firma were confined
entirely to patrol, raid and mopping-up
operations. On the Ramu Australian
troops were subjected to night attacks.
In the largest of three the enemy was
beaten off with .the loss of 100 men ; in
the other attacks he lost another 100.
On the Finschhafen front the columns
of Australians moved devotedly on
through the awful tangle of jungle, mire,
river crossings and cliffs. Before the
week-end the Sanga River had been
crossed 12 miles north of Finschhafen
and Lakona village had been taken.
While the Americans were landing and
consolidating at Arawe the Australians
were completing, in pouring rain, the
mopping up of a force of about 100 of
the enemy trapped on the cliffs of Cape
Sibida, which juts out into the sea south
of the Sanga. These men were putting
up a last-ditch fight from caves and
crevices and jungle with a profusion of
automatic weapons. South of the
Sanga there were few Nipponese by
December 19. And inland the A.I.F. was
making good progress along the road
from Wareo through Zagahemi.
In the Solomons there seems to be
no very large body of the enemy
facing the Empress Augusta Bay
beachhead; but what there are have
-the advantage of natural defences which
compare with Sattelberg. The constant
bombing of aerodromes all round the
Bougainville area must have made any
large-scale enemy air operation impos-
sible. The very presence of delayed-
action bombs on aerodromes is sufficient
to immobilise them to a large extent.
The Pacific Front Stirring
The enemy cannot be unmindful of
the danger from Admiral Nimitz’s
powerful naval expedition perched on the
flank of his New Guinea rear in the Gil-
berts and of the risk that landings in
the Admiralties and Northern New Ire-
land might cut off his New Guinea com-
munication routes to Japan completely.
And he may act accordingly, fighting
only fierce delaying actions, playing for
time to consolidate his main defence
further north at Truk, in the Dutch East
Indies and beyond.
Colonel Knox noted “one striking de-
velopment we now seldom encounter
Japanese transports or cargo ships in out-
lying ports. The enemy is relying on
barges for carrying troops to reinforce
beleaguered garrisons. Hundreds of
these, with thousands of their unfortunate
passengers, have been sunk.”
All signs point to a great increase in
Allied activity. The Marshall Island
raids are not mere nuisance raids. The
flat nature of the Gilberts has made it
possible for the Americans swiftly to
build aerodromes on Betio, Tarawa and
Abemama Islands, and that on Makin is
almost complete.
Within the past few days Lord Louis
Mountbatten has completed a tour of the
Burmese front and has remoulded the
two air forces operating from India into
a unified command under Air Chief
Marshal Sir Richard Peirse, formerly
head of the British Bomber Command.
British troops have moved* forward in
Arakan towards Rauthedaung and the
doorstep areas of Akyab, which they in-
vaded on December 18 last year and
from which they retired last May.
A successful local action during the
week brought the front forward some
distance to within three miles on the north
of Buthidaung.
Fierce Fighting in Italy.
Operations on the Italian front con-
tinue slowly but successfully. The Eighth
Army has been girding its loins for the
break across the hilly peninsula of Ortona
and warding off fierce German attacks
further inland along the Chieti road. The
brunt of the battle fell on the shoulders
of the Canadians, who had been switched
from the mountain region towards the
centre, and later on the Maorilanders.
The delay in moving forward was
probably, however, not due to German
resistance so much as to the necessity for
co-ordination with the Fifth Army, in
which new elements were getting into
position.
As the Fifth Army completed fresh dis-
positions and moved late in the week, the
Maorilanders began to widen their grip
on the Orsogna-Chieti road in a fierce
tank and flame battle, and the Canadians
made progress.
New units of the Fifth Army included
Italian troops, who, after a desperate
action in which they fared badly, went in
again successfully, to be congratulated by
General Clark on their performance.
To the Italians, a French and Moroccan
force was added, and its presence gave
the Germans a shock. They had almost
forgotten the taste of French steel.
Though described by the commanding
officers as “the little French - army,” its
advent was auspicious. Italians of the
Fifth Army had recaptured the mountain
dominating the Liri Valley which they
had bloodily lost a week before. Other
Fifth Army forces cleared the enemy
from San Pietro, a village north of Mig-
nano, which was the rivet holding to-
gether the main German defence line
of the Garigliano. With this position in
Allied hands, it seemed that the way up
the gate to the Liri-Sacco valleys had at
last been opened.
The Allies had a setback, severe though
temporary, on Dec. 2, when 30 enemy
bombers sank 17 Allied ships in Bari
Harbor, the main forward base for the
Eighth Army, and killed over 1000 people.
Five of the ships were American. The
raid lasted only a few minutes, and
most of the damage seems to have been
due to the explosion of two munition
ships. The Eighth Army was perilously
short of supplies for a little while, but
the position was mended.
Work for 1,000,000 Builders.
Allied raiding last week embraced both
ends of the Brenner Pass, the channel of
the enemy’s direct communications with
Italy, but the big raid of the week was
made by the R.A.F. on Berlin on De-
cember 16. Fifteen hundred tons of
bombs were dropped in 25 minutes.
According to Stockholm reports, the
attack was made at 7 p.m. in bad visi-
bility. In the Vichy Radio account
the bombers were covered by long-
distance fighters—possibly Mosquitoes.
Thirty R.A.F. machines were lost in
several operations over France and Ger-
many.
On the bleak winter evening, the
raiders blew up buildings and started fires
all round the Tiergarten, and destroyed a
huge dump in the suburbs. Nearly 8000
tons of bombs have been dropped on
Berlin in four raids, and in all raids
about 14,500 tons.
The conditions which the R.A.F. are
bringing about in Germany are grimly
pictured by the German Armaments
Minister, Dr. Speer, who said on Dec. 16:
No German city will fade out of exist-
ence because it has been laid flat by bomb-
ing. New groups of buildings will arise
to replace the old and bear the names ot
the old cities. A million bricklayers and
masons are already at work in the Reich.
Mr. Stimson, the U.S. Secretary for War,
said that the U.S. Air Force was now,
in daylight, smashing German cities with
bombloads comparative with those used
in the heaviest R.A.F. night attacks. If 1
each of two recent raids 1000 U.S.
bombers had taken part, and in the past
month the American Air Force had
destroyed 493 German aircraft in combat.
On the Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: After the fall of Snamenka
in the Dnieper Bend, below Kremenchugj
the Germans announced on Decembe
14 that they had evacuated Cherkassy,
which lies on the right bank of the
further north-west. As usual, Moscow
account followed, in this case sevel , a
hours later; it was to the effect that tn
town had been taken by storm and tha
the enemy had suffered heavy
Below Snamenka the Russians pushed on
towards the junction of Kirovograd, an
below Cherkassy they were, by the weeK-
end, threatening Smyela, described ny
correspondents as “a great German base.
The enemy’s frontal position has take
an interesting shape. In the far sou ,
the Crimea is cut off from the main line,
save by sea. From slightly west
Perekop, at the gate of the Crimea, tn
front runs across the peninsula which P r "
jects south of the Dnieper to Knerso •
It then follows the Dnieper, which he
is a very wide river, for about 130 mi
to Nikopol. From Nikopol it follows
direct railway route to Zhitomir, with
couple of northward bulges, one nearly


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROBERT PERRY alleged to be a Petty Officer
in the Royal Australian Navy.—TAKE NOTICE that
DONALD CATHROW SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 995 of 1943 on the ground that you
have been guilty of adultery with his wife RALDA
EILEEN SMITH If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 7th February 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from L. G. B. OADDEN Solicitor of 79 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.—(n.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERYL EVELYN BROWN also known as BOYD
and SLINGSBY—TAKE NOTICE that ALFRED
ERNEST BROWN has filed a Petition for Nullity
No. 1268 of 1943 on the ground of bigamy and
alternatively for divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Thirty-
first day of January One thousand nine hundred and
forty-four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS 56 Hunter
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce. ■
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY ELLEN TAGG late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM CHARLES TAGG
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2331 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or before
the Seventh day of February 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from PHILIP N.
ROACH Solicitors 160 Oastlereagh Street Sydney.—
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
CD
cuxz
the Dnieper, west of Kremenchug, in the
region of the Cherkassy operations, the
other enclosing the only bridgehead held
east of the Dnieper south of Kiev. This
bridgehead lies south-east of Pereslavl,
and is about 90 miles from Kiev.
From Zhitomir the front turns north
to Korosten and thence onward to cross
the Pripet and join the Dnieper bank at
Uobin and run to Orsha, via Rogachev
and Mogilev. Thence it passes east of
Vitebsk and parallels the main Kiev-
Leningrad railway on the east all the way
to the Neva.
North of Zhitomir, the German drive,
which had lasted almost a month, was
still in progress at the week-end. A 40-
mile-broad salient, backbone of which
was the Korosten-Kiev railway, had been
driven about 15 miles into the Russian
front. The town of Radomysl had ad-
mittedly been surrendered by the Rus-
sians, though “enormous” German
casualties in men and tanks were claimed.
Nevertheless, the enemy was within 50
miles of the Dnieper and of Kiev, which
was quarter-encircled to the south-west,
though at a considerable distance. Mos-
cow reported on December 17 that, as
the result of stubborn fighting, several
inhabited places had been retaken south
of Malin.
The weather improved some time later
in the week, and there was more air ac-
tivity. Berlin announced that the Red
Army had opened another heavy offen-
sive at the northern joint of the central
sector, near Nevel, and afterwards put
forward the idea that a general Russian
offensive had begun along 900 miles of
line from the German bridgehead on the
east bank of the Dnieper, before Kher-
son, to Nevel. The Russians reported on
December 20 that in the Nevel region an
advance of 19 miles had been made on a
50-mile front and that 20,000 Germans
had been killed.
In Russia, as elsewhere, the season is
capricious. At times during the last
month the front has seen snow and bliz-
zard, but the descent into winter is be-
lated. Autumn has run more than a
month beyond its normal time. Much of
the mud of the Ukraine is still unfrozen,
and the Germans are still 90 miles from
the Bug line to which they were supposed
to be racing in disorder six weeks ago.
The Promise of 1944.
There are people in authority who
believe that 1944 may see the end of the
war in Europe. Even if this comes true
the war with Japan has not approached
a point where crisis can be expected
next year. It is doubtful whether
Japan has reached the peak of its effort
or whether Germany is over the peak.
Both are applying the principle that the
nation which wins the war is that which
has the last reserves. Man-power is being
conserved on all enemy fronts.
On the Russian front, the first on
which large-scale land operations can be
in full blast, the Germans might continue
to go back, fighting stubbornly, hanging
on tenaciously to every river line, sacri-
ficing armor, putting up with limited air
cover, until they reach the natural battle-
grounds and defence lines of their own
border country. Every mile they would
move back they would lengthen Russian
communications and leave behind them
fresh responsibilities for the Russians in
the shape of a devastated countryside
devoid of power and fuel and populated
by millions of poor people, ill-clad and
ill-fed ; many perhaps dying in the snow.
At the borderland of Germany proper
the natural defence positions are Strong
and diverse, and the strategy of hold-
ing them and of using them for offensive
purposes has been worked out for a
century and more.
They can be manned with a force con-
siderably less than a third of the number
needed when the Wehrmacht covered a
front 2600 miles long from the Arctic to
the Caucasus, only 150 miles from the
Caspian Sea. And the eastern-defence
borders of Germany are contiguous to
war industrial districts and communica-
tions, and distances east to west across
the Reich are such that switching of corps
or even armies either from France or
laterally down the front would be a trifle
compared with the task last year.
Much of what happens on the eastern
front must ultimately be governed by
what happens on other fronts. With or
without Turkey the Allies might, and
probably will, invade the Aegean coun-
tries and/or France from both sides;
perhaps Belgium or the Netherlands or
Denmark and Norway. But assuming 'the
preparations for this have reached a peak
it will not all be plain sailing.
It is unlikely that, at any one point,
crossing the sea, an invasion force could
be mustered sufficiently large to acquire
a bridgehead easily.
Invasion Problems
Even supposing, however, that bridge-
heads were quickly gained, no move for-
ward could be made until after a pause
for further preparation. That would take
at least weeks, probably months. And
when the advance moves forward it must,
after beating coastal defences,, break
through the interminable circle-posts of
the West Wall and of the defences which
run across the edges of the northern plain
of Germany. France is hedged off from
Germany by the extended Maginot Line.
Although it has become fashionable to
laugh at the Maginot since the French
debacle, the fact is that the line was never
breached —it was by-passed. Now, it is
said, if has been extended to the sea.
Neither Germans nor Russians have en-
countered any fortifications to compare
with it save perhaps those of Sevastopol.
And let anybody who has explored the
Rhine, the Hartz Mountains or even the
Rothaar ranges pause to think what the
passage of those barriers against heavily-
fortified defences is calculated to be like
—defences which cannot be wiped out by
even blockbusters, and which call for
hard-hitting heavy siege artillery in pro-
fusion, or for the loss of huge quantities
of material and man-power.
Wherever the approach is made,
whether over the Rhodope and the Yugo-
slav mountains in the south-east, over the
rocky littoral country of southern France
or through the Isonzo passes, the Allies
have to face great natural obstacles in
the way of snow-clad hills and mountains
pierced by only rare passes in which every
road has been built with both eyes on
defence.
The most vulnerable natural points of
approach to Germany are in the
Thracian-Danube mouth area, out of
reach, unless Turkey joins the war, and
Denmark and the Baltic coast behind it.
But whatever breached, “from the west,
south or east,” the fact has to be
faced that afterwards at least eight or
nine months of hard fighting, backed by
the whole labor of the Allied countries
applied to war purposes, lie ahead.
Air Giants and Rocket Guns
Whatever progress is made in Europe
with invasion is governed, too, by con-
siderations of air support. Even before
the unfortunate affair of Bari, the assump-
tion that the Luftwaffe was a spent
force had no more support in known
facts than the legend that German artil-
lery is a joke, beside Russian artillery.
The Germans have 20in. mobile siege
artillery and 24in. mortars. The Russian
“Katusha” was a copy of a German six-
barrelled mortar. The Germans have in
the past two years pioneered the flame-
throwing tank and the rocket gun.
It needs only a glimpse back to 1940-41
to see how far the immunity of night
raiders has disappeared. Germany lost
Hamburg and most of the Ruhr towns
through British raiding. German cities
suffered badly at first under U.S. Air
Force daylight raiding. But in the last
few months the Germans have stiffened
up defence materially. And over Schwein-
furth, when they used their rocket gun
for the first time in quantity, they de-
stroyed 63 Fortresses in a single raid. In
the Berlin raid last week they used it at
night for the first time on any scale.
The rocket gun fires a heavy torpedo-
like projectile, which is largely self-pro-
pelled when it leaves the gun. It there-
fore needs little muzzle energy. Heavy
recoils do not have to be taken care of ;
barrels are flimsy beside those of ordinary
artillery. A large-calibre weapon thus
can be carried on a medium ’plane, a
weapon which, having regard to the weak-
ness of structure of all aircraft, has
the effect of 4.7 in. destroyer fire aimed
at motor-boats in close foimation. The
antidote is the fast fighter protective
screen, which can take after the slower
rocket aircraft and shoot them down
when they approach the Fortresses.
But the rocket-gun business is only in
its infancy. Rocket guns will increase
and multiply in Germany; so will the
carpet of ground defences. So also,
as the defence grows, must the Allied
fighter escorts. Fighter escorts mean
more picked pilots, more man-power. For
every hundred Thunderbolts or Typhoons
which have to be used on long-distance
escort work, it can be reckoned that an-
other 3000 or so personnel for servicing
and reserves must be thrown in.
In 1941 Germany had not drawn in
raw materials from a dozen conquered
countries, together with 12,000,000 or so
vassal workers from outside the Reich.
This conscript labor is almost as numer-
ous as the labor of Britain, apart from
the fully mobilised Axis workers.
Air Troop Trains
One department in the air in which
the enemy has specialised is transport.
He used gliders in Crete. He landed tanks
from aircraft in Greece. His largest
machines came too late for his troops in
Africa, but they were coming when the
Tunisian battle was fought. The remains
of those found on Tunisian fields gave
food for plenty of thought about the
mobility being built up for the German
army with these monsters.
The Me 323 is not a machine to fly into
the face of Anglo-American defences,
but as internal transport for an army it is
revolutionary. It has a wing span of 180
feet. It is largely a plywood job, and is
powered by six French-built L4N fully
supercharged 14-cylinder radials —around
6000 h.p. It carries 18 machine-guns, all
of which can be used simultaneously
with a cyclic rate of fire about 27,000
rounds a minute. It sits Sn 10 wheels,
runs on 87 octane petrol, can be turned
into a two-storey machine. It carries
heavy wooden ramps, so that lorries can
be driven into it, and it is no secret that
it carried 88mm. anti-aircraft guns with
all their accessories—the opposite number
of our big 3.7-incher —from Italy to
Tunisia. It is relatively slow, but it can
carry 100 troops over moderate distances.
This means that in actual carriage capa-
city, having regard to relative speeds of
trains and air vehicles, one of these
machines is equivalent at least to a full-
sized ordinary troop train.
Once in the air the Me 323 knows none
of the delays of congested war-time rail-
ways. A squadron would not fall very
far short of transferring a full division
100 miles in 36 hours, especially if the
troops were equipped for parachuting.
It was reported recently that a large force
of these and similar machines was in ser-
vice behind the Russian lines. And the
Me 323 is not the only heavy German
transport ’plane the four-engined
ramped Ju29o is another and faster
machine which carries a transport load
of 8| metric tons, plus 1584 gallons of
fuel.
It is obvious that when the attack is
made from the west or the south it will
be against a centralised enemy with
powerful air protection —m enemy whose
air bases will not be as easily destroyed
as those of Italy and Sicily, who has
made every preparation for fast internal
troop-switching and whose lands are
fairly packed with guns of all calibres.
These things are realised in Europe.
Anybody who listens regularly and thor-
oughly to overseas radio will soon sense
the tense finger-on-lip atmosphere which
prevails in every country. The atmo-
sphere is that of the hours before the
tornado breaks,
Europe knows that throughout 1944,
unless the nerves of Germany crack or
unless pestilence cancels plans and expec-
tations —influenza is bad in Germany,
German-occupied Italy and other coun-
tries, Britain among them—there are re-
sources available on both sides to charge
a storm of such fury as could not have
been imagined three years ago.
The Problem of Japan
This war is one of which only the pre-
liminary battles have been fought. It
cannot be fought with the same weapons
as are used in the European war, which
is one of comparatively short land and
air distances calling in the ultimate for
short-distance weapons. It must be fought
over distances which were unimaginable in
relation to major warfare a decade ago.
It calls for different kinds of aircraft,
different kinds of ships, differently-armed
and -equipped soldiers, different food,
medicines, uniform, radio equipment.
And that is not all. The war in the
Pacific is governed by the differences of
life and travel in tropical and non-tropical
climates. It must cope with snow in the
far north, with continuous heat and
tropical rainfalls in equatorial regions,
and with the feeding of armies of
races different from those in Europe.
It must equip supervisors to deal with
Asiatics, who will form the bulk of the
basic war labor. And when all the
basic preparations are complete, stores,
shipping, specialised guns, tanks, food,
clothing, medicines, ammunition, provi-
sion against rain, snow, rot and tropical
diseases, with long-distance aircraft
specially fitted for tropical or cross-sea
usage, the immense equipment has to be
laboriously curried in millions of tons to
campaign assembly points where, with
tremendous labor and thought, facilities
to protect it against the weather and the
enemy have been erected by tens of
thousands of perspiring workers.
The aircraft must have literally tens of
thousands of acres of prepared runways,
whole cities of dumps, revetments,
hangars, workshops. The navies must
have vast docks, as large as or larger than
the world’s greatest before the war, in
spots where a few years ago the largest
vessel was a 10,000-ton steamer.
Japanese strength lies not in power of
aggression but in natural advantages of
defence. Our particular enemy began the
war in the Pacific knowing that even if
the two great Allied, naval and air nations
had the will to make an instantaneous
attack on the Far East the time factors
of production and carriage would render
that attack impossible for at least two
years, even if the U-boat campaign did
not destroy Allied shipping to such an
extent as to defeat the Allies before they
could even lay a finger on Japanese-held
conquests. Even if Germany collapsed in
1942 under Russian blows they knew this
would be true.
Japan has suffered none of the strain
of bombing or of a large-scale land war
such as Germany has suffered. Japan is
not blockaded from its war resources,
which are all available within the bounds
of conquered countries.
Japan in 1945?
Victory over Germany in Europe in 1944
will mean that the resources of the
Allies will be for the first time available
for the main attack on Japan by 1945,
though there will certainly be large-scale
preliminaries before that —in Burma, the
South-west Pacific and the West Pacific.
The time factor is much influenced by the
fact that as the fighting moves north-
ward the armies and navies go back
climatically to those of eastern Europe,
though without much of the snow.
Manchuria can be as bitter as the
Russian front. The temperature of the
whole of North China falls to 35 de-
grees below freezing point in winter.
The rains begin about April over the
crowded, canal-packed peninsula area
which presents the nearest approach to
Japan from the mainland. Seasons,
therefore, are important.
There is no doubt that the greatness of
the British and American peoples will
surmount all difficulties and defeat the
Axis. But there is no justification for the
lightheartedness with which the task of
driving to victory is regarded in this
country. ________
The Admiralty and British Air Ministry
jointly announce that recent actions against
a U-boat concentration have prevented the
enemy from making a single attack on Allied
Atlantic convoys. In three actions 13 U-boats
were destroyed. The desperate burst of Ger-
man naval activity is probably engendered by
the knowledge that 60 transports are supposed
to be running a ferry service across the Atlantic
loaded to their bridges with American troops.
* * * *
General Chao Tsi-li, Chinese Chief of Staff,
told foreign observers that in the recent “rice-
bowl” battles in the Tungting Lake area
Chinese casualties had been 14,000 men and
that the enemy had lost 11,000. He said it
had been necessary to pay a high price in lives
to win back the food-producing territory.
* * * *
Passengers on two crowded 5000-ton Japanese
transports lined the rails to salute two matey-
looking ’planes beetling round them uncon-
cernedly off the Timor coast. The ’planes re-
turned the salute with a shower of lead and
left one of the transports burning furiously.
They were a couple of R.A.A.F. Beaus, part
of a force which had a high old time among
the shipping round Koepang. Dutch Mitchells
arrived, and when they went home both trans-
ports were solidly on fire.


mtm
v ' - i
WisSi
/ 4 I >'
t 2 )1 S» 5? S » « h W ; (1 i* i"» «■» '» »itif
&s#
ama>« « (8 r-< *3 <■> a & .&&gg!
0
i
m*/ y
totalisators and total war
Then is over thirty years' experience in pre-
cision engineering behind the A.TJ.. organisa-
tion. The nignly skilled personnel and scientific
equipment which formerly produced the
myriads of intricate components comprised in
a Premier Automatic Totalisator are now con-
centrated on production of vital munitions.
Precision tools, gauges, aircraft components,
gun components, optical munitions, etc., are
produced by A.T.L. to limits as fine as .00001
of an inch.
When you think of precision engineering, pre-
cision tools or gauges —think of
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
. MELBOURNE - ■ PERTH - • BRISBANE
SYDNEY
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
iHlUili
il- ■
ml
Hi
if li
lIP
}P
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per m?J**
Double Rooms from 13/- per mg
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless •
"METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 fines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Showery weather made things un-
pleasant at Randwick on Saturday. The
going was soft, and the 1.404- for the
Villiers was the slowest since Queen
Alwyne won in 1.41 in 1926. With four
winning favorites backers were well on
the mark, and, though the attendance was
only 23,000, excluding service men, the
tote turnover was £93,536.
Hesione, favorite for-the Villiers, was
the early leader but never got far away
from Nobleman, who had her beaten
entering the straight, the most prominent
of the others at that stage being Kings-
dale and Grand Prodige. A furlong from
home Sir Neith (R. Parsons) settled Noble-
man, and went on to win from Lord
Neith, who was one of the rear division
at the half-mile. Nobleman was a mod-
erate third, and Hesione fourth. Out-
side the first four nothing was ever
doing well enough to look a winning
possibility. Kingsdale, Rimveil and
Ron Rico never really raised their
backers’ hopes, and lack of racing told
against Grand Prodige. An outsider in
Glendower did better than most of the
fancied division. Trained by A. Morrisby,
this was Sir Neith’s third win at Rand-
wick.
Faerie Queene and Edigram were the
December Handicap pacemakers, but
Gryphon (J. Thompson) was always
handy, and, getting to the front at the
turn, gained sufficient lead to enable him
to beat Lambeth three-quarters of a
length. Dewar and Grand Fils were next,
but were too far from the first two for
their form to be of much account. Dewar
was well backed, principally because the
soft track was expected to favor him.
The going could riot have been to Wel-
lesley’s liking, as he made a poor show-
ing.
Marquis was supposed to be “a good
thing” for the Encourage Handicap, but
never worked into a winning position.
After being third to First Battery and
Kookaburra at the half-mile, Eastralia
(Swinton) led into the straight, and hung
on well to win from Peerless Lad and
Lawgiver. The winner is by Law Maker,
as is Lawgiver, who should win in this
class. Van Eyck’s fourth was a fair effort,
and Legal Head and Peter Boy also
shaped promisingly.
Bravo (W. Cook) had an easy task in
the December Nursery. He was behind
Time, Twice Royal and Silver Flare at
the turn, but in the straight he had no
difficulty in disposing of that lot, and
won as he liked from Prince Verity and
Supreme Lady, both of whom ran on
fairly. Sinbad, a Brueghel colt, headed
the unplaced runners, Silent again failing
to run up to his private reputation ; and
Twice Royal, though speedy, is a poor
stayer.
In the Three-year-old Handicap All
Scot (W. Cook) again demonstrated that
he is much better than he looks. Slow
to find his legs, he was a long way back
at the turn, but after passing the leger
he ran up to Sincerity, and in a hard
finish beat her a neck; Annie Laurie, the
only other backed to any extent, was
third, and then Russia (by Excitement).
He and Nimrod (by Melfort) showed-
pace for six furlongs. Tennessee was in
the market, but has not made the develop-
rnent expected of him early in the season.
It was some excuse for him that he was
a little unlucky at barrier-rise.
Kimbell (J. Thompson) is at his best
in soft going, and, taking the measure of
Rylstone before reaching the turn in the
Highweight Handicap, was a winner from
the time he led into the straight. Gold
Salute put in good work from the bend,
though without being able to threaten
Kimbell seriously; and Sir Tennyson,
who was third, only got in at the end.
Gigli’s fourth was a fair effort, and Thrax
and Louano may be among the near
winners.
* * * *
Legion Chief (8.1) recorded his third
successive win by defeating Nagation and
Request In the Epsom Cup, run at Men-
tone last Saturday. A four-year-old geld-
ing by Valiant Chief from Rondelle, he
is one of the most improved gallopers, in
Melbourne. H. McCloud would have
had the winning mount but for injuries
sustained in the smash at Moonee Valley
a week earlier. He watched the race from
the stand while Heather substituted. Mac
Rob, favorite at 5 to 1, finished strongly
in fourth position.
Rex Buzz, one of eight horses involved
in the Moonee Valley smash, showed he
had taken no harm from the experience
by landing a plunge in the Parkdale
Welter. Backed from 8 to 1 down to
favoritism at 5 to 2, he outstayed Pick-
way in course-record time. Rex Buzz
is a six-year-old half-brother to Millie’s
Hope, now nine, who returned to winning
form at Pakenham recently. Both horses
race in the same interests,
A betting drift from 2 to 1 to 7 to 2
preceded Cacique’s defeat of Burma and
Twovals in the Mordialloc Stakes, He
ran to the front at the start and was not
headed. Winner of his last two races.
Cacique is a bargain at the 340gns. he
cost in Sydney last year. Canada justi-
fied his 5-to-4 favoritism for the Manum-
bar Handicap by outstaying Franklin D.
and Boondale after his chance had looked
hopeless near the turn. La Patrice, a two-
year-old filly by St. Magnus-La Jaconde,
gave bookmakers a 20-to-l result in the
Murray Handicap. Apprentice E. Rud-
dell rode his first winner when Country
Talk (15 to 1) outstayed New Princess
and Elegies in the Cheltenham Handicap.
* * * *
While the Villiers Stakes did not put
either Hesione or Nobleman in the light
of good milers, both are still Carrington
Stakes possibilities, the latter for prefer-
ence, as he appeared to be doing better
than Hesione even before he headed her
turning into the straight. Grand Prodige
will be all the better for his run.
Gryphon has run well up to a mile
and a half, and as he was never better
than at present an extra furlong may not
be beyond him in the Summer Cup,
though on Red Cross Cup running
he is held by Cream Puff. In the
December Handicap Lambeth was not
doing better than Gryphon in the
last 50 yards, but the race may
do more for him than for the latter,
and he has shown he can get the Summer
Cup distance. Last year Lambeth was
second with only 41b. more than he has
this time, and the w.f.a. scale allows for
that much improvement.
Wellesley’s effort in the December
Handicap did not enhance his Cup pros-
pects, though firmer going may make a
difference, and Abspear, Dewar, Grand
Fils and Edigram did not do well enough
on Saturday to cause them to be specially
recommended. Lord Neith shone in the
Villiers, and showed that, a winner at a
little over a mile and a quarter at New-
castle, he cannot be overlooked. Kimbell
is very fit, but little is known of him as
a stayer.
Eureka and Enderby, non-runners on
Saturday, may also have to be taken into
consideration, and Lady Hamilton has
little to carry; but of the Cup horses
backers saw last week they are unlikely
to go beyond Lord Neith (if started in
preference to Grand Fils), Gryphon and
Lambeth. Moondarewa has been a dis-
appointment, but his trainer has not yet
given up hope. However, Cream Puff’s
form in the Red Cross Cup was outstand-
ing, and as she has gone on well since
it is difficult to look beyond her for the
winner.
* * * *
The Sydney Turf Club has arranged
with Rosebery to take its date for Jan.
15, and with the permission of the A.J.C.
will race at Randwick on that day. The
S.T.C. thoroughly appreciates the gesture
of the A.J.C. in making that concession.
* * * *
Hoping to curtail “black market” and
s.p. betting, the V.R.C. has decided to
delay final acceptances until 45 minutes
before each race. All horses remaining
in at previous acceptance time, 1 p.m.
Wednesday, will, however, be regarded
as probable runners, and the racebook
compiled accordingly. If necessary, fields
will be balloted down to safety limits and
divisions made before the racebook is
printed. Unless owners and trainers co-
operate wholeheartedly, however, course
scratchings may be numerous, thereby
depriving other horses of a start. The
scheme is a half-measure which might
cause needless confusion and defeat itself.
Neither Victorian police nor the public
believe it will effectively limit the opera-
tions of illegal bookmakers. New Year's
Day will be the first test, but as it is not a
rule of racing, it is unlikely all other Mel-
bourne clubs will follow the V.R.C. lead.
*»* * *
“H.G.H.” (Sussex Inlet): You are
correct. The automatic tote was first used
at Randwick on September 29, 1917.
* * * *
While the V.R.C. and Melbourne
police are doing their best to suppress
starting-price betting, arguments by a
few members in favor of its legalisation
were heard in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly last week. In particular some
reckoned legislation would be fair to
country people. H’m!
* * * *
Last Saturday’s racing at Randwick
took the tote turnover for the 10 days
at that track this season to beyond the
million mark. The total is £1,039,113.
As it is not too much to assess the book-
makers’ joint turnover at as least five
times as much as that of the machine,
it will be gathered that there was never
more money for betting at Randwick
than this year.
* * * *
Breeders totalling 119 and sires 51 are
represented in Wright, Stephenson and
Co. s and Pyne, Gould and Guinness’s
catalogue for their National sale of year-
lings at Trentham, Wellington (Maori-
land) on January 14 and 21. Forty of
the sires have sired winners, and those
represented for the first time are Royal
Chief, Beau Repaire and Chatsworth.
The principal contributor to the cata-
logue is G. M. Currie, with 11, eight by
Ringmaster; followed by the Trelawney
Stud, of whose 10 youngsters nine are
by Foxbridge.
* * * *
The finish between the first four horses
in the New Zealand Cup was so close
that many people, including some in the
trainers’ stand—a good position—thought
Palfrey, who finished fast on the outside,
had just won from Classiform, Repre-
sentative and Don Quex. They got a
shock when the numbers went up, and
Palfrey was not awarded a place. The
“Dominion’s” racing contributor was of
opinion Classiform was correctly placed
first, but added that Palfrey would have
won in another stride.
* * * *
Tote betting has been remarkably
heavy in Maoriland during the past year,
and at the Waikato races last month a
record was made for a one-day provincial
meeting in the Dominion. The turnover
for eight races was £103,778, or £22,609
more than for the corresponding day
last year. Prize-money is on the upgrade
throughout Maoriland.
Miscellaneous
Billed as fighting at Leichhardt lor the
middleweight championship Al Walker
and Tommy Colteaux behaved worse than
two preliminary boys making their first
appearance. Before they had been in
action a minute Walker rushed Colteaux
through the ropes, then tried to drive his
head through the ring apron, on which it
rested. He repeated this performance in
the third round and was disqualified. The
pair continued to bang away till officers
—police, not army—dragged them apart.
A smart American welterweight,
Tommy Moyer, got a Sydney Stadium
verdict over Jack Day in the sixth round.
The decision should have gone to Day,
because Moyer butted him to the floor
in the fifth, and he was not fully re-
covered when the signal for resumption
sounded. An upstanding straight puncher,
Moyer was leading on points when the
affair ended,
—l
FOR RANDWICK.
( Before acceptances.)
By “BILOT.”
Christmas Trial Handicap :
Medieval Queen, 1 ; Eastralia, 2 ;
Sponsor, 3.
Summer Nursery: Tea Rose (in
her absence, Invictus), 1 ; Prince
Verity, 2 ; Good Idea, 3.
December Stakes: Bravo, 1 ; Tea
Rose, 2 ; Majesty, 3.
Chisholm Handicap: Flying
Knight, 1 ; Panchio, 2; Flying
Shuttle or Silverelda, 3.
Summer Cup: Cream Puff, 1 ;
Lambeth, 2 ; Lord Neith or Gry-
phon, 3.
A. J.C. Handicap: Dick Whitting-
ton, 1 ; The Champion, 2 ; Glen-
dower or Ron Rico, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
This week the city is packed with
shoppers picking up anything and every-
thing to allay the present-giving urge. The
usual collection of imitation jewellery,
cheap perfumes and handkerchiefs has
been joined by relics of the last genera-
tion, Victorian cruets, biscuit-barrels,
ornamental hatpins and the like, even
jew’s-harps and tambourines. All, in-
credibly, seem to find buyers.
Married at Xavier Chapel, Flight-
Lieutenant “Jim” Smith and Hilary
Kearney. Hilary is the youngest daughter
of the Gordon Kearneys, of Nedlands
(W.A.), and the bridegroom’s family are
well known in this city. Son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. J. Smith, he has the rare dis-
tinction of qualifying as an R.A.A.F.
pilot as well as a medical officer. Twin
brother Bill, who is also a flight-lieutenant
in the R.A.A.F. medical section, was.
best man, and sister Bernadette, who is a
section officer of the W.A.A.A.F., was
present to give an added R.A.A.F.
touch. The pair plan to make their home
in this city.
The fact that trainee nurses from Fair-
field Hospital have “topped” the lists in
final exams, for nurses in this State both
this year and last has behind it the influ-
ence of the hospital’s matron, who is
among this town’s most lively personali-
ties. As tutor and lecturer, Matron Bur-
bidge is voted by nurses to be in a class
on her own, and she has put her name
to several manuals on nursing which
trainees use. She is an interesting speaker
at Nurses’ Board and Matrons’ Associa-
tion meetings, and was called in by Man-
power authorities to arrange the call-up
and distribution of nurses.
Amalie Colquhoun always fares well
at the hands of art critics. Her latest
show, which closed last week, was also
a pleasure for the uninitiated, as it in-
cluded portraits of some very attractive
people, from very young chappies in
rompers to very old ladies in the kind of
hats they like to wear. As a painter of
young things Amalie is much in demand
among parents who can run to oils, and
she makes a point of watching child
sitters in their home environment, play-
ing and doing the usual routine instead
of perched self-consciously in the studio
in their Sunday best. Bush landscapes
formed the rest of the show. Spring in
the hills with wattle on the bough was a
favorite subject; obviously the artist is
keen to break away from the school that
makes wattle and gum-trees look exactly
like boarding-school scrambled egg. The
beaches at Lome look out from a lot of
canvasses, the result of a recent painting
session there which gave holiday-makers
a lot of fun as they saw themselves and
their friends popped in the picture with
a few deft strokes.
Organisers almost wept when the sub-
jects of the Red Cross doll exhibition
which had been going at the Myer Mural
Hall were called for by their respective
buyers on Friday after the close of the
show. The dolls are the work of Vera
Schneider, and are quite outside the usual
run of such exhibitions. Most will be
kept by lucky buyers (prices were ridicu-
lously cheap) as cabinet pieces. Dolls
dressed in historical costumes, from Old
Stone man (clubbing the woman as
usual) to a Directoire pair, were exquisite
and made entirely, faces and all, by, the
exhibitor. The pity is that now all have
been separated and sold to different
buyers. Henry VIII’s separation from his
six wives (who were all, excluding bluff old
Hal himself, tea-cosies) struck Red Cross
fund-raisers present as particularly hard.
Watching a school come-of-age is only
a little less interesting than seeing the
che-ild grow up. Break-up night at Shel-
ford was also the celebration of its 21st
anniversary, and there was a flow of con-
gratulation for the reputation it has built
up. A coincidence was that guest-of-
honor Mrs. W. R. Brooks, who is Caul-
field’s Mayoral lady, had occupied the
same position when the school was
founded. She is a very enthusiastic
worker for all charitable causes, especi-
ally those linked with Red Cross and ser-
vice appeals, she having an only son in
New Guinea. A presentation to her was
part of the proceedings.
Just how Claudette Colbert and Veronica
Lake (shorn of her tresses) make out as
nurses was assessed by a critical audi-
ence when nurses of U.S. forces attended
a preview of “So Proudly We Hail,” film
of Bataan nurses. Nurses present weren’t
Corregidor veterans, of course, but they
could judge the truthfulness of hospital
and behind-the-scenes life in general.
Opinion of most seemed to be that detail
yvas pretty good, though perhaps the stars’
immaculate starchedness was hardly true
to front-line conditions. Scenes of
romances on transport ships caused many
smiles.
Small, white-clad figures, racquets in
hand, on trams and trains headed for
Kooyong indicate that the schoolgirl cham-
pionship is in progress. This event is the
high spot of the sport-minded lass’s year,
and it’s a great bringer-together of repre-
sentatives from every variety of school
in these parts. Effect is to remove the
idea, unconsciously held very often, that
girls from other establishments not only
look very odd but are, in fact, slightly
“touched.” It’s odd, too, how there seems
to be a “tennis type” amongst the young
things; they’re mostly stocky, crop-
headed and altogether very efficient-
looking.
With the W.A.A.A.F. expanding both
in numbers and in duties the job of com-
manding this vast “army of women” is
no light one. It includes ability to with-
stand the ravages of more-or-less constant
travel from one side of the continent to
another, and to take the heat and dis-
comfort of small northern stations as well
as the toughest young airwoman. The
W.A.A.A.F. seems to prefer University
women as its leaders, though it’s not a
principle. Pictured here, ' Squadron-
Officer M. F. Miller, Deputy-Director of
the W.A.A.A.F., is an LL.B. of Adelaide
Uni. (she’s also an old girl of Girton
House, Adelaide).
There are celebrations in the journal-
istic “Jim” Barnes family this week, as
mother Kathleen has brought home the
bacon again by winning the Bernard Hall
prize for portraiture at the Gallery
School. Jim, a sub-editor, was runner-up
for the prize. The pair have taken up
painting as a joint interest, and quite a
few Gallery School prizes have come
their way. Mrs. Barnes fits in her brush-
work with all the usual domestic bothers
and the full-time job of three children.
Painting expeditions are family affairs, as
daughters Jean and Judith are also en-
thusiasts. Jean, the elder, aged 16, is
planning to train at the Tweddle Baby
Hospital, and hopes to sketch a baby or
two between whiles.
Merial Clark, announcing engagement
this week to Lieut. Charles Morton, A.1.F.,
returned, is one of Melbourne Uni.’s
outstanding women science students,
finishing her M.Sc. course this year with
“first” and a research scholarship. She
was a resident of Janet Clarke Hall dur-
ing her bachelor course. Daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Heaton Clark, of Toorak,
she is related to the Bage family. Lieut.
Morton is the son of Mrs. A. S. Morton,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. A. S. Morton.
Members of the Country Women’s
Association are saying a regretful good-
bye to Dorothy Harland, its general sec-
retary. She will, of course, still take an
interest in its activities. A Scotswoman, she
has been actively connected with the
C.W.A. for 12 years, and has brought an
attractive personality as well as a talent
for organising to the job.
In her new sphere of activity Miss Har-
land will cover much the same field as
she did for the C.W.A., but this time it’s
with an eye to the comfort and well-
being of the girls of the Land Army.
Kitty McEwan, who has been in charge
of the Victorian section of the W.L.A.
since it was formed, has found that some
sort of scheme for making life bright
enough to keep the girls down on the farm
is necessary. Dorothy Harland should
know how to organise this without tread-
ing on country women’s corns, for the
faintest suggestion that what was good
enough for them won’t do for the land
girls would at once bring the cry of
“Glamor Girls! ” round their heads. Lady
Dugan, good friend of the country
woman, has thrown herself into the effort
to brighten the outback this way ; it is
her Amenities Committee of which
Dorothy is now secretary
From Sydney
Hundreds turned away from Handel’s
“Messiah” still stood about the Town
Hall steps waiting in a last glimmer of
hope for cancelled seats. But upwards
went a steady stream of wise virgins and
their escorts who had been among those
who had booked out the performance
over ten days before. Inside the air was
heavy, and altogether lacking in that
first spring of youth. The seats were
pretty close together, and before the first
note of the overture there wasn’t an
empty place. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra and the Hurlstone Choral
Society had joined forces, the ladies of
the choir in white, the ladies of the
orchestra in black. High above the sea
of performers skipper Vivian Peterson
stood on the bridge, as it were, and led
his barque safely into harborage.
Here and there occurred a tense
moment between landfall and port, but
basso Stanley Clarkson could always be
depended on for manly help and ringing
tone, and contralto Evelyn Hall had at
once, a soothing and an inspiring quality.
Evelyn, except for the large cluster of
red roses, was all in black, in contrast to
soprano Marie Bremner’s all-white effect.
Edward Smith was the tenor and Leslie
Sage was at the organ. Probably Handel
himself did not dream on that first night
in Dublin in 1742 that 200 years later
audiences born under constellations he
had not heard of would be clamorous to
hear his great work.
The Australian Comforts Fund
benefited from the presentation, and
about three hundred pounds will give
newly re-elected Mayor Bartley pleasure.
This is the last A.B.C. War Fund effort
for the year. Altogether since the begin-
ning of the war the Commissions con-
certs have cleared £lO,OOO for soldier and
allied causes. Mrs. Hope Gibson, of the
Symphony Orchestra women’s committee,
seen in the Town Hall vestibule, con-
fessed to feeling lonely without the sup-
port of the Alexander Gordon lady, who
is unfortunately having a spell in St.
Luke’s Hospital.
Gloria Mellody, clever young Mel-
bourne actress, will be the Peter Pan of
the Minerva production of this Barrie
favorite. “Peter Pan” is the ideal play
for Christmastime. It has the immortal
freshness of childhood. The Minerva will
present it in its entirety—six spectacular
scenes. Leslie Victor (a man of many
parts), Kathleen Robinson, Ben Lewin
and Bunny Campbell-Gray are in the
cast.
Bringing home the bacon this Christ-
mas requires cunning, dexterity and de-
termination. The half-pound of rashers
is only to the strong-willed. The rasher
is elusive and has all the tricks of the
Vanishing Lady. You track it here, you
track it there and the answer always
seems to be: “Sold out for today. May
be more tomorrow,” and tomorrow you
somehow miss it again. You begin to
think that pork is a myth and that pig
is as dead as the dodo. Then madden-
ingly you meet the neighbor with the
gimlet eye and the overflowing basket.
She has managed to get bacon, also
currants, raisins and crystallised cherries.
Her cousin, who shares house with her,
has also got a full complement! After
that you begin to think the ration-book
isn’t such a bad invention after all.
No couple ever stepped through the
gateway of matrimony accompanied by
more good wishes than did Lieutenant
Gwynne William Mann, M.C., and Leila
Myra Seaforth Mackenzie. Lieutenant
Mann, who won his decoration at Bardia,
is one of the prisoners of war repatriated
from Germany who arrived in Sydney
last week. He and his bride were friends
before he went overseas with the A.1.F.,
and the four years’ absence (two and a
half dreary years of them spent in a
German prison camp) were wiped out
last Friday when the two were made one
in St. James’s in King-street.
A great crowd, in which service men
were as plentiful as women, grew enthu-
siastic when the two stepped from the
church between the guard of honor made
up of members of the ’groom’s battalion.
Best man was Captain John Burrell,
A.1.F., on leave from New Guinea.
Lieutenant Mann is a son of the G. M.
Manns, of Lochinvar, Laurel Hill, Tumut.
His bride is the only daughter of Mr.
K. P. Mackenzie, of Potts Point, for-
merly of Brisbane.
Graythwaite, convalescent home for
soldiers, rang with Christmas carols one
night last week. Marie Brown (Mrs.
Harold Bott) was the singer, and she
arrived thoughtfully carrying 200 copies
of the words of the immortal tunes.
Equipped with these, visitors and patients
joined in the singing. There were a happy
handing out of Christmas gifts and a
gay supper party to follow.
Popular Anne Bevan, only daughter of
the Archibald Bevans, of Bellevue Hill,
was one of last week’s brides. Her bride-
groom was Lieutenant-Commander C. A.
La Farge, U.S.N.R. Vows were blessed
at All Saints’ Church, Woollahra.
Y.W. Open House is looked upon with
great favor by the pupils of Ascham.
They gave a very bright, almost hilarious
(in parts) programme at their annual
break-up, resulting in a cheque for £65
being presented by principal Miss Bailey
to Open House. The Double Bay picture
theatre, packed with parents and friends,
applauded the younger ones, whose nur-
sery rhymes in action were appealing,
and laughed blithely when the seniors
spun in great form through a Noel
Coward comedy. Open House well-
knowns present included Mrs. W. A.
Parker, Mrs. D. Burnell, Mrs. Bernays.
This Christmas will be a bit tough on
children. Toys are scarce, and a certain
hale and hearty gentleman with whom
they keep rendezvous each year had to
appear under an alias. Still they knew
him when they saw him, and probably
with the wisdom of childhood they put
his change of name down to a desire to
avoid the Japs. At Anthony Horderns’
the big ’ attraction was a fairy coach.
Youth stepped into this in the courtyard
of a castle, towered and turreted and
blazing with the Union Jack, Australia’s
flag and the flags of the Allies. The coach
is very super, with great silver wheels,
smartly-groomed and -decked horses,
coachman and postillions. It jogs along
seemingly through pleasant country, and
meets fairy-story people on the way, also
a grand carriage from which Cinderella
and her prince husband smile with great
friendliness,
A glittering tree that towered, tinselled
and gay, on the stage against a back-
ground of the Union Jack caught the ex-
cited fancy of every child visitor to the
Christmas fair in the Town Hall. Its
base was heaped with gifts large and
small. All down the middle of the hall
were stalls heaped with brightly-painted
toys. There were wheels on which the
eagerly-sought Pyrex dish, chickens,
saucepans were a lure for the house-
keeper. There was a market garden stall
piled with cabbage, lettuce and other
greens ; there were embroidered curtains
and bicycles—in short, there was pretty
well everything.
Organiser Miss Leo Wray must feel
pleased with the result—£ssoo. This goes
to her beloved Anzac Buffet. Over £3OOO
was the price of votes in a queen com-
petition, the winner of which was Lorna
Farrar, candidate of the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Association ; her votes rang up the
cash register to over £lOOO. Lady Wake-
hurst, who opened the fair, reminded the
listeners that the buffet serves over
12,000 free meals each week to service
men. Mayor Bartley and his wife were
among the official guests. The Norman
Nock lady presided.
Elsa, daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
E. J. Stenning, formerly of Sydney, and
lan Mathieson Jacoby, of Sydney, were
married in Melbourne last week-end.
Kate Ogilvie, newly-elected member of
the Senate of Sydney University, has
been associated for years with welfare
work in this city. As secretary for the
Rachel Forster Hospital for women and
children she did a very good job which
helped to gain her the M.B.E. in 1937.
She is now working on the welfare side
of Sydney Hospital, and she is the
director of training of the N.S.W. Insti-
tute of Hospital Almoners. In short,
there is scarcely a welfare movement with
which her name is not linked. A staunch
supporter of women’s hockey, she_ is
chairman of the council of the Australian
Women’s Hockey Association.


Missing Friend.
WILL RICHARD ALBERT DE&N, formerly of Kal-
goorlie, Western Australia, who is believed to have
gone to one of the eastern States of Australia some
three or four years ago, and who is aged between
23 and 24 years, or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with the under-
signed, who have information to his advantage?—
PARKER & PARKER, Solicitors, 21 Howard Street,
Perth, Western Australia.
Public Notices.
I, PRIVATE WALTER GERBER, of German nation-
ality, born at Schneidemuehl, Germany, and resident
five years and three months in Australia, now resid-
ing at 235 Old South Head Road, Bondi, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, JOACHIM GERBER, of German nationality, born
at Schneidemuehl, Germany, and resident six years
and four months in Australia, now residing at 235
Old South Head Road, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
1, GEZA SZASZ, of Hungarian nationality, born at
Budapest, Hungary, and resident over five years in
Australia, now residing at Mimosa Road, St. John’s
Park, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ARTHUR REVAI, M.D., Refugee Alien, known as
DR. ARTHUR REVAI, of former Austrian nationality,
born at Vienna, Austria, and resident five years and
three months in Australia, now residing at 49 Bays-
water Road, King’s Cross, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, FREDERICK WAGNER, of Austrian nationality,
bom at Vienna, Austria, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 23 Adelaide Street, Belle-
vue Hill, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936. ,
\
Wa
m
SSsm
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAX BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
o c S/ICKfUK V
■HHi
/
r
••v >:
/
:
iiliii
SMOKE-OH!
“Spots have an unpleasant habit of turning
up just when you’re about to do something
very important.”— Woman.
And it’s so hard to turn them down.
F F F F
“9 a.m.: Barometer, 1014.9 (rising); ther-
mometer, 60; wind, easterly (gentle breeze);
sky, blue; bar, moderate smell; river, normal.”
•—Greymouth ( M.L .) “Evening Star.”
Tide obviously low.
•F *F *F *F
“Rash to fight Young.”— “Argus.”
Especially if one is old.
F F F F
"Turkey’s Chances.” — Sub-heading.
Very poor at this time of the year.
•F *F *F *F
“A.I.F. officer and wife require half half-
furnished cottage, or small flat, Chatswood-
Hornsby.”— Advt. in suburban paper.
What they really want are quarters.
Believe it or not, our new typist really
thinks that holy writ is a summons on a
clergyman.
* * * m
Instead of dreaming of a white Christ-
mas, some people are dreaming of a
purple one.
, .4* *F *F
People often start to learn something with-
out realising that choosing a pursuit is, in itself,
an Art.” — Vocational Guidance book.
In effect, if you are burning to achieve
success by Learning, you must concen-
trate on learning what to learn!
•F *F F F
Marvellous how some old goats can be
kidded!
With Open Mouth.
I queue for that, I queue for this
All over the metropolis.
I queue to cross a street and queue
To pay the gas and light bills, too.
I queue to tote a dog or horse.
To buy my stamps^and fags. Of course,
I queue to view a film or play,
To board a bus, to draw my pay.
And then I’m apt to queue some more
To learn what folk are queueing for.
Good Lord, it makes me furious
To find that I’m so qmuerious!
P. O. M. C.
Influence.
He is a man of influence
Throughout the suburb where I’m
living.
He is the pounds and I’m the pence,
. So homage I am duly giving.
I treat him most respectfully,
And, truly, I have ample reason :
You ought to see the bottles he
Has laid in for the festive season !
T. W. N.
“With Costs.”
“The bathroom in a small flat is no
place for keeping ducks,” stormed Maria.
As I sat up and held my throbbing
head I had a vague recollection of land-
ing home after a terrific struggle, with
wings flapping in my face. Then some
“quacks” and a splashing of water near
by confirmed my worst fears.
“What’s wrong with it?” I defended
valiantly. “You surely wouldn’t want
me to keep them in the lounge-room!”
“But there are several days before
Christmas,” shrieked Maria. “How am
I going to have a bath? And by all
those raffle tickets I found in your pocket
the pair of ducks have cost you about
£3 10s., what with the drink you had
when you were buying them! ”
I let her shriek on. It’s just as well
she doesn’t know that all the raffle tickets
were duds, and that I had to buy them.
Even now I haven’t the foggiest idea
what I paid for them.
H. M.
Criminology.
“Though an extremely vicious criminal, he
had never been known to take liquor.”
—Crime magazine.
He was a villain bad.
With vice for occupation.
Yet, strange to say, he had
A spotless reputation!
NAT.
Coalminers on Campaign.
IV.
Colonel Wells turned to Sergeant Walk-
out with almost tearful entreaty. “See if
you can influence the men to reverse
their darg decision, sergeant. If we
don’t clean up the rest of those foxholes
the Japs might rally and”
Sergeant Walkout spat contemptuously.
“Not on y’r life!” he said. “If the rank
and file want the darg, it’s on. Anyway,
100 shots is enough for any man to fire
in one day.” He looked at his O.C, in
a curious way. “You ain’t wantin’ to
break down our hard-won standards be
any chance, are y’, Wellsey?”
“No, no, by no means. I was only
thinking”
“Then don’t, Wellsey. Remember,
you’re on’y our O.C. We’ll do all the
thinkin’ that’s wanted in this outfit, see?”
Here Private “Banjo” Weelder came
up, “All out, blokes!” he said. “I
wanted ’em to arrest Captain Pitprop for
jarrin’ me mitt when I broke his jaw,
but that cow Grant wouldn’t until he’d
had a rulin’ by the Infantry Reference
Board. If they don’t decide in my favor
within 24 hours we’re all dumpin’ rifles
an’ marchin’ back to the coast. Stick
that in y’r pipe, Wellsey! ”
Early next morning. Private “Banjo’s”
grievance having been settled by the arrest
of Captain Pitprop, the battalion was
about to resume mopping-up operations
when Lieutenant Holdon reported that
he had seen Private Wheeler using a pull-
through on his rifle within five minutes
of finishing his breakfast. This being con-
trary to the Shop Stewards’ Committee’s
rules, which laid it down that the half-
hour before and after all meals could not
be considered the boss’s time, he called
for a general strike as a protest.
Late that afternoon the strike was
called off when the O.C. promised that
the offender would be sent back to a base
camp and removed from the Miners’
Battalion strength. Before the troops
could get their equipment buckled on,
however, one of the cookhouse fatigue
came up to the O.C. holding up a carrot.
“Get a mince-pieful o’ this, Wellsey,” he
said truculently. “It’s the second carrot
I’ve struck that’s forked and got a few
whiskers on it. We want straight clean
vegetables that’s easy to scrape, see?
Orright, blokes, one out, all out!”
As the troops lolled around waiting
for the various company Strike Com-
mittees to meet representatives of the Dis-
ciplinary Code Committee in conference
a message came from Brigade ordering
the battalion to fall back to prepared
positions, as both battalions on their
flanks were being forced back temporarily
under great Jap pressure. When the O.C.
passed the order on Corporal Ledswinger
leaped up. “We’ll strike, blokes,” he
said. “We’ll teach the blanky army not
to be givin’ us orders without first con-
sultin’ the rank an’ file!”
Six months later the enemy announced
that the N.S.W. Miners’ Battalion, cap-
tured in a body, was hewing coal in
Korea on Imperial Japanese Army con-
ditions : hours, 98 a week; pay, a yen a
day; daily ration, a live minnow and a
handful of rice.
BO.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy a petrol-driven Maytag washing
machine. —3408.
Soldier wants to buy Bulletins for 1942. —
3409.
To buy Compton Mackenzie’s Water on the
Brain. —34lo.
To buy The New Despotism, by Lord Hewart.
—3411.
Information Sought.
An allevient for neuritis?
Try massage with liniment.
Dressing for leaky oilskin?
To two cups raw linseed oil add one table-
spoon copal varnish; heat but do not boil.
Wash and dry coat and apply oil while hot.
Hang up to dry, and, when dry, apply a second
coat.
How to sharpen a scythe? Is carborundum
or sandstone the better sharpening stone?
With handle of scythe on ground hold scythe
at heel end and rub hone alternately left and
right, side to side. The hone should sweep
each side of the blade as a razor is sharpened
on a strop, except that process is reversed and
hone is the moving instrument. Sandstone does
a good job; carborundum gives an edge that
lasts longer.
(1) Which world’s heavyweight champion
boxer held that title longest, and how long did
he hold it ? (2) How many contests did Joe
Louis have before winning the world’s heavy-
weight championship, and how many since.
(1) John L. Sullivan, who held the title 10
years—February 7, 1882, to September 7, 1892.
(2) He had 30 professional fights (losing one
to Max Schmeling) before he won the cham-
pionship from James J. Braddock (eight-round
knockout) at Chicago on June 22, 1937. Louis
has successfully defended the title 23 times.
Brief Answers.
D.R.: Andrew, Gabb and Bagnall, 335 Can-
terbury-road, Canterbury, Sydney, and Wm.
Day and Son, 401-405 Post Office Place, Mel-
bourne, make saddle trees M.T.: Informa-
tion unobtainable J. 8.: Zoological authori-
ties state that a lion can leap straight up to
a height of and a tiger to 7ft
L.E.: The old Devonshire-street cemetery, Syd-
ney, was removed to Bunnerong; details of
exhumations and reburials can be obtained from
S. Flint, P.O. Box 11, Botany, N.S.W
F.J.L.: Get in touch with F. A. Downes, 183
Hume-street, Toowoomba, secretary of the
Queensland branch of the Milch Goat Society.
G.H.: She cannot resign without the con-
sent of Man-power; if she obtains this and
resigns she is nevertheless liable to accept any
position to which Man-power may direct her.
. ...H.A.F.: (1) Yes. (2) These sections refer
to the consents necessary to be obtained be-
fore the marriage of minors K.C.G.: Your
inquiry forwarded to British War Office; reply
will take some time G.G.: There is no way
of treating the hairs F.L.8.: Material has
perished; nothing can be done G.E.8.: No
definite results have been achieved with vita-
mins for baldness K.T.H.M.: There is no
official “capital” of tire N.T.; the seat of the
Administration was Darwin, then Alice Springs.
. ...W.C.T.: Use is grammatically correct, but
redundant P.McD.: Quotation is 20th line
of Milton’s “II Penseroso” G.R.: No defi-
nite information C.H.L: Tin would retain
too much iron and other impurities to make
workable solder E.J.St.G.: Machete is a
Spanish word; pronounced ma-chay-tay.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributer placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
A.W.L.
Not only through army channels, re-
peated appeals have been made to soldiers
and their families to co-operate in
stamping out A.W.L. Even rigorous
punishment has produced little result.
The queer thing is that at least two-thirds
of the malefactors are not bad soldiers ;
indeed, most of them have from two to
four years’ exemplary service. Suddenly
they disappear for a week or a few weeks
and then give themselves up or are picked
up by the provost. Why the defection?
The woman in the case.
Not pnce or a dozen but hundreds of
times in my army experience I’ve seen the
same thing happen. The wife is sick ;
the children are not receiving proper
care. The husband and father applies for
compassionate leave. Regiment for-
wards his application to corps. Corps
sends it to army. Army allots the case
to L.-of-C. area, and so it goes on to a
sub-area, which calls for a medical report.
The wife’s doctor answers, truthfully,
that there is no immediate danger. Back
goes the chain of communication, and
perhaps six weeks after he applied the
soldier is bluntly informed “Application
refused.” No more, no less.
Meanwhile letters have been coming
from the wife complaining of her diffi-
culties. Her nerves are on edge and she’s
inclined to exaggerate. One morning her
man is missing on parade. He’s brought
back, and at “a fiver and 28 days” he
comes out of boob owing the army £2O-
- with his wife still sick and worried.
So the good soldier of three months
before becomes a nuisance. Isolated in-
stance? No ; fairly typical case.
The remedy is threefold.
(1) Speedy and efficient investigation of
all compassionate-leave applications.
(2) If leave is not warranted, convince the
soldier, with a full medical report, that all
is well.
(3) In borderline cases stretch a point in
favor of the soldier. It will pay in the
long run.
The present methods have proved
hopelessly inadequate, and the unfortu-
nate 6s. 6d.-a-day man is held up to public
scorn. His fellows lie in Tobruk and
Syria and along the Kokoda Trail. — Pip
(A.1.F.).
No Badge
It seems unfair that some type of badge
is not issued to voluntarily-enlisted full-
time duty personnel upon discharge from
the forces as medically unfit.
I enlisted for F.T.D. service in Aus-
tralia on 22/8/’4l, having previously been
rejected as unfit for service with the
A.I.F. Two applications for transfer to
A.I.F. were rejected on medical grounds.
On discharge as medically unfit on
26/10/’43 a discharge certificate was
issued. It did not even show that enlist-
ment had been voluntary.
Apart from certificate of discharge,
which cannot be carried around, ex-
soldiers in a similar position have nothing
to show that they have been in the Army
at all. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Naval Chaplains
Tell “Commonsense” (B. 17/11/’43)
that naval chaplains purposely were not
given rank because without officer’s rank
they can act as “go-betweens” between
upper deck and lower deck. . Many little
problems of personnel, both individual
and mass, have been adjusted by a wise
skipper and a tactful padre.
Doctors, dentists and other non-fighters
have their rank honestly explained by a
prefix ( e.g ., surgeon-commander, pay-
master-lieutenant) ; the executive curl on
their sleeve gold rings denotes executive
rank. In the early part of last war even
naval engineer officers did not wear an
executive curl, and, although not handling
guns, they certainly contributed to the
success of a ship in action.
Unlike “administrator” pilot-officers,
R.A.A.F., all navy men in ships—no
matter what their job aboard —go into
action equally in those ships. The Navy
classifies its personnel as “seagoing”
and “non-seagoing.” Friday Island
(N.S.W.).
Differences
There are differences between public
and private enterprise, after all. In our
part of the world we used to have seven
trains a week, and the daily train brought
the mails and the newspapers. The ser-
vice was cut down to four trains a week
so that miners won’t have to work hard
and may enjoy their Christmas leave. The
post office at once fell in with the new
dispensation, and now we get only four
mails a week. But it made not the
slightest difference to the newspapers.
We still get our newspapers every morn-
ing of the week, Sundays included. There
has been no break in the continuity. How
the newspaper proprietors have arranged
it I have no idea ; but in spite of all diffi-
culties they got the necessary transport
and kept faith with their public. But
though one might think that mails are
even more important than newspapers,
the post office, after three months, has
still failed to get them to us. — Fitzwil-
LIAM (N.S.W.).
Forest Conservation
A plan for forest conservation and
development sponsored by the Gippsland
Shires Development Association seems
worth while. Briefly, it provides for tak-
ing over all settled land in the ash belt
and the marginal foothill country, with
liberal compensation for settlers and the
opportunity of remaining on their prop-
erties as Forestry Commission employees
under the control of forestry officers.
Also for duplication of nurseries and an
extensive scheme of replanting where the
natural growth has been irrevocably de-
stroyed.
But would any Victorian Government
be big enough to spend millions of tax-
“Hey, cut it out — you're the paymaster's escort !”
payers’ money on a scheme which would
not benefit this generation or the next,
nor show any marked result for at least
100 years?
One suggestion, which had the appro-
val of delegates from the hill country,
was to chase the “butchers” out of the
forests and prohibit mills in the timber
country. Let all felling and logging be
done by the Forestry Commission, and
instead of taking the mills to the timber
take the timber to the mills. — Hardwood
(Vic.).
Interlopers
“Eyes Right’s” method of discourag-
ing interlopers by the clergy, press, radio
and poster campaigns (B. 24/11/ ’43) may
be all right in theory, but in practice the
type of man who is lowering our moral
standards will not listen to the clergy and
will merely sneer at press or radio
appeals.
The only way to deal with the type of
individual who wrecks the married life
of service men is to pass and enforce
laws providing for a minimum of five
years’ hard labor on conviction.— Tonsi
(Tas.).
Zionism and' Australians
It was a relief to see the publicity you
gave to the wisdom of Sir Isaac Isaacs
(B. 17 /11/’43). There must be a lot of
Australian Jews like me who are getting
a bit tired, and will soon be getting a bit
apprehensive, of the way Zionists are
trying to force us into becoming Jews
first and Australians last. After nearly
four years in the A.1.F., including six
months in the Tobruk garrison and a
couple of visits to New Guinea, I’m
wondering what will happen to me after
the war. Maybe the Zionists will finish
up getting a man tossed out of Aus-
tralia. — Six-Footer (A.1.F.).
Veges.
The vegetable-production picture is
not all a muddle of gluts, wastage and
poor returns.
A brand-new up-to-date cannery is
operating this season at an inland N.S.W.
town (12 months ago the site was a cow
paddock). It has just completed the
canning of half a million tins of green
peas, grown on ordinary wheat land by
farmers who previously had no vision
beyond wheat, oats and a bit of lucerne.
They have collected some nice cheques.
By Christmas the plant will have pro-
cessed 400 tons (not tins) of silver beet
(for which the grower gets £lO a ton),
with more to follow. Then beans.
Tomatoes, from 200 acres under contract
on the river flats, begin at the end of
January and carry on till the frosts inter-
vene. Carrots, cabbages, cauliflowers will
keep the wheels turning through the
winter.
The first year’s target is five million
tins of vegetables—not a bad effort for a
new plant starting from scratch in a dis-
trict which never canned anything before
and imported 75 per cent, of its fresh
vegetables from the coast. Yankee enter-
prise? Not on your life ; good dyed-in-
the-wool Aussie brains, energy and capi-
tal are doing it. — Hist (N.S.W.).
Why “Crime” the Animals?
In a world where gentleness and pity
are almost extinct, we Australians still
have the power to be kind to animals.
They come into the world trusting us.
We are the gods who rule their lives.
They in turn keep us free from plagues,
devote their lives to our protection, and
fight for the freedom of our nation as
the army dogs are doing, taking the
normal human horrors of vivisection and
starvation in their stride.
When the new rationing comes into
force there will be many a starving cat
in the streets of Sydney and dogs will be
left to fend for themselves. New diseases
will spread from the neglected creatures.
People who tolerate their animal pets
only because they think “every home
should have them” aren’t going to bother
with intricate feeding. In any case many
butchers will not touch horseflesh. For
my own part I think the butcher’s block
is a sorry end for old horses.
In almost every other country in the
world cats and dogs have had to suffer
the horrors of total war. We, who can
still offer them good food and protection,
are we to let them die? It seems a strange
way to make our country fit for heroes
to live in.— Pied Piper (N.S.W.).
A Woman’s Work
During the first fortnight in December
the Hawthorn Public Library (Mel-
bourne) held an art exhibition. For
Hawthorn this is an annual event, thanks
to the librarian, Mrs. Carbines. She be-
lieves that suburban people are capable
of appreciating art and of buying
artistic works.
For this exhibition works were received
from such artists as Max Meldrum, John
Rowell, A. M. E. Bale, Dora Wilson,
Victor Cobb. During the first three days
ten were sold.
Now, why can’t this be done all over
Australia? Can’t each city set up an
organisation to form exhibitions of live
and saleable works which could tour the
suburbs? I suggest that each year such
organisations invite, say, 20 artists to
exhibit three works each, oils, water-
colors, etchings, bookplates. The exhibi-
tion would spend a fortnight in each
main suburb, then tour small provincial
towns away from the larger cities. As
works were purchased the artists would
replace them with similar works, so that
the size of the exhibition and the standard
would be maintained.
If this were done it would bring art to
the people. It would give schoolchildren
a chance to see beautiful works of art
and perhaps encourage young Streetons
and Meldrums. And it would provide a
vast new market for artists.
On tour the exhibitions could be
placed in libraries —and we all hope that
post-war Australia will build some more
libraries to bring it up to overseas
library standards —or in school halls.
Mrs. Carbines has given a< lead. If
Hawthorn can form an exhibition, crowd
it out and buy works from it, so can any
other suburb. — Stanley Brogden (Vic.).
The Strikeless Land
As we never hear of coal strikes or
other holdups in Russia, might I suggest
that one of the first duties of the newly-
appointed Ambassador to Russia, J. J.
Maloney, should be to inquire how they
are discouraged, with a view to applying
the same remedy here? — Westerner (Q.).
How Tired Can a Man Get?
I have made discovery that it is next
door to impossible to tire out the nor-
mally healthy human body.
I have put in my eight hours at most
of the recognised forms of hard yakker
and maintain that the average man
is not “dog-tired” after eight hours, no
matter what the toil engaged in. He
probably thinks, “Well, that’s a day’s
work, I must be tired” —and, lo and be
hold, he is tired, in his mind.
You can be bored with uncongenia
work and decide that this is being tired
But the tireless muscle fibre cannot be
wearied by the ordinary day’s activity,
and has been proved capable, time and
again, of seemingly super-human feats,
often resulting in the death of the human
body that it has driven with relentless
pressure.
Once this amazing fact is fully realised
what a difference there is in outlook and
manner of facing up to everyday prob-
lems! The scope of activity is increased,
and life can be savored to the full.
The output of physical energy depends
entirely upon the mental stimulus, and,
given unceasing interest, muscular re-
serves are well-nigh inexhaustible; at
any rate they will hold out to a point
far beyond any limits imposed during
everyday life, whether it be that of navvy
or bookkeeper.
The human body was built for heavy
work, and anyone who has known the
fullness of satisfaction to be obtained
from continuous toil with the major
muscles, and has attempted to plumb
the depths of his own strength in the
open -air, will agree that it was built
to last. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
A Matter of Terminology
I see that A. P. Herbert, of “Punch,”
has launched an attack on newspapers for
persistently using “Nazi” when “German”
is intended. He cites such captions as
“Nazi Cities Raided,” “Nazi Plans
Upset,” and points out it would be just
as absurd to say “Democratic Army
Makes New Drive in Italy.” I suppose
Empire sentiment forbade him to suggest
“Labor Forces Capture Lae” as another
example of the misuse of words.
We cannot escape the fact that we are
fighting the German nation and not just
the Nazi party the Nazis themselves
take good care of that. The world has
become a victim of party tags, but even
the bright boys of the Red-tinged press
seldom, if ever, refer to the Communist
Army. The Red Army, however, is a
misnomer, because there must be millions
of moujiks in the Russian Army who are
not members of the Communist party,
and therefore not necessarily Red. I
looked through four pages of “Ek Dum”
and didn’t find one instance of his using
Nazi or Red where German or Russian
filled the bill.— Bush Joe (A.1.F., Q.).
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted j and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
R.B.; — ,
Now that those girls are in the forces,
Their limbs are not unlike a horse’s.
J.H.L. and S.K.C.: Too sentimental
KB.: Coincidence is a weak peg J.G.: Not
particularly interested in those people....
M. (Vic.): Pollyanna stuff... .M.B. (N.S.W.):
Just an incident F.J.F.; Ghost too old, too
thin and too 10ng... .N.R.: A glimmer in both.
J.G.K.: “Potato Pie” indigestible....
N. : “Truth” doesn’t rhyme with “proof.”
. ...8.C.; Promising...-M.S.A., M.8.H.;
8.H.Y., S.D’A.E.: Try a woman’s paper
H.H.8.: Write something Australian... .V.P.:
Maybe you’d do better in prose T.A.; Last
couplet splendid; earlier lines melodramatic
HT.: No wow endings, please 8.C.: Kip-
ling beat you to it....H.G.: Try a daily.


4
6^
Radio
sank the “Bismarck”!
"The most exciting, dramatic and terrible
episode of the war at sea.” That is how
Phillip Graves in his "Record of the War”
(The Seventh Quarter) describes the sinking
of the German battleship "Bismarck”.
After the "Bismarck” had sunk the H.M.S.
Hood, she was shadowed for two days by
three British cruisers. Then touch with the
enemy was lost in low visibility. Next morn-
ing she was located by a Catalina aircraft of
the British Coastal Command, and later in
the day by naval aircraft from the H.M.S.
"Ark Royal”. The Bismarck’s position was
radioed and British cruisers, destroyers and
aircraft raced to the "kill”.
A thrilling example of the perfect co-
ordination of the services.
Made perfect and welded into one power-
ful striking force by RADIO!
Behind every victory at sea, in the air, on
land, is a story of the part played by Radio.
* * * * *
Australia to-day is producing the greater part of war
equipment for her own defence. But it is radio that
makes the smooth working of this defence possible.
Let us remember, then, what ive owe to the great
Australian industry that made possible the manufacture
of all such equipment in Australia.
Whilst we in Australia continue to build such equip-
ment, we need have no fear of losing all that we have
gained.—Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
