

*
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Voi. 64. No. 3307
Wednesday, June 30, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MOST MASCULINE CATHEDRAL, VAST DURHAM, A NORMAN CHURCH.
npo the high red cliffs of Durham on the North
Sea, the monks of Lindisfarne in the year 995
bore the coffin of Saint Cuthbert. Viking raids
were becoming troublesome. Over the sacred body
they first built a little wattle church, then a stone one
in which, it is said, King Canute walked barefooted
to the shrine. So out of the dim mists of antiquity
was Durham formed: not a merely magnificent edi-
fice but one truly stupendous, the most wonderful
of England’s Norman churches.
Three years after the Conquest, William sent a
Norman follower to be Earl of Northumbria, but
the men of Durham promptly slew him and his
troops. This led to an appalling reign of terror
when William and his cavalry rode through the
north of England like a cyclone, leaving behind them
a country of charred ruins. After this cruel display
of authority, Norman chisels raised high on its hill
the mighty pile that is Durham Cathedral where
still rested the bones of Saint Cuthbert, The notori
ous Flambard built Durham's great nave, upheld by
giant stone pillars that, except for the temple of
Karnak in Egypt, make Durham the most awe-
inspiring temple in the world. This vast dim church
with pillars standing like great oaks and sanctuaries
built as if to withstand a siege is like proof in stone
of the strong new blood that had come into England.
The Cathedral library contains some of the great-
est historical treasures in England. Here, when this
was a dormitory, lived Canon Wellesley, who was
brother to the Duke of Wellington. Saint Cuthbert,
one of the founders of Christianity in England, rests
here still, and portions of his shroud, the rich stole
in embroidered silk, still remain at Durham, among
the most precious relics of early England,


Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
ti.B. 213
AGE
The Red Page
The Cult of the Primitive.
Since man lives upon the earth by the
destruction of plants and the slaughter
of animals, anybody who is liable to
acute attacks of conscience can consent
to go on living only on the assumption
that man is a more desirable form of life
than those he consumes. Though Bernard
Shaw may doubt it, the no less sensi-
tive Mr. Smith decides that, as compared
with the bullock, he is indisputably a
superior being. So that he may continue
to exist the bullock must continue to
perish. And if someone with a soul even
more delicate than Mr. Shaw’s informs
him that, all forms of life being equally
valid and holy, it is wicked to destroy
plant life, Mr. Smith is compelled to
retort, however arrogant it may sound,
that he is a superior form of life to the
pumpkin and the potato.
I have been led to these subtleties by
learning from the catalogue of the
Primitive Art Exhibition at Melbourne
National Gallery that Daryl Lindsay has
felt “not a little humbled” before the
exhibits.
When we try to decide impartially
whether or not Mr. Smith is justified in
claiming superiority over the ox and the
vegetable, we have to admit that we are
biased. If he is not superior, we are all
under a moral obligation to hang our-
selves before our next meal. If the race
of man is to continue to inhabit the
earth we are compelled to admit the
superiority of Smith. Nevertheless,
Shelley and Shaw excepted, we all believe
at heart that a completely detached
observer would come to the same con-
clusion. Man is so clearly superior to the
plants and beasts of the field that the
question is not worth serious argument.
But when we fry to decide nowadays
whether or not our arts are superior to
those of primitive peoples, we are not at
all sure of ourselves. Daryl Lindsay feels
“not a little humbled” before the carv-
ings, drawings and sculptures of Aus-
tralian aborigines, Papuan headhunters
and African bushmen.
Robert H. Croll’s essay in Art of the
Australian Aboriginal (Melb. Bread and
Cheese Club) is another case in point.
Consider—in rather unfair isolation —the
following extracts:
....until we proceeded to impose our
“civilisation” upon them.
Net bags and containers made of fibre or
bark Their good taste challenges any-
thing produced in our centres of European
culture.
Elsewhere the native is bound usually by
tradition and the practices of his fathers,
and is as narrow in his outlook, however
skilled or gifted, and as conservative as to
method, as if he were the most bigoted
pupil of a white man “school” of art.
Obviously and naturally, the aboriginal
artists varied in ability and, just as natu-
rally, the Streetons and Lamberts were
scarce.
It would be absurd seriously to feel
perturbed when Daryl Lindsay says he
feels “not a little humbled” before his
primitives; Wordsworth felt not a little
humbled at the Lesser Celandine. And it
would be absurd to suppose that Robert
Croll really believes that, though scarce,
there were Streetons and Lamberts among
the abos. of old. Both writers, in fact,
eventually make it clear that they believe
European art superior to primitive. Daryl
Lindsay hopes that the Melbourne exhi-
bition will “bring home to us very
forcibly that art is a universal language—
a connecting link between primitive man
and his more civilised brother”; and
Croll concludes:
By whatever standards art generally is
measured (and surely nothing provokes
greater diversity of opinion) our aboriginal
must be recognised as having the root of
the matter in him, of possessing, at least a
spark of that lovely flame which lights all
worthy canvases the world over.
Both the Melbourne exhibition and
Art of the Australian Aboriginal, there-
fore, are primarily humanitarian in in-
tention—apart, that is, from their ethno-
logical interest. Assured of the superi-
ority of Western civilised art, these critics
take a benevolent interest in the primi-
tive works of primitive peoples: an
interest to some degree artistic, for any
work of art is worth looking at, and in
the works of children of nature there may
be a simplicity and a liveliness which
could with some small profit be stolen to
refresh our own arts; an interest to a
large extent ethnological (and the exhi-
bition sounds interesting, and the book is
certainly fascinating); but an interest
primarily benevolent, designed to make
us realise our common humanity.
Artistically and, therefore, spiritually,
primitive man has “at least the root of
the matter in him, a spark of the lovely
flame.” And as long as that is clearly
understood I have nothing but the
heartiest approval.
But why does Robert Croll find it
necessary, when mentioning our civilisa-
tion, to call it —in quotation marks —our
“civilisation”? Why did Paul Hasluck in
his Black Australians (reviewed on the
Red Page some months ago) also find it
necessary to put the white civilisation into
quotation marks:
The idea of “civilising” primitive people,
though it smells in some nostrils, may not
be wholly bad.
There is, as everybody knows, a ten-
dency in politics to depreciate the value
of our civilisation —to doubt whether the
white race, and the British in particular,
were justified in extending their rule over
so many primitive peoples; and that
tendency is paralleled in the arts by the
exaltation of primitive cultures and the
disparagement of our own. Politically
and culturally, our civilisation tends to
be regarded as a “civilisation.” Politi-
cally and culturally, the white race tends
to abdicate. Instead of taking Bennelong
across the seas to be driven nearly out of
his senses by the glories and wonders of
London, we go to Melbourne National
Gallery to be driven nearly out of our
own senses by white dots and wavy lines
on bits of bark.
Our interest in primitive art is “ever
increasing,” says Leonhard Adam in an
essay in the Melbourne catalogue.
This is obviously due to two reasons:
first, the modern appreciation, or even pop-
ularity, of the aesthetic attractions of primi-
tive works of art; and, second, the steadily
growing practical importance of two scien-
tific subjects, with which the study of
primitive art is linked up, namely, Psy-
chology and Ethnology.
If we take an ethnological and humani-
tarian interest in primitive cultures, we
still regard ourselves as a superior people,
and I have no quarrel with us. Our
civilisation is widening and deepening.
But is our civilisation widening and
deepening, or is it fraying out and decay-
ing when primitive art becomes increas-
ingly “popular”? I suspect a decadence,
an abdication.
If we don’t believe that our civilisation
is superior, we’re in the moral predica-
ment of the vegetarian. Man has no
moral right to exist on the globe if he
doesn’t believe he is superior to the sheep
and the cabbage, and the white man has
no moral right to rule the world if he
doesn’t believe he has a superior civilisa-
tion. Here, again, we are necessarily
biased. We are compelled to believe in
our superiority or else to abdicate. There-
fore —except in momentary aberrations
when our civilisation goes into quotation
marks or when Streetons and Lamberts
are found among the old-time abos. —we
do believe in our superiority. And here,
too, we are surely justified in assuming
that a detached observer would agree
with us.
With a certain amount of benevolent
effort we might join Daryl Lindsay in
“rating very highly the bark drawings of
our own Australian natives, who seem to
possess a certain delicacy of line all their
own”; but we certainly believe that a
detached observer would rate very much
more highly the drawings of our own
Australian Daryl Lindsay, who also seems
to possess a certain delicacy of line all
his own. We would find extraordinarily
interesting the 42ft. rock carving of a
whale at Narrabeen, near Sydney, which
Charles Barrett describes in Art of the
Australian Aboriginal ; but the detached
observer would hardly, we imagine,
seriously compare it as a work of art
with the Parthenon, or with St. Paul’s
Cathedral.
It seems fantastic, and in bad taste,
too, to be making such comparisons. It
seems as absurd to bother about defend-
ing civilised art against the primitive as
it would to defend man’s right to eat.
But because there is a cult of the primi-
tive, because the white race does show a
tendency to abdicate, and because our
civilisation does find itself in doubting or
damning quotation marks, that defence
actually has to be made.
Primitive man himself certainly never
had any doubts as to which culture was
superior, his or ours. When Columbus
arrived off America in a sailing ship the
natives worshipped him as a god. If he
had arrived in the Queen Mary or a
Flying Fortress they would probably
have gone cuckoo with wonder and
admiration. When I am told of some
ineffable superiority in the bric-a-brac of
savage peoples, I recall that these peoples
themselves once thought our arts —and
the cheapest and meanest of them —so
miraculous that they sold us half the
world for objects we regarded as despic-
able trumperies; glass beads and blan-
kets, mirrors and ribbons. The simple
African negro had at least the wit to per-
ceive that never during the centuries of
his “culture” had he been able to devise
a work of art so elegant as the top-hat.
He would have felt himself unworthy to
enter a temple of such magnificence as
the average suburban bungalow. Not
even in his dreams had he conceived that
there could be shining taps, h, and c.
For humanitarian and ethnological
reasons I would gladly catch a train to
Melbourne to look at Daryl Lindsay’s
primitives; but I do not forget that the
primitive gentlemen themselves would
have climbed high mountains and crossed
wide plains to look with awe upon the
glory of our average mass-produced
floral carpet. And I must remember
when I go home tonight that, though
justly pleased with the “delicacy of line”
of his own works of art, primitive man
would have fallen on his knees before
the patterned spender of the lino, on my
kitchen floor.
Not —it should be repeated that
Robert Croll and Charles Barrett are
trying to foster the cult of the primitive.
Art of the Australian Aboriginal, which
they have written in collaboration, is a
fascinating survey of the whole field of its
subject. Charles Barrett, who has done
most of the work, contributes chapters
on “Aboriginal Art Galleries,” “Antiquity
of Petroglyphs,” “Art in Arnhem Land”
and “Rock Carvings in New South
Wales” ; C. P. Mountford has an article
on “Aboriginal Art in South and Central
Australia”; Professor Elkin writes the
foreword, and there are excellent illustra-
tions. The frontispiece is from a paint-
ing of the Mac Donnell Ranges, in Central
Australia, by Albert Namatjira, the
aboriginal artist who, instead of falling
for the cult of the primitive, has very
sensibly—and with notable success —set
about mastering the art of the white man.
MACH.
The Outback Tradition.
Charles Shaw’s Outback Occupations
(Dymock’s, Ltd.) goes unmistakably into
the Australian outback tradition created
by Lawson and Steele Rudd; not merely
for the obvious reason that the book is
made up of brief, humorous sketches
about life on the land but, more interest-
ingly, because the spirit is identical.
“Dipping the Sheep,” for instance,
opens with a note from the stock inspec-
tor saying that he had found ticks on
some of the sheep, and ordering Shaw’s
“Dad” —Jack Fordcubbin —to dip. The
dip is cleaned and filled. The sheep are
mustered and drafted into the race. The
inevitable Horatius guards the bridge:
There is an old, scraggy, weather-beaten
ewe stuck square across the race. She leers
at you from her one good eye (the other
having long since become a crow’s lunch),
grinds what would have been teeth if they
hadn’t fallen out long ago, stamps a foot
and defies you.
The martyr for democracy and the
rights of elderly ewes is heaved into the
dip. All goes well until, for no reason
except that sheep will be sheep, a mob
decides to stay in, swimming, for the
duration of eternity.
You call Jack and Tom and order them
into the bath.
Finally, when the dipping has at last been
accomplished, comes another letter from
the stock inspector; the tick-infested
sheep were stragglers from someone else's
flock.
Everything on the land always goes
wrong, and that, in the long run, is a
joke: that is the principle on which
“Dipping the Sheep” and a score of simi-
lar sketches are built, and it’s also the
principle of On Our Selection and the
best of Lawson. As a rustic tradition it
is strikingly different from the poetic
pantheism of the English country
writers such as the Powys group, and also
strikingly different from the tradition of
horror and depression imposed on the
American country scene by plays such
as “Tobacco Road,” novels such as Stein-
beck’s Of Mice and Men or Grapes of
Wrath. It’s the tradition forced on the
Australian by the difficulty of conquering
a hard land ; and, since laughter is a
defiance of fate, it’s a tradition worth
maintaining. One of the great merits of
The Pea Pickers was that, while retain-
ing the ironic Australian laughter, it in-
fused poetry into a tradition from which
both Lawson and Rudd largely excluded
it.
Shaw’s sketches are unpretentious
exercises in this traditional comedy. By
failing fully to round out the personality
of Jack Fordcubbin, calling him too often
an anonymous “You,” the collection
misses the unity of a novel: the interest
is in the events rather than in the
characters. That, however, the
intention: these are everybody’s “Out-
back Occupations,” reprinted as they
appeared from week to week in The
Bulletin. Re-reading them in book
form the present commentator found
that they had kept their original fresh-
ness —gained weight rather than lost it
from being reprinted; a hard test for
journalism. And also that, apart from
their always lively humor, their outstand-
ing merit was their naturalness. When
the horse is being broken in or the
idiotic pup trained to work the sheep or
when the Shire Council meets in solemn
conclave the scene, the animals and the
people are always convincing, as much
alive in the prose as they are in Ted
Scorfield’s illustrations.
Simultaneously with Outback Occupa-
tions Dymocks have published a collec-
tion of Shaw’s verses, also mainly re-
printed from The Bulletin, where he
signed them “Old-timer.” Under the
title The Warrumb angle Mare the verses
are a pleasant addition to post-Lawson
balladry, much the type of work that
Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club has
been publishing humorous outback
ballads, a group of verses about the war
and a number of warm tributes to the
Australian landscape in which the poetry
Shaw has more or less excluded from the
prose sketches finds an outlet. “Black
Swans at Night” is typical;—-
The frost is on the fallow,
The great white stars ablaze,
The long, cold curlew call is crying
Down the quiet ways.
Earth and space in silence,
And time no more unkind,
And the pulsing, far, proud pinions beat,
The far, faint bugles wind.
Call to the dark on the gilgai,
Call to the black lagoon,
Call to the sharp-etched shadows, shaping
In the eye of the rising moon.
For Writers,
From Angus and Robertson:
Contributions are invited for the third (1943)
Coast to Coast. Writers should submit no
more than two or three recently-written stories;
work already published in newspapers is
eligible. Stories should be addressed to the
Editor, Coast to Coast, 1943, c/o Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Closing date, July 31.
From the Fellowship of Writers;
The Fellowship is offering prizes for a short
story, a poem, a short story or sketch from
service men or service women, a story or sketch
from a factory worker, and for a dialogue on
some aesthetic or philosophical theme. Details
and conditions from the hon. sec., Fellowship
of Australian Writers, Box 3448 R, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Sundry Shows.
“Jachris” on a thriller:
Max Afford’s “Sleep No More,” which is
being tried out by Doris Fitton’s Independents
at North Sydney, lacks most things necessary in
a stage thriller, including the thrills. The first
act is hopeful; the other two haven’t even
hope. All the characters come straight out of
stock. Set in a London boarding-house pat-
ronised exclusively by theatricals, the play’s
about a strange and sinister Rumanian ven-
triloquist, a student of Black Magic, who,
when he dies, bequeaths to the wife who
despises him the doll which he has loved as
a normal man would love a child. Twice there
are accidents which could have proved fatal,
and the wife fears that the doll, escaped
somehow from the suitcase in which it is kept,
is responsible. It isn’t; they were just acci-
dents. If anything did happen in the play it
would be too thoroughly fantastic to matter, but
nothing does happen, so it still doesn’t matter.
If Afford turned his energy to the Aus-
tralian scene he’d probably find that his charac-
ters and plots would come to life with the
background.
At the talkies:
“In Which We Serve,” the Noel Coward
story of the life and death of a destroyer,
is showing at Sydney Regent. Reviewed here
some time ago, the talkie is thoroughly con-
vincing and always in good taste: not only
in such minor matters as the shots of the
captain’s home (which is not a palace) or of
his wife (who is not a blonde glamor girl),
but also in the major scenes of heroic action.
Among other talkies, “Seven Sweethearts”
(Liberty) is a charming comedy of an all-Dutch
village in Michigan, notable for S. K. Sakall’s
portrayal of an old Dutch innkeeper. “Night-
mare” (Lyceum) is spies and murder, well put
together and energetically played. “Footlight
Serenade” (Mayfair) is bright musicomedy in
which Betty Grable, wearing the expression of
an elated dingbat, almost bowls over John
Payne by warbling one of the most peculiar
lyrics ever heard.
A show of paintings by Nancy and J.
N. Kilgour at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, provides a contrast in manner —
the lady’s a little affected and stylised
after some “modernist” pattern; J.N.’s
as sincere and straightforward as the
morning light that shines through clouds
in such sketches as “Boats, Double Bay.”
He has also a good portrait head, “The
Ambulance Driver,” and an appealing
child study, “The Sisters.” Nancy Kil-
gour, when not posing, has an eye for
color, as witness “Sand Hills.” But she
is bowled over, like all the rest of Aus-
tralian painters, by deciduous trees in
their seasonal changes. Her “Young
Birch Trees,” an honest-enough effort,
suggests hair rather than foliage.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
119 Years of Service
All Uniforms coupon-free. Free
postage anywhere in Australia.
We Are Official Suppliers of
NAVAL OFFICERS'
UNIFORMS
R.A.N. R.A.N.R. RA.N.V.R.
Tailored to measure from
regulation service materials.
Naval Officers' Greatcoats with non-metallic
lace. Priced from £6/3/-
R.A.N. Uniforms, Jacket and Trousers, cor-
rect in every detail. Tailored by Anthony
Horderns'. Metallic lace. Priced from £6/4/-
White Drill Uniforms, coat and trousers,
service drill with gilt buttons. Price, £2/5/3
R.A.N.R. and R.A.N.V.R. Shoulder Straps.
Priced from 13/3
R.A.N. Shoulder Straps. Priced from 13/11
OFFICERS, PLEASE NOTE.—We have a complete record of your previous order,
and if you are unable to call, a postcard is all that is necessary when ordering.
m
MONEY BELTS, 7/11, xs/6
Dark Tan Leather Money Belts with two pockets,
dome fastener and also one pocket with zipper
fastener. Sizes 30 to 34 ins. Price 7/11
Tan Money Belts in a soft finish genuine calf.
Features three pockets. Sizes 32 to 36 ins.
Price ’ 15/6
OFFICERS' BOOTS
27/6 and 6 coupons
Officers' Boots in Black or Brown, made
on a good last, in full and half sizes.
Extra stout sewn standard screwed
soles. Price 27/6
And 6 coupons
® Men’s Wear—Ground Fluor, George Street.
m
w
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) ' ® ox 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


OUT OF THE
PAST
DUNN’S PLAINS
J-H-M- ABBOTT
THREE episodes stand out as
rather more remarkable than the
generality of robberies, murders,
hghts with the police and holdups
that make up the chronicles of the Aus-
tralian highwaymen of the ’sixties—the
robbery of the gold escort from Forbes
at Eugowra Rocks by Frank Gardiner
IP ; the raid on Bathurst by
Ben Hall and his gang in October of the
following year ; and the attack on the
home of Mi. Commissioner Keightley at
Dunn s Plains about a fortnight after
the sensational visit to Bathurst. They
mark the high tide of the mid-Victorian
outbreak of bushranging.
K / R. KEIGHTLEY had always given
every assistance to the police in
hunting the outlaws, and had openly de-
clared that whenever he came across them
it would be a fight to a finish ; and it was
in the same spirit of “flashness” which
had prompted them to ride into Bathurst
earlier in the month that Hall and his
gang made up their minds to stick up the
Gold Commissioner’s own residence and
see what sort of stuff he was made of.”
On the evening of Saturday, October
24, 1863, Keightley saw five men riding
towards his house, and at first supposed
that they were a party of police whom
he knew to be in the neighborhood. Dr.
Pechey, from Rockley, was spending the
week-end at Dunn’s Plains, and his host
chaffingly called into the house to him
“Here are the bushrangers! ”
The doctor joined him on the verandah,
and together they watched the men ride
up to within twenty-five yards of where
they were standing. Suddenly the visitors
jumped off their horses and made a rush
towards the house, one of them calling
out “Stand! If you run into the house
we’ll shoot you!”
Almost too late, the Commissioner and
the doctor realised who their visitors were,
and ran inside, a hail of bullets from the
bushrangers’ revolvers expediting their
movements —fortunately, without doing
them any harm. They barred the front
door, and set about carrying out a plan of
defence which had been prepared for
such an emergency.
Firearms and ammunition had been
stored in a room at the back of the house
occupied by a manservant, who had been
sent into Rockley to fetch the mail, and
Dr. Pechey hurried to get them, whilst
Keightley got a double-barrelled gun and
a revolver from his bedroom, at the same
time telling Mrs. Keightley what was hap-
pening.
The doctor found that he couldn’t
reach the man’s room without coming
under the fire of the bushrangers, who by
this time had taken cover in the yard of
the house, and he rejoined his host. The
two of them determined to make as effec-
tive a resistance as might lie in their
power, so they opened the door and,
keeping as much under cover as possible,
faced their attackers.
I—l ERE is Keightley’s own account of
1 1 What took place, as given by him
at the inquest on the body of Burice:
“As I appeared at the door several shots
were fired. The men were in a semicircle
around me at varied distances. At the time
I took up my gun I fancied it was loaded in
both barrels—one with snipe shot and the other
with buckshot. When I went to the door I
noticed a man near me, on my left, who was
tiring very rapidly; he fired several shots. He
appeared to draw out from a cask, behind
which he was concealed, with a view of firing
at the door. The last time he came out I slung
up my gun and fired the right barrel, which
1 thought had the small shot in it. I could
not see the effect of the shot, otherwise than
that I saw the man put his hand on his stomach
and fen back. I then said to Dr. Pechey
Now for the roof!’ which I had had barri-
caded tor some time.
When on the roof I saw Vane for the first
time; he was going across the yard, and when
the party «aw me on the roof they commenced
nnng at me again, but I cannot say how many
shots. When 1 had fired I looked for my
powder-horn, but could not find it; I con-
cluded that Dr. Pechey had got the arms and
ammunition I sent him for previously. I left
j i? ouse open when 1 went on to the roof,
and Mrs. Keightley and child were below. When
on the roof I asked the doctor for the other
gun and loading materials, and he said he had
been intercepted and could not get at the
arms I then looked at my own gun, and
found that the other barrel was discharged.
“The shooting at this time was very close-
one ball went close to my face—l think it
was Hall’s —and another through my hat. They
called on me to surrender or they would burn
the house down, and I thought it best to do
so, as we had no ammunition. Two of the
voices called out Tf you lay down your arms
and come down we’ll not touch you.’ I said
‘Honor bright?’ and they replied ‘Honor bright.’
1 said ‘Very well, we will come down.’
. “I came down the ladder into the garden
m front of the house. I concluded that the
party knew at the time that one of their party
was hit. When we came down they made a
rush at us. Vane struck Dr. Pechey with a
revolver, and knocked him down. I said ‘What
did you do that for? He has done nothing.’
One of them said ‘ls not that Keightley?’ And
I said ‘No; I’m Keightley.’ Vane then said
You bloody wretch; you have shot my mate.’
1 denied it, saying ‘I never killed your mate.’
I did not know then the result of my shot. He
said I had, and that they would shoot me
for it.
“They then brought me to the spot where
Burke was lying, and they held a consultation,
the result of which was that I was to be shot.
1 was told to go into the paddock. From their
statement I learned that Burke, after he was
shot, had fired at himself and shot himself
through the head. I was then told that I
should be shot, and to say good-bye to my
wife and come up the hill. As I had been
ensnared in my position and had no means of
defence, I begged them, for God’s sake, not to
shoot me and commit murder. It was then
arranged that Dr. Pechey should proceed to
Rockley for his instruments, with the view of
affording assistance to Burke, and while he
was away Gilbert came to the foot of the hill
and called out ‘Mickey is dead,’ or words to
that effect. One of the party then remarked
‘He (meaning me) had better be shot at once
and waste no more time.”
| T was a terrible situation for the Com-
-1 missioner, but even more so for Mrs.
Keightley. She and the servant girl had
witnessed Vane’s rough handling of the
doctor, and it was obvious that the bush-
rangers were so beside themselves with
anger over the shooting of Burke that
they had no other idea than to avenge
him by killing their captive.
Mrs. Keightley begged piteously for
her husband’s life, and there is a story
that the maid threw herself between her
master and one of the bushrangers, who
had raised his revolver to fire at him. But
Hall was on her side, and so, to some
extent, was Gilbert, and they would not
let Vane and O’Meally have their way.
They ordered that Keightley should be
taken away into the bush, under guard of
the two others ; but that nothing should
be done to him for the present. Hall
was insistent upon this, and neither Vane
nor O’Meally dared disobey his com-
mands.
Hall and Gilbert remained at the
house ; and so effectively did Mrs. Keight-
ley plead with them that they eventually
agreed to spare her husband’s life, pro-
vided the gang was paid a sum of
£5OO, the same as the reward Keightley
would be paid for shooting Burke.
Presently Dr. Pechey returned from
Rockley— too late, of course, to do the
dead bushranger any good—and was told
of the arrangement agreed upon, being
further informed that he should ride to
Bathurst and obtain the money from Mr.
Henry Rotton, of Blackdown, Mrs.
Keightley’s father. Gilbert told the
doctor that if the money were not handed
to them before noon on the following
day Keightley would be shot without hesi-
tation, and, further, that this sentence
would be carried out if, while in Bathurst,
the doctor gave any information about
the affair to the police.
It was later decided that Mrs. Keightley
should accompany the doctor on his mis-
sion. A horse was put in the Com-
missioner’s buggy, and, somewhere about
nine o’clock in the evening, the doctor
and Mrs. Keightley drove away, the latter
carrying her six-weeks-old baby in her
arms.
The story of the gallant lady’s mid-
night mission has been variously em-
broidered in the years since. The favorite
version is that she saddled a horse and
galloped all the way to her father’s house
to procure the ransom. However she got
there, her conduct throughout the whole
affair was such as to endow her memory
for all time with the reputation of bravery
and steadfastness.
T~'HE hours dragged slowly along next
1 morning without any sign of the mes-
sengers. Seven, eight, nine and ten
o’clock passed, and no messenger ap-
peared, but a little later Mr.
and Dr. Pechey drove up to the house.
Mr. Rotton proposed that they should
take the money to the stony knob a
quarter of a mile away—known as the
Dog Rocks —where Keightley had spent
the night under guard. The doctor, how-
ever, considered that it would be danger-
ous to the prisoner’s safety if a stranger
were seen approaching the bushrangers’
camp, and insisted on taking it up alone.
As he rode up to the summit of the
little hill, Gilbert walked down to meet
him. “Have you brought the money?”
he asked.
“Yes,” replied the doctor. “Will you
set Mr. Keightley at liberty?”
“Come along,” answered Gilbert. “He’s
quite safe.”
The bushranger led the doctor to the
top of the hill, where he saw Keightley
standing under a close guard. The doctor
tossed the notes to Gilbert, who counted
them, and then, turning to Keightley, told
him he could go. The bushrangers im-
mediately mounted their horses and rode
off at a gallop. So far as the writer
knows, this is the only instance in the
story of Australian bushranging when the
me kpd was ado P te d.
Mr. Keightley must have suffered many
terrors that night, but it is extremely un-
likely that Ben Hall would have stood by
and seen his prisoner murdered. None of
his actions during the whole of his career
wou d se 9 lla t( ? i nd i cate that the outlaw
was the kmd of man to whom such a deed
could have been anything but utterly
abhorrent. And he had it in his own
consciousness that Keightley was not
really responsible for Burke’s death,
1 here is a story that, some time be-
fore his own death eighteen months
afterwards by the bullets of the police,
e confided in a friend that he had
imself shot Burke in the dusk of
evening by accident. This is borne out
y eightley s statement that he had fired
\ mai ? w , . a § un l° a ded with snipe
LP . f n 4 4-u upksb ° F whereas the autopsy
u mi jf, act tbat d was a bullet that
had killed the youth.
TTrppt? . ~ ,
nected with thi er ,f S m f Se ? ue ! p° n ’
nound notes the mimf-, 06 Pnd f9 d f ve 7
been taken ’by Mr. Rotten J'ounks
Plains homestead t,pf n r 0 n,- tdA unn s
ried them over to the Dof
his list copies were mad®and circulated
srSinfS/ 11 BathUrSt and ‘ he
from'Vpart Vtlf t* man
tnTe tn P ete.e f the PPUntl 7s ld< r ka °wn
rancers came hfm P W1 t tb d | e bus!l j
several shorn u
- c; shops : Bef ° re b e , had finishea
tee iS?? 8 T 1!? that SOme of
the notes for which he had received goods
and change bore numbers that were on
Mr. Rotton’s list. He was promptly
taken in custody. When he was searched
at . the police station there were found on
him £ll in cash, a piece of paper,
se / ep Sold rings and five invoices
of the articles he T had . P aidfor with the
ransom , notes ’ In bls Vall * e h We , re
covered a new revolver, which he had
bought that day, and various other
articles, and it was discovered that,
of £35 which the things had cost,
he had paid over five of the wanted
notes. On the piece of paper was a
memorandum of what he was to get for
half a dozen different persons, whose
names were represented by blanks. “For
mother,” it read, “bottle of medicine ; for
, pair of pistols, box of caps, gold
ring; for , revolver, box of caps,
gold ring,” and so on to the end of the
list.
The news of the arrest made great
excitement in Bathurst. It was found
that the young man was a cousin of
Vane, as well as being some connection
of the family of the dead bushranger
Burke, and when he was charged at the
police court with receiving stolen prop-
erty half the town’s inhabitants were in
and outside the building. He was corn-
mitted for trial at the next sittings of the
Circuit Court in Bathurst,
When the trial came on he faced Sir
Alfred Stephen, the Chief Justice, whose
a ntipathy to bushrangers was well known
a nd received a sentence of five years
pei f iservitude : He was well defended,,
StiLtoTpKourt ThefrHono-
however 8 . H orthe
The
conviction should stand. So there was
at ,east one sorry young gentleman who
had time to reflect that he was vef y
fortunate in ever having had anything to
do with Mr. Commissioner Keighfley’s
ransom. 8 y
THE COAST MARE
By OLAF RUHEN
THE Coast mare fought savagely
from the start. In the ropes, her
near leg stropped high and close
to her belly, she stood shivering,
head stretched out and down, her eye
rolling, while Pete cleaned the big harness
burns with gasoline and laved them with
winter-grade oil. But when he eased her
into the centre stall she kicked till her
hocks bled at the plough-chain behind
her and ground her teeth on the rock
that Jutted out below the stall-window
high above her head.
Tod Wilson had put the vice in her
fighting. He bought her out of a mob
of West Coasters, tired after the six
weeks’ drove through the New Zealand
Alps. She’d never felt a rope, and he
broke her by loading her with three bags
of chaff on a packsaddle and dragging
her over the mountain trails between two
steady, tireless plugs. The third day she
was still fighting. Then Pete Barrett
came upon them in the hills and saw her
skinned head and the saddle frame
sitting on bare flesh and bought her from
pity.
With Pete she lived on good dun oats
till her muscles rippled like a boxer’s
under the black skin that broke the sun-
light into all its colors. The new hair
grew white. She was patterned for always
with the packsaddle and the harness,
white-strapped between the forelegs,
about the shoulders, across her head, be-
side her tail where the crupper had cut
deep on the down stretches of the trail.
She handled fair enough in and out of
the stall, and when Pete first threw the
saddle on her she took it quietly, though
she reached up and ground her teeth on
the rock beneath the window. Then he
bent for the girth. He sensed the bead
move behind him, and the point of his
elbow caught her jaw square and hard a
fraction of a second before it would have
closed at the back of his neck. Straight-
way he dropped into the mud that was
the stable floor and rolled under her
belly as she crashed all her weight against
the timbers of the stall. He was out
under the off-side and clear while her
feet were still driving down to catch him
where he had gone from her sight. She
went back to the rock and ground her
teeth.
Pete took the bottom timbers out of
each side of the stall and came again.
This time he got her saddled and
bridled and led her out. She’d carried
a loose curb bit in her mouth at odd
hours for a month, and in any case she
was on the old side to bother about a
proper mouthing.
Till the May muster Pete rode her for
three months on end, and he never did
get the fight out of her. He called her
“Sunfish,” but that wasn’t all she could
do. She would prop, jumping stiff-legged,
with a nasty twist at the top of each
leap. And she hated sheep. She killed
three, jumping on them from a full
gallop, before he learned to be wary
about giving her her head in the
paddocks.
Right after the May muster his papers
came and he was in the Air Force. It
was near to six months, but it didn’t
seem any time till he was back, with four
days left of his final leave. The
“Chronicle” came out with a photo, of
him, still with the white flash in his cap ;
“Sergeant-Pilot Ritchie Barrett,” with a
“Pete” in brackets to identify him.
'“THE Coast mare seemed to be wait-
. i n S for him. She haunted the fence
of the hundred-acre horse-paddock, and
on his second day he took a hackamore
and a rope and went and caught her.
She put up a token resistance and came
quietly. In the stall, when he bent for
girth and surcingle, she snapped once at
him, then reached her neck for the
jutting rock beneath the stall window and
ground her teeth on it.
He led her out and flipped into the
saddle. She reared and put her head
down and kicked. She sidled into the
stable wall, then suddenly out, jumping
stiff-legged and twisting as her hooves
left the ground. For five minutes she
played with all her old viciousness, then
broke into a ragged run. He led her,
knee and rein, to the place where the
sheepskin hung over the fence of the
horse-paddock. She cleared it, and he
gave her her head.
On the back trail three hoggets feed-
ing together ran and stopped, wool-blind,
trying to locate the sound of hoof-
beats. Fifteen yards away the mare
swerved to intercept them, and Pete
remembered and lay back in the saddle,
striving for quick command. In her first
leap the mare propped, four hooves
crowded close together, four legs braced
like iron stays, back arched and head
swinging down. She bounced and twisted
and tripped all in a second, and Pete
went over her head, scattering the silly
hoggets this time to determined flight.
The mare walked daintily over to him
where he lay, and scraped gently at his
leg with a tentative hoof. He stirred and
sat up and tried to rise, but his hip was
aching and would not let him move.
From behind his eyelids a red mist came
down. The Coast mare reached out
her neck and rubbed her head against his
shoulder and pushed her crisp muzzle,
foam-green, into his hand. He patted it
and grinned, and fainted away again.
She was standing there still when they
found him.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3307.
Wednesday, June 30, 1943.
WHO’S DOING THE CHARMING?
“Resolutions for a United Front with Communists and for the transfer of A.C.T.U. headquarters from Melbourne to Sydney, the industrial storm-centre, were carried
at the Trade-union Congress in Melbourne.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0 .). Wellington.
London: 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
NEMESIS!
Caucus elected Mr. Ward to the Minis-
try that Mr. Curtin was commissioned to
form when Mr. Coles twisted, and, know-
ing Mr. Ward for the rankest of parti-
sans, and remembering how, as a “Lang-
planner,” he had helped to bring down
the Scullin Government and unseat the
member for Fremantle, Mr. Curtin was
foolish enough to entrust him with the
portfolio that gave him the maximum of
opportunities for mischief. Labor and
National Service.
This was in accordance with the Labor
principles of which we hear so much, but
there was nothing in Labor principles or
practice to prevent the dismissal of Mr.
Ward when he became a liability, as he
soon did. Mr. Curtin’s closest friend and
adviser, Mr. Scullin, got rid of two Min-
isters when his distracted Cabinet needed
reconstruction.
It seems probable that Mr. Scullin,
with his bitter experience of all the “Lang-
planners,” advised his friend to get rid
of Mr. Ward; but he keeps his own
counsel. It is certain that others did, and
Mr. Curtin must now bitterly regret that
he did not take the advice.
Mr. Curtin’s troubles with Mr. Ward
began with the outbreak of wicked strikes
and stoppages on the N.S.W. coalfields.
He himself, hearing the victorious shouts
and threats of the exultant Japanese,
already established in Australian terri-
tory, was driven to say in January, 1942,
that “Men who are not in the fighting
forces, and who at the same time will not
work, are as much the enemies of this
country as the directly-enlisted legions of
the enemy.” Admitting that the respon-
sibility for keeping coal up to the steel-
works, the armament factories and the
transport and other services was funda-
mentally his Government’s responsibility,
he said “Any Government that allowed
essential production to suffer because
men would not work, when provision
existed for the speedy settlement of dis-
putes, would be traitorous to Australia.”
In this spirit he issued a series of anti-
strike regulations which form a melan-
choly chapter in the history of adminis-
trative abdication to anarchy.
When the first of the litter appeared
the effect was salutary. Threatened with
fines of £5O and six months’ imprison-
ment on summary conviction, and with
fines and imprisonment without specified
limits where indictments were lodged,
workstoppers suspended their knavish
tricks and worked as they had never
worked before. Men wise in the ways
of coalminers said then, and say still,
that had these regulations been pruned
of a saving clause and strictly enforced
there would have been no more wicked
strikes and stoppages for the duration.
The saving clause permitted “strikes or
stoppages authorised by the duly-consti-
tuted committee of management of any
organisation of employees.” Discovering
this, and realising that the Government
was not in earnest, and that in Mr. Ward
they had a friend at court, the work-
stoppers began again, and in the period
from March 1 to July 20, 1942, they had
been in 456 strikes and stoppages.
Meanwhile the Government issued an-
other set of regulations, enforcement to
be suspended till Mr. Ward had com-
pleted a personally-conducted tour of the
N.S.W. coalfields. Mr. Ward’s way of
discharging this mission was to abuse the
mineowners wherever he went. He held
them responsible for all the loss of coal-
production through refusal to work,
shouting that “whenever miners strike
they have ample cause for doing so.”
This was in flat contradiction of the
Prime Minister, who in a mournful Par-
liamentary review stated that in the first
quarter of 1942 there had been a pro-
duction-loss of 664,000 tons of N.S.W.
coal—“ 283,000 tons because of strikes,
201,000 tons on account of absenteeism
and 180,000 tons as a result of the com-
pulsory retirement of old N.S.W. coal-
miner employees”—a mad proceeding of
the Sydney Labor Government when the
war position was at its worst. Mr. Curtin
added that “not more than 20 p.c. of all
stoppages relate to matters between
owners and employees,” and that, while
there were “only two cases” in which
“provocative tactics” had been imputed
to mineowners, there had been “strikes
for many frivolous reasons,” ranging
from a wheeler’s horse going too fast to
the discovery of water in a miner’s boots,
as well as “strikes against awards or
interpretations, strikes on questions of
promotion or seniority, and inter-union
disputes.”
The pith of this other lot of regulations
was embodied in Statutory Rule 77. Mr.
Ward made a public statement which
was tantamount to an insolent refusal to
enforce it. The thing was put to the
vote in Parliament, and the amazing
Minister was among the ayes, but back
in his office he maintained his defiant
attitude, and the Prime Minister let him
get away with it. The consequences are
all too familiar.
The Prime Minister let Mr. Ward get
away with other outrageous things. He
let him set up a Harvest Wages Board
on which a former Labor politician and
a boss of his old union formed the
majority ; and the majority swiftly pro-
duced an award which staggered the
wheat-farmers. Another Wardian im-
provisation, a Women’s Employment
Board, doubtfully constitutional, staggered
all wage-payers employing women the
moment its composition was announced.
When the board got into its stride
Arbitration Judges were staggered also,
for it upset the basis on which arbitra-
tion judgments have been framed by
granting women up to 90 per cent, of
the male rate for a family man, in the
process creating discord, straightway ex-
ploited by union bosses, among women
who were denied the 90 per cent.
The Minister improved the shining
hour by trying in various ways to impose
his partisan views on Arbitration Judges,
whom in his ignorance and effrontery he
described as “servants of the Govern-
ment.” In the case of the Perth journey-
men bakers, he had the face to suggest
to Justice Dwyer that his Honor should
give an award favoring the men, and the
ensuing argument with the scandalised
Judge he claimed to have won “on
points.” And in the exercise of his Man-
power authority, he sided with union
bosses against non-unionists and protest-
ing unionists, hiring for this dirty work,
at £lO a week and expenses at the highest
appropriate rate (this is one of the “Labor
principles”; non-unionist Government
employees are punished by being put on
a lower rate), Mr. Garden, of “Revolu-
tion-has-stepped-on-the-stage” notoriety.
But in an evil hour for himself and
the Government, the Minister transferred
his malignant activities to the military
field. It is extraordinary that Mr. Curtin
should have tolerated this intrusion, for a
less intelligent man might easily have
foreseen that it would sooner or later
land the Government in serious trouble.
A non-starter in the last war (and proud
of it), bitterly biased against “the British
imperialists,” morosely hostile to officers
and—subconsciously, at least —to all
soldiers except Russian and those known
to vote the ticket, a champion of Com-
munists and conchies against efforts to
make these people stand up to their re-
sponsibilities, with a history of strident
opposition to defence votes, expeditionary
forces and protection of Australian terri-
tories by called-up mainlanders, and with
the mentality and invective of the old-
time Sydney larrikin in a new political
setting, Mr. Ward was, of all Labor poli-
ticians, the one least qualified for a mili-
tary “I-accuse” act. Mr. Curtin not only
permitted but encouraged his appearance
in this role ; and now Mr. Curtin and
party, as well as the clumsy actor, are
eating the bitter fruits, with more and
worse to come.
Mr. Ward chose the Prime Minister’s
own city of Perth for the delivery of his
first lines (the “n” may be omitted), and
that when the Prime Minister was him-
self somewhere in Westralia;
When the Curtin Government came into
power the defence plan of Australia pro-
vided for all of Australia north of a line
north of Brisbane, and following a diagonal
course to a point north of Adelaide, to
be abandoned to the enemy. Labor’s prede-
cessors in office were defeatist in outlook.
“I hope when the next Federal elections
come you will not allow the people I have
mentioned to go back with a majority—
the people who wanted to abandon most
of Australia.”
It began and ended with a venomous
falsehood, and this Mr. Curtin must have
recognised as soon as the “West Aus-
tralian” report was brought to his
notice, as it was very promptly by the
indignant Mr. Fadden. Nor could Mr.
Curtin have quite forgotten what Mr.
Johnson, the Labor member for Kal-
goorlie, had said in the House on Sep-
tember 23, 1942, that, going to Westralia
in the tenth month of the Curtin Admin-
istration, he had been informed by the
general “then in charge of the defences”
that “instructions have been received to
abandon all the north-west,” the selected
line of defence being “65 miles north of
Perth.” But the P.M. did not reply to
Mr. Fadden’s angry remonstrances for
upwards of three weeks. Then he issued
a statement worthy of Mr. Ward him-
self :
Sir Iven Mackay was appointed Com-
mander-m-Chief of the Home Forces by
the Menzies Government. On Japan coming
into the war the C.-in-C. Home Forces
submitted to the Minister of the Army pro-
posals relating to the defence of Australia,
the essence of which was concentration
on the defence of the vital parts of Aus-
tralia. This involved holding what is known
as the Brisbane Line. This Government
rejected the submission and took steps to
defend the whole of the continent.
When he saw his words in print he real-
ised that, by dragging in Sir Iven Mackay
and the Menzies Government, he had
been guilty of one of those political
blunders that are worse than political
crimes. With a hollow assumption of
impartiality, he announced that he would
“refuse to allow Sir Iven Mackay to be
the scapegoat of any controversy about
what is called the Brisbane Line.” No
one had mentioned the Brisbane Line
before Mr. Ward invented the phrase
(and the lie) and no one (except perhaps
Mr. Ward) would have dreamed of
attacking Sir Iven Mackay.
Was Mr. Ward reduced to silence? He
was not. In a broadcast speech re-
ported in full in Mr. Lang’s “Century,”
he said “I do not withdraw one word of
what I said about the Brisbane Line.”
And Mr. Curtin, addressing the State
A.L.P. conference at Sydney, asserted
that “before the war with Japan the pri-
mary consideration of the other Govern-
ments had been co-operation overseas”
that “co-operation” on which New
Zealand Labor justly prides itself, as wit-
ness the great popular welcome given to
General Freyberg “with the result
that the home-defence plan had been
defeatist in outlook and preparation.”
“Defeatist in outlook” —Mr. Ward’s own
words.
This Curtin repetition of the deadly
Ward insult gave the Opposition members
of the Advisory War Council ample
warrant for walking out at once. They
chose instead ‘to challenge the Govern-
ment on a no-confidence motion, and
although this was defeated by the com-
bination of Curtin and Co. and Coles
(late U.A.P.), these tactics were in the
event justified. For while the debate
was raging Mr. Ward tumbled into a pit
of his own digging, and dragged the Gov-
ernment in with him. In his vindictive
folly he trotted out the word “defeatist”
again, saying that his Government’s pre-
decessors had been “responsible for a
state of affairs that made it impossible
to make any plan other than a defeatist
plan.”
The Brisbane Line plan was concocted
while the present Opposition was on the
Treasury benches. Opposition members
who said the Brisbane Line plan was a
figment of my imagination have since
proved themselves to be liars.
Then he shoved his spade in the muck
with all his force;
I would like to know whether there was
an even earlier plan of that nature. I have
been informed that one important report is
missing from the official files. I have been
reliably informed that an earlier plan had
been submitted to Mr. Spender when he
was Minister of Defence.
This not only infuriated the Opposi-
tion but seriously embarrassed the Prime
Minister, for though intended only to
besmirch Mr. Ward’s political enemies
it was a gross reflection on the Secretary
of Defence, for whom the Government
recently got a knighthood. Now was
heard seriously the threat that the Oppo-
sition members of the Advisory War
Council would walk out unless the latest
and vilest phase of Wardism was repu-
diated. The Opposition had gained com-
plete moral ascendancy, and in the sub-
sequent proceedings it was demonstrated
that a superior knowledge of Parliamen-
tary procedure was possessed and availed
of by its old hands.
After what must have been a troubled
night, Mr. Curtin had to admit, “as Min-
ister of Defence,” that “the records of
the War Cabinet, the Advisory War
Council and the department itself are
complete,” and that “no unauthorised per-
son has ever had access to them.” This
was true also of army records.
The Minister of the Army and I have
discussed the matter with Mr. Ward, who
now withdraws his statement, which he
made in the belief that it was based on
reliable information.
Then Mr. Ward, by leave, made a state-
ment which, to his own intense surprise
when the fact dawned on him, was his
last as Minister. Having “conferred with
the Prime Minister and the Minister for
the Army,” he had “received an assur-
ance from the Prime Minister that no
document was missing from the file” ;
and that assurance he “unreservedly” ac-
cepted. No frank withdrawal and
apology, which might possibly have saved
the fellow for a time, but brazen “ac-
ceptance” of his chief’s “assurance” that,
in effect, he had brought an infamous
charge on the “reliable” information of
a liar. And in his baffled rage he couldn't
even stop there.
I am satisfied that the document to which
I was referring on Tuesday night is still in
existence. My references to the document
have been seized upon by the members of
the Opposition as a device for disguising
the real issue. The real issue is whether
my charges against the former Prime
Ministers are or are not true. Those
charges still stand.
That settled him with the House and
made it impossible for the Prime Min-
ister to keep him in the Cabinet. After
a f ur jous debate Mr. Curtin, obviously
teding his position keenly, agreed to have
the missing-document charge investigated
by a royal commissioner, and announced
tbat he bad “ adop ted the normal pro-
«dure of relieving the Minister of ad-
niinistration unti t e repor o e roya
p*in° a
for which SU PP Iy WaS ? ou B the RM-
returned to the House with the announce-
, : , , , cob rv.r “on
ment that he had decided to ask tor an
SgXSSSta. forces
for constructive legion
strfcken" hope of larrikin as
ovnnnon .
unionism, self-smitten exponent of larn-
kinism to polities and wrecker of two
Lab r Governments-was spitting insults
at all and sundry from a back bench.
Mr. Coles and Mr. McCall.
The ’plane crash of August 13, 1940, in
which General Brudenell White, three
Ministers, Harry Gullett, J. V. Fairbairn
and Geoffrey Street, and six other valu-
able Australians perished had effects which
are still in operation. It not only de-
prived the Commonwealth of first-class
men, war-minded and war-wise, who in
three cases were to be succeeded 14
months later by novices, but it led to the
arrival at Canberra of Mr. Coles
(“Nothing Over Half a Crown”) with
power, capriciously exercised, to turn a
fairly good Government out and keep a
very bad one in.
Mr. Coles had become M.H.R. for
Henty (Vic.). He would not have been
a candidate had Gullett lived, for Gul-
lett’s position was unassailable—he had
been Hehty’s member since 1925, and
had had 2-to-l and 3-to-l majorities. Mr.
Coles called himself an Independent, but,
discovering that the new Parliament was
“a workable institution,” the Menzies
Government being in office, he threw in
his lot with the U.A.P.
Mr. Fadden, becoming P.M. on August
29, 1941, found that Mr. Coles’s feelings
had changed. It seemed from his con-
fused explanation of the change that he
admired Mr. Menzies, had supported that
gentleman in his efforts to form a national
Government, with himself stepping down
from first place, and regarded him as
having been sacrificed ; but here is the
Coles account, with Fadden interruptions:
I told the Prime Minister [Mr. Fadden]
that I would vote against this Government
today [Oct. 3, 1941] because he cannot
give any assurance to the Parliament. I
contend that he gave to the Governor-Gen-
eral an assurance that he was not justified
in giving because he had not then con-
sulted Me. I told those Ministers who
approached me when the ex-Prime Minister
was being removed that I would not stand
for it, and that I would not support the
Government... .In the only other interview
I have had with Mr. Fadden since that
date, I told him frankly that he could not
regard me as a Government supporter.
Mr. Fadden: Unless I put you in the
Cabinet.
Mr. Coles; I challenge the Prime Minis-
ter to say that on oath, because it is a
deliberate untruth.
Mr. Fadden: It is no such thing.
Mr. Coles: What I said was “Unless I
am satisfied with the policy of your Govern-
ment and the membership of your Cabinet.
I am not seeking preferment for myself.”
Mr. Holt reminded Mr. Coles that he had
“walked into the U.A.P. room as a mem-
ber and stayed there up to a few weeks
ago.”
He now claims that his purpose in voting
for the Opposition is to secure stability of
government. He admits that he is not
challenging the principles of the Budget.
Indeed, he openly advocated those very
principles in the celebrated 23 points.
Nevertheless Mr. Coles voted against the
Budget, which was the post-war-credits
Budget, on Mr. Curtin’s amendment
(that the first item be reduced by £1),
and, the amendment being carried, the
Faddens went out and the Curtins came
in, and with them Wardism, Dedmanism,
departmentalism, union bossism, absentee-
ism, strikes, spreading chaos on the food
front and never-ending issues of regula-
tions, an astonishing number of which has
been pronounced invalid by the Courts.
Through it all Mr. Coles, the U.A.P.
member by his own choice till he quitted,
has been a meek supporter of the crowd
that has outraged his first principle—a
national povernment.
While Mr. Coles was doing his twist
on the Budget debate Mr. Curtin inter-
posed with a statement that “Hon. mem-
bers opposite prevented Mr. Menzies
from continuing as Prime Minister,” He
hit home there, and the most persistent
yapper among “the hon. members oppo-
site” was Mr. William Victor McCall,
the member for Martin (N.S.W.). Mr.
Coles and Mr. McCall became associated
on the Rationing Commission, with Mr.
Coles as chairman and Mr. McCall as
one of two members ; and they arranged
to pair on divisions. Now and then this
arrangement had embarrassing conse-
quences, but, generally speaking, it was
very convenient for Mr. McCall.
Mr. Coles has had no experience of
the t.p. side of the retail trade, and


Mr. McCall knows no more about the
retail trade than any billsticker or bell-
man ; consequently rationing under their
control has had features which have
made retailers and customers leap with
rage. Near the beginning and near the
end of the first rationing period there
were mad buying orgies in the shops, and
the imposition of a daily quota system
on retailers has led to people to whom
money and time are no object getting
what—and many cases more than —they
were after, while people who have to
count the shillings and the minutes went
short. No doubt if an effort were made
to fix the responsibility for these messes,
the Rationing Commission would blame
the Government and the Government
the Rationing Commission ; but the Com-
mission was chiefly responsible for the
latest series of bungles.
Before the onset of winter it asked
the public to hand back unused coupons,
Mr. Coles giving a broadcast assurance
that the new rationing was unlikely to
be “more rigorous.” Relying on this, a
great many people passed in coupons
which they could have used for pur-
chases of winter clothing. Immense was
their astonishment and disgust when they
learned that clothing coupons in the new
rationing book would have to be sur-
rendered for purchases of household
linen and furnishings, even where house-
wives and bachelor girls had been mak-
ing lay-by payments on orders for many
months.
Crowds of puzzled and indignant
women swarmed into the Rationing Com-
mission offices. Angry protests came
from shopkeepers, and their feelings were
not allayed by an idiotic suggestion that
the position could somehow be corrected
by an issue of forms, to be filled-in in
duplicate or triplicate. With a general
election in prospect, the Government be-
came alarmed, and so did Mr. McCall.
Mr. Coles, realising the Government’s de-
pendence on him and perhaps inclined
to be stubborn, gave no sign.
Mr, McCall was the first to bow to
the storm. Though he must have been
a party to the household-linen decree,
he discovered in the second week after
it was issued, during which a protest
meeting was organised by the Sydney
Housewives’ Association, that “a mistake
has been made and a grave injustice
done.” This gave the Government an
opportunity of deciding that clothing
coupons should not be required for house-
hold drapery and furnishings ordered
before May 15 and paid in full
before August 31, and that lay-by trans-
actions entered into after May 15 should
be met either by the return of deposits
(the other parties are anti-Labor, any-
how) or by applications to the Rationing
Commission for special consideration.
Mr. McCall, now trembling for his
seat, was one of the many P e dissatis-
fied with the revised ukase. Mr. Coles
must have concurred in it; anyway he
voted for the Labor Government on the
no-confidence motion. ou A
settle him in Henty, and if Mr. McCall
joins him on the way out there will oe
no great sadness of farewell.
PLAIN ENGLISH
In Trouble Again.
Sydney University has recently become
the centre of another storm or teacup
tempest. Reservation of faculties and the
quota system, plus subsidies, were ideas
of Mr. Dedman; and not bad ideas
either. The thing was done by National
Security regulation, and, as has happened
so often, the National Security regulation
was pronounced invalid, as it concerned
the entry of students into the University-
Proceedings had been taken on behalf of
a youth of 18 who wanted to be a doctor
or a dentist, and the Full High Court, in
a majority judgment, ruled, in effect, that
the Sydney University was bound to put
the young man’s name on the matricu-
lant register. Straightway there was a
rush of applicants for enrolment, with
Mr. Education Minister Evatt’s blessing.
The University Senate wearily an-
nounced that it would obey the law when
it knew what the law was. It takes the
view that it would be breaking the law
if it admitted more students to reserved
faculties than the quota fixes. Mr. Evalt
hotly accused it in general terms of “dis-
obeying the law.”
Mr. Dedman broke into the argument
with a statement that “attendance at a
university does not grant to individual
students any automatic exemption from
military service or from direction to
essential war work.” This was amplified
by Mr. Wurth, the Director-General of
Man-power.
University students, in common with all
other members of the community, must
make their contribution to the war effort.
No section can escape its obligations in this
regard.
Mr. Dedman also said that “the prob-
lem of extra students is not a serious ong
in any Australian university except Syd-
ney, where strong local influences have
been at work.” Mr. Landa’s idea is that
“the University Senate should enrol all
students applying for admission.”
Mr. Landa is the Sydney politician
who, between his screeches for a Second
Front in Europe, which Mr. Landa will
not attend, worked up a successful agita-
tion for the nomination of two 34-year-
old strangers as Law School professors
when legal members of the Senate (two of
them Supreme Court Justices) declared
such appointments unnecessary and unjust
to applicants debarred from personal
examination by war service. Events,
among them the drafting of two-thirds of
the law students into the services and the
closing of the Perth Law School (the
professor is in khaki), showed that the
legal Senators were right; but this success
was a preliminary to efforts to bring the
University under Labor-Government con-
trol. N. S. Wales people should have a
good idea of what that would mean.
From Fremantle to Timor.
Writing in the Westralian “Sunday
Times,” Peter Batten, the paper’s war
correspondent, extolled the work of
Captain Dunkley in that wonderful Timor
campaign.
Before this war began Captain Dunkley
was port doctor at Fremantle. In Timor
with the commandos when the Japs came,
he “fought disease and death with a stead-
fast disregard of his own fatigue and
suffering, and had the great satisfaction
of never losing a man through sickness.”
Yet he had to improvise almost every-
thing—wards, “fashioned from odds and
ends,” shelter from the tropical sun and
rain for soldiers down with malaria and
dysentery, theatres for “the many emer-
gency operations which had to be per-
formed,” transport of the wounded and
sick from “one hideout to another” —and
“make light of medical shortages.”
His was the task of seeing that the fever-
ridden patient was given every chance for
his life while on the move through dense
jungle. It needed courage beyond the aver-
age to face those fearful days and nights,
to cheer up the wounded and sick, hoping
against hope that the carefully-eked-out
drugs would save precious lives before none
remained. “Throughout that nightmare
time,” said one of the commandos, “Cap-
tain Dunkley was a miracle-worker. He
kept everyone cheerful. His own strength
gave us strength.”
Captain Dunkley is 44. In the last war
he served in the 28th (Westralian) Bat-
talion (Gallipoli, Flanders and France):
He was only 16 when he joined up. As
a matter of fact, he had just matriculated.
His mind was already fixed on being a
doctor, but he preferred to put country
first.
Reading that, it is difficult to get into
the proper frame of mind to appreciate
the atrocious treatment to which would-
be university students have been sub-
jected in N. S. Wales and share the in-
-1 dignation which consumes Education
Minister Evatt, Opposition-leader Mair
and Abram Landa, M.L.A.
The Munitions-works Battle.
A ball-to-ball description:
It began on May 3, when union bosses ordered
a work-stoppage as compensation for the loss
of the Anzac Day holiday (it fell on a Sunday)
and in celebration of May Day. Non-unionists
and some unionists at the factory went on
working. There had been pourparlers between
union bosses and non-unionists, but “Axis Day”
was too much. The non-unionists refused to
join a union unless said union gave a guarantee
against strikes.
The union bosses ordered a strike. Unless
the non-unionists joined or were sacked or man-
powered off the premises the strike was to go on.
The factory firm refused to sack, saying it
didn’t care whether or not its employees were
unionists so long as they did their work. The
10 non-unionists, nine women and a man, re-
fused to join the union. The Federal Arbitra-
tion Court was invoked. Federal Arbitration
Judge O’Mara pronounced the strike illegal,
and “referred the papers” to the Prime Minister,
who had issued another lot of anti-strike regs.
with himself in control.
June 8: Strikers send a petition to Man-power
asking for a wholesale transfer to other works,
and hint that the factory might be boycotted
by union labor. Representatives of three unions
“confer” with Mr. Bellemore, N.S.W. Deputy
Director of Man-power, who says applications
for release must be made by each individual
Cn june C( 9: Union officials interview Metal
Trades Employers’ Association and Mr. Bellc-
more. Mr. Bellemore announces that no
employees have applied for release.
June 10: After “a spirited exchange” of
views with a union boss the 10 non-unionists
reaffirm their decision not to join a union
without a guarantee against strikes. The union
boss offers to take them in as “conscientious
objectors.” They refuse, and afterwards state
that “when we told him we would join it Arbi-
tration Court decisions were obeyed he replied
that the union could not abide by all the de-
cisions of the Court.” The 10 say Communis s
are the cause of the trouble.
June 11: Meeting of strikers decides to
continue strike.
June 12: The non-unionists produce letters
from fighting men supporting their stand.
June 15: Arbitration Judge O Mara asked
by M.T.E.A. to direct union to call off the
strike. Judge O’Mara says he has declared th~
strike illegal and can go no further; it is the
Commonwealth Government’s job to punish
people who illegally absent themselves from
work or unions which encourage strikes. He
adjourns the matter till June 18. The bosses
of one union whose members have continued
to work threaten to call them out unless the
10 join a union by 5 p.m. on June 17
June 16; The 10 issue a statement to the
effect that Mr. Garden, Minister Ward s liaison
officer,” accompanied by a union boss, called on
them and said to one of the non-unionists
(the wife of J. E. Cassidy, K C.) “If you want
war effort, Mrs. Cassidy, I’ll put you where
you’ll get plenty—up to your neck in dirt.
The reply was the same—that they were pre-
pared to join a union on receipt of a written
guarantee against strikes, whereat Mr Garden
became very “angry” and said “no such guaran-
tees will be given.” Announced that the stnke
would be discussed by the full Federal Cabinet
° n june e i7: After a long interval for reflection,
Mr Garden denies that he used the words com-
plained of to Mrs. Cassidy 5 what he said was
“work up to the neck.” Mrs. Cassidy sticks to the
un-10-the-neck-in-dirt version, and says the nine
women and the man heard the “liaison officer
say it. The other union men join the strikers.
Mr. Garden declares himself the
women are “not sincere,” and that they have
a little game on.” He drives four of them to
an interview with Mr. Wurth, Director-General
of Man-power. The 10 point out that it is no
“»ame” to them to work 10 hours ‘ to keep
production going, and to stand up to the un-
pleasantness of filthy anonymous letters calls at
all hours of the night and numerous threats.
June 18: Arbitration Judge O’Mara suggests
that the non-unionists confer with him on
“matters affecting unionism which do not seem
to have been put before them previously.
Employers ask tor an order directing strikers
to return to work and for the stoppage of strike
pay. Mass meeting of strikers decides to con-
tinue the strike.
June 19: At the Melbourne conference ol
Commonwealth Labor Ministers with their trade-
union masters Mr. Ward declares that the affair
is “political” and that Mrs. Cassidy is ‘ getting
instructions from outside.” .
June 21: Arbitration Court resumes. Union
bosses repeat Mr. Ward’s “political charge.
Mr. Shand, K.C., puts it to the Judge that the
10 non-unionists are “the only persons obeying
the law.” O’Mara, J., remarks that no one
has seen fit to call Mr. Garden or Mi. Belle-
more and that “only one inference is possible*
on the evidence before me as to the conduct
of both gentlemen. A union boss “indicts a
member of the factory firm as “the man respon-
sible for the trouble.” Another, ringing the
changes on the “political” charge, is reminded
by Mr. O’Mara that “you started it.”
June 23 : Judge O’Mara refuses to deal with
the “union aspect” while the strike continues,
and holds that it is not within the Court’s power
to punish offenders against National Security
regulations. “The matter has been specially
committed to another authority Responsi-
bility rests with the unions; the strike was
largely due to the feeling that the unions were
in a position to wave the big stick and that it
was something to be able to say with impunity
‘We have broken the law on a number of occa-
sions by striking.’” Mr. Curtin announces he
will have the strike “examined by investigation
officers.” ' , _, . ,
And now the poor man has other hsh to ny.
THE MINISTER FOR HEALTH TAKES OVER.
The North.
These empty words that fly, .
Noisy and meaningless, are tongues of
parrots
Clacking in flocks, flashing against the sky,
Nodding on trees, gathering and chatter-
ing and scattering.
“New Order” and “Democracy” and
“Freedom”!
How will they sound on the dark wall of
a Gippsland range.
In a silent Bowen street or on the long,
brown waters of the Riverine,
If none of us is there to hear ?
For there is nothing but the North.
“Should Labor rule or should the
U.A.P. ?”
Mine whistles silent, soldiers on the
wharves.
“Open a Second Front in Europe now !”
“Strike for more tea, more butter, more
tobacco!”
“Fashions for Victory !”
What victory is this? Who has this
victory ?
Not we, not we, while there remains the
North.
Bombs in the kunai-grass and wild swans
fleeing !
Only the true men, uniformed and grim,.
From Nullagine to Yass and Hobart Town,
Ponder their duty and face their duty’s
voice,
Answering firm, like men,
In the dreadful North.
O God, for eyes to see and ears to hear
Only the North !
N.S.W.
V. CLUSE.


THE ECONOMY SAUCE
Jkzf
Jbt
SAUCE
SPEED VICTORY WITH YOUR
MONEY- BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
For Australia at War . . .
Established 1920
OYe w Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
POLITICAL POINTS
From B. 6/5/’42:
Mr. Curtin met Parliament with Mr.
Ward still his Minister for Labor and
National Service, though Mr. Ward had
not only repudiated Mr. Curtin’s statement
as to the causes of coal stoppages, in effect
giving him the lie, but had publicly refused
to adopt the policy of his Cabinet regarding
Statutory Rule 77. Mr. Curtin should
have dismissed him there and then.
What a lot of trouble Mr. Curtin would
have saved himself and party had Mr.
Curtin “dismissed him there and then”!
Baker, of Maranoa (Q.), whose one
distinction as a member is that he fol-
lowed a son into the House, has had the
effrontery to perpetrate a map of the
Brisbane Li(n)e and try to get it into
“Hansard.” In these matters a dissent-
ing member can exercise the equivalent
of a veto or club blackball, and Archie
Cameron made his consent conditional
on a reproduction of Ward’s photograph
alongside the map. No business!
The trade-union bosses before whom
Commonwealth Ministers humbled them-
selves in Melbourne proceeded from that
triumph of union bossism to another series
of palavers, at which they decided to
shift A.C.T.U. headquarters to Sydney
and to establish a “united front” with
the Corns. This means, unless the
“moderates” break away, that the
A.C.T.U. will come under the control
of “Balance Sheet” Thornton and his
gang. In their elation, the Corns, over-
looked Senator Keane’s statement that
they are not to get all the newsprint they
want from the pool; but perhaps their
idea is that this is not to be taken seri-
ously.
Led by McLeay, the Senate majority
made short work of the Government’s
blithe plans for giving the vote to 18-20
lads and lasses in uniform, regardless of
geography and nature of service and of
the claims of munition girls. It restricted
the concession to (a) those with honor-
able discharges who have served outside
Australia, ( b ) those who have served or
are serving beyond the mainland and
(g) R.A.A.F. boys who have flown be-
yond the three-mile limit. McLeay and
his men rounded off their good work by
forbidding the delivery or distribution of
election propaganda in camps by persons
in uniform. This will (or should, if
faithfully administered) cramp the
Corns.’ style.
All sorts of things become mislaid in
Government departments, and now Man-
power has lost or mislaid or forgotten
where it put about 350 of about 700 men
picked from C.C.C. for the Queensland
sugar harvest. Told that they had not
appeared on the job, the State Man-
power Director could only assume that
they had taken a holiday without per-
mission and would ultimately reach their
destination. Well, there’s nothing like
being hopeful about these things.
Two fighting Cohens were in the news
in the same week: Pilot-Sergeant Cohen,
“King of Lampedusa,” and Brig.-General
Cohen, dashing soldier of the last war.
Red Cross Commissioner in this war and
M.L.A. for Caulfield (Vic.) since 1935.
The Brig, was defeated by an Indepen-
dent, partly because of his association
with the Carlton Brewery, but also be-
cause he sprang from the same race as
Monash. Chaim Weizmann, Hugo Hirst
(lately dead after his only son fell in this
war), Alfred Mond, young Isaacson (of
the Lancaster bomber) and the King of
Lampedusa. It was legitimate enough for
the Drys to organise against him, but to
carry the other prejudice into the polling
Booth against a man of outstanding quali-
ties and achievements was and is a dis-
grace.
During the no-Confidence debate
Scully came out with a large statement
about the food position. According to
Scully, State organisations are being
strengthened and new ones estab-
lished ; there are more committees
and more technological and research ser-
vices, and “liaison” has been established
with trade-unions and housewives’ asso-
ciations. In short there is a multitude of
officials —and with it chaos.
The mordant Playford, advised by
Curtin that the S.A. State Housing Trust
is to be put under Dedman control:
Recently four Commonwealth Ministers
were conducting separate inquiries into the
housing problem. First Mr. Ward and
his Housing Trust; then Mr. Chifley’s
officers inquiring into post-war housing;
next Mr. Dedman’s officers surveying hous-
ing and man-power; and lastly Mr. Hollo-
way, who considers that housing as a
social service comes under his jurisdiction.
Further, the Parliamentary Committee on
Social Security has reported on housing
needs and a Post-war Rural Rehabilitation
committee is enquiring about country
housing.
It was apparently too much for Mr.
Playford. It is also too much for Aus-
tralia.
In his early days at Canberra Menzies
was too given to exercising his talent for
sarcasm at the expense of intellectual
inferiors. Discovering that this wouldn’t
do he made a point of suffering fools
politely, if not gladly, Curtin’s “defeatist
in outlook and preparation” speech
altered all that, and now in the Menzies
radio talks his opponents are getting it
good and hard.
Mr. Forde, now heavily disguised as a
ruthless and efficient army administrator
... .the Bill Adams who saved the day.
Mr. Lazzarini, now Brownout Minister
in the Curtin Government, and then [June,
1939] obviously qualifying for this honor-
able post.
Senator Cameron, now hailed as the
genius behind aircraft production. When
he took office he swallowed his words twice
and appointed Essington Lewis, again with-
out fee, to be Director-General of Aircraft
Production —and then, I hope and believe,
kept out of the way.
They’ll be sorry they woke him up.
It has come to be a regular thing for
unionist Government clerks to receive in-
creases in travelling allowances refused
to non-unionist Government clerks, and
Melbourne “Argus” has it that the Com-
monwealth Public Service Board has
added Ministerial and Opposition secre-
tarial staffs to the non-privileged list. A
day may come when a man will have to
produce a union ticket to keep out of
gaol.
Another Nat. Sec, reg. (Reg. 4, Con-
tracts Adjustment) has been laid low by
the Full High Court on the ground that
the Nat. Sec, Act does not confer power
to invest State Courts with Federal juris-
diction. It was one of Dr. Evatt’s regs.—
he has had bad luck with regs. The deci-
sion upsets grants of relief from civil
contracts made difficult by war condi-
tions. A building society contested the
regulation when a mortgagor sought
reduction of interest.
Curtin got on to larger national mat-
ters when he told reporters last Friday
that “Someone would have to do some
thinking about the powers of the Com-
monwealth.” He was referring in par-
ticular to the blows administered to Nat.
Sec. regs. by the judiciary. The business
of loosely framing regulations and then
handing them over to State Premiers to
implement could only lead to trouble. It
could scarcely be expected of State
Premiers that they would administer regu-
lations, good or bad, in a national rather
than a provincial spirit.
When Commonwealth Coal Commis-
sioner Mighell appealed to industrial and
household consumers to save coal, he
brought down on himself a flood of criti-
cism, the main torrent of which had to
do with the necessity of persuading
miners to produce coal. Mr. Mighell
enhanced his reputation with his reply:
Apportionment of blame for past hap-
penings will not cure the present posi-
tion... .Criticise the Coal Commission like
blazes for asking people to economise in
fuel, but be really hostile to those who don’t
co-operate I hope that contempt for the
causes which make the economy campaign
necessary will not grow into contempt for
the campaign itself.
Fair enough, and with a change on the
political front the Commissioner may get
a fair go.
Several months ago large quantities of
“refugee” cigarettes arrived and were soon
consumed. Last week an announcement
of fixed prices for imported cigarettes
was made, and smokers assumed that
new stocks had arrived. Not so ; the prices
announced were for the smokes that had
already been sold. People are not to
assume that this bit of fast work by a
Government department can be taken as
a precedent.
The Labor bias so pronounced in
Sydney press-reporting of the Victorian
election showed out again as soon as a
Commonwealth election became inevit-
able. One young gentleman excelled him-
self by declaring that the Opposition had
been “outgeneralled” by the P.M., had
indeed “foolishly” fallen into a trap set
by that extremely worried leader, and
gleefully outlined his “party’s” plans for
“cashing in” on the Brisbane Line. One
of them is a theme song, which goes
something like this:
We are going to hang Bob Menzies on the
Brisbane Line with Fadden and Percy
Spender too;
Hanging is really far too good for them after
what they planned to do.
They wanted to give North Queensland to the
Jap and sell you to our foes.
So help us hang them on the Brisbane Line,
the bleeding So-and-Sos.
The young gentleman little knows the
electors if he thinks that illiterate and
lying doggerel will go down with any
section but hooligans and half-wits.
As in the last war, America is passing
through a troublous period on the home
front. There were fierce race riots in
Detroit last week, with many dead and
wounded and much destruction. Food
control has been bungled, the fight against
inflation is not going well, and there have
been many strikes. After the latest of
three mass coal strikes a quarter of a
million miners were still out at the week-
end, although their leader, Lewis, had
said it was over. And Congress, in
revolt against the President, has
passed an Anti-strike Act over his veto.
It outlaws strikes in Government plants
and prohibits them in other war indus-
tries unless 30 days’ notice is given and
there is a secret ballot.
In Westralia a gaol-breaker with a fero
cious record of rape and other crimes of
violence has been flogged for his latest
outrage—a wild-beast attack on a school-
girl. There have been piercing protests
from Sydney yoomanitarians, Labor and
the like, who were outraged once before
when a Westralian Labor Government
had two mine-robbers hanged for murder-
ing two detectives in cold blood. Still,
results of the theory that ferocious crimi-
nals are victims of a Bowelless Capi-
talist System and can be cured with kind-
ness have not been noticeably salutary in
their own city. Whereas the Mt. Rennie
hangings wiped out rape-in-company for
a generation, there have been two fright-
ful examples in recent yoomanitarian
years. A sequel to one horror was the
suicide of one of the victims.
Final Victorian election figures gave
the C.P. 26 seats. Labor 22 (each gained
two seats and lost one) and the U.A.P.
13 (three lost, one each to Labor and
the C.P. and one to a non-Labor Ind.).
How heavily the distribution dice were
loaded against the U.A.P. was illustrated
by Oldham at the declaration of the poll
in Boroondara: “I got more primary
votes than the C.P. members in Benalla,
Kara Kara-Borung, Mildura, Swan Hill
and Walhalla put together.” Cohen got
more in Caulfield and Dillon in Essen-
don than almost any two Dunstanites—
and lost their seats! In Bulla-Dalhousie
it was a question whether James (C.P.)
or Everard (U.A.P.) would pass into the
final count and beat the Labor man.
James slid in 77 to the good and scored
on U.A.P. preferences.
Another optimist has bobbed up on
the food front, this time Director-
General Bulcock, who assures everybody
that food problems “are on the way to
solution.” As evidence there are to be
more “surveys,” and “more staff and
more finance.” The man doesn’t ex-
plain whether the housewife should boil
or fry the surveys or staff in lieu of eggs,
vegetables and fruit.
Ward has already announced that he
will refuse to divulge the name of the
person who gave him the “very reliable”
information about the Brisbane Line and
other military matters. In short, he will
squib it—if he can.
Probably for the first time in Sydney’s
ecclesiastical history, the Anglican and
Catholic Archbishops have issued a joint
statement condemning Nazism, Fascism,
Communism and any other “ism” which
would give supreme authority to any
single political group. If its only effect
is to check sectarianism in polling booths
it should do good.
Eire electors have refused De Valera’s
Fianna Fail a renewal of the majority it
has had for so long, but as it can muster
67 votes against an Opposition of 71,
divided into three parties and 13 Inde-
pendents with no prospect of cohesion,
the Government will be able to carry on.
The one really significant feature of the
election was the emergence of a Farmers’
party with nine members. Australian
experience is that when farmers form a
party it sticks.
With Chifley at his wit’s end for money
and saying that direct taxation has just
about reached saturation point, Queens-
land Labor is so comfortable, thanks to
Chifley, that it is investing in Common-
wealth war loans. Premier Cooper has
joyfully announced that another £500,000
of surplus cash is to be so invested. For
11 months to May 31 his Government
had a record cash balance of £5,822,315,
and “unless further large sums are
diverted to the Post-war Reconstruction
and Development Fund or other funds”
it should end the year with a record
surplus.
Commonwealth Labor’s kindness to
Queensland Labor will be emphasised for
all it is worth during the election cam-
paign. It won’t be mentioned by Vic-
torian Labor, but the other side in Vic-
toria won’t forget it.
All the heroes and heroines are not in
the services. Characteristic extract
from the June “Ironworker,” organ of
“Balance Sheet” Thornton and his Red
racket; —
At Islington (S.A.) a girl refused to join
the union. A meeting was held at crib
time, and an ultimatum of seven days
was given the girl to join the union, other-
wise the members of the Ironworkers’
Union would refuse to work with her. At
the end of the seven days the girl still re-
fused to join, and after a mass meeting of
the workers representations were made to
the Man-power Department by Assistant-
Branch Secretary Neil Maclean. The girl
was transferred from the annexe, thus
avoiding a stoppage of work.
Typical of Wardism and larrikinism dis-
guised as unionism. But what is the coun-
try coming to when Government machin-
ery can be placed at the service of a
union mob bent on crushing a brave
girl asserting her rights as a citizen and
her patriotic duty?
While criticising Dedman on the score
of his plans for universities (many
better opportunities could be found) a
paper which publishes the lucubrations ot
Mr. McKell acknowledges “the war-time
need to prevent slackers from using the
University as a funkhole.” All universi-
ties should be above suspicion of being
funkholes.


%
1+
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the first decade of the century there
were in Perth (W.A.) two brothers with
political ambitions: William and Walter
Nairn. William, who was in the wine
trade, stood for the Senate in 1913, and
for his failure was compensated with an
outer-suburbs Assembly seat; but he soon
decided that Penfolds offered more en-
during attraction than politics. Walter
had been rejected by the North Perth
State constituency in 1911. He didnt
come out again till 1929, when he un-
seated E. A. Mann (“The Watchman”)
as M.H.R. for Perth. Promoted to the
Speakership in November, 1940, he re-
signed last week to give his party an-
other vote on the no-confidence motion.
John Solomon (“Sol”) Rosevear suc-
ceeded him and immediately struck
stormy weather. Much the younger man
(he was born at Pyrmont, Sydney, on
April 4, 1892), and toughened by early
experiences as a timber-worker, Rose-
vear may be better able to stand it.
After 19 years—l 3 of them consecu-
tive —John Heine has stepped down from
the presidency of the N.S.W. Metal
Trades Employers, feeling that someone
else should have a go. The Heine firm
was one of the earliest members of the
association, and Heine himself is the
JOHN HEINE.
solid type of manufacturer that the coun-
try found so useful when it had to set
about making munitions of war. A
Devon man, he was born at Buckfast-
leigh, on the Dart, and to hear him talk
of “his childhood in that corner of Eng-
land is to understand something of what
made the English what they are. Though
he never shirks an argument, Eleine gets
on well with the wage-earners, and has
been seen and heard in friendly dispu-
tation with union secretaries at the dinner
table.
John Henry Prowse, M.H.R. for Swan
(W.A.) in the 1919-22 Parliament and for
Forrest since, stepped down from the
Chair on June 22 with the long-distance
record for the' office, having held it since
Oct. 23, 1934. One of those bright
young Canberra commentators elegantly
suggested that Prowse was an old Hodge
with hair on his teeth. Actually he was
a United Insurance man for quarter of
a century, and as shrewd as they make
them, and he had two years as Mayor
of Perth. And though his manner with
strangers doesn’t exactly produce the im-
pression, he has always been a pretty
good mixer, especially in the billiard-
room. Prowse had a birthday—his 72nd
six days before he gave place to W. J.
F. Riordan, of Kennedy (Q.), at the
party’s call. Riordan, nephew of and
successor to “Darby” Riordan (1929-36),
is 35.
Even before the no-confidence debate
had got under way Canberra was ani-
matedly discussing a story that Scullin
would not stand again for Yarra and that
Curtin would succeed him, as he did
Tudor. Scullin, now 67, has never got
over the effects of the health failure
which forced his resignation as leader.
Curtin is 58.
Usually politicians kiss babies and
make philanthropic gestures before elec-
tions. Brigadier Harold Cohen, C.M.G.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., V.D., reversed the prac-
tice by deferring the presentation of a
prize to the Faculty of Education at
Melbourne University until after the
State election so there wouldn’t be any
suggestion of an ulterior motive; and
then he was no longer M.L.A. for Caul-
field. Cohen went to the University from
Xavier ; he was Laws and Bowen prize-
winner in 1900. The prize of £l5OO is
for the third year of the course, and fol-
lows two previous benefactions to cover
first and second years. Cohen was an
artillerist of distinction, and the present
war called him back to Red Cross and
other service with a travelling commis-
sion. Between wars he was in nearly
everything in Melbourne Ministry,
Rotary, Legacy, Constitutional Club, Boy
Scouts —but his many services counted
for nothing against a temporary weight
of prejudice.
In days when Melbourne art patrons
kept Norman Lindsay’s etchings in
drawers and only brought them out with
the cigars and coffee, just-dead Albert
Luther Gill, art dealer and connoisseur,
was holding shows of Lindsay’s work.
Under his direction Streeton, Bunny,
Longstaff and others made their first
bows to the world, and he put H. S.
Power on the map, selling £lO,OOO worth
of Power’s pictures from a single exhi-
bition. He was also the educator, so to
speak, of many persons who, when they
attained to affluence, wanted to decorate
their homes with old Ming and Louis
Quatorze. Although Gill’s gallery was
out at Prahran, he was one of the best
known of Melbourne’s art fanciers.
Alfred Xavier Herbert’s fine novel
Capricomia has been published in an
American edition, and New York reviews
are very favorable. One reviewer turned
interestedly from the book to the writer:
Herbert is a tough Australian with a
broken nose like a prize-fighter’s. He has
wandered over much of his native land
working in sawmills, cattle-droving, trap-
ping dingoes, studying black aborigines in
the Northern Territory and diving for pearls
with Japanese in the Arafura Sea. He has
lived on bread lines in England, bicycled
the length of Europe from Calais to Athens.
He is now a sergeant fighting the Japanese,
whose language he speaks.
Herbert is a Westralian and the son
of Westralians. They were Geraldton
people ; he was born at Port Hedland
42 years ago —about the time a hoperul
Perth Government built a railway from
the port to Marble Bar, “to develop the
rich north-west.” It never developed any-
thing except deficits.
Long Ned Hogan will no longer be
seen making his way up Collins-street,
Melbourne, in the direction of Parlia-
ment House. Bungaree turned on him,
Warrenheip-Grenville rejected him, and
now he has only his memories of public
life, bitter and sweet. He had 30 years
in State politics, with two terms as
Premier (1927-28 and 1929-32) and nine
years as Minister. Australia is his debtor
on the score of his steady support for the
Premiers’ plan, which cost him his place
in the Labor party. At 58 Hogan is not
too old for a comeback when a suitable
opportunity offers.
The vacancy in the Maoriland Execu-
tive Council caused by the death of the
Maori member, Hon. Paikea, has been
filled by E. T. Tirikatene, M.P. for the
Southern Maoris. The new member was
born at Kaiapoi, Canterbury, and has
represented his brethren of the South in
Parliament for 12 years. He served in
Egypt and France in 1914-18 and was in
the Maori contingent at the coronation
of King George VI. Tirikatene is 48.
London reports the appointment of
Chief J. L. V. Sukuna as Adviser on
Native Affairs in Fiji. He went from
school at Wanganui (M.L.) to Wadham
College (Ox.), joined the Foreign Legion
in the 1914-18 war, fought in France,
went back to Oxford and was called to
the Bar. He is the first Fijian to be
appointed district commissioner.
Back in Perth with his story of his
survival from the sinking of the hospital
ship Centaur is E. D. Smith, the ship s
chief engineer. He saw her go down
with perhaps deeper emotion than other
survivors. He had stood beside the Cen-
taur while she was being built in Scot-
land, saw the engines being built in
Denmark, and cared for them on the
vessel’s Perth-Singapore run before the
war.
Australia gets the best:
Whatever may be said about the allotment
of war supplies for the Pacific end of the
scrap, there’s no question about the quality of
the high ranking U.S. military leaders sent this
way. There’s Gen. MacArthur himself, rank-
ing highest of all next only to Gen. Marshall,
present U.S. Chief of Staff, a post which Gen.
MacArthur previously held. Also, Gen.
MacArthur holds a special rank outside the
U.S. Army which makes him top man of them
all —he’s a field marshal in the Filipino Army,
and any field marshal outranks any general.
As well, there’s Lieut.-General Walter Krueger,
who is regarded as one of America s most
learned students of strategy and military his-
tory, and as a tactician of first rank. An
American officer recently said that every U.S.
division now in combat areas had learned much
from Krueger, either because it had served
under his command or had learned a bitter
lesson when opposing him in manoeuvres. It
is held that, next to Lieut.-Gen. McNair (who
was seriously wounded in Tunisia), Krueger has
had a greater influence on the training of the
U.S. Army than any other officer.
U.S. Ambassador to Russia Admiral
Standley, of the explosive statements,
has an odd sort of birth-qualifica-
tion for his present job. He was
born in California near the mouth
of the Russian River, scene of an
early Russian settlement. He’s as noted
for his outspokenness as Admiral Halsey,
which may have had something to do
with his appointment to Moscow. Stand-
ley is the man who, as delegate to the
London Naval Conference of 1935,
startled the diplomats by telling the Japa-
nese that he’d swap fleets with them and
still lick them.
Andrew A. Hughes, who wrested the
Caulfield seat from Brigadier Harold
Cohen, has the unique, if not heroic,
notion of consulting his electors periodi-
cally. Meetings, to be open to all, are
to happen every three months or oftener,
CAULFIELD'S MEMBER.
according to Caulfield’s interest in State
politics. Born and educated in Victoria,
Hughes joined City Mutual Life, then
felt a call and entered the Church of
Christ ministry. He was a missionary in
India for seven years, lecturing much of
the time to students on education and
agriculture. Returning to Australia, he
filled pulpits in different States before
being called to the Swanston-street
Church, Melbourne. He is 41 and,
naturally, a temperance advocate.
In any competition for Australia’s
youngest captain of industry, Sidney
Barton Pope, of Adelaide, who is 38,
would take tossing.' His business arose
Sprinkters to Munitions.
out of his father’s hobby for inventing
things. A garden sprinkler seemed to
have possibilities, and the young man
began making them. In no time the
Popes were the biggest sprinkler-makers
in the Southern Hemisphere. Back from
a trip to Europe just before the war,
S. B. Pope acted on his conviction that
Australia was going to need munitions
plants, and geared the Pope factory in
readiness. The firm was thus able to be
the first in S.A. to begin munitions pro-
duction when the gun went off, and S.B.
is now managing-director of a firm em-
ploying 900 people. He still finds time
for cricket with the Y.M.C.A. associa-
tion, but his main hobby is raising Jerseys
on a model dairy farm in the Adelaide
hills.
Adrian Hayward, who has been in
everything with the Sixth A.I.F. Division,
from North Africa to New Guinea, has
received his commission as captain. A
brother, Hubert, is a flying officer in
Westralia, where both were born. They
are sons of The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”
A couple of Cairns (N.Q.) men who
figured in the Birthday Honors are
cousins. Lt.-Col. C. J. Cummings got an
0.8. E. (military division) for good work
around Milne Bay and Buna after ser-
vice in the Middle East. Sgt. Stanley
James Cook Cummings, an R.A.A.F.
instructor, got a B.E.M. He is a
descendant of the navigator after whom
he takes his middle names.
For the past 45 years leading Maori-
land dog expert James Lilico, of South-
land, has been breeding and training
Border sheep-dogs, and in that time has
spent £B5OO in importing 500 of them.
Included among these immigrants were
winners of ten firsts at the trials of the
International Society. In 20 consecutive
years 2200 pups were sold from the Lihco
kennels, and progeny of these kennels are
now distributed through M.L., Argentine
and Australia.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 61, Stanley Hobart Wilson,
company director (Swan Brewery and Metro-
politan Ice and Fresh Food), solicitoi and
authority on orchids.
At Echuca (Vic.), at 78, George Bethune
pioneer of Murray transport. He earned mail
by packhorse, fed the fires of river boats and
built one which was launched by bullocks from
his Campaspe property.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Allwet”: “Piano Box” Harry (he
made his home in ’em) had industriously
evaded work for over 20 years, but was
tracked down by Man-power and given
a job as a carpenter. The foreman led
him to a bench beside which was stacked
a pile of wooden slabs. “These have to
be made into doors,” explained the fore-
man, “Here’s a blueprint. I’ll be around
in an hour or so to see how you’re
getting on.” Harry went unwillingly to
work. His first effort was bad, even to
his own prejudiced eye. He hid it be-
neath the bench and covered it with
shavings. When the foreman came round
Harry was busy on number two. “What’s
this?” demanded the foreman incredu-
lously. “A door,” explained “Piano
Box.” “A door, is it?” The foreman
examined it closely, his face empurpled.
“Well, I suppose you would call it a
door, but it’s the lousiest door
I’ve ever seen. If you can show me a
worse door than that I’ll give you a
fiver.” “A fiver,” gasped Harry ; “wait
a minute.” And from beneath the bench,
triumphantly blowing off the shavings, he
produced Opus 1.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: In my time as a junior
Melbourne larrikin our choice of weapons
generally fell upon boot or bottle for
infighting and blue metal for long-range
work. Such violent methods have been
condemned frequently in press and pul-
pit, though, as C. I. Dennis pointed out,
when the Montagu mob pitched into
the Capulet push in the streets of Verona
and both sides used “skewers,” it was
thought to be romantic. I’m not argu-
ing that Shakspeare, had he known them,
would have limned the “Flying Angels”
and “Coffin Mob” in rosy colors, but I
do say in mitigation that boots, bottles
and blue metal seldom did more than
bruise and administer temporary kayoes.
Bad as they are, they’re to be preferred
to the knife, which has been used in
city brawls. Running with recent reports
of stabbings are displays in Sydney shop
windows of vicious-looking stabbing
weapons, complete with scabbard, for sale
to anybody who cares to buy.
* * H* *
“Pitt St.”: It doesn’t even need a
rumor to start a run on anything now
(B. 23/6/’43), not in Sydney, anyhow.
All you have to do is find a shop with
its doors closed, stand outside the doors
in an expectant attitude and, when the
inevitable inquirer appears, give an
evasive answer. In no time you’ll have
three or four others standing there with
you, and from then on a crowd will
form quickly. All you have to do then
is slip unobtrusively away and watch till
the doors open. That crowd will pour
through it like Niagara, and the startled
shop assistants will be busy for the next
few minutes trying to make it clear that
they haven’t got in fresh supplies of
anything.
* s l< i'fi
“Stellarist”: A. P. Herbert seems to
have left a star out in his renaming of
the Southern Cross (B. 23/6/’43). He
gives Sydney and Melbourne as the top
and bottom stars (Sydney, at least, will
insist on Sydney being the t6p one),
Brisbane and Perth at right and left,
Adelaide and Hobart as the pointers.
What about the small star in the Cross,
the fifth star? Is that to be Canberra?
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: The strangest place in
which I found sly-grog in Melbourne
(B. 23/6/’43) was ostensibly a bookshop
run by a couple of spinster ladies well
past the first flush of youth. Condemned
to a long railway trip, I ducked into the
place to pick up a bit of light reading
and was regarded with suspicion by both
ladies when I browsed amid the stock.
While one kept me under observation the
other first went to the street door,
inspected the landscape, doubtless to'
Oh, well! Here's success to the ship."
make sure I didn’t have reinforcements
on hand, then went through . doorway
at the rear. Thence a large and beety
bloke emerged and stood close beside
me while I selected some literature,
H/ . r i u • ~„T r
When I offered a ten-bob note in pay-
ment there was more confusion, as the
price of the books had apparently been
forgotten. In the end the large bloke
■ u . j u i i i_ ° i
whispered hoarsely Look, how about
cuttin’ it out in beer at 18 wing a
touch?” That suited me, whereupon the
stuff wns nrnrinrori bnstilv bpstou/pd
stun was produced nastily bestowed
about my person and myself gently and
firmly eased out on to the footpath.
* * * *
“Loc”; Those wire-knitting Diggers of
Scorfield’s (B. 16/6/’43) would mix well
with a bunch whose dugout faces a New
Guinea beach. After days of trench-
digging they looked forward to their
“Calm yourself, Prendergast. Cot to move with the times, you know."
after-dinner recreations. Two-up and
poker palled, and after a while they
favored bridge. One night, while Hoyle
was kicking around in his coffin at their
interpretations of his rules, an excited
outpost dashed in shouting “Quick, Japs
—almost 300 —cornin’ up the beach! ”
Diggers eyed each other, then one got up
saying “O.K. I’ll go ; I’m dummy any-
way.”
* ❖ * *
“A Major”: George Limb, of Hobart,
writes gently chiding me for inferring
(which I did not intend) that he considers
“Waltzing Matilda” a candidate for a
place as Australian National Anthem (B.
9/6/’43). He points out that he has been
careful in all his writings on the subject
to speak of a “national song.” For this
purpose he prefers “Waltzing Matilda,”
on the score that it is “typically Austra-
lian,” whereas “Advance, Australia Fair”
seems to be of German origin. Without
prejudice to their views as to the merits
of the “Matilda” tune and the sources
from which it may have been derived, I
think most musicians will agree with Mr.
Limb that a song people don’t have to
stand up for is more in line with current
requirements than one which the popu-
lace is being compelled to respect at the
behest of the moving picture “industry,”
* * * *
“Jachris”: I don’t agree with the
superintendent of Sydney’s Central
Methodist Mission when he says that
“all cuss words are vulgar,” but I’m a
bit with him in the barney that’s fol-
lowed his cutting of the “bloodys” from
the dialogue of “South-west Pacific.”
The word’s overworked these days, and
on most occasions when it appears in
print is dragged in with the object of
creating an effect of naturalness —which
it rarely achieves. The passage which
offended Mr. RaywArd follows an A.I.F.
man’s statement that he had a brother
in Malaya. “Yes,” says the Yank.
“Yes, pal, I know; like Bataan. I had
a brother there.”
Digger: “Did you? Then you aren't
looking for reasons why we stand the
heat and the rain and the fever and the
tommy-guns j n this bloody jungle. We
stop the Jap here. If we don’t he’ll be
kicking in the front door of your home
and my home.”
Yank: “Check.”
Digger: “So we stop him here. You
and us. Then we go after him; we go
after him till we get our boys back, all of
our boys. Till we put the Germans and
the Japs where they bloody well belong.”
It’s pretty bloody, and the “bloodys”
don’t help it.
“Bo” with a bouquet:
It must have struck everybody who has seen
newsreels of Australian scenes, more especially
those taken in rural parts, that the photography
is remarkable for its clarity and that cloud
formations stand out vividly. This helps the
effectiveness of that excellent Australian film
“South-west Pacific,” made by Cinesound for
the Department of Information. The Australian
voices are as distinctive in it as the clear atmo-
sphere and the eucalypts. Perhaps no more
dinkum-looking and dinkum-sounding Aussie
ever stepped on a silver screen than “Chips”
Rafferty—he has the quizzical eyes that look
into far distances, the long, humorous, mobile
face, the drawling, deliberate voice that is heard
from Albany to Maryborough. The Americans
and English for whom the film is intended will
see the best exposition yet sent abroad of our
war effort, our vast spaces (and let me get
this in: I’m thinking of standing for a Federal
seat), our rural and other industries and, above
all, the potentialities still awaiting development.
* * * «
“Avon”: Though it is the fashion of
the Pulpit and the Bench in all ages to
speak despairingly of the younger genera-
tion, there is usually a healthy optimism
on the subject in the minds of those who
might be thought to have the best reasons
for being pessimistic-the magistrates of
Children’s Courts. No exception to that
rule is Luxford, Auckland (M.L.). S.M.,
noted for the good sense of his comments
on law and morals. He told the Savage
Club of his city that doleful prognosti-
cations about the modern child came
from people who had forgotten their own
childhood. Fewer than half of 1 p.c. of
the child population of the Dominion
got into any sort of trouble with the Law,
and his opinion after years of Children’s
Court experience was that M.L. could
boast “a jolly fine team of youngsters
who, given a fair chance, will grow into
men and women equal to, if not much
better than, any past generation.” He
explained that luck entered into the crimi-
nal statistics of youth. Little Johnnie
takes potshots at telephone insulators
with his shanghai. “If he misses he’s just
naughty. If he hits he’s a Juvenile Delin-
quent.”
* * * %
“Petermac”: The Army has been issu-
ing civvies for some time (B. 23/6/’43),
only those who have accumulated less
than £2O deferred pay being entitled to a
suit. They are strictly Dedmanised ver-
sions (two-piece, no trouser cuffs, etc.),
but you have your choice of various
shades and patterns. But the hat! If
you walked down Martin-place wearing
it someone would try to sell you the
Cenotaph.
PRO TEM.
“ff Labor is to win the forthcoming elections,
strikes must stop.” —Minister Beasley.
Back to your jobs, you chaps in mines that toil,
Or else—l’m giving you the dinkum oil —
i his sunny land we live in soon may be
Gripped by a terrible calamity.
You wharnes, list to me! I don’t indict
The sturdy worker’s immemorial right
To give some flinty-hearted boss a jolt
By staging an occasional revolt;
Such acts in normal times I’d not condemn,
But now I do—at any rate pro tern.
Observe, I don’t repeat the stale old stuff
You must have heard more often than enough,
How every ton of coal that might be won,
And isn’t, benefits the Jap or Hun,
How every factory where working hours
Are lost advantages the Axis Powers,
How every slackened effort means that we
Go slower on the road to victory.
A peril far more pressing I foretell
Unless you heed my words of warning well.
Back to your graft! Pick up the tools you’ve
dropped!
’Tis time that such unruliness were stopped
Ere disappointed and disgusted souls
Give their opinion of it at the polls.
It’s dangerous. Reflect how sore distressed
We all should be, yourselves among the rest,
Think what a load the land would have to bear
And what a rod in pickle you’d prepare
To fall upon your own refractory backs
If Curtin and his crowd should get the axe!
What worse catastrophe could tongue depict
Than your illustrious leaders getting licked?
How bleak a future prospect it affoxds!
Deprived of Dedmans and bereft of Wards
Where would you be? Yet every stoppage
which
You start may do a bit to queer their pitch.
So flout awards and suchlike rules no more.
Until this imminent election’s o’er
Expediency bids you check and stem
Industrial lawlessness —at least pro tern.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
BOWLS.
“Three Sydney bowling clubs, where most of the
players are over 60, received surprise visits from
Man-power officers.”
Less fertile fields for their experiments
In prospecting you’d think there'd hardly be
Than those smooth greens where (mostly) ageing
gents
Unbend and bend in pleasant rivalry,
Relinquishing to younger, hardier souls
More strenuous activities than bowls.
O’er two-up schools and similar resorts
Of lusty youth their net they might have slid.
And copped the fans of more plebeian sports,
Football and boxing. Still, perhaps they did,
And every avenue, in short, explored
Till only bowls was left upon the board.
Oldest of English games, that Shakspeare playea
In days that never echoed to the crack
Of bat on ball—and oft, I’ll venture, laid
A cunning bowl adjacent to the jack—
What memories of heroes you awake
And bygone votaries, including Drake!
In fancy one can see him where he stood
Some full three centuries and a half ago.
And dexterously aimed a rolling wood
To win his side the game on Plymouth Hoe,
Before he sallied out, as histories tell,
To give the arrogant Armada hell.
Mayhap the admiral will sleep more sound
Beneath the waves of Nombre Dios Bay
To know that, whensoever need is found
A nation’s war-resources to assay,
Investigators of the ways and means
Still keep an eye upon the bowling-greens.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Cauboy”: The other day an old lady
of 96 set out to pull a loaded truck by
foot from Melbourne to Sydney. She
was Alice, the veteran elephant of Wirths
Circus. Exigencies of transport having
banned the railways, the Greatest Show
on Earth has taken to the road again
after half a century of easier going. The
seven elephants, pulling seven trucks
loaded with lions, goats, two-headed cows
and other wonders, are expected to travel
at 25 miles a day and to do the trip in
three weeks.
* * * *
“S.C”: Touching a recent paragraph
about a Bega (N.S.W. South Coast) boy
with malaria, it has been pretty well
established that he got it, via the ano-
pheles route, from a Bega soldier sent
back from New Guinea as a malaria case.
There is nothing to be alarmed about,
for there have been malaria cases in other
temperate parts of Australia, even Vic-
toria, and, over the centuries, in England
(Cromwell had it) and Long Island, New
York. Admitted that more Australians
have, in the last 18 months, been ex-
posed to infection than ever before, there
is no material danger of an epidemic
within the continent. Of course
precautions need to be taken. This
couldn’t have occurred to the Govern-
ment which is never tired of bragging
about “the State war effort,” for the
affair of the Bega boy brought to light
the fact that malaria is not a notifiable
disease in N. S. Wales, though it is almost
everywhere else.
« * • *
“Lao-dah”: The Maorilander who
knew 50 languages (B. 16/6/’43) was an
exception, but if a person can learn one
language he can leam another just as
easily. I spent years in China struggling
with the intricacies of the language, wore
out several tutors, carried little bits of
pasteboard with characters written on
them about in my pocket, but never
achieved any real grasp of the lingo. One
day in Melbourne a man who already
knew a dozen European languages ob-
served my array of Chinese textbooks,
and his face lit up as if he had seen some
delectable dish of food. “Could I borrow
one of these books?” he asked me. “You
can take the lot and keep them as far
as I’m concerned,” I said. In a few
months he was writing Chinese like a
mandarin, and assured me he had mem-
orised more than 10,000 ideographs. He
even delivered a lecture to a Chinese
audience in Little Bourke-street. About
six months ago he relieved me of my
library of Malay books, and I now hear
he is engaged on a dictionary of the
dialects of Timor!
* * * * .
“Ek Dum”: From an article by Brian
Molloy in On Target, the official book
of the Australian and American ack-ack
brigade in New Guinea:
True it [Moresby] had been dubbed
by pressmen and other “well-informed
circles” the “Tobruk of the Pacific,” but
it bore little resemblance at the time to
that place, and fortunately bears less re-
semblance now. However, we all know
what press correspondents are, and I sup-
pose there must be some need for gentle-
men who can draw erroneous maps with
ease and disseminate fake news with amaz-
ing candor. In any case, it’s nice to have
people like that neatly labelled with a
green tag so we will all know where we are.
Though On Target was published two
months ago, so far there has not been
a squeal from the Ethics Committee of
the A.J.A., Sydney branch,
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The controversy as to
whether poker is a game of chance or
skill reminds me of the case of a young
man in Perth whose wealthy father left
him a fortune. For six months he fre-
quented the poker schools of the city,
taking heavy toll of one after another.
Then the old hands began to take his
measure. With the solemn look of under-
takers on their poker faces they observed
how he boosted his bets again and again
on busted straights and bobtailed flushes,
and studied his psychological reactions in
victory and failure. Then they began to
take the offensive. His worst day was
when, with £7OO at stake, it turned out
that his opponent had a pair of twos
and he was only jack high. In six
months he said good-bye to six figures.
# * * . •
“Jurumudi”: Australian hostesses
who are concerned because their guests
don’t bring their butter rations might
tear a leaf out of the book of the humble
Javan. In pre-Jap days the poorest kam-
pong of coolies provided communal enter-
tainment on a scale that would put to shame
the average wealthy denizen of Toorak.
In a Javanese community every domestic
occasion is an excuse for a party —wed-
dings, funerals, circumcisions, the return
of daddy from Mecca, planting, harvest-
ing, cow and human births. The Java-
nese host can stand it because every guest
brings his own tucker on a tray of which
the ingredients are rigidly fixed by ancient
custom. After offering the steam, the
heat, the odor —in other words, the
spiritual essence—as an oblation to the
good and evil influences which affect all
occasions, everybody whales in, and the
junketing lasts for from one to three days.
On special occasions a gamelan orchestra
is hired, a troupe of travelling players
or a wayang shadow-show, and there is
scarcely a day in the year when the gongs
aren’t booming in the village. The Java-
nese seem to have a lot of fun.
¥ i|( * *
“G.A.L.”: The editor of our unit
newspaper, in an impressive half-page,
had been exhorting us to cease complain-
ing about our tucker. His words were
sensible, and most of us took the mess-
age to heart. The next feed happened
to be excellent, so when the 0.0. asked
“Any complaints?” a corporal stood up
and said “None whatever, sir—we think
the food is grand, and we’d like you to
compliment the cooks.” The 0.0. looked
down his nose at what he considered
almost insubordinate sarcasm, and his
report that night contained a reference
to “a scene of unrest in the men’s mess
during the evening meal.” Wouldn’t it?
* * * *
“C.R.”: It isn’t often that people in
the outback have an opportunity to repay
the debt they owe to the Flying Doctors,
but one occurred recently when medico
Pilot Bowden had to make a landing on
a salt lake in the Far North. Hopelessly
bogged, he sent out calls for help on his
radio, and by midnight there was an
army of willing helpers, some of whom
had travelled 70 miles. Getting busy as
“Here, take this."
soon as the sun rose, they soon had the
’plane on firm ground.
S: * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Pub names? For sheer
allure could “The Little House Under the
Hill” be surpassed? In its early days,
when Woolloomooloo had a claim to be
regarded as a garden suburb, the home
of the highly respectable, the attractive
name might have had some justification ",
but, situated in Duke-street (now Mc-
Elhone-street), near the foot of Butler s
Steps, which give access up the cliff-face
to Potts Point, it became incongruous
when Duke-street (long restored to re-
spectability under its new name) became
known as the toughest street in Sydney.
* * * *
“Spoke”: This may throw a sidelight
on the contention that illiterates may
make good soldiers (B. 16/6/’43). A
young Melbourne artist did eighteen
months up north as a private, and in
between Jap air raids rendered such
service in restoring the morale of a camp
that had become disorganised through
boredom and waiting that his superiors
decided to send him south again so that
his talents for leadership might be im-
proved by training. Having done a
prescribed course, hfe sat for examination
—and failed, the examiners’ comment
being that he was unfitted to be a leader.
♦ * * *
“Jamwood”: T. S. Eliot, who trans-
ferred an incantation from a Sherlock
Holmes story to his Murder in the
Cathedral (B. 2/6/’43), was only
doing what poets have done from
the dawn of literature and, as Kip-
ling conjectured*, Homer himself,^ when
he “smote ’is bloomin’ lyre.” In
the nineteenth century Tennyson bor-
rowed from Wordsworth, Gordon from
Tennyson and other singers of ours from
Swinburne and Bret Harte —whose influ-
ence on Australian verse-writers of the
’nineties and early nineteen-hundreds
was great. In at least one case an over-
seas writer of high repute took a bay leaf
from the brow of an Australian. Late in
life Mark Twain was hailed as a poet
on the strength of lines engraved on his
daughter’s tombstone:
Warm summer sun,
Shine kindly here;
Sweet southern wind,
Blow softly here;
Green sod above.
Lie light, lie light!
Good night, dear heart!
' Good night, good night!
Mark found them in Australia on his
visit to these parts, and adapted them
to his pathetic purpose (without, of
course, claiming authorship; he was
above that), slightly altering the form.
They were written by Robert Richardson,
an undeservedly forgotten Sydney lyrist
of the ’nineties.
* * * *
“Lawnston”; Tasmania has produced
this war’s classic in official investigations.
Jade Rumor started the story that a head-
stone intended for a soldier’s grave was
being used as a doorstep at a detention
barracks. The scandal reached the main-
land, and, as the good name of the Army
seemed to be involved, there was an
inquiry. The “detention barracks” was
found to be a guardroom, but no dese-
crated headstone could be found. It
then turned out that the canard originated
with a prisoner who, attempting to
escape, had dug a tunnel and brought to
light a stone with an inscription on it
which was unquestionably serving as a
doorstep. How it got there was another
story. The parents of a dead soldier had
rejected the headstone in favor of a
privately-ordered memorial, and the
stone was thrown on the dump near the
guardhouse. When a doorstep was
needed masons put the stone in position
face downwards.
w » » »
“Nakh”: Citizens who are worried
over Deddy’s rationing of bed sheets
might take a hint from the noble knights
of “ the Middle Ages. When they fell
down dead drunk after dinner their
pages pulled their boots off and
they went to sleep on the spot. The
amenities were observed by the boys
wrapping their masters’ nether extremities
in “foot sheets.”
» # ♦ »
“Avon”: A reminder that Maoriland
is a cold country and that modern war is
a mighty expensive business was given by
one of the English heads of the N.Z.A.F.,
Air-Commodore Sir Robert Clark-Hall,
when handing out “wings” at a training
school. He said he had noticed pilots
walking about in the coldest weather
without their greatcoats to “show their
‘wings’ with pride.” “1 offer you a word
on that,” he said. “Each of you cost
£7OOO to train, and we don’t want to lose
£7OOO worth of good stuff through bron
chial or pneumonia attacks.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: Miraculous recoveries as a
result of traffic risks (B. 9/6/’43) can be
seen any day in any city. In Melbourne
I saw a middle-aged man hobblipg across
the road bent almost double, apparently
suffering from some spinal complaint.
Suddenly a motor-horn honked. On the
instant the stricken pedestrian straight-
ened up and made a dozen vigorous hops
for the pavement. In this case the cure
was only momentary, however. The
moment he got to safety down went the
head, the hand went to the back, the
back once more became as rounded as a
cartwheel,
* * * *
“E. Chooka”: Am glad to hear that the
old Gem is carrying on (B. 16/6/’43),
and that one or two towing boats are
finding something to do along the
Murray. Mention of Captain J. G.
Arnold bringing the Renmark and a
barge loaded with wheat into Murray
Bridge makes me wonder what became of
the J. G. Arnold, an all-steel steamer with
a fast and powerful engine that was the
pride of the river in 1917-20.
* * * *
“Lord L”: Thanks, “Pappagallo,” for
mentioning Alfred Deakin (B. 9/6/’43)
without saying anything about his
“silver tongue.” As a boy I heard Alfred
talk for two hours about politics at Adel-
aide Town Hall. I’d been told he was
a whale of an orator, and I was never so
disappointed in my life. Deakin looked
and dressed like an evangelist, and
talked like an automaton, drearily, with- 1
out a spark of feeling. He' emitted a
spate of timeworn generalisations and
platitudes, and when he gave out a state-
ment of fact it related to something like
mutton exports or the length of irrigation
ditches. If Deakin was a noted orator
I’m glad I missed hearing most of his
contemporaries.
* * * •
“Abi Tonus”: Curative treatment of
a rare disease, chronic methsemoglobinse-
mia, by the use of ascorbic acid, has been
reported, although the cause of the dis-
ease remains unknown. It is a qprious
fact that some rare diseases are curable,
whilst a host of the commoner ills, e.g.,
colds, ’flu and arthritis continue to defy
all efforts ; they have to run their course.
The unfortunates subject to chronic
methsemoglobinsemia are commonly re-
ferred to as “blue” boys or girls, but
methsemoglobin itself is brown. The blue
color of the skin is due to the fact that
the large number of the red cells of the
blood containing it are not available to
carry oxygen, and the remainder of the
normal cells cannot get rid of their cargo
of carbon dioxide as rapidly as usual, so
that the arterial blood comes to approxi-
mate that of the veins. Tire acute disease
occurs in cases of poisoning by certain
chemicals, and is recognised as a definite
health hazard in some industries. Much
the same appearance is caused by injudi-
cious use of the sulphanilamide series of
drugs, although a different substance,
sulphhaemoglobin, is formed. Some of the
cases have been severe ; a few, fatal.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Meat - dispensers in other
lands are finding the going stiffer than
it is in Australia. Butchers here have
confined their activities to beef, mutton
and pork, but some of their American
congeners have long been suspected of
ringing in horsemeat. Public health officers
in the U.S.A., who first thought of pro-
hibiting the sale of Dobbin’s flesh out-
right, discovered that some customers pre-
fer it. To prevent these from starving, and
to save the unwary the shock of discover-
ing a stirrup in their stew, the Government
took action. Butchers who used to mix
horseflesh and beef to produce the super
sausage have now to abandon the neddy
proportion or label their shop with foot-
hish lettering: “Horsemeat Sold Here.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melb, National Gallery-
Director Daryl Lifidsay has been telling
the Gallery’s trustees that art is at a low
ebb in Australia. It always has been, not
only in Australia but every other coun-
try. The reason is that art history is
made, not in official circles, but in ob-
scure holes and corners. Looking back,
people take a romantic view of the im-
pressionist movement, but it wasn't
Manet, Monet, Cezanne, Whistler and
their like who were preferred when that
movement was making its way ; it was
artists whose names are now forgotten.
The new views about art were being dis-
cussed, not in the salons and academies of
Paris but in the cafes, so that the restau-
rant proprietor who allowed any
scrounger to use his old tablecloths for a
canvas, and kept those he liked and sent
the rest to the incinerator, had a better
chance of acquiring a masterpiece than
the academies had. It might be the same
in Sydney and Melbourne. .


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jemalong Jim”: Warroo Walters,
swag up, drifted through Eugowra one
hot afternoon. He cast a look at the
lone individual on the pub verandah,
caught his eye and nodded. The l.i. came
fully awake, looked at Warroo with in-
terest and said “ ’S’ot.” “Too right,”
said Warroo. “ ’Sdry.” “My oath,” said
Warroo, slowing down hopefully. “Where
you makin’ for?” he was asked. “Perth,”
he answered facetiously. The other got
up, to the bar door, looked back at
Warroo and said “Straight on over the
bridge.” Tramping morosely over the
bridge, Warroo muttered “No flamin’
wonder Ben Hall couldn’t make a do of
it in these parts.”
* * if T
“Bughouse”: One of the remarkable
features of soil bacteria (B. 26/5/’43) is
their persistence over long periods of
drought. I once assisted a bacteriologist
in taking soil samples over wide areas of
the W.A. goldfields country. Much of it
was red loam, burnt bricklike from too
much sun and too little rain, yet it was
absolutely loaded with bacteria spores,
waiting for moisture to enable them to
get on with their work. The boss
claimed that such an abundance of spores
indicated that at one time the western
part of the Dead Centre carried grasses
as luxuriant as the prairies of North
America. When a tree is burned on such
bacteria-loaded soil it generally takes a
couple of years or more before growth
reappears on the spot, on account of the
destroying by heat of the beneficial germs.
Yet, oddly, where the bacterial content is
not so high, as in sand-plain soil, such a
burning will have a highly beneficial
effect, superior growth appearing the
next season, owing to the depositing of
potash and other ash salts.
* * *
“A.C.M.”: That bill proposing to
make compulsory the fencing-off of
shearing hand-pieces (B. 9/6/’43) is not
unlikely the brainchild of the clerk at
the N.S.W. Department of Labor and
Industry who, after we’d reported an acci-
dent at the sawmill, wrote for an expla-
nation of why a safety fence had not
been provided in front of the saw as well
as behind it!
* * * #
“Edjudina”; Now that you Aboliars
have got all those sheep across the river,
how about trying to push a few camels
across a salt lake? There’s not much
water but plenty of salt and a bed of
mud, deceptively firm, close to the shore.
You’ll'likely choose a neck and
the oonts will step out gingerly. The mud
is rubbery, but as you get further from
the shore its water content rises; it
begins to bend. Accustomed to travelling
nose to tail along the dry pad, the camel
plants his feet in the prints of his
immediate leader. When the mud begins
to bend this brings disaster. The leader
passes all right, perhaps even the second,
but the third is bound to go down. With
front legs down to the chest pads, the
hind pair soon follow in the struggle for
recovery. Sunk belly-deep, the oont
groans and turns it in. The first
thing is to unload —anything from scwt.
to 7cwt.—then to dig him out. That
means hours of labor in the blazing sun
—-or maybe the freezing cold; either
is possible on a salt lake. You’ll
carry scrub, grass, samphire, anything
from the shore so as to give the beast
some sort of a footing. Then, having,
made a hole nearly big enough to bury
the victim you’ll get busy with a waddy
and all the curses at your command.
* * * *
“J.C.”; Old Ben has been growing
fruit and vegetables for 60 years. “Books
won’t grow vegetables,” he snorted when
he came upon me studying a pile of pam-
phlets from the Agricultural Department.
“What I do is put in all the manure on
the place and buy fertilisers to help them
out. Then I mix a bit of sweat with it.
One’s no good without the other, par-
ticularly the sweat.”
» * * »
“Me 2”: “J. Rilston” may have
, smiled at Scorfield’s “portable rivet
forge” (B. 16/6/’43). I didn’t, having
taken the scene for a farm smithy and
the anvil-smasher for the farmer’s missus.
That sort of forge is common on farms
—though that sort of missus isn’t —and
the joke was a good one and the sketch-
ing true. As for “J.R.’s” joyful recollec-
tions of the old, toilsome method of
blacksmithing, I’ve bad some. Which is
why I became converted to modernism
when, getting a job as a striker in a city
implement works, I found that pneu-
matic hammers did the work, and all I
had to do was hang on to one end of
whatever was being beaten. We belted
things into shape at that place at ten
“The enemy retreated to a prepared position according to plan”
times the speed of the old hand-strikers.
On piecework I earned twice the money
with half the physical labor; so argu-
ments about machines displacing men
left me cold.
“Mit”: “J. Rilston’s” par took me
back 40 years to when in 1904 Hugh
Victor McKay moved the family concern
and the kitchen-sink from Ballarat to
Braybrook Junction (now Sunshine). He
took over the old Braybrook Implement
Co.’s premises, and with them some of
the old hands, including a real black-
smith —Big Bill is all I can remember of
his name. His forge and accoutrements
were just as “J.R.” describes them,
except that compressed air replaced the
bellows. I’ve seen him fashion the main
frame of a stump-jump plough as it was
then designed. A bar of straight wrought
iron, 6in. x 4in. and 12ft. long, was care-
fully nursed to the right heat. Then Big
Bill, black-bearded and leather-aproned,
lithe as a tiger, stooping low, would grab
his 31b. long-handled hammer to direct his
three strikers. The rhythm, the beat of
those 141 b. sledges coming down in per-
fect timing, the sudden drop of his
hammer for the swage for smoothing,
the manoeuvring of the bar, the cool
judgment of the man —they held me spell-
bound. Back would go the bar for an-
other heat and another bend until it was
finished, true to template. Shades of
Vulcan, that was blacksmithing! Steam
hammers? There were two of them, 20
yards away, scorned.
* » * »
“Dascus”: For. all its pests and ver-
min, leeches, wood bugs, spiders, stinging
plants and prickly creepers, its never-
ending damp and undergrowth, our
northern jungle is by no means devoid
of beauty and interest. I lazed for an
hour on the semi-overgrown remnants
of a onetime logging track. For a while
absolute quiet reigned; suddenly there
was a swish of moving leaves, a whirr
of wings, and bronzewing pigeons by the
score were in the branches almost over-
head. From behind me in the gully came
the piercing note of the whipbird, deep-
throated and clear at first, then sharp
and shrill as at the crack of a whip. A
small, plump, green-bosomed bird
hopped experimentally about my feet, its
small, round, jet-black eyes fixed intently
upon me. On every side rose a twittering
from countless throats, while a galaxy
of form and color hopped from branch
to branch or went rushing madly by to
lose themselves in the depths of endless
green.
# * * *
“Blowfly Creek”: A farmer neighbor
lost a plough-horse. Its stable companion
promptly went off its tucker. The farmer
did everything he knew to console the
mourner but without avail, until he hit
on the notion of putting a mirror up in
its stall. After contemplating its own
image it apparently came to the conclu-
sion that its old friend had returned from
the equine Valhalla, and its appetite was
restored.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Ashes as a means of stay-
ing bleeding from a wound were known
to the primitive abos., and perhaps to
their most primitive ancestors; but
some discrimination is necessary re-
garding the kind of ash. The abos. of my
acquaintance on the W.A. goldfields pre-
ferred mulga. Other ashes of the same
locality, salmon gum and gimlet, were
likely to be heavily loaded with caustic
potash. Whitepfellers suffering from
Barcoo rot found a light dusting of mulga
ash a sovereign remedy for drying up the
multitude of sores that afflicted the hands
and other exposed parts. Further, a good
dusting of ash each night before turning
the beast out to graze worked wonders
with the saddle galls on the camel’s back.
* * * *
“Naturala”: “Pat Ater” needn’t worry
too much about those brown-and-cream
termites .which, having escaped the black
ants, are now lodged in his gate posts (B.
26/5/’43) It’s a hundred-to-one chance
that there won’t be a winged male or
female among them, and having also lost
all their pupae or chrysalis forms, which
would readily fall victim to the true ants,
they are now without any possibility of
breeding or rearing another queen. A
colony entirely composed of sterile
female workers, their speedy end is cer-
tain. A new colony can be established
only by the mating of winged male and
female at the termination of their nuptial
flight.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Buck was fed up with
Weary as a mate. Every morning Buck
went round the long line of traps, and
when he’d got back lit the fire and
pitched the breakfast things together be-
fore Weary would roil out. When it
came to pegging the skins Weary “poled”
again. Buck decided that the only way to
make Weary pull his weight was to allot
the work and leave him to it. Next day he
divided the trap-line, giving the near end
to Weary, and, running his own portion
out into the rough country, shifted camp.
A week later he was approaching his last
traps at dusk when he spotted Weary
working towards him from his end of the
line. Uneasily he eyed the small catch.
“How many did y’ get this morning?” he
called. “Twenty-four.” “What!” Buck
gasped. “But surely y’ must’ve got
more’n that for a mornings catch! ”
Weary tossed over his freshly-skinned
bundle. “Well, there they are,” he
answered with a yawn. “I’ve just col-
lected ’em; if y’ don’t believe me, count
’em y’rself!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Dead timber falls on still
days because of contraction and expan-
sion (B. 23/6/’43). It takes a thumping
high wind to bring down a green tree,
because of its resiliency. The same wind
seldom bothers a dry tree, because it’s
bare of foliage and offers no serious bulk
to the wind, standing up in it like a bare
pole. A black frost causes contraction of
dry, not of green, wood, and heat of the
morning brings sudden expansion and
cracking of the brittle stuff. Same thing,
only in reverse, when a cold night follows
a hot day.
» * * *
“C.E.”; “The night those chaps from
H.Q. spring their surprise visit they’ll
want an emergency mobilisation to test
our efficiency,” explained the leader.
“It’ll be a nine-mile trip for you, Jim ;
thank you can make it?” “Sure thing,”
was the enthusiastic reply. “Ring
Smithers’s place an’ they’ll signal me.”
It was raining the night the test came,
and freezing cold. Jim had been out on
the run since daylight hunting strays, and
arriving home wet through had just lit
the fire and put the billy on when the
call came from the ridge. He kicked at
the sticks, grabbed a lantern and streaked
for a fresh hack. The next three-quarters
of an hour were spent trotting round the
90-acre bog in pursuit, but at length he
cornered the frightened animal, buckled
the girth feverishly and jumped for the
saddle. Next instant he was crawling
from a patch of prickly-box to repair a
busted girth and salvage the plunging nag
from a barb-wire fence. Two hours later,
dripping water and minus a hat, he raced
into the assembly hall to find the mob
being dismissed. “What do you mean
coming here now, and in that condi-
tion?” snorted the visiting officer dis-
gustedly. “Think we’re in the V.D.C. for
amusement? If you don’t intend to treat
it seriously, why on earth did you join
up?”
« * * •
The lyrebird is a timid fowl,
but the popular belief that she will im-
mediately abandon her nest if the egg
or chick is interfered with is all my eye.
Near Mt. Howitt (Vic.) I found a nest
on top of a stump about five feet from
the ground. The bird flew out and
disappeared in the undergrowth, leaving
the usual solitary egg. About ten days
later I took another look at the nest. The
bird, which was still there, disappeared
as promptly as before, but the egg had
been replaced by a healthy and loudly-
protesting chick. A few days later I
made a silent approach over the rain-
sodden leaves, bark and twigs that littered
the ground, and clapped my hat over the
entrance to the nest before the bird knew
I was there. When I pulled her out she
made no attempt to escape, nor did she
utter a sound, but immediately I released
her she gave a terrified screech and fled
into the scrub. I went back the follow-
ing day to see whether her last experi-
ence had forced the bird to abandon her
home and offspring. She was still in the
nest, and she stayed there until the chick
was able to fend for himself.
* * * *
“Sliprail Tim”: Mum was listening
to the Voices from Overseas on the
wireless. “Calling mother and sisters,” a
voice said. “Best wishes and love to you
all. Having a good time, Mum; but
what a royal time I could have if you’d
send me a hundred bucks” “Turn
that station off,” growled Dad ; “as if we
don’t hear enough about rabbits.” “Don’t
be so ignorant. Dad,” chipped in Dinny;
“bucks in America is the same as notes
in Australia.” “You young liar,” said
Dad as he stood up unloosening his belt.
“Youse kids’ve been askin’ for a hidin’
for a long while, pokin’ fun at your old
man. D’y’ think I’ve been 40 years in
this flamin’ dump and don’t know what
male bunnies is?” Before Dad could spit
on his hands the kids were out of the
door and over the barb-wire fence and
Mum was smoothing the waters. “You
were a boy yourself once,” she said.
“Remember the time you hit your father
in the eye with a rotten tomato?”
“Yes,” Dad admitted guardedly, “but I
never gave the old man any cheek, did
I?”
* * * *
“Norther”: Add to the list of peculiar
deaths that of a Maltese canecutter who
went for a swim in the Russell River,
near Cairns (N.Q.). His mates noticed
him in obvious distress and got him out,
but still couldn’t find out what was
wrong until somebody spotted the tail of
a small fish back in his throat. They
couldn’t dislodge it and sent for an am-
bulance. But by that time the poor fellow
had been choked to death.
THE CALL.
Last night when high seas rumbled
Along a near-by coast,
To me they weirdly sounded
Like some ill-fated host.
It seemed that in the falling
Of waves on beach and bar,
At times I heard the calling
Of voices from afar.
Ears tensed, I heard those voices,
In tones subdued and faint,
Beneath the stars of midnight
Pour forth a weary plaint:
“Bereft of friends we languish
In prison camps forlorn.
And bitter is our anguish
From home and freedom torn.
“From birth long-used to breathing
The air of Liberty,
Sea-lovers and land-rovers
No joyance now have we.
“No joyance save when, Fancy
At work, to us there comes
A glimpse of golden beaches,
A view of gracious gums.
“Bereft of love and pity
And mateship tried and true —
Stout hearts of bush and city,
This call we send to you;
“Oh, hasten, hasten, hasten,
While we bide exiled thus,
And in the name of Freedom
Strike down the foe for us!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Danyo”: There’s many a Mallee
cocky cleans up “Dixit’s” routine of jobs
in a good deal less than a twelvemonth
(B. 23/6/’43). I give him Dick the
Dasher, cockying out of Cowangie. Dick
finished his wheat up in January, ran
up a subdivision fence and a chaffshed,
went up to Mildura and snatched grapes
for his brother in February, was back
on the block digging out rabbits in
March, sowed his crop and worked his
fallow till June, shore 250 wethers and
classed and baled the wool in July, dipped
the sheep, spent August knocking down
scrub and picking up and carting mallee
roots to the railway, gave the fallow an-
other hit, fought the storekeeper for an
extension, began work on a bore but left
it to take his Clydesdale on the road,
rushed back to work the fallow in early
October, crutched his wethers, cut posts
and rails for a new horseyard, papered
the inside of his house, made and built
a new gate, cut, stocked and stacked a
bit of hay, tore into his wheat in early
December and stopped only long enough
to get married. He had his missus sewing
bags before she’d got used to her new
name.
« * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had a clearing-and-
fencing contract well back in the River-
ina and a four-roomed house to camp
in. The boss saw that we were well
supplied with tucker, books and fruit.
Then he sent out a note; “Am sending
you out a Chinese \who is anxious to
learn things about Australian Hope
you will give him a good time. Mat
could hardly wait till Saturday. When it
came he was up early and out with the
gun. I drove over to the mailbox, where
1 picked up a well-dressed Oriental with
an engaging manner. When we got back
Mat led us into the kitchen and showed
our guest a roaring fire and a table
heaped with pigeons, ducks, rabbits, spuds
and other comestibles in the raw. Beam-
ing, he invited the Chinese to go to it
and “turn out one o’ them slap-up dinners
you blokes are so good at.” The visitor
eyed Mat, the fire and the table, then he
said, sorrowfully, “But I cannot cook.
Ti rocked Mat. “What!” he gasped.
“Didn’t the boss send you out to cook
for us?” Carefully the visitor explained
that he was a student interested in the
country’s flora and fauna. Mat looked
at him doubtfully. “Well, I s’pose its
all right,” he said. “But I never heard
of a Chinese who couldn’t cook.” It
took him a month to get over the dis-
appointment. #
“Herbert Dawson”; The blue Queens-
land cattle-dogs! My father brought one
of the Hall breed, a blue dog called
Jack, from the Hunter River when, as
manager for George Hall, of Blairmore
a member of the same family as that
Hall of Merriwa (B. 19/5/’43) —he came
to Clifford station on the Upper Dawson,
Queensland, in 1878. Jack was the first
“blue” in this district. Today there s
scarce a station without one.
# #
“Old-timer”: Curyo Charlie arrived on
the morning of the races and was stopped
in the main street by the John. “I’ve seen
you before,” said the Law. “Tm telhn
you not t’ come at anythin’ with your
Yankee sweat, see? I don’t like to run
a man in, but I’m not havin’ any roosters
like you at the races.” Charlie pursed
his lips thoughtfully and drove his turn-
out to a pub stables, parked it and took
a turn about the tbwn. He learned that
the John was hanging his hat up to the
daughter of the town’s wowser, and
rightly assumed that, having given the
race crowd the once-over, he’d seek the
maiden’s company. The John disappeared
all right after the first race, but Charlie
was just getting into his stride when he
came back. “I warned you,” he growled,
grabbed the wheel and smashed it across
a post. “That’ll settle you, he added,
and made townwards with a light heart.
Whereupon Curyo got out his real wheel,
grinned sardonically at the remnants ot
his substitute and, free of further possi-
bility of interference, proceed to gather
the fruits of his ingenuity.
“Bo”: Jimmy the Swi had brought ’em
down heads nine times in a row and
broken the school; thus it was that he
sang contentedly as he drove his horse
wagon along the road towards Mallee-
root. His mind was made up. He would
celebrate and forsake his nap of com-
“I haven't even seen your blasted peppermints !”
sacks and tarpaulin in the wagon
for a bed at the pub. It had been
two years since Jimmy had slept
between sheets. When he arrived
he found the only two available bed-
rooms taken by commercials, but
Bung promised to have a bed made up
for him on the upstairs verandah. Around
midnight, well sozzled, he was piloted
by Pintpot to his bunk, to which he
retired in full marching order. An hour
later equine snortings and a rattle oj.
hobble chains coming from a near-by
paddock pierced the fog clouding Jimmy’s
brain. He struggled to a sitting posture,
still almost asleep, and ran his hand
along the verandah rail. “Mush be
shummen wrong wi’ Biddy,” he mur-
mured to himself. After a lot of strug-
gling he managed to climb over the rail;
then, balancing on one foot and hanging
on with his hands, with the other foot he
groped into space. After a minute of
this a puzzled look came into his bleary
eyes. Then as the significance slowly
dawned on him he yelled P leesh!
P’leesh! I’ve bin robbed. Thievsh!” As
he hung there Bung came tumbling out
and pulled him in from the 25ft. drop
down to the bricked yard below. “What’s
the matter?” he asked. Jimmy looked
at his rescuer stupidly. “Me hub!” he
said. “The hub o’ me wheel. I just
wanner get down off me wagon here to
shee if Biddysh orright, an’ I find shome
cow’sh pinched the hub I always put me
foot on! ”
* * * *
“Herbie”: Old Job Haystack is shaped
like an old-man bottle-tree, and when
the clobber that the girls bought him for
Nellie’s wedding arrived the strides were
inches short across the top. It was too
late to exchange or alter them, so Mum
overcame the difficulty by surrendering
her week-day corsets. With greenhide
thongs we managed to deck Job out in
the new outfit. He was pretty red about
the gills before the breakfast began, but
“If he was my husband I’d divorce him.”
"If he was mine I'd put a ring through his nose!”
the
Kotte 1
reaction to the eulogistic neighbor ly plati-
tudes. I couldn’t stand to see him suffer
any more, so I kicked him on the shins
and jerked my thumb towards the dooi.
He’s too squashed to speak when we get
outside. I had to slash the thongs o
restore his lung action before helping
him into his old dungarees, which 1 had
slipped under the seat of the bridal car.
» * * •
“E.H.S.”: “Sarina” (B. 16/6/’43) &d-
-mits his error in classing the Suffolk;
Punch as a hack, and. then claims that
“hacks that have done so well” at certain
unspecified shows somewhere in Nor
Queensland were the result of crossing
with the Suffolk Punch. None of the
show-ring judges I’ve known would ever
have allowed the progeny of a thor-
oughbred and Suffolk Punch to compete
in the hack section.
* * * *
“Camsa”: Recent Red Page references
to lack of good Australian nature-
lovers’ books recall two excellent but
little-known works by Tom Bedchambers,
known as the “Wizard of Humbug
Scrub,” his own sanctuary for wild life
Tom wrote nature studies for the old
Adelaide “Register,” and these were com-
piled into a small book with the title
Nature: Our Mother. The Education
Department bought 1000 copies. Tom sbest
work was A Nature Lover’s Notebook,
published about 1930, just after his death,
under the auspices of the Nature Lovers
League. His love and care of the wild
creatures of the bush kept him on the
bread-line all his life. Attractive as his
sanctuary was, he would not consent to
its being exploited for profit, not even to
enable him to live, for that would be
“desecrating God’s handiwork. He
could have been appointed curator of
the 125,000-acre reserve, Flinders Chase,
on Kangaroo Island, but as the Govern-
ment wanted certain pests killed off Tom
refused the job: he would not kill bird
or beast. He even had a tame tarantula
in his house. His outstanding achieve-
ment was the breeding of the Mallee
fowl, which spread his fame far beyond
Australia. He distributed many broods
among aviculturists, including a pair
which were accepted by George V in
1924. Tom was no scholar, but his
knowledge of wild life more than made
up for literary shortcomings.
“Pat Ater”: Jim Tanner, returned to
Woodheap on a prosperity visit, found
that it coincided with a welcome-home
to one of the town’s soldiers. Arrived
at the School of Arts that night he dis-
covered that he was down on the pro-
gramme for a recitation. Jim protested
his incapability to Bert Twofold, the
president. “Oh, never mind,” said Bert;
“it’s too late now to alter it. If you can t
recite just read ’em some of the war
news.”
* * * *
“8.A.”: “C. Pipe” (B. 16/6/’43) not-
withstanding, tobacco-chewing was com-
mon in Australia long ago. Every tobac-
conist sold chewing tobacco, and prac-
tically every smoker carried a piece of
twist or “pigtail” in addition to his smok-
ing plug. Cops and railway employees
who weren’t permitted to smoke while
on duty were the best customers for the
twist, but sailors, navvies, bush workers
—in fact, nearly all manual workers
tried the chew.
* * * *
“Olney St.”: Horses may rise front-
end first; I have the exception that proves
the rule. This mare gets up on her knees
like a cow. In case some Aboliar would
like to make rude remarks about her, I
hasten to add that she traces back to
Carbine on the sire’s side and The Barb
on the dam’s.
* # * *
“Aratta”: Dad came home from a
meeting of the Agricultural Society in a
black mood. “They made that old fool
Forbes president,” he announced as he
sat down to dinner. “The society will go
t’ the dogs, that’s my tip.” “Well,” said
Dave, “if they ’lected him president it
meant there was more voted for him than
did for you. What’s wrong about that?
The majority rules, don’t it?” Dad
glared across at him. “Get this into your
thick head,” he said. “If the majority of
them voted for an ole goat like Forbes
it means they’re a lot of goats like him,
too. An’ when a lot of goats has the
runnin’ of a thing it simply means that
that there thing will go to pot in short
order. That’s logic an’ commonsense.”
“Any new members this year?” Dave
asked. “No,” said his parent. “Then
they must have been goats when they
’lected you last year, seein’ they’re the
same mob. That’s logic, ain’t it?” .There
was silence as Dad savagely dug his fork
into a potato.
* * * *
“Nipper”: Our 25cwt. utility petered
out halfway across the creek. A horse
had a'go and couldn’t budge it. Then
a 14-year-old came along, appraised the
situation with shrewd, quizzical eyes, and
said his team of goats would “pull yez out
for half a nicker.” When we scoffed at
the possibility, he offered to bet us ten
bob on the side we’d be on dry land two
minutes after he’d hooked on to us. The
pull cost us a quid. One minute 16
seconds after the first whipcrack his 14
whiskered heavers were fighting over a
battered jam-tin on the bank.
* ♦ * *
“Bohemian”: Curly had kidded
Horace, the new hand, that the locality
was alive with snakes. The first night in
the hut Horace looked under his bunk
and turned back the blankets just to make
certain. The second night when Horace
had his regular foghorn going Curly
blackened a collar, put a length of black
thin string through the stud holes and
placed the collar round the ankle sticking
out the end of the bunk and then slowly
drew in the string. Feeling a cold,
slithering thing gradually coiling around
his linffC Horace let out a yell and a wild
kick to dislodge the “reptile” and made
a dive for the matches, which had been
thoughtfully secreted. Groping in the
dark for a weapon his hand closed on
something hanging on the wall; rolling
it into a ball he pounded it on the snake.
Then Curly “woke up.” “What’s the
matter?” he asked, swiftly pulling the
collar into his bunk and putting it under
his pillow. “A snake, an’ I’d have killed
it if I could’ve found the matches,” re-
plied the excited Horace. Curly lit the
lamp, and in its rays he surveyed his
Sunday suit, now a shapeless, ash-covered
mess, and the ruin of his watch, which,
after being bashed on the stone fireplace,
had fallen out of the vest pocket m
pieces. Curly never mentions the ophidian
family now.
sjc * * *
Richard Humphries must have been
pleased, if somewhat embarrassed, io
find his poem about the Seventh Divvy
published in “S. M. Herald” of 19/6/’43
and again in The Bulletin of 23/6/ 43
The thing had been in type at 252
George-street for some time, awaiting an
opportunity for publication, and the
Aboriginalities pages had gone to press
with it before the “Herald” appeared.
The delay at this office, unavoidable
under the present conditions—a flood of
verses competing for limited space
presumably misled the contributor.
THE TAMELESS ONE.
1 did not seek her in this hour.
But Beauty will not let me be.
From rain-washed sky and ram-wet flower
She mocks me with a gamin glee.
Because at dawn a surgeon’s knife
Must judge, by pain’s unpitying light,
If this machine be fit for life
My thoughts were sober things tonight.
But what does Beauty care? She slips,
Eludes me- —then, like fire, the smart
Of penitent petals on my lips,
Of plunging talons at my heart.
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
'7
qJS\JL Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting' Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.
Australian, Mercantile, Land& Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK. AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STUCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, lIENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. UTD,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb-marking Hints.
“B-gar”: Thousands of lambs die after
marking each year from malignant cedema
or tetanus. The germs are picked up in
the yards. With malignant oedema
deaths occur the day after marking,
usually without any warning symptoms.
Sometimes death is delayed, and affected
lambs lie down trembling; if forced to
move, the hind legs drag as though the
joints were locked. Tetanus victims often
linger for days, and stiffness in the legs
is noticeable. As the disease progresses
the lamb will lie down with its legs out-
stretched, jaws tightly clenched and
breathing labored.
Treatment is useless with either disease.
Minimise the risk of infection by clean-
ing marking yards thoroughly and burn-
ing all refuse. Spray the yards and
marking-rail with disinfectant; boil all
knives and instruments before use each
day and while marking dip them in an
antiseptic solution every now and then.
After each day’s marking collect tails and
other refuse and burn well away from the
yards.
Arrange mustering so that marking for
the day finishes early in order to permit
of mothering before dark. The smaller
the mob the better the mothering and
the greater percentage of lambs that will
turn up next shearing. Unmothered
lambs generally die.
Avoid marking in shearing-shed yards
for any permanent yards, for that matter);
it’s safer to erect temporary yards in
each paddock for lamb-marking pur-
poses. Don’t use tar as a wound dress-
ing but some reliable antiseptic, prefer-
ably containing a big percentage of
vegetable oil.
Dairy Mechanisation Scheme.
“Pat Ater”: The N.S.W. dairy-farm
mechanisation scheme should help the
small farmer. He can have his land
ploughed and his fodder crops sown in
double-quick time by hiring man and
machinery, and will be relieved from
much capital outlay.
The dairyman’s greatest worry is the
need to provide fodder for lean months
and recurrent droughts. The small man
is always fighting against titne and lack
of labor; his sowing and harvesting
periods come at a time when he is “up
to his neck” in peak production. Trac-
tors and machinery will do in a day what
previously took weeks.
“The 0.D.”: Wallace Skelsey, now
editor of Queensland “Country Life,” was
one of the first to see the possibilities of
mechanised farming on the N.S.W. South
Coast. About seven years ago he advo-
cated a scheme similar to that launched
by the N.S.W. Government, but there
were few listeners.
Pigs, Calves, Cows.
“Jindivick”: Where young pigs are
trough-fed have the trough divided into
sections (B. 9/6/’43). Stakes and cross-
bars prevent larger and stronger pigs
from lying along the trough. Drive
stakes in a couple of feet out from the
trough on each side at intervals of a foot.
Then fasten crossbars securely from
side to side about nine inches or a foot
high so that each porker is confined to
one feeding bay. Crosspieces in the
trough itself keep snouts in their own
section.
To keep a trough clean make a plug-
hole and insert a bung that can be con-
veniently removed for thorough flushing
at frequent intervals. Scours from food
troughs will set young pigs back weeks,
and often knock all the profit out of a
litter.
Provide good shelter for young calves.
If you must tie them to a fence, see that
they have cover against cold wind and
rain at night. Move them frequently and
avoid muddy places. If they tend to
scour,» a little pollard mixed in their milk
will correct the trouble. Where calves
are badly scoured and weak place them
in a shed on dry bedding and feed on
egg flip until they recover sufficiently,
then turn them loose in a small paddock.
See that feeding buckets are kept
clean and that feed is fresh. Calves, like
all babies, are susceptible to the bacteria
that thrive on stale milk and dirty uten-
sils. Cold and wet housing conditions
lower their bodily resistance to ills and
infections.
Where yards and creeks are boggy
there will always be trouble with low-
“When Colin was a baby ’e grew so fast along the ground we thought
’e was a goanna."
hung udders of newly-calved cows.
Nothing upsets a milker more than sore
and cracked teats. Wash teats and udder
in warm water and Condy’s crystals,
rub petroleum jelly well into them and
then take care and a little extra time
over the milking. Application of medi-
cated jelly before turning out assists.
When udders break out in boils a blood
tonic is indicated, and a dose of Epsom
salts will probably get results.
Lemons in Victoria.
“Myrrhee”: Lemons usually bear two
crops a year in southern Victoria, but the
summer crop is lost in most inland dis-
tricts, where frosts are heavy. Avoid frost
pockets and choose tops of ridges. Plant
as close to September as possible.
Put ball-rooted trees straight into the
ground, but cut back roots and tops of
bare-rooted trees severely before planting.
G. W. Gayford and W. A. Rolfe, orchard
supervisors, consider the Lisbon type,
Doncaster Improved, the best; it isn’t
as thorny as the original Lisbon and
bears well. As trees develop, remove up-
right shoots frdm the centre and thin for
of bearing shoots.
Manure liberally each year with poul-
try or stable manure and up to 41b. of
sulphate of ammonia or nitrate of soda
for each tree every year. Blood and
blood-and-bone are useful if there’s no
animal manure. Tick beans, field peas,
tares or lupins planted in March and
ploughed under in August add nitrogen
and humus to the soil.
A windbreak of Finns radiata and
Cupressus Lambertiana horizontalis, Bft.
to 10ft. apart, makes a good shelter belt.
Shallow soils need water every couple
of weeks in summer. Keep down weeds
with disc and harrows in early spring, but
hand-cultivate close to the trees because
of their surface-rooting habit.
Early Vegetables.
“P. Ater”: June-July is the time to
sow tomato seed under glass or hessian
for planting early crops. Along the
N.S.W. coast the seed germinates well
in boxes or seedbeds of light porous soil,
preferably bush sand. Rig an adjustable
cover against a fence, to be rolled back
during daylight. Close them in well where
frosts are heavy. -Along frame constructed
tent-fashion, about a foot above the
bed, is best —the cover can be rolled
both ways. Keep the soil constantly
moist till germination, and don’t neglect
watering afterwards. Give the young-
sters a few hours’ sunlight each day when
they appear, and gradually harden them
till they can take it all day.
Coastal potato-planting begins in July.
The earlier beds are ready the better. In
poor and light soil there is need for
added humus worked in until it is spade-
deep. Old, cool dairy manure is best.
Add a ration of No. 5 fertiliser along
the rows, and turn it over and in. There’s
no need for lime in growing potatoes, but
work the soil fairly deeply to allow of
root development and deep planting. In
light, sandy stuff place the tuber-sets as
low as eight inches below the surface.
This obviates hilling. Get the manure
down to where the feeding roots are.
Small, round “marbles” put aside from
recent crops make good “seed” if planted
whole.
Tomato Wilt.
“Sarina”: A claim by F. P. Butter-
worth, of Murray Bridge (S.A.), that a
teaspoonful of phenyl in two pints of
water used as a spray three times a week
will cure wilt is being investigated at the
Waite Institute, S.A.
If phenyl will check wilt when it is
established the discovery will be of first
importance. Wilt has been preventable,
not curable. It exists in several forms.
The characteristic symptom is a droop-
ing of the plant or, in fusarium wilt, a
yellowing of the lower leaves spreading
upwards. The plant must be pulled out
and burned to prevent spread.
Growing tomatoes in the same ground
/ year after year is a mistake ; so are toma-
toes following potatoes. Virgin land
every year is best. If possible, save your
own seed from healthy tomatoes or dip
bought seed in disinfectant —one part of
mercuric chloride in 3000 parts of water
immediately before planting. This is
deadly poison.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kyabra”: After skinning the beast
spread the hide out in the usual way,
then pull the paunch into the centre of
the hide and fold the edges over it. Heat
of the paunch draws the blood, and only
a few handfuls of coarse salt will be
necessary to finish a job which usually
takes, 41b. or 51b. of salt.
“Myrrhee”: To dehorn calves clip hair
round horn bud and coat surrounding
skin with vaseline; wrap the caustic
pencil in tough paper to protect the
fingers. Rub horn bud with fine sand-
paper till the surface becomes moist, just
short of bleeding. Then rub on the
caustic. Repeat two or three times every
few minutes till blood appears. Take
care that the calf is not exposed to rain
for a day or two as the caustic may run
down the face and injure the skin. If
skin is burned apply a weak solution of
vinegar and water at once.
“Canbelego”: Keep a record of the
herd. It’s the only sure method of de-
termining the real value of a cow ; indi-
cates whether cows are off feed, and thus
warns of approaching illness, provides a
guide to the best feeding for each cow
and means regularity and thoroughness.
“Sarina”; In South Africa the com-
post heap is a prized source of farm
manure. Wheat straws, cane-trash, dry
grass and animal manure are all rotted
down to compost. Vegetable matter is
soaked in water until it is saturated, after
which it is spread out in heaps 12in. deep
and 6ft. wide. Then the straw is covered
with Sin. of stable manure. Alternate
layers of straw and horse manure respec-
tively are used to build up a heap 6ft.
high. Air and moisture assist fermenta-
tion and the stuff is good compost in less
than three months.
“Plane Creek”: Cut the blackberry
bushes well back and turn goats into the
paddock. They’ll nip off the new shoots
as fast as they appear, and in the end
the pest will give up. You can’t beat
goats for keeping Sida retusa down
either.
“L.C.”: Maoriland experts are testing
sweet blue lupin as a replacement for
rape crops. Fattening value is superior
to rape, and stock find the lupins palat-
able ; ordinary lupins are too bitter.
“Mt. Boppy”: A ration for laying
hens? Two parts pollard to one of bran,
with 6 i p.c. meatmeal, is good. Add
loz. of salt to each 51b. of dry mash.
Dissolve salt in water or milk used to
mix the mash. If milk is used reduce
meatmeal by i\ p.c. Feed according to
appetite and provide plenty of green
stuff.
“A.K.8.”: “Agro’s” statement (B.
16/6/’43) that “boiled rabbit is good for
egg production” is misleading. Fowls
need a balanced ration, and 10 p.c, or
12 p.c. meat is all that is needed; more
will give liver trouble. Boiled wheat is
utterly useless as fowl feed; soaked
wheat, yes, or, better still, sprouted
wheat.
“C.S.”: The U.S. Department of Agri-
culture has been looking to labor-saving
methods of using phenothiazine for
worms in sheep. It advises mixing one
part phenothiazine with nine parts of salt
and leaving in open containers sheltered
from the weather. Add a few handfuls
of grain and the sheep will soon become
accustomed to the taste. Another method
is to put the drug in feed—for a mature
sheep about an ounce to a pound of
moistened grain. The jummies can be
easily treated in groups of about ten at
one feed trough.
“Petermac”; Ersatz substitutes for the
jumbuck’s fleece are making little head-
way in America. Their unpopularity with
the buying public has caused the with-
drawal of the Government’s regulation
forbidding manufacture of “all-wool”
goods.


Tr~'ini TO THOSE ENGAGED IN
r KJbrL essential primary production
mmm
* • <
VACUUM GUIDE
A compendium of use-
ful information for the
Man on the Land.
<r
DIESEL & OIL ENGINES
Their history, design,
and manufacture —fuels
and lubricants.
■
TRUCK MANUAL
Solves the problem of
“How to run a truck for
profit and economy.”
A, limited number of these
Instructional booklets have been
made available for essentia! pri-
mary producers-FRE E-upon
receipt of written application.
In view of the acute shortage of
paper supplies, you are asked
only to apply for any particular
booklet if you have a definite
need for it.
These instructional booklets
have been written by experts
in their particular spheres and
maintain the consistent high
standard of all Vacuum books.
Write for your copy to-day, using
coupon at foot of this advert.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
IftiMsnalititf
ill
•»
r k
. y
INSIDE INFORMATION
The inside story of your
Car its construction
and operation.
GAS PRODUCERS
An invaluable manual
for the owner-operator
of a producer gas unit.
""■J
LITTLE EMMA
A day-to-day descrip-
tion of a chick’s early
development.
WELFARE of the FLOCK
Control of flies, tick
and lice by Dipping,
Jetting and Swabbing.
Ots Sfm)V!«4
OIL SPRAYING
A comprehensive spray-
programme to care for
orchard insect pests.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
G.P.O. Box No. 4507, Melbourne
Please post to me the hoohlet(s) marked X below.
The Bulletin.
M 310
Vacuum Guide Diesel &. Oil Engines.
Truck Manual , Inside Information
Gas Producers Welfare of the Flock.
Oil Spraying Little Emma
Name
Address.
Occupation
f*y- 'js-- s’®
5C'?TOlw«II
B'lEJTTras
itm*
mgc
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for June or July, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Nazi Air Mystery.
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
One of the great mysteries of this war
now is being cleared up. The big ques-
tion is whether the apparent decline in
Germany’s once mighty, air power is
genuine.
One theory attributes the German air-
power slump to shortages of fuel and
lubricants. Another theory insists that
Hitler is building up a powerful hidden
reserve of ’planes to become the spear-
head for Germany’s next great offensive.
Information now is available from
official sources to clear up the mystery.
The decline is genuine.
Information from abroad indicates a
complete lack of evidence that Hitler has
any powerful hidden air reserve. Official
opinion attributes the slump in Ger-
many’s air power only in small part to
shortages of fuel, and mainly to actual
defeats and the attrition of three and
one-half years of war.
Germany, in launching her air attack
in Europe, claimed to have more than
24,000 combat ’planes and a monthly
production capacity of at least 5000.
After 17 months of fighting Allied
officials estimated that Germany’s first-
line force of combat ’planes had been
reduced to 12,000, Now, after two years
more of struggle, Allied estimates of
Germany’s first-line ’plane strength range
from 4700 to 7000, with 6000 as the most
commonly accepted figure.
Today, Britain alone has a far bigger
number of first-line ’planes than has Ger-
many, The air forces that the United
States can send against her ultimately
will be bigger. Officials believe that
Russia’s air power will become greater
than Germany’s, if it is not greater than
Germany’s today.
Germany now faces a complete
reversal of position in the air. Once she
was able to concentrate air power at any
point for a knockout. Now her dwind-
ling force must be dispersed to meet
attack along three vast fronts.
Germany, once the air attacker, is
almost completely on the defensive. As
a result, her whole war plant is taking a
terrible pounding.
Here is a picture of the way the Ger-
man attack has faded while the bombing
offensive against her has gained: Ger-
many dropped 42,000 tons of bombs on
Britain in 1940, 24,000 tons in 1941 and
3000 tons in 1942. The British dropped
13,000 tons on German-held Europe in
1940, 31,000 tons in 1941 and 50,000 tons
in 1942. And now the Americans are
joining in with daylight poundings.
Germany’s power to turn out ’planes
is being crippled. Plants making aircraft
are special targets. The big Focke-
Wulf factory at Bremen has been hit
repeatedly.
Germany’s production of ’planes now
is estimated to have fallen well below
2000 a month, a minor fraction of
the output of either Britain or the
United States. And Germany is trying
to turn out more fighter ’planes and
fewer bombers. This means she is sac-
rificing her power to strike in order to
build up her power to defend.
Germany’s battle losses are rising.
More than 3200 of her ’planes were shot
down last year over Europe and Africa.
High mortality of German ’planes from
wear, tear and accident helps to turn
the tide of air war against Germany.
Germany is losing the air war. She
probably faces decisive defeat in the air
this year. But final victory for the Allies
involves two jobs. The first is to finish
smashing Germany’s offensive air power.
That may be done in 1943. The second
is to knock out the German Air Force’s
ability to fight defensively over German-
held territory. Officials expect big gains
this year on that much harder job.
Germany now faces the necessity to
fight on against nations having progres-
sively greater power in the air. That fact
is one big reason for the Allies’ confi-
dence that Germany will lose the war.
Norway Lives for Revolt.
[John Haughland, a recently escaped Nor-
wegian, describes life under the Nazis; the
article condensed from N.Y. “Times Maga-
zine.] _
Norway, physically, is still much the
same old country it was before the tramp
of German boots was first heard in
Oslo’s streets. But the people living in
Norway are a different people entirely.
From the very first we had to stand
by and watch as the Germans looted
our country of food. Gradually, we saw
our freedom destroyed. Our press was
strangled or controlled. Ninety leading
newspapers were ordered to stop publi-
cation, and many of our best-known
writers and editors were thrown into gaol
—where they still are to-day. We saw
our country’s civil administration handed
over to a small gang of professional
crooks and traitors led by Quisling. We
saw concentration camps being built
throughout the length and breath of Nor-
way, and then watched them being filled
with thousands of loyal Norwegians. We
learned how brutally our husbands,
fathers, sons are treated there.
Perhaps the most terrible thing we
had to watch was when the Germans
began their reprisals against innocent
Norwegians. These sometimes followed
the British commando raids on our
shores, or some act of sabotage com-
mitted by one of our patriots. Entire
villages were burnt down and the popu-
lations sent away—the menfolk to Ger-
many as prisoners of war, the women
in one direction and the children in
another. We saw some 250 of our best
patriots executed or killed in German
prisons. Between the beginning of last
spring and the end of last summer hun-
dreds of Norwegians —women as well
as men —were tortured, some of them
to death. . .
Take my own town, a small provincial
town of only 3000 inhabitants. What
happened there after the Nazis came is
probably typical of what happened
nearly everywhere in Norway.
The first upset came when the Ger-
mans ordered the local papers to knuckle
down to German policy.
In the autumn of 1940 our Town
Council and Mayor were replaced by a
handful of local men who, for one rea-
son or another, had turned traitor. We
also had two or three German officials
who represented the Gestapo, watched
over the town’s behavior and dealt out
occasional punishment —none of us had
learned to hold our tongues yet and
of food formed the mam top.cs of con-
versation in my town.
piS? S’w'etnoVoS
OuToZ
showed mostly German pictures, which
bored and disgusted us. So people began
staying at home more and more in
closely knit family groups, where the
latest gossip could safely be exchanged.
We were learning that we not only had
to fear qu i s ii ng s or semi-quislings—
striped ones we called them—but also
those careless friends of ours who
couldnt hold their tongues,
Our town had its quislings too, ot
course. Realisation of this was sorne-
thing of a shock to my townspeople, who
are a pretty indejnd self :
respecting lot. In a way it was fascinat
mg to see how a quisling was born.
Rarely, as we learned, is a quisling one
of those sinister creatures portrayed an
the movies who had been plotting toi
years for the overthrow of his country,
He is nearly always just a weak man
afraid of losing his job.
In the autumn of 1941 a blow which
struck at the heart ot everyone in the


WE PURCHASE/
ORES-CONCENTRATES
and Other Materials containing
GOLD) SILVER, COPPER®
Prompt Settlement at Best Available Rates.
Write Tom?
to our
Office: 25 O'Connell St.. Sydney. 'Phone, 86371.
Melbourne Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne. 'Phone, M 4301.
Works; Port Kemblo, N.S.W. 'Phone, Port Kemblo 72,
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING ANP SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTP.
community started the spark of hatred
and anger which continued to spread
and grow like wildfire. One of our
young men was taken out and shot for
underground activity, the Germans said.
This was the town’s first execution.
Here was a young man everyone had
known, related to half the families in
the community, liked and respected by
all. The town was paralysed. When the
news spread, people stopped dead in the
streets, unbelief and horror in their eyes.
This couldn’t be true, everyone said.
Why, only yesterday he was laughing
with us over Optimists decided it
was all a bluff on the part of the Ger-
mans ; that some day the boy would re-
turn. But when the boy’s parents were
informed next day that their son’s ashes
Would be returned to them after the war,
even the optimists had to give in to
reality.
Half the townspeople went into
mourning. All of us went about silent,
deeply shocked, beginning to hate the
Nazis. Our attitude toward the Ger-
mans in our town changed from correct-
ness to sullenness, even rudeness. What
had happened chased away all illusions.
We now knew the nature of the beast.
In a way, this young man did not die
in vain.
The main topic of conversation in my
town, and it is typical, was the short-
age of food. That, and ways of getting
around rationing. For without the black
market no one can live in Norway. So
during the long evenings with nothing to
and after sundown the towns are
dead —we used to sit around exchanging
gossip about selling milk.
Occasionally a curfew would be im-
posed as punishment and everyone had
to be inside by 8 p.m. And from time
to time one of our friends would be
arrested and sent away to a concentra-
tion camp, perhaps because he had
talked carelessly. So we learned to hold
our tongues. Toward the end we even
avoided talking to one another in the
streets.
That is the superficial picture of my
town under occupation. People ask me
what are the signs. of revolt. Revolt
with what? We do not have the weapons.
No, we cannot revolt now. When our
allies come —then we shall ! We will re-
volt with pitchforks and butcher knives,
if necessary, but revolt we shall.
This is realised by everyone in my
country. It is knowledge carried inside
us. It gives us a reason for existing.
It is almost a religion—this belief that
one day we shall rise up and give the
Germans what they deserve.
Willkie’s “One World.”
(Condensed from comment by Paul Mallon in
“Journal American’’ on Wendell Winkle’s “One
World.”)
Mr. Willkie has discovered the fact
that airplanes fly fast these days, and he
has erroneously jumped to the conclu-
sion that China, Mesopotamia, Russia
and India are practically living in our
backyard.
Mr. Willkie assumes that, inasmuch as
you can get to Timbuktu quickly, Tim-
buktu is the American way of life and
a one world with us, sharing our ideals
of democracy and our Christian way of
life —and is practically the United States.
What Mr. Willkie forgot is that China
is still China and Timbuktu is still Tim-
buktu. Their peoples still believe in
all ways as they did before the ’plane.
Perhaps this communication facility
will eventually bring them around to our
beliefs. Perhaps the Buddhists of India
and China will be converted to Chris-
tianity in the end, or perhaps they may
convert us.
We have lived next door to Mexico for
generations. You could hop there over-
night, even before Mr. Willkie went
around the world in an army ’plane
under Mr, Roosevelt’s auspices. But that
did not bring Mexico any nearer to our
way of thinking. Mexico is not the
United States.
In the peace conference Mr. Willkie,
et al., will discover China is still China
and Russia is still Russia, no matter how
fast you can get there. This may be “one
world,” as it has always been, but it is
still made up of a lot of different, com-
petitive, eagerly commercial, inherently
nationalistic people.
The Dogmas Were Wrong.
(Condensed from an article by John L. Childs
and George S. Counts in N.Y. “Post .”)
The revolutionary dogmas hold that
socialism cannot be built in one country.
The facts show that the Soviet Union has
built a powerful socialist State.
The revolutionary dogmas hold that
class connections are stronger than
national loyalties. The facts show that
the great mass of the workers give first
loyalty to their country.
The revolutionary dogmas hold that
capitalist societies will inevitably divide
into two antagonistic classes —the owners
and the workers. The facts show that
the economic classes of a modern in-
dustrial society are many and various,
and by no means mutually exclusive.
The revolutionary dogmas hold that
the capitalist States will make common
front against their socialist enemies. The
facts show that Britain and the United
States are giving the Soviet Union in-
dispensable aid in her struggle to survive.
The revolutionary dogmas hold that
the capitalist democracies are torn by
such inner contradictions that they are
bound to destroy themselves. The facts
show that Britain and the United States
will emerge from this war as two power-
ful nations destined, not to collapse, but
to exert great influence in the post-war
world.
The Soviet Union has already suffered
much because of her adherence to these
premises in her relations with foreign
countries. She will not be oriented for
peace until she banishes them from her
outlook.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
Under the leadership of a white-bearded
colonel, 250 Greek soldiers, banded together in
the first Hellenic commando, have completed
their first campaign as a unit and are returning
eastward from Tunisia for further special train-
ing for the liberation of their homeland. These
Greeks, 80 per cent, of them former officers,
have been fighting since February, first as for-
ward reconnaissance for the French force and
later with New Zealanders who fought in Greece
and Crete. In the two months’ period they
earned recognition as the best cooks in the
North African forces as well as admiration
from New Zealanders and French for their
fighting ability. They were distinctive in the
polyglot Allied Army because of their full
beards, dark red balaclava wool helmets and
commando boots. — N.Y. “Times’ 1 ’ war corre-
spondent.
* * * *
The Japanese aggressors, like the Nazis, have
been able to fight their war on fronts far from
the real roots of their war power. If we cap-
ture Tunisia and even Italy in the European
theatre, the heart of Nazi fighting strength—the
war heart from which troops, ’planes and
manufactured munitions flow—would still be
beyond our reach. Both Tokyo and Berlin are
waging buffer wars. They have made us con-
centrate our efforts defensively on territories
(Africa, New Guinea, etc.) which are of little
consequence to them. Our victories in New
Guinea and Tunisia, therefore, are largely local
in character and in no way decisive. — U.S.
syndicate columnist Paul Mallon.
* * * *
Dual-purpose aircraft carriers will start roll-
ing off the ways of the Henry J. Kaiser ship-
yards at Vancouver, 8.C., at the rate of six
a month by the end of this year, Mr. Kaiser
has assured President Roosevelt. The new
carriers are not so large as those which have
been built recently and can be built much more
rapidly. Their overall length of 514 feet com-
pares with the 542-foot length of the old Lang-
ley, first of the American aircraft carriers,
which was sunk in the South Pacific about six
months ago. In water-line length the new
series of carriers will be 487 feet. The dual-
purpose feature permits the craft not only to
be a carrier and to launch and care for its
own ’planes but also to act as an airplane
transport for naval duty. It is a naval secret
how many ’planes will be carried. Adaptation
of the Kaiser cargo shipbuilding technique to
naval craft is considered to give an immense
advantage to the United States in turning out
aircraft carriers, which are of especial use
against the Japanese. In the Pacific, several
decisive battles have been fought without sur-
face craft of either side having come within
gunshot of each other. Carrier-borne ’planes
have constituted the entire striking forces.
The American carrier force has been depleted
by the sinking of four of them —the Yorktown,
Lexington, Wasp and Hornet, in addition to
the Langley, converted as an aircraft tender. —
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.''’
* * # *
The United States is shipping food and equip-
ment to at least 32 different fronts, some of
them 17,000 miles from points of origin.—
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“When do we fight?” asked Earl Browder,
leader of the Russia First party in America,
recently. Marines, airmen and soldiers in the
Solomons, in Tunisia, American bombers in
Europe, brave men of the American merchant
marine, men battling in the Aleutians, Ameri-
cans who were at Dieppe—when do we fight?
During the last war this same Browder had to
be thrown into gaol by the U.S. Government
for his opposition to the war. “When de we
fight?” Browder has only been a we American
since Germany attacked Russia. — Benjamin
peCasseres, in N.Y. “Journal American.”
s*c #
One of the first needs of the Chinese Army
hospitals on the Salween front is one ther-
mometer for each doctor. At present there are
only six to a dozen for each division and no
way to replace broken ones. Scalpels are used
up rapidly or get to a state where they can
no longer be sharpened. Operating scissors
wear out. There is only one pair of forceps
for eye operations, only one X-ray, plus
generator, in a base hospital five days’ walk
from the front and only three pairs of dental
forceps.— Brookes Atkinson, in N.Y. “Times.”
* * * »
Every 44 minutes of every day a full carload
of war material rolls away from the doors of
Federal prisons. This pace has been set by
thousands of Federal and State prisoners in an
intense voluntary war effort. Currently, atten-
tion is focused chiefly on an order for 1,000,000
bomb noses. When the call for “all-out” effort
was sounded, prisoners in the Atlanta Peniten-
tiary reacted in a body, many of them offering
to work double shifts. There, as at other insti-
tutions, the 48-hour week was junked and a
longer schedule was adopted—voluntarily. Soon
an inmate, finding he had been so busy he had
failed to cross off some days on the calendar
in his cell, wrote Director Bennett: “Things
are humming so fast I don’t have time to do
my time.”— V. C. Jones, in "Wall-street
Journal.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
ROSEN, John, formerly of Bendigo, last
heard of in Orange, New South Wales, who,
if alive, would be aged about 70 years. Son
of Herman (or Gottfried) Rosen and Margaret
Rosen. Would he or his children (if any) or
anyone knowing of him or them please com-
municate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne?
SCOTT.—Estate of WILLIAM SCOTT, late of
Wellington (N.Z.), formerly a labourer, but lat-
terly a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in
boxing circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at
one time worked on the N.S.W. railways and
the Woronora Dam). Would Jack or D’Arcy
Scott, brothers of the abovenamed, or anyone
knowing their present whereabouts or anyone
claiming kinship with the deceased, please com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, N.Z.?
Public Notice.
GEORGE ADAM HALL—WILL any person
knowing the whereabouts of GEQRGE ADAM
HALL, formerly of Pitt Street, Adelaide but
lately of Whyalla, please communicate with the
undersigned? The matter is urgent and to Mr.
Hall’s advantage.—ROMlLLY, HARRY &
CO., Solicitors, Mutual Life Chambers, Gren-
fell Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
JPiea se
B
«s
-M
A
h
letfamilies
children buy any
available
BOITRNVILLE
COCOA
Owing to the needs of the Services there is insufficient
Bournville Cocoa to meet all civilian
requirements. So we ask .. . please let
families with kiddies buy any
available Bournville Cocoa
. . . the Cocoa with the real
chocolaty flavour which is \
so good for growing children.
cm»iw
-t'
aid3s!
Made bv CADBURY
im
m
f--*sgsgaiyfi
s
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always iresh . .
Always smooth
«IW
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years* Reputation for Quality
50 64 a
Answers to Correspondents
Same and address must appear on the M.ti. I Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.E.: The cat’s coming back 0.C.M.:
Smooth out those dashes... .A.E.W. : Both
lightweights 1.D.H.: Flat and bumpy as a
punctured tyre F.E.: “I have gazed into
the rosebud with a thrill of real surprise.”
Well, it’s an old poetic custom; but couldn t
you put it a bit less banally?... .K.P.McG.:
Anybody who doesn’t eat butter can be par-
doned for bursting into a song of triumph when
the stuff’s rationed T.L.G.: Dreadful doings
can’t be put down by dreadful doggerel ....
M.J.: What’s the profit in making such a
compound as “strong - powerful”? H.R.:
Make it a par K.C.: Worth trying else-
where T.L.: “Modern Civilisation” is appro-
priately excruciating... .P.D.: “I bring fresh
showers for the thirsting flowers.” Shelley did,
too S.F.: “The Lamp” splutters... .P. 8.:
ihere’s no drama in a cliche. Devil-shapes
invariably grimace “in hideous glee”
J.S.McD.: Feeble. ...8.V.5.: It belongs in
an American mag M.A.L.: “Winter Day:
Paris” is only little less interesting than “Wash-
ing Day: Pymble.”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Cry for Justice, by Upton Sin-
clair.—3353.
To buy Handbook for 1925 Rugby Four. —
3355.
To buy Douay Bible, new or second-hand.
—3356.
Words of verses “The Bottle Queen,” com-
mencing “We bred her in the stable and trained
her after dark.”—3354.
Information Sought.
(1) To what pension is the widow of a
staff-sergeant entitled? (2) Is there any differ-
ence between the pesnion for widows of privates
and sergeants?
(1) The rate of war pension for a widow of
a staff-sergeant whose death has been accepted
by the Repatriation Commission as attributable
to war service or materially contributed to
thereby is £5 per fortnight. This rate is
operative as from May 6, 1943. (2) No.
(1) Is Perthville, N.S.W., anywhere near
Parkes? (2) Is the district good for apple-
growing? (3) Approximate price of orchards
an acre?
(1) Perthville is five miles from Bathurst on
the main Western line, and about 125 miles
from Parkes. (2) It is not so considered. (3)
About £lOO per acre would be reasonable for
an orchard in good condition in one of the
better fruitgrowing districts.
What places in Australia are named after
Matthew Flinders, and their positions?
Flinders River—flowing into the Gulf of
Carpentaria. Flinders County—in South Aus-
tralia, over on the Cape Catastrophe side.
Flinders Bay—near Cape Leeuwin, and in
former times a great place for karri and
jarrah. Flinders Group—situated off the n.-e.
coast just north of the 14 deg. lat. Cape
Flinders—on the n.-e. coast of Australia in
lat. 14 deg. llmin. ssec. Flinders Point—in
the harbor of Port Phillip, between Points
Lonsdale and Nepean. Flinders Passage—not
far distant from Cape York.
Brief Answers.
N.H.; The free railway pass issued to Parlia-
mentarians does not entitle them to concessions
in railway refreshment rooms.. . .W.G.D.:
Cogito ergo sum is Latin for “I think, there-
fore I exist” M.P.; Information to be had
from the Commanding Officer, No. 3 Recruiting
Centre, Creek-street, Brisbane... .SX.M.: Con-
sult J. Young, Royal Chambers, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .T.L.: Jack Johnson won the
world’s heavyweight championship from Burns
on December 26, 1908. Johnson himself was
later defeated by Jess Willard on April 5, 1915,
at Havana, Cuba... .G. 8.: To have songs and
music made copyright in Sydney, get in touch
with Copyright Department, Commonwealth
Bank Building, 3 Martin-place J.M.J.:
Name of Australian cruiser-tank type has not
yet been decided J.P.H.: Information un-
obtainable J.H.: The poem “The Wonders
of the Lane” is by Ebenezer Elliott, 1781-1849,
known as the “Corn Law rhymer.” A copy
may be found in The Aldine Speaker, by
Alfred H. Miles, at the Public Library, N.S.W.
W.J.L.: Valve failure does .not usually
cause damage to other receiver components
E.P.: Try Tyrrell’s, 281 George Street, Sydney.
BP • Last heard of Jack Johnson was still
hale and hearty in Los Angeles, U.S.A. He
was born at Galveston, Texas, on March 31,
1878 J.R.V.: The poem commencing “Give
us men” has three stanzas. It appears
in Werner’s Readings and Recitations, No. 47,
pp. 163-4 H.P.: Winners of the Caulfield Cup
between 1914-39 were: 1914, Uncle Sam; 1915,
Lavendo; 1916, Shepherd King; 1917, Bron-
zetti; 1918, King Offa; 1919, Lucknow; 1920,
Eurythmic; 1921, Violoncello; 1922, Whittier;
1923, Wynette; 1924, Purser; 1925, Whittier;
1926, Mimfred; 1927, Textile; 1928, Maple;
1929, High Syce; 1930, Amounis; 1931, Denis
Boy; 1932, Rogilla; 1933, Gaine Carrington;
1934, Journal; 1935, Palfresco; 1936, North-
wind; 1937, The Trump; 1938, Buzalong;
1939, Rivette T.M.: No standard card
authority mentions a poker hand to beat an
ace-high routine flush. A full hand beats a
flush E.K.: Yes, there are flushes in cnb-
bage.


"THEY WHO NATIONALISE INDUSTRY NATIONALISE
THEMSELVES," soys Company Chairman.
At the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of Prestige, Limited, in Melbourne, the
Chairman, Mr. Geo. G. Foletta, before moving the adoption of the Report and Balance
Sheet, paid tribute to the memory of the late Chairman of the Company, Mr. George
Peacock. Mr. Foletta then went on to say :
I am addressing my remarks not only to
Shareholders and Employees, and here I would
like to say that I look upoii our employees as
partners in our undertaking, but also to that
other most important portion of the Company’s
business—the general public, and particularly
to those amongst the general public who are
determined that post-war Australia shall be a
better Australia. These people are classified
neither by wealth nor poverty, but are found
in all strata of our social system, working
classes, middle classes and moneyed classes —just
good, honest, straight-shooting Australians who
have one aim in post-war —fuller opportunities
and brighter prospects for every person who
is prepared to work.
We are reaching a stage in this war, we sin-
cerely hope and believe, when we can and must
give some thought to post-war problems..
Heretofore we have been so rightly and busily
occupied in diverting all our energies and re-
sources to winning the war that neither as
individuals nor Industrialists have we counted
any sacrifice too great. We have seen busi-
nesses controlled and reduced, private enter-
prise shackled almost to the point of exter-
mination in our effort to fight the war and
build a great industrial machine, yet we have
not counted the cost, but when we win the
war it is only through healthy Industry and
enterprise that we can hold the peace and fulfil
our National ideals. Is it not time, then, that
both we and our Government gave a little more
consideration towards preserving the great indus-
trial structure of our country? The wery heart
of Democracy is freedom of private enterprise,
and with that freedom of enterprise goes, hand
in hand, the freedom of the individual. There
has been, lately, far too much vicious propa-
ganda aimed at dividing, rather than weld-
ing our people into one united whole,
propaganda designed to make our people be-
lieve that Industry is something apart from
them, that Industry is some big monster which
for generations has been sucking their life-
blood, until today, unfortunately, many people
f VC , sccret 'y delighted by any move which
further controls, embarrasses or impoverishes
Industry. They say “Let us nationalise Indus-
try, but they foolishly forget, nor do the
propagandists remind them, that when they
nationalise Industry, being part of Industry,
they nationalise themselves.
Under nationalised Industry there would be
only one employer—the Government. If we
did not like our employer we could not change
him. If we did not like the money he paid
there would be little we could do about it, and
still less satisfaction in telling a soulless bureau-
cracy what we thought of it —even if allowed.
No! With nationalisation would go every
vestige of personal freedom, and we, the indi-
viduals, would become simply pawns in the
game.
Organised American Labor has already seen
this great weakness in Nationalisation, and,
whilst demanding an improvement in Democ-
racy, it says, in effect, “Hands off private enter-
prise and the freedom of the individual.”
If our post-war reconstruction is going to be
based (and there is no other way) on private
enterprise, surely it is time that both we, as
thinking Australians, and our Government
began to give consideration to the health
of that bastion upon which our whole
post-war superstructure depends. Australian
Industry has, under the pressure of threatened
invasion, grown to proportions hitherto never
dreamt possible. It is a credit to both private
enterprise and Government co-operation, but in
the main it is an unhealthy war-time boom
industry, which neither Australia nor Australians
want in peace-time. Nevertheless, to make pos-
sible this wonderful achievement of which we
are justly proud, peace-time Industry has been
greatly disorganised. Much of its plant is
obsolete through the impossibility of obtain-
ing replacement and inadequate allowable allow-
ances for depreciation. Again, much industry
is severely impoverished, otten to the point of
embarrassment, by taxation, whilst the value of
many of its reserves is severely reduced by
inflation, and from the meagre incomes that
are left after heavy Company and personal
taxation Industrialists will have little, if any-
thing, left towards the re-establishment of
Industry on a healthy peace-time basis. This is
not said by way of complaint—for who can
count cost or measure sacrifices against those
our heroic men are making?—but it is said to
draw attention to the parlous future confronting
our whole Industrial organisation upon which
alone our post-war prosperity depends.
Is it not time, therefore, that we began to
give some consideration to ways and means of
enabling our peace-time industries to repair
their stiattered structures?
A united people, healthy private enterprise
and co-operation between employee and em-
ployer are a far better basis on which to build
a future Australia than all the untried academic
formulas of soothsayers and theorists.
Mr. Gough, General Manager, drew attention
to an outstanding reorganisation and production
effort in the establishment of a large section
for the manufacturing of thousands of Supply
and Bomb-dropping Parachutes. The Com-
pany weaves the fabric from materials which
were previously used for the production of
high-grade hosiery.
In addition to its other large defence activi-
ties the Company was producing Mosquito
Netting, which is playing such an important
part in the prevention of tropical diseases
amongst our troops. All employees had enthusi-
astically entered into this work, and the manage-
ment greatly appreciated their co-operation.
Mr. Gough further said he hoped and trusted
that the company’s peace-time clientele, the
wonten of Australia, whose confidence Prestige
had been so proud to hold, would find some
pleasure and pride in the fact that the sacrifices
they had been called upon to make in giving
up luxurious hosiery and lingerie had, through
the diversion of the same materials, machinery
and labour, been of very real value in saving
the lives of our gallant men. He sincerely
hoped that the time was not far distant when
the' Company would be able to repay our
womenfolk by the production once again of
even more beautiful aids to their natural charm.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AMD SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
ale.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 185,973 10 p.c. = 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ ~150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus. £20,000 .. .. 1.471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1.581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000. . 1,556,864
1936.. 234 474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000. . 1,616.338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 ~ ~ 156.250 n. oqk qgq
To Staff Fund, £lO,OOO } 95,47 a 1.805, 96-.
1939.. 290,286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
1940. . 294,430 10 ~ ~ 200,000 \ q . 4.r0 1 909 499
To staff fund, £lO,OOO j 84,400 1,999,4-8
1941.. 364,639 10 p.c.'= 200,000 164,639 2,164,067
Written oft plantations, £35,000.. 2,129,067
Docking & repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
1942.. 411,564 10 p.c. = 200.000 211.564 2,490,631
1943.. 506,863 10 „ ~ 200,000 306,863 2,797,494
During the year “some shipping losses
were sustained by enemy action, but
same were covered by insurance.” And
instead of the co.’s own insurance fund
dropping as a result, with branch and
other reserves it rose by £305,399, a
record figure. But, as in the previous
term, part of this increase may be due
to the merging of the accounts of
branches in occupied territories with the
parent’s figures, and to the extent that
reserve increases represent accumulations
of past earnings, the “Wild Cat’s” profit
figure is overstated. On the other hand,
ship property is worth a lot of money
these days, and it is likely that insurance
on any sinkings would show a big sur-
plus on book values that are known to be
exceedingly conservative. Just what has
been responsible for the big addition to
reserves is a matter of guesswork, but in
these times of overregulated business
and heavy taxation it may be accepted as
something largely of a non-trading
nature.
So far as actual trading is concerned
turnover last year was £13,807,828, an
increase of £87,602. In the previous year
the increase had been £1,132,094, despite
the great disturbance to the co.’s N.E.I.
and New Guinea connections. On last
year’s turnover gross profit contracted
£351,808, and administration exes., in-
cluding taxation, were cut back by
£232,401. Allowance for depreciation and
bad debts was visibly £126,436 less, and
claimed net profit was £7029 higher at
£201,464. Reconciliation with the £506,863
shown in the introductory table is as
follows:
1932. 1940. 1943. 1943.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings .. 700,915 1,284,081 1,593,523 1,241,715
Exes. . . 392,761 845,020 1,110,446 878,045
Balance .. 308,154 439,061 483,077 363,670
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 105,747 178,440 288,642 162,206
Profit claimed 202,407 260,621 194,435 201,464
Reserve move-
.meftts* ..—16,434 +33,809 +217,129 +305,399
Net per table.. 185,973 294,430 411,564 506,863
* Unexplained additions (+ ) and deductions ( —).
In figures of that size and nature it is clear
that what the co. says is profit is some-
thing of a matter of form, especially in
times so uncertain as the present. The
general reserve picture is ,of more
interest. Some of these reserves will later
on be offset by increased cost of shipping
replacements. The business used to
spread over the Pacific and beyond. The
Rabaul, Madang, Salamaua, Kieta, Kavi-
eng, Port Moresby and Samarai branches
(all in the New Guinea area) have disap-
peared from the co.’s published docu-
ments, and so have those at Samarang
and Sourabaya, in Java. Trading losses
in these centres were “absorbed in full”
in the previous year’s accounts, part being
charged to inner reserves. Property
losses at branches and plantations have
been kept out of the accounts pending
post-war clarification. War-damage
insurance will cover some.
The copra market was better last year,
but shipping earnings were affected by
Government chartering and losses. Within
Australia B.P. has trading and invest-
ment interests, the latter including nearly
half the shares in Queensland Insurance,
control of Penneys (chain stores), and
interests in Bankers and Traders’ Insur-
ance, A.U.S.N. Co. and! Jantzen (Aust.).
In the Fiji subsidiary, Burns Philp (South
Sea), there is a two-thirds holding.
Apart from additions to visible
reserves, since 1920 something over
£3,000,000 has been written off in the
shape of depreciation, had debts, losses,
etc. It has kept the affairs of the under-
taking in tidy trim, as these figures indi-
cate :
1937. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £1,600,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities .. 1,717,049 2,356,082 3,088,759
Properties and
shipping . . 1,326,770’ 2,525,008 2,449,655
Investments, etc... 1,693,218 2,047,903 2,930,038
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,060,015 1,12)6,486 1,634,649
Book debts .. 823,716 941,529 820,904
Cash .. .. 98,816 205,786 151,007
The great growth in investments, etc.,
seems to be mainly in respect of Consols,
made possible perhaps by compensation
for lost ships. The lift in properties in
the preceding year was by reason of the
purchase of the Imperial Arcade, plus
hotel, in Pitt-street, Sydney. The co. still
has ample liquid resources, but some of
these will be needed later to buy ships.
There is inner strength in the book value
of investments, particularly in the case
of Queensland Insurance.
Wunderlich Ltd.
, Dividends —>
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 5.4-7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
i. £ £ £ £
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings. Deficit.
£38,361 •• 4 > 4;jB
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6„ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ ~30.800 16.875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~ 30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO .. •• £0,490
1940.. 62.520 11,200 74 p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO .. • • •• £5,810
1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =36,200 4,153 79,963
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• •• 74,96^
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO.OOO .. •• 96,821
1943. . 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. • • 106,255
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
Though most private and all home
building has been brought to a standstill
—since June last Treasury consent has
been necessary even for alterations in
excess of £25 —Wunderlich hasn t seen
its business cut from under it like brick-
makers and some others in the construc-
tional trades. Building controls first im-
posed a ceiling limit of £5OOO for new
structures in December, 1940. The next
table shows the effect on metropolitan
building permits of successive strictures
as the Federal Government’s own con-
structional activity quickened and the
man-power appetite of the war machine
sharpened;
Monthly Averages.
. Years Ending June -v
1939. 1941. 1942. *1943.
Metropolis. £OOO £OOO £OOO
Sydney .. •• HU 1000 498 115
Melbourne .. •• 702 865 - 343 79
Brisbane .. •• 171 168 90 11
Adelaide .. •• 192 159 109 47
Perth 145 122 68 15
Hobart .. • - 32 28 20 4
Six capitals .. .. 2353 2342 1128 271
* Eight months to February.
The physical volume of activity was
even less than suggested by those figures,
which exclude special permits, for cog-
nisance has to be taken of the rise of
70 p.c. in the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s price index of building materials
since the outbreak of war.
Articles normally turned out by the
efficient Wunderlich organisation, which
spreads throughout all States and Maori-
land, include roofing tiles, metal ceilings
and architectural terra-cotta ; also Dura-
bestos building and roofing sheets, for
which, among other things, defence de-
mand is at present a partial offset to the
drastic curtailment of general business.
The subsidiary which looks after the
Westralian end is also active on war
work; it took over the Calyx Porcelain
Works at Subiaco in its last term, and
reports high demand for porcelain and
refractory products.
Including something sent along by the
pup, the parent declared latest net earn-
ings £12,426 lighter at £56,531. That
relatively healthy profit figure was partly
the product of reduced tax reservations
—£42,404, against £59,549 in ’4l-42 and
£84,603 the term before that. A two-
year comparison also shows a cut in the
annual depreciation allowance from
£36,678 to £24,390 ; but even the lower
figure looks for only seven years’ useful-
ness from plant. The £56,531 called
profit was sufficient to stand the prefs.
a full 7 p.c. meal and then hand the ords.
10.3 p.c., against 13.1 and 9 p.c. for the
two preceding periods. Actually,* except
where pref.-holders were entitled to the
full contract rate, 6 p.c, all round again
went out in conformity with the conser-
vativeness of recent years. The staff part-
ners’ fund scooped nearly a third as much
as shareholders; considerate employee
treatment has long been a cornerstone of
industrial policy.
Prominent in the financial set-up is
maintenance of the high level of stock
and work in progress:
1938. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors .. 127,665* 107,878* 200,105 215,564
Tax reserve! .. - 141,416 97,924
Staff funds .. 31,700 30,601 43,000 52,050
Freeholds .. 362,629 318,703 331,613 323,679
Leaseholds .. 777 200 116
Plant, etc. .. 198,703 158,307 161,981 158,491
Stocks.. . . 162,034 188,873 335,310 335,346
Book debts .. 98,939 118,623 177,299 183,787
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 5,918 56,328 91,527 89,539
* Including tax provision.
Chief change last year occurred in con-
nection with tax payments. Money pro-
vided therefor being represented by
trading assets, the management had re-
course to ihe bank, and the surplus
(£393,108) of more or less liquids over
outside liabilities contracted £68,725.
Man-power shortage is a common
malady afflicting the business at the
moment. An advertisement by the co.
for labor brought 10 youngsters of 50
and 15 rising 55.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 10,081 5 p.c. = 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ „ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 „ „ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ „ 20.000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums; £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7.389 315,269
1938.. 36,054 10 „ „ 37,600 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 |
1939.. 27,662 7J p.c. = 30,000 1 ~~ 307,948
Share premiums, £20,000 .. .. 327,948
Share-issue underwriting, £1750 . . 326,198
1940.. 43,236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941.. 37,736 64 „ ~ 37,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 4| „ ~ 28,125 327,066
1943.. 30,117 4i „ ~ 28,125 1 0. ?7
Written off goodwill, £lB5O \
The 15 p.c. lift in the Imperial wool con-
tract price (now 15.45 d. a pound) came
timely for brokers as well as pastoralists.
Indeed, for the latter the level of costs
has attained such dimensions that, as
knight Clive McPherson pertinently re-
marks, the Government might devote
more attention to planning on the costs
side of production and leave the fulfil-
ment of national requirements, once indi-
cated, to the prudence of those with a
lifetime (in many cases generations) of
experience in the industry behind them.
Costs will be a special force determining
the price at which the sheep’s staple can
compete with substitute fibres when open-
market conditions prevail once more.
All war-time clips so far have been of
a record order. There was a down-trend
last term, although the season in areas
in which Younghusband operates was
generally acclaimed one of the best for
years. That meant more for fat-stock
producers than woolgrowers, and it was
the increased business at its half-score
Victorian and like number of N.S.W.
branches, through special demands on
meat-producers, that put the spring of
£16,258 in Younghusband’s gross takings.
Wool turnover was 7701 bales lighter, a


INVESTORS. —Have you an iota worth paicaui.*
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anvr.
;
m
t'Si'l
V
iWp,
■YOUR ASSETS
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hands. Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith. Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
SIDirtiBOVDILIeCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
do not experiment with imitations.
a BaxMDAOBK * CO, LML BIKMINQHAM. ENO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Get quick relief
with
Dr. SHELDON’S
m
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills assist the Kidneys in their
action; help them to banish all excess uric acid and
other impurities from the system, thus bringing prompt
relief from Rheumatism.
DIRECTIONS for taking
Dr. Sheldon's GIN PILLS
Take one or two Gin Pills
with a glass of water after
meals, and again when retiring.
For BACKACHE
JOINT PAINS
RHEUMATISM
WEAK KIDNEYS
• ;
'/ ' * n
V v Wm
Dr. SHELDON'S
Small Size - - 1/9
Large Size - - 2/9
GIN PILLS
TUic
ygs
im
QUEENSLAND READERS, PLEASE NOTE : This Line is marketed under
the name of Dr. Sheldon’s Kidney Pills throughout Queensland.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now . Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds.
1986 D-11.41
figure distorted somewhat because of
heavier bale weights:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Hales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.0 p.c
1931 . 91.587 78,019 76.838 98.4 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 ~
1935.. 09,360 92,232 79.898 86.0 „
1930.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,440 74.3 „
1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 „
1941. .1,11,281 199,778 102,042 81.1 „
1942. .103.913 196,407 173,345 88.2 „
1943.. 96,212 212,065 182,547 85.8
Disappointing there is the rapid advance
in costs accompanying the reaching-
out process of the past seven years,
during which shareholders have put up
£470,000 in share and premium moneys.
Last term, outgoings, including £2500
(up £1000) for the staff fund, took £7055
less than the addition to gross, leaving
net that much better at £30,117 —4.8 p.c.
on capital, compared with 3.7, 6.5 and
9.4 p.c. back to 1940. Lighter provision
for taxation (£2OOO less at £20,000) en-
abled the moderate 4\ p.c. div. to be
maintained and a goodwill account of
£lB5O wiped off the slate.
The prompt manner in which the
Central Wool Committee settles accounts
is apparent in this comparison of
finances: —
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £025,000 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 693.451 354,986 138.010 189,132
Tax reserve.. 14,295 17,000 22,000 20,000
Premises & plant 212,855 223,094 249,324 247,194
B ook debts,
etc. . . 1,331,433 1,085,677 826,805 834,770
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 9,005 19,005 34,535 85,647
Merchandise .. 6,555 20,087 10,436 11,854
There was little change last year, except
in so far as the board went outside to
invest in war loan.
Seasonally, there was a dry autumn in
parts, and hand-feeding has been
resorted to in the Riverina and
northern Victoria. Super, shortage has
also added to the gamble with Nature,
and man-power has lost none of its
acuteness. From the long view, a lot
will depend on the post-war level of
unconsumed wool stocks. Thanks to
American purchases, these look like being
kept within very reasonable bounds.
Mining
Mining as a whole in Australia at the
present time is more or less at sixes and
sevens. In official eyes —and they are all-
important, if not all-seeing—a mine is
not classified so much as a mine
but as a producer of certain materials,
some essential to the war effort,
others not. Just about lowest on the
priority list is goldmining, gold not being
considered an essential material among
nations trading for the present on a basis
of lend-lease. All over the Common-
wealth men have been taken from gold-
mines and put to other work. This has
happened even in Westralia, where gold
is a fundamental part of the peace-time
economy. The Prime Minister recently
said that the Government intended to
abide by its arrangement not to reduce
the number of goldminers in the West
to below 4500 without the consent of the
State Government, the idea being “to
keep the mines going.” Nevertheless,
Mr. Curtin admitted that the Man-power
authorities were looking to the West for
more labor to help in the production of
strategic minerals.
In Victoria, where there are some nice
little goldmines but where the industry
is not regarded as economically important
as in Westralia, even more severe reduc-
tions have been made in the labor forces
available. As a munitions-making State,
Victoria has probably been more in need
of war-time man-power than the West.
N. S. Wales has only one goldmine of
importance, which is carrying on in a
restricted way but helping the war effort
with its copper, and the same applies to
Mt. Morgan, in Queensland. Copper has
a No. 1 priority, and Mt. Lyell, as well
as smaller shows, is given every encour-
agement, even to the payment of a special
prospecting and development allowance.
The total price is now £lO5 a ton, which
is considerably higher than the London
price. Copper gets the benefit of the 20
p.c. tax exemption.
The Barrier mines, which mainly pro-
duce vital lead and zinc supplies, have
not been allowed any taxation exemption,
although they are supplying their pro-
ducts to the Government at an extremely
low price judged by any standard, Aus-
tralian or overseas. Apparently because
they are, in the main, financially strong
they have been deliberately left out.
Tin-production is being encouraged.
The price has been lifted to £376 a ton,
which includes £l5 to be taken by the
tin pool for the purpose of subsidising
workers of less profitable ores and wash.
Tin gets the taxation concession.
There are many other minor but at
present strategically important minerals,
such as scheelite, tantalite, asbestos, anti-
mony, manganese, etc. King Island
Scheelite is producing the important metal
tungsten in undisclosed quantities, and to
help step-up production the Common-
wealth Government in February arranged
to advance £155,000 to the co. at a prob-
able interest rate of 4 p.c. Until the
expiry of the British contract for the
supply of Australian wolfram and schee-
lite (the duration of the war and six
months thereafter) the co. will retain a
net profit of £20,000, after providing for
taxation, in any one financial year, the
remainder of the net profit going to the
Government in liquidation of the ad-
vance. After the expiry of the contract
net profit is to be apportioned “in accord-
ance with an agreed formula.”
Coal is a vital mineral at the present
time, and production has been whipped
up to a high level, in spite of strikes on a
frivolous scale. There is still a shortage
of coal from the civilian point of view.
Prices to the colliery-owners have been
pegged at the average received for Mait-
land coals in 1940, plus actual increase
in costs, when approved. Approval has
so far lagged behind the rise in costs.
According to Austin Howard-Smith any
improvement that might have been
expected from increased output has been
offset by absenteeism and strikes.
Although prices are being kept something
like in step with costs, inflation in these
figures is going to react against the
industry after the war is over and the
extreme demand for fuel slackens.
London-controlled Tindals (W.A.)
wants more financial help from the State
Government and will probably get some.
Funds, to supplement receipts from gold
production, are urgently needed for sup-
plies, renewals and to pay importunate
creditors. Good-grade ore is stated to be
plentiful, but labor is scarce and becom-
ing scarcer. Mine is now supervised by
a mining engineer of wide South Ameri-
can experience named Bensusan.
J(C #
Hill 50 (W.A.), “after carefully re-
viewing the co.’s financial position,” de-
cided in April not to pay the quarterly
dividend of 6d. usually sent out in that
month. Now it has announced one for
that amount payable on July 16. Direc-
tors considered in April that a cash re-
serve of approximately £lO,OOO (£6OOO
was then invested in war loans) should
be created before any further distribu-
tions were made. Apparently this has
been done. Despite worrying war-time
conditions a report issued in May struck
a note of optimism regarding the co.’s
future. '


FORD TRANSPORT CONSERVATION SERIES —No. 6
0
naJkettim&d
For the duration, and who knows how long after, few
tyres wifi he available. How many miles you get from
your present tyres will depend on you.
CORRECT INFLATION
For a share in Vicfory
buy War Bonds now.
These figures)
hardly need
comment: )
20% UNDER-INFLATION 30% WASTE
30% UNDER-INFLATION 52% WASTE
40% UNOER-INFLATION 65% WASTE
Check tyre-pressures regularly. If you use your truck
or car only at intervals, check them before you drive a
yard. Once round the block on a near-flat may ruin it.
If you fit a gas producer, get the expert advice of your
Ford Dealer on tyre-inflation needed.
"STITCHES IN TIME": Tyres often pick up pieces of
metal or sharp stones. These can cause serious damage.
Tyres should be examined regularly and the offending
objects gently removed with a pair of pliers.
While doing this job, rub your hand over the surface of the
tyre. The tread should be wearing evenly on both edges.
If one edge is worn more than the other, get your garage
to check the alignment of your wheels.
BEYOND THIS. IT DEPENDS ON THE DRIVER
Even if no 30 m.p.h. limit were fixed by Kegulation,
prudent drivers would shun fast driving.
A tyre wears 25% faster at 40 m.p.h. than at 30 m.p.h.
A tyre wears 40% faster at 50 m.p.h. than at 40 m.p.h.
Violent stopping and starting, fast cornering, rubbing
the kerb, rushing bumps—we’ve all been guilty at
times. But not now—careless driving is destructive.
df
Issued by Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve trucks, utilities
and cars—vital national assets.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)
FOR SALE
Large North Queensland
STATION PROPERTY
ONE of the largest and widely-known Cattle Station Properties in North Queensland,
known as “WROTHAM PARK,” is offered for sale on a walk-in-walk-out basis,
together with the butchering business known as “Wrotham Park Butchering Company,
situate in Cairns, including freehold land and buildings, with up-to-date butchering
plant erected thereon, and slaughter yards.
Full details of property, including purchase price, pastoral holdings, covering approxi-
mately three thousand square miles, with all improvements thereon, and livestock
and existing contracts, can be obtained by intending purchasers from
W. SMITH & CO.
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS, P.O. BOX 848, CAIRNS.
Business,Rellery,Etc.
Contributions to Chaos
It was advanced in 1922 by an Ameri-
can writer, Lothrop Stoddard, as a theory
that every so often civilisation breaks
down because of the rising-up of the
“under-man”—the man to whom civil-
isation has become an intolerable burden
because of its responsibilities, obligations
and exactions. This “under-man” is not
to be confused with the underdog, who
may be any type of human, from the
highest grade of physique and intelli-
gence to the lowest; the “under-man”
is depicted as a person of definite biolo-
gical peculiarities, with a pronounced
streak of character linking him to the
time when the world was chaos. “The
basic attitude of the under-man is an
instinctive and natural revolt against
civilisation.” In him dislike of law and
order may be pronounced, and envy and
jealousy of more successful, intelligent
people are often a strong characteristic,
The contention has also been made that
there are strains of this “under-man,”
great or small, in nearly everybody.
It would appear that Minister for
Labor Ward has heard about this “under-
man” theory. In any case, he makes a
great play for the support of the irre-
sponsible element among Australians,
His behavior as a Minister is frequently
that expected of a larrikin, playing up
to the selfishness and envy of the mob,
handling the truth with studied inexacti-
tude and distortion when it suits him.
He has frequently taken the side of law-
breakers in their strikes involving defence
production, and his benevolence towards
outrageous conduct on the part of shop
stewards and some union bosses has been
an unmistakable contribution to chaos.
He has been a major factor in establish-
ing an atmosphere of class hatred in
some quarters. This hatred may some-
times be synthetic, lasting only so long
as the highly combustible Ward fuel is
available and acceptable, but a flicker
will always remain afterwards to be
seized upon by Ward’s political descend-
ants, just as Ward has followed Lang as
the representative Australian political
larrikin, with the burden of war his chief
source of friction and flame, instead of
the misery and confusion of depression.
The defiance of reason and decency
too often seen in Australia at present is,
often unknown to the participants, a
revolt against democracy in favor of
anarchy. The refusal to accept respon-
sibility for a reasonable share of the
burden of this war by many trade-union-
ists and the like is mostly a result of
cultivated and organised selfishness and
the encouragement of envy and jealousy
through “propaganda” and plain lies. We
have seen the position of Australian
soldiers fighting under desperate condi-
tions while unionists at home struck for
“danger money,” double and treble pay
on “holidays,” enforcement of compul-
sory unionism, avoidance of war-time
taxation, more beer, more cigarettes, more
butter. And we have seen all these things
tolerated by a Government which says
it speaks for Australia within the Com-
monwealth and in the outside world. In
fact, at a time when civilisation plainly
has had to stand up to enormous strain
in the shape of a total, merciless war, the
Australian Government has frequently
been the champion of the obviously
wrong thing instead of the plainly right
thing.
Even the Prime Minister has not shown
up as a great defender of the truth or
the fair, commonsense thing. He has
allowed much despicable stuff uttered by
members of his Government to pass un-
challenged, and he has shown as little
alacrity in saying a good word for the
war-worker who is not of his political
color as he has of saying a bad one about
the defaulter who is. He has not stood
four-square for a full, democratic war
effort by everyone ; he has wilted under
the pressure of union bosses, and during
his Prime Ministership Communists have
had an amazingly free hand. Communists
have been noted for their inflammatory
propaganda and activity for many years,
and obviously they are not satisfied with
democracy, otherwise they would not be
Communists. Yet the democracies are
admitted, even by the Dean of Canter-
bury, to be better-educated, -fed and
-clothed than any Communist State the
world has to exhibit.
Through the economic system, a
creation of greater brains and skill than
theirs, politicians are imposing big bur-
dens on the Australian social structure.
The nerve and brain of productive, in-
ventive and progressive Australians are
being strained to cracking point in order
to cope with the demands of war, the
waste and confusion of war, and the
waste, confusion and all-too-frequent in-
justice of the present Canberra Adminis-
tration. There has been no wide-awake,
robust attempt to finance the war
properly—and finance is the medium
through which most war-time sacrifices
other than actual life and limb are made.
Each step towards sobriety in the Can-
berra financial administration has been
made only after the intemperance of
previous methods has become all too
apparent. There has been no successful
planning ahead.
Any move towards “reform” in
matters handled by the Treasury has
come only after the demands of war
have increased prodigiously. Never has
the present Canberra Government, when
it imposed additional taxation on the
voters, done as much as keep step with
the growing expenditure on war. Until
recently only 23.6 p.c. of the current year’s
war expenditure was financed out of
taxation, though by June 30 the ratio
may rise to the Budget estimate of 28
p.c., as against 44 p.c. in Canada. The
treatment of so much expenditure on war
waste as capital outlay—that is, financ-
ing it by creating debt—is pure inflation,
and other terms for inflation are eco-
nomic confusion and financial revolu-
tion. The robbery of individuals of their
savings through inflation, together with
the unemployment that the reaction from
inflation creates, breeds anger and resent-
ment in the minds of many people, and
while they are in this mood the political
charlatans and financial quacks descend
upon them. Some members of the present
Federal Labor party remain persistent in
their advocacy of financial dope that can
only add to the stress caused by previous
financial maladministration, and the
credit policy of the party as a whole is
ill-conceived, confused and degenerate.
In matters of man-pow'er we see more
contributions to chaos. There must be
organisations, within the Government
and outside of it, where efficient and
otherwise admirable work is being done.
But, on the other hand, it is quite evi-
dent that in many departments and
services, especially those created since
the war, man-power is in a state or
desperate muddle. The Bulletin has
heard from a dozen different people,
working in Government departments and
that kind of thing, who protest that with
an able administrator instead of a semi-
politician in charge the work they have
to do could be done by half the staff,
and done properly. As it is, there seems
to be a policy of keeping staff circulating
as much as possible, the percentage who
never stay in one place long enough to
learn anything thoroughly being large
and incomprehensible. Recently a Sydney
girl called up for questioning by Man-
power and offered the chance of joining
one of a variety of services asked what
was going to be done about her old job
if she left. “If you leave,she was
assured, “you will be replaced’ !
The waste of man-power and the
futility which confront many Australians
in war jobs sound incongruous in the
face of withdrawals from private
industry, especially on the food and
clothing front, and the calls for more
and more staff for Government “work.”
This may all seem to be just part of the
game to politicians, but to Australians
possessed of intelligence and character
the implications are deadly serious. The
more waste, futility and confused think-
ing and behavior that attend the Govern-
ment side of the war effort, the greater
the strain imposed upon those who are
doing a real job of effective work. There
is a limit to the strain which Australia
can take.
Australia’s Government and its sup-
porters are great advocates of equality,
but this equality talk is but sales-talk
for autocracy. We see this autocracy
in the trade-unions, in the civil service
and in the utterances of those who pro-
fess to believe that all men should be
equal even when they obviously are not.
The Government is worried about the
inequality between the A.I.F. and militia
only for political reasons. It talks about
equality of income, etc., only because
that argument makes an appeal to
thousands of unskilled wage-earners.
Even with this argument it goes just so
far, and no further. After all, politicians
are paid well above the average that
would follow equalisation of incomes.
The lack of leadership which we see
in Australia today is accompanied by an
economic and social policy that is satis-
fied when current needs are more or less
met. There is little planning for the
future that extends beyond politics —
witness the phony “social security”
scheme. Yet in the hands of Canberra
enormous powers rest, and through those
hands half the national income is passing
for expenditure under the heading of
“war.” Let us never forget that Aus-
tralia’s life is going to be under the
influence of its war-time management for
many years after the war. That is ines-
capable.
The Commonwealth Bank has pro-
vided the following sidelights on the post-
war credits system. In the United States
the taxpayer is entitled to a current re-
fund up to the amount of his post-war
credit for premiums paid on life-assur-
ance policies, net purchases of Govern-
ment bonds and net repayment of debt
during the year. In Canada the taxpayer
is entitled to a current refund up to the
amount of his post-war credit for pre-
miums paid on life assurance policies,
pension contributions and repayment of
mortgage debt. In the United Kingdom
the taxpayer is not entitled to the return
of any part of his post-war credit until
after the war. But in Britain, as in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, “some insurance
premiums are allowed as rebates of tax
or as deductions from income.” The
financial year 1943-44 may see the intro-
duction of post-war credits in the Com-
monwealth.


Obtain Quick
Relief
from Backache and Kidney Troubles
l»y taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
They help tired kidneys remove excess
acids and poisonous waste from the
hlood. Book to your kidneys—give
them the help they need.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
m
..THE
CONVOY GOT
THROUGH!..
Olympic Cable has played many parts on
Australia’s fighting fronts. Vessels of Australia’s
Merchant Marine have been insured against
enemy mines by Olympic Cable. Pioneered by
Olympic, over 200 Million Yards already manu-
factured have proved an investment for Victory.
dsf
While you can . save all you A;i. Put
your money into W ar Savings Certifi-
cates and £lO National Savings Bonds.
Proc/uchon ojf
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
m
1
H
v
-
V
m
that’s the way a DISSTON SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULAR saw rips and cuts into a job—
an ever-hungry blade of steel, with keen teeth,
biting into the wood like a knife into butter.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made
of Disston Steel under exacting laboratory
control by steel experts. Every Disston Circu-
lar Saw is hardened throughout; hardened
to withstand wear and resist strain. They last
longer between sharpenings, take swage or
spring, set easily and retain set longer than
any other saws. There are many styles and
patterns for cross-cutting, ripping or combin-
ation work, also a variety of tooth styles made
for specific jobs, specific woods and conditions.
Diameters, 4in. to 78in.
For full Information, see your dealer or write to:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON, SYDNEY BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
Labor’s Budget figure for expenditure
on defence during the year ending today
was £440 million. This was increased to
£540 million in February, when the new
taxation proposals were introduced. Mr.
Chifley’s latest estimate, with 11 months
figures in front of him, is £560 million.
Of the £l2O million increase over Sep-
tember estimates, £3O million is in respect
of overseas outgo and £9O million in
respect of Australian. Total overseas
outgo of £BO million was covered by the
increased London funds which accrued
during the year. Budget revenue has been
exceeded by £2O million, chiefly in
respect of income tax, excise and the
post office. Taking in the additional
revenue available, about £l6O million of
the year’s defence costs will have been
met out of revenue and about £4OO mil-
lion out of loans. The percentage of
revenue to war expenditure is thus about
28y p.c. Bank credit accounts for about
half the borrowing, though Mr. Chifley
did not provide the exact figure. During
his censure motion against the Govern-
ment Mr. Fadden stated that the Com-
monwealth’s Treasury-bill debt on June
15 stood at £269 million. At the end of
June last year the figure was £BO million.
* * * *
Maoriland’s war expenditure for its
new financial year is estimated at £l4B
million, compared with £144 million in
the preceding year. The latest figure in-
cludes lend-lease aid —£20 million from
the Dominion, £4O million to it. Extract-
ing the £4O million to be obtained on
lend-lease the real burden of war is
estimated at £lOB million, and of this £46
million will be met out of revenue, £l2
million from a London loan, £35 million
from a local loan and £l5 million from
departmental balances, war-savings cer-
tificates, etc. The actual cost of war to
the Dominion this year is expected to be
less than last, when the £144 million
included £26.8 million of lend-lease aid.
There is a cut of £2l million in the Army
vote (£6B million), explained as being be-
cause of “the reduced requirements for
equipment, vehicles, etc., the tapering-off
of capital expenditure in New Zealand
in the form of camps, and a reduction in
personnel, while a saving will also be
effected in our expenditure overseas, due
to the fact that last year’s expenditure
included the cost of initial equipment
supplied to our forces in the Middle
East.”
H: * * *
The Federal Parliamentary Public
Works Committee has reported on the
shale-oil recommendations of three mem-
bers of the U.S. Petroleum Policy Com-
mittee presented to Parliament in Febru-
ary. The Parliamentary committee has
devoted itself to the Glen Davis part of
the recommendations; the Baerami field
is to be reported on later. The adoption
of many of the experts’ suggestions is
recommended. At a total cost of £818,412,
apart from £500,000 worth of machinery
which it is suggested should be brought
out under lend-lease, it is urged that Glen
Davis production be stepped up to 22.4
million gallons of petrol a year. That is
14 times more than 1942 production, in-
dicating the failure that Newnes has been
to date. Although it was first said that
the change could be made in 18 months,
the committee now mentions “some
years,” noting that “under existing cir-
cumstances an immense amount of
money is being lost and will be lost until
vastly-increased quantities are produced.”
Expansion now recommended will in-
volve a further Commonwealth alloca-
tion of £618,000 to National Oil Pty., and
an additional contribution of £239,537 to
help complete the Fish River water-
supply scheme. Total Commonwealth
advances to the Glen Davis project would
then amount to £3,295,171. The N. S.
Wales Government has put £166,000 into
the co., and it is suggested that it
should support its investment with more
—something it is in a position to do
easily. National Oil Pty. has £325,000 of
its own in the show, put up when George
Davis was head man. It is now recom-
mended that the Commonwealth be given
a share in the profits “if and when the
venture becomes a successful commercial
proposition.” It is stated that all the pro-
cesses associated with the production of
petrol at Glen Davis are successful
except that of carbonising shale, which is
affected by unsatisfactory retorts and in-
adequate water supply. It is recom-
mended that a pilot retort of the Renco
type, the invention of V. V. Jacomini,
one of the members of the U.S. investi-
gation committee, be tried out at Glen
Davis. Jacomini was at one time em-
ployed by the Standard Oil Co. of Aus-
tralia, which had a proposition for the
development of Baerami.
* * * *
“G.F.D.”: A Sydney actuary (B.
2 /6/’43) will no doubt remembe r that, in
h ‘ s °™. life ‘™ e ’ » Australia the price
° f doubled without a corresponding
deprecation of he Australian pound in
Con ] nl ? n *“'*. the only place where
>* ,s used. In 1939 the paper pound wouto
!"»' “ore of he things that mattoedl than
it would in 1929, yet it could command
ha)f a J mount of gold why
then do “financial experts” persist in
thinJd ld wears a halo? Is it not
dmc we regarded it as aU othe r metals
are regardec j 5 and left it free to find its
own natura i p r i ce i eve l in the open
. t 9
* * * *
Maoriland is , 0 spend £4,000,000 this
£2,000,000 on hydro-
» J „ A ’ ’ as hospitals
| defence works can be
[ , d a ? ailable men and Serial
P n housing construct ion
Comprehensive and complete plans
. P out to meet the £urthe r
demand g of demobi | ised
service men for
b and p ] ans are under way for the
■ con / ruction of houses £ a high
f’ w „


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: A little ground fighting
diversified the routine of the northern
air raids when the Japanese tried to push
Australian forces off Lababia Ridge near
Mubo.
The position there evidently has been
worrying the enemy for some time. There
virtually is no Mubo village—aircraft saw
to that long ago but the Nipponese
have been clinging to an airfield on the
north of it; and on the south, east and
west of what used to be the village there
are Australians, firmly positioned. Japan-
ese access to their airfield and other facili-
ties—such as there are —is by trail from
the north.
Even here a Tokyo philosopher on
trek is never sure that a grim Digger may
not at any moment melt out of the kunai
or some of the other curious vegetation
which besets the way and force him to
break off his meditations.
As evidence of his extreme annoyance
the enemy for some time has been throw-
ing dive-bombers at the Australian posts,
without much result. Early last week
the infantry took its turn and had cause
to rue the dilatoriness which had resulted
in the Allies bringing in not only mortars
but 25-pounders. The four days’ scrap-
ping which ensued ended in the attackers
leaving 204 casualties, apart from those
which he took away with him, against
very light Australian losses.
The only material result which he
achieved was to stir up a hornet nest
about his rear, at and around Salamaua
(only a few miles away), attracting one
of the heaviest formations of Mitchell
bombers. The formation plastered the
near-by landing grounds of Salamaua
itself and Nuk Nuk and Logui (at the
Francisco mouth) with 5001 b. bombs,
and tore holes in them with several
thousand rounds of ammunition.
Bostons meantime operated on the
right of the Australian ground forces
and cleaned up flank tracks and
the hidey-hole of Woody Island —so-
called, but it becomes an island only in
the rains. The Nuk Nuk and Logui
bombings destroyed dumps and installa-
tions and threw a pall of smoke over the
mouth of the turbulent Francisco River,
whose waters have carried down a lot of
blood to the sea in the last few months.
At the week-end Australian patrols
were in touch with the enemy in front
of the Lababia positions, but he seemed
to have had enough for the moment.
Allied ’planes were doing their utmost
to confirm him in this opinion.
Macassar Raided
Generally, there were fewer raids, but
some of them were wide-flung. On June
22 there was a fracas round a seaplane
base in the Arus when Allied heavies
caught a number of seaplanes at their
moorings and others in the air bent on
interception. Several were damaged and
one shot down, but visibility was bad.
Next day, in the second-longest run
of the Pacific war, Liberators visited
Macassar, 900 miles from Darwin. They
took with them the heaviest bomb-load
used by the Allies in the n.-w. Australian
sector —38 tons, including a few 2000-
pounders. They appear to have taken
Macassar by surprise. Bombs crashed
down on a cruiser at the dock, on a cargo
vessel (one of six in harbor) at anchor
and on the Juliana and Wilhelmina
wharves and the town itself. Fire spurted
out of ground in huge gouts.
The visitors did not have things all
their own way ; but that must have been
according to expectation. Strong ack-
ack batteries opened fire in concert with
the cruiser, and an “O” fighter attempted
interception, involuntarily causing the
only Allied machine casualty. It attacked
a Liberator, which damaged it severely.
It then crashed into the Liberator, which
was later reported missing. Presumably
the “O” fighter also is missing.
The raiders had left their Australian
base at dawn. They staged their attack
about midday and came home with the
evening shadows, after uneventful voy-
ages both ways, including the 1600 miles
flown over water.
On Friday villages to the south of
Madang were cleaned up with machine-
gun fire, but otherwise there was little
serious movement in the air. Next day
it was reported that there were now 170
enemy ’planes on Rabaul aerodromes, and
that a small aircraft-carrier was in
Blanche Bay. Earlier in the month 271
aircraft had been noted.
On Saturday Lae and Rabaul were
attacked and considerable damage was
done ; 20 tons of bombs were dropped.
After the Rabaul raid two U.S. bombers
were missing.
Two-way Bombing Starts.
“Ek Dum”: The opening of the cross-
European run by Lancasters advertised
some important facts to the Axis High
Command. First, a Lancaster ground
organisation large enough to make
shuttle-running worth while had been
established in North Africa. Second,
with that establishment Britain’s greatest
air-war difficulty—shortage of aerodrome
space—had begun to disappear.
From now onward a great deal of her
aerodrome-congestion troubles would
have ended. Thirdly, reconnaissance pre-
cautions and defence would have to be
two-way.
And numerous other considerations
were apparent. The bombing programme
in the Mediterranean had been limited
by the fact that the heavies in use there
were high-altitude day bombers which
have to avoid coming down to defended
targets, and which, in any case, carry
only half the loads of Lancasters and
their kind. Henceforward the nights of
any city in Central Europe might be as
horrible as those in the Ruhr.
From London to Tunisia is only about
1000 miles —less than the return journey
to Berlin. To Tripoli it is about 1500
miles. From various parts of Africa the
whole of southern Europe is within com-
fortable Lancaster reach. From the 60-
mile defence belt of Northern Syria,
Lancasters, if they were to fly over
Turkey, would not be much more than
500 miles from the southern fringes of
the Russian front.
The Italians, for their part, have every
reason to be frightened beyond German
limits. For, while German defences are
powerful and German cities can be blasted
lethafly only with substantial losses of
men and machines, Italian cities seem to
be wide open. And the arrival of Lan-
casters in the Mediterranean, on top of
the warning from the R.A.F. that heavy
bombing of industrial cities of Italy is
about to begin, has a terrible significance
which no Italian is likely to miss.
The first essay of the Lancaster cross-
Europe squadrons was made on the night
of June 20, when they visited Friedrichs-
hafen on the southern Swiss border and
wiped out three acres of Zeppelin’s radio-
location works. Landing in Africa after
a 1200-mile flight, crossing the Alps on
the way, the Lancasters called on the
Italian naval port of Spezia on their way
home and gave it its sixth dressing-down.
They then returned, through the aerial
defences of France, to their aerodromes
in the north of England.
The bombing of the Ruhr continued
on the same deadly scale, which is shak-
ing western German nerves to pieces,
while the attacks on Italy are incessant.
On June 21 about 100 Fortresses
blasted Naples and its environs, Salerno
and Battipaglia in daylight.
That evening 700 heavy R.A.F.
bombers concentrated on Krefeld, 10
miles s.-w. of Duisburg, a great centre
for the manufacture of war chemicals
and the accessories of aerial warfare. It
was heavily defended, and 44 bombers
were lost in the attack, but Berlin ad-
mitted that “the damage was heavy in
residential quarters, numerous blocks of
buildings and two hospitals were de-
stroyed.” About 2000 tons were dropped
on the town in 50 minutes.
Uncle Sam Joins In
Other targets in the Ruhr and in Bel-
gium and Holland were vigorously at-
tacked. U.S. aircraft took part in these
raids for the first time. The assaults
grew in volume and range until for a few
hours round dawn on June 22 more than
1000 machines, mostly heavy, were busy
unloading 3500 tons of bombs, including
the quota delivered at Krefeld.
A thousand acres of Barmen, the
eastern half of the city of Wupperthal,
having been wiped out by the R.A.F. on
May 29, Elberfeld, the western half, was
blasted. This attack was concerted with
daylight operations by 400 to 500 ’planes
over the whole stretch of France and
the Lowlands, from Cherbourg to Flush-
ing. A staple purpose of this type of
attack, which goes on throughout the day
and dovetails with the night operations
of the heavy machines, seems to be to
beat down resistance along the paths
which the heavy bombers take on their
way to the Ruhr and western Germany,
and thus break the solid miles of de-
fended country which the big squadrons
of Lancasters and others of their types
have to penetrate before they can reach
a worth-while target.
The Ruhr week was rounded off by
visits to Bochum and Gelsenkirchen, in
which many Australians took part.
These towns lie within six miles of
each other, and their suburbs virtually
merge. Gelsenkirchen, a great coal and
synthetic-oil centre, was the one remain-
ing city of the Ruhr which had not suf-
fered a raid on the May-June scale.
Bochum already looked like a large hol-
low tooth as the result of the blasting
of June 12. In these raids another 30
bombers were lost.
On June 28 bad weather spoilt an
attack by U.S. heavy bombers and R.A.F.
light bombers on French industrial towns.
Such raids are nerve-racking affairs
for the attackers. Every searchlight, every
gun that can be packed into the local
attack areas is in operation across belts
which reach right to the Channel. Gun
and night-fighter and searchlight all the
way from the coast wage coming-and-
going war on the raiders. One Fortress
observer described the flak as consisting
of barrage after barrage, some of them
resembling beds of fire.
To the terrors of the night-bombing
attacks the Americans added high-level
bombing of the Ruhr on some scale
before the weather went bad at the week-
end and compelled a restriction of large
operations to France and the coastal
areas. They also attacked the Antwerp
area, reporting heavy damage to motor
and artificial-rubber plants, along with
the destruction of 100 enemy fighters in
two battles over the Ruhr and Antwerp.
Berlin claimed on Sunday that the U.S.
had lost 26 heavies in a fresh daylight
attack on Bremen.
Allied Machine Losses
The effects of the growing strength and
continuity of the assaults upon Germany
are plain. And the losses of machines
and pilots are not, as in the German
raids over Britain in 1940-41, on such a
scale as to assure that the R.A.F. and
U.S.A.F. would be destroyed before the
objectives.
During the week ended on June 26
173 bombers were lost by the Allies, of
which 38 machines were American. But
this represents less than 5 per cent, on
the R.A.F. quota ; and 5 per cent, was
considered payable even when heavy
’planes were at a premium and average
bomb-loads a sixth of what they are at
present.
The 44 machines which did not return
from Krefeld were part of a force of 700.
The 35 lost at Miilheim the next night
belonged to an air force almost as large.
Thus these two night operations cost
about 600 to 700 airmen, but the damage
done was comparable with that which
would have been effected in a major land
bombardment
The operations of the north have not
interfered with those of the south. The
raids —100 tons of bombs here, 200 there
—have kept fires blazing from Sardinia
to Salonika, on the main aerodrome of
which, at Sedes, Fortresses one day
dropped 100 tons of explosive and steel.
Messina collected 200 tons on Friday.
In May, 1943, the R.A.F. dropped four
times the tonnage of bombs delivered in
May, 1942, and the loss per ton of bomb
used was less in terms of aircrews—the
important factor since machines and sup-
plies are now abundant and expanding—
by over 33 per cent, as against the losses
for May, 1942.
The nights are now at their shortest.
The weather has not been all that could
be desired as to visibility ; but between
May 22 and June 22 the R.A.F. alone
dropped 15,000 tons of destruction, apart
from wholesale minelaying, cannon-straf-
ing of roads, railways and aerodromes,
and the blasting out of the sky of enemy
fighters.
In 34- months nearly 30,000 tons of
bombs have fallen on the Ruhr alone, an
average of 6 tons of explosive per square
mile, at a cost of 532 R.A.F. bombers
and 3000 crew members, many of whom
are prisoners.
Western Germany is on the verge of
becoming a battle front in the true sense.
Every day German radio announcers try
to offset the news of great damage by
noisy tales of destruction of raiders —it
was officially claimed in Berlin that this
month’s attacks had cost the Allies 500
machines alone ; a considerable exaggera-
tion.
Nothing can offset the fact that all
unnecessary civilian population has been
ordered to quit the Ruhr and Westphalia,
and that the long streams of wretched,
footsore, homeless refugees remind the
onlookers of the scenes in northern
France during the invasion of 1940.
Each German radio eyewitness vies
with the last previous one in his descrip-
tions of the awful desolation which has
been wrought.
The U-boats at Boy.
“Ek Dum”: U-boat statistics issued
last week, together with the full story of
the battle of the Atlantic convoys, com-
prise one of the most satisfactory bits ot
war news since 1939.
In all the welter of Ruhr bombings
the fact should be kept in mind that the
sea war is the crucial and decisive war.
If the U-boat can be swept off the sea,
the German war is won, irrespective 0i
what may happen on land.
Complete command of the sea means
unlimited sea-carrying power, achieved
within the next year or so, to deliver sup-
plies and men anywhere to schedule, in
whatever quantities are necessary. It
would mean the release of great naval
and air forces for direct offensive pur-
poses.
The Germans know it very well.
Nothing that has happened on the
eastern front has caused such an air of
depression as that which has hung over
Berlin propaganda in the last fortnight,
since the abilities of the R.A.F. to smash
German industry to bits without lethal
loss and of the Navy and Air Forces to
cut down sea* losses to next to nothing
have become evident.
There has been a swift change back to
the attitude of 1941: “England began
this war ; only by the defeat of England
can this war be won.”
In three weeks to midnight on June 20
the German High Command claimed to
have sunk only 43,000 tons of shipping.
For May, the claim was 227,000 tons ;
for June last year, 755,000 tons.
Such figures imply that the Allied
navies and air forces, and principally the
R.N. and R.A.F., are in process of win
ning at sea a victory which overshadows
the glories of Tunisia.
Tonnage Grows
The implications can be only seen in
perspective in relation to Allied building.
When Britain stood alone, holding off the
wolf packs, in 1940-41, such results
would have put a new face on the war,
even though new shipping was then
coming forward at a rate not much
greater than 1,500,000 tons per annum
gross, and every available yard was work-
ing top speed on repairs to damaged
naval and other vessels.
Today new mercantile shipping is
coming off the stocks at a rate fast ap-
proaching 10,000,000 tons per annum,
if it already has not reached that volume.
Canada alone is this year adding to the
mercantile fleets as much shipping as
harassed Britain was able to add in 1940
and 1941.
Therefore, the reduction of losses in the
last two months seems to mean a gain in
gross tonnage verging on 1,500,000 tons,
which would have been considered a good
year’s accretion early in the war. It is
estimated in London that the Allies have
5,000,000 gross tons more ships than in
December, 1942.
The conquest of the U-boat is not easy.
Germany had about 70 when war broke
out, and Mr. Churchill, as First Lord,
believed within three months that the
situation was in hand. Since then, it
appears, about 250 enemy submarines
have been sunk. In the last two months
the average has been reduplicated almost
fivefold —50 in May and June together.
There is still a great pirate fleet abroad,
and building goes on desperately fast,
but the power of defence of convoys is
increasing out of sight. Guns are plenti-
ful and gun crews more abundant. Im-
portant merchant ships, which sometimes
had to depend for intimate defence on a
tugging balloon or kite, carry aircraft —
even sea Hurricanes on catapults in their
bows.
Escorts have multiplied both on sea
and in the air. And the new detection
system seems the deadliest innovation of
all.
Against anti-U-boat offence, the Ger-
mans have their newer German methods
—hulls with internal oil cushions, which
take up shock and lessen the range of
depth charges ; mother ships, which en-
able raiders to stay at sea almost inter-
minably and to fare further from their
bases ; sealed hull-entrances, which make
it possible for a boat to lose its turret
and yet limp home ; deeper diving and
more speed, and heavier a.-a. defence.
With all these, and even with longer
range and more powerful and direction-
ally better-controlled torpedoes, the Ü-
boat has much less chance of getting near
its quarry than a year ago ; considerably
less hope of coming off with a whole
hull when discovered.
The story issued jointly by the Admi-
ralty and the Air Ministry explains what
happens when U-boat meets convoy.
A Convoy Battle
The convoy in this case was crossing
the Atlantic in May. It covered many
square miles of sea. It, as usual, had
everything in the way of escort, includ-
ing H.M.S. Biter, a carrier of diminutive
dimensions, loaded with Coastal Com-
mand machines.
Some of these aircraft, patrolling a few
miles off the convoy, reported several


Personal and Missing Friends.
FREDERICK CHARLES WALKER.—WouId
anyone knowing the whereabouts of FREDE-
RICK CHARLES WALKER, Motor Mechanic,
about 52 years of age, who was born at New-
town, N.S.W., and was last heard of in 1930
at West Maitland, or his wife or his daughter,
Joan Walker, kindly communicate with MESSRS.
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors, 70 King
Street, Sydney?
ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON.
MR. ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON, or any-
one having any information as to his present
address, is kindly asked to communicate with
the undersigned, who has information to the
advantage of Mr. Heighten regarding the estate
of his aunt. Mr. Heighten, if living, will be
about 70 years of age, and was last seen by
his sister in Auckland in 1891.—TRUST
MANAGER, the New Zealand Insurance Com-
pany, Limited, Queen Street, Auckland, New
Zealand.
CD
am
U-boats in the vicinity. They descended
on the enemy spurting fire. The U-boats
joined the other sharks in quick time.
A brief wireless signal brought out
long-distance Coastal Command heavies
—Catalinas, Liberators, trusty old Sun-
derlands and some Fortresses. The Atlan-
tic Ocean is a millpond to be taken in a
hop by most of the heavies in use.
A Liberator drew first blood. It picked
up a sea pest 15 miles from the surface
escorts and disabled it in short order.
Meantime naval aircraft had found
another raider, trailed and attacked it
and led the destroyer Broadway and the
frigate Lagan to the scene. Both ships
went into action. Broadway’s second
run —apparently with depth charges—
seemed to bring half the wreckage in the
Atlantic to the surface with a giant’s
gurgle.
With heavies skirting the horizon, the
convoy went on its slow, imperturbable
way, but attacks round the outer ring of
escorts followed in quick succession.
H.M.S. Pathfinder took a potshot at a
turret which disappeared with celerity.
Then a Sunderland made a find and led
the corvette Drumhellar and the Lagan
to the spot. A few shots settled the
hash of that one—next day in the vicin-
ity there was a patch of oil four miles
across, dotted with wreckage.
At this point another convoy came into
the picture. A strong force of U-boats
was found trying to head it off. H.M.S.
Hesperus forced one sneaking attacker
to the surface with depth charges, 'then
ripped gunfire into it. The U-boat
disappeared as Hesperus raced over it,
dropping a final trail of depth charges.
This sally was no sooner over than
another enemy popped up. It was blasted
with gunfire. Members of the crew were
seen leaping into the sea. Hesperus
finished her work by ramming. Next day
she added another enemy to her bag.
By this time there was a general en-
gagement in progress. A Canadian-squad-
ron Sunderland engaged for ten minutes
in a fierce duel with enemy conning-tower
and deck guns, until the doughty Drum-
hellar arrived to put the polish on work
seemingly well done.
■ A full 97 per cent, of the ships affected
reached safety, most of them without
coming within the range of actual battle.
The Little Ships
Pictures of the little ships such as
staged the battle give a heartening
glimpse of the new stout and deadly wall
of fast-moving protection which has been
built round convoys —there are 600
patrol vessels of the R.N. on convoy pro-
tection, apart from capital ships, cruisers
and destroyers.
Drumhellar is Canadian —a “Town”
class corvette, which gets her name from
an Albertan training post. She is a
veteran, three years at sea, with many
skirmishes and rescues to her credit.
Broadway —one of the four-funnelled
U.S.S. destroyers transferred to the R.N.
—is a fearsome-looking object whose
commander has followed the Chinaside
custom of having a large human figure
limned on her bows, where it remains
ever-watchful for devils. The ship was
blooded with Bulldog and a corvette in
1941 when a U-boat crew surrendered
under threat of ramming.
Hesperus had previously sunk two Ü-
boats —one last year, one earlier this
year, in company with H.M.S. Vanessa.
Lagan is a fast frigate of the latest
type. Pathfinder was one of Malta’s
protectors, and was well known in the
Mediterranean as a daring escort vessel.
Most interesting of all is H.M.S. Biter.
She is an escort-carrier, a converted U.S.-
built merchantman, described facetiously
by the R.N. as “one of the Woolworths.”
The class carries only a few aircraft,
but they are sufficient; and they fill the
hiatus in mid-ocean between shore-based
levies on either side of the Atlantic.
Many of them are in service—far too
many for the comfort of the German
Navy.
Invasion Plans.
The invasion of Europe is taken now
as a foregone conclusion. Germany re-
ports frequently additions to the con-
centrations of shipping at Gibraltar. On
June 25 six battleships, two a.-cs., 20
destroyers and 70 merchant ships were
said to be there.
Berlin declares also that vast prepara-
tions are in train in Syria, and that
thither the Eighth Army has been trans-
ferred from Tunisia to join General Mait-
land Wilson’s Ninth and Tenth Armies.
The German assumption is that an
attack on the Dodecanese is coming as
a preliminary to some more ambitious
attempt on Axis integrity.
The sober British as usual sit silent,
but Mr. Stimson, Uncle Sam’s War Sec-
retary, has declared that the German
High Command is moving “huge forces”
into France and Italy—lo to 12 divi-
sions in addition to the 30 to 35 German
divisions already in the west, and exclu-
sive of those in the West Wall defences
inside Germany itself. Also increasing
concentrations of fighters are reported
inside the Reich. Including Norway,
Germany probably has 2,000,000 fight-
ing men in the western and southern zone.
The Allies are not in a hurry, and even
when ready will move only when there
is the right conjunction of weather,
opportunity, forces and enemy unreadi-
ness.
General Marshall, U.S. Army C.-in-C.,
has told a gathering of U.S. State
Governors:
For Allied action, with overwhelming
military power in the air and on land and
sea, and skilful application of it, Tunisia
gave us an invaluable pattern for the future,
but our tasks will be increasingly difficult
with the great hazard of an over-water
approach and heavy battle beyond beaches.
The way will be far from easy, and losses
will be heavy.
He urged his hearers to check waves of
optimism which led the public to feel
that the end was in sight. We were “just
getting started,” he said. Great battles
lay ahead and U.S. fortitude had yet to
be proven in the agony of enduring heavy
casualties.
Stand-to in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian war at this
stage most resembles the kind of battle
which used to go on along the northern
fringe of Australia before the warrigal
learnt to issue summonses.
Each side stands slapping its thigh and
announcing that it is ready for all eventu-
alities. Air raiding of communications
and rear bases continues.
Now and then one, usually the Rus-
sian, makes a thrust —at Velikiye Luki,
near Byelgorod, or further south at
Lisichansk on the Donetz. Hitler’s
legions do not seem to have any ges-
tures left in them that are not defensive,
but any moment might change this. For
both sides are manoeuvring to strike with
overpowering strength and concentration
when chance offers.
Casualty lists for the year ended June
22 have been issued. Previous estimates
by the Russians:
To December 7, 1941.
German. Russian.
Killed, wounded and
missing .. .. ■ • 4,200,000 1,748,000
Guns taken or destroyed 22,000 16,000
Tanks ditto .. .. 17,000 9,300
Aircraft ditto .. .. 16,000 7,000
To June 22, 1942.
Killed, wounded and
missing .. .. .. 10,000,000 4,500,000
Guns taken or destroyed 30,500 22,000
Tanks ditto .. .. 24,000 15,000
Aircraft ditto .. .. 20,000 9,000
The Russian communique added that
the German casualties included 1,380,000
dead, and that 70 per cent, of Russian
wounded and only 40 per cent, of Ger-
man wounded returned to the fighting
line.
Berlin beat Moscow to the post with
an estimate of Russian losses up to the
end of the second year of the war, given
over Berlin Radio. It claimed that
Russia had lost 5,365,000 prisoners, at
least 36,000 tanks, about 50,000 guns and
more than 40,000 aeroplanes. It alleged
also that the U.S.S.R.’s ffital loss of
man-power, including killed and wounded,
would be more than 20,000,000.
Moscow then brought its official lists
up to date (June 22, 1943):
German. Russian.
Killed and prisoners .. 6,400,000 4,200,000
Guns taken or destroyed 56,500 35,000
Tanks ditto .. -. 42,400 30,000
Aircraft ditto .. .. 43,000 23,000
The enemy issued no estimate of his own
losses, and the Russian list makes no
mention of wounded, which renders a full
comparison of man-power losses with
those of the previous year impossible.
But the Russians’ admissions are suffi-
cient to assure that the attrition has been
terrible. Their losses in killed and
missing already exceed by 300,000 the
Russian losses in the same categories in
the last war.
Stalin declared on February 23 that up
to that date the winter offensive had cost
the Germans 700,000 killed and 300,000
prisoners.
A special Soviet communique issued
with the casualty lists stated that the
losses inflicted on the enemy had funda-
mentally shattered the German Army’s
might and definitely crippled the German
capacity for waging war. It added:
Everything now depends on how the
Allies use the present favorable situation
for a Second Front in Europe, without
which victory is impossible. The absence
of a Second Front in Europe saved Nazi
Germany from defeat in 1942. The Hitler-
ites used this breathing space for a new
large-scale offensive against the Soviet last
summer and autumn. To let the existing
favorable conditions for the opening of a
Second Front in Europe in 1943 slip by,
to be late in this matter, would seriously
harm our common cause, entailing the pro-
longation of the war and a colossal in-
crease of sacrifice.
M. Stalin, in a message to President
Roosevelt at the week-end, declared that
conditions had been created for the defeat
of the common enemy, and that he had
no doubt victory would come the sooner
when the Allies struck joint united blows
against the enemy from east and west.
He said the conditions of victory had
been created as a result of the Soviet
Union’s two years’ struggle and the seri-
ous blows the Allies had inflicted on the
Italian and German armies in North
Africa.
President Roosevelt replied that he was
“just as strong for a Second Front,” and
that “everyone” was “agreed on it.” And
bluff old Admiral Standley, U.S.A. Am-
bassador at Moscow, was heard again in
not so comforting a strain. He said “co-
operation between Britain, Russia and
U.S.A. must not cease with the defeat of
Germany, but must be continued until
the defeat of Japan and be maintained
after the war,” which doesn’t mean only
the German war.
Another view about the conditions for
victory is that they were created by the
winning of the battle of Britain and by
the maintenance of command of the sea
by the Royal Navy and the R.A.F., sup-
ported in the last year by American
forces.
The Brisbane Li(n)e.
“Ek Dum”: Military listeners to the
speeches of Mr. Curtin on defence are
apt to believe that, if all he says is valid,
the age of miracles must have arrived
with him.
The impression conveyed is that ,when
he and his military adviser, Mr. Forde,
came on the scene —-Mr. Forde told the
press that he would turn out fully-
trained soldiers in three weeks —defence
was in a shocking state of neglect, but
this was cured instanter.
In the Prime Minister’s accounts of the
cure there are curious gaps. He does not
explain why, if the continent would have
been defenceless without the two divisions
which he brought back from the Middle
East, he did not also at once bring back
the other division.
And he has made no reference to the
expansion of the R.A.N. or the immense
organisation of R.A.A.F. training, which
certainly was well advanced before Mr.
Curtin’s day—7o,ooo air recruits had
been enrolled by July, 1940. Nor has he
said a word about the naval shipbuilding
programme, begun long before he took
office ; or the work which was started dur-
ing Mr. A. G. Cameron’s time as Navy
Minister ; or the great munitions and air-
craft factories in being when he assumed
power.
Moreover he has neglected to mention
that, before the Coral Sea battle had been
fought, those in charge of the arrange-
ments for sending troops and supplies to
Westralia —then certainly threatened more
than any other part of Australia —were
compelled to call upon soldiers to load
ships with the wherewithal to defend Mr.
Curtin’s constituency.
In all the P.M.’s references to Ameri-
can help there was no praise for Aus-
tralian officers, nor a word about the fact
that the British Navy and the R.A.N.
played a part in the initial defence
of Australia after the declaration of war
in the Pacific equal to or greater than,
that of the temporarily-crippled American
Navy or that the R.N. and the R.A.N.
share with the R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F.
the defence of our western approaches.
Had it not been for the R.N. and the
R.A.F. the Japanese would have taken
command of the Indian Ocean and Cey-
lon, as they attempted to do, and no
A.I.F. divisions could have been brought
back to save the situation. Britain lost
fine ships and hundreds of lives,
as did the R.A.N., in process of estab-
lishing Indian Ocean defence.
The plain truth is that everything
which has been done to defend this
country was thought of and embodied in
plans long before there was an American
command in the South-west Pacific. And
while lack of resources may or may not
have caused the visioning of a fall-back
on the “Brisbane line” in the face of the
emergency caused by the unexpected dis-
aster to the U.S. Fleet at Pearl Harbor
and the stunning cataclysms of Singapore
and the Philippines and East Indies, this
was not “defeatism.” In countries
threatened with invasion preparations for
any conceivable emergency are sound
military policy.
General Wavell fell back from the
Libyan border and ended his manoeuvre
in Benghazi. The Eighth Army fell back
to within 50 miles of its main base and,
aided by short land communications and
difficulties very similar to some of those
which an enemy invasion from the north
would suffer —lack of water and shelter
and long land lines —finished gloriously
in Tunis and Cape Bon.
In such a situation, with no railways
available, and with command of the
sea in Japanese hands, along with com-
mand of the air, to fight in the north
would have meant sheer disaster for the
forces available early in 1942.
It was the duty of a military com-
mander in such circumstances to shorten
his lines of communication, make the
most of his limited fuel, trucks and
trained forces and arms, prevent the
enemy from making a sea expedition
which would get behind him and divide
his forces and threaten his equipped har-
bors, petrol supplies and munition manu-
factures. By concentrating his defences
close to his resources he would compel
his foes to use the longest possible lines
of communication and those most un-
favorable—namely, land communications
across badly-watered and locally unsup-
plied and unsheltered country or sea
communications over long distances.
The defender would know that it
would take the enemy a considerable
time to get at him over lengthened land
and sea lines.
And he would be in the best position,
near his resources, to prepare for and
fight a holding battle till outside help
arrived to enable him to drive the enemy
back.
In brief:
Up to June 25 British submarines had sunk
13 more Axis ships and damaged several others
in the Mediterranean. Beaufighters sank two
others, and a further five fell victims to the
Beaus in the North Sea. The subs.’ bag in
the Mediterranean included a 7000-ton merchant
cruiser, two naval auxiliaries, two medium-sized
supply ships and eight smaller ones.
* # * *
The U.S. Navy reports that at least nine
Japanese submarines have been sunk oft the
U.S. Pacific coast since the outbreak of war.
* * * *
According to a statement issued by the War
Department on June 25, U.S. casualties total
90,860. They were made up of: 63,958 army
(7528 killed, 17,128 wounded, 22,687 missing
and 16,615 prisoners); and 26,902 navy, Marines
and coastguards killed, wounded and missing.
* * * *
Fighting in Burma last week was limited to
continuance of the all-round air raiding and to
patrol fighting in the Chin Hills.
* * * *
The British Manufacturers’ Association (Aus-
tralia) gives a few facts about the British war
effort which stir admiration: Out of 33,000,000
Britons from 14 to 65 years old 22,000,000 are
in the armed forces, in civil defence and war
industry; as aspirants to enter Australian uni-
versities might note, they include 771 per cent,
of boys and 671 P er cent, of girls between 14
and 17. Working time lost in labor disputes
in Britain since the outbreak of war has been
less than one hour per worker per annum.
Tanks, jeeps and mechanised war vehicles are
being turned out at the rate of 275,000 a year—
increase since 1940, 350 per cent. Other war
products include five battleships and about 600
other warships in three years; 40,000 big guns
a year, with 25,000,000 rounds of ammunition
for them; and 2,000,000,000 rounds of small-
arms ammunition p.a.


“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
J^)ANK3%,
pry. L-.TCD-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME <COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT JOHN MULDOON late of Forest
Lodge in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN MAY
MULDOON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1027 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you rriay
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney before the
31st August 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from HUMPHREY MANS-
FIELD Solicitor 350 George Street Sydney. —
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO PATRICK JOHN SMITH formerly of
Newell Street Footscray Victoria and of Osborne
Park and Mount Lawley Perth West Australia
but now of parts unknown Horse Trainer. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife RUBY MAUD
SMITH has instituted proceedings against you
for divorce on the grounds of three years’ de-
sertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the Sixteenth d&y
of July 1943 the case may proceed your absence
notwithstanding and you may be ordered to pay
costs—W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, 214
Nicholson Street, Footscray, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Public Notices.
I, ZAMPETTA KEZALAS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Castellorizo, Dodecanese, and
resident 29 years in Australia, now residing at
6 Hannam Street, Darlinghurst, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
WANTED
Musical Instruments
/''’JET up to £lO cash tor your used
' J Guitar or Banjo-Mandolin. We will
also give up to £4O cash for Piano
Accordions atfd Saxophones. We buy
instruments in any condition any-
where. Write for details of free
valuation to —
“SAMPSONS,” Dept. M., Box 4184 X
G.P.0., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was heavy betting at Randwick
on Saturday, Hall Stand, in particular,
being the medium of a plunge. In
individual bets of £lOO or more re-
ported by a contemporary over £3500
was placed with nine paddock book-
makers alone. Tote turnover was £90,769
and the attendance 33,250, inclusive of
5000 service men.
When Hesione settled Hall Stand a
furlong from home in the June Stakes a
win for her seemed almost certain, but
she was unable to withstand Winnipeg’s
strong challenge. Both first and second
ran better than at Rosehill the previous
week. Triad’s third was a good effort,
and, while it may be some time before
backers will again rush Hall Stand, John
Halifax was also disappointing. Young
Valais's showing scarcely warranted a
trip to Brisbane for the Doomben New-
market, even if transport should be avail-
able. Usher cut up badly, but Bruce
Wood did well enough to warrant his
backers giving him another chance.
J. O’Sullivan won the June Stakes on
Winnipeg, and in the Winter Stakes took
the second leg of the day’s principal
double on Shining Night. Hieron and
Jymjon led into the straight, but Cream
Puff shot to the front commencing the
last furlong. Then she was cut down
by Dashing Cavalier, but in turn the
latter was settled by Shining Night.
Wellesley was fourth, without ever being
dangerous, and Moondarewa did not act
up to the support extended him. Dewar,
tailing off early, finished eighth.
Jungle King’s (F. Shean) previous form
did not suggest a mile would be to his
liking, but, setting up a long lead from
Boorchief and Orderly in the first half
of the Three-year-old Handicap, he did
not look like being defeated after turn-
ing into the straight, though Afloat ran
him to a length. Orderly hung on well
to get third, but Peter’s Pence put up a
better performance to get fourth. He
was last soon after barrier-rise. Royal
Result also ran well, while Boorchief and
Sandman tired after being prominent to
the top of the straight.
Steadfast and Silverware did the pace-
making in the first division of the Nur-
sery Handicap, but, though the former
was actually first into the straight, he
did not run on in the same fashion as
at Rosehill, and Caspian (Hughes) had
him beaten a furlong from home, Ten-
nessee, after being badly placed for the
first three furlongs, and experiencing no
luck when trying for a run-through in
the straight, was a fair second, and could
be accounted an unlucky loser. Air Lord,
Kingsford, Steadfast and Turn Again
headed the others. The winner is a geld-
ing by Excitement from Passage (imp.),
by Salamis, and cost 90gns. as a yearling.
The much-boomed Midstream colt
Superb was a failure in the second divi-
sion of the Nursery Handicap, never
really raising the hopes of those backers
who made him a warm favorite. In run-
ning fourth the second choice, Red
Robby, did a little better, but Annie
Laurie (Whitney), who was always the
leader, was the winner from the home
turn. Sir Francis gained ground oyer
the last half-furlong, but never quite
looked like catching Annie Laurie, who is
by Bullhead from Chelone, by St. Anton
from Dewy Dawn, a Wallace mare, and
cost HOgns. as a yearling. Wildey, Mon-
tano and Denton were prominent to the
turn, and Caladin, Code and My Anne
did fairly in the straight, where Susque-
hannah (third) struck trouble.
R. Wootton got rid of a useful horse
when he recently disposed of Bomb, In
the Novice Handicap Great Scot turned
for home with a lead that made him look
a winner, but Bomb (Cook), who was
never further away than fourth, outstayed
him to win by half a length. Casket King
came home strongly to get third.
A last-moment engagement gave S.
Davidson a win on Merrimba in the
Exeter Handicap, and there is no doubt
as to that horse being exceptionally good
up to a mile under welter weights.
Pinero led a furlong from home, and
then Merrimba (S. Davidson) fairly ran
over him. Bona Fide’s fourth pointed to
her as an early winner, and Haripur and
Two’s Company are coming on again.
Lo Dokes (favorite) was beaten at the
top of the straight and Faerie Queene
never ran much worse.
* * * *
Jack threatened Benghazi for G.N.
Hurdle favoritism after his decisive
defeat of Master Craft and Merridale in
the Ardmillan Hurdle at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. He won pulling up by three
lengths, and his trainer, R, Sweetnam,
who took off 81b. to ride him at 9.6 (his
original G.N. weight), is not perturbed by
his National penalty. It will mean less
wasting for the strenuous three-miler.
Jack was to have been shipped to the
East as an army remount, but his pur-
chase by trainer F. W. Hoysted saved
him for racing. He was leased to E. H.
Blackney, was registered only in May
last year and did not have his first race
until this season. A five-year-old by Fern-
kloof from Sweet and Gay, by Gay
Lothario from Chouette, by Magpie, he is
now one of Victoria’s most promising
jumpers.
Anpapejo, recovered from his Fleming-
ton injuries, was backed confidently to
beat Jack on Saturday. He toppled over
a fallen horse at the first jump, and,
although he and his rider, L. Meenan,
escaped injury, his G.N. prospects were
not improved. Isambard, a strongly-
fancied G.N. Hurdle candidate, made up
considerable ground to finish fifth to Miss
Rebecca in the principal flat race, the
Somerton Handicap, in which Benghazi
was not disgraced.
Jack Farr enhanced his G.N. Steeple
prospects by a very easy win from Ben
Syce and Harley in the Donnybrook
Steeple. He led over the last mile to win
by six lengths. Harley plodded over the
last half-mile, but it was his first race
experience of fencing, and improvement
is likely. West Haran failed to flatter
backers who sent him out favorite, and
was not impressive from a G.N. view-
point. Lord Jevington also disappointed.
Bookmakers scored heavily over the
successes of Last Port (50 to 1), Mating
Call (20 to 1), Miss Rebecca (20 to 1) and
Bobby Pearce (33 to 1). Each improved
considerably on latest form. Miss Rebecca
was retired to the stud last season, but,
her mating with an imported stallion being
unsuccessful, it was decided to give her
another chance on the racecourse. Em-
phasising the ability of Londoner, who
had beaten him a week earlier, Director
easily justified favoritism for the
Preston Handicap.
* * * *
Many applicants to the A.J.C. for
renewal of their trainers’ licenses for
1943-44 have been doing munition work
in addition to preparing a horse or two.
It would be safe to bet that some have
found munition work much more pro-
fitable than they ever did horse-training.
A small team, with a win in the
bial “blue moon,” does not give a regular
income approaching that of a war worker.
Even men with large teams must have
their full share of wins to make training
a profitable business.
* * * *
It is not unusual for geldings to win
hurdle races or steeplechases when they
are well up in years, but it is rarely mares
last so long as Chat, winner of the £2500
Great Northern Steeplechase at Auckland
early this month. By Siegfried, she is
rising ten and, beginning her racing career
at two years, has not since missed a
season. At the same meeting the Great
Northern Hurdles of £2OOO was won by
Town Survey (by Surveyor), who was so
little fancied that his tote dividend was
at the rate of a little over 25 to 1.
* * * *
It was a surprise bordering on the
absurd when Victorian Chief Secretary
Bailey and the tramway employees sug-
gested that Caulfield should be used in-
stead of Moonee Valley for race meet-
ings. The Army has occupied Caulfield
for over three years, and, even though the
tram employees and the Chief Secretary
are seemingly unable to grasp that fact,
it would take something more than
five minutes to get it ready again for
racing. V.A.T.C. chairfnan Norman
Robinson said that if a start were made
immediately it could not be done in time
for the Caulfield Cup meeting in October.
* * * *
If Kindergarten comes to Australia a
new rider will have to be found for him.
A. E. Ellis, who rode him in all his
recent wins, sustained a fractured verte-
bra and a dislocated hip when Evan’s
Head fell with him in the Great Northern
Hurdles at Auckland early this month.
Wiggins, who was on Kindergarten at his
only start in Australia, is again riding
and winning in Maoriland.
* * * *
Maoriland has only one Kindergarten,
but it has several other horses of good
handicap class. One of these is the six-
year-old gelding Rakanui (Hunting Song-
Opportunity). At the Auckland R.C.
winter meeting on June 5, when the track
was heavy, he won the Cornwall Handi-
cap, \\ mile, of £l3OO, with 10.3 (mini-
mum 7.0). He beat the second horse,
Landveyor (8.8), by three lengths. Monte
Cristo, who raced in Sydney some time
ago, was third with 8.7.
* * 3: *
Brisbane paddock bookmakers have a
genuine grievance. It is proposed to in-
crease the fee for fielding at Albion Park
from £7 7s. to £lO 10s. a day—double
the fee at Randwick. Brisbane paddock
bookmakers pay a yearly license of 21
guineas to the Q.T.C., £5O to the Govern-
ment, a betting-ticket tax of 3d. and sub-
scribe 10s. a week to war funds, this being
collected with the fielding fee.
* * * *
As commentary on the value or other-
wise of form in classic races it can be
mentioned that Main Topic, Hall Stand
and Grand Prodige, the place-getters in
the last A.J.C. Derby, have not since dis-
tinguished themselves by a win, though
Main Topic has run well. Of the un-
nlaced Derby runners, Afloat, Baroda,
Angel, Streamford arid Marwin have won
since that race.
* * * *
The luck of the game. Before
America’s crack three-year-old Count
Fleet raced at two years he was lor sale
for $4OOO (about £A1216), but no one
wanted him. In consequence Mrs. J. D.
Hertz was practically forced to retain a
colt whose Kentucky Derby success gave
him 13 wins out of 18 starts, and made
his earnings $159,070 (£A48,369). First
money in the Kentucky Derby was
$60,725 (approximately £A18,467). In
America a first-class two- or three-year-
old means a fortune in prize-money
alone.
* * * *
On some American tracks everything
is made as comfortable as possible for
paddock patrons of winter meetings. At
the Fair Grounds, New Orleans, the
grandstand can be glass-enclosed and
steam-heated. During the past few weeks
Sydney racegoers would have appreciated
something similar.
Miscellaneous
About 15,000 people witnessed the dis-
cussion between the Richmond Tigers
and the Hawthorn Hawks at Richmond.
At the end the Hawks had hardly a
feather left —Tigers 15.16 to 8.14. Thus
Essendon had only to beat St. Kilda —
which it did by 20.19 to 15.8 —to be left
at the top of the poll. Fitzroy’s hopes
were wrecked by Carlton (15.16 to 9.13),
and Footscray playfully kicked 10.11 to
“Sowth’s” 6.14, which left ’Roy, Haw-
thorn and ’Scray level behind Essendon.
Melbourne, after a hot argument with
’Wood about third place, managed to
get into it by straight shooting, 13.9 to
10.21.
* * * *
Though the second round has only just
begun, Manly, East, Randwick and Uni-
versity look like remaining “the four” in
the Sydney Rugby Union competition.
They won their matches easily on Satur-
day:—
Manly 17, Parramatta 6; East 21, Drum-
moyne 9; Randwick 30, Gordon 8; Uni. 23,
West 8; North 17, St. George 6.
* * * *
An exciting contest was anticipated
when welterweights Jimmy Dundee and
Tommy Johns shaped up at Leichhardt,
Sydney, but it was about as exciting as
stale beer. Dundee got the decision on
a technical knockout in the eighth after
Johns had twice collapsed to the canvas.
Galleryites and ringsiders were still hoot-
ing when the loser limped into his dress-
ing-room—“sprained ’ees ankle,” a sym-
pathiser said.
Though in superior shape and nearly
always in an attacking mood, Tommy
Loder was outpointed by Archie Rash at
the Sydney Stadium. Realising that the
other party was a bit ahead, Loder made
the eleventh and twelth sultry for Rash,
but that sturdy little lightweight
weathered the storm, and only cheers
were heard when Joe Wallis awarded him
the verdict.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
All things worked together for the suc-
cess of the W.A.N.S. third-birthday
parade last Sunday afternoon. Nearly
1000 of the blue-clad army marched,
and many former members of the
service rolled up for the finale in
Government House grounds. The
W.A.N.S. movement, always a special
protege of Lady Wakehurst, has been
the training ground for hundreds of
women now in the services. Captain
Stella Swinney, assistant commandant of
A.W.A.S. in N.S.W. and formerly a com-
mandant in the W.A.N.S., attended the
rally. Lady Wakehurst, in her address,
told that the W.A.N.S. had founded the
Women’s Land Army and the Women’s
Fire Auxiliary, and had been of untold
value in the war effort. From Hyde Park
the girls had marched to the music ot
their own band. Before dispersal, after-
noon tea was served from the W.A.N.S.
mobile canteens.
Kindergarten wallahs turned up in a
great company at Government House last
Thursday. An address by W. Bankes
Amery, of the United Kingdom Food
Mission, was preceded by a sandwich
lunch. “Sandwich” was a bit of a mis-
nomer, for all sorts of tasty trifles ap-
peared on the tables and trays. Bat
there were no dehydrated mutton pasties,
notwithstanding the suggestion from an
exalted person. There must be still some
tins of mustard sticking to the Aurora
Australis ; it could be tasted on an occa-
sional sandwich. The dining-room was
crowded with guests with kindergarten
and nursery-school records. The lunch
was a pay party, and the money goes to
the Kindergarten Union.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst received in
the drawing-room, which was warm with
poinsettia and a leaping fire. President
of the Kindergarten Union, knight
Samuel Cohen, and his wife were not-
ables. Other enthusiasts of the movement
were the Julius lady, Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones, Mrs. Hugh Poate and Mrs. Scott
Waine. They and many others looked
man-tailored rather than Man-power
tailored. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Miss
Mary Fairfax and Florence Sulman were
among the lunchers. Dame Constance
D’Arcy wore her sable cape and tiny
toque with just the right touch.
A link with the Sydney of Wentworth’s
days was frayed to dissolution during
the week-end. Oswald Cheeke, kindly,
sympathetic, a friend to all the world,
died in Tusculum Hospital, which in the
days of its grand beginnings had been
Tusculum House, his mother’s girlhood
home. She was one of the three lovely
daughters of William Long, and as young
girls they had attended parties in the
Wentworths’ Vaucluse home. One of
the sisters married James Martin, to be-
come Chief Justice ; another became the
wife of William Bede Dailey. Mr.
Cheeke’s father was of the R.N., and
was a nephew of Judge Cheeke. His
death will be mourned by friends in Eng-
land and America, as well as in Australia
and Maoriland.
The billiard-room of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron’s premises at Kirribilli,
had chairs cunningly arranged about the
billiard tables, while all the exalted
cushioned seats along the walls were
crowded, too, last Wednesday afternoon.
The reason was a play reading by Doris
Fitton and one of her companies in the
interests of the Navy Auxiliary Fund.
For'once the members of the Auxiliary
•downed knitting needles and, sitting back,
enjoyed the Noel Coward comedy. A
sign of the times was the arrival of small
'cartons of sandwiches and cakes with
member. Shortage of staff had been
no deterrent to president Mrs. Marriott
and her steady helpers. Every woman
simply brought enough food for herself
and her guests, and committee members
served the tea.
Bankes Amery is a good speaker. He
has something to say, and he has stream-
lined it so that it fits snugly into 20
minutes or so. That is an achievement
when the matter is the whole history of
' rationing in England from the beginning
of the war till the present. Out of the
talk Lord Woolton emerges one of the
kindest men who have ever administered
i a Government department. Thousands
| of letters come from bewildered men
! and women to whom the filling
up of forms is a strange and awe-
some business. Each letter must, on
; Lord Woolton’s order, received a man-to-
' man answer. Not “Your favor received.
- it has been filed for future considera-
tion.” Indeed, how could a system of
that sort be possible in the face of such
letters as that of the distracted woman
who wrote:
Dear Lord Woolton. My husband has
run otf with another woman. Not only
that, but he has taken my ration book with
him. Do you think that’s right?
Judy Bloxham, one of the young nurs-
ing sisters on the staff of St. Vincent’s
General Hospital, and only daughter of
the H. F. Bloxhams, of Neutral Bay, has
just announced her engagement to Cap-
tain Vincent Hegarty, A.A.M.C., A.I.F.
It: was while both were serving sick
humanity in the big Darlinghurst hospital
that they met and became engaged. Both
the Bloxham and Hegarty families are
well known in Queensland and N. S.
Wales. Judy tells that her family was
for many years in the New England dis-
trict. Norton Trevaire made this picture
of the newly-engaged one.
Mrs. Fabian Chow, first Australian-
born Chinese woman to be elected a
member of the Kuomintang (China’s
National party), founded by Dr. Sun Yat-
sen, is in Sydney. Mrs. Chow, who
reached Chungking after the fall of
Hong Kong, suffered many trials on the
way to safety. In Hong Kong she had
been on the staff of the Chinese Ministry
of Information, and was also personal
secretary to the wife of Dr. Kung, China s
Minister for Finance. Mrs. Kung is the
eldest sister of the wife of Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek. Mrs. Chow was last
in Sydney as her country’s delegate to
the International Women’s Conference at
the sesquicentenary in 1938.
Many Chinese and English friends wel-
comed Mrs. Chow at a reception given
in her honor by Mr. and Mrs. Pon, her
sister and brother-in-law. This filled Vere
Matthews’s cafe between four and six
last Thursday. Both the Minister for
China, Dr. Hsu Mo, and the Consul-
General, Dr. Tuan, came, and both made
speeches. The guest of honor has a sweet
and clear voice, and public speaking
should hold no terrors for her.
Mrs. Ely Palmer, wife of the Consul-
General for U.S.A., will be the guest of
honor at today’s lunch of the Society
of Women Writers. The Chelsea Club
is the appointed spot.
The C.E.N.E.F. Services Club at
King’s Cross was all gala for its first
birthday party last Thursday night.
Catering for both men and women of
the services, it has achieved success from
the day of its opening. This is, of course,
largely due to the vast army of voluntary-
workers and the real comforts with
which they surround their visitors. Lady
Wakehurst was the guest of honor at the
party, and loud applause greeted her
wish that there might be a special decora-
tion for voluntary workers in the move-
ments helping the war effort. Archbishop
Mowll told, with just pride, the splendid
work of C.E.N.E.F. since the beginning
of the war.
A sparkling solitaire diamond ring is
in the making for Mary Kathleen Woods.
Last week this attractive North Sydney
girl announced her engagement to
Bombardier Clifford Gearin, A.I.F.
Popular June Bracken, only child of
the E. C. Brackens, of Bellevue Hill, last
week became the wife of Flight-Lieu-
tenant Alan Ritchie, D.F.M., of Sydney.
Bridegroom was co-navigator of the Lan-
caster bomber on its journey to Australia,
and is a member of the R.A.A.F.
The first matron of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy Nursing Service has been
appointed. She is Sister I. Laidlaw, and
her record is an inspiring one. She
was the first superintending sister of
the R.A.N.N.S. when it was estab-
lished in 1942. She saw service in India
during the last war. Then she was sub-
matron at the Melbourne Children's
Hospital, and was for some years
matron at the Orthopaedic Hospital at
Frankston (Vic.). There are now 33
members in the R.A.N. Nursing Service.
From Melbourne
The W.R.A.N.S. members showed no
traces of belonging to a comparatively
new organisation when they marched on
Friday, and came in for very laudatory
comment from the watching crowds.
Their uniform, particularly the very be-
coming hat, looks very good en masse
(and not at all bad individually either,
though a harassed lass of an “in-between”
size described hers the other day as hav-
ing been “cut with a knife and fork”).
But the Navy, on the whole, seems to
tackle the uniform problem very capably
or else has been lucky enough to recruit
200 lasses of standard size, which seems
unlikely.
The W.A.A.A.F. exhibition should give
an impetus to recruiting. It demonstrates
both the extraordinarily wide choice of
attractive jobs the service offers to
women and the interest its heads take
in appointing the right lass to the
right job—the W.A.A.A.F. “higher-ups”
have always been rather proud of their
skill in that direction. Most women who
visited the exhibition were especially im-
pressed by the mechanics section. The
sight of overalled and capped damsels
coping with intricate machinery breeds
quite a new sort of ambition in feminine
breasts.
A pat on the back is due to Mrs. Dan
Reddan and her voluntary staff, who
have been running Ye Olde Dutch Cafe
in P.O.W. interests. A cheque for £lOOO
no less, after the cafe had been going for
only 12 weeks, was handed to Dr. New-
man Morris for Red Cross P.O.W.
branch. Both Dr. Morris and Martin,
M.L.A. (who was present at the cafe’s
opening with a blessing), had praise for
the organising brains of the cafe’s com-
mittee. The practicability of running the
entire affair with voluntary staff (with
the single exception of the cook) has
proved itself many times over.
Here pictured, Rosemary Atkinson,
one of the latest recruits to A.W.A.S.
ranks. Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Rus-
sell Atkinson, of Brighton, her interests
are sporting and literary. She spent the
time after her Firbank schooldays were
over on the staff of a city library with
the avowed intention of reading all the
books in her spare moments. Last year
she decided to take a war job, and de-
serted books for statistics. Now one of
the uniformed services has appealed as a
sphere of war-time usefulness.
The A.I.F. Women’s Association gen-
eral meeting gave members a chance to
welcome the new secretary, Mrs. L. C.
Wilcher, who takes over from Mrs. C. S.
Steele, resigned a few months back. Mrs.
Wilcher is the wife of Lt.-Colonel L. C.
Wilcher, who in more peaceful days was
Dean of Trinity College, Melbourne Uni.
She is well known to students and gradu-
ates, as she took a very active part in all
Uni. war-time activities and was always
on hand for such unpopular jobs as
waste-sorting and the like, that the aver-
age person is glad to avoid.
A walk through this city’s parks soon
lays the faintest ghost of a doubt as to
the arrival of winter. Municipal
gardeners make a point of planting de-
ciduous English trees, which know per-
fectly well what is the right thing to do
in winter, unlike Australian trees, which
pretend that seasons don’t exist. The
skyline shows a tracery of bare branches
of elms, poplars and oaks saying to the
clouds “It’s about time you snowed!”
and looking like imported Christmas
cards. They are helped in this by the
robins —Australian robins, of course, but
they seem to have heard about the tra-
ditions of their antipodean brethren, and
dot themselves about among the elms in
the most wintry way. These little chaps
are particularly numerous this year—
lively spots of red brightening public
gardens and suburban lawns in the early
mornings.
Planning to bring the atmosphere of the
Continental market-square to the Town
Hall, the Allies’ Market Square Com-
mittee is busy making sure that a good
time will be had by all on July 8. Every-
thing one might want to buy will be sold
from 11 to 4.45, and the peckish will be
able to drop in to the “Cafe de la Vic-
toire” also from 11 a.m. onwards and
try new and strange dishes as well as
more usual fodder. In the evening, in
good market-square tradition (if operettas
are any guide), buying and selling will
give way to dancing, with a band and a
cabaret show. Food will be served till
the midnight hour.
With the death of Mrs. Barker, wife
of Emeritus Professor A. F. Barker, this
city loses one of its most attractive
personalities. Mrs. Barker, who had
travelled all over the world with her
husband, was notable for her personal
charm and the attraction this quality
gave her for people of many different
races with whom she came in contact.
It is recalled that while she was in India
many of her informal talks were attended
by Indian women who had temporarily
broken purdah to come and hear her.
Of late years her main interest has been
the support of movements to help the
Chinese, with whom she had a very strong
sympathy.
The art of the miniature painter, deli-
cate and somewhat sentimental though it
is, seems to have a particular connection
with war-time. Collections of miniatures
of bygone days always show a galaxy of
military and naval gentlemen or their
wives and sweethearts. In the National
Gallery cases one can see Nelson, Well-
ington, Napoleon and their enemies and
colleagues figuring largely, with lesser
martial lights. Myrtle Palotta’s minia-
tures, which are shortly to be on view at
the Australia for Red Cross funds, aren’t
therefore out of place in the war-time
scheme. Carrying on the soldierly tradi-
tion, she has an attractive little picture
of “Bluey” Truscott.
The musically-minded young are busy
preparing for the eliminating rounds of
the competitions for the Concerto Festi-
val, at which finalists will play with the
Symphony Orchestra. The festival has
many points to recommend it, the main
one being that adjudicators do not have
to choose between two competitors but
may give five or six the honor of playing
with the orchestra. Last “round” will
be on August 6, and finalists will play
in the Town Hall on September 27.
Chinaware shortage has given pottery
enthusiasts a new importance. Formerly
hand-made pottery was bought for its
artistic beauty, and in nine cases out of
ten for decoration only. Now it has
taken on a strictly utilitarian value, and
people who can afford it plan quite
calmly to buy hand-made cups and
saucers and dinner-plates. This local
ware is extremely attractive with its
slightly “primitive” look and well-blended
colors.
Tivoli artists whose stage show will
be compered by Dick Bentley will add a
bright note to the American Ball on
July 3. The scenery will be the work of
George Upward, of J.C.W., and will
represent a phrase from the Declaration
preamble—“ Life, Liberty and the Pursuit
of Happiness” and the “Spirit of
’Seventy-six” as reflected in the historic
document. The “4th” will be ushered in
by Strella Wilson singing “The Star-
Spangled Banner.” As American women
are famous for catering, and as those in
this city seem to have a special gift for
it, the supper promises to put a final
splendid touch to a very bright show.
“Come to dinner and stay the night” is
becoming quite a formula in urging a
friendly visit these winter nights. With
the family car garaged for the duration
or used only for strictly business pur-
poses, and gentlemanly escorts vanished
from these peaceful parts to camps and
battle stations, lasses paying an after-
war-job call for a meal and a chat by
the fire begin to feel a bit chilled at the
thought of the journey home. Result is
usually that hostess produces spare bed
or the sitting-room sofa for the night,
and extra hard talkers who haven’t seen
one another for months have been known
to make it a three- or four-day affair,
popping off to the job each morning-
The need for putting up wandering
cousins and lonely service men who drop
in from time to time has produced an
easy, make-the-best-of-it brand of hospi-
tality which is one of the happiest fea-
tures of these stern times.


emusreo ,*
Servieesl
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested,
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue Rg .
AGA
RESO. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
fst. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of V/ar
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
Prepare
o
>«3 m
to build
, o
s>
-,*■'
4USU
4
S. r <b
JKf
\ * \°
fi 250
sisc^sis
SetSewfaqs eaUfe.
FOR YOUR POST-WAR HOME
Of course you can’t build it now , . . nor can
you do any extensive remodelling . . . even if
you could get all the Cane-ite you’d need for
the work you’re planning to do. And there’s
no reason why you shouldn’t plan, and pre-
pare, and save, for the home you’re going to
have when peace has followed victory. Then,
there’ll be plenty of Cane-ite, the ideal insulat-
ing board for lining walls and ceilings.
CBs§-ftTE
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING.
CANE-ITE MASONITE C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL :: PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
Invest your sa vims in war bonds
CA26-43
SMOKE-OH!
“What’s wrong with army stew and hash?”
—Sydney “D.T.”
The trouble is the hash is stewed and
all the stew is hashed.
•j>
“Mrs. , whose husband is in the value
of about £120.”— “5.M.H.”
Now, now, “Granny,” that’s hardly
generous!
4* 4* 4* 4'
“In your replies I have noticed that some-
times you advise red oxide of mercury and
sometimes yellow, for spots.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Color-blind drinkers can please them-
selves.
“Ihere are to be ‘Women for Canberra’
candidates.” —News item.
Members, however, are not expected
politely to give up their seats to the
ladies.
Crisis.
“Some men are so annoying in little ways
to a girl.”— Woman’s paper.
He likes to keep her wondering, so
vaguely murmurs this and that. But
though with hope his phrases ring, his
rambling statements knock her flat. He
starts to speak, then only sighs. He says
“I think” then stops, unkind. Until,
fed-up, the waitress cries “For heaven’s
sake, make up your mind!”
Yair.
Rural Item.
There’s a dead cow a-lying by the river,
There’s a dead cow a-lying on its side,
It has quite a glassy stare,
A nd one foot is in the air,
And I wonder vaguely why it should have
died.
Then as I pause to gaze upon its carcass.
Most melancholy thoughts upon me
throng,
And I’d stay to contemplate
The perversity of fate,
If only it had not been dead so long.
T. W. NATHAN
Detestable.
“The average woman hates suspicion more
than anything else.” — Woman’s paper.
“I do hate suspicious people like that
Mrs. Buggletrot,” said Maria.
“All she said to me,” I remarked, “was
‘l’m afraid Mrs. Aitchem doesn’t like
me.’ ”
“But what right had she to suspect that
I don’t like her? All I did was to put
her in her place when she tried for elec-
tion as vice-president.”
“But if you”
“That’s right, Aitchem. Stick up for
any woman except your wife. I say she
is a horrible type of woman.
“But why do you hate”
“Because I suspect that she came into
the association to oppose me. She’s there
just to pull strings for that Mrs. Gurgle,
who I think was responsible for spreading
that rumor about me using all your
coupons.”
“in other words, you suspect her”
“Of course I suspect her. And I know
I’m right.”
“But you said that suspicion”
“Don’t you dare accuse me of being
suspicious, Aitchemflared Maria. “It’s
not that at all. Haven’t you heard about
a woman’s intuition?”
H. M.
Rafferty Rules.
“Mr. Beasley: This is all in.
“Mr. James: Boots and all.”
— “S. M. Herald’’ Parliamentary report.
When politicians set the scene
For glib and wordy battle.
Of anger full, devoured with spleen,
Their gibes like bullets rattle.
And, keeping strictly to routine,
They get some howls and hoots in.
But no fight is considered clean
Unless they put the boots in!
P. O. M. C.
Evolution of a Revolution.
(By A. Ruphgess, the diplomatic corre-
spondent of the “Squeaker," from a safe
possie on the Watadaguan frontier .)
Monday: A revolutionary flare-up is
reported from Snoozaway, capital of the
South American republic of Watadagua.
Insurrectos under the command of
General Walrus Mustachio stormed the
capital yesterday. Approaching at a fast
walk they completely surprised the
Government forces, which surrendered,
lt is known that General Mustachio, who
has strong pro-Allied sympathies, is
backed by the powerful Drain Diggers’
Guild which has long been dissatisfied
Jii ope . n,y p ™'^ a , z * att itude of the
an 1 a re § lme - The deposed President,
J G ° r * eom lt^ ant '^ lla ’, ? C t ? P f d ” a
24 hours S !“i.SS ; "
«/hl “
Government wrll declare war on the
T ‘ _ _ . „ , „
UE ® DAY • Confirmation of my belief
that the Mustachio Government will
shortly come into the war on the Allied
side is contained in an address to depu-
ties by the new President, who said that
co-operation with other nations would be
his first consideration. It is learned from
a reliable source that 17 Nazi newspapers
and 10 stations broadcasting Axis propa-
ganda are to be closed up. The danger-
ous anti-Axis feeling of the people was
shown yesterday when Herr Willi Tonck,
grinSST™ aSed with ™
Naz! embassy, was attacked with gre
nades while entering his limousine.
Wednesday; High Washington diplo-
matic circles are said to be greatly elated
at the turn of events in Watadagua. It
is known that the blatantly pro-Nazi
attitude of the Mantilla Government has
long had Washington worried. Accord-
ing to one high personage in close con-
tact with the White House, the President
is now working in close collaboration
with the new head of the Watadaguan
Government. It is confidently expected
that air and naval bases will be placed at
the disposal of the United Nations.
Thursday: Three hours after his
broadcast to the nation saying how in-
tensely proud he was to have had his
regime officially recognised by the great
democratic Powers, President Mustachio
had every Liberal editor in Snoozaway
shot, issued orders closing up all
p ro -Allied papers and radio stations, and
was entertaining the Nazi. Italian and
Japanese ambassadors at a banquet, at
T which he toasted an Axis victory Later
he js stated to have given permi ’ sion fo f
a ll Axis radio stations throughout Wata-
dagua to conclude their programmes with
t h e “Horst Wessel” song or “Santa
Lucia” instead of the Watadaguan
national anthem.
Friday: It is now revealed that the
treacherous Mustachio Government was
the result of a purely military coup. It
has long been known that General Mus-
tachio is a fanatically-minded Nazi who
h as been running his own private
Gestapo, complete with torture chambers,
It is said his proudest moment is when
he is addressed as “DmunkopT by the
German am bassador. Watadaguans are
already openly saying they w0 ® ld Hke a
re ( Urn of the Mantilla Government,
w hich, despite its many failings, was a
proved friend of the Allies. It is now
known that Herr Tonck was not attacked
with grenades on Monday. Mr. Hiram
Hornswoggle, the American Ambassador,
was hit in the eye with a ripe guava and
given the raspberry,
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Memory Training in Schools
I will join the educationists who are
clamoring for some sort of New Deal in
education to fit into the pattern of the
imminent New World to the extent of
advocating simple, scientific memory-
training in schools.
Faculties are more important than
facts. A lot of factual data, acquired by
brain-sweat and soon garbled or for-
gotten, avails nothing. Scientific, pain-
less, progressive mental exercises through-
out the child’s school life that enable
him to assimilate and recall with ease
will not only make his years at school
more pleasant and fruitful, but will give
him a livelier interest in the world, im-
prove efficiency and therefore self-respect,
and remove needless obstacles to ad-
vancement.
It may be argued that all education is
some sort of memory-training, but in that
sense it is not good enough. It is hap-
hazard, unsound and depends far too
much on flogging repetition. Attempts to
catch up in later years with “memory
courses” only pick up part of the lag.
The phenomenal memories of the Royal
family are the result of easy but persistent
early training.
It has been my experience that the man
at the top, in commerce and the profes-
sions, is generally possessed of a memory
that confounds and amazes his lieu-
tenants ; it helps to put him where he is,
and is the handmaiden of all his other
faculties— Keel Row (Vic.),
Population and Erosion
All seem to be agreed that after the
war Australia must increase her popula-
tion, but the fact has been lost sight of
that a country’s population is governed
by its rainfall. This continent is the
driest on the globe, having an average
rainfall of some 15in., with an evapora-
tion of about 80in.
In the absence of snow-capped moun-
tains, forests are the chief conservers of
water. Only 5 p.c. of the continent is
timbered heavily. History teaches that in
countries denuded of timber the inhabi-
tants die out. We in this land have
denuded vast areas with axe and fire at
an ever-increasing speed as settlement
spread, hence the ever-progressive effects
of erosion.
This persistent slaughter of timber
threatens, within a generation, a famine
in commercial timber, and even firewood.
Most important of all, the effects of our
poor rainfall are diminished.
Conservation of water in reservoirs is
continually advocated, but unless the
mountains and hills are brought back
under timber the water runs to waste, or,
if into dams, they silt more or less
rapidly. There are examples of this in
Victoria already.
To populate our empty spaces re-
quires a comprehensive scheme of settle-
ment on smaller areas than the present
average, with a planned system of agri-
culture. Present and future land workers
must practise sound soil conservation
methods, checking erosion and holding
the water by delaying the run-off, using
rotation of crops with long periods under
grass, grazing stock rotationally to ensure
permanent pasture and putting back the
timber in forests on the higher catch-
ment areas. A thorough course in
forestry should be given in all schools.—
A. W. Perry (N.S.W.).
Our Own Orphans First
“E.D.D.’s” plea (B. 19 /5 / ’43) for homes
for the orphans of Europe is worthy of
consideration, but before going into any
details for such a scheme why not pre-
vail upon his “5000 trustworthy and
eligible people” to adopt all or most of
our thousands of orphans in Australia?
A nation that is not prepared to accept
responsibility to rear and educate its own
orphans should not be anxious to take
over responsibility for children of other
lands and races. —F. A. P. (Q.).
Butter Rationing
Living in a dairy-farming community
we have been accustomed to getting our
butter each week from a local farmer on
his way to town.
When the farmer called last week he
told us he would be unable to supply us
in future as the few pounds he made
would not warrant registration, and he
was giving up butter-making.
We are now using butter the Govern-
ment wants to send to England, and a
few pounds each week are lost to the
country.
Why not a measure to encourage the
farmer to increase his production, and so
release more butter for Britain? —
J. S. S. (S.A.).
C.C.C. Workers
We C.C.C. workers are not in love
with union leaders to the extent the pub-
lic is led to believe ; on the contrary, dis-
gust and resentment is the general feeling
towards union officials for their failure to
work in harmony with the Government
and prevent useless stop-work meetings
which gain us nothing but depleted pay
envelopes.
Many of us are 2000 miles away from
our homes, and we are sometimes called
upon to put up with discomforts, but I
am pleased to say that the average
C.C.C. worker, despite his grumblings,
does not loaf. Indeed, he has helped
MacArthur and Blarney far more than
union bosses of the loud-mouthed Left
Wing variety.
They can’t hoodwink us with loud
cries of “co-operation with Curtin” when
we know that they didn’t lose much
sleep over our war effort before Russia
was attacked. — Nosey Norman (Q.).
“ Don't stand there, mate — you'll get killed. The knock-off whistle goes
in a minute."
WestraJian Loyally
Recent article in The Bulletin on
“Two Splendid States” was very well
received in W.A. Unfortunately, it can-
not be said that the spirit of loyalty and
sacrifice permeates every section of our
community, as when a call was made
to man certain ack-ack guns there was not
a single volunteer. The work, of course,
is voluntary and carries no overtime
rates—in fact, it carries no pay at all,
and would certainly involve some incon-
venience and not a little boredom, though
at a time when the pubs are shut.
Now the duty will have to be done by
members of the Home Guard, mostly
drawn from the despised capitalist' class
and non-unionists.
This action is in line with the refusal to
man first-aid posts or do A.R.P. exer-
cises on the wharves without pay. It is
satisfactory to know that all unions are
not tarred with the lumpers’ brush.—
Ebony (W.A.).
Way for the Eyewitness
The Bulletin’s policy of insisting
that its war stories be written by those
with first-hand experience is right in
every way. Recently I waded through a
number of yarns in other publications
apparently written by inkslingers wallow-
ing in the gore and horrors of their own
minds. Most of these yarns are in a
harsh, staccato style that jars on the
reader, and the stuff is not worthy of
serious criticism.
But tons of this sort of stuff go out as
leading matter for the troops. Many of
these chaps, stationed in lonely camps
where even a jam-tin label is reading
matter, would appreciate some good,
first-hand war literature. Those who
have not yet seen action are anxious to
learn something of the real thing, which
only an eyewitness can portray. Esk
D. (Vic.).
War Memorials.
There have been scores of war me-
morials which are among the world’s
treasures. The Parthenon was a wai
memorial. So, in a sense, were Rodin s
“Burghers of Calais” and Velasquez s
“Surrender of Breda.”
The fact that many others have been
atrocious doesn’t warrant an attitude of
despair. Rather it suggests that the reason
might be worth inquiring into.
Artists and sculptors for official jobs
have almost invariably been selected
by committees of the established insti-
tutions like the academies and universi-
ties. They review the new artist in terms
of the old, and if an artist has seen
further than his contemporaries he natu-
rally seems to them a dud, while the
artist who fulfils their conception is
bound to be old-fashioned. The good
selections have generally been made by
dictators like Pericles, who were above
the orthodox committees, or kings like
Philip the Fourth of Spain, who ad-
mired Velasquez, though the academies
despised him.
Perhaps Mr, Curtin (or Mr. Fadden)
may be another Pericles and may recog-
nise a Phidias when he sees him. —F. S.
(Vic.).
Those “Laborers”
“Laborers” is a very inaccurate de-
scription of most of those so described
on electoral rolls (B. 2/6/’43). Possibly
I could be placed in that category myself,
never having fully served an apprentice-
ship at any vocation. However, I have
eked out a crust as a clerk, salesman,
fitter, casual reporter and soldier, and
have always managed to keep off the
rocks. And I am one of many.
My army experience taught me that
most of those who have unskilled or semi-
skilled jobs in civilian life, with typical
Australian ingenuity can turn their hands
to practically anything when required.
For instance, who would have thought
three years ago that the office boy could
pilot a huge bomber now pounding the
heart out of Germany?— Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Gold, Inflation and Industry
Your article (B, 2/6/’43) upon the
above is one of the very few worth-while
local writings on the subject. As regards
the effect of inflation on life insurance,
however, may I, as being presumably the
Sydney actuary referred to, offer some
additional remarks?
To begin with, a distinction needs to
be made between monetary inflation (the
real original sin) and its common though
not inevitable result, price inflation. The
fact is that .monetary inflation is ram-
pant in Australia, and that the price and
other controls, aimed only at price infla-
tion. are merely attempts to suppress the
spots on the measles patient. The use
of the term “inflation” without an adjec-
tive plays a very important part in deceiv-
ing the" public, and I think it even de-
ceives some professional economists. In
this connection there cannot be such a
thing as gold inflation, any more than
there can be butter inflation or wool in-
flation. because there is no puffing up
with air, nothing immoral, in short, as
there is with monetary inflation.
The practical question is not that o
a return to the “gold standard oi to gold
at the present moment, but rather that of
a retardation of the present slide down
the chute of monetary inflation. Mean-
time, neither the life-insurance policy-
holders, the members of superannuation
funds, the friendly societies nor their
representatives or professional advisers
seem to make the slightest protest at the
inflationary creation of “credit” or paper
money.
Your suggestion that life offices have
some latitude in investing otherwise
than in a monetary form is rather
of theoretical than of practical value.
The purchase of gold suggested would
not overcome the difficulty. There
would be no point in paying £2
10s. for a sovereign which would earn
no interest unless paid out again, and no
life-insurance premium is adequate with-
out interest to supplement it.
As to the damage from monetary in-
flation, everyone knows the case of Ger-
many, where life insurance ceased be-
cause the proceeds of the largest policy
would not buy a doormat. And as for
Russia, an English Court (the King's
Bench Division) in 1929 decided that a
policy effected in Russia for 10,000
roubles entitled the policy-holder to only
one 1922-pattern rouble, the old paper
rouble having fallen so low. (Prol.
Bresciani-Turroni says that the rouble
of the 1924 pattern equalled fifty thou-
sand millions of the old one.) Some may
term this extreme inflation, but it has first
to pass through the very road upon
which we are travelling now. Irving
Fisher has testified that the Germans
themselves, at our point on that road, be-
lieved just as we do, that extreme in-
flation only happened on the planet Mars.
Your term “fixed money value for
gold” is very prone to convey the wrong
impression that in some way a Govern-
ment fixed or fixes an arbitrary value
upon gold, which, in fact, is impossible.
In the days of the “gold standard” the
weight of a sovereign was fixed, and that
was all. The money value of an ounce
of standard gold (about £3 17s. lOd.) was
merely a statement of the number of
sovereigns that could be coined (about
3|) out of an ounce. The value of the
paper pound was secured in the only
possible way, that is, by making it pay-
able in gold on demand.
There has never yet been found any
other way, nor is it likely there ever will
be, of making paper money stable. I
therefore suggest that, instead of speaking
of a fixed money value for gold, it would
be clearer and near to the facts to speak
instead of a fixed or stable value of paper
money.
Gold is, and always has been, a plain
commodity; and its value has varied
remarkably little since the days of Homer,
when 130 grains constituted the price of
an ox. And why should it not vary like
all other commodities? Inconvertible
paper money, such as ours, has in every
case varied more in ten years than gold
has done in 2000 years, and by the very
nature of its genesis it must continue to
do so. Meanwhile, a Government can
reduce real wages by inflation and screen
itself by appointing a valorous Prices
Commissioner and pointing to the giant
“profiteer.” —A. T. Traversi (N.S.W.).
Crowded Trams
Something should be done about peak-
hour tram travelling, particularly in
Brisbane, where it is often impossible to
even get a toehold on a car.
Why not remove all the seats from
some of the cars, put in a few more rows
of straps instead, and use these in the
busy times only? Trams of this kind
would accommodate almost twice the
number of people, and, as sitting down
is of no use unless it is in comfort, no
one would be inconvenienced. Old
people and women with young children
should not be travelling at these times.—
Straphanger (Q.).
Wholemeal Bread
On a resolution proposing an interim
food commission on international co-
ordination of production and consump-
tion at the United Nations Food Confer-
ence at Hot Springs, U.S.A., Dr. Evatt
said that this objective must be achieved
primarily by national action, but there
was need for international action to
ensure recognition by all Governments of
an international responsibility to improve
nutritional standards.
Why doesn’t his Government start by
making the baking of real wholemeal
bread compulsory? They have done it in
England, and, although they get only 2oz.
of "butter a week against Boz. in Aus-
tralia, the general health has improved
out of sight, according to medical
authorities.- L. L. (Vic.).


=s-
£- ; \n
X
rh
f
m
r.'%*
ter
LX
f
n
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds
and War Savings Certificates
A Part of
Australia’s
War Effort
A.W.A. s extensive organisation is
to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy,
Army, Air Force and Merchant Navy.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LID.
