

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3326
Wednesday, November 10, 1943
PriceGcJT
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaoer
Seppelts
DUNVEGAN.
HOME OF THE MACLEOD OF MACLEOD.
I TNDOUBTEDLY one of the most interesting of the Scottish
castles, Dunvegan, in the Isle of Skye, figures in many a
Caledonian legend.
This is the ancient stronghold of the chief of Siol Termod, Lords
of Harris and Dunvegan, who held it under charter from David 11,
up to the year 1476, when it became the home of the Lords of
the Isles, and here still is the seat of the Macleod of Macleod,
after more than thirty generations. This castle was visited in 1773
by Dr. Johnson when, to use his own words, he “tasted lotus there
and was in danger of forgetting that he was ever to depart.”
Here it was that Bonnie Prince Charlie was saved by Flora
Macdonald, and here, too, is the famous Fairy Flag of Dunvegan,
said to have been wrapped by fairies around an lan Macleod born
in 1380, a flag traditionally said to give help when waved in time
of direst need. According to Sir Walter Scott, the Fairy Flag
ensures fertility and brings herring to the,loch. Another Dun-
vegan relic is a curious drinking horn mentioned by Robert Burns.
It belonged to Rory More, and each heir was expected to be able
to drain it at a draught. And Dunvegan is almost the only fortress
of the ojd chiefs of the Isles which is still inhabited —here the
walls which sheltered the sons of Siol Termed during many a
turbulent age still form the hospitable halls of their descendants.
Looking at its grey walls Dunvegan recalls to us the words of the
Macrimmon Lament:
Madeod’s wizard flag from the grey castle sallies,
The rowers are seated, unmoored are the galleys,
Cleant war-axe and broadsword, dang target and'quiver.
As Macrimmon sings '‘Farewell to Dunvegan forever.”


Lull
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Same
My Address
S.B. 243 AGE
The Red Page
Brooke and the War Poefs .
When it classes Brooke, Wilfred Owen
and Sassoon all together as “poets of the
last war,” the publisher’s introduction to
Patrick Hore-Ruthven’s The Happy War-
rior (Angus and Robertson) falls into a
common error, unfair in two ways to
poets of this war: that error is the classi-
fication of Brooke as a war poet, when
the term implies “soldier poet.”
Brooke wrote about war, certainly.
He was going to the war when he died.
He spoke, and spoke splendidly, for the
young England called to arms in 1914.
But Brooke never saw action. If David
McNicoll, whose Airmail Palestine
(Dymocks, Ltd.) reflects active service in
the Middle East and New Guinea, is a
soldier poet —as assuredly he is—Brooke
was never a soldier poet.
The soldier poetry of the last war was
written by Sassoon —bitter and satirical;
by Edmund Blunden, singing of agony
relieved by comradeship and by simple
delight in nature; by Leon Gellert,
painting a tragic beauty. Brooke wrote
the poems of a recruit.
If their verses are properly assessed as
soldier poetry, both Hore-Ruthven and
McNicoll have in one way done more
than Rupert Brooke. More, too, than
those soldier poets of the last war, whose
faith was lost somewhere in the Flanders
mud. In March, 1942, after he had seen
and known war in the Middle East,
McNicoll wrote: —
This was the day we woke from out our
dream
And every hand, now sinewy and strong,
Takes up the challenge,'swings the sword aloft
And brings it down toward our savage foe,
Driving its blade between his questing eyes.
The men of old, gathered about our bed.
Know that this day has come; and are content.
As brave and gay as Brooke at the be-
ginning of a war —“True to our laughing
gods we young men die”-—Hore-Ruthven
wrote gaily and bravely to the day when
he was killed with the Commandos in
Tripolitania. He commemorated a fallen
comrade in November, 1941; —
Oh, he died,
Yes, he died,
As other brave men died,
But for valiant quenched vitality
Deeds spring to immortality:
A young man lingers lightly
Where he dies.
On his wrist,
On his wrist.
With a hawk upon his wrist
In a dawn that breaks more clearly
A young man still rides early
With a hawk, a hooded hawk
Upon his wrist.
To have affirmed a cause or the valor
of mankind in the midst of a war is,
spiritually, a greater thing than to have
sounded the bugle at the beginning.
Brooke, one feels, would have clung to
his faith in the heroic through all war’s
trial by fire. He would have written
poems of agony and lamentation like
Hore-Ruthven’s
What stone in Palestine
Pillows what once was mine?
Bloody now lies the fine
Head of my lover!
and like McNicoll’s
Under that sheet, upon that folding bed,
A man we know is lying--he is dead;
He has not heard a word that we have said.
Soon they will come and take him on his way
Down the short path that he walked yesterday,
And they will put him far into the ground.
Away from all this sunlight and the sound
Of life; and for a day qr so
His face will haunt the places that we know.
Then we'll forget if he’s alive or dead —
Who won the raffle for his folding bed?
But he would not have fallen into the
cynicism of defeat. Those soldier poems
of Brooke’s, the verses of a hard,
courageous maturity, lie for ever un-
written. That is why Hore-Ruthven and
McNicoll have, in one way, done more
than Brooke.
But if Brooke, perforce, wrote the
poems of a recruit, he wrote also the
poems of a poet. He was an established
poet before the Great War broke out.
It did not need a war to strike him into
song. Edmund Blunden and Sassoon had
also established themselves as poets be-
fore the Great War.
Poets such as Hore-Ruthven and
McNicoll should be placed in a different
category. Both, it may be, wrote occa-
sional verses before the war. Hore-
Ruthvcn, had he lived, would probably
have* ■'graceful/ verses all his life.
But neither would * have published a
volume of versF“by- this date had it not
been for the war ; neither, certainly, had
any general reputation as a professional
poet before the war. They are soldier
poets proper.
It is not reasonable to ask from such
men the technical achievement one would
expect from Brooke. Their verses are to
be valued for their documentary and
national significance rather than for their
quality as pure poetry. Reputations such
as Brooke’s are not, in any case, made
on one slim volume.
Both Hore-Ruthven and McNicoll, as
it happens, write surprisingly well; two
or three of Hore-Ruthven’s lyrics would
grace any anthology, and McNicoll,
though his work is less fine, has a sound
general level of poetic quality. And so,
while it is not reasonable to classify these
writers with either Brooke or Blunden,
it is true that Brooke would have been
pleased to have written the best of Hore-
Ruthven’s verses, and Edmund Blunden
some of McNicoll’s. That assurance as
to their technical quality, Hore-Ruthven’s
representation of the essence of the
heroic and McNicoll’s pleasing documen-
tation of the places where the A.I.F. has
fought should ensure both books a large
audience.
N.Z. New Writing.
Isobel Andrews should have found a
more cheerful title than “The Day of
the Funeral” for her short story in the
second New Zealand New Writing (Pro-
gressive Publishing Society, Wellington ;
edited by lan Gordon). It’s the first
story in the book ; it’s an interesting and
a successful experiment; but with that
uninviting title it’s likely to be read last
or not at all.
The surprise of the book —as A. P.
Gaskell’s cpmedy “The Picture in the
Paper” was the surprise of the first N.Z.
New Writing— The Day of the Funeral”
is not at all funereally depressed. It is
a tragedy certainly, but tragedy in litera-
ture, as Matthew Arnold knew, is a
matter for delight. When it is worked
out step by step with such sureness, ten-
sion steadily mounting for the final stroke
of destiny, there’s an extraordinarily
pleasant ten minutes in watching this
story portray—in the best Greek tradition
—a girl murdering her mother.
The story is original in method. A
woman —Geraldine, who has been a
famous actress and, in old age, the auto-
crat of a household —is dead. While they
are waiting for the funeral the people
of the household and Geraldine’s doctor
meditate on the dead woman, simul-
taneously building up a portrait of her
and revealing their own personalities. In
effect, the story is a series of solilo-
quies :
Della: Just the right weather for a
funeral. Overcast. All muted grey but no
rain. We’ll be able to go in comfort but
with all due solemnity. Trust Geraldine to
have the stage set right even if it is for her
own funeral.
When Maude, Geraldine’s sister, has
finished her soliloquy, we know what her
character is ; we know that she is re-
lieved at the death and we know why
she is relieved. When Chester the brother
has finished soliloquising we know that
he is glad of the death and why he is
glad.
Isobel Andrews could have left it at
this and made the story an ironical
comedy.
But while Della, the young girl whom
Geraldine has suppressed all her life, is
soliloquising, we learn, not only that she
hated her and rejoices at her death, but
—gradually—that she has poisoned
Geraldine and that the woman, whom she
thought was her aunt, was her mother.
And while the doctor is soliloquising
we learn that, though unwilling to admit
it to himself, he suspects that the poison-
ing has taken place and that he feels he
will have to act.
At this point the story stops ; everyone
goes off to the funeral. So skilfully is
the story constructed that, truncated
though it is, it gives the full impression
of tragedy: as if Della had already been
handed over to the police.
Isobel Andrews took risks with this
story. It does not appear to be set in
New Zealand; and that is always a pity
and usually a danger. The characters
are more or less stock types. The revela-
tion that Geraldine is Della’s mother very
nearly makes a “wow” ending. The
general effect is close to melodrama.
Yet it succumbs to none of its perils.
The risks were worth running for a big
effect—there’d have been nothing very
exciting in a little ironical comedy about
people being relieved when a relative
dies—and the big effect comes off.
Isobel Andrews is a playwright. She
may have done more in this story than
she intended. It is meant as an experi-
ment in short story form ; and as such
it’s a success, a rationalisation of the
usually too woolly stream-of-conscious-
ness technique. But it’s also possible that,
while conducting this successful experi-
ment in the short story, the author has
written a new kind of radio play.
“The Day of the Funeral” could cer-
tainly be staged ; but, without action or
interchange of dialogue, it would be
stiffish. For radio it seems ideal. The
soliloquy is always effective on the air,
and a whole play in a series of solilo-
quies might prove highly successful. The
A.B.C. and the New Zealand N.B.C.
should have a look at this story to see
whether or not it could be played exactly
as it is written.
Although a review copy was sent to
The Bulletin there’s no indication as to
whether New Zealand New Writing is
on sale in Australia. If it’s not it should
be. Its high quality would be no bar
to its success these days when anything
sells, and it is important. New Zealand
literature lagged behind Australian for
many years ; but now, in the short story
at any rate, it is beginning to lead Aus-
tralia. As was exemplified by A. Long’s
“Her with the Light in Her Hair,” pub-
lished in The Bulletin recently, there’s
a life, a vigor, an imaginative daring in
recent New Zealand writing which is
lacking in the more solid Australian short
story.
This present issue of New Zealand
New Writing is better than its predeces-
sor, too, in that the bias towards the
Left is less noticeable. Genuine vigor
and freshness of outlook, as in Isobel
Andrews’s story, is “new” in a way that
the stereotyped Leftist moaning can never
be new.
There is great strength in A. P.
Gaskell’s “The Cave,” an earlier version
of which was published in The Bulletin.
Vigor in Roderick Finlayson’s “Sweet
Beulah Land”—a propaganda story that,
because of Finlayson’s love for the Maori
people and his skill in depicting them,
succeeds in spite of its propaganda.
Surprising vigor in the two stories about
little girls—though, as has been said here
before, it’s high time somebody wrung
the neck of that hackneyed little monster
the Freudian enfant terrible. There is
gaiety in J. G. Male’s uncertain “Case
History.” A freshness and a gaiety aton-
ing for the rather pointless social obser-
vation of Helen Shaw’s “The Two
Fathers.” J. R. Hervey and Anton Vogt
contribute good verse.
A foreword laments the disappearance,
due to copyright difficulties, of the kiwi
which formerly adorned the jacket, but
the book’s all the better for looking less
like an imitation “Penguin.” The fore-
word also says “If this present issue has
the success of its predecessor payment
for contributions will be made from No.
3 onwards.” New Zealanders shouldn’t
support this venture for patriotic rea-
sons —nobody, even if it is fascinating to
watch a nation attaining cultural
maturity, should buy any book for
patriotic reasons —but if they’re looking
for short stories that would be enjoyed
and admired anywhere in the world . . .
SUNDRY SHOWS.
N, S. Wales ’National Gallery is mak-
ing a special show of pictures bought
this year and last. A commendable
feature is the choice of portraits—Long-
staff’s of Norman Lindsay (with ship
models in the background), J. Muir
Auld’s self-portrait and his limning of
Rod Quinn ; J. S. Watkins’s self-portrait;
Nora Hey sen’s careful recording of the
features of Lionel Lindsay. Other por-
traits, not of such notabilities, but memor-
able, are Roland Wakelin’s “Judith,” Will
Dobell’s “South Kensington Woman”
and fine portrait studies by Hugh Ramsay
and George Henry, R.A. There is also a
bevy of landscapes, some of E. Phillips
Fox’s big canvases, including the well-
known “Art Students” and “Tired,”
George Finey’s “Banksias” (the medium
that quick-drying enamel known as
Fasinac) and a small gallery of Norman
Lindsay’s water-colors and pen drawings.
The market for Norman Lindsay black-
and-white work in soaring. For the quite
small “Quartet” the Gallery forked out
£3l 10s., for the slightly larger “Picnic,”
£52 10s. and for “Vintage Festival,”
medium-size as Lindsay’s drawings go,
£72 10s.
The N. S. Wales Gallery is also show-
ing a wailful of borrowings from the
Victorian Gallery. A half-dozen of
McCubbinses includes the industrious
Fred’s excellent self-portrait. Old lorn
Roberts, father of Australian impres-
sionists^ —and what a versatile father!
is represented by “Hobart” and “Boys
Bathing.” A big impressive canvas
stocked with sea sands, mermaids and
mermen is a reminiscence of the days
before Rupert Bunny renounced the older
orthodoxies. There are two Streetons,
one of which might have been done by
Ernest Buckmaster in his tongue-in-cheek
mood. Louis Bouvelet’s landscapes,
especially his still fresh and sparkling
“Yarra Valley,” suggest a sop to those
critics who complain that the aliens who
first limned the Australian scene made
Australia resemble Europe, Of course
they did—because the scenes that most
appealed to them were those that re-
minded them of their homelands.
Noel Wood, who on his lonely Barrier
Reef continues to paint what he sees, and
who sees it ever more clearly, shows his
latest harvest at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. All his sketches appeal, and
there are one or two of them —notably
“Bingal Bay”—that have captured for
ever the spirit that is distilled from
summer and sunshine and the fragrance
of trees and sea. His style is very broad,
but all these click together magically
from the right standpoint.
In opening Harold Herbert’s latest
show at Sedon’s, Melbourne, R. G. Men-
zies put the reason for the artist’s popu-
larity with the buying public, which had
pretty well bought the show out before
the opener’s arrival. He said that there
was one picture of a bridge and a stream
at Dimboola which he recognised on the
instant as being 24 miles from his birth-
place, though he hadn’t seen it for four
decades.
Julius Wentscher and Tina Wentscher,
water-colorist and sculptor respectively,
are showing at Kozminsky’s, Melbourne.
A lot of the attraction of the show comes
from the subject matter, very topical at
the moment, namely, Java, Bali, Siam
and Malaya. Lovely places and interest-
ing people which the two artists souvenir
for the observer. In addition, a couple
of carvings of native dancers in strikingly
relaxed poses.
“C.R.”: Sybil Craig’s endeavors to
make arresting patterns out of native
flora and Jean Sutherland’s souvenirs of
Brittany and its cathedrals and houses are
the most interesting things in a show of
water-colors and drawings at the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum by nine women
painters. Most of the rest are rather
attenuated.
At the talkies:
Somewhat reminiscent of Sinclair Lewis's
It Can’t Happen Here, I. A. R. Wylie’s novel
“Keeper of the Flame” makes a powerful
drama at Sydney St. James: about a popular
and charitable gentleman who is discovered,
after his accidental death, to have been aiming
to become an American Hitler. Spencer fracy
is vigorous as the pressman who refuses to
“smother” the story to oblige the attractive
widow.
“The Talk of the Town” (State) is another
acceptable sermon on democracy. Like scores
of American smalltown novels, it shows Justice
triumphing through the good sense of the
people. A radical employee is the hero; an
unscrupulous employer who has him unjustly
imprisoned on a charge of arson is the villain;
and a retired professor of law the dens ex
machina. There is also Love, in the shape ot
the professor’s daughter. Ronald Colman,
Cary Grant and Jean Arthur do the job cap-
ably.
“Flight for Freedom” (Regent) is about a
woman flier who disappears in the Pacific,
staging the “disappearance” near the Jap man-
dated islands at the request of the naval
authorities so that, “searching” for h er , tfi £
navy can have a look around. Fred Mac-
Murray, Rosalind Russell and the excellent
Herbert Marshall make it a passable secret-
service offering. . . .
“I Married a Witch” (Plaza) is distinguished
for a plot of ineffable emptiness and for the
spectacle of Fredric March, now past middle
age, in ham-love scenes with Veronica Lake,
who can't act. Possibly it could be improved by
being ducked in water, burnt at the stake, or
by flying far, far away on a broomstick.
Edwin McArthur, remembered as
Flagstad’s accompanist—the smiling little
chap who played always from memory,
never from score, and combined a touch
like a zephyr with a memory like an
elephant —was back in Sydney Town Hall
in a U.S. Special Service Division uni-
form to see what he could do with a very
ersatz A.B.C. symphony orchestra. Adopt-
ing the technique of a persuasive and in-
gratiating typhoon McArthur whirled his
orchestrions through the Cesar Franck D
Minor Symphony in a manner that sur-
prised them. The 12-minute symphony
of Robert Ward, young American com-
poser, heard for the first time, proved to
contain some very effective ensemble
scoring. Writers of orchestral back-
grounds for the fillums have prepared the
way for this sort of thing, which sounds
as if it ought to mean something. Lans-
sing Hatfield, also in U.S.S.S.D. regalia,
and, like his buddy, no stranger to the
atmosphere of the New York Metro-
politan, declaimed Wotan’s farewell
(“The Valkyrie”) most splendidly, and
then really pleased his audience with
“Deep River” and Malotte’s stirring set-
ting of the “Lord’s Prayer.”


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
120th Year of Service
THE SENIOR STORE"
.//A
IV/
/s'-
A
A
//
y/.
mm
%
y
y
V
y
(9u
y
T-T/Us
XZ*
Ail
;-;
4r&.
ft*
yA
FROM OUR CHINESE COLLECTION
These illustrations will give an idea of some of the pieces to be seen
in the Chinese Section, in our Fine Art Gallery. Included are pieces of:
OLD CHINESE PORCELAIN ANTIQUE BRONZES
CARVED IVORY CARVED JADE
AMBER and AGATE
-
V 1~0-*tso6eA, g’■
CfIINESE
CRAFT
■Sjbi
V
*
•BE
• -;■■•
if|vi
f:M
Sheepskin Rugs of deep, luxurious fleeces. In Oval, Square and Oblong Shape. Colours
are Blue, Pink, Gold, White and Fawn.
WHITE. OVAL AND OBLONG.
28 inches x 18 inches 41/8, 46/9
30 inchfes X 20 inches 46/9, 52/6
32 inches x 22 inches 52/6, 59/6
48 inches x 24 inches 77/6, 79/6
54 inches x 27 inches 97/6
60 inches x 30 inches 117/6
BLUE, GOLD AND PINK.
28 inches x 18 inches 52/6
30 inches x 20 inches 57/6
32 inches x 22 inches 62/6
FAWN.
36 inches x 18 inches 40/9
48 inches x 24 inches 77/6
60 inches x 30 inches 117/6
• Carpet Dept.—Fourth Floor .
We Are Specialists in
Carpet Cleaning !
Our hygienic*process removes every
particle of dirt, leaving carpets fresh
and bright. It will prolong the life of
your carpets.
Remember, it's the unseen grime
that makes carpets wear out. With
every step it is ground into the pile,
weakening and cutting the fibres.
Our modern method of cleaning
achieves far better results than are
possible by domestic means at your
disposal.
We collect and re-deliyer your car-
pets free in the metropolitan area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 {DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


TOO PROUD
By J. H. MELVILLE
Danny flaherty’s pencil
tapped out a check on the provi-
sions he had .packed into the back
of the spring-cart for customers
out beyond the pass. A freckled young-
ster hanging over the back-rest of the
seat eyed the performance critically.
“You might get dates next week,”
Danny said. He was a sour, spidery little
man, .and rapped out his words in a
clipped, almosf begrudging falsetto. He
dabbed irritably at the sweat collecting
on his forehead.
Boss McGovern looked on from the
shady verandah of Danny’s store. Be-
tween spells of twitching his head and
running a finger round between his collar
and bull neck, he made the comment
“That’s a frisky thing you’ve got in the
shafts there, son.”
The youngster was pleased by
McGovern’s patronising interest, and
answered eagerly “She’s proud all right.
Dolly’s proud as a barber’s mistress.”
Danny jerked up his head in surprise.
“Where the devil did you hear that?”
McGovern demanded. His bearing was
arrogant as he stalked from the verandah.
“Spanish Joe said it about the horse we
had before Dolly. She foaled Dolly,
and Spanish Joe told Dad one time”
“Yes, yes!” McGovern broke in.. He
put a fatherly hand on the youngster’s
shoulder. “I want you to promise me
you’ll forget that silly saying, son.”
The boy nodded, and waited until
McGovern had gone before he said to
Danny “Spanish Joe must have been a
pretty hard case, Mr. Flaherty?” «
“You get that stuff away from here
before the butter starts to drip through
the floorboards,” Danny countered.
ALONG time after the cart had
rattled away down the metal road
and the dust had settled behind it, Danny
was standing at his door wiping his hands
through his apron in a habitual mood of
reflection. He was gazing across to the
hill where Spanish Joe had lived.
Danny had as much reason as Boss
McGovern to remember Joe. He had
watched the grotesque scene of Anna and
Joe in his store loft. He had been in it
to the end.
Up there on the hill-face the pine plan-
tation shimmered blue-green behind the
heat-haze like patterned silk. The track
of the water-race curved round the hill,
dividing the plantation, and where it cut
across the big firebreak the red roof of
a forestry hut glittered among the trees.
It had been to that hut that Joe had
brought Anna, his Maori wife from the
northern gumfields.
Their coming brought a promise of
novelty to the routine life of the Flat.
So long as he held his job as raceman
Joe had been granted the use of the
forestry hut. The drama of his gratitude,
flung at all and sundry, was a joy to see.
The County Council, Forestry and Tem-
perance Society all received colorful
letters of appreciation.
Anna’s shyness early evoked the sym-
pathy of Danny’s wife, a motherly
woman who fossicked out local gossip
with the shop orders and had it sorted,
garnished and delivered with the
groceries over the counter. But Mrs.
Flaherty was baffled by Anna’s passive
good nature and devotion to Joe, and
made it plain that Joe’s rollicking style
had no appeal for her.
She pounced on the news that Anna
wore a wig, and, from such sketchy
details concerning it that could be drawn
from Anna she worked up a tragic story.
Joe’s criminal negligence with a pan of
boiling fat, Anna’s agony and her touch-
ing forgiveness were all parts of the> trim-
mings that were whispered across the
counter.
JOE, meanwhile, was straining desper-
ately after popularity. But his best
ingratiating manner seemed to be getting
him nowhere until one day he hit upon
what seemed to be a foolproof formula.
The absence of McGovern, the over-
seer, had given the gang on the race an
opportunity of converging on Joe’s hut
about morning-tea time. Joe and three
of his mates were kneeling round a plate
of scones set in the grassy clearing in
front of the hut. Each of the men in
turn held out a pannikin as Anna padded
round with a huge black pot of tea.
The Flat stretching below was
chequered with dairy pasture and pad-
docks of crop in stock and standing. It
looked cool down there, but up among
the trees a hot nor’-wester was sluggish
with the smell of pines.
“By golly, Anna said she make the
place nice inside and outside,” Joe said.
“And she done it.” He waved at a double
row of flowers that straggled round the
hut. “You’ll get roses, too, eh, Anna?”
Anna nodded. Her soft smile was un-
changing.
The youngest of the gang divided his
attention between glancing nervously up
the hill where a lookout watched for
McGovern’s car and staring at Anna.
Anna touched her hair as she poured
his tea. “It is a wig,” she said without
expression. “Joe got it.”
Joe explained hastily: “She had an
accident. She got burnt bad.”
Suddenly he clapped his hands with the
delight of inspiration. “I’ll tell them of
Conchita, the barber’s mistress,” he said.
Anna nodded, still smiling, and went
inside.
Joe gulped his tea. Then he scraped a
cushion of pine-needles and lay back with
his eyes shut against the sun.
Haltingly at first, he told how Con-
chita, belle of an Andalusian village, had
strutted her haughty beauty at the expense
of the village barber. There was con-
tempt in the low mumble of Joe’s voice
as he told how the woman’s vanity led
her to covet the wigs fashioned by the
barber. Finally she demanded that her
lover shave off her hair and substitute a
wig so cleverly that nobody would know
the difference. The barber did his job
well.
Then plague struck and took Conchita
as one of its victims. She was considered
doomed. Not by the wily barber though.
He took away her wig on the pretext of
cleaning it and destroyed it. Subtly, then,
he began to taunt her with the ugly pic-
ture she would make in death. He casu-
ally deplored the effect of her bald-
headed corpse on suspected lovers. The
barber’s subterfuge brought miraculous
results. Conchita fought off death and
was soon well enough to claim her new
wig.
“The barber’s mistress was proud all
right,” Joe bellowed. “Too damn’ proud
to die.”
His outburst set the gang off in half-
mocjdng applause.
THE catch-phrase “proud as a barber’s
mistress,” with alternatives, somehow
gained currency after that. Joe’s hopes
of popularity grew with it. He shouted
it on the slightest provocation and ten-
dered it gaily as a passport to favor.
There would usually be a foil to set
off Joe’s rapture of anticipation by ask-
ing “How proud was that, Joe?”
Joe would bellow “Too damn’ proud to
die! ” Ringlets of black hair would flop
down his forehead and his mouth would
open so wide that his chubby cheeks
were pushed up under his eyes.
But all this made no impression on
McGovern’s hostility to Joe. He picked
on Joe unreasonably at every opportunity.
The washout on the ridge road was pure
accident, but McGovern made use of it
to rant about “useless bloody Dagos.”
McGovern was boastful of his Scot-
tish ancestry, and his motive in discredit-
ing Joe seemed to lie in snatching at self-
importance on the rebound. Joe was
pained and baffled by it.
The nameplate that Joe had proudly
nailed above the door of his hut prob-
ably had more to do with McGovern’s
attitude than he suspected. When the
road-construction gang had been round,
Joe had been intrigued by such hack-
neyed names as Angels’ Rest and Sinners’
Retreat painted on the huts. The gang
on the water-race, aware of this and of
McGovern’s national pride, had presented
Joe with a nameplate. Intertwining
thistles made a garish background to the
lettering “Flodden Retreat.”
When McGovern retired from the job
it was a wonderful relief for Joe. His
job was safe. But McGovern managed
to get himself elected as a councillor,
and Joe saw the same old threat loom up
again.
NO solution offered until one wet
miserable day Joe and two of the
gang were, sheltering in his hut. Chairs
holding steaming sodden coats were lined
up in front of the stove. The owners of
the coats looked on dismally. Nobody
spoke. There were only the soft thudding
of Anna, busy behind a plywood parti-
tion, and the rattle of rain on the roof.
The youngest of the three was a new-
comer to the job, and kept feeling his
coat and changing its position.
Joe’s other companion shifted a cigar-
ette to the corner of his mouth and told
with sarcasm that Danny Flaherty was
sponsoring a farewell party to Boss
McGovern on behalf of the race gang.
“More free beer for Danny,” he said.
“And his missus squared into the bar-
gain.”
Everyone knew of the strong temper-
ance views held by Danny’s wife, and
that they were focused more or less ex-
clusively on Danny himself. This con-
flict between thirst and domestic calm
had boosted Danny’s talent to the point
of an organising genius. Anniversaries,
weddings or funerals were all seized on
as reason for offering the use of his loft
and committing by proxy everyone con-
cerned.
Joe asked “We all go to this party?”
“We got to go somewhere and drink
enough beer to make pretty speeches
about McGovern. You can keep on
drinkin’ till you believe what you’re
sayin’ if your conscience troubles you.”
Joe nodded happily. “I know —‘The
Jolly Good Fellow.’ I’ll take my fiddle.”
“You could tell the story about the
barber’s mistress,” was the ironic sugges-
tion. “Maybe set it to music. That’d
please old thistle-guts.”
Joe looked thoughtful but said no
more.
Then a week before the date of the
party he began to throw out hints baited
with gloating secrecy. He and Anna
were going to put on a duet that would
please Boss McGovern and break down
his hostility. It was to be a surprise. In
fact, as Joe saw it, the item was to be
his guarantee of security.
The night of the party found Anna
following Joe up the rickety steps that
led to Danny’s loft,
“I’m here with Anna and my-fiddle!”
Joe shouted when they reached the land-
ing.
Anna, sheltering timidly behind him,
paused to look over the lights of the Flat
to the hill. She had Joe’s violin-case
clutched tightly against her.
There came a welcome of mingled
surprise and amusement as Joe piloted her
through the door.
INSIDE the loft twin auras of tobacco
* smoke curled round hurricane lanterns
swinging from the rafters. Sprawled
round on upturned boxes were the race
gang and a few others who held shares
in the keg standing in a shadowy corner.
Danny was ceremoniously fitting a tap.
“I told you Joe was turning on some-
thing special,” someone said.
McGovern was saying a few words of
apology and appreciation to Anna.
Danny finished testing the tap and
straightened up. “The missus wants to
see you in the house, Anna,” he said,
and jerked his thumb at the door.
“Reckon we could have your item now
instead of keeping you waiting. Get us
away to a good start, eh?”
Joe was at his violin case before
Danny had finished speaking. He
whispered to Anna, and she took off her
coat, which Joe carefully spread out on
the floor. Anna stood waiting and im-
mobile while Joe tuned up with a few
rasping chords. There was a strange
remoteness about her smile,
“They’ll be laughing at the barber’s
mistress,” Joe assured her. “They won’t
be laughing at you, Anna. They wouldn’t
laugh at you.”
He opened out the red ribbon she
wore in her hair.
With an irrelevant grin he made the
announcement, “Anna is not so well as
when we practised. Her throat is bad.”
He began to play a lilting folk-tune.
Anna’s smile became wry and submis-
sive. She was shivering, and the light
from the lanterns showed the dampness
of perspiration on her face. She took
up her cue with a rich, husky contralto.
From the first words she sang it was
evident that the words were Joe’s. They
were crude and lurid and led into a
ballad form of the story of the barber’s
mistress. Anna sang of Conchita’s illness
and fell to her knees on the outspread
coat. The accompaniment changed to
something resembling “The Dead
March.”
Then Joe, with a deft swoop of his
bow, caught the ribbon in her hair. He
lifted the Nvig from her head, symbolis-
ing the barber’s subterfuge.
The melody was unbroken. Patches
of close-cut hair showed between a criss-
cross of burn scars as Anna knelt in the
lamplight crooning out Joe’s words. Her
wig, balanced on the bow, swung gro-
tesquely back and forth above her. Then
as neatly as it had been removed the wig
was replaced, and Anna sprang up in
simulation of life restored. The tempo
of the music leapt into jig time.
“Too damn’ proud to die!” Anna sang
with breathless reiteration. “She was
proud, all right; too damn’ proud to
die.!’
A FLOURISH of Joe’s bow and the
offering to Boss McGovern’s good-
will was over.
Joe looked crestfallen. There had been
no laughter throughout the act and there
was none now. Only the sop of cold %
formal applause. His eyes were fixed on
McGovern’s big hands, and he saw them
come together five times.
The little speech he had prepared
assigning all the credit to Anna wasn’t
needed now. He replaced the violin in
its case and helped Anna into her coat.
“It was Conchita they saw,” he re-
assured her without much conviction as
he was escorting her across the yard to
Danny’s house.
A chorus of laughter came to them
from the loft.
Anna paused for a moment to thrust
her face deep into the cool fragrance of
a verbena bush that grew alongside the
path.
Joe left her at the' hotise gate and
went back to the loft, inteiit op sound-
ing McGovern’s reaction. . But he was
given no chance. Three quick drinks
later the loft door was thrown open with
a violence that brought a collection of
old horseshoes clattering down from the
rafters.
Danny’s wife stood in the doorway.
When an indrawn hiss of air had reached
capacity, she turned it on Joe in a voice
that was strident with disgust and indig-
nation.
“You!” A long finger shot out. “You
drag your wife from a sickbed to parade
herself before a drunken orgy. You’ll
get her home to bed this, minute or I’ll
see you go up for murder!”
“It was the bad throat; she had it
before,” Joe parried weakly.
McGovern got to his feet and glanced
down at Joe for a minute before he said
“I’m driving Anna home, boys.” The
heroic effect was slightly overdone.
Danny’s wife turned in the doorway
to say that she was going up the hill to
attend to Anna. “And I’ll be back when
it suits me,” she flung at Danny.
When she did return to the store next
day it was to ring through to the city
for a doctor. She went back up the hill.
Danny made the most of her absence
and took delivery of a refill from the
bus-driver.
HE and McGovern were drinking
alone when the patter of a woman’s
footstep coming up the steps to the loft
caused Danny instinctively to drain his
glass in furious gulps.
His wife came through the door and
calmly seated herself on an upturned
box.
“Why, it’s Mrs. Flaherty,” McGovern
said, making any greater pleasure from
life than her arrival seem wild fancy.
Danny smiled wanly and said “Clean-
in’ up.”
There was no sound for a moment but
the steady drip of beer into a tin dish.
Danny’s wife bent down and took off
a shoe. “Been on my feet pretty steady
these last few days,” she explained,
stretching a cramped foot. “And these
shoes were always too big.”
Danny said unctuously “Now Anna
doesn’t need you, you’ll take things easy
for a while.”
“Anna’s dead,” she said.
She seemed too busy putting on her
shoe to notice the united concern of the
two men.
McGovern asked how Joe was taking
it.
“He’ll be all the better for some sober
company for a while,” was the reply.
McGovern frowned and said “We’d
be shirking our duty if we didn’t go up
and see what we can do for Joe.”
Mrs. Flaherty’s tone towards Danny
was unusually solicitous as she asked
“You’ll not do too much of the talking,
Danny. It’ll take more tact than you’ve
got to convince that man he didn’t kill
his wife.”
“Kill her?”
With her face turned from the lantern
light Mrs, Flaherty told how Joe, in a
well-meant effort to hasten Anna’s re-
covery, had created a parallel with the
legend of the barber’s mistress.
“Good God!” McGovern exclaimed.
“He took away her wig and burnt it?”
She nodded. “It was the funny way
Anna asked if she was too proud that
seemed to upset Joe most. It was the
last thing she said.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3326.
Wednesday, November 10, 1943.
BLACK-MARKET DIALOGUE.
“But I can’t pay those prices on my husband’s service pay.”
“Then get out and make room for those who can.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
• Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P, H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; '’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THREE POWERS AGREE.
No reflection on the other parties to the
Moscow discussions and declarations is
implied in the statement that the most
interesting and significant negotiator was
Mr. Cordell Hull. For one thing, he
was the only Foreign Secretary present
who had not previously gone abroad on
r war mission, and the only one whose
country, though a leader of the United
Nations, is not technically bound by an
alliance which has been ratified in the
prescribed fashion; the only one, more-,
over, whose chief or whose party, if
Mr, Roosevelt fails of another Presiden-
tial nomination (which doesn’t seem
likely), will in the ensuing year .be
accountable to the people for the policy
embodied in the agreements arrived at,
which are epoch-marking in every sense
of the term.
And before the old Secretary of State
set out on his journey things happened
in the United States which may be said to
give a special importance to his signature.
Some of the Senators who toured
U.S. battle stations returned in a criti-
cal mood, one in particular, who has a
“good press,” objecting to the Mount-
batten appointment and to what he de-
scribed as the subordinate role and the
limited aid given to General Mac Arthur.
Mr. Hull was accused by the journalist
Drew Pearson of a desire to see Russia
“bled white” by Germany, and, support-
ing his indignant disclaimer, Mr. Roose-
velt described the “columnist” as “a
chronic liar.” Then the egregious Browder,
one of those- English-speaking Com-
munists who have done Russia so much
harm, delivered a speech in which he
said it was “an illusion” for the United
States to expect Russia to fight Japan
and “harmful nonsense” to entertain the
idea that il would give the Allies bomb-
ing bases in Siberia, winding up with th<?
bluster that/‘unless a Second European
Front is opened immediately America
and Britain must prepare for a decisive
Soviet victory in which Anglo-American
arms would have no major share.”
In one powerful quarter this was
interpreted as “an implied threat that
Moscow might accept German over-
tures for a separate peace unless the
Allies quickly launch a major invasion
in Western Europe.” Mr. Andrew
May, chairman of the House Mili-
tary Affairs Committee (he is a
Democrat from Kentucky), declared that
the Browder speech called for “official
action by the executive branch of the
Government.” Mr. Barry, a Democrat
from New York, urged him to “summon
Browder before the Military Affairs
Committee so as to ascertain whether his
assertions reflect the views of Stalin,”
being “sure that the House would grant
the committee power of subpoena if
Browder refused to appear voluntarily.”
Browder’s borflbast synchronised with
German and Japanese outbreaks of sepa-
rate-peace stories, China being included
with Russia. Such doubts or fears as
may have been engendered have been
removed by the first o*f the Moscow
declarations (there were four), in which
Britain, the United States, the U.S.S.R.
and China “jointly” declared (1) “that
their united action, pledged [on January 1,
1942, and subsequently] for the prosecu-
tion of the war against their respective
enemies, will be continued for the organ-
isation of peace and security”; (2) “that
those of them at war with a common
enemy will act together in all matters
relating to the surrender and disarmament
of the enemy” ; and (3) “that they will
take all measures deemed necessary .to
provide against any violation of the terms
imposed on the enemy.”
There followed undertakings to co-
operate in the setting-up of “a general
international organisation, based on the
principle of the sovereign equality of all
peace-loving States,” and open to all such,
“for the maintenance of international
peace and security” ; (4) to “consult with
each other and, as occasion re-
quires, with other members of the
United Nations with a view to joint
action”; (5) not to “employ their
military forces within the territories
of other States after the termination of
hostilities except for the purposes envis-
aged in this declaration, after joint consul-
tation”; (6) and to “confer and co-
operate with one another and with other
members of the United Nations to bring
about a practicable general agreement
with respect to the regulation of arma-
ments in the post-war period.”
Clauses (1), (2) and (3) are very far
from meaning that the Russians have
committed themselves to fight Japan.
Actually there is no mention of Japan
in the declarations, just as there was none
in the Anglo-Soviet treaty of alliance;
indeed a contemporary Rip van Winkle
could read both instruments without
divining that there is a war in Asia, and
in the oceans and islands to the south
and east, in which fighting men from
all the continents are engaged.
But it doesn’t follow that the spirit in
which M. Molotov signed the Five-year
Pact of Friendship and Neutrality with
Japan on April 13, 1941, still prevails.
The bracketing of Chiang Kai-shek’s
China with the English-speaking de-
mocracies to which pledges of associa-
tion in war and peace are given counts
for something, and probably something
more than the interpretation placed on it
by Lord Beaverbrook’s “Daily Express”:
“It does not mean that Russia goes to
war in the Far East, but it means that
Russia will collaborate in victory in the
Far East” (nowadays the former Empire
crusader and his young men always go
at the knees when Moscow is mentioned).
To the New York “Herald Tribune” “it
not only ranges Russia more definitely
against Japan than before, but it elimi-
nates visions of possible future conflict
between the Allies in the Far East.” At
all events it is clear that Moscow has
moved away from Tokyo, and its future
attitude to the war in the Pacific will
most probably be determined by events.
In America early this year Otto Haps-
burg, son of the ill-fated Emperor Karl,
was authorised by Mr. Hull to recruit
an Austrian battalion for ,the United
States Army. Slav and Left-Wing oppo-
sition was such that the authority was
cancelled, but the incident has a bearing
on the fourth of the Moscow declara-
tions, in which it is set forth that the
British, Russian and American Govern-
ments “have agreed that Austria, the first
free country to fall a victim to Nazi
aggression, shall be liberated from Ger-
man dominion,” and “declare that they
wish to see re-established a free, inde-
pendent Austria, thereby opening the
way to the Austrian people themselves,
as well as those of neighboring • States
with similar problems, to find that poli-
tical and economic security which is the
only basis for lasting peace.” If this
means that the Austrians will be per-
mitted to associate with the Hungarians
and the Croats and perhaps other Slav
minorities in a Hapsburg kingdom or in
a federal republic, so much the better.
There was political wisdom as well as
wit in the old saying that if Austria
(that is the former Austrian empire) did
not exist it would have to be invented.
The late Austrian republic was impover-
ished from the beginning, was at various
times a prey to civil disorder and in the
end fell into Hitler’s mouth like a ripe
plum. Merely to reconstitute such a
State would be useless.
Another declaration (the third) is con-
cerned entirely with Italy. The Italians
are informed that Allied policy towards
their country “must be based on the fun-
damental principle that Fascism and all
its evil influences and emanations shall
be utterly destroyed.” Not only are “all
institutions and organisations created by
the Fascist regime” to be “suppressed,”
but all “Fascist or pro-Fascist elements
shall be removed from the administra-
tion, from institutions and from organisa-
tions of a public character.” This, how-
ever necessary, will be difficult of accom-
plishment, for there can be few officials
in Italy who date as such from the pre-
Fascist era. To secure anything like effi-
ciency it may be necessary to employ
men who, though appointed and trained
under the Fascist regime, were not them-
selves active Fascists. The Government,
for its part, is required to make itself
“more democratic” by “the introduction
of representatives of those sections of the
Italian people who have always opposed
Fascism,” and to reconcile itself to “the
creation of democratic organs of local
government.” To which it might plead
that this will mean sharing its responsi-
bilities with elderly exiles who have lost
touch with Italy and with enthusiastic
novices. Meanwhile the Germans are ir»
possession of most of the peninsula and
of all the frontier and all the ports ceded
to Italy at Versailles, and all the arrange-
ments for Italy and Austria are contingent
on their expulsion from those countries.
Two other requirements in the Italian
chapter are a general gaol delivery of and
amnesty for “all political prisoners of the
Fascist regime” and stern measures
against “Fascist chiefs and generals
known or suspected to be war criminals,”
who are to be “arrested and handed over
to justice.” The remaining declaration
is wholly devoted to a denunciation of
“atrocities, massacres and cold-blooded
executions perpetrated by the Hitlerite
forces” (“in their desperation the recoiling
Hitlerite Huns are redoubling their ruth-
less cruelties”) and to a definition of the
plan for bringing the criminals to justice.
Lists of these wretches are to be “com-
piled in all possible detail” in all the in-
vaded and occupied countries, Italy in-
cluded. At the Armistice, whatever “the
Government which may be established in
Germany,” they are to be “sent back so
that they may be judged and punished
according to the laws of those liberated
countries and of the free Governments
which will be erected in them... .judged
on the spot by the peoples whom they
have outraged.” Future offenders are
warned that “the three Allied Powers will
pursue them to the uttermost ends of
the earth,” and those criminals whose
offences have “no particular geographical
location” will be “punished by joint de-
cision of the Governments of the Allies.”
It would be better to make trial and pun-
ishment their responsibility in all cases.
The fears of German families that their
Fritz and Hans will fall into the hands
of people with fearful wrongs to avenge
who will be actuated by the principle
that the only good German is a dead Ger-
man will assuredly be exploited by the
guilty Government to stiffen resistance on
the home front as well as the battle fronts.
The authorship of certain parts of the
declarations is not at all difficult to detect.
“Freedom of speech, religious worship
and political belief, of the press and of
public meeting, shall be restored in full
measure to the Italian people”—un-
mistakably the work: of Mr. Hull and
Mr. Eden, with an addition written in
by Mr. Molotov (“who shall also be
entitled to form anti-Fascist political
groups”). The war-criminals declaration
is obviously of Russian authorship almost
entirely. Of this there is one very strik-
ing bit of evidence, a reference to “the
Germans who participated in the whole-
sale shootings of Polish officers” —those
shootings which Goebbels imputed to
Russians, thereby bringing about a
breach, not yet healed, between Moscow
and the exiled Polish Government, which
asked for a Red Cross inquiry.
Apropos, Russian claims to eastern
Poland and to Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia
and Bessarabia were not mentioned by
the Foreign Secretaries. Silent they were
also, except to say that the National
Liberation Committee would be allowed
a representative, along with Greece and
Yugoslavia, on “an advisory council for
matters relating to Italy,” on the role
of France in the settlement of Europe;
and to this General de Gaulle has very
naturally objected. If there is one thing
certain about Europe, one lesson to be
drawn from the history of Continental
wars for five hundred years, it is that
France will come again. Not as a pre-
dominant military Power —it can never
be that any more —but as a brilliant
nation with as great a part to play in the
world as after the defeats of the two
Napoleons and Louis XIV.
These difficulties and others may be
smoothed out when Mr. Stalin, Mr.
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill meet to
round off the work of their principal
advisers. Those gentlemen had a very
difficult job to do, and, taking it by and
large, they did it pretty well. And what-
ever the political consequences of their
proceedings, of which time can be the
only test, the re-entry of Russia into the
family of nations as equal partner with
the leading nations of “the tottering capi-
talist world” of which the Dean of Can-
terbury wrote with such contempt (Mr.
Stalin must be thankful that the reverend
gentleman was wrong), is an historical
fact of the first importance, and, as a war
measure, an omen of ruin to the Axis.
Australian Wine.
Between the world wars the wine in-
dustry —especially in South Australia —■
made a fairly solid place for itself in
Australian production, and seemed well
on the way to making a place in overseas
markets profitable to itself and to Aus-
tralia. This war, aided by Government
refusal to help the. industry inside Aus-
tralia in the ways it could be helped,
knocked all that into a mess, the clean-
ing up of which has those concerned very
seriously worried. They are the first to
admit that many of their difficulties “are
an inevitable result of the war and must
be accepted as such” ; but they believe
that things need not be quite so bad as
they are and should not be so bad as
they threaten to be.
This last year was an outstanding one
for Australian wine production. Despite
war conditions South Australia produced
15,132,072 gallons, a rise of just on
4,000)000 gallons over the previous year.
Figures for the other States are not com-
plete, but estimates raise the Australian
total to 19,439,492 gallons. Australian
production for the previous year was
little better than the South Australian
figure for last year’s vintage, which, all
round, was Australia’s best since the
record year of 1938. In that record year
large quantities of dried grapes were
taken into the industry, which is not the
case now, and since then considerable
vineyard areas have been planted and
have come to full bearing.
Against this, owing to lack of shipping
space and restrictions in overseas markets,
exports of Australian wine have reached
their lowest level for twenty years. There
was a decrease of 576,495 gallons on even
the previous year, and it had been the
lowest for 18 years. Since 1938-39, the
last full financial year before the war,
Australian wine exports have decreased
by 2,892,177 gallons. The year’s decrease
compared with 1936-37 makes the disas-
trous total of 3,270,716. In cash loss to
the industry and to Australia this last
figure represents: 1936- 37 exports,
£1,042,969 ; 1942-43, £297,043 ; decrease,
£745,926.
Since Britain was Australian wine’s
best export market much of this serious
decrease can be put into the “inevitable”
class. The decrease in exports to
Britain, comparing 1938-39 and 1942-43,
comes to the huge total of 98 per cent.
Unpleasant as it is for Australian growers
and exporters, this is accepted by them as
a war calamity; but even so there have
been happenings which, possibly slight in
themselves, have caused disappointment
and, worse, apprehension for the future.
With some improvement in the war
Britain’s natural enough restrictions on
wine imports have been slightly relaxed.
One effect of this has been the importing
into Britain of 1,250,000 gallons of
Algerian wine; another has been the
authorising of three shipments of Aus-
tralian wine. The first —500 tons of port
and sherry—was duly accomplished. The
second shipment was to be similar, with
the third shipment of 100 tons of dry
wines to follow. Of this total of 600
tons, shipping has been available for
only 133 tons. On the other hand,
Portugal, Spain and South Africa are
understood to have secured space for
both their first and second quotas, with
permission about to be given for their
third shipments.
London “Trade and Wine Review” saw
the Algerian wine development as lead-
ing to the “possible neglect of Empire
wine interests.” The publication pointed
to the war sacrifices made by Britain’s
kin and commented: “To find shipping
space for Algerian wines while neglecting
to provide facilities for the import of
Australian and South African wines
authorised indicates a lack of balance
which, to say the least, is very unfor-
tunate.”
As the war in Europe progresses, still
further similar trading anomalies seem
likely ta occur. It is already on the cards
that Allied conquest in Italy will be fol-
lowed by the importing of Italian wines
into Britain, with Australian and other
Empire wines still left in their own bond
stores, “because of the war.”
If that actually does happen it should
convince more Australians than those
growing and exporting wine that there
will be a mighty stiff fight ahead of them
in ensuring post-war markets for all
manner of land products. It is pointed
out by some that if there can be even
slight discrimination in favor of foreign
products against Empire products' now
while there is a war on, and Australians,
South Africans and others are fighting
valiantly in the good cause, anything at
all might happen later on.
Certainly after the last war Empire
wines all round suffered from treaties
that were made. Australian wines suf-
fered especially in the wine-names ar-
rangement, by which certain wine-names
were established as the exclusive prop-
erty not only of Allied countries, such as
France and Portugal, but of Germany
as well. That should be corrected this
time, if there is anything in Empire links
at all. And there should be no other
form of discrimination against Empire
products in favor of enemy or any other
countries. This is of particular import-
ance to the Australian wine industry,
since Australia had made itself before the
war Britain’s greatest supplier of wine
next only to Portugal.
Further figures may seem to suggest
that this isn’t going to be merely a matter
of leaving everything to Empire patriot-
ism. Since the beginning of the present
war Britain’s duties on foreign wines have
increased by 425 per cent., but the in-
crease on Empire wines has been 750 per
cent. There has been an even worse de-
velopment. The ratio of preference given
to Empire wines has been steadily re-
duced from 50 per cent, to the present
12i per cent. Protests have unavailingly
been made from year to year against the
vanishing preference over foreign wines,
and even more strongly against the pro-
gressive preference granted to so-called
“British wines,” which are not British in
any other sense than that they are manu-
factured in Britain from dried grapes im-
ported from Mediterranean countries.
It seems that in Britain, as in other
markets that the war has largely shut off,
there will be some hard work ahead for
those whose job it will be to ensure the
healthiest possible future for Australian
primary industries.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Sergeants Beck and Smith.
Sergeant Beck, of the A.1.F., is dead in
New Guinea of his fifth wound. The first
Victorian Digger to become a casualty
in this war, he suffered his first wound
during an air raid in England over three
years ago. He was wounded again in
the Middle East, and was wounded twice
in New Guinea before his gallant heart
was stilled.
Perhaps a score of years from now
some poet will be inspired by this war-
rior’s odyssey to pen lines that will stir
the nation. Beck may become a tradi-
tion, a symbol of this A.I.F. and of the
men who made it. Writers will tell it§
splendid story in living words, and young
men yet unborn may take from it all the
passionate dreams that will inspire their
lives and make their country great.
But for Australians today a more inti-
mate question is raised by Sergeant Beck’s
death. It is the question of how much
longer Australians are to read that men
who have done more than their
share of the fighting and suffering
have been sent back into the lines till
they dropped ; and it has been voiced by
the man who was Prime Minister in the
last war.
There was the case of Acting-Sergeant
Smith, that “legendary figure among Aus-
tralian and American troops in New
Guinea.” Smith, an only child, was
wounded so badly in February that his
mother was given special permission to
travel north from Sydney to see him.
That serious wound and his service in the
Middle East, plus a bout of malaria,
would doubtless have entitled him to dis-
charge. But as soon as he felt right
again he went back to battle—-and fell
fighting. It has been stated that the
actual cause of death was secondary
shock.
There is the story of men of an A.I.F.
medical unit returned after two years’
captivity in Italy. They were given a
fortnight’s leave and then ordered to New
Guinea. Mr. Forde has promised the
usual “inquiry.”
Said Mr. W. M. Hughes:
We have a right to know who is doing
the fighting. Has it devolved upon the few
or is it equitably apportioned among the
whole of our armed forces? The Prime
Minister said some time ago we have
800,000 men in the forces. How many of
these are in New Guinea? We have not
been told, but an overwhelming majority
of them are in Australia.
We are told the men now doing the
fighting were in the Middle East. They
have been fighting everywhere The
public would be relieved to learn that these
men are not being sent back again and
again into the battle zone but are being
relieved by forces not previously engaged.
Mr. Curtin passed the buck to General
MacArthur:
The selection of what particular units are
to engage in specific operations is entirely
a matter for the Commander-in-Chief.
The assignment this Government has made
to General MacArthur includes the whole
of the operational forces in this country—
sea, land and air. It would be a curious
thing for me to say to Genbral. MacArthur,
“You must use thjs particular force in this
particular operation and not the force
which you yourself determine upon.”
General MacArthur is a great soldier
doing a grand job, but the duty of deter-
mining what Australian forces shall be
placed at his disposal rests on the
Australian Government, which is respon-
sible to the Australian Parliament. In
its relations with General Eisenhower, a
corresponding duty rests on the British
Government and is accepted and dis-
charged.
Mr. Hughes spoke for a vast number
of Australians when he asked for infor-
mation which so vitally concerns the
A.I.F. He and they and the A.I.F. are
entitled to a proper answer.
The Nation's Soli.
Though never mentioned in the out-
pourings about post-war reconstruction,
conservation of the soil ranks with the
need for population as one of the post-
war necessities. Unless the national
conscience is aroused to the menace of
erosion and the need for tackling it on a
national scale, Australia, except for a
few small spots along its coasts, may
become a desert within a century.
The thing can’t be left to farmers, - nor
to discussion by rural organisations in
sporadic and mostly futile conferences,
nor to a handful of devoted agricultural
officers. All the people must be made
aware of the danger. Every ton of soil
blown from a Mallee wheat paddock or
washed from a bare Moqaro hillside is a
loss to an Adelaide shopgirl or a Mel-
bourne publican as well as to the man on
the land.
They were forced to realise this in
America, where erosion so cut down the
productivity of States once rich that the
standard of living went down, too. When
the U.S.A. was brought face to face with
the menace by an unusual drought and
resultant duststorms it had to act quickly
because, unlike Australia, it had a great
population living in the affected areas.
A survey of the soil loss showed
America, to its horror, that it had lost
100,000,000 acres of cultivation and was
probably losing another 100,000,000 acres,
and that erosion was beginning on as
much again. Thousands of farmers had
been literally eroded off their farms.
Nobody knows how many acres Aus-
tralia has lost in the past 20 years, but
it must be a frightening figure.
America didn’t leave the job to State
agricultural departments and indifferent
city-minded Governments. It was
handed over to the Federal Department
of Agriculture, which was given full
authority and adequate finance to takfc
necessary action anywhere. The U.S.
Department of Agriculture never, for
instance, found itself faced with what our
pitifully few and financially-starved soil
conservators have to face, the theory that
the problem of the Mallee stops at the
Murray river and the S.A. border and
becomes three separate problems rigidly
limited to three separate authorities.
While that sort of absurdity persists, our
efforts to beat erosion compare with that
of the fabulous old lady who tried to
empty the sea with a spoon. In the
U.S.A., although erosion is still there,
astoundingly good work has been done
in prevention and reclamation.
If Australia is to be the happy, pros-
perous, populated country those who love
it wish it to be, this duty of protecting
and reclaiming its productive lands will
have to hav§ a foremost place in national
schemes for the post-war period. It’s no
good building 25,000 houses in Sydney
if the residents have to buy their tucker
and clothing from Argentina.
Returning Exiles.
A while back it was sagely remarked by
a European exile in America that it
would be better to pass a law forbidding
refugees to return to Europe than to
send them back there as agents for the
victors.
Since then one noted exile, Count
Sforza, has headed for his native Italy
with*a loud belting of propaganda drums.
The Count left Italy when Fascism
started, and ever since has been an in-
dustrious fighter in the U.S. press against
Mussolini and Mussolini’s creed. How
he will shape in Italy after 20 years’
absence remains to be seen, which goes
for all other similar returning exiles.
If one report was correct President
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill may have in
the Count another De Gaulle on their
hands. According to that report the
Count lately commented:
For Churchill to tell the Italians to rally
to the King is like a preacher for the
Stuarts going among enraged Cromwellian
soldiers. The House of Savoy can only
bring disunity to Italy.
It recalls some comments of an emi-
nent Englishman writing about the
Stuarts and, in particular, about exiles:
A politician driven into banishment by a
hostile faction generally sees the society
which he has quitted through a false
medium. Every object is distorted and dis-
colored by his regrets, his longings and his
resentments. Every little discontent appears
to him to portend a revolution. Every
riot is a rebellion. He cannot be con-
vinced that his country does not pine for
him as much as he pines for his country.
He imagines that all of his old associates,
who still dwell at their homes and enjoy
their estates, are tormented by the same
feelings which make life a burden to him-
self. The longer his expatriation the
greater does his hallucination become. The
lapse of time, which cools the ardor of
the friends whom he has left behind, in-
flames his. Every month his impatience
to revisit his native land increases; and
every month his native land remembers
and misses him less.
The delusion becomes almost a madness
when many exiles who suffer in the same
cause herd together in a foreign country.
Their chief employment is to talk of what
they once were, and of what they may yet
be, to goad each other into animosity
against the common enemy, to feed each
other with extravagant hopes of victory
and revenge. Thus they become ripe for
enterprises which would at once be pro-
nounced hopeless by any man whose pas-
sions had not deprived him of the power
of calculating chances.
Written by Macaulay of the exiles who
spurred Monmouth on to his disastrous
return to England, with all the civil strife
and bloody doings that' ensued, it may
presently turn out to hold as good as
ever. It is yet to be shown that those
who stayed put and suffered under
Hitler’s hordes, the while keeping some
sort of national life going, have the same
high opinion of their countrymen who
fled to safety that many of these appear
to have of themselves.
“YO—HO—HEAVE—HO.”


C.S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PL^§^BR
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - -
LTD.
PERTH
1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
'THAT'
W
Tm e
If Executorship is a
Burden, delegate the
duties to us
In these abnormal times, it is quite sufficient responsibility for you to have to
look after your own affairs, without having the added care of an estate to
administer. You can hand over this work to Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. Write or call for a free booklet, "The Task that Few Men Want.
It will show you how you can relieve yourself of the burden of executorship,
and hand over the responsibility to a Company which is organised to give
constant, competent, and conscientious service. Apply for this booklet, now.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong ■ Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET,
PHONE: B 7901.
SYDNEY
Box 543 B. 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP*47-43.
POLITICAL POINTS
The grand old cry of “App’int
Maloney!” has been heard once more.
Wanting another Minister to Moscow,
more rugged and likely to be less dazzled
than Slater, Canberra picked the Hon.
James Joseph Maloney, M.L.C. “Jim”
to all except Communists, the Minister-
elect is Federal secretary of the Boot
Employees, president of the Labor Coun-
cil, delegate to the A.C.T.U. and a patron
of sport—Randwick, Rugby League and
the Stadium. In short, a representative
Sydney trade-union politician with the
required intellectual equipment and in-
tef ests; and lest anyone think he might
become a Rooshian, he remains an
M.
A war-time regulation goes through
the pangs of parturition:
October 21: Revealing that fines imposed on
N. workstoppers since April hadn’t been
collected, Dr. Evatt said he had given instruc-
tions for their collection before he went abroad.
He added that he was issuing another regulation
providing for collection out of wages and
salaries.
November 1: Aberdare miners strike against
garnishee regulation. Fines amounting to £3BO,
with a month to pay, had been imposed on
156 of them on August 7 for a July 26 stoppage.
Strikers are advised by their Federation that
garnisheeing for fines imposed in “past months”
is off.
November 3: Dr. Evatt announces that Gov-
ernment will not garnishee “retrospectively”
and that a “general amnesty” has been granted
to men involved in stoppages up to October 31.
Owners and managers fined are also —er —par-
doned. Amount involved in fines and costs
not stated.
The garnishee system is now to operate
—at least, till the next strike.
The Sydney Premier foreshadows, as
“part of the N.S.W. Government’s post-
war plans,” the building of grand new
offices to house Health, Transport, Labor
and Industry. All three should, of course,
be Commonwealth departments, there
being Commonwealth Ministers of
Health, Transport, Labor and Industry.
Nothing has been heard from Curtin as
to how McKell’s fond dreams fit in with
Curtin’s frequent statements that the
Commonwealth must have more powers
if post-war Australia is to be recon-
structed.
The War Railways Committee has de-
cided that rail traffic in N.S.W. and S.A.
must be immediately restricted in order to
save coal. Who wants to bet that the
next time the Sydney butchers, bakers
or candlestick makers have a holiday
anything from three to 23 special trains
won’t be provided for them?
One of the latest reasons for a coal
strike was a complaint by the strikers
that the safety lamps were too heavy.
This is known as the maintenance of
privilege. A lot of other Australians,
staggering kneedeep through jungle mud,
carry things much heavier than safety
lamps, while back home their wives and
mothers carry heavy shopping bags, walk
themselves tired trying to buy food and
clothing for the youngsters, and do their
best to cut down fuel and light consump-
tion to save coal. This is known as the
maintenance of duty.
With Canberra doing weekly crawls
to coalfields workstoppers, the idea that
union bosses should make the laws for
unionists is growing. Healy, of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, “recom-
mended to the triennial conference at
Sydney that wharflaborers guilty of pil-
fering should be punished by the Federa-
tion”: —
Disciplinary action by the federation is
much more desirable and would be much
more effective than discipline by the Gov-
ernment The federation has never
condoned pilfering.
In war or peace Healy’s show has never
been known to expel a convicted thief.
On the rare occasions when he has served
a stretch back the convicted thief goes
to the wharves with his union ticket.
Healy, it should be stated, is a Commu-
nist, and has been re-elected general
secretary.
While the Fourth Liberty Loan was
laboring, the N.S.W, Government ran
three lotteries (each 100,000 tickets at
ss. 3d.) in a week. The Queensland
Government ran four in a fortnight,
prizes in one case amounting to £32,000.
And the Hobart and Perth concerns were
kept busy. It has obviously become
necessary to ban all forms of gambling
while war loans are on the market unless
pay-outs of 16s. and upwards are made
in bonds and war-savings certificates.
Jack Curtin Homer sat in a corner
Showing his pie to a crony.
Jack put in his thumb
And pulled out a plum,
Saying “ That’s for you, Jimmy Maloney."
Next time Curtin and Chifley float a
war loan they should leave Communists
out of it. The presence of these people
on the strength and on platforms does
more harm than good. Unionists who
strike or threaten to strike as a protest
against Communist control —and the P.M.
must know of examples—are capable of
boycotting war loans if asked by Com-
munists to contribute, just to nark them.
So strange are the workings of the union-
ist mind, though they should be no mys-
tery to Canberra.
According to Adelaide “Advertiser,”
the 235-mile Morgan-Whyalla pipeline
originated in a talk between Premier
Playford and Essington Lewis, of 8.H.P..
which “lasted far into the night on the
verandah of the Cottage at Whyalla early
iu 1939.” B.H.P.’s practical contributions
were “steel at pre-war prices, with a
special discount of 3i p.c., and a mini-
mum annual payment of £40,000, iri ' e "
spective of quantity of watei .
and the pipes were c tee i COn-
cems pfaTSs assistant on the poll-
tical side was Minister Mclntosh, and
design and constructional control were
the responsibility of engineer-in-chief
Angwin, who had the benefit of C. G. F.
Johnson’s skill and experience till John-
son’s death. ° the^^ nBl "f- erS
were O Connell, Lawne, Oliver, Dndan
and Ide. All good Australians, and they
have done a good job for Australia.
. T , ,-p, T 1. „ it C v/iiniotp*r
Nelson T. Johnson, the U.a. Minister
to Australia, started and delighted
the Westralians by what he said of
their State, after a visit to the south-
west: “One of the last remaining land
frontiers in the world,” and the south-
west “a country so wonderful” that he
could “visualise the growth there within
half a century of two Chicagos and three
Los Angeles.” And then the Minister
wasn’t taken to Albany, a great but
grossly-neglected port.
Queensland members of the services
and of the merchant navy are to havQ
the Assembly vote “irrespective of age.”
They are expected to be grateful, and so
are service men and women from other
States for whom similar arrangements
have been or are being made. But with
the Commonwealth election just over and
four State elections coming on, most of
the objects of solicitude may conclude
that to have to vote so often when once
every three or five years would suffice is
the crowning absurdity of an outworn
system.
For the Tas. Leg. Council seat
(Hobart) turned in by Dr. Gaha for the
superior charms of Canberra, A. J, Tyler
(Labor and A.N.A.) was declared elected
by three votes: Tyler 2698, J. E. Cuth-
bertson 2695. Cuthbertson appealed to
the Supreme Court, alleging that electors
had been improperly deprived of votes
and ballot papers improperly rejected as
informal, and last week Chief Justice
Morris ordered a recount, any votes in
dispute to be referred to the Court. Can-
berra is morbidly interested in this Leg.
Council, which, when Dr. Gaha was
leader, rejected the Commonwealth
Powers Bill and an appeal for recon-
sideration.
In a Sydney “Herald” digest of a
“Times” article on the Diggers’ achieve-
ment, it was mentioned that the “Thun-
derer’s” correspondent was “deeply im-
pressed with the A.l.F.’s devotion to duty
in New Guinea” and had “a special
word of praise for the surprisingly high
percentage of men of middle age, some
of whom fought in the first World War
and have sons in this, and many of whom
made great sacrifices to enlist.” Directly
underneath it was set forth that Forde
had “expressed gratification” at the rais-
ing of the military age in Japan from 40
to 45, this, in Forde’s opinion, being evi-
dence that “the Japanese have a man-
power problem too. Our experience has
been that men of 45 or thereabouts are
unsuitable for fighting in the tropics.”
Accident or design?
Learning that Senator Cameron, the
Minister for Aircraft Production, and
Slater, M.L.A. for Dundas and recently
Minister to Russia, were to speak at Mel-
bourne’s Russian anniversary celebration,
arranged by the Australian Soviet Friend-
ship League, Lovegrove, State president
cf the A.L.P., notified them that this would
violate an A.L.P. executive ruling, the
A.S.F.L. being listed as a Communist
subsidiary. Cameron obeyed the execu-
tive. Slater defied it. Now he is held to
have “automatically placed himself out-
side the movement,”
Ward threw himself into the Russian
revolution anniversary ceremonies with
a new issue of Anglophobia:
It must never be forgotten that the Nazi
movement was financed in Britain and
America, and those people who hide their
identity today were really guilty and mainly
responsible.
Names, amounts furnished, and when?
They ought to be on record if there is
anything in the story; but that isn’t
Ward’s way. Lying generalisations with-
out chapter or verse are ever so much
easier.
Queensland Labor’s Election Act
Amendment Bill grants the Assembly
franchise to all Queenslanders in the ser-
vices and the merchant navy, irrespective
of age or sex. It goes so much further
than the Commonwealth measure that, as
Opposition-leader Nicklin indignantly
pointed out, a cabin boy of 14 gets the
vote, though it is refused to policemen,
railwaymen and munition workers. only
three months short of 21. But Caucus
prevailed, as it has prevailed ever since
1915, except for a couple of depression
years.
By virtue of a National Security reg.
amendment, recent arrivals from enemy
countries are now designated “refugee
aliens,” and “on asserting their claims ’
they are to be “treated as aliens,” not as
“enemy aliens.” That is all right; but
there should be another amendment for-
bidding the assumption of British names.
Going on experience of alien ways, if this
precaution is not taken there will be an
early crop of Alexanders, Montgomerys
and Cunninghams.


Hi
mmm.
EXBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stonned
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A notable “first” has been chalked up
to a Queenslander, Air Commodore
Donald T. C. Bennett, D.S.O. —first
wearer of the Golden Eagle badge of the
Pathfinder fliers, who do a magnificent
job leading the way to bomber objectives
in Germany, make the place bright with
flares for the bomb-aimers and then hang
around scrapping and observing till the
show is over. Incidentally, a striking part
of Wing-Commander Clive Caldwell’s
decorations ensemble D. 5.0., D.F.C.
and bar, Polish Cross of Valor—is a
golden Polish eagle worn above and to
the left of the decorations row (and well
riveted on inside the tunic!) It signifies
the special honor accorded Caldwell by
the Poles of hon. membership of the
Polish Air Force. Caldwell did some of
his Middle East fighting with a Polish
lot, and has a great word for the Poles
as fighting airmen.
Since he gave up being chairman of a
dry-cleaning co. in 1939 to take on the
job of Secretary-General of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Captain. Alfred George
Br °wn has travelled 50,000 air miles,
visiting practically every part of Aus-
tralia, Papua and New Guinea. In the
last war he rose from private to staff
captain of the 6th Brigade, got the Mili-
tary Gross for conspicuous work at Bulle-
court and the Croix de Guerre later ;
but he regards as the greatest compli-
ment to himself as a soldier that ever
since the end of that war he’s been either
or vice-president of his old
unit. He’s had some thrilling experiences
torpedoed on the way to Gallipoli; a
bullet in the neck near the jugular vein
while on Gallip. ; all but scalded to death
when his hospital ship was blown up ;
blown up again at Bullecourt; only un-
injured survivor from a leave-train
smash in France. He is 55 and was born
in Melbourne.
F. W. Schramm, the most popular
member of the M.L. Labor party, is
M.L.’s new Speaker. Born in Seddon’s
electorate (Westland), he went from Uni.
to the civil service, and was Deputy-Regis-
ter of Auckland. Passing the necessary
exams., he set up as barrister and solici-
tor, failed in his first run for Parliament,
but in 1931 was elected for the semi-
Conservative seat of Auckland East,
which he’s held ever since. A solid
worker, he has rendered great service to
his party. He speaks seldom in the House,
k u f t^l wa Y s to the point, and he professes
no ‘ isms.” In his youth he was a success-
ful Rugbyite and runner, and represented
the Dominion at hockey.
Duke of Windsor, 49:
These days America sees more and more of
the duke who was King Edward VIII. He had
? birthday there in June, and reckoned
it Too close to 50 for comfort.” Still a
neat dresser say, in a grey suit with a red
flower rn his buttonhole—the duke, if anything,
seems to increase his popularity with every visit
to Uncle Sam s domain, where he gets a remark-
ably good “press.” His barber still trims his
nair so that the growth at his temples and
around his ears is fuzzy, but the sandy area
at the top, which made him still look boyish
w {]f n he was King, is fast going grey. He can
stnl draw a crowd of the ladies, just to look
at him When he calls on Secretary of State
xtull the corridors are soon crowded with the
State Department girls, maybe with pink roses
in their hair and some of them, hopefully,
with autograph books. He and his duchess,
when they appeared in the diplomatic gallery
to hear Churcnill address Congress, were given
an ovation equal to that given to the P.M.
himself. Windsor has attended some of the
Roosevelt-Churchill talks, and, asked what he
did there, said drily: “I do a lot of listening”
American scribes are not noted for backward-
ness, and one of them at a general interview
followed up the duke’s reference to when he
was King with “I apologise if this is too per-
sonal, but have you any regrets for what you
£vi7ii s 9™ e ,^ hat flabbergasted Windsor.
Well, he said, it is personal, isn’t it?” He
stopped, _ shifted in his chair, and added:
That s in the past. It’s a long time ago”
He stopped again, then said: “You will forgive
me for refusing to go into that?”
Pedalled per pushbike past his 80th
milestone, George R. Broadbent, Vic-
toria’s road mapmaker. He has seen
some changes. In his youth he pushed
a boneshaker over the wretched tracks
that then passed for roads, he was one of
the first to drive a motor over roads not
much better, and he had much to do with
getting the present bitumen highways
started. He still pushes a grid for recrea-
tion.
“Mid-Channel”: Archibald Howie (B.
3/11/ ’43) was grounded in a Balmain
school. Cragg, one of the teachers —
“Satan” to the boys because of his fiery
hair—once told him before the full
class (of which I was a member) that he
had a big head but there was nothing
in it. It is true that Howie was an out-
size in that respect, but his life showed
that Cragg’s judgment was far* off the
mark. One characteristic —he always
wore a brown soft hat but without the
dint in the centre.
The Stalingrad Sword of Honor,
Britain’s tribute, has the typically
British touch of linking historic Eng-
lish craftsmanship with present war
work. England’s oldest swordsmith,
Tom Beasley, 83, had the job of forging
the blade. Tom got
sick before he was
through, but the fore-
man of the historic
firm of swordsmiths
to which Tom belongs
finished the job. The
firm, Wilkinson’s, has
been in this line of
business since 1772. It
made swords that
flashed at Bunker Hill
and Waterloo, the
swords worn in the
last war by Kitchener
and French and many
others. When the
present war started it
was still making
10,000 swords a year.
These times the firm
is mainly engaged
making armor for Fly-
ing Fortress crews,
and the Stalingrad
Sword’s silverwork
and scabbard have
been handled by an
R.A.F. corporal, a
silver designer in
peace-time. The
Sword’s designer, R.
M. Y. Gleadowe, is a
former Slade Profes-
sor of Fine Art at
Oxford.
“E.L.”; Add to
the mention of Rev.
Guy Pentreath’s resigning as head or St.
Peter’s, Adelaide, to become Principal
of the Wrekin, Shropshire (B. 20/10/’43),
that, of a grand total of 1600 St. Peter’s
old boys on active service, 100 have lost
their lives. Bermuda-born, Rev. Pen-
treath was educated at Haileybury Col-
lege and Magdalene College, Cambridge,
and was chaplain of Michael House, ‘
Natal, and later master of the King’s
Scholars Westminster School before com-
ing to spend his 10 years at St. Peter’s.
Dual Prior Prize winner Kylie Tennant
now has her Ride on, Stranger, a study
of Sydney city life over the past 15 years,
in an Australian edition published by
Angus and Robertson, after publication
in both England and America. Also, a
dramatised form of her Time Enough
Later is being prepared for the New York
professional stage by American dramatist
Fred Shervin. The same novel is to be
published in London by Macmillans.
“Aeroplane’s” editor was on the right
track when he regretted that the High
Commissioner did not have the benefit
of the technical experience of Hudson
Fysh at the recent Civil Aviation Confer-
ence ip London. No one in Australia is
better qualified than Fysh, who has been
managing director of Qantas continu-
ously since its formation in 1921. Fysh,
who hails from Tumavil (Q.), enlisted in
the Light Horse in 1914 and served in
Palestine, winning his commission in the
field. Transferring to the Flying Corps
as an observer, he won the D.F.C. After
several hundred hours in the back seat he
qualified as a pilot just at the end of the
war. On his return he and McGinness
surveyed the air route from Longreach
to Darwin for the Billy Hughes Air .Race
and laid down the petrol supplies from
Darwin to Charleville. It was then that
the idea of Qantas was born, and when
the job was done Fysh arid McGinness
floated the company and were joint
managing directors until McGinness sold
his interests. Fysh assumed full control,
and the fact that he still holds that job
indicates ability above the ordinary. He’s
bound to play a prominent part in
formulating Australia’s post-war civil
aviation policy.
Commissioner to India:
Though it didn’t see print at the time, one
of the best stories ever told of Digger initiative
was related by Lieut.-Gen. Iven Mackay when
he got back from the Middle East. In one
mountainous sector the Italians held a position
approachable only by a track a few feet wide
skirting a mountainside, the outer edge drop-
ping in a sheer precipice. Widening the track
to get transport round would have taken a long
time, but one of the A.I.F. engineering unit
given the job had a brainwave. Ropes lowered
from above were fastened to the off side of a
(Modelled by Frith.)
LIEUT.-GEN. IVEN MACKAY.
truck, a game driver took the wheel and, with
men holding the ropes on top taking the weight,
drove round literally, on the two inner wheels.
Within 24 hours all the transport was thus
driven round the apparently impossible track,
to the intense astonishment and utter ruin of
the Eyeties. Going abroad once more, this time
as Australian High Commissioner to India, Gen-
eral Mackay is one of the most striking illus-
trations of the curious fact that schoolteachers
make uncommonly good soldiers. One particu-
lar quality the profession develops is mastery
of detail. A typical example can be linked
with Gen. Mackay. Aspirants for commis-
sions in the _ Middle East were told to bring
along to their interview with him a complete
personal history. One (since killed in New
Guinea) stayed long into the desert night com-
piling three foolscaps of close writing. “All
your own work?” said Mackay, merely turning
the sheets and glancing at them. “Yes, sir.”
“Are you quite satisfied with it?” “Well, yes,
sir.” “Right. Take it away and bring it ’back
when you’ve fixed it up.” The aspirant went
through it half a dozen times and could find
nothing whatever wrong with it. Others did
likewise. Then one eagle-eyed mate spotted the
missing detail—the inadvertent dropping of
a letter in one word! Gen. Mackay goes to
his new post from command of the Second
Australian Army. He soldiered brilliantly in
1914-18, and in 1940 took command of the
Sixth Division. Between wars he was for some
time headmaster of Cranbrook School, Sydney.
The appointments of both Gen. Mac-
kay and of Thomas George de Largie
D’Alton (High Commissioner to New
Zealand) were foreshadowed in a notable
speech by Dr. Evatt on Australia’s post-
war future and relationships with other
countries. Maoriland had sent Berendsen
to Canberra to help the good work along.
D’Alton, evening the balance, has been
Tasmania’s Deputy Premier for the past
two years, and has held the portfolios of
Chief Sec., Transport, Agriculture and
Commerce and Industry. A Victorian
(b, Warracknabeal, 1895), he has shown
a rising disposition outside politics also
president of the Tas. Aero Club and Glid-
ing and Soaring Club. There is a Sydney
legend that he was a Leichhardt Stadium
boxer.
Altogether it was a brisk week of Aus-
tralian appointments to possies abroad.
Another was that of J. J. Maloney as
Minister to Russia. M.L.C., president of
the N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council
and general secretary of the Boot Trade
Employees Federation, Maloney carries
no brief for Australian Corns., whose
moves inside the Labor organisation he
has at sundry times opposed. Now 43,
he started toil as a boy cleaning windows,
and 20 years later, when the depression
knocked the boot trade endways, was
for a couple of years on the dole. A
unionist from youth, and his union’s dele-
gate for many years, he has one thing,
at least, in common with Stalin—he likes
his pipe. But he’ll miss Randwick.
Succeeding Dr. Bradfield (of the
Bridge), Dame Constance D’Arcy is Syd-
ney University’s first woman deputy-
chancellor. She’s been a member of the
Uni. Senate since 1919, is hon. gynaecolo-
gist at St. Vincent’s Hospital, consulting
gynaecologist at the Rachel Forster and
Royal Hospital for Women and Fellow
of the Royal Australian College of Sur-
geons.
In Sydney to lend the State Govern-
ment a hand in setting up the Cancer
Institute for which it has put aside
£lOO,OOO of an estimated £250,000 cost.
Dr. Ralston Paterson is director of Man-
chester’s similar big institute and a world-
recognised authority. His wife, who is
with him and who is an expert in the
same line, will do research on cancer,
which Dr. Ralston Paterson has found
is rising to a disquieting degree in Eng-
land and America as well as here.
According to a yarn they tell of him
over there, Churchill, due to make a
world broadcast, stopped a cabby and
asked to be driven to the 8.8. C. “Sorry,
sir,” the cabby apologised. “It ain’t
ordinary, sir, but y’ see, sir, Mr. Churchill
is broadcasting and I wants to get ’ome
and ’ear ’im.< You’ll ’ave to get yourself
another cab, sir.” Tickled pink, Churchill
pulled out a pound note and handed it to
the driver, who took one look at it and
flung the door open, with “ ’Op in, sir.
T’ hell with Mr. Churchill! ”
Maoriland’s share in the air war in
the South Pacific has decided the Govern-
ment to appoint a senior officer of the
R.N.Z.A-F. head of the Dominion’s joint
staff mission in Washington, and Air
Commodore J. L, Findlay, M.C., an old
birdman, gets the job. A son of knight
John Findlay (a big light in law and poli-
tics till a couple of decades back), Air
Commodore Findlay was born in Wel-
lington 48 years ago. After education at
Wellington College he went to the Im-
perial Service College in England and
became captain of the school in 1914.
In France as a second lieutenant with the
East Surreys, he was wounded and trans-
ferred to the Flying Corps in 1917, join-
ing the R.A.F. after the war, but return-
ing to MX. in 1923, when the Dominion
launched its own Air Force.
Painter Arthur Streeton cut up for
£7650 realty and £6382 personalty— not a
remarkable amount for a man reputed to
have got higher prices for his pictures
than any other Australian, four figures
sometimes. Streeton’s estate, except for
some bequests, goes to his son Charles.
Into the silence ;
At 82, in Melbourne, William Kinross Mac-
kinnon, of Marida Yallock, in the Western
District. Pioneering the use of superphosphate,
he turned second-class country into some of the
finest in Australia. He had big holdings in Q.
and N.S.W.
In Adelaide, F. F. V. Engel, who did good
work for Eastern Extension in Darwin, Borneo,
Singapore and Cocos Island.
Fatally injured by a taxi, leading Australian
landscape painter William Lister Lister, 84.
Bora in Sydney, educated in England and
France and apprenticed as a marine engineer
in Glasgow, he gave up the sea after rising to
chief engineer, and returned to Sydney in 1888
with an established reputation as a painter,
earned in London. President of the Royal
Art Society of N. S. Wales from 1898 to the
time of his death, his large pictures of the Aus-
tralian bush and seashore hang in many Aus-
tralian galleries, and he was since 1899 a trus-
tee of the N.S.W. National Gallery. His fine
picture “The Ever Restless Sea” in the Sydney
National Gallery is a permanent memorial of
a painter who loved Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: A reporteress sent out by a
Sydney paper to investigate the subject
of household budgeting in these stirring
times selected as a “typical suburban
housewife” one whose “munition-worker
husband earned just over £5 10s. a week.”
The norm at present seems nearer £l5 a
week, but, of course, there are all sorts
of wheels within wheels. Take the case
of Smithjohnson, once a colleague of
mine. He had to have an operation, and
while he was in hospital his wife came
in to collect three weeks’ wages. She
opened the envelope, counted £24 and
remarked to the boss “There’s too much
here, Mr. Macgoogan. Three weeks’
wages should only be £l5, shouldn’t it?”
The boss, a married man, too, thought
quickly. “Oh, Jim’s been a very good
worker,” he said smoothly. “He deserves
a bit extra at a time like this. You just
take it, Mrs. Soanso ; that’ll be all right.”
After the grateful woman had gone the
boss whistled softly, “What do you
know about that?” he asked the universe.
“Jim’s been on £8 for over five years
now. What a man!”
¥ * ¥ ¥
“Pitt S Met a friend I hadn’t seen
since be as down from his home in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) 18 months ago, and
we spent a day raking the city for smokes.
“How’ve you been doing for smokes since
I saw you?” I asked. “Oh, I’ve had no
difficulty,” he replied. “Living at the
seat of government as I do, there isn’t
much trouble in getting anything I
want.” “Oh,” said I, “I wasn’t aware
you’d moved to Canberra.” “I haven’t,”
said he.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“T. McNark”: I see where some per-
son has written to a newspaper asking
“Why are women so shamelessly exploited
in war-time? Hats which cost 15s. are
now £3 3s. to £4 45., and frocks once
225. 6d, are now £4 and £5.” The answer
is simple. Women are shamelessly ex-
ploited at any time because they’ll shame-
lessly pay any price fashion-mongers
choose to ask, being still slaves to fashion
despite all their claims about complete
emancipation.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Petermac” quarrels with a war fillum;
That cinema opus “Immortal Sergeant” will
bring tears of merriment into the eyes of
Middle East veterans. Lost in the Libyan
Desert members of a British patrol whose
motor has gone phut decide to footslog their
way back. Led by the “immortal” three-striper
six of them start off clad in winter battle-dress,
full marching order and carrying dozens of
grenades, plus a 281 b. Lewis gun and thousands
of rounds of ammo. They meet and dish up
about 30 Eyeties, but a bullet ends the sergeant’s
immortal span. Then Corporal Henry Fonda
takes charge, and he and his four men plug on.
Soon they run out of water, having overlooked
the Eyeties’ water-bottles (or maybe the Italian
is like a camel and doesn’t need any). After
another three days they are still earning every-
thing they started with and, except that they
haven’t shaved, are ready for inspection. They
then run out of food (apparently their big
packs contained a Webster’s Dictionary and the
Manual of Military Law). Next they come
upon an oasis guarded by about 80 Huns.
After massacring these Henry Fonda wakes up
in hospital with a commission and the D.C.M.
A gratifyingly friendly tribute to British dis-
cipline and courage; but why don’t they get
somebody who knows something about soldier-
ing to vet. these extravaganzas?
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Eve”: There was a time when
apples grew on trees. These times,
they grow on bushes of red-tape. It
nearly strangled me when a city
shopkeeper offered me a paltry-look-
ing Democrat for fivepence. Further
along I took six Groftons at three-
pence each, I discovered later that one
of them was bruised to death, so I gave
it decent burial in an ashcan, which meant
I got five small apples for Is. 6d. But the
worst blow was to come. On a stack of
Granny Smiths in King-street was a
notice; “Today’s Quota in Apples Sold.”
Fancy having to shop early for an apple!
It’s enough to make the worm inside it
turn.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Melbn”: I am not particularly im-
pressed by Mr. Dedman’s latest endeavor
to control the spending habits of the
public by putting a ceiling price on
second-hand furniture other than an-
tiques. For one thing, it will cause a lot
“Say, honey, what WAS your maiden name ?”
of barneys over what constitutes an
antique. A Melbourne man sent a
samurai sword to auction. A few days
later the purchaser arrived and pointed
accusingly to the blade, on which,
after rust had been removed, he had
found incised a Birmingham trade-mark.
It took a long time to convince him
that the Japanese in the early days of
European trade imported Birmingham
steel to make their swords with.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Adelaide”: An unlucky alien is an
Austrian architect who was charged in
Adelaide with having gone outside the
metropolitan area in which he is bound
to reside. He was seen walking “towards
the hills,” but explained that he had only
gone perhaps 350 yards over the boun-
dary for a better view of the city, which
he loves because it reminds him of his
own Vienna. A poet would be impressed,
perhaps, but the Law said £l5 fine.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Visitor”: S.A. has developed an odd
death-notice custom. Some relative got
the idea of showing respect to the de-
parted by adding an extra tribute in the
newspaper on his (or her) own* account.
Others don’t like to be left out when
some are doing it; and now all hands
hurry into self-advertisement (though
from the highest motives) over the names
of grandchildren and Aunt Polly or John
and Mary and little Tommy. Thus Adel-
aide “ ’Tiser” one morning lately had
eight death notices of the same person.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“S.T.S.”: There must be lots of valu-
able books stored in homes unconsciously
(B. 13/10/’43) and thrown out —when
throwing out is demanded in war-time —
owing to lack of knowledge, A librarian
friend of mine was asked by Girl Guides
to look through their big hauls of books
and periodicals. He found several things
of real value ; found also, incidentally,
that some householder had innocently
handed to the girls a modern auto-
biography, one of the most salacious
things—barring translations —ever printed
in English.
¥ ¥ * *
“M. 8.”: Some of these unpatriotic
Australians who go about fawning on
foreigners and belittling their own coun-
try got what they deserved from a Vien-
nese lady, a children’s art teacher lately
arrived here. “Oh, but don’t you miss
culture in this country?” they gushed.
Whereupon the lady replied “No, I don’t
miss it at all, because I can see culture
in every Australian child I have set eyes
upon.” It may have been tactful cour-
tesy ; I prefer to believe she meant it, and
I dips me lid to her.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Zake”: Sydneysiders become inured
to shocks. It would shake me, but not
bowl me over, if the pub at the corner
sold me a bottle of beer at as low as
twice the legal price and knocked an
Ally back to let me have it. I would not
gasp if half the occupants of the non-
smoker railway carriage that bears me
to toil each day should, some bright
morning, refrain from smoking. If
Syd Snow up and told the “Sun”
the real reason why his party has
to have a new name I’d bat nary an eye-
lid. Even so, I have been rocked to my
foundations. A landlord —and, by the
gods, a King’s Cross one at that —has
passed over a bunch of unencumbered
.prospective tenants in favor of one with
six children. Since that astounding news
got out there has been heard from Dario
to the Cross a buzzing as of angry bees,
punctuated by the resentful yelps oif
Poms and Pekes. It comes from the
love-honor-and-no-baby flatites who see
in this the Thin End of a Wedge.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Avant”: If ever a cautionary idea was
well drummed into the child (and adult)
mind it has been the theory that the
most awful results follow imbibation of
sea water. In a hundred adventurous
romances it is recounted how thirsty men
went mad, drank salt water and expired
miserably. In a fillum of a few years
ago, starring Clark Gable and Joan Craw-
ford, the big situation is the drawing of
lots by fugitives in a becalmed boat to
see who should take a sip of water from
a keg that had been cast overboard, and
which might contain some infiltrated salt.
If there is a taint of salt in the water
the drinker is doomed to a speedy and
painful death. Now I don’t say that there
are not the best of good reasons for such
warnings against thirst-quenching in the
bounding main, but I have a witness
contra —Dennis Dugan, “S.M.H.” war
correspondent. Recounting the experi-
ences of airmen, grounded in a swamp,
w'ho had a terribly long, fatiguing trek
before they were rescued, he writes:
When they reached the sea the airmen
each drank about a pint of salt water to
make up for the salt they had lost in
perspiration, and it proved “wonderfully
refreshing.”
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Ben C.”: There’s nothing “ominous”
for Australian farmers in that yarn about
Swiss scientists chewing synthetic foods
and liking them (B. 27/10/’43). Similar
reports have been coming out about once
a year for the last 20 years or more, but
the populace still remains convinced of
the flavor, nutriment and general desir-
ability of good old Mother Nature’s
provender. A lot of our fighting men
are being given tablets of concentrated
foodstuffs in battle areas, because it's
easy to transport and easy for the soldier
to carry, but watch ’em rush the good old
beef and spuds, with treacle pudding,
that Mum dishes up when they come
home on leave! Scientists can prove that
a properly-arranged shilling meal in a
vegetarian cafe will give a sedentary
worker all the nourishment he needs, yet
the silly cow still goes to a Greek cafe or
a chain-store restaurant and loads him-
self up with heavy tucker for which he
cheerfully coughs up two or three bob.
“Kai Kai”: It is evident that “Pip”
(B. 22/9/’43), who writes of army slang,
is not of the A.I.F. To refer to “ho-ho-
ho” as a “meaningless catchcry” shows
ignorance of its origin and history. This
cry, started as a joke by members of the
Ninth Division to hurry along the kan-
garoos that frequently bounded through
their camps, and at first frowned upon by
the authorities, has become distinctive
to the Ninth as a symbol of their
contempt for danger. Startled Japs heard
it when the Divvy got amongst them
with the bayonet at Lae and Finschhafen,
and wherever there are Ninth Division
troops in New Guinea this cry greets the
air-raid siren which warns that Tojo’s
bombers approach. A catchcry it may be,
but never meaningless.
¥ * * *
“Trey-C.”: That Westralian who wants
classical music, not swing stuff, from
A.B.C. had better come to Queensland.
Though made cautious by long experi-
ence, when I do tune in I’m always in
time to hear the regional announce an
hour’s orchestral music, to be followed by
half an hour’s music for the orchestra,
after whiph a bracket of 14 andantinos
is to be played by the awkstruh. Mind
you, I don’t object to awkstruhs first-
hand, but when they come third-hand,
plus a dash of atmospherics, plus a spot
of announcerese, give me anything else.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“S.T.S.”; Louis McCubbin, director
of Adelaide National Gallery, repudiates
the suggestion from Canberra that the
trustees, in selling off surplus works of
art, are encouraging collectors to invest
money which ought to go into war loans.
This is precisely where the proceeds will
go, McCubbin says, and the board is
saving space and insurance by passing
out some old gifts not now “considered
suitable for the national collection.”
“Bohemian”: The 100th anniversary
of the first performance (it happened in
Drury Lane Theatre, London) of Balfes
“Bohemian Girl” comes along on
November 27, Dublin, which claims
Michael Balfe as a native, intends to
mark the centenary by erecting a
memorial in Balfe-street.
% Jfc H* *
“C.P.R”: The modern kid. My 10-
year-old offspring, mooching idly round
the place on a recent Sunday morning,
was asked by his mother why he wasn’t
out in the sun with his mates. “Oh,” he
said, “they’re going out to see the Lan-
caster bomber.” Fondly imagining that an
event like that would be a magnet for
any small male, she said “Well, you can
go if you like. Why didn’t you ask? ’
“No, thanks, Mum,” he said cheerfully.
“I don’t want to go, I’m not technically-
minded.”
GIVE IT A NAME.
What’s in a name? Well, Shakspeare notwith-
standing, *
I don’t regard it as a thing of naught,
Rather a problem oftentimes demanding
Prolonged discussion and intensive thought.
A rose no doubt, whatever title wearing,
Would look as beautiful and smell as good,
But there’s no sense in anyone declaring
A new-fledged party would.
Solemn they sit about a council table,
With knitted brows and ears alert to seize
Suggestions for an agt descriptive label
Symbolical of new activities,
Something amounting to a deposition
Their entrance on the stage connotes the death
Of many an old discredited tradition
And outworn shibboleth.
They’ve come to life —or so in fitful flashes
My fertile fancy features it at least —
Like Phoenixes arising from the ashes
Of centuries-old progenitors, deceased.
Their very voices seem to have the tones of
Those sturdy souls of whom the poet sings,
Right-minded gents who rise on stepping-stones
of j ■
Dead selves to higher things.
They’re mostly capable, experienced showmen,
Wise to all PariiamentTy wiles and tricks.
Now they require a spirited cognomen,
Some sort of sobriquet that stirs and sticks.
Those past distinctions carried scant conviction;
Smacking too much of euphemistic flam
Not one was worth a tinker’s malediction,
That is, a tupp’ny damn.
The U.A.P. is bunging in its alley,
It’s all U-P with it, as one might say.
Soon ’neath a brand-new flag its ranks will rally
To wait the dawning of a brighter day.
They need a name to be a panacea
For blighted hopes and buffets best forgot.
Can nobody evolve a bright idea,
One that will hit the spot?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ONCE IN A WAY.
“At a recent Sydney race meeting ‘the books were
beaten practically from start to finish.’ ”
You think they ever finish up as winners
And with their well-stuffed satchels home-
ward go,
Exultantly reflecting on the “skinners
They’ve had, to keep their honest hearts aglow
And give an added flavor to their dinners.
But bear in mind it isn’t always so.
From time to time, it seems, there come their
ways
What you might designate Black Saturdays.
Now and again, a par. like this discloses,
They score no favors from the fickle gods
Of chance. It isn’t always roses, roses,
And bags that bulge with crisp and crackling
wads
For indefatigable Isaac Moses,
The chap who lays the field and brays the
odds.
Once in a while his fate’s to miss the bus,
The same as us, my sons, the same as us.
When well-backed favorites bring home the
bacon, . ,
Race after race, from some outsider s clutch,
When more and more is from his keeping taken
For laying So-and-so or Such-and-such,
You mustn’t picture him unnerved and shaken,
Discouraged and dispirited. Not much.
Our pencillers are made, it’s clear enough,
Of tougher fibre and of sterner stuff.
You’ll find them doubtless at their old addresses
When next you go a-racing, none the worse.
For one brief period of financial stresses
They’ll voice no grumbles and no dudgeon
nurse.
To set against habitual successes
What matters an occasional reverse?
Be sure, however, feasible it looks,
That in the end there’s none may beat the
books.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Halfpint”: It takes a three-fifths
majority for a M.L. community that has
chained itself to prohibition to throw off
the fetters, but Invercargill has done it at
last. Even the Cold Tea people don’t
claim that local-option dryness is a suc-
cess ; they want nation-wide prohibition.
Apart from the tracks that are worn to
pubs on the borders of the prohibition
districts, Maorilanders in such places
have perfected various efficient methods
of dodging the drought. In one, a club
secretary met me on the station with
an invitation to become an associate
member, and told me that membership
jumped from 100 to 1000 when prohibi-
tion came in—the club had a charter to
purvey liquor which was ouside local-
option legislation. In another, the inhabi-
tants found a solace in a temperance hop
beer. It was such a nice drink that
orders came in increasing volume,
even from towns where real beer,
was obtainable. When some nark em-
ployed an analyst to investigate samples
it was discovered that the alcoholic con-
tent was about the same as that of unre-
generate four-X. But the place wasn’t
dry apart from that. I walked into a
greengrocery shop, asked “How’s the
baby?” and came out a minute later with
a bottle of whisky.
* is * *
“Ex-Battler”: Sydney for mugs! You
can put anything over in the city which
claims to have “the finest education sys-
tem in the world”—anything! Open a
flash baccarat joint, and you’ll have to
hire a pug to keep order in the queue.
Offer to exchange scrip in Blasseter’s
Great Golden Hole Extended for solid
B.H.P. or A.C.I. shares, one for one,
and the Great Golden Hole Extended
printer will need to wort double
tides to accommodate the swarms of
swappers. 'There were a thousand
and one ways of separating the
Sydney mug from his money, all
tested; and now one of the boys has
thought out one more. People of both
sexes, a forest of them, many clutching
sporting newspapers—a sure sign of trust-
ing innocence—are lined up at tote pay-
out windows. Selecting your mug, you
go up to him (or her) and pitch a tale
about being unable to wait any longer
to collect, being due at the munitions
factory; but “as I’ve had a good day
and I can see you’re a good sport I
don’t mind letting you have these two
tickets on” (naming a horse on which
they’re paying out at another window
or a place-getter in a previous, race)
“for ten bob in the pound. If you’re
willing to wait you’ll get one pound six-
teen ; I’ll take 18 bob.” The offered
tickets are, of course, stumer, but if the
seller has made a good pick the mug will
buy at the price without referring to his
racebook —if he hasn’t lost it. Dozens
of greedy simpletons, products of “the
finest education system in the world,” fell
for this racket at the spring meetings.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Fortunately these aliens
with the alarming names (B. 27/10/’43)
are not fussy about pronunciation. A
man introduced to me had the staggering
moniker Zamilkiskra Donitzrajbirtch,
and having looked at his card I boggled
over an attempt to master it. “Don’t
vorry aboud dat,” he said tolerantly.
“Shust call me Sam —Sam Schones.” I
accepted the Sam theory thankfully
—and his name for general use
today.
* * * *
“C. Ma”: The, Ballarat Eisteddfod
judge who refused a girl first prize for
elocution because she had recited a pas-
sage from Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” including
the adjective “bloody,” has been catching
it hot ever since. He may at least have
the satisfaction of knowing that his action
places him more or less in august com-
pany. As an eminent critic and a friend
and admirer of Turner, Ruskin was
naturally regarded as the safest person
to be left in charge of Turner’s works
after the death of that artist. He was
horrified when he discovered hundreds of
drawings in which Turner had expressed
himself in ways that shocked his own
ideas of propriety. On his own initiative
Ruskin solemnly burnt the offending
drawings, thus depriving the world of a
priceless heritage of art.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The Old Men’s
Home at Lidcombe, N.S.W., whose"'
cuisine has been under fire, has yet been
the home of some notable cooks. J. F.
Archibald, who declared that cooking was
the greatest of all arts (he himself
specialised in omelets), described Old
Pierre, who died at the home aged 90,
as one of the masters. His peculiarities
prevented Old Pierre from making much
money. He declined a lot of good jobs
because he believed that art ended whep
one man attempted a meal for more than
30, and he would walk out at a moment’s
notice if he saw that his principle was
being breached. Condiments placed on
the table he regarded as an affront to his
work; all the seasoning dishes needed
should go into them during preparation.
Pierre for a while ran a little cafe in
George-street, where seats were competed
for. Directly the quota was completed
the door was closed. Archibald would
have employed him, but Pierre wouldn’t
accept service in a quiet private home.
“Take her up another ten feet and I'll do a swallow."
“To Pierre every meal he cooks is a vic-
tory, and he likes to listen to the
plaudits,” J.F.A. explained.
* * * *
“Uckle”: “Oxmead’s” speculations (B.
27/10/’43) on the origin of “cobber” can
perhaps be answered by the recollections
of an oldster. My impression is that the
term arose from association with Cobb
and Co in the coaching days. On those
long overland trips on the coaches many
acquaintances were struck up between the
passengers, and these sometimes ripened
into friendship. Explaining the begin-
ning of such an acquaintance a man
would say “We Cobb-ered up” ; whence
, “cobber” seems a fairly natural deriva-
tion.
* * * *
“G.M.” (R.A.A.F.): The Australian
public, containing as it does nowadays
such a large percentage of qualified pilots,
is becoming critical of literary attempts
to purvey flying jargon. Imagination
mustn’t replace realism. James Aldridge
cannot expect to be an exception to this
rule. In Signed with Their Honor are
several passages pilots won’t recognise.
Take this one: “He kicked the rudder,
eased the stick and slipped into a glide
coming in a slip right into the head of
the 42’5.” A good pilot never kicks the
rudder. He has more respect for it. He
has never heard of “easing” a stick or
“slipping into a glide,” and I’m sure he
will be very surprised to learn that aero-
planes have “heads.” Here’s another
Aldridgian gaffe: “Quayle winged over
and put the Gladiator into a straight
drop.” Whoever called a vertical dive a
straight drop? A further passage tells us
that “Hickey held his fire until he was
right on the bomber, then gave it and
held it in a long wide burst of fire.”
Pilots can imagine a “wide burst” from
later models of fighter ’planes, but not
from a two-gun Gladiator!
* ' * * *
“Looby”: For the umptieth reason this
year the collection-plate was passed
around our office. During its tour we
noticed a ten-bob note among the silver.
Everybody marvelled. A daring soul
said later to the boss: “I hear a ten-
shilling note was put into the plate they
took in to you this morning.” The boss
squinted his eyes. “Well?” he said sus-
piciously. “Nuthin’,” said the chatty one ;
“we were just wondering who put it in,
that’s all.” The boss looked us all over.
“I heard about that note,” he said
slowly. “And I’m not particularly in-
terested to know who put it in. What I
want to know is who took it out\ ”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Who told “Pitt St.” that
Mohammedans were teetotal (B.
27/10/’43)? As Hume or some other
said, human nature is every-
where uniform. Denunciations of hard
drinking are to be found in the Koran,
but I have seen as many blithered indi-
viduals at a Javanese wedding (the
Javanese are good Moslems) as you’d
find in similar circumstances in Footscray
or Toorak. The Javanese, however,
would defy anyone to say he is not a
faithful son of the Prophet, When he
drinks alcohol he puts one hand below
his nose while the .other conveys the
forbidden liquor to his lips. What the
eye doesn’t see the conscience doesn’t
shudder at is a principle well understood
in all countries.
“F.S.”: Daryl Lindsay recently re-
vealed that the Victorian National Gal-
lery receives £25,000 p.a. from the Alfred
Felton estate and deplored that it had
an accumulation of £lOO,OOO which can’t
be spent in Europe because of National
Security regulations. Probably it is as
well that the money is being saved. If
the Melbourne
authorities keep
stacking it up
until after the war
they will be in a
position to buy
examples of the
work of Cezanne,
Van Gogh and
others who are
beginning to be
recognised as the
significant artists
of their epoch.
* *
“Ken”: “Sink-
ing ’em” is an old
Navy custom that
still flourishes. It
has nothing to do
with schooners,
middies or the
Jap Fleet. It is
what happens
when a sailor
spins a salty dit
about his adven-
tures at sea. Re-
ception varies ac-
cording to the age
and experience of
the audience, but
usually it begets
an agonised appeal “Don’t sink us,
Jack!” or a more subtle “Abandon
ship!” (you’ve sunk ’em —to prove it the
company may even don lifebelts). After
a few doses of that treatment all but the
most stubborn cases are reduced to the
degree of taciturnity becoming to the
Silent Service.
* * * *
“A.E.8.” on the “beauty and mystery
of the ships”:
A Red Page article (B. 29/9/’43) contained a
sentence which aroused my hackles. It referred
to Masefield: “It will be remembered in his
favor that to him —the sailor —the ship could
be just as astonishing an apparition as it has
been to any landlubber.” This is a strange
reversal of the truth, which is that sailors are
commonly far more astonished, excited and
stirred by a fine ship than any landlubber. It
is not Masefield who is surprising, but Squire
and Bridges and Wordsworth, whose poetic
gift of imagination tells them at once what the
ordinary man spends years learning.
I am writing these words at sea, where my
life has been spent. As I write the ship is
trembling from the speed of her passage, and
she is lifting and dipping to the Pacific swell.
It is difficult to believe that she is not alive,
and a sailor does in fact think of a ship as a
living thing. I was on the bridge of an old
destroyer when the order “Finished with main
engines” was given for the last time before
she went on the scrapheap. As the words were
pronounced the ship shuddered from stem to
stern.
No, there is nothing surprising about Mase-
field. A seaman has the kernel of romance
in himself as well as in the Odyssey of his life,
and ships have a meaning for him as well as
for any landsman. They take him from port
to port; in them he meets the sea, on their
quality his life depends. If Masefield had not
been astonished and delighted with a ship, if
he had had no inkling of what ships represent
to man, he might have been a poet still, but he
certainly would not have been a true follower
of the sea. The loveliest lines written about a
ship are the opening couplet of Robert
Bridges’s poem, and it is in his favor that he,
the landlubber, could express the beauty and
meaning which ships hold for sailors.
* * * *
“A Major”: In a newsreel of the
Sicilian fighting, men of the Eighth Army
gathered round a campfire are having a
singsong, and the ditty is (one almost
says, of course) “The Long, Long Trail.”
College boy Alonzo Elliott’s tune, first
published 1913, wears well. It was
strongly in the running with “Tipperary”
and “Pack Up Your Troubles” among
Empire troops in the 1914-18 war, and
the Yanks in France, so I’m told, had
more time for it than they had for George
M. Cohan’s rousing “Over There.” The
Elliott lyric has, I think, everything a
campfire song should contain. “I can
tear your very heartstrings out with
these,” sang the Man from Bombay about
such simple lilts, but the general effect
on men at war seems to be heartening,
not harrowing. *
* * * *
“Yair”: Sad story No. 8956: Rupert
Higglehop, hard-working and fairly
honest, saved up enough to buy a taxi.
There weren’t enough taxis for the num-
ber of people who wanted them. So
Rupert squeezed people into his cab a bit,
but he carried them all to their destina-
tions safe, and was sometimes even polite
about it. The law, however, got on to
Rupert’s trail, and he was fined and re-
viled for overloading his taxi. So, poorer
and angrier, Rupert went home, where
he had a beautiful dream. He dreamed
he was the Government and owned
thousands of trains and trams and buses
and had a lovely time every day cram-
ming the public in like sardines, per-
fectly secure against reprisals, for was
he not the law? He was quite sorry to
wake up.
J* * * *
“Cauboy”: Possibly “A Major” (B.
17/10/’43) has never been exposed
to the extraordinary jabber that goes
on in concert foyers between the
items. Considering that these critics,
nine out of ten of whom don’t know
a quaver from a crotchet, are dis-
cussing one of the most difficult arts, a
little more humility might be expected.
If you asked any one of these musical
authorities whether he thought that he
or a bricklayer was the more competent
to have an opinion about bricklaying, he
would say “The bricklayer.” But the
same individual doesn’t hesitate to pass
an opinion on even the greatest com-
posers. “What do you think of that Toc-
cata and Fugue of Bach?” I once heard
a damsel ask her escort. “Musical
diarrhoea,” he snorted. But I suppose
music is at least as difficult to understand
as laying bricks.
“S.T.S.”: Can’t quite make out the
argument of “Cauboy” (B. 6/10/’43).
“Listening to music, gawking at pictures,
and reading books” don’t make the
best-equipped critics, he says. Then what
does? And why “gawking”? For he is
careful to add that “art critics are seldom
so incautious as to paint, and music
critics are not so foolhardy as to attempt
a symphony or a sonata.” Quite rightly
so ; for the creative and the critical facul-
ties are utterly distinct. How many of
the great poets, for instance, have been
great judges of poetry? No, the sneer
at criticism that used to be sometimes
heard, “Could you do it any better?” is
now recognised as foolish. Must one be
debarred from saying that X is not as
good a bat as Bradman because one’s
own average is not as good as X’s? By
the way, “Cauboy” cites William Archer’s
“Green Goddess” as “a box-office tri-
umph, but cheap melodrama.” Quite so ;
that was the intention. Someone, nettled
by Archer’s sneers at “cheap” melodrama,
challenged him to show how cheap it was
and how easy to turn out.
“Bring me a buttered bun, and don't go plastering on the butter."


ABORIGINALITIES
”B. A. Ker”: Old Mac died as he’d
lived—sozzled, stony and happy. Bung,
with well-advertised generosity, offered
to pay the funeral exes., and Stumpy
volunteered to dig the grave. Within two
hours of his departure bearing pick and
shovel a sweat-stained Stumpy was back
confronting Bung. “Hey, what’s the idea
of buryin’ Mac in the Presbyterian
part?” Bung thought Mac, being
Scotch, etc. “Well, ’e was Church
of England,” Stumpy declared ; “and if
you want to bury ’im out of ’is creed
you can dig the ’ole y’rself!” Bung, full
of apologies, had the arrangements
altered, and the departed was duly
planted. Returning pubward, somebody
remarked “I didn’t know you and Mac
had ever discussed religion, Stump.” “We
’adn’t,” Stump confided ; “but I struck
shale at eighteen inches in the Presby-
terian possy, and I know Mac wouldn’t
mind changin’ ’is religion to save a cobber
bullockin’ ’is inside out.”
* * * *
“Tracechain”: Have never been with-
out a snake-killing dog or two over the
last 20-odd years, and it’s news to learn
(B. 20/10/’43) that the tyke goes for
Joe’s head and that he dies young. My
dogs have all gone for the middle of the
body, and all of them have made or are
making old bones. The snake has only one
punch: he strikes, not bites, and he needs
at least two seconds to deliver his punch.
Joe is enticed to lead and miss, then the
dog grabs and shakes—some of them
throw—and drops. That’s the end. Call
the dog away, and go yourself without a
backward look. Only those dogs die
young who have seconds in the ring or
are allowed to worry the dying snake.
* * * *
“T.C.” : What a carnival Jacky Kooka
and family make of doing a goanna to
death! The fair Jills, laughing heartily,
pick out a handy dead tree for a grand-
stand from which the Jacks in turn
launch themselves at the go. To a round
of applause contestant one hurls himself
at the reptile, stabs, swerves and then
takes up a possy in a tree, angle off.
Number two launches, stabs and takes up
his possy at another angle; another, and
the go. is triangled: so that this way or
that it is wide open to attack and (allow-
ing time for the ladies, and the old men,
to place their bets) it gets it according
to a feathered schedule. Two hours,
four, six, eight—it’s all the same to the
merrymakers. The older and tougher the
go. the longer the day’s sport; and the
better the day the heartier the night’s cor-
roboree.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Dogtired after penning,
picking up, skirting, classing and rolling
all day for two shearers, I dragged open
The Bulletin (20/10/’43) to find a bloke
who, besides doing the same job, plus
"I gave him permission to march at ease, sir — he's got a blistered heel."
the pressing, for three shearers, plays
draughts to fill in his spare time. Weakly
1 called for brandy. Allowing ten minutes
each run to pen up and at least 20
minutes to run down three bales, with
decent shearers a bloke would need to
pick up, skirt, roll and pack away over
a fleece every minute. But that s without
reckoning time off for draughts, and for
those long periods of aberration which
precede a move. And how he keeps the
wool away while he is penning up beats
me. Trouble with that claim, though, it
isn’t finished. I’d advise “Boxer” to have
a feed of hot damper for tea and see if
he can find out how many sheep those
shearers turned out daily. Would suggest
also that he strap himself in lesj in his
efforts he falls out of bed.
* * * *
Chuck ; Wonder what these blokes,
sd „ mucdl honest enjoyment out
of “Narrin” would say to a real .22
wizard if, from a fast-moving truck, he
shot the leader of a bunch of swifts at
a bit over 80 yards. I’ll risk it. We were
returning from a shooting party when
the darting birds were sighted. I’d been
shooting pretty well all afternoon, and
old Fitz drew my attention to them and
offered to lay me five quid to one I
couldn’t hit the leader. And I didn’t
take it. Knowing Fitz’s financial posi-
tion, and guessing I wouldn’t get paid
anyway, I took pity on him and, grabbing
up my old .22, explained that I could get
plenty honor and glory from a shot like
that without breaking him over it. I
sighted quickly, held her steady and
squeezed the trigger. Takes a steady hand
for a shot like that; and rapid ealeu-
lations. One has to allow for the pace
of the birds and the rate of the truck —
which I allowed at 35 m.p.h.—besides the
ordinary reckoning of wind and distance.
Takes practice, too; and I bet there
aren’t many blokes around that could
do it. / couldn’t.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We’d had a long, tough
spin sans work, sans cash, sans tucker,
and Mat got the notion that if only we
could get over the border into Queens-
land alf our troubles would be over.
“Look,” he said, “didger ever meet a
bloke from Queensland who didn’t reckon
it was the best place on earth? Didger
ever meet a southerner who’d been up
there an’ didn’t want t’ go back? No,
y’ didn’t. Look, I’ve met hundreds of
blokes who’ve been there an’ they all
give the place a great name. Plenty of
everythin’, and y’ can see by the wistful
looks on their dials that they want t’ get
back. Well, any place like that’ll do us.
Let’s head f’r it.” I wasn’t so sure about
the Canaan in the north, and demurred.
“Ah, come orn,” Mat cried. “You never
met anyone who didn’t like the place, so
it must be jake.” A week later we hit
the border somewhere north of Boomi
just about the same time a wet week hit
it. We slugged and dragged our way
through the black mud for two days, then
Mat dropped his swag, let out a curse
and, turning to me, said “Hey, you’re the
bloke who never met anyone with a bad
word for Queensland. Well, you’ve met
him. It’s me. Grab y’r knot. We’re
headin’ south!”
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Contractor” (B. 27/10/’43)
errs in stating that Gilbert murdered
Trooper Nelson outside the hotel at Col-
lector. It was John Dunn, another mem-
ber of the same gang, who shot Nelson.
This fact is established by the inscription
on the monument erected by the N.S.W.
Government where Nelson fell. The
cedar couch at the hotel on which he was
placed still has the stain of the trooper’s
blood on it. Dunn was hanged at Dar-
linghurst on March 19, 1866, and his
tombstone can still be seen in the old
Bunnerong cemetery at Botany, but sen-
timentalists have not bothered about the
bushranger since his bones were removed
from the old Devonshire-street cemetery
over 30 years ago.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: These coves with their
yarns about little men dominating big
women and vice versa (B. 3/11/’43) ought
to have been with me the day I dropped
into a place down the Campaspe from
Echuca (Vic.) to ask the way. Grunts,
scuffles, epithets and thuds from the back
of the house led me to the scene of as
pretty an all-in go as I’ve seen. When
one of the combatants sighted me a truce
was called, and I beheld a large, fair man
and a large, fair woman, both about the
same age and both plentifully marked
with the signs of battle. Somewhat em-
barrassed, I asked the way; the man
directed me while the woman went inside,
Then he said “We’re just goin’ to have a
pot of tea. How about it?” I accepted,
Then, for 20 minutes or so, the three ot
us drank tea and discussed current events,
both of them apparently carefree and full
of laughter. On my way again I paused
on the crest of a rise, looked back and
saw them bogging in again.
**~ * *
“Wester”; It’s true that if a man starts
sucking at a waterbag on a dry stretch
(B. 3/11/’43) he’ll increase the sucks until
he’s done. Most experienced bushmen
don’t do it. But it is also true that it’s
a darned sight easier to go without water
when you have a full waterbag than when
the bag is empty and the next supply
doubtful in distance and time. That’s
why one old western squatter I toiled for
always insisted that the boys went out
with full waterbags on their saddles,
though they might get back that night
with no more than half a pint of it used.
* * * *
“Tasser”: So “H.H.” (B. 3/11/ ’43)
couldn’t understand how a gannet could
land on a rookery among millions of
other gannets and their nests and pick
her way to the right eggs. It’s funda-
mentally the same with ewes and humans.
A ewe can pick her own lamb from thou-
sands of lambs, and a human can go
into a street of terrace houses and walk
into his own without even looking at the
number, the only distinguishing mark to
the eye of the stranger.
: '= * * *
• “Bo”: It was the fourth day with the
temperature over 110, and around mid-
day in the little galvanised-iron-roofed
pub at Billygoat Bend the patrons were
blowing their beer so that they could
drink it. reasonably warm. “Sockeye”
Saunders, the publican, was filling a few
glasses from a huge enamelled jug when
he cocked an ear, put down the jug and
hurried to the bar door and looked up
the dusty street. An ancient utility,
crammed with men, was laboring up the
red clay road. Bung ran in, poked his
head out the back and roared out
“Norah! Redjelly must ’a’ cut out. Here’s
the shearers. They’ll be wantin’ a feed.
There’s some o’ that goat still left, ain’t
there, an’ some veges? Better get goin’!”
Then, forgetting the beer jug for the
nonce, he raked under the bar counter
and produced an atomiser, which he pro-
ceeded to fill from a pint bottle of fly-
spray. As the blowflies in the dining-
room were then buzzing in a concerted
effort which could be heard across the
street, I expressed the opiniofl that he’d
need a few gallons if he intended to
stonker them all. “This ain’t to kill the
blowies with,” assertefd “Sockeye” seri-
ously. “But with this strong stuff floatin’
round they won’t be able to smell the
meat—it must be gittin’ pretty high
now!”
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Of all domesticated
animals the horse is the one most prone
to homesickness. To the dog where his
master is is home. To the cow good
grass is enough. Even the cat will adopt
new lodgings if well fed. For the first
two decades on the W.A. goldfields horses
were brought from the distant coastal
region, the nearest point being just under
300 miles. It might be thought that no
horse would attempt such a journey
merely to get back to the paddocks where
its colthood had been spent. But it was
soon found that to let even the most staid
Dobbin wander at large picking up such
grass as might be found was a sure way
to lose him. The nag’s first tentative
attempts might be easily countered ; his
tracks might be followed and he be re-
covered. But if still allowed to run loose
at night the morning would arrive when
he would be gone for good. So many
horses disappeared that it was thought
that a gang of horse duffers might be
operating. But nothing in that line could
be discovered. It was even known of
young horses to make their way across
country to Port Hedland, 800 miles or
so. And they had been brought about
1000 miles by sea and then 400 miles
inland.
THREE SHEETS.
Old Bill the Whaler hove in sight
When I was steering home.
(Though Bill the Whaler’s dead all right.
Somehow he seems to come.)
“Where did you get the grog?” he said,
“It smells like kerosene.
We’d better trim you by the head
And beach you and careen.
Ho, port your helm! Lee braces-oh!
Your binnacle’s a wreck!
You’re three sheets in the wind —Below!
Ho, watch below, on deck!”
The watch below turned out pell-mell,
They came from the thin air—
Old whalers that I’d known full well
And sailed with everywhere ...
Big Sam and Fish they came, and Mat,
And Pontius Pilot, too,
And Johnny Weser and Long Pat
And mad-eyed Butcher Blue,
And Flannigan and Portugee
And Hennessy were there,
And Lazy Bill and Johnny Lee
And Horrigan the Hare.
It seemed I’d seen that inn before
At which we soon hove-to.
I hammered loudly on the door
Until the latch they drew,
Then we clattered noisily,
Shouting for alcohol —
The publican was strange and he
Made answer to my call,
“The hour is late, depart in peace,
My decent sailormen;
An’ I’ll be callin’ the police,
If you come back again.”
Old Bill the Whaler gasped at that;
He seemed to take it hard.
He pushed his old hatbrim back flat
And backed his mizzen-yard.
He seized a mighty pewter pot
That held a quart of beer,
And passed the publican the lot
To clear the atmosphere;
And Johnny Weser grabbed the pump
And pulled its handle off —
We made the sleepy echoes jump
From mountainside to wharf.
Big Butcher leaped across the bar
And yelled “Oh, blow; There blows!”
And threw a bottle of Three Star
As a harpooner throws.
His arm was strong, his aim, alas!
Was bad; the missile flew
And with a clattering of glass
A plate-glass window blew.
The publican in terror fled.
He was a newchum; he
Had been in decent places bred;
He hadn’t been to sea.
With shouts of joy we wrecked the bar.
The cops who came \Vere shy.
They said, “You know what whalers are:
They’ll pay up, by-and-bye” . . .
1 tried to tell the magistrate
Just how the row occurred;
But he remarked “A dreadful state
Of things!” And not a word
Would he believe about Old Bill
And all the boys. He sized
Me thus, “We’ll lock you up until
You’re psychoanalysed!”
Which worried me; for though they dwell
Where stars and suns should be,
I know when I played merry hell
Those dead men were with me.
1 know Old Bill hove into sight,
When I was steering home.
I saw him in the white moonlight—
He had no right to come
And bring the watch below on deck,
The mad-eyed Butcher, too,
Who set us on the way to wreck
That bar till all was blue.
What could a man expect when Mat
And Flannigan were there,
And Johnny Weser and Long Pat
And Horrigan the Hare,
And Sam and Fish and Portugee—
He was hot-headed—and
Old Lazy Bill and Johnny Lee
And Pontius, tall and grand?
How could I climb and cheer the Queen,
High on the bottle shelf,
And smash the window in between,
All by my blessed self?
N.SVV.
WILL LAWSON.


“Anywhere special you'd like to go this arvo. Myrtle?”
“Old-timer”: Wherever you met GhaK
lager he was always the chief, the head
serang, the big noise about the place.
“I’m head cook,” he’d say when spoil-
ing food for a couple of scrub-cutters,
there being no other cook within miles.
Struck him on a Gippsland road job
alone, moodily heaving screenings over
the crown with a shovel. “Yair,” says
he, “I’m boss shoveller on this job.”
Apparently his theory was that it was a
poor man who couldn’t promote himself,
or maybe it was his way of getting over
the inferiority complex engendered by
always being in humble jobs ; anyhow he
never failed to announce his headship,
even on the day he rode out of Gol Gol
(N.S.W.) on an ancient nag, headed for
the Anabranch. Three days later the
Wentworth trooper came across him rue-
fully surveying the corpse of his mount.
“And who might you be?” asked the
law. “Me,” replied Ghallager, frowning
a little in concentration. “Me? Oh, I’m
the chief mourner.”
* * * *
“Murray Whaler”: “Wester’s” black
barb that set off to bring in the killers
at the sound of a knife on a steel (B.
20/10/’43) recalls a kelpie I had droving
on the Darling. Every morning when I
went off to find the horses on the huge,
dark plain those mokes, with the
cunning road-horses acquire, discreetly
never sounded a bell at that hour. But
pick up a bridle and that tyke led me —
often miles —straight to the mob.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: In the confab
re game seen by the early explorers Abo-
liars have been missing the point. All
Australian game birds, and to a lesser
extent all fauna, follow the rains, that is
the water. I’ve had evidence on Julia
Creek (N.Q.) and in the nor’-west, but
the best instance I saw was along the
Darling about Wilcannia. Droving
through, we had rarely sighted any game
beyond an odd ’roo or the inevitable
black cockatoos, yet after a record seven
inches of rain in those parts in February,
1932, I saw many more birds there than
I’ve seen anywhere at any one time. For
100 miles down to Menindie mobs of
grass parrots blotted out the sun, quail
were in countless millions, and wading
birds of all sorts, along with ’roos and
emus, appeared. One year there was a tor-
rential downpour on the Nullabor Plain
which filled swamps never known before,
and birds of all sorts turned up there
and bred. Yet till that time we would
have deemed any explorer affected by the
sun had he reported a preponderance of
game in that usually arid waste.
* * *
“Wang”: The book canvasser had
cornered Dad in the cowyard and was
exerting all his wiles. “I tell y’ I don’t
want any damn’ books,” said Dad. “I
never read ’em. Got no time to.” “But I’m
sure you’ll read this masterpiece, and with
profit,” asserted the drummer; “it’s
called ‘Time Saving on the Farm.’ ” For
over an hour Dad fought against the
other’s verbal attack ; but at last capitu-
lated. It was after he had signed on the
dotted line and made the preliminary
payment that Dad recovered his wits. He
felt ashamed of himself for succumbing
to the other’s blandishments and rather
resentful of the smugly-satisfied look on
the canvasser’s face. “Well,” he scowled,
“caught any more mugs like me round
here?” The canvasser’s face assumed a
pained expression. “I wouldn’t use the
word mug in that connection, Mr. Grey-
box,” he said, “but as a matter of fact I
sold a book to your neighbor, Mr. Lynch.”
“Lumme!” cried Dad, “was he as easy
as me?” The other grinned. “Well, not
quite so,” he said ; “it took me two hours
to convince him.” “Humph!” said Dad,
“any others?” “Yes,” replied the sales-
man, “Mr. Murphy farther on.” “Holy
smoke!” ejaculated Dad. “Hungry
Murphy! How long did y’ have t’ work
on himl ” “It took me three hours to
get his order,” replied the other. “Hour
an’ a half me, two hours Lynch and three
hours Murphy,” Dad commented. “An’
this here book is called ‘Time Saving on
the Farm,’ eh?”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Picturesque fishing
methods (B. 20/10/’43)? In the huge
shallows of the southern arm of Shark
Bay (W.A.) I saw a mob of abos. from
Tamala station mustering snapper on foot.
The shoal was travelled along the not-too-
deep waters in much the same manner as
sheep, their course being discerned by
ripples on the surface. Attempts at break-
ing were mostly stalled by foot-stamping,
though from time to time the leaders were
turned by spears deftly aimed to glide
along the surface like a torpedo bomb.
Eventually in front of an age-old fish-
trap, a corroboree, involving foot-stamp-
ing, rhythmical splashing and yelling,
seemed necessary to yard the shoal, which
turned out the best haul of the red fish
Lve seen. All the catch were around
121 b., and except for a couple of hundred
of heads devoured on the spot those fish-
drovers only bothered to take a drayload
back to the homestead. The greater part
of the shoal were let go.
*
“B.”: I advance the theory that centi-
pedes favor, and flourish in, some soils
more than others. In parts of Sydney’s
North Shore line where the soil is medium
to heavy, you dig them out every two
minutes while gardening. In a recent
storm dozens appeared to have been
washed out of their holes—the largest
measuring five and six inches. These
v/ere fearsome-looking brutes with an
opalescent sheen. I’ve sunk the fork in
other localities where you wouldn’t strike
one in a month. The big yellow ones
seem to revel in the lighter soils.
* * * *
“H.8.W.”: The half-breed bit with the
inverted U and the still more severe spade
type (B. 20/10/’43) were in common use
upon the American cattle range before
Hollywood was even dreamed of. The
object of bits of this type is not to teach
a horse to stand when the reins are
dropped but to give the rider more con-
trol over a refractory mount. A bolting
horse invariably takes the bit between his
teeth ; the spade acts as a lever which
forces the animal’s open, so re-
ducing the pressure of the teeth. On the
North American cattle ranges horses were
ridden directly upon the curb, the rein
consisting of two strips of leather about
seven feet in length. These were some-
times tied together, never buckled, as
“8.4” suggests. The making of hand-
forged bits is an art in the U.S.A. I’ve
seen catalogues from many Western
saddlefy firms illustrating dozens of dif-
ferent types of bits, not three per cent,
of which are snaffles.
* * * m
“Pat Ater”: “Naturala’s” chooks and
shags (B. 20/10/’43) which nonchalantly
ignore overhead ’planes are not typical
of birdland —in these Blue Mountain
(N.S.W.) fastnesses, anyway. There are
flocks of Lowrie parrots which screech
and chatter and whistle seductively the
whole day long in our screenbelts of
bloodwoods, stringies and turpentines.
When a big bomber zoomed lower than
usual the parrots, with an earsplitting
screech, went to ground and dis-
persed. It was as pretty a piece of
tactics as you could wish to see.
And “Horace” our trusting wild
kookaburra who comes to the verandah-
rail for a handout —was there when
another great mechanical bird soared
just above the treetops. His reaction was
worth study. Tail stretched taut, body
stiffened and tense, head and beak erect,
eye pinned on the apparition above him ;
the whole streamlined attitude suggested
readiness for defence or departure. He
remained like that till the interloper of
his skyways was out of sight and sound.
So intense was the preoccupation that he
was entirely oblivious of our presence.
- It was only then I noticed that the
swarms of young satin bower-birds who
gabble in the bushes waiting to pick up
odd sweetmeat scraps had dispersed un-
obtrusively into the underbrush. No ;
the bush birds haven’t yet accepted the
aeroplane as one of themselves.
* * * *
“M. Yandry”: A schoolboy from the
city came up to spend the holidays with
us. The first night of his stay was keen
with frost, and after viewing the glory
of the rising moon he came in and said
“What train is that?” We’d never heard
a train out there, so we went out and
listened. “What train?” we asked, hear-
ing nothing out of the ordinary. “Gosh,”
he said, “can’t you hear it? Way over
there.” Then we realised that what he
heard was the strident roar from count-
less frogs in the swamp across the road.
To us it was a normal night sound, to
him it was something new.
❖ % sj:
“Murray Whaler”; Mention of the
drunk pulling down a 20-ton stack of
chaffbags to find a snake (B. 13/10/’43)
recalls a mob of abos. on Liveringa
b station, out from Derby, n.-w. Australia.
'There, 15 years ago, as they fenced and
mustered the gins and bucks called a halt
every now and then while they speared
’roos or shinned, trees after lizards. One
day at the homestead a dozen blacks were
waiting for the overseer, when one of
them suddenly tracked a lizard into a
heap of firewood about ten feet high and
three times that in diameter. In all my
life I’ve never seen wood fly round the
landscape like it, and in less than five
minutes the heap was flattened and the
crawler captured. But unless he is en-
couraged by some incentive Black Brother
takes his time. Under compulsion they
were hours restacking that wood.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Ine country around
Cape Otway (Vic.) is, I have observed,
of the same geological formation as that •
of the opposite Tasmanian coast. As to
the vegetation, only the Huon, King Billy
and celery-top pines are limited to the
Speck, but common to both sides of the
strait are blue gum, blackbutt, stringy-
bark or messmate, white gum, pepper-
mint, giant wattle, myrtle, blackwood and
sassafras on the basaltic lands and honey-
suckle, manuka (ti-tree), heath and
button-grass on the poorer areas. The
animals common to both sides are
kangaroo, wallaby, wombat, opossum,
bandicoot, kangaroo-rat, native cat,
pouched mouse, platypus and porcupine.
There are no koalas or dingoes in Tas-
mania—the dingo probably arrived in
Australia after the opening of Bass
Strait. The thylacine, or Tasmanian wolf,
and the Tasmanian devil are not found
“Come on, Stan — it's not bad once you're in!"
on the mainland, but the fossilised re-
mains of animals of the same species
have been unearthed at various places,
The birds of Tasmania are the same as
those of Southern Australia, with the
exception of the brolga, bustard, kooka-
burra, mallee-hen, lyrebird and some
parrots and small birds. The snakes
differ little from those of Victoria, and
the eels and blackfish found in the
streams falling into the strait are identi-
cal. All of which tends to confirm the
theory that at one time Tassie was joined
to the mainland.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”; Visiting the old home
town in s.-w. Queensland for a spot of
leave 1 became dimly aware of some-
thing missing. Then I stumbled across
“Pink Puddin’ ” Mick, a Paroo babbler
who owed his pseudonym to his penchant
for using cochineal in
thing he cooked for the shearers. Then
I knew what it was —land girls pre-.
dominate there, and one looked in vain
for female parallels of “The Busted
Oven,” “Scandalous,” “Blackguard,”
“Barefoot Harry,” “The Possum,” “The
Blazing Stump,” etc. Perhaps if the war
lasts long enough we will yet hear of
“Moaning Marie,” “Kookaburra Kate”
and other monikers.
# * * *
“Esk D.”: Joe struck old George pot-
tering about with pick and dish along
Alluvial Creek, where he gets an occa-
sional ’weight of gold. “Tin’s a good
price these days,” Joe remarked. “Y*
oughter try a dish or two in the left
branch. They say there’s patches there
would go a pound to the dish. Y’ might
knock out a tidy little fortune.” “Yus, I
know,” said George dolefully. “But I
ain’t goin’ t’ do my old-age pension in
fr any forchin.” And he meant it,
* * * *
“Billy C.”: I’m afraid that “Oxmead’s”
old-time squatters (B. 29/9/’43) were
about the last persons to realise anything
about the aboriginal mentality. Grey and
Moore testify that on meeting W. A. blacks
who had never before seen a white they
were asked “Are you Nyanga?” (the dead).
Having no idea that other races existed,
the untutored abo. thought that the whites
could only be his dead friends returned
to life. But there is no evidence that the
proud warriors of the Bibbulmun tribes,
or the Kulcadoons or the Thompson
River men ever expressed the desire to be-
come white men. I wouldn’t say the abo.
regards himself as superior to the white
in the arts, mechanics, agriculture, etc.,
for such things to his mind are merely
vanity and vexation of the spirit. But in
all things connected with natural life and
the bush, his own peculiar domain, he
does regard himself a superior and is
always prepared to condescend to what
he regards as the infantile mind of the
average white on such matters.
. * * * *
“Bughouse”: That sitting nude in the
carcass of a whale (B. 29/9/’43) to beat
rheumatisfn was really an example of
faith cure. Neither whale nor any other
oil is capable of penetrating the human
epidermis. If such penetration were pos-
sible then men who come constantly in
contact with various oils—and they arc
many—would lead very short lives. Kero-
sene, for instance, would soon rot the
bones of the hand. Many lubricating oils
are more or less poisonous from a blood
standpoint. Actually the human skin is
so impermeable that even bacteria can’t
enter : the bacillus that causes boils has
to work a passage down alongside a hair,
Rubbing with oil may bring relief for
rheumatism, but it is the rubbing that is
the real factor, by stimulating the blood
circulation, bringing more blood to the
affected area and thus flushing away the
minute crystals of uric acid which,
jammed in the capillary veins, are causing
the pain. The oil merely lubricates the
skin. Some oils, of course, have a heating
effect which combined with the rubbing
accelerates the quickening of the circu-
lation.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Peat “something peculiar
to the Quid Sod” (B. 22/9/’43)? Well,
practically in Terang township (Vie.) a
dried swamp burned for months in 1930,
the choking smoke making life almost
unbearable for the residents. If that
wasn’t peat, what was it?


u
turn
ira
I#/'*
but civilian requirements of
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used
types are available# but if the particular
valve you want is not obtainable# con-
sult your Radiotron dealer regarding
an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES ON STOCK. AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, H1DB& I'ALLOW,^ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK STATION AGENTS.
ALSO AT W HAY. MOREE.
GENERAL AGKhTSTSJ SSFESSk gMfl* ASSURANCE CO.. LT.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
« the universityof joto . s College
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE;
Providing all fees and textbooks iwt exceeto| £5O P^ r a " able under the Will of the late James
Applications are invited for the above Btusanes, maae a
Murphy, of Como. .. whose means are insufficient to enable their sons to
Applicants must be the sons of Oatholm parents rements for Matriculation at the University of
study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy tne eq c n as the C ase may be.
Svdney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury not later than the 11th January, 1944,
Forms of Application (which must be duly A g rU^Tt iiral College, and not later than the Bth
in the case of the Bursaries tenable at the Hw;ke I b J livelsity of Sydney), and further particulars
February, 1944, in the case of those tenaoie av
w '■ PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
PERPE 1** hunter street. Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
m the Spinifex.
“R.N.”: Until the war interfered W.A.
University, on behalf of the Australian
Wool Board, was looking into the graz-
ing possibilities of the spinifex country
and had come to some useful conclu-
sions as the result of tests. It was found
that soft spinifex (Triodia pungens ) was
the only one of any pastoral value, but
as there are no fewer than eight kinds
of it it is pretty hard to tell one from
another, especially as they merge into
each other, though each differs in its
palatability for sheep. Soft spinifex
dominates the north-west W.A. sheep
country and is practically the only
natural fodder in dry times.
It should be burnt in December or
January, just before the wet season, when
it responds with good germination and
growth before the following winter and
spring. Burn too early and the ground
is left bare and liable to erosion ; burn too
late and there is poorer germination and
growth of the unwanted Cassia notabilis.
A good burn at the right time gets rid
of the old, harsh tussocks and replaces
them with sweet, young stiiff.
Generally after a good burn short-
lived annuals appear. They’re valuable
for sheep while they last and keep them
going while the spinifex seedlings are
young. Spinifex seeds freely within a
few weeks of the summer rain, but few
seedlings will appear unless the old tus-
socks are burnt off.
In S.A. the Waite Institute has been
doing the same sort of work in the blue-
bush country. Merino wethers fed on
bluebush put on weight during the year
and averaged a cut of 151 b. a head. It
was shown that heavy grazing—72 sheep
to the square mile—caused damage to
the bush, which is a perennial, and the
wool cut dropped about half a pound a
head. When, in a dry spell, the number
of sheep was cut down, the cut increased
by about the same amount.
There is scope for more scientific work
in both kinds of country, and it is a pity
that the war has been allowed to inter-
fere with it. It does not demand man-
power to any extent, and it does serve a
national purpose. Such work demands
the support of Governments.
Pigs for Market.
“Sarina”: When pigs are being fat-
tened regularity should be the order. Pigs
learn to expect their meals at certain
times, become irritated if kept waiting and
suffer digestive troubles, with consequent
loss of weight.
They will eat less as time goes on.
Meals should be given frequently, but
don’t make them too large, for the pig’s
stomach is small. Unemptied troughs
mean they are getting more food than
they need. Reduce waste by being pre-
pared for variable appetites as the pigs
advance in condition.
Porkers should be marketed in good
nick. Overseas they like porkers to weigh
from 601 b. to 901 b. dressed (approxi-
mately 951 b. to 1391 b. liveweight). Local
markets like them from 601 b. to 80lb.
(951 b. to 1301 b. liveweight). Dressed
weight for baconers for export ranges
from 1201 b. to 1601 b. (1751 b. to 2201 b.
liveweight). local markets want 901 b. to
1301 b. (1401 b. to 1851 b. liveweight), but
they’ll take ’em up to 1601 b. dressed at
slightly lower rates per pound. Pigs
weighing less or more are unpopular.
It’s no use trying to sell farrowing and
“Er, may I speak to you — alone?"
recently-farrowed sows to the smallgoods
trade. Sows should have weaned their
litters at least eight weeks before market-
ing, and for preference they should not
be in pig. They must be in good shape.
Boar pigs should be fattened up for two
months after being castrated.
Much depends on condition at time of
marketing. On no account should they
be driven about, kicked, struck with sticks
or otherwise interfered with prior to dis-
patch or during transit. Protect them
from severe heat. It is wise to remember
that the modern method of body tat-
tooing is not as disfiguring to the carcass
- as is fire-branding.
French Bean Seed.
“B.”: Price for first-grade is up to £4
per 601 b. bushel inland and £3 on the
coast. Hardest job in N.S.W. is to keep
the seed free of bacterial blight and
mosaic. Blight can reach the plant from
seed or soil; rain, wind, insects and irriga-
tion water are other distributors. Mosaic
is carried over in the seed or spread by
aphides.
Rather sow a small patch with disease-
free seed than a larger one with doubt-
ful seed. Choose land not sown to beans
for at least three years. Allow about a
foot between plants and 2ft. 6in. between
rows. At this rate a pound of Canadian
Wonder sows about one-twentieth of an
acre. Wide spacing prevents rapid spread
of disease and gives a greater seed yield.
Don’t grow two samples of seed in the
one plot, for if one should be infected
the whole area will be stricken.
Signs of disease are dark green water-
soaked spots on leaves, pods; those
under the larger leaves later turn reddish-
brown. When blight’s due to insects or
weather discolored spots appear on the
seed or main leaves, stems redden, crack
or split, plants wilt. Mottling, pucker-
ing and downward curling of margins of
the leaves are signs of mosaic. Plants
carrying any of these warnings should be
burned at once. Keep a watch on seed-
lings and root out all suspects.
Handle as little as possible. When
rogueing examine the plants without
touching them. If two separate plots are
grown from different seed lots, wash the
hands well in soapy water before tackling
work in the second plot. Don’t handle,
walk through or cultivate when leaves
are wet. Keep animals off. Those who
get enough disease-free seed for commer-
cial production should sow three sepa-
rate plots each year: one main plot for
production of seed ; one for seed for the
main crop ; one small area for seed for
the second plot. Hold back at least twice
as much seed as you intend to sow the
following season, because losses can put
back seed production several years.
Felling Timber.
“E.H.S.”: Required: axe, crosscut saw,
wooden maul and about half-dozen
assorted wedges ranging from about 4in.
to 9in. in length, and a 10ft. measuring
rod graduated to feet and inches. Old
or hollow trees should not be chosen, as
a large percentage of them are unfit for
use and the remainder, although they may
give fair service above ground, soon
decay when covered up.
Corrugations on the bark are a re-
liable indication of the grain ; where no
corrugation is visible, direction of the
grain and splitting qualities can be ascer-
tained by cutting into the tree. Drive the
axe well into the sapwood ; if it gives out
a drummy sound it is either hollow or
“ringy,” and should be rejected.
A straight tree with an evenly-
balanced top may be felled in any direc-
tion. Remove the bark in a belt 18in.
wide around the tree about 2ft. from the
ground and cut a scarf at right-angles to
the direction in which the fall is required,
then start a saw cut at the opposite side
about a foot higher than the bottom of the
scarf. When the saw has entered far
enough it should be followed by a wedge
to prevent jamming and assist in throw-
ing the tree over.
A log about 9in. thick should be
placed so that the butt of the fallen tree
will rest upon it. This keeps* the barrel
well off the ground, facilitates removal of
the bark and gives the saw a good clear-
ance. When a tree has a pronounced
lean or the greater weight of the head is
on one side the scarf, cut in the under
or leaning side, should be deep enough to
prevent “tearing up” from the stump
when the saw cut is put in from the oppo-
site side. Tearing-up rarely happens in
tough, closely-fibred redgum, box or iron-
bark, but is frequent in free-splitting
stringybark, mountain ash, peppermint
and messmate, sometimes with disastrous
results to the timber-getter.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: Points in favor of young
against old sheep. Young wool and
young mutton cost about 25 p.c. less to
grow, hogget wool is invariably worth
2d. or more per lb. than that from
broken-mouth sheep, and hoggets will
cut from 20 to 25 p.c, more. Old sheep
cost just as much to shear as young
sheep and eat and trample down just as
much grass.
“Steve”: One of the most difficult jobs,
and certainly the most exasperating, is
that of inducing the sheep in the average
small shed to run well into the catching
pens. The well-known but frequently
overlooked plan of tying up a decoy in
the catching pen will save endless trouble
in this respect. ,
“Panurge”: Try this for the neddy s
sore back or shoulders. Mix 4oz.
of white lead and one teaspoon of
boracic acid with sufficient olive oil
to make a fairly stiff paste. Cham-
ber well the collar or saddle over
the gall. After work clean round the
sore thoroughly with a dry rag and cover
completely with the ointment. Pull off
in the morning. Ten days to a fortnight
is usually sufficient to clear up the worst
case, and the neddy can be worked. The
prevention, of course, is a clean, snug-
fitting collar or saddle.
“Agro”: When foals are weaned from
their mothers it is a good idea to put them
in a specially-prepared foal-pen, away
from all other horses, the pen to be big
enough comfortably to house the foals,
with an adjoining yard for a small run.
Fix a drinking tin and a manger in the
shed and begin chaff-feeding. The pen
should be in a dry, well-drained spot,
and should continually have liberal quan-
tities of straw thrown over the floor.
“L.C.”: A mixed diet of starchy foods
is better for working dogs than raw-
meat only. Ten ounces of meatmeal
per day, added to household scraps and
skim milk, makes a good ration. Pollard
mixed to a stiff dough is nourishing and
relished by dogs. Feed raw meat every
second day if possible. Raw offal from
sheep may infect dogs with tapeworms
and hydatids. Sliced and cooked for 20
minutes it makes wholesome food. Bones
help digestion and health.
“M.L.W.”: Never use wooden wedges
when mounting a grindstone. Water
swells the wood and results in a cracked
stone. Cement and lead are the best fillers.
Use big mounting flanges and insert
leather washers between the stone and
flanges to take up inequalities of the sur-
faces.


“In the invasion of Sicily Ameri-
cans lost 13 per cent, of all 155mm.
howitzers, 46 per cent, of all 57mm.
guns, 13 per cent, of all guns em-
ployed, 54 per cent, of the carriages
for the 37mm. guns.
“Let us stop this foolish, childish
overoptimism and overconfidence.
It is criminal. It is criminal because
every time we decide the war is
won we sign a death warrant for
another thousand or two thousand
or five thousand of our soldiers
and sailors — U.S. Secretary of the
Treasury Henry Morgenthau.
JOBS
V
::
M
m
r/^7
v:
N^Ss»>
K
M
*s
1
another l/ght
THAT NEVER FA/LS.
One of Fvereadt/'s War Jobs is io provide batteries for
an amazing /ifh/iny apparatus which is attached to a//
Life-saving ra/is earned on /he ya/ianf merchant ships
There’s another war job for
all of us
SAVE ESSENTIAL
WAR SUPPLIES
For that reason V gel the most out of your 'flash-
light batteries. They last longer when you use
a series of short flashes. Remember the quickest
way to burn out batteries is to leave light on for
minutes at a time.
m
eVE READY
trade-mark
The extra long life battery
Ruwolt
xsmstmM-
m
mm J
r,
Hi
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwoit’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwoit’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all vour requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
According to Pearson.
(Report by Washington columnist Drew
Pearson)
There’s an interesting angle about Mrs.
Roosevelt’s trip to Australia which only
the Australians, the White House and
Wendell Willkie know about —Willkie
was invited first.
“I guess I am partly responsible for the
First Lady’s Goodwill Voyage,” he re-
cently joked.
Australian Minister for External Affairs
Herbert V. Evatt urged Willkie to pay
a visit to Australia. Then the President
stepped into the picture and suggested
Mrs. Roosevelt go.
External Minister Evatt’s conversation
with Willkie began some time ago during
one of his trips through the United States
to London. He told Willkie that it was
important that the Australian and Ameri-
can peoples get to understand each other
and that, working together as a team,
they could dominate the Pacific after the
war.
Willkie said he would be delighted to
make the trip if it were cleared with the
White House and State Department.
Willkie heard no more about the matter
until he got a ’phone call at his old home
in Rushville, Ind., from an Australian
newspaperman. He told Willkie that
when the Australian Government had
taken the matter up with the White House
President Roosevelt suggested that Mrs.
Roosevelt go instead. Naturally, the Aus-
tralian Government bowed to the Presi-
dent’s wishes.
Faulty Salerno Intelligence.
(From a N.Y. “Daily Mirror” column.)
Faulty intelligence information is re-
ported. to have contributed to heavy U.S.
casualties at Salerno.
Military Intelligence reported only a
skeletonised division of Nazis at Naples.
Therefore, it was considered safe for
General Mark Clark to land with a
medium-sized force.
At the last minute Marshal Badoglio
warned General Eisenhower that U.S. In-
telligence officers were wrong, and that
the Germans had two and a half divi-
sions at Naples. In fact, the Nazis were
simply lying in wait for American troops
on the bluffs over the Salerno beaches.
They were all ready for a massacre.
In view of Badoglio’s warning, addi-
tional troops were sent to General Clark
immediately. But if U.S. Intelligence had
been working properly a different landing
spot might have been selected, not so
intensely defended by the Nazis,
Navies Against Japan.
(From “United States News.”)
The U.S. and British navies are getting
ready to blow the Japanese out of the
Pacific. Allied naval strength constantly
grows. Japanese naval strength remains
static or declines.
The combined British and American
fleet now outnumbers the Japanese by
nearly four to one in tonnage. But, just
now, large portions of this combined
fleet are needed to battle submarines in
the Atlantic, to support fighting troops in
the Mediterranean and to keep German
fleet units bottled up in Norwegian
fiords.
But in 1944, whether Hitler is finally
beaten or not, it is expected that most of
the fleet can be released from European
waters.
England and the United States then
can bring together a navy five times as
great as that of the Japanese, a mini-
mum of 5,000,000 tons for the United
Nations and a maximum of 1,000,000
tons for Japan. The Japanese figure
assumes that all of Japan’s battle losses
will have been replaced.
Secret That Saved Malta.
(Condensed from N.Y. “Herald Tribune’s”
weekly supplement.)
Now it can be told, one of the war’s
most closely guarded secrets: how Malta
—most savagely bombed of all Allied
territory—was kept fighting. It is a story
of cool courage, doggedness, ingenuity—-
the greatest blockade-running exploit in
history, which may well have saved our
civilisation.
Had Malta fallen, the Allies would have
had no base within the entire Mediter-
ranean from which to launch attacks by
’planes and submarines on the Axis
supply convoys, no base from which to
protect our own convoys. Rommel
would have overrun Egypt and Africa.
We should, in short, be years further
from winning the war than we are today.
There came a day when Axis staff
officers reported that Malta was done.
Their careful calculations proved that
Malta was out of food, out of the sup-
plies needed to go on fighting.
Recently the British submarine Por-
poise nosed into her home port. On her
flag were the initials “PCS.” When those
initials were explained the mystery of
Malta was explained with them. They
meant “Porpoise Carrier Service.” The
Porpoise had been shuttling food and
supplies to Malta all through those days
when—as the Axis experts thought—-
“nothing” was getting through.
Interviewed, Lieut. L. W. A. Benning-
ton, D. 5.0., D.S.C., R.N., commander of
the Porpoise, said:
“I had recently arrived at Alexandria
from England and was living aboard the
submarine depot ship, when Captain
Raw, commanding all our submarines
in the Mediterranean, summoned me. He
told me I was to take over Porpoise
Carrier Service.
“The crew was loading cargo when I
went aboard the Porpoise. She had
formerly been used as a minelayer. Now
the mine rails carried cases of Lend-Lease
powdered milk and aviation fuel. We
had some anti-aircraft gun barrels on the
torpedo racks and torpedoes for Malta’s
short-range submarines. Oil had been
cut down to our bare needs for the double
trip, and the empty tanks filled with more
aviation fuel. We took out one of the
50-ton batteries, and in the space stacked
46 tons of fighter-’plane ammunition and
100 bags of mail —mail from home is
good for morale.
“The total freight load was 160 tons.
That’s not bad for a 1600-ton submarine
which also has a crew of six officers and
65 men, their food, water and fuel for
two big engines.
“Dusk was falling over Alexandria as
we cleared the harbor and the swept
channel. Malta lay 900 miles away to
the westward. We moved some 170 miles
closer every 24 hours.
“Dawn was breaking on fhe fifth day
when I saw the rocky coastline of the
island. The .thought was forming in my
mind: ‘After T-boats in the northern
seas, this mission is going to be a rest-
cure.’ Then the signalman yelled ‘Air-
craft coming.’ One look, and I pressed
the diving signal and followed the
scramble down the hatch.
“Goring’s reception committee arrived
in time to blast our superstructure with
cannon shell. But we went down fast
and deep, and before the four Messer-
schmitts could turn and come back we
had an 80-foot sea cushion between our
hull and their guns. When they had gone
I took the boat up again and we went
through the minefield passage into Grand
Harbor.
“Goring’s bombers had certainly made
a mess of the place. Not a ship floated
in the big harbor basin. But out of the
water stuck the bows, sterns, broken
masts and funnels of boats. The town
was a rubble heap.
“I took Porpoise up to the berthing
quay, and our greeting from Captain
Simpson, captain of the 10th Submarine


WINNING A VICTORY
ON THE
nm ffl
: ft*
0m
1m
VywgjSp Wf 1 , •:•• •• ■ •••• •
•. s. ,
H '’:". * di ' V
'1 , H
* :
CT 1-33-43
Tt
CATE »,»J£ « U 1
” PE T ' tCT D,*J-SVpHSON"p Q TY. ! X l^?3!^™e d^ j*.
" ,in S MnJi" «'• J - * “ft D. Me Do^ll. « %° I**l. S«,
.S££3orf Mac*™"' »»• SgJiili Brisbane- ■PW.-"« 6 ' K A/gf f^
BS-5K .02 S. Vf So^ tais(o „ 475 . (*r U J
fp To provision our own and Allied fighting
services and to meet the colossal food needs of
our civilian population, speed and large scale
production are urgently required.
While all new “Caterpillar” Tractors are reserved for
fighting and other essential services, hundreds of others,
bearing this world famous name, are setting new
records on the food front.
With sure, track-type tread . . . they are tilling, sowing
and harvesting hundreds of thousands of acres at a
miserly fuel and maintenance cost. . , . Some of them
have thousands of working hours to their credit.
Wherever there is fighting to be done or food to be
grown, “Caterpillar” maintains a round - the - clock
schedule whatever the weather.
44 Caterpillar •” D 2 Diesel hauling 12-furrow heavyweight
disc *plough breaking up new wheatland in the Western
district of N.S.W.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5064 B
Flotilla, was a complaint that we ‘had
kept him waiting for breakfast.’
We had also run in ‘breakfast’ for the
guns, the fighter ’planes and the Maltese
babies. _
“That was our first trip, and before
Porpoise had finished her career as a
blockade runner we had not only brought
in the desperately-needed supplies, but
had also marked six bars on our Jolly
Roger skull-and-crossbones flag, indicat-
ing the number of ships engaged and
sunk.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
In September the American Institute of Public
Opinion [Gallup poll] put the question: “If
tfie Presidential election were being held today,
and Roosevelt were running for President on the
Democratic ticket against MacArthur on the Re-
publican ticket, how do you think you would
vote?” The result was: Roosevelt 58 p.c., Mac-
Arthur 42 p.c. Similar “trial heats” pitting
Roosevelt against Dewey and against Willkie
showed: Roosevelt 59 p.c., Willkie 41 p.c.;
Roosevelt 55 p.c., Dewey 45 p.c. —Report by
Director George Gallup.
* * * *
The Italian ship Felice, a veteran of the First
World War, deserves service stripes from both
sides in both wars. Built in Germany more than
30 years ago for a German shipping company,
the Felice was captured during the First World
War and turned over by the British to the
Italians. Serving out the war in Italian hands,
the ship was left with Italy after the war and
was used in her merchant fleet. Soon alter
Italy had entered this war the Felice fell into
British hands again, in the Mediterranean not far
from where the British had captured her 25 years
before. Renamed the Empire Defender, the
vessel made many trips as a British merchant-
man until she was sunk by Italian torpedo
’planes while attempting to carry supplies
Malta. — London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
We are winning the war as the result of long,
painstaking, toilsome and bloody effort, with our
plans constantly subject to change. Who can be
so foolish as to believe that the peace will be
won more easily? Or that preconceived blue-
prints can possibly fit conditions the unfolding
of which are beyond human power to foretell? —
— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
In a recent evidently semi-official article the
Turkish newspaper “Vatan” [Fatherland] clari-
fies the reason for the present Turkish neutrality.
It expresses the opinion that, according to the
Turko-British alliance of October 19, 1939,
Turkey is not yet bound to relinquish its neu-
trality in favor of the Allies. Turkey has, how-
ever, guaranteed that it will enter the war on
the side of the Allies, it adds, provided certain
conditions arise. It is obvious that a Treaty of
Alliance imposes on either party an obligation to
enter the war. — “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
A flight of 100 Fortresses of the latest type
has 1300 machine-guns capable of firing 100,000
pounds of bullets —50 tons —per minute in its
own defence. They fly in very tight formation,
literally a single manoeuvrable fort.—lF. B.
Courtney; “Collier’s.”
* * * *
One Jap pilot, shot down at Guadalcanal
recently, was examined and pronounced to be 15,
and more are likely younger.— “ Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
Latest figures show about six German fighters
destroyed for every four-engined Yank. Merely
>as figures, these are not in our favori In crews
they mean nine or ten American specialists
downed for every six German pilots. In money,
the Germans can probably build 20 of their
fighters for the price of one Fortress. —
“Collier’s” London correspondent.
* * * *
According to the most recent figures on
Japanese shipping losses made public by Frank
B. Knox, Secretary of the Navy, the Japanese
entered the Pacific war with 6,300,000 tons of
merchant shipping, seized and built another
1,200,00 fl tons, giving them a total of 7,500,000
tons, of which 2,500,000 tons have been sunk by
the Allies, leaving them with 5,000,000 tons of
shipping, representing a loss of more than one-
sixth of Japan’s total tonnage. This shortage
is making itself felt acutely in Japan in main-
taining communication over 7000 miles of the
Pacific Ocean. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * #
Japan’s bid for world power was founded on
two basic guesses: That Germany would smash
Russia, leaving Siberia as easy pickings for
Japan, and that Italy and Germany would hold
the Mediterranean, smash through the Middle
East, and reach the expected junction with the
Japanese in the Indian Ocean. Both those
guesses turn out to be 100 per cent, wrong.
The winning of Allied supremacy in the
Mediterranean becomes the first great step
toward massing British and American naval
power, and eventually their air and land power,
to smash Japan. And now, in addition to
their other troubles, the Japanese are facing
the spectre of a possible collision, after Ger-
many falls, with Russia’s great military power.
The whole situation spells the ultimate doom
of Japan’s war gamble.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
Before the day of victory arrives there is the
possibility that in an act of desperation the
Axis High Command may decide to unleash
the “terror weapon,” gas. As a warning and
a deterrent against such action, it may confi-
dently be stated that the United States and
its allies have plenty of war gas ready for
action right now —probably more of it, and ot
every variety, than the Axis possesses. —•
“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
Reports from Allied agents inside Germany
hint that they cannot find any evidence of an
anti-Nazi underground in the country. Such
reports add to the belief that an internal col-
lapse of Germany is far from imminent. —
“United States News.”
* * * *
The Japanese are learning to retreat. It is
evident that they are under an almost intoler-
able strain to keep the strong points of their
new empire supplied with fighting power.
According to Secretary Knox, they have lost
more than a sixth of their merchant marine.
Mr. Vinson, of the House Naval Committee,
tells us that 180 Japanese warships have been
sent to the bottom of the sea. The enemy hus-
bands his remaining tonnage by creeping from
shore to shore in open barges. How he will
dispose his shrunken naval forces to meet the
American and British fleets now assembling
simultaneously in the Indian and Pacific Oceans
is a problem which will tax his resources to
solve. The Tokyo Radio warns the Japanese
people to expect a direct naval attack on the
mainland. We may yet find the shortest road
to Japan is by sea and air.— N.Y. “Times.”


SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
tltf®
Discard the old type
steel _ Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely* necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney,
ẅ
MAY STRIKE AT
OUT
OF
mom
SUMS
t
Wmm,
son £
gums
%
GUMS
'VS
NfIAMED
OFTEN CAUSES
TEETH TO LOOSEN
AND FALL OUT.
Don't take chances with
tefider gums that bleed a
little when you brush
your teeth.
This may be the first
warning sign of Pyor-
rhea.
If neglected—this dread infec-
tion often leads to soft, flabby
gums; vile pus that forms
around the teeth sockets—until
even strong and healthy teeth
loosen and fall out.
Save your teeth—
Guard your gums Now
with Forhan’s.
Forhan’s is the FIRST and
ORIGINAL toothpaste for both
massaging gums to be firmer
and cleaning teeth to their
natural brightness. Forhan’s,
too, helps remove acid film that
so often starts tooth decay.
Ask your Chemist for a tube of
Forhan’s Toothpaste to-day.
Only original Forhan’s Dentifrice con-
taining a special antl-pyorrhea astrin-
gent.
A/sian Agents' The Sheldon Drug Co., Sydney. Price, 2/4, Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
*
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans Teeth—-Saves Gums
Do you realise how
ggflilKL
Both hot and cold cathode
types are immediately avail-
able. Installations may be
purchased for cash, or
secured on a rental basis
a Foot dandle is?
A foot candle is the illumination from one standard
candle on a surface one foot from the source of
light. It is the unit of measurement to determine
illumination.
It is vitally important that there should be adequate
“foot candles” in the light on which you depend in
home, office, shop and factory.
In wartime the factory particularly must be properly
lighted to step-up production, preserve sight, and
prevent accident. Therefore it is essential to see that
there should be not only the right quantity, but the
right quality, of light.
PRODUCTION AND TURNOVER ARE INCREASED BY THE
USE OF MODERN FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
Fluorescent units are planned to provide utmost
efficiency. They are appropriate, adequate and attrac-
tive. Fluor-o-line units give daylight quality illumina-
tion that steps up production and efficiency and reduces
losses due to errors and fatigue. Our Lighting Engineers
will submit designs for your special purposes.
CLAUDE NEON LIMITED
2 ALISON ROAD, RANDWICK, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH, and HOBART
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Wills’s Australian House Drainage
Practice, Randerson’s Australian Sanitary
Engineering Practice (second edition) and
Ehlers and Steele’s Municipal and Rural Sani-
tation (second edition). —3397.
Information Sought.
Annual Australian coal production between
1939 and 1942; and 1943 output to September?
Year ended December, Tons.
1939 .. 13,535,142
1940 11,725,683
1941 14,212,451
1942* 14,900,000
Nine months ended September,
1943* 10,250,000
* Subject to revision.
* * * *
My parents changed two letters of their sur-
name without any legal formalities. (1) Would
this affect my wife’s inheritance of property I
have left to her? (2) Is it necessary to have a
change of name legalised? (3) If so, is it
necessary to advertise the change in the press ?
(1) No. (2) No, but for purposes of record
it may be recorded at the Registrar-General’s
office. (3) No’.
**, * *
Figures of amounts lent by and repaid to the
U.S. in last war?
Debt. Payments.
Country. $ $
Armenia .. .. 23,803,104 Nil
Belgium .. .. 453,324,480 52,191,273
Czechoslovakia .. 165,762,045 20,134,092
Estonia .. .. 21,029,440 1,248,432
Finland .. .. 8,233,157 5,656,599
France .. .. 4,180,628,820 486,075,891
Gt. Britain .. 5,497,069,379 2,024,848,817
Greece .. .. 34,295,967 4,039,888
Hungary .. .. 2,388,730 507,779
Italy •• .. 2,024,150,441 100,829,880
Latvia .. .. 8,668,366 761,549
Lithuania .. 7,760,608 1,237,956
Poland .. .. 236,166,399 22,646,297
Rumania .. 63,999,477 4,791,007
Russia . . .. 390,298,849 8,750,312
Yugoslavia .. 61,779,062 2,588,772
These figures are from U.S. official data, and
are as of June 30, 1939.
* * * *
Are messages giving news of prisoners of war
broadcast over Tokyo Radio recorded?
All sessions regarding prisoners of war
broadcast by Japanese stations are recorded
and, if possible, transcribed by the A.8.C., the
messages being passed on to the services for
checking, after which the services inform the
next-of-kin. There is an agreement with the
services not to give information direct to in-
quirers, because of the risk of misunderstanding
occurring through faulty identification. •
Brief Answers.
E.K.; Fur balls are not uncommon in kittens.
Dose with one teaspoonful of liquid paraffin
daily and groom to remove loose hairs. If hair
still fall s out, see a vet Anxious Digger:
H) Hobart is the deepest harbor in Australia.
(2) Greatest depth in Sydney harbor is 159 ft.
(3) Deepest spot in the world is Mindinao Deep,
between the Philippines and Japan (35,410 ft.).
(4) Draught is an official secret... .L.S.R.: Dial
plate must be dead-level and the gnomon set
pointing north. Use a compass J.W.E.:
J. W Eckenbu/g dead-heated for first in the
1908 N.S.W. handicap. There were no Aus-
tralian championships then A. 8.: Book is
worth 15s .E.J.W.; Goring was not German
Ambassador in London; Ribbentrop repre-
sented the Nazis... .E.M.: See a doctor....
Jobber: (1) The headings have been temporarily
dropped owing to lack of space. (2) Wives of
K. are entitled to the use of the prefix
“Lady” by custom and courtesy. There is no
strictly legal right. (3) There are no legal
qualifications of an “esquire.” It is a courtesy
title given to professional men or English gentry
below the rank of a knight T. 8.: Tiburon is
out of print. .. .S.L.M.: E. H. Welford, 396
Flinders-lane, Melbourne. (2) Script Division,
National Broadcasting Co., Radio City, R.C.A.
Building, New York, N.Y N.T. La M.: (1)
P.M.’s salary not disclosed; paid from fund in
addition to Parliamentary salary. (2) Ms.H.R.
and Senators receive £lOOO p.a. (3) Speaker re-
ceives £lOOO, plus £1300... .H.W.W.: Limita-
tion of £25 applies only to erections, additions
and alterations. No restriction on necessary re-
pairs J.H.F.: (1) Your wife can call her-
self by her right name or by any other she
sees fit so long as she does not seek to profit
by a false pretence. (2) It would be legal if
properly witnessed but it is safest to have it
done by a solicitor. Home-made wills and
codicils are prolific sources of litigation.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and, address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. mil he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
R.I.M.: —
The stock of Wallace, Knox and Moore,
Of Shakspeare, Milton, Watt,
Of Wesley, Emmet, Keir Hardie,
Macquarie, Cook and Scott.
These names at random represent
What helped to make our nation
Both fair and great enough to win
The whole world’s approbation.
. ...L.A.8.: No wow endings, please....
D. : The cord’s strong, but it’s all knots.
V.L.. Four lines, then, as a warning to
all drovers and dawgs:
If ever you go droving sheep,
Along this Queensland route.
Keep your dog out of your bedroom,
Or he might collect a boot.
... .A.McK.W.: Nearer... .8.P.; Combine the
two tanker poems; polish and resubmit....
E. : It’s been said so often J.G.C. and
A.M.C.: Might make songs 8.M.: The
wind didn’t really care a hang about the
drunkard; nor were the kookaburras laughing
at him; poem, therefore, is sentimental
M.N.: Some real feeling, but don’t say things
like “Think you my soul a mottled clod?”
C.M.: Not a hope 8.H.Y.: Pretty but
archaic J.E.S.: Try a woman’s paper
P.C.,: Trite... .V.K.: Pleasant lightweight....
R.M.: “Selfishness won’t help, that seems quite
clear.” As a moral, it’s perfect; as a line
of English poetry—no. ...V.8.: “Land Girl at
Shearing Time” is a little woolly.


mm
mm
■-■■■: •
m
m
m
m
a»
•'w
u
Save all you can—and
use your
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
account as a stepping-
stone to investment in
Australia's war effort.
sr£Ps/#rM
7UGHT
2>/X£Cr/OM.,
Your Savings Bank is a
massive money-box. One
that is safe, reliable, and
convenient.
And just as the little money-
box at home is an easy way
to save for some purpose,
so your account at the Sav-
ings Bank is an easy way
to muster the money for
War Purposes.
The Commonwealth Savings
Bank provides every facility and
service for the purchase of War
Savings Certificates, £lO National
Savings Bonds, and War Loan
Bonds.
It will keep them in safe custody
for you, free of charge, pay the
interest into your account, sell
them for you, if need be, arrange
for advance subscriptions to the
next War Loan, and in every waj
advise and assist you.
c o in mo mu e nun
SfIUUIGS BAIIK
OF DUSTRIHin
C.B. 1
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET. Chairman; F. W, Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MA'NZIK, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 117361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sy S;
For Australia at War . . .
QYe Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
★
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
•y/
O
o
O
M C £ to#
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane) *
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
,Ms -
IM4 -p“S ta'af'^loV’ 01 ’! 16 - 755 IS6 -™ 1
1935. . 83,539 8 p.c. = 57 115 j 23,924 159,625
Provident fund, £2500 $
1936.. 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,416 ) 23,824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 )
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 ) 27,451 210,900
Provident fund, £2500 f
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. - 90,101) 9,954 220,854
Provident funji, £2500 S
1939'. . 140,669 10 p.c. - 125.000 } 13 169 2 34,023
Provident fund, £2500 i ’
1940.. 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 ),n poo 251715
Provident fund, £2500 ) 17,6 "
1941. . 138,683 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) too g/i"? qqq
Provident fund, £2500 \ 16,183 267,898
1942.. 113,360 7i p.c.= 112,500 1
Provident fund, £2500 ) 266,258
Intangibles disappear, £ll,lOO .. 277,858
1943.- 139,204 7* p.c.= 112,500 204 3 01 562
Provident fund, £2500 301,562
Restriction of output on civilian
account (particularly so far as bottled
lines are concerned), increases in excise,
the introduction of “austerity” meals in
hotels owned by breweries (as in other
eating places) and the general increase in
production costs have not had the effect
on this co.’s profits that one might have
expected had one not had an inkling of
other factors in Queensland. The State’s
comparative closeness to the Equator
means not only increased individual
thirst these times ; it means a far greater
number of thirsts, and many of those
thirsts fall outside the civilian rationing
scheme. One has only to study Queens-
land railway receipts and savings-bank
deposits to realise what a vast change has
come over the northern State’s economy
since war began. Much of it is only a
temporary change; but, on the other
hand, there are indications that both
population and development will show
permanent growth as a result of the stra-
tegic importance of North Australia in
the offensive against Japan* in the
Pacific.
The vigorous growth in Castlemaine
Perkins goes on, though not so much in
expansion in hotel properties ; since the
war began both dealings in and exten-
sions to hotels have been progressively
restricted by the National Security Regu-
lations. It was mainly in respect of turn-
over last term that the brewery showed
greatest activity ; profit, before allowing
for taxation and directors’ fees, rose by
£47,844 to £281,204, and that was after
paying excise at 4s. 7d. a gallon and
eliminating £ll,lOO of intangibles from
the accounts. The allocation for “Federal
income tax and State and Federal land
taxes” was £22,000 greater at £140,000,
and, allowing an unchanged £2OOO for
members of the board-room, net earn-
ings were shown £25,844 higher at
£139,204, representing 9.3 p.c. on capital,
compared with 7.5, 9.2, 9.4 and 11.2 p.c.
back to 1939. Although last year’s net
earnings were not so big as the last pre-
war term, the co.’s trade is now far
greater, and it is only taxation and other
war-time factors that are keeping earn-
ings in check. Shareholders were again
handed p.c. in respect of the past
term, as against 10 p.c. in 1939, and,
after transferring the customary £2500 to
the staff fund, £24,204 was carried to
visible reserves (£301,562).
Balance-sheet movements relate mostly
to liquids:
1935. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital . . 781,250 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities*. . 251,984 816,898 383,948 306,574
Tax reserve.. 30,000 106,000 118,000 140,000
Brewery, ware-
houses, etc. 829,732 471,720 505,199 506,750
Hotels . . 774.170 1,523,471 1,526,466 1,519,793
Stocks . . 74,244 122,764 117,972 125,166
Debtors .. 64,710 95,159 110,544 116,887
Cash, etc. .. 13,715 32,237 63,025 42,040
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Depreciation allowed during the year was
£15,150, which would seem to suggest
that maintenance of assets out of revenue
was considerable. For the first time in
many years the book value of hotels
showed a recession (of £6673). The re-
served profit and the addition to the taxa-
tion provision were mostly reflected in a
reduction in the outside debt (down
£77,374). The book value (£2050) of
plant in hotels (£1,512,887) seems to be
entirely disproportionate.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.'. 34,105 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £10,000.. 206,083
1936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 .. .. 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. •• 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 89,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 ... .. 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 •• 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 .. 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO.OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 .. •• 259,263
Written off investments, £12,250 . . 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10 p.c. = 76,250 39,031 280,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. •• 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 274,044
1940.. 115,904 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 312,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 287,448
1941. . 115,989 10 p.c. 77,500 38,489 325,937
War losses written off, £26,706 . . 299,231
1942.. 92,986 5 p.c. = 38,750 54,236 353,467
1943.. 65,076 5 „ „ 88,750 26,326 379,793
Last couple of lines in the table reflect
loss due to disruption of trade, following
Japan’s invasion of the New Guinea,
Gilbert and Solomon Island groups. This
area was the main sphere of activity on
which Carpenter’s big island-trading,
shipping, airways, insurance, etc., organi-
sation rested. The business began to put
on weight after the last (1914-18) war,
and developed rapidly following the
slump of the early 1930’5. Of the £775,000
of paid capital, £473,333 was added to
the register during the half-dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1939.
The new share capital, and more be-
sides, was used to establish W. R. Car-
penter (Overseas Shipping), Ltd., operat-
ing between New Guinea, Australia and
U.K.; form W. R. Carpenter (London),
Ltd., to handle the business of the group
at that end ; strengthen the aerial section
of the organisation ; increase its coastal
shipping fleet; take over the business of
On Chong and Co., Gilbert Islands, and
Coconut Products, Ltd.; buy all the
100,000 £1 prefs. in W. R. Carpenter
(Solomon Islands), Ltd., making this a
wholly-owned subsidiary; purchase the
ords. in Brown and Joske, Fiji—now
W. R. Carpenter (Fiji), Ltd.; take over
hotels at Wau and Bulolo on the New
Guinea goldfields; and set up Southern
Pacific Insurance, Ltd., thus keeping
profit on a large volume of insurance
business in the family. A couple of years
ago W. R. Carpenter (Canada), Ltd., was
formed in Vancouver to crush copra for
the Canadian oil market.
Before the last quarter-million of capi-
tal had an opportunity of showing what
it could do, war broke out in Europe.
Then the price of copra fell, and stocks
of the stuff accumulated at island centres.
Still, the co. is engaged in so many dif-
ferent activities that earnings were not
visibly affected —though interested in
stocks of clients, the co. no longer looked
to purchase and sale of’copra on its own
account for revenue. But with the Jap
invasion fixed assets of the parent, sub-
sidiaries and clients in areas concerned
fell into enemy hands, and revenue from
trading and all other activities there
ceased. Immediate results were contrac-
tion of profits and loss of current assets
—all open trade accounts considered irre-
coverable (£26,706) as a result of enemy
action were written off in 1942. Fixed
assets in question are subject to war-
damage insurance, and notification of
claims has been filed by the co. Pay-
ments, however, will not be made until
assessments are completed, and final
settlement may be delayed until the end
of the war. Now that Allied forces have
driven the enemy out of much of New
Guinea and the Solomons, early rehabili-
tation of planters and other traders is
hoped for. In anticipation of all this, and
to ensure no loss of time and opportunity
in reconstruction, the management has
built up a fine wad of cash and readily-
realisable liquids.
Here is as much as well-compounded
balance-sheet figures tell;
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £775,009 £775,000' £775,000 £775,000
Liabilities .. 152,278 169,254 831,396 408,300
Shipping, free-
holds, plant,
etc. . . 387,350 342,471 321,176 311,822
Investments, etc. 527,686 529,693 531,231 581,231
Stocks . . 104,434 67,846 67,248 92,453
Debtors, etc.. . 208,926 331,115 852,099' 292,391
Cash, etc. . . 23,666 37,816 226,859 373,946
Accumulation of cash, etc. (up £147,087
last term), is largely the result of transfer
of surplus funds from the pups —£298,606
was due to, and is partly offset by
£102,921 due from, subsidiaries. Invest-
ments consist mainly of shares in off-
shoots, unchanged at £497,004. Assets on
which plantation advances (£96,917, in-
cluded with debtors) are secured are sub-
ject to war-damage claims. Inner re-
serves are known to be substantial, and
little, if any, further cleaning up of ac-
counts may be necessary. Much will
depend upon the course of hostilities and
the terms of the peace.
Meanwhile, chief sources of earnings
are the co.’s own remaining trade activi-
ties ; “satisfactory” returns from the over-
seas shipping offshoot —no vessels were
lost last term ; the Fiji co., which has
lifted its ord. div. from 10 p.c. to 12$
p.c.; and Southern Pacific Insurance, pay-
ing 7 p.c. and steadily improving its posi-
tion. No hint is given as to how the
London and Canadian cos. are getting
along, but losses of some subsidiaries
are reported more than offset by profits
of others. ,
After allowing £13,962 (down £6869)
for depreciation, there was a shrinkage of
£27,910 in last term’s net earnings
(£65,076), which were equal to 8.3 p.c.
on capital as against 11.8, 14.9, 15.1 and
15 p.c. back to 1939. The div., cut in
half the previous term, was kept at 5 p.c.,
and seems likely to remain there until
the outlook becomes a lot clearer.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
To Nominal
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £, & £
1934.. 5,015 Nil 5,015 63,256
1935.. 23,045 4 p.c. = 20,000 3,045 66,301
1930.. 34,006 5 ~ „ 25,000 9,006 75,307
Unexplained reductions; £1126 .. 74,181
1937.. 55,936 6 p.c. - 30,000 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 7i „ „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. .. 104,732
Pref. Ord.
7i p.c.
£> £
1939.. 67,403 10,547 74 p.c. = 37,500 19,356 124,088
Unexplained addition, £29,775.. .. 153,868
1 Written off shares, £2OOO .. .< 151,863
Sale of Par East patents, £50,000 .. 201,863
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,655
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „ ~20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 2j „ ~12,500 1,612 207,092
1943.. 25,572 8,438 4 ~,,20,000 204,226
During the year death claimed W. R.
Hume, founder and managing director of
the constellation of cos. which bear his
name. J. A. Cussen, secretary from the
beginning, steps into the vacant seat on
the board of Hume Pipe, chief of the
group, and also into the g.m.’s chair; so
continuity of control is assured.
For Hume Pipe and its chain of fac-
tories in all States and Maoriland the
war-time change in the direction and
nature of public spendings hasn’t had the
self-balancing effects apparent in many
other industries. While the Hume Steel
offshoot appears to have been more for-
tunate in the matter of defence contracts,
it contrives to send along only an inter-
mittent 2$ p.c., and there’s a packetful
of subsidiary investments turning in prac-
tically nothing at all. Overseas interests
at Singapore, Manila and elsewhere in
the Far East, which were developing
nicely, have been in a condition of black-
out for nearly two years now, and £7OO
was all other subsidiary shareholdings
(book value, £65,513) could provide to
offset the 20 p.c. contraction that
occurred in the limited defence work
coming the parent’s way last year.
A lag between the rise in costs and the
Prices Commissioner’s approval to pass


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a'
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and! filters*
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
3n the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by million? for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 19
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
W-'-te from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that wilt make you well and keep you well. '
CARRY THE
l BURDEN )
w
u
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas ’ has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(.England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, NSW
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydiaulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents aitf Trade Marks.— Advt.
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co., Ply., Ltd., King Street, Sydney.
ŵ
FROM
OIL
ONE PARACHUTE REQUIRES
AS MUCH MATE RIAL. AS
222 PAIRS OF STOCKINGS
LlflUglflC silken fabrics for stockings and parachutes being made from
cotton and oil RAYON best known of substitute silk fabrics
is made by forcing through holes of microscopic fineness, a syrupy liquid
made from a cotton derivative cellulose acetate dissolved in acetone.
■These tiny fibres, when twisted together, form the thread from which is
now made the life-saving parachute,.
ACETONE, produced by SHELL from petroleum gases that w,ere at one
time wasted, is an essential constituent of the syrupy liquid.
SHELL OILS are also an essential lubri-
cant for every type of engine or machinery
used on land or sea or in the air.
SHELL OIL SHELLS
It'i Omz-T-Jiee
t 9* can te sum <$ Shell
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(iNCOPRORATED IN ENGLAND)
L 04312
VICTORY is in the AIR
Thousands more young men are still re-
quired as Air Crew personnel, to fly the
ever increasing number of planes flowing
from American and Empire factories.
The RAAF needs
AIR CREWS
Whatever your present occupation, whatever you
are doing—apply NOW for enlistment in the
R.A.A.F. as Air Crew
For training as PILOTS. NAVIGATORS, WIRELESS
OPERATOR-AIR GUHNERS, age limit 18 to 32 yrs.
JOIN THE
RAAF
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest
R.A.A.F. Recruiting Centre or local R.A.A.F,
Committee.
R.A.A.F. 3-26.
them on was also no help to ’43 profits.
The fact that the net balance neverthe-
less came out £3022 better reflects im-
provement in manufacturing technique
and income from general investments
(£3829 higher at £10,369) following Hume
Steel’s resumption of ord. dividends.
Struck after unchanged tax of £29,000
and providing £21,622 (down £2580) for
depreciation, the £25,572 of profit repre-
sented 3.4 p.c. on the half-million of ord.
capital after meeting pref. requirements.
Reserves, labelled nominal in the table
because of unknown intangibles in the
pups’ accounts, obliged with the £2866
necessary to pay the increased 4 p.c. div.
At £25,039 consolidated profits available
to Hume Pipe were much the same as
those exhibited by the parent; so the
pups aren’t burying anything away.
Only thing known of Hume Pipe (Far
East) is that the new Singapore glass-
works are being exploited by the Jap. An
adjustment of book values (shares
£216,500, advances £53,194) may later
prove necessary here, but some offset
might be found in a revaluation of the
£165,000 ord. shareholding in Hume
Steel, included with other investments m
the table below at a figure of 7s. 6d. per
share:—
1937. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £608,900 £612,500 £612,500
Liabilities . . 87,220 113,385 209,863 202,405
Freeholds, etc. 70,766 73,862 75,854 77,414
Building, plant,
etc 232,786 189,442 147,520 131,245
Stocks . . 76,527 95,773 82,138 103,543
Uncompleted
work . . 27,160 40,659 15,921 15,311
Book debts . . 102,051 112,973 147,506 112,574
Advances subsid. 124,294 94,244 211,945 237,155
Cash, etc. . . 20,672 25,589 14,733 15,049
Shares in other
cos. & invests. 124,719 67,919 69,019 69,521
Shares in sub.
cos. . . 168,900 281,*37 281,537
Working capital for the steel affiliate
accounts for £156,757 of the wad of
advances, and a joint interest with that
co. in an asbestos deposit in Maoriland
for £25,496 more. Movements in stocks
and debtors are a natural outcome of
slackened trading.
From the viewpoint of both p. apd 1.
account and the balance sheet, much de-
pends on the condition of assets now in
Jap hands when retrieved. Locally, a
diminishing call for the co.’s products will
complicate the problem of making ends
meet, pending the heavy post-war de-
mand that can be expected from old
public-body customers and for recon-
struction water schemes.
Chairman A. H. Moreing at Sons of
Gwalia annual meeting:
, Satisfactory results attended the limited
amount of development it was possible to carry
out during the year. Work done on the No.
31 level indicates that when the ore-body is
fully developed it should provide substantial
additions to the ore reserves. On the No. 28
level work on the South Gwalia shoot has
opened up a length of 200 ft. of good-grade ore,
and diamond-drilling in the hanging-wall of
the main ore-body in the deeper levels yielded
encouraging results. Gold output declined from
42,5200 z. in 1941 to 31,1350 z. in 1942, and
proceeds from £334,065 to £242,744. This fall
was offset to a certain extent by lower ex-
penditure, total in 1941 being £199,955 and in
1942 £158,931. Inevitably, however, reduced
tonnage meant that working costs, exclusive of
development, were up 2s. 6d. a ton. Moreing
added that the co.’s subsidiary, Leonora Cor-
poration, made a small loss in 1942. This con-
cern is largely interested in goldmining ven-
tures in East Africa, where, as in Australia,
difficulties caused by war conditions are being
experienced.
* * * *
Mechanisation with plant comman-
deered mostly from goldmines is stepping
up coal production at Collie, Westralia’s
one producing field. Six cos. are operat-
ing there, the two biggest being the Pro-
prietary and Stockton. Their combined
output is now about 23,000 tons a month.
That from the other four —Griffin, Co-
operative, Cardiff and Wyvern—totals
approximately 21,000 tons. At the pre-
sent rate of consumption State mining
engineer Dick Wilson reckons there is
enough coal in Collie ground to last 2600
years. Up to now 16 million tons have
been extracted, and 1521 million tons
remains. Wilson says.
* # # *
“O.B.”; Canada’s achievement in base
metals expansion is outlined in the Bank
of Montreal’s Review. That rich mineral
country is now contributing to the com-
bined metals output of the United
Nations 95 p.c. of the nickel, 75 p.c.
of the asbestos, 20 p.c. of the zinc and
mercury, 15 p.c. of the lead and 12} p.c.
of the copper. Aggregate refined pro-
duction of copper, nickel, lead and zinc
for 1943 is forecast at 827,800 tons, com-
pared with 662,100 tons in 1939. Most
spectacular expansion has been in the
aluminium industry output, which, six
times greater than in 1939, is now meet-
ing about 40 p.c. of the requirements of
the United Nations.
* * * *
From London:
The relation of world oil reserves to future
requirements has been discussed a good deal
lately. In United States known reserves have
been stated to be equal to about 13 or 14
years’ consumption at present rates. Various
estimates of probable world reserves ha.ve been
made. One, by J. G. Bennett, Director of the
British Coal Utilisation Research Association,
based on certain geological facts and allowing
for 15 p.c. of oil remaining in the earth, puts
supplies at from 60 to 100 years, according to
the rate of the growth of consumption. Present
use is put at some 400,000,000 tons a year, but
after the war the rising trend of consumption,
stimulated by the development of aviation, will,
it is thought, substantially increase this figure.
Headed by Mr. Justice Cohen, a special
committee appointed by the U.K. Government
is now inquiring into every aspect of company
law with a view to removing anomalies.
Accountancy, commerce, finance, the law and
the Stock Exchange are all represented on the
committee, and the deliberations are expected
to result in a clear indication to the Govern-
ment of how the law can be brought into accord
with the most modern thought and practice as
directed to the protection of the investor. For-
mation of companies, promoters’ cuts, in-
formation bn prospectuses and balance sheets,
holding and private cos. are some of the things
down on the list for investigation.


Today...
Scientific lubrication is brought
to the point of immediate need
ALEMITE
m
PORTABLE
SERVICE
STATIONS
They are complete mobile lubrication departments carry-
ing high and low pressure Alemite Barrel Pumps, Alemite
Motor Oil Dispenser, hose reels, air compressor and motor
—ready to service the lubrication needs of every machine
anywhere. Heavy greases are handled direct from original
drums. Alemite Portable Service Station Equipment may
be arranged in combinations to meet all requirements.
The needs of the armed forces of the United Nations
and their supply lines must be served first, but those
interested in the most modern phase of pressure lubrica-
tion should plan now for future needs.
ALEMITE
Reg.U. S. Pot. Off.
LUBRICATION
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
ik
a
thp
Id
ZiUNO
mm
ICKERS
GIN
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Gresham’s Law and Bad. Law
Last year less than 28 p.c. of Aus-
tralia’s very large war expenditure was
met out of revenue. During the current
financial year the position is likely to be
little better unless there is a sudden
slackening in hostilities something
which we cannot yet reasonably look for.
.The net increase in the Federal debt dur-
ing the currency of the war up to June
30 last was-£7lO million, and £260 mil-
lion of that was raised per medium of
Treasury bills. Since the end of June
this form of debt has increased to well
over £320 million. It is six times
more than the normal peace-time note-
issue of the country, and is approxi-
mately equal to all the deposits in the
trading banks during the last year before
the war.
The bank-credit debt represents that
part of the cost of the war to which the
public has made no voluntary money con-
tribution whatsoever, not even by loan.
Treasury bills are an arrangement by
which the Commonwealth Bank agrees
to pay war costs on behalf of the Gov-
ernment without any tangible prospect of-
the Government being able to repay the
central bank, which instead carries for-
ward these IOUs year after year. It
may be that for the present the money
which the central bank lends to the Gov-
ernment is partly the relending of deposits
which the trading banks have been com-
pelled to pass on to the Commonwealth
Bank. But that does not alter the fact
that in normal times the public would be
entitled to use its money deposited with
the banks in any way it thought fit, and
in such circumstances the Treasury-bill
debt would soon be left unsupported by
any direct or indirect public investment.
So we come down to the fact that the
financing of war waste by the Treasury-bill
method represents, in essence, the creation
of new money without the backing of
that kind of wealth on which a practical
monetary value can be put. War wastage
is not a credit-worthy production in the
eyes of the people, and it is with them
that the valuation of credit ultimately
rests.
The creation of money on a base of
war waste almost amounts to the same
thing as printing that much money with-
out any valuable backing and issuing it
in payment of unreproductive Govern-
merit expenses. There is soon more
money than goods. And even in passing
into peace, with a gradual return to full
industrial production on civilian account,
this surplus money will remain a surplus
unless taxation is levied in peace-time to
reduce it. The only time people are
at all ready to pay for war is during war,
not afterwards, so that post-war taxation
to pay off war indebtedness is not likely
to be seen.
Where inflationary war-time financial
methods have been used, the people pay
indirectly and heavily through the infla-
tion. Inflation is a tragic way of paying
for anything—“a ruthless process where-
by sacrifice is imposed inequitably upon
a people who have lacked the unity, the
courage and the intelligence to impose
that sacrifice equitably upon themselves,”
We have seen in the past the effects of
inflation and subsequent depression —
trade dislocation, unemployment, im-
poverishment and frustration of normal
living and ambitions.
During this war the Government has
been able to restrain a good deal of the
inflation that would be ordinarily visible
in the overuse of Treasury bills; it
has had the National Security Regu-
lations at its disposal, and these have
prevented the people from doing what
they would like with their money. They
have been stopped from investing it in
almost anything except war loans and
bank deposits, they cannot buy land freely
—or build homes at all —and there are
so few of the essentials and luxuries of
life available for the spending of their
money that black markets have become
an evil of the times. Rationing controls
clothing, some foods, petrol, etc., and
liquor is extremely scarce, except over
the bar. Rigid price-control operates in
the case of all manufactures, and no new
factories can be put into operation with-
out the consent of the Department of
War Organisation of Industry. Man-
power may not be hired without official
sanction, and importing of overseas goods
is regulated by the Government through
the D.1.P., which also handles lend-lease.
There are restrictions on private borrow-
ings and interest rates.
Those are the chief controls which
the Government is now exercising
over the Australian economy. In
general they aim at a diversion of
a maximum of finance and produc-
tion to the war effort and the keeping-
down of the civilian price-level. But
there are two fatal factors in the setup:
the failure to control labor and maintain
production in relation to costs in certain
vital industries, and the overwhelming
force which an unabated use of Treasury-
bill finance will prove itself to be.
There will be no greater danger to the
future of this country than a belief on
the part of the politicians now in power
that as we have been able partly to regu-
late the effects of inflation to date we
shall be able to do as well in the future.
If the Government is really in such a
mind—and Prime Minister Curtin has
been an advocate of bank-credit finance
even in the post-war period—it will
naturally tend to rely to a greater extent
than ever upon bank credit, and the
menace thereof will increase in propor-
tion to its use.
No arbitrary measures will for ever
control inflation. Money is no good to
anyone unless it is spendable or
investible, and eventually only a firing
squad would make people work for
money that could be neither spent nor in-
vested. Where an excessive issue of
money has been made it ultimately depre-
ciates in terms of foreign currencies and
goods and services within the country of
issue. What is known as Gresham’s law
comes into operation ; bad money begins
to drive good money and valuable
property out of circulation. In a country
where there is only one type of money,
and that a depreciating one, it is goods
and services that become scarce in rela-
tion to the money; rising prices have to
be paid for desirable goods, and soon
there may be all the alarm and disturb-
ance that an inflationary spiral brings.
Once inflation gets away it usually goes
beyond the extent indicated by the origi-
nal inflation in Treasury finances.
Australia cannot expect to get away
for ever with a financial policy that is
fundamentally weak and unsound. Price-
control cannot hold inflation back indefi-
nitely while the financial controls con-
tinue to inject inflationary spending power
into the national economy. True, our
Commonwealth public service is studded
with neophytes, cranks and job-fillers
who are prepared to give anything
a “go” so long as it means more
power in their hands, and many of
our Ministers lack the nous and
experience necessary to cope with
the “planning” of such adventurers.
The Government as a whole has
fallen down repeatedly in its national
budgeting, the prime source of in-
flation as we are beginning to see it.
The weakness of the Prime Minister him-
self becomes more amazingly apparent as
the cumulative effects of his party’s own
false philosophy pile up into a crushing
burden on the Australian economy. The
effects of any such economic policy or
philosophy are revealed very quickly
when its principles are applied during a
period of Government control of 60 p.c.
of the national income. This war is
rapidly forcing internal political issues.
Our socialistic-minded Ministers and
civil servants nevertheless persist in their
advocacy of controls after the war. It is
quite true that the greater the damage
done to our economy during the war by
Government mismanagement the greater
will the need be for controls until some
cleaning-up is effected. But our aim
should be to return men to productive
work as soon as possible under healthy
trading conditions, and not to keep the
country for ever burdened down with con-
trols that restrain the enterprise and
liberty of the individual, while making
jobs for hordes of political parasites.
Whatever our costs and our losses are
in this war it will be far better to pay
them out of income or wipe them out of
capital promptly rather than to make an
excuse out of the occasion for the intro-
duction of socialism. A socialistic State
that “happened” because of the previous
waste, ignorance and inefficiency of its
administrators could not but continue to
fail to give the people the maximum
opportunity to work and be rewarded for
their work.
Inflation is a type of economic revolu-
tion which, by its dislocation of living
arrangements, can bring about political
revolution. While the prime sources of
inflation remain open, secondary controls
can do nothing but delay the effects.
Hoover, former Republican President of
the U.S.A., recently said: “Subsidies con-
sist of taking money out of one pocket
and putting it in another with an illusion
attached that the cost of living has been
reduced. It is both more painful and
more cosfly to take money out of the
tax pocket than it is to take it out of the
price pocket. A wage based on subsidy
foundations will break down sooner or
later Price-fixing based on such a
concept will strangle production. Its
operation in the distribution trades will
clog the flow of commodities and will in
the end increase prices and black
markets. Likewise, subsidies can become
a weapon of favoritism or punishment in
the hands of the huge bureaucracy. They
will sooner or later lead to scandal. ’
Just as there is no permanent escape
from the effects of bad economic ad-
ministration, so there is no permanence
about respect for bad law. The Com-
monwealth cannot expect to prevent any
calamity by introducing law that has an
artificial foundation. The law will only
be respected and observed by the people
so long as there is valid reason for its
existence. And some “valid
may not carry much weight —“reasons
such as a mere confusion of issues arising
out of departmentally-created difficulties.
Some taxation departments have for Tong
persisted in unjust and unjustifiable
treatment of taxpayers. This state
of bad law has continued for a longer
period than might have been expected,
but it has been accompanied by a


Meetings.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-SIXTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING
of Shareholders will be held at the Company’s
Office,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 16th November, 1943, at 2.15 pm
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1943.
To elect two Directors. Mr. Cecil Howe Doyle
and Mr. Francis William Hixson retire in
accordance with the Articles of Association,
but are eligible and offer themselves for re-
election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
Messrs. Robert W. Nelson and Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for reappointment, and offer themselves
accordingly
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
E. Whittle,
„ Manager.
3rd November, 1943.
A FITTING END TO
A STEEL TUBE
Accurately-fitting hardened steel “Apollo” box spanners carried
in the maintenance kit of all armoured vehicles illustrate simpler
forms of the craft of manipulating Cold-Drawn Precision
Seamless Steel Tubes ... a craft developed by the Steel
Tube industry in decades of free competitive engineering.
Craftsmanship the pride in the product and industry’s
stimulus to progress —is fostered by enterprise and
freedom. When industry is again free, B.T.M’s. plan for progress
embodies new products designed
to serve the whole community.
4 u
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
A DELAI D E
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will qftiote you price for the original.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals ant
nearly 100,000 other ranks hav
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.” ,
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7tli April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency i have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE —12th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
1 applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to Ifearn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully awaie of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz;
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation 6 Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne. '
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute.
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
39C Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFIGIES'!
MIND.”
Home
Address
157
natural reaction —widespread evasion ot
taxation, as indicated by present note-
hoarding.
Gresham’s law cannot for long be
denied, nor bad law indefinitely main-
tained, Any attempt to defy these
natural, human principles means totali-
tarianism.
Treasury consent to dealings in real
estate running into £5OO and upwards will
not be approved in future unless “the
purchaser has made what are considered
satisfactory investments in war loans.”
Both land transactions and loan invest-
ments back to September, 1939, are aggre-
gated. Where the value of the land
exceeds £lO,OOO, loan investments must
be as much ; for smaller transactions the
scale is as follows:
Real Estate. War Loan.
£5OO £lOO
1000 200
3000 1000
5000 2500
7000 5000
Investors will be prevented from selling
their war bonds as soon as the deal is
completed. Trading banks will hold the
bonds until the Treasurer agrees to their
release, A property deal will not be
approved until a bank notifies the
Treasury that the war-loan money has
been put up. No indication of the period
for which the bonds will be frozen has
been given, but the short-term loans
offered have a term of five years.
* * * *
The £1 shares in Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
a Maoriland share-financed afforestation
concern, have been selling at ss. 9d. This
price has special interest. Back in 1936
a concern called Hodsons Investments,
Ltd., appeared in Sydney out of the blue,
and circularised shareholders in Pacific
Forests, telling them that their £1 shares
had an asset value of £6 15s. each, men-
tioned a London “pool” proposition, and
later offered additional shares to Pacific
shareholders at £2 10s. each, the represen-
tation being made that they and other
holdings would be bought back on
behalf of the London pool within
90 days at £4 a share. (Hodsons
had secured an option over 149,000
£1 shares in Pacific Forests at £1 each
and had paid pash for another 1000.)
No shares were ever bought back. The
racket, one of the most barefaced things
of its kind ever seen in the Common-
wealth, was exposed by The Bulletin,
but only one of the conspirators got jail
(4f years); bigger fish got away. It was
said in court that the booty ran to be-
tween £30,000 and £40,000. The only
connection between Hodsons and Pacific
Forest was the option over the shares.
* * * *
The Federal Government is making a
good deal of noise about the need for
population. The Commonwealth indeed
needs a great increase in population.
But the P.M. has suggested that he
will use bank credit to do the
attracting. Really, in order to get
more population, Australia needs to
do little more than restrain the
paternalism of its Governments, as Aus-
tralian Government paternalism has
mostly been of the type that eventually
asks back more than it ever gave. Bank-
credit use is usually followed by inflation
or heavy subsequent taxation, and both
these things are discouraging to migrants.
Where a person takes the trouble to
uproot his home in Europe or elsewhere
and travel thousands of miles to a new
country it can be taken for granted that
he will expect to be given a reasonable
chance of carving out his own fortune,
especially if in doing so he benefits the
rest of the community. But the Labor
Government is opposed to individual
enterprise. The party is opposed to
greater individual production—in fact,
it is opposed to the operation of condi-
tions which will lead to the improved
living standard of its members. It con-
tinually attacks the thrifty, who repre-
sent the class from which savings flow to
finance new industries, new public facili-
ties. It imposes penal taxation on income
u°m nvestrnen t, Und while this restricts
the opportunity of investors to assist
new industries the taxation taken into
the hands of the Government is never
put to a compensating use. Usually it is
spent non-reproductively or else laid out
m some undertaking which eventually be-
comes a sink for the waste of further
taxation revenue. Trade-union move-
ments are becoming so strong that, when
misdirected, they do great additional
damage to the productive prospects of
the country. It is this paper’s belief that
Labor s economic policy, coupled with
the past and present taxation trickery of
various State Governments irrespective
of their political color, will not allow
anything like the fullest practicable de-
velopment of this continent or give
reasonable attractions to desirable immi-
grants. Our biggest drawbacks are poli-
tical (or politico-economic), and until
they are substantially cleared away the
great and obvious resources of Australia
cannot be developed fully and effectively
* * '* *
A sharebroker who is a shareholder
in the co. has expressed to The Bulletin
great dissatisfaction with the manner in
which the annual meeting of Peters
American Delicacy was conducted last
week. The meeting was noisy, it was
not, in his opinion, conducted with the
regard to the interests of inquiring share-
holders that he regarded as proper in
such matters, and the increase in direc-
tors’ fees (parent and subsidiary com-
bined) was not explained to his satisfac-
tion. Fees have gone up in the accounts
from £lOOO to £2375 since the formation
of Peters Ice Cream Pty. about four
years ago. They rose £775 last term.
Following a poll, the two retiring
Peters directors, B. W. Perkin and J, V.
Ratclitfe, were re-elected.
*****
The Commonwealth Bank has reduced
the rate of discount on Treasury bills
renewed or issued from November 3 to
li p.c., compared with l\ p.c. ruling for
some years. Sip far the rate of interest
paid to the trading banks for their “sur-
plus investible funds” remains at 15s. per
cent. Because of its increased activities,
both in the general banking and the note-
issue departments, the central bank has
been making much larger profits lately.


THE SERVICE MAN
Against Rabaul.
“Ek Dum”: On November 2 General
MacArthur’s H.Q. announced:
Exploiting to the full our recent compre-
hensive air sweeps at Rabaul and in the
Solomons, our right wing, under Admiral
Halsey, was thrown forward approximately
200 miles into central Bougainville Island on
Monday morning. In a combined ground,
water and air movement our forces seized
and occupied Empress Augusta Bay, on
the western coast. The movement was un-
suspected by the enemy and there was little
opposition. We are now in the rear of the
enemy’s position at Buin and in the Short-
lands and are athwart his*supply line to that
area.
To the press the same day the general
explained that, although the Jap had
“taken a lot of punishment” and had
been “badly beaten lately” and was “be-
ginning to lose some of his cocksure-
ness,” the fatal error should not be made
of underestimating him:
The Japanese is not able to think quickly.
Perhaps when he realises that this is a real
battle he will think faster. We will swing
our right wing against him with our full
force. We. must follow the strategy of
concentrating at one point. What I would
like to do if I had the resources would be
to make a double thrust—a quadruple
thrust even—simultaneously to pin him
down all along the line.... The recent suc-
cession of heavy air attacks has neutral-
ised Rabaul as a danger-point in the land-
ing on Bougainville; but I can’t prevent the
enemy from siphoning-in reinforcements
from the north.
What I need is airfields. My resources are
limited. I have a shortage of means to hit
the Jap. We can’t mount a fighter cover
as we need to. With an airfield at Empress
Augusta Bay we can put up fighter cover
in range of New Britain.
President Roosevelt, later made it clear
that this was the beginning of the rhain
assault on Rabaul.
On the evidence of communiques
previous attacks did very well against
Rabaul. In the raids between October
12 and October 31 the enemy losses in
the air were reported as crippling, and
this has continued to be the case. In
nine raids 522 ’planes have been destroyed,
including 263 in the air, for a loss of 45
Allied machines. The raiders whose
operations were reported on the day of
the landing at Empress Augusta Bay were
met by 40 interceptors, and practically
all these were- shot down, while the Allied
force lost only three fighters and a
bomber. This, by the way, was the first
big raid in which the use of R.A.A.F.
Beauforts was specifically mentioned;
and they did a grand job.
Whatever the fighter cover available,
General MacArthur is, of course, right
in using every effort possible to acquire
a completely crushing umbrella.
General Blarney followed General
MacArthur with a statement in Mel-
bourne. Ip his last previous summary
of the situation ’on September 26 he had
said that the enemy had “found things a
little more difficult than he expected
—a change which has been brought
about by our superior troops, superior
air force and our initiative.” There had
been (he said) a definite lowering in
Japanese morale since Buna. To this he
now added that there had been a steady
increase in Japanese forces throughout
the South-west Pacific.
At Empress Augusta Bay
Empress Augusta Bay is a wide inlet
on the west of Bougainville, as if a giant
had taken a hasty and shallow bite at
the 3400-square-mile island and his teeth
had glanced off the tough substance
of the mountains—tfie highest in any
island of Bougainville’s size in the world.
The southernmost point of the bay
hooks itself into a north-pointing penin-
sula, about 60 miles from Mono, where
the Maorilanders successfully landed last
week. This peninsula shelters a smallish
harbor. Its outer end is called Motu-
pena Point. Beyond this is a wide beach
of hard volcanic sand, sliced by rivulets
and creeks. At the north end islands and
a reef lazily awash in calm,weather pro-
vide another good anchorage.
The view on entering Empress Augusta
Bay is not inviting from a military view-
point, though it will probably remind
General MacArthur of his Bataan days.
Directly behind the bay is the. saddle of
the Crown Prince Range, rising 4000 to
6500 feet. In a matter of 45 miles there
are seven peaks of 3800 ft. or more. To
the north and seeming about to spit into
the bay is the fearsome Balbi (Toiupu),
just above the 6th degree south latitude,
and all the other peaks are packed into two-
thirds of a degree of latitude nearer Buin.
Balbi is 10,171 feet high, an awesome
pyramid in the order of Etna. He is
always in emotion, while Bagana, to the
south and nearer the bay, spouts in
competition from 6500 feet up among a
giant’s nest of cones and craters.
Across the range and the island 35
miles by crow fly, east-south-east, is
Kieta, the administrative centre, and the
anchorage of Reboine Bay, into which
the eastern ranges look as if they might
slide. There is a fine anchorage here.
South-east is the pleasant countryside of
Buin and Kahili, full of Japanese, aero-
dromes, bicycle tracks and palm-trees,
with creeks and rivulets pouring out of
the end of the ranges.
The west coast has many advantages
for large-scale .landings. It is fringed
with mangrove rather than coral, which
is more abundant further north. There
are alluvial plains and swamps. It is the
best area in which to build quickly on
the rich volcanic deposits which cover
the ancient bones of Bougainville the
aerodromes which General MacArthur
craves.
“Welcome to Bougainville”
The first statement of details of the
landing came from the Americans on
November 4. It had been made near
Cape Torokina, at the northern end of
the bay, by the largest gathering of ships
seen together for such an operation since
the attack on Guadalcanal.
The troops went ashore about 7.30
a.m. on November 1, racing towards the
smoke plume of Bagana with tracer bullets
roaring ahead, under the cloud of fighter
cover. The ships behind minesweepers
moved in past a sheltering island, which
they bombarded.
The seasoned Marine landing units
climbed into their boats, which took up
positions as if for a race, while the guns
muttered above them. The boats sud-
denly whirled away.
Mortars and machine-guns added their
throats to the chorus. Rifle fire crackled
from the bush. There were casualties.
•But the first wave was firmly ashore and
somebody set up the sign “Welcome to
Bougainville! ”
Now the Japs on Puruata Island
opened up heavily—they had been plas-
tered by the ships coming in—but it was a
waste of ammunition. From the bush on
the east there was still more shooting.
Japanese strafe ’planes arrived. Their
mortars were at work, but before long all
the orderly tangle of military necessities
was pouring ashore—bulldozers, kitchens,
sterilisers, mobile power plants, dog pla-
toons for scout work, ammunition, guns.
Every man hurled himself into the task
of consolidation, for it was known that
there were thousands, perhaps tens of
thousands, of enemy in Bougainville.
By the week-end the forces were well
settled down, while all the surrounding
Japanese bases were kept in a continual
state of ferment by the air forces.
Thus the first phase of the land opera-
tion was safely accomplished. The troops
were ashore. Their defences were dug
round their expanding beachhead. Enemy
air attacks were held well in hand, and
enemy fighters had been compelled to
operate from Rabaul because of the dam-
aged state of the Bougainville aerodromes.
Since November 1, 55 attacking machines
had been shot down.
The War of Sea and Air
The landing, however, was at this stage
only one part of the battle. It was essen-
tially a sectional affair, part of a major
naval and air operation. While in itself
it was only preliminary, the work at sea
and up above which made it possible
was more decisive in its attrition.
It began with the thorough blasting of
all the aerodromes within easy reach of
Empress Augusta Bay —in fact, every
aerodrome from Ballale, to' Kieta,
and from Kieta to Buka. Naval
units co-operated in these bombardments,
pushing their way right into the south
entrance of Buin’s wide anchorage by
Faisi to attack Ballale, and right into the
mouth of Buka Passage to attack the
Buka aerodromes' They suffered little
damage from the shore batteries, and
returned from their expeditions with fires
blazing mountains high behind them.
There was no mention of any major
action in the south up to the time the
troops were ashore at Empress Augusta,
though Tokyo invented a battle.
According to Tokyo, a large U.S. air-
craft-carrier was sunk in less than two
minutes, along with a “medium carrier of
the Island class,” two heavy cruisers and
two other cruisers or destroyers—all
these early on the morning of the Empress
Augusta landing (Nov. 1), along with two
large transports, a cruiser and a destroyer
and 40 landing barges to the south-west
of Buin in an earlier engagement.
The first sinkings were alleged to have
been the work of 14 torpedo-bombers,
of which three were lost.
Battle off Torokina
The Allied H.Q., however, reported a
heavy battle on the morning of November
2 (Tuesday), when Japanese ships were
intercepted about 2.30 a.m. in heavy
rain, 30 miles off Cape Torokina, at the
northern end of Empress Augusta Harbor
near the landing point.
The Allies got in the first salvoes at
about 12 miles and gradually closed, at
the same time keeping beyond torpedo
range. The enemy showed skill in the
use of flares. His gunnery was good,
and it was shown that he had great fire
power. But every now and then an
enemy ship would blow up, and at 4 aan.
the Japanese broke off the engagement.
There was an hour of hot pursuit, which
ended when about 70 enemy bombers
and high-altitude land-based ’planes came
over and made a 10-minute attack with
excellent effect.
A Jap cruiser and four destroyers were
sunk, and two enemy cruisers and two
destroyers were damaged. No U.S. vessel
was sunk, though Tokyo added to its
other extravagant claims a further one
that eight U.S. ships had gone down while
admitting the loss of a cruiser and two
destroyers.
Rabaul’s Troubles
Rabaul, however, was the focus. Allied
long-distance reconnaissance units, Cata-
linas and Liberators, were §,oon telling of
Japanese heavy convoys hurrying down
from the main base at Truk, 800 miles
north of it.
The stream of assistance hastening
southward was of such volume that it
appeared to General MacArthur that “the
enemy is apparently endeavoring to re-
trieve the situation at Rabaul and is utilis-
ing to the full his capacity for rapid re-
placement.”
In one enemy , convoy were five heavy
cruisers and three light cruisers with five
destroyers and a large whaling ship—the
type could be turned into a monster tank-
landing vessel—three freighter transports
and two corvettes.
A second convoy included a heavy
cruiser, two destroyers and a tanker, and
about 20 miles away were three destroyers
and three merchant ships. .
These were 160 miles north-west of
Kavieng, near Mussau. North-east of
Kavieng the searchers found three de-
stroyers and three merchant ships. There
wa* still another flotilla of two heavy
cruisers, four light cruisers and three
destroyers away in the north-east.
On the afternoon of Nov. 2 the Fifth
American Air Force already had swept
over Rabaul, and before it retired three
destroyers, eight merchantmen of about
50,000 tons and four smaller vessels had
been sent to the bottom. Two heavy
cruisers, one of which was well on the
list and badly holed, seven merchant ships
of about 30,000 tons and two tankers had
received direct hits.
The official communique:
The entire shipping area was a scene
of utter wreckage and destruction. The
air battle was of the fiercest. At Lakunai
seven fighters and a bomber were destroyed
on the ground. Off shore eight float ’planes
and four two-engined flying boats were
sunk. In the air, 67 ’planes were shot
down and 23 others probably destroyed.
We lost nine bombers and two fighters.
There were at times 150 enemy fighters
aloft.
This onslaught was now followed by an
even heavier one on November 5. In
this 100 carrier-based torpedo-bombers,
bombers and fighters from the Solomons
area were used against shipping in the
harbor, while a force of about equal
strength was flung against the township
and foreshores.
A heavy cruiser was blown up 5 bombs
and torpedoes hit five other heavy ships
and a light cruiser; torpedoes hit an-
other heavy cruiser and a destroyer and
a light cruiser was bombed. Of 70 in-
tercepting fighters, 24 were destroyed,
22 more probably destroyed.
The attackers over the land dropped
86 tons of bombs, while overhead a
feeble force of 20 enemy machines tried
to stave off the attack. Two were de-
stroyed and two more probably. Eight
Allied naval aircraft and an army fighter
were lost in both attacks.
From now on major operations by sea
and land are to be expected in the Bou-
gainville area.
At Satlelberg
At the same time matters are coming
to a climax in the Finschhafen area,
where the enemy is dug in along a four-
mile perimeter across the Sattelberg track
to Scarlet Beach. The approaches are
cruel: rain-soaked jungle full of vine
and creeper. To our front the stores have
to be carried with infinite labor by hand
for several miles. Communications alone
are a job for the gods rather than men.
But a firm pressure is kept up on the
positions, in which unfortunately the
enemy has every natural advantage.
Small scale as the forces may be by
comparison with those in use in Europe,
this will be some of the toughest fight-
ing the war has seen, more beset with
physical difficulties than advances in
snow - covered Russia grim, tropic-
fevered fighting literally ankle-deep and
sometimes knee-deep in blood and mud.
use i ess to ex pect that the enemy
can be bombed out of sound i and posi-
dons , or ba j. be run awa y when
adac ked in any area in which he feels
necessary to fight.
The Eighth Does it Again.
“Ek Dum”: In country round the
southern edges of what the Italians pic-
turesquely call “The Balcony” of the
Massico region, but which is in reality
a large storehouse of tumbling mountains
through which railway engineers have
carried enough boreholes to fill a cheese,
the Eighth Army hit the Germans in three
places.
The first was on the west, where the
veteran Seventh Armored Division of
Desert Rats was lent to carve up its
old enemies, the 15th Panzer Division, for
the Allied Fifth Army had been finding
it difficult to make progress. This is
not the first time the division has been
on loan—it was the added weight which
smashed the enemy’s Medjez El Bab
sector front in Tunisia and which then
captured the 15th Panzers, leaving them
nothing to send home but their name.
It was transferred to a new division,
which has had no better luck with the
Rats than the old one.
As the Seventh moved into its new zone
the anxious enemy tried to lever the right
flank of the Eighth Army off its toes at
the Adriatic coast road junction near San
Salvo. The junction opens another way
into the heart of Italy, and the British
wanted it badly. On November 3,
with their usual fine fireworks display as
a preliminary, they flung their seasoned
infantry forward across the Trigno' arid
its valley and up the foothills towards
San Salvo itself, facing a barrage of
artillery and automatic fire in the black
of the night. Across the river, despite
the gunfire, vehicles poured in a steady
stream, behind the infantry fighting its
way across the stubbly fields between the
new hayricks. Sometimes there was a
house for shelter, sometimes one of. the
curious hedges of the region, which look
as if they had been badly scared at birth.
Then the Navy came close in to shore,
took a long breath and spat devastatingly
at Vasto, which lies nearer the sea than
San Salvo. Reinforcements for the enemy
coming down the coastal road from
Pescara must needs pass through Vasto.
At daylight San Salvo was to be seen
disappearing into the sky in the guise of
smoke and cinders.
On its left flank the Eighth Army was
no less busy. It had broken down the
Central Apenmne road from its positions
in advance of Vinchiaturo, and at 3.30
a.m. it entered Isernia. Isernia is not
much of a town, though picturesque with
its single street, its tower or two, its
Samnite relics, Cyclopean walls and un-
paralleled collection of ravenous insect life.
But from here the highway (or switch-
back) to Venafro and the west goes off,
and the road to Sulmona, over 80 miles
of Luna Park across the Apennine saddle,
proceeds straight ahead. Ovid was born
at Sulmona, the man who wrote that
“nobody is happy till he is dead and
buried,” a sentiment with which many a
German in Sulmona must have agreed
Icist week
On the Adriatic coast the Eighth
steamed ahead at a great rate. On
November 7 its Adriatic spearhead was
only 30 miles from Pescara.
The capture of Isernia set the Fifth
Army in motion. The British sections
of it on the west began to roll forward
to Rome along the modern version of the
Appian Way, towards Formia, where
Cicero was murdered, and the Pontine
Marshes. The centre of the Fifth Army
lifted itself into the Sacco Valley to race
up the main Via Casertina on the right
of the Lepini Range, while its comrades
on the coast scored along the left side.
On November 7 they were approaching
Gaeta, on the coast, where Garibaldi
collected the remnants of the Bourbons
almost exactly 83 years ago.
Berlin seemed to derive little satisfac-
tion from its reflection that the Allied
armies would find the going harder than
in Africa because “the whole 300 miles
to the Po is a solid German fortress.”
The enemy is on the move rearwards,
as usual brutally destroying as he goes,
and his plight will worsen when the junc-
tion of the Eighth and Fifth Army is
completed, as it will be when the Rome-
Pescara road is reached.
Mr. Stimson, U.S. Secretary for War,
gave Mediterranean casualties since the
landing in Morocco as:
Allied: 100,000 American, 31,126;
British, “somewhat higher” ; French and
Canadian, not specified.
Axis: 40,000 killed, 90,000 wounded,
and 468,000 prisoners.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD ARTHUR LEWIS, last heard of residing at
Copeland Road, Beecroft, Northern Line, via Sydney,
New South Wales, in 1927, or any person knowing
his present whereabouts, please communicate with
THE DISTRICT PUBLIO TRUSTEE, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
LYNCH, Thomas Virgil.—Last known engaged in
Mining Industry, Sabo Cam Norte, Philippines. Any
person knowing present whereabouts please com-
municate WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE, EXECU-
TOR AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 130
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
EIRE CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE.
SOUTH-WESTERN CIRCUIT. COUNTY OF CLARE.
Equity Suit No. 1274.
IN the Estate of PATRICK McMAHON, Deceased.
JOHN GRIFFEY, Plaintiff.
THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL OF EIRE, Defendant.
INFORMATION is required of the whereabouts of
MRS. CATHERINE SCANLON or SCANLAN, for-
merly CATHERINE MAHON or McMAHON, born
Ennis Eire, married Thomas Scanlon or Scanlan, of
Ennis*, emigrated with her husband to Australia,
or any descendants of hers. Communicate with F.F.
OULLINAN & CO., Ennis, Co. Clare, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff therein.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HILDA JAMES of Five Dock New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE ELIZA ROBERTS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1599 of 1943 on
the ground of adultery alleged to have been com-
mitted with you If you wish to defend yourself
against the charges made you may apply for leave
to intervene in the suit and! obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS ABRAM
LANDA BARTON & CO. Solicitors 9-13 Bhgh Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH JONES late of Buckingham
Street / Redfern.— I TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
IRENE JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
898 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 31st December 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from GREGORY S.
MADDEN & COMPANY Solicitors 26 O’Connell Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE
SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
10 EDWARD NAY late of Fairfield near Sydney.-
TAKE NOTICE that MAY NAY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3142 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause .or excuse for three years
ind upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
in appearance on or before the Third day of I ebruary
One thousand nine hundred and forty-four at»the
Divorce Office Supremo Court King Street Sydney
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS Solicitors 39
Martin Place Sydney.—(us.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
ẃ
On the Way to Destruction.
Bombing of Germany and German-
occupied countries was carried out on a
massive scale last week, and Air Chief
Marshal Sir Arthur Harris was obviously
satisfied with results. He announced at
the week-end that “Bomber Command
will emasculate every centre of enemy
production.” Forty of these places, he
described as “vital to the German war
effort” ; 50, as “of considerable import-
ance” ; as for the 90, “we are well on
the way to their destruction.”
November 3 was the heaviest day of
attacks that Germany has been subjected
to —more than 4000 tons of bombs were
dropped, more than 2000 tons on Diissel-
dorf, apart from raids on Cologne. U.S.
Fortresses ranged as far as the Messer-
schmitt works at Wiener Neustadt in
Austria, though the principal target of
the greatest U.S. force of Fortresses and
Liberators ever sent over Europe was
Wilhelmshaven. Mosquitoes attacked
subsidiary targets in the Ruhr, and ex-
tensive mine-laying operations were car-
ried on in the north. Australian Lan-
casters took part in the Diisseldorf raid.
Only 19 bombers were lost by the R.A.F.
and five by the U.S.F.
The attacks were the signal for bombers
and fighters of every appropriate class to
stream into the Continent. On November
5 the U.S. forces celebrated Guy Fawkes
Day over the Ruhr, particularly Gelsen-
kirchen, and another force attacked
Munster—looo machines were used in
the two attacks. Only 10 were lost.
Northern France throughout the week
was a roaring sky highway, and the coun-
tryside full of the crump of bombs. The
rattle of machine-gun fire was almost
continuous.
The German reaction was almost pan-
nicky. Many radio stations went sud-
denly off the air several times, and Paris
Radio had a busy time predicting an
imminent invasion of the Continent from
the Channel Coast.
Raids over Britain were for the most
past reconnaissance operations.
Back to the Dniester?
On October 22 Morley Richards, of
the “Daily Express,” was convinced that
750.000 to 1,000,000 Germans were in
danger of being trapped in the south
Dnieper fighting. By November 3:
The outcome of all these battles may
well mean the loss of 14 or 15 divisions
[210,000 to 225,000 men].
During most of September and October
newspapers were convinced that when
the Russians reached Melitopol the “only
railway by which the Germans could
escape from the Crimea” had been “cut.”
Then suddenly there was a change in
the map. It was discovered that nearly
two years ago the Germans had built
another heavy-rail, double-track line
from Perekop direct to Kherson, giving
a short cut out of the Crimea.
It was reported generally that there
were 250,000 German troops in process
of being trapped in the Crimea. But this
number has been toned down to 75,000,
with an assorted collection of wounded
estimated at anything from 100,000 to
250.000 according to taste.
The Eighth’s Thousand Miles
In four months the Red Army has
liberated 140,000 square miles of terri-
tory, and that is an excellent achievement.
But since the Anglo-American forces have
been carped at by correspondents and
commentators, it is due to them, to state
that, with the support of the French in
Tunisia and Corsica, they have taken
not far short of as much territory as
the Red Army has recovered. The Italian
provinces they have occupied, with Sicily,
Sardinia, Corsica and Tunisia, cover
90.000 square miles, with a population
of 18,500,000. „Most of what they have
taken is intact; the land producing.
Their advance has brought them nearly
1000 miles nearer to Berlin at their
nearest point than they were on March 6.
They have done this despite the fact that
they have had to operate over large areas
of sea from subsidiary bases thousands
of miles from the main bases.
They have put one large enemy country
out of the war, a country which pro-
vided at least 250,000 troops for the Rus-
sian front last year, in armies which par-
ticipated in the Axis drive to the Volga.
They have operated most of the time in
enemy territory.
The Russians, though they have
made substantial progress, especially
in the south, are less than 70 miles
onward from their nearest point to
Berlin in March. The Red Army and
the Eighth Army are about equidistant
from Berlin and from the German border.
In each sector of German retirement
the retreat has taken. much the same
shape, has begun in the same way, has
ended for the time being in the same
way. It has proceeded swiftly when ob-
jectives were unimportant; stopped when
a keypoint on the Dnieper-Bug line was
reached.
If the enemy has kept his forces
reasonably intact and has inflicted heavy
casualties on the Russians he can boast
that he has shortened his line appreciably
since July. The country which he has
given up is mostly steppe, forest and in-
dustrial, and much of it is dependent on
the water power of broken dams for in-
dustrial existence. In effect, it will not
become an asset again for some time.
There is little land from which much
harvest can be reaped for nearly a year
at least.
The enemy left it to the fringe of
winter before beginning to give up the
good grain and sugar-beet lands of the
central Ukraine. About the middle of
last week his line was almost straight
from outside Leningrad to Kiev ; but at
the week-end he had lost Kiev. “Our
troops, after tough tenacious fighting,
were withdrawn westwards,” was the
High Command’s story; but Marshal
Stalin, in an Order-of-the-day, stated that
the city had been taken by storm. Kiev
was left a “ruin from end to end.” The
Russians 'drove on 40 miles to Fastov,
meeting little or no resistance.
And the Russians have effected two
lodgments in the Crimea. The fate of
that peninsula will have decided military
and political effects in the Balkans.
Still Going Back
Inside the Dnieper Bend, to make a
whole of his defence positions, or to build
for a concentrated attack against the
Russians in the spring, while assuring
mobility for the protection of all the
many fronts which he will soon have to
fight on, the enemy needs to haul back
another 120 to 150 miles at his most
easterly points inside and outside the
Dnieper Bend.
This would give him a line of an over-
all length of about 1000 miles against the
2600-mile front which he had to man the
same time last year.
At the same time, if his forces are
strong and in good order, it would be
no proof of defeat if he continued
retreating right back to the German
border, where he could strike a far
heavier counter-blow than he could at
the end of long lines of communication.
•Those who are preaching that retreat
means disaster and the end of Germany
forget the Russian retreats which were
a prelude to the present Russian advance.
That is the black side of the picture.
One half of the bright side is that such
a retreat as that in which the enemy is
now engaging, however well ordered or
planned, together with the isolation of
his forces in the Crimea, must have had
a bad effect on German morale, coming
after the heady triumphs of the earlier
part of the war, especially when the Ger-
man people find themselves bombed to
pieces from Britain, which they thought
they had smashed in 1940, and threatened
by the Anglo-American armies and
bombers from the south.
The other half is that Germany is
specifically at a disadvantage against its
enemies in man-power and materials. It
is not enough for the German army to
beat Russia or to stave off its own defeat
on the Eastern Front indefinitely. It must
achieve one of these ends without
weakening the main fabric of its armies.
It must keep ample reserves, since it is
reserves which usually win wars.
Waiting to take up the running against
its tired and daily weakening legions are
Anglo-American armies, growing by divi-
sions every month, fresh, well-fed and eager.
These armies the enemy must be pre-
pared to meet whenever they choose to
strike and at whatever point, round
several thousand miles.
He has no chance of doing it short of
a miracle. The time is long past when he
had a hope that he could win by beating
Russia.
Losses
A brisk battle of bulletins relative to
losses has been in progress.
Last month the enemy alleged that the
offensive had cost the Russians 2,500,000
casualties in three months. The Russians
on November 5 estimated that in 122
days, July 5 to November 4, they had
killed, wounded or captured 2,700,000
Germans, including 900,000 killed and
98,000 taken prisoner. Of the 98,000
more than half were wounded.
The enemy came back with the allega-
tion that since July 15 the Russians had
lost 3,000,000 men, including 1,300,000
killed and 130,000 prisoners. Marshal
Stalin gave the enemy casualties for a
year to November 6 as 4,000,000, includ-
ing 1,800,000 killed.
In materiel, German losses have been
estimated by Moscow:
To 5/7/’43 to
22/6/’43. 4/11 /’43. Total.
Tanks taken or
destroyed .. 42,400 17,700 60,100
Aircraft ditto .. 43,000 10,189 53,189
Guns ditto .. 56,500 19,800 76,300
The figures for July 5-November 4 are
apart from 19,200 trench mortars, over
74,000 machine-guns and 75,000 motor
vehicles. The capture of 450,000 tommy-
guns and rifles, 13,400 railway wagons
and 414 engines was reported.
Berlin Radib asserts that since July 15
the Germans have accounted for 18,244
Russian tanks, 9529 guns, 14,499
machine-guns and 10,225 ’planes.
An Eventful Year.
“Ek Dum”: November brings the first
anniversary month of the naval Battle of
the Solomons, in which two Japanese
battleships and numerous other vessels
were sunk, and which might be regarded
as the action in which the initiative in
the far south turned from Japanese into
Allied hands.
In the Solomons the Japanese had been
within 1000 miles of Australia on the
east and 250 miles on the north at the
nearest point —the Tanimbar Islands.
In the meantime we had taken from
them the island of Guadalcanal—-at the
beginning partly in American hands ; had
hopped thence to the Russell Islands,
thence to New Georgia, thence to Vella
Lavella and Kolombangara, thence to
Monb and finally to Empress Augusta
Bay, 220 miles from the nearest of
Rabaul’s aerodromes. This represents an
advance of 370 miles in a year. From
Empress Augusta Bay to Tokyo is 3100
miles.
On the left flank of the South-west
Pacific arc, Allied forces have since
November last year advanced, as the crow
flies, about 150 miles nearer to enemy
main bases. They have taken back Buna,
the port of Salamaua, the embryo capital,
Lae, the mission at Finschhafen and the
Markham Valley. The final assault on
Salamaua, Lae and Finschhafen —omit-
ting the losses from February to August-
cost Australia 430 fine men killed in
action, 113 died of wounds, 1414
wounded and 39 reported missing.
Apart from the dead whom Australia
mourns from the campaigns of the Pacific
there are, according to Mu Forde, 3421
missing and 19,927 prisoners of war. To
these, America’s heavy man-power losses
and the losses of ships and of materiel
must be added.
With it all let it be realised that the
enemy is still within easy bombing dis-
tance of the North Australian coast.
The year of effort, sickness, bloodshed
has brought our furthest-flung vanguard
in the Solomons only within 220 miles
of the furthest-flung heavy base of the
enemy. In New Guinea proper, after that
year, our spearhead is still over 200 miles
from Wewak, the heaviest base on the
island proper.
Japan still holds 1,500,000 square miles
of conquered territory outside North
China and Manchukuo. This area is
populated by 116,000,000 people, and in
normal times produced inter alia
2.500.000. gallons of oil per annum,
1.000. tons of rubber, 100,000 tons
of tin, hundreds of millions of feet of
timber, hundreds of thousands of tons
of iron, coal and lead, 1,500,000 tons
of sugar, millions of tons of rice and
other grains, tens of thousands of tons
of tea and coffee.
The conquests include eight of the
world’s greatest ports, beside which
Rabaul would rank only as a trading
outpost; among them the naval bases of
Singapore, Hong Kong, Camranh Bay,
Cavite (Manila) and Soerabaya, which
are added to the existing “man-
dated” bases of Truk, Palau, Ponape
and Jaluit for the defence of Pacific
approaches.
Only fools would believe that the Japs
would give up these great prices without
going to the greatest possible lengths;
without using to the full the satellite
labor and the conquered materials now
in their clutches. Apart from women-
power they had 16,800,000 men between
the ages of 15 and 49 to draw on for
defence and offence, industrially and
militarily, when war broke out.
It almost stuns anybody who knows
the facts to note that the Minister for
the Army felt it necessary to say, at a
gathering of Lebanese, who made a very
generous contribution to war funds:
Many people seem to think the war is
practically over....We have still a long
way to go There is no doubt we shall re-
gain all the New Guinea, territory before
very long, but it will be only at the cost
of many Australian soldiers’ lives. It must
be remembered that New Guinea is only
a .small part of the territory that has to
be won back.
While hundreds of young men clad in
shirt uniforms were celebrating November
7 officers and men of the A.I.F. were
celebrating their own first Alamein
victory anniversary . watching for the
grenades which the enemy was rolling
down hillsides and engaging in fierce
small forays in the tangle of mud and
mire. At the Sydney show there was
scarcely an acknowledgment that Japan
existed.
In brief;
Berlin speciously reported that a British
bomber had dropped four large bombs in
Vatican territory, destroying the noted Virgule
mosaic factory. The Vatican had been pre-
viously warned that the Hun might try this
trick with British bombs in his possession, since
it is an old game of his. Allied spokesmen
denied the wicked allegation, but in any case
the Vatican must know the Hun.
* * * *
Mr. Churchill has appointed General Carton
de Wiart, V.C., who commanded in Norway, as
his representative with the Chinese armies, and
Lieut.-General Herbert Lumsden, one of the
youngest lieut.-generals in the British Army
(46) and erstwhile G.O.C. 30th Armored Corps,
as liaison officer with General MacArthur’s H.Q.
* * * *
Japanese Radio reported nervously during the
week that five British and U.S. battleships,
seven British and'eight U.S. cruisers were in
the Indian Ocean, with three British and four
U.S. cruisers and destroyer flotillas, in prepara-
tion for landings in the Nicobar and Andaman
Indian Government,” headed by Chandra Bose,
Nicobars and Andamans to the “Provisional
Indian Government,” headed by Chandra Bose,
at a conference at which “the United Nations
of East Asia” were congratulating each other
duripg last week-end. There was no display of
gratitude by Mr. Bose.
* * * *
The 500 released Australian prisoners of war
who reached Cairo last week included 200
wounded from the 6th Division and 300 non-
combatant personnel, chiefly from sth A.G.H.
and 2nd / 7th F. Ambulance, who stayed be-
hind in Greece as volunteers. Their greeting to
Alexandria was characteristic. First a hard
face was thrust through a porthole with a
shout of “Anybody here speak English.” And
then there was a cheerful demand for beer.
Knocked about as some of the poor fellows
were, they had not lost their spirit.


n
LEONARDO DA VINCI
FOUR CENTURIES OF PROGRESS
When Leonardo Da
Vinci, in the fifteenth
century, designed the
lathe shown in the
sketch above, he little
dreamed of the progress
which would be made
in the perfection of his
original crude invention.
Now, 400 years later,
lathe design is highly
scientific. To manufac-
ture the precision tools,
gauges, etc., which are
required in modern in-
dustrial production calls
for highly skilled
operatives. The A.T.L.
organisation has built
up —over thirty years—
a highly skilled'staff trained in precision engineering
This fact, plus the most modern scientific equipment,
enables A.T.L. to produce precision tools, gauges,
gun components, aircraft components, optical muni-
tions, etc., to limits as fine as .00001 of an inch
When you think of precison engineering, pre-
cision tools or gauges, think of—
ll
munitions
ẅ
DIVISION
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • PERTH • BRISBANE
CREAM
TABLETS
L
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
NUGGET
is hJS
bget
PO
pKSWPBI
'ANMIfM
#
-95
IftsflOHGER
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Precept (Victoria Derby) and Dark Felt
(Hotham Handicap) enhanced their Mel-
bourne Cup prospects by impressive wins
at Flemington last Saturday. They, how-
ever, may be troubled to defeat Skipton
in the two-miler next Saturday. Skipton
has thrived since his striking defeat of
Araana in the second Caulfield Cup, his
trainer not deeming it necessary to give
him another race.
Precept won one of the most sensa-
tional Derbies on record. Simmering,
even-money favorite, lost her rider near
the seven furlongs ; Valentino attempted
to “steal” the race by establishing a lead
of 10 lengths ; Precept staged a dazzling
finish to win running away from the
pacemaker; and Lawrence, injured at
Moonee Valley a week earlier, finished
a game third. Lawrence might have won
but for the break in his training. Sim-
mering, according to her rider, Breasley,
was cantering when she attempted to
move up on the inside of her stable-mate
Lawrence. Latter shifted in slightly, Sim-
mering struck his heels, cannoned on to
the rails, and threw her rider. Breasley
escaped with minor injuries, and Simmer-
ing looked little the worse for her experi-
ence when she returned to the enclosure.
At the time of writing; however, it was
indefinite whether she would contest the
Melbourne Cup.
Stamina won the Derby for Precept, a
brown colt by the dual Melbourne Cup
winner Peter Pan, from Yetna. He was
a heavily-backed second favorite at 3 to
1, and has firmed considerably for the
Melbourne Cup, for which his weight
automatically rises from 7.4 to 7.6 — :W.f .a.
for a three-year-old colt. Trained by J.
Pengilly, and ridden by E. Preston, he
was bred by his owner, J. J, Liston, chair-
man of the Williamstown R.C. Liston
has reason to congratulate himself on
having refused substantial offers for the
colt, who has won four races and £5755
in stakes.
Amana, 6 to 4 on, won his fourth suc-
cessive w.f.a. race by defeating Tranquil
Star and Saint Warden in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes, 10 furlongs. He made
all his own pace, sprinted away in the
straight, and won as he liked. Probably
the most brilliant Melbourne w.f.a. gal-
loper since Ajax, Amana has won five
races and £4355 in stakes since W. Fink
purchased him for 2100gns. little over
a year ago.
Saint Warden’s third to Amana with
171 b. more than his Melbourne Cup
weight showed that his win in the first
Caulfield Cup was not the fluke many
people believed. He drops from 9.0 last
Saturday to 7.11 in the Cup. Probably
he will be ridden again by apprentice H.
White. Counsel, from the same stable
as Simmering and Lawrence, made up
considerable ground to finish fifth with
231 b. more than his Cup weight.
Dark Felt carried 71b. more than his
Cup weight to an impressive win from
Saul and Gay Revelry in the Hothara
Handicap, mile. He survived a pro-
test for interference which made no dif-
ference to the result. Dark Felt has won
his last three races, and the merit of
Saturday’s performance, from a Cup
viewpoint, lay in the fact that it was his
first race beyond a mile this spring. He
is better now than when he started favo-
rite and ran fourth in last year’s Mel-
bourne Cup. Since his purchase for
500gns. by his present owner, Dark Felt
has won nine races and £5275 in stakes,
• ’
Following his fall from Simmering in
the Derby, A. Breasley had to forgo
the winning mount on Burberry in the
Cantala Stakes. Oaklaw (Law Maker
Maid of Oaks) proved best of the two-
year-olds by winning the Manbyrnong
Plate. He is a bargain at his yearling
cost of 325gns. Three Wheeler (Mam-
toba-Tricycle) enhanced her Oaks chance
by beating Night Link and Daisy Chain,
the latter a stable-mate of the winner,
in the Wakeful Stakes,
* * . . * ~ * _ .
Ascot had a satisfactory attendance at
Rosehill on Saturday, and the tote turn-
over was £45,023, which was excellen ,
considering a couple of the fields were
on the small side. As generally recog-
nised there was never previously so much
money for cash betting on Sydney race-
courses as during the past few months.
* / \ ’ ’
Mayfowl (Knox), a hot favorite fot the
Ascot Handicap was third to Amber-
spear and Chatham s Choice into
straight, and though he won, after get-
ting to the front nearly a furlong from
home, it was by only a half-head from
Amberspear, who fought on gamely.
Moondarewa and Enderby were third
and fourth respectively, but neither ever
looked a probable winner. While May-
fowl displayed undeniable gameness, his
win left a little doubt as to whether he
was quite the equal of Moorland.
Opinions differed as to the correctness of
the judge’s verdict, but from where I
viewed the finish it looked as if Mayfowl
had just got there.
Tahmoor (J. Thompson), the most im-
proved sprinter at present racing in Syd-
ney, scored his third successive win in
the Kingsford Smith Flying Handicap.
Cradle Song did the pacemakin'g, but
Tahmoor had her beaten soon after enter-
ing the straight, and then hung on well
to win from Fermanagh and Nobleman,
the placings being the same as in the
Flying Handicap at Randwick the pre-
vious week. Apart from those men-
tioned the most that can be said of any
is that Merrimba finished strongly and
Guild Hall showed pace for a few fur-
longs. Three-year-old Bulancer (Buland-
shar-Cereza) broke a leg. and had to be
destroyed He cost “A. llsogns.
last Easter.
Kookaburra and Estralia ran each
other to a standstill in the Encourage
Stakes, and though they led round the
turn both were settled halfway down the
straight by Goya (J. Thompson), whose
win from Before Dawn and Faust said a
lot for his prospects of success in better
company. He is by Fresco (son of
Solario) from that brilliant mare Figure
(Three-Forfar Lass), and was a 270gns.
yearling. Though they had no chance
against the winner. Before Dawn and
Faust ran well enough to make them
worth keeping in mind, and others to
shape fairly were La Belle and Beau
Rasade.
Silver Flare was favorite for the Two-
year-old Stakes (colts and geldings). He
led into the straight from Oliver, Stuart
and Veil Mart, but over the last fur-
long had no chance against Oliver (O’Sul-
livan), who is by Fresco from Myra’s
Miss by Tippler from Miss Myra, and
was a 200gns. yearling. Hawk Craig was
a close third, and Princeton (by Golden
Sovereign), Veil Malt (by Veilmond) and
Wheatland (Modulation’s 1300-guinea
brother) shaped promisingly.
The fillies’ division of the Two-year-old
Stakes was won very easily by Tea Rose
(Darke) after Gipsy Lady had shown the
way round the turn, where White Wings
was also in a good position. Capel, a
half-sister, by Brueghel, to Brazandt and
Rembrandt, was a good fourth. Tea
Rose is by Beau Pere’s half-brother, Mr.
Standfast (by Buchan) from Tea Table.
The Bunnerong Three-year-old Handi-
cap was $ gift for the odds-on favorite
Highgate (Burridge). The race was prac-
tically over when the latter joined Lavaine
at the straight entrance. Craglia was a
moderate third, and the form of the un-
placed runners was so poor that their re-
spective owners will need pluck to per-
severe with them.
Second to Battle King from the six
furlongs to the turn High Flight led at
the leger, and held on to win by a head
from Rimveil, though 50 yards from
home the last-named looked liking beat-
ing him. Badly placed conmencing the
back stretch Edigram was a fair third.
Gryphon and Haripur headed the others,
and perhaps the former’s recent efforts
over longer distances have robbed him of
his dash. He commenced well, but could
not hold his place.
♦ * * *
At Rosehill on Saturday next appren-
tice allowances can be claimed in all
handicaps. The most any apprentice can
claim is 71b., but it is not too much to
say that four or five leading Sydney riders
are that much superior to most of the
other fully-fledged jockeys, let alone a
big majority of the apprentices.
♦ * * *
Dark Felt won the Hotham Handicap
last year with 7.12, and then with 7.7
was fourth on a heavy track in the Mel-
bourne Cup. He has 8.4 in the Cup this
time, but with 8.11 he won the Hotham
Handicap so easily last week that he
would appear to be much better than a
year ago. On figures there seems little
hope in the Cup for any of those which
finished behind him on Saturday. He
will meet Maoriland’s hope, The Joker,
on 71b. better terms. White Nose, in
1931, was the last to bring off the Hotham
and Cup double.
*** ' *
Kindergarten’s owner seemingly has no
intention of running him in handicaps
under very heavy weights. He did not
enter him for the New Zealand Cup, of
£3OOO.
* * * *
It might be a good idea for a starter
to be on the outside instead of the inside
rail, but, because a couple of fancied but
inexperienced two-year-olds drawn on the
inside did not get away well in recent
places at Randwick, it does not definitely
prove the present system is entirely
wrong. The same thing happens to horses
on the outside. However, some owners
and trainers are like miners—they would
be unhappy without an alleged grievance.
« * ♦ *
“All-up” bettors are allegedly taking
thousands out of the Sydney ring nearly
every week, but if the war were to end
early next year it would be the books,
and not backers, who would be taking
health trips to England, America or the
Continent.
* * * *
An attendance of 48,744 at Aqueduct
on September 6 was a record for any
New York racecourse this year. The
tote turnover was $2,926,702 (approxi-
mately £A891,000), and a lot of money
was shut out. On the principal handicap
$444,573 (£A135,125) went through the
machines. Profits from the meeting were
estimated at $140,000 (about £A42,580),
and went to war relief funds.
* * * *
Maoriland two-year-old Nawab has
one of the characteristics that marked his
brother High Caste, and deceived many
of the Melbourne critics when he first
raced there. High Caste was so bulky
that he looked above himself. The same
was thought of Nawab in his first race,
but he rattled up at the end to win de-
cisively, and scored again last Saturday.
Miscellaneous
Withdrawals and substitutions worried
Sydney boxing promoters last week. At
the Stadium Reg Tozer whipped a stop-
gap, Ralph Clay, in five rounds, and
Maurice Dremon skittled Allen Stewart
in the eleventh.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Correspondent .)
MELBOURNE CUP.
SKIPTON 1
DARK FELT 2
PRECEPT 3
Oaks: (In absence 'of Simmer-
ing) Three Wheeler, 1 ; Daisy Chain,
2 ; Ola Rose, 3.
By “PILOT.”
MELBOURNE CUP.
PRECEPT 1
DARK FELT 2
SAINT WARDEN 3
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Highweight Handicap:
Night Parade, 1 ; Before Dawn,
2; Faust, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Samoyed,
1 ; Gipsy Lady, 2 ; Veil Malt, 3.
November Flying Handicap:
Trimmer, 1; Industry, 2; Cradle
Song, 3.
Cumberland Handicap; Feltpal,
1 ; Chatham’s Choice, 2 ; Amber-
spear or Faerie Queene, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Goya
or Sincerity (same stable), 1 ; Mint-
age, 2 ; Castle Frontenac, 3.
Parramatta Handicap; Pall Mall,
1 ; Edigram, 2; Dick Whittington, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Nobody but Mr. Dedman could have
been even moderately enthusiastic over
the dressing at Flemington on Derby
9 Day. The urge to brighten the head, if
nothing else, produced a crop of hat con-
fectionery of the flowers-and-veiling
type that was the antithesis of smartness.
An anti-cyclamen revulsion seems about
r due, as the most eye-striking and repelling
effects on the course were the all-purple
accessories some women affected, match-
ing hat, bag, gloves and lipstick in the
same far-too-vivid color.
There were a few women who hadn't
lost their dress sense with the coming of
austerity, though. Little straw gem hats
looked neat and effective over Mrs. J. V.
Fairbairn’s grey tailormade and Mrs.
Fred Dennett’s classic black suit. Another
gem crowned the attractive blue and
maroon ensemble worn by Mrs, John
Clarke (Iris Conolly that was). Sister
Freda too was among those whose smart
simplicity was a welcome sight. Her
choice was cerise, without any interpola-
tion of contrasting color, topped with a
same-color hat which was a copy of Jack
Tar’s winter model.
Taking comforts for merchant seamen
right down to the docks is the latest
activity of the Catholic Welfare Organi-
sation. The new development is centred
in a hut, the 15th built by C.W.O. for the
services, “hut” meaning anything from
canteen to dance-hall. The president of
the C.W.0., Mrs. J, J. Daly, explains
that the idea sprang from views expressed
by the merchant-navy men themselves.
They put up the point that it was a bit
embarrassing for a man with only a little
M.N. badge on his coat to go into hdstels
full of smartly-uniformed lads of other
services, and that they would be happier
in a place of their own.
Those whose thoughts drift back affec-
tionately to great-great-grandmother’s
herb garden and the herb lore of the
Elizabethans can put their visions into
realities with the good of the forces in
view. The Herbs for the Forces move-
ment which has its establishment at the
Meteorological Bureau, in the Domain,
is urgently in need of volunteers to pack
herbs, which are coming in in plenty to
send to fighting units in all services. The
vitamin content of herbs, it is claimed,
is very high in proportion to their bulk,
and, therefore, they are of tremendous
dietary value to fighting men on tinned
food and “iron rations.”
“Very much impressed” was the verdict
of the Catholic Women’s Social Guild
executives after the tour, arranged by the
Air Board, of W.A.A.A.F. stations and
recruiting centres about this city. The
visitations were part of scheme to let
mothers of prospective Waaafs know
just how their girls will be living. With
Victorian Guild members were delegates
from other States over here for the
Catholic Women’s Conference, who are
hoping that the policy of inviting inspec-
tion will be extended to their own States.
Filling Christmas stockings has kept
workers for the Originality Shop hard at
it to be ready for reopening this week.
As the array in the big shops isn’t very
Christmassy this year, the parents of the
very young may find that they can please
the children and help Red Cross funds
by giving the Originality Shop a turn.
Toys abound, and they’re well made and
designed. The shop’s workers are a
small/ band, but they count some very
expert needlewomen among them.
: Pride of the toy collection are the
model submarines, in which the husbands
of shop-workers took a hand. These
craft are actuated by clockwork, nicely
balanced to float nearly submerged and
equipped with little fins which . control
diving and surfacing—the perfect gift
for today’s small boy in fact. For the
more gentle child there are lambs and
horses that might have been designed by
Disney, eating felt lilies and wearing
May-day garlands. The infant who
breaks everything breakable in five
minutes can be safely provided for with
a hardy bucket or a skipping rope.
Many attractive young people look
down from Cumbrae Stewart canvases at
the Velasquez Galleries. Portraits are the
painter’s specialty, and children and just-
grown-ups seem to appeal most to her.
Trained at the Gallery School, she has
exhibited at the Royal Academy in Lon-
don and classical Continental shows.
War drove her from France, where she
had made her home for some years, liv-
ing at Avignon in an eleventh-century
house once the seat of a papal courtier
and overlooking, the old palace of the
Popes. Landscapes of France and Italy,
as well as portraits, are in the present
show.
Mary Kiernan, who will give a concert
for Red Cross funds at the Assembly
Hall on November 17, is a composer as
well as an instrumentalist. She has
already over 100 pieces for various in-
struments to her credit, among the most
successful the “Overture for Flute and
Drums” which was performed here when
the National Theatre Movement put on
“Electra.” At present she’s busy putting
to music verses woven by brother John
from his experiences on Middle East
battlefronts.
Elizabeth, daughter of Lt.-Colonel and
Mrs. Lennox Speirs, was married on
Saturday to Colin Clarke, R.A.A.F.,
second son of the baronet. Elizabeth has
been doing a war job. War service is in
line with the family tradition, for her
father is a veteran who lately saw service
in Tobruk and other tough spots, and her
brother Norman is a naval surgeon-
lieutenant. The wedding was a formal
affair, with three bridesmaids, at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Bride and ’maid
wore white crepe frocks. Broothorn
made this picture of the bride.
Edwin McArthur’s conducting called
forth comments of “Haven’t heard so
much ‘pep’ in a symphony concert since
Hamilton Harty was here” from the not-
so-musical, while those whp know the
jargon talked about interpretation and
the nuances. Programme started with the
gently romantic “Rosamunde” overture
of Schubert, followed by Deems Taylor’s
“Marco Takes a Walk,” which made the
audience grin appreciatively at the small
boy with the big ideas who was so clearly
heard in the music, and quite relieved
sundry faces of the “we’re-listening-
to-Good-Music” look. Tschaikowsky’s
Fourth Symphony made a fitting climax,
and the audience gaily clapped itself tired.
Singer Lansing Hatfield’s deep baritone
earned an equally warm reception.
The Lud Mayor will open a show of
graphic arts, rare books, manuscripts and
literary rarities at the Valesquez Gallery
on the 16th under the banner of the
Bread and Cheese Club and the Austra-
lian Bookplate Club. A special display
will be made by art students of Swin-
burne College. At an earlier exhibition
under similar auspices opened by J. D. G.
Medley, Vice-Chancellor of the Univer-
sity in November, 1940, the attendance
was claimed to be the largest ever seen
at a Melbourne art show.
From Sydney
Lieut.-General Iven Mackay and his
wife are two of Sydney’s most popular
well-knowns, and the general’s appoint-
ment as Australia’s High Commissioner
in India is warmly approved. The men
who served with him in the Middle East
and old and present boys of Cranbrook
who knew him as their Head have for
him both affection and respect. He com-
bines the good qualities of scholar and
soldier. The Mackay lady is small,
brunette and bright-eyed. She has charm
and an aptitude for easy conversation.
The two are going to make Australia
well-liked in India.
Dame Constance D’Arcy has had
another honor thrust upon her. She has
been made deputy-chancellor of the Syd-
ney University, the first woman to attain
that dignified office. As a child this
eminent woman surgeon went to a small
country school in the district where her
people lived. She graduated at Sydney
University, and is a great Australian.
Adelaide knew her as a beginning M.D. In
addition to her ability to compose a
learned thesis Dame Constance has the
gift of making a lively and witty after-
dinner speech. She appreciates attractive
hats and good pictures, she has some
exquisite pieces of hand-wrought jewel-
lery, and the opal is her favorite stone.
She is a living proof that a woman
can have a great brain, be a leader of
her profession and remain unimbued
with any tinge of the masculine.
There’s a great saving of man-power up
at the Minerva since rehearsals for “Jane
Eyre” started. Several of the males in
the cast are letting their hair and side-
burns grow, which saves not only barber
but wig-maker. Myra Morton, who is
playing the part of Charlotte Bronte’s
downtrodden heroine, has ransacked Syd-
ney and Melbourne for materials for this
early-Victorian young miss. Black alpaca
with snowy ruffles at neck and wrist is
the frock in which Jane first makes a
dent on the dashing Rochester’s con-
sciousness. This is followed by an
almost-gaudy-in-comparison grey silk
with puckers (something like shirring) at
the neckline. White ottoman silk garbs
Jane’s sweet endurance when finally she
gets her man.
Thornfield Hall, the scene of the gay
house-party (archery and charades were
part of the feverish programme of merri-
ment), is shown as a mansion with an
almost feudal main hall. Brocades, pan-
elling and period pieces form the right
background for the haughty beauty Lady
Blanche, who in her big act sweeps about
in black silk velvets and . gold lace. Taf-
fetas of '“pious purple,” to quote pub-
licity man Bunny Campbell Gray, adorn
Mrs. Fairfax, the housekeeper, almost
throughout. And why not? Hers is
almost a Gothic part.
Mrs. Royce Shannon is one of the alert
Red Cross Day Committee, and is doing
a nine-to-five job daily at Red Cross
headquarters. This year’s Day falls on
December 3, and the green magic will be
a market-garden fair in the middle of
Martin-place. The Walder lady will be
in charge. President of the Day is Mrs.
Penfold Hyland. This is a Dayne photo-
graph of Mrs. Shannon.
There is no greater joy in life than
that of making children happy. That the
deaf and dumb and the blind children
of this State may find happiness and use-
fulness when they become grown-ups,
many kindly xnen and women give much
of their spare time during the year. Men
of law such as president Aubrey Halloran
(he has been successively a member of
the board, a president, a vice-president,
and since last week’s meeting is again
president), auditors such as James Mac-
Kee and many well-known professional
and business men, Sir Hugh Poynter, R.
B. Cowan and J. Bunce among them, take
the keenest interest in the management
of the institution’s affairs. Financially
these are in a healthy state, but since the
military authorities took over the Darl-
ington premises caring for the children
has become more difficult.
The residential school at Pymble which
was founded last year for very junior
deaf children and the hostel at Stan-
more for country deaf boys have done
much to solve the problem, but still there
are many children who cannot gain ad-
mission. When the two new properties
at Wahroonga which the board has just
bought and is having remodelled are com-
pleted Superintendent Harold Earlam
will be a happy man. These two old
houses, one of them formerly the home
of Loxton, K.C., and the other belonging
to Mrs. Ross, are surrounded by 12 acres
which retain a touch of the bush with
their fringe of tall and slender gum-
trees. For all this, of course, money is
needed. But if the children are to take
their place in this better post-war world
that is being planned their needs must be
attended to. Lord Wakehurst opened
last week’s meeting, which was the
society’s eighty-second.
There was a great mustering at
the Women Graduates’ Association’s
dinner last week. ’ This was the
first celebration in four years, and
the Union at Sydney University was
thronged with graduates of varying vin-
tages, from those with their honors
glittering-new upon them to others like
Mrs. Greg McGirr, there with daughter
Dr. Gwen, and Mrs, Walkom, whose
daughter Margaret is now president of
the W.G.A. Dame Constance D’Arcy was
guest of honor. There are always three
toasts, the King, the Federation and the
University ; but the new deputy-chancellor
had one drunk in her honor also, so the
sherry, having to go round four toasts,
was served in liqueur glasses. Dr. Grace
Cuthbert was the principal speaker. Pro-
fessor Dakin’s wife came from Canberra.
Audrey Twynam is the association’s
secretary.
In the dressing-rooms and corridors of
the Con. at the conclusion of Saturday’s
performance of “Orpheus” there was the
buzz of pleased excitement. Mrs. Goos-
sens and Roland Foster were openly de-
lighted over the fine performances of
their pupils Florence Taylor (Orpheus)
and Marjorie Gore (Eurydice). Con-
servatorium director Dr. Bainton wore a
pleased and satisfied air, and was seen
congratulating producer Hilda Mulligan,
who, fair and tiny, wrapped in her black
furs, was decked with orchids and
weighed down with floral offerings. Amie
Kingston, too, had proved still again
what a clever scenic artist she is. The
classic pattern of this Gluck opera was
faithfully followed, arid Florence Taylor's
rich and fluent voice, her sure feeling for
the dramatic and emotional, held her
listeners under a spell in the lament
“Che Faro.” Jeannette Yuill was all light
and grace as Amor. Mary Thomas was
the Happy Spirit. A Bodenweiser ballet
conveyed the torments of the condemned
Furies, the seraphic calm of the Blessed
Spirits.
Supporters of the Australian-American
Movement filled History House with
cheerfulness and song last Saturday night.
They called it their Friendship Night,
and groups of Allied service men ran a
programme of games upstairs. In the,
auditorium there was music: Pauline
Garrick, Millie Hughes, Mollie Howell,
Reg Willoughby, Walter Kingsley,
Maestro Aldrovandi and Bernice Mont-
gomery the performers. Supper rounded
off the evening. Secretary Mrs. Ted Scor-
field, her flared black taffeta skirt topped
by a cyclamen blouse, was a sparkling
ingredient of the night’s fun. Mrs. E. K.
White brought a party. President
Florence Taylor stayed for a short while
before going on to the Lebanon Ball.
The women’s section of the movement
has arranged a monthly lunch. First of
these buffet affairs at History House will
be on the 18th,
A happening of Health Week that will
have lasting benefit in the community
was the official opening of an extension
to the famous nursery school of Black-
friars. The work of this Nursery and
Infant Demonstration School cannot be
overpraised. Education Minister Clive
Evatt, who made the opening speech, was
followed by a number of education and
health wallahs. The week opened with
an official lunch at Anthony Horderns’.
Vivid photography unrolls the beauty
and the wealth of a great nation in the
exhibition “America Marches.” Since
last week this has drawn a steady stream
of gazers to the Blaxland Galleries, and
the shillings for admittance go to the
Australian Red Cross and the A.C.F.
Mountain, mighty river, vast lake, tower-
ing timber are here displayed, silent wit-
ness to the hard work and high courage
of the pioneers who turned the wide and
stretching lands between into the vistas
of limitless grain and fields of good corn
shown further along the walls. America
at work and at ease in peace-time pre-
sents an alluring picture. Here are dizzy
sky-scrapers, here is Broadway, here is
the Hudson washed in moonlight.
Then swiftly the scene changes.
America is at war. Here are tanks and
ships and ’planes being turned out with
intense speed and a ruthless energy.
Here is Pearl Harbor, and here the
splendid psean to the men who fell at
Bataan and Corregidor, Here are tri-
butes to the men of the merchant navy
above pictures of the sea-lanes they have
kept open. Here is Abraham Lincoln
and his noble Gettysburg speech. Here
is the Jefferson memorial, alone worth
the journey to America. Here is a street
in Connecticut, home of great sailors. It
might be a bit of an old English town.
A country church standing among high
elms is at once a work of art and a
benediction.


Public Notices.
I EFRAIM SWEETAPPLE, of Polish nationality,
born at Zolynia in Poland, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 433 Crown Street, Surry
Hills, N.S'.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
7
H
7
AG
COOKERS
On Service for
A. us trait a
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force tor
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
. . . almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call tor demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue R H.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
£st. 1852 (In c. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents; Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd,,
Perth.
pld. Agents: <?ueensiand Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane,
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restrictea
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
w
That Australian in-
dustry, too, might
play its part in the
Nation’s war effort,
miracles have been
wrought in factories
large and small throughout the length and breadth
of the land.
Since 1939 there has been almost unbelievable
growth in the magnitude and the efficiency of our
manufacturing industry, until today we are at
last near attainment of an objective that many
thought impossible.
Tecnico Limited is proud to claim a full part m
this inspiring effort. Tecnico Products . . • s > m "
hols of accuracy and precision, and worthy ot
the Company’s hallmark —“A Tecnico Product .
1 TC.5.43
ecmco
Limited
FORMERLV E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST,. MARRICKVILLE
N.S.W. PHONE LI. 3211
SMOKE-OH!
“His pupils dilated as he saw her; then,
ignoring the presence of his class, he took her
in his arms.” — “Sun.”
After school his pupils again dilated.
4* 4* 4* 4* , „
“Cockerels and Pigeons to Step-up Food.
—“Sunday Sun:”
Carriers for preference ; they go further
than other breeds.
•J* *s* ,
“One of the most curious clubs in the world
is the International Bottle Club.”
—Weekly paper.
Curiously, too, the bottle is an inter-
national club.
4* 4* 4*
The Personal Note.
“Doctors worried for certificates.”
— “Sun.”
The timid-looking man looked so.sad
the doctor was afraid to listen to his heart
in case til he heard was the pumping of
teardrops.
“I want two certificates,” said the timid
one at last. “The first is for the Man-
power, because my wife says I’ve got to
change my job. The second” —he paused
and shuffled his feet till it was touch-and-
go whether his boots or the lino would
wear out first.
“Yes?” prompted the medico. “And
what’s the second certificate for?”
“Personal safety,” said the patient.
“My good fellow, I’m a doctor, not a
lucky-charm seller.”
“Look here,” said the timid one,
desperately bringing forth sixpence
and a ten-bob note, “my wife took
the number of this note before she
gave it to me, see? Well, I want
you to copy it down on the second
certificate and just certify that I did as
she said and used the money for nothing
else than to get the first certificate!”
Yair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The young doctor was charmed. He fairly
lanced attendance on her.” — Story.
A sharp practitioner.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“To most sailors one wave looks exactly
like another.” — “Woman.”
But they notice different figures be-
neath them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cine-film of surgical feat.” — “Age.”
All the cuts won’t be made by the
censor.
“ it
“Big Drop in Race Crowd.” — “Sun.
Well, most of them needed a bracer by
the end of the day.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Prrices re-covering Pram hood.”
—“Great Northern.”
. And above a% mon, keep ’em rrreason-
able.
“Moon, the sergeant said, was a recent arrival
from Melbourne.” — “Truth.”
A new Moon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
■“Chev. ’2B Tourer, perfect condition; god
tyres.”— “Great Northern. I'’ 1 '’
How perfectly divine!
4*
“To all believers we extend a very cordial
welcome to the 11 a.m. Fellowship Service.
The speaker being Mr. . On the last occa-
sion Mr. did us very well indeed.”
—Suburban paper.
Nothing like turning the other cheek,
eh?
Conference.
As I was in a paddock lazing
A cow drew near me, grazing, grazing ;
Then, viewing me without emotion,
It mooed. With not the slightest notion
Of how to hold such conversation,
I asked it for an explanation,
But, as I couldn’t talk by mooing.
It just continued chewing, chewing.
’Twos futile wasting idle chatter,
So that is where we left the matter.
T. W. NATHAN.
The Wrong Spirit.
“The wife promised to see that he cut down
his drinking by at least two or three whiskies
a day.”—“D.T. V
She showed in fact a keen delight
(As women far too often do )
That she was licensed, as a right,
To take him down a peg or two.
H. M.
The Better Informed.
“In Oxford-street, London, the ‘Daily
Mirror’ carried out a miniature survey of public
opinion on the Moscow Conference. Sixty
per cent, of women shoppers interviewed had
not heard of the conference. Twenty per cent.
had heard of it, but didn’t know what it was
all about.” — From an F. E. Baume cable.
Thank heaven our Australian women
are so much more fully informed in inter-
national affairs. In an endeavor to obtain
the views of a representative cross-section
of feminine opinion on the momentous
gathering a Bulletin man stopped several
women who passed by 252 George-street.
Here are their highly interesting views,
which amply demonstrate the firm grasp
they have of world affairs.
Miss Fanny Fribble, of King’s Cross;
“A 'Moscow’ Conference, eh? Then that
means a girl’ll have to pay more interest
to those bloodsuckers every time she
hocks a wrist watch or a fur coat. When-
ever the pawnbrokers in this burg get
together it doesn’t spell good news for
us mutts who sign up in the pledge depart-
ment. Next they’ll be offering us two
bob on a 15-carat stickpin. I think it’s
disgraceful! ”
Mrs. Belinda Blabb, of Paddington:
“Fancy them meeting in Moscow it’s a
wonder that awful Admiral To jo would
allow them to hold it in his capital city
because they’ll probably talk about him
behind his back anyway but perhaps they
went under a white flag or something
migosh they talk about us women mag-
ging it strikes me the men can do their
share of it too anyway what do they want
to go all the way to Japan to talk put-
ting the country to all that expense travel-
ling when they could just as easily say
all they wanted to over the ’phone I
think it’s silly if you ask me and that
American that’s going he’s gone to film
it I suppose it’ll be a dry thing I’ll bet
I’d rather see Cary Grant any day.”
Mrs. Nitte-Wytte, of Point Piper: “So
that dear Mr. Eden has gone to Moscow,
has he? Fancy! I wonder how he’ll
recognise that Mr. Molotov, because all
the Russians wear long whiskers, don’t
they? I think Mr. Eden’s very nice ; he
knows just how to wear a Homburg hat
and carry gloves and a walking-stick. /
think it makes a man look so retained.
That’s one thing our Australian men
can’t do ; they’re far too careless with
their dress. I suppose Mr. Eden is going
because he’s the Consul-General for War
or something very important I know, and
he must have the confidence of that Mr.
Chamberlain, otherwise he wouldn’t be
sending him. I expect it’s to ask Russia
to supply America and England with the
tanks and things they need. It’s all very
complicated to many women, I know,
but / follow the papers pretty closely and
I think I’m fairly well informed. Men
aren’t the only ones who know what’s
happening in the world.”
Miss Dora Dumbelle, 19, of Bondi;
“Yes, I’ve heard of that Mr. Molotov
who’ll be at the conference. He invented
a new cocktail, didn’t he? I suppose it’s
a business conference and he wants to
put it on the market, because England
and America have so much more money
than they’ve got in Russia and can afford
to buy liquor in big quantities. Ooh, I
wonder if we’ll get some of it out here?
I’m perfectly sick of having nothing but
Martinis and Manhattans whenever we
have a party.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
ŵ
Pay-as-you-go Income Tax
The Curtin Government would be wise
to drop one year’s taxation and to
proclaim this year’s tax exactions to be
in payment of this year’s tax liability.
Assume the war to end on June 30,
1945. Under the present method the
wage plug would have somewhere near
the necessary to pay his tax bill for 1944.
In 1945-46 his highly-paid war job will
fold up and he will be faced with paying
his tax for 1945 out of a lower income
—that is, if he gets another job. As
the department must collect the tax,
John Smith will be in hock for many
years to come.
Things could be made easier, too, by
cutting out all the algebraical hocus-pocus
in the taxation rates. If tables were pub-
lished showing the actual tax due for each
pound earned, John Smith could work
out his own tax, send in his return plus
his stamps and a money order for any
balance. The department would send back
a receipt, a credit slip if overpaid or a
debit note for any underpayment. This
would end the frightful suspense of won-
dering about the size of the slug. In
U.S.A. each individual makes out his own
return and sends his cheque for the tax
due. If John Doe can do it, so can John
Smith. — Tudor (Vic.).
R. Ranks
“lago’s” suggestion (B. 20/10/’43) that
distinction be made between combatant
and non-combatant members of the Air
Force is timely and deserving.
Ranking commissioned officers of the
administrative section in the same cate-
gory as fliers and combatants is no more
justified than would be the ranking of
chief clerks of shipping cos. as captains
of ships. Non-fliers could be distin-
guished from skymen by conferring com-
missioned ranks on the former identical
with those of the Army. Pilot-officers and
flying-officers would then rank as Air
Force second lieutenants and Air Force
lieutenants respectively, the present re-
spective ranks of the R.A.A.F. being re-
served for fliers.
Thus would be made distinction with-
out offence to one but with justice and
right to the other.— Jay (Q.).
News and Ballyhoo
After serving for 18 months at an
operational base, I am amazed at the
difference in the presentation of the daily
news by ordinary newspapers and the
official Army paper “Army News.”
“Army News,” published daily by a
press unit, is issued free of charge to all
units. Of necessity, it is small, yet the
news is published in concise and clear
fashion. News items are published with-
out the typical “ballyhoo” which predomi-
nates in the press of Australia. On
special occasions (such as the surrender
of Italy) a special feature edition of
“Army News” is published, but the policy
of the paper is to stick to cold, hard facts.
Read a news item in “Army News” and
three weeks later (it takes this time for
papers to arrive) read the same news in
the “Sunday Snipe.” Huge headlines tell
of new attacks, and we come to the con-
clusion the war is over “bar the shout-
ing.” Daily newspapers would do well to
follow the example set by “Army News”
and similar publications. Wandering
Minstrel (N.T.).
Aliens and the A.W.U.
S. market gardeners have received
A.W.U. proposals for wages, hours and
conditions for employees, including a
44-hour week, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. The
average market gardener gets up before
4 a.m. three days a week market
days. Moreover, vegetables such as
lettuce and cabbage have to be picked
before the sun is high to remain fresh,
and the best time for spraying is aftef
sundown.
But these are minor problems. Enemy
aliens hold good slices of gardening
land. They and their sons are not called
up for war service, and they recognise
no standards of pay or working hours.
The women and children get out and
work, too. The result is they can under-
sell our own Diggers, who have to em-
ploy labor while their sons are away
fighting for Australia, the A.W.U. and
the Italian and Bulgar growers.
Market gardeners are not opposed to
reasonable hours and pay for their men,
ẁ
a brief criticism of every story I sub-
mitted. When I began using involved
sentences with parentheses sprinkled over
the pages like “hundreds and thousands”
on a kid’s birthday cake, Montgomery
picked the reason and' wrote at once
suggesting I was suffering from an over-
dose of Conrad. He was right! Another
time he sent me back a story with the
punctuation corrected in red ink and the
Ts and G’s neatly topped and tailed in
green. That shamed me, and I hope I
never troubled his eyes again with care-
less copy.— Lillias Gordon (S.A.).
Basic English
Recent references to Basic English
bring to mind a matter that has long
held me mystified. We are told con-
stantly that in the post-war world the
nations must strive to break down the
barriers that have separated them; en-
deavor to understand each other’s prob-
lems and points of view. There must
be no bullying of smaller nations by
their elders.
Yet a move is being made by respon-
sible persons in the U.K. to foster the
international use of Basic English. We
are preparing to thrust our language upon
people who will not want it after this
war.
Surely it is obvious that, when war does
come to an end, Europe will harbor
many millions of people with a sullen
hatred and mistrust of anything Eng-
lish. Are we going to insist that they
accept our tongue —a language as diffi-
cult to learn as it is to use?
Certainly, an efficient international
language is needed —is in fact vital to the
fostering of peace. But what’s the matter
“Now we know where Alf got
his new elastic braces."
ẃ
to attain these things without learning
all we can about other countries?
Let us be fair and ask ourselves which
is worse for our children —going occa-
sionally to see films showing the building
of a nation or saturating their minds, as
so many thousands are allowed to do,
with sex and gangster rubbish, which,
by the way, is also imported. The only
Russian film I have seen was an inspira-
tion. It was called “Professor Mamlock,”
and I, like many others, came away
deeply touched and stimulated. The im-
pression was that it was a great film, a
splendid piece of drama, well acted by
people who knew their work. I am sure
I did not feel contaminated by any foreign
“isms,” as “Weekly Reader” calls them ;
in fact, I realised more than ever that
Australia is the best place for me. —Ex-
Westralian (Vic.).
Daylight Saving
I do not agree with “D.M.” (B.
20/10/’43) that children “simply can’t
manage to go to sleep at the changed
hour.” Perhaps not on the first night
or two after the clocks are put on, but
they soon get accustomed to the change.
They are up earlier and are tired earlier,
and tired children can sleep any time.
If daylight kept children awake, how do
the youngsters sleep in far northern coun-
tries where daylight lasts anything up to
six months?
“D.M.’s” statement that children are
unable to get an extra hour’s sleep in
the mornings because the house is astir
early is nonsense ; the house is astir the
same time as always compared with the
children’s rising hour. Anyway, one of
the hardest of a mother’s tasks is to get
children up in the morning.
To the average householder daylight
saving makes very little difference. Most
of us even forget that the clocks were
put on, and go about our usual occupa-
tions in the usual way. except that most
of us appreciate the hour after dinner
when we can see to work in the garden
or go for a stroll before dark.
Above all, what should be considered
in these matters is does it help the war
effort. If it does, then let us accept it
cheerfully, grateful that we are suffering
only slight inconvenience while millions
are undergoing awful tragedy.— Lucinda
(Q-).
The V.D. Campaign
I have just read an article in the
American “Reader’s Digest” entitled
“Why Don’t We Stamp Out Syphilis?”
As regards Australia the reasons seem
to me to be:
(1) The widespread belief, shared by
the authorities, that nice people do not
talk about V.D.
(2) V.D. spreads because the Govern-
ment has waited four years to take effec-
tive steps to cope with it.
(3) Now that money has been made
available, it is suddenly discovered that
doctors are not.
Seeing that the doctors are only in
attendance at clinics a few hours each
day, it would pay the Government to
build special hospitals and staff them.
Sufferers could go there without the fear
of being turned away.— Ack-Ack (Vic.).
One Parliament
The advantages of one Parliament
against the present seven must appeal to
every sensible person. The present sys-
tem is both wasteful and stupid.
Not only must we scrap six unneces-
sary Parliaments, but we must do away
with our present system of selecting can-
didates for Parliamentary careers which
permits anyone, regardless of qualifica-
tions, to be elected. The qualifications
a man or woman must possess before
he is eligible to stand as a candidate for
Parliament should be codified, and good
moral character should head the list.
The electors should have the right of
recall and there should be a rigid exam-
ination of members’ financial position
yearly.
One of the greatest obstacles to the de-
velopment of Australia is that the big
centres of population govern, to the detri-
ment of the remainder. If this is not rec-
tified one Parliament will but aggravate
the evil.
I have seen it suggested that local
authorities should be permitted to assume
more control if one Parliament becomes
an established fact. After nearly a score
of years as an alderman I am convinced
that the present system of electing local
bodies is as stupid as our Parliamentary
system. This,- together with the fact that
75 p.c. of the property owners bear the
cost of municipal activities (the other 25
p.c. and the non-property owners get off
free), is additional evidence of failure.
Let us have One Parliament for Aus-
tralia, but not under our present system
of selection of good, medium and rotten
candidates. — Arthur (Q.).


■ / $
m
' Vis. miv- ■*
■
i
B
■
m
.
s«i
m
m
■ •-m
;■<:;• ••:;
m
m
m
m
tm
mmmmmmMmmmmm
BPBfcte£*^
Wi
IB
■■Kiv
-
:
mmmz
m
:X:>,
m
,mm
A's . -J ,
"-*4 2
WhumM :
<r%«
Vi
. ■
,- -v >"* ■>.
_x
- *■
S' ? «&.*.,.
. 3r3 m
:
..'•* *• j ”•'■-AC?:; •♦*•
/.. /* - Sr-f-'>.w y^iZzrT%^:r>
St
—■•#»• .,
m- < *"W
J***?
c* —®is
f *»*
H
«f
■■■:■'■ ■
mm
* -M’ i
P&
& ■>■■
* » »C~* *“
-r-’-zt
: m
BBm
ww
.h..- -|? ;;; N J
"x, £gw ***. _ . ..jaaa^f^f.
■C4
■ -
■*W~’<
■
Z. ' '* v»v"
■
1
-1
. n
*
m
«*.....
. *5
Hi
.
*?■ ?
• • Avau Suijq jjtav aaieaj
When the clouds of war have passed, and
Australia is able to settle down to the tasks
which have been set aside while all the
energies of the nation were directed towards
the achievement of victory, there will be
many opportunities for making this country
a better, more beautiful place in which to
enjoy the new era of peace. That is an
obligation which rests with everyone.
Even such utilitarian necessities as drains,
culverts and bridges can be converted into
things of beauty. This picture gives you an
excellent example of such a transformation.
Here, in place of an ugly wooden structure,
is a safe and permanent bridge designed to
fit appropriately into its surroundings . . .
made possible by the use of an Armco
Multi-Plate Arch.
ABMCO
?
w
