

GRAPE
The Bulletin
rhe Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3329
Wednesday, December 1, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaoer.
Jeppelts
DARK FELT
Brown Horse by SPEARFELT—GALLANT ELSA, Six Years.
WINNER OF THE MELBOURNE CUP, 1943
MR. J. A. CAIN, Owner
Trainer, R. C. WEBSTER Jockey, V. HARTNEY
WEIGHT, 8st. 4lb. TIME, 3min. 23¼sec.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B, US AGE
The Red Page
FIGHTERS' MORALE.
In his introduction to Vain Glory, pub-
lished in 1937—a collection of selected
passages, chiefly prose, brought together
in “an attempt to display the War of
1914-18 through the eyes of those who
took an active part in it” —Guy Chapman
made the suggestion that “a diagnostic
history of soldiers’ morale” would be
worth doing. Something of the kind is
attempted by C. S. Forester in his novel
The Ship (Michael Joseph).
The diagnosis attempted by Forester
is of the collective and individual rnorale
and fighting courage of the complement
of a British cruiser, one of a few similar
light warships and destroyers apparently
hopelessly outclassed in tonnage and gun-
nage by Italian battleships and cruisers
attacking an escorted convoy running the
gauntlet to Malta. The novel, dedicated
to “the officers and ship’s company of
H.M.S. Penelope,” is said to describe
an actual Mediterranean action, though
the author “has attempted neither portrait
nor caricature of any living person.”
As to the collective morale of the ship’s
company, this might be largely explained
from a question that was raised by R. L.
Stevenson touching on Grenville’s great
fight in the Revenge: “I wonder how
many people have been inspired by this
mad story, and how many battles' have
been actually won for England in the
spirit thus engendered.” The name for
that sort of morale is tradition, and the
British Navy, as in the action that gives
movement and vividness to Forester’s
novel, and in countless other actions, has
shown that it can not only fight but
frequently win on almost that alone.
In the Forester action the ship, H.M.S.
Artemis, is absurdly weak compared to
the armament she is up against: “The ship
w’as an eggshell armed with sledge
hammers, and her mission in life was to
give without receiving.” Her “plating
was hardly thicker than paper” ; even “a
machine-gun bullet could penetrate if it
struck square”; “the imposing-looking
turrets which housed the six-inch guns
served no better purpose than to keep
out the rain.”
It is not Forester’s purpose to overrate
the heroism by suggesting that these
details of the ship’s vulnerability bulked
in the conscious awareness of the com-
plement. All hands could not help but
be aware of an all-over weakness com-
pared to the battleships against them, but
in action they would not be particularly
aware even of this. And against any such
awareness there would be the armor-
plating of tradition, building up through-
out Britain’s sea story, by Grenville and
Blake and Nelson; at Jutland and Zee-
brugge ; by Commander Fogarty Fegen,
R.N., on the Jervis Bay, and the gallant
rest of them.
Whatever other elements may enter
into it—including the fatalism produced
by sheer force of situation, as in ships,
or, say, ’planes or tanks in action, or in
bayonet charges, not overlooking the
vital spirit that leads men voluntarily into
such situations in the first place—tradi-
tion stands as one of the most potent of
all inspirations of collective morale.
More directly and effectively Forester
concentrates on individual morale, taking
members of the ship’s company and sub-
jecting each to an analysis in the light of
the individual’s normal character and his
feelings towards the impending action
and the action when it comes. What
he chiefly finds out about individual
morale by this light is its infinite variety.
As he very ably shows, that variety can
be the spice of good fiction.
As Forester shows, too, there can be
most complex as well as very simple in-
stances. There was nothing very complex
about Grenville, of the Revenge, who
used to “chew and swallow wineglasses,
by way of convivial levity, till the blood
ran out of his mouth.” Any ship such
a character had commanded would have
gone into action as the Revenge went in,
against whatever odds. A lighter but
kindred spirit was Shortland, discoverer
of the Hunter, who climbed 160 ft. to the
top of Pompey’s Pillar to drink the King’s
health and eat a beefsteak, and for his
last action took his frigate against the
odds of a French squadron. A like spirit
is Forester’s Gunnery Lieutenant.
Artemis has been more than once in
and out of the smoke screen, engaging
at closer and closer range the giant
Italian battleships, one shell from which
could do to her what Grenville ordered
his Master Gunner to do to the Revenge.
Artemis has been hit by shells and set
on fire: —
“Shoot!” said the Gunnery Lieutenant
for the hundredth time that day. His
fighting blood was still roused; the long
battle had not brought weariness or lassi-
tude. He controlled and directed his
broadside as thoroughly as he had con-
trolled the first.
When action was pending “the Gun-
nery Lieutenant’s heart was singing. He
was big and burly and fair. Perhaps in
his veins there coursed some of the blood
of a berserker ancestor; always at the
prospect of action he felt this elation,
this anticipation of pleasure.”
Easy enough for analysis, the fighting
morale of such men as Grenville, Short-
land and the Gunnery Lieutenant. Per-
haps, if their characters were fully known,
this would be true of most V.Cs. One
of these, the Canadian air ace Bishop, put
himself into the easily diagnosed company
in the description written by himself of a
patrol flight at 500 feet (they flew low
in those old kites, too), when he spotted
German machine-gunners playing havoc
with the advancing troops at Arras. He
came down to only 30 feet “above the
Huns, so low I could make out every
detail of their frightened faces”:
With hate in my heart I fired every
bullet I could into the group as I swept
over it....A few minutes later I had the
satisfaction of seeing our line again ad-
vancing. ~ .It was a wonderful sight and
a wonderful experience.
Easy enough heroes, these. Likewise
Forester’s Leading Seaman Harris, the
port-side pompom gunner, with a string
of German bombers to his credit; a
master at his gun ; “a virtuoso of the two-
pounder pompom” ; otherwise a hard-
headed, hard-living, plain seaman ; guiltless
of any more cloudy philosophy than that
which the Hon. Aubrey Herbert reported
as ending all discussions among New
Zealanders on Gallipoli: “Well, it may
all be a mistake, but in a war of
this size you will have mistakes of this
size, and it doesn’t matter a to us
whether we are for it here or in France,
for we came out to do one job, and it’s
nothing to us whether we finish in one
place or another.”
“The spirit of these men,” Herbert re-
unconquered and unconquer-
able.” As was that of Harris till an
Italian shell wiped him out, along with
his gun and his whole gun crew, includ-
ing the poet, Presteign.
Why it is that all poets who stray into
them must come to a sticky end in novels
of violent action is an entirely different
line of inquiry. Being yet only a boy,
Presteign can’t be very helpfully analysed
for morale. He is there and does his bit,
which consists of loading Harris’s gun ;
and Forester advances the nice theory
that Presteign is especially good at this
because of his innate sense of timing and
rhythm. It may be a useful hint to gun
Nos. 1 to make their poets ammo num-
bers, but it increases rather than lessens
the impression that Presteign is merely a
romantic shadow brought into this strong
company for sentimental purposes, though
there are much more seemingly fantastic
characters in the ship than the late poet.
One who considerably extends the
variety in individual morale is Ordinary
Seaman Whipple, who, through his
mother’s earnest tuition, is an authentic
crusader, probably the rarest of all varie-
ties of fighting men regarded as indivi-
duals. Nations at large, especially the
parts of them that don’t fight, seem to
be more readily crusaders than very many
individual fighters manage. But, then, not
all individual fighting men have mothers
resembling Ordinary Seaman Whipple’s
mother. A hard spirit, she could have
done this:
She was awakened at 5 o’clock in the
morning, and she dressed herself in a dark
dress trimmed with fur, with a large felt
hat and lavender kid gloves. With an
escort of two soldiers, her counsel and a
padre, she was driven to Vincennes. When
she came in sight of the troops she gently
put aside the ministrations of the padre
and waved a salute to the soldiers. She
refused to be blindfolded, and she was in
the act of smiling and greeting the firing-
party when the volley sent her pagan spirit
on its journey.
Matahari; and with all respect to a re-
spectable woman who would have taken
pleasure in firing one of the rifles at
Matahari, and who so implanted her feel-
ings about the mounting threats to democ-
racy in her, son that he became an im-
placable crusader for the cause, there was
much of the spirit of Matahari in Whip-
ple’s mother, and it isn’t common. “All
that Whipple wanted to do was to fight
the enemy as efficiently as was in his
power, in accordance with the precepts
of his mother.” As inspiration of indivi-
dual fighting morale that isn’t so com-
mon, either.
Forester has more complex, and even
more striking, instances than these, from
his finely-done, though piffling, leading
character, Jerningham, and the Captain,
an embodiment of British Navy tradition,
to Henry Hobbs, Stoker First Class,
stationed down in the depths of the shaft
tunnel, aft, and there, stooped because
of the height of the tunnel, paying in
penance and submission to God for a
childhood and youth which, he was
utterly convinced, had been one long
orgy of sin, meriting eternal damnation
a dozen times over. As a matter of fact,
his childhood and youth had been pre-
cisely as sinful as John Bunyan’s, but,
as the conviction to the contrary sus-
tained Bunyan’s morale through imprison-
ment and persecution and mockery, so
Hobbs’s morale is sustained by the like
agency through this action in which he
loses the use of one arm through hav-
ing his collarbone broken, is all-but
drowned when his tunnel is flooded, and
when the water is pumped out is left
down there in complete darkness:
But he was alive, and he knew his way
about the shaft tunnel, from one bearing
to another, to the oil valves and back
again, and his was work which could be
carried out one-handed. These were not
circumstances in which he felt' himself to
be justified in asking for relief, and he
made no such request; indeed, it did not
occur to l imself to do so.
Stevenson, in his essay on “The Eng-
lish Admirals,” declared: “It is at best
but a pettifogging, pickthank business to
decompose actions into little personal
motives, and explain heroism away.”
Forester could have written his rather
slim but rather fine novel just to prove
that R.L.S. was wrong.
Various Verse
Owen Stanleys.
From where I stand
I see, through the rent clouds,
the savage peaks and ridges of the Range,
that wall of rook and rain
that thought to hold an army from its goal;
whose hands laid cunning snares along the
trails,
whose arms were curled to crush the spirits of
those men
who saw, not its challenge,
only its hate,
being coldly intent upon their deadlier foe.
Clutch to your cold breasts
the bodies of the slain,
hut take not any pride from the defeat
that laid them there;
bodies, the husks of brave men, you may have,
to honor your own,
but the spirit that left them there
will give you no comfort.
Now it has returned to its sullen silence;
the menace in its heart
is felt only by those who, as now,
see it with seeing eyes,
remembering the horror and the hurt.
Somnolent, the dark hills brood
on what they almost won—
the victory by those steadfast men denied.
A.I.F.
PETER MIDDLETON.
Now Is the Time.
The bamboo sprouts, opens its heart to the sun,
And all its tender spears reach for the warmth.
The palm-curls
And the slender, virgin grass
Nods in the wind before the heat of day
Stills every bird-call.
Only the river questions the sun’s omnipotence,
Rushing and gurgling, cool as autumn’s dawn
In all this heat.
Memory makes its own oasis,
Sees its own mirage, living the dream
That is the past, and now,
And all future experience held
Within a dim, cool cavern of delight.
And 1, sweating at every pore,
Dreaming the day to end unhappiness.
Am wrapped in an exceptional content
As I lie back, my pack used as a pillow,
My boots off, and the solid joy
Of tobacco and papers to my hand.
This is such ease as ceased to exist
Only yesterday;
And today the world comes back with a rush,
Just in a moment’s comfort.
Tomorrows may come, but their dim agonies
Cannot reach out and touch me where I lie.
A.I.F.
ERICE IRVIN.
Flay and Burn.
To flay the words away, the words’ full flesh
Till naked shines the steadfast, cleanly bone,
The skeleton, the strength of poetry
Manifest in line and line alone.
To burn away the easy weight of words!
Avenge all poets that have been betrayed
By their own sensuous slavery to song;
Show beauty stark and consummately made.
There is a poetry like bone of life.
Essential, rock-firm, brilliant as a sword;
And he that masters it shall master art,
Destroy and re-create, the utter lord.
MAORILAND.
PAULA HANGER.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Since knight Grand Cheese Moir’s
chief delight as president of the Mel-
bourne Bread and Cheese Club is polish-
ing up the auras of the great who have
inhabited the national Olympus, the
club’s latest exhibition at the Velasquez
Gallery, Melbourne, is largely a display
of Bulletiniana. Henry Lawson, naturally,
comes in for special mention. There is
the shirt on whose collar Mary Gilmore
has written an inscription. The early
editions of A. G. Steyens’s “Bookfellow”
make an interesting collection. The first
series were about the dimensions of a
racebook, gradually getting larger until
at their largest they disappear from cir-
culation. Going further back there is
The Guardian, by an Australian (Sydney,
1838), claimed to be the first Australian
novel. Lawson in French and Gordon in
Braille are other items, and there is, of
course, a section devoted to Ned Kelly.
The club doesn’t neglect the incipient
auras of the living, and Norman and
Lionel Lindsay are represented by wood-,
cuts and bookplates, and Hugh McCrae
by his inimitable drawings.
Supplementing a resident collection of
such opuses, N.S.W. National Gallery
has on show a selection of canvases
culled from Melbourne “Herald’s” ex-
hibition of post-impressionist pictures,
including such well-known curiosities of
art as Dufy’s goofy horserace and
Matisse’s horse-faced woman. The
“Sous Bois” of Cezanne and “Le Chemin”
of Gauguin are peacefully pastoral, and
there’s universal appeal in the four Vuil-
lards—two interiors, in which values are
beautifully balanced, and two big deco-
rative pictures, “Luxembourg Gardens”
and “Square Vintrimilie.” Sickert’s un-
washed “Girl with Red Hair” looks
murder at the rest of the array and
Matthew Smith’s “Landscape of Prov-
ence” proves that a post-impressionist can
get away with murder.
Paris, m’sieu, ees no place zese days for
Les Folies Bergere, an’ eet ees fitting zat
eet come to ze land of —how you say?—
scrumptious gairl. And, m’sieu, at ze
Seedney Tivoli all ze gairl are scrump-
tious. Curves, m’sieu —oo la la! In Paris,
eet ees zometimes cold and ze gairls zhey
have to wear a few zings to keep warm.
But here, m’sieu, weeth ze mild climate,
zat has not been found so necessaire.
In ze Bacchanalian scene, m’sieu, ze nifty
statues holding up ze fountain —if zhey
sneeze, parbleu! zhey would go in ze
nude. And Mo., m’sieu, he have so droll
a way weeth women he should be a
Frenchman. And Dick Bentley, he so
suave, m’sieu, especially in ze bedroom
scenes. But for ze real clevaire turn
Anita Martell, ze juggler, she take —how
you say? —ze scone! And —I marvel,
m’sieu—not only did ze Tiv. go highbrow
weeth ze ballet from “Faust” and ze
quartet from “Rigoletto,” but ze patrons
enjoy it, which make me to hope, m’sieu,
zat ze management will see wheech way
ze straw blows ze wind. Altogezzer,
m’sieu, a show wheech make ze original
Folies Bergere seem like ze church social.
If one of Edith Holmes’s pictures was
hung at a Contemporaries’ exhibition it
would probably pass for a profound
example of the modernist genus. Seen
in the mass at the Kozminsky Galleries,
Melbourne, their faults of execution and
observation are too apparent.
James D. Watson has been showing
oil, water colors and drawings at the
Sedon Galleries, Melbourne. His draw-
ings of life on troopships give as good a
version as any of the official artists have
managed and his Tasmanian landscapes
have considerable vitality.
At the talkies:
“Sons of Anzacs,” seen at Sydney Town
Hall, is a film of this war’s Diggers in action,
the story ably written by A.B.C.’s Chester Wil-
mot and the doings superbly photographed by
Damien • Parer, Frank Hurley, William .Carty,
Frank Bagnall and Roy Driver. There are no
stunts and no cheap propaganda. A topnotch
filming of deeds of the Second A.1.F., from
the first embarkation to recent New Guinea
fighting.
Alfred Hitchcock made a fine suspense him
of “Suspicion”; in “Shadow of a Doubt”
(Victory) he has done even better. Drama of
a handsome strangler of wealthy widows in a
small town to which he goes to visit his ador-
ing elder sister and her family, a niece ferret-
ing out his peculiar activities, it leads to a
spine-chilling climax.
Bewchus Chinese wenches with perfect perms
and Californian University accents crowd
“China” (Prince Edward). With their equally
well-groomed American teacher Loretta Young,
they are shepherded from the invading Japs by
tough-boy Alan Ladd, who finally sacrifices
himself to save the goils and simultaneously
stonker a Nip division. Melodrama, but plenty
of action.
In “Bombardier” (Civic) Pat O'Brien and
Randolph Scott, a brace of he-men warranted
to keep any film lively, run a school for bomb-
aimers, and when the Pearl Harbor gong sounds
they light out pronto for the Yellowbellies’
hunting grounds. Brisk stuff, with a hum-
dinger finale —a realistic bomber attack on a
Jap city. The film seems to have been made
with official blessing; the air-training scenes
are first-class.


f Cm*
JUZ
r
e%Hh
■V
r
-ru
' i ,
liiQj
If
ifr
•;v: : ; ; -'
vi&m.
:>• .
Z-» t-JT)
sWB** y*
■ySP '
/
M
",
: --V :
s
ill
Mi>
r
iH
j
, ,4
rt
a
~N
■2gp\
\
I
m.
wm
m
%Ss|p
U#
f-
r
mm?
44fL
Children! Your old Friend is here. Come
and see him in his Castle. Ride in a Fairy
Coach through beautiful parkland scenery.
He's in his Castle every day from 9.30 a.m.
until I p.m.; and from 2 p.m. until 5.15 p.m.
Saturdays, from 9.30 a.m. until 12 noon.
LISTEN-IN TO THE
FAIRYTALE PANTOMIMES
Sponsored by Anthony Horderns *
Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays
5.15 o'clock Station 2GB
Jack and the Beanstalk - Thursday, 2nd December
Mother Goose Monday, 6th December
Robinson Crusoe - - - Wednesday, Bth December
Sinbad the Sailor - - - - Thursday, 9th December
Bluebeard Monday, 13th December
Goody Two Shoes - - Wednesday. 15th December
Dick Whittington - - - Thursday, ISlh December
Puss in Boots Monday. 20th December
Mother Hubbard - - - Wednesday. 22nd December
Aladdin Thursday, 23rd December
9
i
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


IN BOOB, OUT OF BOOB
By J. B. BLAIR.
IT wasn’t Skeet Twitchell’s fault he got
into trouble over Butch Niblett’s
little in-boob-out-of-boob act. A
chap can hardly be blamed for being
willing to help a mate, and Butch has such
a persuasive tongue. Nor can Butch
really be blamed. After all, he did come
back.
No, it was probably the T.S.M.’s fault
—if he hadn’t put Skeet on guard that
night it wouldn’t have happened.
Butch was in for 28 days, and he had
about reached the halfway mark when
it fell on Sheet’s lot to pad the beat out-
side the boob. Butch was a resourceful
soldier, and he hadn’t wasted the fort-
night. The boob wasn’t exactly an Alca-
traz, and by dint of patient night work
he had managed to loosen some floor-
boards so that he could crawl under-
neath the building. A little more de-
carpentering and the path to freedom lay
open before him. He crawled through
to it.
He paused, gulped and gazed—but not
at the glory of the heavens. His gaze
was directed at the astonished face of
Gunner Twitched, who had just begun
his two hours’ beat-padding.
“I say, Butch, you can’t do that! ” pro-
tested Skeet.
“Why not?” asked Butch. “Free
country, ain’t it?”
“Yes, but”
“S’posed to be fightin’ for freedom,
ain’t we?”
“But, Butch, I can’t let you go. That’d
only put me in. Besides they’d soon find
you, and then you’d get a proper stretch.”
Butch changed his tactics.
“Look here, Skeet. You’re a decent
bloke. Can’t you trust a man? I wouldn’t
put you in, mate. I’ll come back. All I
want’s a few beers. When’s your watch
finish?”
“Ten o’clock. I’ve just come on. But
look here”
“Good. I’ll be back, Dinkum I will.”
“No, Butch. I can’t.”
“ ’Course you can. Did I ever let a
bloke down? I’ll be back. I wouldn’t
put you in for quids. Come on, be a
mate. How’d you like to go without beer
for two whole weeks?”
Skeet shuddered at the thought and
was lost.
Quick to seize his advantage, Butch
touched him for a pound, got ten shil-
lings, once more vowed to be back by ten
o’clock and hastened off into the night,
leaving an agitated Skeet gaping at the
hole in the wall.
The next hour was the longest Skeet
had ever experienced. He paced up and
down his beat, now counting his steps to
keep his mind off his troubles, now won-
dering fearfully whether Butch would be
back before his relief took over the post.
Nine-thirty found him very despon-
dent, and by nine-forty-five he had com-
pletely given up hope. Then he heard
something that signified an end to his
suspense.
THE reason for this sudden climax in
his affairs was the arrival of the
orderly officer on visiting rounds. His
car had pulled up in front of, the guard-
house, the guard had been turned out,
and Skeet knew his first act would be to
go inside to see that all was well in the
boob.
Fortunately, Sheet’s beat was along the
back of the guardhouse. A crazy idea,
a frantic hope, came to him. He would
crawl into the cell, get into Butch’s bed
and feign sleep. There was just a chance
he would get away with it. Then as
soon as the officer left he would scramble
outside again and become once more the
guard.
He propped his rifle against the wall,
slipped off his webbing, crawled inside
and fumbled about in the dark till he dis-
covered a hole in the floor above him.
Just as he was about to climb through
he remembered the gap in the outer wall.
He crawled back, replaced the boards
and made once more for the hole in the
floor of Butch’s cell.
This brief delay proved to be his un-
doing, for just as his head emerged from
the depths his eyes met the startled gaze
of Lieut. Pobjoy, who happened to be
orderly officer that night. Pobjoy was
young and officious and was unpopular
both with the men and his fellow-officers.
“Come out!” demanded Pobjoy. “It’s
no good trying to get away. There’s a
sentry outside.”
Skeet was too scared to realise the
humor of the confident assertion. He
crawled back.
“You were trying to escape! ”
“No, sir, 1”
“Don’t deny it! When I arrived you
were climbing down that hole.”
Sheet mumbled something about a mis-
take.
“Mistake, is it? Well, you’ll have
plenty of opportunity tomorrow for mak-
ing an explanation. Put him in another
cell. Sergeant, and get that hole blocked
up. I’ll continue the rounds.”
He strode out well pleased with his
night’s work, leaving Sheet to meditate
upon the unkindness of Fate and the
ingratitude of Butch.
HOWEVER right Sheet may have been
in his opinion of Fate he was mis-
taken in his judgment of Butch. That
worthy soldier was, in fact, most grateful
towards his benefactor, and was at that
moment standing outside the boob hold-
ing tangible proof of his gratitude in the
shape of a bottle of beer. He had made
good use of Sheet’s ten shillings and his
brief spell of freedom and was truly
tanked.
But where was Sheet? He looked in
every direction. No Sheet.
He swayed towards the spot where his
hazy memory told him the hole in the
wall should be. No hole.
The situation was a nuzzle.
“Mus’ be wrong boob,” he muttered.
He toyed with this thought for a moment,
but was not quite drunk enough to con-
vince himself. Then his eyes lighted on
Sheet’s rifle and webbing.
lust what prompted him to put on the
webbing and pick up the rifle it is impos-
sible to say, but when the orderly officer
came round the corner Butch, with rifle
sloped at a rakish angle, was tramping
Sheet’s beat with an unsteady but deter-
mined tread.
“Who goeshere?” challenged Butch,
bringing his rifle to a position remotely
resembling on-guard.
“Orderly officer.”
“Howsh I know y’re orderly offish . . .
oshiff-ossif? Howsh I know?”
“You should know me, man. I in-
spected you at Retreat.”
“Don’ know y’. Showsh y’r meat
tickets. How do I know y’re not im-
poshter? How do I know?”
“Turn out the guard! ” the orderly
officer ordered in a loud voice, made
more urgent by the dangerous wobble of
the deputy sentry’s rifle.
“You’ll be on a charge sheet for this!”
stormed the orderly officer. “Intoxicated
on guard. Neglecting your duty. En-
dangering Government property. Threat-
ening a superior officer. Conduct preju-
dicial to discipline”
He was interrupted by the arrival of
the rest of the guard.
“Put that man under arrest. Lock
him up. Intoxicated on guard. Neglect-
ing his duty. Endangering”
“Y’ said that before! ” interrupted
Butch.
The sergeant spoke up. He had just
supervised the transfer of Skeet to another
cell, but in the dim light of the boob he
had not noticed the changed identity of
his prisoner. Consequently he was bliss-
fully ignorant that it was Butch whom the
officer was now handing over to him.
“Come on, Skeet. Better not make any
trouble.”
“Who y’ calling Skeet?” demanded
Butch truculently.
“All right. Gunner Twitchell, if you
prefer it. Are you coming or do we have
to drag you?”
Butch’s head was clearing rapidly
under the stress of action, and he had
sense enough to protest no more.
A few minutes later he joined Skeet
in the gloomy cell, while outside in the
guardroom the orderly officer dictated a
lengthy charge sheet, enumerating all
the breaches of A.M.O. and Rs. that
could possibly apply to the two cases.
Sheet’s‘welcome to Butch was milder
than the circumstances would have justi-
fied.
“Nice mess you’ve landed me in for,”
he complained.
“What d’you mean, I’ve landed you
in?” retorted the much-sobered Butch.
“How did you get here?”
Skeet explained.
“Leave it to me,” said Butch; “I’ll
think of something.”
‘ f"THANKS for the beer, Skeet,” said
1 the sergeant next morning when the
guard brought breakfast to the two com-
rades in misfortune.
“What d’you mean?” asked Skeet
surlily.
“The bottle you left outside. You
must’ve had a gutful the way you chatted
Pobjoy. Where did you get it?”
“I didn’t.”
“What!”
“1 didn’t have any beer.”
“Oh, well, if that’s your story, good
luck to you. But it won’t help you much.
Too many witnesses. I for one will have
to admit you seemed drunk. Don’t want
to, but can’t get out of it.”
“I tell you”
“Shush, Skeet!” warned Butch. “Keep
it for the C.O. You can call me as a
witness if you like. I’ll testify you were
sober when you came in.”
“But you weren’t here”
“Shush! Calm down. No use getting
excited. You’ll be all right. Leave it
to me.”
The sergeant turned to Butch.
“You’ll have your work cut out looking
after yourself. Attempting to escape’s
a pretty serious charge.”
Skeet looked bewildered, but Butch
was unruffled.
“Don’t worry about me, Sarge, I can
take care of myself.”
“You’ll need to. Though you’ll have
someone looking after you for a long
time yet, I think.”
He turned to move off.
“But look here” — began Skeet.
“Don’t take any notice of him, Sarge,”
called Butch. “He’s still got a bit of
a hangover.”
SO it came about that Skeet was
charged with being drunk on guard,
neglect of duty, endangering public prop-
erty, conduct prejudicial to good order
and discipline and numerous other
charges arising out of Butch’s hour
among the beer ; while Butch, success-
fully breaking out of gaol, getting drunk,
impersonating a sentry and abusing an
officer, found himself called upon to
answer a charge of attempting to escape
from custody.
Sheet’s case came up first. Carefully
coached by Butch, he said little. After
the charges had been read, the C.O. asked
whether he had anything to say. Skeet
denied that he was intoxicated, and
asserted that he had had no liquor at all
on the fateful night.
The sergeant of the guard testified that
he had posted the accused at 8 p.m.,
accused being then apparently sober. At
approximately 9.55, in response to an
order from Lieut. Pobjoy, he had turned
out the guard and had found the accused
holding the lieutenant at rifle-point. In
his opinion the accused was intoxicated.
•On the orders of Lieutenant Pobjoy he
disarmed the accused and placed him in
custody.
Asked whether he wished to question
the sergeant, Skeet replied “No. But I
wasn’t drunk. I didn’t have a drink all
day.”
Lieutenant Pobjoy was then called.
In response to the usual question, “Do
you recognise the accused?” he began
with a confident “Yes,” but on glancing
at Skeet he gave a start, hesitated and
said “No,” Realising this was not quite
correct he amended to “Er—yes. That
is”
“Come, Mr. Pobjoy,” chided the C.O.
“Make up your mind. Do you recognise
him or don’t you?”
“I recognise him, but there’s been some
mistake. He’s not the man on the charge
sheet. 55
“What’s this? Not the man?” The
C.O. picked up the charge sheet and read
“NX 00472 Gunner J. Twitchell. Is that
you, gunner?”
Skeet admitted ownership of the name
and number.
“Now, Mr. Pobjoy, explain what you
mean,” said the C.O. “This is Gunner
Twitchell! ”
“He’s not the man I arrested, sir. This
man was already in the guardhouse. He’s
the man who was trying to escape.”
“Escape from where? What man was
trying to escape?”
“That’s the next case, sir,” whispered
the orderly-room sergeant.
“Next case! We can only deal with
one case at a time. Explain yourself
more clearly, Mr. Pobjoy.”
Pobjoy was right off balance, and he
replied rather heatedly.
“This is not the man I arrested! This
man was already in a cell, and I had just
caught him attempting to escape!”
“Recall Sergeant Jones,” ordered the
CO.
The sergeant stuck to his opinion that
Skeet was the man arrested, and Pobjoy
was equally certain he was not.
Skeet stuck to his claim of complete
sobriety and total abstinence from liquor
on the day of the charge.
The C.O. decided to adjourn the hear-
ing and proceed with the next case.
THIS time it was Butch whom the
escort marched in. After the charge
had been read, the sergeant identified the
prisoner and testified that, in pursuance
of an order from Lieut. Pobjoy, he had
removed him from his original cell and
placed him in another.
No, he had not actually seen the
prisoner attempting to escape. Yes, he
had seen the hole in the floor. No, he
could not swear that it was newly made,
but he had not noticed it at the com-
mencement of his tour of duty. Yes, it
was possible the hole was already there
but had been concealed.
Butch, asked whether he wished to
question the witness, shook his head.
Lieut. Pobjoy was then called. Before
the C.O. had time to address him he
caught sight of Butch and burst out
“That’s the man! That’s the sentry who
was drunk on guard!”
Butch broke in excitedly, appealing' to
the C.O.
“I say, sir! What’s this? I’m being
charged with trying to skip, aren’t I?
What’s he mean about being drunk?”
The C.O. did not reply directly, but
addressed himself rather, acidly to the
lieutenant.
“Mr. Pobjoy, what are you talking
about? Where are your powers of obser-
vation? Can’t you remember faces?”
“I certainly can!” blustered Pobjoy.
“And I’m certain this was the man who
was drunk. The other man was the man
I caught escaping.”
“Bring back Gunner Twitchell and Ser-
geant Jones,” ordered the C.O.
Re-enter Skeet and the sergeant.
“Now, Gunner Twitchell,” said the
C.O. to Skeet. “You are Gunner Twit-
chell, aren’t you?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Do you know this man?”
“Yes, sir. It’s Butch— er—Gunner
Niblett, sir.”
“Whom do you say it is, Sergeant?”
“Gunner Niblett, sir.”
“And he was in the guardhouse when
you went on duty?”
“Yes, sir. He’d been there a fortnight.”
“One more question, Gunner Twitchell.
Were you on guard last night?”
“Yes, sir ; but I wasn’t drunk,” replied
Skeet.
Pobjoy intervened.
“No, but the other man was.”
“Sir, I was in the boob,” protested Butch
“I’m beginning to think someone was
drunk,” said the C. 0., looking hard at
Pobjoy.
“I object, sir.”
“You object to what?”
“To your insinuation that I was drunk.”
“You forget yourself, Mr. Pobjoy.
Now think clearly. Are you still sure
Gunner Niblett was the allegedly intoxi-
cated sentry and Gunner Twitchell the
man who tried to escape?”
“Certain, sir. They’re working to-
gether, It’s a plot! ”
“The sergeant agrees with them.”
“He’s in it, too!”
“That’s a wild statement, Mr. Pobjoy.
Have you any proof?”
“No, sir ; but”
“Then I must ask you to withdraw it.”
“Very well, I withdraw. But I’m
certain”
“So are the others.”
“I’m sure of the facts, sir. I can’t go
against the evidence of my own eyes.”
“And I can’t go against the evidence
as presented to me, and that is that you
are unable to identify the prisoner you
have laid charges against.”
“But I’m certain”
“Certain enough to stake your repu-
tation —your commission on the out-
come?”
“Er —well. I can’t prove”
“Proof is what I want. On your own
admission you are not absolutely sure.
That will be all, Mr. Pobjoy. I will send
for you later in the day.”
Pobjoy made the last effort.
“Sir, I could almost swear”
“That will be all, Mr. Pobjoy.”
The unfortunate officer walked out.
“You may go, Sergeant.”
The sergeant followed the lieutenant out.
The C.O. turned to Butch and Skeet.
“There’s some big mystery attached to
this, and I’ve a feeling that you two know
all about it. I’m dismissing your cases
for lack of evidence, but I warn you that
if either of you comes before me again,
whether the charge is getting drunk or
trying to escape .or escaping and trying to
get drunk or whatever the charge is,
you’re for it. That is all.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3329.
Wednesday, December 1, 1943.
“BURNING” PROBLEMS.
“The most burning problem of all is the enemy air terror.”—Goebbels, to a meeting of German Youth.
“Vy don’d dey open dair second vront und leafe us alone?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ''Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
CURTIN'S STATE STAG-
NATES.
Except for three depression years, 1930-
33, Westralian Labor has run its immense
State since 1924. At a very belated elec-
tion, twice postponed “on account of the
war,” its term of office has been renewed
for another three years at least. Not
because of its record, which is barren, but
because the distribution of population
and the arrangement of electoral boun-
daries are immensely in its favor.
Had all 50 seats been contested (12
were not, 11 being Labor seats) the party
in office could have won a large Assembly
majority with a minority of votes. As
it was, though on August 21, with the
safety-for-Alfie issue operating, it saw all
its Commonwealth candidates (nine)
elected for the first time, with bushels of
ballot-papers to spare, it failed to poll
nearly a majority of votes in the 38 con-
tested Assembly electorates —'a fact which
emphasises the poltroonery of the U.A.P.,
self-slain because of the Commonwealth-
election figures, in N. S. Wales, and which
should encourage non-Labor parties in
other States with elections coming on.
For electoral purposes the western
State is divided into four districts,
roughly designated Agricultural, Mining
and Pastoral (though nearly all mining).
Metropolitan and Northern. Northern,
with 2850 electors enrolled (going on
actual voting, an exaggeration), returns
four Labor members, of whom two
are Ministers. Mining and Pastoral, with
an enrolment of 27,629, has eight mem-
bers ; seven are Labor, and so was the
eighth for many until the last
Parliament, when an Independent got in
at a by-election. In Agricultural there
are 89,649 electors with 21 members,
mostly Opposition. Metropolitan boasts
155,229 electors, who have 17 members,
10 .being Labor. So Northern members
represent an average of 712 electors,
Mining and Pastoral members one of
3453, Agricultural members one of 4269
and Metropolitan members one of 9131.
In circumstances less outrageous Vic-
torian Labor professes a zeal for elec-
toral reform, but Westralian Labor will
have none of it. How the dice are loaded
against the Opposition two instances will
show. With service votes to come, Mrs.
Cardell-Oliver, re-elected for Subiaco,
had a thousand more than the total
number of electors in the four Northern
divisions. And Mr. Keenan’s incom-
plete vote in Nedlands (7450) was nearly
equal to the total number of electors in
the four Northern and two goldfields
electorates, Magnet (2227) and Yilgarn-
Coolgardie (2670). The oldest member
of the House, he can fairly claim to repre-
sent twice as many voters as six Labor
members, three of whom are Ministers.
When the rolls were made up for the
election of March, 1939, the number of
electors was 265,987, and 142,703 lived
in and about Perth. The electoral popu-
lation of Perth and neighborhood is now
18,500 more than half the total for the
State —275,357. An amazing position for
a province so gigantic and for a
city which, though the seat of gov-
ernment, sheltering many civil servants
(most of them vote Labor), and a
distributing centre with a politically
bloated port, does relatively little in the
manufacturing line —employment in fac-
tories per 10,000 of population is lower
in the West than in any other State. And
the worst of it is that the unhealthy
growth of Perth has been made at the
expense of the rest of the State. While
Perth expands. Rest of State decays.
This has been going on for many years.
In some districts the war, what with
bombings of northern points and removal
of miners from the goldfields by Can-
berra edict, and acts of “God” such as
the long drought which scourged the pas-
toral industry, have accelerated the pro-
cess, but it was in operation long before.
The drought, particularly severe in the
once-thriving north-west, is reckoned to
have caused a loss of £10,000,000 to
owners or lessees of 400 pastoral prop-
erties. Being “squatters,” they have re-
ceived precious little consideration from
the Administrations at Canberra and
Perth. “Under the present Income-tax
Act,” said Mr. Watts, the Country-party
leader, “they are denied the recouping of
their heavy drought losses. In effect,
they are paying taxation on lost money;
and to a degree the same principle applies
to all other rural industries.”
These words were uttered in the course
of an unusually able policy speech, full
of arresting facts, trenchant though im-
personal criticism —parties in Westralia
have never been so savagely divided as
they are in N. S. Wales —and constructive
proposals. Nearly all the Westralian
farmers are clients of the State Agricul-
tural Bank. Quoting from Commis-
sioners’ reports, Mr, Watt said that “dur-
ing the last 11 years 3600 Agricultural
Bank farms have been abandoned,” citing
this deplorable fact as a clear proof of
“rural retrogression,” and of “a Labor
Government attitude which has been re-
actionary rather than progressive.”
Counts of his indictment are appended
in an abbreviated form:
In 1934 the Labor Government extended
the statutory-lien provisions of t'he Agri-
cultural Bank Act, previously covering
growing crops only, to every item of pro-
duction on farms, thus making the whole of
the earnings of an Agricultural Bank
farmer, in the first instance, revenue of
the Crown. The Labor Government has
rejected our several efforts to remedy this
state of affairs. It has also opposed our
proposal that dispossession of any Agricul-
tural Bank farmer should be subject, after
full inquiry, to the order of a resident
magistrate. No private mortgagee whose
security existed prior to 1931 can evict
without a Court order, but the Government
institution is a law unto itself.
Agricultural Bank rates of interest are
5 per cent, and 4| per cent. Failing to
realise the critical state into which the
agricuitui al industries have fallen, the Gov-
ernment has refused requests for a re-
duction to net rates without compound
interest of 4 per cent, and 3£ per cent.
In 1935 the Commonwealth Govern-
ment granted an amount of £1,300,000 to
Westralia for adjustment of rural debts.
Though under no obligation for repay-
ment, the State Labor Government made
the sums advanced a charge on all exist-
ing and after-acquired assets, loading the
industry with a net debt of £1,245,000.
And though a Parliamentary resolution in
favor of the servicing of debts where
farms and pastoral holdings are clearly
unable to provide running expenses, family
maintenance and wages has been standing
in the books since 1941, it has not been
acted upon.
In Perth and other places where wage-
earners are in the majority a Workers’
Homes Board has operated usefully for
many years. But there is no such scheme
for struggling farmers and farm laborers,
many of whom are ill-housed, as also, Mr.
Watts says, are “fettlers, platelayers and
other Government railwaymen employed
at country sidings.” And the country is
not only short of technical schools and
high schools, but primary or “assisted”
schools, where provided, are apt to be
primitive ; indeed, “provision of flyproof
doors and windows, proper desks and
equipment” actually figured as part of
the Country party’s election policy. In
Perth there are fine schools and a noble
university, but for career-seeking boys
and girls there are disadvantages in living
in the country; it is even “difficult for
country children to secure entry into the
public service.” The disadvantages dis-
appear when the family moves into the
city, as so many country families have
done of recent years.
A long-standing handicap to farmers
and obstacle to general progress is the
One Big Port policy. It is of pre-Labor
origin, but Labor took it over, with thor-
ough approval, and since 1924 has made
a welter of it. In all that time only £l3l
has been spent on “improvements” at
Albany, the natural capital of a great
and potentially productive region with a
glorious climate and scenery, into whose
“deep and wide harbor” 16 U.S. battle-
ships steamed in 1907 and from which
36 Anzac transports and three escorting
cruisers set ouf for Egypt on November
1, 1914. As one consequence, “the wheat
grown in the Albany zone cannot be
handled there —no terminals exist,” Bun-
bury has not experienced this studied and
stupid neglect, but, equipped as it is, it
serves only a fraction of the people it
could serve if centralisation were knocked
on the head. Even Premier Willcock’s
own port of Geraldton, though compara-
tively well equipped, suffers, as do the
farmers, from the effects of Perth policy.
A Government railway, built in the hope
of stealing trade from the company-
owned Midland line, which pays taxes
and makes profits, runs from Perth to
Mullewa. In the result traffic carried
to and from the Murchison over the Mul-
lewa line by-passes Geraldton, and, links
between the Mullewa and Midland lines
having been vetoed, there is “great and
unnecessary haulage, in one case amount-
ing to 200 miles, though the actual dis-
tance between points is 21 miles.”
Effects of this narrow city-minded
Laborism show up in the population
returns. “In 33 years to 1924,” said Mr.
Watts scathingly, “the population in-
creased by 380,000. Since 1933, with
development practically at a standstill —
where, I ask you, can we find in this
State factories such as have sprung up
in neighboring South Australia like
candles on a birthday cake? —there has
only been a small natural addition to the
population, about 30,000.” The Com-
monwealth statistician adds to the dismal
story. In 1921-25 and 1926-30 there were
net migration increases of 22,081 and
28,432 respectively. In 1931-35 and 1936-
40 there were net migration decreases of
4793 and 2469 respectively. The loss in
1940 was 3700; and only civil migration
was reckoned in all years. And this in
a frontier State spread over 975,920 square
miles, 32.81 per cent, of the area of the
Commonwealth and its continental terri-
tories. This in the State which the U.S.
Mjnister to Australia, after visiting part
of it and being doubtless informed by
observant Americans of the quality of
other parts, described as “one of the last
remaining land frontiers in the world.”
The part Mr. Johnson visited was the
south-west, to him a country so “wonder-
ful” that he could “visualise the growth
there of two Chicagoes and three Los
Angeles.” Yet, though it has immense
coal beds and a diversity of other re-
sources for supporting a great popula-
tion, together with an unsurpassed
climate, it is without modern water and
electricity supplies.
During the election campaign Mr.
Willcock made no serious attempt to
reply to the Watts survey and indictment.
His party’s election cry was “Vote Labor
again!” and an echo came from Can-
berra, whence Mr. Curtin assured the
electors that “in recent months Mr.
Willcock’s Ministry has been devoting
itself assiduously to the development of
plans for the State’s post-war develop-
ment,” adding that he had “received valu-
able documentation to be placed before
the National Works Council.” The assi-
duity is welcome, if belated, but if the
documentation bears no better industrial
fruit than State Labor’s exertions in 17
years of office it will be rather less valu-
able than a firebrick. Now that he is
safe for another three years Mr. Willcock
might well discuss the “development of
his plans for the State’s post-war develop-
ment” with Mr. Watts. That gentleman
has brought some imagination to bear
on the problems of Westralia, and seems
to have the root of the matter in him,
A Suspended Freedom.
Anyone who studies American news-
papers over a month or two, from those
of New York, Boston and Washington
across to Chicago and the Pacific coast,
must be struck by the wide freedom of
discussion on war topics permitted and
indulged in. There the press interprets
its hardest-won and most vital right as
meaning complete freedom to say almost
anything that does not give definite mili-
tary information to the enemy.
The American press does not publish
lists of transports about to sail or of
attacks about to be made, but short of
that sort of thing it regards itself not only
as not bound to discuss ticklish aspects
of the war but actually in duty bound
to do so. It takes the stand that the pub-
lic it addresses is an adult public that will
react better ip morale and perform better
in home-front production if given the
truest picture possible, and that the more
realism that can be got into the Allied
Nations’ knowledge of each other now
the less likelihood is there of later disil-
lusionment leading to irreparable breaks.
Especially has the notion that Russia
is always right been strongly com-
bated. Russia is given all credit for
its tremendous military role; but no
responsible American newspaper accepts
the thesis that because Russia demands
a certain sort of second front or a cer-
tain sort of order for post-war Europe
such things must necessarily be right
from the American point of view.
That point of view is one thing which
all but a negligible number of U.S. news-
papers hold to in common. Some of
them are anti-Russian to a degree that
those whose knowledge of world affairs
is gained only from the Australian press
would hardly credit. Others are almost
as violently anti - British, even now
missing no opportunity of indulging in
their enjoyed amusement of twisting the
lion’s tail. But in all of them, excepting
only those in the Com. and fellow-
traveller class, the main thing is America s
national interest.
That is to be admired, even when, as
occasionally is true, it is somewhat raw
and blatant. At least the American
press is strongly and faithfully acting its
part as the watchdog of the American
nation. But for the few inconsiderable
exceptions, it believes firmly that the
American nation, despite any faults, is
in the main something worth preserving
in the world. It believes in and staunchly
supports that nation’s existing form of
government. This, it holds in effect, is,
like the nation itself, steadily improving
by a process of evolution, and, while
watchdog is there, is not going to be re-
placed, per revolution, by any foreign
ism that suits the racial character of
some other nation’s people. The cun-
ningly-propagated notion that Russia is
always right provokes much of the criti-
cism of Russia, with the overwhelming
American hatred of Communism a further
potent factor. It was the provocation of
this protest by the New York “Times”:
Critics assume that if there are any flaws
in our present relations with Russia the
fault must all be ours and none of it can
possibly be Russia’s. A great deal of
recent history is brushed airily aside in
order to arrive at this conclusion. The
Stalin-Hit'ler pact of 1939, which really
gave the signal for the beginning of the
war, is explained as a necessary move on
Stalin’s part in order to gain time; but
no similar charity is granted to Mr. Cham-
berlain and M. Daladier for their perform-
ance at Munich. The failure to consult
Moscow regarding the best method of
achieving a foothold on the coast of North
Africa is sharply criticised as an affront to
Russia; but no mention is made of the
consistent failure of Russia to give her
western Allies the slightest information
about her military resources or of the use
she is making of the weapons that' have
been furnished her in such prodigious quan-
tity.
The “indiscriminate and almost hysteri-
cal” criticism of President Roosevelt and
Mr. Churchill when they don’t appear to
be ready to jump through the flaming
hoop whenever M. Stalin tells them to
the N.Y. “Times” criticised as “encourag-
ing the myth that Russia and Russia
alone is always right whatever the point
at issue. Much more serious, it builds
distrust in the purposes of our own
Government.” The more violent Chicago
“Tribune” represents it in these terms:
Americans have cleared the Mediter-
ranean for the British iand have lavished
upon Russia the supplies without which
she would long ago have been brought to
her knees. We have saved Australia and
New Zealand from conquest. It is time
that we got something substantial in return.
“Cleared the Mediterranean for the
British” would appear in the comic sec-
tion anywhere outside Chicago; but
substantially the Americanism of the
“Tribune” is no more and no less the
main plank of policy than with the N.Y.
“Times.” With the few exceptions the
whole American press stands unanimously
on that plank. If holding that stand from
time to time involves frank criticism of
war associates any other considerations
go overboard.
It is necessary to return to the Aus-
tralian scene to find the notion prevail-
ing that ip all circumstances nothing but
blarneying adulation must be expressed.
No matter what the actual position may
be the idea seems to be that honest real-
ism in this and in other war matters is
dangerous in some way or other and
helpful to the enemy. Despite Mr. Cur-
tin’s repeated pronouncements to the
contrary, freedom of discussion is cer-
tainly not here spread to everything
except giving the enemy actual informa-
tion. There is evidence of a prevailing
notion that the Australian public is so
immature and weak-kneed that its morale
has to be coddled with the gentlest pos-
sible reports and comments. Certainly
the difference between freedom of dis-
cussion as now interpreted in America
and Australia is as wide as the ocean that
separates them.
Even at that Americans are not satis-
fied. The statements made by the five
American Senators after their return
from touring the battle fronts were held
to contrast surprisingly with the pap that
Americans had hitherto had served up
to them. The American press defended
itself by declaring that its correspondents
at the fronts hadn’t been permitted to
say what the Senators told. The sup-
posed “secrecy” of the Senators’ reports ■
did not prevent the American newspapers
from fastening on to and widely dis-
cussing such findings of the Senators as
(these finding? are from the authoritative
“United States News”):
Japanese strength is underrated in the
United States. Japanese shipbuilding capac-
ity has been doubled since Pearl Harbor.
Even if Germany should be beaten soon, the
final conquest of Japan looks a long and
costly process. At least two years of fight-
ing still lie ahead, and perhaps more.
The public is not being told enough about
the war’s ugly side. People have no idea
how horrible the fighting is, especially in
the South-west Pacific. They don’t know
that some American detachments have be-
haved badly under fire, or that, after one
particularly savage battle, 400 of 600 sur-
vivors had to be sent to the rear for re-
habilitation. The full story of the battle
for Munda would awaken many who have
been lulled into complacency by glowing
accounts of victories only.
Friction between the services has not
been entirely eliminated. Most soldiers
favor some sort of international policing
to enforce peace after the war, but they
say someone else must do it; they want
to come back home as quickly as possible.
The widespread publicity given in
America to these and the other things
the Senators had to report is a fair meas-
ure of the difference between American
and Australian interpretations of free-
dom of discussion. Nothing like it seems
possible now in Australia. How much
this is the outcome of a different press
outlook and different official outlook has
to be guessed at. A test might be made
by Australia emulating America and
permitting a party of representatives to
tour the fighting fronts on as frank a
fact-finding mission as the American
Senators undertook. The odds are write
your own ticket about their subsequent
reports as published and discussed in
newspapers having the faintest resem-
blance to the American frankness.


PLAIN ENGLISH
War-loan Comparisons.
Mr. Curtin has gone to a great deal of
trouble to “explain” why subscriptions
to Canadian war loans are far greater,
not only in number but in proportion to
population as well as in money raised,
than subscriptions to Australian war
loans. The “explanation” may soothe
Cabinet and Caucus and the vast army of
non-subscribers, scores of thousands of
whom neglected the Fourth Liberty Loan
for lotteries and horse and dog gambling ;
but it will satisfy no subscriber, nor any
fighting man who feels that home-
fronters should really “back the attack”
by lending at interest while he offers his
health and life.
If the comparison with Canada hasn’t
left Mr. Curtin intellectually exhausted,
he might try another. There is the case
of the little Dominion on the other side
of the Tasman, distant from Australia
only a few hours by air, and with an
estimated population, Maoris included, of
1.650.000, compared with Australia’s
7.200.000. This extract is from the Wel-
lington “Dominion” of November 4:
When the people of New Zealand over-
subscribed the recent £35,000,000 loan by
several million pounds, they completed the
greater part of the [war loan] programme
for the current year. The balance made
available in that way was used to reduce
the amount owed to the Mother Country.
Actually, the £35,000,000 loan was over-
subscribed by £4,276,740, and there were
431,839 subscribers, a number which puts
the Australian total of “about” 560,000
(Mr. Curtin’s target was 750,000) to
shame.
The big loan transaction left the sum
of £5,000,000 to be raised during the finan-
cial year to complete the programme. To
enable this to be done, the Minister of
Finance has announced that Government
stock, carrying practically the same terms
and conditions as those of the Liberty
Loan, except that payment by instalments
will not be practicable, will be sold over
the counter. The opportunity offered will
enable all who can to make an investment '
without waiting for a big loan issue, and
the raising of £5,000,000 should present no
difficulty. It will bring to a successful con-
clusion the biggest loan programme in the
history of the Dominion.
In Australia, it is announced, “the next
loan” of “probably” £150,000,000 will
be “launched about March.” As a begin-
ning a severe form of compulsion is to
be applied to “speculators” in real estate,
and there is talk of “severe restrictions
on patriotic and charitable appeals for
public subscriptions.” There is no talk
of compulsion or restrictions in respect
of the orgy of lottery gambling and of
betting on gallopers, trotters, tripehounds,
sailing-boats and so forth.
Useless and Dangerous.
Heedless of the warnings of Isaac Isaacs
and those other wise and patriotic Aus-
tralian Jews who think with him, a Mel-
bourne meeting of Jews and Gentiles
demanded the withdrawal of the British
White Paper, issued in just fulfilment of
the terms of the Mandate, and “the open-
ing of the gates of Palestine to Jewish im-
migration.” The meeting was sponsored
by a certain Jewish Youth Council. Pro-
tests brought the defiant reply that the
resolution was in keeping with one
“unanimously carried at the Zionist Con-
ference held in Sydney last May, and
attended by delegates from every State
and New Zealand,” and that it had the
support of “eminent statesmen, church
leaders, scholars and writers throughout
the British Empire and America.”
During the same week there were riots
in Tel Aviv in which 11 British police-
men and 21 Jews were injured. Accord-
ing to a British United Press correspon-
dent, “the clashes resulted from demon-
strations against the suspension of
Hebrew newspapers and protest meetings
on the Lebanese crisis.”
The police drew their batons to dis-
perse a mob attacking Government offices
and Jewish guards. Boys, after climbing
the roofs of the Government offices, set
fire to three rooms by throwing lighted
petrol-soaked bags. There were baton
charges after a mob attacked the police,
a stone injuring seven policemen. One area
was later cordoned off by troops.
Well might the former Governor-
General say, in asking that the Melbourne
meeting be called off, that if the inten-
tion was to “follow the peremptory
demand of the Zionist Conference at
Sydney,” it would be “playing with
dynamite.”
Zionist agitators in these parts are ob-
viously in close touch with their con-
geners in the U.S.A. Those worthies are
not only demanding the enlistment of
“an army of Palestine and Stateless Jews,”
but are suggesting to the Arabs in Pales-
tine that they should remove themselves
to Mesopotamia. The Arabs in Palestine
(nearly a million ; more than twice the
number of Jews), as well as the Arabs in
Transjordan, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Egypt
and other parts of the Arab world, have,
of course, other views.
There would be a rare old flare-up in
the Arab world if any of the Zionist pro-
posals were adopted. None of them will
be, but it is astonishing that there should
be Jews and Gentiles in these parts who
think that the, British Government can
be coerced into taking the deadly risk
of adding another and most difficult war
to the two in which the Empire is already
engaged, and the horrors of which they
have been spared.
On the Farm Front.
According to Army Minister Forde the
release of soldiers for farm work was
“gaining impetus” last week. Apparently
it’s been doing that since October, when
it was announced that 20,000 men would
be released, though said impetus wouldn’t
raise the dust on a Bogan road.
It’s come out that the thing has been
harnessed to the usual sub-committees —
the Prime Minister mentioned two —and
that joint reports were to come to Mr.
Curtin from Mr. Forde and Mr. Hollo-
way and from Mr. Holloway and Mr.
Makin. How Mr. Ward and Mr. Calwell
missed out is a matter that, doubtless, will
be looked into —by a sub-committee.
Meantime, few of the released (if any)
can possibly get to the wheat country in
time for the harvest, and whether any of
them gets into the orchards for the stone-
fruit season is problematical. There is
no certainty that, having been released,
the men will go to farms. If they choose
to go to other and higher-paid jobs all
they need fear is liability to Army call-up
again. Should they get into a protected
undertaking or into another branch of
the services—or should any of them by
chance or skill become union secretaries
or organisers—it will be interesting to see
what the Army can do about it.
Obviously the thing won’t and can’t
work. A much better idea would
have been, first, to comb the A.M.F. and
the C.C.C. for farmers’ sons, with the
object of sending them home, and next
to follow the English example and make
troops in camp liable to do harvest and
other urgent farm work as part of their
military duties. But perhaps ideas like
that are too simple for the doctrinaires
trying to run this country.
South Australian Coal.
Announcing that his Government was
going ahead with its plans for the Leigh
Creek coal deposits, Premier Playford
said that Leigh Creek coal would be on
sale in Adelaide in January at 255. a ton
in truck lots. He added that B.H.P. had
undertaken to conduct tests with pulver-
ised Leigh Creek coal, and he was con-
fident the tests would dispel doubts.
Then he said curious things about the
attitude of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which at first was rather enthusiastic.
The Commonwealth Government prom-
ised its entire support. Its geologist (Dr.
Raggatt) reported favorably on the field.
The Commonwealth railways agreed to
transport the coal at a “very reasonable
rate.” A defence priority was given, also
assistance in the getting of plant. The
Commonwealth Government told us it
would use the coal in a power-alcohol dis-
tillery it proposed establishing in S.A. Be-
fore the Federal election the P.M. received
a suggestion for financial help in a “most
sympathetic manner.”
There was a “sudden and drastic”
change:—
The Minister of Supply said the coal
would not be used in the distillery. His
Government said it would give no financial
aid nor make a technical officer available.
It quoted its Controller of Electricity Supply
as saying that S.A. coal could not be used
immediately in substantial quantities; the
same gentleman, when a member of the
State Electricity Supply Committee,
“strongly supported” opening up the field.
The S.A. Premier “cannot believe” that
the belated objections raised by Canberra
“constitute the real reason for the changed
attitude.” Certainly if they are sound
now they were equally sound when Can-
berra was supporting the venture. There
is a suspicion in Adelaide that the power
of the N.S.W. Miners’ Federation has
been exerted in this direction as well as
in others, and if this is unjust it should
be exploded with no loss of time.
Two Sorts of Aid.
As well as financing the costliest war in
history, subscribing immense sums for
the replacement of warships and ’planes
associated with patriotic cities and towns
and supporting a vast number of poli-
tical exiles the Britons have raised
£4,000,000 for Russian aid. Mrs.
Churchill, who is president of the fund,
has testified that a great deal of the
money has come from workers paying in
weekly. Let’s see, how much did the
N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee have left
over for Russian aid after it had laid out
£2lOO-odd on office and travelling ex-
penses, “functions,” Christmas cards,
“literature and propaganda,” notably
the lucubrations of Comrade Rupe Lock-
wood, Miller of the Rugby League and
other authors more or less eminent?
Eighteen pounds!
“GATHERING IMPETUS.”
“Replying to bitter complaints of delays in the promised release of 20,000 soldiers for farm work, Mr. Forde declared that ‘the Government scheme was gathering impetus.’”
The grand' old Duke of Capricorn
Had twenty thousand men.
He marched them round and round the crops,
Then marched them round again.


ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
r
p
£ ‘i
»
■I
&
d
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
, Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on -without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age . If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost! #
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., L.td., com-
menced paying Bonuses out erf Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office; A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace Perth
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
POLITICAL POINTS
Ward’s opposition to the appointment
of a royal duke as G.-G. was talked out
at a Cabinet meeting. There is still time
for the objection to be raised that the
royal duke has no union ticket.
The antics of the U.A.P., the “Liberal
Democrats” and the “Commonwealth
party” in N.S.W. became more absurd
than ever when for some reason or other
the Liberal Democrats whirled themselves
away from the other two and the other
two took the name of “Democratic
party.” The Liberal Dems, now protest
that the Dems, caught them bathing and
walked away with their clothes.
Wells, the Communist president of the
Miners’ Federation, lays down the law
relating to workstoppers — i.e., his mob’s
law:
If the Government fines men, that is the
Government’s business. If it tries to collect
the fines by garnishee, that is our business.
The central council will not tolerate the
garnisheeing of miners’ wages to recover
fines imposed for absenteeism.
This is union larrikinism in the most
brazen form that union larrikinism has
ever taken in this country or any other.
In its closing years the Stevens Govern-
ment did two good things: made pro-
vision for a fine new public library in
Sydney and passed a Free Libraries Act.
“Opening” the already-open library last
week, McKell announced that municipal
councils might now obtain funds under
the Free Libraries Act. He complained
that few had applied. Probably the rest
had forgotten all about it. Four years
had passed since the bill became law, and
the McKells were too busy “rehabili-
tating” that “good and useful sport” dog-
racing, by means of a Greyhound
Control Board, and setting up a Turf
Club, with a mission to give Sydney the
“finest racecourse in the world,” Govern-
ment guaranteeing the funds, to bother
about things like libraries,
Geelong, “Sleepy Hollow” still to
spiteful city chaps, woke up the other
day when the rumor got around that a
horde of strange dictatorial persons was
invading it. But it was only the Com-
monwealth Housing Commission, the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Commis-
sion on Social Security, the Common-
wealth War Workers’ Housing Trust, the
State Development Committee and the
Victorian Slum Reclamation and Hous-
ing Commission making inquiries on the
same subject. They all asked the same
people the same questions and departed.
In a characteristic study in general
invective, the Chicago “Tribune” struck
heavily at the London “Daily Mail,”
which it accused of having caricatured the
five Senators recently in Australia as
“five monkeys,” and blamed the British
Government. The “Tribune” allowed
that. Communist papers excepted, Britain
is “not afflicted with newspapers that
place the interests of other nations above
those of its own.” Turning on “the
shock-troops” of “American Communist
and fellow-traveller organisations,” it
dismissed them as “the most contemptible
lot of blackmailers and libellers who have
ever broken into print in this country.”
Trainless days in Adelaide:
Going to Adelaide for a series of engage-
ments, one of which was to hand Sergeant
Kibby’s V.C. to his widow, Lord Cowrie, V.C.,
was innocently involved in a very ugly busi-
ness.
As the official party stood on the station
platform a porter was heard to say, “in a loud
voice and a disparaging manner,” “They ought
to turn a machine-gun on the lot of them.”
So a police inspector averred, and he was
corroborated by other police witnesses. Car-
peted, the porter asserted that a sinister con-
struction had been placed on a perfectly harm-
less observation, “It’s a wonder they haven’t
got a machine-gun with it” —meaning the train
or the motor-cycle escort. Perhaps aware
that ferocious pleasantries are rather common
among yahoos subjected to Communist influ-
ences, the Railways Commissioner rejected the
“explanation” and suspended the porter.
Straightway an A.R.U. strike was called, and
for three days it held up suburban and country
traffic and interfered with munitions production.
Meantime a “Man-power officer, on instruc-
tions from the State Deputy Director of Man-
power, following communications from Dr.
Evatt and Minister Holloway,” gave orders
that the porter should be “reinstated, with a
reprimand.” The Commissioner objected, but
an appeal board decided against him. Aus-
“This is one of a special issue of rose-colored glasses for reading war news.”
tralia seems to be declining to a condition in
which laws and manners will be determined
by union nobs, mobs and yobs.
An Australian women’s conference,
headed by the exceedingly well-adver-
tised Mrs. Jessie Street, produced “a
charter” which demands, among many
other costly things, “personal endow-
ment of a minimum of 30s. a week”
for “woman as mother and home-
maker,” to be “paid to her by the
Commonwealth.” That would mean for
a beginning, adding something for cost
of administration, about £120,000,000 a
year, roughly nine times the income-tax
revenue of the Commonwealth in 1938-39.
Where the money is to come from the
charteresses did not say. As a great con-
cession, they will leave that to the brute
man.
Returned from his world tour of
American battle stations, New Guinea
and the Solomons included, the Republi-
can Senator Lodge, who has seen active
service in this war, said that refusal of
bases in Siberia would mean death for a
million American fighting men. Argu-
ment “about it and about” has been
raging ever since. “American observers
in Russia,” quoted by the secretary to
the Institute of Pacific Relations, believe
that Stalin will let the Yanks have
Siberian bases “as soon as they demon-
strate their ability to hold them.”
With tender consideration for the feel-
ings of Dwyer-Gray (rising 74) and
Dicky Darcey (rising 75), Tasmanian
trade-unions rejected a motion that all
politicians should be compulsorily re-
tired at 65. An opponent of the proposi-
tion said that, though a man might be
incapable of physical work at 65, he might
be able to do a day’s mental work. Some
people doubt whether some politicians are
capable of mental work at any age.
If Westralian State politicians had to
retire at 65 there would be painful
gaps in Cabinet, Assembly and Council.
Premier Willcock himself would last only
till August 9, 1944, and Ministers Mill-
ington (68) and Panton (66) would have
to go immediately. Among Assemblymen
who would be obliged to quit are former
Attorney - General Keenan (77), ex-
Premier Collier (70), W. D. Johnson
(71), who was Labor’s first Deputy
Premier, and ex-Senator Teddy Needham
(69); and doomed Ms.L.C. would in-
clude Colebatch (71), ex-Premier and ex-
almost everything else, J. M. Drew (78),
one of Johnson’s colleagues in the original
Labor Ministry, and J. W. Kirwan (74
on December 2), President of the Cham-
ber and first M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie.
Others would accompany them, from the
Council at least.
A trade-union conference in Tasmania,
devoted to the principle of free speech,
free assembly and free choice, has urged
the Government to “repudiate 41 the
National Union of Railwaymen and pro-
hibit Government departments from
dealing with it. Having thus asserted the
rights of free speech, assembly and
choice, it voted for a basic wage of £6
a week.
In a letter to Archie Cameron the
Prime Minister said that 153 Commoners
and 167 Lords had served with the
British forces in the war, 12 Commoners
and 17 Lords having been killed by enemy
action. Nine members of the Common-
wealth Parliament “are in uniform in
various capacities and two others have
served in the forces.” The only casualty
is Blain, the only member without a vote,
Only one Communist contested a West-
ralian Assembly seat as such in
suburban Maylands. There will be no
refund of his deposit.
There is to be a soil-erosion research
station at Albury, “covering an area from
the border to Cowra.” Beyond the
border is “foreign,” like Q., W.A. and
Tas. lotteries.
As a result of the recent “off-year”
U.S. elections there are now 26 Republi-
can Governors, 26 out of 48 ; and that
looks bad for Roosevelt’s chances of get-
ting Congressional majorities at next
year’s elections, even if himself re-elected.
But unless Dewey makes a meal of re-
peated pledges he will not have that
bright young man as an opponent; after
the election of the Republican Hanley
for a death-caused vacancy as Lieut.-
Governor of New York (the voting was
Hanley 1,841,000 and Haskell 1,168,000,
with 324,000 votes for an A.L.P. candi-
date), Dewey said again “I am not and
shall not become a candidate for the Re-
publican nomination.” New Republican
Governors who unseated Democrats are
Edge (New Jersey) and Willis (Kentucky).
At the beginning of the German war
there were 47,073 Commonwealth public
servants, of whom 32,459 were per-
manent. When counted last month there
were 38,108 permanents, the total being
88,019. Commonwealth Government rail-
wayman and the like and State public
servants and other Government em-
ployees are additional, as also are men
and women in the fighting and auxiliary
services aijd the Civil Construction Corps.
On June 15, 1941 (the Commonwealth
Year-Book does not carry the story be-
yond that date), there were 448,814
names on Government, “semi”-Govern-
ment and local-Government payrolls.
A belated explanation of the 1942-43
loss of £10,824 on the State Government-
run coalmine at Lithgow is that it was
“caused by absenteeism.” It is a bad
year in company-owned Collie (W.A.)
mines when the men don’t work 300
days; in this “nationalised” Lithgow
show there were 23 working days.
Partly for lack of Lithgow coal, the State
Railway Department, the principal buyer,
has had to hack services right and left.
Mussolini to Emil Ludwig, 1932; —•
As a matter of civil duty, I defend the
throne; but at the same time I have a
great admiration for the King. I regard
him not only as a patriot but also as a
highly cultured individual.
Mussolini to the world, September, 1943:
The King knew himself found out but
failed to resign. He can and must be
brought directly to account. His heir
took over command of the southern army
but never appeared on the battlefield. His
dynasty represented the centre of defeatism
and anti-German propaganda, though he
himself declared war. I accuse the King of
betraying Germany and continuing to deny
even after the signature of the Armistice
that such negotiations were in existence.
Pity Zola couldn’t have returned to the
world long enough to hear Musso. in his
“I accuse” act.
“The policy of insurrection, which aims
at the overthrow of the people’s political
power, the policy of land confiscation,
the policy of Communist propaganda
shall be disowned and discontinued.”
Anti-Communist resolution to be dis-
cussed at the Federal A.L.P. conference?
No ; a Chinese Communist pledge, quoted
at Chungking in September by Chiang
Kai-shek, with the intimation that it had
not been kept. The generalissimo and
president added that he hoped the Com-
munist party “will abandon its policy of
forcefully occupying our national terri-
tory” and cease to “assault national
Government troops in various sectors,
thus obstructing the prosecution of the
war.”


(ytlortdo
Gold Medal
PERSONAL ITEMS
The returned Digger from the last war
who, when asked where he stayed when
in London, said that he had the run of
Buckingham Palace has a successor in
this war, and in this case it isn’t just a
kangaroo farm furphy. Flight-Sergeant
Ormond Roy Rogers, of East Kew, Mel-
bourne, between making sorties on Berlin
as mid-gunner of a Lancaster bomber, has
visited the royal residence a dozen times,
has frequently sipped tea there and in-
spected every corner. The Royal Family’s
head butler, Walter Edgecumbe, happens
to be his uncle.
Victorian Governor Sir Winston
Dugan, whose term has been extended
another year, has served in two wars and
in some of the most celebrated regiments
of the British Army. Son of an Irish
M.A., he was educated at Lurgan Col-
lege, entered the army at 19 and four
years later was garnering South African
War medals. In 1916 he was a brigade
commander, emerging from his second
war a brevet lieutenant-colonel, C.M.G.,
with numerous mentions in dispatches.
A.A.G. Southern Command in 1926 and
A.D.C. to the King two years later, he
came to Australia in 1934 as Governor
of S.A. and in 1939 was appointed to the
Cabbage State.
, Two M.L. candidates were turned
down, also an Irishman and a Canadian,
in picking a successor to late Professor
John Dickie, Knox Theological Hall,
Dunedin (M.L.). Preference went to Rev.
John Henderson, M.A., Ph.D., St. Mar-
garet’s, Edinburgh. Australians apparently
didn’t want the job of spreading John
Knox’s tenets; there wasn’t a solitary
application. The new professor was in
business till 25, when he took up uni-
versity study and forged ahead. He won
several scholarships and had a year in
Germany under Professor Heim at
Tubengen and Professor Barth at Bonn.
Back in Scotland he received a doctorate
of philosophy in the Faculty of Divinity
at Edinburgh Uni, He’s 45, married, with
no family.
Three veteran members of S.A. Leg.
Council are retiring. David Gordon, the
President (who was chief-of-staff on the
old “Register” before he went into poli-
tics), has 31 years of service, Cowan 34
and George Ritchie actually 41. But none
of them approaches the length of ser-
vice of Lancelot Stirling, Gordon’s pre-
decessor in the President’s chair.
Australia never seems to run short of
brilliant singers. Since his return to Mel-
bourne with a London reputation, Arnold
Matters has been adding cubits to his
artistic stature with one of the finest bass
voices heard since veteran Horace
Stevens vacated the concert platform.
After attracting the. attention of that
eminent judge Nellie Melba and cleaning
up most of the big local prizes, Matters
went to London in 1929 and quickly
worked his way as soloist into the famous
choir of Westminster Abbey. His was
one of the Australian voices raised there
at the coronation of George VI. He
resigned to go in for concert, opera and
oratorio, and has sung under such baton-
wielders as Beecham, Woods, Coates and
Weingartner. At Sadler’s Wells and
Covent Garden Matters was a leading
Wagnerian singer.
Operation by wireless:
Pilot-Captain John Douglas Lundie, of the
Port Phillip Pilot Service (he has passed on
at 47 at Geelong), was a leading character in
a surgical sea saga of the run from Auckland
to Suva. His captain becoming seriously ill,
Lundie called up a warship and asked for in-
structions from the surgeons. Told that an
operation offered a possible chance for the
patient, Lundie got to work with a razor and
the captain recovered. It is claimed to have
been the first operation of its kind to be per-
formed at sea under wireless direction. Captain
Lundie was a specialist in life-saving; he saved
many from drowning when he was an officer
on various Union ships. At 23 he was the
youngest man to hold the Extra Master’s
certificate in Australian waters.
Frank Moody, the tall and tactful ad-
vertising manager of Vacuum Oil in
N. S. Wales, who has been appointed
Associate Liaison Officer for the Anzac
Division of the British War Relief Society
in the U.S.A., is one of the select band of
Australians who served with Uncle
Sam’s forces in the last war. He lived
many years in the U.S. without acquiring
an accent and without burning out his
superabundant energy. The U.S. organi-
sation which he will now help to repre-
sent is made up of 800 Australians and
Maorilanders and former American resi-
dents of “Down Under” who have poured
ambulances, medical and dental supplies,
recreation and movie facilities, cigarettes,
Christmas hampers and prisoner-of-war
parcels and entertainment of men on leave
in America into the laps of Australian
war funds to the tune of nearly £lOO,OOO.
In 1943 they have budgeted to contribute
£65,000.
Having known Ivan Menzies to answer
the “Speech, speech” clamors of Gilsulli-
van addicts at curtain-time with a brief
address on the Oxford Group, The Bul-
letin wasn’t surprised when the current
Jack Point strolled in with a cable
telling of the death at Odense, Denmark,
of Fredrik Ramm, editor of the Nor-
wegian newspaper “Morgenbladet” and
one of the leaders of the Oxford Group
in Scandinavia, The Nazis took Ramm
from Norway in 1941 and sent him to
a concentration camp-in Hamburg with-
out trial on a charge of pro-British acti-
vities. Six months ago Ramm developed
tuberculosis. The Nazis offered him
better food with less rigorous conditions
if he would make munitions for them.
Ramm refused and was instantly placed
in solitary confinement. This was, in
effect, a death sentence. Ramm repre-
sented the world’s press when he flew
with Amundsen over the North Pole in
1926 in the airship Norge. Subsequently
he attended the World Assemblies of the
Oxford Group at Oxford and Interlaken,
Switzerland.
Frith mentioned the current Jack Point
to J.C.W. g.tn. Harald Bowden and
struck a spark of enthusiasm. The g.m.
holds Menzies one of the best things that
ever happened to Gilsullivan, and Bow-
den speaks with authority. Not only has
he had 30 years with the Tails g.m.
since 1934 and house-managing various
J.C.W. theatres and representing the Firm
in N’Yark and elsewhere before that —
but he himself wore Jack’s motley back
in the days when the Petersham Choral
Society was a musical power in the land
and when Gilsullivan was a regular offer-
J.C.W.’s G.M.
ing of such societies. Bowden never
walked the professional boards, but, going
abroad, began looking after those who
did when he got the job of treasurer at
London Cri. N. S. Wales-born —a neatly
dapper Cornstalk who was educated at
St. Andrew’s College, Sydney, and no
doubt looked even nattier'when he sang
in the cathedral choir—he came back
intending to look after a Lauder tour,
but the Taits engaged him to manage
John McCormack instead. Since then
he has had a managerial eye on pretty
well every front-rank artist who has ap-
peared in Australia. He rates Emilie Polini
the greatest; but he has a special niche
in his memory for a party that many will
have forgotten—a magician turn with the
magnificent bill title of Leroy, Talma and
Bosco.
Looking after the longest line of com-
munications in Australia, Lieutenant-
Colonel W. G. (“Old Bill”) Haylock has
his h.q. in S.A., where he first saw the
light 56 years ago. Like so many more
LIEUT.-COL. “OLD BILL" HAY LOCK.
of them, he started off as a schoolteacher,
after eight years of it joining the army as
a field artillery instructor (the school-
masterly command of maths, is . a great
asset in this sort of business). He’s been
in the army ever since—34 years. In
1914-18 he went as adjutant to the
Eighth F.A. Brigade, and later com-
manded a Third Divvy heavy trench
mortar battery. He has beaten the record
of his W.O. father, who was with the
Adelaide militia artillery for 33 years.
A Westralian racing man:
A native of the little hamlet of Gingin,
made famous by Gordon, V.C., Albert
Edward Cockram, of Mt. Lawley (W.A.),
accumulated plenty of this world’s goods in
cash, horses, livestock, coalmining and real
estate. He never sought the limelight, but
a lot came to him. Cockram owned two
metropolitan racecourses, Belmont Park and
Goodwood, having had the foresight to see
that what was deemed some 40-odd years ago
to be just a swamp island near Perth could be
converted to good racing tracks. John Wren
leased both courses, but of recent years they
have been under Cockram’s control. It was
claimed some years back that’ Cockram had
imported more racehorses into Australia than
any other man. Himself a good judge of the
thoroughbred, he employed other good judges
(one was Mick Ferry, who predeceased him)
as buyers. His sires included Peter the
Hermit, Contino, lan Or, Cooltrim, The Ver-
derer, Satelles, Sea Crest, and, in later years,
Camelhair, Melting Point and Sansofine. Rebus
and Quinologist were two fine racehorses
brought to Australia by Cockram. Rebus won
the Sydney Cup of 1918, lan Or a year later.
Quinologist won the Metropolitan of 1916, and
Rebus won it in 1919. The nearest Cockram
got to a Melbourne Cup win was in 1924,
when Brown Rajah finished fourth. Cockram
also imported most other kinds of stock to
Australia; he was one of the first to bring
out Dorset Horn sheep for the early-lamb trade.
One of his sons, Claude, a fine amateur rider,
won the W.A. Railway Stakes for his father
in 1911 on Apple Charlotte, a mare brought
from England.
A new chair of classics at Turkey’s
University of Istanbul gets a Maori-
lander, Roland Syme, son of Eltham
(N. 1.) residents, as occupant. A Fellow
of Trinity College, Oxford, and a master
of languages, Syme had served under the
segis of the British Embassy at Istanbul
in several of the Balkan countries for the
past three years. x
When he was a brigadier Major-
General Savige (B. 24/11/’43) was com-
plimented on his brigade by a fellow-
brig, “You’ve good reason to be proud
of your 17th, Stan,” the fellow-brig, told
him. “They’re fine,” admitted Savige.
Then he added thoughtfully: “But many
of them can’t swim.” Savige’s enthusiasm
for leam-to-swim saved many A.I.F. lives
in the subsequent fighting.
“Lao-dah” on a 8.F.:
The excitement in England over the release
of Sir Oswald Mosley strikes me as superfluous.
The man who so humorlessly gave the ribald
an opportunity when he coined a title for his
“movement” with the initials was a
figure of fun rather than a force. His incar-
ceration, if it did anything at all, served only
to endow him with a spurious importance.
People very seldom take seriously a person
whose significance depends not on his own
uniqueness but on the individuality and exploits
of some other person, especially if the other
person belongs to another country. Mosley
served in France in the Great War, became
Unionist M.P. for Harrow; then, like many
English aristocrats before him, became a Labor
M.P. In 1929 he was made Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster, but resigned because he
disagreed with the Government’s unemployment
policy.
David Rivett, deputy chairman of the
C.5.1.R., has had from Moulmein, Burma,
a postcard from his son Rohan Rivett,
who escaped to Java after Singapore, but
then fell into Jap hands. Rohan Rivett
was on Melbourne “Argus” staff.
An Australian church record of
children following pa’s footsteps could
be claimed at the golden wedding of
Archdeacon and Mrs. H. S. Begbie in
Sydney the other day —four sons are
parsons, three of them chaplains in the
forces, three daughters are married to
clergy and three have been missionaries.
One of the R.A.A.F.’s most brilliant
pilots, Squadron-Leader R. F. Goon, got
his first taste of flying in China in 1937
with a cosmopolitan group, including
Russians, Americans and foreign-born
Chinese, all volunteers. They harried the
early Jap Zeros round about Shanghai.
In 1938 Goon returned to Australia, and
when Hitler erupted joined the R.A.A.F.
and was an instructor for three years,
one of his pupils being “Bluey” Truscott.
Subsequently Goon served at Darwin and
in New Guinea. He holds what’s prob-
ably a record for swift promotion. He
was a sergeant-pilot for three days, a
pilot-officer in July, 1940, a flying-officer
in January, 1941, a flight-lieutenant the
next year and a squadron-leader in
August this year. Born in Ballarat, he
comes of a herbalist family well-known
in Melbourne.
“The bloke with the concertina,” Ferd
Hoepper, Y.M. welfare officer, lately re-
turned from New Guinea and featured
in 2CH’s “Stars of the Services” pro-
gramme presenting one of his own songs,
composed in honor of the New Guinea
natives, was previously a Salvation Army
officer from Canowindra. He joined the
Y.M.C.A. Welfare Service in 1942 and
served for 12 months in New Guinea,
where he achieved his extended nick-
name while supplying comforts to battle-
weary troops along the Kokoda Trail.
Latest of its best brains to leave Maori-
land is Lucy Cranwell, of the Auckland
Museum. There she has been botanist
since it opened. Prior to that she studied
in Sweden and Hawaii. She had a large
share in the preparation of Food Is
Where You Find It, an excellent guide to
the plants, edible and otherwise, of the
Western Pacific. Issued to the forces in
that area, this booklet has already been
the means of saving many lives. The
lady goes to the U.S.A., having married
Major S. W. Smith, in peace-time archae-
ologist at the Peabody Museum.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 83, ex-Senator and old Labor
pioneer Arthur Rae. Once he was sentenced
to two and a half years’ gaol for taking a hand
in a shearers’ strike, and did four weeks of
it before he was let out. He had several Par-
liamentary terms. Elected to the State
Assembly in 1891, he was there for three years.
Sixteen years later he went to the Senate, this
time for four years. He was re-elected in
1928, but was defeated six years later.
Originally a Maorilander (b., Christchurch), he
was one of the Shearers’ Union’s foundation
members.
Though he has passed on in Sydney, Louis
Esson was best known personally as a literary
figure in Melbourne, one of the best-known
and best-liked of his generation. Poet, play-
wright and critic, his most important product
was probably the short play “Dead Timber.”
As well, he wrote two books of verse. A Scot,
born at Edinburgh, he came to Australia as
a child and was educated in Melbourne. Sub-
sequently he went abroad, working as a journa-
list in America and as a dramatic critic in
London, and in Dublin taking a hand in Abbey
Theatre productions with Yeats and Synge. He
was 64 at the end.
In Adelaide, at 73, Walter Daniel Bruce,
former State Chief Inspector of the Fisheries
and Game Department. After retiring (1936)
he pioneered at Blanchetown the tagging of fish
to determine migration and grftwth.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“O’Sheol”: The Earl of Sandwich
started more than he bargained for when
he slapped a hunk of meat inside two
slabs of bread and sank his teeth into the
result. The variety of sandwiches today
is bewildering. held
the field but a little while when they were
displaced by “toasted specials.” Then
the “open” sandwich became the rage,
arid last week I struck a menu which
said “Today’s Special: Pasty-Pic-Purle,
Fried.” This, I discovered, consisted of
fried bread slices heaped with paste,
pickles and barley. But even more in-
teresting than the constitutents of sand-
wiches is the pronunciation of the word
by milk-bar girls. I’ve heard the viand
referred to as a “sangrich,” a “sammich”
and a “sandrich.” Some of ’em are a bit
gritty, at that,
* * * *
“Keel Haul”: The 80-year-old Sydney
Sailors’ Home is doing a grand bit of
work in a quiet way in these days. What
with the big increase in shipping in and
around Sydney and the large numbers
"....And I say it's my turn to pin the medal on!"
of seamen from the merchant marine
passing through, the Home, which finds
accommodation for over 4000 men a
year, is flat out to handle the demands
made upon it. A big factor in its work
is the care of shipwrecked men. The sea
is sending ashore some pretty problems
these days, but the Home takes them as
they come, and men innumerable can
thank it for relief and refreshment after
hard and dangerous service. It was
founded by good-hearted citizens with
the intention
to provide seafaring men, when ashore,
with a real home, where good accommoda-
tion could be obtained at a reasonable cost
and to give help to sailors who are in
difficulties.
It is doing that, and more, and it needs
£5OOO for extensions to meet an increas-
ing demand. There is to be a “Sailors’
Day” on 21/1/ ’44, when the public will
get a chance to help this and other deserv-
ing institutions for seamen.
* * * ♦
“Ek Dum”: In the interests
of history and accurate geo-
graphy somebody should in-
struct those who write dis-
patches about the correct
spelling of New Guinea
names. The distortions which
have become standard in-
clude “Satelberg” for “Sattel-
berg”—German Sattel, a
saddle or a ridge, or, in artil-
lery argot, a limber-bolster,
and Berg, a mountain. Offi-
cial maps spell it correctly.
Also, they spell correctly the
Sang River, which every
communique and newspaper
article insists on spelling
“Song”—with the notable ex-
ception in both cases of the
careful N.Y. “Times.” The
maps themselves are some-
times off the track. The
Maclay Coast, for instance,
is named after an enterpris-
ing Russian Cossack, Count
Mikhulo-Maklay, a colleague
of Haeckel, who was discov-
ered by several astonished
brown brothers sitting on a
beach in Astrolabe Bay in
1871, thus becoming the first
white resident in those parts. He was
a descendant of one of the many Scots
who migrated to Russia in Peter’s day,
among them Cameron, the architect of
the Tsarkoe Selo. Maklay returned to
his native land to advocate the, annexa-
tion of his discoveries when, in 1872, the
Tsar actually sent a warship to look for
him. He had been found in good health,
if somewhat round-eyed at the discovery
of the tree-climbing kangaroo. He re-
tired later to Sydney, married a Sydney
girl and died all too early at 42 in 1888.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I suppose it’s true in the
main that the names of notorious
criminals, such as highwaymen and bush-
rangers, survive while those of the
guardians of the law who eliminated
them perish (B. 24/11/ ’43). But there
are some notable exceptions. For in-
stance, in the chronicle of the exploits of
“Billy the Kid,” a representative Ameri-
can desperado of the early ’eighties and
the obvious prototype of more than one
youthful criminal in O. Henry stories,
Sheriff Pat Garrett, who eventually “did
in” the principal malefactor, gets nearly
as much notice as the Kid himself. There
are other U.S. sheriffs, such as Wild Bill
Hickok, who live in story.
“Ek Dum” defends his facts:
“P.1.D.” (B. 24/11/ ’43) is misguided in his
urge to correct my statement that “within a
week or two” (from 3/11/’43) “the monsoon
rains will begin in N. Guinea.” What he says
—that there are only heavy showers in Novem-
ber and the following months —is true only of a
very narrow coastal strip from Finschhafen to
the Markham. In the hill country, a few miles
away, which our boys are penetrating, it is a
very different tale, as it is in the rest of N.G.
In Madang, the objective of the Ramu push,
November is one of the wettest months of the
year, and the rainy season continues until it
dies in April, there the heaviest rainfall month
of any part of the New Guinea Mandate. The
average annual rainfall of Madang is 140 in.
p.a. Rabaul’s rainy north-west-monsoon season
is from November to May, during which the
average fall per month is round lOin.; for the
rest of the year it averages under 4in, At
Wewak, the dry season ends with November
and the wet" season reaches its worst in Feb-
ruary; in Morobe district, November and De-
cember are wet. In New Ireland, the wet
season gets under way in November, and the
dampest period is from January to April.
And “P.1.D.” is wrong about his history of
Finschhafen —Pastor Flierl landed there on July
“A pretty poor lot, mate. If they was mine I'd plough'em in."
hand fell, the middle finger depressed.
As it struck the note a voice from the
back yelled “Got him!”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The term “Liverpudlian”
has* been familiar to me since boyhood,
but like “Camsa” (B. 24/11/’43) 1 never
encountered “Liverpolitan” before. There
is a homelier word than either for a native
of the city in question, i.e., a “Dicky
Sam,” a well-established currency last
century, with nothing invidious about it.
Can anyone supply a reasonable conjec-
ture about its origin?
* * * *
From John Brennan:
Tokyo claimed that Japanese troops had
cornered the American invasion forces on
Choiseul Island. Actually, the Marine Para-
troop group that made the landing was resting-
up back at its base, its mission completed.
The Paramarines were seven days on Choiseul.
Theirs was the first large-scale commando-type
operation in the South Pacific area, and the
“invasion” proved astonishingly successful. It
12, 1886, and made the first settlement at Sim-
bang. And there was no “township” “for some
years before that” —the Germans hoisted their
flag at the Hafen on November 16, 1884, and
there was virtually no settlement at all until
nearly a year later, after the foundation of
the Neu Guinea Co., whose charter bore the
date May 15, ’B5.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A modern medical
miracle is the description given to the
case of Prof. Gye, Director of the
Imperial Cancer Research Council, who,
it is cabled, while suffering from a severe
cold, received a sample of the new sub-
stance petulin, intended for cancer tests.
Petulin, like penicillin, is derived from
fungus. Knowing its anti-bacterial quali-
ties, the professor tried it as a nasal
douche and was completely well next
morning. These seem to be very slender
grounds on which to base a claim that
the cure for the common cold has been
discovered. An enormous number of
similar cases would have to be instanced
before its efficacy could be established.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: A bit more about the
Tasmanians’ bridge over the beauti-
ful Derwent River, Hobart, which,
after 100 years of discussion, is expected
to become available for traffic by
Christmas. They claim that its 4000 ft,
make it the longest bridge in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is not a straight bridge
like its elder brother in Sydney, but
curves in an enormous arc from Gov-
ernment House Point on the Hobart side
to Montagu Bay. This was forced on the
designer by the necessity to avoid deep
anchorages in the shifting mud of the
Derwent. Another unusual feature is a
lift for traffic which involved boring
120 ft. below water level. The whole
layout was designed by A. W. Knight,
Chief P.W, Engineer. He says the idea
came to him when he was lying ill in
hospital in 1935.
♦ * ♦ *
“Bo”: The general taste of the big
camp audience was for something light,
but it followed more or less politely the
evolutions of a pianist who regaled them
with Ravel and Debussy. Soon several
hundred heads and hands were imitating
in unison the pianist’s apparently strange
habit of looking at the bass end while
playing up at the treble end, and vice
versa. Then the pianist threw his imi-
tators into confusion with a brilliant
burst of digital pyrotechnics with his
hands and eyes crossed, coming to a
dramatic conclusion with his hands poised
high above the keyboard. Followed a
pregnant five-second pause, during which
the pianist’s eyes were glued to a parti-
cular treble note. Then slowly the right
was designed primarily to distract the enemy’s
attention from the landings on the Treasuries
and Bougainville and to confuse him as to the
real and important direction of the new Solo-
mons campaign. It achieved just that. The
Marines learned after they had left the island
that the Japanese moved a considerable body of
troops from the southern Bougainville area to
meet their “invasion.”
Apart from its value as a diversion, it was a
successful raid. The paratroops counted 143
Japs they know were killed for the loss of nine
men killed and 16 wounded. They destroyed
oil dumps, ammunition and food supplies and
burned buildings and equipment. At Sangigai
they wrecked the Japanese base and bivouac
area.
From the point of their landing at Vozo they
ranged north and south for 30 miles along the
west coast of the island. Their plan was to
make the enemy believe that they had come
ashore in large numbers. To achieve it they
split into two main groups and operated with
large and heavily-armed patrols. Aided by sur-
prise they were able to hit hard at Japanese
patrols they encountered, and at small enemy
outposts, and then to retire into the jungle
without disclosing their strength.
SIR ORACLE.
I’m Music’s great Sir Oracle. In periods
rhetorical
And figures metaphorical my forthright views
I phrase.
Let no dogs bark discordantly! Right tren-
chantly and mordantly
I deal with those who dare dispute what
Neville Cardus says.
I make my role fulfillable with sounding poly-
syllable,
Quaint terms that need a lexicon their mean-
ing to disclose.
Perusing me, there’s many a one must feel a
doubt if anyone
Can know as much of harmony as Neville
Cardus knows.
I feel myself a dominie selected by Melpomene,
Calliope and Erato, Euterpe too, to spot
In concerts what’s melodious, and what is
simply odious,
Intolerable tosh and unadulterated rot.
Whoever’s on the local list, from organist to
vocalist,
I’ve now and then commended, and about as
often scourged.
To send them of a surety back into that
obscurity
From which in my opinion they should never
have emerged.
From madrigal transmissioners to violin prac-
titioners,
From fugues to oratorios, there’s nobody who
knows
If anything’s applaudable or even faintly laud-
able
Until he learns from Granny how my ipse
dixit goes.
I’m Music’s true Sir Oracle. In fashion alle-
gorical
With modern or historical material I deal,
And either damn it fervidly or butter it re-
servedly,
Convinced from my authority there can be
no appeal.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
THE ROMANY CROOK.
A certain aura lingers round the gipsies,
Though at close quarters in their campfire
smoke,
Or packed in creaking carts or dingy kipsies,
I’ve never found them an attractive folk.
I shouldn’t say they cherished a fanatic
Passion for hygiene. But this I know:
He risks a charge of beetles in his attic
Who lets a gipsy woman bless his dough.
Their very origin is hid in mystery
Which gives them possibly an added claim
To magic gifts. We look in vain to history
To tell us who they are and whence they
came.
A breed apart from all but one another
Like wind upon the heath they come and go.
Deal with them gently but deny them, brother,
The slightest chance to get too near your
dough!
Mistrust the dame who’d kid you she possesses
A power to read your future clear and true,
Such as inspired the Delphic prophetesses,
The Witch of Endor—Mother Shipton, too.
She’s no more title to be ranked a wizard
Than quack astrologers. You’ll find her,
though,
Quick as a snake and slippery as a lizard
If once she gets a dekko at your dough.
Cross with the humble necessary shilling,
If so you must, the palmist’s dusky paw;
I warrant that you’ll find her more than willing
On her inventive faculties to draw.
But oh! beware, young fellow, lest she snuggle
her
Slim form too close. No conjurer can show
Points worth a stiver to a gipsy juggler
In adequate proximity to dough.
So keep a wary eye upon your wallet!
It isn’t second-sight, you understand,
That' qualifies her for her —what-d’you-call it?
Her metier (that’s the word) but sleight-of-
hand,
These age-old tricks the race is aye rehearsing
To practise on the artless Gorgio.
It’s safe to bet he’ll soon himself be cursing
Who lets a gipsy woman bless his dough.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jasby”: On a route march around
Sydney we halted at an old village out
Cowpasturcs way and beguiled the mid-
day spell-oh reading tombstone inscrip-
tions in the cemetery. This soon de-
veloped into a search for the oldest head-
stone—lB4o, 1838 and 1834 were found,
and the last seemed to be the most
ancient. Then someone called “Here’s
an 1832.” A doubting gunner walked
across to check up. He read it carefully,
then announced grudgingly “Yes, that’s
the winner. But he had to die at four to
make it. Shows what lengths some
blokes’ll go to to win a competition.”
$
“Uramao”; Te Awamutu (M.L.) Bap-
tists thought out a new method of cele-
brating the liquidation of a mortgage on
their conventicle. The “rotten parchment
bond with inky blots,” as the Bard hath it,
was carried in, passed round by deacons,
hand to hand, then delivered to the pul-
piteer. The holy man placed it in an
urn and touched it off with a match, the
musty encumbrance went up in smoke,
and the congregation, led by the parson,
sang the Doxology.
* * * *
“Farm Cove”: Wonder how long it’ll
take the soldiers of today to shake off
the officially-enforced reticence of the
war years. Here’s a letter I got yesterday
from an invalided-home Digger : “We’re
living on a bluff overlooking a stretch of
salt water. Can’t get beer, but luckily
the weather isn’t very hot. We’ve been
able to get enough tucker, with a bit of
tinned stuff occasionally, but that’s scarce,
too. Expect to cross the water above-
mentioned, for the north, at a date to
be fixed. Will write again from the other
side. Cheers.” From which I gather that
my pal, who has digs, at Sydney’s Rose
Bay, has at last decided on a long-dis-
cussed removal to Kirribilli.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Recently a Melbourne
daily announced that a distinguished
naturalist had,visited an island sanctuary
not 40 miles from the city and found the
native bears on it dying of starvation. A
pathetic picture was painted of the inno-
cent creatures dropping exhausted from
the barren trees. Followed an inspection
by two more prominent naturalists, who
reported that if the hundreds of koalas
weren’t removed practically all of them
would die within a month or so. Touched
by this propaganda hundreds of well-
intentioned people visited the island at
the next week-end and tied bunches of
gum-leaves to the trees for the benefit
of the koalas. Then along came a
Fisheries and Game Department inspec-
tor. He reported that 170 koalas were
counted and all, without exception, were
in first-class condition, that many were
weighed and turned the scale at the nor-
mal figure and that the large quantities
of gum-leaves left by visitors had re-
mained untouched by the allegedly des-
perate inhabitants. Now I am beginning
to wonder about some of those stories of
starving people in foreign parts.
* * * *
“Schnorrer” The English language
still presents difficulties to my chess-
playing refugee friend, and now and
then he admits it. With a puzzled frown
he said “Now I speak der English veil;
but how would I know dis strong
man? I askers you: Oo dis You-
makum is vot dey talk about; who
he vas is?” I was as mystified as himself
until I heard a Digger talking at another
table. “Those chaps are as tough as you
make ’em—as plucky as you make ’em,
too,” he said. I explained that no hero
of mythology was indicated ; but I think
my friend was disappointed. He would
have liked to preserve the idea that Aus-
tralia had something on the lines of
Thor or Odin.
* * * *
“Infantier”; The newspapers mishandle
the word “blitz.” In Tobruk we dis-
criminated. When a platoon wanted some
fun they would hammer away with every
weapon available at some particular
enemy position. That was “bunging Fritz
a boxer.” Or enemy artillery might
“bung a boxer” on to one of our posts.
But only when a big show was on, involv-
ing all supporting weapons, such as artil-
lery and (for the Germans) dive-bombers
all going eyes out, did we talk of a “blitz.”
* * * *
“F.S.” on a sale of antiques:
Past directors of the Victorian National Gal-
lery bought some queer junk, judging by the
array of bottles, pots, jugs, plaques, ewers,
Chinese josses, pagodas with bells on and what
not put under the hammer the other day by
Leonard Joel. It reminded one for all the
world of the Armenian curio shops which line
the seaboard of Asia, from Aden to Vladi-
vostok, in every one of which the same range
of Brummagem goods repeats itself with mad-
dening monotony. At some period in the in-
stitution’s existence somebody must have gone
mad on Italian majolica, and vases with pink
angels disporting themselves in bowers of
roses must have come to Melbourne in an
endless stream. Not that there were not some
admirable pieces amongst the exhibits, but on
the whole it is a melancholy commentary on
the judgment of past custodians of the national
collection that so much commonplace stuff,
especially from Asia, was bought at a time
when some of Europe’s t greatest artists and
sculptors were at the height of their production.
One of the biggest chances that was lost to the
Felton Bequest was when Bernard Hall went to
Paris and met Rodin. After looking round his
studio Hall asked Rodin how much he wanted
for the head of a Minerva. The greatest
sculptor since the Greeks summed up the
director very quickly and sarcastically told him
the price was so many thousand francs for
the head with casque and so many without
casque. “I’ll take it without the casque,” said
Hall. And that’s how Melbourne acquired the
famous “Minerva sans Casque.”
“Melbn”: Touching the craze for buy-
ing at auctions in Melbourne. A local
artist who had placed modest prices on his
pictures at an exhibition strolled a few
days later into a city salesroom and had
the mortification of seeing one knocked
down to a stranger for six times the
original figure.
x
“Findy”: That bookseller who asked
a fancy price for a Garvice first edition
(B. 17/11/’43) has a brother, in reverse
as it were, who exhibits in his win-
(with a card) “Picturesque Atlas of
Australasia —Almost New.” That liter-
ary venture, for which William Maeleod,
later of The Bulletin, did many of the
illustrations, was published 60 years ago.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; A pity that “The Pied
Piper,” a, thoroughly English novel, had
to be Americanised for radio purposes.
The delightful old Londoner would in
reality be no more capable of bullying
the stewards at his club than he would
“Women, women, women—can't you think of anything else?”
“Well, there IS the missus!”
be of saying “I’ll be right back.”' The
latter is an unconscious (and harmless)
touch of the U.S.A.; the former libel is
presumably an American idea of an Eng-
lish aristocrat’s way of showing his
superiority. The odd thing is that
neither of these blemishes appears in the
film version.
* * * *
“H.M.8.”: My nomination as the Man
from Snowy River is James Spencer.
There was never any doubt about it in
the Kosciusko country where I was born.
Spencer was a native of the Jindabyne
district, and lived near the junction of the
Snowy and Thredbo Rivers. He was a
noted rider in a day when wild horses
and wild cattle were numerous through-
out the mountains and good horsemen
abounded. Before the road was built to
Kosciusko James Spencer for many years
used to pilot tourists along the bridle
tracks to the top of the mountain and
round the lakes, and his house was the
main accommodation for visiting trout
fishermen.
* * * *
“Garboard Strake” with a bit of
shipping history:
An old-time craft, notable in Australian ports
60 or 70 years back, was the Great Britain,
launched at Bristol just a century ago. The
first passenger screw-steamship, to cross the
Atlantic, she was originally designed for paddles,
but a propeller was installed before she took
the water. She was of 3448 tons, and much
the biggest vessel of her day, being able to
accommodate 260 passengers and 'l2OO tons
of cargo. Her maiden voyage to New York
took just over a fortnight. In 1846 she went
ashore off the Irish coast, and remained there
for many months before being towed off by
the ill-fated Birkenhead, buffeting out several
severe gales without sustaining much damage.
She was then sold into the Australian emigrant
trade, and was converted to sail in the eighteen-
eighties. Meeting with heavy weather off Cape
Horn, she was condemned, and finished her
career as a hulk in the Falkland Islands. There
she was still afloat a dozen years ago, and may
be yet.
“Nakhoda”: Memories and associa-
tions play an enormous part in the lives
of human beings, and though they may be
overlaid they can’t be erased in a genera-
tion. In a major crisis individuals tend to
relapse into their old pattern and so do
nations. The tendency in Russia is for the
army to fall back upon Czarist military
traditions. “Red Star” recently quoted
Peter the Great’s code of honor for offi-
cers as “fathers of their men.” Young
naval officers were advised to model
themselves on Nelson by combining sea-
faring knowledge with the habits of a
gentleman and to learn dancing, so that
they could acquit themselves well in
society. Junior officers now qualify in
training schools on the Czarist model,
with a rigid code of behavior. And
Stalin has changed his peasant’s smock
for the uniform of a marshal.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A Melbourne solici-
tor, a connoisseur of liquor, had a rare
experience when a case compelled him to
spend a few days in a country township.
Strolling into the bar of the pub in which
Jhe was staying the first evening he ordered
a whisky ; and the first sip caressed his
palate with a touch like velvet. “What
brand is this?” he asked. “It’s just
house whisky,” replied the barman.
Making further inquiries the lawyer
learnt that the hotel had been in the
hands of one family for close on a cen-
tury (it had just recently changed hands)
and the cellar was full of old wines and
whiskies. After enjoying his good for-
tune for a week-end the Gent. One told
the licensee the approximate Melbourne
value of the treasure he had in his cellar
and departed.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Among bookplates ex-
hibited at the literary and curio show in
the Velasquez Gallery, Melbourne, are
two which attract an unusual amount of
attention. One is that of John Woolcott
Forbes and the other that of De Groot,
the chap'who beat Lang to the Sydney
Harbor Bridge opening. It depicts two
pylons with portion of the bridge show-
ing up in the distance. Inscribed on an
arch resting on the pylons are the words;
“The sword is mightier than the scissors.”
* * * *
“Lord Bo”: Ai feah that the exigen-
cies of business will compel me shortly
to rusticate in jollay old Canberra, what?
Ai mean to say, funnay little village and
all that, but, dash it all! even a blue-
blood doesn’t quarrel with the place
where he picks up some easay bread and
buttah. Ai shall put up at one of the
leading hostelries, and the knowledge
will soon get around that his lord-
ship (me, don’tcherknow) and the Duke’s
Fourth Equerry were at Balliol and
Poona together, and both shot —or were
shot—at Viscount Dumbelle’s hunting
lodge at Blankiecrankie. Then the herds
of seekahs after all the. jollay old social
limelight and what not from youah
second-best familays and the ducal gazers
from Point Pipah and Toorak will rush
in where the angels feah they will get
trodden to death, and the ballay manage-
ment will have to introduce a prioritay
system for those who simplay must tell
their less fortunate friends how they met
a lordship chappay (me) who, my deah,
actually is on nodding terms with one of
the ducal entourage, and —well, damme,
what management wouldn’t fall over
themselves to place the Golden Suite with
private bathroom, gratis, at the disposal
of such a distinguished drawcard? For
maiself, Ai say thank God there are
more heartay snobs to the acre heah than
evah we see in Mayfaiah!
* * * *
“Baccho”: In Maoriland, as in Aus-
tralia, the restrictions on importation of
spirits and the curtailing of brewing have
turned the attention of the public to
wines. The M.L. licensed production is
small (there are only four licenses to sell
wine in the whole Dominion) and im-
ports from Australia are discouraged,
with the not-unexpected result that (as
also in Australia, B. 17/11/’43) the illicit
manufacture of the crudest sort of plonk
is a flourishing enterprise. The prohibi-
tionists don’t seem to be worrying much
about this—the worse the quality of
liquor the better for their cause, they
consider —and it has been left to the
annual conference of the Associated
Clubs (a very respectable and influential
body) to voice a protest. The confer-
ence’s resolution cajled on the Govern-
ment to remove restrictions on wine im-
ports immediately, on the ground that
“enormous underground sales of alcoholic
mixtures sold mostly as wine” have be-
come a public menace. It may be of
interest to Australian vignerons to know
that this stuff is often described as “Aus-
tralian,” which can hardly be helpful to
the reputation of their vintages.
“Deadline”: I take a moment off to
ponder the decay of a phase of Aus-
tralian journalism. In the boom days of
the W.A. goldfields just about every min-
ing hamlet had its newspaper, always four
pages, sometimes rising to the dignity of
eight; weekly or perhaps bi-weekly. Full
of news, the latest rush, the latest rob-
bery, the latest fracas at the toughest of
the town’s many pubs. Cable news;
leading articles ranging from the tariff
to censure of the Czar of All the
Russias. Full of local patriotism, boost-
ing the hamlet, if not a municipality
then calling loudly that the place be
gazetted one ; if a municipality, then pur-
suing a moderate policy of censure and
encouragement, but invariably with an
eye to the Mayor’s cupboard, where the
product of the Mayoral “three percents”
were kept. For the editor was invariably
thirsty and always impecunious. Very
often, with the assistance of a boy who
advanced from printer’s devil to office
attendant and as often retrogressed, he
was the whole staff—writer, printer,
accountant, canvasser and reporter. But
the puzzling thing is where all those
small printing presses came from. I
can’t recall one that wasn’t power-driven,
sometimes by a motor but more often by
a kerosene engine that let the whole town
know when it started. And a final puzzle
is where those small presses, now that
they are silent, have all got to.
* * *
“Clooter”: A speaker at Amesbury
School (Eng.) had a few words to say
about the general belief that the war will
be over by next week or perhaps Friday.
An extract:
The German soldier is a very good
fighter, and it is a great mistake to suppose
that he is finished and that the war will
soon be over. He is not finished at all.
The German general is a first-class, highly-'
trained professional soldier, and he is par-
ticularly good if you allow him to do what
he wants to do.
The speaker? Oh, just one of those
footling British generals, a fellow named
Bernard Law Montgomery, who had a
dust-up or two with the Germans in
Africa or some such place. The time?
Just before he left to start the Sicilian
campaign, if you remember it.
# , * * *
“Simon”: Somehow I can’t see the
Jews really revelling in agriculture. Once
I attended a Jewish funeral. After the
service at the grave, deeply impressive,
most of the mourners elected to throw in
a little of the excavated earth, which was
of a puggy nature and anything but good
shovelling. Never was long-handled
shovel handled more awkwardly. The
first operator handled the implement as
he would a golf stick and carefully putted
in a sod from the top. The next tried it
as a billiard cue and potted a clod first
shot. Still another dropped it altogether,
appearing to expect it to be supported
from his shoulders by a strap. A keen-
looking member first looked it over from
bottom to top as he would a fire policy,
and then handed it to another man, who
held it upside down in case he’d overtax
himself. Then my turn came. “I’ll show
’em,” said I to myself, spat on my hands
as I did in the long ago, grasped the
very end of the handle in my strong right
hand, slid my left gracefully towards the
banjo, levered powerfully with my left
knee and hoisted a couple of quick
shovelfuls with the maker’s name well
covered. I thought I could feel a score
of admiring glances directed my way,
but what I sensed may have been sorrow
at this evidence of a misspent youth.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Te Aute”; Once again Maoriland
sheepfarmers are thanking their stars for
the Maori shearing gang. As fast as
young Maoris enlist for overseas other
shearers grow up to replace them, and
any temporary shortage is filled by old
hands who come back from retirement.
It is hard to find a Maori who cannot
shear; the 100-per-day man is classed as
a “learner,” and 250 is no more than a
good day’s work. While the men race
and sweat and shout on the board their
womenfolk pick up, skirt the fleeces on
the tables, and often class the clip. Only
those who have seen a Maori gang in
action can appreciate the spirit in which
the long day’s work is done. No matter
how tired the workers, no matter how
great the heat, in a Maori shed there is
always a shout of laughter, a snatch of
haunting harmony to help the hours
along.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Is there another
animal in the world strong and well
equipped for offensive as well as defensive
action concerned so little for the protec-
tion of his offspring, or for.that matter
his females, as the bull? Magazine
stories frequently tell of cattle forming
circles, cows and calves in the centre,
“battle-scarred” buffs on the outer edge, to
combat the attacks of dingo packs. The
fact, however, only too well known to
the cattleman harassed with calf losses
through dingoes, is that the lord of the
mob doesn’t do a darn thing even where
a calf is being killed right under his nose.
Secure in the knowledge of his own im-
munity from attack and possibly instinc-
tively conscious of his ability to make up
losses in the natural-increase department,
he just treats the matter as of no conse-
quence. Nor does he work himself up
into a pet over the safety of the missus.
If you don’t believe this, sool your dogs
on to the lady when she ts plkying up
and see if “Dad” will do anything about
it. He does at times bear battle scars,
but they have all been collected when
saving his lady friends not from death,
but from the fate reputed to be so much
worse. It is, in fact, the misdirected
blandishments of the other bloke that
get him hot under the collar and nothing
else. On the other hand, bullocks
running among breeders, though a
nuisance in some respects, are good calf-
protectors, taking a pleasure in chasing
dingoes over the skyline.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Monaro” Mick and his
cobber called for a hand-out at a small
farm out from Michelago and found the
qpcky sitting intently over a small well
holding a fishing rod. “This bloke must
have a touch of the sun,” Mick mur-
mured ; “we’d better humor him. Caught
anything, mate?” he asked aloud. “Not
yet,” the cocky replied, “What are you
usin’ for bait?” Mick inquired. “Live
frog,” was the reply, and at that moment
the rod started to bend and the fisherman
stood up. “Stand back, you blokes,” he
shouted, and he commenced furiously to
reel in. As a scaly head appeared he
gave a final heave and a six-foot black
snake hit the grass. “I saw that joker
go down there this morning,” the cocky
said, “and fishin’ is the easiest way I
know of gettin’ ’em out of a well.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: McPherson prided himself
on the accuracy of his eye, and also on
getting full value for his money. Riding
around to where Maclure, on contract,
was erecting a windmill and tank stand,
he suddenly realised that he was falling
down on the second job. “Your-r tank
stand’s not level, and that means that
when the tank’s full and overflowin’ it’ll
be holdin’ a hundred gallons or more less
than it should.” “She’s level,” said Mac-
lure. “And I say she’s not,” contended
McPherson. “I got a sight of her when
I was cornin’ across the brow of yon hill;
she’s definitely out of level.” Without
further argument Maclure handed him
the spirit level. “Go up and put this on
her.” For nearly a quarter of an hour
McPherson angled the spirit level over
the decking, trying every beam and plank.
Then he came down. “Well, is she level?”
said Maclure. McPherson found it hard.
“Well, maybe she is—that’s if your-r
level’s reliable. But, anyway, she’s no
more than level.”
* * H= *
“P. Ater”: As the wagtails continue
their sweet challenging song in the big
turpentines seemingly right through those
moonlit spring nights, I am moved to
wonder whether William is voicing his
love song in this reiterated “Kirra-ka-
kitcha” which so many interpret as
“Sweet, Pretty Creature” ; if it is an open
“ Super.’s all right , but there's nothing like the real thing.”
challenge tq would-be invaders of the
sanctity of his home, or just an expres-
sion of the joy of living. Two Willies
are in residence, each in a tree well apart,
and their duet is a nightly affair; each
replies to the other’s taunt on the instant,
and the duologue goes on for hours.
Although there is a hint of a challenge,
the notes are too seductive and sedative
for a pure gauge of combat. I have
never climbed these citadels to find
whether the sleeping quarters and nesting
quarters are identical and if the mate is
domiciled there, too. So all the sing-
ing may be a blind, for truculence is
often tinged with caution. I’ve often
seen a peewee shoulder Willie aside to
get a garden titbit.
“Fancar”: I often wonder if the
ferocity with which a male magpie helps
his missus defend her nest is reaction to
his being henpecked. The most savage
male magpie I’ve known lives in hourly
dread of his nesting mate, who watches
him unceasingly and who, whenever he
captures beetle or grub, demands it be
brought straight to her. He is regret-
fully obedient, though his only proven-
der seems to be caught in places hidden
from the nest, e.g., behind the cowshed
or haystack.
* * * *
“Pip”: At our northern station the
troops have found a better cure for the
bite of the stinging-tree than the tree’s
sap. Ordinary adhesive tape is pressed
down firmly on the affected area and left
for a couple of minutes. Then it is jerked
sharply away and off come hair and
prickles.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: We were on a fishing
trip far up a W.A. estuary when Old
Tom’s hound, brought along on the
chance of starting up a Too, began doing
the strychnine reel. We had neither char-
coal and fat nor bluestone, but a yard
away lay water as salt as the ocean.
Grabbing the tyke. Old Tom dragged
him out to waist-deep water, then, with
a little assistance, prised his jaws open
and held him under until he had swal-
lowed the best part of a gallon. Whether
the remedy acted as a dilutive or an
emetic, or both, we couldn’t exactly tell,
but later in the day the hound was suffi-
ciently recovered to bark feebly at a
mob of niggers’ dogs, for whom the bait
had originally been intended.
* * * *
“Carmi”; It’s ten to one that any
equine homer is a mare (B. 10/11/’43),
though I don’t believe love of home or
master is the predominating urge. A
mare will quickly seek her old home if
she has been mated there, but the same
animal will settle down in new surround-
ings after mating there, even though she
may not come in foal. Generally a foal
conceived in a new home is a sure
anchor, but mares in foal who come to
a property and apparently settle down
will frequently seek their old home when
their progeny has been weaned. The
most persistent homing geldings, how-
ever, are those emasculated when their
growth is almost complete. Other geld-
ings soon forget the old home.
* * * *
Will Lawson: “Bughouse” (B.
10/11/’43) says that as oil cannot pene-
trate the human skin the idea of soaking
the body in whale oil to cure rheuma-
tism is all “bunk.” Maybe. But how
does he explain the fact that old-time
whalers hardly ever suffered from T.B.
and never from rheumatics? The idea
held among the men themselves was that
the atmosphere of oil and good rum and
plenty of whale steak in which they lived
held off such complaints. Captain Bill
McKillop, one of the last of the old-
timers, who died a few years ago in
Hobart at the age of 76, told me that far
south in about the ’sixties no whaler wore
anything but a woollen singlet, a pair of
pants from the slop-chest, and in bad
weather a sou’-wester —no boots, of
course. And they never felt the cold.
The old whalemen lived most of their
lives in those chilly latitudes, with trips
to Hobart at the end of each voyage,
which usually occupied from seven to 18
months.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The widow on the next
block was in distress; and with charac-
teristic chivalry Bert volunteered assist-
ance. A dam which caught the swillings
from the bails was overflowing and pol-
luting the river; the health officer had
issued an ultimatum. For hours the
volunteer manned a two-inch pump, toil-
ing like a slave, while his nostrils were
assaulted with the foul fluid. With
maddening regularity obstructions jam-
med the valves, meaning an unsavory
dismantling operation, not made any
less unpleasant by the sand-flies that com-
pelled him to scratch and slap at his face
continually. But the worst trial was the
repression imposed by the widow’s small
son who stood engrossed in the proceed-
ings. Too chivalrous to express himself
naturally in the child’s hearing, Bert nearly
broke a blood vessel as he “bothered” and
“bally-ed” and “bloomin’-ed.” The cli-
max came when a spanner slipped, tear-
ing off a jagged lump of skin. Instinc-
tively the tortured man stuck the wounded
finger in his mouth, as promptly pulled
it out, spat violently and exploded:
“Bust the bloomin’, bally, blasted,
blitherin’ b-b-blighter! ” For the first
time the kid spoke: “Ar, why don’t yer
call it a and be done with it! ”
Bert’s pent-up emotions went in that
.kick ; but when the widow came down
and apologised for her child (although
she knew he wouldn’t have said it had he
known Bert was religious) it was too
much. Half an hour later a wild-eyed
man strode into the pub, found the beer
“off,” abused Bung and was subsequently
fined for using bad language —the
magistrate telling him he should use self-
restraint !
H: *
“C.E.”: Paddy claimed that subtlety
and tact did more for a bloke than com-
plaints, but I’d never seen him practise
his art till he came to work for Newton.
The day after he arrived Mrs. Newton
served his tea and came out to hurry
the rest of us, when there was a loud
crash from the kitchen. She raced back
to find Paddy picking himself off the
floor and rubbing his head. “What
happened?” she asked. Paddy stared
vaguely round the room. “Dunno,” he
confessed. “Someone must ’a knocked
me down!” The lady backed off, eyeing
him suspiciously. Next morning at
breakfast over he went again on to the
floor. Newton was greatly concerned,
especially as Paddy’s claim of a bruised
leg brought him the easiest job of the day.
Thereafter, at almost every meal the new
hand suffered a physical collapse, till
Newton could stand it no longer. “Look
here,” he demanded testily, “what causes
these here attacks? Ain’t there anything
we c’n do t’ stop ’em?” Paddy pointed
apologetically to Mirs. Newton’s home-
made product. “Well, y’ see, I bin used
t’ fact’ry butter,” he mentioned re-
luctantly, “and that there —well, it jus’
seems t’ be a bit too strong f’ me, don’t
y’ think?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: That “biggest shed” boast of
a cellar fireplace under the homestead tank
for the cook to boil the plum-puddings
(B. 27/10/’43) was anticipated by an
English girl’s actual query on arriving.
In S.A. every house has a tank at the
back door to catch rain-water from the
roof ; and this quite irrespective of main-
water laid on. The tank is nearly always
raised on a brick or wooden stand to
bring the tap into handier reach; and
the space under is also handy for storing
the wood, almost our only domestic fuel.
The girl, surveying the 500-gallon tank
with a ton of mallee under it, remarked:
“So that’s how you do your washing.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: On certain Gulf stations during
the terrific heat prior to the coming of
the monsoonal rains the surface of water-
holes becomes too hot for horses to
drink. But the sophisticated prad avoids
scalding his boko by rushing in and bash-
ing the water with a front paw wielded
alternately till the cocktail has been well
stirred. He then shoves his bridle rack
under to his ears in search of a cooler.
Many toppling in from steep banks, and
remembering the consequent cooling,
have taken to diving in from the high
banks. After filling their hides many
mokes remain on the bottom to feed on
riparian weeds, rising at intervals like a
platypus. But this practice renders them
short-winded, so they are drafted into
drier paddocks. The horse boy has a
whale of a time with the aquatic rogues
which gallop down and hop in when they
see him coming. Several have grabbed
their time owing to becoming water-
logged through cursing while pursuing
the mokes along the floor of the creek.
Dogs are useless do hunt them out, as
they can’t nip heels properly a fathom
below. The harassed owners are training
shags to spear them out, while several
inquiries have been made regarding
midget submarines.
* * * *
“Nepean”: For Murray travel, give me
an old snag-dodging, gum-tree freighter.
Lazing aboard one I soon found you
forget all other worlds except the gum-
fringed Murray. Perhaps it is because
the aged crew talk only of it and the old
river days last century when the steamer
was king. Her skipper, who resembles
a bullock-driver, steers from a wheel-
house that seems fixed amidships, and, as
the grand old waterway unfolds before
him, he yarns on everything about its
banks. Below you meet Old Tom, 60
years an engineer, and Snack, the fire-
man ; you take cups of tea with George
the cook in his “cow of a galley” under
the port paddle-box, where baking bread’s
“a proper cow” and cutting down a
sheep’s “a cow altogether.” You shoot
duck from the bows, you sunbake and
help load at sleeper-cutters’ camps and
woolsheds ; and as we bunker at a wood-
pile beneath towering gums you talk to
hardcase cutters in special scarecrow-
model trousers that haven’t been changed
for the occasion. “Don’t send any more
six-foot goannas aboard in your wood,’
directs our skipper good-humoredly;
“that last bloke was up the mast for two
days on the lookout before we got him.”
Why, after a week on that veteran paddle-
wheeler, on stepping ashore at Mildura
I felt like Rip Van Winkle waking up
and entering a new world.
MILBRULONG.
When Youth’s fire in age grows embered
And it's warming glow has paled,
Good are bygone scenes remembered
And in musing hours unveiled.
In the happy days I spent
Teaching school at Milbrulong,
Life, like some gay rover, went
Down time’s track with jest and song.
Oft when eventide grows cool
And dusk brings the dreamer’s mood,
Down the years I glimpse that school
And the pine scrub where it stood.
As the veil from times gone by
Memory uplifts for me
What I saw with outward eye
Now with inward eye I see:
See the children as they pore
O’er their lessons, drowsy-eyed,
While on tracks that pass the door
Teamsters trudge and drovers ride;
See again tall shearers tread,
Pausing not at Milbrulong,
Down the piney miles that wed
Mittagong to Bullenbong;
See once more as darkness comes,
Setting nearby shapes aloof,
Smoke that rises through grey gums
O’er a lone outstation roof.
Conning thus those old days over
Something of their glow steals back,
Though for me life, like a rover,
Sings not now upon Time’s track.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: Sid Glutton was mending a
bit of harness outside the shed when
a sawny-looking cove with a long horse-
like face drifted up and asked in a lugu-
brious voice for a hand-out. Sid coun-
tered by offering him a job digging spuds
—sixpence a bag more than the district
rate. The mournful-faced bloke looked
down at his ancient trilbies. “If I was
usin’ them on a fork,” he said, “they
wouldn’t last a day.” Sid looked at the
boots. “You take about the same size as
me —I’ll give y’ a pair o’ mine if y’ like.”
Sawny looked more glum than ever. “I
can’t kick around here —ain’t got a tent
or anything to doss in.” But Sid had the
answer to that: “Aw, we can always
put y’ up somewhere.” The horse-faced
one looked more down in the mouth
than ever. “Well, I dunno. I’m a big
tea drinker. Even if I chucked my own
rations in your missus wouldn’t be able
to supply me with all I’d want.” “I never
drink it meself,” said Sid. “The missus
has got lashin’s o’ tea.” The sawny
“ Gripes, I 'ope 'e don't eat them boots — they're 'ard to get."
bloke looked hard at Sid, then said:
“Look here, are you trying to browbeat
me into takin’ a job?”
* * # *
“Bogaduck”: Actually, fire-making by
friction, abo. fashion (B. 22/9/’43), is
simple if you set about it in the right
way. First you must have the right timber
—messmate, wild peach or the “snap-
and-rattle” mallee, blackboy flower stalks.
etc. The wood must be dry, and you
must cut the notch and point the drill in
the exact, way. One wood .must grind
away to powder on the other ; if it doesn’t,
put a pinch of dry sand in the hole to
start the grinding and try again. You
twirl slowly until the heat created makes
the drill start to bite hard, then you give
a few quick twirls and the spark appears.
Lots of people don’t know when the spark
is there; it isn’t red, but is a little bit
of black stuff from which a faint thread
of smoke rises, and it isn’t until you
blow on it gently that the red spark ap-
pears. I once read that a Boy Scout had
created a world’s record by getting a
fire in 40 seconds, but I have often done
it in almost half that time. I was pretty
young when first taught the knack by
the abos., and in 18 months I have passed
it on to thousands of Army personnel.
Some men have twirled and cursed for
days before they got the hang of it;
others have picked it up at the first try,
and a few lads have beaten me after a
day or two’s practice.
* * * *
“Butcher-bird”; It has taken a flock of
Australian merinos to use for the first
time in a century an age-old caravan
route from India to China. Under an
agreement with Tibet they form the first
consignment of a non-military nature to
be overlanded over the 16,000 ft, passes
which form an exacting trial on their
long trek. We certainly breed ’em tough
here.
¥ * * *
“Naturala”: Bees are intelligent
creatures, but their intelligence boggles at
the hollow cone. Man, with his diabolical
ingenuity, measured the size of bees and
found that the worker bee can pass
through a i-inch slot. Emerging happily
from the hive for a turn in the sunshine
Burlington Bertie finds his progress
blocked by just such a grating; his busy
sisters pass through, but he is a prisoner.
But just above he spies a cone with an
opening that lets him through comfort-
ably. So he finds himself in another
chamber from which there is no egress
save by the way he came. But not one
drone in a million ever thinks of going
down the cone again. With a thousand
brothers he buzzes and buzzes, beating
against that i-inch grating—until man
comes with a smoke pot or a bucket of
water.
* * * *
“Min-yarri”: Here in the south-west
corner of Centralia the unspoiled abo.
quite openly classes himself much higher
than any white man, even the oldest of
whom is referred to by the youngest
Binghi as chid-gee (child). Recently I
listened to an argument between a new-
chum white lad and an abo. stockman re
the accomplishments of the two races.
The white adduced a formidable array of
mechanical wonders, but these Pompey
brushed aside with a sweeping “Aw, yes,
white fellow make a box orright and put
a wheel on it, but what about black-
fellow?” He then went on to enumerate
the abo.’s accomplishments: he can make
rain when he wants it, cure all diseases
by laying on of hands, destroy an enemy
by magic at any distance ; he makes the
sun shine, not only for himself but allows
the white man a share of it; the same
with the stars and moon. In addition
he could do all the tilings a white fellow
does if he wanted to, but they are just
too trivial for him to bother about. Some
years ago while on a trip through the
Tomkinson Ranges my camel boy, who
had just returned from Pt. Augusta after
an operation for hernia, was speared
through the thigh for maintaining that the
white doctor there had put him to
death, opened his stomach,. set things
right, sewed him up and brought him to
life again. Their argument was that only
men could do things like that, and as
white men were only children it was an
insult to black intelligence to try and tell
them such things.
“Take it out of there!”
“Moyhu”: It was a scorching after-
noon and Ted Hoppner lay in the shade
of the verandah reading. From inside
the house came the clatter of dishes and
the general sounds of domestic industry.
Suddenly Ted looked up. “What d’ y’
know?” he said, “Here’s a lot o’ women
in the city gone out on strike,” “Seems
to be in the air,” I remarked, taking stock
of Ted’s unpruned fruit-trees, a few items
of machinery lying about in the open, the
road gate hanging crazily on one hinge,
the slabs missing from the barn wall.
“Yair,” he agreed indignantly. “These
City sheilahs don’t know what it is to
work. Now look at the missus” The
door opened and Mrs. Ted came out.
“Do y’ think y’ could cut me a bit
more wood, Ted?” she asked. “I’ve got
a lot of baking to do this afternoon.”
Ted reluctantly got to his feet. “Baking
when it’s a hundred in the shade!” he
growled, making his way to the wood-
heap. “That’s the trouble with women.
They don’t know when to knock off!”
*■ * * *
“Jay Hay”: These alleged paragons
among station dogs that start to muster
the ration sheep when the boss starts
sharpening the butcher’s knife on the
steel have nothing on my mong for in-
telligence. He ignores the knife-ori-steel
at all other times except close to sun-
down. If I pull the cork out of the
bottle of stuff with which I dress fly-
struck sheep and give him a sniff at it
he immediately makes a beeline for the
convalescent paddock and musters the
casualties. Also, if I open and shut the
eat-marking pliers in front of him he
will go and muster the ewes and lambs.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: There are blokes along the
Murray taking a mighty interest in the
current symposium on centipedes (B,
24/11 /’43), for plenty of ’em reckon the
centa. the best of cod bait. You drop
the wriggler into boiling water and pick
it straight out again. The cod are be-
lieved to come at it when they’ll tackle
nothing else.
* * * *
“B-gar”: The secret of fighting
thirst troubles on a dry stage (B.
10/11/ ’43) lies in postponing that
first drink for as long as possible
and then taking a good one. On
the hottest and thirstiest of days
experienced stockmen and drovers
rarely have more than one drink
from the water-bag between break-
fast and the midday meal; you
never see any of them sipping at the
bag every now and then.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Midgie was five foot one and
eight stone, but a darned good shearer.
He had a pen at Billy White’s, a decent
enough place, exdept that the boss was
dead nuts on work and objected to any
skylarking in the shed. Billy was classing
one evening a few minutes before the
bell, when a loud guffaw from a shearer
as he dived for the catching pen drew his
gaze down the line to where Midgie was
wrestling with an enormous Border ram.
Valiantly the little bloke stuck to the job,
wandering all over the board in his
struggles, and getting in a stroke occa-
sionally. The honors were about even as
he started the long blows ; then, once
more out of position, the ram planted
both hind feet in his opponent’s bread-
basket and with a tremendous lunge sent
Midgie flying out of the chute. A shed
hand was already branding out, and even
old Billy’s glare did nothing to stem the
roar as a red-faced and disgusted Midgie
came crawling back into the shed with a
large black brand on the seat of his
blueys.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Well, “Wippegong” (B.
24/11/ ’43), if I had a beard it’d be
mostly grey with a few red threads, and
whenever I cut myself shaving the blood
has a strong smell of Murray water about
it. A bit peaky-looking, owing to once
having travelled 60-odd miles to Old
Junee for a drink on a blazing day only
to find the pub burnt down, I’m gradu-
ally picking up, though a good feed of
cod baked in a camp-oven with wliole
onions and slices of bacon, followed by
a steamed pudding consisting of Mildura
sultajias and a pinch of flour, the lot
washed down with some of George Med-
ley’s beer, would be a help. Used to
have a brown dial, but it’s been a bit
pale ever since the nighf'when, crossing
that Echuca bridge to Moama, I thought
I’d take a short cut and stepped into 40
feet of darkness with a lot of water at the
bottom. And didn’t that Echuca man tell
you of the night >yhen myself and the
mate of the old “Trafalgar,” having cob-
bered up with a local bank clerk and got
slightly elevated, were taken into the bank
to help the clerk balance his ledger or
something? I’ll never forget what that
policeman looked like, standing outside
the window and waving a cannon at us,
what time he yelled for reinforcements.
It took us half the night to convince him
we were dinkum.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Let me tell “Bad Aus-
tralian” that crocodiles, especially the salt-
water man-eater, have considerably in-
creased in North Australian rivers these
past four or five decades, the increase
being due to the decimation of the
blacks and in a lesser degree to an altera-
tion in their habits. It is probable that
the abo. never at any time seriously
diminished the ranks of adult crocodiles ;
it was the taking toll of the unborn, the
stealing of eggs from the female croco-
dile’s incubator, that kept saurian vital
statistics at a low figure. Nowadays
Ginny, partly because she herself is
much scarcer than she used to be and
partly because she gets much of her
living from the white man’s cattle
stations and missions, doesn’t indulge
overmuch in such danger-fraught loot-
ing ; with the result that many more
baby crocs, hatch out than previously.
Prior to the advent of the white with his
gun, his diseases and his cattle, both
crocodile eggs and baby crocs, were fre-
quent items on the aboriginal menu. So
the coming of the white man has led to
saurians so filling many rivers that they
practically jostle one another in rushing
a chance-offered feed.
THE VISITOR.
We’re camped along the Marthaguy
Beside a deep lagoon,
Fryin’ pufftas on a bed o’ coals,
Beneath a risin’ moon.
When, silent as a native cat,
An’ with a sort o’ flare,
A lanky, leerin’ kind o’ cove
Is, sudden, sittin’ there.
“Whoo-hoo,” says he. “Whee-hee,” says us,
An’ grabs a waddy, quick.
We eyes him off an’ waits his move,
Prepared t’ trump his trick.
He laughs. We see a puff o’ smoke,
As through the air he flies
To light upon a brigalow,
And then aloud he cries:
“I’m a bit of a snifter snunk,
I quert on mungle Him,
Meegoogling on the amberpunk
That soits his coily mim.
Ha, ha! Ha, ha, that soits his mim,
That soits his mim frillee.”
Well, strike me blue, that shook us up.
We’d never heard the like.
An’ then we see he’s got a tail
That ends up in a spike!
Next thing our neddies break away,
Our howlin’ dogs all run,
Me mate dives in the water an’
I grabs me scatter gun.
I shoots him then with Number ten,
I blasts him full o’ lead.
He rolls his eyes an’ wags his ears
An’, winkin’, shakes his head.
An’ still the creacher sings an’ sings
His chorus to the skies,
While I break out in beads o’ sweat
An’ feels me short hairs rise.
An’ then he sort o’ disappears,
I see a bluish flame
That flashes round me head an’ ears
An’ heats me quakin’ frame.
An,’ strike me roan, it’s me that’s set
Up in that brigalow
While, wearin’ both my face an’ form,
He’s squattin’ down below!
I grits me teeth in growin’ rage,
I gives a ringin’ yell,
An’ flies down off that brigalow
An’ dongs him like a bell.
There comes a roar an’ flash o’ flame
An’ I’m meself again,
An’, fadin’ in the moonlit scene
He sings across the plain:
“I’m a bit of a snufter snink,
I quert on flimble mung,
Ambpunkling on the meegoqgink
That mims his toity sung.
Ho, ho! Hee, hee, that mims his sung,
That mims his sung to me!”
N.S.W.
GILGANDRA GEORGE.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND CM
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO- LTD
For Australia at War . . .
Qj'e
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
o
s
Q
O
&
O
£
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 75SK, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Help the Broker.
“Jumbuck”: Because normal wool-
selling conditions have been suspended
some growers think it isn’t necessary to
forward relevant advice about the clip
to the broker. All possible information
is necessary if the wool is to realise its
full value. Superfluous information about
spinning quality and the like is waste of
ink and is totally disregarded by brokers.
In most cases information of that type
is wrong.
Pertinent information can be supplied
in a simple manner. If the broker has
not supplied specification forms it is easy
to set out the advice needed. Such as: —
Descrip-
tion Bale Numbers. Remarks.
AAAW.. 5, 10, 20 Bale No. 5 contains
a bag of black wool
on top.
AAAW.. 60, 70, 80 This lot from bought
sheep.
AAAW.. 150, 160, 170 These sheep had only
10 rtionths’ growth.
Information such as that will furnish
the broker with all the information
necessary and will indicate that three
different types of wethers were shorn. In
the remarks column the ages of the sheep
in the various lots could also be shown.
“Lambs to- the Slaughter.”
“Steve” lets himself go: —
Fat lambs were selling when this was written
at under £1 a head here (Vic.). Reckoning
the average prime fat lamb at 361b. the freezers
and butchers are getting their lambs at 5id.
or less per pound, which would be 16s. 6d.
net, as the skins are worth 3s. 6d. We’ve had
a bad season, with resultant heavy handfeeding
at great cost. Putting the average cost of feed-
ing the ewes over the dry winter at 6s. a head,
the grower has to deduct half of this for the
lamb, leaving him 13s. 6d. on the ground.
Trucking, yard dues and commission, figured at
2s. 6d., reduces the return to 11s., plus skins.
That isn’t the worst of it, since only the tops
of the lambs reach prime condition. The
country’s greatest need is meat, and lamb is
the choicest form of it. But the lamb-grower
isn’t being fairly treated.
At the moment exporters are guaranteed , a
high price (up to and over 7d. a pound) for
all lambs they can freeze. The grower, how-
ever, has to take low prices despite that he was
told earlier in the year that he would be well
advised to produce all the lambs he could and
at the best weights. A heavy supply at the
moment has depressed the return to the grower,
but the exporter-is still on his guarantee and the
focal retail price stays high. Freezers say they
can't handle the number coming forward though
growers are told it’s the worst year for fat
lambs for a decade. Fewer lambs will be
marketed fat this year than for many years,
but there are evidently too many to be effect-
ively treated, so freezers and butchers buy at
their own figure and thus protect themselves
against any wastage which may occur through
lambs standing for long periods awaiting
slaughter.
The so-called guaranteed price arrangements
are like the inducement to the donkey, which
never catches up with the carrots dangled in
front of its nose. A ceiling price was fixed
some time ago, but the man on the land is
more concerned with a minimum price. As
Bakewell, president of the Graziers’ Federal
Council, said last week: “To a large number of
producers returns for their livestock constitute
the whole of their income and low prices are
to them a calamity.” Meat is a munition of
war, and immediate Federal action should be
taken to overcome the lamb-raisers’ annual ex-
perience of seeing his returns shot to pieces.
Buttermilk for Pigs-
“Hux”: After getting low returns for
its buttermilk for many years. Duck
River Co.-op. butter factory, Smithton
(Tas.), established its own piggery. But-
termilk from the churns is pumped into
tanks and gravitated thence to a fatten-
ing shed. Pens line each side of a central
feeding race, eight baconers to the pen.
Store pigs are bought from suppliers,
graded and fed in outside pens till big
enough to draft into the fattening house.
Over 1000 baconers are turned out per
annum. The first year showed a profit
of £IOBO, so more space was made for
brood sows, mated to Large White and
Tamworth boars.
Pigs take readily to the buttermilk,
which is fed five times daily. Two
pounds of crushed barley and a small
dose of stock tonic are fed twice a day.
When old enough, piglets are placed on
the buttermilk and crushed barley, plus
as many meal cubes as they can eat.
They grow without check.
A large Black-Berkshire cross sow that
reared eight in the first litter and 14
in the second was mated with a Large
White boar for the third litter. She far-
rowed 10 and weaned the lot. At eight,
16 and 20 weeks, lightest pigs weighed
711 b., 1241 b. and 1731 b. respectively;
heaviest pigs 841 b., 1821 b. and 2281 b.
Another litter of 10 from a Tam.-Berk.
cross sow, sired by a Large White boar.
“Now will y' stop fidgetin’?”
averaged 1501 b. deadweight; a litter of
eight from a Tam.-Berk. cross sow, sired
by a Tamworth boar, averaged 1481 b.
deadweight at 22 weeks.
Banding for Codlin Moth.
“Myrr”: As a supplement to spraying
the bands help to keep the moth popu-
lation down. Larvae enter the bands after
they have left the fruit but before they
emerge as moths. Under natural condi-
tions the grubs descend and shelter under
loose bark and rubbish around the butts
and in the forks. Bands provide alterna-
tive cover.
The sack band is cut from old sacks in
strips 2in. or 3in. wide and long enough
to go round the butts and slightly over-
lap, held by a round-headed nail driven
into the trunk. The round head means
easy removal and replacement of the
band. Another is of chemically-treated,
corrugated cardboard. Grubs are de-
stroyed as they come in contact with it.
This hand will not require further atfen-
tion until the end of the season, when it
should be burned.
Of the two bag bands are more satis-
factory, despite the extra attention re-
quired. They attract many more grubs
than the other and cause forks of trees
to be examined at each inspection. Bag
bands should be inspected every 14 days
at least during the season. After harvest
no further inspection is necessary until
the next season approaches, when all
hibernating grubs should be destroyed.
At spring ploughing check up to see if
any overwintering grubs have been dis-
turbed in the rubbish around the tree
and have found their way to the bands.
Where red spider is prevalent bands
should be removed prior to the late-
winter spraying. Bands should be in
position during the latter part of
November and examined regularly while
the fruit is on the trees. Don’! allow
rubbish to accumulate around the butts.
Summer Vegetables.
, ~ , , ,
Pat Ater : Beans should be planted
m batches for succession through the hot
weather. Make the sowings as generous
es your land allows, with an eye to space
for later sowings of lettuce, tomatoes,
beet and early autumn cabbages and
cauliflowers. .
Along the fence on a stretch of wire-
netting Epicures can be grown, spaced
three to four inches apart. In the field
strong wire supports up to six feet high
are necessary, with three feet between
each row. Epicures are not good market
beans, but are first-rate for the home.
It is amazing what a few panels ol lenc-
ing, each sown at fortnightly intervals,
will provide for family use. They can
be grown into early autumn in most
districts. The drawback in rainy districts
is “rust” as the summer wanes.
Beans need ample moisture as the
bearing period approaches. Give them a
good dressing of any cool farmyard
manure. Add a ration of lime. Sprinkle
it generously to “snow” the ground. Turn
that in with a handful of blood and bone
or complete fertiliser to the yard and mix
it five to six inches deep. If the fertiliser
is spread along the rows in a five-inch-
wide band little is wasted. Broadcasting
means waste. "•
Brown Beauty is a splendid cropper in
average seasons. Only for bacterial or
“halo” blight the old Canadian Wonder
would be favorite. Tweed Wonder is
good where pod-spot or anthracnose is
prevalent. It pays to demand “depart-
mentally-recommended” seed.
Dwarf beans are sown three to four
inches apart in rows 18 inches apart,
seeds covered two inches deep.
Try salsify (oyster plant) in a deeply-
and finely-dug bed without freshly-added
manures. Similar conditions to those for
parsnips suit this vegetable, ' which is
splendid in soup, where the oyster taste is
most apparent.
Put in a few rows of sweet corn on
the western edge of the lettuce patch for
cover and cobs. Golden Bantam is a
good variety. Richly-manured soil and
plenty of moisture suits sweet corn. Add
animal manure for humus and blood and
bone for nitrogen and phosphates. Sow
the seed at ten-inch intervals in clusters of
three or four, and thin out to single
stalks in four-foot rows.
“Plane Creek”; It is hard to grow
tender greens in the tropics during spring
and summet, as seedlings are slow and
susceptible to “damping off” under
warm, humid conditions. Endive and
silver beet are likely to succeed in the
open and replace lettuce and cabbage
respectively.
Endive resembles lettuce and will
generally thrive in light soil containing
rich, old manure or leaf-mould. The
seedlings should be set six inches apart
and watered generously whenever the
soil appears dry. Silver beet requires
similar treatment, except that the plants
should be set at least 12 inches apart.
Both plants respond to weekly doses of
liquid manure.
The choko bears prolific crops of a
tasty vegetable. Plant mature choko
close to a suitable trellis or fence. The
sprouted fruit never fails to produce a
flourishing vine. Many beans are suit-
able for warm climates, but the Lima is
king of them all. It resembles the broad
bean; the pods are immense and are
borne in great profusion. There are
bush and climbing Limas, the bush
variety being generally grown in Queens-
land. In rich soil the bushes grow three
feet high and require stakes. They glory
in heat and shoot ahead after rain.
Another summer bean is the Chinese long
(snake) bean... A climber, its long grey
beans are cooked like French beans.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Calves can be well reared
on as little as 25 gallons of milk each, all
fed during the first five weeks, but a
supplement of gruel should be given.
Half pound each of pollard and linseed-
meal boiled in one gallon of water with
a cupful of limewater added is excellent
for a six-weeks-old calf. Feed new milk
until the calf is two weeks old, then
start to replace the new milk with
gruel. Calves receiving no fresh
milk should be given a green pick
■ or green lucerne hay.
“X.P.”: What “8.4” advises (B.
13/10/’43) about arsenic for treat-
ment of swamp cancer on a horse
'has my approval. Had a horse
badly affected with growth on in-
side of foreleg just below breast.
Treatment with knife and dress-
ings over a period of more than twelve
months failed. It being a case of kill or
cure, a small amount of arsenic, used for
plant destruction, was mixed with Stock-
holm tar and painted on the cancer. In
a short time the lump completely dis-
appeared and no scar remained.
“CM.”: Grass staggers (B. 6/10/’43)
is prevalent in Gippsland, where it is
generally called fodder poisoning. Symp-
toms are as described. We find the best
treatment is to drench with 11b. treacle
and 11b. Epsom salts in enough water to
mix. Also jib. carb. soda in a pint of
water. The two drenches are mixed and
given separately. Use warm water to
mix treacle and salts, cold water for
soda. It does not matter which is given
first. If drenches are given at once the
cow Will.hardly go off her milk, but a
delay of five or six hours, which can
occur between milkings, means an almost
dry cow.
“M.L.W.”: Don’t use striking tools
such as wedges, cold chisels and punches
which have burred heads. They are
likely to fly following a blow and are
extremely dangerous. Grind the heads
round or oval and with a slight bevel.
“Carman”: For “Pat - Ater’s” (B.
17 /11/’43) information, the name of his
pet spud is correctly spelt Katahdin, after
the highest mountain in the potato State
of Maine (U.S.A.). This hillock is exactly
one mile above sea level, the last six feet
being a stone cairn erected by the locals
in a spasm of preciseness.


is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . . .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT YOUR SAYINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
SI
\ c ~- \
9
1
S9*§=SSiggS
It’s your fight — your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds,
tBS6O-lt.4*
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
MacArthur’s Plans.
(Hanson W. Baldwin, in N.Y. “Times.”)
General MacArthur has condemned
“island-hopping” tactics which, perforce,
he has been utilising himself, and has
advocated instead “massive strokes
against only main strategic objectives.”
Some interpretation has been furnished
in an Associated Press dispatch, passed
through the MacArthur censorship.
“The strategy of MacArthur,” this dis-
patch said, “would carry a powerful
Allied force over and around numerous
islands as far as the southern Philippines.
Re-occupation of Mindanao might prove
costly, but probably no more so than a
sea-borne invasion of Burma or Malaya.”
To carry an Allied force to the Philip-
pines “over and around numerous
islands as far as the southern Philip-
pines” obviously ’planes and ships must
be used. If General MacArthur contem-
plates moving an invasion force by air
and sea 1650 miles from New Guinea to
the Philippines without an intermediate
stop—and the dispatch was not explicit
on this point—it is a bold conception in-
deed, and one for which obviously we
would not be ready for a long time,
since all dispatches from Australia em-
phasise the small size of the forces avail-
able to General MacArthur.
If, on the other hand, the MacArthur
strategy contemplates a more gradual
move toward the Philippines via Western
New Guinea and some of the Dutch East
Indies—and the general himself has made
no secret of the fact that the Philippines
are his eventual goal—the campaign will
obviously be a very long One.
Therefore, no matter what the strategy
in the South Pacific —and it is certain
that offensive operations will be con-
tinued there —they offer no promise of
any rapid decisions of major importance.
For we are not ready in the South
Pacific now for the “massive strokes” ad-
vocated, and less risky operations will
require much time, meeting as we ad-
vance stronger and stronger enemy forces
and tougher and tougher opposition.
Soldiers Must Help Make
Peace.
(F rom the “Saturday Evening Post.")
This time the peace negotiators cer-
tainly should include representatives of
the men who actually fought in the war.
The results of the 1919 peace conference
have been widely criticised as the work
of old men who had no part in the fight-
ing. Now is a good time to make sure
that the next peace cannot be assailed
on that ground.
The peace conferees must, of course,
include political leaders, flanked by ex-
perts and observers versed in foreign
affairs. We shall need them, but we also
shall need men who know something
about the consequences of war as well as
its causes, A man who has risked his
life should be able to supply a kind of
wisdom on such problems as frontiers or
minorities which is often wanting in the
academic student of these questions.
Such a man would also supply some-
thing even more important. He would
bring in a moral fervor for future peace
which academicians sometimes lack. It
is his generation which has the most at
stake in the success of the next peace
conference. The men who are doing the
fighting will want to see to it that the
future is not compromised by any lack
of faith and determination.
Hitler’s Roofless “Fortress.”
(From an American “Mercury” article by
Major Alexander P. de Seversky .)
Orthodox military writers assume that
Nazi Germany, having lost the initiative
in the war, may elect to fight it defen-
sively. It will shorten its lines wherever
possible and “dig in” for a prolonged
siege. The phrase Festung Europa —
Fortress Europe—implies a siege behind
impregnable walls. According to the
Nazi version the enemy’s successes in
the Mediterranean and on the Russian
front have not really breached the
“fortress,” within which the Germans can
survive against the entire outside world.
The whole idea, however, is nothing
more than a hangover from the past. The
fact is that air power has forever ended
the concept of impregnable fortifications.
In the epoch of surface warfare a strong
wall was enough to keep out an enemy.
The Maginot Line is the last great monu-
ment to that epoch. Since the advent of
air power a wall is not enough. A roof,
too, is required, otherwise destruction will
rain down from overhead.
The question, therefore, is whether the
Germans can provide their European
fortress with a roof of defensive air
power; whether they can establish what
some refer to as a “vertical front.” And
the answer is that they cannot do it.
Bombers will always crash through, and
given an attacker with adequate air
power of the proper types an effective
roof over the “fortress” is out of the
question.
Both sides have learned a lot from the
Battle of Britain and a score of other
engagements since then. Today there can
be no such thing as an impregnable de-
fence. Bombardment aviation will pene-
trate, even if losses are heavy, and for
all practical purposes the Germans will
be trapped in a fortress without a roof.
The logic of modern air power forces
us to a specific conclusion: If the Ger-
mans go over to a purely defensive
strategy their doom will be sealed. Such
strategy is today a myth, and those who
preached it only a few years ago seem
as anachronistic as if they belonged to
the era of Caesar or Napoleon.
A Strip-tease Decision.
(From John O'Donnell’s N.Y. “Daily News"
column.)
At a luncheon in Washington we heard
Wing-Commander Gibson, V.C., leader
of the R.A.F. bombing attack on the big
German dams, tell an absorbing, off-the-
record censored story of how the plans
were made for that daring exploit. We
finally teased out of the powers of con-
sorship and security the privilege of tell-
ing in part how strip-tease contributed to
the success of his mission.
The great problem, as Wing-Commander
Gibson explained, was how to keep the
’planes at exactly 50 feet above the sur-
face of the mirror-smooth surfaces of the
reservoirs when the mines were dropped.
Forty-four feet altitude would be too
low. Sixty feet much too high. It had
to be exactly fifty, and the instruments
were not sensitive enough to register that
critical difference and human eyesight
not sharp enough to measure the distance
from the mirror surface below.
Then came the night when an Austra-
lian sergeant in Commander Gibson s
crew dropped into the Lincoln Paladium
to relax at a burlesque show.
The strip-tease artist slithered out
before the footlights and went into her
act. To the howls of “take it off” the
premiere artiste coyly shed her garments.
At the climax the spotlights from the rear
of the theatre focused on her bejewelled
G-string.
Up jumped the Australian sergeant
with the cry:
“My God, I’ve got it!”
Observed Commander Gibson: “You
know, it was a damned funny thing for
a fellow to be thinking about our tech-
nical problem at just that moment, but
he was.”
The commander told us how the bomb-
ing ’planes that smashed the German
dams made use of the strip-tease inspira-
tion. Censorship won’t let us tell you.
But it worked.
America Makes Rubber.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” article
by Roger William Riis.)
America’s first rubber factory is in pro-
duction, and it is the world’s largest. At
Institute, West Virginia, a superb plant
77 acres in area is turning out rubber at
the rate of 90,000 long tons a year.
That is almost one-sixth as much as
the U.S.A. used to need in normal times
—and as much as 100,000 Malay natives
gather from 18,000,000 rubber-trees.
Other plants are coming in, at Louisville,


Since the fateful day when Australia “threw her hat
into the ring”, the resources of this fertile land have been forged
into one mighty machine of war. The texture of national life
has been re - woven into a grimmer pattern designed for war.
In this, as in all great undertakings, the motive power that
drives Australia’s war effort is money your money and ours.
A million and a half pounds a day must be found and we must
find it. As a free man, fighting with all you have in the cause
of national liberty and pride, buy National Savings Bonds and
War Savings Certificates, and buy them to-day!
Inserted by the Proprietors of
p
TOP DOG MEN’S WEAR
BREKS TROUSERS SOVEREIGN HATS
EYE LOTION
Tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose& Co.,Pty.,Ltd.. King Street. Sydney,
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Sii
C*>
Wm
m
they never vary
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
fd
5063 3
Pitfsburgh, Baton Rouge, Los Angeles.
By January the U.S.A. will be making
750,000 tons a year—one-fourth more
than it used to buy in pre-war days from
the plantations of the Far East.
It is hard to visualise the magnitude of
this achievement, described as the greatest
industrial programme ever undertaken.
The United States set out to create within
two years a brand-new industry which
would produce enough rubber for swollen
war-time needs. It was much as if it had
decided to create the automobile industry
in two years instead of 40.
Staggering project though it was, there
was no choice. Every Flying Fortress
needs more than half a ton of rubber,
every tank almost a ton, a battleship 75
tons.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Apparently neither Roosevelt nor Churchill
favors revival of the old League of Nations.
Both incline to the idea of Big-Power leadership,
to the idea that other nations should enjoy the
benefits of co-operation only by meeting the
terms of this leadership. Benefits might in-
clude financial aid, markets, protection.
Neither is impressed by the idea of a top-heavy
world organisation. Both are impressed by the
opportunities opened by air power, by the use
of combined sea and air power to keep the
world well policed from British-American bases.
Russia’s co-operation could assure a stable
world as they see it. Of course it all sounds
far simpler than it is. The job of trying to
make over a world is difficult in the best
circumstances. — “United States News.”
* sic * »
The story of Russian-American relations is
an important demonstration of how unimpor-
tant in the determination of policy'is ideology,
how compelling is national interest. — Waller
Lippmann, in his bopk on American foreign
policy.
H= * H= *
“We’d have been tight all the time —and it
wouldn’t have cost us a farthing if they’d had
their way.”— A British sergeant on the Corsi-
cans.
* * * *
Sewing kits, soap and packets of tea, bouillon
and chocolate bars are being dropped by para-
chute, smuggled past Nazi barriers, and, in
neutral countries, distributed openly as tan-
gible evidence that the United States is rich and
generous. Even enemy countries get some of
these gifts, on each of which is an American
flag and a friendly greeting or a picture symbol-
ising American armed might.—“ Reader’s
Digest.”
* % % *
When the bombs rain over Germany’s indus-
tries, the armament staff tremble, not only for
each factory hit but' for each worker’s dwelling
destroyed, for if the workers are bombed out
they don’t go to work. Therefore, it is im-
portant to provide their families with a new
roof. Vital machines are frequently idle even
though they haven’t been hit. If a whole
working-class quarter is destroyed by bombs,
the workers are often collectively billeted in
another quarter, with buses provided to take
them to work the following morning. “But
they refuse to go with the buses,” relates a
German industrialist to a Swedish business
friend, “until they know what is going to happen
to their families. The factories are idle until
the families are finally evacuated —there’s no
telling where.” — Walter Taub, Stockholm; in
“Collier’s.”
* * * *
I am one of those rare birds who believe that
Roosevelt may not run for a fourth terra. He
is certainly, however, giving a correct imitation
of a fourth-term candidate at this writing. And
he must do just that for several reasons, two
good ones: first, if he declares himself out of
it he will Jose influence in national and inter-
national affairs; second, he would lose control
of Congress in a time of grave crisis, when his
leadership, however many may dislike it, is vital
to this country. For, after all, without leader-
ship, the United States would blow up in dis-
sension. Indeed, any leadership conceivable
in this democracy today is better than no leader-
ship.—William Allen White; North American
Newspaper Alliance.
* * * *
The touring U.S. Senators brought back an
eye-popping story from Cairo —how the King
of Egypt refused to see the British Ambassa-
dor. After the Ambassador waited several days
and got no audience with the King, a British
tank company arrived at the palace gates with
a detachment of field artillery. With the artil-
lery pointed at the palace, a tank battered down
the palace gates, and the British Ambassador
drove through in an armbred car. He saw the
King.—TV. Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * *
Mr. Herbert Morrison makes an excellent
case for the British determination not to see
the remarkable British Empire destroyed. [The
critics] “think that the very idea of empire is
out of date. The only mild retort I would
make is that their idea of an empire certainly is.
They are idealists, and they profoundly believe
that their political ideas are 30 or 40 years
in advance of the British Empire. I think their
political information is 30 or 40 years behind
it.” It may be that the Empire has not im-
proved quite as far as the British believe. But
none can overlook their renewed belief and
pride in it. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’’’
* * * *
The choice of Lord Louis Mountbatten as
Supreme Allied Commander in South-east Asia
was most acceptable to official Washington.
The only criticism heard in informed quarters
is that the appointment was made a little late.
Marshal Wdvell’s extreme caution, verging on
pessimism, did not recommend him for the
active command of the offensive operations in
that area, and he was promoted to the Viceroy’s
office. In the absence of an authorised com-
mander for this enterprise, preparations lagged
to some extent during the summer months. —
Ernest K. Lindley; “Free World.”
* * * *
If three incomplete German divisions could
hold us up for a month in Sicily with poor
communication lines and almost no air power,
how long will it take to wipe out 300 German
divisions with air cover on their home grounds?
Even after Germany is driven out of Russia,
the Balkans, Norway, the Low Countries and
France, she can still be strong in a military
sense-far stronger than Britain after Dunkirk.
That is why our military experts think that only
with the maximum of effort and maximum of
luck can the Allies win total military victory
over Germany in 1944. Bui there will be
neither military defeat of Germany, nor earlier
surrender to prevent total military
destruction, if we are slowed down by delusions
of quick and easy victory. Only preparation for
a long war can make it a shorter war. — N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
An air assault of such proportions is being
mounted against Japan that the most difficult
problem now is to find sufficient bases from
which to operate this air fleet. — U.S. Chief of
Staff Gen. Marshall.
* * * *
Allied officers said yesterday [Oct. 12] that
Germans captured in recent battles are cocky
and so “hopped up with Nazi propaganda” it
is unlikely they ever will crack. “There abso-
lutely is no weakening of German morale,”
one officer said. — U.S. United Press London
correspondent.
* * * *
“If Americans can crusade for the four free-
doms Russia can crusade for Communism.
Even Hitler would be justified in crusading for
National Socialism. A world of crusaders is a
world at war.” — U.S. Senator Taft.


*-r- ,
iiaili
m
ii
I
maw
i«
iSN’ll
\ v
■ :
■
Mil ill
! Si
Ifl., Mil J
. :
%
mm
a-.i,
i-
m
KJ
7*..' .
■
7
: ' ?
8
~ * s: 4k i? l
• . \ - V
\' ' ' 'k » \ -™
Sillii
Vi
:v
%
i
; ;
HHK
• •
mm
One Fire
Extinguished
in Australia
every week.
lor the past
15 years!
★
From time to time we have shown graphs
and figures of the record "saves” by
Grinnell all over the world.
Now here’s a record nearer home. On
an average of once a week, every week,
for the past 15 years, "Grinnell” has
extinguished a fire somewhere in
Australia.
But of course the "Grinnell” record
goes back further than this. Back to
1886 when the first "save” by the first
Grinnell was made. Since then Grinnell
has built up an amazing record of
"saves” each year. *
In countering fire as a menace to lives,
property and production "Grinnell”
serves an important place in the national
life of the community.
But behind the night and day effici-
ency of every Grinnell Automatic
Sprinkler System is a bigger story... a
story of the Wormald service... a
highly developed service that carries
with it the accumulated knowledge of
more than half a century’s experience in
fire protection. It is a guarantee that
Grinnell is always ready to strike.
"GRINNELL"
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
★
WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD.
(Incorp. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand,


f
WHO Will LOOK AFTER
FAMILY
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges
are fixed and moderate. Con-
sult your solicitor or write for
Free Booklet.
the trustees executors
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£960,645. ,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M. Hughes.
df
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
i
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a draionstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machin f ry \ fi includin f a^^ P PvpHl e QHno
amalaamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, e st ng
vSvef water! and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
io PARRAMATTA RD.. CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melt.)
, Dividends s To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total! serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’33.. 217,724 9 p.c. 6 p.c. 167,705 50,019 297*054
’34.. 226,460 9 ~ 6 ~ 168,083 1,0 377 309 431
To tax reserve, £46,000 .. j XL ' iU
Unexplained addition, £16,251 •• 325,68-
’35.. 261,402 9 p.c. 74p.c. 194,237 67,165 392,84<
’36.. 289,664 9 p.c. 84 p.c. 211,582 \ qqo 457 999
To staff fund, £3OOO .. ) ’ ’
’ 37 - 32 r}’ 01 }Jf-% 0 ’ 210 ? 97,801 565,730
To staff fund, £3OOO 3
’38.. 319,369 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 |
Written off freehold, £20,000 !■ 74,159 639,889
To staff fund, £5OOO .. I
’39.. 305,080 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 ]
Written off freehold, £20,000 159,870 699,759
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J
’40.. 312,476 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 |
Written off freehold, £20,000 j- 67,266 767,025
To staff fund, £5OOO . . J
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 |
Written off freehold, £20,000 f 12,658 779,683
To staff fund, £20,000 .. J
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 74 p.c. 194,335 778,873
’43.. 189,564 9 ~ 74 „ 194,835 774,102
t Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
Australians (and retailers) are now ex-
periencing their second year of coupon-
rationing, officially estimated to have im-
posed a cut of 40 p.c. on normal male
purchases of clothing, 33 p.c. in women’s
wear and 20 p.c. in the case of children
over five. At today’s prices the forced
saving thus represented is reckoned at
£45,000,000. Moreover, nearly all other
forms of merchandise, the manufacture or
import of which has not been prohibited
altogether, have been indirectly rationed
by labor and material controls at the
source. The fact that city department
stores have weathered these restric-
tions of earning as well as they
have primarily reflects economies in the
“excess” costs of competition as trading
policies and customer service have been
adjusted to the needs of a war economy.
Speaking generally, organisations such
as Myer’s, the largest of its kind in the
Commonwealth, are approaching the
where they are little more than regi-
mented utilities for satisfying minimum
community needs. The huge Melbourne
store runs through two city blocks from
Bourke to Lonsdale streets, and with the
Adelaide selling subsidiary is fed from
the co.’s own buying office in London
and a string of 45 locally-controlled
workrooms and factories. Chief is Myer
Woollen Mills, Ballarat, to which a
modern worsted-spinning plant was added
last year, and alongside which a factory
adjunct has been erected as a contribu-
tion to decentralisation of clothing manu-
facture. Now given over mainly to de-
fence needs, these internal supply lines
partly explain the low margin of gross
profit at which the co. sells to the public
— 2si p.c. on turnover in ’43, which the
management claims is lower than for
any other similar store it knows.
During the year the parent lost 225,000
sq. ft. of floor space to national users.
On the trading side the effect on turn-
over of restricted trading supplies was
partly sidestepped by drawing on ware-
house reserves. Still, after provision of
£19,993 less for depreciation (£85,680),
trading profit fell away from £341,514 to
£295,830, and subsidiary and other in-
vestments kicked in with £13,277 less at
£38,734. These adverse movements,
however, were largely offset by a saving
of £55,000 in tax provision (£145,000),
leaving the net result £3961 lighter at 7.4
p.c. on ord. capital. Only once in the
last 20 years has less been available, the
rate comparing with just under 7.5, 12
and 14.3 p.c., going back to the start of
war. So reserves for the second year
were called on for moderate assistance to
pay the 9 p.c. pref., 6 p.c. staff and 7\
p.c. ord. divs.
In total, subsidiaries alone earned
£65,881 on parent and outsiders’ com-
bined account after setting aside £96,000
and £87,640 for the taxgatherer and de-
preciation respectively. Group provision
for depreciation at a rate which will
wipe plant completely off the books with-
in 18 months is, to say the least, con-
servative.
With effective current demand further
hobbled by the inclusion of manchester
and drapery lines on clothing coupons
and the possibility that the ration period
may extend beyond 12 months, much will
depend on the supply of “free” goods
coming from a factory labor force for
civil purposes less than a third of pre-
war dimensions. Fortunately, stocks are
still the substantial total of £H millions,
and subsidiaries hold another three-
quarters of a million or so;
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
£ £ &
Capital . . 2,479,950 2,479,950 2,479,950 2,479,950
M o rteages 516,650 408,000 408,000 408,000
Creditors 778 441 1,422,929 1,025.368 801,363
Tax reserve 75,646 160,000 200,000 164.955
F r eeholds, _
etc 2,105,195 2,084,560 2,013,076 1,982,966
Plant, etc. 269,786 216,850 193,943 158,934
Shares . . 441,309 441,309 441,809 441,309
Stocks . . 1,093,863 1,818,063 1,854,832 1,534,498
Debtors . . 706,997 846,878 464,176 162,264
Cash, etc. 25,314 93,614 73,928 497,472
Under present conditions the account
customer is becoming almost a curiosity,
with the result that £700,000 formerly
required to finance credit-trading has
been released for other purposes in two
years. Of the contraction of £302,000
in debtors and £320,000 in inventories
last year, £224,000 was applied in debt
reduction ; the balance went into a liquid
reserve, showing that the control has an
eye to post-war trading needs. Stock is
in at cost or under, and it can be taken
for granted that regard has been paid
to any depreciation in austerity styles and
materials that may later occur.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
t — Dividends v
, Pref. s
June, Profit. 9 p.c, 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ it £ £
1933.. 29,890 7275 f 6500 6i p.c. = 13,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 . . 50,627
1934.. 42,406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 . . 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 26,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. •• 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 t 1 Q2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. •• 5 ’
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 ]
Written off, £lBB5 .. .. -.I 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. .. J
1939.. 40,094 6975162001 6 p.c. = 16,800 1 g 776
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. .. f ’
Surplus sale property, £4276 .. .. 13,051
1940.. 20,336 69751 62001 3 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
Expenses charged to goodwill, £7396.. 3,816
1941.. 31,558 69751 62001 6 p.c. = 18,000 4,109
1942.. 34,035 69751 62001 6 „ ~ 18,000 7,059
1943.. 41,426 69751 62001 6 „ ~ 18,000 17,310
* Nine months. 1 Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
Although earnings have not yet recov-
ered to their pre-war level, there has
been a steady lift from the low point
reached during the initial year of the
“Daily Mirror’s” establishment. The
“Mirror” first appeared on May 12, 1941,
and all the preliminary expenses incurred
during the term to June 30. 1941, bar
£7396 added to goodwill, Wwe charged
to p. and 1. Since then there have been
no additions to intangibles, there has been
an increase in fixed assets of only £22,299,
and the ord. div. has been steady at 6 p.c.
From the year before the “Mirror’s”
establishment the increase in net reserves,
deducting goodwill, has been £6098.
After a troubled, rather political,
period both before and soon after the
launching of the new Sydney evening
paper, the “Truth” proprietary seems to
be settling down to a more ordered exist-
ence. It has even come to some sort of
common suburban delivery agreement
with its chief competitor, the “Sun.”
What settlement, if any, was arrived at
with the Federal Government over pre-
vious revocation ,of the co.’s newsprint
license has not been disclosed. In any
case, after much doubt about the news-
print position even after publication of
the “Mirror” was allowed, the formation
of a newsprint pool within the Copimon-
wealth, out of which all newspapers draw
their supplies, has removed any fears of
a newsprint shortage so long as there are
supplies in Australia. The general news-
print position in this country is now im-
proving, though there has been little re-
vision of rationing. A small increase in
circulations has recently been permitted,
but size of papers remains at the lowest
level fixed during rationing.
At the end of the first financial period
in which the “Mirror” was on sale it
was stated that the new paper had re-
ceived “solid support,” and had “a most
satisfactory and increasing circulation.”
Next term the paper was said to be “con-
tinuing to receive the solid support of
the reading public and advertisers alike” ;
while for the past term comment was even
more general: “In spite of the difficult
trading conditions again experienced dur-
ing the past year, your directors are
pleased to be able to report a successful
year’s trading.” No circulation figures
have been given. “Truth” is published in
several States, a controlling interest is
held in “Truth” (N.Z.), and besides the
“Mirror” there are sporting papers and
jobbing sections.
There is little difficulty in filling present-
size newspapers with advertising. Sales
are steady, and newsprint consumed is
smaller, though the increased landed cost
of paper has offset most of the saving
in that direction. Rationing, man-power
and other problems have eliminated much
of the pre-war pressure of competition.
Ezra Norton’s publications in present
circumstances have been able to dig
themselves in to prepare for the blast that
may be expected when both Sunday and
evening competitors resume the attack
when the war is ended.
“After making provision for taxation”
and charging £17,382 (up £854) for depre-
ciation, net profit last term was shown
£7391 higher at £41,426. After paying
the prefs. their statutorily-reduced rate
the ords. were handed 6 p.c. again, and
£10,251 was left for reserves, now £17,310
in excess of intangibles—the strongest
position since the co. was formed.
The fact that the newsprint pool is
looking after stocks has eased the co.’s
financial position:
193fi. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Pref. capital.. £200,000'41200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 230,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Qule?liabilities ggff «».«*
Freeholds, etc. 174,398 244,524 247,279 247,017
Plant, etc. . . 151,462 256,039 259,852 275,845
Investments . . 96,050 103,022 106,379 142,308
Stocks . . 27,628 143,486 200,265 68,308
Debtors .. 50,728 91,268 100,554 74,870
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 8,120 7,579 6,936
There was a drop of £131,957 in the
book value of stocks last term; though
investments [apart from “Truth” (N.Z.)]
moved up £35,929, and plant rose £15,993
net, there was a reduction' of £116,874
in the outside debt, which was assisted by
a drop of £25,684 in the co.’s own
debtors. Liabilities include £129,973
secured, and an unspecified provision for
taxation.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 22,551 7i p.c.= 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 75,, „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935-. 23,218 „,, 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ ~ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 162,033
1937.. 42,674 12J p.c.= 36,250 1 2 424 164,457
Pension fund, £4OOO S ’
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO .. •• 162,489
1940.. 31,863 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 .. • • 162,502
1941.. 35,021 10 p.c. = 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO •• •• 162,523
1942.. 29',899 10 p.c. = 29,000 899 163,422
To staff funds, £3769 . . • • 159,653
1943.. 24,042 8 p.c. = 23,200 842 160,495
To staff funds, £3BOO . . • ■ 156,695
This stoutly-ribbed co. is in the wool-
and produce-broking and stock- and
station-agency business in N. S. Wales.
Before the war earnings fluctuated
according to seasons, prices and costs,
mostly wages ; and buyers from all over
the world bid for the staple at auction.
When auctions ceased at the outbreak of
hostilities Britain bought the whole ex-
portable portion of the clip at a flat rate
of 13.4 d. per pound, which was paid
until mid-1942, when the figure was lifted
to 15.4 d.; the extra 2d. was to help off-
set rising costs which war spending, etc.,
had brought about. What the British
contract, which runs for the duration and
one season thereafter, means to the grow-
ing and selling side of the trade in Aus-
tralia can be judged from the fact that
the appraised value of last season’s clip
was £6,874,000 short of the full contract


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an<J Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pi rviding
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
MADE IN ENGLAND
c\jPREME
MR
Z Grand
Fountain Pens
e
GOLD I
NIBS I
Supplies are limited,
but they're available
at most stores.
d
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts \s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
tuc
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE ; GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
isst. Gen. Manager.
yoiaou d
V S.il i •
iiS
s
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
luo o wic rs
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
LEATHER
BELTING
•
PULLEYs
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
v' £ • ff i *
I 6\X
Mahe this a
Patriotic Christmas
with one of these gifts
*
This Christmas, for at least one of
your presents, give a War Savings
Certificate, or 2/- worth of War
Savings Stamps in the Free Gift
Folder or a 5/- National Savings
Stamp, or more, pasted in the new
National Savings Stamp Book.
Thus you will solve the problem
of Christmas giving an d help
Australia at the same time. If every-
one gave one of these patriotic
presents, millions of pounds would
be contributed to Australia’s cause.
So share in this great Christmas War
Effort. Give the gifts that last.
War Savings Certificates
6d. War Savings Stamps
5/- National Savings Stamps
C 6-26
LUDOWICIS
PhUUV P
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
figure (£73,252,000), which was £7,687,000
more than the previous clip fetched.
Despite a satisfactory season, especi-
ally during the second half, the co.
handled 16,387 fewer bales of wool. This
was due mainly to .diversion of clips
which previously came to Sydney from
southern districts to the Goulburn market
for appraisal. Also, to save woolpacks,
more fleeces were pressed into a bale
than formerly;
Year to Wool
June SO, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
19'«u. 134,253 317,177 32,522
1941.. 141,507 375,530- 19,551
1942.. 141,704 411,000 24,690 7609
1943.. 125,317 411,000 24,690 7609
The management put the number of live
stock handled at exactly the same figures
as for 1942; but sheep, cattle and pigs
all fetched better prices. Another factor
which affected the co.’s earnings was re-
duction in the volume of advances, owing
to the favorable combination of both
seasons and prices and to restricted
expenditure on upkeep and improvement
of properties because of man-power and
material shortages.
After setting aside £8250 (down
£3750) for the taxgatherer the year’s net
result was £5767 lighter at £24,042, equal
to 8 p.c. on capital as against 10.2, 11.9,
10.9, 10, 10.1 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1937.
A couple of points were chipped off the
div., reducing it to 8 p.c. This and £3BOO
sent to the staff fund called for £2958
more than the year’s declared net earn-
ings, reducing the visible lay-by to
£156,695.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 230,435 231,059 207,695 152,154
Creditors* . . 32,611 38,995 41,636 39,564
Freeholds . . 154,421 229,033 236,126 236,353
Advances, etc. 282,480 316,454 247,778 189,010
Liquid assets 301,103 212,488 249,113 239,181
* Including tax reserve.
The year’s contraction of £58,768 in ad-
vances was accompanied by a reduction
of £55,541 in the overdraft. The amount
coming to sundry creditors (down £2072)
includes an unspecified provision for tax-
ation. Liquids (down £9932) consist
mainly of fixed deposits and Govern-
ment securities. The reduced earnings
and payment of the previous term’s
final div. are further reflected in a con-
traction of £11,087 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£236,473).
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook favors a heavy clip, and buying
pressure on account of service require-
ments is keeping prices of live stock up.
But curtailed rail transport in conse-
quence of the coal shortage is holding
back wool that should be coming for-
ward for appraisement, which in turn
will affect the financial position of
growers, who cannot be paid until
appraisers have valued the clips. What
post-war conditions for wool will be
remains to be seen. Much will depend
upon the plan for release of surplus
British and American stocks of the staple
and upon the level of production costs in
Australia. This costs question promises
to be one of Australia’s thorny post-war
problems.
Wiluna Gold Corporation, the London
holding co., made a loss for the year to
March 31 last of £stg.7sl2, which has
been added to the preceding 12 months’
debit balance of £B2lO. Co. has £17,679
cash in London and £353 in Australia.
No dividend has been received from
Wiluna Gold Mines, the Westralian
operating co., since 1936. Latter has
£500,000 invested in Australian war
bonds and a few hundred thousand
pounds in cash as well. It is saving the
lot for a return of capital when the
Wiluna mine is finished.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance pays
a dividend of 6d. sterling, less U.K. in-
come tax of 10s. in the pound, on
December 10. The last distribution, also
of 6d., was made in 1938. Co. was
formed in London in 1925 to acquire the
Canadian assets of the Associated Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie (later liquidated),
and carries on business as a mining and
finance concern. Its Australian interests
include shares in Lake View, Wiluna and
Gold Fields Australian Development.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) is wind-
ing up. Secretary G. H. Carlisle has
been appointed liquidator and hopes to
return both pref. and ord. holders 9d. a
share. Liquidation was decided on by a
narrow majority of shareholders. The
noes demurred because of “possibilities”
below the 100 ft. (bottom) level. Co. was
floated during the height of the 1935
boom to acquire a block south of
the rich Yellowdine find. Getting
nothing from shallow prospecting there
it bought the Newfield mine near
Bullfinch for £12,000 cash. From
this show over £BO,OOO has been taken
and Is. 6d. paid in dividends. The lode
cut out a few feet below the 100 ft.
level, and, although one of three bores
cut 2ft. of 6dwt. to 7dwt. grade in
deeper ground, war-time conditions were
not considered good enough to dig down.


4'/ ; :
i
pi
/
/ J
VTHE GREATEST AIR
OEfINSIVE IN HISTORY
Australia's keen-eyed, highly-skilled aimn©n, flying
mighty bombers and swift, deadly fighters are play-
ing an inspiring part in the greatest air offensive in
history. Thousands more young men are still wanted
as Air Crew personnel. No matter what your present
occupation may be, apply NOW to FLY in the RAAF.
For training as PILOTS, NAVIGATORS and WIRELESS
OPERATOR-AIR GUNNERS, age limit 18 to 32 years.
RAAF
AIR CREWS
WANTED NOW
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest R.A.A.F,
Recruiting Centre or local R.A.A.F. Committee.
EAAF 2-S«
IT is
• The name world-wide known to de-
signers, owners and operators of auto-
motive and industrial machinery safe-
guarded against lubrication failure by
ALEMITE
Pressure and Power
Lubrication Equipment
■
e More than ever before machinery
must be serviced with the idea that
spare-parts are precious, often unob-
tainable. So where metal wears against
metal, let ALEMITE shoulder the
burden of reducing wear to the mini-
mum while cutting the cost and time
of proper lubrication 50 to 75%.
Our friends and good neighbors
realize the problems besetting today's
international trade, even where ex-
change of goods (sorely needed) is
denied because of available cargo
space—but there is an answer: Ten tons
of shipping space are required to keep
one fighting man going for one month!
fd
ALEMITE
PNEUMATIC
BARREL PUMPS
comprise a complete
range of heavy-duty
pumps available for
high or low pres-
sures. Handle heavy
greases direct from
original drums; am-
ple capacity to serve
several outlets.
ALEMITE 25-LB.
ELECTRIC POWER CUN
Delivers 12 ounces oi semi-solid
lubricant per minute under high
pressure. Nitralloy
high pressure piston
and cylinder. Heavy
duty universal mot-
or; easily portable;
comp lete
with hose
and valve.
f
ALEMITE 40-LB.
AIR OPERATED GUN
Operates on 100 to
150 lbs. air; handles
heavy fibrous grease
at 33 times air pres-
sure used; exclusive
helix arm and worm
assures positive
prime—no air
pockets.
df
ti
m
Zifa
m
THE
Sound
ALEMITE
Rea.u.s. Pot. Off.
suCei*C LUBRICATION
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Fair Go
Australians have long professed to be
champions of the “fair go.” In settling
differences a fair fight with the fists has
been far more respected than a bottle over
the back of the head, though the latter
custom has its niche in the Australian,
soda, scheme without a <*ub.. Pohtol-
reform movements have often game
first strength in this country by reason
of their policy of a fairer deal for the
underdog, and no higher compliment can
be paid to an Australian than an assur-
ance by another that “he’ll give you a
fair go.”
A spirit of fair play is indeed a great
source of moral strength and character
in any country. It is the basis of law,
order and good Government. But of
recent years in parts of Australia there
has been disturbing evidence of another
kind of spirit. It is that of “putting in
the boot.” It applies not only in actual
cases of assault where a downed man is
kicked about the head. It has been seen
only too often during this war in those
essential industries where labor is highly
unionised and where shortage of man-
power and urgent need of food, fuel,
clothing, transport or munitions have
been made a lever for extracting an utterly
unfair amount of remuneration out of a
distressed nation,
The difference between the pay of a
private in the Army and that of a wage-
earner left in industry is, to start with,
something that perhaps can never be ade-
quately remedied. A Labor member in
England named Benson early in this war
contended that a man might rise to great
heights of patriotism on the battlefield,
while the same man seated beside a desk
er a machine might be an entirely dif-
ferent psychological problem. He ap-
plied his contention both to employee and
employer. But, while it may be impos-
sible to set the soldier and the wage-
earner on an equal monetary footing at
the beginning of a war, it should not be
beyond the bounds of possibility to pre-
vent the discrepancy between the two in-
creasing as the war goes on.
In the Commonwealth an increase in
the discrepancy has not been prevented.
The uneven distribution of rewards has
increased under regimented, sometimes
militant, pressure of trade-union demands,
exemplified in the request of the A.C.T.U.
for a war-time loading on the basic wage,
after the style of the prosperity loading
granted in 1937. Though no general
war-time loading on the basic wage has
resulted, some industries have cashed-in
heavily, especially where overtime is
worked or “danger-money” collected. The
Government itself set a bad precedent
when it sidetracked the Arbitration Court
and reduced the hours in the shipping
industry from 56 to 44 by regulation.
That was in addition to the granting of
a war-risk bonus, which operates even
where a ship has been in port for months.
When Labor took office in October,
1941, it was an extremely biased Gov-
ernment. It had definite ideas about look-
ing after its own and preventing other
sections from looking after themselves.
It cultivated in the minds of the majority
the idea that “capitalists” and the thrifty
were the ones who should pay for the
war. There was an atmosphere of “spoils
to the victor” about its economic policy
when the danger from Japan was most
acute, and it quickly made a big play
for political support from a new army
of wage-earners —women factory- and
munition-workers. There was a demand
for equal pay for the sexes irrespective
of output, and the temper of Arbitration
Court Judges was severely taxed by poli-
tical interference.
The spirit of fair play between employer
and wage-earner was strained by “Ward-
ism,” other Ministerial, trade-union and
Communistic behavior. But even as be-
tween wage-earners themselves there has
been little endeavor to ensure that each
man gets a fair go. Though in some in-
dustries an even wage is paid to classified
workmen irrespective of their skill or
production, in other cases wage rates paid
are freakishly dissimilar. For some reason
or other in N. S. Wales s.p. bookmakers
and frequenters of the racecourse are
found in better Government jobs than
more skilled professional men or cratsmen.
The decline of the spirit of fair play had
early war-time Labor-Government s&nc-
tion. The Government is one which, by
the very nature of this war, has been
handed almost totalitarian powers. In the
circumstances any shade of policy which
it may openly or unofficially sponsor was
liable to have far-reaching effects. The
effects of its policy and philosophy are
now everywhere evident in the re-
luctance of wage-earners to subscribe
to war loans, in black-marketing, in stop-
pages on the coalfields, in hold-up
methods on the wharves and in wide-
spread attempts to evade income tax in
spite of swollen pay being collected.
From the beginning of its career the
present Government pursued a lopsided
taxation policy. Though equality of sac-
rifice is the obvious principle behind a
fairly-distributed war effort, the position
soon arose where earners of the higher
incomes were down heavily in their
net receipts, while wage-earners, who
at all times, in the aggregate, collect tne
lion’s share of the national income, were
actually in pocket as a result of the war.
This had two immediate adverse effects:
there was more spending power and less
investing power than before, which meant
that there was a smaller collection of tax-
money and loan-money than should have
been the case, while competition for the
limited amount of goods and services
available was increased—with consequent
inflation. While wage-earners have not
adequately supported war loans, the “in-
vestor” class is now rarely able to do so.
The world grows more complicated
every day. Problems are not as simple as
they once were, and the reactions of mass
behavior are not immediately visible,
But it will be a sad day for the
Commonwealth if Australians abandon
their traditional stand for the fair
go. The stand has been shaken Very
severely during this war, principally be-
cause a sectional rather than a national
Government has held office. The A.I.F.
continues to be sadly overworked,
Creators of strife and discontent have
been operating on a large scale, and the
Labor party has long been one to culti-
vate a self-interest and a self-pity com-
plex among its adherents. The Com-
munist party is given free rein to propa-
gate its poisonous “principles.”
It is not enough to look for fair play
as between man and man. Governments
control so much of our national life and
national income these days that they must
govern with a minimum of partiality if
•m.
the individual is to get a fair deal. Not
only is a fair deal the rightful demand
of the individual; it is the essence of our
political and economic administration,
especially in war-time, when equality ot
sacrifice is the most appropriate countei
oth to economic inflation and cl s
tlon -
Qne of the really ser ious anti-social
£ orces work in Australia is the discour-
agement of skill and enthusiasm in work
. certain trade-union movements. This
d i scouragement has been operating in
wa r-time on a wide scale, and, amazingly,
in the munitions industries more than
anywhere except on the wharves. Trade
unions have f or i ong declared their aim
de better working and living condi-
tions for their mem bers. They appear to
forget that it is only i ncrea sed producti-
vity per head that will give them any sub-
stantial i ncre ase in living standards. The
share that - the bo ss” takes, even if it
were all handed to t hem, would not give
tQ tb em all the improvements that they
seek? and the taking of t h e boss’s share
mean an end to further extension
of i ndustr i a i enterprises. Increased pro-
duction by tbe individual is not a difficult
thing to ac hi eV e in these days of scientific
and i nven tive progress. The automatic
mac hi ne ry of today is capable of tremen-
dous outpu t per operative, and, though
this very output produces its problems of
rea fl o tting labor forces, mass production
is one c f tbe keys to improved living
stan dards. In Australia we have seen
“ go . s i ow ” advocated even in Government
factories, where no “boss” except the
na tion itself was involved. Go-slow is not
on j y a men ace of the present; it is a
philosophy of a kind that will leave its
mark on t he Australian economy for
y ea rs to come,
* * * *
A problem in some Australian indus-
tries at the present time is the switch-
over of man-power from played-out
munitions and similar jobs to new essen-
tial work. The trouble is most pro-
nounced in what are known as “protected
industries.” Here the employer is at a
disability ; he cannot put men off without
official sanction, and in many cases the
delegation of official authority is of such
an extended character that waste of money
or man-power is considered neither here
nor there provided the letter of the regula-
tions is carried out. On cost-plus jobs
the Government pays for wasted man-
hours and the employer gets his profit on
the waste. A Government which is talk-
ing so much about post-war planning
should surely be able to do a little better
planning in the present. War-time waste
is going to have its influence on post-war
conditions.


BRANDALIERrS
*
i
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAHDAOttB A 00, UA. BIBUEHOHAM. ENO
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of eoptrol.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
acts
LIKE THE HflllD
BARKEKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2J), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872,
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
% Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
VY7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most Individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen O. Lewis; W, Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y, Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H, A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
.
m
Ui, '
;
u
',v\S
: : ,
m
m
a r
t
Mi
%
■ ■ ■ '■
il
PRECISION AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
Aircraft equipment intended for our war
planes might well he likened to “The Invisible
Crew”. Such equipment as starters, generators
and magnetos, must be precision engineered
to highest standards of accuracy, for the lives
of our war plane personnel can depend on the
worthiness of each such unit.
Tecnico Limited, manufacturing many units of
aircraft equipment-—“ The Invisible Crew”—
have developed an engineering organisation
equipped and staffed to produce precision
components comparable with any . . . Tecnico
Products. TC , 43
lecnico
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST., MARRICKVILLE
N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
Robert Gillespie, addressing share-
holders at the annual meeting of the
Bank of New South Wales:
Credit expansion is inevitable in war-time.
We do not know the extent to which it can
be carried out without creating dangerous
inflation, but it seems clear that the issue
of Treasury bills on last year’s scale, by
initiating a large accumulation of spending-
power in the hands of the public, may im-
pair the operation of economic controls.
Hence the Government should make every
effort to reduce such spending-power by
imposing the heaviest practicable taxation
and encouraging subscriptions to war loans.
We might well ask whether taxation has
reached its limit. There is no doubt that in
some directions it may even be said to
have exceeded its limit. Further taxation
of income from personal exertion might
seriously reduce incentive, particularly in
the higher grades, and increased taxation on
individuals with family responsibilities
would cause unnecessary hardship ; but the
stage has been reached when the war effort
would benefit from higher taxation of cer-
tain groups if accompanied by an increase
in the scale of deductions allowable for
those with heavy obligations. Some further
rt increases in indirect taxation such as excise
and entertainments tax are still possible.
The president said that political expedi-
ency rather than sound advice had dic-
tated the Government’s national welfare
scheme ; it had been “too easily assumed
that non-contributory social services are
preferable to social insurance as pro-
posed by Sir William Beveridge for Great
Britain or the separate social-security tax
method in operation in New Zealand.”
Referring to attempts to control prices
he added: “The regulation made in 1942
to control wages and salaries has proved
largely ineffective in imposing income
ceilings, particularly in regard to women’s
wages. Until all factors making for
higher costs are controlled a system of
subsidies will not contribute much to-
wards solving the inflation problem.”
* * * *
Speaking at the annual meeting of the
National Bank of Australasia, chairman
H. D. Giddy said:
The various steps taken to prevent infla-
tionary tendencies from bursting forth and
endangering our whole economic structure have
produced circumstances surrounding the powers
and functions of money that are new in the
history of Australia. Firstly, national control
over the extent of the community’s monetary
wealth has been established. Secondly, though
money still remains the normal economic re-
ward for effort, the economic powers and privi-
leges that formerly attached to its possession
by the individual have been greatly circum-
scribed.
Without suggesting that these developments
should persist to their present degree, it is cer-
tain that the experience gained from them will
be reflected in the future conduct of national
finance. We can reasonably expect this ex-
perience to assist a more intensive direction of
monetary management toward the preserva-
tion of general economic stability and progress
and the maintenance of employment on a high
level. The achievement of these desirable
ends demands continuous guard against the ex-
tremes of inflation and deflation —two persistent
enemies of healthy economic activity and ad-
vancement. We cannot afford to have idle
men and resources where monetary management
can promote their use, nor can we afford to
see incomes and savings destroyed by wanton
credit expansion.
Monetary management, however, is not the
all-powerful influence some people would have
us believe. Manipulation of money and credit
cannot of ifself lead to economic progress or
raise the standard of life of the community,
but sound direction of finance is essential to
the attainment of these goals, and it is the
duty of those responsible to so manage our
monetary system that it actively assists and does
not obstruct real economic progress for all
the people.
It was Herbert Morrison, now under
fire because of the release of the Mosleys,
who wisely said in Britain six months
ago: “We have learnt a great deal about
how to control employment. We have
the technical means to ensure prosperity
and know enough to be able to work to
a plan for more production, and, when
we get it, to make it yield a higher stand-
ard of living. If we can deal firmly with
the forces of selfishness and sectionalism
we can look forward to the future hope-
fully.”
* * * *
The cost-plus system of doing work for
the Government is officially “to be
avoided as far as possible.” A target
system is to be adopted in cases where
a satisfactory fixed price cannot be de-
termined but where a very close estimate
of the cost is possible. Savings in the
target cost will be shared by the con-
tractor and the Government. Remunera-
tion on a cost-plus basis will be allowed
only where no better method of remuner-
ation can be adapted. After four years
of war, the last two of them very infla-
tionary from an economic point of view,
the Government proposes to do some-
thing about cutting out a system of
remuneration which pays a premium on
waste of man-power and materials, on
paid-for idleness and on inflation
generally. The greater the cost the
greater the profit. Before the Labor
party took office in 1941 it was
outspoken in its attacks on the sys-
tem, but it has taken two years
for it to do anything in the matter. It
will find that any other method at this
critical stage of our war-time economy
will be more difficult to enforce effectively
than if it had been adopted earlier. Any
target method noW adopted must be
based on costs already excessively
inflated by cost-plus.
* * * #
According to Supply Minister Beasley,
Australia is sending ether to Russia,
surgical catgut and hypodermic syringes
to India and New Zealand, and serums
and allied products from Common-
wealth laboratories are supplying the
whole of the Pacific area and all the
service requirements in India. Sulphanila-
mide and sulphaguandine are also being
produced, as well as hundreds of thou-
sands of artificial teeth. Small quantities
of morphia are being made, with large-
scale manufacture in prospect.
* * * *
According to the chairman of Tooth’s,
Sydney, Commonwealth collections of
beer excise rose from £7.3 million for
1938-39 to £19.6 million for 1942-43. No
increase in prices other than for excise
had been made by the brewery in that
time, he said, though other costs had
risen. Beer rationing had meant a smaller
quantity available for civilians, “but sup-
plies for the services somewhat offset this
deficiency in turnover.” The co. is in-
terested in munitions work as well as
brewing.
V * * ♦
There were actually two N. S. Wales
State brickworks (B. 3/11/ ”43) —one at
Botany and the other at Homebush Bay.
In 1937 the Auditor-General reported that
a capital loss of £31,401 had accumu-
lated in the case of the Botany under-
taking, which was “inoperative.” The
Homebush works during a period of 24
years, in only three of which was in-
come tax paid, earned net profits certified
to at £129,422, In addition, employees
were handed £101,708 as part of the sur-
plus during the same period. Although
profits faded out during the depression
and subsequent years, about 1936 the
brickworks were sold as a going concern,
and, having wiped out capital advances,
the works finished up with a cash balance
of £196,000. Although these particular
Government brickworks were unusually
successful, apart from taxation privileges
they possessed other advantages, includ-
ing a low cost of £2847 at which “land”
appeared in the balance sheet.
* * * «
L. J. Hartnett, Director of Ordnance
Production and managing director of
General Motors-Holdens, on his return
fiom a Government mission to Canada,
the U.S.A. and Britain said:
I believe we should invite British manufac-
turers to establish branches of British indus-
tries in Australia. Not only would this country
offer them an assured market for their products,
but Australia is advantageously placed to serve
enormous new markets which we can, and
should, develop in China, India, Malaya and
the Netherlands East Indies.
Mr. Hartnett also said “If we don’t lie
down to it I see no reason why we should
not apply the great scientific and indus-
trial developments of the war to our
economic requirements in the peace, giv-
ing ourselves better standards of living
and a healthier, wealthier and happier
life.” Yes, if we don’t lie down to it or
stupidly believe that we can do better
for ourselves by working less.\
* * * *
Local production of cutlery, crockery,
glassware and cooking utensils is to be
pushed ahead under the control of the
Department of Supply.


THE SERVICE MAN
Sattelberg Ours.
“Ek Dum”: Sattelberg fell on Novem-
ber 25 and the Australian Blue Ensign
which had flown over Kokoda, Buna and
Lae floated over its ruins. It was raised
by Sergeant “Diver” Derrick, D.C.M., a
well-known character in the A.1.F., whose
South Australian platoon’s operations
brought about the final breaching of the
position.
The story of the approach to Sattel-
berg had been a continuation of the tale
of exploits which had been accumulating
for weary weeks in the Finschhafen area
—a tale of war-worn men cutting their
way through thickets, fighting little gusty
engagements in which the party quicker
on the draw won, warding off tenacious
outflanking movements on the northern
fringes, soaking in rain, slipping in mud.
Slowly the lines of advance were sewn
into something like a whole, with the
tank units used as packing needles —to
the great relief of the troops, who knew
that without them casualties would have
been very heavy, instead of “compara-
tively light.”
By November 22 advanced troops had
climbed to the hairpin bends of the road
a quarter of a mile from Sattelberg. Tanks
were in contact with the enemy. The
eastern approach forces were fanning
out from the crest of Owen Ridge. A
large party had scoured round to the west,
whence it was putting on a squeeze. And,
by counter-attacks and infiltrations in the
Sang River-Scarlet Beach area, the
Japanese were trying to nullify the results
of a third Australian drive, which had
flung itself from the north between the
enemy landing place of Bonga, five miles
and a bit from the Sang River mouth, and
the main enemy base at Wareo.
Behind all these advances was a trail
of Japanese debris, shattered jungle and
bamboo, noisome foxholes, boards
scrawled with derisive farewell messages
in all sorts of Jap-English. (“Good-bye,
friends.... see you in Australia. If you
do not know it, those behind you know
that our forces are stronger than yours.”)
Japanese corpses, mute and mired,
told their own story —300 had been
counted and there were many more
under the mud and in the thickets. The
Australian losses were a fraction of this.
Tank support and heavy shellfire are
great lifesavers.
The rain came down. Bulldozers threw
their giant handfuls of mud aside and
scrabbled on. Tank guns ripped out
vistas in the wet scrub. Shells lifted
thickets and prepared positions into the
air. And above rolled the air support of
both sides carrying on a battle of its own
and interfering down below when it could.
Sergeant Derrick Takes Over
For three days after the hairpin
bends were reached the A.l.F.’s spear-
head inched forward towards Sattelberg
itself. They had reached the last bend
when they were held up by a withering
fire from its covering position.
One party which tried to get above
the enemy block failed and retired.
It was then that Sergeant Derrick came
into the picture. His platoon was told
to take the Jap r ' ■ ,o se position which was
blocking the advance or the ground domi-
nating it.
The lads slid into a deep ravine, full of
mud, and rock, and crawled through the
jungle up the opposite slope like carpet
snakes. At last, on the afternoon
of November 24, they found themselves
looking up through the jungle at an angle
of 45 degrees. Above, on the almost pre-
cipitous slope, the Japs had three
machine-guns in posts so thickly crusted
over with mud and timber that even the
25-pounders could not breach them. From
these posts the enemy began to send a
sheet of bullets down the hill, at the
same time playing devil’s bowls against
Sergeant Derrick and his men with hand
grenades which arrived in an avalanche.
The Derrick party dug in carefully under
the enemy’s noses and held on. Derrick
sent a runner back to tell company H.Q.
that frontal assault was not possible.
While he waited for orders his Bren gun-
ners did what they could, and some in-
trepid spirits in the platoon crawled up-
ward under cover of the jungle to within
throwing range of the m.-g. posts. The posi-
tions were plastered with mortar shells,
dissipating an attempt at counter-attack.
By the time the runner had returned
the sergeant was satisfied that he could
break into the enemy positions. He per-
sonally pleaded for 20 minutes more, and
while the company C.O. sought permis-
sion from battalion H.Q. the time
elapsed. Derrick and his men carried on.
They filled the enemy posts with grenades,
and within the 20 minutes had every Jap
out of his burrow or dead.
Derrick himself cleaned up one of the
posts. Private Robert Agars, of Elliston
(S.A.), turned one of the enemy’s own
m.-gs. on its owners, and the Bren of
Private Washbrook, another South Austra-
lian, behaved more like a hose than a gun.
During the succeeding night the
enemy, having found the game up, faded
out of Sattelberg.
The View Is Perfect
Early next morning Australian patrols
prodded their way through the ruins of
the mission station. A company, bayonets
fixed, moved watchfully out of the jungle
across the trodden, sodden grassy slopes
of the summit. There was no resistance.
Sergeant Derrick, whose men were first
in, tied the Blue Ensign to a palm.
Signals were flashed down to Finsch-
hafen:
Our flag flies over Sattelberg . . , The
view is perfect from up here.
One of the twin drives came in hours
later along the ridge on which it had
been moving to view the wreckage —
scattered, red-painted galvanised-iron,
buildings smashed flat, the curious
church, in which all the saints are the
same color as Brown Brother, much
battered and perforated, with the pulpit
standing intact amid a litter of torn and
trampled hymnbooks.
The Y.M.C.A. arrived with its coffee
stall. Mines left behind as souvenirs by
the enemy were carefully deloused. The
booty, including three 75’s and many
machine-guns, was counted. It began to rain
heavily and drearily all along the ridges.
It had taken eight days to cover the
last || mile of the approaches. But the
battle of Sattelberg was over.
Not so, however, the battle for the
Huon Peninsula.
Still More Japs
Though the enemy’s main trail from
Wareo base to a coast at Bonga has
been cut, he has other routes available.
Air forces were busy all the week-end
battering the approaches to Wareo and
the ports of the north Huon coasts gener-
ally.
Bombing continued all round the New
Guinea enemy positions, the attacks in-
cluding heavy raids on Hansa Bay,
beyond Madang, and the biggest blast
yet made on Gasmata, on the south of
New Britain, on which 146 tons of bombs
were dropped.
Jap Destroyers Beaten
In the Solomons there has been heavy
and continuous raiding of enemy bases,
and the Marines and troops at Empress
Augusta Bay, reinforced by new landings,
are widening their bridgeheads yard by
yard against determined opposition, in-
flicting, it is reported, heavy losses.
Enemy aircraft has been active.
The most important engagement re-
ported was naval, directed against six
Japanese destroyers. At 1.45 a.m. on
Nov. 25 they were discovered by Captain
Burke’s destroyer squadron trying to
jnake their way from Rabaul to Buka.
The U.S. force at once launched a tor-
pedo attack, which sank two enemy ships.
The rest set off full speed for St. George’s
Channel, scattering. Just after 3 a.m.
they were turning towards Rabaul. At
3.20 a.m. a third vessel was sunk by gun-
fire, and at 3.35 a.m. a fourth. By the
light of the moon which had aided the
pursuit, it was seen that a fifth was
damaged. Only one ship escaped and
that in the nick of time, for, as the U.S.
destroyers turned for home, air cover
arrived.
As in the Huon Peninsula, the Solo-
mons operations are only in their pre-
liminary stages. The continuity and
heaviness of the bombing of bases prove
how hard it is to soften up enemy posi-
tions.
To Beat Japan.
“Ek Dum”: Though the occupation of
the Gilbert Islands is not something equi-
valent to the capture of Nagasaki, as
optimistic writers have suggested, it is
a big step forward in the more important
strategical plan for beating Japan.
Japan’s crucial belt, as has been here
pointed out many times since December
7, 1941, is that part of the Pacific which
fences off the southern section of the so-
called “New East Asia Co-prosperity
Sphere” from Japan proper. This part
might be said to have as a core a line
running through the Japanese bases of
Jaluit (Marshall Islands), Ponape and
Truk, thence sheer across the extreme
north of the Philippines to Hong Kong.
When the seas across the belt on either
side of this line have gone under Allied
control, all Japan’s southern conquests
will have been isolated and placed in a
box of which Australia will form the
bottom
From both ends the squeeze is being
got ready. At the western end Lord
Louis Mountbatten is assembling his
forces. His appointment presupposes that
his operations will be primarily naval. At
the other end is Admiral Nimitz’s com-
mand, under which is that of Admiral
Halsey.
The push in Bougainville and into the
Gilberts, implemented by the Navy and
the Marines, and, in the case of Bougain-
ville, already consolidated by the U.S.
Army, can be accounted the beginnings
of the actual assault on the equatorial
area between Japan and its new southern
empire, to which the land operations in
New Guinea and the sea operations in
the southern Solomons were preliminaries.
With successful establishment of both
invasions, the Allies are definitely threat-
ening Rabaul from two sides in the South-
west Pacific area, and the U.S. forces,
having perched themselves in the Gilberts
within 300 miles of the Marshalls, an
important routing base for supplies to
the south, will be in a position to submit
its centre, Jaluit, to regular air attack
under long-distance fighter cover when
they have established the proper facilities
—during the invasion of the Gilberts
carrier forces heavily bombed Jaluit.
They have also taken the first step in
securing control of the sea in the rectangle
between Truk and the north New Guinea
coast. Control of this piece of sea is
highly important, since it spells the doom
of the Japanese grip on New Guinea.
The Gilberts
In the Gilberts, as in the rest of the
operating areas of the south-west Pacific,
the wet season is just opening. It seems
a natural conclusion that the wet months
will be used for getting into position for
main operations to begin when nature is
kind next year ; when Japanese morale is
most likely to be shaken by events in
Europe and Jap resources perhaps are
strained by calls from the Indian zone.
The Indian area is in a different cate-
gory climatically. There the dry season
is just beginning.
Before any move can be made from
the Gilberts there is much to be done.
The U.S. forces before the week-end were
in control of all the main islands —Little
Makin, the most northerly, a Si-mile-
long dot, Makin (Butaritari), Tarawa to
the south of Makin.
Makin is a low-lying atojl about 11
miles long from east to west. The open-
ing of the reef is on the west and the
Butaratari anchorage just inside it. The
Japanese had a trading establishment
there as well as B.Ps. and On Chongs
before the war. Round most of it an
elated marine could almost jump from
lagoon edge ocean edge.
Tarawa is a chain of islands—beginning
with Betio, south of the anchorage,
where the enemy resisted longest—22
miles long fencing off another lagoon.
Abaiang is 16 miles long and five miles
wide, but its lagoon is shallow. Tabi-
teuea, further south-east, has the thickest
population. It is 50 miles long and
normally it has 3814 inhabitants, includ-
ing less than half a dozen Europeans and
a lone Chinaman.
The whole of the Gilberts, spread over
hundreds of square miles of sea, total
166 square miles —an average of 10
square miles to each atoll group, with a
happy-go-lucky population of 26,000-odd.
Roads have long been built round the
flat palm-fringed edges of the islands;
roads fit for motor-car traffic, satisfac-
tory for bicycles, which are numerous
enough to make a Netherlander or a
Dane homesick. This forethought on the
part of the British authorities eased the
way of Admiral Nimitz’s forces. It en-
abled them to use tanks.
It should not be lopg before Ocean
Island, 240 miles south-west of Tarawa,
and Nauru are in Allied hands. This,
in itself, will be a considerable blow to
Japan. One of the things which Japan
is short of is phosphates.
But the loss of phosphates means
nothing beside the knowledge that the
Allies have been able to perch on the
doormat of a band of sea which forms a
corridor leading right across the heart of
the * “New East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere.”
The Battle for Betio
Contrary to early reports, losses in the
Gilberts were heavy on both sides.
On Makin they were comparatively
light. But there, when all chance of
warding off a landing had gone the
authority is Lieut.-Colonel James Roose-
velt, the President’s son —a little band o!
100 Japanese put on full-dress uniform
and even medals and charged to certain
death, armed only with sabres.
The heaviest fighting was on Betio,
the little island at the mouth of Tarawa
lagoon. The enemy positions were first
blasted. It turned out that he had built
magnificent shell-proof fortifications as
a preliminary to the construction of a
submarine base.
As the boats approached the shore
they were met by a hail of bullets and
shells. The attacking force had to wade
chest deep for 500 yards across a coral
reef under withering fire. General Julian
Smith, leading the attack, was blown
clean out of his boat, and he and his
men were under fire for two hours up to
the armpits in the sea until rescued.
Once ashore the Marines charged
Japanese positions again and again re-
gardless of losses. They were mown
down in sheaves. Colonel Merritt Edson,
who took part in the attack, 3aid there
had been nothing like it in American ex-
perience in the last war or this war. And
Colonel Evans Carlson, known as a
leader of raider battalions in the Solo-
mons, said nothing in Guadalcanal com-
pared with the defence.
Of the initial 4000 and more Marines
who made the first attacks only hundreds
survived. By evening the Americans,
gallant and grim, held three narrow
beachheads, each about 150 yards deep,
on an exposed shore, though it was still
touch-and-go whether they would not be
completely annihilated. There was great
difficulty in getting reinforcements over
the 600 yards of coral reef which the
boats Could not negotiate.
The Marines on the beaches were up
against thick barbed wire and staggered
pillbox defence, so arranged that every
new advance brought them into the range
of fresh converging streams of m.-g. and
mortar fire.
Next morning, when the Marines, with
breath-taking courage and heavy losses,
secured control of the pier which runs
out to the reef edge, thus providing a
quick reinforcement route, the situation
began to change. But the third day came
before Betio was in United States hands.
The island, which controls the mouth
of the lagoon, then presented a terrible
sight. On the beaches lay Marines and
their enemies of the Imperial Marine
Guard, picked troops who had held their
fire to the last moment. For the whole
mile-odd length of the narrow islet, which
in some places is only 100 yards wide
and at the widest not more than half a
mile across, mangled corpses and parts
of corpses were strewn by shellfire, which
had fallen at the rate of a ton to every
plot ten yards square in the preliminary
bombardment. Few of the enemy sur-
rendered.
Tarawa was won, but Colonel Knox,
the U.S. Naval Secretary, told a press
conference that United States losses had
been “very heavy.” As for the Japanese
garrison of 4000, it had been wiped out.
It was a grim foretaste of the price
which must be paid for victory in the
Pacific.
Enzeds Take the Treasuries.
John Brennan, from somewhere in the
neighborhood:
The brief, brisk campaign in which a brigade
of New Zealand troops cleared the Japanese
garrison from the Treasury Islands was carefully
planned and neat in execution. There were
several bitter patrol engagements along the
narrow goat trails through the dense jungle. Ihe
Japanese plan of defence w T as sound and well
organised, but by November 5 the Treasuries
were “secured.’ .
The original landing was at Falamai, on Mono
Island, Japanese headquarters, in the early
morning of October 27. It was made in the
face of heavy mortar and machine-gun fire
directed at the landing craft and barges, and the
task of establishing a beachhead was bitterly
contested. It succeeded largely through the
efforts of a platoon led by Lieut. L. T. Booth,
of Auckland. . ,
Shortly after midday the platoon stormed
the single trail leading to a steep ridge where
two mountain guns, a machine-gun position and
a mortar commanded the beachhead. Private
Johnny Whaitiri, a Chatham Islander, moved
in on the machine-gun and shot both the first
and second gunners before he was himselt
wounded. Booth leaped down into the mortar
pit and tossed the barrel out. Thirty-odd Japs
manned the position ; nine were killed. The
capture of the mountain guns removed the
gravest threat to the expanding beachhead.
During the next couple of days the Japs
moved slowly back into the jungle, patrols
following and driving them. The enemy formed
up and reorganised at a junction of trails in the
middle bush and moved in force north and
east At Soanatalu was fought the battle in
miniature, renewed each night for a week, which
broke the last remaining Japanese resistance on
the island and denied the enemy garrison its
sole chance of escaping northward to the Short-
lands or Bougainville. , . , , ,
Soanatalu is the only break in the rough and
broken coral cliffs along the northern shoreline
of Mono Island. It’s a shingled “beach” about
15 feet wide and about 45 yards long. A tiny
creek comes into the sea there and hills rise
steeply on each side of the ravine. The morning
after the Maorilanders’ landing at Falamai two
platoons were sent by a small Higgins boat
(personnel barge) to establish themselves at
Soanatalu. There were about 60 men and the
three American seamen who manned the barge.
Next day 20 Sea Bees (the American Navy con-
struction men) arrived to begin on the work of
cutting a road along the side of the ravine.
The platoon flung a thin perimeter wide around
the hills behind the tiny beach. The night after


Missing Friends. _____
Me ALLIS TE R- REN NIE. —Would the representatives
of (1) Mrs. Margaret McAllister or Gilflllan, believed
to have been born in Scotland on 11th October, 1824,
and (2) Elizabeth McAllister or Rennie, believed to
have been born in Scotland on 10th July, 1831, kindly
communicate with MESSRS. MACKENZIE R.OBER-
TON AND 00., Solicitors, 176 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, 0.2, Scotland.
Legal Notice.
TO NORMA ESTHER PATERSON and to HAZEL
IRENE PATERSON, formerly of Cambridge, in New
Zealand, and to all persons claiming through them.
—Pursuant to an order made by the Supreme Court
you are hereby required to send to the undersigned
before the 31st March, 1944, your claims to share
in the estate of Percy Bernard Paterson, formerly
of Cambridge, Farm Laborer, but late of Amberley,
Farmer, who died on or about the 3rd_ day ot
November, 1940, at Amberley, failing which sucti
estate will be distributed disregarding your claims.
—Solicitor, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand.
CD
am
it arrived small parties of Japs began to move
to Igainst «,their object being Co make .the
beach and capture the landing boat for their
escane. If was a combat pf grenades, rifle fire
would have given away positions in the darkness.
The Japs proved adept at moving quickly and
silently through the jungle at night and m the
northern Solomons the jungle is thicker, with
more undergrowth, than anywhere eiicountered
on Guadalcanal, New Georgia or Vella Lavella,
The Maorilanders were using very narrow tox-
holes cut in the form of a cross, each arm
just sufficiently wide and deep to take one man.
It gave them cover of the area in all, directions,
and a grenade might explode in one of the a.™ B
without injuring every man in the noie.
Further, since the slits were so narrow, a man
had the opportunity of grasping a grenade and
hurling it back before it could explode.
Many, many times during those next few
nights that was done, and successl ully, two
men only were lost to the platoons from burst-
ing grenades. Each night the attacks on the
perimeter grew in ferocity as the _ Japs moved
over from the southern side of the island. Major
G. L. Logan, of Christchurch, who was in
charge of the force, paid a high tribute to the
work of the Sea Bees during this time: They
worked all day, slogging into it, and there was
very nearly a riot among them to be allowed to
come down and fight all night, helping to defend
the bccicli 55
The main attack came on the night of Novem-
ber 1. Over a hundred Japs made a concerted
effort to break through. One party of about
50 did succeed in slipping around one end of
the perimeter, and reached the beach at three
o’clock on the morning of November 2. They
came upon a party of 10, the quartering staff
for the platoons: Capt. L. J. Kirk, a 30-year-
old schoolteacher from Auckland, a quarter-
master-sergeant (O. Hannifin), three cooks, a
driver, a storeman and the three American
Navy men from the Higgins boat, who were all
together in a small weapons-pit.
The fight lasted for three hours. One Jap
managed to reach the boat, but he was shot
while trying to start the engine. The Japs
were all along the edge of the beach in the trees.
With morning they withdrew. They left 25
of their dead strewn along the tiny beach and
huddled at the roots of the trees. , The Higgins
boat was so riddled with bullets as to be no
longer seaworthy.
That night marked the end of any organised
Jap resistance in the Treasuries. There were
still small groups of the enemy hiding out in
the hills, but they were cleaned out by patrols.
Three days later the message went out “Trea-
sury secured.” In 10 days the two platoons
at Soanatalu counted 140 Japanese dead; their
own losses were five men killed.
Five Raids in Seven Days.
Berlin during the week suffered the fol-
lowing raids;
Nov. 22: By British heavy bombers in very
great strength.
Nov. 23: Again by British bombers. In the
two nights 3300 tons of bombs, incendiary
and explosive, were dropped, mainly by Lan-
casters ; losses, including Mosquitoes attacking
various targets in Western Germany, were 46
bombers in two nights.
Nov. 24: Mosquitoes made a nuisance raid
—just to keep Berlin awake and disorganise
fire fighting—losing a single machine.
Nov. 25: Mosquitoes again attacked while a
main force of heavy bombers concentrated on
Frankfurt.
Nov. 26: “Heavies,” mainly Lancasters, again
attacked Berlin on a grand scale, while an-
other force blasted Stuttgart, thus dividing the
German cover air forces. In both raids, 32
bombers were reported missing.
All the attacks were made in unfavorable
conditions of low visibility and bitter cold.
There had been previous heavy attacks
on Berlin this year—two in January,
which between them left about 700 tons
of bombs behind ; three in March, of
which the explosive relics weighed 2100
tons; a couple of 1500-ton raids in
August and a 1000-ton raid in September.
To the end of the week Berlin had ab-
sorbed about 13,000 tons of bombs this
year; and the last series of attacks was
the worst.
Every broadcast from Berlin asserted
that there had been no failure of morale
and threatened early reprisals. No Berlin
agencies, official or otherwise, made light
of what had happened. Hitler’s own
official organ, “Volkischer Beobachter,”
wrote;
Berlin has become a front line. The
battle for the capital has begun. The city
has stood the terrible test, and the days of
retaliation will come in due course.
It was admitted by city officials that
one-fourth of the city proper was in ruins,
and that up to Wednesday night alone
43.000 persons had been killed and nearly
40.000 wounded. One estimate placed the
homeless at 400,000. As for particular-
ised damage, everywhere a Berliner could
look there was some familiar landmark
blotted out.
But Berliners were too busy to do much
looking. They were trying to keep out
of their throats the choking phosphorus
smoke which hid the damage, while they
dealt with the raging fires or retrieved
such of their belongings as were not rubble.
There are no merciful hills and undu-
lations to hide the spread of the wreck-
age in Berlin. It is as flat as a pancake.
Every dome or steeple stands out. And
the ruin as reported is almost beyond
taking in at one viewing.
A glimpse into Unter den Linden or
any of the side streets must be like look-
ing into the heart of an earthquake
tragedy. All the way down the \\ mile
of the Wilhelmstrasse wreck succeeds
wreck. Beyond the gap which once held
the British Embassy is a long double line
of tattered departments culminating in
Hitler’s Chancellery. A new ornate build-
ing of tremendous proportions, this is
badly battered, while his near-by palace
is completely flat. Behind, Germany’s
greatest store, Wertheims, the Horderns
of Berlin, facing on to the Leipziger
Platz, could be seen holding a burning
competition with the Navy Ministry on
one side and the Labor Ministry on the
other, while the War Ministry across the
road spewed phosphorus like a volcano,
and dust and flame rose from the huge
Potsdam station and filled the battered
old-time “Privy Councillors’ Quarter” to
the south-east with burning debris
Thus Swedish and other correspondents
picture Berlin with its heart broken and
on fire, and its outer skin of factories and
residential suburbs torn and rent about
as if by a fiery-handed giant.
During the same dreadful week other
parts of Germany and France, particu-
larly Frankfurt and Stuttgart, were blasted
night and day by Lancasters and Mos-
quitoes, by Typhoons and Thunderbolts
and by Fortresses, which on November
26 made a devastating raid on Bremen
—about the heaviest daylight attack of
the war. The Americans lost 29 heavy
bombers, but claimed 56 enemy fighters.
Strange Rumors
Strange rumors are floating round
Europe. From all corners come sug-
gestions that peace or at least an armi-
stice might be under discussion. There
was talk of a British election in
February. Mr. Churchill had disappeared
temporarily, and the voice of President
Roosevelt was not raised when General
Patton was reprimanded by General
Eisenhower for slapping two soldiers in
hospital. It was suggested that the meet-
ing with Marshal Stalin might be in pro-
gress. Moscow’s “War and the Working
Class” declared there was “reason to be-
lieve” that “the Second Front in Europe
is not far off.” The Financial Secretary to
the British War Office told the Home
Guard that “great armies” were “prepar-
ing for the final assault on Europe.” And
the Secretary for War said:
I am afraid that in 1944 we may have
heavier casualties, military and possibly
civilian, than we have had yet.
While the weather makes the opening
of a new front in northern Europe un-
likely for some months, the same influ-
ences do not affect the fighting in the
Mediterranean. The Germans are not
without ground for their fear that
southern France might be attacked at
any time and that the recent air raids
on the Italian-French communications
and on the great French port of Toulon
might be the first preliminaries.
The Toulon raid was a heavy one.
Berlin said that up to November 28 400
dead and 600 seriously wounded had been
counted, and the toll was not nearly
complete.
"Good Hunting" in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: On his newspaper and
radio critics and Berlin, which sneeringly
repeats their bitter, ungrateful phrases.
General Montgomery has had the laugh.
When the uproar of moans and squeals
was at its noisiest, the Allied air forces
suddenly launched an offensive, on a scale
never before seen in Italy, against enemy
positions on the north of the Sangro
River. Behind this show of deadly “ad-
vance publicity,” the left wing of the
Eighth Army forced its way up the Cen-
tral Apennine road towards Avezzano.
The Germans attempted heavy counter-
attacks on the Canadians at the newly-
gained points round Agnone, but the in-
formation they gained from these on-
slaughts was not encouraging to their
leaders.
The position had been reached at which
Eighth Army patrols were sent on recon-
naissance across the Sangro River at will.
Within 24 hours of these operations,
Allied H.Q. at Algiers announced that
the Eighth Army had secured a bridge-
head 9000 yards wide and 2000 yards
deep across the Sangro where it bends
across the Central Apennine road lead-
ing to Sulmona and Avezzano and the
very flanks of Rome. The flanks of the
German formations facing the Fifth
Army were even more threatened than
before.
The crossing of the river was no easy
matter. General Montgomery waded,
waist deep, with his men through the
swirling torrent, which ran so swiftly
that Eighth Army troops were washed
away and drowned. The establishment
of the new positions occupied about
four days, including some widening
operations.
The general said:
Our operations are still proceeding. It
has been a tough business. The Germans
counter-attacked very strongly, and twice
pushed us back. The battle swayed for
two or three days, but our infantry held
on. They have been magnificent. The
British soldiers have risen to great heights
in the most appalling weather.
Indian and Canadian troops shared in
the glories of the mountain battle. It
was obvious that Berlin did not like its
medicine. With the fall of the river and
the drying up of the roads the German
leaders knew that their goose was cooked
in the key town of Castel di Sangro, five
miles from captured Alfadena. At the
week-end they were demolishing bridges
and facilities further back, sure sign that
the British troops had the upper hand.
With the weather clearing, Fifth Army
patrols already had begun to move again.
And an Order of the Day issued by
General Montgomery, which declared
that “the Allies have conquered one-third
of Italy since September 3,” and that
“the time has now come to drive the
Germans north of Rome,” combined a
salutary rebuke to the critics with the
promise of greater things.
The general’s message ended in the
vein in which most of his exhortations
have justifiably ended before each new
battle since Alamein: “The enemy has
been outfought by better troops ever since
we landed in Sicily. Good luck to you
all and good hunting as we go forward! ”
Zhitomir and Gomel.
“Ek Dum”: Though little has been said
about it, the most important event in
Russia last week, at least in its bearing
on the state of the German Army in
the fifth month of retreats, was the estab-
lishing of a German offensive along 100
miles of front on both sides of Zhitomir,
south-west of Kiev. Here, according to
Moscow correspondents, not supported by
official bulletins, Marshal Vatutin’s troops
had broken through the German defence
in depth at the rate of 20 miles a day,
and operations had developed into a hot
pursuit of the terrified enemy, who was
being mown down by galloping Cossacks
with sabres and tommy-guns.
It came out suddenly that General
Vatutin was out of Zhitomir, and that
his forces were falling back. The enemy
was putting up such a fight as —according
to Russian official accounts —had not
been seen since July, while in some adja-
cent sectors he was still in apparently
hasty retreat. In a few days he seemed
to have recovered 2000 to 3000 square
miles of country.
In doing this he may have suffered
heavily, but the Russians can scarcely
have come off scatheless, even if enemy
claims to have “encircled” and “wiped
out” bodies of Russian troops are lies.
Nor could they have retreated for
strategic purposes, because a break-
through in the Zhitomir region would
have given them their chance of the
war. It might almost certainly
would have allowed them to cut
off Odessa and the whole Dnieper
Bend.
However, misfortunes such as the loss
of Zhitomir happen in every big cam-
paign. Neither Russian generalship nor
the dogged Russian troops could be
blamed. But had they been British the
gentry who so savagely belabored General
Montgomery for daring to pause, without
their permission, on the banks of a flooded
river while he rearranged his strength to
make the crossing decisive would have
flayed them alive.
The counter-offensive hurled against
the Russians with weight and fury
obviously had its purpose. There was
still a large section of the German front
on the Moscow side of the Dnieper be-
tween Pereyaslavl, 45 miles or so south-
east of Kiev, and Kremenchug. As along
most of the rest of the Dnieper, the
eastern banks are low-lying and the
western mainly cliffs forming strong de-
fences, of which the Germans have not
taken advantage in a number of places.
At Cherkasy, halfway between Kremen-
chug and Pereyaslavl, they resisted
previous efforts to force these cliffs. They
now gave up a bridgehead and began to
withdraw the whole of the sector from
Cherkasy to Krivoi Rog and beyond,
towards the Zhitomir-Nikopol railway.
This retirement, bitterly fought, which
gave the Russians no chance to gather any
momentum, was counterbalanced by
German attacks on the northern railway
which runs up to Mogilev. The enemy
claimed to have captured Chernyakoy,
a few miles north of Zhitomir, on this
railway, which forms the core of the last
strategic defence line east of the Pripet
Marshes.
Gomel Falls
The Russians, apart from having cut
this railway at Korosten and Ovruch, had
broken across it again north-west of
Ryetchitza and Gomel. Here the penetra-
tion seemed to be a full 40 miles towards
the Polish border beyond Gomel, which,
despite the fact that the Germans had
announced a week before that they had
drawn clear of it and its pocket salient,
was still in their hands on November 25.
On November 26 its evacuation was
apparently complete, and the line to the
north of it to Mogilev was beginning to
cave westward under the impact of a new
Russian offensive, in which Moscow
declared that the enemy already
(26 /11 / ’43) had suffered tremendous
losses, with 2000 killed in the Propoisk
area alone, much booty and many
prisoners. Russian penetration round the
northern edges of the Ryetchitsa salient
reached a point 60 miles from Gomel on
November 26. The natural inference
from this seemed to be that the Germans
intended to retreat beyond the Marshes
or far enough along their margins to split
the Russian approach until the swamps
are completely frozen.
No Enemy Confusion
The salient facts are that the Germans
are still strong enough to control their
movements even under heavy blows, and
to turn round and lash out at intervals.
The position in the Crimea is vague.
The enemy alleges that the Russians
ashore are few in number and in an
awkward position, at the Kerch end. It
was claimed early in the week that the
Luftwaffe had smashed attempts by the
Red Army to bring forces across the
Kerch Strait.
The drive aimed at Orsha, in the cen-
tral sector, which was in progress for
several days last week and the week
before, and in which the Russians were
said to be using 30 rifle divisions and a
mass of artillery and tanks, at the week-
end was at a standstill.
In brief:
Only a few raiders appeared over Britain last
week, mostly in ones and twos. A single bomb
dropped by a lone machine in a London
workers’ suburb on Nov. 26 destroyed several
homes.
* « * *
According to a Tokyo Radio admission,
Allied ’planes have raided Formosa for the
first time, losing three bombers. Unofficial
sources declared that Shinchiku aerodrome was
shattered and 31 Jap ’planes destroyed.
* * *
The Japanese are reported to be marching
out of the Chinese “rice-bowl,” leaving behind
a trail of ruin.
* * * *
Berlin at the week-end alleged “an attack
disastrous for the Allies in which 28,000 tons
of convoy shipping was destroyed.” Ihe
Admiralty reported that the damage to the
convoy was negligible and that eight bombers
of the 30 attackers (which included Heinkel
177’s, the biggest bombers in the Luftwaffe)
were shot down.
* * * *
A British submarine of the Triton class is
overdue.
* * * *
On November 24 a Berlin Radio spokesman
had the face to allege that Samos, a Greek
island in the JE gean, which fell into Allied
hands, had capitulated “on the initiative of
3500 British troops who, in view of the lack of
air protection, refused to face bombardment by
Stukas”—aircraft for which British troops have
scant respect. A Middle East communique
made it clear that the British, Greek and Italian
troops on the island and a large proportion of
the civil population had been evacuated without
loss days before the Germans knew what had
happened. The Germans later claimed to have
captured 500 British troops and disarmed 6000
Italians.


m
m
i&VH
r. J’.mWw m
mem=~-
s
A
JO
<r ■■:?•■*
■ MM
a. ■:■
r 5 w^M
*
?■•■ ■
Biwpmi™
nwitrw
IllffUifl
H i •
WHHIIiIHII
■
:*<SKs
£
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AMD WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SURFERS FOOT
Can Cripple You
Beware of this crippling
infection. You may be infected
without knowing it. The first
signs are cracked skin and itch
between the toes. These danger
signs call for prompt treatment
with lodex to kill the germ and
to soothe and heal the damaged
tissues.
★ In severe cases see your doctor
FROM YOUR
CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
MO-STAIN iodine
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 35,000 and a tote
turnover of £92,876 15s. —£34,201 more
than the corresponding day last year —
was Randwick’s record for Saturday’s
meeting.
Panchio (Hughes) justified the strong
support accorded him for the Camden
Handicap. Third to Trimmer and Indus-
try at the turn, he finished fast to score
by a head from Kingsdale, who was
always prominent, and took charge
nearly a furlong from home. Trimmer
tired, Nobleman never threatened danger,
and Modulation, after being second-last
for a long way, ran fourth. Seemingly
a middle distance would now suit him
better than a sprint. Merrimba and Lord
Neith shaped fairly. Hydra (above him-
self) did not shine.
Lambeth (Mulley), who had not won
since last December, came to light in the
Warwick November Handicap. Third to
Amberspear and Chatham’s Choice at
the half-mile, he took the lead from
Amberspear before entering the straight,
and then finished too strongly for Lady
Hamilton, who, a furlong from home,
looked like troubling him. As Lambeth
can still be further improved he will
again be heard from at the summer meet-
ings. Eureka, last at one stage, did well
to get third, and Goya’s fourth suggested
staying possibilities. He did much better
than Highgate, but the latter was giving
him a stone. Chatham’s Choice’s weight
was too much for him, and he was
beaten a long way from home, finishing
last.
Castle Frontenac, who did not have
the best of luck in the early part of the
Farm Encourage Stakes, also struck
trouble in the straight, and though three-
quarters of a furlong from home there
seemed a chance of his overhauling
Sponsor (B. Turner) the task was too
much for him. Kookaburra and All Out
were most prominent for the greater part
of the trip, and were first into the straight.
Neither gained a place, and Scaur Pel’s
sister, Felbeam (Felcrag-Ginaton), who
was having her first run in a race, was
third. With experience she will probably
justify the booming she has received as
being something out of the common.
Marquis’s fourth made him worth keep-
ing in mind. Eastralia, wide out at the
barrier, did not run as well as the
previous week. Mintage and La Bjelle
are possibilities in this class.
Omapo (Parsons) did not shine in
Hesione’s Leumeah Handicap at Rand-
wick the previous week, but the betting
market indicated that he was expected
to improve on that form in the Welter
Handicap. He did. Second to Boorchief
at the half-mile, he led into the straight,
and after that there was no doubt as to
the result. Haripur, well placed at the
turn, was beaten for second by White
Feather, who finished sufficiently well to
suggest that he is quite himself again.
The favorite, Glendower, who did not
commence smartly, was never really dan-
gerous, and Brueghelier did not do better
than at his previous efforts.
The Kirkham Stakes was soft for
Shannon (F. Shean), who had the
measure of the faster-beginning Majesty
before reaching the straight. Tea Rose
was slightly hampered when trying for
a run through in the last furlong, but had
no chance of beating Shannon. Hawk
Craig put in a good finishing effort to
get third and will pay his way at longer
distances later m the season. Invictus was
third to Majesty and Shannon at
turn > hut then weakened. Sh nnon
now won £1794, and owner-trainer P.
Riddle, who gave 425gns. for him as a
yearling, apparently made no mistake
when he recently refused 2°oogns. for
him. Shannon Will run in the De m
Stakes with 51b. penalty. As ase n
foal
dam. Idle Words (Magpie Peptommt).
(W Cook) who had not pre-
viously raced, acted up to his training-
track in the H oxton Park
Juvenile Stakes. He led into the straight
from Samoyed, and eventually won
comfortably from Pnnee Verity and
Samoyed, Good Idea being the only
other to show form of ariy account,
Bravo, who is by Le Grand Due from
Derring Do (sister to Nuffield), is
trained by P. Riddle for his brother, A.
W. Riddle, the colt’s breeder.
* * * »
Sir Thomas, starting at 16 to 1 after
long prices had been bet, surprised by
defeating Tea Cake and Mac Rob in the
£2OOO Ascot Cup, run at Mentone last
Saturday. He ran to the front about six
furlongs from home, lost ground by
veering wide at the turn, but won
cleverly. A troublesome off foreleg
probably caused Sir Thomas to hang. To
combat tendon trouble, Sir Thomas is
given salt-water treatment for two hours
daily, and on Saturday he did not leave
the beach until almost noon. He is a
six-year-old entire by Ornamentation
from Tutchee, trained by R. H. Clarton
for E. H. Lawson. Gay Revelry, favorite,
was never going like a winner and finished
behind his stable-mate, Nagation, who
ran a creditable fifth.
Plica, one of the largest horses in train-
ing—he stands slightly over 17.1 hands —
stayed better than in previous races to
defeat Dukedom and Charming Lady in
the Holyrood Handicap. All place-
getters are owned in S.A., the owner of
the winner deferring his departure home
on the advice of his trainer, H. Wolters.
Plica was inclined to be weedy as a young
horse, but a diet of milk agreed with
him. Devon was a disappointing favor-
ite, but Cacique would have done better
than fifth had he not run in from the
whip in the straight.
Peter, sold towards the end of last
year for 240 guineas, showed that his
Melbourne Cup seventh was not a fluke
by outstaying the favorite, Scottish Chief,
in the Norfolk Handicap. Now five
years old, he is back to the form that
enabled him to finish third in a S.A.
Derby. Pyrenee, purchased 15 days
earlier for 425 guineas, gave her new
owner a quick return by leading practi-
cally all the way in the Cottenham Han-
dicap. She firmed in the betting from
25 to 1 to 12 to 1, and won well from
Franklin D. and Ola Rose. Pyrenee
completed a double for trainer R. Shaw,
who had won the Durham Hurdle with
Silgaro.
Cabonne disproved rumors of lameness
by outclassing his two-year-old rivals in
the Macauley Handicap. Entitled to start
shorter than 7 to 4, he set up a long lead
early and won easing up by four lengths.
Cabonne is a colt by Caithness from
Houbigant and cost 350 guineas as a
yearling. Legion Chief, 15 to 1, out-
stayed Keplerian and Great Peak in the
Lichfield Handicap to complete a double
for rider H. McCloud. Latter had won
earlier on Sir Thomas.
* * * *
If started for the Newcastle Cup Main
Topic is bound to be a strong fancy, and,
as winner of the Metropolitan with 8.13
he is fairly treated with 9.8. There is the
possibility, however, that he is not up
to a big weight. He did not shine in
City Tattersall’s Cup with 9.9, and in
the Newcastle race he will be made feel
his weight all the way. Omapo, if he
repeats his form of last Saturday, should
be hard to beat, and Enderby, Jymjon
and Tuokool are others likely to run well.
» * * *
For a race of the value of £650 the
Newcastle J.C. deserved better support
in the way of quality than it received for
the December Handicap. Difficulty of
transport is the trouble. Of the Sydney
entrants nothing reads better than Sil-
verelda, who, without winning, has run
well in all her recent races. Kookaburra,
Lagoon and Skerries are others that may
find backing.
* * * *
A win, of no matter what value, prior
to the Villiers Stakes does not entail a
penalty for that race; and the Villiers
Stakes winner is the only horse that risks
a Summer Cup penalty. There are penal-
ties for the Carrington Stakes and Tatter-
sail’s Cup, the maximum in each being
71b.
The Turf is a great leveller. Lack of
dignity on racecourses on the part of
some professional, business and social
lights would be amusing, only that it in-
spires contempt. In the hope of gaining
information that might lead to a winning
bet they fraternise with individuals to
whom they would scarcely accord a nod
of recognition elsewhere, and while they
would resent being questioned by anyone
concerning their private affairs that does
not prevent them from interrogating
trainers as to the prospects of horses iff
their care but not their ownership. Only
that it would be indiscreet, there are
trainers who would like to tell them what
they think of them and their methods.
* * *
Majesty, who has disappointed in his
last two races, will not be a December
Stakes runner, and it is not a certainty
that he will be trained for autumn racing.
He is growing rapidly and his owner and
trainer reckon a spell will benefit him.
* * * *
Classform (7.1), a rank outsider, won
the New Zealand Cup at Christchurch
last week. She is a seven-year-old mare
by Inflation from Spearform, and was
freely raced in her younger days, start-
ing 26 times at three years. Up to the
end of October Classform had started in
five races this season without getting a
place.
* * * *
Early impressions for the summer
handicaps at Randwick: —Villiers Stakes:
Modulation, Riverton, Panchio, Kings-
dale, Arahura, Ron Rico, Davinia.
Summer Cup; Lambeth, Wellesley,
Cream Puff, Lady Hamilton, Veiled
Threat, Eureka.
* * * *
The tote looks like having a record
year at Randwick. The turnover for the
eight days raced at that course this
season is £857,151.
* * * *
Apart from the £3161 contributed in
prize-money and trophies for the Red
Cross meeting at Randwick, donations up
to last Monday totalled £2788 14s.
* * * *
The books have nothing to fear from
a possible departure from the present
system of betting on Sydney and Mel-
bourne racecourses, but, with full facili-
ties available, one cannot help wonder-
ing what the restriction of betting to the
tote would do for State revenue and prize-
money in N.S.W. and Victoria. For
instance, the turnover in Maoriland dur-
ing the past year has been so great that
one club, the Wellington R.C., is giving
£5OO0 —a record for Maoriland —for the
Wellington Cup in January, and £19,200
for the two days. There are five other
handicaps ranging from £2750 to £lOOO,
and Wellington is a small city by com-
parison with Sydney or Melbourne.
* * * *
The English flat-racing season ended
last week, and though, at the time of writ-
ing, there is no cabled news on that score
it is probable G. Richards again headed
the winning jockeys. Up to September
13 his score was 46 to the 40 of ex-pony
rider T, Carey, and no other jockey was
sufficiently close to have a good chance
of beating either. Up to this year
Richards had headed the list 15 times.
Misceilaneous
Hard to beat, though unattractive,
Jack McNamee outclassed George Cook
at Leichhardt. Nevertheless he followed
his “safety-first policy,” and the contest
was colorless. After a right had rocked
him in the fifth, Cook stood and took
punishment up to “corners,” when the
referee intervened.
Max Cameron had a streak of bad
luck when the Sydney Stadium manage-
ment pitted Jack Day against him in
place of Jim Grey. Day had been beaten
by Cameron at Leichhardt and Cameron
was a hot favorite. But the outsider,
attacking at all times, won practically
every round —there were 12.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Roschill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Encourage Stakes: Marquis, 1 ;
Medieval Queen, 2 ; Cordale, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Silent, 1 ;
Prince Verity, 2 ; High Tide or
Union Jack, 3.
Nursery Handicap; Capel, 1 ;
Clever Lass, 2 ; Pomme de Terre, 3.
Flying Handicap: Martheus, 1 ;
Sir Neith, 2 ; Davinia, 3.
Victoria Park T.C. Handicap:
Cream Puff, 1 ; It’s Funny, 2 ; Lam-
beth or Wellesley, 3.
Three-Year-Old Handicap; Mint-
age, 1 ; Castle Frontenac, 2; Royal
Peer, 3.
Welter Handicap: Gryphon, 1 ;
Air Link, 2; Pall Mall or Dick
Whittington, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divouce.
TO FOSTER EVELON BELL formerly of Connelly’s
Creek via Mount George New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY BELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1578 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
January 1944 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. MARTIN & LAMPORT
Solicitors 129 Pitt Street Sydney or from MESSRS.
L. 0. MARTIN & SONS S-olicitors Taree N.S.W.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
“There is no such thing as a dead
took,” declared Lord Wakehurst in his
speech opening the new Public Library
jast week. And his simile of each book
like the sleeping beauty merely waiting
for the magic hand and gaze that would
transform it into glowing life was a happy
one. For, as much as writers are born,
so are readers. Lord Wakehurst’s words
had the ring of inspiration. No one
listening to his concluding quotation
from Adams’s Epic of America describ-
ing the immigrant standing on the steps
of a great library in a new land could
doubt that he indeed is a lover' of books.
The sun shone through the grey film
of cloud and lit up the stained-glass win-
dows in the vast reading room. The
Chaucer and the Caxton windows were
a glory that could not be extinguished by
the fierce light (Kleig or its kin) that beat
upon the beflagged dais while flashes for
the newsreel were recorded of the im-
portants thereon. Knight William Dixson,
one of the library’s greatest benefactors,
was one of them, and an ordinary person
who reads but cannot pay wondered what
it must feel like to sit facing the glow of
windows (among other items) you have
bestowed on an institution, while your
head in bronze is set above one of the
main doorways. That other great friend
of the library, David Scott Mitchell (head
over the opposite door), was not for-
gotten when the words of praise were
being handed out. Former Minister for
Education Drummond and former Chief
Librarian Ifould were also among the
eulogised.
Eight hundred invitations had been
sent out, and it looked as though the
whole 800 had turned up. Speeches re-
sounded through the reading room for
about an hour. The Navy, the Army,
Parliamentary importants and men of
law, from Judges down, were in the
throng. There was quite a comer in
Historical Society members. Will Ashton
and Victor Mann, present and past direc-
tors of the National Art Gallery, were
there. The six women librarians from
U.S.A., Dame Mary Gilmore, the Derek
Burnells, Ruby Board, the John Butters
couple, the Lane Mullins sisters, Mitchell
Library chief Ida Leeson, the George
Mackaness couple, writers and artists
and highbrows generally turned atten-
tive ear to the speeches of Dr. Evatt,
Federal Attorney-General and president
of the library trustees, Premier McKell,
Minister for Education Clive Evatt, and
former Minister for Education D. H.
Drummond.
In the golden light from the window in
the lecture room there was a tea-drinking,
Lord and Lady Wakehurst and trustees
being the guests. Mrs. H. V. Evatt and
Mrs. John Metcalfe (wife of the chief
librarian) did the honors, with strong sup-
port from humorous-eyed Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, who is one of the two women
trustees. Lady Wakehurst was graceful
in a turquoise outfit. Peter Lubbock was
in the G.H. group.
Mayoress Bartley, a trim little figure
in jacaranda blues, was one hostess who
got a sunny afternoon for her party last
week. The small balcony beyond the
Town Hall reception rooms was snugly
and patriotically shut in from any
marauding breeze by sturdy flags.
The flowers, as usual, were super
and plenteous. A small cloud of
white and gold poppies floated above
the satin sheen of a rosewood table.
'Lady Wakehurst was the afternoon’s
guest of honor, and to meet her over
100 voluntary war workers had been
bidden. Lady Wakehurst, with her ever-
keen interest, moved about asking mem-
bers of different groups about their work.
Her navy frock was coin-spotted in
white, and her becoming hat was all line
and no nonsense.
The organ in St. Stephen’s, Macquarie-
street, responded to the touch of organist
Alice Bryant during the lunch-hour last
Thursday. Alice, who is the organist at
the Manly Presbyterian Church, played
a programme of Bach, Guilmant, Baynon
and Wheeldon. Soprano Mrs. A. D.
Neilson sang Beethoven’s “Creation
Hymn” and “Arise, O Sun,” by Maude
Crasks Day.
Untiring in presenting the picture of
what Chinese womanhood is doing during
the war and for post-war welfare, Mrs.
Fabian Chow, who represents the
People’s Foreign Relations Association
of China, has spoken fluently and in most
polished fashion to such widely diverse
organisations as the Red Cross, the
Sydney Uni. Women Graduates, the
C.W.A. (Cumberland branch), A.W.A.S.
and the Society of Women Writers. In
addition she often broadcasts on her
subject.
In China Mrs, Chow was attached to
the staff of a daily newspaper as well as
being confidential secretary to the wife
of Finance Minister and deputy Premier
Dr. Rung. It was she who re-
viewed for “T’ien Hsia” Our Family,
a book written by the children of
Lin Yutang, who was once one of the
paper’s editors. “T’ien Hsia” is a
monthly that devotes itself to art, litera-
ture and kindred subjects. Founder of
the magazine was Dr. John Wu, famed
man of law and letters, who has had his
English translations of Chinese poetry
translated in turn into French.
Daisy Richards, who, with pianist
Frank Hutchens, will play the Cesar
Franck Sonata at next Sunday’s music
party given by Mrs. James Brash and
Mrs. Thomson in their Bellevue Hill
address is known wherever good violin
playing is appreciated. Daisy is one of
the regulars of the A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra, and at present is deputy
leader of second violins. In addition to
her orchestral duties, which occupy most
of her days and evenings, this musician
plays at as many camp concerts for the
soldiers as she can possibly fit in. She
regards this as her war effort, and the
Army Education plan and the Musical
Association feature her on innumerable
programmes. Photograph by Monte
Luke.
There was a buzz of activity over the
Overseas Club one afternoon recently,
and the small kitchen was mountain
high with savories and sandwiches. The
preparations were for the club’s farewell
to Lieut.-General Iven Mackay and his
pretty little wife. There was a great roll-
up of members, and knight Keith Smith
and his lady received the members and
presented them to the guests of honor.
Another group which surrounded its
farewells and good wishes with a party
was the 2nd/18th Battalion Comforts
Fund. The Mackay lady was one of its
foundation members, and there is a
special bond between her and the fund’s
president, Mrs. A. L? Varley. The
Mackays’ lieutenant son Iven is a prisoner
of war, and so, alas, is Mrs. Varley’s
colonel husband.*
Once again the Yeomen of the Guard
are keeping watch and ward over London
Tower. The Gilsullivan gem flashed on
Royal audiences last Saturday night.
People who had never loved music
before have become passionate converts
after the recitals of Thomas Matthews
and Eileen Ralph. The series of concerts
for the Red Cross throughout Australia
given by these two fine players ended in
glory last Saturday night at the Con.,
when Brahms was presented in sonata
mood. Last Thursday’s Bach-Mozart
concert, with chamber orchestra, was
equally rich.
The English Speaking Union ran a one-
day shop last week in the interests of the
Red Cross. Mrs. George Tosi and Mrs.
Murray Harding were the organisers, and
they and their helpers had made and
gleaned a glittering stock. From the
bride doll, under cellophane, holding
court in the middle of the room, to the
exquisite babywear the “shop” was sheer
delight. All the animals that went into
the ark were reproduced in the most
cuddly fashion. Aprons that would turn
Victory gardening into a joy sold with
eye-blinking rapidity. The dolls were
pre-war and very superior-looking. It
is a strange thing, but no doll ever looks
as though it sprang from the proletariat.
C- Am Molhaurne
fl? A „ fll rwH
Effect of War Anxiety on the Chil
Mind” is a subject that psychologists
shake their heads over and which makes
the Earnest Parent shiver in her shoes.
But are the youngsters to be pitied, here
in Australia? The very young child to-
day probably will retain the brightest and
most cheerful picture memories of these
dark war days. Community life is closer
knit than ever before, and the young
are benefiting. For instance, this Christ-
mas, as last, the land will be noisy with
Christmas parties, and there won’t be a
child who hasn’t a link with some organ-
isation that’s giving one. Among the
brightest will be those of the A.I.F.
Women’s Association and parties given
by sporting groups.
At all these parties the Christmas-tree
is going to be the centre of attraction,
hung, of course, with presents for all.
This means going back to a long-lost
tradition. With the coming of the small
family the tree and even Santa Claus
have suffered an eclipse because you
can’t make all those elaborate prepara-
tions for a couple of children without
looking silly. Now that clubbing together
is the order of the day there’s rummaging
in the attic and the oddments drawer for
anything that can be glamored up for
decoration—old Christmas bells, candles
and the like—and whisky-bottle tops are
at a premium for turning into silver
ornaments.
Femininity without fuss is the keynote
of the new Y.W.C.A. club for officers
of women’s services. Situated at the back
entrance to George's, the club has two
sitting-rooms, one with coffee and ice-
a ,’ « „
SaT
matched with bluey-greens and neutral
shades, giving a very restful yet rather
dainty effect Decorations follow the
* Hpc.Vnc
overseas craze for pasting paper designs,
like “transfers” of childhood days, on
screens and chair backs. Sole and very
effective ornament of one sitting-room is
a white curtain held back with a big red,
whife and blue bow of transparent wrap-
nina material
i” 0 , ' . .. , . . „ ,
Brought to Australia by American Red
Cross duties Gladys Scott, here pictured,
has links with a variety of social and
educational movements m her own land.
One of her interests has been adult musi-
cal education, a subject on which she
recently addressed the Conservatorium
Old Students get-together. Before com-
ing to these parts she was an Assistant
Director of the U. 5.0., a similar organisa-
tion to the Red Cross.
Belles of the “Gay ’Nineties” brought
down the house at Thanksgiving Day
celebrations at the U.S. Service Club.
Mannequins were in many cases well-
known U.S.W.A.C. members, which
added to the fun for service men who’ve
known them as trimly-uniformed moderns
for so long. Highlight was a genuine
1880 bathing-dress which left almost
everything to the imagination. In mural
decorations Pilgrim Fathers shared the
wall with lively sketches of a back-
country “Country Fair” done by a service
lad in hospital. Fairs in the U.S.A., it
was explained to the uninitiated, are
much like agricultural shows here and
have no special connection with Thanks-
giving Day, except being just put in to
give a “back-home” atmosphere.
Bottle-washing isn’t going to be a
synonym for trivial occupations much
longer now that the Australian Red Cross
Waste Products Depot has made £51,000
for the good cause largely by this despised
occupation. Bottles are collected from
anywhere and everywhere, and voluntary
helpers make a very thorough job of
scrubbing and scalding—so good that
many chemists like to deal with the depot,
knowing that bottles will need no further
cleansing. Sterilised bags for medicine
bottles make sure of this.
When war work gets to the weary plod-
ding stage it is some consolation to learn
that women have had the same experience
before today. Mrs. Walter Bassett’s read-
ing of the life story of America’s Clara
Barton, given to Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital Auxiliaries’ meeting, was a link with
the past that gave many of her hearers
renewed enthusiasm. Generally known
as America’s Florence Nightingale, Clara
Barton did much the same work in organ-
ising medical aid to Civil War casualties
as her English forerunner did in the
Crimea. She was called upon for advice
by German women in 1870. The fact
that she persuaded her country to join
in the Red Cross Convention fn 1878
links her up closely with today’s war-
working sisterhood.
At Orwell Convalescent Hospital for
R.A.N. lads they’ve put the proverbial
sailor’s eye for a pretty lass to new uses.
While other service men are rehabili-
tating by making cloth animals and the
like the Orwell group makes dolls. Those
who supervise handwork at the hospital
say that they’re something quite new in
the dolly species. The lads have put their
idea of the perfect girl into cloth and
stuffing, and instead of the blank stare
of the average sawdust lady they’ve a
light in the eye, a retrousse tilt to the
nose and a tidy pair of legs.
“Come to the Fair” is becoming Mel-
bourne’s theme song. On Saturday the
environs fairly buzzed with bazaar-like
sounds emanating both from the city,
where Business Girls’ Gipsy Fair was
in progress (with decor and costumes in
keeping), and from many suburban spots.
It’s a bit of a mystery how these enter
prises bring in the sums they do to War
Comforts Funds, but the explanation is
probably to be found in the fact that the
cause has absolutely unanimous commu-
nity support.
Few subjects on the domestic front were
left untouched when Victorian House-
wives sat round the conference table last
week. Marketing boards and their ilk
were on the Condemned List, and came
in for some hard words. Chairwoman
Mrs. John Downing, who hasn’t lost any
of her vigor with the years, was one of
the most telling speakers. A small, slight
figure with a soft voice (except when some
very iniquitous housewifely wrong comes
up), it’s amazing how she holds the atten-
tion of a meeting and keeps it to the
matter in hand.
Echoes of the little girl in Katherine
Mansfield’s story who “seed the little
lamp” are roused by the Red Cross
Variety Shop’s Christmas gift window,
filled with doll’s house trappings, among
them lots of little lamps, fairy size, made
from shade to arty base exactly like the
real thing. On the more solid side semi-
precious stones, necklaces and antique
china and silver await the bride-to-be or
shoppers with very special gifts in mind.
One girl in this city who isn’t worried
about the clothing shortage is Lisbeth
of Lincoln, the P.O.W. Fund Raffle doll,
who displays her double joints and 60-
piece wardrobe to the public at a city
store. Her array of day and night
clothes, hats and even silk stockings
should give some little girl the fun of her
life dressing the lady. There’s a very
cute bed to slip her into, apd even tiny
pegs for washing-day.
This is the day of the woman organiser
undoubtedly, but it’s no longer just a
polite title and she has to be very good
to deal with this complex world and its
ways. Among Melbourne’s band of
women who hold the reins is Mrs. Con-
stance Hughes, organiser of auxiliaries
for Royal Melbourne Hospital. Fund-
raising for the hospital isn’t an easy job,
particularly as there is pot the same
sentimental appeal in general work as
there is for, say, maternity and children’s
hospitals. Working up a responsive pub-
lic has been part of a very difficult task.
“It won’t rain—it’s a Hector Crawford
concert,” was the retort to Jonahs who
said that Sunday’s concert in the Botanic
Gardens would end in a heavy pelting.
In spite of the blackness of the skies early
in the day there wasn’t a fear among the
organisers, as it’s becoming a well-known
fact that when this conductor is wielding
the baton the sun can be depended upon.
As yet no rained-on rival has arisen in
wrath to accuse him of medicine-man
tactics, and it just passes as “Crawford’s
luck.”


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that therd
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
land filters. Every three minutes all the blood
(n your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
»?ep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago.
Swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
byes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN'S
pACKACHB KIDNEY DILLS
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
’aolders’ Coniprehensive, Worker*’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Public Notices.
I, THEODOR BERRY, formerly BERENYI, Doctor
of Economics and Doctor of Law (Hungary), at
present private in the A.M.P., of Hungarian Nation-
ality, bom at Budapest (Hungary), and resident
for five years in Australia, now residing at 235
Darlinghurst Road, Darlinghurst, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act, 1920-
1936.
I, GEZA HANDEL, of Hungarian Nationality, born
at Mocz, Hungary, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 2 Killiecrankie, McLaurin
Parade, Roseville, in the State of New South Wales,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act, 1920-1936.
WARNING SIGNS!
Bren Slightly Bleeding Gums May Mean
GUIA*
tIMOW
SORt GUM*
&
GU/M
G\JfA»
BltlOlNG
:y
4 ouf
may have this dread disease
that*often leads to loss of teeth
Do your gums ever bleed ? Are
they sore, tender to touch ?
Then watch out—Pyorrhea may
be starting trouble.
If you don’t take action at once
—it often leads to soft, flabby,
shrinking gums and eventual
loss of teeth.
Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Tested Forhan Way.
Every morning and night, mas-
sage your gums and brush your
teeth with Porhan’s Toothpaste
—the only dentifrice containing
R. J. For-
han’s D. D.
S. special
Anti-Pyor-
rhea astringent.
Porhan’s cleans dull teeth to
their natural sparkling bright-
ness—helps remove acid film
that so often starts tooth de-
cay.
Start using Porhan’s TO-DAY.
Note the difference in the bril-
liant lustre of your teeth and—
equally important—the healthy
firmness of your gums.
A/sian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co., Sydney. Price, 2/4. Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
rannHEii
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans Teeth—Saves Gums
mm
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd.
FULLY guaranteed as to longevity, efficiency and mechanism.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
is a complete self-contained sanitary system in itself, and
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
_ . 1 l.„ nnrnvr {nfn fllA KOll.
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO E3IPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health —over 3300 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 12i% Sales Tax.
Plus 35/- war surcha ge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
36 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81053.
SMOKE-OH!
“Carried Horse to Newcastle.”
— heading.
That squelches the Flying Pieman’s
record!
•J* *s*
“If you ‘frequently come home at 11 or 12’
and your wife leaves supper for you, you should
not complain because it is cold.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Other wives would make it hot for
their husbands.
4* 4 1 •S 1
VNazis in a jam.” —News item.
Let’s hope it’s a jam that spreads.
■i- »S- 4- 4“
Female H.E.
“She was one of those high-explosive
women.” —Short story.
I know the kind. They’re all right until
they get you in the gun and start turning
on the fireworks. Then they give you
such a blasted bad time that you have to
do plenty of shelling out. Even so, you’re
still liable to be blown up. Best policy
is to keep well out of their range.
Nat.
4*' 4* 4* 4*
“Beating with Hose Alleged.”— “D.T.”
A sock under the ear, eh?
“Diabetes is a disease that seems to attach
itself in particular to persons of Jewish stock.”
—“ World’s News.”
They can’t help making sugar, appar-
ently.
•J* *l* ***
“Neglecting to write to friends overseas is
certainly not cricket.” —Radio speaker.
But pads are so hard to obtain these
days.
4* *l* *l* 4*
“Women with soft uncrushable finish, suitable
for day or evening offering in a wide range
of fancy designs.”— Melb. “Herald” advt.
That’s the stuff to give the troops.
*- 4* ’l*
Waterloo.
“Prosecution of fish vendors.” —Daily “Sun.”
Fish-shop Fred’s been prosecuted. And
it cannot be disputed that his grins
are substituted by a few wholehearted
“damns!” Still, we find it entertaining
that, despite his fish-shop training, he was
hopeless at explaining why he tried to
scale the trams!
Looby.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Suggestion.
If you desire my supreme adoration,
Lavished upon you till death do us
part;
If you would fill me with high
inspiration.
Firing the innermost core of my heart ;
If you would me think other loves
hollow,
Hearing me vow it with fervor sincere ;
Here is the course, oh my darling, to
follow —
Give me for Christmas a bottle of
beer!
T. W. NATHAN
Simple Deduction.
“Some Reasons Why Girls Go Astray.” _
—Sydney “Sun”.
That girls will be girls and digress
From the path of decorum and poise,
Is a sorrowful fact, but I guess
That the reason is—boys will be boys!
P. O. M. C.
So Why Work?
“Santa is short of toys.”—' "Daily Sun.”
A paradox for girls and boys
(“Back the attack !”) :
When Santa isn’t short of toys
He gets the sack.
E.
Coalminers on Campaign.
I.
Colonel Wells was sitting in his tent
at battalion h.q. when the flap was un-
ceremoniously thrust aside and a private,
hands in pockets, slouched in and leaned
cross-legged against the tent-pole. “G’day,
Wellsey,” he grunted.
“Well, what can I do for you, Dogs-
body?”
“Oh! Gettin’ all high-horsey are y’,
Wellsey? Y’ didn’t boggle at callin’ me
Doggo like the rest o’ the mob when we
worked together on the surface at”
“That’s not the point, Private Dogs-
body. Discipline must be maintained.”
“G’blime, yer gettin’ tough, ain’t y’?
What’s discipline ever had to do with
us miners? Say, you ain’t got bit by the
capitalist bug be any chance, have y’?”
Colonel Wells’s indulgent smile had a
hint of nervousness in it. “Now, now,
Doggo, old son, there’s no need for that.
We’re old pals, aren’t we? You wouldn’t
let the mob think I was taking that atti-
tude, would you? Now, is there anything
I can do for you?”
Private Dogsbody grinned qnd seated
himself on the table edge. “Betcha. Look,
my dog’s racin’ back home Saturday week.
I want a month’s leave, startin’ tonight.”
“But that’s impossible, Doggo. We go
into action in a few days. I’ve had orders.
No leave for anyone in the unit.”
“Listen, Wellsey, you’re our leader,
see, an’ you’ll take orders from nobody
but us. Now, do I get me leave or not?”
“Er —I’m afraid —that is—er”
Private Dogsbody strolled to the open-
ing and shouted: “Hey, blokes, is it ‘one
out all out’?”
For answer came a concertedly-yelled
“My oath!”
Private Dogsbody strolled back to the
table. “Orright, Wellsey, the whole bat-
talion’s out. If y’ want to talk to us the
strike committee’ll see y’ tomorrer after
dinner. It’s no good y’ tryin’ to come
round before then because there’ll be a
swi-up school goin’. We’ll be seein’ y’.”
Next morning Colonel Wells was sur-
prised to see the battalion drawn up on
parade. He walked across to his
second in command, Major Grant, was
standing. “I thought the boys were out
on strike, Grant. Is anything wrong?”
“Oh, it seems that Dogsbody got a
letter from his wife this morning saying
his greyhound got a tick and wriggled
out, so the strike’s been called off.”
Suddenly a figure came hurrying across
the parade ground. Col. Wells looked
across. “It’s Corporal Ledswinger. There
seems to be something amiss. He’s in
charge of the guard today.”
Cpl. Ledswinger stopped in front of
the colonel, his face livid with fury. “Just
take a screw at these, will y’?” He held
out a pack of cards. “We’ve been playin’
poker in the guard tent. I sits pat on a
full house on aces and Johnno Jias aces
up. Some cow’s been cookin’ the deck.
I’m callin’ a strike!”
Several hundred rifles crashed to the
ground as the whole battalion walked off
to set up strike committees.
Late that afternoon the O.C. promised
a full inquiry, the chairman to be selected
from the rank and file, and he also an-
nounced that the guard meantime would
be allowed a further four hours off to
replay the game with new packs of cards.
But just as the strike was called off Private
“Banjo” Weelder called for a new strike
because the garbage fatigue party he was
on hadn’t been given representation on
any of the strike committees.
“But we can’t have another strike now,
men,” protested Col. Wells. “What about
the stunt we’re having tomorrow?”
“Look, Wellsey,” said Private “Banjo,”
“you know what to do with yer stunt,
don’t y’?”
“But what about the war?”
“Ar, let ’em call the war off till nex’
Wednesdey. We might call the strike off
then if we get sick o’ fishin’.”
Bo.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Young writer would like to get in touch
with other literary aspirants—34o2.
Information Sought.
I want to give my son a piece of freehold
land in N.S.W. (1) What fees, duty or tax
would be payable to the Government ? (2)
Would it be necessary to employ a valuer ?
(3) Addresses of Government departments con-
cerned ?
(1) Federal: Up to £5OO in value, nil; £5OO
to £lO,OOO 3 per cent.; and thereafter on a
sliding scale. Value includes value of all other
gifts made within previous 18 months. State:
Depends on value, other gifts and many other
factors. (2) Not if the land is valued by the
Valuer-General. (3) Stamp Duties Office,
Phillip-street, Sydney; Registrar-General’s
Office, Sydney. You would be wise to consult
a solicitor.
Short account of Francis Birtles’s wanderings ?
Francis Birtles died on July 11, 1941. He
helped to open up outback Australia by means
of cycle, motor transport and aviation; he
covered 500,000 miles in overlanding trips,
and was across and around Australia 88 times.
He pioneered the Fremantle to Sydney motor
route in 1912; the East Coast of Australia
motor route, 1912-13; the Adelaide-Gulf of
Carpentaria motor route in 1914; and the
England-Australian motor-car route via Europe
and Singapore, 1927. He cycled twice around
Australia in 1907 and 1910, and held numerous
trans-Australian cycle and car records. In
1921 he made the pioneer aerial exploration of
Central Australia.
(1) How did the game of crown and anchor
originate? (2) What are the odds for crown,
anchor, spades, hearts, clubs and diamonds ?
(3) Rules of betting? (4) Rules followed by the
bank ? (5) How many dice are used ?
(1) No information available; name suggests
maritime origin, possibly through necessity of
finding two extra names over and above the
four card suits to fill the six sides of the dice.
Actually, the game is a variation of the Yankee
sweat wheel. (2) Even money for each. (3) and
(4) Rules seem rather elastic. Usual procedure
is for players to back their fancy. If two dice
turn up of say, spades, spades are paid double.
If three, treble odds. Banker usually reserves
right to limit bets, and he may have one suit
running for himself. If three of that suit turn
up he scoops the pool. Otherwise he pays out
as usual on the others. (5) Three dice are used.
I have some powdered colors which, when
mixed with water and brushed on, rub off when
dry. How should they be mixed for use as
water colors?
Dissolve a small amount of gum arabic (pro-
curable in lump form) in the water. Take care
not to use too much, otherwise it will produce
a shiny surface.
Rates of pay for Australian privates and
n.c.os.?
Sgt. 11s. 6d. per day, cpl. 10s. 6d., pte.
6s. 6d. If a soldier is married and desires a
Government allowance for his dependants, he
must allot 3s. 6d. per day from his pay. It he
does this the Government will allow wife; 4s. 6d.
per day, first child 35., second child 2s. and
each succeeding child Is. 6d. per day.
A good poison for black ants ?
Any of these should serve, (a) Pans green
powder placed in a circle round nest; (b) a
mixture of 4oz. lard, 2oz. borax and one table-
spoon minced meat; (c) mixture of equal
quantities of borax and sulphur.
How to make mask faces for rag dolls ?
Could they be made at home?
Buckram is stiffened, reinforced and shaped
by mould. This is repetition work, done by
machinery and not suitable for home industry.
Information Supplied.
Formula for determining the distance of the
horizon (B. 29/9/ ’43) involves use of a table ot
logarithms. In navigation schools in England
they teach a very simple rule: Distance (in
miles) equals square root of one and a half
times height of eye above sea level (in feet).
It gives a very fair approximation when the eye
is near sea level, as in a ship, but cannot be
relied upon for higher altitudes.
Brief Answers.
G.A.H.: Will take some time to trace dates
of appearances... .J.M.F.: Published (B.
17/11/’43) under initials R.X.J R.R.: No-
thing was promised to Germany, but
£30,000,000 was promised to Czechoslovakia
J.A.C.: (1) Cattle Camp is out of print. (2)
Publisher’s address is 34 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
A-G.L.: Parts almost unobtainable
W. 1.: No books available... .S.McC.: Average
depth of the Dardanelles is about 35 fathoms,
increasing to 47 off Chanak. Tftles are neg-
ligible R.C.C.; Mrs. G. M. Farquharson,
102 Milson-street, Cremorne, N.S.W., can give
information about silkworms P.F.L.: Adri-
enne Brune is Australian-born; she went to
England, first appearing in London in 1922.
Visited Australia in 1935... .E. 8.: Details will
be forwarded... .SJ.M.: Sky Saga is not yet
on sale.


THE OTHER FELLOW"S MIND
Tfdhe Digger Spirit
I lfistened not long since to a lecture —
wrondfg word that : it was more like a
typicadl Aussie yarning—by Private Bill
Kelly, fdwho was taken prisoner at Derna
in the fifrst retreat to Tobruk, and was
repatriatedfd in April this year. The man
who could lidsten to that tale without
being thrillefdd to the marrow with pride
in Australia's ffighting sons is just walk-
ing round dead. dfThe cool courage, the
unquenchable gaiety of spirit, the incred-
ible patience and ingenuity described in
that matter-of-fact, unboastful way were
the most effective answer to the New-
Ordercrs that one could wish for.
The night before Kelly and his fellow-
repatriates left the prison the lights were
on all night (though nine o’clock was the
usual lights-out) as man after man came
in to say good-bye and wish the fortunate
fellows all jhc best. “Not a word of envy
you’d have thought that they were
going home themselves,” said the nar-
rator. “I always thought I’d leave the
place cheering, but I came away with a
great big lump in my throat because of
the splendid fellows we left behind.” —
F. H. Willson (S.A.).
Raise the Birthrate
Australia’s . best immigrant is the.
native-born. 1 should like to see the
manufacture, sale or possession of con-
traceptives made criminal., also the
tightening up and enforcing of the law
relating to abortion.
I realise that repressive measures will
not have a great effect Unless the out-
look of the people is changed, hut they
will have some effect. The better class of
citizens obeys the law even if disagreeing
with it. —lan Joinerson (Vic.).
A Cheer for Andy
. "Prop Q.’’ (B. 3/ 11 /’43) does Andy an
injustice. Probably the reason why the
happy couple refuse to alter the old name-
stead or rebuild is because of the senti-
ment and memories embodied in its
quaint walls. Now that the goanna has
been called up there are just the two of
them left.
To call Andy a brainless dolt is to
mistake his air of cheery optimism and
absence of worry'. He never wails about
the seasons like some affluent cockies 1
have met. All travellers who call on him
are sure of a hearty welcome, even
though Ma does the spadework in enter-
taining.
Andy’s “Tandem on the Moke” idea
proves his originality and public spirit.
As well as rationing the ride to tow r n, he
avoids using unnecessary transport.
He would prove an irresistible draw-
card if he inaugurated a residential riding
school for city people. Prospective experts
of the pigskin would certainly get the
right atmosphere.—Wyles (Vic.).
Example of Rome
There is a parallel between our present
times and those of the Roman Empire
just before its fall.
Firstly, taxes are oppressive. Reci-
pients of fixed incomes, faced with rising
prices, are getting poorer every day. The
Roman (axes crushed the middle class,
just as ours may well do, and no country
can prosper with a population of only
very r rich and very poor.
Secondly, people are giving themselves
up to pleasure and luxury. Increase in
divorce cases is a symptom, and this is
leading to a condition where married
people would rather have shillings than
sons.
Australia’s population is not actually
falling as yet, but its birthrate is, and
after some time population will become
static and then begin to decline.
Lastly, art becomes decadent. Who
can deny that today both art and music
arc decadent?—R. G. O. P. (S.A.).
“Anti-British ?”
“W.C.C.' 18. 10/11/*43) is not very
convincing. His “kindly word” and
advice both confirm the chip on his own
shoulder. ,We, upon whom the un-
gracious and opprobious epithet falls with
so little appreciation, are now enlightened
as to why we are designated by the hate-
ful word “Pommy.” “W.C.C.” tells us,
in effect, that “Australians, being a lively,
sensitive people,” invented the term “to
show' resentment” at “any newcomer who
nurses a feeling of superiority.*’ The
The contributor placed first is paid
P er line; all others 2Jd. per line-
latter would presumably include such in-
vited British visitors as Sir Thomas
Beecham, H. G. Wells and Sir Evelyn
Wrench, all of whom are presumably still
nursing a feeling of superiority after their
“lively and sensitive” treatment here.
There are two rocks upon which the
“W.C.C.” case is completely shattered.
The first is that in no other Dominion
are British and North of Ireland migrants
so consistently placed upon the defensive
as in Australia. The second is that the
Irish migrant, who proclaims his racial
superiority to an extent of which no
Briton is capable, is not branded as a
“Pommy.” Indeed, the one continent-
wide Australian taboo concerns Eire and
the Irish. Another taboo seems to place
a ban upon any Australian uttering one
generous word for England and the Eng-
lish.
The stark reality is that the anti-British
sentiment here, which has amazed our
American visitors, including Joseph
Harsch, owes its origin and deeply-
rooted existence to the disproportionate
Irish influence in Australian culture
and politics, both sectional and sectarian.
We British are tolerant, perhaps to a
fault, and given to understatement, which
is certainly not an Australian weakness.
However unpleasant our experience of
Australian zenophobia, it has at least
helped us to understand more clearly how
the Jews must feel in those countries
where traditional anti-Semitism derives
“I know it's unusual, but there's not a spare landing gear in the place ."
from similarly unworthy local prejudice.
The anti-immigration bias has become a
tradition in Labor politics in Australia,
where for generations British migrants
have been stigmatised as blacklegs who
steal Australian jobs and lower the stand-
ard of living.
It is a queer paradox that organisec
Labor here in the industrial field is prac-
tically controlled by British migran
officials of a type that could never hope
to achieve such positions in their own
land.
My kind word and advice to “W.C.C.’
and those who share his “lively and sen-
sitive” illusions of Antipodean superiority
is that they start <an Australian-British
•Friendship League.— Plain Englishman
(N.S.W.).
Company Taxation
Referring to remarks by Mr. Menzies
(B. 13 /10/’43) on the anti-inflationary
nature of the war loan and on taxation
which leaves no reserves for repairs and
maintenance compulsorily deferred (not
taking into account inevitable reconver-
sion of industrial plants and businesses),
it should be realised that the aggregate
of uniform tax and tax on undistributed
income can absorb 100 p.c, of actual
income.
Taxable income is always greater than
actual income, by reason of fair depre-
ciation, etc., not being allowed deduc-
tions. Where the bulk of the share capi-
tal is in the name of one person, say
trustee or a guardian of minors, the rate
of tax on undistributed income rises so
steeply that the whole income can be
taken. Consequently, businesses giving
public service at a price lower than that
possible by businesses run without profit-
motive by a Government are so rewarded
(?) for their patriotic zeal that pro-
prietors have to reduce turnover and let
expenses increase to yield profit at a rate
of tax permitting something to be left
for shareholders.
Limited liability cos., which may for-
merly have been businesses of sole traders
or small partnerships of unlimited liability
(such traders representing greater risks to
their creditors), cannot adopt methods of
“tickling the peter” for portion of daily
pash sales, hoarding it in notes or war
bonds, or investing it in jewels, etc. (in-
vestments, such as properties and indus-
trial shares being practically barred).
To preserve businesses to which pro-
prietors and loyal staffs have given the
best of their lives honest men are being
compelled to think of ways of circum-
venting controls short-sightedly imposed
by politicians lacking practical experience.
—Cosec (W.A.).
An aspect of uniform taxation as it
affects Tasmania is peculiar. Under Tas-
manian law companies were required to
pay a dividend tax, which was deducted
from the assessment of the balance of
the income for that particular year.
Up to June, 1942, State Treasurer E.
Dwyer Gray collected £27,992 in this
manner, and in the negotiations between
the Commonwealth and the States as to
the amount to come to Tasmania these
collections were overlooked. The cos.
concerned naturally assumed that, as they
had paid part of their taxation for 1942,
they were entitled either to a credit from
the Commonwealth Treasury or a refund
from the State Treasury.
Mr. Gray first said the cos. had no
legal claim for a refund. Then, when the
Commonwealth Treasurer disclaimed re-
sponsibility, he said there was no moral
claim upon the State, and even if there
was either one or the other he would not,
pay. The reason given for this was that
the Commonwealth Grants Commission
would deduct, a similar amount from the
yearly grant by way of “fine”!
Rather a remarkable performance for
one who prides himself upon being the
one lone exponent of honesty in public
finance. —A. E. W. (Tas.).
Westralia and Secesh
A few years ago an overwhelming
majority of W.A. voters expressed the
opinion that secession would be a good
thing. This majority did not consist en-
tirely of fools and it would be a big mis-
take for any Sydneyside unification
fanatic to think that the Groper idea has
changed unless in the direction of be-
coming a deeper conviction.
Westralians read in their newspapers
daily about the wonderful defence jobs
to be had for the asking in the Eastern
States. There is only one man-sized de-
fence job in W.A. and you have to> enlist
to get it. That is what our young men
do. W.A. is too isolated, backward and
politically impotent to share in any war-
time handouts. Our one large industry,
goldmining, has been well nigh outed for
the duration because it “does not help the
war effort.”
We notice, too, that when any going
short has to be done we do it. Practically
all well-known proprietary articles are
manufactured in the fortunate east, and
we can’t get many of these now. We are
told by advertisement that this is be-
cause of transport difficulties. The same
advertisements state that there will be
plenty of supplies for us after the war.
Too right there will be! In fact, we will
then resume the usual role of goat.
No! Secession is not dead ; it has
simply been shelved until this war job is
finished, and then we shall have a few
questions to ask —the first of these being
whether or not it was intended to leave
this State like a shag on a rock in the
event of invasion.— Lomond (W.A.).
Rehabilitating ex-Service Men
A special section of Man-power was
lecently established to rehabilitate ex-
service men in decent and reasonably
secure jobs. Yet returned soldiers have
been called up for the C.C.C. and sent
North again. Why? Peter Pjper
(N.S.W.).
Soldiers on the Wharves
It’s easy and it sounds like plain justice
to say that soldiers doing wharf work
should be paid union rates (B. 20/10/’43),
but where does the principle lead to?
What happens when you get to forward
areas? Are the dock units in forward
areas going to be paid less than the men
in Sydney? Or are the men unloading
the ships in the forward areas also to be
paid wharfies’ rates (not forgetting
“danger” money for handling explosives,
of which a lot of their cargoes will con-
sist)?
If so, you will then have on your
hands the anomaly of soldiers work-
ing on the wharves in a reasonably safe
job being paid more than fighting
men facing the dangers and discomforts
of the front line a few miles away. Sup-
pose an infantry battalion sends one of
its companies to unload ships, another
on a standing patrol, and one making
roads and clearing scrub (as my battalion
did often enough in N.G.). Are the men
who work on the wharf to be paid more
than their cobbers in the other com-
panies?
No! Some other way out must be
found. The obvious way (and equally
obviously impossible as things stand) is
to put all workers on the same rate as
soldiers.
Apart from all that, as an infantryman
who has unloaded ships in the Middle
East and New Guinea, and made roads
in Queensland, X say most, if not all, of
us were jolly glad of the break of routine
offered by such jobs. The difficulty was
to get men to remain in lines as pickets,
not to get them to become “unpaid
laborers.”— lnfantier (Q.).
The Nation’s Soil
The menace to the nation’s soil (B,
10/11/’43) will not be given its proper
place in “outpourings about post-war re-
construction” so long as the bulk of such
outpourings is inspired by Left intel-
lectual thought.
Left thought has been revealed to us
more frankly and abundantly than even
before in the war-time publications of
Victor Gollancz and many new Left
newspapers, and it is now known for
certain that the Left is definitely anti-
pathetic to rural life.
The Left intellectual, as a rule, is
interested in the country and in
country people only to the extent to
which —as in Russia —farming can
be mechanised and collectivised and
farm hands can be made to resemble
factory hands.
There is perhaps no country in the
world which less lends itself to such
a process than Australia does. Aus-
tralia lacks oil and water power, and
rural Australians lack the will to
sink their individuality. Conse-
quently rural Australia baffles the Left so
much that Leftists avoid its special prob-
lems and will continue to avoid them even
though Australia may, as The Bulletin
warns, “become a desert within a cen-
tury.”—J. W. R. (Tas.).
Railway Travel
Why should not first- and second-class
be abolished on our railways? This
would help to do away with a lot of
ridiculous class distinctions, superiority
and inferiority complexes.
Carriages on our lines (Central Queens-
land) are anything but comfortable at
best, with little noticeable difference be-
tween the classes except the fares.
Anyway, why should one lot of good
Australians queue up at a window marked
“Ist class” while another lot, equally
good, line up at a near-by window
marked “2nd”? Did not our own Henry
Lawson lament the signboards on our
railway platforms saying “Second-class
wait here”?
Reservations are another matter ; there
may be good reasons—sickness, young
children, as well as snobbishness.
For all that, let’s start one very good
“New Order” —one class for all.— Ellen
Mary (Q.).
Meat Rationing
In January we shall be on a meat
ration of 2ilb. a head. This rationing of
all States alike is not equitable, because
Queensland’s per capita meat consump-
tion is nearly 50 p.c. higher than Vic-
toria’s, despite the former’s hot climate.
Victorians supplement meat with fruit
and vegetables, which they readily pro-
duce. The present large service popula-
tion of the northern State makes inroads
into the local fruit and vegetable supply.
Consequently, meat consumption has
gradually risen since the war, and a cut
to 2ilb. will be too drastic. A more just
method of rationing would be to allo-
cate to each State according to its meat
consumption during the past year.
It is not possible to suddenly change
a nation’s diet without injurious results.
Britain planned a simple but adequate
war-time diet with the result that the
nation’s general health improved. The
Australian Government has followed the
advice of theorists. — Hereford (Vic.),


M
- '-.Miti
f
■
' Jt i /V | ||
■
', . ;, ■ ■ : .
V v» j
■■■■■■:
vj. •• V v»< £
2 . ■
‘
S£.
?■ ;?li
I
Jk.
*
/ x
, * ij
.
. v:
111
I
*'
jiMi
k? ' ' ''
;-/il
M
**C* Of M
f/uc e ( / a f'u ge .. as °ni te
'his * **!> / , A'*//” c ’ c tl Ppcd ■
o f reSSUr e c * S/l Press S ‘ ea *» is ,
0(1 fibr e Us ?s SStt 'e - tf ‘— •
c - .S'
"W..
o*
} ei
to “
w 6
or n r
‘n/o
mm.
mm-
.
* . which will never cease fire I
A 1 Raymond Terrace (within jeep-range of Newcastle, N.S.W.) is a battery of guns which will continue to salvo when
all the guns of war are but salvage —the “guns” of the Masonite plant.
All through the war these guns have been firing, round after round blasting chips of timber into tons of fibre . . . wood
fibre . . . Masonite Boards in embryo.
And Masonite Boards, born in these “guns”, reared in hydraulic presses, perfected in a rigid “finishing” school, tempered
and given stamina to ensure amazing longevity, have gone forth to war.
You'll find them fighting weather, wear and time wherever troops assemble, wherever ships trade. In munitions plants and
camps; in Army huts, canteens and hospitals . , . in every place where durability helps war effort, you’ll find Masonite Boards.
And when “Cease Fire!” sounds around this war-torn world, the Masonite “guns” will keep on firing . . . blasting chips of
timber into embryo Masonite.
And again Masonite Boards will go forth . . . but this time in the cause of
peace ... to build homes for the people ... to provide security, comfort
and beauty for a nation whose dwellings are the centres of their lives.
MASONITE PRESOWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPRTILE . . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured from wood fibre by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. "
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division). SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
*
■
7
