

w
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3328
Wednesday, November 24, 1.943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN DUBLIN CASTLE.
THRONE ROOM OF REGAL DIGNITY.
"TODAY, though it is little more than a group of departmental
* offices, Dublin Castle stands as a reminder of more spacious
days of silks and laces and brilliantly-colored uniforms. Built by
the Archbishop of the city in the year 1220, the Castle was
frequently altered during the ensuing 300 years, until, in 1560,
Queen Elizabeth caused it to be fitted up as a vice-regal residence.
Up to the year 1780 the Court lived here, and it is easy to conjure
up pictures of scenes that must have been many times enacted
here. .. .perhaps many a young officer searched for a sedan chair to
carry a pretty girl across the courtyard from the dining chambers
to the great ballroom of the Castle, of the same dancers in the
early morning following the Meath foxhounds or the Ward stag-
hounds. Perhaps Thomas Moore had such a thought in mind:
So sleeps the pride of former days,
So glory’s thrill is o’er,
And hearts that once beat high for praise
Now feels that pulse no more.
With its twin towers, one named the Record 1 ower and the other
commemorating Birmingham, Dublin Castle has twin courtyards
to this day, and the discerning eye may still see the shades of
Addison, who came over as secretary, of Swift, of Castteriet, Earl
of Granville, sent over as Lord-Lieutenant by Hugh Walpole and
of Chesterfield, the man of Letters, a Viceroy who left a good
name here when he was gone. Today a sturdy building still, Dublin
Castle shelters public service offices, its great State rooms being
used only on rare occasions for entertaining.


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, m
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 213 AGE
The Red Page
THE NEWCASTLE PACKETS.
“While lying off Alexandria in 1803 he
[Lieut. John Shortland, R.N. ; officially
the discoverer of the Hunter] landed a
party with whose assistance he flew a
kite over Pompey’s Pillar, hauled over it
a rope and then a rope ladder and
climbed 160 feet to the top to drink the
King’s health. A few days later he re-
peated the performance, ate a beefsteak
there and fixed a weathervane on top
of the obelisk.”
As recorded in J. H. M. Abbott’s The
Newcastle Packets and the Hunter
Valley (Currawong Publishing Co.),
Lieut. Shortland ended a salty and smoky
career giving battle with his 40-ton
frigate and a ship’s company of 200
against a French squadron mounting 120
guns—more than half as many guns as
he had men. There were four ships
against him, half his men were killed, his
frigate was so damaged that next day
she had to be burnt, and Shortland died
of his wounds.
In Shortland, the Hunter —now all coal
and steel and lucerne ; Abbott more than
half regrets the coal —has an original
heroic figure standing good and clear
at the beginning of its history. It can
do with him. The man after whom it was
named, Governor Hunter, does not seem
to have bothered to set eyes on it, and
some of its early occupants plumbed
depths of brutality there that made the
name of the place a byword, wopse even
than any other in the whole triangle of
the triangles, down to Port Arthur and
across to Norfolk. Abbott calls his eye-
witnesses to give evidence on this, among
them, of course, Ralph Rashleigh.
Abbott himself is a native son, horn at
Maitland 69 years ago come Boxing Day,
and he frankly admits to prejudice when-
ever he thinks about or looks on or
writes of the Valley. It is incom-
parably better than any other plot of
earth in all Australia. Sometimes it has
floods, and “a wooden house is not a
comfortable craft in which to make a
voyage” and treetops, “though well ven-
tilated, leak atrociously” ; but the floods
top-dress the land, they make the soil:
“Nowhere is there anything better for
lucerne cultivation than the deep, loamy
deposits of Wallis Plains.”
In the Valley, too, there are vines—
great-great-great-grandfathers of vines
producing the fruitful grape elsewhere
and the healthy wines of Australia. Also,
there is that wonder of wonders the Burn-
ing Mountain, which the blacks preferred
neither to mention nor discuss and did
not like to go near. It started burning,
it seems, some time before the birth of
Christ. “It is one of those deep mysteries
of this ancient and mysterious continent.”
Or, at least, that is true of how it started.
Actually, it is coal burning away down to
the headquarters of the First Politician,
and so it has been for 2000 years.
Abbott’s kin have lived within short
travel of the mountain for generations.
An uncle was the authority on it.
J.H.M.A. himself has not looked on
it now for some 20 years; but it
has been burning in his thoughts
from when he was a red - headed
small boy setting out for The
King’s School, Parramatta, via Morpeth,
by coach, along with side-whiskcrod
gentlemen in peg trousers and top-hats
and smelling potently of rum, and ladies
who wore crinolines and braided their
hair in nets.
In the circumstances the historian has
all right to his enthusiasms; even, per-
haps, to the bordering heresy that “for
good looks” Port Stephens is “easily”
Port Jackson’s “equal and possibly its
superior.” Some, idolaters of nature un-
defiled, may feel that Abbott rubs in salt
after that turn on the triangle when he
asserts that “Sydney Harbor has been
immensely improved by the growth of
the city about its shores.” Against this
is the writer’s confession (with its
singularity of style): “The beauty of
Port Jackson at 6 o’clock on a summer
morning is the most vivid memory of
very early childhood that is his, and it
has compelled him to a belief that
Sydney Harbor could never be anything
else but beautiful at any hour of the
day or night.”
Enthusiasms help make up another
quality of his as historian. When
there is an assessing of his so-far
outstanding generation’s contributions
to these early makings of Australian
literature, he must be given credit for the
one thing at least —more than anyone else
he gave a freshness to early Australian
history that made it interesting.
Here he is writing of the Hunter
Valley and the graceful old sail-and-
paddlewheel packets that carried the trade
between there and Sydney, and his
Hunter enthusiasms give it a human
touch of life. He personally goes
back far his kin going
further to have seen his Valley
before its great changes to industrialism.
Thus he has an advantage seldom given
to historians in their job of clearing the
present from view and setting up again
or “re-creating” the past.
As well, he knows the trick of bring-
ing forth from their camp in the Mitchell
Library the actual men who stood on
this spot or that, and of making them
stand again where they stood, as it was
when they stood there, and give its
story and theirs in their own words. A
good method for producing a visual
picture of the day, as John Allcot’s
admirable paintings of the lines, rigging,
sails and threshing paddles of the old
packets help the historian to the same
end ; but the method holds the tempta-
tion to work in long slabs of prose mostly
very inferior to the historian’s own, and
even less generally interesting stuff copied
out of minutes and documents. Still,
some of Abbott’s long quotations are
good, one from himself in particular.
Next to the merit of being interesting,
Abbott’s best attribute, compared with
some other latter-day practitioners of
Clio’s craft, is that he doesn’t * regard
historical material as merely the means
of proving some fixed notion of his own.
He has neither the old moralising nor
the new ideological approach to the
past. He simply tries to see clearly and
record faithfully. At least, nobody will
accuse him of being a demagogue, much
less an evangelist.
The neat little tome runs to its share
of misprints, which bibliophiles will
savor juicily. In any case a misprint
that can speak of the surfy point to the
north of Cabbagetree Bay (to loyal
Villagers, Manly Beach) as “the majestic
joint called Queenscliff” has its own right
to live.
Pictured Diggers,
On the showing of their respective
published collections of drawings —A
Mixed Grill (Bulletin) and Diggers
(Johnson) —Ted Scorfield and Unk White
have this much in common: they are two
of the very best black-and-white artists
practising in Australia.
There is fine craftsmanship in both
books. Both artists are masters of
line. They make their lines say exactly
what they want them to say. It has
been said of Scorfield in The Bulletin
etchers’ room that one day he’ll send up
a bad drawing, and everybody there will
drop dead with shock. A training in
draughtsmanship made him an exact,
almost a meticulous, craftsman, and
what that training didn’t do a natural
conscientiousness does. Diggers, dogs,
horses, ships, lions or whatever it is—
there is evidence all through of careful
drawing and shrewd observation.
White has always been a freer crafts-
man. Obviously he has made a thorough
study of anatomy. In his joke blocks
for The Bulletin the figures of his girls
were always exquisite—the envy of their
sex and of other artists and the bright-
ness of boundary-riders’ huts. There was
no evidence of conscious drawing ; White
threw his pen about —almost literally at
times —and there they were alive and,
usually, kicking.
The same freedom of drawing runs
through White’s Diggers. Nothing better,
in the last war or this, has been done
than some of these crayon studies. Two
of the best, as it happens, are not Dig-
gers. One of these is a sailor standing
at ease on guard with rifle and bayonet,
the other, one of the W.A.A.A.F., a
corporal, gloves in her left hand, fairly
striding out of the page. A Digger ser-
geant leaning forward on his rifle with
his chin propped in his left hand watching
a Digger down on one knee ransacking
through his kitbag is another particular
gem.
Apart from quality of craftsmanship—
the nature of which is altogether different
between them —there are differences
rather than resemblances for comparison
between the books. White’s drawings are
documentary. They are drawings in vari-
ous poses from a living model. They are
historically valuable as typifying the
younger Diggers of the present war. They
are serious, not only as art but in char-
acter. Some are sentimental, and most
are made to seem so by sentimental
“gagging.” The sailor, the Waaaf and five
tin-hatted heads are smiling ; and there
is a grin in a cookhouse copper belching
steam and smoke, while the bab’s away
giving it a fly at two-up. Otherwise, the
Digs, are all hard and serious —not that
that isn’t possibly truer of the present
crowd than of the old crowd.
Scorfield has one or two serious Dig-
gers in his opening pages. His Tobruk
Rat is an indication of what he could do
with the brush in that line if serious docu-
mentary portrayal were his aim. Serious-
ness is the very opposite of his aim here.
His book is a collection of some of his
Bulletin humorous drawings over the
past few years.-
There is another striking difference in
Scorfield’s Diggers. Just as the associa-
tion of humor with troops —as distinct
from White’s serious depiction—harks
back to the ruling mood of most of the
last war, so do Scorfield’s Diggers them-
selves often seem to hark back, to
when he himself wore the Tommy
uniform at Helles. Most of them
have some age on them, just as
most of them are either grinning or are
in situations at which they would grin
if they were not personally caught up
in them.
As with White, some of the most attrac-
tive inhabitants of Scorficld’s book are
not Diggers ; the Scorfield special attrac-
tions are four-footed fellows. Yet few
better true representations of the Digger
character —with a grin to it-—-have been
done than Scorfield manages through the
agency of a two-page spread of dog
caricatures. They’re dogs—of all sorts -
but the Babbling Brook is a bab if ever
one carried a couple of dripping dixies ;
and likewise the Sarge, the Padre, the
Commandos, the V.D.C. and the rest.
Oddly enough, though Scorfield—with
the opening exceptions noted —is all
caricature and humor, and White, but for
the few half-smiles, is insistently serious,
Scorfield is the realist of the two. White
the romantic. In these two books, at
least, Scorfield appears as a serious
humorist; White as an emotional obser-
ver. Both, which is everything, appear
as serious, and excellent, craftsmen.
Song of Bernadette,
The sceptical Dean of Lourdes sent a
message through Bernadette, peasant girl
of the Pyrenees, to the “lovely lady” she
had seen in a vision in the grotto of
Massabielle; “The Dean of Lourdes,
Madame, urges you to perform a little
miracle by letting the wild rosebush
bloom now at winter’s end.”
Nobody wanted a miracle. By the
ordinary standards of neighbor, teacher,
priest, policeman and politician in the
little town of Lourdes 80-odd years ago,
when her confidences to her sister Marie
and a girl friend were whispered abroad,
14-year-old Bernadette Soubirous was a
rather stupid child. The Church (fearing
delusion) stood aside; the holders of
public office tried to force the girl by
threat and ridicule to retract; her parents
were not at all pleased at having a child
who was “different.”
Franz Werfel, a Jew, flying with his
wife in a desperate search for safety after
the collapse of France in 1940, found
shelter in Lourdes. The place made a deep
imprint on his consciousness, and he
vowed that if he reached the saving
shores of America he would put off all
other tasks and write, as best he could,
this book he has called The Song of
Bernadette (Hamish Hamilton) —a woven
tapestry of that French provincial town
as it was 80 years ago: “intellectuals,”
professional men, Government officials
in the Cafe Fran?ais (great oil lamps,
marble-topped tables, red plush uphol-
stery and the airing of the view of the
day caused it to be known as the Cafe
Progres); in their various surroundings,
mayor and policeman, bishop and parish
priest, nun and working woman, recoil-
ing from, and lastly drawing to the un-
explainable that has happened in their
greyly material midst.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Considering that there are more musi-
cians in Melbourne than for years past,
it’s rather surprising that the Borovansky
Australian Ballet, which has started an
extended season at the Comedy, didn’t
provide itself with that essential of ballet
an orchestra adequate for the music, in-
stead of two pianos. Apart from this
lack, the show is an extraordinarily good
one. Ballet is a language, and it’s no
doubt his mother tongue which Boro-
vansky has taught his company, mainly
young Australians. An occasional “din-
kum” may creep into their discourse, but
on the whole they have proved apt pupils.
One of the most admirable items is “Sea
Legend.” The local Esther Rofe arranged
the music, the scenery and costumes were
designed by A. McCulloch, veteran
George Upward set up the scenery and
Dorothy Stevenson wrote the ballet and
dances. It’s one of those abstract stories
of an earthbound man who takes a fancy
to a sea sprite, and the job of the corps
de ballet was to express the various moods
of the ocean. “Caprice,” a new ballet by
Borovansky to the music of Tschaikow-
sky, shows Miss Laurel Martyn to advan-
tage. She and Miss Stevenson are the
most accomplished dancers, though Mar-
tin Rubinstein is pretty nifty.
Sydney’s Gilsullivan addicts have been
so used to the Penzance pirates in rigouts
redolent of mothballs that they nearly
fell out of their seats when Bernard Man-
ning and his henchmen strode on to the
Royal boards a blaze of sartorial splen-
dor. The designing hand belonged to
contralto Evelyn Gardiner, who also im-
aginatively and tastefully re-dressed the
general’s charming daughters. Senior
daughter Mabel was played gracefully
by Elva Blair, lifting a nice soprano with
Max Oldaker’s clear tenor in the fine
duet with a hymnlike quality “Stay,
Frederic, Stay.” Ivan Menzies remains
the very pattern of a nimble-tongued
major-general, with Richard Watson
melodiously relating the sad trials of a
felon when not engaged in his employ-
ment. “Trial By Jury,” also completely
redressed, was a brightly-sung pipe-
opener, with Ruby Riddell and Herbert
Browne in the chief roles.
Sydney Minerva Theatre is running
Helen Jerome’s stage version of Charlotte
Bronte’s “Jane Eyre,” and running it well.
Costuming and stage-setting good ; Edwin
Styles relishing being Mr. Rochester;
Myra Morton’s Jane, overplayed at first,
developed skilfully later. This showman
enjoyed the thing, though some of the
dialogue got tangled in his eardrums with
the competitive efforts of an Ally at the
rear discussing matters that Charlotte
wotted not of.
Maorilander Roland Wakelin, who
shows a score of recent works at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, enlisted under the
banner of the French post-impressionist
movement at the outset of his career.
He has stuck to his methods and his prin-
ciples ; his sincerity commands respect,
and he has occasional striking successes
in expressing the universal by use of a
particular instance. “Harmony in
Brown,” in the present show, marks an
advance in portraiture. “Springwood
Landscape,” “Nocturne, Macquarie-
place,” “The Farm” and “Winter’s Day”
justify the Wakelin creed. “The Train,”
Turneresque in its romanticism, is worthy
to hang in any company.
“Cauboy”: Doha Ribusch, the Russian
producer who was with the Moscow Art
Theatre and is to produce Douglas
Stewart’s verse-drama “Ned Kelly” at
Melbourne Comedy, holds f the local
record, and probably a wider, for care
in rehearsals. He took 18 months to pre-
pare Chekhov’s “Cherry Orchard” for the
Comedy spotlight, and it was one of the
finest productions of a Chekhov play ever
seen in Melbourne. “Ned” is expected to
take the boards in July or August.
At the talkies;
“Hers to Hold” (Melb. Majestic) is the
film in which Deanna Durbin abandons her role
of detached maidenhood and enters the marriage
market. This great event almost split Holly-
wood from top to bottom, but in her more
allegedly grown-up role Miss Durbin is as like
the average screen heroine as one pea is like
another. She carries her beautiful singing
voice into a contest for the possession of
Joseph Gotten, a young man who is obsessed
with aviation and wants to fly in China,
whereas she wants him to settle down in the
suburbs. Mr. Gotten wins, or, rather, gains a
postponement. The thinnest of thin plots is
padded out by some amazing glimpses of an
American aeroplane mass-production factory
where Miss Durbin, her face carefully smudged
with oil but otherwise as beautiful as ever,
wields a patriotic but momentary spanner.
In “Tales of Manhattan” {Sydney Mayfair),
an “omnibus” film, compartmented so that a
player departs and does not return, the spirit
of O. Henry is strong. It is the-saga of a dress
suit, and the various comedies and tragedies
associated with it contain some very human
stories. Compounded by such writers as Ben
Hecht and Ferenc Molnar, it gives scope for
Charles Laughton, portraying a musical genius
whose dress tails and the audience’s sides split
almost simultaneously, his own new work that
he is conducting being saved from ruin by
the action of a famous conductor sitting in his
box taking his own coat off, an action followed
by all the audience. The whole thing is
admirably interpreted by a big cast of consis-
tently high standard.
Momus gets off the chain in “The Major and
the Minor” (Regent) when Ginger Rogers,
fired from her New York job, can get back
to her home town only by dressing up as a
12-year-old and going half-fare on the train.
The guards getting snoopy, Major Ray Milland,
U.S. Army, takes the “child” under his wing,
and the fun gets furious. Snappy stuff, the
blase Robert' Benchley abetting.
“China Girl” (Plaza) is a film alexandrine
that drags its slow length along to a comatose
conclusion. The Hollywood nabob who author-
ised it seems to have been fired with an ambi-
tion to give the world’s worst screen actress the
world’s worst talkie plot.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
ẁ
9
iiiiii
||
w
: I
ii
(
;*:§:
1
IP--
:| ■ •
iii
ill I?
il 11
#
1 * *
- i^r* 1
m
j
//
Youths' Navy Serge Suits. The coat
and trousers are all wool, fast dyed
Navy. Neatly tailored. Sizes 14 to 16.
Price 59/6
(30 Coupons)
College Grey Suits for Boys. Made
from all wool Worsteds, strongly
woven. The coat has three pockets
and is fully lined. The knickers have
one pocket, belt loops and strong lin-
ings. Sizes sto 13. Price 52/6
(19 Coupons)
mm.
n —i
\ t
Boys' and Youths' Natural Silk and
Wool Singlets. Half sleeves and
regulation round neck. Registered
"Jumbuk" Brand.
Sizes .. 22 24 26 28 32
Prices .. 5/9 6/- 6/3 6/6 7/-
(3 Coupons)
Size 34. Price, 7/6 (5 Coupons)
Boys' and Youths' Cotton Singlets in
the athletic style with no sleeves.
Sizes 20 to 32 34
Prices 1/11 2/9
Coupons ....... 3 5
ẃ
w
%
Boys' and Youths' Grey All
Wool Golf Hose with plain
turnover tops.
Sizes .. 2to 6 7 and 8
Prices .. 4/7 4/7
Coupons .. 2 4
Boys' College Grey and
Navy Serge Knickers. All
wool worsteds or fast dyed
Navy serges. One pocket,
belt loops and strong linings.
Sizes 4to 13. Price ~ 10/6
(7 Coupons)
Boys' Khaki Shorts, cut
military cadet style, with
double waist straps, deep
waistband and pleated front.
Sizes 24 in. to 32 in. waists.
Price 7/6
(4 Coupons)
Boys’ Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
'• "" ' ' MWUlWnyuiMl, M. ‘JM „
I- / ft -I / & „J| up nr li IF % : C > r\ *. '1
A |V
WM®. Yw^X-a
imsil
liiiiiiifi
w
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE DEATH OF BROWN'S COW
By HAROLD THIRKELL.
THE military Court of Inquiry inves-
tigating the death of Brown’s cow
delivered its findings:
l.The cow died of wounds in-
flicted by a hand-grenade,
2, The death occurred at approximately
1945 hours on Sept. 22, ’43.
3. On that date and at about that hour
troops of X Coy., Y Bn., returning from
the grenade range, passed the spot where
the death occurred.
4. Evidence did not show what person
or persons were responsible for the
death.
The Court recommended that, with-
out prejudice, the sum of 15 pounds be
paid in compensation to Mr. Brown from
the Unit Trust Funds of Y Bn.
In fact, the Court was reasonably sure,
but could not prove, that someone in X
Coy. killed the cow. Brown was a nark
and had been at loggerheads with the
troops ever since the establishment of
the camp.
BROWN, for that matter, was at
loggerheads with nearly everybody.
Both his tongue and his temper were
nasty.
His farm, on the outskirts of the town,
had been for years the scene of conflict
between himself and the boys of the
district. He denied them the right to
bathe and fish in his stretch of the river
(to which they felt themselves morally
entitled) and selfishly preferred to exter-
minate his own rabbits rather than pre-
serve them for young week-end sportsmen
with pea-rifles.
They retaliated by leaving gates open
so that his cows got into the lucerne and
burst, by heaving rocks among his lamb-
ing ewes, by lighting fires in the lanes
along his boundaries at widely-scattered
spots so that he brought himself to the
verge of apoplexy in his endeavors to
flap his extinguishing bag in several places
at once.
Jimmy Smith was the ringleader of
these forces of revenge—until the day
when Brown caught him in the act of
introducing Thompson’s scrub bull into
the stud Jersey paddock and lammed the
daylights out of him. Thereafter Jimmy
retired from active service and nursed
his spleen on vague but delightful dreams
of what he would some day do to Brown.
The paddock which the military camp
now occupied, a mile and a half out of
town, had long been the happy hunting-
ground of the town boys. It was crossed
by several creeks, splendid for rabbits,
and Jimmy knew every inch of it.
He saw no reason to desert it after the
military took over. On the contrary, its
fascinations increased, for, to one adept
at keeping under cover, it offered fine
opportunities for being a fifth-columnist
spying on the enemy. And one had
thrilling glimpses of the domestic life of
the army. One could also pick up all
manner dtf unconsidered trifles left lying
about by the careless soldiery. Jimmy
acquired, bit by bit, a passably com-
plete though dilapidated military outfit.
All such incentives became insignifi-
cant, however, when the authorities
established a salvage dump and incinera-
tor in the back area of the camp, in a
spot between two creeks which gave ex-
cellent cover for approach. Jimmy’s
expeditions now became a matter of
business, the business being bottles.
Bottles are saleable merchandise.
THE bottles from the messes and can-
teens of the camp were assembled at
the dump, which, for lack of materials,
was not fenced. Neither, thanks to a
shiftless camp commandant, was it
picketed at night or on Sundays.
Jimmy began by removing half a
dozen bottles stowed about his person,
then risked a sugarbag full. Authority
did not intervene. Jimmy took a partner,
owner of a billycart, and put his prices
to the local bottle-oh up a penny a
dozen.
Trade prospered for several weeks until
the lazy old salvage sergeant wangled his
discharge from the army and departed at
short notice. To bridge the gap until
the Salvage Service produced a replace-
ment, Sgt. Ericson of Y Bn, was detailed
for the job.
Sgt. Ericson was a counter. He
counted his bags of waste paper, his bis-
cuit tins, his bales of old clothing and
his tins of fat.
He counted his empty bottles and dis-
covered a sort of law of diminishing
returns. The more bottles he added to
the pile the less it contained.
Ericson decided that this law operated
at night, and set himself to watch. A
meeting with Jimmy inevitably followed.
Darkness and intimacy with the terrain
let Jimmy escape, but his offsider (aged
11) and the billycart fell into the hands
of the enemy. The offsider suffered
_ vprp shock to his tailniece and the
... . A f
vehicle was impressed for military ser-
. . , ,
In Jimmy the business instinct struggled
with a native caution for a couple of
weeks before he risked surveying the
dump again. It was still unpicketed but
encircled now by a savage barbed-wire
fence. Jimmy sneaked inquiringly round
the perimeter. At one corner, by good
luck quite close to the bottle heap, a
standing gum had been made to serve as
a corner-post. Because its girth at ground
level was lumpy and irregular the mill-
tary fencers had tied their bottom wire
at least 12 inches from the groun .
found the weak m the
defences To p ™ve ff he ’
pmched three bottles and retired.
TTxrx/TV’Q n.Yt mkfnrtnnp was nure
m i-nnrlp tbrpp nr four
ba l - bathed wire ind
“ ore uT , d, ’ pared wkh
the Mlycart dlys, there was the satisfac-
tion of having beaten the enemy’s
counter-measures His reduced toll on
the bottle heap had not attracted Eric-
son’s attention
y. t u~t the ser-
eeantShould stroll’ to the dump after
mess to recover a mislaid pipe, on a
Mabt that Jimmv had chosen for a raid,
This second meeting took place with
Jimmy under the barbed wire, half in,
half out. It ended, after half an hour of
Gestapo stuff, in his retirement, swearing,
limping and generally much the worse for
wear. From that date Jjnimy s spleen
towards Sgt. Ericson matched nicely ms
fscliuss towards Brown.
, . T *
afternoon
borrowed his s bicycle and
rode outlive miles to the 8^a de range
He spent a , sohtary but T nt TT
afternoon poking about the shelter pits,
s i as jfl ng sa ndbags with a piece of broken
glass and watching them deflate and sag,
survey ing the damage sustained by any
tree-trunks which had been under grenade
fire and collecting fragments of grenades
to add to a collection which alrea y
rivalled that of any other boy m the
town.
And then he found it—a grand, spank-
ing.ne w, unexploded grenade, lying like
a great; black bird’s egg among the long
grass .
jimmy shied back from it, sidled round
jj e was nervous and fascinated.
jj e found a long stick and poked it
gently> i nno cently regardless of the
futility of such a precaution if the thing
went off
The B renade rolled over and nothing
happened. After three pokes Jimmy con-
eluded that closer relations could safely
he established. He picked it up some-
what B'ngerly for examination.
Remembering the dissertations of a
military uncle, he located the safety pm.
Pull that out, said memory, and m five
seconds you were blown to smithereens.
Thrilling thought!
Jimmy experienced, but resisted, a
touch of that impulse to self-destruction
which assails some people looking oyer
an abyss from a great height. He
wrapped the grenade thoughtfully in his
handkerchief, stowed it in his pocket and
pedalled home.
That night he buried it in a tin behind
the woodshed.
It was hard to keep secret the posses-
sion of such illicit treasure, but fear of
loss was stronger than the natural urge
to tell. Jimmy satisfied himself with
mystic hints, “You dunno what I’ve got.”
These elicited a crop of varied guesses,
but when Jimmy obdurately refused to
tell the consensus of opinion was “You
ain’t got nothing.”
For the next week or two Jimmy was
uncompanionable. He preferred self-
cpmmunion to community mischief. He
eyed his sundry enemies in the town and
savored all the sweets of anticipation.
He blew up, in turn, always with the
most satisfactory accompaniment of
bloodshed and destruction, three school-
masters, the police force (individually and
collectively), Dago Pete (whom he
reckoned to have bilked him recently over
the change for sixpence), his father (after
a hiding) and, needless to add. Brown
and Ericson.
As so often, imagination outran per-
formance, and the local inhabitants re-
mained intact. Jimmy was finding out
what so many of his elders have dis-
covered, that it takes much more guts
to do things than to imagine them.
He was learning also the burden of
responsibility ; that grenade was a respon-
sibility.
Its secret possession was ceasing to be
thrilling and beginning to be a worry.
His splendid plans deteriorated by de-
grees until he came to a shameful deci-
sion—to take the grenade quietly and
gently out into the bush and lose it. That
hurdle taken, he was all impatience to
rid himself of this menace to his peace
of mind.
He recovered it from its hiding place
surreptitiously one fine evening when
Dad and Mum had gone to the pictures,
wrapped it again in his handkerchief and
thrust it in his pocket. Guiltily conscious
of the bulge to his pocket, he set off
down the road past Brown’s farm. There
was a creek along there. He would gently
place the grenade in a crevice of its
bank, push a little earth over and walk
away, a free boy.
AT this point the devil comes into the
story. Jimmy had passed Brown’s
homestead and was trailing along the
fence of the paddock where the stud
Jerseys grazed when troops marching to-
wards him upset his precarious equa-
nimity In his state of mind and with
that lethal object in his pocket he wanted
nothing less than to meet troops. He
clambered through the opposite fence
and went to cover in a clump of river-
gum saplings which had sprung up after
the flood of seven years before.
To his disgust the troops halted for
a spell on the road just before him. The
men scattered along the roadside, squat-
ting or lying down and easing themselves
of their packs. From their conversation,
which he could overhear, Jimmy learnt
that they were returning to camp after
a day at the grenade range. Sgt. Eric-
son was undoubtedly among them.
Jimmy both saw and heard him the
lousy big cow!
It is the subtlety of the idea which
suddenly came to him and the abrupt
reversal of his attitude to the grenade
which suggest that the devil Was in the
business. Fear ebbed out of him, and
his old spleen returned in full force;
here in juxtaposition were the two main
objects of his hatred, Sgt. Ericson and
Brown, personified for the moment in
the shape of a stud Jersey cow grazing
unperturbed just through the fence
opposite.
The troops fell in and resumed their
march into the dusk.
Trembling with a mixture of anger,
excitement and nervousness, Jimmy
slipped from his hiding-place to the fence,
fumbled the grenade from his pocket, in
one nervous action tugged out the safety
pin and threw with all his force in the
direction of the cow, then turned and
streaked away as fast as mingled fear
and exaltation could drive him.
Mug’s luck lobbed the bomb within
five yards of the cow. There was a
crash and flash which shattered the
night’s shadows. Brown’s cow slumped
forward and sideways, kicked spasmodi-
cally in the luscious grass and died.
And those are the facts which no Court
of Inquiry could have been expected to
unearth.
HOME, SWEET HOME
By LES ROBINSON.
NEVER have I dwelt or roamed in
a suburb that had so many
dwellings, mine included, freakish
in appearance as that in which I
now reside.
A cottage I used to pass every morn-
ing once on my way to work looked so
much like a Noah’s Ark, even to the
cylindrical, pointed, carefully clipped and
groomed cypresses grouped about it,
that wooden animals and effigies of Mr.
and Mrs. Noah (he at the bow and she
at the stern) would, as external' decora-
tions, have suited it better than anything
else.
A remarkable residence —I lived not
far from it once —-belonged, I believe, to
a prison official (retired). Built entirely
of concrete, it had barred windows, a
huge iron gate and was surrounded by a
high wall fringed with jagged fragments
of broken glass. They do say, though'
never having been inside I am unable to
verify it, that the interior was white-
washed, the floors of cement and that the
bedrooms all resembled cells.
Often when passing that singular- and
sinister-looking abode I half expected to
see its occupant, heavily shod so that his
feet wouldn’t be cut by the jagged frag-
ments of glass, and with a rifle over his
shoulder, ceaselessly pacing round and
round the wall.
Then there was that unusual, in fact
bizarre-looking, house built in the dim
long ago by a farrier. It, too, was a
district landmark until demolished to
make way for a block of flats. The
largest of its windows facing the street
was shaped like a horseshoe, and dozens
of horseshoes were embedded in the
stucco of the exterior walls. Its side
windows were of cartwheel design. The
front door had a stirrup-iron for a
knocker, and the ventilator over it was
half a cartwheel with colored glass be-
tween the spokes. A horse’s skull above
a side door, and other equine skulls, those
also of cows or oxen, dangling from pro-
jections here and there, gave to the edifice
a more extraordinary appearance still.
AMONG queer habitations that have
aroused my curiosity was a half
weatherboard cottage I came across in the
country while slowly and gently expend-
ing there several weeks of annual leave.
It was not an unfinished but a bisected
though once whole abode. Two cranky
old bachelor-brothers, I was informed,
built, owned and, for a good while, lived
in it together.
Bad feeling between them, though what
about even the oldest inhabitant, so many
years had elapsed since then, was unable
to remember, culminated in a quarrel
most grievous and violent. The more can-
tankerous and cranky of the two sawed
the place down the middle and took his
half away with him.
Nor, in another suburb, shall I easily
forget an ornate and glittering abode, the
only one of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere, residents said, built entirely
of bottles by a retired .professional col-
lector.
The assortment used in its construc-
tion was of every conceivable size, shape
and hue. The owner had set aside, evi-
dently, all the freakish, quaint or uncom-
mon-looking bottles he had acquired
during his lifetime. Among them,
cemented together row upon row, some
vertical and others horizontal, in that
scintillant and astounding edifice, were
several of the largest I have ever seen.
Does a deep-sea diver, I often wonder,
live in that villa encrusted like the en-
trance to some aquarium with sea-
shells and ornamented with lumps of
oyster-covered rock, whales’ vertebrae
and pieces of coral?
In the branches of a Moreton Bay fig-
tree —one of the oldest in the district —
a citizen who was agile, presumably,
built himself a hut. Perhaps he was in-
terested in birds, or he may just merely
have liked being up in the air.
Proceeding further westward still I
come at last to my abode, which looks
like the upper or residential part of a
houseboat that has been wrenched from
its pontoon and deposited inland by a
tidal wave.
Whoever built it was probably a mem-
ber of the Fresh Air League and a
nature-lover as well,' for he left plenty
of apertures, and old age has added a
whole lot more, through which breezes
whiz or amble and birds, animals, rep-
tiles and insects, living in the dense
thickets of ti-tree and lantana all round,
wander in and out as often as they
please. A possum pays me a visit
sometimes. He has a face like that of a
schoolmaster who tried hard, but in vain,
I fear, to instil a little learning into me
when I was a boy.
He peers down in wonderment at me
from the rafters, as, in the depth of
winter, well he may.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3328.
Wednesday, November 24, 1943.
THE ROAD TO ROME.
“Gel a move on, lads—we musn’t disappoint the Fireside Fusiliers.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
IN SYDNEY—NOW.
In the fifty-first month of the war with
Germany and the twenty-fourth month
of the war with Japan Sydney presents
a picture which puzzles peripatetic philo-
sophers and the like. Were it not for the
reports in the papers and for the service
men in the streets and on the wharves
(this as a bracing change from New
Guinea, improved by opportunities of
studying the union lumper, who makes
more in a few hours than they do in a
week) and the black markets and the
picture-show, lottery and other queues
(extended to bakers’ shops when the union
goes on strike) the observant stranger
would scarcely know there was a war on.
In the shouted conversations heard in
crowded bars, trams, trains and ferry-
boats, the war is rarely discussed. While
the flower of the nation is fighting the
Jap and disease in tropical slime, Sydney
streets abound with sturdy fellows in
mufti, who may*possibly be in some of
the reserved callings, the number of
which is amazing ; and almost everybody
except maimed and fever-wracked or
bomb-happy lads discharged from the
fighting forces seems to be having a cork-
ing time. It is a case of “Let us eat,
drink and be merry, for tomorrow will
usher in the New Order.”
It has been a banner year for profes-
sional footballers and pugilists, for Dash-
ing Bookmakers and Big Punters (fre-
quently so described in sporting
columns), and for Bung and the
sly-grogger (sometimes indistinguish-
able) who, if you are a “good
mark,” will sell you a bottle of Austra-
lian whisky for £4 10s. As in the last
war, it was “business as usual” for the
Rugby League, and “gates” were so tre-
mendpus that one club paid its cham-
pions £2OO a man and another nearly as
much. This ardent pursuit of leather
and lucre was not unduly interrupted by
service requirements, and neither were
the activities of established bruisers, all
of whom, with one temporary exception
(he had an annoying dispute with the
army), being available for engagements
on the home front. So were all the
noted jockeys, military exertions notwith-
standing, nor did war work or what
passes for such in concerns like Civil
Construction Corps prevent any Dash-
ing Bookmaker from fielding in his ac-
customed place and taking his share of
the juiciest harvest of easy money ever
stripped from milling crowds of mugs.
In one afternoon £155,000 was raked in
by the tote staff at Randwick, and in
cash and booked wagers the Ring must
have handled five or six times as much.
For reasons which will not bear exami-
nation, pre-race-day betting has been
added to the litter of black markets and
a Sunday paper publishes the black-
market odds.
The transactions of Big Punters, particu-
lary those who bet in banknotes of large
denominations, are a favorite theme for
Sunday-paper rhapsodies, very flattering
to their self-esteem but apt to be embarr
rassing in other ways. Reading that one
of them had put £5OO on a horse, the
Prime Minister, who was trying to work
up interest in a lagging war loan, objected
in such wounding terms that, contrary to
the practice of the tribe, the Big Punter
disclosed his identity. He was a Sydney
publican, he said ; the horse won, and,
out of the money he collected he invested
£2OOO in the war loan. Whether the war
loan would have got anything from the
gentleman if the horse had lost was not
made clear. Presently the animal won
again, and then one of the papers an-
nounced in an excess of enthusiasm that
“Tahmoor” (the name of the fiddle-faced
brute) had been “racing for Australia.”
The thousands of smaller punters who
filled the bookmakers’ bags at the spring
meetings did no “racing for Australia,”
nor did the hundreds of thousands who,
while the war loan was on the market,
lost to lottery concerns —the one launched
by Mr. Lang as a depression measure
(this month it has run seven in 16 days,
Sundays included, gathering in £183,750)
and the others in Queensland, Tasmania
and Westralia.
Handicapped by this competition and
helped little by the daily outbreak of
songs, music-hall turns and girl parades
which, for some unfathomable reason,
are regularly expected to send war-loan
subscriptions soaring, the war loan
struggled on to an unsatisfactory finish.
In Canada (population, 11,500,000),
where a Victory Loan was floated con-
temporaneously with the Fourth Liberty
Loan, the equivalent of £342,000,000 was
subscribed by 2,790,000 persons. In Aus-
tralia (population, 7,200,000) “about”
560,000 persons invested “more than”
£126,000,000, Over Sydney’s contribu-
tion to the total a thick veil of silence
has been drawn since it was re-
vealed on the closing day that “a
third metropolitan municipality, Liver-
pool,” had reached its quota. If
Liverpool is a metropolitan municipality
(it is “country” in the N.S.W. Statistical
Register), then so are Cabramatta, Cam-
den, Campbelltown, Fairfield, Ingleburn
and St. Mary’s (also listed as “country”)
and with the City of Sydney there are 56
metropolitan municipalities.
At the general election 2,165,747 Labor
voters elected 49 of the 74 Ms.H.R. and
all the Senators, 12 Ms.H.R. and three
Senators being Sydney men. On this
fact high hopes were based, but though
in the jargon of Sydney newspapers in-
dulgence in the current forms of gamb-
ling, horse, dog and lottery, is “invest-
ing” it is painfully evident that the new
rich are not an investing class in the real
sense of the word.
For years a happy hunting ground for
trouble-making immigrants, English,
Scotch, Welsh and Irish, for whom British
trade-unionism had no particular use,
Sydney has become a union town, like
Broken Hill, though with a record of
war strikes, absenteeism and go-slow
which is immeasurably worse. In a melan-
choly moment Mr. Curtin attributed 90
per cent, of the war strikes to N. S.
Wales, which means that at least 87 per
cent, of them have originated in Sydney
and in the neighboring industrial places
and coalmining districts, which are vir-
tually outer suburbs. This is not merely
an effect of Labor being in office at Syd-
ney and Canberra and wholly subservient
to the new larrikinism as practised by
union bosses and mobs. Much of the
guilt must be assigned to the U.A.P.,
which, predominant in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, for seven years and part of the
Administration at Canberra for a still
longer period, neglected all its oppor-
tunities of placing union bosses and mobs
under the restraints of law, with strict
enforcement, in particular by compelling
union bosses to publish precise and de-
tailed balance-sheets. This party has
closed its career of pusillanimity with
a total and ignominious surrender to two
small groups of recent creation, one of
which has not even contested an elec-
tion ; the other’s one venture in the field
resulted in all its candidates being de-
feated and some losing their deposits.
Being thus without the checks imposed
in every other country which values its
institutions and individual freedom, and
being all exempted from military service,
union bosses and mobs have proceeded
from outrage to outrage. Not only have
strikes, absenteeism and go-slow been
rampant, with evil results to the war effort
(the most recent and most wicked example
came-to light when Mr. James, M.H.R.,
confessed that a Ninth Division attack had
had to be delayed and soldiers with two
years’ New Guinea service refused leave
because ships could not run for lack of
the coal which miners, in contempt of
several issues of National Security Regu-
lations refuse to hew), but union bosses
have set up as lawmakers. Union mem-
bers have been savagely fined for all
manner of alleged offences against the
power and glory of “the executive,”' such
as working on Good Friday in obedience
to the Prime Minister’s request and writ-
ing a letter to a paper in criticism of a
union boss’s ideas of land production.
Nor is this detestable spirit confined to
controllers of manual-worker unions.
Representatives of the Teachers’ Federa-
tion joined in a Labor Council effort to
boycott the Workers’ Educational Asso-
ciation because a W.E.A. lecturer re-
viewed the Russian revolution without
doing the required crawl. Representatives
of the newspapermen’s union, delegates
to the same Labor Council, voted for a
united front with the Communists. And,
with obvious exultation, Mr, Maxie
Falstein asked in the House on October
13:
Whether the editor of the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” was recently fined £2O by the
Australian Journalists’ Association for
having deliberately falsified a typewritten
statement handed to a representative of that
newspaper by the Minister for Transport,
Mr. Ward.
And Mr. Calwell, the Minister for Infor-
mation, replied;
I am only vaguely acquainted with the
circumstances mentioned, and am not
acquainted with the law on the subject. If,
under the law, I can compel this person to
make amends to a very distinguished mem-
ber of this House in the person of the
Minister for Transport, I shall do so.
Thus, encouraged, union bosses now talk
menacingly of extending arbitrary legis-
lation and law-enforcement, each clique
in its particular domain of despotism.
The bosses of the Waterside Workers’
Federation have claimed the “right” to
deal with the plague of pilfering them-
selves, the Government being bidden to
stand aside and let its laws against this
form of crime against property, of which
there have been many foul examples dur-
ing the war, become a dead letter. These
dangerous pretensions will assuredly in-
crease unless they are scotched.
Many unions with Sydney headquarters
are controlled by Communists and
“fellow-travellers.” Mr. Lang, who
should know Communists if any man
does, estimates the “potential strength of
the Commos in N.S.W. unions at 171,000
and the strength of the anti-Com. unions at
125,000,” and states undeniably that the
Communists are “busy white-anting the
Labor* machine, Federal and State, in-
dustrially and politically.” The vogue of
the Communists has been assisted by the
alleged books of that vain and foolish old
man the Dean of Canterbury, with their
presentation of the Russians as super-
men, transformed into such by the
magic of the Communist system, and
their fustian about “the tottering capi-
talist world.” It is assisted even more
by the sort of reporting, with romantic
headlines such as “A Million Germans
Trapped in the Dnieper Bend,” which
represents the Russians as winning every
fight and beating the Germans single-
handed, while feeding anti-British feeling
by squealing when a Dodecanese islet is
lost or when the Eighth .Army fails to
wade from Foggia to Rome, through
snow and slush and over precipitous
mountains where every crag and cranny
are defended by a numerous and deter-
mined enemy, in 48 hours or so.
The Communist party, like the Com-
munist-controlled unions, has been per-
mitted to become a law to itself. Witness
“S, M. Herald's’* account of what hap-
pened “at a Communist rally in the Town
Hall when Mr. Wentworth tried to move
an amendment to a resolution demanding
a second front in Europe: he was pre-
vented from speaking and was man-
handled by the crowd.” Witness also the
same paper’s report of a subsequent meet-
ing, the outcome of a hypocritical Com-
munist challenge: at this there was “loud
hooting for Mr. Wentworth,” but “when
Mr. Sharkey got up most of the crowd
rose to its feet, cheered and gave the
clenched-fist salute.” And “for some
time after the debate, Mr. Wentworth re-
mained in the hall talking to his parents
and friends, police waiting while he left
through a side door.” All this in the cen-
tral meeting.place of the city from which
Mr. Wentworth’s great-grandfather set
out on the journey which resulted in the
first crossing of the Blue Mountains, and
in which he drafted the N.S.W. Con-
stitution !
From Sydney magnificent men have
gone into the fighting forces, as the
records of all the services attest. And,
especially among people who never get
their names in the papers, there are in
Sydney sterling examples of patriotism
and dignified acceptance of the irrepar-
able losses that war inflicts, and shining
examples of courtesy and hospitality to
the stranger. But no man who loves
Sydney and remembers it when it was as
free, friendly and delightful a place as the
world could boast can fail to be con-
scious of ugly developments and evil
trends. Too much boozing, too much
gambling, too much glorification of book-
makers and other drones; too many
alien doctrines, practices and agents who
invoke and exploit the old push-larrikin
spirit; too little real education of the
hordes of youngsters who pour out
of the schools, their heads stuffed with
examination subjects—they are denied
opportunities of improving their minds
by reading because the Government
while setting up a Control Board for
“that good and useful sport dog-racing”
and willing to finance another racecourse,
“the finest in the world,” will not spend
a pound on lending-libraries— too great
a decline in manners, to which the harm-
less, necessary tram and bus conductor
can bear indignant witness; too little
respect for law and too much leniency on
benches as well as in Cabinets, and too
selfish and parochial a conception of
what Australia means—to many Sydney
people and politicians it is merely a geo-
graphical expression—and what the war
means.
Because Sydney politics. Communism
and union larrikinism are hated and
feared in other places, Sydney has
become a serious obstacle to closer
Australian union, as the Government
will find out if it puts Constitutional
reform to the vote. People in other
States, however well disposed to national
control of all national matters, will
not take the risk of placing their
destinies in the hands of Wards and
Thorntons. It should be an advantage
to a man with the highest ambitions to
represent a Sydney electorate, but it has
become a handicap. Over 26 years have
elapsed since a Sydney man became
Prime Minister —that was only 16 years
after the first Commonwealth election —
and in 18 months he had to bolt to a
Victorian division. Five years later, when
he courted another Sydney constituency,
the electors stamped his Government flat,
and there has not since been a Sydney
member with a ghost of a chance of
forming a Commonwealth Ministry.
War Climax Ahead.
“We will tear your African empire
to tatters,” said Mr. Churchill to the
Italians ; and his words came true. Most
of his subsequent war pronouncements
have been sound, and his recent prophecy,
based on the assumption of no grave
Allied mistakes in strategy —one of his
sharp digs at the “Second-Front” frater-
nity—that next year “will see the climax
of the war in Europe” will probably not
be an exception.
The careful “climax” could be a
Churchillian safety device, capable of
being stretched to mean almost anything.
In any case, Mr. Churchill qualified the
prophecy with a sobering vision of hard
fighting and heavy casualties. The fight-
ing strength of the German Army he
put at 400 divisions —a remarkable
mounting increase, made possible, as a
U.S. Army Intelligence report has
stressed, by the employment of millions
of other nationals, inside and outside Ger-
many, for production work on a slave
basis.
U.S. Army Intelligence pronounces the
Luftwaffe, as well as the army, actually
larger now than it was in 1939, despite
the heavy losses of both. Doubts have
been cast on some of the claims on these
losses, but there is no doubt the Luft-
waffe has taken a severe pasting, both
from R.A.F. and American forces. The
estimate that it is stronger now than in
1939 probably means that it is stronger
defensively in consequence of the
changeover from bomber to fighter con-
struction —itself an admission that the
war as originally envisaged by Hitler and
gang has gone to pot. Still, the Luft-
waffe’s defensive strength is what will
count in the fighting between this and
peace, and that strength is estimated by
the best possible authorities to be for-
midable.
The same authoritative source puts the
number of workers employed in war in-
dustries in Nazi-dominated territories at
a present massive total of 35,000,000, rep-
resenting an output all the more weighty
in the balance through its being already
concentrated there in the German “fort-
ress” area, and not having to be. trans-
ported great distances over sea.
The weapons being produced by this
vast army of workers, U.S. Intelligence
has found, “are in some cases better than
any which the United Nations have.” One
such weapon listed as an example is a
rocket gun weighing less than 18001 b.
but having a fire power equal to six heavy
field howitzers weighing nine tons apiece.
The German 60-ton “Tiger” tanks, which
figured in the North African fighting and
at Salerno, “are now appearing in in-
creasing numbers.” Also the new
weapons on which Hitler counts to make
victory for the Allied Nations as terribly
costly as possible include the heavy self-
propelled guns which have become an
increasingly striking feature of Hitler’s
“fortress” defences.
Other significant findings by U.S. In-
telligence are that the German food ration
is actually now higher in calory content
than at the outbreak of the war; that
there is nothing in the German economic
picture to justify confidence in the imme-
diate downfall of the Nazi structure;
and that no serious break in German
morale is evident as a result of the bomb-
ing from the air.
Turning to the war in the Pacific, which
Mr. Churchill seems confident will be
comparatively easy after Hitler is beaten,
U.S. Intelligence reports that Japanese
man-power resources in and out of Japan
proper are “very great” ; that the morale
of both the Jap armed forces and civilian
population “is excellent” ; and that geo-
graphic factors give the Jap defensive
position “tremendous added strength.”
Contrasting most extraordinarily with
some “information” about the advanced
age of some Japs met in New Guinea —
“information” that Mr. Forde in his eager
way hastily swallowed—the U.S. Intelli-
gence report makes this arresting sum-
mary :
The Japanese still have some 2,000,000
men of military age who have not yet been
called to the colors because they have not
been needed, and they have nearly as many
more in the 17-20 age group who are not
now subject to the draft.
To this astonishing pronouncement
U.S. Intelligence adds that in the air Jap
strength is also “on the upgrade.” The
Japs “have not only replaced the ’planes
lost in combat, but both numerically and
in quality of ’planes the Jap Air Force
is improving.” The Japs, this report
adds, “are in a strong position today, and
their power in many respects is steadily
increasing. The longer we leave them in
virtual control of East Asia, the more
difficult the eventual struggle will be.”
Such a report, which could hardly be
more authoritative, strikes sharply at all


rosy findings of the nature of that
credited to Canadian Prime Minister
Mackenzie King (if the cable boys heard
him right) that “the war is likely to end
next spring and might even finish any
day now.” On the side of such prophets
is the fact that morale on the Allied side
is today higher than ever before, and
mounting. The same is true of Allied
war production, against the overwhelm-
ing increase in which all the Axis in-
creases need to be measured to get a
proper balance.
But these things, though most impor-
tant in themselves and certain signposts
to ultimate victory, are by no means cer-
tain signposts to quick or easy victory.
On the contrary, they themselves would
seem to indicate a massive struggle still
ahead, though this could be changed by
factors that cannot be taken into account
in realistic appraisals of present actuali-
ties —such factors as great fighting vic-
tories and the influence of these on all
the people now shackled in the yoke.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Agin It!
Mention of the Duke of Gloucester as
likely to succeed the admirable Lord
Gowrie, now almost one of ourselves, had
an extraordinary effect on Mr, L T. Lang.
It did what the writing of Why I Fight
had failed to do —made Mr. Lang
reminiscent (with portraits) though not
in the prattling Lord Castlerosse vein, Mr.
Lang being always stern and unbending.
Out came the “Century” with the reve-
lation that “in 1920, as Treasurer in the
Storey Government, I went with the then
Prince of Wales, later King Edward
VIII, on a trip down the Hawkesbury
River,” and with a picture of the prin-
cipals to prove it. Each is looking in-
tently at the other; the Prince capped,
and with a pipd in his left hand; the
Treasurer in the quaint hard-hitter of the
period, and with pipe in mouth. “Lord
Louis Mountbatten,” it is explained, “is
op Mr. Lang’s left,” but the Mount-
batten features, though turned towards
Edward and John Thomas, are indistin-
guishable, a hand being spread over most of
them as if the spectacle were overpowering.
The chapter of revelations proceeds;
During the trip the Prince told me ffiat
he had an important matter he wanted to
discuss with me. Sir Ronald Munro Fer-
guson’s term as Governor-General was
about to expire. He said that his father,
King George V, had asked him to inquire
into the position. He then asked me how
I and the Labor party [charming order of
precedence] felt towards a member of the
Royal Family being appointed Governor-
General of Australia. I told him that
the moment the Crown came into conflict
with politics I believed that would be bad for
the Crown and adverse to our British ideals.
I told him that the politics I had the
honor to serve, the politics of the Labor
party, were opposed to the granting of
titles, were opposed to any control from
outside Australia over our Australian poli-
tics and were in favor of the appointment
of Australians, to the highest positions in
the country, including the position of Gov-
femor-General. I did not think, I added,
that the Australian people would be favor-
ably disposed to the extension of the
monarchy to Australia. The monarchy would
find itself involved in our political struggles.
That would be bad for the monarchy.
At this the Prince must have beet,
startled, but “he listened most attentively
to my views and then said”:
Oh, Mr. Lang, I don’t think there is any
intention on the part of the Governmental
administration in England to force such
control as you suggest. I was only wanting
to know, in quite a friendly way, what
your views were on the subject. I will
convey them to my father, the King.
“The trip” over, the two interesting
characters parted, ope apparently with
the conviction that he had struck a vic-
torious blow for something or other.
The result was that a member of the
Royal Family was not appointed Governor-
General. Instead, a few years later the
then Duke of York, now King George VI,
visited Australia and opened the new Par-
liament House at Canberra.
Possibly he would have come then or
earlier as Governor-General if Mr. Lang
had not been so free with his “views.”
H.R.H. Prince Arthur of Connaught
went to Capetown, and was succeeded
there by the Earl of Athlone, son of the
Duke of Teck and the Princess Mary
Adelaide, who has since been Governor-
General at Ottawa. There is no evidence
that in either case the Crown has “come
into conflict with politics” or that either
appointment has been “bad for the
monarchy.”
Now the Duke of Gloucester is to
come to Australia as representative of his
brother the King—King of Australia as
well as of the United Kingdom. Antici-
pating the inevitable, Mr. Lang stigma-
tised the appointment as “a direct chal-
lenge both to Caucus and the Labor
movement,” and he quoted a resolution
of a Federal A.L.P. conference to
which Mr. Curtin was a party: “That
the precedent established of appointing
an Australian citizen to the position of
Governor-General be followed should
Labor be in power when the position
falls vacant.” So bang goes another Labor
precedent! The people are not a bit
Except to Mr. Lang and to his
Communist enemies and his friend Mr.
Ward, who was cradled in the “App’int
Maloney” tradition and in any case
“wasn’t consulted,” the appointment is
very welcome, and if, as has been whis-
pered in Canberra lobbies, fears have
been expressed in high British quarters as
to certain features of Labor policy it is
calculated to remove them.
Food ~C ontrof., ,
This country has enough food-control
authorities to populate a fair-sized city.
Starting from the Commonwealth Min-
ister of Commerce and Agriculture (Mr.
Scully), the Commonwealth Director of
Agriculture (Mr. Bulcock) and the Com-
monwealth Food Controller (Mr.
Murphy) and their staffs, there are bat-
talions and divisions made up of State
Agricultural Departments (each with a
Minister) and Marketing Boards, wheat,
meat, egg, potato, milk, bacon, citrus,
apple and pear, fish and heaven knows
how many other boards, all with staffs
and offices and branches all over the
place and all having a finger in the pie,
right down to the district war agricul-
tural committees in the backblocks. In
addition herds of inspectors prowl the
continent, seeing that the multitude of
food rules and regulations are obeyed
and trying hopelessly to run the black
marketer to earth.
Yet the average housewife, setting out
to buy the family tucker, is faced with
a wearying Odyssey from shop to shop.
She never knows from day to day what
next essential food will be unobtainable
or what new shocking report she will
read of vegetables being dumped, milk
being poured away or fruit allowed to
rot. Even in rabbit-infested Australia a
bunny costs Is. Bd., and in wheat-infested
N.S.W. the local “heads” are predicting
a shortage of wheat.
These “heads,” by the way, seem to
spend their time explaining to the press
why such things should be, and their ex-
planations range from the sublime to the
gorblimey. That can only be expected
when the “head” of food “heads,” Mr.
Scully, gallivants from one place to an-
other throwing off promises of more
meat, more veges, more everything and
wildly threatening to have someone
“automatically placed outside the move-
ment” or something because it didn’t
rain on Cambewarra or because cut-
worms ate a plot of Werribee .cabbages.
Plainly, the food situation is mainly
caused by the plethora of controls, and
so long as Mr. Curtin’s Government tries
to cure it by more controls, so long will
it go from worse to blanky awful. Prop-
erly organised, there are enough land,
water, men and will in the country to
supply Australia’s Allies in the South
Pacific and the United Kingdom with
monumental amounts of food. But it
cannot be done under the existing sys-
tem ; indeed it is doubtful if it can be
done by Government control at all. Every
food controller from Mr. Scully down
to the manager of the Catgut Creek egg
floor will regard it as heresy, but it looks
as if only private enterprise and the co-
operative organisations can sort out the
mess, and they ought to be given a chance
to do so before calamity arrives.
The Way It Works.
A note from North Queensland:
A person needs an acute sense of humor to
sustain himself these days. I suppose you have
meat rationing down your way—Heaven save
us! We have the best fattening land on the
Lord’s beautiful earth all round us—droughts
unknown. Guinea and panicum grass over your
head. Between May and October our labor cufs
140,000 tons of cane and crushes it. Our
normal meat supply before the war was 100
carcasses, average 6501 b. per month, during har-
vesting and 40 during the slack season. We
were rationed 15 p.c. on carcasses based on
March —out of season—supply.
Next, city butchers arrived and paid top
prices for large bullocks, and our local monopo-
lists bought the steers. Thus, in August, we
had 33 carcasses, average 4001 b., to feed a
hard-working population which in 1938 ate 102
carcasses, average 6501 b are figures pre-
pared by the Mossman (Q.) Chamber of Com-
merce when protesting.
We are 240 air miles from the nearest sheep
and 420 by rail and motor; so we never see
mutton. But we grow pigs in our Daintree
dairying area which boasts the butter factory
which, in the whole world, is nearest the
Equator. We pay a bonus of 10s. a scalp for
wild pigs in the cane. Nearly every kid on every
farm has a pet “wild” pig. Ye* no person can
kill a pig for home consumption. Every pig
eaten here must be transported 73 miles by
highway, then trained for 46 miles, then sent
to its final destination. The net return to
the dairy-farmer is nil, so he just' turns his pigs
into the bush.
We wouldn’t mind if it was assisting our boys
at the front, or killing Japs. But while this is
going on the C.C.C. in Cairns, 58 miles from
here, went on strike because of the monotony
of the food —“bacon and eggs for breakfast
every day for three weeks without a change,”
a horrible state of affairs vouched for by the
A.W.U. organiser. The mere resident last saw
bacon on his table in February.
In a Rosy Glow.
The year’s most fatuous advertisement, as
it appeared in Sydney, 18/11/ ’43;
Ministry of Post-war Reconstruction.
Commonwealth Housing Commission.
The Commonwealth Housing Commission
regrets that it is obliged to abandon its
plans for taking further public evidence in
Sydney in the early part of next year.
The improved war situation necessitates
immediate detailed work on post-war hous-
ing plans.
It then invited anybody who might have
anything to say about housing to send
eight (8) copies of the evidence to the
Commission.
The stuff was published in the same
papers which carried accounts of - the
capture of Leros, with the Anglo-Italian
garrison, and also the warning of Major-
General R. H. Dewing, British Army
liaison officer in Australia, pronounced
in Melbourne;
It is foolish to believe that Russia will
overrun Germany in the next few months.
There are no reports of wholesale Ger-
man surrenders The number of German
prisoners captured does not indicate any
disintegration of the German armies....
Comparatively few people believe that Ger-
many will surrender unconditionally under
pressure of air attack alone... .Unbalanced
optimism can be as dangerous as pessimism
or defeatism.
People are never willing to accept grave
statements if they can get happy ones.
Almost everybody who read that adver-
tisement will conclude that it sprang from
inside information. It is the silliest ema-
nation that a Government department
could be guilty of at this time.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
“The motion is that the appointment of the Duke as G.-G. be cancelled. All those in favor say Aye.”


'THAT'
The
Uninterrupted Service...
constant, competent and
conscientious
When you entrust the direction of your financial affairs, or the administration
of an estate, to Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, you can depend upon the
most efficient service, the most competent direction, the most trustworthy
advice in all matters relating to the wise control of financial affairs. The
service of this Company is continuous. It is a permanent institution com-
manding the cumulative knowledge of directors and executives of wide
financial experience.
In your own interests, and the Interests of your dependents and beneficiaries,
you should investigate the service this Company offers.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901, Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney,
BP 52-43.
A COLLECTION OF OVER 100
*3 ▼
DRAWINGS
BY
TED SCORFIELD
Fresh supplies of this 68-page
book are now available. It s
the best thing of its kind ever
published in Australia. Price
2/6 plus 2Jd. for postage.
(Id. postage to the forces.)
Ideal for inclusion in the Christmas parcel to your soldier.
Address orders to:
“Mixed Grill,” Bulletin Office,
Box 282188, G.P.0., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
While the U.A.P. crowd in Sydney was
completing its craven surrender to the
Liberal Democratic group and another,
the Opposition parties in Westralia were
polling excellently at the State election.
With anything like a decent distribution
of seats they might have won outright.
In Nedlands, a safe Nat. division, the
aged Keenan’s total on Monday morning
was 7450, with service votes to come in
all 38 contested electorates. In Hannans,
Kimberley (represented by Minister
Coverley), Magnet, Pilbara and Roeburne
a mere 2155 votes sufficed to re-elect all
five Labor members. In Canning (13,151
electors), three opponents of Cross, the
Labor member, scored 5232 among them,
Cross’s total being 5007. The Govern-
ment will be relieved if it goes back with
the 27 seats it had in the last Assembly,
and this is likely, though not certain.
One of the biggest majorities in West-
ralia will be set to the credit of Watts,
the C.P. leader, in Katanning. Going to
the Constitutional Conference at Can-
berra a stranger to most of those present,
Watts impressed all as a coming man,
and his policy speech was an able sur-
vey of the condition of Westralia after
many years of stodgy Labor Government
—this without railing, and with construc-
tive chapters. Another capital majority
was that of Mrs. Cardell-Oliver (Nat.) in
Subiaco, which has been Labor as often
as not—it used to return Daglish, the
first Labor Premier. The lady has now
been elected thrice.
Horror and indignation coursed
through the hulking frames of Red trade-
union bosses, big and little, when the fell
news came from the U.S.A. that “Second-
Front” Joe Curran’s “draft deferment”
had been withdrawn. This means that,
instead of shaking his fist at Hitler from
the other side of the Atlantic, “Second-
Front” Joe may find himself in holts
with some Nazi on a Channel beach.
And yet he is boss of the National Mari-
time Union, counterpart of and no older
than Comrade Elliott, whose latest im-
pertinence was to cheek the P.M. when
that gentleman plaintively protested
against a holdup of “one of the biggest
ships on the coast.” Calm returned to
the Reds with the reflection that the good
kind Labor Government had marked
their occupation “reserved.”
Our American friends must marvel at
the Government of “a still-endangered
country with only seven million
people exempting the army of trade-
union officials from all forms of
service. Their own country, which
is not in danger and has 132 mil-
lion people, has rejected the “principle”
of exempting trade-union bosses. They
are too polite to make comparisons—at
least for publication—but they must
think volumes.
There never was.a greater muddle in
Australia than this food muddle, nor has
any other muddle lasted so long and so
steadily become worse. Shortages and
gluts (but mostly shortages) are inex-
tricably mixed up with black marketing,
over-control, interference, man-power,
Federal and State politics, demands, accu-
sations, promises, excuses, threats, until
the citizen —or rather his wife —doesn’t
know who is which, or why. The only
thing the housewife does know is that
keeping a family fed and clothed is an
increasing nightmare, haunted always by
the fear that some new commodity will
be brought under control or have its
price fixed and promptly become hard to
buy or disappear entirely,
Taxgatherers, a brooding race, are no
doubt feeling that Nemesis lies in wait
for people who fly to seagirt places
where income tax is not expecting to
avoid the wrath that pursues them in
their own countries. A few Australians
were among the victims when the Nazis
swooped down on the Channel Islands,
and Sir Harry Oakes’s flight to the
Bahamas ended in domestic discord and
stark tragedy. His Australian-bom
widow must be about the unhappiest
woman on earth. And few more
poisonous specimens tread it than the
unspeakable Marigny. Bogus count, in-
grate, sponger on women, lecherous as
MUSICAL CHAIRS AT THE LEBANON (BEG PARDON, LIBERAL )
DEMOCRATIC H.Q.
Tune: “Everybody’s Doing It Now.”
a monkey, the ruffian was served with a
deportation order as soon as his acquittal
on the murder charge made it possible,
and then it came out that he was not
a Frenchman, as claimed, but a Mauri-
tian. That means no doubt that there is a
huge dash of tar in his composition.
A Sydney “D.T.’s” Canberra corres-
pondent learns from a lady who runs a
riding school that “the Canberra Hunt
Club” is to be “reorganised” so that the
Duke of Gloucester may go through the
motions of pursuing foxes.
We used to send out imaginary foxes—•
three people who acted as foxes. One was
a resident, the other two visitors, but it
wasn’t much good.
Perhaps “we” chose the wrong imaginary
foxes. How about trying a few politi-
cians?
Thornton, the Communist boss of the
Federated Ironworkers’ Association or
Red racket, suffered a check when the
Full Bench of the Arbitration Court de-
cided that the union rules drawn up by
Thornton and his gang were irregular to
the extent that there was no adequate
provision for absent voting in the election
of branch officers. The Court added
that, if necessary, it would give “further
time to consideration of the question
whether the union rules are contrary to
law, and if so* whether they are to be
disallowed.” Balmain branch officers
thereupon tried to regain possession of
the offices, commandeered by the
Thornton gang in contempt of their
• . | „„a
oft-proclaimed principle of rank-ana-
file control,” but had to retire after
“heated exchanges.” Meanwhile pub-
lication of a union balance sheet
for’ a full year -{any year) instead
of scrappy and inconsistent statements
referring only to Thornton’s Federal
Council is awaited, and the Curtin
Government has the power, as it has the
duty, to force publication—but it won’t,
Long-distance arguments are, as a rule,
uninteresting, but one in which some of
our American friends have been engaged
for some time is full of meat. Last week
Rear-Admiral Brent Young, Paymaster-
General of the United States Navy, said
in London, obviously in answer to some-
one, that “American supplies are reach-
ing the South-west Pacific, some by air,
in quantities sufficient for large-scale
operations against the Japanese.” That
appeared in the morning papers, and mid-
day editions of the afternoon papers car-
ried a statement from General Mac-
Arthur’s G.H.Q. that “the South-west
Pacific has something less than 5 p.c. of
American military resources, and is now
receiving something less than 10 p.c. of
what America is shipping overseas,” the
air percentage being “somewhat lower.”
It was added crisply, “without com-
plaints,” that “the area is doing every-
thing it can with what it has.”
The growing habit—suffered, as a rule
—of taking away from Parliament
its right to control public spending
brought a rebuke from Nicklin, leader of
the Queensland Opposition. A Land and
Water Resources Bill empowering the
Government to spend up to £250,000
without reference to Parliament was
under discussion. Nicklin said the thing
was dangerous, as it was, and the amount
was reduced to £125,000, Even a small
Opposition can produce some effect when
it has an unanswerable case.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” is not satisfied
with Curtin’s reply to Hughes and Mul-
cahy on the question of how much the
A.I.F. is being required to do (and suffer)
in New Guinea.
Mr. Curtin’s declaration that more than
40 per cent, of the troops used against the
Japanese have been militia merely serves
to confirm the belief that the A.I.F. is being
unwarrantably overburdened That this
matter should be raised in the fifth year
of the war is a sorry reflection on Aus-
tralia’s muddled national thinking.
And on the damphoolishness of partisan
government in war-time.
Seven lotteries in 16 days, two of the
days being Sundays, must be pretty close
to a record for any Government-con-
trolled gamble. It was put up by the
N.S.W. State lottery from November 2
to November 18. Queensland managed
four in 14 days. During the same period
there were Tasmanian and Westralian
lotteries, thumping tote intakes and un-
precedented bookies’ business. It’s a
very good war for some people.
It is respectfully and soberly suggested
to H.R.H. the Duke of Gloucester that
he send an equerry ahead to consult
with Australian trade-union leaders as
to where he shall live and what he shall
do, with special attention to the matter
of annual holidays and overtime.
In the N.S.W. Assembly debate on
Leg. Council reform W. J. Sheahan
(Labor) argued that Queenslanders had
no Upper House and had not suffered.
Their Second Chamber was abolished and
preferential voting was taken from them %
without their sanction. Are such things
nothing?
Victoria’s Dunstan is hopeful that the
Federal Parliamentary Committee when
appointed will lose no time in recom-
mending the removal of anomalies in
taxation and the introduction of pay-as-
you-go for taxpayers. Pay-as-you-go for
State Governments has never appealed to
any State Premier.
Wells, the Miners’ president, snarling
about Government prosecutions of work-
stoppers, declared that where miners’
lodges “disciplined” members for un-
authorised stoppages the Government
shouldn’t issue summonses. This may be
his idea as a Communist, but it is sheer
anarchy. Meantime a chance for the
exercise of lodge “discipline” was re-
ported from Hebburn No, 1:
At the pithead this morning, when
wheelers refused to work (they’d struck
against fines for not working), the miners
decided to take the wheelers’ horses and
do their work so that production would
not stop. Jhe miners went' down but,
during the morning, some miners and shift-
men baulked at doing the work of the
striking wheelers and the men left the
mine.
If military campaigns were run on those
lines the enemy would win in jig-time.
“X. 5.,” somewhat bitterly:
Last week Dunstan was heard announcing a
£15,000,000 plan for post-war housing, and the
Victorian Housing Commission came in with
the statement that it had set out to acquire
10,000 housing sites, as a first instalment of an
eventual 50,000. Nothing was said of the in-
evitable rise in prices. During the decade or
so before the war the commission painfully built
a couple of thousand houses, and it will have
to change its methods if if is going to realise
this grandiose conception. Meantime Anzac
House officials are caustic concerning the Gov-
ernment’s failure to do anything for the scores
of returned and discharged soldiers, some of
them sick and broken, who besiege them daily
with complaints that they can’t get houses.
In some cases “home” for the returned man,
his wife and a family now grown much older
means a single bed-sitting room in a crowded
dwelling. Dunstan’s customary foraiula for all
occasions, “It is regrettable at a time like this
when unity is so essential that contentious
matters should be brought forward,” is hourly
expected.


ẃ
Look Alter What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally ... and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
£.vii>C BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Ek D.” on the new G.G.:
The Duke of Gloucester, Governor-General-
to-be, is about as unassuming a duke as ever
wore strawberry leaves. My first sight of
him was when he strolled into the ante-room
ot a motor business in Regent-street, London,
one morning and waived his royal right to pre-
ference in attention with the remark that there
were others waiting before him. He is a solid
figure of a man who shows up better in private
h'V / n P U^IC - He was a common sight in
the West End during the middle twenties, walk-
ing about like any ordinary citizen and dining
modestly in quiet restaurants. A few times a
motor works with which I had business in the
Midlands shouted me a trip to London in one
of his cars, and those vehicles gave the impres-
sion that he made them work for their livings.
Once I drove behind him all the way to Aider-
shot not knowing who was ahead of me and
wondered if I was following the Devil himself.
He did the trip in something like a record, but
with few risks. Now Alfonso of Spain is dead,
I should imagine that Australia is about to be
governed by the best Royal motor-driver in
the world. Also, by a good soldier who, when
he served in the British Army as a regular,
lived as modestly as any young captain or
major and worked harder than most. Social
butterflies, however, will not find him an en-
thusiastic companion.
Major-General Stanley Savige, D. 5.0.,
M.C., etc., who was in the march of the
Seventeenth Brigade through Melbourne
the other day and who has gathered a
C.B. for his outstanding leadership in New
Guinea, had as varied experience in the
last war as the brigade he led has had in
this one. A private when he enlisted, he
served on Gallipoli and in Sinai and
France and was then with the Dunster-
force in Persia and other wild places.
Demobilised a captain, Savige wrote the
story of the Persian adventure in Stalky’s
Forlorn Hope. He founded the Legacy
Club for the assistance of the children of
Diggers in Melbourne, and was its presi-
dent in 1930. Between wars he was a
buyer for stores associated with the
mining and metal industries, and then
started his own business.
Retired with the service record of 41
years in the Papua Administration, H.
W. Champion, C.8.E., Government
Secretary of that territory, to which he
first went 45 years ago, when it was
British New Guinea. William Mac-
Gregor and Le Hunte offered him posts
from time to time, and in 1902 he started
in as Government storekeeper. When
the Commonwealth took over the Terri-
tory and renamed it Papua (1906),
Deakin made Champion Government
Treasurer, and Barton (not Toby, but
the Lieut.-Governor of the Territory at
the time) appointed him, at 24, to the
Executive Council, a position he held
until the evacuation, Hubert Murray,
whose reign in Papua began in 1907 (he
died with his boots on in Samarai in
1940), made Champion Government
Secretary, and thus began the long
and fruitful Murray-Champion part-
nership conducting the “Murray Native
Policy.” Champion has three sons,
all born in Port Moresby and all
distinguished in Papuan administra-
tive service Ivan F., Claude and
F.A. It was Ivan who, with Karius,
between 1926-28 made the spectacular
crossing, per boot, of the New
Guinea mainland. Described in Ivan’s
book Across New Guinea from the Fly
to the Sepik, it was one of the most ardu-
ous treks in colonial history.
Ormond Professor Bernard Heinze
took five months to study Shostakovich’s
“Leningrad Symphony,” first perform-
ances of which in Melbourne and Syd-
ney roused a critical row louder and
longer than the piece itself. Born at
Shepparton (Vic.), Heinze was musically
educated at Ballarat, London, Paris and
Berlin, his studies being interrupted by
five years’ service as a Royal Artillery
officer in the last war. He was one of the
youngest conductors in Australia when,
at 30, he got the job of directing
the Melbourne University Symphony
Orchestra. In his early days as a con-
ductor of theatrical orchestras he used to
read a score of Bach stuck up before him
while guiding his performers through the
music of light opera.
Douglas Gordon, the new chairman of
the Liberal and Country party in S.A.,
is a son of David Gordon, president of
the State’s Leg. Council. Now_ 52,
Douglas Gordon started stock experience
with the Elder, Smith co., was in the
Gallipoli landing, managed a station for
Sidney Kidman,, and now has one of his
own; also a son in the A.I.F.
“Ek D.” looks over a new M.H.R.:
G. J. Bowden, the new Federal member for
Gippsland, succeeding Tom Paterson, is well
above the average run-of-the-mill. He is a
tall, broad-shouldered Digger, quietly and
modestly spoken, who hails from just north
of the Kelly country—he was born near Whit-
field, about 30 miles from Wangaratta. He
admits to having been in France and “seen a
little fighting,” but does not go into detail.
The detail, when filled in, includes most of the
gallant battles of the grand old 24th Battalion,
6th Brigade, in the stirring days of 1917-18,
a record worthy of a man born on St. Pat-
rick’s Day. He was one of a little group
—it included Towner, V.C. —who conferred
MEMBER FOR GIPPSLAND.
in the early morning of Sept. 1, 1918, in the
Sunken Road, about the bombardment of Mont
St. Quentin, after the left wing of the battalion
had grabbed Feuillaucourt and the Bapaume-
road by the Canal du Nord, and withering
enemy machine-gun fire was holding up further
advance —a preliminary to the attack by the
24th, 21st and 23rd in which one V.C. was won
and others might have been. After the war,
a major and an M.C., Bowden became a farmer
and potato-grower in a substantial way, took
an interest in local affairs, and for four years
has been Chief President of the Victorian
Country party. At the outbreak of the present
war he re-enlisted, was given a garrison bat-
talion to command, and is officially still in the
forces, though in process of retirement.
Bowling along past 81 at Manly, C. T.
B. Turner, who at 19 jumped right into
what was to become Test cricket when he
took 17 wickets against the Shaw-Shrews-
bury English team in one of its
“provincial” engagements at Bathurst
(N.S.W.). Australia has had no finer
bowler, unless it was Spofforth.
Professor Angus:
Widely .admired by both his opponents and
his friends as the “man who stuck to his
guns” in no fewer than three great, controver-
sies, Dr. Samuel Angus, Professor of New
Testament and Historical Theology at St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney University, has
passed on at 62. He had a brilliant intellect,
was a rare original thinker and a scholar of
world repute. Convinced that true Christian-
ity wasn’t and could’t be governed by any par-
ticular orthodoxy and that humanity needed a
unitive Christianity, he said so in 1934, where-
upon a storm of debate and discussion arose,
in the course of which he was openly charged
as a heretic and became the subject of an in-
vestigation by the Presbyterian Judicial Com-
mission. The Commission found substantially
in his favor, but the row broke out again in
1936 and 1939, the Assembly, after a private
discussion, then postponing further debate.
Dr. Angus suffered keenly under criticism
which, had he chosen, he might have escaped
by accepting an American call at thrice his
Australian salary. He preferred to stand by
his beliefs and his friends and supporters.
Born in Ulster of poor parents, he discovered
an uncle who had a library of classics and
promptly went to work for him so as to get
among the books. He won a scholarship to
Queen’s College, Galway, and by sheer merit
got to Princeton (U.S.A.) and to the univer-
sities of Berlin and Marburg, in Germany. A
profound and prolific writer on theological
matters, he was among the top flight of Greek
scholars and a noted archaeologist. Those
who sat under him at Sydney University found
him tolerant and kindly.
Doing a grand job in Chicago, where
he founded the Anzac Club, Maoriland-
born E. H. Scott went from MX. to
Melbourne for a time and then to the
U.S.A. He still retains his Ml. citizen-
ship, though he’s been over there for
years. While the 1914-18 war was on he
produced several useful radio inventions.
This time he’s responsible for a radio-
receiver which is used in merchant ships,
and which operates without disclosing the
ship’s position. Now a leading manufac-
turer in Chicago, Scott has steered thou-
sands of Anzacs round his adopted city.
Almost in swaddling clothes as bishops
go (he’s 44), Canon Charles Herbert
Murray becomes Bishop of Riverina vice
Most Rev. R. C. Halse, who goes to be
Archbishop of Brisbane. The new
bishop’s diocese, with headquarters at
Hay, extends from the Murray to the
Lachlan and from the S.A. border to
the western foothills of Monaro. From
Melbourne University Murray went to
Christ Church, Oxford, graduated in arts
and literature and returned to Melbourne
to be secretary to the Board of Educa-
tion and director of Sunday Schools.
After being at various Melbourne
suburban fanes he went to Christ Church,
Adelaide, and from there to South Yarra.
Elected a canon of St. Paul’s in 1940,
he was made examining chaplain to the
Archbishop of Melbourne, is an
R. chaplain and chaplain to the
Victorian State Governor.
S.A.-born and -educated, Frank T.
Perry, now president of the Australian
Metal Industries .Association, knows
more about metals than that they’re hard
and hurt if you drop ’em on your toe.
He joined the Perry Engineering con-
cern 40 years ago, becoming g.m.
in 1931. He’s also chairman of the Area
Board of Management for munitions in
S. a former president of the Chamber
of Manufactures, and member of the
Council of the Chamber of Commerce.
Now 56, he was M.H.A. for East Torrens,
1933-38.
Nielsen Park and Vaucluse Park, Syd-
ney, are administered by a joint trust which
is doing a topnotch job despite war re-
strictions. This probably accounts for the
look of concentration the president,
George Nicholls, was wearing when Frith
sighted him. English-born, and now just
on 60, Nicholls arrived in S.A. in 1900,
joined the railway audit branch, went
from there to the Agricultural Depart-
ment and became manager of the
S.A. Wheat Board, 1915-20. Next
he was in private business as a
grain factor in Melbourne and Adel-
aide, opening a Sydney branch in
1929. With the present war his know-
ledge of wheat marketing became
useful to the nation, and he was invited
to Sydney to become assistant supervisor,
under Col. Holborrow, of the N.S.W.
GEORGE NICHOLES.
Wheat Board. He managed to make time
also for A.R.P. work, was incident officer
for Vaucluse when the place looked like
stopping a bomb or two, and is now tech-
nical instructor in charge of N.E.S. work
in the district.
The D.S.O. which Brigadier Murray
John Moten, of S.A. (age, 44), won in
Syria has had a bar added to it for his
notable leadership in New Guinea. One
of those strong disciplinarians who silence
any objections on that score by non-
chalant bravery in action, he started his
BRIGADIER M. J. MOTEN.
soldiering back in 1916 with the cadets,
and went to war in 1940 as Lieut.-Col.
Moten, C. 0., of the 2/27 Batt. His bril-
liant tactical moves in the coastal sector
considerably hurried up the armistice in
Syria. Away from soldiering he toils in
the S'.A. Savings Bank.
Into the silence:
At Wellington (M.L.), at 79, Dr. C. J.
Reakes, Director-General of Agriculture in
Maoriland for 18 years. He gained his vet.
science doctorate at Melbourne Uni. in 1910.
At 85, at Christchurch (M.L.), John Rigg, a
descendant of lan Mclan, chief of the Clan
McDonald, massacred at Glencoe. Rigg, who
started toil in the M.L. Government printing
office, represented M.L. at the International
Typographical Conference in Melbourne and
was for two years in the Australian Typo
Union in the ’eighties. To force some of his
Liberal legislation through the Leg. Council
Balance appointed Rigg among a dozen new
members, but the Governor disallowed Rigg’s
appointment. Balance appealed to the Co-
lonial Office, which supported him, and Rigg
became Pernber Reeve’s lieutenant in fathering
Liberal measures. Wellington Trades and
Labor Council owed its foundation to Rigg.
At Wollongong (N.S.W.), at 73, Standish
Richard Musgrave, editor of the Illawarra
“Mercury” for over 30 years. His family came
to Sydney in 1886 from Ireland, where he was
born. Musgrave was first president of Wol-
longong Rotary, was twice president of the
Country Press Association, and on the death of
J. Ryan, M.L.C., became chairman of directors
of Country Press, Ltd.
In Sydney, at 77, Maoriland-born W. T.
Treloar, Moran and Cato’s first managing
director in the N.S.W. capital. He retired from
the management in 1926, with foreign travel,
a garden and the Methodist Church become
his chief interests. Sons are C. V. Treloar,
of Pymble (N.S.W.); Major A. H. Treloar,
of Melbourne; W. J. Treloar, of Roseville
(N.S.W.); and Dr. Alan Treloar, Professor of
Biometrics at the University of Minnesota
(U.S.A.). Pilot-Officer H. C. Treloar, R.A.A.F.,
is a grandson.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), at 76, Major-General
Paton, who had the 6th and 7th Brigades in
last war’s New Guinea fighting, his notable suc-
cesses including capture of the Komet, the first
warship bagged by Australian forces. He was
a director of the Newcastle and Hunter River
S.S. Co. and chairman of directors of Hall and
Sons.
In Adelaide, Con Chamberlain, one of the
men who helped to give S.A. a strong cricket
team (winning the Shield twice) in the years
before the other war; Hills, Chamberlains,
Gehrs, Middleton, Murray, Mayne, Whitty and
the Englishman Crawford. In later years Con
had been committeeman, adviser and coach to
Kensington, now Bradman’s club. Brother Len
Chamberlain, who was a dashing batsman in his
day, has long been resident in Sydney.
In Adelaide, Beatrix, wife of knight Cham-
pion de Crespigny. Born a Hughes of Beaufort
(Vic.), she had long been prominent in charitable
work in S.A. The eldest son is a major in the
army, and one daughter an Awa.
At 78, in Melbourne, Arthur Capper Moore,
for many years secretary of the Federal Institute
of Accountants. A son is Colonel Guy Moore,
director of army finance.
In Adelaide, at 68, Dr. Harold Rischbieth,
who, after gaining degrees at Trinity College,
Cambridge, spent seven years in the London
Hospital, becoming F.R.C.S., before returning
to S.A. in 1911. Two sons, Surg.-Lt. Henry
and Lt. John, are in the R.A.N.R.
In Sydney, at 90, John Andrew, head of
the old printing firm of that name. Right up
to a month or two before his death he still
took an active hand in the business.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Clooter”: When I read that a couple
of Allied officers in Sydney had been silly
enough to allow gipsy women to “bless”
their money and had been robbecl as a
consequence, I dallied with the idea of
going out and selling some trusting soldier
from overseas the Town Hall or shares
in the Harbor Bridge, but a little thought
cured me. These gipsy women were capi-
talising some excellent publicity provided
for them by the more emotional daily
newspapers when a male member of
their tribe died. Pictures and big head-
lines ran for days, with descriptions of
the lying-in-state of the “prince” in his
gorgeous coffin, the mourners and their
doings, an attempt to persuade the Min-
ister for Justice to release one of the
number from Long Bay to attend the
wake and so forth. Is it any wonder that
visitors approached by a couple of the
women on the very day this hullabaloo
broke forth took them at full face value?
# * * *
“Prompter”: The benevolent autocracy
which governs theatrical affairs in Aus-
tralia has been under fire again. Sydney's
Granny “Herald” seized the epoch-
making decision of the Firm to put on
a play by an Australian as a peg on
“Call a kit inspection, Sar.-Major — there's a truck missing!”
which to hang an indictment of past
policy. The paucity of theatrical fare
(consisting mainly of revivals of old
musicals, not even revised or brightened
up), the closing of theatre after theatre,
and the deterioration even of orchestras
were mentioned. The Firm’s head made
the usual reply—“hundreds of thousands
of pounds” lost; dividend rate of only
p.c. during the last 14 years ; severe
blow of the 1929-30 depression ; in-
ability to erect a new theatre owing to
building restrictions; inability to buy
new plays owing to exchange restric-
tions ; inability to employ good orchestra-
tions because radio offers better pay. A
story to bring a pang to the hardest
heart. And the very next day came the
news that the Firm’s shares in Minerva
Centre, Ltd. (owner of the one theatre
to which Sydney looks for new plays
acted by professionals), had been bought
by “a group of theatre-lovers.” A cruel
commentary.
* * * *
“Billjim”: • Tell “Bo” (B. 13/10/’43)
that, although the general accent may not
differ, an Australian’s State of origin can
often be determined by a difference in
the pronunciation of certain words and
by the use of terms which appear to be
peculiar to a State. For instance, a
South Australian says “Where is it to?”
when asking where a place is located.
Further, there are the variations used to
describe the carrying of a passenger on
a bicycle. “Double” in N.S.W. changes
to “dink” in Victoria, while S.A. favors
“donkey.” Also South Australians pro-
nounce “films” correctly and easterners
say “fillum.”
* * * *
“Alex.”; Maoriland Appeal Court has
handed down a decision which, it may be
expected, will be regarded as important
throughout British Dominions and
colonies. All our vagrancy legislation is
based, on the English Vagrancy Act of
1824, which makes it an offence to be
found by night without lawful excuse in
an “enclosed yard, garden or area.” In
the Maoriland test case a ‘magistrate
(under the corresponding section of the
M.L. Police Offences Act, 1927) con-
victed a man found by night in the trans-
port vehicle lines of a military regiment.
Accused’s counsel raised the point that
the place, not being “appurtenant to a
dwelling-house, warehouse, coachhouse,
stable or outhouse” (as described in the
Statute), was not an enclosed area within
the meaning of the Act and thus the
vagrancy conviction could not stand. The
four Judges on appeal concurred with this
view. They found that the only build-
ings adjacent were an orderly-room, a
shed for motor-cycles and a shed for mili-
tary stores. The transport lines were not
“appurtenant to” these buildings, which,
indeed, appeared to be appurtenant to the
transport lines.
“V.C.”: Touching the price asked for
a first edition of Charles Garvice (B.
17/11/’43) I rise to say that prowliqg
through a Sydney bookshop about five
years ago I came across a first edition of
O. Henry’s Postcripts, a collection of
skits, bits and jingles written by Porter
for the Houston (Texas) “Post” early in
his career. It cost me 2s. 6d. I suppose
they’d want about a quid for it nowadays.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Justice in N.S.W. seems to
be unable to cope with incorrigible
offenders and has taken to ordering
them off the premises or placing them
under observation or just saying “tut.”
A few weeks ago an unsavory character
who shared with another rivalry in the
popular press for the title “queen of the
underworld” got concurrent sentences of
six months each, to be suspended if she
left Sydney and removed herself several
parasangs to the northward. She refused
to deport herself and is now, possibly,
doing time. Her rival was heqrd of a
few days ago when a woman shoplifter
was ordered not only to keep away from
t L. 1„J „ i-.-x nr .4. frt pn f Pr anv shoo in
the lady but not to enter any snop m
Sydney metropolitan area unless escorted
by a Shop inspector. And then there was
a magistrate who, convicting a couple of
gipsy women for theft, suspended sen-
tence of one year s clmK on condition
they left the State. This may be good
for Svdnev and the State of which it is
fho main Wont but the rest of Australia
the mam bloat, but the rest or /vusirau
isn’t likely to emit any Cheers.
* * * *
“A 9-19” criticises a critic: —
The strictures of “G.M.” (R.A.A.F.) (B.
10/11/’43) on errors in Aldridge’s Signed with
Their Honor are largely captious.
He takes exception to Quayle, in the book,
“kicking the rudder.” I agree—to * pomt.
pedals if coufd°no? a be "kicked, shice the phot’s
feet are in loops upon it. But why argue that
that rudder “should be treated with more re-
spect. It is much harder to hit a skidding
’plane than a properly-flown one, as any fighter-
pilot will tell you. A survey of the leading aces
“ Say, Ma'm , it teats your darter I came to see.”
of this war will show that they are not “good”
pilots, in the technical sense. They throw their
aircraft around because it is safer than “good”
flying. “G.M.” wishes the rudder to be used
gently, but not the joystick—the main control!
As for aircraft not having heads, the context
shows that the head, or van, of the formation
is meant.
The last portion is the worst mistake of
the lot. The Gloster Gladiator Mark I was
the first multi-gun fighter to go into service
since 1918. The armament was two .303 in.
machine-guns on the cowling and one .303 in.
machine-gun under each lower wing. After the
outbreak of war, two .303 in. machine-guns
were added fb the upper wing. Surely
six machine-guns would give a “wide burst,”
particularly if the machines were gently fish-
tailed, i.e., swung slightly from side to side.
But I can’t defend Aldridge when he refers to
Caproni-Vizzola F.s’s as being in service in
Greece, whereas they never progressed beyond
the prototype stage. And then there’s that
description of a pilot who does two ground-
loops and then lands! A ground loop takes
place when a machine turns while taxi-ing too
fast. A wingtip digs in and over the aircraft
goes. Anyone who can do two of these evo-
lutions, let alone the feat of landing before
flight, is worth watching.
* * * *
“D.H.”: The family were discussing
the din made by the milkman in the early
hours. “He’s probably adulterating the
milk,” Pop said. “You can’t adulterate
milk,” ten-year-old chipped in. “Why
not?” asked Pop. “Because you can only
adulterate women!” declared the lad.
* * * *
“Zake”: Trenching on Uncle’s pre-
serves, the Sydney Government is push-
ing through a bill to attach a Personal
Loans Department to the State Rural
Bank. Why not go the whole hog and
start a Moscow shop? Not only would
the enterprise employ many public ser-
vants (in addition to those occupied in
designing new official pledge forms, etc.),
but they would have a chance of break-
ing the record for losses made by the
now-defunct State Fisheries. Me, I’ve
got my ears pinned back in readiness to
rush the new department when it opens.
Of course, F could get accommodation
from a private bank at 5 p.c., but it would
be churlish to neglect to take advantage of
the generous offer by Billy McKell, the
Poor Man’s Friend, who will lend at as
low as 10 p.c. Hooray for the Macquarie-
street Philanthropical Society!
* * * *
“Hamfat,” with some theatrical mem-
ories :
The Palace Theatre in Sydney, in which, I
have heard, a syndicate intends to stage “flesh-
and-blood” shows again, has seen some excit-
ing times. It was the scene of a ’Varsity
students’ riot —in its worst phase:—which led
to the banning of “Commera.” celebrations for
years. Another riot which threatened the wreck
of the showhouse occurred when the American
actor Lee, on the first night of “Cyrano de
Bergerac,” launched a tirade against a restive
audience from the stage. Melodrama king
Bill Anderson, hoping to climb higher rungs
in the theatrical ladder, had undertaken to
manage Lee’s tour, and a crowd drawn by
Billanderson’s name didn’t take kindly to
c drama> CinquevaUij H arry Lauder, and
several other first-magnitude stars did mighty
we n j n the friendly little playhouse, and Charles
Arnold made a record season’s profit there with
New,. Yo*
T oity” anc i “Fiddledee-dee,” went broke at the
p a i ace . Led by Kolb and Dill, Barney Barnard
and Maud Amber, all well and numerously sup-
ported, it was far too expensive a show for
small a house, and it didn’t even enjoy full
houses. Australian successes like “On Our
Selection” and “The Sentimental Bloke” had
their premieres there. But there was a lot of
red ink on its books before the Palace became
a cinema house.
* * * *
“Norther” : A couple of North
Q ueens i an( j shire councils, Croydon and
Herberton, are trying to stir up interest
in a post-war reconstruction plan of a
sort f or w hich there is lashings of scope
• pAnntni nTbpv vuant n mad from
this country, they want a roaa irom
the Gull to the Barrier Reef coast,
through Karumba, Normanton, Croydon,
the Gilbert River, Georgetown and
Eina sleigh, and a railway to connect
Croydon to Forsayth with an extension
from Normanton to Karumba. This
would mean road and rail connection
from Karumba to Cairns. The councils
argue that nothing is more important
than a trunk road between two great
coasts and that the country in between,
properly developed, could become a
northern Canaan.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Isn’t it a bit arbitrary to
pose an evidently modest corresponden-
dent (B. 6/10/’43) with the dilemma
“What’s the use of writing a poem in
which you say T dare not try’ to write
one?” Henry Kendall had just the same
idea about a song he used to dream about.
But, in imagining that gem, which (he
said) “remains unwritten yet,” he wrote:
But when the dawn is very near,
And birds are on the wing,
My spirit fancies it can hear
The song I cannot sing—
producing what is arguably the best thing
he ever wrote,
* * * *
“O’Hell”: Saw Bert without a tie again
this morning. Knowing his brother lives
at the same addres§, I put over the old
gag: “What’s wrong, Bert? Is it a case
of first-up-best-dressed?” Bert looked
disgusted. “Certainly not,” he said. “My
brother and I aren’t so childish. We
always fight it out.”
CONSCIENCE MONEY.
“A Sydney brewery reports having received two
£5O notes from an anonymous source as ‘conscience
money.’ ”
A startling item, this, to make you blink
And wonder if your eyesight’s gone astray,
A par that gives one “furiously to think”
In that expressive Gallic idiom, eh?
An unexpected wad from malted drink
For which some unknown person failed to pay,
And now would tender, like an honest man,
Such tardy reparation as he can.
This “conscience money” from some hidden
source
The income tax department often gets;
The Rajah of the railways, too, of course,
A trifle periodically nets
From some delinquent stricken with remorse
For having shirked or dodged his lawful debts.
But for a brewery to profit thence
Must constitute a new experience.
Was it —I ponder o’er the knotty puzzle—
Some toiler where the nut-brown fluid’s bom,
Holding (with Scripture) that it’s wrong to
muzzle
The patient ox that treadeth out the corn,
Who missed no chance in foaming quarts to
guzzle
The stuff that wasn’t his’n, night and morn?
And how could such a pillager compute
The value of his surreptitious loot?
Was it some crafty and predaceous Bung
Who beat the crowd which brown October
vends,
Dealt with it crookedly and left it “stung”
To serve his own nefarious private ends,
And now repentant, with his withers wrung
And conscience pricking, ’seeks to make
amends?
It’s clearly possible it may be so—
-1 shouldn’t think it very likely, though.
In anonymity beyond our ken
He lurks, the motive for his deed unlit.
One trusts that the recording angel’s pen
Was dipped in red to make a note of it.
A credit entry for the citizen
Was surely only proper, meet and fit
Whose conscience jabbed him till he couldn’t pass
A brewery if he thought he owed it brass!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
NOTHING TO FASTEN ON.
Churchill is recognisable afar
In all presentments black-and-whiters limn
By that inevitable fat cigar
(A luxury I’ve often envied him).
A pipe gave Baldwin his distinctive touch;
A gamp would Chamberlain identify.
It’s tough on artists that there’s nothing much
Our Mr. Curtin may be labelled by.
Lloyd George’s bushy mane, fast thinning now,
Made him a figure that you couldn’t miss,
Just as an eagle eye or massive brow
Will stop one asking “Who the deuce is this?”
But men grow more and more so much alike
In these clean-shaven days, you can’t deny,
A deft cartoonist well may seek to strike
Some crotchet they may be denoted by.
Reid toyed and gestured with a monocle
To point and emphasise his witty chats
(Sometimes he had a phantom dog as well);
.Stan Bruce’s pet addiction was for spats.
Such adventitious aids for nothing went
With Lang, A chin that caught and held the
eye
Was his pictorial advertisement.
But what has Curtin to be featured by?
You blokes who brighten up the Inky Way
With illustration apt and pencil-play,
Can none of you discover or descry
Some idiosyncrasy or subtle trait
That furnishes a clue, as clear as day,
For Jack to be distinguishable by?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“X.S.”: War has brought changes. At
the Public Service Federation conference
in Melbourne a S.A. delegate moved that
“where males over 21 years of age are
unfit for military service and have the
requisite qualifications they should be
considered on an equal footing with
females for temporary appointments to
higher duties in all Government depart-
ments.” While the motion was being
unanimously carried a faint sound was
heard—the ghost of Emmeline Pankhurst
emitting three hearty cheers.
“Rus”; We should rub our eyes if we
read of Hitler praising Jews, bishops de-
nouncing Christianity or a Government
controller decrying Government control,
yet the last of these things has actually hap-
pened. In reply to a suggestion that the
Government should “plan” for the supply
of gas and electricity to industries, the
Commonwealth Electrical Controller
stated that such planning “quickly leads
to a multiplicity of contfbls.” He’s tell-
ing us!
* * * *
t “P.J.D.”: “Ek Dum” (B. 3/11/’43) says
“within a week or two the monsoon rains
will begin in New Guinea.” While this
may be correct in regard to the Buna-
Gona region of Papua and the area be-
ginning about 15 miles north of Finsch-
hafen right on to Madang, it doesn’t apply
to the Huon Peninsula or the coastline
bounded by the Huon Gulf. For 18 years
I was storekeeper for the Lutheran Mis-
sion at Finschhafen. There the rainy
season ceases in October, and only heavy
showers fall until April; it was during
that period that the mission did most of its
outdoor work. The rest of the year, how-
ever, told a different tale. Once in July
we had 56 inches; the average for the
year usually worked out at 150 inches,
with more at some of the stations in the
vicinity. I was a frequent visitor to
Lae, Salamaua and Morobe, so I know
that the same weather conditions apply
there as at Finschhafen. “Ek D.” also
remarks on “Finschhafen’s being 57 years
old.” That applies to the mission only.
A township existed there for some years
prior to that; indeed, for a period Fin-
schhafen was the capital of German New
Guinea, but was subsequently abandoned
because it became badly infected with
malaria.
* * H: *
“Tuart”; I have always thought that
Tribich Lincoln, the most amazing and
most travelled adventurer of this queer
age, was responsible more than any other
man for the swift decline of the British
Liberal party, which has never come back.
A Jew from Budapest, Tribich (the “Lin-
coln” was assumed) had his finger in a
hundred pies. In the days of his glory
and acceptance into pious British cocoa-
millionaire circles, he was the subject of
a thumbnail biography in Who’s Who,
then most exclusive;
Lincoln, Ignatius Timothy Tribich, born
April 4, 1879; son of Nathan Tribich and
Julia Friend, Budapest; married Miss Mar-
garethe Kahlor, Hamburg; four sons. Edu-
cated, privately, at Pressburg, Budapest,
Breckium and Montreal. Some time in
Holy Oiders, Church of England. Private
secretary to Mr. B. Seebohm Rowntree,
1906-9, assisted him in the production of
“Land and Labor Lessons from Belgium.”
Naturalised, 1908. M.P. (Liberal) for
Darlington, 1910. Address: Wayside,
Watford, Herts. Club: National Liberal.
Had the fellow been honest he could
have basked in the favor of cocoa million-
aires and remained in the Commons—for
eight years at least, probably longer. But
he couldn’t keep straight, and here (E. and
0.E.) is his record for 30 years:— ,
Forged and uttered two stumer Rowntree
cheques and bolted to the U.S.A. There
he wrote a series of newspaper articles in
which he bragged that he was a German
spy who had cleverly fooled the British
Government. (He afterwards denied being
a German spy, saying he had tricked the
newspapers that printed his spy articles,
needing their money.)
Extradited to Britain on the forgery
charge. Sentenced to three years—involv-
ing, of course, expulsion from the Commons.
Stripped of his naturalisation and ex-
pelled from Britain (fifteen years afterwards
he was permitted to return and stay long
enough to say farewell to one of his sons,
who had joined the British Army and was
hanged for murder).
Joins the Kapp conspirators who, in
March, 1920, attempted a putsch in Ger-
many. For a week in which Berlin and
other cities were under their control he
had charge of their censorship.
Expelled from Germany for “treasonable
activities with the monarchists.” Sells their
plot to the French Foreign Office.
Works in with Austrians plotting to
restore the Hapsburgs. Sells their plans
to Benes, of Czechoslovakia.
Returns to the U.S.A. and is soon ejected.
Goes to China and becomes financial
adviser to Marshal Wu-Pei Fu. Deserts
Wu and becomes adviser to Pu Yi, now
“ruler” of Japanese Manchukuo.
Having been an orthodox Jew in Hun-
gary, a Lutheran in Germany, a Presby-
terian in Canada (“missionary to the
Indians”), an Anglican curate, also in
Canada and an Anglican vicar in England,
he turns up in China as a Buddhist monk.
And a Buddhist monk, called' “Chao
Kung,” he died a few weeks ago in Jap-
controlled Shanghai. An American paper
asserts that “in 1937, when the Dalai
Lama died,” Tribich “hoped, with the
help of the Japanese, to take the Lama’s
place in Lhasa as temporal and spiritual
leader of Tibet.’’ And, short of being
born again and identified as being in
the true line of succession—necessary
preliminaries, I understand, to acceptance
by the faithful when the holy throne is
vacant at Lhasa—the man was capable of
almost anything.
* * * *
“D.E.”; We write “different to,” and
“different from,” and purists pronounce
the former usage incorrect. In the U.S.A.
both seem to be melting away before
the advance of “different than.” I have
seen “different than” in newspapers and
periodicals of high repute. A writer who
employs it invariably is Major Fielding
Eliot, whose war comments bring him in
the equivalent of £lO,OOO Australian a
year, and who can himself claim to be
an Australian of a great vintage. Son
of a member of the American colony,
he enlisted in Melbourne in 1914 and
served in the A.I.F. for the duration.
* * * *
“Javanese”; I wonder what sort of
Javanese weddings “Nakhoda” (B.
10/11/’43) attended, and how many he
went to. I spent over 20 years in Java,
was at 15 or 20 weddings and never saw
a single “blithered individual” present,
except when, once, a crowd of young
European tourists had the bad taste to
turn up in that condition. Incidentally,
although arak is drunk by some Javanese,
I never saw an Indonesian s “blithered”
anywhere.
“ D-d-don't crowd around, Martha! Give me elbow-room !”
“Spasebo”: No word in this war has
suffered so much distortion in meaning
as “pacifist.” The true pacifist is a
person conscientiously opposed to kill-
ing in any circumstances and ready to
suffer discomfort, inconvenience, social
obloquy and danger for his belief. He
is not a pacifist because there’s a war on
and he might be sent to New Guinea
and be bombed or bitten by mosquitoes.
He wants to keep something, not get out
of something. The early Quakers met
with such fierce persecution that they
would have probably been safer in the
army. Very different are the people who
use “conscientious objection” as a pro-
phylactic against military service. The
difficulty is to distinguish between the
real pacifist and the cold-footed twister,
and up to date the Courts haven’t been
very discriminating.
* * # *
“Voetsak”: “Petermac’s” gibe at the
“Immortal Sergeant” filhim (8.10/11/ ’43)
uncovers nothing new in such pro-
ductions. Coming back from the S.
African war 40-odd years ago, when the
cinema was in long clothes and still a
rare sort of miracle sandwiched into
Harry Rickards’s variety shows, some of
us went ashore at Melbourne to have a
look at “Paardeberg” on the screen at
the Bijou Theatre. It showed Thomas
Atkins defying the Boers’ Mauser rifles
and Maxim-Nordenfeldts in a fashion
utterly unknown to those who had
recently had first-hand experience in the
veldt of the deadliness of those weapons
as handled by the original commando
men. T.A. performed miraculous deeds
in situations where no one could have
lived had there been bullets in the cart-
ridges or live one-pounders in the belts
of the “pom-poms.” Our only criticism
was what a Boer’s would have been —
“Allemachtig !”
* * * *
“Camsa”: I hail from the city on the
Mersey, too, but never have I heard its
residents called “Liverpolitans” (B.
3/11/ ’43); always “Liverpudlians.” I
suppose next we Midlanders will be told
that the folk of Manchester call them-
selves “Mancastrians,” not “Man-
cunians.”
* * * *
“L.H.P.” on a landmark in Australian
operatic history:
A reference to the centenary of “The
Bohemian Girl” (B. 10/11/’43) reminds that
Balfe’s opus was first produced in Australia
at the old Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, in July, 1846 —we didn’t have to wait
10 years for a good thing in those days. Nellie
Stewart’s mother (then Mrs. Guerin) was
Arline, with Mrs. Gibbes as the Gipsy Queen,
John Howson as Thaddeus, his brother Frank
as Devilshoof and J. Lazar as the Count.
“The Bohemian Girl” is the “Hast Lynne” of
opera. Many a struggling manager has to thank
Balfe for getting him out of a town. The
thing has been given in all languages and
countries, and its composer’s last big job was
the rewritiflg of it, with variations, for the
Paris Opera. Last professional season of “The
Girl” in Sydney was in 1900-01, when Mus-
grove’s co. played it at the Royal, with
Madame Slapoffski, Salvi and Max Eugene in
the chief parts.
“Spokeshave”; A Melbourne artist
showed his family a sketchbook full of
drawings of elephants. Said one infant:
“What a lot of elephants! I didn’t know
they had so many at the Zoo.” Said his
secondary-schoolgoing brother: “They
aren’t in the Zoo, you idiot—they’re
in their own home.” “Where’s that?”
.asked the first kid. “Wirth’s Circus,”
said the elder.
* , * 4 * SH
“Caesar’s Ghost”: After 50 years of
show-seeing two events near the beginning
of that experience still linger as memor-
able. One was “Ta-ra-ra-boom-deay.”
Marie Lloyd did not impress me as much
as the ballet. The right legs of the beau-
ties shot skyward on each “boom” with
a precision and unanimous verticality
that made a deep impression on my
young mind. No wonder; Marie
described the Australian dancers gathered
to back her efforts as the finest she had
encountered anywhere. My other
memory is of an English music-hall where
a lady of opulent charms named Kitty
Rooney (no relation to our own silver-
voiced Kate Rooney) sang “The Boy I
Love Is Up in the Gall-er-ie.” Its theme
was that the lovely songstress had no
time for the dukes and earls in the front
row of the stalls, her heart being fixed
on a commoner in the gods. I never
heard a sentiment so vigorously
applauded by everyone—even the dukes
and earls.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; An old-time solicitor, of
86, whose existence had been forgotten by
most people, has been summoned to an
Adelaide court on a charge of having
within the last 20 years “converted”
wrongfully £BOOO of a trust estate. His
lawyer described the defendant as “hope-
lessly ill; impossible to get instructions
from him” ; his doctor, “definitely impos-
sible to defend any proceedings from
either a physical or mental standpoint.”
The case was adjourned for six weeks,’
counsel’s application for suppression of
the name being refused.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Lud Mayor Nettlefold,
of Melbourne, who is much concerned
because a professional artist put over a
couple of blue-edged jokes at a Youth
Rally at the Town Hall, evidently doesn’t
know much about his own city. Most
of the said youths have been to a vaude-
ville house, where they can hear naughty
quips at the rate of two a minute. But
Mayors, like Judges, seem to consider it
a duty to assume innocence. One of
Nettlefold’s predecessors, presiding at a
civic reception to an English comedian
famous the world over for near-the-
knuckle witticisms, convulsed the more
sophisticated of his hearers by a long
eulogy of “clean, healthy, innocent fun
and humor.”
*** * *
“John Nicotine”: A firmer magisterial
front against black marketeers prompt
me to ask whether something can’t be
done to tobacconists who retail pipes that
burn nearly as freely as the tobacco
placed in them does? Before the war I
could get a pipe at a chain store for
Is. 6d. which would last six months; if
it burnt out earlier the store would re-
place. it. Within the last half-year, the
stores having no more of this particular
line, I have bought six pipes at ss,*6d.
apiece, three at 7s. 6d. and one at 10s. 6d.,
none of which lasted more than a week —
some were ruined in a day or so. Only
one of the vendors offered to replace the
fraudulent tobacco-furnace. Worst of it
is that clay pipes have disappeared—
probably bought up and destroyed to
preserve a more profitable traffic.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A.R.P. regulations put a
stopper on Guy Fawkes Day celebrations
in Melbourne this year, so gunpowder
burnt no fingers and singed no eyebrows.
But a worse danger threatens the juvenile
population, since some ingenious youth
found that a bomb could be made by
putting “dry ice” into a corked bottle,
which explodes a little later. A boy of
13 recently lost the sight of both eyes
as a result of trying that experiment.
* * * *
“Caballer”; I am with those writers
who aver that the air of “Waltzing
Matilda” helped Marlborough’s men
along the hot summer roads that led to
Blenheim. Possibly some of their grand-
sons brought it to Australia and handed
it down, its origin lost. Another favorite
of Marlborough’s men, handed down to
the First A.I.F. as “Mademoiselle from
Armentieres,” was sung originally to the
words of “O Farmer Have You Any
Good Wine?” and contained verses that
outdo in impropriety the more modern
ballad. The music of “For He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow” Was another of the efforts
of Marlborough’s troopers —the French
know it still as “Malbrouk s’en-vat-en
guerre These three airs, together
with a reputation for swearing terribly in
Flanders that has lasted over 300 years,
establish those red-coated gentlemen as
worthy forerunners of the A.I.F.
“20 Batt”: “Erato” (B. 3/11/’43) cer-
tainly raises a doubt about the authorship
of “Waltzing Matilda.” But Paterson
told me he had written the verses, and
he was a man who never gave anyone
cause to doubt his word.
s}» »f» 4* H*
“Cine Ma”: Protesting against the
aura that lingers round bushrangers, gang-
sters and similar scoundrels, “Midford”
(B. 3/11/’43) makes a plea in verse for
the glorification of the cops who “did
them in.” Any movie producer who tried
to do it would do himself in. The ad-
miration people have for Ned Kellys and
A 1 Capones is due to the fact that they
represent the individual. The cops who
do them in may be heroes in their way
and as courageous as their quarry, but
a cop represents the collective. Hundreds
of books, novels, plays and films, have
been written round Napoleon but
scarcely any about Wellington, the cop
who did him in on land, and relatively
few about Nelson, the cop who did him
in at sea. The second Pitt was more the
great civil servant than the great man,
and the recent attempt in “The Young
Mr. Pitt” to make an individual hero of
him was a failure.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Wirth’s Park, Melbourne,
suggested as a cultural centre for post-
war planners to play with, has a history.
As well as being-the home of the “World’s
Greatest Show” for a generation it was
the site of the Green Mill, which staged
marathon dancing contests and pole-sit-
ting competitions and was burned down
for its sins later. It is an “island” of 54-
acres, and with a little imagination could
be made into a marvellous testhetic asset
to the city.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jeff”; Andy, once a seaman, the only
farmhand amongst the land girls, had
arms that were covered with tattoos,' and
because he always kept his flannel but-
toned right up to the neck their guess was
that his chest sported some lurid picture
unfit for modest eyes. In the cowshed
one morning the onetime mariner, hurry-
ing around a bail, failed to notice a nail
protruding from the partition. As his
flannel ripped open Andy cursed heartily,
and a few of the girls ran in to see what
was wrong. At sight of his exposed mas-
sive chest cries of shame rang through
the cowshed. Then Andy explained that
the Rising Sun of Nippon had been
tattooed on it during the last war, and
for love or money he couldn’t have it
removed.
# . $ # $
“J.Q.K.”: Three foxes were put out of
the scrub by the pack of beagles. Two,
evading gunfire, got safe to cover, but
the third stopped three shots at extreme
range, each of which steadied her. A
cattle-dog went for the kill. After several
attempts at taking cover, from each of
which she was bested by the cattle-dog,
the fox in desperation plunged into
a 14ft. well over half-full of water, and
when she came to the surface the dog,
which had followed her down, grabbed
her by the throat. The dog was pulled out,
and later the fox’s body was retrieved. It
was a four-month-old pup. It’s the first
time I’ve known a fox to take that way
out.
* * *
“8.A.”: Don’t know about centipedes
flourishing in some soils more than others
(B. 10 /11 / ’43), but I have had ample
proof that they have a decided prefer-
ence for one kind of timber. Some years
ago I was camped on ringbarked country,
timbered with red gum and grey box on
the stiff, clayey flats, and with sheoak and
wattle on the loamy ridges. The ground
about each dead tree was littered with
fallen limbs, all more or less decayed ;
the fallen timber from the grey box liter-
ally swarmed with the ’pedes. Even the
smallest stick sheltered one or two, and
the larger pieces on being struck sharply
on the groffnd 4 shed the crawlers like
weevils from a whaler’s biscuit. The red
gum contained a fair number ; the sheoak
and wattle yielded none at all.
* * * *
“Te Aute”: To us Maorilanders these
discussions on the value of the musterer’s
dog, or dogs, seem queer. Without the
help of dogs a lot of our high country
could never be mustered, and at least
half of our total pastoral area would go
straight out of production, The man who
takes a mustering job in this country is
expected to have at least four dogs, and
with them he clears a beat which would
occupy at least four men without canine
assistance. What we call a good dog is
one which is under control by whistle
within a radius of a mile on a calm
day. The musterer must have at least
one dog which never barks, and on
merino country he needs two. The re-
mainder of his minimum team of four
are huntaways, which bark as often as
requested. What is all this talk of “yap-
ping collies”? If a dog of mine yapped
when told not to I’d get rid of it.
* * * »
“Wippegong”: The line of gums mark-
ing the Edward was still in sight when
the old chap in the corner boiled over
and flooded us with tales of his return to
“Denny” after 58 years. Splashing
through hjs reunion meetings, yarns and
trips, with a wistful pause now and then
for loves that were lost, he drifted back
to the days whose memory had drawn
him north; with him we droved, battled
and danced, went down in ’B4 to see the
local Chippenham win the Grand
National, and four years later welcomed
Mat O’Shannessy and Chicago when they
brought the Caulfield Cup back to the
Plains. At Echuca the train had an hour
to wait, and the great sweeping bend
above the bridge beckoned. Was watch-
ing the winch drag dripping logs from an
outrigger swinging slowly below when
a voice sounded soft alongside, and the.
oldest inhabitant had me in tow. I was
given the story of those logs and the
mill; ushered aboard and over the old
Adelaide ; drawn below the bridge and
told the tale of how laboriously its stocky
piers were placed ; conducted farther up
the bank and shown the sunken log which
once had anchored the capstan by which
the span of the old bridge was raised ;
told of the floods of . Believe it
or not, I caught the train, only to find
that the seat opposite was now occupied
by a deep-water skipper with family tradi-
tions direct to Trafalgar but who had
started on the river boats, had spent
seven days of the last century negotiating,
much of it by winch, the distance between
“He’s just trying out one of those pincer movements. Mum."
the Murray and Balranald; still loved
river bends better than the world’s ports
and the patter of paddles in preference to
a screw A worthy trio ; and the slow
iournev'ended too soon. But tell me,
“Old-timer” of this page, just what do
von look like 7 1
y *’ * * *
“Te Aute”: Strange that Maoriland
anglers have not heard of “D. Cairns”
who, according to “Taniwha” (B.
29/9/’43), has examined the gut content
of thousands of eels. In the Taupo and
Rotorua districts, best-known angling
resorts, the only stretch of water which
holds any eels at all is Lake Tarawera
To say that both brown and rainbow
trout have done “fairly well’ is a master-
piece of understatement; but the enemy
which really does the damage is the black
shag. Once a shore bird, this black devil
now flies inland in flocks of a hundred
or more to conduct organised drives up
and down our trout streams. Driven
out into shallow water, trout fall an easy
prey—far more easy than the sea fish
with ten fathoms of water below. On
my 1943 Hawke’s Bay angling license
there is no mention of eels. I catch about
isn the brutes ner summer for the
r Maori friends • of last summer’s
eMch onf ed contained a trout
.1= * * *
“Bo”: Larry the rouseabout was in
the station buckboard bound for the rail-
head at Stumpjump to pick up the horn-
ine boss. There had been very heavy rain
a week before, and between the Twenty
Mile and Crealey’s he had to traverse a
half-mile of ground which had been
transformed into a swamp. Larry, true
te “rousie” form, was running late, but
as he entered the soggy patch Millie,
the little chestnut mare, stopped. Larry
wondered a second, then snapped “Gid-
dup!” Millie did another ten yards and
stopped again. Larry looked around,
puzzled. The mare was the quietest and
most philosophical nag on the station,
and she had never acted like this before.
He flicked her rump, roared another
“Giddup!” Another few yards and an-
other stop. It was then that Larry be-
came aware that thousands of bull-
throated frogs had their vocal chords
working overtime, and the burden of their
song was “Waw-wah, waw-wah, waw-
wah!” Hopping down ankle-deep in
mud, Larry went up to Millie, held her
ear open and roared “Thera croakers can
tell y’ to whoa, but I tell y’ to giddup.
Tm boss here, not them. Now giddup!”
He just had time to leap aside as the
startled mare leaped forward. Larry
caught up with the buckboard four miles
further on.
H*
“Keo”: I struck Dalton, from the ridge
back of Saltpan, as he came striding
from behind his feed shed, one hand
holding his squawking cockatoo, the
other grasping his s.b. shotgun. “He
don’t deserve it,” he proclaimed, “but
somehow I just can’t belt him over
the head. He’ll get an even break
—fifty yards start before I fire,
and if I don’t get him he can have
his life.” I knew that the Daltons had
had the bird as a pet for years, so I asked
the nature of an offence of such enormity
as to justify the death penalty, “He was
tryin’to burn down the joint!” exclaimed
Dalton. “Yair, it’s true. The missus’d
left young Peter in his pram in the livin’-
room. She’s out with me cullin’ spuds
in the barn. We knoo the cocky, who as
y’ know had the run o’ the place, was
in there perched on the back o’ the
rockin’-chair in his usual possie. Well,
we hears a helluva screechin’ and we
rushes in. A spark from the log in the
fireplace must’ve lobbed on the kid’s
blanket an’ started it smoulderin’. Well,
there’s Barney here perched on the edge
o’ the pram screechin’ and flappin’ his
wings like mad. He’d nearly succeeded in
fannin’ it into a flame the murderin’ cow.
Can t understand what could ve come
over him.” “Perhaps,” I suggested, “he
was tryin’ to put the spark out.” Dalton
looked at me openmouthed for a second,
turned and looked at Barney, then
dropped his gun and began scratching
the cocky’s head. “By gum,” he said
thoughtfully, “I never thought o’ that!”
.*. .. * , 4
Edjudma . A surprising thing about
the oont is the way it can take smashing
falls and tumbles unharmed, though the
same would probably bring death to
almost any other kind of herbivorous
quadruped. Roaming across dry country
up towards the Gascoyne (W.A.) we used
as leader a lady camel, one Dulcie. A
good, docile beast, Dulcie had one fail-
ing—she could never pass the green
growing kurrajong-tree. Even when
pulling strenuously she would unex-
pectedly slew aside should she catch a
glimpse anywhere of the enticing foliage,
We had just unleashed her for a midday
halt on a big, damp claypan when a
kurrajong about a thousands yards off
took her eye. Regardless of jingling
chains and the trailing swmgletree she
set off at a hand gallop. Fifty yards and
her hind legs got tangled with chains and
tree, and after a lengthy skid on the
greasy surface over she went. Right
over, head, neck under, all four feet
momentarily in the air. The crash shook
the pan. “She’s broken her neck! ” some-
one said. A horse would have without
any doubt. For minutes she lay groan-
ing and quivering. But Long Ned knew
his business ; he was soon back with a
branch of the kurrajong. Soon Dulcie
was upon her pads avidly chewing.
Then, the morsel devoured, she remem-
bered the whole tree, rose and was off
again at a gallop. And again the swingle-
tree did its business, and she did a
second neck-breaking somersault. But
she survived again; did her share of
towing the cart the rest of the afternoon
without even sign of a limp.
* * * *
“Lomond”: I was prospecting alone
30 miles north of Menzies (W.A.), and
had just finished panning-off some dollied
quartz from a likely-looking outcrop. It
showed only a color or two. A shadow
falling on the red earth beside me caused
me to look upT suddenly, and I was
startled to see a hefty abo. gazing in-
tently into the dish. Practically naked,
with a varied assortment of spears and
carrying a carcass of a ’roo over his
shoulder, he was a fine specimen of the
untamed bush dweller,. looking as if he
had just stepped out of a storybook. He
shook his head. “It wouldn’t buy you a
box of bloody matches,
mister!” he remarked sadly,
and stalked away, disdaining
even to ask for “bacca.”
“Zake”: Jacky had taken
the buckboard into the town-
ship and, delayed in the
gathering of stores, he
ordered a feed. When the
fried snorks were brought he
looked around the table in
a puzzled way, then sat back
patiently. Presently the wait-
ress came by and asked him
what was wrong. Jacky said
he couldn’t find the tomato
sauce. The waitress pointed
to the bottle, which had a
white-crocheted cover over it.
As he unscrewed the top the
abo. looked up. “What fer
you' no yabber bottle wore
trowsis?” he asked.
* * *
“Esk D.”: “We could make
our own boxes an’ frames,”
Dad Joggs was saying.
“Yairs?” Joe began to look
interested. “An’ there’s nuth-
in’ much to an extractor,”
Dad went on. “With the stuff
that’s lyin’ about the place
we’d knock one up in half a
day. The store would take
all the honey we could give
’em. An’ the way bees put
orf swarms we’d have a
coupla hundred hives in no
time. An’ we’d get at least
a tin of honey from each.
That’d be —er, lemme see.
Yairs, should be a clear
three or four hundred quid in a
season How does that sound to
you f r a sideline, Joe Pretty
decent, Dad. Joe slowly got up. Well,
if y could let me have ten bob of it now
P°P do . wn to th ® P ub an s< ff lf Tec
Collins d give us a lift out on the cream
truck m the mornm’—an’ we’ll rob that
*u ve °f b £es y’ found today. ’
# * * *
“Walkabout”: The reason “Murray
Whaler’s” horses didn’t ring their bells in
t h e early morn (B. 10/11 /’43) is easy.
Just before the dawn is when horses
« camp » e j t h er lying down or standing
mf J. d Paddock horses or those
. , . , , .
on the road in a droving plant rardy if
ever mls . s then pre-dawn camp, and m y
a morning I have had reason to curse
this annoying custom,
*** . *
“Zake”: I have never believed the
claims of high intelligence made for the
cuckoo oti the strength of its depositing
j n t be nests of smaller birds after
• of the about-to-be-
' f * wl K xhe pallid bloke’s missus
|e £ ink in the nest
mignt put nci p<ue puiK t
of, say, a miner or a wattle-bird, which
lays a similar-hued egg ; but it is just as
likely to shove it in the nest of one o
the reed warblers or even that or William
Wagtail, either of whom would be rig
fully indignant it accused of laying a
pinkish egg. Also, the cuckoo is iia
to pick for sleeping quarters for its off-
spring a nest which will collapse unde
the weight of the halt-grown sta
boarder And she will without hesita-
tion park her unborn che-ild m the; n
of a gram-eater, with the pr p £ to
the youngster turn Ing its up w
the expected grubs don
NEW ENGLAND SUMMER.
When the night is on New England,
The air is like a wine,
Mountain winds are bringing
Scents of gum and pine.
White and flaming in the velvet of the dark,
The planets hang, like jewels, in the arc,
And the swell of a bell, dropping down to
Inverell,
Rings where the sheep-dogs bark.
When the sun is on New England
The hills are warm with gold,
Magpie notes are ringing,
Clear and high and bold.
Soft as slumber, where the deeps of distance
lie,
The valleys bare their beauty to the sky,
And the brown road runs down into dream-
ing Guyra town,
From heights where the wedge-tails cry.
ft’s November on New England,
That high and lovely land.
Where the streams are singing
And the poplars stand.
Oh, they had dreams who found it long ago,
As I have dreams, wherever I may go —
Bushland trail, hill and vale, tree-lined streets
of Armidale
And the creeks where the briars grow.
N$.W,
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”; Curyo Charlie got to the
Mallee Hen (Vic.) New Year sports one
year, fully accoutred with sundry illegal
devices for relieving the locals of their
cash. But the police were opposed to
Charlie and said so, whereupon he drew
from his wagonette a hoopla stand and
set it up. Presently a long, sandy *youth
appeared and went broke trying in vain
to ring a cheap and ornate clock. That
night, knocking about the town, Curyo
became aware of a long figure shadowing
him. He locked his room and hid his
cash, having no desire to be robbed by
some mallee bushranger. Next day, driv-
ing steadily towards Turkey Feather, he
was trailed by a lone horseman, and still
later, having set up his hoopla joint in
the main street, he found the long, sandy
youth standing by. When business closed
that night Curyo cogitated with himself,
performed a piece of strategy and was
on the road east two hours before dawn.
He camped at noon at the White Elephant
and up rode a dusty, worn and sandy
youth. Curyo grabbed a handy mallee
root and prepared for action. The youth
shambled towards him. “Look, mister,”
he said. “Couldn’t y’ sell me that clock?
I want it t’ give me girl f’r her birthday.”
Charlie dropped the club. “Whyinell
didn’t y’ say so before?” he growled,
“ ’stead of follerin’ me round the bush?”
The youth wriggled his toes. “Well, y’
see, mister, I done me cash tryin’ t’ win
it’ an' I bin waitin’ f’f a money order
from me old man, but I had t’ keep y’
in sight, see?” This ought to end with
Curyo handsomely presenting the youth
with the timepiece, which was worth
about 3s. 6d., but that wouldn’t be true
to Curyo. He got 30 bob for it.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: If “Bad Aus-
tralian’s” kangaroo-rats are easy meat
for fairly fast dogs (B. 27/10/’43) they
must be a different breed from those in
the Cape York Peninsua. Up there the
midget ’roos at full hop can turn at
right angles as often as necessary, and, in
that country, a tyke’s only hope to get
near one is to sneak on his lair. Inciden-
tally, in the north the ’roo-rat’s rapidity at
leaping out of a nest under a horse’s legs
has caused more broken human limbs
than anything I know, so when riding a
young ’un we studied the habits of these
marsupials. At our Walsh River camp the
hopper-rat on whose domain we were
parked became so friendly—he turned up
for damper at all meals and roamed about
the place at will —that we called him
“George.” By night, George was on the
prowl, and if any of his ilk approached
his territory he kept up a mournful growl-
ing noise and, walking round and round
the intruder, escorted him away. But
George wasn’t worried by dogs—none
up there could get near him.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: As the vulture of the
sea I nominate a bird Victorian fishermen
called the black moflyhawk. This big
flier, black except for his yellow, six-inch
long, triangular-shaped beak, is nearly
the size of a Cape Barren goose, and has
a wing span of six feet. For years now
about Bass Strait I’ve watched him, and
never have I seen more than two together,
nor one on land, alive. When not roost-
ing on the water, floating high like a
duck, he follows the other sea birds on
the wing ; and repeatedly I’ve seen one
glide up to a white mollyhawk in the air
and, with a well-directed peck or two,
send it falling into the sea. And as for
gulls: with a mob of silvers following a
boat for fish cleanings, the black bird’s
practice is to join them arid, though he
can outpace any gull, he kills them for
the sake of killing in between diving for
titbits. I can’t trace him in Leach’s bird
book. Any Aboliar know him?
* * * *
“Nepean”: Norfolk Island pine (B.
20/10/’43) was the first boat-building
wood used in New South Wales, and the
second craft built in Australasian waters
was constructed of it. She was the 25-
ton sloop Norfolk, launched at the island
of that name in 1798, and best remem-
bered as the little vessel that carried Bass
and Flinders around Tasmania in
November, 1800. k
“Perhaps We could cover ourselves up a bit more —We mustn't shock the
boys, must we?"
“Strait Pirate”: For the most varied
assortment of net fish I’ve seen give me
the eastern beach on Point Henry, Corio
Bay (Vic.). In two hauls ashore there
recently the catch included spotted ling,
rock cod, flathead, deep-sea, mullet,
flounder, sole, gars, whiting, small ’coota,
pike, salmon trout, whitebait, a parrot
fish and a bream. Only snapper, sweep
and trevalley were wanting.
# * * «
“Edjudina”: The emu certainly falls
for the decoy trick, a fact which the abo.
hunter dressed in the plumage of the emu
itself is well aware. But to be successful
the hunter must exercise illimitable
patience. A black stalking a mob of
’roos is a performance remarkable in the
statuelike immobility the hunter is able
to assume and retain the instant any of
his quarry show the slightest sign of
alarm. , Slipping his spear in the
woomera ready for a throw, he begins
a cautious advance, not lifting his feet
but sliding them step by step slowly for-
ward, ready to “freeze” instantly the
moment any feeding ’roo raised its head.
Sometimes he froze for five minutes or
more. What made this most remarkable
was that the arm that clutched the
woomera lay back across the right
shoulder in a strained position that would
have been intolerable to a white man.
Yet when the moment came to launch
the spear the cramped muscles sprang into
elasticity.
“You don't Want beans. You Want gum-tips."
“Herbert Dawson”: “Pat Ater’s”
“Oscar” (B. 27/10/’43) is about as true
to life as his “cleanskin steer.” Outside
city and suburban boundaries steers on
becoming such cease to be cleanskins.
Certainly on “bush runs,” barring surgical
operations performed possibly by dingoes
when pulling down calves, there is “no
sich animal” as a “cleanskin steer.” Only
for the fact that I am a lover of horses
and have painful recollections of good
animals with their entrails falling round
their hind legs, I would like to see that
Hollywoodian Oscar “sitting calmly” on
his horse “until the untamed beast was
almost on him.” The veriest infant who
rides where there are wild cleanskins
knows better than to let his horse be
caught flatfooted. A crack stockhorse,
on his toes all the time, is often hard put
to escape from a determined charge, par-
ticularly as cleanskins in the cattle coun-
try don’t stick to any line of attack, as
Oscar’s strange beast appears to have
done. Oscar’s wielding of a heavy stock-
whip round the animal’s hindquarters
while “deftly turning his blood (or
bloody) horse out of this line of attack”
just can’t be done, and the statement
that “soon the beast was corralled and
subdued” is the final absurdity and stamp
of the yarn’s origin. Cattle are “yarded,”
not “corralled,” in Australia, and if any-
one can show me a charging beast that
becomes subdued by being taken from
its mates and yarded then I will be pre-
pared to believe that “P.A.’s” cattle-
country experience has not necessarily
been confined to week-end visits to dairy-
farms on the Parramatta or the Nepean.
A cleanskin beast of an age to possess
long horns that charges in the open when
being cut out of a mob is likely to be a
man-eater when he gets inside a yard—
when he gets inside. The man and horse
that can get him away from his mates
and put him there without “coachers”
are not to be found round milking yards
or anywhere else. If he is obliging
enough to go into the yard voluntarily
he won’t be subdued by the discovery
that he is alone and trapped—but only
by a bullet.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: While yet a kid at
school 50 years ago I first became ac-
quainted with that libel “Australian
flowers have no scent, Australian birds
no song.” I have heard it many times in
the interim and have struck a good many
guesses and assertions as to who was the
real author, ranging from Barrington of
“True patriots we” fame to Adam Lind-
say Gordon. But I here make the asser-
tion that the original author was George
Loveless, one of the Tolpuddle Martyrs,
transported in 1834. Loveless actually
spent 14 months in bondage in Van
Diemen’s Land. Returned home he
published an account of his experi-
ences, drawing a depressing picture of
Tasmania under convictism. His ac-
count of the country was more favorable ;
the land was fertile, the forests large,
rivers plentiful. There were many beauti-
ful flowers and many birds of beautiful
plumage, but the flowers had no scent
and the birds no song. But perhaps that
is true of the Speck. I don’t know.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Billy wasn’t much of a
shearer, and at the first shed was unlucky
enough to strike a pen mate who took
advantage of the fact. With the catching
pen freshly filled, Todd tore into the
work, hogging the best cutters, but with
a few wrinkled brutes to go he instituted a
go-slow policy that gave Billy most of
the tough ’uns. Billy took it in silence.
At the next shed the team again drew
for. positions, and a subdued oath burst
from Billy as, glancing at his slip, he
found he was once more sharing with
Todd. “What’samatter, kid?” inquired
the ringer, pausing on his way down the
shed. Billy told him. “Awright,” nodded
the gun, shoving his own slip into the
learner’s hand, “cut down t’ my place.
We’ll see how this cove likes his own
medicine.”- For the next few days Todd
took it neat, the ringer’s practised eye
and terrific pace doubling his efforts on
the good sheep, and a persistently recur-
ring fault in the other’s machine leaving
him the tail-enders. At the qlose of the
fourth day Todd was squatting on the
board cleaning his gear when Billy came
along. “By cripes, Bill,” he muttered
sourly, “wish I wus workin’ with you
again. You an’ me hit it good-oh, but
this coot” —nodding sideways at the
ringer—“is a fair cow t’ work with.
There’s no doubt y’ meet all sorts in
these shearin’ sheds, don’t y’?”
* * * #
“C.C.”: In 1876 Ernest Giles, push-
ing out from his main camp in the Raw-
linson Ranges with a companion in the
effort to reach the Alfred and Marie
Range, was in danger of a “perish.” They
were reduced to one horse, and Giles gave
it to the man, Gibson, bidding him ride
on to the main camp and send back
relief. Gibson failed to reach it,
though Giles arrived on foot after much
suffering. No trace was ever found of the
man, but months later Giles’s mare
turned up on the S.A. station that had
been her home. She had made her way
back across 1000 miles of. practically un-
known country.
=H 3=
“Nor’-west”; Having read “Pine
Creek’s” advice on fire-making (B.
13/10/’43) I am reduced to asking
further explanation of “a length of soft,
dry wood to fit crosswise between the
legs when squatting over the job.” How
does one hold a length of wood between
one’s legs when squatting? Let “Pine
Creek” try it. I’ve seen an abo. squatting
and holding the bed piece of the fire-drill
method between his feet—when one
squats the legs don’t touch the ground.
“Pine Creek” then advises: “Interlock
the fingers and grasp the boomerang or
woomera from above.” This obviously
means using both hands to the job. He
then says “Grasped thus there is no in-
voluntary muscular lift.” Evidently he
got mixed in my exposition of two
totally different methods. For it was
with the drill method that I experienced
the involuntary muscular lift —my only
trouble with the saw method was that I
had to stop just when smoke began to
appear. Well, “P.C.,” abos. may make fire
by his method, but with mine the entire
fire-making apparatus was carried in a
gin’s dilly bag, so small a package it was.
Only very occasionally did an abo. use
the edge of a woomera as a saw, it being
much too valuable and requiring too
much labor to replace to be worn out at
fire-making. I, however, have tried both
the edge of a woomera and a boomer-
ang unsuccessfully, which leads me to
believe that fire-making with such tools
is beyond a white man.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Recent mention of the
guinea fowl reminds of how much a dis-
appearing asset the bird is from the
modern Australian scene. Back in the
days when immigrants arrived, often with
much personal property, they not seldom
included a few guinea fowl in the list.
And in W.A. for one place this fowl dis-
played a remarkable* adaptability in tak-
ing to the life in the bush. Thirty years
ago the reaches of the Upper Swan
abounded with them. They always indi-
cated their whereabouts by their peculiar
discordant cry, and the pot-hunter could
always rely on a good bag. But now he
would be likely to go hungry, for the fox
has made a pretty clean sweep of the
fowl.
CALL TO ACTION.
(Commerce Minister Scully has announced that it
is now permitted to keep up to 40 “adult domesti-
cated female fowls” without an Egg Board license.)
Inspectors they are spreadin’ out, each with his
little book,
T’ take throughout the Commonwealth a census
of the chook. .
They wear a mo'st official frown, a cold, in-
quirin’ air,
A-peerin’ into netted yards t’ count the poultry
there.
For we may own an emu flock or ninety dozen
owls.
The limit’s on domesticated ad-ult female fowls.
So mount the nags an’ call the dogs an’ comb
the hills an’ brooks,
An’ muster in the draftin’ yards our wild an
woolly chooks —
The Langshans an’ the Guinea hens, the ban-
tams, Rocks an’ Reds;
All squawkin,’ stalkin’ nuisances that hang
around the sheds.
We got t’ have our tally right when socializzum
prowls;
The limit’s on demesticated ad-ult female fowls.
The earmarks an’ the T-brands watch —we
daren’t overlook
A noble Brahmaputra or a scrawny Leghorn
chook.
We gotta win this flamin’ war with eggs as well
as shells
An’ we can say we done our bit when loud
they ring the bells;
An’ if they ask us what we done, regardin’
us with scowls,
We’ll simply up an’ show our nine-and-thirty
female fowls. «
N.S.W.
ARDLETHAN 'ARRY.


' N
3
r Wu
JO*
but civilian requirements of
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used
types are available, but if the particular
valve you want is not obtainable, con-
sult your Radiotron dealer regarding
an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO„ LTD
QUICKand DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
CYANOGAS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZAGOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bulk Classing.
“Sheepo”: It’s useful for growers who
are unable to get up their clips in a
manner essential to the trade. The old
inter-lotting method of placing butts and
bags in lots according to grade was not
always satisfactory, as only a cursory
examination could be made of the con-
tents of each package and often they con-
tained such a mixture that efficient grad-
ing was impossible.
With bulk classing, however, the wool
is emptied out, and, after classing into the
necessary sorts, each lot is weighed and
credited to the owner before being placed
into its respective bin. Later, when big
lines of the same grades but belonging
to various owners have materialised the
whole is baled for appraisement (in
normal times for sale by auction). In
the Argentine wool so classed is not even
baled but is offered in bulk.
Shortly after the introduction of bulk-
classing a few years ago tests proved that
growers who had had their wool bulk-
classed gained from Id. to 4d. per pound
after all classing charges had been de-.
ducted. At present, shortage of man-
power precludes it, but in the post-war
period there' is no reason why at least
30 p.c. of the Australian clip should not
be bulk-classed with satisfactory results
to growers, brokers and buyers.
Lambs Scouring.
“Steve”: Southern Victoria has had
one of the worst scouring seasons on
record. The trouble in most cases is un-
doubtedly the small, hairlike, blood-
sucking worm, from one-third to three-
quarters of an inch in length. Farmers
cannot do better when lambs are scour-
ing than to persevere with the bluestone
and nicotine drench. Indeed, the dose
can be repeated, say once weekly for
several weeks, if the strength of the for-
mula is reduced.
A small amount of bluestone will
stiffen these worms, but as prior starva-
tion is not now recommended the lambs
often need more than one dose (on a
full stomach). Weak lambs are apt to
succumb if the full strength is given—the
dose should be much weaker and given
frequently in such cases.
The most effective treatment is the
phenothiazine powder now on the market
(in suspension), but at 7s. 6d. a packet it
works out at to sd. a dose. A
good idea is to use the powder on the
weaker lambs, as one dose is generally
sufficient to tone up the lamb and help
it to overcome the trouble. But to use
this remedy on a large number of lambs
is costly, seeing that the bluestone treat-
ment at about jd. a dose is fairly effec-
tive and certainly can do no harm.
I had about 100 weaners scouring
badly on a fodder crop. Several died,
but although they were kept on the rape
no more died after dosing with bluestone.
I have found the following doses reli-
able—l make a practice of dosing any
lamb that scours, irrespective of the
seasonal conditions: Dissolve 2oz. of blue-
stone in j pint of boiling water, then add
enough cold water to make a total of
one gallon. To this add 2oz. of nicotine
sulphate (40 p.c.). The doses suggested
are: For adult sheep, 2oz. ; for sheep 12
months old, three parts of this stock solu-
tion and one part water ; give 2oz. as a
dose. For lambs six months old, loz. of
stock solution ; for lambs three months
old, one part stock solution and one part
water; give loz. as dose. Brass or
copper drenching - horns holding exact
dose are good. Don’t hold the animal’s
head too high.
“Give Ma the branding-iron — d’yer think I got two pairs o' hands ?”
Hot-weather Methods.
“Pat Ater”: Success with summer vege-
tables depends on care in watering and
cultivation. Weeds are kept down by
hoeing between showers or waterings, and
this has other good results. It allows
entry of air, and there is no question
that a perfectly-tilled soil retains mois-
ture longer than an unbroken one. Any
useful kind of a light mulch that can be
placed on the vegetable bed helps.
Begin training hot-weather plants in
the seedbeds. Tomatoes for mid-season
and late crops; second-batch spinach,
lettuce and even carrots come under this
survey. Beans —dwarf and climbing—red
beet, parsnips, pumpkins, squash and
cucumbers ' (in mild areas), sweet corn
and peas (cool climates only) are sown
direct in the rows or “mounds” where
they are to grow. ,
December ushers in the sowing season
for early crops of cabbages, cauliflowers,
broccoli and Brussels sprouts. These
must see out the early part of their life
under a hot sun, so they need to be
started from seed.
Make up the seedbed with a light,
sandy medium loam for at least three
inches down. That helps in building a
good fibrous root ball. Heavy soil, even
if permeable, inclines towards taproots and
a smaller feeding area, which is unsuit-
able when transplanted into open ground.
Have the seedbeds or -boxes in the full
sunshine to make the young plants hardy,
but see that the surface half-inch does
not get dry at any time till germination
or after. I£ you do that the lower levels
remain moist, too. A “topping” of fine
cow manure after the seeds have been
covered prevents “caking” of the surface.
See that the young plants don’t become
crowded. If you can’t spare time to
“prick out” and replant the surplus, then
sow enough to discard until there is an
inch between each remaining seedling.
Fencing Timber.
“E.H.S.”: There are two methods of
splitting (B. 17/11/’43): Across the
annular rings or “quartering” and along
the direction of the dividing plane of
the rings or “backing.” Our timber is
usually more evenly fibred on the
quarter, and can be split with much
greater precision than on the back, -and
for this reason quartering is used almost
exclusively for running out rails and
building timber such as studs, rafters,
broad palings and shingles.
When the log has been broken into
billets of convenient size timber for posts
should be run olf on the back, as posts
split this way usually give better service
than when worked on the quarter.
Usual method of splitting from a small
log is to quarter it and run off the V-
shaped portion of each quarter to waste.
This gives four posts from the log, but
a much better result can be obtained by
working it thus: Run a post off one side
of the log, followed by another from the
opposite side; then turn flat side down
and run off the two remaining sap posts.
These, together with the remaining centre
piece, give five from the same log and
waste is eliminated. Timber not required
for immediate use should be stacked
with each row at right angles to the pre-
ceding one to facilitate seasoning and
prevent warping.
Ticks.
“Hux”: Heavy rains and humid
weather on the east coast are encourag-
ing them in plague proportions. Dogs,
children, cats, calves, sheep and poultry
are attacked. Tick serum, which
formerly saved up to 80 p.c. of dogs
paralysed, is not available for animals.
Symptoms are lack of appetite, restless-
ness, vomiting of thick, yellow mucus,
stertorous breathing, a dry cough and
twitching of the legs while asleep. By the
fifth day the tick is swollen to the size
of the tip of the small finger, and the dog
is completely paralysed. At this stage
death often follows.
Search the dog daily. Feel right into
the skin of head, chest, neck and inside
of ears, favorite spots of the pest. But
it may be anywhere, even inside the lips
and between the toes.
When a tick’s found apply turps or
iodine and allow three to five minutes
before removing With tweezers or cutting
off at skin level. Dust the dog every day
with derris-root powder or bathe once a
week in warm, soapy water to which
derris-root has been added at the rate of
one teaspoon to every pint of water. This
usually means death to ticks. Don’t
apply derris in strong doses, liquid or
powder. If derris-root is out of range
damp a cloth with kerosene and apply
to the top of the fur. Derris-root and
kerosene are deterrents ; they don’t re-
place the daily search.
Hints for the Farm.
“Cattle King”: Cattlemen out Roma
(Q.) way like a bit of saltbush amongst
the Mitchell and Flinders grasses. This
mixture enables the country to stand up
to a dry time and to grow good stock
in normal times. Luckona Downs carries
1000 head of Herefords on 6000 acres
of it.
“Myrrhee”: Barley, wheat, oats, maize,
etc., can be fed to sheep with safety if
introduced gradually to their ration.
Begin by feeding \\oz. per head daily
for the first two days ; then increase the
amount by daily until each sheep is
receiving 4oz. to Boz. per day. It is safer
to feed the grains with roughage such as
chaff, and more than 11b. per day is
dangerous. Oats is about the safest grain
to feed, but any grain should be fed to
sheep with care.
“Agro”; Manure bags rot quickly if
neglected. When the bags are empty
soak them for a few days, then hang
along a fence to dry. This makes them
soft and clean and fit to hold grain.
“L.C.”; Infected seed is mostly the
cause of mosaic disease in cucumbers,
squash or rock melons. To control, sow
seed from disease-free plants only and
rogue out backward seedlings early in
the season. Perennial weeds may carry
mosaic spores.
“P.A.”: Radishes like ample moisture
in full sunlight. Deep fine digging means
quick growing, long, tasty roots. Restrict
the summer watering of vine crops to a
3ft. diameter round the root area. Water
that well and place a covering of mulch
to lessen evaporation over the hottest days.
“Plane Greek”: Weevil is the worst foe
of sweet potatoes. Waste no time in har-
vesting the crop when it is ready. Any
loosening of the ground gives the weevils
a chance to reach the tubers and lay
their eggs. After digging go over the
tubers and burn any with black spots or
a smell. Store in clean bags in a dry
place.
“B.”: Pole beans give heavier yields,
are more disease-resistant apd better
suited for canning than many dwarf
varieties. Epicure is the most popular.
Yields of 600 bushels per acre are pos-
sible. White-seeded Kentucky Wonder
is similar to Kentucky Wonder, but pods
are smoother and stringless, It’s earlier
than Epicure. Sow seeds 6in. apart in
rows 3ft. or 4ft. apart as for French
beans. Support on stakes or wire netting.


#R JOBS
r
3
I
m
w.
x
<%•
v
THE LAW
QF_ THE ±SME- ...
Jn these n/yhfs of War she carries a a
Eveready in the Efe/d ffosp/faf up front.
Make it one of your war jobs
to *SAVE your
Eveready Flashlight Batteries
Eveready is in heavy demand by the Fight-
ing Services. * All flashlight batteries last
longer if you use them in short flashes
instead of leaving them switched on for
minutes at a time.
EVEREADY
TRADE-MARK
\
The Extra Long Life Battery
m
Ruwolt
Hi
■ - ..
. W*m
B
3
Si*
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Looking for Fight!
[How three small British motor torpedo-
boats carried out one of the most brazen
attacks in naval history. From a “Reader’s
Digest” condensation of an article by George
Palmer and Frederic Sondern in the Canadian
weekly “Saturday Night.”]
One evening last April, as the .battle
for Tunisia was thundering into its last
phase, a signal to British naval head-
quarters at Sousse from Sir Andrew
Cunningham, Commander-in-chief of
Naval Forces in the Mediterranean,
ordered three motor-torpedo boats to
“carry out a slow inshore patrol off the
Cape Bon Peninsula in daylight,” and to
“open the sea lanes in that area.”
It sounded crazy. M.T.fis. operated at
night. They were not expected to com-
mit daylight suicide under Nazi shore
batteries and swarms of Me-109’s.
But there was good reason for the
order. Allied troops were ready to open
the final offensive, and it was essential
for General Eisenhower to know whether
the Afrika Korps was going to stage a
Dunkirk. Reconnaissance ’planes could
get no 'Accurate information about the
superbly - camouflaged landing stages
which could be used for an evacuation,
or the coastal gun positions which would
protect them. There was no alternative
but to send small boats to almost certain
destruction.
All night the crews of M.T.Bs. 639,
633 and 637 labored with old pieces of
bunting and red, white and black paint to
produce Nazi battle ensigns. The time-
honored naval use of a false flag was
their only hope. At that, even the opti-
mistic leader of the expedition, 26-year-
old Lieutenant Stewart Gould, thought it
a slim ope. Nazi spotters would surely
recognise the unmistakable lines of a
British M.T.B. •
The three tiny ships slipped out of the
harbor and arrived off the German shore
line exactly at daybreak. Just half a
mile away the lookout saw a powerful
coast-defence battery. But the Germans
on the beach only waved. On the
M.T.Bs. the British white ensigns re-
mained furled at the yardarms, ready to
be broken out the moment the ships went
into action. Their swastikas whipped
smartly in the wind.
The ships cruised slowly past Hamma-
met, past Nabeul, examining each little
cove. Still the Nazis waved from the
beaches, while the M.T.B. commanders
charted every camouflaged gun position.
Gould had been told to find out about
the capacity of the piers that were being
constructed. Powerful guns frowned
down on him, any one of which
could have blasted his ship into eternity
with one shell. But for half an hour he
and his consorts cruised around, while
the officers filled their notebooks and
Nazi soldiers, not more than a few
hundred feet away, feverishly worked on
the piers.
Around the point was the principal
anchorage for German warships and
supply vessels. Gould decided to have a
look. The harbor was defended by
batteries of six-inch guns —a fact that
neither Gould nor Admiral Cunningham
knew at the time. Not a shot was fired,
however, as the three boats chugged
into the roadstead and dropped
anchor. For half an hour Gould and his
officers spotted gun emplacements,
radars, storage depots, ships, ammuni-
tion dumps and troop concentrations.
Only a few hundred yards away Ger-
man and Italian officers kept looking at
them through field glajses. German
prisoners later revealed that everyone had
thought the M.T.Bs. were German E-
boats cleverly disguised to resemble
British vessels.
Gould, his map-making finished, calmly
weighed anchor and moved deeper into
enemy territory. By 9.30 he had found
out everything that Admiral Cunningham
wanted to know. But there was still the
matter of “opening the sea lanes” that
the orders called for. He was deciding
how to begin when he spied two Italian
mine-sweepers in a small cove. A Ger-
man convoy escort ship lay near by.
Directly behind them, on shore, was an
important-looking factory.
Gould signalled for battle. On three
diminutive masts the swastika disappeared
and the cross of St. George whipped out.
For 20 minutes at 300-yard range the
M.T.Bs. raked the sweepers and the
escort vessel with two-pounders, pom-
poms and machine-guns. Those shells
that missed the ships crashed into the
factory behind.
The sweepers quickly went to the bot-
tom. The larger boat was set ablaze.
Gould went back the way he had come,
shooting at everything that looked in-
teresting. The two-pounder shells made
little impression on the coastal airfields,
though their moral effect was devastating.
The German command thought that a
large-scale raid was brewing, hastily
ordered troops to the shore and more
’planes into the air.
And then, after shooting down an
observation ’plane that probably would
have caused him trouble, Gould ran into
something important. Scattered along
the beach were a number of huge Ger-
man transport ’planes, remnants of the
100-’plane Axis air convoy which U.S.
Warhawks had sent plunging into the
Mediterranean in the now famous “Palm
Sunday massacre.” Within easy range,
Gould’s gunners destroyed every one.
Gould could have gone home then with
honor, but just as they came abeam of
Kelibia Point M.T.B. 639 made a sig-
nal. “Intend to*close and bombard.”
Butler in the 633 and Smith in the 637
stared as their leader’s ship began to
swing. “Lord lumme,” said one of the
helmsmen in an awed voice, “we’re going
to be bloody ’eroes.” He was right.
About a mile off shore was a sizable
enemy merchant ship, guarded by two
destroyers, an umbrella of fighter ’planes
and six-inch coastal batteries. With the
signal “Full speed ahead,” Gould began
ope of the most brazen attacks in naval
history.
Gould’s 639 headed for the destroyers
to draw their fire while 633 and 637
manoeuvred into position to torpedo the
freighter. It took 12 minutes to do that,
and in those 12 minutes all hell broke
loose.
A bare second after Gould had opened
fire on the leading destroyer with his
comparatively ridiculous popguns the
Nazi warships began to blast with four-
inch salvos. The six-inch shore batteries
also opened up. Anti-aircraft guns, their
barrels depressed to sea level, joined in.
Fighter ’planes dived in groups of twos
and threes to pump cannon shells and
machine-gun bullets into the outrageous
little ships.
The incredible happened. “Get that
destroyer’s bridge,” yelled Gould to his
gunners over the din of bullets and shrap-
nel beating against the armor plate of
his diminutive conning-tower. And with-
in a few minutes the destroyer began to
withdraw, seriously damaged. Less than
a thousand yards from the Nazi merchant-
men Butler sent his two tin fish plung-
ing into the water. A moment later
Smith’s torpedoes were under way. There
was a deafening explosion and the Nazi
ship literally jumped out of the water —
in bits.
“Withdraw,” came a signal from 639.
But Butler and Smith hesitated, for 639
was afire. On its bridge lay Gould, his
right side sprayed with machine-gun
bullets from face to knee. A few feet
away his second in command was dead,
killed instantly by a shell burst. His first
lieutenant, John Hayden, was running the
ship with a bullet in his back.
Six-inch shells churned the sea as
Butler and Smith came “alongside their
stricken flagship to take off Gould and
his crew. “ ’Alf a mo’,” roared the 639’s
coxswain. “There’s a midshipman below
wot’s got it.” And while the rescue ships
patiently waited in the inferno around
them the coxswain fought his way
through smoke and flame and back again.
“ ’Ere ’e is,” he yelled triumphantly. The
midshipman—half of his left hand blown
off and his jaw shattered by bullets—
managed a smile through the blood.
“What about a spot of morphia, chaps?”
he asked.
As the last of 639’s survivors were
brought aboard the other two M.T.Bs.
40 Axis fighters struck. But they were
cheated again. Dodging and weaving,
their decks loaded with dead and
wounded, Butler and Smith made for


m
'
m
y.,
Ml
mm
■
-V: . . .
■ ‘ .■ y ' . ' ' . x :.-r"
-X'x
■
m
m y
W* xssp*
»h m J
m
i m
> Mmmm •
||| Hi
yy:
m
H B
i
*
:
■i - ■
m
l>, ?» t t . ff* :a i '} fKI I ,-,Ji \
fiSwte iaf%
;x- : :; :x ; : Xx
■ ■•■ :X:
;..xi
i
1
pr
H
•••:
I
i ■ w
———
Utility can yet have beauty . . .
When the time comes for Australia to set about the work which the
demands of war have made us set aside . . . there’ll be an opportunity
to plan and build With an eye to more than just the serving of a particular
purpose. We can combine beauty with utility . . . and so satisfy our
aesthetic senses as well as our practical requirements.
An example of how even such intensely utilitarian structures as drains,
culverts and bridges can become features which blend harmoniously into
the landscape is illustrated here. This is a permanent, safe and easily
constructed bridge using the Armco Multi-plate Arch.
w
k^MC#
V
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Kmrs
LYS
£
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
mm
$»&&&
" . • ';:-
•* tro--'.
m &
,>■- "♦
h
rffiß
ESTABLISHED 1884
■ ■ t
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LY S AGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
Sousse. Even the wounded cheered when
one of the gunners sent a Focke-Wulf
flaming into the sea. Then a squadron
of American Warhawks roared over and
cleared the sky of enemy ’planes.
“Pretty good show,” said Gould,
shortly before he died an. hour later.
Big U.S. Pacific Base.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” special
article .)
On Terminal Island, before Pearl
Harbor the home port of Southern Cali-
fornia’s Japanese fishermen, the United
States Navy has built a Naval Operations
Base, vast in size and vaster in impli-
cations.
Uncle Sam has been equipping the Los
Angeles area to service the fleet fighting
the Pacific war. For its size and for its
permanence of structure, the base is both
a promise and a certainty that America
knows it can never close its eyes on the
Pacific again.
Roosevelt Base, the name given to it,
was under way shortly before Pearl Har-
bor. It was to have cost around
$19,000,000. Now it is just one unit in
the Naval Operating Base rising on adja-
cent land and at outlying points as dis-
tant as Port Hueneme on the north and
Newport Bay southward toward San
Diego. The project under way fore-
shadows an expenditure somewhere up-
ward of $100,000,000.
Leaders’ Jobs.
(From the authoritative “United States
News.")
Do not get the idea that this war is run
on the basis of politics ; that personal
likes or dislikes, that selfish considera-
tions guide basic policies. There simply
is nothing to that viewpoint. There is
nothing to the hints of intrigue, of
British and anti-British manoeuvres, of
shelving certain officers. To get down to
cases: —
U.S. General Marshall is stepping into
the greatest military command of all his-
tory ; is to control land, sea, air forces
of U.S. and Great Britain. His is the job
of getting this war over as quickly and
efficiently as possible.
U.S. General MacArthur is not being
shelved ; is not facing a veto for his
strategy. He simply is limited by de-
cisions that General Marshall must make
for disposition of available forces, by
the demands of decisions of grand
strategy.
Britain’s Lord Mountbatten is under-
taking the task of retaking Singapore ; is
not intruding on General MacArthur.
The sphere of British command in this
war always has extended to Singapore.
And that base fits into plans for the final
combined U.S.-British operations against
the new Japanese Empire.
U.S. Admiral King is disposing his
great new navy on the basis of over-all
plans ; is not yet able to do what he
would like to do to the Japanese.
That’s really all there is to the story.
Commands are being fixed, forces set
for the grand smash against Germany.
Japan as No. 1 objective comes later.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
President Roosevelt very definitely has not
been impressed by France’s Gen. Charles de
Gaulle. America’s cold-shouldering of De
Gaulle, however, has been dictated by military
and not personal considerations. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
When a battle is tragically tough, the fight-
ing man insists that those behind him be told
of it—just that way. The man up front has
nothing but contempt for the sugar-coated bom-
bast. — “Stars and Stripes,” U.S. Army publica-
tion in the Mediterranean area.
* * * *
What is going on in Washington is that Presi-
dent Roosevelt is letting the New Dealers drop
out, and he is replacing them with conserva-
tives or, more particularly, with men whose
influence and prestige is high with Congress.
It is my belief that Mr. Roosevelt is thinking
about post-war matters. He remembers that
Woodrow Wilson won World War One and
lost the peace. He lost it because he lost
Congressional support. The evidence points,
I think, to a deliberate effort to prevent that
from happening again. Mr. Roosevelt is trying
to win his post-war peace treaty battle in the
Senate now.— “ Christian Science Monitor”
Washington correspondent Richard L. Strout.
*** • ♦
“We are now in a period of expanding eco-
nomy and dealing with the which
come with full employment. But watch out for
the first symptoms of a shrinking economy.
Race tensions today are as nothing compared
to what we may expect when the sirens blow
and the bells ring and peace comes again.” —
Dr. Louis Wirth, Professor of Sociology at
Chicago University, addressing U.S. National
Urban League workers, practically all of whom
are negroes.
* * * *
Germany may collapse at any time, but the
war in the Pacific may not end before 1945,
said Senators Russell (Dem., Ga.), Mead (Dem.,
N.Y.) and Brewster (Rep., Me.) on their return
from a 40,000-mile inspection trip to world
battlefronts.- — “Wall-street Journal.’ 1 '
* * * *
The horror, devastation, destruction and
disease which will lie in the wake of Japanese
retreat will demand our control whether we
like it or not. The minds of men will have
been warped grotesquely by years of terror and
lies. The native leadership which had devel-
oped under the Western empires will have
been either eliminated or defiled. No com-
petent native bureaucracy will survive Japanese
rule. One of the tragedies of this war is that
Japan in the name of freeing Asia has not only
made it necessary for the West to conquer it
again, but has also undone the constructive
achievements, modest as they were, of Western
imperialism.— “ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
More than 1,000,000 16- and 17-year-old boys
will be enrolled in voluntary civilian pre-induc-
tion training courses when the enrolment of
students in schools throughout the U.S.A. is
completed this autumn. Representing an en-
rolment of more than half of all the physically
able boys at these age levels, the students
are taking courses that will prepare them for
more effective service in the armed forces. —•
“Christian Science Monitor.”
♦ # # . *
Though the Russian victories have frustrated
a German victory, they have not yet insured
a German defeat. In fact, the German retreat,
which started much earlier than Napoleon’s,
has apparently saved their armies intact. They
still seem prepared to put up a strong defence
at their chosen line. They have been working
on their “East Wall” for years. Their occupa-
tion of Bulgaria, coupled with increasing terror
not only in the conquered lands but also at
home, is further evidence of their determination
to continue the fight. In that light the retreat
in Russia is indeed part of the new German
strategy, which the Germans now admit has
been dictated, in part at least, by the collapse
of Italy, and which compels them to mass
forces against the Allies in the west. — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Roosevelt-Churchill attitude is that achieve-
ments in military politics to date justify the
adopted policy. Basis of this policy is to
promise nothing, either to enemy countries or
to countries to be reoccupied. This is shown
in the limited place still given the French
Committee and in confining terms of the Italian
surrender to military matters. Evidence accu-
mulates that Russia accepts these political
tactics. The Soviets were advised beforehand
of the deal with Darlan in French Africa and
approved. Inside Anglo-American view also is
to accept Moscow’s Free Germany Committee.
The attitude is that this committee is a Russian
device to try to separate the German Govern-
ment from the people; that all Allies can agree
on the destruction of Nazism and Prussian
militarism; that other problems can wait for
post-war settlement.-—' “United States News.’f


BMiS£
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty., Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
“FOOD IS A WEAPON..
a most powerful weapon”
mmy
aSgjilljF
“The way we manage our food supply will have a lot to do
with how soon we win this war. Food is a weapon—a most
powerful weapon. And the food we consume here at home
is just as much a material of war as the food we send abroad
to our soldiers and our fighting alliessays Claude R.
Wickard, U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
We, in Australia are facing food problems
similar to those of America, and can meet them
in the same way if we use our initiative.
“Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors, hauling the very latest in farm machin-
ery, can till the soil, sow and harvest in record time, working a 24-hour
schedule where necessary to keep faith on the food front.
The safe “Caterpillar” Track-type tread means that work can proceed
whether the going is wet or dry. While other equipment is waiting
for paddocks to dry “Caterpillar” is earning its keep. And, on big
scale operations, there is no comparison with “Caterpillar” fuel
economy or low maintenance cost.
"Caterpillar” pulling six row lettuce cultivator
on an ISOO acre lettuce farm in California.
Mtmm
■^"l/
wm
4 " ■
track-
Unwin s
Service
quarie.
'Phone-
R Vl* SeL
\T E 5..*-*. .
TYPE TRACTORS and and Q ue ensfand:
.2884. 102 Me 'S e J W-'«" isM 4 LlFll >W
c ' , 'YA
m
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
MADE STIOIAUT TO
PEEVENT SOIL THROATS
I
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years* Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Returned soldier, recently discharged, wants
job. Thorough exp. stock and station supplies,
wool-classing and -sorting.—34ol.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the basis of synthetic rubber?
(2) Cost of production ? (3) How does it com-
pare with natural rubber?
(1) There are many recipes. Bases are usually
either (a) petroleum by products, (b) calcium
carbide, which requires cheap electricity, and
(c) alcohol. (2) Depends on output. “Buna”
rubber, produced in maximum quantities, costs
about lOd. a pound. (3) Natural rubber is
superior in processing qualities, extensibility
and elasticity, resilience and behavior at low
temperature. Synthetics are superior in resist-
ance to chemical action. Send stamped,
addressed envelope for further details.
(1) British casualties in the last war? (2)
Number of British divisions raised? (3) Which
was the crack British division ?
(1) Deaths, 812,317; wounded, 1,849,494.;
p.o.w, 142,000. (2) Three cavalry and 29 front-
line. The division was much larger then than
now. (3) Impossible to say—there were so
many that distinguished themselves.
What part of the plant is used for making
angelica crystals ? When should it be cut ?
Recipe ftor crystallising?
The stalks are crystallised. Cut the stalks
when firm but not hard, put into preserving-
pan, cover with soft water and boil for two
hours. Lift out, add one cup of sugar for each
of liquid left in pan. Boil up, return angelica
to pan and boil till syrup has almost dis-
appeared. Drain, roll in fine sugar and dry in
sun or a slow oven.
How to treat Barbour’s thread to allow it to
be cast ?
Rub a solid fat well in and then apply bees-
wax.
A softener for greenhide to enable it to be
plaited and remain pliable afterwards ?
Soak it in water until it becomes pliable,
then hang to dry. When dry, rub in fat or
neatsfoot oil. Always hang greenhide ropes,
reins, etc., out of the sun after use. Well-made
greenhide shouldn’t go hard. Next time you
treat a skin, try this method: To remove the
hair and flesh, make up a liquor of 2oz. un-
slaked lime to every gallon of i water necessary
to cover the hide. If the hair then comes out
readily, commence unhairing, but if it still re-
mains firm make a fresh liquor and soak again.
Then over a rounded surface carefully scrape
the hair and flesh off with a blunt instrument.
Wash the lime off and soak hide in cold water
for another day. Then make up a curing bath
of 6oz. alum, 3oz. salt to each gallon of water
and soak for four days. Before taking the hide
out make a slit in the neck and notice if the
hide is a greyish color right through; if there
is a streak in the centre of the hide leave it in
the liquor until it disappears. The hide will
then need a,t least two washings in clean water
and should be hung to dry away from the sun
and wind. When dry, rub fat or paraffin-wax
thoroughly into both sides of the hide until it
is soft and flexible.
(1) A book giving hints on painting ? (2)
How to get a good cream color on stained in-
terior walls? (3) How to replace a dark stain
on pine floorboards by a light?
(1) Cassell’s Handymans 1000 Practical
Recipes. Write to Barker, 30 Adelaide-street,
Brisbane, for list. (2) Dissolve one cup wash-
ing soda in one gallon hot water. Rub wood
well, using pumice-powder as well if necessary.
Rinse, wipe down and paint when dry. (3)
Use paint-and-varnish remover, obtainable at
oil and color shops.
A remedy for tomato wilt?
Tartar emetic ; directions for use on packet.
Sold by seedsmen.
Brief Answers.
W.E.C.: No information available....
R.X.J.: Meanjin Papers are published by C. B.
Christensen, G.P.O. Box 1871 W, Brisbane; 10s.
per year, single copies 3s. Published quarterly.
S.M.: The preparation has never been sold
in Australia, and cannot be imported
F.L.F.: (1) The ownership of the soil of a non-
tidal river to the centre of the, river is vested
in the owner of the land abutting on to the
river. (2) The ruling bank rate of interest is
5 p.c J.T.: Spare parts can still be obtained
from Wizard Lighting Systems, 4 O’Connell-
street, Sydney F.W.T.: Ingredients are a
trade secret... .T.M.U.: She might be Aus-
tralian by nationality and a Jewess by religion.
F.M.: Fees owing to hospitals may be re-
covered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
W.H.S.: Ted Scorfield’s latest, A Mixed
Grill, is now on sale at this office, 2s. 6d., plus
postage C.V.S.: Paragraphs relating to Mel-
bourne correspondent’s selections are written
by him... .W/McM.: (1) Specific gravity of
methylated spirit is higher than that of octane
motor spirit for .’planes. (2) Try Elliott’s and
Australian Drug, G.P.O. Box 494 AA, Sydney.
(3) 50s. to 80s. per gallon. (4) Apply to
Excise Department, Customs House, Sydney,
for permit. State amount required, purpose for
which it is to be used, and firm from which it
will be obtained.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address■ must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. iSill be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. 'should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.R.McD.: As mechanical as a grindstone.
D.W.H.: At least you don’t bite off more
than you can chew; try again, gunner
A.W.R.: Very precious; very anaemic
J.M.D.: Psychological cross-section taken from
a particular dreary form of life M.E.L.:
Ending doesn’t justify the prologue J.J.L.:
The dialect prattle of your tramps does not
amuse us... .M. 8.: Tiny tots’ stuff... .W.M.F.:
Doesn’t click G. 8.; More propaganda than
story; both trite F.H.H.; A bit too slight,
but your local color is the real thing....
E.A.G.; Good title, fair-enough opening, but
you’ve left out the middle and the end.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.P.: Your undertaking not to submit any
more drawings for three months is the best
news we’ve had since Naples fe11... .G.P.:
Nothing is of less use than a faint pencil
sketch.


With care...
mmmm
ms
Wmt
r.
0.
I
A
m
SB
i
B
your
IX
will outlast the war !
There is no need to worry about your
Feltex floor covering. It’s made to
last—and retain its beauty. Treat it
well, and it will serve you well.. . thus
enabling you to buy more War Bonds.
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX Floor Covering.
F 1.34.18
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at S't. John’s College and
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late James
Murphy, of Como. , . ...
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their sons
to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University or
Svdney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 11th January, 1944.
in the case of the Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than the Btn
February, 1944, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and further partieulai*
may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aj £ £ IB
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 f.c.= 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 .. •• 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 „ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940.. 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
J 941.. 153,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 427,939
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 422,939
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 445,861
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 440,861
1943.. 126,287 8| p.c. = 87,500 38,787 479,648
To staff fund, £5OOO 474,648
* After eliminating outside interests.
Australia’s No. 1 textile co. continues
to work the plant at the highest possible
rate under conditions that are shorten-
ing its life much more rapidly than
peace-time wear and tear. Skilled opera-
tives are in smaller proportion than
usual, and coarse war-time cloths, plus
round-the-clock working, make depreci-
ation of machinery exceptionally heavy.
The board, before striking last year’s
profit, set aside £12,500 as a special
plant-replacement reserve. But depreci-
ation allowance must still remain the
chief provision of this nature. The chair-
man has expressed the hope that prices
and taxation rates will be adjusted by
the authorities so that ample funds will
be available for plant rehabilitation when
the war ends. There was no question,
iq his opinion, that private industries
would constitute the main employment-
givers when demobilisation of the fight-
ing forces took place.
Yarra Falls before the war was mak-
ing splendid suitings and woollen dress
materials, woven from its own yarn.
Now the two main weaving mills —one
each in Sydney and Melbourne —are en-
gaged nearly 70 p.c. in defence work.
The remaining output is “standardised”
civilian lines, and to start off with these
were mostly single-weft stuff, of a quality
unsatisfactory to the maker, the public
and the war effort. The “standardisation”
of the W. 0.1. was so early recognised
to be a disaster that it may have since
been modified. However, official decrees
die hard, and productive industry has had
much to suffer from inexperienced Jacks-
in-office.
Last term, though a severe winter in
Melbourne resulted -in; so much sickness
among operatives that revenue was there
affected, in Sydney and at the Byfas plant
(parachute silk) “the return was better.”
But over the entire activities of Yarra
Falls and its subsidiaries (chief of which
is the Globe Worsted Mills, Sydney)
there was a reduced margin of profit, and
the trading result prior to depreciation
and taxation’ was £20,190 lower at
£343,469. Income from general invest-
ments was up £3502 at £5817. Allow-
ances for depreciation and plant replace-
ment (£55,840 and £12,500 respectively)
were together down £3607 compared with
the preceding term’s provision for wear
and tear, and, setting aside £15,860 less for
taxation (£150,977), paying £3365 of
other outgoings (down £405), and appro-
priating £lBl less as the interest of
minority shareholders (£317), the net
profit was £3365 greater at £126,287,
representing 12.6 p.c. on capital, Com-
pared with 12.3 and 15.4 p.c. in the two
preceding years. The div. was lowered
to 8f p.c., though the final was at the
usual rate. After transferring £5OOO to
the staff fund, reserves benefited by
£33,787 net.
It is quite clear from the figures of
Yarra Falls that there is no fat coming
to the co. out of its war-time functions.
Even in terms of the depreciated national
currency the dividend has fallen, and
divs. in the hands of shareholders are
subject to tax at the recipient’s rate
irrespective of what tax the co. has paid.
The fact that nothing like equality of
sacrifice has been enforced by the
Government in its fiscal policy is re-
flected in the growing volume of spend-
ing-power in the wage-earning com-
munity and the dwindling investing-
power of the middle classes, who are the
shareholding type. Wage-earners are not
giving adequate support to war loans,
even though they have more money than
they ever possessed—much of which they
at present cannot spend except in the
black market.
A Government which has made such
an unhappy fist of its financial adminis-
tration even when given the assistance
of war-time regulations and censorship
cannot be expected to do better in the
peace. Therefore any planning which
aims at Government management of in-
dustry in peace-time will be nothing more
than an obstruction to a return to a
dynamic employment-giving economy.
Civil servants don’t seem to realise that
regulations, red-tape and form-filling do
not produce anything that one may eat,
drink, wear or use. Hence the necessity
for industries such as Yarra Falls being
given every facility to enter the post-war
period in a state of strength and effi-
ciency. It will be industry, not parasitic
growths, which will provide employ-
ment.
The co. is doing its best to keep
finances in a strong condition:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests* .. 5,388 5,267
Overdraft .. . . 14,275 81,302
Sundry creditors! . . 212,275 332,720 388,360
Staff funds . . . . 5,000 15,000 20,000
Freeholds . . . . 369,031 424,608 446,150
Plant, etc 420,447 342,457 307,679
Stocks .. 591,936 852,865 845,832
Debtors . . . . 170,327 202,191 206,434
Shares .. .. 60,174 33,692 34,554
Cash, etc 26,841 74,457 115,125
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
The new river wall has been completed ;
the cost altogether appears substantial.
It is clear from the heavy taxation paid
each year that the taxgatherer does not
allow the co. the same rate of deprecia-
tion as it writes off itself. Shareholders
are therefore paying now for post-war
efficiency insurance. Yarra Falls has
always been liberal in its depreciation
provision, but with the prospect of a
steep rise in plant-replacement costs it
may turn out that past provisions have
been no more than necessary.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
/ —i Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7| p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£■£>£, £ £
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 p.c. = 48,000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10'* ~ ~60.000 454,868
1986. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172.563 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~81,000 819,401
1940. .207,053 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 917,704
1941. .130,667 9000 18,750 10 ~ „ 81,000 939,621
1942. .148,462 9000 18,750 8 „ ~ 64,800 995,533
1943. .159,020 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,045,803
First prefs, reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
A surprisingly good result, considering
the net thrown over turnover by ration-
ing and price control and the spanners
that Man-power, Import Procurement,
W. 0.1. and other national security con-
trols heaved into the works of trade and
industry.
Though lower coupon values are
allowed for “white-elephanty” * and
damaged piecegoods, rationing cut into
retailers’ turnovers, as was intended it
should do. What happened is seen in
the next table, which shows percentage
decrease or increase in sales, etc., com-
pared with the corresponding month of
the preceding year for Sydney retailers
as a whole:
Av. No. Remune-
Sales, Employ- ration
19 43- Total. ees. Paid.
Jau —15.3 —19.8 —l4 7
Feb —27.5 —23.0 —17.9
Mar —14.1 —19.5 94
April .. .. —16.0 —20.0 —l6^o
May .. .. +O,B —19.7 —ll.l
June .. .. 1.3 —15.7 7.6
Drapery lines most affected were dress
piecegoods and women’s and men’s and
boys’ wear, all of which are conspicuous
on D.J.’s shelves.
Owing to Government war-finance
policy and automatic adjustment of wages
to the cost-of-living index, the general
price level had officially risen 22\ p.c.
between outbreak of hostilities and April
last. To arrest this spiral of inflated costs
and wages—each lift in the latter de-
feated itself as soon as added to costs —
the Government abandoned “selective”
price control for the “overall” or “ceil-
ing” method, introduced as from April
12 last. Under the new scheme traders
absorb increased costs within the busi-
ness, or apply to the Government for a
subsidy, which will be paid only on
“essential” goods. In trying to halt the
dangerous increase in living costs, sales tax
oh existing stocks of clothing and textiles
was lowered from 12| p.c. to 1\ p.c. As
new stocks, subject to reduced tax, come
on to the market selling prices will be
adjusted because gross profits are
anchored by regulation. Another fruit-
ful source of rising prices is growth
in cost of imports. Here the amount by
which actual landed cost exceeds basic
landed cost (figured by the price-fixing
authority) may be claimed as subsidy.
But payment is subject to (1) ability of
the business to absorb higher costs, and
(2) W.0.1.’s decision that no further eco-
nomies are possible by improved effi-
ciency or rationalisation of the trade.
The problems of management have
been rendered complex and harassing
by the maze of controls to which business
has been subjected. D.J. set up a special
staff, under its own price-control officer,
to carry out provisions of some 1230
price regulations, etc.; and coupons—the
co. handled 23 million of them during the
first 16 months of rationing—are treated
and banked in the same way, as money,
thus inVolving all the work associated
with double currency. The numerical
reduction and change in composition of
staff—men have been largely replaced by
women of the middle-age group—helped
to reduce overhead, and at the same time
reduced the economic efficiency of labor.
Chief factor in the problem of overhead
resulted from reduction of turnover,
which left the co. with more selling space
than it required for immediate needs.
Here solution was provided by the Min-
istry of Munitions taking over the new
Marked-street store (at an unstated rental),
and by letting three floors of the George- 4
street premises as a women’s service
hostel. Also, part of the George-street
ground floor is being used by the Ameri-
can Red Cross Service Bureau. The
Marlborough-street factory, which turned
out much of the co.’s requirements, is
now employed largely on defence orders
—immediate need for further accumula-
tion of stocks was removed on introduc-
tion of the price ceiling.
So, after reducing the allowance for
depreciation (£50,986) by £6044, the man-
agement was able to show an extra
£10,558 of profit (£159,020). This was
enough to meet pref. requirements and
show 16.2 p.c. on the £BlO,OOO of ord.
capital as against 14.9, 12.7, 22.1 and 17.8
p.c. back to 1939. The couple of points
chipped off the div. in the previous term
were restored, making it 10 p.c. again.
Financially, the co. put on more weight
and further improved its vitality;
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £1,210,000 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors.. 391,878* 676,353 390,481
Mortgages, etc. . . 652,215 581,923 481,606
Tax reserve . . 250,450 205,612
Freeholds .. .. 1,600,047 1,659,417 1,657,926
Plant, etc 488,262 357,165 293,003
Stocks .. . . 579,998 1,129,573 1,020,196
Book debts . . 433,962 483,653 306,335
Investments, cash, etc. 34,360 150,799 142,346
* Including provision for taxation.
The year’s .reduction of £109,377 in
stocks and of £177,318 in debtors’
balances enabled £100,317 to be lopped
off mortgages, etc., and £285,872 off
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Including the tax reserve (down £44,838),
the improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£391,178) was £135,879.
Interest is now developing in the future
as against the present. But until the war
situation ” allows a greater and steady
transfer of production from war goods
to civilian consumption goods it is doubt-
ful whether the Government will grant
any substantial release from direct con-,
trols now operating. Meanwhile, “plan-
ning” is in vogue, and blankets, towels,
everyday cotton materials and many other
things remain in very short supply.


STOPvoußßupture
Worries/
Mark ® Location,
at YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. -Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(I)ept. 27), b Martin Place, Sydney.
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass S pints a day ana get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people.
They give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
j V
mf 5
w*
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp_ dryness. _ Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anjJ Trade Marks,— Advt.
qk\xn
a s
on
c ti orl
f p r°
deP
ly
up?
rkd
of con,b o°n eri
%
0
thc
%Suho
\
I*
gn
5
f V\. \
A
N
W
III)
>
V
>3
\
ALEMITE
Pioneer System of
Pressure Lubrication
plays a vital part in the theatres of war
and on the production fronts.
Genuine ALEMITE Equipment—Fit-
tings, Hand Guns, Power Guns, Portable
Service Stations are in service in far
corners of the earth. On a day, possibly
not too far distant, Alemite equipment
will be freely available again.
ALEMITE
Reo-U.S.Pal.Off.
LUBRICATION
Another Product of Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
:
■ (*
...//
»
,f/.i
5 58®
y
t/MON^
1! Ant NO 00
~-3a/$d
1! 130 N\f ,
THE SQUANDER BUG
HOPS BUCK MARKUS
He knows where the black marketeers preside—
he’ll get "this” for you, if you will pay the price.
Don’t listen to him. Save your money and lend it
to Australia. Then you can usq your money when
stocks are plentiful and cheaper again. Most
important—you’ll be helping to win the war.
★ ★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★
Hhis C^ rtstmas S* ve *h ese Patriotic Presents!
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
6d. WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
as many as you like, in the Free Gift Folder.
5'- NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
to help advance subscriptions to the next War Loan.
C? 3-26 •
Hill 50 held its annual golden roll-up
in Perth the other day, when the directors’
aggregate remuneration for the ensuing
year was fixed without demur at £750
and managing director W. Clark willingly
given a fee of £5OO. In a hope-for-the-
best speech, chairman A. E. Weston said
that, while the year’s profit at £21,294
was down £35,761 on that for the preced-
ing 13 months, and while admitting the
extreme difficulties and almost impossible
conditions under which the co. had been
working, the board had decided to cdrry
on and would keep on carrying on unless
some circumstance beyond its control
forced it to give up. Decreased profits
had rendered maintenance of quarterly
sixpenny dividends impossible, but the
board hoped to distribute Is. a year,
which 'on the present market value of
shares wasn’t a bad return. A sixpenny
dividend (the 17th) would be paid on
December 15.
One would think that war-time con-
ditions of operation, involving the handi-
caps of labor shortage, rising costs and
high taxation was enough for any mining
co. to bear, but, according to Dr. K. B.
Edwards, managing director of Boulder
Perseverance, sales tax has been applied
to tools made in the co.’s own workshops
for its own use. Moreover, machine tools,
technical and scientific instruments have
been commandeered without apologies.
From London:
Chairman C. F. Bell told shareholders at the
Boulder Perseverance annual meeting that grati-
fying results despite difficulties summed up the
co.’s achievement last year. Price of gold was
on an average 2s. 3d. (Aust.) an ounce less
than in the previous year, and if would appear
that there was a danger of gold producers once
again having to meet their rising costs out ot
a steadily-diminishing credit balance. Fixing
of the gold price didn’t stabilise paper currency
or internal costs, and this bitter lesson might
have to be learned once again. As for the
future, the position since the end of the co. s
financial year had deteriorated, and this year s
results would obviously not be as good as last.
They were, however, not expected t'o get any
worse unless some totally unforeseen cause
added further complications. Managing direc-
tor Dr. K. B. Edwards said that the lower gold
price had resulted in wages falling 2s. a week,
or about 1.6 per cent., but all other costs had
risen steadily. During the year there was a
progressive curtailing of activities, until by the
end tonnage mined and treated amounted to
only 50 to 60 per cent, of normal. Reduced
development resulted in shrinkage of ore re-
serves. Treatment costs, which had risen owing
to restricted tonnage available for the plant,
had been reduced 2s. a ton since the close ot
the year by putting through South Kalgurli ore
as well as that of the constitutent shareholders
(Boulder Perseverance and North Kalgurli) in
the ore-treatment co. This was an emergency
war-time measure and not a permanent arrange-
ment. Referring to income and payments,
Edwards said that of the total amount received
for gold and silver last year the co. paid out
86.3 per cent, in Australia and remitted to
London to meet’ taxation, expenses and divi-
dends to shareholders outside Australia 13.1
per cent. He hadn’t any hesitation in saying
that the co. and other goldmines in Australia
were a valuable asset to the Commonwealth.
* * * *
In broadcasting a net profit from gold-
mining and other sources of £20,353 stg.
for last year, compared with £7726 the
year before, directors of South Kalgurli
(W.A.) emphasise that lower returns are
likely for the current 12 months owing
to man-power difficulties. In the first
half of the present year production
dropped by a further 25,000 tons, with a
corresponding fall in revenue, but since
then, with the limited man-power finally
permitted by the Commonwealth authori-
ties, production has been stepped up to
5500 tons per four-weekly period, a rate
which it is hoped to maintain. Adding
£7llO to last year’s surplus and deduct-
ing £9943 provision for taxation, £7813
dividend and bonus, and some other
charges, £9240 is left to carry forward.
The arrangement recently made by the
management to combine the mine’s ore
with that of Boulder Perseverance and
North Kalgurli for treatment by the Kal-
gurli Ore Treatment Co.’s mill on the
Perseverance is said to be proving satis-
factory.
* * * *
From London:
North Kalgurli’s annual report shows that
only 108,700 tons were treated last year, or
nearly 100,000 tons fewer than in the preceding
12 months. Gold production was helped by
ore treated being Idwt. a ton richer. Work-
ing costs, owing to smaller tonnage and higher
cost of supplies, increased by 2s. 9d. a ton,
excluding development and Croesus Prop, plant
closure. Profit was £59,300, compared with
£75,600, after taxation, depreciation and advance
development. Dividend at Is. showed a reduc-
tion of \2\ p.c. All figures are in sterling.
Ore reserves are stated to have been well main-
tained at 1,020,600 tons averaging 6.34dwt. a ton.
* * * *
This comes from a U.S.A. correspon-
dent, commenting on the value of gold.
In North Africa the natives are reluctant
to sell food for paper money, but will
do so for gold. After the Italians were
kicked out of Ethiopia their paper money
was practically tossed out after them.
The demand was for silver, and big piles
of Maria Theresa dollars were coined
by the London Mint for use in Ethiopia,
Arabia and Somaliland, All this, he says,
goes to show the tenacity of the hold
which the monetary metals possess over
the minds of men —even blacks. What-
ever arrangements are made to promote
post-war currency stabilisation, gold will
find a place, he avers.
*** * *
“O.B.”: Industrial diamonds have
never been in such demand as now.
U.S.A. alone is taking something like
$2O million-worth a year. The stones
are being put to many uses in industry—
from the glass-cutter to the manufacture
of wire so fine as to be almost invis-
ible to the naked eye. Use of hard
diamonds goes back, it is said, almost to
the days of Cain and Abel. Moses is
believed to have used one to inscribe the
Ten Commandments.


FIND OUT NOW
IF YOU'RE A VICTIM
.
4 OUT OF 5
may be too late
OFTEN LEADS TO
LOSS OF TEETH
il your gums are tender, sore and Bleed — take
heed right away I These are often signs of Pyor-
rhea—a swiftly spreading inflammation where the
gums join the teeth. BUT many folk go on blindly
neglecting this condition until It Is too late J Gums
become soft and spongy . . . pus forms . . . ano
then teeth begin to loosen and fall out.
Guard against Pyorrhea this easy
Forhan Way,
Massage your gums and brush teeth twice dally
with Forhan’s Toothpaste. This effective TWO-
WAY dental help does these three important
things:—
1. Helps gums to be firmer—thus able to ward off
this terrible Infection.
2. Cleans teeth to their “natural” lustre.
8. Helps remove acid film that often starts tooth
decay.
Only original Forhan’s dentifrice containing •
special anti-pyorrhea astringent 1
A/sian Agents,
The Sheldon Drug. Co. Pty. Ltd. (Sydney),
GUfftS
SOW
iNFIAMED gums
Price. 2/4.
Extra Large Tube, 3/6.
Does BOTH Jobs* Cleans Teeth—Saves Gums*
ẃ
A SPECIAL MESSAGE
fro men in
PROTECTED
INDUSTRIES
The R.A.A.F. needs thousands of young men for
immediate enlistment as air crew trainees. It is
appreciated that until now, you have been refused
permission to join this fighting service, owing to
the national importance of the work you are doing.
Whilst the particular work you are- doing may
Still make release impossible, applications are now
Invited from men in protected industries, and,
where it is possible, release will be granted.
It is recognised that no man can render more
valuable service to his country than in an Air
Crew. R.A.A.F. AIR CREWS serve in the following
categories:
PILOTS ..... __ __ _ J 8 to 31 years
NAVIGATORS _ ...-j
WIRELESS OPERATOR-AIR I*
GUNNERS _ _J
18 to 32 years
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest R.A.A.F.
Reauiting Centre or local R.A.A.F. Committee.
JOIN THE M
OHAAI
R.A.A.F. 1-26.
AIR CREW
Business, Rollery, etc.
Whakalane Paper Mills
The present management has had
several problems to face. Firstly, the
bond-finance method adopted in the
forest-planting days was expensive;
secondly, the capitalisation of the forests
and establishment account in relation to
the mill is over three to one ; thirdly, mill
output in relation to capital is small;
and fourthly, the New Zealand Govern-
ment has been hard to get on with in
relation both to plant establishment and
selling prices allowed.
There are Pinus insignis and rimu
forests near Lake Taupo and Te Teko,
on the Rangitaki River (MX.), together
aggregating about 69,000 acres. The
forest history dates back to 1925. Milling
began early in 1939, the co. drawing its
initial pulpwood from outside sources. A
proportion of imported chemical pulp has
had to be mixed with the co.’s product.
There were great financial difficulties
through the period of mill erection, the
co. seeking both pref. and debenture
capital, and when production began it
was forced by the Price Controller to
sell output below export parity. A heavy
loss resulted.
Up to the present the co. has been
making cardboard. In the year to June,
1940, average selling price was about
£22 a ton, in 1941 it was £35, in 1942 £39
and last term £3B. The rise in 1941
resulted from reconsideration of the co.’s
case by the prices people; they fixed a
general basis of recovery of production
costs, partial depreciation and 7 p.c. on
the capital invested in the mill, provided
12,500 tons a year was turned out. The
mill, however, represented only‘about a
quarter of the capital of the undertak-
ing. The financial structure and its
relevance to profits can be seen in this
table:
1941. 1942. 1943.
£ £ £
Paid capital . . 2,061,058 2,064,195 2,065,665
Debentures .. 164,866 164,871 94,883
Trust funds .. 10,360 10,072 9,968
Other debts .. 68,815 58,207 34,498
Tax provision .. 151 650 25,197
Forests, etc. .. 1,156,269*1,159,483*1,147,101
Buildings and
plant .. 548,819 523,997 522,813*
Debtors.. .. 14,622 13,734 29,710
Shares .. .. 1,920
Consols, etc. .. 15,340 13,627 9,231
Public Trustee 10,360 10,072 9,968
Cash .. .. 12,713 52,860 29,434
Stores, etc. .. 28,847 49,206 62,025
Establishment 521,994 481,391 436,426
* Includes tramways. •
The progressive reductions in establish-
ment account on the one side and liabili-
ties on the other over the past two years
is traceable to the retention in the busi-
ness of profits now being earned. P. and
I. debit, at one stage up to £86,173, is
now down to £5llB.
Output, sales and trading results over
four years make an interesting sum-
mary :
Output, Sales, Deprn., Loss.
Tons. £ £ £
1940 7,000 154,537 33,798 72,994
1941 .. 9,300 321,855 36,163 13,180
Profit.
1942 .. 11,408 445,954 44,849 40,582
1943 .. 14,110 523,362 45,000 40,474
Last term output rose by 2702 to 14,110
tons, and sales expanded by £77,408,
reaching £523,362. In the preceding term
the co. had been able to show £3 11s. 2d.
a ton net profit on output. This term, by
reason of a slightly lower average selling
price, a charge of £25,000 for taxation
(against £499 previous term) and a lift in
administrative outgo, a cut of about 30s.
a ton in manufacturing and distributing
exes, was not enough to prevent a fall
of 13s. Bd. (to £2 17s. 6d.) in the margin
of net profit, and, in spite of the increased
production, total profit was £lOB lower
at £40,474. This reduced the p. and 1.
debit to £5llB, but there is something
like £70,000 arrears of pref. divs. to attend
to also. Pref. capital amounts to
£140,454, against an ord. total of
£1,925,211.
Most interesting recent development
has been the granting to the co. of addi-
tional manufacturing licenses. The new
lines permitted are writing and printing
papers, liner board and bleached add un-
bleached sulphite pulp. “While existing
war conditions may postpone the im-
mediate fulfilment of this expansion
policy,” the directors nevertheless -feel
that prospects have been improved by
the changed Government attitude. They
add that satisfactory utilisation of the
co.’s timber resources depends to the
extent on which such expansion may be
possible, both for the home market and
for export. Completion of the expansion
envisaged by the revised licenses is ex-
pected to absorb about 50,000 cords of
wood a year. Logging operations are
now being carried out on the co.’s Mata-
hina property, no Pinus insignis being
drawn from elsewhere. The plantations are
reported to be developing in “a very satis-
factory way.”
A notable feature of the co.’s accounts
is the provision for depreciation. Last
term’s allowance was £45,000, making the
total over four years of manufacturing
£159,810. Thus, though last year’s im-
proved output “follows the installation of
major items of new equipment contem-
plated in the last two reports,” the book
value of the pulp and paper mill was
reduced by £27,427.
There is gradual improvement on both
the financial and manufacturing sides.
All debenture arrears have now been
wiped out, and £70,037 of London deben-
hires were last term redeemed. Pros-
pects for the current year’s plant output
are reported to be good. The immedi-
ate flies in the ointment are the huge
capital over which profits will have to
be spread when ord. divs. come along,
and the high production costs in relation
to the controlled price. The co.’s output
is of the greatest importance to the
Dominion in present circumstances, and
the co. may reasonably expect some
tariff consideration when the war is over.
Up to the outbreak of war paper-board
came into the country duty-free,
N.Z. Forest Products, the biggest
afforestation co. in Maoriland, simul-
taneously with the granting of Whaka-
tane’s new licenses was given permission
to make kraft pulp and paper. So far
the N.Z.F.P. has been producing insulat-
ing board. Whether activities of these two
cos. and N.Z, Paper Mills will clash at a
later stage remains to be seen. There is
a great acreage of Pinus insignis in
Maoriland.
There are something like 12,000 share-
holders in Whakatane Paper Mills. About
half are in the Commonwealth.
The D.I.P. and the Prices Branch have
recently clashed over matters relating to
refugee cargoes. The D.I.P. seemed to
believe that it was a law unto itself in
the prices it could ask for the goods that
came into its control, and it is a fact that
many lines being sold by the D.I.P.
are priced according to market con-
ditions rather than cost price plus
charges incurred by reason of delayed
sale. As a result of the introduction of
cotton control, Bradford Cotton Mills
will have to hand to the D.I.P. £50,000
or more, reason being that Bradford’s
stocks of the raw material were bought
at a lower figure than the D.I.P. can now
purchase. Whether the £50,000 will be
used entirely for equalisation of prices
or whether some of it will pass to profits
of the department is still to be seen,
But the trading policy of the D.I.P. re-
mains a substantial factor in the inflation-
ary forces now at work in the Common-
wealth. A growing proportion of our
imported essential requirements goes
through the hands of Mr. Moore and his
inflating staff, and it is a notorious fact
that Government departments have little
regard for the national economic conse-
quences of their administration, the prime
example in pre-war years being income-
tax departments. If a price ceiling is
necessary it should apply to the Division
of Import Procurement equally with
others.
* * * *
Canberra estimates that about one
person in every 12 invested in the Fourth
Liberty Loan, as against one in every
four in Canada’s Fifth Victory Loan,
The Australian Treasurer says that about
560,000 Australians put “more than” £126
million into the latest loan, whereas a
Canadian loan on the market at the same
time found 2,790,000 subscribers for £342
million in Australian money,
* * * *
Britain’s Minister for Production,
Oliver Lyttleton, speaking at a meeting
of the Anglo-Brazilian Society, said; “It
will be Britain’s task after the war to dis-
play efficiency and ingenuity and to pro-
vide Brazil with a great range of new
products now being developed, which we
shall shortly—l repeat ‘shortly’—be able
to export to the rest of the world.” He
added that all through the nineteenth cen-
tury British capital, machinery and engi-
neers had contributed a great part to the
development of Brazil’s varied resources,
Apart from the particular reference to
Brazil the statement is interesting. The
emphasis on Britain’s ability “shortly” to
export to the world is arresting, and the
absence of any mention of a new post-
war heaven and new earth seems to fit
in with recent comment on the subject
by this paper and H, J. Hendy, of the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures,
* * * *
Maximum prices for wine have been
fixed in the Sydney area. They apply to
retail sales over the counter and to wine
consumed with meals. Highest price for
sherry is 12s. 9d. a bottle, lowest 2s. 3d.
Port runs down from 12s. 3d. to 2s. 3d.
“Top” for sauterne, chablis, hock, claret,
burgundy, muscat and madeira is ss. a
bottle ; sparkling hock or burgundy go
up to 75., with a limit of half a guinea
for champagne. Bottles sbld with meals
may be charged at about 50 p.c. higher
than over the counter. A two-ounce glass
6f fortified wine may be sold at a shilling
with meals or entertainment, and a five-
ounce glass of natural wine for the same
figure.


'Vf
as
(Si
f
Tf
tt
2r.^oa
C. S. B. HABDffALL PIASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
Pl||S
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
NUMBER TWO
r -
K
*1
■*.
«
«r
IWK
r i.^;«way!
JpfHE MARS" PLAIN MILLER*
MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
A STURDY MACHINEfI
°f i
GREAT ACCURACY;
MAXIMUM OUTPUT,
and 1
HIGH QUALITY WORfl
CE TO'^
Lay the foundations
0 0 0
frrf*7A''
mm
f:
sag
Z-9r
❖
%
V-
&a
ZH.
Q®s d
for
YOUR
POST WAR HOME
SET SAVINGS ASIDE FOR SPENDING i
IN THE PEACEFUL POST-WAR YEARS *
You can’t build now . . . and there’s a limit
to the remodelling you can do. There’s also
a limit to the amount of Cane-ite you can
buy. But there’s nothing to stop you plan-
ning for the time when you can build and
renovate and modernize with all the Cane-ite
you need. Cane-ite, as you know, is the
perfect insulating board, ideal for lining
walls and ceilings.
c
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. {Building Materials Division)
Marketing
CANE-ITE ; MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL . PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
INVEST YOUR SA VINOS IN WAR BONDS
CA 12-43
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
One State Treasurer on the Others
In B. 27/10/’43 there was an article,
“Obstructive State Governments,” and
in it the affluence of the majority of
the States was emphasised and set along-
side the financial difficulties which the
Commonwealth is up against. High rail-
way income, undiminished tax revenue,
absence of unemployment resulting from
Commonwealth man-power needs and
absence of noticeable price control over
State business undertakings were held to
be responsible for much of the buoyancy
of State revenues —up 35 p.c. since the
outbreak of war.
Now another critic has entered the
field; he is Dwyer-Gray, Treasurer of
Tasmania, The Bulletin acknowledged
that his State had not shared in the full
bounty of the distressed Commonwealth
authority. Referring to the expenditure
of £562 million last year on war, making
a total of £llO6 million since the conflict
started, Dwyer-Gray says in his annual
financial statement, more in sorrow than
in envy:
This enormous expenditure produced most
buoyant revenue conditions in the mainland
States. All State Governments, with the excep-
tion of Tasmania, ended the year 1942-43 with
surpluses in their consolidated revenue funds.
These surpluses, “as published,” were: New
South Wales, £1,597,000; Victoria, £755,000;
Queensland, £102,000; South Australia,
£233,000; West Australia, £25,000. It is certain,
however, that the true surpluses in all the States
were very much greater than the published
figures. Any proper comparison of the relative
financial position of the several States indicates
that, if desired, the account's could have shown
considerably larger surpluses in the consolidated
funds, because revenues were so buoyant
during 1942-43.
This buoyancy was very largely due to in-
creased railway earnings. All the mainland
State railway systems have hauled heavy freights
long distances at remunerative rates for the
military authorities. Increases in railway earn-
ings compared with the last pre-war year have
been as follows:
1942-43. 1938-39. P.c. In-.
£OOO. £OOO. crease.
New South Wales .. 34,295 19,946 72
Victoria .. .. 17,070 9,284 84
Queensland .. .. 16,918 7,798 117
South Australia .. 5,876 3,119 88
West Australia .. 4,446 3,599 24
Tasmania .. .. 686 487 41
Some of the more outstanding features of
the finances of the other States were:
New South Wales. —During the year there
was an increase of £6.7 million to £34.3 million
in railway earnings. In the circumstances, it was
surprising that the excess of revenue over ex-
penditure on the railways did not increase
by more than £585,000.
Victoria. —The published surplus of £755,000
was arrived at only after very substantial
amounts, in excess of the Budget estimates,
had been provided for various purposes. These
additional appropriations included £1,800,000
to the Railways Renewal and Replacements Fund
and £685,000 “to make provision in respect of
accumulated annual leave and arrears of ordi-
nary maintenance.” At the same time,
£400,000 was provided from consolidated
revenue in order to maintain the Unemployed
Relief Fund at £1,797,000.
Queensland— The Queensland Government
set aside out of 1942-43 revenue an amount of
more than £5 million, in order to finance post-
war reconstruction works.
I have already stated in the press that I con-
sider that the real surpluses in the Standard
States during 1942-43 have aggregated approxi-
mately £lO million.
The position may be summarised as follows:
Standard States.
N.S.W., surplus—
£l,s97,ooo (surplus as published).
Victoria, surplus—
£3,64o,ooo (adjusted for items quoted already).
Queensland surplus—
£s,3s2,ooo (including amount provided for
post-war reconstruction).
Total surplus—£lo,sB9,ooo.
Claimant States.
S. Aust., surplus—
£9o3,ooo (including payments deferred from
special grants).
W. Aust., surplus—
£l9s,ooo (including payments deferred from
special grants).
Tasmania, deficit —£110,000
At the same time, the two claimant States
of South Australia and West Australia had sur-
pluses in their consolidated funds during the past
financial year. In addition, these States will
receive during 1943-44 the payments deferred
by the Commonwealth Grants Commission out
of their special grants for 1942-43. These “pay-
ments deferred,” which are the opposite of
“advances,” were —South Australia, £670,000,
and West Australia, £170,000.
On the other hand, the Tasmanian deficit
for 1942-43 was £109,481, or almost 10s. per
head of the population. In the circumstances,
it is considered that the Government was
abundantly justified in all the efforts it made
last year to secure the payment by the Com-
monwealth to the State of additional financial
assistance.
Pointing out with mournful pride that his
estimates of revenue for 1942-43 had
been only 1.2 p.c, out and his expenditure
3.6 p.c. wide of the mark, the Tasmanian
Treasurer has produced tables to show
that N. S. Wales revenue has “unex-
pectedly and considerably” fluctuated to
the extent of 10.8 p.c. on estimates —fluc-
tuation in an upward direction. Vic-
toria’s “error” was 10.7 p.c. (to the good),
with Queensland up 25.6 p.c.
Dwyer-Gray indicates other sad diffi-
culties under which he is laboring.
“The introduction of Taceless Satur-
day’ once each month, restrictions
on the sale of real estate and
Stock Exchange securities, and the re-
duction by quota of beer production have
all limited receipts from stamp duties,
totalisator tax, bookmakers’ commission,
liquor tax and various license fees.
Further, it is noted that a high level of
community incomes reduces the incen-
tive to investment in lottery consultations,
the taxation of which has always been an
important source of State revenue in
Tasmania.”
So far this season 1,214,612 bales of
wool have been appraised for a value of
£22,359,183. Less 5 p.c. retention money,
the sum goes to the growers. Averages
were: N.S.W., 13.5 d.; Victoria, 13.47 d.;
Q., 14.35 d.; S.A., 12.13 d.; W.A., 13.35 d.;
Tas., 15.07 d.; Commonwealth, 13.48 d.
The Commonwealth average is just under
id. per pound lower than that for the
same period last season. Since September,
1939, £284,286,626 has been paid to wool-
growers and £5,467,667 to suppliers of
sheepskins,
* * * *
What has only been suggested in the
past is now heard with more official back-
ing: that one of the costs of this war
still to be paid is the cost of feeding and
rehabilitating inhabitants of occupied
Europe. Dunn, N. S. Wales Minister for
Agriculture, fears a shortage oi wheat
when this country is called upon to help
feed “starving people abroad.” Almost
simultaneously comes a cable from
America to the effect that the United
Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration has tentatively put Australia
down for £l2 million as its monetary
contribution, supposedly representing
1 p.c, of our national income; the
U.S.A. is down for £343 million and
Great Britain for £lOO million. Com-
pared with what we have become accus-
tomed to spending on war these figures
aren’t very big. But it is clear that if
the feeding and clothing of European
countries is to be the responsibility of
the United Nations until the unfortunate
ones are on their feet again, shortages of
certain commodities in Britain, the
U.S.A., Australia and other Allies may
continue for longer than expected when
the war with Germany is over.
* * * *
In New Zealand money wages have
risen 14.2 p.c. since the war started, com-
pared with about 22 p.c. in the Common-
wealth.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Fight for Sattelberg.
“Ek Dum”: The battle of Sattelberg
opened on November 17, when the Aus-
tralians began an enveloping movement
which, by the week-end, placed the
Japanese positions inside a sort of horse-
shoe of attack.
The enemy occupied, and still occupies,
a series of high ridges hard to approach
through jungle and bamboo thickets,
across creeks and rivulets swollen by the
rains and up slippery cliffs.
These ridges command good views of
the main approaches. From near Sattel-
berg itself between two of them a torrent
rages to the sea.
It is the Komiatum battle all over
again, but on a worse terrain for the
attackers and in worse weather.
The attack differed from previous ones
in that the Australian force was heavily
equipped and supported, as it needed to
be since every trail was covered by artil-
lery or machine-guns and grenade posts.
The accustomed preliminary of a bom-
bardment by the doughty 25-popnders
and R.A.A.F. Vengeance dive-bombers
paved the way for a start.
Then a hail of machine-gun bullets
was concentrated on known forward
posts, the familiar rattle being punctuated
by the horrible noises of the American
rocket-guns with U.S. crews. Soon the
valleys were full of the unimaginable din
of echoes which ran through the scale,
from the tat-tat of the enemy’s “wood-
peckers” and the chatter of Brens to the
solid crump of heavy mortars.
The troops pushed forward steadily
over the damp ground from three direc-
tions. One party moved up a track from
the west, its objective being to make the
junction with the hairpin-bending
Sattelberg road close to strongly-held
Japanese forward positions in an area
known as Coconut ridge, a steep drop-
ping down 200 ft. in sharp inclines on
either side. This party was brought to
a pause 200 yards from its objective.
Another force, coming in up the centre
along the road (so called) from the south-
east, plumped itself down to the east of
the enemy defences of Sattelberg, virtu-
ally cutting off part of the Japanese lines.
A third lot from the south, approaching
via Sisi, was able to link with the main
force —that from the south-east.
The Matildas Arrive
The first day’s drive was about 700
yards. It continued next day in light
rain and again on Friday. By the week-
end bitter fighting had developed.
Tanks had early been introduced, and
had indulged in some precarious climbs
such as tanks had never before essayed in
battle—attacks on wooded hills along
narrow tracks and on sawbacks on which
there was only 10 feet or so between
precipice and precipice. But the tanks
did fine work cleaning up enemy artillery
and m.-g. posts. They were 28-ton
British Matildas manned by Australians
—the heaviest tanks thus far used in the
Pacific.
At the week-end the perimeter had
tightened to within a mile of Sattelberg
on three sides. The attackers were faced
by a considerable force of the enemy,
obviously well armed and equipped.
Main drives need proper communica-
tions. These were being established in
proper volume with the help of bull-
dozers, which followed closely after the
troops, widening and smoothing the
narrow, tortuous kanaka tracks.
The approaches Were a slough of mud
in which even jeeps bogged down. In places
only the bulldozers could make progress.
It was reported that our casualties were
light. But there is obviously a grim fight
ahead.
The whole north of the Huon Penin-
sula is a natural fortress, and the enemy
shows no sign of giving it up without a
heavy struggle.
Beauforts on the Job
“Ek Dum”: The Sattelberg attack was
preceded by several bombing raids on
reinforcing convoys. On November 16 it
was reported that Liberators of Admiral
Nimitz’s command had' attacked the Gil-
berts and Jaluit, main base of the Mar-
shalls, stepping stones for Rabaul and
Buin. Later, it was reported from Hono-
lulu that U.S. troops had landed on
Makin and Tarawa islands in the Gilberts.
Makin is less than 300 miles from Jaluit.
The November 16 communique from
General MacArthur’s H.Q. mentioned
that a U.S. Navy Catalina had made
direct hits on a cruiser (there was an
internal explosion) which was escorting
a couple of ships a few miles north-west
of Rabaul. Fifty miles from Rabaul an-
other Catalina met a convoy of a large
ship (about 10,000 tons), two smaller ones,
a tanker and a small vessel, not identified,
and dropped four 500-pounders direct
on the largest ship. Still another 9000-
ton vessel, escorted by two corvettes, was
hit and forced ashore on New Ireland.
Meanwhile it became clear that the
R.A.A.F.’s Beaufort bombers, which had
scarcely been mentioned Until a week or
two ago, were making their weight felt.
In a month their nocturnal visits to
Rabaul have done much to change the
habits of Japanese shipping, which used
to spread itself out over the grey waters
round Rabaul at night like grazing sheep.
Now, woe betide the isolated ship which
is caught outside the well-guarded fold
of Blanche Bay. Thither as night falls
enemy vessels are shepherded to pass the
darkness ringed in by watchful ack-ack
batteries and searchlights.
In the first fortnight of November the
Beauforts were over Rabaul seven times,
apart from doing a regular beat up and
down St. George’s Channel and round
the New Britain coasts. They are a co-
ordinated force, bombers and torpedo-
carriers, and they play as partners.
The bombers come in at a reasonably
high level against some particular target.
When the ack-ack takes after them the
torpedo bombers pop up, sliding along
the sea and launch their tinfish. Or it
may be the other way round. By either
method the enemy is kept looking two
ways from his concentrated target.
In an attack on November 16 Flight-
Lieutenant A. J. Oates, of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), with cut motors, glided down
from almost 10,000 ft. while his com-
panions stayed aloft to draw fire and
searchlights. Picked up by searchlights
when about 400 ft. over the town, he
dived into the curtain of ship fire at
full throttle. When little more than
100 ft. above the water, with a ground
battery on his tail, he let his 2501 b. and
5001 b. bombs loose over a largish ship,
and the tail-end member of the crew saw
two bombs explode on the stern of the
vessel, which began to smoke like Vulcan
crater. The ship, an 8000-ton transport,
sank. The Beaufort went home with per-
forated wings but nobody hurt,
Flight-Sergeant Norman Lennon in an-
other machine put two shots on a
freighter, and land installations and
smaller ships generally were given a thor-
ough peppering—a large merchantman
was rocked by bombs from a ’plane cap-
tained by Flight-Lieutenant Ted Dorward,
of Brighton (Vic.).
All the machines came home safe, but
not without damage. In spite of their
manoeuvring, the guns opened on most
of them before they reached their targets,
and they were fired on heavily throughout
the raid. One pilot had his windscreen
blown out in front of his eyes. The crew
of another felt their tail being lifted with
a hefty kick from a large shell which
burst under it. And most had damage to
show in the shape of perforated wings,
Thursday’s bulletin reported the destruc-
tion of three more enemy ships—two dur-
ing a 400-mile sweep to sea, the third,
a 6000-tonner, by night reconnaissance
units in St. George’s Channel.
Next day another attack by Beauforts
and Beaufighters before dawn was men-
tioned —a sweep all along the south coast
of New Britain to Lukanai, Rabaul's
inner aerodrome, which was patterned
from low level with bombs. Two more
coastal ships were damaged.
Raids on Wewak
Other raids in the New Guinea area
included an attack in which 76 tons of
bombs were decanted on Alexishafen
aerodrome, one on Hansa Bay —here a
2500-ton cargo vessel was left sinking—
and one on Wewak. Lightnings shot
down six of between 60 and 70 attacking
fighters, against a loss of two of their own
machines.
In the north-west sector the raiders
ranged as far afield as Soerabaya and
other adjacent Javanese depots on which
there were oil installations. And there
were attacks on the Tanimbar Islands,
nearest Japanese post to the Australian
coast. There a 1500-ton cargo vessel was
sunk and a corvette rendered a total loss
by R.A.A.F. bombers and fighters.
The Enemy at Work
Communiques from Allied H.Q. de-
scribing enemy raids:
Nov. 16: Enemy bombers in a daylight raid
dropped 30 bombs harmlessly into Finschhafen
harbor.
Nov. 17: A force of enemy bombers and
fighters raided our forward aerodromes at
Nadzab and Gusap, doing some damage be-
fore being driven off by our fighter patrols.
Twenty enemy ’planes were reported as shot
down and another six probably destroyed, with
light losses to ourselves. Six bombers ineffec-
tively raided the Dobodura area before dawn.
Nov. 18: In the Ramu Valley our medium
bombers intercepted and shot down two enemy
fighters. A single enemy ’plane at night dropped
three bombs without effect on the shores of
Langemarck Bay (Finschhafen area).
Nov. 19: Five enemy ’planes before dawn
ineffectively raided Finschhafen positions.
Light and ineffective pre-dawn raids took place
in the Ramu-Markham Valleys.
Nov. 20: A single ’plane dropped harmless
bombs south of the Song River at Finschhafen.
Americans Consolidating
In the Solomons area the Americans
continued to consolidate their positions
at Empress Augusta Bay and, to some
extent to expand their bridgeheads, while
powerful aerial forces prevented inter-
ference by incessant attacks on the semi-
circle of aerodromes to the east, from
Buka to Ballale.
By Nov. 19 the bridgehead was several
hundred yards wider than it had been a
week previously and 800 of the enemy
were known to have been killed. These
figures are enough to show that, as in
the Huon sector, the battle for Bougain-
ville is unlikely to be a walkover. The
enemy is ready to fight from the very
outset with every advantage which the
terrain and bad weather give him.
The Seventeenth Brigade Marches
The Seventeenth Brigade, Sixth Divi-
sion, had a rousing welcome when it
marched through Melbourne last week,
and well it was deserved. Young as they
looked, most of the 1800 marchers had
fought in Libya, Greece, Crete and New
Guinea, and some of them in Syria.
-They were headed in the march by their
original commander, Major - General
Savige, and by Brigadier Moten, who
led them in the terrible months in which
they fought the battle of Wau and broke
Japanese resistance on the Komiatum
trail and before Salamaua.
Few troops have seen such widespread
service in modern times. Some have been
in and out of the line a dozen times with
wounds and illness.
There are Australians who seem little
conscious of what the country owes to
these men. History will do them justice.
Enzeds in the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: In the official correspon-
dent’s day-to-day stories the Maoriland
public is informed in the greatest detail of
what is taking place. The name of the
G.O.C. of the N.Z. force, Major-General
Barrowclough, has been given the same
prominence as General Montgomery in
Africa and Italy. And be it said that the
articles are of the same high standard
which placed the Maoriland correspon-
dent ahead of all others who described
the campaign in Greece.
Elements of the Third N.Z. Division
made their swoop on Vella Lavella in
two stages. The official correspondent
writes:
A large convoy took the troops un-
molested on the second stage of their
move.,..The ships, disposed in wide
diamond formation, were an open invita-
tion to Japanese bombers and submarines;
but whether the enemy intelligence had
failed to gather information of the New
Zealanders’ departure, or the fighter escort
and strong anti-aircraft defences acted as a
deterrent, the fact remains that no inter-
ference was attempted at any stage Not
a tittle of excitement disturbed the
Dominion troops Inside a destroyer
Screen a motley assortment of ships car-
ried their quota of men and equipment.
Capacious craft, of British design, carried
a full complement of vehicles and guns.
They had the L.S.Ts. —landing ships for
tanks, broad-bellied fellows, powerfully
armed against air attack, which drop huge
steel ramps on the beaches to enable their
mastodons to go ashore. And there were
L.C.Is. landing craft for infantry;
and A.P.Ds. —army personnel destroyers.
Unmolested, the van of the invasion
force, combat teams from the Fourteenth
Brigade, went ashore on September 18,
one strong body on the south-east of
Vella Lavella, the other at Paraso Bay,
on the north-east. Each force advanced
towards the other until the enemy was
confined to a five-mile strip of the island
—the Warambari-Timbala trap. After
which all the Jap forces trying to escape
were wiped out by joint Allied effort.
Several hours after the landing in
“torrid, stinking heat,” enemy bombers
came over in the first serious raid the
Maorilanders had to face, also the last
daylight raid of the campaign. The whole
Jap squadron was wiped out.
The Elusive Enemy
Once ashore the task was to find the
enemy. This was achieved by small
patrols which, with native guides, pin-
pointed the Japanese positions, some-
times creeping barefooted to within 25
yards of the enemy bivouac areas. They
learned their lessons from the black-
skinned Solomon Islanders, without whose
help and knowledge of bushcraft the task
of locating large bodies of the enemy
would have been protracted.
The enemy meanwhile had retired in
small parties to a well-picked position in
hilly country round Timbala Bay; a
position full of natural defences. Even
when the Maorilanders had been a fort-
night on the island, when they were lying
quietly round the perimeter of this H.Q.
bivouac area picking off snipers, wiping
out advanced m.g. nests, few of them had
seen a Japanese. „
The advance was a “game of patience”
—go forward cleaning-up targets, retire
when a burst of machine-gun fire
issued its warping. Then the 25-pounders
would bark and flatten the obstacle.
Patietice is needed most in the rain and
the dark. The rain blots out all other
noise in the jungle, making enemy infiltra-
tion a moment-tq-moment possibility. A
man must lie motionless then, as never be-
fore, despite the torrential downpour that
soaks him to the skin and saturates his
gear, as it did for six hours the other day.
He listens in suspense for every unaccus-
tomed stirring. When the rain ceases, he
must still lie silent, for the squelch of his
wet clothing will be easily defected. He
has no hope of drying out, for the sun
cannot penetrate the jungle. He waits as
he waited before for the Japs to lose
patience first. There is always the tempta-
tion to shoot in the dark at the rustling of
a rat in the bushes or the wallow of a
crocodile in the mud of the coast. That
must not be, for one burst of fire may
bring a grenade, mortar bomb or bullet
to the spot from which the shot comes.
Out in the darkness, of course, there is
the ever-present Jap, who leads the visit-
ing Maorilanders to “think somewhat
woefully of ourselves, blinded by the tall
trees of the jungle, moist with humidity,
dirty with mud, laying odds on the likeli-
hood of an hour or two in a foxhole this
night, while our tin-helmeted gunners
belch anti-aircraft fire at the enemy”
We might be babies, so early do we
cease all movement and douse all lamps,
for we cannot always tell if a wily son of
Tojo is not hovering unheard 30,000 feet
up watching for the gleam of a target
underneath.
One .M.L. party was surrounded and
attacked from four sides while guard-
ing a vital point. They had had
to abandon their gear, lose contact
with their ration supply and hold
on grimly against the chance of
relief. For six days they were sleepless
and hungry and rain-soaked. Shouting
Japanese yelled: “We’ll have your blood.
Heil Tojo! Heil Hitler! ” These Japanese
were “fit, big and well armed.” In the
four days the enemy launched six attacks.
Day and night their snipers worked tire-
lessly. Their ’planes dropped rations, and
when one of their food parachutes acci-
dentally drifted down among the New
Zealanders those brave lads had their
first full meal for five days.
A barge was occupied for two days in
trying to rescue survivors from this party.
All but one of those ashore who tried to •
make the safety of the sea were picked
off, but in the end a rescue was effected
with rubber boats.
The Jap “Feeds Well”
The enemy is well-equipped. He has
plenty of arms and ammunition. The
impression is left that, if his equipment
fails, it is in heaviness of armament rather
than in lack of abundance. And Japs in
their tropic campaign carry with them a
mass of amenities.
The strange, tough enemy fighter was
observed in his camps indulging “in child-
ish prattling and playing as of youngsters
in home back yards,” and indulging in
the heady game of yo-yo. But this does
not affect his fighting quality. He appears
to “feed very well on a balanced diet
comparable with the sustaining food fur-
nished European armies,” though “if
necessary he can live for long periods on
the smell of an oilrag... .as our men can,
too, for that matter.”
A day’s emergency ration for a single
Jap packs into a small calico parcel three
inches by three. In it are seven porridge
biscuits. These, when swollen with water,
will fill a large pannikin. There is a com-
pressed fish cake for each meal, which,
in water, forms an excellent soup. Then
two lumps of sugar and a little piece of
plum, which is pickled green. Plum is
Japan’s standard appetiser. Cooked with
the sugar, it is appetising. The fish cake
is well salted, and, though intended to
serve for a day, the whole ration would
keep a man alive for a week at a pinch.
The Maoriland force by the time it
moved northwards from Vella Lavella
to the Treasury Isles was well seasoned
and had gained its experience —particu-
larly the 14th Brigade.
But there was among them no t silly
elation or lack of realism of the grim job
ahead.
Squealers at Work.
“Ek Dum”: For their alleged short-
comings in the Mediterranean the British
and their American allies have caught it
hot again. In one group of com-
mercial radio stations so much indig-
nation was felt at the Eighth Army’s
failure to march on unhindered to Rome
that Mr. Kurt Offenburg was turned on
to give all hands curry. And this Mr.
Offenburg did, though not in person, it
being held that his accent needs to be
presented by proxy.
Mud and Snow
In Italy the basic reason for delay has
been bad weather. Roaring torrents in


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILLIAN MAY HERRING.—TAKE NOTICE that
GEORGE HENRY ERNEST HERRING has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3237 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Sydney on or before the 17th day of January
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from F. C. SINCLAIR Solicitor 2b Castlereagh Street
Sydney Solicitor for the Petitioner. — (1.5.) 0. K.
BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
mountain gorges and swamps and floods
in the coastal areas present difficult bar-
riers. They can, perhaps, be overcome,
if the commander is willing to play the
price in blood and material. It is the
policy of the Anglo-Americans not to
make unnecessary sacrifices of young life.
They know that Delay can be their
friend, since every week that passes sees
both the rear defences and the home
industries of the enemy more battered,
and their own striking power —which is
dependent for its source on long sea com-
munication lines —built up a little more.
Winter has fallen on Italy. Even if
the Eighth and Fifth Armies were to
race to the Po they would achieve no
capital result. Even a newspaper’s mili-
tary “expert” could scarcely carry on
the offensive by land across the Alps in
winter. And air attack on the parts of
Southern Europe which are most impor-
tant at this stage can best be conducted
from Foggia or some other similar base.
Allied squadrons last week ranged as far
afield as Sofia, Bulgaria’s capital.
On to the Sangro
The pause in the Eighth Army’s drive
did not last long. While it was being be-
labored in Sydney the gallant 50th
Northumbrian Division, the Scotties and
their boon companions the Indians were
already advancing in the terrible, sodden
snow and rain-swept mountains of
Central Italy.
They had taken Agnone, 18 miles
north-east of Isernia, and had caught the
retreating Germans at this point and
mauled them heavily. They had cap-
tured Castel Vincenzo, nine miles n.-w.
of Isernia, all in 48 hours, with 148
square miles of country. They had, as
they have several times done, outflanked
the Germans in the Cassino region to the
west, paving the way for fresh advances
for the still-waterlogged Fifth Army,
whose rearward positions along the banks
of the Volturno and the adjacent low-
lying Campagna and swampy lowlands
of the coast must be flooded out after
days of heavy rain.
At the moment Mr. Offenburg was
berating the Eighth, its forces had begun
their advance on Perano, near the mouth
of the Sangro, a position so rocky and
precipitous that the Germans did not
dream of the possibility that tanks could
assail it. But the tank leaders found an
Achilles heel and broke through and, at
dusk, the army’s bayonet men rushed the
German posts.
The Eighth Army now has control of
all the country south of the Sangro
River, from Central Italy to the Adriatic
coast. Its line runs straight down a
lateral road about seven miles from the
river. It is about 35 miles from Cassino,
on the main route from Naples to Rome.
When the Fifth Army strikes again the
crucial battle for Rome should be fought.
Both sides are getting ready feverishly
for that battle which, of course, if
fought by Fireside Fusiliers, would have
been carried through without preparation.
The Loss of Leros
The capture of Leros was, of course,
seen all out of proportion by home-keep-
ing critics. It is one of the smaller Dode-
canese islands. After the surrender of
Italy Italian Hoops thefe were joined by
British troops under Brigadier Robert
Tilney. The force apparently was
strengthened by reinforcements after
other small islands were retaken.
But Leros was not easy to defend. It
is rough cbuntry, has limited aerodrome
accommodation and is 400 miles from
the nearest British fighter base, while the
Germans have several fighter bases within
100 miles, including those on Rhodes and
Crete and on recently-acquired Cos.
The British obviously have not made
a first-class attempt to master the Dodec-
anese, otherwise they would have made
an assault on Rhodes, and probably Crete.
They have plenty of ships and men to
take either of those places, at a cost, and
to hold them; but the islands are of no
great use at the present stage, and would
indeed only become useful when a major
campaign against the enemy on Greece
was launched.
To the Germans, on the other hand,
the adventure of Leros had a propaganda
value, and they probably hoped that it
would prove to the Turks and wavering
Balkan peoples that Germany was still
a Power to be reckoned with. The
enemy, therefore, took a bold gamble.
He swept down on the rocky mountain
slopes of the island with parachute troops,
dropped in broad daylight, regardless of
what loss they might suffer, from a height
of 300 ft., and the venture succeeded by
the sheer boldness of the attack and
the sheer weight of the forces employed.
One estimate made in Ankara placed
German losses at 2000 in the first four
days, and the only British correspondent
on the island wrote that there was little
doubt that the enemy’s losses were
heavier than our own. The Germans, for
their part, claimed 3200 British (including
General Tilney) and 5350 Italians as
prisoners, together with the destruction of
nine destroyers “and escort-vessels,” two
subs, and other ships in a “preliminary
fight.” But the measure of the British
position on Leros was shown by the fact
that there was only one torpedo-boat
present to attack 14 German invasion
ships which landed troops. The enemy
occupied one or two other small 4Egean
islands.
General Maitland Wilson, C.-in-C. in
the Middle East, admitted that he was
surprised by the German victory. And
well he might have been ; but from a mili-
tary viewpoint the capture of the island
is of little importance.
The British reported a raid on the
little island of Symi, which left German
installations a wreck.
The Partisans in Yugoslavia claim
doughty deeds which are keeping as many
divisions occupied as the Fifth Army in
Italy. The Germans refer to them angrily
as bandits.
Anybody who has been in the Balkans
is not likely to believe anything emanat-
ing from there without a sheaf of affi-
davits from disinterested parties.
Bombs Still Fail.
The R.A.F. returned to its German
prey late in the week. On November 18
it made two of the heaviest raids yet
recorded —on Berlin and on Ludwigs-
hafen, in the Rhineland.
Scores of Australians took part in these
raids, which were in the 2500-ton class.
That on Berlin, in which Lancasters ex-
clusively were used, was the larger. It
was the first occasion on which two
attacks on such a scale had been carried
out on a single night, and the 32 bombers
lost were described as only “a very small
percentage of the total machines used”
—nearly 2000 heavies, it transpired.
Berlin sounded subdued after its ex-
perience. Twenty-four hours afterwards
fires were still blazing.
There were several other smaller raids,
including some by the American Air
Force, ranging from northern France to
Norway, where a Liberator formation
ran into fierce opposition at Kjeller in
the suburbs of Oslo. Nine Liberators did
not return, but Stockholm says three
landed safe in Swedish territory, their
crews intact. Eight German fighters were
destroyed. The American losses were
seemingly due to the new rocket guns.
On November 19 Leverkusen, six miles
from Cologne, was heavily attacked by
the R.A.F, Like Ludwigshafen, it is a
primary poison-gas manufacture centre.
The R.A.F.-U.S.A.F. goal of 30,000
tons of explosive and incendiaries per
month —nearly double the July quota—
has become practical politics.
Round the Pripet Marshes.
“Ek Dum”: The position on the east-
ern front reached one of the most inter-
esting stages in the Russian war with the
loosening of the enemy hold on Gomel
—it was claimed by Berlin on Nov. 19
that German forces had been “success-
fully drawn clear of the Gomel pocket.”
Up to November 22, the Russians had
not announced the capture of Gomel.
Gomel, as has been pointed out here
several times, is the key post of the whole
southern front. It was the point which it
was to be expected that the Russians
would most covet; the one for which
they drove arrow-straight after Kharkov
fell, since it was the joint between the
central and southern sectors, the point
at which the door could be opened for a
real Russian break-through.
It was also the first key point on the
Dnieper line reached by the Russians.
That it has been the last to be evacuated
east of the Dnieper and south of the
main central sector is another indication
that the enemy has not yet lost control of
his movements.
Five tveeks ago Moscow correspon-
dents were confident that Gomel would
fall in a matter of hours. Unfortunately
the Germans were able to hold on to it
until their troops were well out of the
country south-west of Kiev.
They apparently left a rearguard force
to protect the junction and the avenues
round and through the edges of the Pripet
Marshes until the retreat had progressed
so far that the abandonment of the town
and its surrounding positions would not
leave any exposed flanks.
The usual ritual was followed. Berlin
admitted the evacuation of the town be-
fore the Russians announced its capture.
Twenty-four hours after this Berlin bulle-
tin was issued, the Russians, while stating
that they were advancing on Gomel on
three sides, were firing salvos in celebra-
ting the taking of Korosten and Rye-
chitsa —which is directly west of Gomel.
It seemed then that the Russians had
control of all the railway from Zhitomir
northwards to the Pripet Marshes.
Korosten was described as an im-
portant railway junction. So it was while
the Germans held Kiev and the country
in its sector east of the Dnieper, but,
with Kiev once more in the hands of its
rightful owners, it ceased to have im-
portance as a German routing base.
The shape of the front in the Ukraine
is well worth studying by optimists who
ignore such statements as that of “S. M.
Herald’s” outspoken Washington corre-
spondent (“the myth that Russia would
win the war single-handed was exploded
by the Moscow conference”). A few
weeks back it was north and west of the
Dnieper, running parallel to that river
roughly along the Konotop-Poltava-
Crimea railway. Now it is moved down,
so that from Kremenchug to the Kiev
region it runs almost parallel to the
[Ukrainian] River Bug from Zhitomir.
Germans at Zhitomir
Zhitomir now forms the joint of two
sectors; the one running north past
Korosten to Ryechitsa. The manner in
which the Russians smashed into Zhito-
mir on Nov. 13 led to unofficial procla-
mations that* the German line had been
broken through. Actually the Germans
held on fast near Zhitomir and late in
the week began the heaviest counter-attack
which the Russians have had to meet for
some time. Unofficial correspondents
were certain that this attack was an act
of desperation, but no otfic.' Moscow
account suggested this, and only official
Moscow accounts deserve to be taken
seriously, as they are meant to be.
The Russian communique said:
Between Zhitomir and Korostyshev [about
22 miles to the east] the enemy concen-
trated considerable tank and infantry forces
along a narrow sector, and threw them into
battle regardless of losses. In one sector
the Soviet units destroyed more than 50
tanks and 30 armored cars and killed 1500
Germans. In another sector we repelled
seven fierce counter-attacks, and knocked
out 23 enemy tanks and six self-propelled
guns. Toward the end of the day oitr
units abandoned several inhabited locali-
ties, under pressure from numerically
superior enemy forces, t but consolidated
themselves in new positions.
The Germans claimed to have taken
considerable prisoners and great booty.
At the same time a German com-
munique asserted that in the Zhitomir
section “heavy Russian attacks” had been
“repelled” and that the Russians had
been “pushed back northwards and im-
portant ground regain'" ’,” while heavy
fighting continued rouuu Korosten. In
that region the Russians reported having
taken the town of Narodich and 30 more
inhabited places, and later Ovruch, 20
miles to the north.
Towards the week-end the Zhitomir
battle was growing in intensity. The Ger-
mans on November 18 claimed fresh ad-
vances. Moscow officially stated that the
enemy had made 12 tank attacks during
the day, and that 40 German tanks and
other armor were destroyed in a grim
battle, in which he was repelled. It was
clear that the German attack was not
slackening.
Berlin now declared (Nov. 19) that
the German offensive forces in the Kiev
bulge had been increased, had broken
tough Soviet resistance and captured several
places. Simultaneously stress was laid
by Berlin on an alleged Russian drive at
Orsha, one of the great strategic keyposts
of the central sector, against which, Berlin
asserted, the Red Army had been fighting
30 divisions for several days, with results
as yet “indecisive.”
The Pripet Marshes
An optimistic interpretation of what is
happening is that the Russians are on the
point of forcing back the enemy to an
area in which his southern and northern
forces will be divided by the Pripet
Marshes, so that he will not be able to
pass troops from one sector to another.
Passing troops laterally from sector to
sector is an operation which, in any case,
can be attempted in only the most favor-
able circumstances. The only commander
likely to essay it on a large scale is
one who can afford temporarily to dis-
locate his rearward communications with
the front through which the lateral move-
ment must sheer.
Moreover, the division of communica-
tion lines by the marshy Pripet area
would favor the Germans. If they intend
to retire further or are driven back they
will shortly be clear of the marshes.
That would mean that the Russians would
find themselves divided —a contingency
which formed a considerable factor in the
Schlieffen plans.
The Germans, however, have re-
peatedly boasted that they have built fine
roads through the marshes. In any case,
a marsh is not what it was in Napoleon’s
day as a military barrier. And for
several months ahead the Pripet Marshes
may be frozen solid.
Winter is already upon Russia, though
the days have been clearer than normal
at this time of year. The future of, the
front depends largely on Russian ability
to stage the first-class winter offensive,
which “Red Star” reports is about to be
launched.
Berlin on November 21 announced that
this offensive had been launched on the
anniversary of the beginning of the attack
on Stalingrad (November 19), and that
700.000 Russian troops, with 1000 tanks,
were being hurled against Dnieper posi-
tions, chiefly between Nikopol, where
(it ’ alleged) 12 Red Army divisions
were involved, and Korostyshev, 20 miles
east of Zhitomir.
Paris Radio declared that Marshal von
Manstein’s counter - offensive in the
Zhitomir district had spread to 100 miles
of front. And a Berlin spokesman added
that the Russians had been beaten back
40 miles in 48 hours and that German
spearheads were once more within 40
miles of Kiev.
Moscow Radio discounted all the silly
talk about German disorgafiisation with
the remark that never in the whole war
had the enemy concentrated so powerful
a force of artillery, tanks and ’planes for
a counter-thrust.
Russia’s Resources
Russia should have all the advantages
in reserve man-power, since it commands
a population immensely greater than that
of the Axis and is able to devote all its
man-power to a single objective.
With the immense help which the
Soviet Union has received from its Allies
—Uncle Sam alone has sent 6500 ’planes,
3000 tanks, 125,000 sub-machine-guns,
145.000 trucks and 25,000 jeeps, apart
from millions of tons of metals and foods,
and Britain has matched the American
effort —the Soviet position should improve
rather than deteriorate in regard to mili-
tary strength. Against this the Soviet
Government will have to deal with a
critical food and clothing situation this
winter, and its communications have been
immensely lengthened.
In brief;
Tokyo continues to pour out streams of
fairy statistics about the damage done to Allied
fleets in the South-west Pacific. The- only ship
loss admitted by the U.S. Navy during the week
was that of an old personnel-carrying destroyer
off Bougainville.
* * * *
At a press conference in London Rear-
Admiral Brent Young, U.S. Navy Paymaster-
General, stated that no Allied supply ships
had been lost in the Pacific “by enemy
action” in the “past six months.” Apropos,
the premium on the insurance of Australian
coastal cargoes against war risks, “all voyages,”
is to be reduced from 15s. to 12s. 6d. per cent,
on or after December 1.
* * * *
H.M. submarine Tuna has sunk three U-boats
in four patrols.
,** * *
U.S. Air Forces on Nov. 16 sank three
enemy vessels, one of 11,0,00 tons, in Hong
Kong harbor.
* * * *
The “fiercest battle for five years” is reported
to be taking place on a 100-mile front in
Hunan Province in China, where, according to
Chungking, the Japanese are using 80,000 men.
The Chinese armies are reported to be widen-
ing their bridgeheads on the Salween River on
the Burma side. And Jap-held Burmese objec-
tives are taking a bitter pasting from Admiral
Louis Mountbatten’s Allied squadrons.


VICKERS
VICKERS
mmmm
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
C IN
V,0,7
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
■nr^
mllW IlSiWl
it •.
ill
I Hill
tii
mm
11
11|| l §Um
Modern high-clpss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was an attendance of about
33,000 at Randwick. A tote turnover
of £97,918 showed those present had
plenty of money to spend.
Martheus did not show form of any
account at Rosehill the previous week,
but with W. Cook as his rider backers
anticipated improvement in the Horsley
Handicap, and he started second favorite.
Martheus repaid their confidence, as after
racing in company with Flying Shuttle
to the turn he went on to win from In-
dustry—who was slightly hampered—and
the latter’s stable-companion Davinia,
who finished fast. Riverton’s fourth
drew attention to him for the summer
handicaps, while Trimmer, who made up
a lot of ground after getting away badly,
weakened in the last half-furlong.
Chatham’s Choice took up the running
immediately after barrier-rise in the Mil-
perra Handicap and looked like pulling
through until Enderby (Duncombe),
served by a run through on the rails, got
up in the last few strides to defeat him
a neck. Wellesley, well placed at the
turn, did not finish as well as anticipated,
and only narrowly beat Lady Hamilton
for third. Modulation, looking above
himself, was second to the turn, and will
not lack public support when next he
runs. There is still hope for Lambeth,
even though he has been out of the win-
ning list since last December. Faerie
Queene met with interference three fur-
longs from home, but could not have
won if it had not happened.
In the first division of the Novice Han-
dicap Peter’s Pence again showed pace,
but Castle Frontenac (F. Delaney)
scored comfortably from Eastralia, who
was a long way back-early in the race.
Manday Son, who had a good run
throughout, was fourth, and then Coast-
guard, a Plymouth Sound three-year-old.
Without ever quite lookjng a place-getter,
Faust did a little better than at Rosehill,
while Peter Boy and Night Parade were
again complete failures.
In the second division of the Novice
Great Scot did the early pacemaking,
but Mintage was first into the straight
from Great Scot and Lawgiver. How-
ever, the little-fancied Beau Rasade (a
Beau Pere gelding) ridden by Allen put
in a strong run in the straight and scored
in good style from Before Dawn and
Gold Edifice. Peerless Lad was disap-
pointing, and the most that can be said
for any of the remainder is that Thorn
and La Belle ran fairly. The last-men-
tioned was a little unlucky in the run
home.
Shannon had an easy win in the Two-
year-old Stakes. Majesty was with him
at the straight entrance, but over the
last furlong there was only one in it.
Majesty weakened so badly that Tea Rose
beat him three lengths for second. Mid-
stream colts in Prince Verity and Survivor
made promising showings. Shannon,
who is also by Midstream, is from Idle
Words (Magpie-Peptamint) and was a
425gns. yearling. He escapes a penalty
for the Kirkham Stakes.
• • •
There was not much between Highgate
(W. Cook) and Royal Peer when the
latter blundered at the crossing in the
straight in the Three-year-old Handicap,
but if that had not occurred it is un-
probable the result would have been
different. Highgate won well, while third
place went to Goya, who was always
prominent. All Scot, who lost ground
in the straight through running very \yide,
was fourth. Chatlock and Ajixa were the
early leaders, and Nabinabah (by Picca-
dilly) made a favorable impression. There
was support for the good-looking
Caprieste, but she did not show up.
After failures at shorter distances in
her recent races Hesione (F. Shean)
completely upset the calculations of most
backers when she went to the front early
in the mile Leumeah Handicap and gave
nothing else a chance over the last quarter-
mile. Battle King was her nearest fol-
lower at the turn, but eventually finished
fourth, being outstayed by Jymjon
(second) and Boauhead (third). Well-
backed Gold Head never got in it, and
behind the place-getters The Champion
gave most promise for the immediate
future.
* * * *
If Shannon should win the Kirkham
Stakes next Saturday he will incur a
penalty of only 51b. for the December
Stakes, and that should leave him with a
first-class chance of bringing off the hat
trick.
* * * *
When you read of the big bets made
by a few bookmakers about one horse
alone for some race or other it makes one
wonder what the turnover of the 374 at
Randwick in the paddock and leger, and
on the flat, really is nowadays. It would
be safe to bet that a recently-published
computation of only three and a half
times as much as the tote is wide of the
mark.
* * * ♦
An American paper says that a little
while ago trainers started a petition to
bar newspaper watch-holders (“dockers,”
as they are called there) from New York
tracks. It received short shrift from the
authorities. In, Australia there are some
trainers who would like to have news-
paper reporters barred from the training
tracks. One reason is that it is hard to
tell a client about a “wonderful gallop”
when the papers give a different ver-
sion, and another is that the public get
too much information. There are other
personal financial reasons.
* * * *
Claudette won the £2500 Williams-
town Cup in extraordinary circumstances
at Flemington last Saturday. Her Sydney
rider, Knox, lost an iron about five fur-
longs from home, performed a spectacu-
lar balancing feat to keep in the saddle
and was thrown after Claudette had de-
feated Skipton and Saul. Claudette
started at 5 to 1, Skipton favorite at 2
to 1, and Saul, a stable-mate of the
winner, 15 to 1.
Skipton was considered by his rider,
Hartney, to be unlucky, Hartney said
he would have won had he not met with
interference «at the start and been forced
wide on the turn. Nine-nine on a holding
track, however, was too much weight in
opposition to Claudette’s 7.6, and, as the
race was won, the latter deserved her
win. A six : year-old by David from
Crowfoot, Claudette is the most versatile
mare to race in Australia for many
years. Her first placing was over hurdles ;
her other wins include the Williamstown
Easter Cup and the G.N. Hurdle. Raced
in partnership by L. J. Abrahams and
her trainer, D. Mcßae, she has won six
races and £5870 in stakes,
Williamstown Cup result was either a
reflection on the standard of Melbourne’s
flat horses or' a decided boost for the
ability of her hurdlers. Eight-year-old
Saul, like Claudette winner of a G.N.
Hurdle, battled on gamely for third
money. Saint Warden and Phocion
shaped fairly, but Gay Revelry did not
appreciate being forced into the role of
pacemaker, and tired badly towards the
finish.
Lawrence, still showing signs of his
unfortunate accident at Moonee Valley,
limped back to the enclosure after out-
staying St. Fairy and Night Link in the
J, J. Liston Stakes for three-year-olds.
He is one of the gamest colts in train-
ing, and, all going well, will be a danger
to the Derby winner. Precept, in the St.
Leger next autumn. Lawrence, who cost
350gns, as a yearling and has won £4896
in stakes, completed a double for owner
A. H. Griffiths, trainer L. Robertson and
rider H. Olsen. They had been associ-
ated in Delina’s success in the Rawdon
Stakes for two-year-olds. Delina, a filly
by Manitoba from Rondalina, finished
second in the Maribyrnong Plate at her
previous start. She and Lawrence each
started at even money on Saturday.
Cheered after his wins on Delina and
Lawrence, Olsen was hooted after he had
completed a winning treble on Sir Romeo
in the Seddon Handicap. Sir Romeo had
run badly when second favorite a week
earlier, but on Saturday, when backed
from 8 to 1 down to 11 to 2, he won
well from Clayton and Grain Trader.
Apparently he appreciated the longer dis-
tance and softer track.
The Trapper won his first race for over
2\ years when he ran away from Cloudy
Bay and Pannade in the second Ozone
Highweaght. Dazzling track trials and
public failures had cost his connections
and the public a fortune meantime. Re-
cently he was sold by Darcy Eccles, and
on Saturday raced in his new interests
for the first time. In addition to stakes of
£4BO he landed many substantial bets.
Leahero, owned by Eccles, started at 8
to 1 for the same race, but finished only
sixth.
* * * •
The Joker did no better in the Seddon
Handicap at Williamstown on Saturday
than in his previous races in Melbourne.
It is easy to play the “after game,” but
he was not favorably treated in the Mel-
bourne Cup with 8.9. His best form in
Maoriland did not warrant the support
accorded him, and the reasoning that “he
wouldn’t be here unless he had a really
good chance” probably accounted for
his prominence throughout in the betting
quotations.
* * * *
Pressman H. Frank, son of the late
Ascot T.C. handicapper, W. J. Frank,
succeeds his father in that position.
* * * *
In Moorland, Mayfowl, Flight and
Tribal spring racing has given N.S.W.
some good three-year-old colts. Moor-
land has beaten Mayfowl each time they
have met, and though the manner in
which the Derby was run did not defi-
nitely prove anything as to their respec-
tive staying ability, there was more merit
in Moorland’s Metropolitan second, in
which Main Topic and he ran away from
the remainder of the field, than in May-
fowl’s wins. It is probable Tribal is faster
than either, but may not stay as well.
Flight stands out from the fillies.
Victoria has two good colts in Pre-
cept and Lawrence, and though the
former missed a place in the Cup he
ran a fair race. Before the Derby Law-
rence was reckoned the better, but his
mishap of the previous week placed him
at a disadvantage in that race. Stable
companions Simmering and Three
Wheeler are good fillies, but, as with the
colts in N.S.W. and Victoria, it will take
autumn racing to definitely decide their
superiority. It was unfortunate Simmer-
ing lost her rider in the Derby, as it pre-
vented a comparison with the colts.
* * * *
H. G. Wheeler, president of S.A.
Breeders’ Association, is breaking up one
of the State’s best-known racing studs, at
Reedbeds, through man-power shortage.
Gold Cuffs, a Birthday Cup winner, was
perhaps the best he raced, and he sold
Rapid Pilgrim to the Sultan of Johore,
to win races in India. The most recent
Reedbeds sire has been Pennant (imp.,
by Phalaris), and before him were Royal
Cicero (imp., from the King’s stud) and
King Ingoda. —Adelaide correspondent.
Miscellaneous
Now and again Ern Clingan and
George Elliott stirred the Leichhardt
crowd with real fighting in their mill on
Thursday. Most of the time, however,
their scrap resembled a gymnasium spar.
Clingan punched with greater consis-
tency and effect (with a left hook he had
the other middleweight down in the
eleventh) and won on points.
Just as the Sydney Stadium bout
between Joe Grant and Tommy Johns
was at its most interesting stage, Joe
Wallis declared it “no fight.” He had
waited till the eleventh round to do it,
and many old-timers did not agree with
him. There was nothing peculiar about
the blow, a right to the chin, which
floored Johns for “nine” in the tenth;
and though Johns missed often with
swings he never pulled his punches. All
referees blunder at times, and Wallis did
on this occasion.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes:
Samoyed, 1; Wheatland, 2; Invic-
tus, 3. •
Farm Encourage Handicap; Eas-
tralia, 1 ; Manday Son, 2; Castle
Frontenac or La Belle, 3f
Kirkham Stakes: Shannon, 1;
Majesty, 2; Silent, 3.
Camden Handicap: Trimmer, 1 ;
Panchio, 2; Nobleman or High
Flight, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Lambeth, 1; Wellesley, 2; Lady
Hamilton, 3,
Welter Handicap: Glendower, 1 ;
Pall Mall, 2; Ron Rico or Air
Link, 3.


Public Notices.
n EARLS & JEANS PTY., LTD., trading as
O SEARLS, Florists, 104 King Street, Sydney,
advise their many customers, including Allied
and Australian Servicemen, that they have no
connection whatsoever with any other person,
business or company of like name, and that
their business is carried on at 104 King Street,
Sydney which is their only place of business.
SEARLS, 104 King Street, Sydney,
Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The announcement of the appointment
of the royal Gloucesters to Canberra has
been productive of a lot of exploring
among the branches of family trees. As
the Duchess’s Scottish clan, like the
Queen’s, has wide ramifications, it is not
surprising that a few links with it should
be discovered in Australia. Among these
is a connection by marriage with the
Ryan family, from which Mrs. R. G.
Casey hails.
With so many calls for service needs
to be satisfied there’s a tendency to for-
get the charities that go on all the time.
It is to the credit of the women concerned
with these that they continue undauntedly
though the causes they serve are tem-
porarily overshadowed and rationing
and shortages make merry-making
difficult these times. The annual party for
patients at the Austin Hospital, which
the hospital visitors of the Catholic
Women’s Social Guild have been giving
for many years, was kept up to peace-
time standards on Saturday. As many
of the patients are old and without
relatives or friends the fact that every-
body is included in the “do” and indi-
vidual gifts (usually little pots of jam
and the like) are bestowed makes the day,
as the matron said, “the highlight of the
year” for her charges. Incidentally, this
good work is carried on in several other
institutions by the same group.
With Deputy-Commandant Val Morgan
over here to give an official benediction,
a squad of W.A.T.C. officers nearly 30
strong last week qualified and passed on
after their training period at the Emily
MacPherson College. These officers will
take charge of groups of the corps, largely
composed of business girls, which does
a very good job producing war supplies,
comforts, etc., and training girls for the
more technical jobs in th£
Officers’ training includes hints on the
handling of meetings and general organ-
ising which should make good committee
women of them in the future.
When peace comes there should be
quite an army of women who’ve had
training in running canteens, feeding hun-
dreds and in raising funds for patriotic
purposes. What so many efficient and
energetic individuals will do with them-
selves when their present opportunities
for service cease is a problem, unless
there’s going to be a vast expansion and
development of business and industry.
To the Christmastide wedding guest
who’s beating his breast about the im-
possibility of finding a suitable bridal
gift in desolated and coupon-ridden
stores the Silver Door Christmas Shop
comes as a boon and a blessing. Silver
Door workers have been busy for six
months, and the result is a collection of
stuff that should make any gift-seeker
dip into his or her purse. Such things as
hand-sewn nighties and lingerie in satins
and silks, together with good china pieces,
silverware and a sprinkling of antiques,
will be for sale when the shop opens on
December 1, but not for very long after
that, it may be imagined.
With newspaper knight Keith Murdoch
at its head the National Theatre Move-
ment is taking a keen interest in plans
for the formation of a “Cultural Centre,”
comprising art’ gallery, museum and
theatre, on the old Wirth’s Circus site.
The N.T.M. takes the view that its claim
to be allowed to sponsor and shape the
theatrical side of the proposed organisa-
tion is unchallengeable. A performance
of excerpts from modern and Shak-
spearean drama and ballet after a general
meeting to discuss the project was planned
as a demonstration of the movement’s
versatility. In recent years all N.T.M.
fund-raising activities have been directed
to patriotic ends, and £lO,OOO has been
collected.
With memories of the traditions of
Leipzig and Vienna and other far-famed
musical Meccas in the promoters’
minds plans are being put together
for the formation of a choir and
general melodic centre at Brighton. The
movement is under the guidance of Dr.
Schildberger, a refugee conductor who
held several important posts in pre-Hitler
Germany. He is enthusiastic about Aus-
tralian voices, and, as the Brighton muni-
cipality is taking a benevolent interest,
the project should soon assume definite
form. Incidentally, one of the move-
ment’s towers of strength is Mrs. Alec
Duncan, wife of the Victorian Police
Commissioner, who as Helen Gibbs was
a well-known English singer before her
marriage.
Unexpectedly successful has been the
Borovansky Ballet season to date. The
co. has always had a big following of
balletomanes, but the reaction of the
public to the classical in any art is always
a ma^er f or C pnjecture. That it likes
Pallet and is interested in a local venture
j ias been am piy proved by the good
houses which have continued every night
s j nce jhe season opened. Change of pro-
gramme on Saturday brought “Les
sylphides” and “Fapade” on, in place of
p rev i ous . opening number, “Autumn
Leaves.”
Beet h o vep concerts all the way will be
the lot of Melburnians during the sum-
mer The Mathews pair have already
gj ven one successful Beethoven recital
here, and they are to follow this, starting
on December 11, with a series of which
the concertos will form the backbone,
January will bring the Symphony
Orchestra’s Beethoven Festival, which will
include performances of all nine sym-
phonies and all the pianoforte concertos,
Soloists for the last-named haven’t been
chosen yet. Bernard Heinze is to wave
the baton throughout,
War-working women, in their various
ca tegories, like to have their own clubs
wor king for various patriotic causes,
mos tly to make comforts for front-line
men> Prominent in this field are the
WO men trammies, who last week exhibited
tG y S have made for the Austin Hos-
phah These women have already a repu-
tation for bringing feminine pleasantness
anc j helpfulness to their job, and the toy
exhibits prove them to possess feminine
skill with needle and scissors,
“Two authors may collaborate, but
two producers, never! ” might be culled
from the Theatre’s Book of Proverbs,
but Ruby May, here pictured, and Keith
Macartney are proving it wrong by mak-
ing smooth team work of co-producing.
The subject of their efforts is the Tin
Alley Players’ new show “Timothy Pay-
cock,” which will be presented at the
Union Theatre on December 3, 4 and 6.
Ruby May has had lots of experience
in both stage and radio work —she prob-
ably is best remembered as the red-
headed old girl with a past in “Ladies
in Retirement.” Both she and Keith
Macartney are in the cast of the coming
Tin Alley show.
The response to appeals to subscribe
to the Lady Huntingfield Memorial
Scholarship Fund has been good enough
to allow of the first scholarship being
offered —it is planned! to offer two.
Amount needed for one bursary is £lOOO,
so the speed of the fund-raising is a con-
vincing tribute to the viceregal lady
whom the scholarships are to commemo-
rate. The University is calling for appli-
cations at once, for it is desirable to
select students early on account of the
early start of field work. Eligible candi-
dates are students starting the Social Ser-
vice course after completing two Arts
subjects.
The death of Mrs. H, Larcher has de-
prived her fellow-women of a stalwart
friend. She was more than a champion of
feminine rights, being deeply interested
in anything which concerned the welfare
of women and children. Her help was
not merely a matter of speeches or com-
mittee work but of pen and cheque-book
as well. Her giving was often secret, but
many charitable organisations can testify
that her sympathies were never appealed
to in vain.
From Sydney
The arrival of the Duke and Duchess
of Gloucester with their small son Prince
William Henry is already being looked
forward to by Australia. The idea of
having the King’s younger brother as our
Governor-General makes great appeal.
The Duke, already known and liked in
the Commonwealth from his 1934 visit,
has made soldiering his career, and his
tall figure and military bearing are just
right for the wearing of uniforms. He
is a splendid horseman, plays polo and
enjoys outdoor life.
His bright-eyed Duchess, with her
radiant complexion and ease of manner,
is going to fit into our ways as hand to
glove. In her photographs she has the
quick, humorous look of a Barrie heroine.
Before her marriage in 1935 she was Lady
Alice Montagu-Douglas-Scott, a daughter
of the seventh Duke of Buccleuch.
Both have travelled a great deal. The
Duchess rides, sews, knits, dances, is
a gifted water-colorist, and has had two
exhibitions of her paintings in London.
It was the Kenya scene that first called
forth her artistic expression during one
of her visits to her uncle and aunt, Lord
and Lady Francis Scott. The Duchess
has been both a V.A. and a Girl Guide,
and is now Air Chief Commandant of
the W.A.A.F.
In this photograph the Duchess of
Gloucester is wearing the uniform of Air
Commandant of the W.A.A.F. Her
civilian clothes are chosen with an
eye to soft color effects, and trigness of
line. Incidentally, it will not be surpris-
ing if the Duchess shows a deep interest ’
in Australian literature. Dumfriesshire,
of which the Dukes of Buccleuch are
vice-lieutenants, is fragrant with the
memory of Robert Burns. Thomas Car-
lyle, too, lived hereabouts, and to clinch
the literary associations one of the
founders of the family was a Sir Walter
Scott, whom the famed novelist and poet
namesake has commemorated in the “Lay
of the Last Minstrel.”
Big happening at Anthony Horderns’
Art Gallery on Monday at half-past
eleven was the opening by Lady Wake-
hurst of the Red Cross Papier-mache
Exhibition. The exhibits cofne from all
the States and Maoriland, and include
almost every form of hospital tray, sur-
gical bath, funnel, basin and splint. Ash-
trays, dressing-trays and checker-boards,
tumblers and eggcups, dolls and even a
first-aid cabinet are among the articles
shown. Miss L. E. Armstrong and Mrs.
E. Conroy are in charge. Closing date
November 26.
The city was a pleasanter and
brighter place last week-end for the
presence of hundreds and hundreds
of V.As. They came streaming in
from the country by early morning
and evening trains on Friday and Satur-
day, and were welcomed on the station
by Dorothy Wilby, Mrs. Persia Porter
and about 180 other hostesses. They
visited a military hospital, toured the
gardens and the ground floor of Gov-
ernment House, and saw all the work-
ings of the Red Cross Blood Bank at
Sydney Hospital. A harbor excursion
was another pleasure. The V.A. parade
in Centennial Park on Sunday, when
Lady Wakehurst took the salute, was the
reason for the happy invasion.
Three young wives waiting for soldier
husbands were toasted at Mrs. Harry
Twigden’s party in the Pickwick Club
last week. The guest of the day was Mrs.
Bill Twigden, whose soldier bridegroom
has been through the Middle East, is
a Tobruk Rat now in New Guinea,
and has a mere 21 days’ acquaint-
ance with his baby daughter Helen.
It was Mrs. Twigden Junior’s birth-
day, and a cake garlanded with
hydrangea and set about with 22 candles
was an impressive sight on the bright
table. Mrs. Harry Twigden, famed for
her cake baking as well as for her fine
piano playing, was the architect and
builder of the triumph. Two other
warriors’ wives who were toasted were
Mrs. M. Arkins and Mrs. Ron Wise.
The Australian Women’s Conference,
which started life as the National
Women’s Conference, covered in four
days a field as wide as the scope of
womanhood. Maternal, adolescent and
infant welfare, equal pay and equal op-
portunity, moral and social health, pre-
school child centres, economic independ-
ence of married women and many more
subjects were given tongue to. The Odd-
fellows’ Hall in Elizabeth-street was
crowded for the opening last Friday. The
atmosphere was hot and a trifle vitiated,
but this detracted not at all from the
energy of the speakers. Mrs. Jessie Street
presided.
Mrs. H. V. Evatt, wife of the Federal
Attorney-General, opened the confer-
ence with a paper on “Homes Fit t© Live
In,” outlining an official post-war plan.
The discussion that followed was no rose
without a thorn for the Federal Govern-
ment. Delegates declared in lively manner
that there was no time like the present,
that money for building might be drawn
from War Damages Commission funds
—fourteen millions, one speaker com-
puted them —that not only a house for
the family to live in but also an opera
house for the Muses was a necessity.
Then ardors were damped down by—a
cup of tea. Mayoress Bartley had in-
vited speakers and visiting delegates to
a dish of tea at the Town Hall, and the
powwow on the subject was adjourned
till a later session. The outcome of the
conferring will be a “woman’s charter.”
Bettina Vernon and Evelyn Ippen have
composed a ballet called “L’Aiglon,”
symbolising the rising spirit of France.
This will be a feature of the dance recital
at the Con. on November 29 to aid
French prisoners of war.
In eight hours Mrs. F. H. Whatley
found herself wafted from Wellington
(M.L.) to Sydney. This bright Enzedder
(now a guest of Edith Prior, of Bradley’s
Head) flew the Tasman for the opening
of the Red Cross Papier-mache Exhibi-
tion, now in full swing at Anthony
Horderns’. Papier-mache has become
part of the fabric of Mrs. Whatley’s life,
for she is president of the N.U.W.
(National Utilisation of Waste), which
makes a great deal of emergency equip-
ment out of this substance. Mrs. D.
Garvin first showed Mrs. Whatley and
the group around her how to do the work
in the best possible style (the L. E. Arm-
strong method).
Mrs. Whatley now journeys from the
North to the South Island giving demon-
strations and opening new branches.
Splints for the young V.A. and the be-
ginning members of the St. John Ambu-
lance to practise with are supplied by
the N.U.W; Babies’ baths and other
nursery equipment made of papier-mache
are making up for the shortage of china,
enamel and porcelain articles. In the
exhibition are displays from Hawke’s Bay
and Taihape. These will be sold for the
benefit of the Australian Red Cross
because of kindnesses to Maoriland
service men.
Good-looking Amber Bushell, daughter
of the Phillip Bushells, of Darling Point,
was married a week or so ago in Eng-
land. ’Groom is Lieutenant-Commander
Anthony Oxley, R.N. (Fleet Air Arm).
Amber and the young man met when
the Australian girl was on active service
as a V.A. in the Middle East.
When Mrs. Jurd apd her sisters were
small girls in Armidale they used to hunt
for wild bees’ wax. Boys went after
honey, but the girls preferred the wax.
They would clarify this, and model cows
and horses and dogs, and as many other
household and farmyard animals as their
material would allow. Later in a desire
to be more realistic, they moulded the
animals in a sort of papier mdche, mak-
ing the bodies sleek with calf-skin hair
waxed smoothly on. Mrs. Jurd, her
sisters and nieces are still interested in
this hobby. To help the Red Cross Seals
campaign they have brought their animals
to the city, and they are on exhibition in
David Jones’s Elizabeth-street store.
Very lifelike is the bullock team, and
there’s a very superior young matron
cow standing on one of the glass cases.
And, by the way, it is no use those who
decide to take up this hobby thinking
that they can clothe a Jersey cow with
the hairs of a Jersey calf, because as the
Jersey grows to years of discretion,
like many of her human sisters, she
changes her color scheme. Donkeys
and oxen and lambs have met the
interested gaze of hundreds of visitors.
To begin with Charley Lloyd Jones was
host to the Seals Committee and the
clever-fingered ladies from Armidale at a
tea drinking. Mrs. Jurd, her sister Mrs.
Penrose Johnstone, Mrs. McCaskell and
Mrs. Peace have come to Sydney to help
with the exhibition. Mrs. Nigel Smith is
in command.


FAMOUS SAUCES BY
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Longer life for VALET Blades
iveep me nanaie
of the Razor at
The handle of the razor
must be kept at right angles
to the plane of the strop ... To
achieve this, grasp the handle
firmly, keep the wrist rigid and
make the stropping action a
piston-like movement from elbow
and shoulder . . . The blade can-
not obtain the maximum benefit
from the strop unless close atten-
tion is paid to this important point.
3 s
right ang to
the Strop..
(2) Rub palm of
hand over strop be-
fore use to remove
dust.
(3) Keep the strop
straight with slight
upward pressure of
hand holding Razor.
(4) Strop the Blade
both before and after
use.
ẅ
I
ffaMoui
mcS
wtoh&
m
diode
lCO%d(*
me
To-day Us work is vital in the wider
national sense.
When peace comes it will resume
its importance in the broadcast radio
world.
☆
HIS MUSTERS VOICE"
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE GOY. LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH
RM/42.
SMOKE-OH!
“I find it impossible to pick up with a good
girl.”— Correspondent in "Sun.”
Isn’t the “with” redundant?
•J* "F v d*
Curious how a catty woman can give
a man a dog’s life!
*s*
“The champion’s wife had a very low opinion
of his intelligence.”— Boxing story.
In fact, she regarded him not as a
champ but a chimp.
*<«*
“If you have a sit-down job, you must take
stern measures to prevent and cure widening of
the hips.”— "Woman.”
Naturally.
•F '3’ •I* ❖
Preference Vote.
“Perfumes today are not what they used to
be, but a woman usually gets something like
what she wants.” — Woman’s paper.
There’s nothing funnier by far than
women at a perfume-bar. They pick one
bottle up and sniff it; solemnly they
pause as if it, drop by drop, might bring
disaster. Suddenly they sniff it faster,
put the bottle down and say “Perfumes
aren’t much good today.”
“Try another,” says the girl. Then
half an hour or so will whirl, but
Madam’s nose is still jammed down upon
some bottle. “Half a crown? For
that ?” she snorts, and shakes her head.
“No! Eucalyptus, please, instead!”
Looby.
•J* *l*
“Mrs. found her husband, clad only
in singlet and underpants, hiding behind the
pianola in another woman’s flat.”
—"Sunday Telegraphy
In the midst of his matrimonial
troubles he found a refuge in music, eh?
“Hairdresser, female, 45, full or casual.”
— “S.M.H.” ad.
What’s the difference? A full one
would be casual, anyway.
V T T” V
“Shirt Machinists, 45, Trimmers. —
Only real beauts, need apply.
•J* *t*
“Firewood, split in 2ft. lengths for copper.”
—Suburban paper.
But why should the police force be
singled out for favored treatment?
Bedtime Fairytale.
“Sam is troubled with his heart every time
he meets her. Sam should see a doctor, but all
he wants to see is a parson.”— Woman’s paper.
Come, children, listen to my story —
it isn’t gruesome, grim or gory—but just
a simple little tale about an inoffensive
male (we’ll call him Sam and call her
Pearl) who got burned up about the girl.
Such was Sam’s candescent desire he
let Pearl set his heart on fire, and,
though he should have seen a quack to
douse his flaming heart attack, he yearned
instead to see a parson. Well, as he
sprinted down the street towards The
Manse, he chanced to meet a cynic (may
his tribe increase) who said: “No, go
to the police and charge your lady-love
with arson.” And this Sam did.
Stern coppers sieved with fine-tooth
comb and two-foot ruler the evidence
and negatived Sam’s corpuscles’ exces-
sive heat by shoving Pearl into the
cooler. And so, my little ones, they lived
(sh! darlings, please, control your
laughter) quite happily for ever after.
Percivat,.
“At the R.N.S. Hospital every available bed
is continually occupied by pen, women and
children.” —“Great Northern.”
But surely they aren’t all forced to lie
the same way.
►!• 'l*
Another Inkpot Storm.
From the Correspondent of the Sunday
“Guesser,” cabling from Ankara:
Problematical.
If wljpt he said he really means,
’Tis very clear to one who knows
What’s going on behind the scenes
That someone, whom we tan’t disclose
Not knowing who or what he was,
Or why they did it, would declare
That such was not the case, because
That other person wasn’t there.
And yet, can this be realty true,
Or can it ? Well, I’m asking you !
T. W. NATHAN.
Futility.
“The enemy may not be listening, but in
war-time it is wiser to say nothing,” says a-
writer.
When you’ve a cause worth fighting for.
Control your tongue. In time of war
The hasty word you’ll ban, sir.
For here’s a tip to keep injnind:
In fighting her with words, you’ll find
She’s always got an answer!
P. O. M. C.
Color Scheme.
“Pink Pills to cure sea, air sickness.”
—‘‘Sunday Sun.”
If all goes black before your eyes
(When travelling, I mean)
There's no need to be blue. Pink pills
Will stop you looking green.
E.
Express Speed.
“ ‘I was in front near the post, but All Scot
went past me like a train,’ said Thompson.”
—“Sunday Sun.’
The beaten neddy’s seeming lack
Of steam is easily explained;
Though both came puffing down the track
The winning nag was better trained.
P. M.
BALKANS SEETHING!
Bloodshed in Bulgaria as Population
Panics !
According to a neutral businessman
who has just reached Ankara from Sofia,
Bulgarian soldiers, following the demand
by Hitler for 150,000 troops for the Rus-
sian front, mutinied, shot their officers
and urged the peasants to revolt against
their Nazi overlords. The infuriated
peasants, armed with pitchforks and
scythes, fought a pitched battle with the
Nazis outside the Royal Palace. After
the streets had run red with blood the
beaten Germans withdrew in wild dis-
order. Dr. Fulazaneg, the Bulgarian
Minister for Atrocities, who is said to
have had Boris murdered because he re-
fused him permission to pull dissatisfied
workers’ heads off with a crane, has
ordered the Palace Guard to parade for
a week in the snow clad only in
socks as a punishment for not crushing
the revolt quickly enough.
From the “Morning Bugle.” — Monday.
BALKAN PEACE MOVES.
Dr. Fulazaneg Flies to Finland.
Great significance is attached by com-
petent observers to the reported flight to
Helsinki by the Bulgarian Minister for
Atrocities. It is known that Finland has
long been desperately anxious for peace,
and it is considered certain that joint
overtures will now be made to the Allies
by Finland and Bulgaria. According to
the Stockholm “Magbladet,” Boris, it is
now revealed, was behind an under-
ground movement to assist an Allied
paratroop invasion of Bulgaria. Himm-
ler discovered the plot in time, and gave
Boris the alternative of slow torture by
having read to him one of Mussolini’s
early novels, or of drinking a quart of
prussic acid. The King instantly chose
the latter alternative
the latter alternative. „_ T , av
TRRRTFir TENSION IN BALKANS
TERKiFIC TENSION IN BALKAR
According to a high Nazi authority
who wishes to preserve his anonymity,
Fulazaneg did not fly to Finland, but
visited Hitler at his field headquarters. At
a stormy meeting the Fiihrer demanded
450,000 men for the Italian front, and
Dr. Fulazaneg agreed under protest. Ac-
cording to our correspondent on the
Swiss border, the streets of Sofia ran with
blood when the Palace Gifards did the
duck-step instead of the goose-step, and
the infuriated Germans started a pitched
battle, in which the peasants, armed with
palings and rake handles, joined.
From the “Trumpet.”—Wednesday.
A message from our correspondent on
the Swedish frontier says that he learns
from an unimpeachable source that Dr.
Fulazaneg has just been in Bucharest,
where he has been discussing with his
opposite member. Dr Yelltorescu, the
possibility of a joint attack on Hungary.
Fierce noting in Sofia in which the
streets ran red with blood, caused his im-
mediate recall. An explosion, more
violent than has ever rocked the Balkans,
expected at any hour, and the Nazis
terrified
';„ . ,
From the Bazooka. 1 hursday.
According to a well-informed neutral
businessman who has just reached Ankara
f rom Sofia, life in the Bulgarian capital
has all the gaiety that once was the proud
prerogative of pre-war Vienna. For the
p as t week there has been unending car-
nival, with street dancing and mas-
querade. Hitler sent a special ballet com-
pany and the Berlin Symphony Orchestra
to take part in the celebrations. The
chief guest was the Hungarian Foreign
Minister. One of the highlights was the
goose-stepping of the Palace Guards
down the Bortzprospekt while a famous
German band played the “Horst Wessel.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The New Soldier Settlers
In any post-war scheme of soldier land
settlement applicants should be divided
into two classes; (a) those with previous
experience on the land, ( b ) those with
little or none. Even the former will re-
quire additional training if they are to be
settled in a part of the country of which
they have had no experience.
The ideal method would be to group
intending settlers in farm schools in
districts in which land is available.
There they should be taught up-to-date
methods —sheep, cattle and horse manage-
ment, soil control, how to care for and
carry out minor repairs to' machinery,
engines, tractors, etc., while an experi-
enced veterinary field officer should be
available to give the latest information on
the correct methods of combating fly
strike, internal and external parasites of
sheep, cattle and horses. Also every
man should be given sufficient instruction
in bookkeeping to enable him to find out
whether he is really working Tor himself
or for the mortgagees.
Such training will enable soldier-settlers
to keep up with and to understand the
research work that is being done on be-
half of the man on the land by scientists,
particularly by the C.S.I.R.
And, such a training scheme should be
in preparation now. A lot of men will
be coming back before the end of the
war and it will take a long time to select
suitable centres for training Diggers to
take up new lives again.— Bungaree
(N.S.W.).
Immigration
“Matros’s” gibe (B. 27 /10/’43) that it
seems impossible for Australians afflicted
by a sense of national inferiority to be-
lieve that men of another race could
prefer this country to the U.S.A. goes
against experience.
After the 1914-18 war quite a few
members of the A.I.F. elected to take
their discharge in England and remain
there, despite official warnings that they
would have to make their own arrange-
ments for returning to Australia if they
found the Cold Country not up to expec-
tations. As it happened, many of them
eventually applied for, and received,
assistance to get home again.
“Matros’s” yarn about Norwegian
sailors eager to settle in Australia makes
pretty reading, but a few restless spirits
don’t solve an immigration problem
which is set in terms of thousands. What’s
become of that sturdy, adventurous
pioneering spirit that gave the British
people an Empire?— R. H. Parkes (Tas.).
Werribee
Why does the Government want to
settle the Kimberleys with Jews or any
other people?
At Werribee, 20 miles from Melbourne,
one of Australia’s biggest markets, irri-
gation has turned an infertile waste into
a garden. In 1912, when Werribee was
first mooted as a subject for irrigation,
it was estimated that 8155 acres would
carry 20 families. Today the place has
a population of 1391, there are 200
blocks, 5340 acres of dairying country,
2851 head of cattle, 2315 acres of vege-
tables and orchards supplying most of
the needs of a population of a million
people with no trouble of transportation.
There must be scores of other dis-
tricts in Australia with Werribee’s poten-
tialities.—Bumpkin (Vic.).
The Post-war Utopia
An aspect of post-war planning that is
not emphasised as much as it ought to be
is the need for intelligent and hard work.
A lot of people seem to be expecting
that after the war manna will fall from
Heaven —but it is a safe bet that manna
will be off.
The things that are wanted to satisfy
reasonable needs can be got by working
for them and in no other way. That
ought to be pasted on everybody’s hat,
and right on the front, too. —A. H. P.
Moline (Tas.).
| Housing Scheme
| The proposal to form a cumbersome
county council committee from 20 Syd-
ney suburban municipalities to control
a housing scheme for post-war needs
should get an early death-knock. Far
better gather together only representa-
tives of shires and councils which have
spare land in their boundaries, allow
them to deliberate on the question and
report to the Government.
Unbuilt-on land close to the city is
too expensive for the average working
man to consider; but there are many
acres outside the 15-mile limit awaiting
subdivision. The price of this land
should be limited to the Valuer-General’s
appraisal.
Fast transport at reasonable fares will
soon open up these new residential areas ;
and no scheme should be used unless the
blocks are large enough to allow for
garden space and room for recreation.
Centralise shopping centres and parks (on
the lines of Canberra) and in the years
ahead the work will reflect credit on those
who handled the scheme. —E. W.
(N.S.W.).
War-time Morals
The time is overdue for a serious en-
deavor to be made to awaken women
in Australia to the obligation which rests
upon them to respect their marital bonds.
More particularly should the wives of
men absent on service be encouraged to
beware enticements and shun the prey-
ing “friend” who seeks to take advan-
tage of the breadwinner’s absence in the
jungle.
So many homes have, already been
wrecked that there is a pressing need for
“Does nothing else since she became the tribe's favorite pin-up girl.”
interlopers to be discouraged. If some-
thing is not done to check this evil Aus-
tralian moral standards will be lowered
irrevocably.
To strike at the core of this disruptive
canker it will be necessary not only for
the clergy to lift their voices, but a com-
bined appeal will have to be made
through press, radio and posters.
Eyes Right (W.A.).
Food-production Control
It is rank impertinence for any man or
body of men to attempt to control food
production. Nature can always be de-
pended upon to do that. All that was or
is necessary to stimulate food production
was the fixation of a minimum price
based on the cost of production, provid-
ing for higher prices in periods of
droughts and security against low prices
due to overproduction in good seasons.
In Queensland, in response to a demand
shouted over every radio in the country,
vegetables in excess of the local demand
were produced, resulting in the dumping
of large quantities.
When the farmer is told to grow vege-
tables in competition with the market
gardener the balance is upset, making
gluts and low prices inevitable. There
was no need to fix the potato price at £l5
per ton ; £lO would have brought pro-
duction up to requirements without levy-
ing such a heavy burden on the taxpayer
as a subsidy of £6,000,000 entails.
As to meat, it takes four years to grow
a bullock and “control” doesn’t help to
grow it. Same with dairying. It takes
four years to bring a dairy cow into pro-
duction, and until scarcity put the Gov-
ernment into a panic nothing was done
to stimulate dairy production, which,
after all, is mainly dependent on the
weather. Subsidy is a miserable method
of helping an industry, making it depen-
dent on the whim of the Government in
power at the moment, and in this instance
the subsidy is loaded with an aVard.
Fodder conservation, about which so
much has been talked and so little done,
is out of the question. Hundreds of tons
of lucerne are wasting for want of labor.
-N. K. (Q.).
Let’s Do Our Own Price-fixing
In spite of all the efforts of boards and
commissioners to peg the cost of living it
steadily rises, in many instances to absurd
levels. But among the general sky-
rocketing are a few surprising exceptions.
Outstanding case is millinery. While a
frock is three times its former price, a
hat is still about the same as three years
ago.
Why? Because women, coupon-con-
scious, invented a cheap scarf as substi-
tute, and left the hats begging. Result—
the discovery on the part of manufac-
turers that this particular line costs no
more to produce than in pre-war times.
Same is true of hosiery. Mended stock-
ings or good sun-tanned skins have be-
come the fashion.
This goes to show that prices can
be kept down by simply refusing to pay
soaring prices; by doing without, or
adapting needs to available supplies of
cheaper products. —E. M. B. (N.S.W.).
Price of Apples
News that the price of apples in Syd-
ney had been fixed at Is. a pound was of
interest in W.A., where top price is now
Bd. a pound. We feel even Bd. is exces-
sive in view of the enormous waste that
takes place.
An orchardist is not allowed to give
fruit away, no matter how much of the
apple crop is lying on the ground. This
has, to be buried or dumped, but “strangu-
lations” do not stipulate where it has to
be dumped, and occasionally some apples
get lost in transit. If a friend calls and
asks for apples, he is told that it is more
than the orchardist’s life is worth to give
away any. Then the orchardist says
something about going to the end of the
orchard and not being back for a time
and not knowing how many apples there
are.
Good work has been done with dehy-
dration, and the quality of dried apples
on the local market is excellent; so it is
hoped the Grapple and Snare Board
farce will not be continued.
A feature that is unexplainable is that
apples are packed for the local market
as though they were being sent on a
1000-mile journey overseas. Why they
cannot be sent to market in bags (with-
out grading) and sold cheap when they
arc in season mystifies everyone. There
would be some damage by putting them
in bags, but this loss would easily be
offset by the quantity that would be con-
sumed instead of being wasted. — Ebony
(W.A.).
The Black Market
“Fitzwilliam” (B. 20/10/’43) says “you
can’t charge a man with having stolen
property in his possession without first
proving that it was stolen.” But in 'Vic-
toria you can charge him with having in
his possession property suspected of hav-
ing been stolen or unlawfully obtained
and he may be arrested and brought
before a Court of Petty Sessions (Sec-
tion 40, Victorian Police Offences Act,
1928). I believe there is a similar pro-
vision in other States.
Ihe prosecutor is not required to prove
that the property was stolen, but merely
to tender evidence that he suspects that
the property was stolen or unlawfully
obtained. The onus of proof that it was
lawfully obtained is thrown on the ac-
cused. If he fails to give the court a
“satisfactory account” as to how he came
by such property he is liable to imprison-
ment for a term of up to 12 months. This
is one of the few British laws which
require the accused to prove his inno-
cence.—X (Vic.).
Super.
Australian soils are deficient in phos-
phorus ; this can be mdde good only by
phosphatic manure. No amount of re-
leases from the army in the way of man-
power to work on the land, nothing in
the way of increased or guaranteed prices,
and no amount of extra cultivation can
atone for a lack of phosphatic manure.
Phosphate rock supplies from abroad
are curtailed by war conditions. Use
must be made of Australian deposits to
the utmost possible extent, and at once.
There are available deposits of lime
phosphate rock from which super, can
be made by the comparatively cheap acid
treatment, and upon these attention
should be concentrated. Prospectors who
have discovered new deposits and opened
up old ones all complain about long
delays before anything is done to use the
rock. Weeks or even months go by
before anyone comes along to examine
the deposit and test it; delay piles upon
delay in making arrangements to get men
to work it and trucks to cart it.
Not one of the known Australian phos-
phate deposits should remain unworked
—they should be worked in three shifts,
right round the clock. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
Australian Wine
On behalf of the Federal Viticultural
Council I would like to thank you for
your continued and extremely valuable
articles on the wine-growing industry in
Australia. Your comments have always
shown a very careful analysis of situa-
tions as they arose affecting not only the
internal trade in wine but in particular t
the export trade. At a time when con-
ditions tend to disrupt normal activities
a leader such as appeared in The
Bulletin of 10/11/’43 must exercise in-
fluence for the great good of a very
valuable industry. Frederick Davies,
vice-president (N.S.W.).
South Australian Water Supply
“Hamley” (B. 3/11/ *43) writing about
the benefits to flow from the Whyalla
pipeline says “it will be possible for towns
to have sewerage and all hands to have
ample water.” At what cost? Is “Ham-
ley” acquainted with proposed cost to
landholders? These are (1) cost of instal-
lation of individual supply, (2) £5 a year
for which 40,000 gallons are allowed, (3)
2s. 6d. per 1000 gallons in excess of
40,000.
As a landholder in poor country (graz-
ing only), I contend the rates for water
are excessive. No one would query the
justice of paying for installation, but for
a Government to propose such rates
whilst supporting officers to combat soil
erosion is, to my idea, folly.
The higher the rate the more financial
burden is placed on the landowner and
the greater the urge to overstock in order
to produce. In the Head of Brownlow,
south-east of Eudunda, the effects of this
policy are in evidence. There the rating
was 4d. per acre and upwards, with the
rate for water used at Is. 4d. per 1000
gallons; excess water Is. per 1000.
If the Whyalla 2s. 6d. per 1000 is to
be maintained the fixed,annual payment
should be abolished.
I should mention that supply en route
is connected only on request, but when
installed is a perpetual charge. As “Ham-
ley” says, “What a future it opens up for
the country north of Adelaide! ”
Let me remind “Hamley” that B.H.P.
can fix its own selling price whilst pro-
ducers in general cannot pass their
charges on.—T. L. P. Bettison (S.A.).
All-night Doctors
Doctors complain that they are being
worked to death. There are all-night
chemists ; why not all-night doctors? If
any medicos can be released from the
army surely some could be spared to act
as night doctors, one to every area of a
specified population. If this can’t be done
in war-time (when it is most needed) it
should be a “must” for the post-war
world. Hours could be from, say, 11
p.m. to 6 a.m. and the task to keep
urgent cases treated (or alive, at least)
until their own doctors come on dutv in
the morning.—E, (N.S.W.).


...
'iJmm
Mil
. - i
S H
'
i
m
a
m
m
V
p
I
m.
I
■
Si
%
■
■ : i
■
H
hi
; ■
■
SH
m
»
M;
■
KS
I*::
<* Bali i t i
mm
■■ HI
m
m
ill ill3o
MUMMI
■■• 'i;:-
■
■; s ;
m
wl
mm
■ ‘ • -v . ■- . J'w{rr- - -
"Blueprint for Prosperity”—by Arthur J. Murch. This is the third of a series of paintings symbolising
Australia's cowing peace time prosperity and happiness, commissioned by Stewarts and Lloyds (Anst.) Pty. Lid.
e
/a
Shell production started in our plant in 1939, We didn’t wait for the Japs.
None of os wanted the future we then saw ahead. But we faced it. At that time we were making welded
and weldless steel tubes for everything from gas and water pipes to boiler tubes for ships. Without
subsidy we switched our production to the forging and rough machining of shell bodies.
Our manufacturing plant proved adaptable not only to shell bodies, but also to Aero engine cylinders
and gun parts, while its normal products were put to such uses as “jungle carts”, pontoon bridges,
army huts, tank shelters, ships’ derricks and davits and hundreds of other war uses.
Once again we are looking ahead ... as all Australian industry must look ahead if we are to win the
peace as well as the war. War has proved the expansion power and adaptability of Australian Industry.
Providing that expansion and adaptability are switched full force from war to peace, we will make
short work of the period of re-adjustment.
Stewarts and Lloyds (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Special Note for Public Utilities, Municipal Councils and Householders.
Even the best pipe requires replacement occasionally, either through damage
or corrosion ; particularly when galvanised quality cannot he supplied owing to
the shortage of zinc. We can only provide such replacements when the request
is supported by a certificate from the local authority . . . Since every length used
for such replacements means one length less available to fill the hundreds ol
defence orders on our books, we ask users and authorities to co-operate with a view
to asking for and authorising replacements only in essential cases where repair is
impossible and standards of health may suffer.
