

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,”
VoL 64.—N0. 3295
Wednesday, April 7, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PICTURESQUE INN AT LAVENHAM, SUFFOLK.
t- c ~ crfil r
of Cam-
bridge and Norfolk, combines within
HHPrcnt and modWvhile natul
and
varied a selection as the most ardent could
may be is nol slated. Piubebly much
younger than the license it carries. How-
“ n »» ,i I*. ,
soever, young or old, the architect pro-
duced a most pleasing work. Gratifica-
tion is engendered when comparison is
instituted with the ultra-modern “pubs”
which dot the land. In Canada and the
United States a tendency has been ob-
served in recent years for architects to
revert to many of those ideas embodied in
inn and tavern constructions a century or
two ago. Elaboration, so often bizarre,
appears to be regarded much as the
“thing” in this “age.” Actually, there is
a deep regard in the average normal indi-
vidual for simplicity and comfort in those
establishments he frequents for refresh-
ment and social recreation.


sd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligatiori, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 113
The Red Page
THE GREAT CLOWN.
“If I told you, Mr. Shean,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “that I had been reading a
book about a man who believes that the
free spirit of man would flourish best
under a system in which each man is a
slave of the State, at the mercy of a thou-
sand jacks-in-office ; a man who has fre-
quently and with immoderate enthusiasm
acknowledged in public that he is dazzled
by the splendor of his own intellect; a
man who lives on lettuce and nuts;
neither smokes nor drinks ; is to be dis-
tinguished from the herd by an uncom-
mon growth of whisker; a man with
whom I have one fundamental and irre-
concilable difference of opinion—what
would you say?”
“I would say,” said Mr. Shean, “that
that is a somewhat unscrupulous way of
opening a discussion on Bernard Shaw.
Moreover, I cannot believe that you have
any violent objection to his whiskers.”
“I have never seen handsomer,” ad-
mitted Mr. Gallagher.
“Like myself,” said Mr. Shean, “you
have a strong religious objection to his
teetotalism.”
“It narrows the soul and encourages
spiritual pride,” said Mr. Gallagher. “But
I do not wish to be puritanic about it.”
“Then you will pardon his vegetarian-
ism also?” asked Mr. Shean.
“Mr, Shaw’s diet,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“includes milk and cheese. Milk and
cheese are procured by separating the
calf from the cow. I am informed by
cows of my acquaintance that this causes
them far more distress than the painless
destruction of their brothers at the abat-
toirs. However, I am the last man to
quarrel with human illogicality. It would
be a drab world without vegetarians.”
“And drab without that Bernard Shaw
who tootles so delightfully on his own
trumpet,” said Mr. Shean.
“True,” said Mr. Gallagher. “All
artists should be conceited about their
own work. It is only courteous to accept
a man at his own valuation, and as far
as I am concerned those who tell me
they are worms are worms. And those
who tell me they are greater than Shak-
speare are at least nearly as good as
Sheridan.”
“Touching his socialism,” said Mr.
Shean, “1 agree with you that a world
of civil servants is not a thing to be con-
templated with excessive rapture. Par-
ticularly if the civil servants are going
to be teetotal vegetarians. But, after
Cromwell —the Restoration! I cannot
suppose that, as a literary man, you would
wish seriously to quarrel with any man
about whatever of the changing phases
of the eternal misgovernment he thinks
the best.”
“Furthermore,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“Bernard Shaw is not a socialist.”
“Certainly he has never given the im-
pression of believing that all men were
born equal to Bernard Shaw,” said Mr.
Shean. “Like all artists, he is an aristo-
crat of the spirit.”
“The very first sentence of the book I
have been reading, Hesketh Pearson’s
fascinating Bernard Shaw: His Life and
Personality (Collins; Angus and Robert-
son), almost establishes Shaw as a
hereditary aristocrat in the ordinary, most
unsocialistic sense,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I quote:
“ T am supposed to be descended from
Macduff,’ said Shaw to me, ‘and, although
I am not subject to feudal feelings, it
pleases me that an ancestor of mine is a
character in one of Shakspeare’s plays.’ ”
“Which means, of course,” said Mr.
Shean, “ ‘although 1 am not subject to
feudal feelings, I am subject to feudal
feelings.’ ”
“Quite,” said Mr. Gallagher. “From
Mr. Pearson’s admirable biography,
demonstrating that Shaw has far more
in common with Nietzsche than with
William Morris, I quote you the follow-
ing:—
“ ‘Most people are quite incapable of
five minutes’ consecutive and constructive
thought.’ (Shaw.)
“ ’When his friend Henry Salt wrote an
autobiography, calling it Seventy Years
Among Savages, Shaw chuckled appreci-
atively. He always regarded the world as
a sort of zoo in which monkey-houses and
tiger-cages filled the landscape. He pic-
tured the man of genius, himself really, as
condemned to a life among wild beasts.’
(Pearson.)
“ ‘Shaw did not believe, as so many
socialists do, that the possession of money
would solve all the problems that perplex
humanity: “All the thoughtful ones will
assure you that happiness and unhappiness
are constitutional, and have nothing to do
with money. Money can cure hunger: it
cannot cure unhappiness. Food can
satisfy the appetite, but not the soul.” ’
(Pearson and Shaw.)
“ ‘He would not even have the people
choose their leaders. “They always choose
the second-best,” he said. Later on he
was to propose a scheme for allowing the
people to choose, but restricting their choice
to the competent.’ (Pearson and Shaw.)
“ ‘For ten years past, with an unprece-
dented pertinacity and obstination, 1 have
been dinning into the public head that I am
an extraordinarily witty, brilliant and clever
man.’ (Shaw.)
“In addition to which,” Mr. Gallagher
continued, “Mr. Pearson recalls that
.Shaw does not approve of Marx’s dialec-
tic and regards the ‘class war’ as an
illusion. Whether or not Shaw can be
described as a socialist depends, of
course, on your definition of socialism.
But the essence of socialism to me is the
delusion that all men are brothers ; and
a man who believes, sensibly, that all
men except himself are wild beasts is no
more a socialist than I am.”
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “you
are falling into the vulgar error of sup-
posing that a man cannot be two things,
diametrically opposed to each other, at
the same time. According to your Mr.
Pearson’s excellent biography, Shaw has
spent fully half his life rushing to public
meetings to prove that everybody is, or
could be, wonderful. And he has spent
the other half of his life proving that
nobody is, or ever could be, as wonderful
as Bernard Shaw. Clearly, he is a
socialist; and clearly he is not a
socialist.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher, “now you
bring me close to my one great quarrel
with Shaw. My theory is that, because
he allowed the socialist Bernard Shaw to
dominate the artist Bernard Shaw, he
totally misconceived the nature and pur-
pose of art’; whereby his works suffered
and his influence became pernicious.”
“The oldest and most damnable
heresy,” agreed Mr. Shean. “‘Art is a
weapon.’ ”
“Here it is,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“quoted by Mr. Pearson from Man and
Superman, the essence of Shaw’s philo-
sophy:
“ T tell you that as long as I can con-
ceive something better than myself 1 cannot
be easy unless I am striving to bring it into
existence or clearing the way for it. That
is the law of my life. That is the working
within me of Life’s incessant aspiration
to higher organisation, wider, deeper, in-
tenser self-consciousness and clearer self-
understanding. It was the supremacy of
this purpose that reduced love for me to
the mere pleasure of a moment, art for me
to the mere schooling of my faculties....’”
“Let us not be bamboozled by elegant
words!” said Mr. Shean. “In Shak-
speare's case, the supremacy of this same
purpose exalted love for him to the
illumination of a lifetime, art to an image
of that very divinity to which Life inces-
santly aspired. Art is not ‘a weapon’;
it is a revelation.”
“You wax sublime, Mr. Shean,” said
Mr, Gallagher.
“It is the effect of a coarse and low
existence,” said Mr. Shean. “I eat meat.
I drink beer. I do not ride to socialist
meetings upon a bicycle. Nor do I read
Shakspeare in order to ‘school my facul-
ties’ for the establishment of a dubiously
efficient and certainly dull political sys-
tem.”
“And yet the curious thing is,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “that there are moments
when Bernard Shaw holds exactly the
same exalted opinion of art as do you
and I. After he had heard Ellen Terry
reciting a poem at a concert he wrote to
her:- —
“ ‘You brought tears to my eyes, not, you
will understand, by the imaginary sorrows
of the lunatic (sorrow does not make me
cry, even when it is real) but by doing the
thing beautifully. My whole claim to be
a critic of art is that I can be touched in
that way.’ ”
“ ‘Tears, idle tears, I know not what
they mean,’ ” quoted Mr. Shean. “And,
of course, Shaw knows, just as well as
Tennyson knew, that in those tears of
pure wonder lies the whole mystery of
art ; the whole meaning and the whole
purpose. We weep for joy—you and I
and Bernard Shaw and Tennyson— at a
revelation of beauty beyond our under-
standing. It is possible, let me grant
Mr. Shaw, that I might in an unguarded
moment weep at a meeting of the Fabian
Society. But I also weep —invariably—
at the sunset, at Beethoven’s music, at
the splendid ferocity of the tiger and
the lowly persistence of the earthworm:
and, though I am not sure about earth-
worms, there are few tigers burning
bright at the proceedings of the Fabian
Society.”
“Since Shaw himself does weep with
you at the mystery of art,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “we are forced to the conclu-
sion that this man who is and is not a
socialist also is and is not a true creative
artist.”
“And so,” said Mr. Shean, “you are
in the position of having to quarrel bit-
terly, fundamentally and finally with
only half of Bernard Shaw.”
“Exactly,” said Mr. Gallagher. “Half
of him I would boil in oil; but the other
half I will crown with laurel. He has
wit; and wit like his is a manifestation
of genius ; and for wit like his I will
forgive his vegetarianism, his unnatural
passion for water, his politics—every-
thing except that betrayal of art which
made many of his plays mere tracts for
the times, already faded with the ‘causes’
that were their themes. And I recog-
nise that, because genius was in him, he
was unable to betray his art as com-
pletely as he wished: in whatever he
writes, however moralistic, there is an
enchanting devil of wit that cannot be
subdued.”
“Shaw’s a complete puzzle,” said Mr.
Shean. “His preaching should have made
his work dull. It didn’t: his genius beat
him. His footling with public meetings,
his tract-writing, his devotion to the
‘cause’ should have reduced his literary
output: but nobody could ask a man
for more plays than Shaw has written.
His vegetarianism and other vagaries
should make us laugh at him: but he
laughs at us.”
“When I try to sum him up, as a per-
sonality and as a playwright,” said Mr
Gallagher, “I remember a chaplain at
the dear old school of my boyhood.”
“The old school?” said Mr. Shean.
“The old school. Attendance at the
chaplain’s services was compulsory ; and
all right-minded small boys, not being
socialists, hate obeying orders; more-
over, by dodging church, we were able
to embezzle the sixpence which was given
us for the collection. But that chaplain
knew his business. Somewhat to the
scandal of the parishioners, he used to
make jokes in his sermons, so funny that
1 have seen the whole congregation rock-
ing with laughter: and for the sake of
his jokes, many a time we sacrificed our
freedom and attended his services. In
moments of absolute lunacy, we even put
our sixpences into the plate.”
“And were the sermons edifying?”
asked Mr. Shean.
“I don't know,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I have forgotten every word of them.
1 expect they were the usual thing. But
I have never forgotten that that parson
used to make jokes in church.”
“Tell me then,” said Mr. Shean, “has
Mr. Pearson made a good job of his
biography of this merry cleric, this up-
roarious wowser, this bloodthirsty vege-
tarian, this Nietzschean socialist, this
genius who did not know that his own
wit, murderous as it was, was a thing of
more splendor than all the meetings of
the Fabian Society?”
“Magnificent,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“Everyone will read it. It is not without
faults as a biography, in that it conveys
the impression that Shaw was born with
a full beard. But it is Shaw the adult we
are interested in, and I do not mind tak-
ing it for granted that Shaw, like the
rest of us, was a monster in his child-
hood and a hairy goat in his adolescence.
It is weak on Shaw the vegetarian: that
sensitive plant has yet to be analysed.
But it is Shaw the wit we are interested
in, and Shaw the clown. The wit who
suggested, when comparing the luxurious
existence of pheasants, preserved in Eng-
lish parks, with the life of children in the
slums, that perhaps the sport of shoot-
ing children should be introduced. And
the clown who, asked by a school to
donate a prize, offered an annual award
for the worst-behaved boy' Mr. Pear-
son’s book is packed with such stories.
It is authorised and assisted by Shaw and
will be the standard biography for all
time. And Mr. Pearson, who disapproves
of Shaw’s moralism as heartily as I do,
and who ‘lovingly debunks’ his hero
throughout, has a pretty wit of his own.”
“And which of the Shavianisms do you
like the best?” asked Mr. Shean.
“When he met the clown Whimsical
Walker after a circus performance and,
upon Walker’s thanking him for his
kindness in shaking hands with an old
clown, replied ‘lt’s just one old clown
shaking hands with another.’ ”
“And which of the Pearsonia?”
“This one,” said Mr. Gallagher; “ ‘He
took his ease in a committee-room as
Falstaff took his ease in his inn.’ ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Craiser”: A show of aboriginal art
at the “Herald” building, Melbourne, has
a lesson for Caucasian artists who say
they can’t paint because they have to
keep a wife and family. Some of the
freshest works are the drawings on bark
of one Wonggu, of the Caledon Bay tribe.
He is not only headman of the tribe, no
doubt a job as onerous as Mr. Curtin’s,
but he owns to having 30 wives and
60 children.
Vic. technical schools must be in-
habited by a particularly bright lot of
youngsters, judging by their war-loan
posters at Farmer’s Galleries, Sydney.
Designs from Swinburne school are
especially clever. Posters well up to any
professional standard are shown by Betty
Slight, June Morton, Nairda Cole, Wini-
fred Goldthorpe, Betty Reynolds, Betty
Curtis, N. E. Morey, J. E. Plant, N. See-
ger and Jack Oke. Also there are some
excellent anonymous performances.
Melbourne Tivoli’s latest revue, “Strip
for Action,” is adequately described by
its title. If the chandelier which is
lowered from the roof in the second ballet
of Tiv. Lovelies were transferred to the
Town Hall, Beethoven symphonies or
meetings of the League for Rationing
Beer wouldn’t get a look-in. The Dare-
devil Durkins, still whizzing at 60 miles
per hour round a globe, one in longitudi-
nal and the other in latitudinal directions,
have not yet collided as any reasonable
beings would have. The return from
the Middle East of Jim Gerald ought to
be another highlight, but somehow or
other the lieutenant-colonel in a private’s
battle-dress pursuing two maidens across
the desert is a less risible proposition than
the comedian as he was in a civilian suit
two sizes too big for him.
Being an uplifting propaganda play,
Norman Macowan’s “Glorious Morning"
is naturally as gloomy as midnight. It’s
set in some imaginary totalitarian State
seven years after a “godless” revolution.
The churches have been closed, the priests
killed or exiled, all lands confiscated and
the people gradually introduced to the
delights of communal dwellings. There
is a girl student who, like Joan of Arc,
has visions. She believes she has a mis-
sion to lead the people back to God.
Inevitably she and a hundred or so of
the people who have listened to her are
marched out to be shot. The martyr-
dom is the “glorious morning.” Doris
Fitton’s Independents, who are trying it
out at their North Sydney theatre, obvi-
ously aren’t excited about it, partly be-
cause it’s dramatically worthless, partly
because the players are not professional
propagandists. Edgar Yardley as the
old peasant, grandfather of the dreamer
and her staunchest supporter, tries hard
to infuse some life into the business; the
remainder succeed only in showing the
depression of the people of Burlitzia.
Propaganda rears its reprehensible head
to the detriment of both “This England’
(Sydney Embassy) and “One Day in
Soviet Russia” (Savoy). The producers
of “This England” have deluded them-
selves that a lofty theme, English resist-
ance to tyranny, will excuse amateurish
scenes and stilted dialogue. Except for
bits of Quentin Reynolds’s commentary
there is little direct propaganda in the
Russian film, but it seems to have been
designed to prove that Russians are
human beings: that they eat, sleep, work
and play as people do everywhere. B\
leaving out the objectionable features ot
a political system, the same statement
could have been made of any country.
It amounts to a full-length travelogue;
interesting, because all travelogues are
interesting; but not as interesting as a
James Fitzpatrick survey of Russia would
have been, because Fitzpatrick concen-
trates on taking pictures, not on preach-
ing a sermon. Its chief merit is its demon-
stration of Russia’s enormous territory
and wide diversity of races.
Sydney Con. opened its orchestral con-
cert season with a fair reading or
Brahms’s Third. The orchestra this yeai
is much more feminine than masculine—-
all the second violins are women, and
there is even a petticoat among the trom-
bones. String tone is still a little thin
a mellower sunset should end the sym-
phonic day in the forest and the first
movement’s dawn was just a httk i
chilly. In the Grieg Concerto student
Gloria Noud covered herself with glory.
Her style is crisp and confident, and net
tone amply big enough to lead an orches-
tra. Her quite emphatic success was me
best possible tribute to the soundness o
the Con.’s pianoforte teaching method*.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” MTHONY HORDERNS 9
119 Years of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE'
ss-
m m
:
I
m*
1
cl
n
ii
£1
£
■m
:
i
■
is
■
m
■ I
mi mt
■<-y$
...
i
i*isSs
M
ii
"rrr
ii
m
■mm
s}oMm
m
SS3S
OUR
FACTORY
FRONT
MAKING LUXURY
FURNITURE
In pre-war days there was scarcely an article of woodwork
that we did not make in our Furniture Factory, ranging from
babies’ cots to show suites costing hundreds of pounds.
To-day we are concentrating on tent poles, packing pieces,
dining forms and tables. Instrument boxes, rolling pins,
chart racks, and service furniture generally.
We welcome enquiries from cus-
tomers, however, for any items of
household furniture they need, and
we will forward full information
as to the lines that are available
for purchase.
f
MAKING TENT POLES
Eg 8?
mm
m
m
V.
»
«ass
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 27120 G.P.0., SYDNEY


FIRE
By ROBERT CLARK.
IT’S not just the heat that keeps the
town uneasy. From the north-east
comes a wind, vigorous and depress-
ing, with the threat of even greater
vigor in store. A dirty coating of cloud
spume round the horizon confirms Bill
Whitington in his opinion that it’s “going
to be a hell of a day,” but it doesn’t need
a fire-control officer to tell us that.
It’s the kind of day that makes us
hate the thought of summer and long for
city streets where the brigade looks after
fires, and pub doors, dark and numerous,
gush forth cool air. But in a country
town fire-fighting is everybody’s respon-
sibility, and we get up to a day like this
blasting the weather, and we go on blast-
ing it, more or less audibly, all day until
the late afternoon brings relief.
On the way to the office there is only
one thought. In knots of two or three
scattered about the main street it is dis-
cussed, usually by greyheads with the
weight of hundreds of fire stories on
their minds. They stare at the sky, shake
their heads or wave their hands: “Don’t
like the look of it. Reminds me of the
summer”
“She’s hot,” remarks the cafe proprietor
as he polishes his plate-glass and gazes
up and down the street.
“She’s hot all .right,” you reply and
pass on.
Crossing the street the grocer’s bicycle,
with the wind behind it, nearly kuocks
you over. “Going to be a stinker today,”
the boy shouts back.
You nod and move on. Everybody
is grimly cheerful. You know how
they feel —exactly as you do, your
heart dropping a little lower with
every bead of perspiration that slides
down inside your singlet. You sling your
coat aside, settle down at the desk and
take down yesterday’s figures. The first
column presents no difficulties, but half-
way down the second a sudden recollec-
tion of last year’s fire sticks itself be-
tween two nines. You see yourself as
you were then, choked and blinded with
smoke, gasping and staggering from tus-
sock to tussock, an almost useless mallee
bough in your hand, beating, dumbly,
ineffectively, with the crazy clocklike
motion of a piece of worn-out machinery,
at those insidious, gentle-looking flames.
And then a voice behind you, and you
look stupidly up at the truck. “It’s no
use. Hop in and we’ll get back to the
house. She’s getting close. s'’ 5 '’ And, as
you climb in, your weak, tottery legs and
that dry, cracked feeling in the back of
your throat that no water seems to touch,
and the strange sight of men you knew,
filthy-looking niggers, their black faces
channelled pink with sweat.
You pull yourself together with a start
—“thirty-nine and nine and nine—or was
it thirty-six?” and back you go to make
sure.
Joe Miller comes in to verify some
figures, and he stands and talks. The
war news, the future of wool, the state
of the country, markets, sheep, but sooner
or later it gets round to the weather and
the one and only topic in summer. He
stops in the middle of a sentence as there
comes the dreaded sound of the siren.
It fills the air, going on .and on in its
monotonous, mechanical inflexibility, yet,
as the wind catches it, undulating with
vicious semblance of life. You stand
and listen for a second, and a silence
settles over the town, a silence more pro-
found for that strident voice, a silence
not inappropriate because of the wasted
country, the dead stock, the ruined homes,
all the destruction that is being an-
nounced,
“There she goes,” says Joe.
You nod and walk to the front door.
Already there are movement and action.
Figures are running; at the Council
Chambers Bill Whitington stands on the
kerb ; a car drives up, figures clot about
him; a truck noses its way out of the
lane and turns east; the fellow standing
over the water-tank waves as it goes by.
“Quick work,” says Joe approvingly.
“Bill’s a good organiser,” you reply
beneath the din of the siren. “That’s the
council truck.”
All down the street figures in shirt-
sleeves are standing on the pavement.
Where is it? Some step out to search
the sky for smoke. It may be five, fifteen,
twenty-five miles out; there won’t be
any smoke yet. Some say it’s out at the
Ten-mile ; others have heard that it’s just
over the sandhill past the saleyards; others
look at their watches and say the passen-
ger’s just gone up, it’s on the railway line.
Then the grocer’s boy, coming from the
Council Chambers, yells as he races by
“Out on Jamieson’s,” and the conver-
sation turns to possible causes —gas pro-
ducer, cigarette, broken glass or the pas-
senger train.
In front of the Council Chambers utili-
ties, duckboards and trucks are arriving
and leaving; men, putting on coats as
they walk, radiate in, like spokes on to
a hub, and are packed into waiting cars.
Someone hurries across and announces
that it’s on Jack Woodroffe’s.
“They said it was on Jamieson’s. That’s
ten miles from Woodroffe’s.”
“Bill Whitington said Woodroffe's. He
ought to know.”
“Anyway, she’ll travel fast enough
before this wind,”
"THE siren stops and the silence seems
*■ to hurt your ears. Thankfully you
turn and go inside. But work becomes
impossible as the day goes on. The heat
increases, and every half-hour the siren
breaks the silence and blares on for five,
ten, fifteen minutes, until it seems to be
blaring inside your own head. Reports
come trickling in. It is in Woodroffe’s;
in Jamieson’s, too, sweeping forward on
a ten-mile front. Woodroffe has lost a
thousand sheep ; Jamieson saved only his
house ; Tony Shand has been burnt out;
the council truck got caught and gutted.
More men are wanted, more men. Each
time the call comes in window 55 on
the telephone exchange drops and the
siren raises its insistent screech. Each
time more men search their own minds
and wonder whether they should leave their
own businesses to mind someone else’s.
“You can’t do much good out
confides the grocer’s assistant to a cus-
tomer. “I went out last year. I know.
If I could do anything I’d go.”
“That’s right. Let these country
blokes get out of their own mess, I say.
Look at Ken Jamieson. Not a break
on the place. Too mean to plough in a
bit of feed. Serves him right if he gets
burned out.”
The grocer’s assistant, a trifle shocked
at the severity of this judgment, is pre-
pared, however, to agree with a customer.
“They haven’t got enough equipment. If
they gave you a knapsack spray when
you got there or put you on a tractor,
it’d be different. You’d feel like giving
a hand—you could do something then.”
At this point the head of Bill Whiting-
ton or one of his helpers appears at the
door: “We want you, urgent. They
haven’t got enough men.”
“Oh, well, 0.K.,” grumbles the cus-
tomer, and puts his armful of goods on
the counter. “Come on; leave the shop
to the boss and the girls.”
The shop assistant hesitates in doubt
and then suddenly smiles. Happily he
tears off his white coat and apron. This
is out of the ordinary run of things; then,
remembering it’s not a joke, he looks
grave. He walks importantly down to
the Council Chambers and unctuously
offers his services. In a matter of
seconds he is unceremoniously packed
into a car and whisked away.
A S the afternoon drags on the town
'' slowly empties of men. Rumors circu-
late as thick as flies. The fire’s advancing
on the town, the whole of the district’s
burnt out and the front’s thirty miles
away, taking everything before it; two
men have been taken to the hospital; a
child (no one knows whose) has been
burnt alive ; this man has lost everything,
that man’s saved everything—no, it’s the
other way about.
The wind, now in the north-west, has
developed into a gale. The air is thick
with dust and smoke, and the sun glares
down through the orange-black pall. The
heat and discomfort in the town are in-
tense ; God help the fellows fighting
the fire. At three o’clock filthy, dirty,
unrecognisable men dribble* into the
town. They are listless and apathetic,
too exhausted to do anything but totter
to the pub, where it soon becomes impos-
sible to tell the saloon from the front bar.
“Useless,” says one. “Might as well
spit into hell.”
“Tractors?” says another. “What the
hell’s the use of ploughing breaks when
the wind carries burning bark over your
head. I saw one piece carried four hun-
dred yards—a full four hundred yards,
mind you, quarter of a mile. Never
seen nothing like it before in my life.”
Joe Miller, too old to fight fires, looks
worried. “It’ll be back again before long if
we don’t get some rain,” he murmurs.
“They can’t go all night.”
“What do you think the country
blokes will do? Go to bed? I’ve been
up night after night goin’ round the edge
of the burn putting out trees and logs.
If we don’t get any rain, she’ll be off
again tomorrow.”
Bill Whitington’s face, stern and
harassed, appears at the door.
“Come on, Bill, have a drink.”
“That’s all right about you. What do
you think the fire’s doing—putting itself
out? They want more men. Come on,
you’ve had enough.”
“We’ll get some rain soon.”
“Like hell we will! Come on.”
Most of the younger fellows follow
him out.
A NOTHER hour creeps by. Every now
and then someone goes out to see
what’s doing and to report on the
weather. About half-past four the wind
dr °P s - The town gives a sigh.
Azfui 6 mi - i £t f dro P y et >” sa Y s J°e
Miller, eyeing the sky, snuffing the air and
pressing his corned toes into the pave-
ment. “We’ll get it all right,” he utters
with sudden conviction.
At five it comes. A steady, unassum-
ing patter at first, but drumming harder
as each moment goes by. The town sags
with relaxation. Lorryloads of fire-
fighters empty themselves at the pub
door. Just one hour to go before closing
time—no more worries, no more strain ;
e ram take care of the rest. Both
bars become a milling shouting mass of
burly stokers, and behind die counters
• e^i censee a nd his offsiders tear fren-
LA t r °n l fff aSS A r if ck t0 n from
k j bottle. Above all the din can
be heard the rain.
A FTER tea we amble down the street to
■'* bat the breeze and get all the details.
The back parlor of the pub’s full—the
sergeant’s too busy to worry about us.
The newsagent’s got a gathering; so has
the barber. Everybody’s happy; it’s a
bad businesSj of course? but no one was
hurt, and it’s all over now and it’s some-
thing to talk about,
About eleven o’clock the town sinks
back to silence, the lights go out and men
sleep as they’ve not slept for a long time.
The change has come, the rain’s here,
and fires won’t wony us again until the
next bot day
Rllf . 7 , • , ~ ,
But fifte£ n miles out there s a stretch
ot countr Y, draped in black as for a
funeraI > that extends for miles and miles,
The smell of dead fire is in the air;
burning logs steam and sizzle in the rain;
here and there trees that nothing short
of a deluge could extinguish flare like
beacons through the dejected night; the
still bodies of dead sheep are scattered
about. In the houses, standing like
monuments in the wilderness, men, ex-
hausted to the point of physical break-
down, lie awake thinking over losses,
worrying about overdrafts, trying to plan
for the future, cursing their fate or re-
joicing over their good fortune.
FATHER GETS UP EARLY
By “C.S.”
5 UNDAY morning at our place. I
awoke and looked at the window
and saw that it was just breaking
dawn. Across the room our
brother slept in his blankets. I could
hear the cawing of crows and the clank
of the windmill turning lazily in the dawn
breeze. I stretched out luxuriously,
thanking the powers for Sunday. All the
other mornings we had to turn out with
the daylight and get up the house cow
and the horses and have breakfast and
get ready for the day’s work. One thing
our father insisted upon, above all else,
was early rising. Once he used to insist
on us being early abed, too, but we broke
that down when we got older, and we
came to a sort of compromise: Father
wasn’t to worry about what time we went
to bed so long as we were up with the
dawn.
Except in the depth of winter, which
only lasts about a month out our way,
getting up early isn’t hard. All the world
is getting up at the same time, and the
magpies are singing and the chooks talk-
ing and the dogs chasing swallows over
the grass. The sheep will be stringing
away from the tank and our old cow
standing by the stable gate, and there’ll
be hustle and hurry in the kitchen, with
Mother and our sister cooking eggs and
bacon and Father sitting on the doorstep
lacing up his boots. You go down the
paddock after the horses, and there is
dew on the grass, and the night has
washed the tired look off the earth’s face,
and it looks like a boy fresh from a bath.
You look back at the homestead, and
there’s blue smoke going up from the
chimney and the dogs trotting busily
about as though they were setting out
the day’s work. And you have a good
breakfast and go out and do your work
and feel good.
Sunday morning sort of sets it all off.
That morning you can lie in bed and
stretch and snooze and think a bit, and
snooze again and wake, and wonder
whether you’ll go over to Thompson’s
place in the afternoon or go shooting over
the ridge. Or perhaps it’s the Sunday
of the monthly church service, and you
wonder if your shoes are clean, and
whether Ettie Thompson will be there
and if your brother will fall over his feet
trying to sit beside her.
This Sunday morning looked as good
as any other Sunday morniqg. I snuggled
down and was just dozing off when our
brother called, urgently, “Listen!”
I listened. From the front bedroom
came sounds that could mean only one
thing. Father was getting up.
“Gripes!” I said, looking at Jack. But
he was already out and getting into his
trousers. *
“Come on,” he whispered; “you know
what he’s like.”
Too right I did. Unless we were out,
too, he’d come storming into the room,
yelling out about lazy loafers, and then
go rampaging about the place. We didn’t
know why he had suddenly decided to
get out this Sunday morning ; we could
only race into our things and wonder.
It couldn’t be the ewes, which weren’t
due to lamb for weeks ; there was no
seeding to be done, and he hadn’t said
anything the night before about doing
anything this morning.
“Something must have turned up,”
whispered Jack, whipping the knot into
his laces. “P’raps the horses have got
into the stack.”
Dresse'd, I dived at the window. There
weren’t any horses near the stack. “He
must have thought of something during
the night,” I said.
“Blow him,” snorted Jack. “Why can’t
he think of things on Friday nights?”
We heard Father walking down the
passage, and we slipped out and went
through the kitchen and watched him.
He had his boots on, unlaced, and his
overcoat over his pyjamas and his hat on
his head and was smoking his pipe. He
walked to the stables and went inside.
We looked at the cold kitchen and at
each other.
Jack made for our sister’s room and
I went to the front room. Mother was
asleep. I shook her till she looked up.
“Father’s been up quite a while,” I said
anxiously. “Me an’ Jack are dressed.”
Mother sat up and Rooked startled.
“Bother the man! What on earth is up
with him, I wonder. It’s funny he didn’t
wake me,”
In the kitchen Jack was lighting the
fire and our sister was putting the kettle
on. I went out to see what Father was
doing, but he wasn’t in sight.
“D’ y’ think I ought t’ run the horses
in?” I asked.
Jack came out and looked about.
“Where is he?”
“Dunno.”
We stood uneasily on the verandah,
listening to Mother and our sister busy
in the kitchen. After a bit Mother came
out and looked about and asked “Where’s
your father?”
We just looked at her. She surveyed
the empty yard. “Don’t stand there
gawping!” she said. “Go and see if
your father wants you.”
We went over to the stables. Father
wasn’t there. We found him leaning
against one of the horseyard posts smok-
ing and looking away towards the east,
where the light was growing. For about
a minute we studied his face, trying to
read something from it.
“Do you want the horses?” Jack asked
in a funny sort of voice.
Father turned round slowly and looked
at us. A bit of a grin came on his face.
“What,” he said, “up and dressed
already?”
We squirmed and shuffled our feet and
looked down at the ground. “We
thought” Jack’s voice trailed away
“Aw,” said Father, knocking his pipe
against the post, “I thought I’d get up
and watch the sun rise. But a man never
seems to get a minute to himself when
he’s got a family. You fellows going
hunting or something?” %
We were trying to take it in. All the
rushing and dressing and wondering for
nothing.
“No,” said Jack slowly, “we ain’t going
hunting.”
Father turned away. “Aw, well,” he said.
Then he started to go back to the house.
We watched him go. Jack kicked at
the ground. I felt as though I’d lost a
pound and found threepence. Then we
went to the kitchen. Father wasn’t there.
Our sister poured us some tea. Mother
was sitting by the table biting her lips.
“You’d think he was a king,” she said in
a sort of half-laughing, half-crying voice.
We drank our tea and watched tne
ruined Sunday come out of the east, con-
scious that our father was back in his bed.


FROM G.H.Q. CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE.
“Calling honorable Sydney wharf-laborers. Congratulations on honorable non-loading policy. Guarantee honorable preference when victory
gained, yes?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
PREFERENCE FOR DIGGERS.
Judging by a statement he made last
week, the Prime Minister regards pref-
erence to soldiers as a reward for ser-
vices rendered. It can never be any-
thing of the kind. Anyone who thinks
that by doling out a job or anything else
to those who have been in uniform for
years (or on service in any other capacity)
a just reward has been made is as far
removed from the real issues as yogis
contemplating their navels on Indian hill-
tops.
Said the P.M.:
I say there are a number of men in uni-
form who, as you know and I know, have
done nothing in this war but wear a uni-
form. They have done nothing in actual
combat—nothing more than the civilian has
done, except wear a uniform.
However that is taken, it is consider-
ably beneath a Prime Minister. It could
be taken as an attack on certain indivi-
duals by the worst of all forms of per-
sonal attack —innuendo. In that case
they should have been named ; then they
would have been found to be a paltry
few —and has Mr. Forde no authority?
Alternatively the thing could be taken as
a bid to bolster up the tottering case of
equal preference with soldiers for non-
unifofmed home-fronters.
The P.M. went further:
I think the members of the mercantile
marine are as much fighters for their
country as the men who dress up in uni-
forms and sit at desks at the barracks.
Whatever Government is in power I pray
that it will see that the men and women
who have fought are given a place that
their services merit.
Apart from the utter unfairness to men
on garrison and base service • who could
be doing better for themselves in civi-
lian life, there is a confusion of thought
and issue in that utterance which—com-
ing from the man at the top of things in
this country at war —is well-nigh incred-
ible. Everybody knows that the men in
the merchant service take the same risks
that are taken by men in combat. For
example, up to one stage in this war —it
may still hold—U.S. mercantile marine
casualties were proportionately greater
than U.S. Army casualties. Merchant sea-
men may get little sympathy from arm-
chair strategists fighting the war from
behind the parapets of their typewriters
or from Corns, and fellow-travellers
bawling for second-fronts requiring
colossal fleets of transports manned by
men of the mercantile marine service.
But by now all but such people know of
the incalculable value of this service and
the individual courage that its men put
into it.
Disabled seamen must have special
sympathetic treatment equal to that ex-
tended to disabled Diggers. This cap be
done under the Seamen’s War-time Pen-
sions Act, which should be extended to
give preference in employment to all war-
serving seamen.
Men only temporarily seamen and in-
tending to go back to previous occupa-
tions later on can be classed along with
Diggers; but those who are seamen by
occupation are following their calling,
and, if fit, are not in the same position
as Diggers who, in 99 cases in every 100,
are at present engaged in an occupation
that will not only be of no use to the bulk
of them afterwards, but in many ways
positively unfits men for normal civilian
callings. That goes not only for men who
see actual combat; and this is only
one reason why Mr. Curtin’s sneer at
men in uniform other than combat sol-
diers was most unworthy of him.
What on earth is the conception of
the Prime Minister and people who think
like him of the military set-up? Does
Mr. Curtin think that the splendid A.I.F,
and other fighting forces could function
without the vast organisation of the whole
military establishment backing them?
Ten-year-olds would know different.
And it goes further than that. Quite
evidently these most superficial viewers
of the military set-up appear to think
that every man who goes to a battle front
becomes a combat troop in their meaning
of the term. If they can sneer at the very
necessary men employed in chair jobs in
Australia, why don’t they advance their
line of sneer a bit and take in those who
have to do equally necessary but simi-
larly office-situated jobs at the combat
area bases? These may run a greater
risk by bombing (perhaps; there are
such things as dugouts), but Mr.
Curtin would hardly deny that this
could —and well might—happen here too ;
and then where’s the difference?
The plain truth —and it’s far past time
Mr. Curtin and all others who think as
he was thinking last week woke up to it
-—is that an army (meaning all branches
of the fighting service) is a compact
whole, every part related to the others
and vital to their functioning. If —as Mr.
Curtin and many more appear to think —
preference to soldiers is wholly a matter
of reward, rather than a matter of equit-
able justice, then preference should be
graded in degrees of fighting done, with,
naturally, first preference to the P. 8.1.,
grading away until a general out of a
job would be asked how many Germans
or Japs he killed with his own hands, and
would be rewarded accordingly.
All that can be done is to see that all
those in uniform are subsequently as
fairly treated as the special consideration
they should have can manage. The treat-
ment can have only one real objective—
to help those in uniform equitably back
into civilian life again. Since it is not
a matter of reward but one of justice in
equity the preference must be extended to
all persons in uniform over and above all
who have meanwhile followed their civi-
lian occupations. If there were to be
anyv grading it would have to be on the
basil of length of service—that is (no
matter where the service is done), length
of time away from normal civil bread-
winning life. This is the crux Of the
whole issue.
When a man pulls on the uniform he
severs himself from civil life as thor-
oughly as if he stepped on to another
planet. There arc exceptions. A man
may be a truck-driver in civil life and
may carry on his occupation in the army.
Some airmen can move on into commer-
cial aviation already experts for the job.
But in the great majority of cases it holds
that all those in uniform are removed
from their normal civilian breadwinning
life, and the longer they are in uniform
the further they must slip back. They
can return to find that they have slipped
back practically beyond recovery, while
those who, for any reason whatever, have
been able to remain on the civilian job
have been steadily forging ahead.
The personal tragedy of the returned
man in all such cases is one that calls for
the most humane treatment. “Returned
man” in this context is used —and in any
legislating for returned men it should be
used—to signify not only men returned
from overseas but also men returned to
civil life from army life. Obviously that
goes for those on whom the P.M. cast
his very questionable sneers. Front-line
Diggers who have done a bit naturally
envy the base wallahs, and may even have
a measure of contempt for them ; but no
thinking Digger will —like the P.M. —by
implication classify them as worthless
drones. They have their vital place in
the scheme of things military, and the
P.M., above all men, should realise it
and reserve his sneers for those who de-
serve them, and God knows there are
enough of these!
Then there are —by the tens of thou-
sands —those who have gone, are going
and will go into uniform on turn-
ing 18. These, if the war lasts as
long as it threatens to last, will
have the most punishing personal
tragedies of all, whether they see
“combat service” or not. They will
return to civilian life knowing no other
occupation than that of a soldier. Except
for dead-end jobs, who wants boys cer-
tain of call-up, other than for protected
industries, which automatically save them
from becoming soldiers? Who wants
to put any of these boys on as trade ap-
prentices in the general run of normal
civil trades? How can they get a start
in most professions?
It means that they must come back at
somewhere over 20, when it is too late
to start in trades, and try to battle ahead
with that unfair handicap. What com-
pensation has been thought up for these
cases? What step is it proposed to take
to ensure that they are helped equitably
back into civilian life on the same stand-
ing as the man who has worked in some
home-front civilian job in civilian clothes
while they have been in uniform? Are
they to be offered jobs as lift-drivers and
the like on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, or
is the Government in office going to take
them into its special care, subsidise them
and otherwise provide that they shall
have the chance to rise above their then
status of unskilled workers on the lines
their personal preference and native
ability dictate?
The more this whole question of pref-
erence to all in uniform is gone into
—not as a reward, but as a matter of
equity—the more unanswerable the case
in favor of it stands. All honor to the
front-line Digger. Even if he gets through
unwounded the strain he has undergone
urgently demands for him special treat-
ment above others. But it is as fallacious
to talk of adequately rewarding him as
to talk of rewarding the dead or the kin
of the dead. And that leaves it a simple
issue of fair play to all.
Considering that he stepped into the
highest office untrained aifd with industrial
handicaps which he has been unable to
overcome, Mr. Curtin has done a fair job
so far as war-time Prime Minister, what-
ever the failings and the anti-democratic
behavior of some of his colleagues. He
should now sit down for about 10 minutes
and think further into the issue of prefer-
ence for those in uniform, and into the
nature of army establishment also. If
he does so, he will never again be heard
speaking so hopelessly unfairly, ignorantly
and wide of the mark as he spoke last
week. Unless he and following are pre-
pared to give the matter enough thought
to see for themselves the rudiments of
how an army establishment works —from
barracks to front line —and to see also
that preference to those in uniform can-
not hope to be a matter of reward but
must be a fundamental matter of prin-
ciple, then those in uniform and those
siding with these will have an essential
job on their hands at that good old demo-
cratic institution the polling booth.
Rackets Under Legal Forms.
If the Curtin Government’s courage
hasn’t oozed out of it, and if it is con-
cerned to protect its income tax against
outrageous attempts to white-ant that
impost and grab money required for war
expenditure, it will issue a National
Security regulation which will fall like
lOOMons of coke on what the Sydney
Government calls its “settlement-promo-
tion” tax, designed to bleed graziers
white.
There is, of course, a Commonwealth
land tax, and in the last couple of years
it has been increased twice. In 1941
rates of tax were doubled, and in the
following year a 20 p.c. super tax was
clapped on properties where “the taxable
balance” exceeded £20,000, making the
rates 20 p.c, higher than in 1914-15.
Meanwhile land values for taxation pur-
poses were pegged “as at” June 30, 1939 ;
and that alone meant that many land-
owners had to pay a great deal more than
they paid before the war. In addition,
they have to pay a great deal more in
income tax, 18s. 6d. in the £ being taken
from anything above £5OOO.
If the Sydney Government is allowed
to ape Shylock, country landowners,
where unimproved value exceeds £5OOO,
will have to find somehow id. to 6d. in
the £ and annual increases of 25 p.c.
until “a maximum of Is. in the £” is
reached. This for the benefit of a super-
fluous concern which, with an excessive
share of the proceeds of income tax guar-
anteed by the Government that has at
the same time relieved it of obligations
such as unemployed-relief, child endow-
ment and widows’ pensions, and also a
great amount of hospital expenditure, is
rolling in easy money.
Apart from the effect on country land-
owners, particularly sheepbreeders whose
studs are renowned, it will be a case of
returning evil for good. All amounts
extorted in the name of “settlement-
promotion” will be lost to the Com-
monwealth, for land taxes and rates are
allowable deductions from taxable in-
come. Yet the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is in such a position that it is trying
to raise another £40,000,000 by the in-
come-tax route, and its methods of rais-
ing it border on desperation.
This threatened State land tax is in-
solently punitive, as well as rapacious.
N.S.W. Labor hates graziers and would,
if it could, root them all out, except those
known to vote the ticket. In good seasons
graziers are darkly suspected of making
money, and N.S.W. Labor loathes people
who make money, though it discriminates
in favor of contributors to party funds
(smell of beer not objected to) and all
manner of gamblers, dog and lot’ry espe-
cially, The lot’ry excepted, N.S.W. Labor
has made a ghastly failure of everything it
has tackled in the way of business, from
railways to fish-shops, as the Auditor-
General’s reports have shown with all
too much realism. So down with the
graziers! Tax them so hard that their
properties (they yield a substantial part
of the wealth on which the country lives)
won’t be worth keeping! Then the prop-
erties will be parcelled out among small
settlers with Rural Bank mortgages, bits
of cultivation and a few hundred sheep,
and even if the small settlers fall into
difficulties and have to be kept by the
Government, in common gratitude they
will vote the ticket. Meanwhile the easy
money from Canberra will suffice to keep
90 Assemblymen in their easy jobs at
£875 p.a., plus £3O for postage and rail-
way and tramway passes, and with cars
and £14,000 or so more for Ministers
and officers of both Houses.
Another provincial racket on which the
Commonwealth Government should come
down with a veto concerns valuations and
rates. Early last year, when invasion
seemed imminent, city property-owners
and suburban householders received word
from the Valuer-General’s Department
that the unimproved value of their prop-
erties had gone up, in many cases heavily.
Perhaps only in a State governed on
“Labor principles,” one of which is that
bureaucrats can do no wrong, could it
be seriously argued that, over a thickly-
populated stretch of territory where mort-
gages and equities were in danger of
being snuffed out by the enemy, land had
somehow become more valuable. The
indefensible proposition was nevertheless
embodied in a multitude of fiats ad-
dressed to individual victims, and, as
municipal and Water Board charges are
based on Valuer-General “rulings,” up
they bounded as soon as councils and the
Water Board could set to work. In many
districts there was further inflation by
councils bumping up their rates in con-
tempt alike of residents and of the so-
called Minister of Local Government,
who rejoices in a sinecure.
In all these cases service is far in-
ferior to what it was before the war.
In the case of the Water Board —which
complacently announces that its revenues
will be swollen this year by hundreds
of thousands of pounds—householders
had for many months been denied
more than a fraction of the fluid that
the board had contracted to supply, had
had it cut off for long periods and
been forbidden, under heavy penalties
(threatened in an expensive advertising
campaign), to water flowers, lawns and
vegetable plots, and to take more than
four-inch “baths.” At the same time they
were charged rent for meters which
couldn’t measure excess water, there
being none. And, as with the State land
tax, every additional pound that these
greedy local bodies exact is exempt from
income tax, so war revenue will suffer.
The Government at Canberra has
prohibited building on land,
severely restricted buying and selling of
houses and pegged wages, boarding-house
charges, rents and, as stated, valuations
for Federal land-tax purposes. Pegging of
wages was only eyewash, as wage-payers
can testify, especially those subjected to
the caprices of the Women’s Employment
Board, which has thrown a spanner into
the industrial-arbitration works ; but the
other embargoes are real enough. Peg-
ging of land valuations for rating pur-
poses, together with the smothering of
the State land tax at birth, has palpably
become necessary, in the national interest
and in the interests of the thousands of
citizens who are being or are to be robbed
under forms of law. Dated back to June
30, 1942 (June 30, 1939, would have been
better), it would safeguard the national
revenue and compel the spoilers to dis-
gorge their ill-gotten gains.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Retributive Justice?
On March 30 Australians learned that
northern waters had closed over the
manly form and intrepid spirit of
Squadron-Leader Keith Truscott, D.F.C.
and bar, and that a transport ’plane had
crashed at Brisbane, killing crew and
passengers, all service men and women,
in number 23.
On the same day they learned that
work-stoppers on the N.S.W. coalfields
were apparently on the way to equal or
exceed their previous week’s record ot
a production-loss of 60,000 tons. Also
that 6000 Sydney wharf-laborers had
refused for the second day to work under
a gang system in operation at other ports
and, on the unimpeachable authority of
the Chief Arbitration Judge, extended to
Sydney because, although labor in this
protected industry is in excessive supply,
ships were not being turned round nearly
fast enough.
During the same week at least a mil-
lion city people, from Perth round to
Brisbane, lined the streets to cheer the
officers and men of the Ninth Division,
who wrote its name in imperishab.e
letters at Tobruk and El Alamein. Among
them, no doubt, were many of the two
million Australians who, as Labor Min-
isters gloomily admit, have never con-
tributed to war loans. Glancing at this
too obvious fact in rounding off the
proceedings of Parliament, the Prime
Minister pointed out indignantly that,
with half the arranged flotation period
gone, fewer than 35,000 people had sub-
scribed to the Third Liberty Loan, and
that only half of the £100,000,000 asked
for was in hand. This, Mr. Curtin sar
with emotion, “is an affront to our
nation ; it represents a triumph or selnsn-
ness and complacency over aff obligations
to a country in deadly peril :
Is the civil population, suffenng no-
thing, sacrificing little, to ,f. ake re i. u “ e re
all manner of excuses for failing
up to the standard of Australianism which
our fighting men have set?
These baffling contrasts have been m
evidence throughout the struggle agains
the Axis. On the one side, sublime
heroism and stoical endurance m all me
theatres and operations of war , on me
other side, strikes in key industries -n


reckless pursuit of pleasure, in useless
and worse than useless forms, as if pleas-
ure were everything and national survival
nothing.
Are there then two nations in Aus-
tralia, the good and the bad?
No; nor are those who have failed
Australia in its extremity confined to
any one section or class. But, through
sheer lack of imagination rather than
lack of feeling, there has been a deadly
failure to realise the danger in which
Australia stands and act accordingly.
Booze, betting and Bolshevism have
played damaging parts. Governments
themselves have been guilty of serious
sins of commission and omission. One
of the Curtin Government’s worst in the
former category was its compromise with
Communism. Communists had an in-
fluence for bad when they were whip-
ping up strikes and other demonstrations
against what they called “the imperialist
war.” Since the party line changed and
they became enthusiastically (though
vicariously) martial, they have had not
the slightest influence for good. On the
contrary, they have come to be despised
as tricksters and twisters, and this has
had a lot to do with recent industrial tur-
moil, on the Sydney waterfront especially.
The Government had to call in service
men to do the vital work that the Sydney
branch of the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration refused. Strange but inevitable
sequel to twenty-five years of fawning
on trade-union bosses and mobs! Cynics
would see in it the working of retributive
justice. There will have to be more stern
action, however disconcerting to the
actors, and not only in the industrial
field, before Australia is fully geared
for war.
The Senate Comes Back.
From a man who has followed its his-
tory :
The late proceedings at Canberra were
marked by, and may become memorable for, a
sturdy revolt in the Senate.
Accustomed by long usage to treat that
Chamber with contempt, keeping it idle at the
beginning of a session and crowding it with
bills at the close, the Government, assisted by
wavering and quavering Opposition leadership
in the House, had the Senate’s National
Security Bill disposed of in the most cavalier
fashion. It provided for the sending of militia-
men anywhere by regulation, and, however that
method might be objected to, the measure
should have been debated and voted on. It
was rejected on the first reading.
This put the Opposition Senators, or most
of them, on their mettle, and an astonished
and angry Government had forthwith to con-
tend with a vigorous assertion of the Senate’s
rights and privileges. In its contempt for the
Senate, it had tacked its vote-catching National
Welfare Fund Bill on to its Income Tax Rates
Bill. The tacking clause it had to drop, and,
the argument having served to throw nasty
features of its income tax proposals into stark
relief, it found it expedient to drop them too.
The Opposition Senators thereupon made
soldier-preference a live issue by adding a pref-
erence clause to the Repatriation Bill. Th'is
obliged the Government to come down from
the fence; but after going through the motions
of producing a preference measure of its own,
it abandoned the thing, accepting the Repat.
Bill with the Senate’s amendment.
Meanwhile it occurred to somebody that
Senate abolition had long ago been put on the
Labor platform, and dark threats of abolition
were heard, being repeated on the other side
of the House by one of those Oppositionists
who don’t oppose. The Opposition Senators
were also scolded by alleged Opposition news-
papers. Gross presumption was imputed to
them. It was alleged that they were thwarting
the Will of the People. In point of fact, they
may fairly claim to be more representative of
the Will of the People than the other place,
for at the last election they were returned for
all contested seats in five of the six States,
whereas, with the same electors voting, neither
party in the House was vouchsafed a majority.
It was never intended by the founders of the
Constitution that the Senate should become a
mere echo of the House. On the contrary,
they wrote into Section 53 the words “Except
as provided in this section, the Senate shall
have equal power with the House in respect'
of all proposed laws.” The exceptions concern
money bills, but even here there are checks
on the other shop:—
The Senate may at any stage return to
the House any proposed law which the
Senate may not amend, requesting, by mes-
sage, the omission or amendment of any
items or provisions therein. (53.)
The proposed law which appropriates
revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual
services of the Government shall deal only
with such appropriations. (54.)
Laws imposing taxation shall deal only
with the imposition of taxation, and any
provisions therein dealing with any other
matter shall be of no effect. (55 —the sec-
tion that the Government in its welfare-
fund juggle forgot.)
In the first ten years of the Commonwealth
the Senate was a power for good. Then it
fell under the control of party, and it declined
in quality of personnel and'prestige, so much so
that in 1937 there was witnessed the deplor-
able spectacle of a four-A ticket composed of
gentlemen unknown outside their municipali-
ties or trade-unions triumphing in N. S. Wales.
In the great days of the Chamber, a man of
character and distinction in his community, a
Trenwith or a Symon, could come out as a
candidate with a fair prospect of beating the
party machines ; and in the widespread dis-
satisfaction with party machines and with the
delegation of great powers to irresponsible
bodies, boards, commissions and trade-union
executives, such candidates may be forthcom-
ing once more and the great days of the
Senate may return.
It will be necessary, however, to break up
the States with disproportionately big popula-
tions and to effect a complete separation of
national and provincial powers. Formidable
jobs both, but essential if the small States,
which have played so worthy a part in this war,
are to be secured against Wardism, Dedman-
ism, union-bossism and other menacing growths,
and if Australia is to get a Parliament capable
of coping with the supreme tasks that will con-
front it after the war.
Typhoid and Other Germs.
By the third of April 352 cases of typhoid
had been reported in Moorabbin (Vic.),
a district which had had only two cases
in 10 years. Some of the patients fell
sick in other districts, which was taken
to mean that a carrier or carriers were
spreading the infection. And a carrier,
described as “a woman associated with
the milk business,” was found and sent
to hospital.
When smallpox or pneumonic plague
broke out in China, the gates of walled
cities would be closed and soldiers would
throw a cordon round the plague spot.
Anybody trying to escape would be shot
without parley. When the disease had
died out through running its fatal course
through the section of the population not
previously exposed to infection, com-
munication would be resumed with what
remained of the inhabitants.
This rough-and-ready method was at
least effective. In Victoria they are much
more scientific. Experts know more
about the germ of typhoid than a China-
man ever dreamed of. Given full play
science is able not only to stamp out an
epidemic but to prevent one.
But it turns out, as with most State
Government activities, that there are in
Victoria at least half a dozen overlap-
ping authorities who “control” the situa-
tion. There are a Minister of Health
and a Health Commission and every dis-
trict has its municipal council and its
health service. Then there are the sewage
authorities and the drainage authorities
and the Water Board, and even the
Agricultural Department gets a look in.
All these authorities have been passing
the buck to one another for decades,
and it is even asserted that, when the
Health Commission tracks down a dirty
dairy, local councillors can veto the re-
quired prosecution if the Department of
Agriculture or some other board or com-
mittee doesn’t pigeonhole the matter.
Premier Dunstan is said to want a
Ministry of Health with overriding
authority. A Commonwealth Ministry
of Health with overriding authority
would be better. There is actually a
Commonwealth Minister of Health, but
his is only a part-time job—he is also
Minister for Social Services and Minister
“assisting the Minister of Munitions.”
War and Sugar.
“Norther” on an important industry,
thrice important in time of war:
Cane production fell in the past season,
and it took more cane to make a ton of sugar.
In 1940 5,186,756 tons of cane were grown,
in 1941 4,793,389 tons, and in 1942 4,352,658
tons. About 7.19 tons of cane were needed to
make a ton of sugar in 1942 as against 6.87
tons in 1941. Total Australian cane-sugar
yield for the season was 626,000 tons, of which
Queensland produced about 584,000 tons. In
the two previous seasons, Queensland grew
675,000 and 738,000 tons respectively.
In effect, acreage fell, and so did acre-
yield, and there’s every sign that 1943 totals
will be down further. A rough estimate is
between 540,000 and 580,000 tons of bagged
sugar, for which the 1941 price should obtain.
The five-year term of the International Sugar
Agreement ended on 31/8/’42, but 14 of the
21 contracting Governments agreed to continue
it for another two years. India was one of
the seven that dropped out, India being eager
to get on to the export market. How the war
will affect the agreement remains to be seen,
but the Queensland industry has been hard hit
by man-power problems, fertiliser shortage,
rising costs and the impressment of tractors
for war work. Growers and their families have
to work longer and harder.
These and other things have affected the
coming crop. There wasn’t enough labor to
harvest the old and plant the new, much of
the late-planted cane will be dirty with weeds
and the cane is generally backward, ratoons
having gone off for want of nitrogenous
fertiliser. Johnson, chairman of the Q.C.G.A.,
is convinced that unless the Government shows
an active interest in the industry thousands of
acres will go out and a position something
like that of 1917-20 —when the Hughes Gov-
ernment had to step in with salvage measures—
will develop.
IMPERTINENT INTERRUPTION.
"The Eighth Army has inflicted another severe defeat on the Axis forces. It is too early to say what proportion of the 20th and 21st Italian Army Corps has been left
behind."— Mr. Churchill.
“Vot have you done vit’ my army?"
“Don’d bodder me about trifles ven you see I haf no time.”


Queensland
insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTON'S „. -
A KOLA TONIC
Product of CLAYTON BROS,, London,
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Obtain Quick
Relief
from Backache and Kidney Troubles
by taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
They help tired kidneys remove excess
acids and poisonous waste from the
blood. Look to your kidneys— give
them the help they need.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
and storekeepers.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra is empty of politicians once
more. By Thursday of last week the
Government had been reduced to as
feeble a condition as the Opposition
“leadership.” It made a show of object-
ing to the preference clause added to its
Repatriation Bill by Opposition Senators,
but ignominiously accepted it, in the
process letting its own shandygaff prefer-
ence measure fall from its palsied fingers.
A friendly commentator explains that
“the Prime Minister and some of his col-
leagues were tired men, not fit physically
or mentally to carry the fight to the
Senate ; therefore the P.M. fought and
ran away so he could fight another day.”
Another way of putting it is that the
session was a triumph for the only mem-
bers who did fight—the South Austra-
lians in the House and the Opposition
Senators, Crawford excepted.
Sick of being “led” in the “good-as-
Labor” fashion while government and
finance are going to the bow-wows, while
Wardism rages and “the hand of the
doctrinaire and utterly unqualified Labor
politician is laid upon business and in-
dustry”—sick of all these things, and of
the threat of extinction to the middle
class, and of Fadden-Hughes acquies-
cence in “the farce of two armies, only
one of which can take the offensive,”
17 U.A.P. members have formed a
National Service group. Seven are
Ms.H.R., Menzies and Cameron among
them; the others are Senators, with
McLeay at their head. “S. M. Herald”
is dreadfully angry with them. It calls
them “Adullamites,” and would run a
ticket of “outstanding candidates” against
them if it could find any.
Once it was “No scrap-iron for Japan!”
and the handful of fellows who took part
in that Communist stunt were hailed as
heroes. On the Sydney waterfront last
week, with at least 30 times the number
of wharfies involved, and all “protected,”
it was “No war materials for Australia”!
Thus is that sort of unionism strangling
itself —but it is not going to strangle the
Commonwealth.
A.B.C. could do a good war-loan job
by making a selection of heroic passages
from its field-unit talks and getting Heath
Burdock to read them and point the
moral. Anyone with the price of a bond
who could listen unmoved to such a
recital of supreme valor and self-sacrifice
would deserve only to have it taken from
him by some form of compulsion.
Before members trooped away from
Canberra, A. G. Cameron added a rider
to his verdict on Labor and “good-as-
Labor” (“This country is cursed with a
Government that will not govern and an
Opposition that will not oppose”):
The Government has been progressing
from one crisis to another, and from one
mudhole to another. Whenever one of
these crises has arisen the Government has
come out of it with the loss of one or
two more tail feathers, to such an extent
that it now resembles a Manx fowl. If it
goes on at this rate it will soon have no
tail at all.
With Hughes and Fadden clucking in
sympathy, it saved what was left of its
tail.
Back from 2\ years’ service with the
Ninth Division, Senator Wilson (S.A.) has
been saying things which have pained
not only Ministerialists in both Houses
but so-called Opposition Ms.H.R, While
abroad he was put on the list of trippers
who are to go to London for a confer-
ence of the Empire Association, which
gets seven (7) annual subscriptions from
Australia. He declined the invitation be-
cause he “couldn’t answer the charge that
disunity exists in Australia.” The young
man w r as rebuked “with a pronounced feel-
ing of sadness” by Ceilings, who assured
him that “the people of this country were
never more united than they are today,”
Within the ensuing fortnight, because of
N.S.W. mine strikes, there was a pro-
duction-loss of 80,000 tons of coal
urgently needed everywhere, and service
men were unloading vital cargoes in Syd-
ney because 6000 wharf-laborers had
refused duty.
Turner (Gordon), the third U.A.P.
Assemblyman to return with the A.I.F.
(others were Robson and Bate), has been
welcomed back to Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney. There has been no occasion for
extending the glad hand to a Labor
Digger home from abroad, although
Labor Assemblymen of military age
themselves outnumber the U.A.P. (the
party totals are 55 and 15), A couple
are or have been on home service.
“Coming out of Greece,” Turner,
M.L.A., said, “we learned that there had
been a strike in an Australian aircraft
factory when we were without air cover.”
Returning to 'Sydney he learned of a
“Since he joined the National Service group Mr. Menzies has been savagely attacked
by ‘S. M. Herald.’”
“Break away from Billy, wouldja? Take that, you Cabbage Garden cad!”
strike in another aircraft factory because
“an unknown employee had given infor-
mation which led to a man being arrested
on a charge of being in possession of
stolen goods.” He made the quoted re-
marks in the course of a “bitter debate”
on a Preference Act which the Labor
Government is trying to get through.
Preference to service men? No, pref-
erence to unionists!
Any more remarks from Sydney legs-
and-lipstick papers about those dunces
of British generals and those Tommies
who don’t fight as they oughter because
they haven’t been taught to “hate Fas-
cism”?
The Menzies speech on the shandygaff
preference measure which the Govern-
ment hurriedly produced when McLeay
and his fellow-Senators forced its hand
was one of Bob’s best debating efforts.
Said Bob, unanswerably, “Once you go
beyond preference to members of the
fighting services you commit yourself to
a sea of possibilities, and you will end
by destroying the value of preference.”
Then he pointed out with deadly preci-
sion and logic that the Government had
made clothing contracts conditional on
employment being restricted to financial
members of the Clothing Trades Union,
and that Ward’s Wheat Harvest Com-
mission had given preference to A.W.U.
men, who also had to be financial.
And, he added, if a commission can do
that with Government authority, the Gov-
ernment can compel a commission to give
preference to returned soldiers.
Only the N.S.W. and Queensland Par-
liaments have passed the Commonwealth
Powers Bill in the original form. The
S.A. Legislature altered nine of Dr.
Evatt’s 14 points, in one respect so dis-
mally reminiscent of Wilson’s, and struck
out two others —“uniform company legis-
lation” and “trusts, combines and mono-
polies”—whereby it did the country a dis-
service. Still, one of its amendments has
delighted Old Diggers. In the provision
for “the reinstatement and advancement
of members of the fighting services” and
for the care of dependants the words
“any war” were substituted for “the war.”
8.8. C. must have thought that the re-
newal of the Russo-Jap fisheries agree-
ment was important to Australia, for,
via A.8.C., it published the information
twice. An astonishing number of Aus-
tralian dailies and weeklies didn’t men-
tion it. Certainly the Oldest Daily gave
it five lines —at the foot of a column.
In spite of numerous repulses, ex-
pressed in the most contemptuous lan-
guage, British Communists continue their
efforts to force themselves on the Labor
party. Developing a counter-offensive,
British Labor points out that the Corns.
are spending propaganda money like
water, and that the “Daily Worker” alone
will cost them this year “double Labor’s
annual income from 2,500,000 members,”
yet they refuse to divulge the source of
this affluence, much less publish state-
ments of expenditure. Australian Com-
munism is also mysteriously wealthy, and
has the same odd objection to publishing
balance sheets.
A former Sydney “D.T.” reporter, giv-
ing a short account of his experiences as
an A.W.C. night-watchman, mentioned
that “the pay is good; it is more than
anything I ever made as a reporter on
the ‘Daily Telegraph.’ ” And if he looks
after himself he has brilliant prospects of
becoming a lorry-driver or a cook.
“An urgent, Australia-wide survey of
agricultural, pastoral and dairying pro-
duction has been launched.” What, again?
At Parramatta court a beast got four
years for indecent assault on a 10-year-
old *girl, It came out that he had been
sentenced to three years in 1934 and two
years in 1940 for similar crimes. Presum-
ably when his present sentence expires he
will be turned loose to repeat his habits.
He is 31.
Figures for Mackay, ex-Premier
Forgan Smith’s electorate, emphasise
that only the shameful abolition of
preferential voting saved Official Labor’s
bacon: Graham 3091, Wood 2464,
Mulherin 2085, Punzell 322. There
are to be by-elections for Oxley
(April 17) and Barcoo (May 1).
Oxley is not a Labor seat. Barcoo is
Bulcock’s old electorate, and Labor not
only has to stand off the C.-N.O. and
at least one Ind., but also has to fret
about Bundaberg Barnes and his unpre-
dictable candidates.
A thing overlooked by the Sydney Gov-
ernment in its Settlement Promotion Bill
—which won’t promote settlement—is
that it will entail the spending of a lot
of money on bridges across the Murray
to strengthen them for the exodus of
merino stud sheep into Victoria,
Victoria is to have an Assembly elec-
tion on June 12. After deep thought
and spadework Melbourne “Herald” has
dug up two issues: (1) “The need for
re-establishing constituted authority over
the liquor traffic,” and (2) “the need for
raising the school-leaving age after the
war.” What an election and what issues!
Sydney “D.T.’s” Office Historian had
this in his Saturday column (Feb. 27);
We may get a line soon on Japan and
the Soviet. The Russo-Japanese fisheries
agreement runs out on March 25.
“We” got the line on March 27, but
there was nothing about it in the Office
Historian’s column on that day or on
April 3. Neither was there anything
about it in any other part of the “D.T.”
or its Sunday sheet.
Some mad jesters at Melbourne Uni-
versity invited Dedman to give an address
there as guest of its Labor Club. They
and their fellow-plotters gave poor Deddy
a turbulent time, and boisterous calls for
members of the Labor Club to stand up
and show themselves produced only one
answer—from a girl. Afterwards
was tackled in Parliament with having in
his agitation blurted out that he was a
socialist in action. A socialist he is, and
by force of their appalling examples he
and Ward have killed “socialism in our
time.”
Victoria’s Dunstan put his finger on a
sensitive spot when he asked how the
housewife could be interested in mini-
mum prices to producers when she had
to deal with maximum prices charged by
retailers. There was confusion, he added,
about Keane’s announcement that,
though it might be necessary for the
Prices Commissioner to “fix ceiling prices
at relatively high levels, he might have to
fix maximum prices lower than ceiling
prices.” As it is, the average housewife,
when contemplating the whole business
of minimums, scarcities, controls, maxi-
mums and ceilings, feels like going
through the roof.
Canberra caught a tartar when it
threatened to prosecute five Victorian
concerns with munition annexes for
“failure to comply” with one of those
retroactive awards of Ward’s Women’s
Employment Board. Replying in a pub-
lished letter, cuttingly ironical, the con-
cerns declared that they had been advised
(1) that the board’s competency to issue
such an award was legally doubtful, and
(2) that if they paid the money they
would violate the Government’s own
wage-pegging regulation. They went on
to say that Ministers had been advised of
these difficulties, and that the usual Fede-
rated Ironworkers (or Red Racket) strike
had made no difference except in the out-
put of munitions. Then came a crusher:
Payment of the £20,000 involved, were
liability accepted by the Treasury, would
mean additional profit to three of the five
firms, since they are working on cost -plus.
It is, however, their considered opinion
that they are trustees for the Common-
wealth Government and as such must be
satisfied that such expenditure is legal. It
is not our intention to pay this money,
despite strikes or threats, until a competent
judicial body legally orders us so to do.
Curtin would have saved himself a lot
of trouble by getting rid of Ward,


r
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Victorian Premier Albert Arthur Dun-
stan last week celebrated the eighth anni-
versary of his Premiership. The previ-
ous longest-lived Government was Harry
Lawson’s —six years 38 days; and Law-
son had a party majority, which Dunstan
has never had. A hard-working farmer,
Dunstan has always been a hard-working
politician, and his capacity for riding
on whirlwinds and directing storms is
unique.
Like “Cobber” Kain and other good
ones, Squadron-Leader, Keith (“Bluey”)
Truscott lost his life by accident, after
running up a big tally of enemy aircraft
to his credit. Official reports stated that
he crashed into the sea while making
feint attacks on the tail of another of our
aircraft. Twenty-six at the end, he had
commanded the first Australian Spitfire
Squadron in England before being
brought back to give a hand against the
Japs. He won the D.F.C. in a dogfight
with a flock of Germans, in which he
kept on making bluff attacks after he’d
run out of ammunition. By the time he
was through on the other side he had
bagged 15 German ’planes for certain,
destroyed many more, and had added a
bar to his decoration. Football, as well
as flying, was in “Bluey’s” blood —he
helped Melbourne to win the V.F.L.
premiership—and he was a prince of
good fellows.
“El V.”: The commander of Maoriland’s
division in Tunisia has one distinction —he is
the only V.C. to figure in the works of J. M.
Barrie. In his rectorial address (“Courage”),
delivered to a hallful of “Red Gowns” at St.
Andrews University, May 3, 1922, Barrie said;
“Be not merely courageous, but light-hearted
and gay. There is an officer who was the first
of our Army to land on Gallipoli. He was
dropped overboard to light decoys on the shore
so as to deceive the Turks as to where the land-
ing was to be. He pushed a raft containing these
in front of him. It was a frosty night, and he
was naked and painted black. Firing from (he
ships was going on all around. It was a two
hours’ swim in pitch darkness. He did it,
crawled through the scrub to listen to the talk
of the enemy, who were so near that he could
have shaken hands with them, lit his decoys
and swam back. He seems to look on this
as a gay affair. He is a V.C. now, and you
would not think to look at him that he would
ever have presented such a disreputable appear-
ance. Would you [indicating Colonel Frey-
berg]?”
St. Andrews made Freyberg a Doctor of
Laws that afternoon.
Mr. Churchill told the Maorilanders outside
Tripoli that their commander had proved him-
self “a salamander of the British Empire”; but
the term was scarcely apt, a salamander being
a sort of asbestos lizard the cold of whose
body was supposed to quench any flame. Any-
thing less like a lizard than the bright, incisive
and ever-active Freyberg it would be difficult
to conceive; and, anyway, he could scarcely
approve having tacked on to himself a word
which was last previously used by a military
orator when Falstaff used it to describe Bar-
dolph’s “burning lamp” of a nasal organ.
Freyberg must have a record for wounds—
nine in the last war, three in this —and he and
Field-Marshal Gort are the only general officers
to sport a V.C. and a D.S.O. and two bars.
Though he was placed on retired pay in 1937,
he is still young as generals go—s3—and if the
war lasts long there must be big things before
him, as there would have been had the last
war continued —he was made a brigadier in
1917 at 27, but reverted to a captain’s rank
when he joined the British Army.
Those who watched the march of Ninth
Division men through Melbourne in-
cluded Sergeant Williams, who edited
Tobruk “Truth” during the siege and
never missed a publication day, not ex-
cluding Sundays.
Latest young Australian musician to
get high honors is pianist Raymond
O’Connell, born at Percy Grainger’s
birthplace, Brighton (Vic.), and at present
in the R.A.F. O’Connell has been recom-
mended by Sir George Dyson, director
of the Royal College of Music, London,
for the silver medal of the Worshipful
Company of Musicians as the most out-
standing student of the college for three
years. Trained by Ada Freeman,
O’Connell went to London per exhibi-
tion in 1938.
Lieut.-General John L. Whitham, who
came out of retirement to command
Victoria’s V.D.C., is an Anglo-Indian,
but left India as a mere youngster to
come to Australia. As Q.M. Sgt. Whit-
ham he went to the South African war ;
in 1914-18 he commanded the 52nd and
49th Batts. Prior to retirement he was
G.O.C. Southern Command.
It’s hard to say when, if ever, the
accompanying Frith portrayal will catch
up with the victim. When it was done
a few days ago, L. W. Brockington, K.C.,
was in Australia ; goodness knows where
he is now. His present job. Adviser on
Empire Affairs to the British Ministry
of Information, has already taken him
in rapid order from his adopted Canada
to Scotland (in a bit over eight hours), on
L. W. BROCKINGTON, K.C.
tour of the British Isles, down to Portu-
gal, through the Middle East, across to
Brazil, up to the U.S.A., over to Guadal-
canal and Papua, and so to Australia
and M.L. When last sighted he’d had a
good look at these parts, given broadcast
talks that were actually a pleasure to
listen to, and was heading back to Britain
by an unspecified route. A Taffy, edu-
cated at Cardiff, he was classics master
at a Lancashire grammar school before
going to Canada, where he tried journal-
ism and broadcasting. He was one of
the small party that made the first broad-
cast from Newfoundland to England, and
was first chairman of the Canadian
Broadcasting Co. Meanwhile he swotted
law, and holds LL.Ds. from two univer-
sities. After 1939 he was war-time ad-
viser to the Canadian Prime Minister.
Sergei Rachmaninoff, Russian-born,
American-naturalised composer, dead at
70, achieved fame almost at a bound over
40 years ago with his Prelude in C Sharp
Minor, sometimes called “The Bells of
Moscow.” Every pianist in the world
past the third grade knows it and has
played it, and no collection of short pieces
is complete without it. In later years
concertgoers have learned to recognise
his C Minor Pianoforte Concerto (it was
programmed in Sydney a week ago), A
concert pianist of nearly the first rank,
Rachmaninoff made a hit when he first
went to the U.S.A. by wearing his hair
prison-cropped. His sojourns in Uncle
Sam’s domain became longer and longer
(and more profitable), and he,took out
naturalisation papers early this year. In
addition to his Prelude and his Concerto
some of his songs may live.
Alex. Crust, discoverer of the new
star Nova Puupis, made one of a small
group of Maoriland youngsters who took
to astronomy as amateurs a couple of
decades ago. Crust collected his M.Sc.
degree at Otago (M.L.) ’Varsity. He en-
tered the M.L. Scientific Department,
eventually going to the Meteorological
Observatory, but astronomy remained his
only hobby, and he knows the night sky
as the average man knows his backyard.
This knowledge made him an independent
discoverer in 1918 of Nova Aquila. To-
day he’s serving with the M.L. Air Force.
If a census were taken of the occupants
of high war-department posts it would
probably be found that the greatest pro-
portion are university-trained men. , An
addition is J. F. Nimmo, graduate in
economics, part-time lecturer in the same
at Melbourne Uni., research officer in
the Commonwealth Treasury, secretary to
the Financial and Economic Advisory
Committee and onetime investigating
officer for the Commonwealth Grants
Commission. He’s now secretary to the
Rationing Commission.
British prisoners of war in Germany
have for a long time been sitting for
Oxford exams, in their camps and even
qualifying for degrees. Now at the Ger-
man Oflag XXI.B camp, Flight-Lieutenant
F. R. Graeme-Evans, of Launceston
(Tas.), has sat for part B of the Univer-
sity of London matriculation exam., and
with 100 others has passed. The educa-
tional book section of the British Red
Cross was the go-between.
John Tait, of J.C.W.:
If you see a stocky grey figure with his
hands behind his back and a hat thrust back
on a greying head wandering along the lanes
of Melbourne or standing gazing contempla-
tively at a building across the way it is prob-
ably John Tait. Poverty Pointers now in jobs
in the various capitals have to thank the fact
that it was not the theatre that saved the
theatre in the onslaught of the talkies, but
real estate. Had legit, been obliged to rely on
its own resources every playhouse in the land
would have had to close its doors. John prob-
ably knows the value of every block and stone
in the southern metropolis. He also made fire-
works the Victorian small boy used to fire off,
is a director of Barnet Glass, owns a cinema
or two and helps publish most of the music
in the place through Allan’s and Nicholson’s.
His most vivid memory of his early life
is of when he was an office boy for a
Jewish pawnbroker on a bob or two a
week, and one day was given a golden
casket to take to the bank across the
street. For this distinguished service the
grateful owner pressed an unexpected
ten-shilling note into his palm. Since
then, as head of J.C.W., John Tait has
presented a multitude of glittering caskets to
Australian audiences —Melba, Clara Butt, Calve,
John McCormack, Pavlova, Chaliapine, Pade-
rewski, Galli-Curci, Richard Crooks, Menuhin,
Emilie Polini, Lawrence Tibbett, Lauder and
Amy Castles, to mention only a few.
South Australian Albert Norman Daw-
kins, taking over managership of the big
Clarence River (N.S.W.) hydro-electric
concern which supplies light and power
to a large area of the flourishing North
Coast, will find Adelaide’s leafy beauty
and plentiful supply of churches well
matched on a small, scale at his Grafton
h.q. Grafton figures as a cathedral city,
running to a C. of E. cathedral, with
bishop attached, and must have at least
A. N. DAWKINS.
as many churches as it has pubs. Its
trees are the local pride, especially the
jacarandas, one avenue of which is a sight
to remember when the trees are in
bloom and the street and pavements car-
peted with the fallen flowers, Grafton
thinks so much of it that a jacaranda cult
has sprung up, with a big following, and
at blossom time the folk hold a jacaranda
festival, with floats and so forth passing
through the avenue and all hands singing.
The new citizen has been an engineer
with Adelaide Electric for 17 years. He
represented S.A. in tennis, 1924-25. His
father was for many years secretary of
the S.A. Gas Co.
Reported missing, believed killed,
Flying-Officer Stuart King, a Melbourne
solicitor who joined the R.A.A.F. about
a year ago and was later posted
to a northern station. Educated at
Xavier, where he was a prominent
athlete, King captained St. Kilda League
football and district cricket teams, and
represented Victoria in both football and
cricket. He was a member of the team
which made a record total of 1107 runs
against the Ma State (Sheffield Shield) in
1926.
Young Mervyn Powell, the Mackay
(Q.) lad, now a squadron-leader with the
R.A.F. in Malta, has collected a D.F.C.
Before the war he won a scholarship
from Gatton Agricultural College to
Queensland University, graduated B.Sc.
and was working with C.S.R. in Fiji when
he joined the R.A.A.F.
“Fitz”: Son of one of the N.S.W.
Central Coast’s earliest pioneers, Francis
Donkin, lately gone west at Wingham
within a kick of 80, belonged to a family
descended from the Donkin mentioned in
the following marriage notice: “Married
in June, 1760, Mr, William Donkin, a
considerable farmer of Great Tosson,
near Rothbury, in the County of Cumber-
land, to Miss Eleanor Shotten, an agree-
able young gentlewoman, of the same
place. The entertainment on this occa-
sion was very grand, there being no less
than 120 quarters of lamb, 44 quarters of
veal, 20 quarters of mutton and a great
quantity of beef. Also 12 hams, with a
suitable number of chickens, etc. —which
was concluded with eight half-ankers of
brandy, made into punch; 12 dozen of
cider, a great many gallons of wine and
ninety bushels of malt, made into beer.
The company consisted of 550 ladies and
gentlemen, who concluded with the music
of 25 fiddlers and pipers. The whole was
conducted with the utmost order and
unanimity.”
Into the silence:
In England, Hal Williams, a Maorilander who
founded the refrigeration and general engineer
and architect firm which wears his name in
London. Since the war started the firm has
carried out Government contracts for aero-
dromes and engineering works. Williams de-
signed the M.L. pavilion at the Glasgow Ex-
hibition and originated the N.Z. Day obser-
vance among his countrymen in London. A
brother represented the Bay of Plenty in the
M.L. Parliament.
At 89, at Wellington (M.L.), J. H. McAlister,
private secretary to Dick Seddon, Joe Ward
and many other Cabinet Ministers. A Limerick
lad, educated at Dublin University, he arrived
in M.L. in the early ’seventies, commenced as a
journalist on the West Coast, gravitated to
“Hansard,” thence into the civil service. One
who didn’t believe in rusting out, he returned
after his retirement to J. G. Coates’s staff for
several years.
Lieut.-Colonel Norman Fitzherbert (89),
Director of Base Records in London, spent
35 years in Maoriland sheep-farming, arriving
there in 1876. He went to have a round with
Oom Paul with the 3rd M.L. S. Africa contin-
gent, and again served with the Maorilanders
in 1914-19. He was twice mentioned in dis-
patches ; collected a C.M.G. in 1917 and a
C.B.E. in 1919.
J. P. Morice, 84, was an outstanding Adel-
aide authority on Parliamentary procedure. He
became librarian to S.A. Parliament while still
a young man and rose in time to be Clerk
of the Leg. Council, holding that high post
until his retirement seven years ago. His only
son, Pat, earned the M.C. in France in 1917.
Hugh Crawford (in Adelaide at 61) was a
fine all-round citizen. Director of the Rey-
nella Wine Co., and deputy chairman of the
Dried Fruits Board. Prominent hunting and
polo man, and writer on those subjects. An
authority on Shakspeare and sound amateur
actor ; and as a young man noted in both
rowing and boxing.
The McTaggarts are one of S.A.’s great
pastoral families, and J.D. (76), who learned
his job as manager on the Hawkers’ stations,
became a leader of the clan. It runs a family
Nooning Pastoral Co. of its own. Of his four
sons, one is in the A.1.F., one in the R.A.A.F.
and the others are managing the family stations.
In Sydney, at 88, Rev. J. Taylor, Methodist
minister for 66 years. In younger days a good
cricketer, he was the father of international
and First A.I.F. player Johnny Taylor.
In Sydney, Benjamin Millin, sec. of the Royal
Exchange for the last 33 years and on its staff
altogether for over half a century. He was
Canada’s commercial agent in Sydney for 20
years before Canada set up a Trade Commis-
sioner.
At Mentone (Vic.) Mrs. C. H. Clark, a
descendant of Rev. Samuel Marsden. Born in
Dunedin, Mrs. Clark was a daughter of the
late Charles Hope, of Goldsbrough, Mort,
Sydney. Her family helped to found the wool
industry in Australia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Watcher”: All the elements that a
writer would need to begin a first-class
mystery story have been accumulating
on the eastern Australian coast near
Terrigal, just north of Sydney. About
mid-March the finder of a screw-top jar
washed ashore discovered that it contained
farewell messages from three men who’d
been missing on a launch trip ovdr six
months and given up for lost. A few
days after the bottle was found some-
body reported a mysterious episode to
the police, who thereupon dug up from
the sand the remains of a burnt-out
launch and were told that it had been
driven ashore earlier in the, month and
set on fire by its crew of three, who
were heard of no more. Last week a
ready-made raft to which were lashed two
tanks of water came ashore about the
same place. Given all that, any mystery
writer could produce a thriller.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: Another epidemic besides
the typhoid one has been raging in
Melbourne, unnoticed by the dailies.
Cats, especially in the tonier suburbs,
have been smitten by a complaint some-
“I won't take no for an answer, dear.”
“All right then —buzz off!”
what of the nature of gastroenteritis,
and have died in scores. It may seem a
trifle incongruous in times such as these
for a woman to call in a vet. and give
her suffering feline M and B tablets, the
same as Mr. Churchill, but such solici-
tude can be justified on the ground that
cats have another function besides being
an indulgence for leisured ladies. They
keep down rats and there is a rat plague
in the suburbs, encouraged by the “Dig-
for-Victory” campaign, which has pro-
vided tons of fodder in every backyard.
The association between rats and disease
has frequently been emphasised.
* * * *
“Southron”; The Prime Minister
arrived at Goulburn (N.S.W.) to speak
on the war loan. The chairman of the
public meeting told the crowd and who-
ever happened to be listening to the local
broadcasting station that Nat. Sec. Regs,
prevented any mention of the P.M.’s
whereabouts or the name of the broad-
casting station. Then he went on to
express pleasure at the P.M.’s “first visit
to Goulburn.” It brought the house down.
V # * #
“Feng-Shui”: Who invented the story
that Japanese soldiers who are taken
prisoner are eternally disgraced and can
never return to their own country? Also
these various high-pitched yarns about
hara-kiri and the Bushido spirit? I noticed
no more of the Bushido spirit in the Japa-
nese with whom I mixed in Asia than
in the citizens of other countries, and as
for hara-kiri, how many Japanese have
performed the belly-cut in the last two
generations? About as many as the
Indian widows who have committed
suttee. Furthermore, in my experience
belief in the divinity of the emperor
means very little. My only sight of Hiro-
hito was when my Kyoto guide, who also
pulled my rickshaw, got me into an
enclosure so that I could see the em-
peror pass on his way to the ancestral
tombs. Officially my cicerone had to
believe that the gaze of a European would
sully the occasion, but individually he
thought it a good joke that he had been
able to overcome the ban by bribing a
few attendants.
* * *
“Zake”: The contention of shipping
men that the ranks of the old-style
dinkum type of wharf-lumper who be-
lieved in earning his pay have been
watered down by a deluge of work-shy
fellows from other callings—or none
—is well illustrated on the Sydney
waterfront, where a couple of thou-
sand service men have taken on the
job the regular hands refused to handle,
A gang of old-style wharfies used to take
off from 25 to 30 tons per hour. The
service men’s gangs, young and vigorous,
have been averaging 35 tons of cargo
p.h. Before the present-day wharf-
workers took to siting down and watch-
ing the Diggers do their work they were
averaging 14 to 15 tons p.h. The wharfies’
feelings must be akin to those of brickies
who have been to see the film “One Day
in Soviet Russia.” One sequence depicts
a workman who up till 3 p.m. in one day
had laid 5000 bricks! A brickie sitting
next to me said something under his
breath. It sounded like “Muddy scab!”
*
“Bo”: Sydney police have advised all
housie-housie entrepreneurs that prosecu-
tions will follow if their activities are not
stopped immediately. Next to chocolate
wheels, also reprobated by Authority,
“housie” is the best money-spinner charit-
able organisations have at their command.
The clergy have never imposed any defi-
nite ban on the game, which has been
played in church halls up and down the
country. But the McKell outfit sees in
“Anything I can show you, sir ?”
it an immoral influence, an unhealthy
mental excitement to those young people
who wait for “top of the Wazir,” “legs
eleven” or “Kelly’s eye” to turn up and
complete the line, and recklessly stake
from a penny to thrippence on a ticket.
Did someone mention the lot’ry? Tut!
* * *
“Ex-C.G.”: He was describing the
beauties of the Taj Mahal and cheerfully
announced that you “can always tell
Indian buildings by their pillows and
minuets.” Whereupon the usual know-all
jeered. A little while afterwards the
teller told an inquirer that the Taj Mahal
was in Agra. Then he turned, fixed a
minatory eye on the know-all and said
“You have heard of Agra Cadabra?”
The know-all gulped, looked anxiously
round and stammered “Yair, I did. But
I always thought it was a Persian place
or somethin’.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: I like to hear of artists scoring
off art collectors —they do it so rarely.
A Melbourne citizen acquired an in-
dubitable Landskip at a recent auction.
There was no doubt whatever that it
was an early work of that now very well-
known Australian master, but when the
new owner examined the picture he was
appalled to find there was no signature
on it, so, all innocence, he rang up the
painter. “I have just bought a picture
of yours at an auction, Mr. Landskip,” he
said, “but, unfortunately, your signature
isn’t on it. If I brought it along would
you remedy the omission?” “Certainly,”
replied the artist. “It will cost you 30
guineas.” “But Mr. Landskip,” expostu-
lated the collector, “it was you who
forgot to sign it.” ‘‘No doubt,” retorted
the painter, “but in those days my pic-
tures and my signature were valued at
the same price—exactly nothing.”
“Spoke”: Daryl Lindsay, director of the
Victorian National Gallery, stated a very
debatable proposition in judging an art
competition at Ballarat when he said that,
oils being a major form of art and water-
colors a minor form, the water-colorist
was at a disadvantage in a mixed com-
petition. How would he account for the
Japanese color prints which his own in-
stitution treasures with the same rever-
ence as the oils of Corot or Rembrandt,
for the water-color sketches of Turner,
some of which are more valued than some
of his finest oils, and the series of
wash drawings by Claude Lorraine?
Would they be at a disadvantage in any
competition? Mr. Lindsay fails to give
recognition to the view that a picture
is a statement about something, that the
statement is either true or false, and that
the medium it is painted in won’t alter its
truth or falsity. Of course there is also
the view of a friend of mine who bought
an oil landscape at an auction and con-
sidered he had got a bargain because he
had heard that oil colors cost much more
than water-colors.
“Curtain Raiser”; Touching the Hays
office’s ruling that “hell” and “damn”
could be used in a film provided that the
true sense of the ‘words was implied (B.
24/3/’43), censors are always up against
the fact that a written word takes its
meaning solely from its context, while a
spoken word has meaning according both
to its context and the inflection it is
given. When a man says to a friend
“Hello, you silly old sausage,” the words
generally have a quite friendly implica-
tion, whereas a husband may address his
wife as “darling” in a way to express all
sorts of venom.
» * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: The claim of Bacchus
Marsh, a pretty little milk town, to be
first Victorian towji to reach its quota
of loan money stirs memories. My first
glimpse of Bacchus Marsh occurred on
the same day as my first train ride, first
race meeting and first taste of Murray
cod. Twenty-three years later I drove
my first motor-truck to the village, had
my first argument with a policeman about
traffic rules and met a real Canadian
Indian for the first time. Nine years after
that, touring Victoria in my first car, I
gave my first tow to a stranded fellow-
motorist —into Bacchus Marsh. It is also
worth noting that a lot of racehorses have
gone from Bacchus Marsh to be first on
metropolitan courses—a lot more haven't
—and it’s the first decent place to get a
drink on the run from Melbourne to
Ballarat.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Unusual judgment in an
Adelaide court to “fit the crime.” Two
sisters who had stolen a lot of soap,
toothpaste and such things—enough to
last them for 50 years, the police said—
were released on a bond, being aged 73
and 65, but with the firm condition that
for one year they should not enter any
shop in either Rundle-street or Hindley-
street, two of the city’s principal shopping
centres.
“Loc”: With kitbags, gas masks, rifles,
water-bottles and tin helmets, Diggers
have plenty of gear to cart about. But
if they were serving in Iceland there
would be an addition to their kit in the
form of beard clippers. The purpose is
to keep the face fungus under control,
thus preventing the formation of ice on
the whiskers. “Such formations,” it is
officially stated, “tend to have an adverse
affect on morale.”
WHERE CANBERRA LEADS.
“Canberra has the highest birthrate in Australia,
due no doubt to the admirable climate and beauti-
ful surroundings for children.” — Morgan, M.H.R.
“I think it is due to the fact that the majority
of Canberra’s married couples are young.”
— Paterson, M.H.R•
“It is because the people of this city have eco-
nomic security.” —Senator Callings.
“It is because they have nothing else to do.”
—Senator Leckie.
Our Capital, when all is said and done,
Remains, one finds it pleasant to reflect.
An object-lesson—takes, in fact, the bun
From every section of the land —in one
Essential respect.
Its eminence admittedly is new,
A mushroom growth, but still you can’t deny
It does what older cities fail to do.
Heeding the Biblical injunction to
Increase and multiply.
Melbourne and Sydney may compete for
trade;
Hobart ’gainst Perth for scenic beauty bids;
Brisbane the brisk and cultured Adelaide
Both have their points, but none can make
the grade
With Canberra—for kids.
Their weight—and more —in parenthood they
pull,
The citizens by far Molonglo’s side,
Whatever be the price of wheat and wool,
Of stocks and shares, they keep their cradles
full,
Their go-carts occupied.
This feather in their cap statistics stress;
And if upon the reasons you would seize
For this commendable prolificness.
You’ll find yourself supplied with them, I
guess,
“Plenty as blackberries.”
Reader, run down the list and pick the best
That suits your taste. Here, for a start, are
four.
And if there’s none of them that meets the test,
Careful investigation might suggest
Fully as many more.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
MAUVE OR MAUDLIN.
“Soldiers’ songs are always either mauve or maud-
lin” (“NX5257,” B. 31/3/’43).
Say, brother, have you ever thought to pen
A ditty rich in vigor, verve and swing,
With staves to suit the tramp of marching me ,
The beat of drums—in short, the sort ot thing
That husky warriors once were wont toeing
Ere into new campaigns their weight they ho _
Remember then —it’s worth remembering
The modern urge for maudlin and tor mau
When old Tyrtasus stiffened Spartan ranks
With minstrelsy to many a stubborn ngm,
His stuff required no asterisks or blank ,
’Tis said, to make it fit for ears polite.
Maybe, but most of it is lost outrigh.,
So how can one be sure that tuneful
Disdained in any stanza hed indue
A touch of maudlin or a splash of mauve.
“Mauve”—’tis a color between peach and blue,
Teste the library that I frequent ,
And “maudlin,” in the ordinary vie ,
Denotes a sickly sort ° f , sen l v,fii/ Arment-
If you can fancy “Mademoiselle Armen
leres” with “Tipperary” interwove
The blend perhaps would fairly represen
A mixture of the maudlin and tne
Forward, some bard who’ll prove this cy
And 'surelylhe should strike a treasure-trove-
Who’ll hit the soldiers’ fancy with a s ° m ® uve!
Free of the maudlin and witno
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”; Great days these for Sydney
papers interested in Queens of the Under-
world —two queens are figuring in their
Court Chronicles (take it both ways) at
the same time. Of one queen, regnant in
Surry ’llls, I heard a racy yarn, though
it may be lese-majeste or something to
repeat it. She was in Long Bay gaol
when a concert party came out from the
city. A stout contralto was introduced
to the expectant audience —lady prisoners
on one side, gents on the other —and the
pianist struck up the strains of a familiar
ballad:
It’s quiet down here, as quiet as a mouse.
“It’s quiet down here” boomed the stout
contralto. “Too bloody right it is!”
screamed the sovereign from Surry Tils ;
and that was the end of the session.
“Bumpkin”: Cobden (Vic.) Horticul-
tural Soc. had a section for vegetables in
its annual display. Cooriemungle Prison
Camp ran away with the show by win-
ning six first prizes and three seconds.
Local residents regard the camp as an
asset to the district. Its 30 inmates have
put 70 acres under pasture, grubbed and
cleared another 70, cleared and ploughed
350, cut and stacked 5000 posts and cut
1000 tons of firewood to relieve Mel-
bourne’s shortage.
* * * - *
“Jack Point”: Another summer has
vanished with the rose and Brisbane has
still refused to provide sensible summer
uniforms for the trammies and the police.
The trammies have sweated in their tight-
necked tunics and the John Hops have
been as uncomfortable as ever in their
tight-fitting blues and an absurd white
helmet with so little brim that it doesn’t
even protect the eyes. But a wedge has
been inserted. The female trammy has
arrived, with uniform of skirt, open-neck
coat, shirt and tie. And as a matter of
course she leaves off the coat when the
weather is hot and puts it on when she
feels the need of it. It may be guessed
that i£ any foolish male had attempted to
lay down the law about what was to be
worn and when by these young women
the reply would have been a raspberry.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A young Air Force officer
who gave up a job in a bank to become
a flier and eventually found himself in
a bomb-removal squad up north was
revisiting Melbourne and ran across a
former colleague who had found a cleri-
cal niche in one of the services. “What
a terrible job you’ve got,” exclaimed his
friend after the adventures of the inter-
vening years had been recounted. “Why,
you might be blown up at any time.”
“I’d sooner be blown up by a bomb,”
retorted the Air Force man, “than be
strangled in festoons of red-tape.”
* * * *
“A.C.”: In arguing that it is the sound
and not the appearance or associations
of words that counts, “Oxmead” (B.
24/3/’43) delivers himself into the
enemy’s hands. If it is the harsh sound
of the word “beer” that accounts for its
rare use in poetry, how can the frequent
appearance of “bier” be explained? Surely
it is the associations, accidental or other-
wise, that make a word appear suitable
or not. King Lear is an acceptable tragic
figure ; would not the name “Leer” sug-
gest a villain or a clown? Yet the sounds
are exactly the same.
* * * . •
“Nakhoda”: Strange anachronisms?
Passing a building in Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, my eye fell on a brass plate bear-
ing the inscription “League of Nations,
Publications Department, Fifth Floor.”
* * * *
“Tonsillitis”: “Pawang’s” analytical
chemist (B. 24/3/’43) had reason to laugh
if asked if he could teach anything about
chemistry in 20 minutes. But surely this
is irrelevant. The authorities who arrange
20-minute lectures for members of the
forces (or civilians) don’t intend these
lectures to be lessons in the subject under
discussion, but merely a whetting of appe-
tite of the audience for chemistry,
mechanics, economics, geography or
whatever the topic may be. Thousands
of radio listeners have in past years en-
joyed Prof. Dakin’s “Science in the News”
broadcasts, but no one would ever sug-
gest that these were primarily lessons in
science, much as may be learned from
them.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The fear that its multi-
tude of dialects may die out during the
war has impelled a group of students in
Britain to take records of existing tongues
so that at least the memory can be pre-
served. There are so many Allied and
Dominion troops stationed over the coun-
try that the Drama League, which voices
the fear, thinks the villagers may pick up
the newcomers’ style of speech, forget-
ting their own. In Australia we have
absorbed a score of dialects, brogues and
accents, but the Australian drawl is over
them all—continent-wide. In England
it is possible to travel 30 miles and meet
three differing dialects in the villages, all
local variants of the same language,
Parisian French is of course different
from other French, but the whole of
France holds only about four dialect
groups. There are different dialects of
German and Italian, too, though large
districts must be crossed before a general
change is met. Why the British Isles
should harbor so many dialects has not
yet been satisfactorily explained,
*' „ * , * ttT _ * „
Feng-Shui : London Daily Express
publishes a story that Prince Yasuhito,
eldest of the Japanese Emperor’s three
brothers (who in 1941 was reported as
becoming a member of a “peace party”),
bas been under close arrest since the
p ear l Harbor onslaught on a charge of
being sympathetic to enemy Powers, and
that for three months his imperial brother
did not know of “the arrest. The yarn is
no t by an y means incredible. Early am-
bassadors from the West signed treaties
with, the ruling shogun unaware that
there was a Mikado theoretically
a bove him. The system was pushed
so f ar that at times there have
been, first, a shadow-emperor, then
a shadow-shogun as his regent, and
finally a second shogun who ruled like
an a bsofute monarch. The revolution or
“Restoration” of 1867 was due to the
fact that the ruling shogun was trying
to k ee p the Europeans out with archaic
defences and other powerful nobles were
convinced that Nippon must learn to use
Western weapons. The young Mikado,
then 15 years old, was trotted out from
his seclusion and presented as the symbol
“I told you not to park her near an ants' nest.”
of a united nation. Modernisation pro-
ceeded so fast that in due course the god-
emperor was allowed to be photographed
in plus fours.
* * * *
“Sartoris.”: Exactly what was the pur-
pose of Dedman’s restrictions on male
attire I have never been able to under-
stand, but I am glad Deddy has liberal-
ised his views in one particular.
He has reinstated the double-breasted
jacket, a favorite, particularly in the N. S.
Wales coastal regions, with folk who, like
myself, are sensitive to changes of tem-
perature. One day in Sydney this year
the thermometer stood at 92 at 2 p.m.;
at 72 at 5 p.m., after a southerly had
officiated for a while. High humidity
engenders a prejudice against waistcoats
in summer, and a double-breasted coat
is quite the safest orthodox wear. The
most sensible, comfortable and con-
venient attire for most parts of the
Pacific is the traditional Japanese outfit
—kimono, sash, drawers and shoes. It
is a deep comfort to me to reflect that
the Nips have so little intelligence and
so little real faith in their own institutions
and aesthetic sense that they fell for the
Western style of tailoring.
* * * *
“Jachris”: This desk calendar! On a
day when in Sydney it’s harder to buy a
glass of milk than it is to find a hair of
the dog that wouldn’t have bitten me if
milk had been obtainable yesterday, on
a day (towards the end of the month)
when hairs are numbered and dogs
rationed to an ever-diminishing quota,
this omniscient desk calendar acidly
reminds me “Cows don’t give milk —you
have to take it from them.”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Having found that
“Orright, gents, sixerclock” and “Time,
gentlemen,” are of no avail, a Melbourne
Bung brought a gramophone into the bar.
At 5.55 he put on “God Save.” There
was an instant hush, then the bang of
pots being slammed down on the counter
and every drinker stood silently to atten-
tion. After that they solemnly drained
their pots and departed. One or two
were so overawed that they even left a
drop.
«* 4= *
“Ike Hollar”: Malaria in warfare? A
Biblical “miracle” has been rationalised
by a group of scientific observers who
reason that when “the Assyrian came
down like the wolf on the fold”
his cohorts descended from moun-
tains where the malarial mosquito
was unknown. Whilst the Jews in
beleaguered Jerusalem were praying,
lamenting and wondering through the
night what was going to happen the mos-
quitoes of the plain were busy inoculat-
ing the hillmen with malaria, and the
resultant sudden epidemic filled them with
superstitious alarm. Those who could
skedaddle ‘ skedaddled, and those who
stayed died, and so a “miracle” was
made.
* * * *
“Buck N.”: Before my hair fell out I
toiled with a variety of blokes in a variety
of jobs. Now and again we’d strike a
tough sort of foreman who’d throw a
punch. Did we threaten to strike? We
did not. We found someone amongst us
who was ready to “go” the bully, and we
stripped him and oiled him and painted
him for war and sent him forth. If the
foreman won and there was no more
hope, we up and left that job and got
another, sure that some day along would
come someone and belt the hide off that
foreman. It’s different today. I read in
my morning paper that because a leading
hand was “alleged to have struck” a
member of a gang, not only did the gang
down tools but a dispute involving a
public facility “and eight industrial
unions” loomed—until the leading hand,
to save further trouble, somewhat con-
temptuously offered to leave the job. This
was hailed with enthusiasm by all hands —
Industrial Judge, Bar, officials, union reps.
—and the Judge remarked that the man
“had done a very decent thing.” The
resignee must have laughed to himself,
for it is a wonderful feeling to find that
you’re the terror of your fellows.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Touching these bearded
heroes of the Timor commandos. An
artist whose chin has been similarly an
alien to the razor for years was lower-
ing a pot in a hostelry in Melbourne when
a soldier slapped him on the shoulder.
“Go on, have a good time!” said the
warrior fervently. “You deserve it!”
* * * *
“Bertram Beerpot”: A survivor of a
former craze in pub nomenclature, the
Q.C.E. Hotel stands in Chippendale
(Sydney). Q.C.E. stands, I believe, for
Quiet, Comfort and Ease. At one time
many a township had its Q.C.E., espe-
cially in hew mining centres. The craze
lasted in Maoriland long after it
had died out generally in Australia. In
a particularly brutal case of murder in
Westland, in which the attack occurred
in d Q.C.E. hotel late at night, the Judge
asked the Crown Prosecutor “What does
Q.C.E. stand for, Mr. Parchment?”
“ ‘Quiet, cosy evening,’ I suspect, y’r
Honor,” replied Parchment, K.C., with-
out even a flutter of his eyelid.
“Lord Luvus”: I see that a squad of
Man-power officials, led by Deputy-Direc-
tor Bellemore in person, threw a net round
the fish markets in Sydney and made a
mixed haul of human schnapper, sprats,
flounders and shellfish to the number of
320. Mr. Bellemore subsequently ex-
plained that he organised the raid in an
effort to locate eneniy aliens who,
Man-power officials had been told, were
not gainfully employed but were shelter-
ing in the fish industry. If there is to
be a revival of the methods of the press-
gang a net might be usefully thrown
round some of the cocktail parties in aid
of distressed Bessarabians and starving
Tibetans in the poshier suburbs of Mel-
bourne.
•V * * *
“Chemiloc”: Most people will recog-
nise carbon dioxide as the bubbles in
lemonade. Apart from its use as a float-
ing agent in rubber boats, the gas is find-
ing jobs in other departments of the war.
It has long been used as a fire extin-
guisher—recently by an ingenious piping
system in ’planes to prevent motor fires
spreading. It is even being used as an
explosive for bullets. In a new type of
pistol a cylinder beneath the barrel carries
a charge of dry-ice (compressed carbon
dioxide), which liquefies. When the
trigger is pulled a valve emits a little of
this liquid, which rapidly turns into many
times its own volume of gas, firing the
bullet. One loading of dry-ice is suffi-
cient for 1800 shots.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: A party in a Mel-
bourne cafe were arguing the difference
between the orator
and the rhetorician.
“Mr. Churchill is a
good example of the
rhetorician,” said
one man. “An ora-
tor I would call
him,” said another,
“and a good one.”
“What test would
you apply to prove
it?” asked the first
man. “Well, it is
easy to remember
the words of an
oration, but a
rhetorician’s rubbish
nobody can remem-
ber.” “Well,” said
the first man, “I’ll
guarantee you can’t
remember one of
Churchill’s speeches.”
“Let us to the task,
to the battle, and the
toil,” intoned the
other. And he pro-
ceeded tcf repeat, not
merely one of the
British P.M.’s
sentences, but three
in swift succession.
“Oh, you’ve just
taken the trouble to
memorise that stuff
like a parrot.” “No,
I haven’t; I’m read-
ing them from a
poster on the hoarding across the street,”
retorted the other.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Did anybody know that our
National Anthem had associations abso-
lutely disloyal? Grant Francis, in his
Romance of the White Rose, declares
that, as. first sung, about 1714, it was
simply a Jacobite (and therefore treason-
able) affair. The original wording, he
says, “is unquestionable, for there are
many engraved examples of it still extant
on the ‘treason glasses’ of the period. ’
A sample:
Grant us one favor more,
The king for to restore,
As Thou hast done before
The familie.
The first verse was much as now, but with
a highly significant “soon to reign over
us” instead of “long”), and the prayer'
“send him,” now futile, did then, with
the Jacobite prince still across the water,
mean just what it said.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Bright suggestion for solv-
ing the liquor problem from a correspon-
dent in the “Sun-Pictorial” Melbourne:
Something very different will have to be
adopted if liquor rationing is to be a suc-
cess. I suggest a ration book of coupons
and an identity card for drinkers. Make
coupons available for one week and allow
males over 21 and females over 25 six
bottles of beer or six bottles of cider, or
one 260 z. bottle of wine, or 12oz. of other
liquor. Make retailers hand over their
coupons to obtain supplies. This would
check sly grog.
Doubtless it would also lead to such a
grand increase in drinking that a large
portion of the war effort would have to
be diverted into building fresh breweries
and distilleries.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE NINTH.
They are asleep now in the corridors
On the brown kitbags. Switch out the light
And let them sleep;
Sleep while the train snorts lurching through
the night:
These are the long brown men, home from the
fight.
Their eyes would not believe this miracle
Of home ... white faces, white voices ... they
stood,
Watching the girls,
Rolling the Eastern names from their tongues,
Seeing home, dreaming home, while the good
Lush farms rocked darkly by.
Now they are tired of talking and they sleep
Against their mates like children peacefully.
Feast proud eyes on them in the dim train’s
light:
These are the long brown men, home from the
fight.
n.s.w. Joan McEwen.
* • » •
“Zake”: Wilson, Watson and Bronson
were a queerly-assorted trio of scrub-
cutters. Wilson was small and pugna-
cious ; Watson, tall and stringy; Bron-
son, an amiable 15-stoner and a t.-t.
It Was the practice of the two
W’s to go on a periodical binge; when
they returned to camp after one,
both on the verge of the horrors, it
was an invariable request of the maudlin
Watson for his rifle and Wilson’s so
that they could shoot each other. As in-
variably, the obliging Bronson would
hand each of them his gun, loaded with
a blank shot, put them about 30 paces
apart and let them blaze away; after
which he would park each one, happily
satisfied, in his bunk. The last time they
“got on it” the pair came back as usual,
and, as usual, Bronson handed them their
.22’s and stood aside. Afterwards he
parked them in their bunks. When they
woke up the next day Watson wondered
how the hole came to be drilled through
the brim of his hat and Wilson’s coat
pocket had an opening in it that no
tailor had made. Then Bronson explained
that he had tested a theory of his that
a man well shot couldn’t shoot as straight
as if he were sober. He had to admit
he was almost wrong. Watson and
Wilson don’t go on the tank now.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I reckon bushmen would
do better if they learned to make a call
something like the howl of a dingo in-
stead of the cooee when lost in the bush.
Of all the bush noises I have heard that
high-pitched howl seems to carry further
than any other sound, especially at night.
* * * «
“The 0.D.”: Dad Wilson’s impatience
with the naturalist (B. 31/3 / ’43) who
gave some bird its ornithological name
has left me confused. “As if,” Dad
snorts, “I don’t know a blasted grass-
warbler when I hear one.” I’ve been
over a mile or two of this country and
seen and heard most of its feathered in-
habitants, but I’m darned if I’d know a
grass-warbler when I heard it —because
there ain’t any except where Dad W.
lives. I want his address, because I’d
like to hear that warbling wonder.
* * *
“Nigel D.”: I may be hard-hearted,
but 1 fail to see the terrible cruelty in
the catching of birds by what “B. A. Ker”
(B. 3/ 3 / ’43) calls the “jew’s-harp”
method. For obviously the bird, even
though caught across the beak by the
piece of match, would be in no great
pain. And when the bait has digested—
and that wouldn’t take long—the thread
would loosen and the match fall out.
What I do call a cruel trap is the linking
of two baited fishhooks together with
about six inches of line and a float. One
bird takes the first hook, another the
second. Linked together, unable to rise
from the water, they await the coming
of the slayer, though often they are
merely taken captive. The line is cut
off close down the gullet; then Nature
with her marvellous alchemy somehow
enables the gull’s system either to pass
the hook through or become accustomed
to its being there. Anyway, for real
cruelty give me the common rabbit trap,
wherein the captive, with its leg bone
absolutely shattered, waits hours for the
death that brings relief.
* ♦ * *
“Sou’-west”: That Maoriland plaint
about the fecundity of the red deer (B.
24/2/’43) reminds me that the same
quadrupeds represent about the only
failure in acclimatisation on the Austra-
lian continent. At the time the Rickety
Islands received their quota of bucks and
does a few were also loosed at Pinjarra
(W.A.). This being a region of consider-
able fertility, with ample streams,
lakes and mountains, it was thought that
the deer couldn’t fail to prosper. For a
time they seemed to be doing all right,
but it is years now since one was
glimpsed. For the failure the dingo is
sometimes blamed ; poison weed also gets
its share. But most probably the zamia
palm is the real culprit. The tender bud-
ding fronds of this palm seem to hold a
special enticement for ruminants, but the
effects are disastrous. For nearly 100
years cattle in the Pinjarra district could
be seen dragging their hindquarters in
a pitiable manner —rickets, a kind of
paralysis induced by eating the zamia.
Around settlements the plant has now
been exterminated by liberal doses of
kerosene, but back among the hills it
still flourishes. In the dry seasons the
deer probably fell to its succulent but
deadly allure.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: So “Narrin” never be-
lieved in the bushman’s “sense of direc-
tion” (B. 31/3/’43), because he hasn’t
got it himself. It can’t be acquired ;
either you’re bom with it—like buck teeth
or a love of horses—or you’re not. 1
have it, and I’ve met plenty of others.
It’s a sort of inner knowledge of the lie
of the land, an inner vision of the whole
country and the position of the compass
points, even though you be shut in a
“An' if it ’adn't been for me tin-'at, girls , I Wouldn't be ’ere to tell the tale.”
black cell. In scrub, mountain or plain
it’s there. The man who possesses it has
an instinctive liking for maps, which his
brain photographs, so that if you take
him a thousand miles to a part he’s never
been in and dump him down he imme-
diately orientates himself. I could give
countless examples; here’s one: Was in
a party touring the far-western N.S.W.
plains, the others being city chaps. We
pulled in at a station one afternoon and
left about ten that night for a township
about 65 miles away. None of us knew
the road. The host showed us a track
and said “Keep on that and you can’t go
wrong.” After about 25 miles we ran
on to a made road running across that
track, which stopped at the road. Right
or left turn? They left it to me. I looked
at the sky, but cloud blotted out all stars.
The flat, open plains, hidden by a black-
ness that could be felt, lay all round.
Something—that “sense of direction”
urged me to turn right. One of the city
coves said I was right. He “felt” I was
right. I was right. That city chap had
it, too. Like me, he had in his mind a
map of N.S.W. with that station clearly
marked on it, the track running out, the
made road, overlooked by the host, cross-
ing it, the township away to the right of
the junction. Neither of us needed light,
landmarks or location pointers to show
us the way.
♦ * * *
“Anthropo”: The primitive abo. had
marvellous teeth. In all accounts and
studies I have made of him never have
I come acrqfss any plaint of his having
the toothache. Saccharine substances are
commonly blamed for dental decay. Well,
the abo. ceirtainly was short on sugar,
but he was even shorter on another vice
of civilisation, hot drinks. Lacking any
method of fixating water he drank it cold
all his life. The civilised man has brought
the swallowing of hot drinks to a stage
little short of miraculous. I have seen
bushmen swigging tea so hot that the
unprotected hand couldn’t touch the billy.
Indian firewalkers aren’t in it with such
folk. When the abo. starts along the
same line, boiling hot tea, steaming hot
soups and stews, the enamel on his teeth
soon loses that immunity from decay
enjoyed for a century of centuries by
his ancestors.
» * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Recent mention in
these pages of Port Davey and the dur-
ability of Huon pine headstones there
recalls that this now-deserted, mountain-
surrounded harbor on the Speck’s wild
west coast was once, besides a resort for
whalers and piners, a well-known ship-
building port. Many of the grand-
mothers of Hobart’s fleet of fore-and-aft
traders were born there. The 22-ton
ketch Huon Pine, which left the stocks
at Brook’s Bay, Port Davey, in 1837 as
a yacht for the wife of Governor Frank-
lin (“Not here—the white North has his
bones”), was constructed of Huon pine
throughout. Fifty-one years later the
vessel was so sound that she was given
a schooner bow and a counter, in
place of her spoon cutwater and
tuck stern, and for years she was
always a hot favorite in the trading
ketches’ race on regatta day. She just
missed becoming a centenarian by piling
up near the mouth of the Derwent three
years before the German war began.
* * * *
“Walden”: Roaming through French’s
Forest, near Sydney, I came across what
looked like a brown plush cord lying on
a flat rock. Closer inspection showed that
it was slowly moving, and a third glance
that it consisted of hairy brown cater-
pillars, moving in perfect alignment. It
would seem the poor things are blind,
and that in these pilgrimages they are
led by the sagest and most experienced
caterpillar. I suppose the “procession”
caterpillars have gone on trek in that style
for a million years in this country. But
when I got home there was a letter from
a nephew in North Africa, who described
an exactly similar caterpillar hegira which
he and a mate had witnessed near Cairo.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Called in at a selection on the
Flinders while searching for missing
mokes and was invited to lunch. Tea
being made in a dirty old derelict billy,
my share was offered in a bullock horn
as there was nothing else handy. Menu
consisted of sliced, unpeeled potatoes
fried in goat fat, the aroma of which
called for a gas mask. My host then
set the pan on his rickety table and,
halving the contents with a dirty finger,
invited me to buck ift before the flies
beat me. I bucked out before his kind-
ness overwhelmed me.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Who let “Niloc” (B.
31/3/’43) into the Council? His yarn of
the shooter who tripped over a root,
exploded both barrels and bagged five
quail, a snake and a crow might have
won him a certificate, but I won’t sign it
till he explains the mentality of a crow
that let itself get within range of a shot-
gun in quail country.
“Betcha”: The old log bridge where
Mac always crossed his sheep had gone
in the test flood, but as the water wasn't
deep he decided the jumbucks would
wade through easily enough. He mus-
tered them, drove them to the site of the
old crossing and there they stuck up. For
an hour he tried vainly to force them
over, rushing them, crowding them and
wading across himself, dragging one by
the head. Then he gave them a spell and
tried again ; but not one woolly could
be induced to enter the water. At last
he gave up, left the dogs in charge, and
with the aid of his nag and a length of
fencing wire began hauling small logs for
another bridge. Large rocks were rolled
into place, and smaller ones carried from
a distance, while earth scooped up with
an old kerosene-tin helped in the ap-
proaches. Three hours later Mac rubbed
the sweat from his eyes and grunted
approval. With mingled prayers and
curses, he whistled rfor the sheep and
waited. Down rolled the mob, striking
the river on each side of the new bridge,
straight into the water ploughed the
leaders, and in no time the big mob had
all waded across.
“S.T.S.”: T. A. Murdock, of Warooka
(S.A.), has joined up two reapers with a
tractor giving an 18ft. cut, a record for
the State certainly. The fuel is kerosene
(nearly five acres to the gallon), and the
area covered about seven acres an hour.
* * * *
“Aratta”; Dad, J.P., had before him a
swaggie charged with having been drunk
and used obscene language. The arresting
constable was a newcomer to the district,
and this was his first case before Dad.
He handed up a sheet of paper on which
was written the “langwidge” complained
of. Dad perused the document carefully,
then turned to the
unkempt - looking
prisoner and snapped
“Y ’r e discharged.
An’ clear outa the
place as quick as y’
can. I’m downright
ashamed of y’.”
“But —but, sir,” be-
gan the astonished
pol i c eman. “No
backchat from you,”
said Dad ; “an’ in
future don’t waste
me time on such
trivial cases as this.”
The scandalised offi-
cer stared at Dad in
speechless amaze-
ment, “Yes,” con-
tinued Dad in pon-
derous tones, “an’ let
this be a warnin’ t’
y’.” “W h a t!”
roared the outraged
‘policeman. “A warn-
ing to me! What-
cher mean, sir?”
Dad tapped the
document in his
hand. “This here,”
he said. “If this is
the best that bloke
could do when you
arrested him he
couldn’t have been
very tight or else y’re
a bit fussy. I
shouldn’t have called it a warnin’,
maybe,” he continued, grinning ; “a tip,
say. Y’re new here. Jest wait till y’
grab one of our teds when he’s pickled! ”
* * * *
“E. and 0.E.”: • Earliest mention of
the term “cocky” that I have met with
was in Mrs. Charles Meredith’s book My
Home in Tasmania, published in 1852,
but written over nine previous years. The
explanation given to this lady was that
these small settlers, clearing the land on
which they lived (on very insufficient
means), had to live on grain, like the birds
that devoured their crops. Something
very remarkable, as she says, in a country
in which meat cost tuppence a pound.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Nobody knew her his-
tory. All we knew was that Bergan’s wife
had given her a home when she was only
a few weeks old. As she grew older she
began to come into the bar on Saturdays
when the crowd came into town ; and we
got to looking for her. It was a tough
crowd that frequented Bergan’s in those
days, yet the toughest was always genne
with Kitty. Somehow, we didn’t notice
that she was growing up; it came as a
shock when we saw her one night with
Tom from the pub opposite. He was a
sleek, black-haired Romeo; we should
have known. Then it happened. Bergan
dived for the shotgun when he heard,
but his missus talked him out of it. 1 hen
he wanted to kick Kitty out into t t
street, and there was mother big row.
Finally he capitulated, and Kitty is sin
there. But I feel a bit sorry tor her-
—l hate drowning kittens, too.
"Boxer”: The only fell ° w *®evbude
dead from thirst was swagm an,
station, Nyngan (N.S.W.). i tree .
he was found under a neeffiewod^^
The irony of it was 11 CO uld
the very tree from whi
be extracted!


“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow got him-
self a job driving a two-horse lorry card-
ing big concrete pipes out to a water
scheme. Things went well for a few
weeks ; then one hot day Mat and his
team, with three pipes aboard, hit the
delivery end just on lunchtime. Mat put
the skids at the back of the lorry, nose-
bagged his neddies and had his lunch.
Then, looking for a cool place for a
smoke, he got into the end pipe. The
lunch and the heat made him drowsy.
The job foreman, coming up to help with
the unloading, let out a yell to scare Mat
awake, but it scared the horses; they
jumped forward, the end pipe jerked back
on to the skids and away it went. It
hit the ground at 30 knots a minute,
bounded over a tussock or two, hit the
other pipes, recoiled and was still. Mat
crawled forth, looked at the anxious mob
and drawled “ ’Struth, what sort of a
ring-a-rosy game you blokes playin'?
Stand still, blast y’, so’s I can see who
you are.”
* * * *
“Vilij Eejut”: That bloke who placed
an engineless car at his gate (B. 31/3/ ’43)
and gave a job to any bloke who was still
cranking it after half an hour ought to
be prosecuted. Suppose the flamin’ thing
kicked back and broke the poor cow’s
wrist!
* * * *
“Bo”: Big Jim Larsen had been con-
ducting a blitz against rabbits on his
property, and the culmination of a week’s
hard graft was the production of a notice
on a board, with a rag-wrapped stick
dipped in tar, which read “Bewair. Poisen
baits lade on this run.” As he was nail-
ing it to the ringbarked gum on the pri-
vate road near the gate, Barney Fahey
rode along. He pulled up as he saw the
notice. “Well, that’ll scare ’em, Jim,”
he said. “But I had a swaggie call in a
week or two back and he wouldn’t take
a paper I offered him. He couldn’t read.
Your notice won’t be much good if one
o’ them comes across it.” Big Jim
scratched his head and cogitated. “Y’re
right, Barney,” he said, “I’ll have to
think o’ somethin’ diff’rent.” Barney
passed that way again a couple of days
later, and his eye caught a larger notice
under the original one. The new one
read: “If you can’t read the abovve have
a skrew at the foot of this tree.” Placed
at the tree’s foot was a poison bait.
** * » »
“M 8”: “Distance from shooter to
game does not affect the gun” (B.
31 /3/’43)? Aw, go on! Take the
fellow who shoots a rabbit at 150 yards
with a .22 and by the time he gets home
it’s 200 yards. A week later it’s 220
and lengthens with time. A few years
later that .22, probably long since thrown
on the junk-heap, is the best rifle that
district ever knew. Yet the fact wasn’t
discovered while the owner was knock-
ing things over at shorter ranges. If you
don’t believe me, ask “Narrin,” the wizard
of S.A.
* * * «
“Moodloowardoo”; Yes, we in South
Aus. like our place-names long. Map-
makers do funny things with names, but
the abos. knew that central S.A. lake
(B. 17/3/ ’43) as Cardivillawurrakurra.
Near by are Mundunayarieboolana and
Wanpalawoontoowarana. These are
beaten by nearly half a length by
Byacoudnakirrikikalkierana, a waterhole
in the same tribal district. [With these
nomenclatural brickbats the symposium
"For the last time -NO BAKSHEESH!”
is closed. In the interests of eyes and
jaws Aboliars may now revert to Dogleg
Bend and Wombat Creek.]
* * * *
“B. 4”: Like “Betcha” (B. 17/3/’43) I
once passed some jumbucks, missed in a
clearing-out muster in the T 5 drought,
which were doing nicely, thank you, on
an austere diet of black ti-tree leaves,
growing in a black-soil gully. The leaves
were soft and succulent, and probably
the roots were in contact with under-
ground springs. These gentlemen sadly
needed the barber. On asking an abo.
boundary-rider how the leaves came to
be trimmed so high, I was informed that
“three-pfeller sheep hold one another up
while standing on their hind legs; then
walk about and pullem down leaf that
way.” There should be a new dance in
this —partners for the Jumbuck Waltz.
In C.Q., where mixed scrub is partly cut
through and pushed over, the baa-baas
learn to clamber about on their hind legs
and pull down branches with their fore-
legs to get at the leaves, which are re-
newed after rain. Evidently the sheep is
not the goat it’s thought to be.
* * *
“Louden”: In the hour before sunset
I sat beside the Murrumbidgee, fishing.
On the other side of the river bream were
leaping and splashing in shallow water
on a sandspit. Two Nankeen herons
going up the aisle of gums in stately
flight startled a blue crane that until
then had looked like a carven imitation
as it stood on a log jutting into the
“Sorry, you can't get a schooner till half-past four.”
water. A wood duck and five duck-
lings came hurrying down the opposite
bank and took to the water. Quickly the
old ‘bird got the clutch together. She had
just begun to pilot them across the swift
current when into the picture walked the
famous black-and-white cat that has been
missing from The Bulletin's pages since
Souter passed on. Big Tom stopped at
the top of the bank, stretched himself,
yawned, sat down and eyed the pleasant
scene. Again a bream leapt near the
shore. The cat, darting into the water,
delivered a dandy left hook that dropped
the fish on dry sand. As the feline fisher
with its meal vanished into the patch of
seedlings near by something of a cheer
went up from the lone spectator whose
catch that evening was nil.
* * * *
Some more names for the Australian
cruiser tank:
H.H.: “Boomally”—Leichhardt tribe (C.Q.)
dialect —to do battle.
F.D.: “Monsoon” —it’s accompanied by
thunder and lightning.
A.T.S.: “Wakjap.”
Mrs. E.S.: “Cooee,” “Digger.”
Nipper: “Narraburra” (rough country —
which it can traverse); “Tomingley” (the death
adder); “Ned Kelly” (Why not? He was an
armored division in himself!); “Edgeworth
David”—a great Australian.
* * * *
“Drover”: Our one and only watch
was out of action when the boss acquired
a new hand, a semi-myall abo. It
was winter, we were short-handed, and
watches throughout the night were long,
so the boss decided he’d put the abo. on
first watch. Riding out with the boy just
after dusk he pointed to the evening star
and explained that as soon as the star
“tumbled down” he must wake his relief.
Daylight was breaking when a roar
from the boss aroused us; then we
noticed the abo.’s swag hadn’t been un-
rolled. The mob was still on camp, so
we naturally thought the abo. had coiled
up somewhere and gone to sleep. But he
hadn’t. The star he had taken for the one
pointed out by the boss hadn’t “tumbled
down” ; it was still in its original posi-
tion in the heavens. We called the abo.
“Daylight” after that and he was given
the last watch.
* * * »
“Naturala”: It isn’t only meat-ants
q iat jj aVe a res p ec t f or the centipede (B.
2 4/2/’43) Had a maenie who was dead
2/ th e man TlSLed cruTclns
s . n many 1 gged crustaceans.
Dealing with a six-mcher, Mag would
e y e °*b taen at “ ie tal *- As the
head swung round to see what happened
Mag would snap again, at the head. So
it would go on, each snap only the
fraction of a second, Maggie evidently
having a fear of the centipede’s poison
fangs. Head and tail reduced to mince,
Mag would nip the head end off, then
nip the entire carcass from end to end,
finally swallowing it with gusto.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: If “Moyhu’s” expert
nurses the idea that salt water would
soon make a hash of engine num-
bers (B. 17/2/’43) he is right out
of step with modern police prac-
tice ; for it has been discovered that
even when a number has been filed off
and another stamped in its place the
original numerals can still be brought to
light. Metal stamped with a number be-
comes compressed deep into its texture
by the percussion pressure of the die.
So when treated with nitric acid the softer
parts etch away more quickly, bringing
the compressed lines of the hidden num-
ber into a slight but distinguishable relief.
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: The sheep were weak, and
Seventyfiver was having trouble with the
crows. Each morning added several
more eyeless and bleeding victims to the
casualty list, and after each find the old
bloke spent a few minutes vigorously
exhorting the omnipotent powers to blast
the marauders. He was bubbling over
the day he called asking me to write to
Mr. Gurtin for the loan of a few rifle
bullets. “Can’t keep ’em off the place,
nohow,” he raved. “A man rides north
an’ they attack south.” “Try some of
that new poison up in the shed,” I sug-
gested. “They tell me it lays crows out
wholesale.” “It does, eh? Then you
•bet I’ll take some! ” A week later I rode
across to see if the old bloke had met
with any success, and found him label-
ling a bundle of hides. “Crows!” he
shouted. “Don’t you talk t’ me about
crows!” “Wasn’t the new stuff any
good?” I asked. “Good?” he burst out.
“How do I know if it’s any good? Here
I’ve carted poison everywhere, spread
skins an’ got the carcasses all ready for
a snifter clean-up, an’ now, blast it, there
ain’t a flamin’ crow’ll come near the
place!”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Ever notice how comparatively
easy it is for a bushman to locate a live
snake? Some movement of the coils or
gleam from the shining body will betray
its presence to even the most casual
observer, who perhaps might never
notice a dead snake. A live snake dif-
fuses something definite; there is a
sort of electrical emanation from Joe’s
body,* and especially from the baleful
gleaming eye, that instantly imparts a
thrill and raises the dander and waddy of
your true snake-whacker. Quite the re-
verse obtains with a dead serpent. He is
lifeless, inert, and one may step over or
even on such before indulging in the
frantic bound incidental to discovery’.
There are no indicative and revealing
emanations from its carcass, nothing to
attract the attention ; it is the direct anti-
thesis to that inexplicable phenomenon
of the living threat flowing from those
calamitous coils in life.
* * * *
“K.”: Tom Hilton had paused outside
the township store to speak to a small,
meek-looking, middle-aged woman. After
a while he joined me. “I feel sorry for
that little woman,” he said. “She busted
with her husband —you remember ‘Black-
jack’ Bonner, a huge, bristly-looking,
roaring-voiced fellow that used to do
some scrub-felling around 800100 years
ago?” I nodded. “Knock her about?”
I asked. “Oh, no,” said Tom. “Y’ see,
it was this way. Their place got over-
run with rats, and y’ know what women
are with them. Well, I dropped in there
one day to look at a sick cow, and I saw
a big carpet snake ducking about the
feed sheds—it was there to keep down
the rats.” “And I suppose that was as
bad or worse for her than the rats,” I
said, “and she left.” “No,” replied Tom ;
“it was ‘Blackjack’ who left. Though
he’s a great big bloke he’s chicken-
hearted, and he couldn’t stand that there
carpet snake. It terrified him. It was
his missus who got it. She runs the
farm on her own now with the help of
her schoolkids and any hired hands she
can get.”
* * * *
“Filmo”: A recent newsreel contained
facts of interest to Sydney dwellers. A
naturalist and some grinning Diggers are
stranded, apparently without food, in an
apparently foodless valley. However,
tutored by the nature cove, the boys go
to work, and after a brief scavenger hunt
empty out their finds, with words of wis-
dom from the prof. The coup included
bulbs, roots, frogs, lizards, palm-pith and,
best of all, a carpet snake. Needless to
say, when asked what particular item they
would have for lunch, there came the
unanimous response: “Give us the good
old army stew.”
THE DINGO-CHASER.
His camp was warm in the wilgas, the scent of
the dew was sweet.
But a dingo howled in the nearness and the
bullock sprang to his feet;
He pawed at the ground and bellowed and into
his fang-scarred ears
The bawl of a frightened yearling came drifting
across the years.
The plain was a sea of silver, the light of the
moon was clear,
When a bitch and her lean red lover swooped
down on a pale-faced steer.
Gripped fast in the clutch of terror, he twisted
and propped and sped,
But his ears were like tattered ribbons and his
fang-slashed haunches bled;
And Death hung low on the bluegrass as a
yearling sank to his knees;
Then the flame of his spirit flickered as a coal
might flare in the breeze.
In a flash he had learned his lesson, he lunged
as the pikers dart
And caught the bitch on the shoulder and drove
a horn to her heart.
He wheeled, and his eyes were embers that
glared through a mist of red;
And the lean dog quailed in the tussocks and
turned in his tracks and fled.
Stumbling and weak and weary, with all but
his spirit spent.
He followed across the bluegrass the way that
the wild dog went.
He runs with the calves and weaners, and now
when the stars are gold
—For blood on his white horns dappled, for
hate that will not grow cold —
He waits for the howl of the dingo, and then,
as the echo slows,
He follows across the midnight the way that
the wild dog goes.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
QQ
| |
j3i.il
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEY,ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. UU,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Barley for Sheep.
“B.”: It’s good concentrated food on
its own, says R. C. Scott, of the S.A.
Department of Agriculture, and given
with lucerne or clover hay or chaff re-
sults are better still. Best ration value
is from feeding the grain in the paddock
where the sheep graze the legume. Even
dry paddock feed supplemented with
barley grain will keep sheep in good con-
dition ; when the roughage contains pro-
tein the animals will fatten.
Start feeding barley while there’s still
plenty of paddock feed about and
before the sheep get too hungry.
Allow about lib; per head and spread
it in small heaps about the size of half
a Jam-tin. When this is done irregu-
larly the weaker sheep get the same
chance of a good meal as the strong ones.
For a few sheep only, crush the barley
and feed in a trough with an equal
amount of chaff.
Supplementary feeding of any kind
should begin before sheep lose condition.
Otherwise it’s hard to build them up.
The Rabbit War.
“Wal. P.”: Shortage of labor and of
fencing material adds to the difficulties
of keeping rabbits down these times, but
they must be kept down or —in some
parts, anyhow—the winter feed won’t be
worth tuppence.
If they’re thick on the property it’s
best to hop into ’em straightway. Some
trappers are advertising for good country,
and where four or five farms can say
they’ve got plenty of rabbits it would
be a good idea to let a trapper loose.
Though it mightn’t be possible to get
netting for repairs to fences, a little in-
genuity often helps. A neighbor of ours,
with a boundary above a creek, lost about
a chain of netting through flood. He
used the damaged stuff with wattle sap-
lings, straw and mud to make a palisade.
It’s keeping the bunnies out, though what
will happen in the next banker is plain
to see. When we get a hole in the net-
ting on the ground we cut out the por-
tion, turn it upside down and tie it back
into the fence or drive stout boards into
the ground to cover the hole and tack
the netting to them.
Getting rid of the bunnies is the best
way to beat ’em, though a good boundary
is necessary to keep a new invasion out.
We dig out the small burrows and pump
cyanogas into the larger ones with a
blower. If you haven’t a blower, cyano-
gas can be had in flakes to throw down
the hole. Be careful with the stuff. Keep
it out of the eyes and away from sores or
open cuts ; don’t breathe it in, and wash
yourself carefully after using it.
A point worth remembering is that
rabbits get tired of being continuously
disturbed and attacked. They’re seldom
very thick in paddocks where their bur-
rows are being constantly dug up,
blocked up, smoked out, fumigated and
so on ; but they like the man who makes
a spasmodic attack and then draws off
for a few weeks. Dogs are useful —any
sort of a dog will harry rabbits —and if
the kids want to have some fun with
ferrets let ’em have it.
Silage-making.
“Farmer Bill”: Three things to watch
in silage-making: selection of material
with a high content of sugar, starch or
protein ; cutting and fairly rapid ensiling
et the right stage of growth ; exclusion
of air by compaction.
Salt doesn’t preserve silage when doses
are kept small to preserve palatability.
Bonemeal only neutralises acids. Bac-
terial cultures are not necessary when the
herbage is fresh. But molasses will sup-
ply the sugar or starch, that’s mostly lack-
ing in short or leafy growth or legumes.
Need for molasses is still greater when
the crop’s been grown on second-rate
country or has ripened too quickly and
become pithy. Use 201 b. to 401 b. of it
per ton of material, according to the
succulence of the growth. Twenty
pounds mixed with 10 gallons water is
the right proportion. A watering-can
with a fine rose will spray it on.
In stimulated silage the loss of starches
amounts to 23 p.c., digestible crude pro-
tein to 10 p.c. and digestible true protein
“ You’ll have to be more careful, mate —you've got a nasty patch of
dandruff here!”
to 58 p.c. In ordinary silage the losses
are 34.3 p.c., 40 p.c. and 67 p.c. respec-
lively.
Overseas farmers aim at getting away
from making silage for roughage only,
Even when it means a loss of yield the
crop’s cut at an early stage to ensure a
more concentrated foodstuff.
Canary Grass
. „ Yr *,
Pat Ater : After a dry summer
Phalaris tuberosa is again proving its
worth on southern tableland pastures in
N.S.W. Where showers have fallen green
shoots of Phalaris are showing strikingly
against the dry, white feed of natural
° y ’
p Phalaris, drought-resistant to a high
degree, has demonstrated its value as a
tm!
1° X ““taXk wherah
can be irrigated till large stools are built
up. Graze it off towards the end of
the growing season. Then, in the second
year, divisions can be bedded out in the
pastures—with a mixture of sub. clover
for preference
The sub. clover can be sown on
ploughed and harrowed ground at 61b.
to the acre with lewt. of super., and a
similar dressing suits Phalaris. Either
can be broadcast in open mixed pasture
areas of good autumn and winter rainfall.
In mixed pastures allow Phalaris to get
established before grazing it heavily.
The Stable.
“Sarina”: Build it in a well-drained
place, preferably beneath a low, spread-
ing tree. River sand makes the best floor,
but flat stones covered with a few inches
of soil wifi do. Use good, sound timber
and roofing iron. Have a special stall or
small shed for a sick nag, with ample
room for turning round.
Keep the floor free of dung to prevent
thrush and canker of the hooves and
other foot diseases. Don’t hang collars,
hames or winkers from pegs just above
the stalls ; a horse will throw up his head
and bump them, and very likely poll evil
will result.
Lengths of timber are best for closing
the stalls. Horses get their tails caught
in chains or ropes.
Barbed-wire fences around the stable
should be kept tight and in good repair.
Broken wires trailing away from a fence
are a menace. Barbed wires wrap easily
around a nag’s leg.
Keep a small first-aid outfit in the
stable—a few bandages, cotton-wool,
Dettol or lysol, peroxide of hydrogen,
iodine, Stockholm tar and a small basin
for holding warm water.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jindivick”; If the bull proves a fencer
sink a single post into the paddock to
such a depth that he cannot push it out,
but at the same time can have all the
exercise he wants butting and shoving
at it. A heavy length of rail loose in
the paddock will also keep him amused
and is worth its place even if you or the
boys have to chuck it back in every day
or so.
“Myrrhee”: Paspalum makes good
hay or silage. Cut just as the seed heads
appear. If ergot is developing it will
then be in the honeydew stage and
won’t cause digestive troubles. Cutting
surplus growth gives the young grasses
and clovers a chance to develop. P.
Waller, manager of Berry (N.S.W.) Train-
ing Farm, estimates that paddocks cut in
the early flowering stage yielded two tons
of paspalum-white clover hay per acre
and a fortnight after cutting milkers were
grazing fresh young pasture growth.
“Hux”: If the horse gets thrush, clean
the stables and keep them clean. Remove
the shoe and wash the foot in a medium
disinfectant solution. Pare away affected
horn and tissue. Wash again with the
antiseptic and apply calomel powder over
the foot —particularly in the cleft of the
frog. Cut a leather sole, smear a wad of
tow with Stockholm tar, place it over the
frog and pack the leather sole tightly
over it to keep the dressing in place and
the foot dry. Repeat daily and don’t
work till new horn is formed.
“L.C.”: There’s nothing worse than
cement floors for pigs. They may be
sanitary but they’re cold in the hottest
weather, and that’s bad for in-pig sows.
Bedding’s no protection. The animal
only scuffles it around and bare patches
are exposed. What’s needed is a trap
floor of wood or some other non-con-
ductor. Then both health and sanitation
can be maintained.
“W. Court”: Light-colored pigs suffer
from the rays of the sun in summer. In
hot climates every pig pen should have
a pool of water with mud and sand
around its edges to permit wallowing.
The shelters should be roofed with thatch
or boards and not with corrugated iron.
A shady tree is a boon. Drive a wooden
stake or post higher than the average pig
into the ground, and wind rope around
this upright for one-third of its length,
working downwards from the top. Keep
the rope saturated with oil. A bottle
filled with oil, with the cork pierced,
placed on top of the post will leak oil
down the post. The pigs will rub against
the oiled rope of their own initiative, and
it will help them to keep cool and prevent
skin diseases.
“Myrrhee”: Weeping willows check
erosion, provide shade and green feed
for stock in dry weather. The trees will
stand frequent and severe lopping, but
give them a spell in good seasons.
Willows do best in a 25in. rainfall or
more, but will do well on less rain if
planted where they can get moisture from
dams, drains and channels. Plant boughs
about 9ft. long and Sin. in diameter in
winter where there is seepage or drainage
and protect from rabbits and stock.
“Jindi”: Keep a close eye on your
fences. Tighten up all slack wires, bang
in staples wherever necessary, stay up
all posts that are rotting or have broken
off at the base. Nothing makes a fence
a wreck quicker than the initial loosen-
ing of wires and staples caused by stock
reaching over into the adjoining pad-
dock. Once posts get out of alignment
they’ll break off and shed their wires.
“Farmer Bill”; Old sump oil is a pre-
servative for wooden buildings or for
metal exposed to the weather. Painting
poles or posts with it safeguards them
against rot, white-ants or borers. Spray-
ing it on cow bails, peg pens or stables
keeps them free of vermin. When it’s too
thick, thin down with kerosene.
“Molecule”: Chooks can forage a con-
siderable proportion of their food. Birds
on wheat stubble require only 20 p.c. to
25 p.c. of a complete ration for birds in
confinement —a saving in the feed bill
of 75 p.c. to 80 p.c. On barley or oat
stubble the saving can be 33 p.c., and on
grass pasture 10 p.c. to 25 p.c.
“Murrawong”: Short of jute and hes-
sian for woolbags, the U.S.A. has turned
to paper cartons, which are packed in
a home-made wool-press. The carton
measures 20in. by 36in. by 40in. and will
take 1651 b. of fleece wool. The cartons
should compare favorably with loose,
shapeless bags for ease of handling and
saving in space, but there may be diffi-
culties from rain or damp and particu-
larly from damp wool.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
A mango-tree I have bears proUfically, but
the fruit cracks open on ripening and decays.
Cause and remedy?
The splitting of mango fruits is often caused
by the weather at the time of ripening. If
much rain is experienced or if trees receive water
through other sources the flow of sap is so
strong that it bursts the skin of the fruit.
Some varieties are naturally subject to this
cracking. If the fruit is pulled when mature
but still green you may overcome this trouble.
* * * *
Hints on growing strawberries?
Make up narrow beds to allow easy cultiva-
tion. Dig soil deep, mixing with it plenty of
rotting leaves, manure and grass clippings, with
a sprinkling of lime. Let soil rest three weeks,
then turn it again. Plant in May. Set out in
rows 18in. apart. Remove most of leaves, and
when planting keep the red sheath (which pro-
vides the runners) above the ground. Frequent
cultivation and mulching and abundance of
manure are essential to get results. A cover-
ing of straw should be placed under runners
when fruit forms.
* * * *
How to cure ‘‘curly leaf” in peaches?
If the trees are badly diseased cut back and
dig an Sin. trench about a yard wide around
each; sprinkle in about 21b. of washing soda
and slaked lime in equal proportions, and till
the trench. Spray trees just when buds begin
to swell with 61b. bluestone and 41b. lime to
40 gallons water.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —31th April, ’43: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER —33nd May, ’43: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’43: The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.
CLERK —7th April, ’.43; “In an early
lesson .you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency X have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’43; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.’
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’43:
“[ find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’43: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingiy-wise decision on my
nart .1 have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I3th May, ’43: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
Drovement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development. ’
SOLDIER— Ist May, ’43: “I undertook
+ he Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50 000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second souice
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz :
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent p<pst
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
4
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355, Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
157
XT':
mmmm
gewp. 1
swaps
MjW
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for April or May, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Action in Papua.
[Condensed from an eyewitness account of
a combined U.S.-Australian action in the fight-
ing that broke the last of the Jap resistance in
Papuan New Guinea. The author, Frank H.
Bartholomew, is vice-president of U.S. United
Press.]
If you have never seen American and
Australian troops in close co-operation
really belting hell out of the Japanese, I
would like to take you with me through
a fight which started when a lad from
Montana stood in a jungle road and
dropped his arm in a “start firing” signal
and ended when the count of dead Japa-
nese stood at 475.
Ten inches of rain fell during the previ-
ous night. A good part of the night you
wondered why three nations wanted this
hot, drowned country badly enough to
fight for it.
So you are up at 5 a.m. without regret
and off to the front six or seven miles
down the Kokoda-Sanananda trail in a
jeep with lanky Maj.-Gen. G. A. Vasey,
an Australian officer who was cited for
courage and efficiency by General Mac-
Arthur on Jan. 9.
The Sanananda trail is just barely pass-
able in a jeep, and goes through swamp-
land all the way. By the roadside are a
wrecked Japanese command car, smashed
trucks and a jumble of Japanese clothing,
helmets and war materials.
You meet American wounded, bound
for field hospital tents. There is no moan-
ing or complaining. You stroll up the
oad towards the front. Suddenly a sentry
yells “Hey, where are you guys going?
Right over to the Japs?”
“No, we’re just trying to get up to the
front.”
“Well, you’ve found it,” the sentry
says. “Now high-tail it to the rear, be-
cause we’re going to open up on those
b with mortars back there and you
might get your ears knocked off by a
short burst.”
The mortars start firing. The Japanese
reply with machine-gun fire, and you sud-
denly feel real enthusiasm for following
the sentry’s suggestion. A quarter-mile
ahead a great cloud of branches, water
and mud leaps up 100 feet or more, and
there is a terrific “whoomp.” An Aus-
tralian Wirraway ’plane circles over the.
target radioing the range and the results
of the firing to the mortar crews.
The mortar fire continues for half an
hour, then suddenly ceases. It’s the Aus-
tralians’ turn at bat now, and they do
their stuff with their artillery.
'“Excellent marksmanship,” says the
Wirraway pilot overhead. “All shells are
landing inside the perimeter.”
“We’ll teach those monkeys to try and
hold the only high, dry sandy spot in
the whole damned swamp and make us
sleep in the muck,” a soldier yells. “The
Aussies will get a half-hour at 'em. Then
watch what we’ve got for them.”
That happened right away. The boy
from Montana stepped out in the middle
of the road and yelled;
“All you guys who got no business on
this road get the hell off of it and keep off.
Gun crews, service each mortar with 20
rounds of ammunition. Guns will fire in
salvos 30 seconds apart. We want sal-
vos, no ragged firing.”
His arm goes down.
The noise of the first salvo is blended
into one heavy concussion, but the show
doesn’t really start until a few seconds
later, when all shells land together on
the stubbornly-held Japanese position.
The whole earth around the Japanese
position seems to go up in the air.
“There goes my corduroy road, damn
it,” says an officer of the Engineers.
“Now when the Japs are blasted out we
got to wade around in there and rebuild
the whole'thing.”
“What the hell does it matter?” says
a gunner. “It was under two feet of
water anyway. Say, look!”
You look, and what you see is a sky
full of trees, branches, logs and a great
spout of water, and you imagine you can
see Japanese going end over end.
The boy from Montana still stands in
the road, his arm falling regularly every
30 seconds. You wonder how many Japa-
nese lives come to a sudden end every
time he drops his arm.
“Whoomps!” Another section of the
horizon meets the sky again as the shells
land on the Japanese. If you should feel
sorry momentarily for the Japanese, you
look across the road and see an Ameri-
can cemetery started a few days ago and
still being filled. The crosses are made
out of boxwood from munitions cases,
and there are families back home on the
other side of the world who do not know
that their boys have been silently lowered
into the black earth of New Guinea to-
day.
Colonel Doe says to General Vasey:
“I’ve told them to look out for tricks,
General. Yesterday, when our boys
moved in on a hospital dugout to see
if any Jap survivors needed treatment
they found the place apparently filled
only with dead. But one Jap, with a
hidden machine-gun, raised himself from
among the corpses and let them have
it, head on. The other Japs had been
dead for days, and the stench was so
terrific that the hidden machine-gunner
was wearing an inhalator.”
A field telephone rings. “No opposi-
tion, no enemy fire,” the message says.
“Forward position now reports infantry
is traversing the perimeter.”
It’s all over. It’s time to start back.
At headquarters Lt.-Gen. Robert L-
Eichelberger, who commands the Allied
advanced forces in New Guinea, tells
you: “Up to the time of report 475
Japanese bodies have been recovered. It s
been a splendid day’s work.” •
You think of the wounded riding on
bouncing jeeps, of the boys walking
along with temporary patches on their
faces and their eyes glazed with fever and
of the boxwood crosses in the cemetery.
How Kaiser Builds Ships.
(Condensed from a “Nation” article by Bernard
Taper, a worker in a Kaiser shipyard.)
People reading about the record
10,500-ton cargo ship Robert E. Peary,
launched four days after the laying of
the keel and ready for delivery two days
after that, may get the idea that, if a con-
voy for the Solomons is gathering off
San Francisco Bay and lacks a ship or
two, all it will have to do is wait around
a week and let Henry J. Kaiser perform
a couple of miracles.
It doesn’t quite work like that. A great
deal of time went into prefabrication
before this ship’s keel could be laid. For
us workmen who spend about a month
putting together deckhouses, double
bottoms, forepeaks and the numerous
other gigantic sections —some weighing
over 100 tons —which are ultimately
hoisted on to the ship, the laying of the
keel represents, in fact, the beginning of
the end.
The rapidity with which Hull 440 was
put together was nevertheless incredible
to all of us. For several days the ship-
way looked as though a giant jigsaw
puzzle had been tipped out of its box •
the front of the ship here, a pile of pipe
there, shell plates over yonder. Once, the
keel was laid, the ship’s appearance kept
changing rapidly ; if you left the scene
for an hour you found quite a different
contour when you returned.
Within two hours after work began at
12.01 Sunday morning, the entire bottom
shell —50 by 500 feet —was welded into
place. Six hours later we had put in all
the amidships inner-bottom sections and
the entire engine assembly. By the end
of the day the hull was shaped and half
of its 2900 tons of steel sections were in
place. On that first day we did something
like 18,000 feet of welding. By the end
of the next day the upper deck was com-
pleted.
On the third day trailers brought the
superstructure down from the prefabri-
cation plant behind the yard. “Whirly”
cranes set the deckhouses, masts and
windlass in place. The huge rudder
went on then, too, a day ahead of
schedule, and the anti-aircraft guns. Men
swarmed all over the ship. Miles of
welders’ and burners’ cables twisted all
over the decks and festooned the staging.
One felt it would take a week merely
to untangle them.
On the fourth and last day we finished
up—the welding, riveting, electric wiring
and painting. The last workers on the
ship were those with brooms and dust-
pans, tidying* up.
When it went down the skids, Hull
440 was complete with lifebelts, electric
clocks, coat-hangers, desks, inkwells and
signs in all the toilets saying “Water


*: -’ A
m
m
I
II;:
m
wm
M 1
; i
frag
> ' :
is.. 3W
P®
p**
W?
ABOVE' THE SALT
T the household table of the middle ages the saltcellar was
the symbol of class distinction. If separated the lord,
his lady, their guests and privileged men, who sat ‘‘above
the salt," from the menials and retainers who sat "below"
if. The saltcellar has long since lost this symbolic mean-
ing, but if remains a witness to the need of the human body
for salt. Only a very small part of the salt consumed in
food actually comes from the saltcellar. Much more reaches
the fable in buffer, and bacon, or in other cured or preserved
foods. But the total quantify of salt used for domestic pur-
poses is trifling compared with the huge tonnage taken by
Industry. Glass and soap-making, for example, use great
quantities of alkali, which is made from brine and limestone.
The dyestuffs, textile and paper-making industries could not
be carried on without chemicals based on salt. Salt is used
in the manufacture of non-ferrous metals and to some extent
in agriculture. It is the responsibility of the chemical in-
dustry by constant research to improve upon ways of using
salt to the benefit of the public and industry. The great
alkali industry, so vital to our secondary industries, has
been established in Australia by 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
ICIANZ
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
No Australian is neutral in this
fight. No Australian money can
be neutral either. Yours is needed
to fill the Third Liberty Loan.
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
SOW B n
Unfit for Drinking.” We half expected
to see a captain-prefabricated, perhaps
pacing the bridge.
As the 25,000 spectators, still unbeliev-
ing, watched the launching, a section of
the keel foi the next ship was swung out
and laid in place on the vacated way.
Our yards here in Richmond form the
largest shipbuilding unit in the world,
which is one reason why such an exten-
sive preassembly system is possible. Most
of the top men never worked on a ship
before last year. Many are old Coulee
and Bonneville Dam men, who never
saw the ocean until a few months ago.
Among the 70,000 workers are men from
every calling you can imagine. Any-
body who wants to work can have a job.
The day I was hired I sat next to a man
who some years ago had suffered a stroke
which had paralysed his left side ; the
personnel office was going to figure out
some way to put his right side to work.
I asked one of the steamfitters how it
happened that so many of his crew-
mates were anthropologists, half expect-
ing some enlightening explanation about
the comparative cranial measurements of
steamfitters and anthropologists. But he
said it was “purely a historical accident.”
One anthropologist had been hired as a
steamfitter, and he later got some friends
on. Then there is the crew of riggers
made up largely of ex-ballet dancers. Rig-
gers are the men who deftly clamber over
staging, hooking and unhooking the crane
loads. I’ve seen them leap from two-by-
fours to mast poles, and casually walk
the two-inch top of the hold, which is
50 feet deep. Nearly all riggers possess
the grace and agility of dancers and are
a delight to watch ; this crew is merely
more conscious of rigging as an art form,
A girl who had done alteration work
in a New York store told the hiring office
that her main experience had been as a
fitter; so they hired her as a shipfitter—
and site’s doing very well, trimming bulk-
heads 20 feet high. Perhaps the most
astute bit of personnel work was the
hiring of a former wrestler as a flanger.
The flangers beat, heat, shrink, pull and
twist unsatisfactory bulkheads into place ;
there is not a better job for a wrestler,
Hundreds of workmen’s suggestions
were used in the building of Hull 440,
ranging from gigantic jigs that save weeks’
in the construction of inner bottoms,
to little clamps that hold girders firm
while they are being welded. The men
are quite possessive about the yards, and
just about as paternalistic toward Kaiser
as he is toward them, regarding him with
a fond and fatherly incredulity.
Hull 440 marks a turning point in
shipbuilding history— not because it was
launched a few days after the laying of
the keel, but because it demonstrated
that the only way to build ships rapidly
is to prefabricate them, and because it
utilised hundreds of new inventions, de-
vices and techniques. It represents the
real beginning of the mass production of
ships. Hull 440 was 61 per cent, pre-
fabricated.
The Seething Balkans.
[Condensed from a New York “Times” re-
port sent from London by C. L. Sulzberger,
who can speak on the Balkans and thereabouts
as an authority.]
From the stench-filled Polish labor
camps to the Montenegrin heights and
the sepulchral streets of Athens, famine
haunts widely separated regions.
Fever and malnutrition are going hand
in hand through the Balkan lands.
Rickets, influenza, typhus and strange
new diseases caused by vitamin deficien-
cies accompany the political slaughter.
Many Serbian children are developing
blindness from their diet —or lack of it.
Civil war, anarchy and the incipient
stages of social revolution have begun to
flare up, encouraged in large degree by
Axis policies intent upon dividing the
conquered nationalities.
The Austrian terrorises the Slovene in
the name of the Germanisation of the
Greater Reich. The Axis-led Croat
Ustachi massacre Serbian peasants in the
name of Greater Croatia, stimulating the
guerrillas to revenge and resulting inter-
necine strife. The Albanian menaces the
Epirote for his master Mussolini, and
Gestapo-incited Bulgars buljy Rumelian
and Turkish minorities in an effort to
provoke Sofia and Ankara.
Within this anarchic jumble Germany
is extracting all the available wealth for
her \yar machinery from puppet allies as
well as subjected nations: Wheat, corn,
coal, soya beans, copper, steel, pig iron,
lead, zinc, chromium, oil, bauxite, man-
ganese, meat and tobacco and especially
drafts of forced labor to work on forti-
fications or in factories.
Encompassing this Continental empire,
Nazi-supervised forced labor squads are
bulwarking the regions of natural forti-
fications against any contemplated Allied
liberating force. In the east thousands
of able-bodied Poles have been moved
into the area between the Vistula and the
Bug rivers, where from closely-watched
concentration camps they are driven out
to labor on the new Bug line forts.
Thousands of new Flungarian levies
are being summoned to the Carpathian
Mountain chain to modernise Central
Europe’s ancient battlements against the
Russian armies. To the south of the
Balkans labor battalions are reconstruct-
ing Greece’s Metaxas Line, extending it
through Macedonia to Ovce Polje, Skop-
ska Gora and Kossovo.
The confused and bewildered peoples
enslaved in this region, which tradition-
ally is not in the closest liaison with the
Western Powers and is traditionally some-
what fearful of Russia, are crying for
present succor, wondering what their poli-
tical future will be. A Bulgarian deputy,
just before the political abdication of his
country’s freedom, told this writer: “It
is our fate to be occupied by Germany
during war and by Russia afterward.”
The problems of the mass of Eastern
European peasants, while immediately
the most tragic, are likely to remain one
of the world’s most complicated puzzles
after the war, when, in addition to old
feuds fanned up during the Axis occupa-
tion period, there will be new questions
such as the retransfer of the moved-in
German settlers, the re-education of the
Nazified children, the encouragement of
stifled industrialisation, the aspirations of
the various nations and, above all, agree-
ment between the great Powers and
smaller Governments on lines of actual
frontiers and eventual Federal schemes
which, it is increasingly agreed., must be
established to forestall rising conflicts in
these troubled waters in the future.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Hitler’s spy system was caught completely
off guard by the Roosevelt-Churchill meeting in
Casablanca. The best that the German spies
could do was to report that Mr. Churchill
was away from London. No information
leached Germany from Washington, although
it was common knowledge in the capital that
the President had left the country.—' ‘United
States News.”
* * * *
Some idea of the strength of London’s de-
fences can be obtained by a comparison with
those of Berlin. The German capital is ringed
with anti-aircraft guns. This gun belt begins
upward of 50 miles outside the city, and from
there on R.A.F. raiders must weave their way
through a heavy anti-aircraft barrage and, above
all things, never let themselves get caught in
a cone of searchlights. Moreover, the British
airmen s troubles are not over when they are
out of this heavily defended area. Enemy night
fighters take to the skies outside their own
ack-ack belt and try to shoot down R.A.F.
planes outward bound or returning home.
Some of these fighters even lie in wait over
the North Sea. Yet some eyewitnesses feel
sure that London’s protection against raiders
is better than that of Berlin. —London corre-
spondent, N.Y. "Times.”
The general impression that the final
defeat of the Germans and Italians in
Africa will be the signal to start an
enormous military enterprise directed at
some part of the Southern European
coast appears extremely optimistic. It
must be remembered that the Germans,
after six years of preparation, have never
been able to follow up Dunkirk with an
invasion of Britain across the narrow
Channel. Attack by air-borne and sea-
borne troops across the Mediterranean,
even into Italy, where the population will
offer minor resistance, or into France,
where 90 per cent, of the people will
aid the invaders, is a staggering military
task. It is folly to predict it in the
immediate future and unwise to believe
that the impetus given Allied arms by
the North African victories can be trans-
ferred across hundreds of miles of water
without considerable time spent in bring-
ing the forces to strength, assembling
supplies and ships and launching an air
and sea bombardment. Sardinia and
Sicily are on the flank of any such attack.
Either or both of these Luftwaffe strong-
holds will have to be neutralised before
troops could be landed on the mainland
of Europe without heavy casualties. —
N.Y. “Times” North African representa-
tive Drew Middleton.
,P n lhe 2000 ' m r lle front > in all the war > onl >'
L 5 per cent, of the Russian wounded have
died. That is slightly higher than the remark-
able recovery rate at Pearl Harbor, 96 out of
each 100. The report says the Russian
recovery rate is 98.5 per cent, of all wounded.
A R i s ! ian i ra L e is . ? ne ' half - of } p f I cent
worse than the Guadalcanal miracle of 1 per
cent, of wounded dying.—Howard W. Blakeslie,
U.S. Associated Press science editor.
*** * .
By being the first Moslem nation to draw the
Bword a S ainst the Axis > Ira 9 may become the
vanguard of the whole Moslem world, which is
beginning to realise that the Atlantic charter
] s a better safeguard of its interests than the
Axis programme of world conquest. By for-
mally joining the United Nations, Iraq ex-
Passed its confidence in their victory, which
means that in its considered and long-dehber-
ated opinion the men ace of a junction between
the Germans and the Japanese along the Per-
sian Gulf has been eliminated. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The most important U.S. political question
is whether the United States will co-operate
wd:b other nations to establish some security
against the anarchy that has produced two world
wars within one generation. The Roosevelt
Administration is committed to co-operation
with other nations. Whether the President runs
again or not> the Democratic pa rty will be
committed to follow through. Where the Re-
publican party will stand is uncertain. The
P ar V is bitterly divided Isolationist influence
18 80 stron S that political writers who attended
tbe National Committee meeting m St. Louis
said that except for the fight made by Wendell
Willkie the isolationist candidate for national
chairman would have been elected Per-
haps the Republican party will be driven by
pub ij c opinion to take the position that Mr.
willkie has insisted upon. But judging
by performance thus far there is a strong
desire a ™ on f ™ a ? y °£-
to give Mr. Willkie a big kick in tne pants ana
go B th c e other way ._ Washington syndicating
columnist Raymond Clapper.


■v-x;;
&
iM
•• they
had everything
while he lived
• • • • but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERALINSURAHCE CO.ltd.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingeilc House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Co ms House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
V< General Manage
How to make your Gillette Blades last longer .
\
m
m
Unwrap Carefully ...
do not tear out of envelope .. •
• So carefully is the Gillette Blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper, as you will see by
holding it up to the light.
• If you will take equal care in handling it, you
can get more shaves per blade.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Help by saving, save by buying Savings Bands or Certificates
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
I
m ■ :
-
s :,
:::
.'X .
If:
V
V
u
i •;
1
< i
■
£? Sf< . • * s'
A
:
f mm m
S®6. ;•
■
I
W>M$
> iiil®
II
•jiui
;;s-
***» " «*■*'<> *&r
i
QUALITY PRODUCT
was
bUMBifa
?V'
f
IT’
DON T FORGET THE HIDDEN PARTS!
Give your Car or Truck
Regular
MOBILUBRICATION
Service
Mobilubrication is
the complete lubri-
cation of every part
of your car or truck
with correct grades
of Mobiloil.
Go where you see the
Mobilubrication Sign.
Gars last longer
with
Mobiloil
THE WORLD S QUALITY OIL
Play Safe! For full engine protection and freedom
from lubrication troubles-longer car or truck life
and maximum oetrol mileaqe-always use Mobiloil.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Australia)
Service Department.
Information Sought.
(1) General information concerning Glen
Davis? (2) How can I get a job there?
(1) Glen Davis is approximately 23 miles from
Capertee, which is 129 miles from Sydney by
rail, on the Mudgee line, and is approximately
46 miles from Lithgow. The population was
927 in December, 1941. It has a fifth-grade
school, and a qualified doctor is practising
in the district. There are a hotel and hostels
in the town, but accommodation is difficult to
secure. Application for accommodation might
be made to the Welfare Officer, Glen Davis.
(2) Applications for employment should be
addressed to the secretary, National Oil, Ltd.,
247 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Who discovered chaulmoogra oil, used in
treating leprosy ?
Natives of India have long known that chew-
ing of leaves and twigs of the chaulmoogra-tree
has a beneficial effect on leprosy, and there is
a pre-Buddhistic legend that a Burmese king
cured himself of the disease by eating the raw
seeds. In 1907 Isadore Dyer, Professor of
Dermatology at Tulane University, drew the
attention of the scientific world to the properties
of the oil, reporting successes from its use at
a leper colony in Louisiana. There followed
long researches in which the German firm of
Merck and Co. played an important part. The
story of the drug may be found in Dr. Victor
Heiser’s book A Doctor’s Odyssey.
* * * *
Amongst stored blankets I have found light-
brown, hairy, grub-like insects with legs on
the front portion of body only. What are they,
and method of eradication ?
The grub is apparently that of a species of
carpet beetle, and moults several times before
pupating, after which it becomes an adult beetle.
Keep naphthaline among the blankets at the
rate of lib. to eight cubic feet of space. In
enclosed cupboards paradichlorobenzine may
be found even more effective, but is not so
long-lasting and is more costly than naphtha-
line.
* * * *
Is it true that some venomous fish may be
eaten ? How should such fish be handled ?
All venomous fish are good eating, ahd
should not be confused with poisonous fish.
They may be cooked in the usual way, but care
should be taken in handling them. Stonefish
and fortescues may be picked up by the side
hn. Catfish, which have spines in their side
ms, should be handled with special care. The
best method for treating catfish is to cut away
the entire front portion of the body, and make
use Only of that behind the stomach.
* * * *
(1) Method of catching pilchards? (2) Any
commercial possibilities in the fish?
Usually they are caught by beach seines and
set meshing nets. Fair catches have been made
at night with a hoop net and submarine light,
which attracts the fish. (2) As other fish, such
as salmon, flathead, tuna, barracouta, etc., feed
on pilchards, there are possibilities in selling
them for bait. Also, the Australian variety has
an oil content, which, however, is most preva-
lent when the fish itself is least abundant.
* *
General information on the bat fish?
They are a tropical fish, moving in small
schools and are widely distributed throughout
the Indian and Pacific oceans. They are
rounded, sometimes deeper than long, with the
body greatly compressed. The young have
trailing rays from the dorsal and anal fins,
?j-l? ese g * ve t^'e a crescen t shape, making
it difficult to associate the young with the older
ot the species. The vertebral column of the
species often develops large, bony bosses, sup-
posed to be the work of disease, and one
branch of the family has been classified as
Fla tax arthriticus, in the belief that it suffered
from arthritis.
***!)!
j.W When did the actress Clara Stephenson
die. (2) Was it Kate Ward or Kate Bishop
who went to London to play in “The Grand
Duchess ' ?
(1) In September, 1928. (2) Neither actress
was ever on the operatic stage.
Brief Answers.
V.W.H,: (1) You are entitled to 91 days’
notice. (2) No order for your eviction will be
made unless the Court is satisfied that suitable
accommodation is immediately available. (3)
It is for the Court to decide what is “suit-
able” L.T.: Food for ducklings should be
fairly dry. If moist, it tends to block the
nostrils... .M.F.D.: Axles must be secured
separately in the fore and aft position by
torque bars, and in the transverse position by
stabilisers in order to check body r 011....
M.A.McC.: Jindabyne, a valley; Nimmitabel,
source of many streams; Hinnomungie, a kind
of food; Canberra, a meeting-place E.J.8.:
(1) Dampney concrete building slabs. (2) Pro-
portion is about 2 p.c. cement per bag....
C.H.K.: Gladys Moncrielf was born at Bunda-
berg (Q.); first appeared with J.C.W. in 1915.
....L.K.: In 1919 a Dr. R. H. Goddard pub-
lished a paper on the subject of rocket-power,
and aroused considerable controversy in the
American press D.K.: Trouble may be due
to too much salt, which, if given too liberally,
can act as a poison F.M.: Calbayog is a
town on the north coast of Samar in the Philip-
pines W.H.: Publications which might help
you are “Fruit World” and “Queensland Pro-
ducer” J.P.H.: Apply to your C.O
P.M.: Dr. J. V. Duhig, Professor of Pathology
in the University of Queensland, is a nephew
of Archbishop Duhig M.S.: In the First
A.I.F. a private’s daily pay was ss. (active) and
Is. (deferred) T.F.: Shake blanket gently
occasionally during the drying period. This
will fluff up the nap J.E.M.: Best
charcoal timbers are red ironbark, grey box,
coast box, grey. ironbark, narrow-leaved iron-
bark, grey gum and yellow box A.Y.: A
pamphlet, “Food and Nutrition,” was issued by
the N.S.W. Department of Public Health....
J.W.H.: Civil servants and members of Parlia-
ment pay income tax the same as other mem-
bers of the community N.T., R.J. and F.T.:
Information on its way.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions'voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
8.F.8.:
Remember our boys in the North and New Guinea ;
Away with all languorous airs and the laugh that’s
sarcastic and tinny, /
And smite, smite, smite the typewriter for the war
effort.
JJ.L.: Buzzin’ ’one H.R.: Come
again K.V.L.: The form’s loose V.G.L.:
Try elsewhere T.McL.: The train never
quite arrives 8.V.K.: Promising F.A.:
Pleasant FI.M.W.: Amiably pointless
M.J.: Queer mixture of the original and the
hackneyed M.F.: Patchy F.R.C.; Still
among among the lightweights 8.D.: Close.
W.W.: A lot of large words for a very
small purpose W.R.; Lamentable
F.C.B:. “Dust” should have moved you to
nobler heights of profanity W.E.: Tut
M.L.A.: “Magic Words” ain’t.


Yon
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 64 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information*
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital ( paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart: R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, M. Hughes
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Adtt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdowr,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
, Industrial
Ordinary Department— >, Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus. Funds.*
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1934.. 167,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 .. . . .. 514,306
1935.. 151,952 46,265 60,104 1,230 561,119
Written off, £4974 .. .. .. 556,145
1936.. 157,771 45,755 65,486 4,706 607,381
Written off, £4779 . . . . .. 602,602
1937.. 152,314 58,018 56,527 628 640,999
Written- off, £4207 636,792
1938.. 150,993 64,995 40,586 3,516 685,720
Written off, £3221 . . .. . . 682,499
1939.. 145,171 64,727 36,403 3,202 729,742
Written off, £2717 727,025
From Accident Dept., £l5O .. .. 727,175
1940.. 148,928 48,631 36,611 3,472 794,333
Written off, £2683 791,650
I.D.
Deficit.
1941.. 154,304 50,945 35,675 1,572 857,760
Written off, £2636 855,124
From Accident Dept., £ll6l . . . . 856,285
1942.. 157,347 53,104 33,826 1,403 925,299
Written off, £2096 923,203
From Accident Dept., £770 .. .. 923,973
* Net funds apart from capital, contingencies
provision ( £5013) and Accident fund ( £2440).
Though actuary Bremner annually over-
hauls the business, only at quinquennial
intervals are policy- and shareholders
taken into the board’s confidence, and the
precise position won’t be known till the
coming August valuation. At the present
juncture more good might be done by
openness than this reticence. Solid-look-
ing work has been put in ovef the past
half-dozen years. Valuation reserves
have been strengthened, economy of man-
agement exercised, keener discrimination
in the selection of risks, exhibited, and
the earning power of assets kicked up
by a policy of mortgage and property
investment. One result has been that
bonuses on whole-life Ordinary con-
tracts, which comprise the bulk of the
business, have ranged from 255. p.c. to
295. p.c., and on endowments from 20s.
to 245., for three years now. More, of
course, remains to be done, and it is
not possible to say when shareholders
are likely to come into the picture.
Latest step forward is the lowering of
the anticipated basis of future interest-
earning from 4 p.c. to p.c. “on the
main part of Ordinary department busi-
ness” at a “cost” of £28,000. Including
the small Accident branch, the revenue
surplus for the year was £67,650 (up
£3016). With a carry-forward of £17,978,
it was used to supply the £28,000 men-
tioned, provide a “fully adequate”
£38,298 against the normal growth in
policy liabilities, allocate £17,500 for
O.D. bonus benefits and write down in-
tangibles (now £95,330) by £6670. Since
control was changed and unified after
1937 and new business discontinued in
the Industrial department, seat of much
early heartburning, income has exceeded
actual outgo by £287,000-odd altogether.
This inrush of funds has gone out
again in this way;
1937. 1941. 1942.
Government securities £149,600 £121,070 £133,650
Mortgages .. . . 182,591 362,036 380,270
Loans on policies . . 88,751 68,450 67,238
Book debts, cash, etc. 72,260 41,885 41,569
Equipment . . .. 13,024 8,897 8,069
Freehold .. 252,363 432,321 487,835
Total tangible assets £758,589 £1,034,659 £1,118,631
Liabilities* .. .. 5,947 56,632 75,273
Net tangibles ..£752,642 £978,027 £1,043,358
Assurance funds .. 768,773 940,307 1,018,532
Paid capital.. .. 108,475 108,475 108,475
* Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Deducting taxes of £2260, the net earn-
ing power of that lot declined from 5.5
p.c, to 5.2 p.c. on the mean life funds
last year, and it is from the margin here
over the 3£ p.c. in the main looked for
that present bonuses are coming. Invest-
ments are repeatedly declared “under
constant supervision, with the result that
arrears of interest and rent are negli-
gible.” A lot also depends on what has
been charged for property upkeep, etc,,
not disclosed. Assuming assurance funds
exactly equal the liability against which
they were created, shareholders can see
£24,826 of their capital intact on paper
and policy-holders that much additional
protection against war contingencies, etc.
The experience in this regard has been
very satisfactory to date.
In the 0.D., the prevailing inability to
maintain new-business figures is apparent:
1940. 1941. 1942.
Policies issued . . .. 1,287 1,281 932
Assuring .. .. £413,200 £380,165 £257,318
First premiums .. 9,754 9,169 7,408
Renewal premiums .. 99,645 100,437 103,680
Interest and rent .. 39,529 44,717 46,259
Still, that has helped reduce exes., which
chewed up 28.4 p.c. of last year’s premium
income, excluding taxes and deprecia-
tion. That compares with 31.2 p.c. the
year before and as much as 47.5 p.c. in
1936. There is room for further im-
provement, and the low-cost business-get-
ting facilities offered by associated co-
ops. throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland should assist to that end.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 70,900 8 p.c. = 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 „ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 ~ „ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257,479
1936.. 106,787 12 „ „ 98,038 8,749 266,228
1937.. 135,090 15 „ ~122.549 12.541 278,769
1938.. 136,180 15 „ ~ 122,549 13,631 292,400
Shares written up ; added reserves, £498.957 791,357
1939.. 137,933 15 p.c. = 122,548 15,385 806,742
1940.. 129,425 15 „ ~ 122,548 6,877 813,619
1941.. 125,358 144 „ ~ 118,463 6,895 820,514
1942.. 122,428 14 „ ~ 114,378 8,050 828,564
With its Victoria subsidiary, Carlton is
a £928,395 (32 p.c.) partner and chief
vehicle of public interest in Melbourne’s
C.U.B. group of breweries, the most im-
portant factor in the trade within its home
borders as well as possessing substan-
tial connections inter-State. Receipts
from this source have been steady at
12| p.c., or £116,037, for six years now.
The whr-time setback to Carlton’s in-
come has occurred in its independent
revenue from rents and interest; after
taking out taxation, etc:, this fell from
£21,896 in 1939 to £6047 last term, when
the contraction both here and in profits
was £2930. That left the net earning rate
at 14.9 p.c. on capital, and another half-
point was chipped off the div., maxing
it 14 p.c. .Policy has been always to put
something worth while in the cupboard,
even though the brewing organisation is
itself conservative both in its profit-writ-
ing and distributions. Last term, for
example, the 12| p.c. C.U.B. passed on
represented less than three-quarters of
its percentage earnings. Carlton’s equity
in the balance undistributed equalled an-
other 5.4 p.c. on its own capital.
When rationing was introduced just
over a year ago —-deliveries to hotels were
cut to two-thirds of thirsty Jan.-Feb.
levels—Victorian beer consumption was
established on a per capita basis of 14
gallons p.a., a lift of \\ gallons since the
outbreak of war despite the 2s. lOd. a
gallon extra —more in the publican’s
hands—tacked on to selling prices by way
of excise. Service canteens don’t come
within the general restriction scheme, but
where liquor is available the fighting ser-
vices ration their own personnel. Recent
ban on inter-State freighting of liquor
hasn’t helped C.U.B. takings or its tussle
with costs, either, and the operating co.’s
latest interim div. is down to 10 p.c. p.a.
Over a full year that will mean £23,198
loss of income to this Carlton holding co.
So shareholders should reconcile them-
selves to a further cut in their income.
Chief feature of finances is the growth
in the cash holding as the result of repay-
ment of mortgage debts and enlargement
of the tax reservation tossed in with
creditors:
1935. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £816,992 £816,992 £816,992 £816,992
Creditors* .. 15,787 24,866 43,527 57,568
Suspense a/c.. 15,374
Hotels .. 119,062 157,202 159,711 159,711
Breweries . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Furniture . . 137 81 74 60
Shares C.U.B. 631,704 1,115,757 1,115,757 1,115,757
Mortgages, etc. 237,881 265,375 250,852 233,402
Cash, etc* .. 7,698 21,549 61,828 101,383
* Including taxation.
Taking the C.U.B. interest in at its net
tangible backing, the cover for Carlton
scrip on those figures is 50s. a share. A
threatened malt shortage, already con-
siderable, of such dimensions as to por-
tend a beer drought next year has brought
forth a statement from Senator Keane
that labor would be made available to
ensure barley supplies for maltsters.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Sydney)
Year To Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 37,981 9* p.c. = 23,940 14,041 245,804
1933.. 40,154 10 „ ~ 25,200 14,954 260,758
1934.. 49,556 12* „,, 31,500 \pg 0 56 276,814
To staff funds, £2OOO .. j
Reserves capitalised, £63,000.. .. 213,814
1935.. 55,089 124 p.c. = 39,376 15,713 229,527
1936.. 59,384 12* „ „ 39,376 20,008 249,53 a
Goodwill disclosed, £2065 .. 247,470
1937.. 63,049 12* p.c. = 39,376 23,673 271,143
1938.. 69,748 16J* „ „ 51,188 18,560 289,703
1939.. 70,467 15 „ „ 47,250 23,217 312,920
Assets written up £lll,OBO and inner
reserves disclosed £50,500 ; bonus
scrip issued, £126,000 . ■ • • 348,500
1940.. 69,492 12.6 p.c.= 55,860 13,632 362,132
1941.. 67,976 15.1 „ „ 66,517 1,459 363,591
1942.. 70,603 15.1 „,, 66,517 4,086 367,677
* Includes special 6d. sesquicentenary bonus.
Last trip to the bonus fountain was in
March, 1940, when £126,000 of gift scrip
cascaded out on a two-for-five basis,
inner provisions of £161,580 being shaken
out for the purpose. Altogether since
1913 the co. has tapped the reserves for
bonus shares of £291,000, or almost two-
thirds of capital as it now stands. To
long-term holders of the shares present
divs. are thus worth about 45 p.c. It
is a juicy record, and the co.’s capacity
to bestow further benefits in the fullness
of time doesn’t appear to have been ex-
hausted.
Enlargement of the share-register as
mentioned has not resulted in any prun-
ing of div. rates. A spot of breathless-
ness certainly came after the 1940
beneficence; but a recovery to pre-
bonus rates was quickly made. The co.
is, of course, stoutly ribbed. It runs a
chain of 35 or so chemist shops in Sydney,
and, partly through subsidiaries, manu-
factures much of its own requirements.
Profits are thus gathered on a two-way
basis —wholesale as well as retail —and
this implies as to the profits both sturdi-
ness and capacity for expansion, if
necessary.
Last year, after writing off £4849 for
depreciation, providing something for
taxation and allowing for £lOO chiselled
off goodwill without comment, the profit
total was figured at £70,603 (up £2627).
That equals 16 p.c. on capital, and com-
pares with 15.4 and 15.7 p.c. back to
1940. Of the £70,603, £10,165 repre-
sented interest from Government stock
and provided sd. of the div., or £2 Is.
Bd. p.c.
These Government and similar invest-
ments constitute the co.’s most bulky
asset. The board, indeed, appears to be
faced with an embarrassment of riches.
Consider these figures :
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £315,000 £441,000 £441,000 £441,000
Creditors* .'. 76,489 82,176 90,228 133,105
Property k plant 132,772 331,613 333,473 331,049
Debtors and ] f
mortgages j- 117,472 126,263 1 13,452 11,679
Stocks J L 61,330 56,281
Gov. sec. &
investments 441,223 448,090 497,842 557,978
Shares subsid.,
etc 15,633 22,021 20,018 19,472
Cash, etc. .. 13,816 2,720 18,146 14,767
tax provision.
The aim in piling up such an accumula-
tion of liquids has never been disclosed.
At present, of course, there is little else
that can be done. As it is, the whole of
share capital and £116,978 besides are
represented by investments outside the
business.
Problem these days is to maintain
stocks. Drugs and essential lines are
adequate for most purposes these
are imported or produced under Com-
monwealth direction—-but the manufac-
ture of many patent medicines has either
diminished or ceased, and, though the
regulation governing patent medicines has
been disallowed, there is talk of the Gov-
ernment freezing some essential drugs.
Also, business in cosmetics and other
proprietary lines has dwindled consider-
ably. Stocks of £56,281, determined on
the basis of cost or less, were held when
the books closed.
William Adams and Co.
, — 1 Dividends
Pref. To-Re-
April, Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
1932.. 16,117 Nil Nil & 9,768
1933.. 10,424 Nil Nil 20,192
Profit.
1934.. 932 Nil Nil 932 19,260
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
Reserves,
Capital written off, £22,500 .. .. 11,527
Apparent adjustment book values,
£11,176 351
1936.. 22,031 78204 3 p.c. = 4,087 9,523 9,874
6.56 p.c.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.56„ „ 10,313 16,394 26,268
7 p.c.
1938.. 34,389 1750 10.1 „ 15,938 16,701 42,969
1939.. 34,068 1750 10.1 ~ ~ 24,389 7,929 50,893
1940.. 34,270 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,791 7,729 58,627
1941.. 21,767 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 53,852
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 13,653 67,505
t 5J years.
The best showing within the “Wild
Cat’s” memory. The board, however,
didn’t quite figure things that way, ex-
hibiting a profit of £27,195 last year and
one of £34,767 in 1941. But the ’42
figures were saddled in the published


i
vv
I*
YOURASHTS
Don’t leave the adminis-
tration of your estate in
incapable hands • Safeguard
your interests by appoint-
ing trustees and executors
who can render complete
service.
Write to-day for booklet
explaining the facilities of
Smith, Boydell & Company
—a firm of long experience
in business management
and the supervision of
estates.
SIDimBOVKIUCO
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS
IN THE NEW £100,000,000
LIBERTY LOAN
LEND TO DEFEND
Space with Compliments of
Makers of the Economy Sauce.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1942
liabilities.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued .. ; •
Less Reserve liability thereon
Paid up
Reserve Fund .. • • • •
Final Dividend payable February, 1943
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Currency Reserve
Deposits, Bills payable and other
ment Account
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
liabiliti
£12,000,000
12,000,000
8,000,000
[£4,000,000
3,250,000
98,583
161,673
s, including provisions 'for Contingencies and Exchange £ 2>B6(J 4
• 7,530 0
8,570 17
£7,510,256 14
1,600,000 0
Acceptances, Confirmed Credits and Engagements on b * al f " f < r ustoiners "
Note: The Australian and New Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of exchange and the net
difference which would have arisen had they been con
verted at the rates ruling at the date of the Balance
Sheet is covered by Currency Reserves.
52,818,457 2
13,944,293 10
£65,873,007 7 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques of other Banks
Balances due from other Banks ..
Money at Call and Short Notice in London
Treasury Bills —Australian Government ..
New Zealand Government
Public Securities (valued at or under Market Price)
British Government Securities ” ..
Australian Government Securities .. ,• • • • • • • • ** ’’
New Zealand Government Securities .. • •
Local and Semi-Government Securities
Tax Reserve Certificates —British Government
Loans Advances and Bills discounted (after making provision for debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises in Australia and New Zealand at cost, less amount written
London Leasehold Premises at cost .. • • • •
Less Reserves against same and accrued Interest
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances, Confirmed Credits and Engagements per contra
£3,730.000 0 0
660,000 0 0
£2,579,489 16 11
6,480,059 5 8
2,649,558 12 10
73,680 7 0
£7,751,292 18
932,139 "
7,124
360,000
4,390,000
£142,304 19
76,221 15
11,782,788 2 5
125,000 0 0
3,940,000 0 0
2,592,946 18 6
£31,881,291 14 2
29,365,377 7 9
615,961 10 10
66,083 4 2
3,944*293 10 S
£65,873,007 7 2
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of Undivided Profit on 30th August, 1941
Less Dividend, January, 1942
Leaving a Balance of .. .•• •*,
Profits of the past year after appropriations to the credit of Contingency
Accounts, out of which accounts provision has been made for „
Bad and Doubtful Debts and other Contingencies .. .. ia
Less — _ ,
Salaries, Allowances and General Expenses at 0
Head Office, Branches and Agencies ..£902,963 13 a
Directors’ Fees .. •• ® ®
Income Tax thereon .. 3,333 6 o
..£266,938 4 11
.. 110,333 6 8
~ 156,604 18 3
United Kingdom, Australian and New Zealand
Taxes
Less Interim Dividend paid July, 1942 . .
Final Dividend payable February, 1943
18,333 6 8
410,361 9 6
£70,416 13 4
98,583 6 8
1,326,658 9 11
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
174,068 9 10
t-
£330,673 8 1
, 169,000 0 0
£161,673 8 1
London, 12th January, 1943.
JOHN H. DAVIDSON 1
M. N. HOGG r Directors.
ROBERT O. NESBITT J
F. H. McINTYRE, Manager.
S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
an accordance with provisions of Section 134 of the
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head, Office a Monev at Call and Short Notice, Investments and the
Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness °f the Cash .Money at oau Qf opinion that sueh Balance
KUs of Exchange held in London, and having obtained all * ® • of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information
Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true! and correct view of. Accounts.
and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company and tne a wniNNEY, _ ,
WHIN A El, bill in “ chabterbd ACCOUNTANTS, Auditors.
London, 12th January, 1943.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
Head Office in Australia; MELBOURNE.
General Manager for Australasia; A. E. B. GOODE. irwnM *o
Manager at Sydney (Cnr. Pitt and Hunter Streets): W. H. THOMAS.
accounts with £13,000 under provided for
the previous term’s taxation, which has
been charged back to the year to which
it is applicable in these calculations. So
latest earnings, instead of being £7572
down, were actually nearly twice as cor-
pulent as their predecessor. Allowing for
pref. requirements, the £40,195 shown
equals 15.6 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 8.1, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c. for the three
years before. Ord. payout was again 10.1
p.c. Depreciation charged was a satis-
factory £7099 (up £475).
The co., with a subsidiary in London
and branches in each State, gathers its
business in and about the engineering
trades. It is thus dealing in things that
now matter. Supplies are obtained locally
and from both U.K. and U.S. sources.
Despite changed conditions, support from
overseas principals has been surprisingly
good, states the chairman. Meantime, all
branches have been declared protected
undertakings. The business was slow to
get clear of the wreckage strewn by the
economic storms of the ’thirties, and
shareholders went without sustenance for
five years to the end of 1935. Ords. have
averaged p.c. since, and the whole of
the reserves shown has been accumulated
in the same seven-year period.
The position in Brisbane has been one
of the things to be strengthened. With
a view to owning its own home there, the
co. acquired a property at the corner of
Stanley and Peel streets, and latest report
was that “suitable premises were being
erected” thereon. So far this acquisition
has affected the accounts but little:
1932. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £205,000 £182,500 £270,000 £270,000
Liabilities . . 119,590 270,287 167,614 245,074
Freeholds . . 103,476 109,085 109,085 111,934
Plant, etc. . . 18,979 21,506 22,789 21,453
Stocks . . 124,256 196,508 171,004 190,698
Book debts . . 62,029 168,859 195,890 240,447
Cash, shares, etc. 6,084 10,245 19,166 31,516
Attention last year focuses on the rise of
£77,460 in liabilities to add £19,694 to
stocks, £44,557 to sundry debtors and
£12,350 to cash, shares, etc. Stock and
outstanding customers’ balances are
the sensitive spots there. The more or
less liquid surplus (£217,587) recorded
little change.
Immediate prospects are somewhat
obscure. Although lines essential to war-
time industry are handled, most of these
are subject to a variety of controls which
create difficulties and add to costs. Also,
it is difficult to replenish and so main-
tain supplies, and shareholders have been
told that the same rate of progress as in
the last term, can’t be expected. Present
engineering development is an encourag-
ing aspect of the longer view, however,
provided costs don’t leap out of hand.
Lake View and Star’s financial position
is golden. At June 30, in addition to
mines, plant, machinery, ore reserves of
a gross value of over £A8,000,000 ster-
ling and other belongings, the co. held
cash of £200,000, investments of £41,233,
tax-reserve certificates of £150,000 and
stores of £201,468. Sundry creditors (in-
cluding reserve for taxation) were owed
£236,450, and unclaimed dividends came
to £44,534.
m ♦ ♦ ♦
From London:
As a commission will have to go to Australia
to take evidence, it may be impossible for the
action for damages of the Apley Estates, Ltd.,
and 299 others against Claude de Bernales and
34 associates to be heard until after the war.
Plaintiffs’ allegation is that the defendants wove
a web in which they (the plaintiffs) got caught
by being induced to buy shares in eight cos. by
misrepresentation in the prospectuses, by failure
to publish in the prospectuses matters which
ought to have been there and by being induced
to exercise options and take up more shares by
a barrage of recommendations by defendants
in the shape of speeches at co. meetings, cir-
culars to shareholders and newspaper puffs.
De Bernales, said Paley Scott, K.C., had pro-
moted first the Australian Machinery and In-
vestment Company (called the A.M.1.). This
was the vendor to English cos. of various
mining assets or shares in mining cos. in Aus-
tralia which were the foundation of the com-
plaint in the action.
After listening to claims, Lord Justice God-
dard asked whether it was seriously suggested
that any Judge could try the case as it stood.
On Paley Scott, K.C., replying in the affirma-
tive, Justice Goddard suggested there might be
a great desire by King’s Bench Judges to go on
circuit when the case came for trial. Lord
Justice Scott declared the action was one of
“very exceptional complexity.”
* * * *
An effort is to be made when the Dig-
gers come home and restrictions on gold-
production are lifted to raise from the
dead two old Coolgardie mines—Bur-
banks and Bonnievale. Both have been
bought by J. V. Taylor for himself and
a Perth speculator, and additional
ground has been pegged. Burbanks and
Bonnievale produced a lot of gold in the
’nineties and later, and Burbanks share-
holders got several dividends.


If you can’t fight
YOU CBN LEND!
mm'
It
'A
K
an*
51:
*>s»
*
as;
i überty LOAN
sS“' l “<im
4
k
<
;
. l
So
Come on
Australia 1
LEND NOW-
SPEND LATER!
INVEST IN THE
JJSOME men are able to fight
.. . others can only work for victory. Some
serve in the firing line, others remain at
home to produce the essential munitions of
war and carry on the commerce of the
nation. To each in the measure of his
ability duty is assigned. ~ and the first
duty of all is to lend his savings for the
achievement of victory.
Whatever is needed should be lent without
stint or hesitation, without thought of
personal interest or selfish desires.
That is the payment every Australian owes
for the privilege of living in this free and
happy country.
LIBERT
LL 75-19
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Gold In the Future
Where is gold going to figure in the
post-war scheme of things? That ques-
tion has the world intrigued. Gold has
a long history behind it as a precious
metal and a medium of exchange, but
its value in this regard has been more
traditional than scientific. While gold,
especially when fixed to a standard for
exchange purposes, performed a great
service in establishing a basis for world
trade in the last two or three hundred
years, it has in some respects given false
impressions regarding the elements of
trade. A sort of superstitious value has
become attached to the yellow metal.
The basis of international trade is col-
lective barter, and a country cannot pay
for more imports than the value of its
exports and other income, plus its gold
reserves in an emergency. Yet after the
last war there were millions of Ameri-
cans who believed that Great Britain
should have paid off its war debt to the
U.S.A. regardless of the fact that the
trade between the two countries was
always one of Britain buying more from
the U.S.A. than it sold. Most of what-
ever gold the Empire produced was bound
to flow to the United States in settle-
ment of post-war debts anyway. Eventu-
ally the 1914-18 war-debts problem was
shelved. Unless the U.S.A. opened its
doors wide to British goods there was no
possible way of paying off the huge war
debt.
Whenever gold enters into international
trade in a big way it is a sign of bad
health in the world’s economics. The
flow of gold to the United States that
preceded the present war was a sign that
trade was altogether too much a one-
way affair. A metal the main value of
which was one of tradition was being
rushed to a country that had so many
natural resources of its own that it pre-
ferred to sell to the world rather than
buy from it; but with 80 p.c. of the
world’s gold already in the national
vaults a point would soon have been
reached when either America would have
had to buy more from other countries,
or pay more for their goods, or those
countries would have had to cut down
their buying of American motor-cars,
cotton, oil, etc. The free supply of gold
was running low. Useful for settling
temporary exchange problems, it had no
power to counteract the vast pull of
cheap American mass-production and
mineral-wealth exploitation. The United
States was so wealthy and vigorous, and
yet so young, that it ignored the essential
of international trade —reciprocity. Its
power in the world was not accompanied
by a full sense of responsibility.
Under the strain of unbalanced world
trade some countries did extraordinary
things. While Germany, Japan and Italy
worked harder than ever and resorted to
all sorts of reciprocal agreements with
other countries, France, riddled with
Communism, adopted the 40-hour work-
ing week! Gold flew out of France, and
Britain and the United States had to
come to its assistance with an exchange
agreement. In the throes of its New Deal
and great unemployment problems the
U.S.A. in 1934 had raised the price of
gold from $20.67 to $35 an ounce.
Economically and politically France was
in a distraught state when war broke
out in 1939.
It has been mentioned here lately that
a London opinion offered early in 1942
was that after the war international trade
should be carried out along lines implied
by the Lend-Lease Act, with the sugges-
tion that trade should be conditioned by
the fact that nations can pay for goods
and services only by goods and services.
A form of barter was proposed, based on
fixed exchange rates between national
currencies and the maintenance of ex-
change controls. Every nation which ex-
ported more than it imported would be
under penalty of having the uncleared
balance cancelled after a period of years.
Such a proposition places gold in a lesser
role than that to which it was accustomed
in'pre-1939 years.
The New York “Journal of Commerce”
recently expressed this opinion:
The gold standard functioned so well
before 1914 because there was a reasonably
free movement of goods, capital and people
between countries. Foreign trade, foreign
investment and immigration safeguarded
the economic and financial equilibrium of
leading couhtries. As a result, wars were
largely eliminated and most currencies could
be kept at rigid gold parities for well-nigh
a century. Unless there is a prospect of
a return to such a condition, it is doubtful
whether the interests of the goldmining
companies can assure that gold can long
retain its international monetary role, even
as a “cloak” for making more palatable
to other nations the inevitable dominant
role the dollar will play in international
finance.
Against this definitely doubting observa-
tion, the National City Bank of New
York believes that gold will survive. It
says that “Monetary systems cannot be
built up on fancy theories, but upon the
way people think and behave,” adding,
“It is difficult to conceive of a monetary
system based on anything but the pre-
cious metals commanding the confidence
of the people,” In the international
sphere the bank favors gold over trade
barriers, agreements and quotas.
In the North American continent
gold-production has either ceased already
or is to be closed down gradually for the
duration. In Australia production is
being tapered-off. Coupled with the de-
velopment of lend-lease, this emergency
action in respect of gold caused one U.S.
commentator to say: “This is the prosaic
end to something that has been second
only to love in the hunger of the human
race. We don’t need gold now except for
filling teeth.” But about this time U.S.
troops were paying their way in North
Africa with gold dollars —the only cur-
rency that would be accepted readily by
some of the critical inhabitants! In
India, neutral European countries and
Latin America high premiums are still
being paid for gold. U.S, gold dollars
have sold for twice the price of dollar bills
in Lisbon and Geneva. The test of
gold’s currency value is truly not to be
applied in present war circumstances.
There are really only three trading groups
in the world today —the Allies, the Axis
and the neutrals. The opposing belligerents
are so closely united among themselves that
money is no longer a factor in exchange
—it is only a measure, and then for
record purposes. Trade with the neutrals
scarcely matters. After the war, when
every country, we are told, will have the
right of self-government and determina-
tion of its economic policy, gold may be
given a fairer test of world appreciation.
Universal trade makes more work for
universal money.
Before 1914 Britain had a fixed price
for gold—Bss. per fine ounce. During
the 1914-18 war British money depre-
ciated through inflation, and costs of pro-
duction increased from the same cause.
This meant that British goods exported
had a low price in world money—gold—
but a high cost in terms of British money
—sterling. Without bringing costs down
to pre-war level, Britain in 1925 brought
the price of gold down to that of 1914.
Obviously only one result could be ex-
pected when other countries had put a
new value on their currencies; Britain
couldn’t compete in many classes of
world trade.
Because commonsense was not allied
with the traditional use of gold
in this return to the gold standard
British industry and British people suf-
fered unnecessarily for six years, after
which the old standard was left behind
and a new sterling value, mostly a fluc-
tuating one, was placed on gold. This
tended to bring export selling prices for
British goods more into line with internal
costs, and a fillip was given to overseas
trade. But gold was still the basis of
prices in the world’s markets. It was
merely that a golden sovereign became
worth, eventually, nearly two British
pound notes that made the assault on in-
flated costs possible. And, all the time,
the real source of evil was the 1914-18
inflation. That is what started the trouble.
Now that another wards with us, with
further great inflation —a vicious and
largely unnecessary inflation in Australia,
created by gross political mismanagement
of national economics—it is interesting to
note the observation of London “Econo-
mist”; “A concept such as a fixed gold
parity will never be set up as the sole
criterion of economic policy.” That
seems a sensible deduction. Gold is a
useful sheet-anchor for exchange and
credit purposes, and its influence brings
retribution against political mismanage-
ment of currency and credit, but the price
of the metal will have to be tempered by
economic circumstances in the future,
just the same as the internal credit poli-
cies of countries will have to be regu-
lated by unemployment and production
and market factors. But in putting gold
away in the safe, out of sight for the
time being, a greater responsibility than
ever will be placed on the shoulders of
politicians and economists. Australia’s
Labor Government, with its inflationary
war finance policy for which there can be
no reasonable excuse, shows just how un-
trustworthy political management of
finance can be. There is so much money
in Australia today that is backed not by
gold, not by useful production,, but by
book-entry credit that production costs
threaten to strangle our post-war markets
unless we again “write down” the value
of our £ for exchange purposes and the
value of savings and life-assurance poli-
cies with it.
London and New York have lately
been doing more than discuss gold ; they
have been making plans for it after the
war. Lord Keynes is reputed to have put
forward a scheme for an international
currency, based on gold, and called
“bancor.” The U.S. Treasury also has a
plan. A thing to be remembered, how-
ever, is that conditions which produced a
one-way flow of gold are also likely to
produce similar one-way traffic in other
international currency. The problem of
gold assuredly is not one of the metal
alone.
It appears that where there is gold
after the war it will have its traditional
value ; where there is little or none it will
still exercise its influence underneath all
other trading arrangements, but there will
be a great use of substitute exchange and
credit controls based on trade, political
and human factors. Economics have
become such an intimate matter in human
living in an age of specialised occupations
that unemployment, production, raw
materials and living costs and standards
are indicated as the individual exchange
and credit factors for the future, with
gold, like an economic policeman, a more
remote but more universal influence.
Prices Commissioner Copland is urging
the continuance of price-control after the
war. He foresees a great housing short-
age, with an enormous demand for build-
ing materials, the prices of which may
inflate unless price-control operates.
* * * *
The way things are going along the
waterfront it looks as though, in the post-
war period, the crew will be given the ae
luxe cabins and the fare-paying pas-
sengers put into the fo’c’sle.


mwSnxm
ua
S
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
AT LAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Gcddes, Public Trustee.
BRAN DAL iR'S
YU
%
do not experiment with imitations.
a BK.UfOI.DBK * 00. 111. KIRMXHQHIM. EMO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
' W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
9 9 9
YOU COULD MODERNISE
YOUR LIVING ROOM
•=f.
When peace comes again there’ll be opportunities for
many improvements which you have wanted to effect in
your home . . . improvements which can be made so
effectively, so easily, and so economically with Masonite.
Masonite boards are steel-hard and silk-smooth, will
take any finish, and can be applied like ordinary timber.
Think now how you can use Masonite—when it is again
available for your use.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SAVE FOR IT?..
AND BUILD IT WITH
*
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD.. .TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY • . . MELBOURNE . . • BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
♦INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
MA 18-43
It appears to be part of war-time
Government policy in almost any
country to liquefy the public intelli-
gence so as to make it flow in any de-
sired direction. Other unofficial agencies
make use of this fluid state of mind to
further their ideas. Take this “new
order” stuff. The term comes from Ger-
many—Hitler’s “new order” in Europe
was the first thing of the kind anyone
had heard about, barring possibly the
New Deal in the United States during
a different kind of world crisis. After
war broke out someone in Britain got
the idea that talk about a new order was
a good idea in the absence of any more
sharply defined war aims, and it was
freely talked about during the dark and
depressing days of 1940. After that it be-
came an attractive catch-cry for the
“gimme” type of trade-union boss and
the Commo. The spoiled children of
the war —those Australians who have
cashed in on the war-time shortage of
man-power and the disposition of the
Government of the day to buy their
votes with pay and privileges out of
keeping with the sacrifices of others —
having tasted a new order in working
conditions already, are in many cases be-
coming aggressively insistent on a new
order to their own liking now and for
ever after. The A.C.T.U. congress meet-
ings are illustrative of this ; demands are
selfish and apparently endless. There is
nothing more sure than that we shall
have a new order after the war; but
what sort of order no one can fore-
tell. The world will have a scarred
face for years afterwards, and in-
vention will outmode many existing
ways of transport and living. But the
prime purpose of this war was not to
institute any new order; it was to elimi-
nate Axis aggression from the world. Any
new kind of “social order” is a separate
proposition, based on factors entirely
different from those of dealing with
outside enemies. For Australia the prob-
lem will be mainly one of overcoming
the shortsighted selfishness of sectional-
ism.
*** • *
Prices Commissioner Copland is con-
sidering the case for a higher price for
butter. During the five months to the
end of November the Commonwealth
output of butter was the highest in the
same period for some years, but con-
sumption in Australia has also increased,
and the export trade to Britain is still
important, especially as no Continental
butter now comes into the Old Country.
The contract for best-quality Australian
butter for the 1942-43 season was in-
creased from 60,000 tons to 70,000 tons,
and other grades are taken in addition.
There has been only one rise in the Aus-
tralian price of butter since war started
—id., in March, 1942, though a subsidy,
said to be equivalent to about lid., was
granted recently after a committee had
recommended an increase of 3|d. a
pound. The average wholesale price at
present is about Is. s|d. Total increase
in the return to producers is therefore in
the vicinity of 10-12-1- p.c., as against
nearly double that in the lift of living
costs and the basic wage.
* * * *
The tremendous sagacity of Mr. Ded-
man and his remarkable methods of
“saving” are indicated by the chairman
of London Stores, Melbourne. Although
rationing produced a general fall of about
32 p.c. in turnover, the compulsory “Vic-
tory” suit resulted in a drop of 50 p.c.
in the tailoring department. Now that
the “Victory” suit has been vanquished
by Mr. Dedman himself the co. is stuck
with a stock of these in the ready-made
section. Winter supplies of ready-made
overcoats have just come in, made on
“austerity” lines; almost simultaneously
Mr. Dedman’s department has relaxed the
regulations to allow double-breasted
fronts and other niceties of dress. All
that the W. 0.1, genius has been heard
to say about the waste and potential
waste is that nothing can be done about it.
* * * *
The United States House of Represen-
tatives has rejected the pay-as-you-earn
income-tax plan, which the Treasury
opposed. The Ways and Means Com-
mittee has been asked to draft substitute
legislation. In the U.S.A., apparently, it
is held that, legally, there is a lag year.
In the Commonwealth there are good
reasons for the belief that no lag year
exists, and that the Commonwealth’s
method of levying tax only needs testing
in the courts to be proved illegal. Mr.
Chifley has refused to discuss in the
House the Solicitor-General’s advice to
the Government in this respect, and the
whole matter leaves a nasty taste in the
mouths of people who, even if they don’t
mind steep taxation for an essential job,
at least like to feel that the basis of the
taxation is fair and workable. When
incomes fall* after the war the lag year
may prove a saboteur of tax collections.
v * * *
The thousandth Australian-built Gipsy
aero engine has been handed over to
Senator Cameron, Minister for Aircraft
Production, at the General Motors-
Holden’s plant.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley, who is Minister for Post-
war Reconstruction as well as Treasurer,
has stated that he is about to appoint a
Housing Commission, which, in col-
laboration with State authorities, “will
plan measures to overtake the grave hous-
ing shortage,” It is an appropriate time
to draw the attention of Mr. Chifley
and any of his Housing Commissions to
the Dampney method of constructing
attractive, cheap and durable homes of
concrete slabs. The method is not the
same as that adopted in Victoria of build-
ing walls of concrete in one piece; the
Dampney process is to cure properly slabs
of concrete a couple of inches thick, to
have an inside and outside wall, and to
cement the joints into a solid, one-piece
house. There are a number of Dampney
houses in existence, some as old as 20
years and still entirely satisfactory. The
cheapness of the method, of course,
applies to the walls alone, but the sav-
ing in this matter only is considerable
in the case of a moderate-sized cottage.
Dampney doesn’t want to commercialise
his process ; his idea is to pass on the
whole benefit of the thing to home-
makers, farmers, etc. And it is not easy
to do so in a practical, watertight way.
Co-operating, the Government and
mutual life-assurance , societies, plus
assistance from architectural experts fiom
the universities, might be able to push
the matter along. Housing is a major
social and economic problem, and it has
been suggested, not without reason, that
cheap post-war housing may help to
absorb some of the effects of present
mflation.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd., has
been appointed managing agent for the
Commonwealth’s line of Australian-made
standard ships,
New ration books will be issued to the
public on Saturday, June 5, and Sunday,
June 6. The old ration book, in addition
to identity card, must be presented when
application is made for the new book,
* * * *
Moulded Products (Australasia), Ltd.,
a Victorian concern, is keeping in close
with the American plastics indus-
xhe co. is conducting its own re-
search activities as well. There isn’t much
SCO p e f or new lines until after the war,
j-, u t future possibilities are greater than
previously anticipated, chairman E, V.
jqj xon sa y S .
*’* * *
Beer production in 1942 was 102.8
m jnj on gallons, and Australian consump-
tion 95.2 million gallons. Production for
was jq6.5 million gallons and con-
sumption 96.6 million gallons. The figures
indicate that beer-rationing in the case
0 f civilians has been largely offset by in-
creased canteen consumption, and that
the principal falling-off has been in ex-
ports and shipping supplies.


THE SERVICE MAN
Warships Sunk at Kavieng
“Ek Dum”: The s.-w. Pacific battle
continues in an intermediate stage, both
sides being engaged in building up forces
and supplies. The attempt to retard this
process remains one-sided: the Japanese
leave air-raiding to the Allied forces.
They are concentrating on strengthening
north New Guinea bases. Their counter
to Allied raiding is the replacement of
whatever the bombers, the Beaus and the
Lightnings destroy.
The same sort of process goes on in
the Solomons, though more enemy air
activity is noticeable there.
Bombing of enemy bases on the New
Guinea “bus route” proceeds with great
spirit, doing daily damage to shipping
and/or land facilities. But the chief
operations centre in the enemy’s evident
anxiety to relieve the position of his
troops on the New Guinea mainland.
Early last week a Japanese flotilla of
four fast destroyers was seen south-west
of Kavieng. Bad weather prevented the
ships being followed immediately, but
they were picked up again shortly after
midnight on the morning of March 30,
near Finschhafen. Fortresses attacked
and, with the help of flares, a 5001 b.
bomb was dropped directly on the stern
of one big destroyer, which was prob-
ably sunk. The rest turned tail and fled
northward.
The Fortresses, supported by medium
and attack units, turned their attention
to Finschhafen, pounding the waterfront
with great effect and machine-gunning
barges and boats in the anchorage. The
raiders encountered no interception, but
in the Bismarck Sea, while shadowing
enemy ships off New Britain, a heavy
reconnaissance unit was attacked three
times by formations of up to nine enemy
fighters. The “heavy” shot four of them
out of combat and completed its mission
before returning safe to its base.
The pendant to the action against the
destroyers off Finschhafen was a visit
by Flying Fortresses to their lair at Silver
Sound, near Kavieng, New Ireland, at
dawn on April 3.
1 At dusk on Thursday a raid had dis-
persed ships off Stetten Strait, between
the islands of Selapui and Baudissin —
the main outlet to the west and south
from Kavieng. There were large explo-
sions from a 10,000-ton ship, and a 6000-
tonner was seen settling down by the bow
after she had been straddled.
That day, the warships and other ves-
sels, totalling at least 40,000 tons, were
discovered in Silver Sound. When the
raiding Fortresses reached them 13 ves-
sels were seen, including two cruisers, one
heavy and one light, lying 100 yards apart
with four destroyers. The destroyers at
once began to zigzag in the dusk of the
morning—the moon was just rising—but
the Fortresses, using the technique which
they have adopted from the R.A.F. and
which was so successful on the Bismarck
Sea, came down to mast-height and made
sure of their marks.
The heavy cruiser, hit four times, burst
into flame along her whole length and
sank with a loud explosion. The light
cruiser, also hit four times, sank, and one
of the destroyers, hit by two bombs,
straddled by two more and racked by
explosions, was left “mortally damaged
and sinking.”
Results on two other ships, “probably
destroyers” and apparently hit, could not
be observed because of the darkness, and
a direct hit and two near misses on two
destroyers moored together did “at least
severe damage.”
Kavieng aerodrome and other facili-
ties were simultaneously subjected to
heavy bombing, preventing interception.
All the raiding ’planes returned, some
with holes in them. The battle was con-
tinued next day and the day after till the
whole naval concentration at Kavieng
was dispersed or destroyed. On April 3
a 6000-ton ship was damaged by direct
hits, and on Sunday three other ships
were hit and apparently damaged. The
Lae area suffered one of its heaviest
attacks on April 4.
The enemy’s only operation of import-
ance was a six-bomber night raid on Oro
Bay base in Papua, which caused neither
casualties nor damage.
Operations in the north-west area
covered the usual ground, but were lighter
than the previous week, partly because
of bad weather.
A force of between 30 and 40 “O”
fighters fought it out with Corsairs and
Lightnings north of Guadalcanal (Solo-
mans) on April 1. It was reported that
16 enemy machines were destroyed for
a loss of six American craft. Two U.S.
pilots were rescued.
The Ninth Marches.
In the course of a memorable week offi-
cers and men of Mprshead’s Ninth Divi-
sion marched through the familiar streets
of Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne
and Sydney. In every case great crowds
turned out to cheer them and the nurses
and V.A.Ds.
Among the watchers in Sydney there
must have been many who wondeied
how many of the fine lads of the sister
Sixth Division, who shook the streamers
from their bayonets only a few short
months ago, lay among Australia’s 3000
glorious dead in Papua.
Everywhere the bearing of the marchers
befitted units of a division which has
earned over 440 decorations for gallantry
in battle, including four V.Cs. The grim-
ness of the close-packed ranks was in
keeping with the fighting qualities of a
force which pushed on to success after
losing 2000 comrades killed and wounded
in their last great battle before El Ala-
mein.
The N.S.W. part of the Ninth went
through Sydney on a grey day, car-
loads of wounded at the head, the infan-
try units, with bayonets fixed, led by the
battalion which was first into Tobruk and
last of the A.I.F. to leave. With them
were ancillaries and men of the railways
unit which had built the line through
Lebanon.
The columns had in them some of the
men who had been among the first to
leave their country in the present war
and who now returned after three years
away.
Afterwards it was a sight to see them
come back to their starting point, cool,
unflushed by 45 minutes’ hard marching.
To watch them dissolve into waiting
vehicles, almost silently, was a lesson in
the speed with which comparatively large
units can be moved in .modern mechan-
ised warfare.
Their departure in 86 large buses and
ten special trains marked a final stage
in the array of the Australian Order of
Battle.
Said General Blarney: “The Second
A.I.F. is assembled for the first time as
a completely homogeneous fighting force.
It is destined to fill in the South-west
Pacific area a role as important and
hazardous as any undertaken by its vari-
our formations in other parts of the
world.”
Three Thousand Dead.
Thus General Blarney, welcoming the
Ninth Division, A.1.F.:
I think you can fairly say that the 6th,
7th and 9th Divisions have proved them-
selves the best soldiers in the world. Those
who have met the Japanese know how
superior they are to the Japanese, and so
do the Japanese.
The total Australian casualties, killed,
in New Guinea were only about 3000.
The Australians buried 9000 Japanese apart
from the numbers they buried themselves
or cremated and sent back home, and,
apart from those accounted for by the
Americans. If that does not show superior-
ity, what does? These fellows know just
as much about it as the Japanese, and prob-
ably more.
There were heavy sickness casualties in
New Guinea, but the medical officers have
now taken a firm grasp of the position.
Graphs of malaria incidence have fallen in
a most comforting degree. lam very
happy about the position.
Total Australian dead on all fronts up
to Dec. 31 had been given by Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Forde at 6826. Of these, 133
officers and 2069 men had fallen in
Middle Eastern campaigns prior to
March, 1942, and El Alamein accounted
for another 700.
Sickness losses in the tropics cause
much greater attrition in the forces than
wounds. Wounds, these days, are quickly
cleaned up unless they cause maiming.
The U.S. Navy Bureau reports that only
seven deaths occurred among 4000
wounded on land and sea and in the air
in the Pacific. But the victim of malaria
suffers its yellow clutch sometimes for
years.
Rommel and Arnim at Bay.
“Ek Dum”: The advance in Tunisia
has not moved so quickly as optimists
expected. The enemy has some advan-
tages which are of inestimable help to
him. He is sitting on the resources of
Tunisia and on the country most suitable
in nature and in facilities—roads, rail-
ways, prepared aerodromes—for mobility
and concentration. Optimists, also, never
allow for the unforeseen effects of
weather, for the limits which nature sets
on human endurance. They invariably
go to war armed with a magic carpet,
and expect armies to do likewise and to
achieve miracles of transport through
mud and sand, which in cold fact can be
achieved only by unimaginable labor.
Some amateur strategists compared
General Montgomery’s attack on the
.u I d L Zlg , Zlgau - at the be B innm S of
e Maieth offensive to a boxer s feint
and wrote of its failure; but it was
no teint and no failure. It was as much
2 b’ackward^ 1 “* ROmmel
-pl/ , ' , A .t * •
th T f t *S eS h S p ° £ £ e F areth t L l ne -. m
been , h outflanked, not having
wordd hi bah- ? • n? n n en ; my n
! ,h ns . ? n k cf We
noim/1 V r S de i w ? s
pointed out in B. 27 /1 / ’43. Early in
SS3 ST™* Ajf under confidently
mander e,aS V bT f ?, ble “ v'
eS lm:s ,K ,n omme L S
S'otahk oourse of acflon- hat he would
and* fiabI h .L/ 1 ‘ ire l'“d.' ne r be outflanked
some I? t, Hfn“S dT -
, h.eyond the Mareth Line.
Will ?
° r W| ll furlhei realise the G.O.C. s
prediction that he will perhaps stage
other operations in the hills to the north-
Line. He played the game which he
and SSin ftfd&o?
mnl th 1 , P
As at L T mstrume " B - , f
As at Alamein, he chose one extremity
of‘ta |mo at which to hammer with all
to / pos . slble ’
S mS X>“d S 7s
eneT? 1 behind °t V he d ZlfJr n f° Ut t the
dy gr ° g - gy d ° r br ° ken fr ° m
Mtgirrif lis seco h nd d task f
15 l h h e t av ° y
sict *— ks abd . b § btin §
ft Di y is t x ™’ ™ bich r / ced
h onn P ° • fO /° e
g 0 aga'nst the few
1 needed to attack the Zig Zau part
, c , ll ? e ; * had t 0 ma^e a wide de-
. ’ b^ 1 lb * fighhng commander, Maori-
, nd y Brcyberg, V.C., was quite accus-
tomed to that kind of manoeuvre and had
practised it successfully several times on
the Tripoli road with success. _ He had
to travel secretly, moving by night. To
clean up parts of his flanks which were
not quickly accessible or accessible at all
to mechanised vehicles, he= had attached
to him General le Clerc s desert force of
French, including camel-corps troops,
who had been hardened by the long trek
irom Lake Chad.
It was a feat which, considering the
size and nature of the force used, and
me rough, mountainous country through
which communications and supplies had
to be maintained without noise or the
use of radio, was without precedent in
military history.
Freybergs men arrived on Rommel’s
flank at the right moment just as Mont-
gomery was successfully shifting his
grip down the Mareth Line so as to
form the lower half of a closing pincer,
with all the enemy forces in the southern
part of the positions lapped in a
British fold. Montgomery immediately
flung some of his strength to the
flankers support. Freyberg, having ham-
mered his way into El Hamma and be-
yond, was only 16 miles from the coast,
He could either turn south and complete
Montgomery’s sandwich, or go on to the
coast and, if Rommel did not move
smartly northward, cut him off alto-
gether.
t-u ir c ci i
Ine U.o. r lank
Had the Americans succeeded in con-
tinuing from Gafsa far enough to junc-
tion with Freyberg when he reached El
Hamma, Rommel would have been in a
disastrous position. But while he did
not expect Freyberg, he had given ample
attention to General Patton’s Fifth
American Army, from which he had ex-
pected attack. And the Americans found
themselves up against deep-dug concrete
emplacements. Rommel was able to de-
lay the junction and to prevent the
Americans north-east of Maknassi, and
still further north at Fondouk, from leav-
ing their hills and coming down on his
flank or rear in the plain.
This is the most vital thing of all to
him. He can afford to be concertina’d
from the south by an advancing Eighth
Army, and, having prepared lines, can
fall back from point to point, unbroken,
Indeed, the further Rommel moves
north the stronger his position, the greater
the compression he can achieve at dan-
ger-points and the more quickly he can
reinforce sectors in which his defence is
wearing thin from other sectors; also,
the nearer he comes to the point where
the whole of the main Allied forces may
be subjected to short-distance bombing
and fighter attack from Sicily, as well
as Tunisia.
Any break-through on his flanks to the
coast would be ruinous to him. One
of his greatest hopes lies in the short-
ness of his sea communication lines and
in the chance that he may keep delay-
ing his assailants from week to week
while he regularly fills the gaps in his
essential man-power and supplies, until
he finds himself merged with General
Arnim’s forces in the north.
To do this his box must remain a box,
with all sides holding, but particularly
that formed by the Americans and French
on his west and south-west. At the be-
ginning of this week he had succeeded
in holding this side ; indeed at Fondouk
he had pushed the Americans back four
miles or so.
Because the junction was not achieved
early enough in the El Guettar area —
though the Americans moved forward
slowly in the rough hill country, which
was strongly held —the Eighth Army was
denied the use of the direct through road
at the moment when the road and an
accretion of Allied troops would have
been of most service.
Rommel Withdraws
However, what had been achieved and
the shadow of coming events led Rom-
mel to draw back northwards with speed.
There is no really strong holding line
which he could make part of a con-
tinuous perimeter till Susa ; no line which
shows any permanent possibilities until
Zaghouan comes in sight in the high
ranges around Pont du Fahs, still an-
other 40 miles on; but so long as his
western wall could keep the Allies off
the plains, there were intermediate El
Agheilas where he might pause to
organise further retreat and bring up
reinforcements.
By March 30, nine days after the attack
had started, Mr. Churchill was able to
announce to the House of Commons that
the New Zealand spearhead had already
passed through Gabes—in which the
enemy had destroyed everything possible
—and that it was in contact with the
enemy, who was trailing clouds of Italians
behind him as at Alamein. The P.M.
added a warning against underrating the
task lying ahead of the whole group of
Allied armies and air forces in Tunisia.
On the same day the Algiers commu-
nique, confirming the occupation of El
Hamma and Gabes, reported that 8000
prisoners had been taken since March 20 ;
that advances were being made by the
Americans in the Gafsa section along the
Gabes road, and that the First Army, in
the Djebel Abiod area, had also advanced
in difficult mountain country against
strong enemy opposition, and had taken
more than 700 prisoners in a few days.
The Eighth Army, pushing up from
the south, was having its usual misfor-
tune with the weather. The rain had been
succeeded by sandstorms, which ham-
pered progress, and especially the air
campaign, which was carried on against
enemy communications, marching troops
and sea traffic with a concentrated fury.
Difficulties did not stop the advance.
Next day the whole line was fiercely
alight. The Maorilanders and the Scot-
tish division, supported by the R.N., were
hanging fiercely on to Rommel’s tail on
the coast and had taken Oudref, ten miles
above Gabes. The First Army had struck
between Djebel Abiod and the coast, and
had snatched back Sedjenane from Von
Arnim in fierce hand-to-hand fighting in
which a famous county regiment forced
a climax after eight bayonet charges.
There were reports that the Axis com-
mand was concentrating boats for evacua-
tion in Sardinian and Sicilian harbors.
These reports seemed premature.
Rommel’s army had not suffered ham-
stringing casualties. His armor was
almost intact. The raids which Allied
heavy craft made on Cagliari, the chief
port of Sardinia, which is at the southern
end of the island, and Sicilian harbors
and towns were more likely directed
mainly against reinforcement arrange-
ments.
The U.S. Air Force reported that m a
big raid on Cagliari by Fortresses,
escorted by Lightnings, five merchant-
men and 20 small ships received direct
hits, the railway, docks and industrial
areas were plastered and oil depots set
blazing. The bombers, the report went
on, destroyed 14 fighters in the air and
damaged 40 to 50 out of 115 counted on
the ground. t
British bombing was concentrated on
the fighting areas, which were turned
into an inferno, and on rear communi-
cations and aerodromes of the AfnKa-
korps. One set of raiders early on Marcn
30 dropped 100 tons on the El Maou
aerodrome, near Sfax, and started 50
in the vicinity. On April 1 31 en Y


CD
am
’places were destroyed on the various
Tunisian fronts for a loss of 12.
Rommel at Bay-
The Eighth Army was soon in strength
beyond Gabes. Rommel had dived into
a wadi in the marshy region mentioned
by General Alexander, 15 miles from
that port, for respite, meanwhile wrest-
ling with Maorilanders and Scots on
his front, and on his right the persistent
Americans, who were trying to roll up
his flank.
The first phase of the Eighth Army
operations in the south was completed
by a junction with General Patton’s Army
in the El Guettar sector, apparently along
the Kebili-Tozeur road.
At this point General Montgomery
himself paused to reorganise, leaving the
burden of the offensive fighting to his
Allies on the west and to the First Army,
which had pushed along the coast 20
miles from Sedjenane and taken Cape
Serrat, within 20 miles of Mateur, which
is another 20 miles from Bizerta. Its
object will be to wade into Arnim while
he is isolated from Rommel and leave
the torn ribbons of a northern Axis army
for the Afrikakorps to join.
The Eighth Army when it halted had
been fighting solidly for 12 days. Frey-
berg’s flanking forces had travelled 250
miles. The divisions which came direct
along the coastal road had penetrated 35
miles beyond Mareth village.
There was need to organise forward
aerodromes and to do as much as possible
toward rendering the port of Gabes
workable, since it would be a grand asset,
the Eighth Army’s main port having been
Tripoli, 250 miles away.
There was no hint of check or defeat
in the pause. It merely meant that a
specific stage in operations had been
reached successfully, and that rest, con-
solidation and renewals had become pru-
dent. The initiative was still in British
hands.
The Maorilanders* Part
None of the newly-resting forces had
better earned their holiday from advanc-
ing than Freyberg’s Maorilanders, Scots
and British forces.
When Rommel had made his powerful
thrusts against Montgomery’s Medenine
line on March 6, a fortnight before the
main battle began, Freyberg had led his
New Zealanders 200 miles from their
resting-place near Tripoli in 24 hours to
share in the fray.
On March 13 they disappeared with
the rest of the corps into the desert to
the south of the line as if they had been
swallowed. Another week later they
were vomited out of a duststorm, and
seemed to be blown by an irresistible
gale through a gap into the enemy’s lines.
Before morning the landscape was
studded with Italian dead and with
broken guns and vehicles, and 3000 of
Musso’s grateful subjects were on their
way to join British prison camps, while
the Freyberg forces waded into a rein-
forced Italian Army which had been
strengthened with an infusion of 11 Ger-
man battalions. That night 1300 Ger-
mans were to join the prisoners’ union.
The El Hamma fighting came to a
climax on March 26 in battle as fierce
as El Alamein. Morning saw Freyberg’s
infantry mopping up fleeing remnants
which had made the mistake of trying the
bayonet on Maoris. The trophies of El
Hamma field were imposing, and in-
cluded a satisfying array of 88mm. guns
and heavy artillery.
Axis Strength
The southern Axis forces are still
organised and, though in retreat, far
from being in flight or defeated. Rom-
mel still has the 10th, 15th and 21st
Panzer Divisions, somewhat mauled but
nearly intact, and on March 31 he was re-
ported to be getting reinforcements car-
ried in new six-engined Messerschmitts,
which were described as capable of carry-
ing 70 troops, and in high-speed barges,
difficult to spot at night, able to make
the voyage from Sicily to Bizerta in
seven hours and capable of carrying 250
troops or 300 tons of cargo.
The crucial fight cannot come until the
Allies have broken into the Tunisian
plain. This is ringed with hills which
reacn almost to the coast west of Bizerta,
and completely to the sea below Zag-
houan, on the east. The whole district
is well served with road and rail. Be-
tween Tunis and Bizerta are two awkward
obstacles in the way of the invader —
large lakes, fed by five rivers, whose
courses provide defenders with remark-
ably strong positions, as does their water-
shed. The approaches to Tunis from the
south and west are difficult through wet
ground or wide valleys dominated from
hill positions. And the right flank of
Bizerta (as seen from the south) is cov-
ered by miles of marsh and swamp, reach-
ing almost to Tunis itself.
No positions in Russia fought for by
armies operating on a large scale, save
perhaps those of the Crimea, have in
this war presented such difficulties to
attackers as the Tunisian positions. The
troops which capture them will have be-
come veterans.
But the Eighth Army, whose fight the
battle for Tunisia still is, has passed the
worst of the terrain which it will have
to traverse, until it approaches the Tuni-
sian defence perimeter.
"A Devilish Affair."
“Ek Dum”: An aghast Berlin Radio
reporter described the RA.F.’s raid over
Hitler’s capital on Saturday, March 27,
as “a devilish affair,” but words seemed
to fail when it came to a second raid on
the following Monday night and Tuesday
morning.
Berlin is an easy place to navigate into
and out of. There is abundant and
characteristic water round its western
environs, and canals, like the Spandau
ship canal, lead right into the city. To
these R.A.F. facilities Hitler has added
long, straight direct roads from the
western industrial districts all the way
into the Tiergarten, the Hyde Park of
Berlin. Only a mile or so from where
one of the biggest of these highways
begins to cross the park near the great
Lehrter station, he has put up an impos-
ing array of new Government buildings
—the new Chancellery, War Office and
Air Ministry—fringing the park cn the
south in the Wilhelmstrasse region.
To defend these palaces, the railway
stations and the great street of the Linden
against low-flying marauders, high ack-
ack towers have been put up in the Tier-
garten. They have not proved very effec-
tive.
Berlin’s heart is about seven miles wide
north and south, and considerably more
east and west. It is clearly defined for
the aerial visitor by the course of the
Ringbahn, the metropolitan railway,
whose stations and junctions can be
picked out without much difficulty, and
by the Spree, which wanders diagonally
across the central area in the manner
which its name suggests. Also the
long north-south system of streets
converging in the south at the Belle Alli-
ance Platz and the Blucher Platz natu-
rally lead the tourist to the Tempelhofer
Feld, a parade ground on which a divi-
sion of yore could be drilled, but which
now forms Berlin’s city aerodrome —it is
only three miles from the centre of the
city. .
Berlin was built for raiding in another
sense. It has a nice, even skyline, and
anybody who cares to come down to
rooftop level can stay there —if the flak
will let him —safe from diving FWl9o’s
and Melo9’s and other pests during the
whole of his traverse, and without any
danger of hitting a skyscraper.
The R.A.F.’s two expeditions seem to
have taken full advantage of this charac-
teristic. Traces of the work done, men-
tioned piecemeal, suggested that they cut
a swathe more than a mile wide across
Berlin, starting in the north-western in-
dustrial region, near Spandau and the
great West Power Station, right down
the Spandau Canal, past the giant Sie-
mens works and the thickly-populated
workers’ suburb of Wedding to the
Linden, the Wilhelmstrasse and the
Potsdamer, Anhalter and Gorlitzer sta-
tions, which lie close together. The
storm then seems to have blown out on
the other side at the Tempelhof, which
was reported afterwards to be out of
order.
The Linden, core of Berlin much as
Martin-place is of Sydney, only more so,
was roped off afterwards from the Adlon
Hotel to the Zeughaus (arsenal), where
the Fiihrer held his Heroes’ Day cele-
bration a few days before.
The cutting off of the telephone to
Stockholm and the cancellation of air
services to that neutral city may have
been due to “bad weather” as reported,
or it may have been the result of a desire to
prevent the outside world from hearing
of the disaster which had befallen Berlin.
But, again, it may have been the result of
direct bombing and dislocation of ser-
vices. The arriving Swedish airmail ’plane
was unable to land on the Tempelhof the
day after the second raid, and returned to
Stockholm.
One report said that 2000 Berliners
had been killed. Four days after
the second attack the rescue brigades
were still trying to clear the wreckage,
and light and water and local rail com-
munication seemed badly out of order.
Said a Toowoomba (Q.) flight-sergeant:
“Fires were burning everywhere when we
left. Berlin must be a hell of a mess.”
The second raid, though fewer bombers
were used than in the first, when nine
machines were lost, cost a far heavier toll
—2l big bombers and many valuable
lives.
Defences generally might have been
strengthened. Or, perhaps, a better de-
fended area was attacked.
In any case, bomber losses must now
be assessed on a new basis. Losses of
machines which would have been com-
pletely unpayable in the days when a 500-
pound bomb was heavy and a 1000-
pounder the heaviest are now payable
when 4000- and 8000-pounders are used
in profusion.
There are now also plenty of reserve
pilots and machines, which there were
not a year ago.
Essen Pounded
On April 3 Essen was treated to a new
raid on the scale of the record one of
March 12, when martial law was de-
clared and several hundred acres of in-
dustrial area were gutted. In the April
raid 21 bombers were lost against the
23 which failed to return on March 12,
but 900 tons of bombs were dropped on
800 acres of the town and German reac-
tions were akin to panic.
During the week-end U.S. Fortresses
made a heavy raid on the Renault motor
works, near Paris, and the U-boat bases
at Lorient and St. Nazaire were pasted
by the R.A.F.
During March R.A.F. Bomber Com-
mand operated every day over enemy
territory and on 21 nights. Apart from
U.S. efforts against the enemy-held Chan-
nel ports, the R.A.F. dropped 1500 tons
of bombs on St. Nazaire alone in two
raids, and the total bomb-load delivered
for the month on eight German cities —
Berlin, Essen, Hamburg, Stuttgart,
Cologne, Nuremberg, Munich and Duis-
berg was 8000 tons, or nearly a
third more than the whole quantity un-
loaded over Britain by the Luftwaffe
from August 8, 1940, to May 10, 1941.
The German counter over Britain was
feeble. The whole of German night-
bombing aircraft reported over Britain
in March equalled only half the number
sent by the R.A.F. in a single raid over
Germany. In the largest German raid,
on March 3, only 67-70 bombers came
over.
During the month 36 enemy ’planes
were destroyed over northern Europe and
60 over Britain. The Middle Eastern
Command destroyed 27 Axis ’planes
(nine fell to pilots from Malta) and lost
two, and Allied air forces in French
Africa brought down 284 and lost 110.
In India and Burma, relative losses were
26 enemy machines against 18 Allied air-
craft.
Interval in the U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: The winter campaign in
Russia is over, with little movement left
in either army save for the face-slap; ng
which normally goes on between two
forces which are prevented from indulg-
ing in large-scale warfare.
After a little fierce scrapping in the
Leningrad area, much of which has been
cleared of snow by a record early spring,
fighting bogged down halfway through
the week, though the mutter of heavy
guns and bomb-bursts were heard in
Leningrad’s industrial suburbs, and the
Russians made a tank sally- across the
Neva.
In the Kuban area the Russians have
made some advances to within 35 miles of
Anastasevsk, 55 miles n.-w. of Krasnodar.
No lists of German dead, prisoners and
booty accompanied Moscow’s announce-
ment of the news. It looks as if the Ger-
mans were merely withdrawing from
flooded or floodable ground.
On the central front the Smolensk outer
defences were not pierced, or in some
sectors even approached, before the
breaking of the ice on the rivers and
marshes turned much of the region
recently reoccupied by the Red Army
into slough and swamp.
The air forces on all fronts were more
active than the armies on the ground.
Three weeks should see the beginning
of the 1943 spring-summer campaign, or
at least the major preparation for it. The
enemy will begin it with a foothold in
the Cis-Caucasus, and with slightly more
Russian territory in his grip than at the
same time last year.
About the probable nature and course
of the new season’s campaign, in view
of the changes in German dispositions
and in the African and air situations, there
can only be guesswork. The known facts
are that German divisions, refitted and
rested, are gathering in the central sector
and on the Donetz, and that great con-
centrations are assembled in the Balkans.
It is a moot point whether, when
Africa falls to Alexander’s armies, the
Axis can safely proceed with the eastern
campaign without trying to assure that
the Dardanelles and Bosphorus and the
Turkish approaches are locked, with the
key in German hands.
Hitler’s personal newspaper, the “Vol-
kischer Beobachter,” has discussed the
Dardanelles several times in recent
months, and its controllers seem worried
by the thought that Article 4 of the
Montreux Convention provides that “in
time of war, Turkey not being a belli-
gerent, merchant vessels under any flag
or with any kind of cargo shall enjoy
freedom of transit and navigation in the
Straits.”
Thus, if the Allies, by grabbing Axis-
and Italian-held islands off the Asia
Minor coast, were to secure air control of
the Aegean, there would be nothing to
prevent them taking ships through Turk-
ish waters and straits and, within the
three-mile limit, along the Turkish shore
to deliver supplies to the Russians at
Batoum or Tuapse. The Germans could
not attack them without infringing Turk-
ish neutrality.
Turkey has been impartial in its appli-
cation of the Montreux Convention.
Much of the supply for Axis forces in
Greece came down the Danube and over
the Rumanian rail, and was passed
through the Bosphorus and Dardanelles
in the early part of the Balkan occupa-
tion. During 1942 70 Axis ships and
barges of a total of 125,000 tons passed
both ways through the Turkish straits.
Doubtless more would have ventured if
the German-dominated nations had been
able to risk the passage from Italian ports.
Their Balkan shipping services were ex-
tremely limited.
There is more talk of an Allied landing
on the Thracian littoral. It would have
far-reaching effects, though it might not
be popular with Russians for political
reasons.
Berlin does not seem to sleep easier
for the news that the Greek Government
has established itself in Cairo after a
sojourn in London.
In brief:
According to Mr. Forde 27 lists of Austra-
lian prisoners held by the Japanese, 597 ofu-
cers and 1463 other ranks, have been received.
It has been learned that 95 Australian soldiei-
prisoners are dead. The announcement was
made during the week in which all the Sydney
wharf-laborers were on strike.
* * * *
Brigadier Howard K. Ramey, G.O.C. sth
Bomber Command, sth U.S.A.F., who suc-
ceeded Brigadier Kenneth Walker, lost off
Rabaul this year, is missing after a North Aus-
tralian raid. He was 47. Three American
generals—the third was Brigadier H. H. George
—have lost their lives in the s.-w. Pacific and
others have been wounded.
* * * *
Reported from Switzerland that two Maori-
land generals have escaped from the Italians.
Brigadier James Hargest, who commanded the
Fifth N.Z. Brigade, and Brigadier Reginald
Miles were in the same prison camp at Florence.
Both were captured in Libya in December,
1941. The Maoriland Government has had
no confirmation of the news.
Jfc * *
H.M. submarine Tigris, completed in 1940
and with five sinkings to her credit, including,
that of a 10,000-ton tanker, is “overdue and
must be considered lost.”
* * * *
Since Dec. 7, 1941, U.S. submarines have
sunk 143 Japanese ships, probably sunk another
24 and damaged 40.
* * * *
Admiral Doenitz told the Germans during the
week that Britain could be defeated only by
sea. The First Lord of the Admiralty said
on March 30 that “the U-boat is the deadliest
menace of all. Our shipping losses have been
serious and very heavy, but the new tonnage
produced by the Allies in the past eight months
has exceeded the losses by a good deal more
than 2,000,000 tons.” This, in view of the
growing needs of the Allies, must be bettered
considerably. Seven ships were reported sunk
by British submarines in the Mediterranean
during the week.
* * * *
Hurricanes beat off a raid by 30 fighter-
escorted bombers on Bengal on April 1. Five
raiders were shot down for the loss of one
Hurricane. Activity in Burma was almost re-
stricted to the air. During March the R.A.F.
made 200 attacks on Burmese objectives, 88 in
Arakan.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
.-PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
mr
v
3fcS
. I
>
vs
i^osiC!
:
ii
IIBHIBIB
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager - - N. L Beavor
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD GEORGE EASTGATE late of
78 Bay Street Rockdale —TAKE NOTICE that
AGNES MURIEL EASTGATE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2495 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upward If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Thirty-first day of May 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from F. W. REILLY Solicitor 2b Castlereagh
Street Sydney. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLIFFORD JOSEPH MORDEN.—TAKE
NOTICE that MERCIA MARY MORDEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2670 on the
grounds of desertion without any cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-third day of June
and obtain a copy of the Potion without
charge from HERALD BRUCE BRIERLE
& ENGLAND Solicitors of 109 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar m
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST LESLIE FOLSOM formerly of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL MAY
FOLSOM has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
807 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years an
upwards If you desire to defend the case >ou
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Omc
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or be-
fore the 15th September 1943 and obtain
copy of the petition without charge from JOHi
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 F t Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar m
Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
As Katanga has won a mile and a half
w.f.a. race at Randwick, and has beaten
Yaralla at nine furlongs, backers will be
justified in the assumption that at an
extra furlong he will again defeat the
chestnut in the Chipping Norton Plate.
It is not exactly a certainty, however, as,
though loss of ground at the start at
Rosehill did not tell greatly against
Yaralla, it may have done so to some
extent, and, favored by the inside posi-
tion, and ridden out, Katanga scored by
a half-neck. If anything was to be learnt
as to how to turn the tables on Katanga,
McMenamin will have that knowledge
next Saturday.
While Yaralla cannot be classed a real
stayer, he comfortably downed Rimveil,
Hall Stand and Baroda in the Craven
Plate last spring, and if he is as good
now he should again run a sound mile
and a quarter. Veiled Threat, benefited
by his race of last week and the longer
distance, is bound to do well, but, next to
Katanga and Yaralla, principal interest
will attach to the form of the three-year-
olds Main Topic and Modulation. The
race should determine whether Main
Topic is likely to return to his spring
form, and also give a fair idea of whether
Modulation is up to the standard of the
older w.f.a. horses.
* * * *
Feature of Melbourne racing has been
the remarkable success of South Austra-
lian horses. Many S.A, owners have
no reason to regret cessation of racing
in their own State. Since the ban was
imposed in February last year, horses
that crossed the border have won nearly
£22,000 in stakes, and in view of their
present good form more wins are prob-
able. In the past many well-accredited
horses made the trip to Melbourne, but
did not always meet with success com-
mensurate with their home records. In
the present influx, however, most of the
winners have not been outstanding per-
formers in Adelaide. Perhaps the
change in climate has been beneficial, for
some of them have certainly shown con-
siderable improvement.
One exception is Royal Decree. Though
he had won about a dozen races in his
home State he was eligible for restricted-
class events when he came to Victoria.
He has won five races here. South Aus-
tralia provided the Newmarket Handi-
cap winner in Denko, and Athol Belle,
winner of the Alister Clark Stakes, is a
punter’s joy. At her last five starts she
has won four times, and on the other
occasion, when she finished second, she
was most unlucky to be beaten. Such
consistency is as pleasing as it is rare.
One of Victoria’s smartest sprinters
who is showing a lot of dash in his
track-work is Industry, an entrant for
minor races at the AJ.C. autumn carni-
val. Industry’s connections are unfortu-
nate that they cannot derive full advan-
tage from such a fine galloper. Because
of his bad behavior at the barrier, he
is not allowed to race in the metro-
politan area. Since the ban was applied
Industry has had four races at provin-
cial meetings for four wins. In his pres-
ent form he would be capable of winning
in any sprint company. At his last race in
Melbourne Industry won by seven lengths
and conceded the runner-up, Denko,
191 b. As Denko later won the New-
market Handicap carrying a stone more
it was a good pointer to Industry’s class.
Strangely enough. Industry’s manners at
the country courses have been beyond
reproach.
Evidence of Harold Badger’s superior-
ity over Victorian riders is the fact that,
although he will not be able to ride dur-
ing the four months remaining to the
end of the current season, he already
holds a lead that gives him a chance of
again heading the winning jockeys’ list.
If he manages to hold his position it
will be the fifth year in succession that
Badger has won the jockeys’ premiership.
His record this year is remarkable in
that it has been built up in a short time.
He has been out of the saddle for three
weeks as the result of a motor accident,
and, in addition, earlier in the season, he
was suspended for a month. If he does
win the title he will have won it on half
a year’s riding.
With 24| winners, Badger is 11 wins
ahead of his nearest opponent, R.
Heather. Next on the list, with a win
less, is H. McCloud, but be is under
suspension. Heather and J. O’Brien (11
wins) are both riding in form and have
chances of overtaking Badger, but they
have only 14 racing days in which to
make up the leeway. Incidentally,
Badger is making progress and has been
transferred from a country hospital to a
private hospital in the city. A severed
tendon in his right wrist threatened to
end his riding career, but that is now
healed. He is likely to be in hospital for
some weeks yet.
With the sweepstakes for starters £B,
and a forfeit of £1 for horses taken out
before 1 p.m. on Thursday, it will require
only nine acceptors to take first money for
the Warwick Farm Autumn Cup to more
than £6OO. That amount permits of a
rehandicap for the Sydney Cup, and may
cause some withdrawals from next Satur-
day’s race. Still, it is improbable handi-
capper Wilson will deal severely with
the winner, and, apart from bets, £6OO
would be useful to have in hand, even
if it did mean a little more weight.
* * * *
There are 25 youngsters in the AJ.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes and 35 in the
Champagne Stakes. On form at least
half of those engaged in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes can be wiped off. On level
terms they will be opposing horses that
would have to concede them consider-
ably over 2st. in handicaps. Their
trainers must have told flattering tales to
easily-influenced owners. It is often said
“anything can happen in racing,” and
the correctness of that idea will be borne
out if the winner of either big race
should be one of the inferior (up to the
present) handicap division. On the whole
however, racing gains by the support
of optimistic owners and trainers,
* * * *
Jacko (6.10) was the last three-year-old
winner of the Doncaster, but since his
success others of the same age in Beau-
livre, Evergreen and Arahura have filled
minor places. Beaulivre made a really
good showing with 8.7, running his four-
year-old stable-companion Mildura (8.8)
to three-quarters of a length. Beaulivre
was a high-class colt, but the fact of his
going so close with 8.7 says a lot for
the prospects of Riverton and Hall Stand
with a pound more in a field that may
not be up to the standard of some past
years. Evergreen carried 7.9 when he
ran third at three years, and Arahura 7.5
when second.
* * * *
On the first day of the AJ.C. autumn
meeting 66 entries for the Vaucluse
Handicap make it fairly certain divi-
sions will be necessary in that race;
and on the second day a choice
will probably have to be made be-
tween the Fernhill and Final Handi-
caps. There are 55 in the former and
61 in the latter. It also looks as if
in a couple of races lower-weighted
horses will have to be rejected after ac-
ceptance in order to keep fields down to
the number permitted to start. In some
cases it will be hard luck for owners
who have their horses ready, and are
favorably handicapped.
* * * *
Nothing has come of the moves to pre-
vail upon the Prime Minister to use the
present raceless Saturdays for the benefit
of patriotic funds. As he is not in sym-
pathy with racing it was scarcely to be
expected there would, and it might be as
well not to make further attempts. They
might be regarded as savoring of irrita-
tion tactics and cause the Prime Minis-
ter to refrain from holding out a helping
hand to racing when he could do so
without violating his principles.
* * * «
Victoria Park is on a good wicket in
connection with its meeting at Randwick
on May 15. If conditions are unfavor-
able and tend to loss the AJ.C. commit-
tee will reduce the customary £5OO day’s
rental. On the other hand, if the weather
is fine Victoria Park is certain of an
attendance that will give a substantial
profit.
* * * *
On his best form Merrimba is one of
the older horses from which the fancied
three-year-olds should have most to fear
in the Doncaster. Possibly he is better
suited by the welter than the ordinary
scale, but with 7,11 he ran Freckles to
a neck in the last Epsom. He is up 41b.,
but to him that will not be a serious
matter. At his recent starts he did not
show up, but a much better line as to his
Doncaster chance should be gained by
the way he shapes at Randwick on Satur-
day. In his track work he has been
mainly restricted to short dashes, and he
has done well all that has been asked of
him. Notwithstanding that he is not a
fast beginner, all his best racing deeds
have been at seven furlongs and a mile.
* * * *
English trainer George Blackwell, well
known to many Australians, left £73,661
when he died last year.
* * * *
As it is probable the same transport
restrictions which prevented Sydney
horses from visiting Melbourne last
spring will be in force this year
it has been suggested in Melbourne
that the usual early closing of entries
for the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
could be dispensed with. Instead of the
first Tuesday in June it is reckoned by
many that the beginning of August
would be soon enough. As that would
mean weights would not be issued until
the end of the latter month the change
would not be appreciated by double
layers.
* * * *
The opinion is general that Moorland
has a mortgage on the AJ.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, and it should be so if
he is really worth the offer of 7000gns.
turned down by his owner. His per-
formances leave nothing to be desired,
but it might be as well to remember that
in two of the last four years ddds-on
chances have failed in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. High Caste, at 9 to 4 on, was
downed by Reading, a 14-to-l chance,
and last year Hall Stand (11 to 2) was
too good for Hesione, 5 to 4 on.
Looking down the list for something
to down Moorland, Mayfowl may be as
good a selection as any. Admittedly he
beat only maidens at Rosehill, but with
9st. he gave none of his opponents a
chance, made good time, and an addi-
tional furlong would not have troubled
him. MacArthur may find backing, but
it was by a very narrow margin he beat
Goya at Randwick, and, if all had gone
well with his stable-companion West
Point, the last-named might have been
preferable. War Eagle, Star Gold, Van
Eyck, Flight and Ajixa are all gallopers,
but it is difficult to go beyond Moorland.
* * * *
In America the Federal Government
has cut out all automobile driving for
pleasure along the eastern seaboard. This
affected 17 States, and in Florida caused
Tropical Park to drop its meeting after
racing a few days, while Hialeah called
off its winter meeting. It is expected that
other States will also come under the
pleasure ban, but New York, Maryland
and Kentucky are hopeful of carrying on,
though special trains to Belmont Park
(New York’s principal course) have been
suspended for the duration of the war.
* * * *
M. Wing is the Gordon Richards of
Ireland. Last year he won 54 races on
the flat, nearest him being D. Moore
with 31. The most successful trainer was
M, C. Collins, with 22 winners of 43
races and £8195. Of the owners J.
McGrath did best. His figures were 18
winners, 33 races and £7972.
* * * *
In Great Britain and Ireland last year
there were fewer thoroughbred foals than
for the previous 50 years. Living colts
and fillies officially recorded totalled
2282, against 3675 in the peak year of
1939.
* * * *
In America last year nine yearlings
each won over $20,000 (approximately
£A6000). Occupation was an easy first
with $192,355 (about £A57,800). It is a
world’s record for any horse of his age.
Occupation is by Bull Dog, a son of
Teddy and Plucky Liege (Spearmint-
Concertina). Playaway, who was im-
ported from England by the late F. Foy
and won him a Caulfield Futurity Stakes
and a Newmarket, was very closely re-
lated to Plucky Liege, being by Carbine
(Spearmint’s sire) from Concertina. A
couple of her progeny raced in Australia
without achieving marked success. In
1913 she was sent to France, but I have
no record of how she fared there. In
addition to Bull Dog, Pluck}' Liege threw
Sir Gallahad 111, who has also been a
great success as a sire in America.
Many pounds heavier than previously,
and unwinding a knockout punch he had
never been suspected of possessing, Bill
Fadden stopped A 1 Walker at Leichhardt.
Before the count-out was applied to
Walker, who had had much the better
of most of the rounds, suspicious gallery-
ites and ringsiders anticipated the cere-
mony often, and an angry customer
roared “no fight” when Walker stag-
gered around the ring in the ninth. Early
in the tenth a right uppercut floored him
for “five,” and then a flurry of fists
knocked him flat on his back.
Stopped in four rounds by Mahomed
Fahmy, the Egyptian, last year, Era
Clingan had his revenge at Sydney
Stadium. Fahmy was outboxed and out-
fought from the first bell, and after the
eighth he told his second, Jack Dunleavy,
that his right thumb had been too badly
jarred for him to continue. Informed
of this, Wallis declared Clingan the
winner. Then Fahmy noisily protested
that he had been misunderstood. He
would have lost anyhow.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Fairfield Handicap: Mayfowl, 1 ;
Sincerity, 2; Bulancer or War-
lock, 3.
Trial Handicap: Lady Hamilton,
1; Dqndalk, 2 ; Submission, 3.
Chipping Norton Plate: Yaralia,
1 ; Katanga, 2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Liverpool Handicap: Flying
Knight, 1 ; Panchio, 2 ; Riverton or
Faerie Queen, 3.
Warwick Farm Cup: Moon-
darewa, 1 ; Baroda, 2 ; Abspear or
Cable Boy, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: Welles-
ley, 1 ; Warbird, 2; Fearless Fox, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The men of the Ninth Division —the
“Fighting Ninth,” with its proud record
of decorations, V.Cs. among them —
marched through the city last week, and
the people lined the barriers ten deep,
crowded windows and balconies, climbed
ladders and scaffolding to cheer them as
they passed. They cheered these men of
a hundred fights in the desert wastes;
these men who could laugh at a term of
contempt, wear it like a proud emblem
and finally place it a bright jewel in Aus-
tralia’s history. These “Rats of Tobruk”!
They are the mettle to strike flame in
the breasts of warriors yet to come.
Flags waved, cheers rent the day, con-
fetti like a snowstorm drifted down under
the leaden sky, a rainbow of streamers
arched the streets. Children, though
there was no school holiday, were every-
where. Here and there, alongside their
soldier mates, marched proud dogs.
Women cheered and, in the act of cheer-
ing, cried. There was the feeling as of
one big family in the air. Loudly
acclaimed were the steady-eyed army
nurses who had served with the Ninth
in the desert.
The most poignant moment was the
passing of the Cenotaph; the most
wildly clamorous on the part of the on-
lookers was the steady, flowing march
past the Town Hall, where Lord Gowrie
took the salute. Here the guard of honor
was formed of “Tobruk Rats.” Here
was Lieut.-General Morshead, proud
commander of the Ninth. Here were the
Governor, Lord Wakehurst, General
Blarney, Premier McKell, Army Minister
Forde, Sydney’s Mayor Bartley, Admiral
Muirhead-Gould,, Major-General Few-
trell and others officially important.
Here, too, were the parents of Corporal
Edmondson, V.C.
Sad happening of last week was the
death of Squadron-Leader Keith
(“Bluey”) Truscott. He was young and he
was brave, witness his D.F.C. and bar,
and of his youth and courage he made
a flying shield first between Britain and
Germany, and then, when we needed
him, between Australia and Japan. When
he was in the R.A.F. he was friend and
fighting comrade of “Paddy” Finucane,
whose wings, too, were folded with tragic
suddenness. Every woman’s heart goes
out in sorrow to “Bluey’s” family in Mel-
bourne, and to Margaret Rees, the girl
in London to whom he was engaged.
Lock’s joke drawing in last week’s
Bulletin concerning the W.R.A.N.S.
might be closer to the shape of things to
come than he thinks. The W.R.A.N.S.
are a very healthy body indeed, and com-
ing on every day. There are between
two and three hundred of them attached
to H.M.A.S. Kuttabul, H.M.A.S. Penguin
and H.M.A.S. Rushcutter. These aren’t
really ships, but naval establishments on
shore. Like Gilbert and Sullivan’s
Admiral Porter, K.C.8., the W.R.A.N.S.
hardly go to sea at all, though smart little
cutters and launches dashing the spray
out of their eyes may sometimes be seen
conveying orderlies and messengers from
the shore ships to real ones lying at
anchor, and once the girls went across
the harbor in a minesweeper.
Third Officer Jean Thompson, who is
in charge of the W.R.A.N.S. of this State,
tells of the eagerness with which the girls
are taking to visual signalling. This is
a matter of flags and semaphoring ; most
of them are already adept at all forms
of v/ireless telegraphy. The service in-
cludes cooks, stewardesses, transport
drivers and writers, which last is just a
way they have in the Navy of saying
“clerks.” So far, the W.R.A.N.S. have
no barracks. The Sydney girls live at
home. The girls from the country or
from other States have to live in guest-
houses. Today, the W.R.A.N.S. will be
one of the big attractions at Navy Day’s
-rally in Martin-place supporting the
Third Liberty Loan.
Sir Ronald Cross, Britain’s High
Commissioner in Australia, and his wife
came to Sydney from Canberra last week.
Lady Cross made the journey to attend
the first annual meeting of the Far East
Welfare Auxiliary, This was held in the
Bank of New South Wales building, and
a highly-applauded moment of the after-
noon was when" Lady Wakehurst, who is
president of the auxiliary, announced
.that Sir Ronald had secured from the
Colonial Office a grant for the Malayan
Research Bureau.
In its seven short months of life the
Research Bureau has collected informa-
tion concerning thousands of their rela-
tions and friends for anxious evacuees,
and Lady Wakehurst, voicing the feeling
of the committee, sent thanks by Lady
Cross to her husband. Lord Wakehurst
also spoke at the meeting, praising the
courage of the evacuees, even in the first
moments of disaster.
How unhurriedly and pleasantly life in
Sydney moved in 1842 is shown in the
Hyde Park pictured by John Rae, then
the city’s Town Clerk. Here stroll, on
what is evidently a Sunday afternoon,
ladies and their squires, the ladies crino-
lined and daintily beshawled, parasol
gracefully aloft, the gentlemen tall-hatted,
slim-waisted figures snugly fitted with tail-
coats. Along the track canter ladies in
flowing habit, on brunette or blonde
horses, while passing cavaliers turn the
head for another look. On the grass no-
thing more violent than leapfrog and
cricket engages active youth. In the near
distance are the Supreme Court, St.
James’s Church, Hyde Park Barracks, St.
Mary’s Campanile and even Darlinghurst
Gaol. The picture is one of the O. E.
Friend collection now on view at His-
tory House.
Gaols seemingly fascinated the pen and
pencil of these early artists. Thomas
Boys includes the “new gaol” in his view
of the city and harbor from Vaucluse.
The guardhouse and the gaol pop into
other canvases. Either the people of the
day were very law-abiding and looked
upon houses of detention with simple
amusement, or they were so bad that they
had to be constantly reminded that pun-
ishment lay just around the corner. The
view of Captain Piper’s naval villa at
Eliza Point (now Point Piper), that
of Double Bay showing the old house
Carthona, drawn by a daughter of Con-
rad Martens, and Lindesay, Darling
Point, painted .by Martens himself, are
among the joys of the collection.
Norton Trevaire’s camera reflects the
pleasant, friendly gaze of Viva Murphy,
director of the Red Cross department of
social welfare. This department under-
takes the care of men and women of the
forces who are discharged medically unfit.
The department also helps the families
of those service men to solve the prob-
lems that arise for them. These may be
financial, or may be concerned with,
health or family adjustment. Whatever
the difficulty, it is found not nearly such
a hurdle when this sympathetic worker
gives the inquirer the benefit of her know-
ledge and experience.
At Daltons’ Rose Bay home
daughter Kathleen is receiving congratu-
lations on her appointment as assistant
almoner to St. Vincent’s Hospital. She
was a student of Monte Sant Angelo
College for many years, where she made
a study of domestic art. From there she
went to the University, where she took
up social science, particularly as applied
to almoners. Kathleen mixes a dash of
social life with her serious work.
In the positions of Mayor and
Mayoress the Coolangatta Town Coun-
cil, Queensland, now has two aider-
men, the Mayor being Aid. S. W.
Winders, who has occupied the posi-
tion for ten years,' and the Mayoress
Aid. Annie M. Winders, his wife.
This is claimed to be unique in
Australian local-government annals. Aid.
A. M. Winders is a property owner,
manages her own extensive flat business,
and is well versed in public affairs, after
serving for over 25 years in presidential
and executive positions in numerous local
organisations,
Mosman is having a jubilee. But it
is a jubilee with a difference, for, while
humans after 50 years of wedlock Dele-
brate a golden wedding, this beauteous
harbor suburb is celebrating a golden
divorce. In fact, it is just half a century
since the area now included in the munici-
pality was separated from North Sydney.
Present population is 26,500. In 1893
it was 1600. That certainly looks like
50 years of progress and bricklaying.
Latest news from England of the
Maguire family, formerly of Brisbane,
tells that Carmel has been touring and.
playing leading parts in Ralph Lynn’s
theatrical company. Lupe, the youngest,
is in pictures. The family is settled in a
cottage close to the Royal Academy of
Music. Mrs. Eve, at one time one of
Brisbane’s popular newspaper women, is
a constant visitor.
From Melbourne
Service weddings were the main social
events of last week. At Christ Church,
South Yarra, Margaret, daughter of Dr.
Cecil Tucker (as well known in play-
writing as in medical circles) and of Mrs.
Tucker, married Capt. Noel Thomas.
The bridegroom is the only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Earl Thomas, of Brighton.
Officiating clergy were the bride’s uncles,
Bishop Stephen and the Rev. Gerald
Tucker, Superior of the Brotherhood of
St. Laurence. Pat Adams, friend from
Clyde schooldays, was bridesmaid. Mar-
garet has inherited Dr. Tucker’s interest
in stage production, and did a lot of
amateur acting while at the University.
An engagement of both Sydney and
Melbourne interest is that of Captain
Margaret Inglis, A.A.M.C., to Lieut,
Gillespie Jones. Dr. Inglis is the eldest
daughter of Dr. Keith Inglis, Sydney
University’s Professor of Pathology. Her
fiance is the only son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. Gillespie Jones, of Melbourne. Lieut.
Gillespie Jones has played cricket for
Melbourne Grammar and the University
and football with the Fitzroy League
team. Dayne (Sydney) made this picture
of Capt. Inglis.
The Locker Fund committee is looking
forward to a good balance-sheet from
its money-raising show “Rookery Nook,”
put on by the National Theatre Move-
ment, and, judging by Saturday’s packed
house, shouldn’t be disappointed. Sweets,
flowers and biscuits' were sold in the
lounge and various edibles and cigarettes
were raffled, including a basket of fascin-
ating marzipan fruit. Air Minister Drake-
ford’s wife and the Lady Mayoress were
in the audience. Production was by
William Carr. The cast caught the Ben
Travers spirit, though the show seemed
new and different, with a change in the
types playing parts previously associated
with the Walls-Lynn entourage. Pub-
licity and business arrangements of the
show were in the hands of a sub-commit-
tee of Air Force men’s wives.
It was a bright idea of Mrs. I. H. Moss
to include her antiques as part of the
attraction of her week-end party at Kerri-
wah, North-road, for the Red Cross Pris-
oners of War Fund. The antiques were
mostly gathered in by the hostess’s late
husband, who bought all over the world
and had a discerning eye. His pewter
included pieces dating from the time of
Mary Queen of Scots and some lovely
examples of French and old English
types. Antiques, strangely enough, are
coming into favor again. People who
never before gave them a thought are buy-
ing them and keeping their history re-
corded. Brides-to-be think in terms of
antique furniture, if they can run to it.
Consul for China Wang and his charm-
ing wife threaten to rival the popularity
of their predecessors in office, the Tsaos.
On Saturday, when the Frank Beaure-
paire couple, of civic eminence, threw
open their garden for a party in aid of
the Chinese Famine Relief Fund, the Con-
sul made a speech which was in the
oration class. The Fordham-road garden
of the Beaurepaires is picturesquely situ-
ated near Scotch College and the old
river bed, and with its swimming pool
and tennis courts and their flower-bed
background is a fair spot for an Indian
summer party. Money flowed in from
the various devices for extracting it from
the pockets of the new poor, who cheer-
fully gave what the taxgatherer had left
them.
The Victorian Free Kindergarten Move-
ment came of age last week, and reminis-
cences held the platform at the rally at
Mooralbeck, Kew, at which lots of former
students attended the scene of their study
days. The old house was formerly
knight Frank Madden’s home, and many
anecdotes were told of early days there.
One that wasn’t told in public was re-
lated on the way home by an old-timer.
Madden, though a firm friend to many
wqmen’s movements, hadn’t always
looked on the extension of feminine
activities with a kindly eye, and had once
described certain political females as
“shrieking parakeets,” a phrase which
got him into hot water,
Keira Tuson, newly-appointed publicity
officer for Red Cross, Victorian branch,
succeeds Freda Irving, now in training
for service with the A.W.A.S. Miss
Tuson was one of the women Noel
Coward was glad to meet again in Aus-
tralia, for she took a part in “This Year
of Grace” and other Coward plays in
London. Her intelligence and attractive
personality ought to find full scope in
her new post. Miss Tuson has had some
experience of publicity work lately in a
social and fashion way for one of Mel-
bourne’s big stores. She began her new
job last week-end.
Helene Kirsova invaded Victoria last
week, descending first on her old friend
Mrs. Esmond Lillies and then on the
George Caros. She had already an-
nounced her intention to give a show for
Legacy similar to those which she gave
in N. S. Wales. However, before she
can stage her show Melbourne will see
the Borovansky ballet in action in a two-
weeks’ season at His Majesty’s. As
before, the Borovansky programme will
be carried out by local girls with a foun-
dation of Russian ballet personnel, in-
cluding Borovansky and his wife, who is
a niece of Dandre, Pavlova’s husband,
and practically born to ballet, her mother
being head of one of the biggest Con-
tinental dancing schools of pre-war days.
Whether the public should be musi-
cally educated or just musically enter-
tained is a question concert promoters are
always asking themselves these days.
Two very different answers were put into
practice last week by the A.B.C. and the
Lord Mayor respectively. The A.B.C.
concert for the troops in the Assembly
Hall was severely classical, Vera Brad-
ford putting her brilliant pianoforte
technique into the difficult Schumann
“Etudes Symphoniques,” groups from the
works of Haydn and Brahms, and the
delicious Ravel “Pavane.” Mayor Nettle-
fold’s Sunday concert was decidedly
middle-brow.
At the Princess Theatre on Thursday
night manager Gravestock welcomed
crowds of factory folk who filled all
parts of the spacious house. This war
group put on a show to advance its in-
dustrial activities. The part of the works
which did the entertaining calls itself
“The Convertibles” and acquitted itself
splendidly, following a film which told
the story of similar works in U.S.A.
Humor was mostly concerned with jokes
about factory heads and their little ways,
Nigel Brock, the amenities officer who
produced the show, coming in for much
good-natured banter.
The Federal Government’s choice of
students for the new diplomatic course
(cutting out exams.) came as a bit of a
surprise, as it showed some originality.
Candidates chosen, of course, have done
well at school, but, with the exception
of Bronnie Taylor, whose academic dis-
tinctions are legion, they were not
selected for being at the top of the class.
What their future work will be is not
very clear as yet.
Though the flute is voted the most de-
lightful instrument in the orchestra by
some of the musically inclined, it is rather
neglected, so it’s encouraging to see the
young taking to it. Winner of highest
University Conservatorium scholarship
award was flautist June Lindsay, who is
keen as mustard about her instrument
from both the practical and composing
angles, and should have an interesting
career ahead of her. One reason for her
choice of instrument is that her father,
engineer C. G. Lindsay, is deeply in-
terested in wind instruments when not
engaged in his profession. Miss Lindsay
has been interested in the flute since
quite childish days—she is only 16 now—
and has already written some short pieces
and is looking forward to writing more.
The pianoforte will be her second string.


CONFISCATION
BY WAY OF
SECTIONAL TAXATIO N
IThe N.S.W. Settlement Promotion
• Tax Management Bill now before
Parliament provides tor superimpos-
ing a State Band Tax on country
lands on top of a 140 p.c. Increase in
Federal Land Tax for War purposes.
2Land Tax is really a tax on Capital
• and must be paid annually whether
the landholder makes a profit or loss
—in other words, it is a penalty he
has to pay for being a Grazier hold-
ing land valued at more than £5OOO
unimproved.
3 The tax is, therefore, purely sectional
• and in conflict with all democratic
principles.
4 The Minister disclosed that the Un-
• improved value of larger Holdings is
just over £l/8/3 per acre —on this
basis, and taking the average capa-
city of these holdings at the mean
between one sheep to Is and 3 acres,
the Unimproved value of a Sheep Area
is in the vicinity of £3/10/-, and at
the present maximum Federal Kate
means a Tax of TWO SHIPPINGS
AND THREEPENCE per sheep per
annum, and where the capacity is
worse than this, the relative cost
would bo higher.
5 To this will be added the new State
»imposition for which the maximum
rate the first year is SIXPENCE in
the £, meaning an additional ONE
SHIPPING AND THREEPENCE,
rising to TWO SHIPPINGS AND
SIXPENCE per sheep in the fifth
year.
6A charge of TOUR SHILLINGS
• AND NINEPENCE per sheep per
annum, compared with a maximum
of ELEVENPENCE EARTHING
prior to the War, is nothing less
than confiscation, and under exist-
ing Regulations restricting Land
Sales can only mean ruination for
many graziers.
7 In purely woolgrowing districts,
• these aggregate land taxes would
be equivalent to an Impost of about
SEVENPENCE per pound weight
of wool —approximately half the
British purchase price. No one
could pay such taxes.
8 Values of these taxed estates must
• fall and with them the values of
all other lands —equities will dis-
appear and finance become increas-
ingly difficult, especially for those
with Mortgages.
9 The great wool Industry upon
• which Australia’s economy depends
so much will be gravely jeopar-
dised.
1A It will certainly he another stex>
•I"* towards socialisation and the
breaking down of the present sys-
tem of private ownership.
nlf this happens, the present Gov-
• eminent will have a lot to answer
for in the damage it will do to
Australia and its credit.
CONFISCATION AND SECTIONAL TAXATION CAN BENEFIT NO ONE.
In order that the general public of the State may be aware of the
dire effects of the impending legislation, the above facts are
published by A. C. Chandler for—
The landholders’ Defence Committee
ENDEAVOUR HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH FELIX DOYLE late of Mascot
Labourer.—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET
LILIAN DOYLE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1861 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards It
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Sixteenth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-three
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS of 56
Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDGAR CHARLES ALEXANDER WAIN
formerly of 26 York Street Berala.—TAKE
NOTICE that IVY EVELYN ANNIE WAIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 257 ot
1943 on th*e grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you desire to defend the case you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 31st May
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES
Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
To ROBERT NORMAN WILTON whose
present whereabouts are unknown. — TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in The Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane by Writ of Summons num-
bered 144 of 1943 by MARY ALICE WILTON
your wife in which she claims the dissolution
of her marriage with you and the custody of
the children of the marriage and by her Petition
filed herein she alleges that on the First day
of January 1936 you without cause deserted her
and have continuously so deserted her for five
years and upwards AND it has ordered that ser-
vice of the said Petition and said Writ on you
be effected on you by stickiiig up on the Notice
Board in the Registry of the said Court a copy
of the said Petition and of the said Writ and
by advertising this Notice in two issues of
“The Courier-Mail’ Brisbane and “The
Bulletin” Sydney at intervals of not less than one
week If you desire to defend the said action you
must within sixty days from the performance
of the last of the said acts enter an appear-
ance at the said Registry and in default ot
your so doing the Plaintiff may by leave pro-
ceed in the action and judgment may be given
against you Dated this twenty-fourth day of
March 1943. — (1.5.) J. S. GIBSON, Second
Deputy Registrar.
M W. COOPER, Solicitor, Monto. Town
Agents: S. H. WALKER, AHERN &
McPHIE, Solicitors, Brisbane.
“FORRERS ”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks &.SonP*->W
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
SMOKE-OH!
“Uplifting job for women.” — “Sun.”
Brassiere fitters?
❖ 4* ❖ 4*
“A radio script-writer has claimed that he
ras '"riiten more than 50,000 words daily foi
months.”
Some of it was original, too.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Family thrives on pedigree goats’ milk.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
The kids would naturally love it.
A Matter of Speed.
“Most people go to the races for diversion.”
— “Truth.”
Poor Henry thought he was going for
a day out. But when he got home he
was all in. He also thought he would
make money. He now knows that the
only men who can both go to the
races and make money are the books.
He thought he might see the races, of
course. But the stands were full, and
by the time he got to the rails the time
by the clock didn’t matter. All Henry
knew was that it was time to tear up his
ticket.
But going to the races was a diversion
in one way. When his wife found out
where the rent-money went she set the
pace, and Henry hasn’t stopped racing
since.
O’Hell.
•I* *l*
Shock Tactics.
“Romance in blitz time.” — “World’s News.”
She made an attack. His defences
were poor. So Love burst like a bomb
in his heart. Then his life was a wreck,
for he married the girl, and she blew him
up right from the start.
►I- -l- 4*
“Too many quack dietitians,” says Victorian
Premier.
He’s getting fed up with them.
'l* 'l*
There’s a dumb ’blonde in the office
who takes it as a compliment to her
industry when she hears them refer to
her as a busybody.
“A Major” on misery in music:
The flood of. American syneopathy which flows
over the radio so incessantly that no one can
miss it, and which occupies at least 50 p.c. of
the attention of pitcher-theatre audiences, seems
to be getting sadder and sadder. It always
had a tendency that way, and Stephen Foster
and those industrious collators of lugubrious
tunes Sankey and Moody had laid a deep
foundation of grief before the revival of negro
spirituals and the arrival of the cult of the
“blues” prepared the way for the saxophonist
and the crooner. The advance of the tradition
of dismalism, now almost completely over-
whelming Tin Pan Alley, can be measured by
the increasing use made of the music of the
most melancholy of Russian composers—
Tschaikowsky. Romberg was in first with a
few skilfully interpolated bars of the barcarolle
from “The Seasons” in “Lover, Come Back to
Me.” A few years later came the discovery by
another composer of the droopiest air in the
“Pathetic” symphony, which became “No Star
Is Lost.” Then Stothart and a collaborator
cashed in on the lyric “Only the Lonely Heart,”
liberally used in “For EvTy Lonely Heart.”
The energetic Mr. Kostelanetz harnessed the
Andante from the Fifth Symphony to “Moon
Love” and the Andante Cantabile from the
First String Quartet to “On the Isle of May.”
The favorite theme from the “Romeo and
Juliet” fantasy overture has become, at the
hands of band-leader Clinton, “Our Love,” and
when Deanna Durbin in a recent film sang
“Love’s Own Waltz” the tune came from the
“Sleeping Beauty” ballet. The “Swan Lake”
ballet provided a pair of Alley composers with
“Day Dreaming of a Night.” But the richest
Tschaikowsky goldmine has been the Allegretto
from the B Flat Minor Concerto. It was given
a spin in its original form in the film “The
Great Lie” a year or so ago, and then the
floodgates opened. The Alley pounced upon
the not-very-wonderful melody like starving
cats, and got 20 “hits” out of it, including
“Boogie Concerto,” “Concerto for Two,”
“Concerto for Us,” “Concerto for One” and
“Tonight We Love.” I suppose any dne of
the lads who pinch the mournful Russian’s
tunes receives as much money in a week as
Peter Iljitch did in a year, though he didn’t
do so badly for his day and generation. I
wonder how long it will be before the Alley
rediscovers Handel and Purcell, and injects
some hearty jollity into its productions.
The Winner.
Maud turned me down when I proposed;
She said I lacked (esthetic flair;
The tone scheme of my socks disclosed
A color conflict with my hair.
She wed another chap—too bad!
That’s years ago. Today 1 struck
Her husband in a bar; we had
A drink, and wished each other luck.
But when he doffed his hat and mopped
A head bald as a billiard ball,
Instinctively a glance I dropped
To note his socks, and nearly flopped
On finding he wore none at all.
BRIAN BUREAU.
It Won’t Wash.
“Won't shrink, won’t ladder, the yarn is
excellent.” —Hosiery advt.
The wife, whose stockings soon were
maimed
Beyond repair, was sore.
And, pointing to that ad., exclaimed:
“I’ve heard that yarn before !”
P. M.
“Nothing Under.... ”
At one time housewives voiced the desire
for domestics alive and alert.
Formerly managers stressed the need
for typists with plenty of “drive.”
The waitress with youthful curves to land
a job was an absolute cert.,
But isn’t it over the odds to see nothing
but “over forty-five” ?
L. E. A.
The Joust.
“In the so-called Dark Ages knights some-
times settled their differences by verse-writing
competitions.” — “F.S.” (B. 24/3/’43).
Sir Boobe de Bloodswiller sat chewing
the end of his quill, deep in what to a
casual observer would pass for thought.
“Verily, a fine way to joust!” he
growled. “Oddsbodikin! Let me but
fork a lively prad and put ye trusty lance
into my strong left mitt” —Sir Boobe,
readers, was a molly-hander—“and by
my halidom I would rip the gizzard out
of Richard Coeur de Lion in one fell
charge. But, oddsfish! This!” —and he
savagely chewed the feather and bent
again to his task. With tongue protrud-
ing from the side of his mouth, he labori-
ously began:
Strong be my ladye’s strides as at early morn
She toileth up the steepe hyllside to view the
dawn;
Fayre Rosalind, who once sat on my knee
And kindly sayeth she thought I was not so
dopee.
Poor devil! There was no Bulletin
paragraphist in those days to point out
to him that “dawn” didn’t rhyme with
“mom.” But Sir Boobe was mighty
pleased with his flight of fancy, and,
calling his varlet, who was busily spot-
welding his chain-mail athletic singlet, dis-
patched the poetic effort to his rival, Sir
Poltroon Pate de Foie Gras.
Next day Sir Poltroon sent his out-
burst. It went:
The meadow rolls in carmined entity. But
Who am I to bask in the misty planet glow?
Love ys a compact happyning, gadzooks!
And then cometh ye charger to the task.
On reading this, Sir Boobe fell back
a pace and all but swooned. For he
knew that the fayre Rosalind had ad-
vanced ideas, and that he wouldn’t be
in the poesy race with Sir Poltroon, who,
a Middle Age modern, had learned to
clothe his most obscure thoughts in even
more obscure language.
Bo.
Tit for Tat.
“Lecture Led to Romance.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
He lectured her (we understand);
And though at first his chance looked
slim
Of winning both her heart and hand.
He did, and now she lectures him !
P. M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2±d. per line.
Pay-as-you-die
The Federal Income Taxation Act
(Section 17) says tax at the rates de-
clared by Parliament shall be levied and
paid for the financial year commencing
1/7/’36, and for each financial year there-
after, upon the taxable income derived
during “the year of income,” which is
defined as “the financial year next pre-
ceding the year of tax.” Thus, if a tax-
payer pays his assessment this year (based
upon his income to 30/6/’42) he has dis-
charged his tax liability for the year end-
ing June, 1943.
What he earns this year will auto-
matically become the measuring rod for
assessing his tax liability for the coming
year, 1943-44. But should he die before
the end of next June his estate is
assessed on his income this year up to
the date of death. He paid his tax for
mis year before he died, and what he
earned this year could only be the basis
for next year’s tax. But he would not
be alive in any part of next year!
Nevertheless, the department taxes the
estate oh an income which the Act
clearly states is to be the basis of assess-
ment next year (when the taxpayer is
dead) and taxes it at rates which the
Parliament declared for this year, not-
withstanding the fact that deceased had
paid this year’s tax before he died!
An American Judge once defined an
unjust tax as larceny in form of law. This
Federal sleight-of-hand kind of tax
method seems to come well within that
definition. — Public Accountant (N.S.W.).
Populating Australia
I have seen occasional press references
to the desirability of populating this
country—a figure of 20,000,000 has been
mentioned as quite possible—but so far
as I am aware no constructive planning
is being done.
In pre-war days the vociferous oppo-
sition of trade-union bosses was such
that all but a few pitiful and half-hearted
immigration schemes were impossible.
But the day of the union bosses is nearly
done —the returned men will see to that
when victory is won.
Post-war conditions in Europe will be
such that millions of desirable citizens
will be seeking new lands. Now is the
time to plan. Now is the time to develop
our ideas, so that at the peace confer-
ence Australia’s delegates can put for-
ward workable and acceptable proposals,
which can result in our country taking
her place among the great nations—
strong, prosperous and democratic. —
Advance Australia (W.A.).
M.L. Immigration Scheme
The more one looks at Leigh Hunt’s
suggestion as to a Maoriland immigra-
tion policy (B. 30/12/’42) the more sen-
sible it appears. Firstly it must be ad-
mitted that M.L. is not likely to get an
increased population except by immi-
gration. When the war is over M.L.,
unless it vastly increases its population,
will again depend for its prosperity on
the sale of its farming products in the
world markets, though handicapped by
distance and cost. For both farming and
industry the best market is the home
market.
Combined with the question of markets
M.L. will face two other problems: (1)
Rehabilitation of its service men, and (2)
a serious housing shortage. The second
has been tackled by a vigorous State
housing policy, but there is a great deal
more to be done. Post-war immigration
of children will not add much to any
of these problems.
Ready erected will be the numerous
military camps, easily turned into recep-
tion camps for the kiddies. Others again
could become health camps in which the
undernourished can be restored to vigor.
From such centres the plan visualises
sending the kiddies to homes throughout
the Dominion. After all if people will
restrict their families to one or two they
must, if M.L. is to justify itself in the
eyes of the world, do something for those
less fortunate than its own sons and
daughters.—F. M. B. (M.L.).
War Memorials
I move that no fresh war memorials
be erected. With an interim when the
cauldron merely simmered, this war and
the last are one war. Suitable inscriptions
to or adaptations of the monuments now
standing would drive the point home.
To my mind, there are only two suit-
able commemorations. If we must have
a material one —an unpretentious ceno-
taph, more eloquent in its simplicity than
the Taj Mahals of some of our planners ;
or a living one —the use we make of our
social, political and international oppor-
tunities when hostilities cease. Let the
injunction on Wren’s tomb be ours: “Cir-
cumspice.” A Brave New World can be
the only sincere ' and worthy war
memorial. — Marsden (Vic.).
V.D.
The daily press reports that a women’s
conference on national problems is about
to discuss a motion by a woman doctor
on the dissemination of information as
to the physiology and psychology of sex,
with a view to the combat of venereal
diseases. Lectures to girls and women
have already been given in Queensland by
women doctors in a public-spirited
attempt to attack the problem.
Not even the medical profession, how-
ever, appears to have asked the question
why these diseases, unlike so many others
of a contagious nature, have not been
“For Pete's sake, trim y'r flaps and use the rudder!”
conquered. The answer is clear, however
unpalatable. In the public mind the ques-
tion of venereal diseases is inextricably
confused with the moral problem.
Certainly there is a moral problem of
increasing danger, which is itself part of
the larger problem, that this generation
has failed to replace the religions it has
largely abandoned by any teaching of
individual responsibility to society on
most questions. But unless the medical
profession deliberately dissociates itself
from the moral approach, its teaching
will, in the long run, merely add to the
sense of shame and secrecy which has
through previous generations prevented
sufferers from voluntarily submitting
themselves for treatment at an early
stage or prolonging the treatment to the
necessary extent for complete cure. —
Layman (Q.).
Tuberculosis
May one who has suffered for over 20
years have a say?
It is nearly a year since an O.F.M. con-
tributor vouched for the alarming num-
ber of t.b. cases revealed by military X-
rays. Recently annual figures relating to
notifiable diseases were published by the
Brisbane City Council, and t.b. was at
the head of the list with 347 cases —
almost one a day—from a population of
about 400,000. *
The writer can vouch for the steady
stream of cases being sent to Repat. sani-
toriums and hospitals. Most of these
men, X-rayed and passed as fit within
the last three years, are youngsters who
have served abroad, but there is a sprink-
ling of Old Diggers who have re-enlisted
and have picked up the curse without
leaving Australia.
I am in daily contact with t.b. patients,
young and old, whom you would pick in
the street as physically perfect. Many
of them have never had any definite
period when their resistance was low or
they were undernourished. For t.b. is
a scourge which too often strikes at
young, well-fed, clean-living people and
passes by the undernourished and poorly-
housed.
Some medical opinion inclines to the
belief that a cure will eventually be dis-
covered; not, of course, a magic formula
to take the place of correct diet, fresh
air and decent living, but something
which will do what sulfanilamide has
done to pneumonia and immunisation
to diphtheria. Why not try to secure
the honor of its discovery for Australia?
A reward that would attract world-wide
attention (say, £250,000) should be
offered, with liberal financial assistance
and facilities to research workers to en-
able them to follow any promising clues.
And, if necessary, there are plenty of us
old hands willing to offer ourselves as
human guinea pigs.—Vic Timm (Q.).
Oranges and Lemons
Senator Keane, of the Customs, while
admitting that the present prices of fruit
and vegetables were high, found it im-
possible to entertain the view that any
shortage of supplies was due to low
fixed prices or the operations of price
control. The trouble with politicians is
they don’t mix with farmers.
A farmer of my acquaintance planted
30,000 lettuces. He tended them, watered
them, fertilised them and protected them
from pests. Just as they were coming into
good heart there was a spell of cold
weather and nobody wanted salads. As
a result the price dropped so low that
k wasn’t worth the time, labor and ex-
pense of conveying his lettuces to market,
so he ploughed them under.
Then he had to look around for some
other crop that might recoup him for his
losses. He selected cauliflowers. Caulies
require almost incessant care for six
months, and almost anything can happen
to them. He got them over all their
troubles, but his lot ripened along with
those of hundreds of other farmers.
Several times he trucked a load into the
market, but was unable to sell them, so he
trucked them back and gave them to his
pigs. Then for a week or so, for some
reason or other—Senator Keane would
probably say the rascality of farmers —
the price suddenly soared and he made
a handsome profit out of what was re-
maining.
It is the same with apples and pears,
Hundreds of farmers rooted out their
trees because it didn’t pay to keep
them. I know an orchardist who planted
apples and pears, as he says, for the
board, and cherries for himself, and if it
weren’t for the cherries he would long
since have been out of the business.
The only thing that will make a farmer
plant anything is the belief that he has a
reasonable chance of making a fair profit.
If the price is fixed by some distant pro-
fessor of economics who doesn’t know an
artichoke from a Scotch thistle, so that
the chance of a profit is too precarious,
where is his enthusiasm to come from?
All that the price-fixing gentlemen do
is to destroy the good will, enthusiasm and
hope of the farmer, so that the crops
don’t go in. Hence the shortage and
the rise in prices. And so more
price-fixing, less enthusiasm than ever,
shorter supplies and the rest of the
vicious circle. I know one excellent
farmer who has chucked it up and who
is much better paid and feels much more
secure making nuts and bolts in a muni-
tions factory.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
.
Going to Waste
Despite talk of the necessity of using
all possible fruit, there are still many
thousands of cases going to waste in
Tasmanian orchards. Many varieties of
pears are not being picked at all.
Fruit still goes through too many
hands from the orchard to the consumer,
all adding to the cost. It is very doubt-
ful if even Tasmanian hospitals and other
public institutions, such as boys’ and girls’
homes, get anything like the quantity of
fruit they could use.
If we haven’t got brains enough to dis-
tribute the bounty of nature in our own
country, what hope have we of building
a better world after the war? — Cleo
<Tas.).
Compulsory Saving
It is strange that compulsory saving
has not been adopted in Australia, when
it has proved such a success in England.
There it has provided the national ex-
chequer with much of the cash needed
for the prosecution of the war, and it
ensures that there will be funds for the
British citizen to draw upon after the
war, when he may be glad of a little
extra cash. Above all, it has stopped in-
discriminate spending. Keynes, the eco-
nomist, who pioneered the idea of com-
pulsory saving, gave many sound reasons
for this proposal. I have yet to hear of
any good reasons why it should not be
adopted.—?. M. T. (Q.).
Earning and Spending
The high wages paid to many young
folk today will bring chaos in the future.
If most of this money were invested in
war loans or in war-savings certificates
the child would still be earning a child’s
good pay, with the knowledge that there
is a lump sum to be paid to him when
he will be old enough to know how to
spend it.
That he and —very often —his parents
do not know what to do with it now is
obvious. A lad of 15 who lives near me
told me last week that he had bought
his mother a 51b. box of chocolates
for £l. Another boy of 15, earn-
ing over £3 a week at the meat-
works, “shouted” the family perma-
nent waves —Mum and her three
daughters, aged five, nine and 11. —
Margaret Don (Q.).
Federal and State Spheres
There are certain powers which should
be controlled by the national Parlia-
ment. It is vitally necessary to get uni-
formity on such subjects as repatriation,
taxation, child endowment, old-age pen-
sions, post-war reconstruction, etc., which
affect the people of Australia as a whole.
By placing these powers in the hands of
the Commonwealth we have one ruling
body instead of half a dozen, thereby
minimising dissatisfaction and saving the
taxpayers’ money.
The next step would be to do away
with Leg. Councils. How can we call
Australia a democracy when the final
say in any bill going through a provin-
cial Parliament is left to a collection of
men who represent only a fraction of the
community?— Long John (S.A.).
Right Turn?
An American writer, Johannes Steel, sees
in the Ministerial changes recently made
by Churchill a “pronounced and almost
defiant turn to the Right.” He instances
not only the relegation of Stafford Cripps
to the office filled in Australia by Don
Cameron and the exaltation of Herbert
Morrison, “though an exceedingly able
ministrator, a man imbued with a violent
bias against direct political action,” but
the return to office of Oliver Stanley,
who was Chamberlain’s Secretary for
War.
Still it was time somebody turned
to the Right if only to remind Left-
Wingers like Pritt, K.C., whose addresses
to soldiers have been stopped (subject and
treatment need no description), that
Britain is carrying on business in the old
way, as first among equals in the
British Commonwealth of Nations, and
is not going to be just one of the Soviets.
—T. (N.S.W.).
Need for a Universal Language
The professors and scientists who harp
on the theme of the new order and the
beautiful new world that is to be when
this conflict dies down seem to overlook
the fact that there is going to be chaos,
not order, unless the nations can get to-
gether and put into operation plans for
each country’s behavior directly hos-
tilities cease. This get-together business
could be made much simpler and easier
if there existed a universally-recognised
international language.
We can never hope to understand the
other fellow’s point of view unless we
can talk with him. What could be
more antique or ludicrous than modern
diplomats, with their countries’ fate in
their hands, conversing with one another
by means of interpreters? Let us have
a common language —there is one to
hand, Esperanto. If this is not accept-
able, let the learned professors do some-
thing really worth while and evolve one
that is.—D. M . H. (Q.).


AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland 1895.
Assets exceed £2,500,000.
The War-time activities of a Life Assurance Office
are largely governed by National requirements.
In the interests of National Security, the Staff of this
Company has been reduced almost to a shadow of
what it was in pre-War years, with the result that a
smaller volume of New Business is being written
and we have fewer representatives to give that ser-
vice to policyholders which has always been charac-
teristic of the Australian Metropolitan.
These factors, much as we regret them, are, how-
ever, of relatively small importance, for our principal
objective is to play our full part in financing the
growing needs of Australia for the prosecution of
the War.
Over 55 per cent, of our Assets are invested in
Australian Consolidated Stock, and since September
1939, we have lent the Commonwealth over six
hundred thousand pounds for War and Defence.
HEAD OFFICE:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
Hunter and Biigh Streets, Sydney
BRANCH OFFICES:
MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
